

THE BULLETIN
No. 12.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, APEIL 17, 1880.
Dr. Bowker and the “Juste Milieu.”
We are on the whole not displeased that Mr.
Cameron and other members of the Assembly so
far successfully opposed the second reading of
Dr. Bowker’s Medical Bill on Friday evening
last, though we do not concur with many of the
objections urged by them against the passing of
the proposed measure, based as those objections
seem to have been on the assumption that the prac-
tice of the science of medicine as applied to the
human subject should be regarded as a trade
capable of being exercised by any tyro, and not as
the most sacred of all professions. However, not-
withstanding that Dr. Bowker’b Bill would only
serve to prove, were any proof needed, that a man
may be a good surgeon and a bad legislator, no
one acquainted with the facts of the case can for a
moment deny that a most stringent law is required
for the protection of the public against the horde
of ignorant and unprincipled charlatans who live
by extorting money under false pretences and
preying on the fears of those who fall into their
hands. The general public has no idea of the
abuses which locally exist in connection with the
practice of medicine —abuses which a.c without
Earallel in the legal profession, oers
ave their status clearly defined by an unchal-
lengeable tribunal. There are men practising medi-
cine in Sydney, not only on worthless diplomas, but
on the strength of dead men’s papers. Nor is the
ignorance respecting qualifications the special pro-
perty of the lay public. Even the daily papers of
Sydney, which ought to aim at preserving the
status of reputable practitioners, lead their readers
deeper into the mire of ignorance. A certain vul-
gar, uneducated scoundrel, who in a southern
colony a few years ago only escaped imprison-
ment for a breach of the Medical Act by paying a
heavy fine, was not very long since dubbed
“Doctor” in a local paragraph of the S. M.
Herald, in face of the facts that he has as much
right as has a polar bear or a tropical alligator
to practise medicine ; that he is not on the register
of this or of any other colony ; that while “ down
South” he sheltered himself for a time behind the
diploma of a deceased surgeon to whom he for-
merly acted as footman in another country and
who was, after death, kindly “ taken into partner-
ship ”by the condescending Jeames. This genius
while in the South fell in with an innocent hypo-
chondriac whose only malady was chronic indiges-
tion, and who, after picking his teeth, spat blood,
and concluded he was in consumption. Phthisis
was accordingly diagnosed by “ the doctor,” who
instantly perceived that one of the patient’s lungs
had disappeared and that the other was fast
going. So he looked wise, shook his head, sup-
plied the patient with a dilution of gallic acid
at£l per ounce and Jayne’s expectorant at a
sovereign per six-ounce bottle, charged his
dyspeptic victim a guinea a visit, and would,
apart from the likely contingency of the
latter’s death, still be receiving fees from
him, were it not for the action of the local Medical
Society, who heard of the case, paraded “ doctor ”
and patient at the Police Court, got the former
fined in a good round sum, and practically bundled
him out of the colony. Sydney is blessed with
many such pretentious, utterly unqualified men,
who, from a moral and legal standpoint, would
look better at the end of a long rope in Darling-
hurst than in the latest style of buggy in George-
street. New South Wales teems with the
so-called “medical” refuse of those colo-
nies which are so fortunate as to have made
laws regulating practice. At present, so far as
the ordinary public and the press also are con-
cerned, it matters not what qualification, or ab-
sence of qualification, a man practises under in
Sydney. A graduate of London University is
“ Doctor a mere licentiate of the Apothecaries’
Society is “ Doctor,” too. Any impostor who
knows that cod-liver oil is good for consumption,
and brandy bad for liver-complaint, is called
“ Doctor” by the press, and placed, so far as print
can place him, side by side with an M.D. of
London or Paris, or a Fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons, England, bj examination.
The leading defect of Dr. Bowker’s Bill is its
lack of comprehensiveness. To be acceptable to
the public any measure on the subject must be
one which deals with every aspect of medical
affairs—with medicine both as a profession and as
a trade. It is utterly absurd to have the pre-
scriptions of good medical men dispensed by che-
mists without qualifications. It is therefore ne-
cessary to have an Apothecaries’ Act, not only for
the protection of the profession and the public,
hut for that of qualified apothecaries who have
gone to the trouble of studying therapeutics.
Licentiates of the Apothecaries’ Society, London,
are legislated for in the present Bill, which proposes
to admit them to general practice; and it is hard to
see why the occupation of those who are not so
fortunate as to possess the qualifications recog-
msed by the Bill should be taken away without a
really fair opportunity being afforded such per-
sonsofmakinggoodtheirdeficiencies. Theproposed
conditions under which apothecaries now unquali-
fied may obtain recognition are not sufficiently
liberal. The question is one which might more
properly and satisfactorily be dealt with by the
Government than by a private and professional
member. We look forward to the rejection of Dr.
Bowker’s Bill and to the introduction at no dis-
tant date of a thoroughly comprehensive, business
like and equitable measure, which, while dealing
lightly with what are by many regarded as vested
rights will in the future secure to the colony, so
far as legislation can do it, a reputable and com-
petent class of doctors, surgeons and apothe-
caries. At present it is undeniable that there is
too much free-trade in medicine, concrete and
abstract. Legal and medical men, and for the
matter of that schoolmasters too, should only
exercise their callings by virtue of clearly defined
qualifications recognised by Government.
Our Gaol System.
We do not desire in any way to touch upon
dangerous ground, or to tread with even fairy-like
lightness on anybody’s corns. Wehave also, after
what happened to an evening contemporary during
the hearing of a recent cause celebre, a most whole-
some dread of committing ourselves, to say
nothing of such a serious thing as a contempt of
court. Moreover, it is not our intention to libel
anyone. Having made these remarks, which we
wish to be carefully kept in mind as suitable not
only to the present, but to all future occasions, we
will proceed. Everybody knows by this time that
Dr. O’Connor has issued a writ against the pro-
prietors of the Evening News, and that he
claims therein the moderately large amount of
,£20,000 as, in some sort, a salve to his reputation,
which he conceives to have been injured by an
article headed “ Oakum Pickings” and published
in the Evening News of the 27th of last month.
Now we don’t want, and are not going, to express
an opinion one way or the other, as _ to what
threatens to be a very pretty little action of its
kind. We are not going to take the bread out of
the reporters’ mouths in advance, nor are we going
to pander to a vicious public taste for the morbid
by committing statements to paper which might
lead the said public to expect more than it will get,
and for which it would probably, after having read
such statements and suffered disappointment, turn
and rend us. But we do say this to our con-
temporary —go in and win, if possible, but at ail
hazards fight the case out in the Supreme Court
arena. We are not at all above giving our rea-
sons for the foregoing gratuitous piece of advice,
and we now do so; not with any hopes _of
becoming witnesses on the approaching trial,
for we shall be there editorially. We
most certainly consider that our gaol system,
as at present administered, is anything but immacu-
late. Doctor O’Connor, in his capacity of Gaol
Doctor, has under his sole care (medically
speaking), some six hundred men and two hundred
women —the average population of Darlinghurst
Gaol—besides the lunatics in the Receiving
House on the other side of the way ; but as the last
“don’t know” they perhaps don’t count. Now
Dr. O’Connor, who is extremely well paid for
performing duties which, we should imagine,
ought to engross the undivided attention of any
ordinary medical man, has, or seems to have, a
private practice outside the gaol. We are told,
too, that no prisoner, however anxious he may be
to obtain, and however able and willing he may be
to pay for the attendance of an outside medical
man, is allowed to employ one without the
express permission of Dr. O’Connor. Catching
sight of the judicial wig and ermine here, we can
only express a hope that it will be seen
at the trial whether or not Dr. O’Connor has
been accommodating in this regard. The pre-
sent gaol system undoubtedly requires look-
ing into, and not the least among the many matters
which deserve consideration is the one under dis-
cussion. We await the result of the forthcoming
action with some anxiety on the public account,
and should our contemporary succeed in unearth-
ing some of the abuses obtainingin Darlinghurst—
we of course don’t allude on the present occasion
to medical ones —we are certain that it will not
afterwards begrudge the time and money spent in
such a cause. Once more we say to it “go in and
win, if you can.” The fight is one involving great
principles —on one side the freedom of the press ;
on the other the liberty of the subject and the
inviolability of public and private character.
Assuming that every pressman believes the Even-
ing News to be right, and that every doctor as
warmly espouses the cause of Dr. O’Connor, we
say the former should be aided in the struggle _ by
every newspaper and the latter by every medical
practitioner. The fight should be continued by
both parties to the bitter end —to the Privy
Council and bankruptcy.
The Bulletin Portrait Gallery.
MR. ALFRED DAMPIER, THE EMINENT
TRAGEDIAN.
We cannot show our appreciation of the public
taste more highly, or more readily acknowledge the
favour with which our efforts to meet that taste
have been received, than by continuing to present
to our readers from time to time portraits of the
most distinguished lyric and dramatic artists
that have visited Australian shores ; and in this
view we take pleasure in preserving in our pages
the lineaments of one of the most popular actors
of the day. For nearly seven years Mr. Dampier
has been our guest and our host at certain inter-
vals : in the latter capacity he has been most
assiduous in providing for our entertainment; in
the former garb he has been the recipient of our
warm and enthusiastic but well-merited acknow-
ledgements of his efforts.
Indirectly it is to Madame Celeste (Elliott) —one
of the moat finished actresses —that we are in-
debted for the introduction of Mr. Dampier to
Australia. She it was who first made known the
merits of the young aspirant to Mr. Harwood, of
the Melbourne Theatre Eoyal—then on a visit to
England —who at once made an engagement with
him for Australia. _
Mr. Alfred Dampier was born in England in
1846. At an early age he was sent to the Charter-
house school, but the delicacy of his constitution
interfered materially with his studies. Whilst at
this famous school, however, he distinguished
himself as a reciter at the annual “breakings-up,”
and obtained considerable . kudos. Before
he was thirteen years of age young Dampier was
forced to discontinue his school-work, and was
placed by his friends with a well-known barrister,
Mr. Thomas Phinn, M.P., as a reader or amanu-
ensis. At the chambers in the Temple Alfred
Dampier found leisure to follow his favourite
pursuit of dramatic reading. In the course of his
afternoon rambles he fell in with an old school-
mate, much his senior, who, to fill up the leisure
hour, had become a leading member of one of the
most noted amateur dramatic clubs —the Ellis-
donians. Young Dampier’s early predilections for
the drama were stimulated by the conversation of
his friend, by whom he was introduced to the club.
During this first apprenticeship to the stage,
young Dampier appeared as an amateur at the
Catherine-street theatre, Strand, as Captain Biaoj*
heim in “ The Eough Diamond,” and then
great spring by appearing at the Cabinet
King’s Cross, as Matthew Elmore in iMove’s
Sacrifice.” , "
At the age of 14, he commenced his prov
fessional career at Croydon, Surrey, under Mr.
Waldron, being “billed” as “The Young Roscius/’
His essay was “ Othello illness again succeeding
the heavy strain on a weak constitution, he suc-
MISS LILY AND MISS ROSE DAMPIER.
ME. ALFRED DAMPIER, THE TRAGEDIAN.


cumbed for a time. The “ Young Roscius ” was
sensible enough to see that he was just entering
the threshhold of his profession and had every-
thing to learn. He commenced the hard work of
a provincial actor’s life, the drudgery of which has
laid the foundation for the form of many of our
greatest actors. From small parts in the smaller
theatres he gradually rose to be the principal
favourite in the greatest dramatic characters
in the largest English cities. It was in Manches-
ter that Mr. Harwood met him and engaged him
for the Theatre Royal, Melbourne. Here ne made
his first appearance with unqualified success, in
May, 1873. In the same year he appeared at the
Victoria Theatre, Sydney. With the exception of
a short visit ta England in 1878, on business con-
nected with a Chancery suit, in which Mr. Dampier
is interested, and a starring tour in America on
his way, Mr. Dampier has been constantly in the
colonies, where his versatility as an actor, his
intelligence as a scholar, and his courtesy as a
gentleman are likely to retain him in the favour of
the Australian public.
It may not be uninteresting to know that Mr.
Dampier is directly connected in descent with the
great navigator whose name is inscribed in the
annals of Australian history as the discoverer of
the archipelago which bears his name, and who
took Alexander Selkirk (the original of Robinson
Crusoe) from the island of Juan Fernandez.
CRITIC.
Lily and Bose Dampier.
Our readers will be glad to possess the portraits
of these charming little natural actresses. Lily
Dampier is now eleven years of age ; her sister is
seven. Both of them are vivacious, intelligent,
easy, lissome and graceful in movement,
speak clearly, and are free from the slightest
tendency to those awkward mannerisms often
so apparent in precocious stage geniuses. Every
one who sees Lily act is delighted with her natural,
childlike, unconstrained style of performance:
and little Rose is a danseuse of considerable
ability. In any piece in which children are intro-
duced they form a charming picture. Prom their
early arrival in the colonies —the one as an infant,
the other only four years old—they may be con-
sidered as children of Australian development.
Lily Dampier first appeared on the stage in
Dunedin, N.Z., and Rose at the Victoria Theatre,
Sydney. In their America tour they made
an immense success in “Helen’s Babies.” During
its performance at the Broadway Theatre, New
York, Mr. Habberton, the author of the original
tale, witnessed the play constantly and wrote in
the most complimentary manner of the two chil-
dren. “No marks of training,” he says,
“ show to the spectator that they are acting—the
surest indication of perfect art. There is uo
parrot-work about them.” The youth from whom
the character of Budge was drawn sat in the
theatre looking at them, too absorbed to answer
questions, much less to ask them.
They appeared in London at the Gaiety Theatre
in September, 1878, at a matinee for the benefit of
the Hospital for Sick Children. The Times spoke
of them most enthusiastically, and took especial
notice of the natural manner of these “ children
with angels’ faces and monkey tricks,” the
special characteristics of “ Helen’s Babies.”.
They are to appear with Mr. Dampier in a new
drama called “ Only a Fool,” by P. R. C. Hopkins,
Esq. Lily takes the character of “ Max, the
Little Rag Picker, and Rosie that of “ Nap,” the
Little Image Boy. In this particular drama we
believe they appear to very great advantage.
CRITIC
A Line for Builders and Contractors.
Just before the Exhibition closes it may not be out
of place to draw the attention of the general public, and
particularly of the building trades, to the splendid
specimens of practical ironwork done for the Garden
Palace and the art gallery by Messrs. Fletcher Brothers
of this city. The large and elegant iron pillars on which
the galleries of the Garden Palace are fixed were cast
by the Messrs. Fletcher, amd they have been spoken of
by both English, Belgian, and American exhibitors as
being as good as were ever turned out of a foundry.
These columns are 20 feet high with a diameter of 10
inches. The base and cap are richly ornamented, and
in other respects are quite in keeping with the high
style of the interior of the Palace. In the art gallery
there are more specimens of first-class foundry work.
Very little time was given to prepare the designs and
get the work out, yet a more elegant front than that
presented by the art gallery is not to be met with in
these colonies. The pillars are strong and handsome,
and the lattice iron work above them is quite unique
and very attractive. Passing to the interior of the
gallery more specimens of first-class and useful iron-
work may be seen. The roofs of the various sections
are all fixed on iron stays or ribs, ensuring full light
and all available space. There are no pillars; the roofs
are firm, and may be subjected to any test. The chief
advantages and cheapness, elegance, and the additional
light and room secured. The old style of room must
be quite superseded when this new one is better known.
Messrs. Fletcher Brothers are certainly to be compli-
mented on their work. We have been able to show our
visitors to what a high state our arts, in this respect at
any rate, have been brought. A visit to the firm’s
depot in Park-street will be well repaid. A finer or
more varied collection of the better description of iron-
work is not to be found. There are some new and ele-
gant designs in garden and lawn chairs, hall tables, hat
racks, umbrella stands, and balcony railings—altogether
the richest description of cast-iron work we have yet
seen.
The sculling match between Robert W. Boyd
and John Hawdon for £2OO came off on the Tyne course
on February 14th, and was won by the former by twelve
lengths. In the betting before the race, Boyd was the
favorite at 3to 1. Boyd got the best of the start, and in
the first two hundred yards had caught up the four
lengths conceded to Hawdon by the conditions of the
race. When a half-mile had been covered, Boyd was
ending in grand style by several lengths and continued
to increase his advantage to the finish. The time given
(20.52), if correct, is the best for that distance (three
miles seven hundred and sixty yards, straightaway)
ever made in England, and perhaps anywhere. Hanlan’s
time over the same course last year, in his race with
Elliott, was 21=01; and Eiley is credited with rowing three
miles with a turn, which somewhat counterbalances the
difference in distance, in 20:52. The last two perfor-
mances of Boyd stamp him as a wonderful oarsman and
mark him (as England’s hope for the regaining of the
sportsman's cup.
OUR BAR.
No. I.
VERDANT FIZT-SMITH, ESQ., JUNIOR.
The subjoined, we are free to confess, is a very
imperfect portrait of a very junior member of the
Bar of Now Sqjith Wales—imperfect in that the
inane expression is too perfect, and that the
“ goggles ” are if anything a trifle too prononcees.
The gentleman is as well known at the “ Metro-
politan” bar as on circuit; and, indeed, some
six months ago he was quite a Nellie-g ible acquisi-
tion to the talent there assembled. He has in his
time played many parts and trifled with the (shall
we say misplaced) confidence of numerous har-
maids and aboriginals.
Born (we are given to understand) at Ashfield,
and educated at Brazenface College, Oxford, he
has fulfilled the modest aspirations of a doting—
or doating—it’s immaterial —parent’s heart by
turning out to be a butterfly of the first colour,
and worthy indeed of a chrysalis hatched by Adam
Bede. Competent in the highest degree, he has
never won a case when he should have lost it —
which has been seldom.
Personally he is jovial, with a sardonic jollity
calculated to improve the minds of all beholders,
and as he is content to follow in the footsteps of
his seniors, he has never been known to do the
block more than five times a day, or to get up be-
fore 11 a.m.
Domesticated, youthful, with a peachlike damask
glowing on his hirsute-scorning cheek, and a gleam
almost Pickwickian in mildness beaming through
his benevolent specs., he is an object—no, not an
“ object”)—a subject—fit for the study of the most
fastidious moralist, and one who is always a bone
of contention between clients and rival solicitors—
not on account of his excessive fees, but because,
in the present state of retainers, each party
is desirous of keeping him away from the other
side —and their own.
On the whole he is not a bad sort; and the
above is written not with any intent to do the
young man any harm, but rather in a spirit of
mild surprise and chaff, and with a hope (alas ! ill-
founded, perchance) that ha will see the error of
his ways, and at some —however distant —data, in
this world or the next, aspire to the silk, not of
the turf, but of the bar —and get it.
University Intelligence.
The two ‘ learned Thebans’ of Sydney are Bad-
ham and Parkes —the Castor and Pollux of the Univer-
sity. Badham's motto will be for tho future, ‘Ego at
frater meus;’ that of Parkes will be noted for its
simplicity—‘ Hego.'
The two eyes of the country: Dr. Badham,
the illogical Professor of Logic ; and Sir Henry Parkes,
the illogical Professor of Everything. Each has a very
large ‘ I,' for himself only; and both have eye* for no
one’s merits but their own.
‘An Old Oxonian,’ in the Evknieg News,
on the attempt of Dr. Badham to thrust Sir Henry
Parkes down the throats of tho University superior
graduates as ‘ A jolly good Fellow,' shows his thorough
Oxford training; he hits out straight from the shoulder,
and hits the right nail on the head, too.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Carrie Rickards is divorced from Harry.
Honest criticism is a jewel, worthy to be set in
the most expensive of bracelets. Tell 'er-so.
Lottie Wilmott is taking that easy road to
fortune —a libel action. Vide Shepherd v. Dibbs.
Peter Mills, the most comical man in Launces-
ton, is about to build a theatre in the * Northern mud-
hole.’
The Fakir of Oolu was at Natal in February.
His next move is to Australia.
The Stewart Family were closing poor busi-
ness at Bombay in February. They go next to Europe.
Miss Clara Stephenson, with a fair company,
is starring in the provinces. Dubbo saw her last and
wept.
Mr. Wybert Reeve will shortly produce at the
Eoyal, Melbourne, a piece written by himself.
Mr. A. Burton has essayed leading roles in
Tasmania, and failed.
The Juvenile Troubadours are playing in
Tasmania.
The reign of the Amateur ‘ Pinafores,’ in Tas-
mania is over. A good professional company would
be warmly welcomed.
Mr. A. L. Hayman leaves for America by the
first mail to arrange for a succession of novelties for
the Queen’s.*
Simonson’s Froliques opened in Hobart Town
on April Ist. Their fooling has continued popular
beyond the day.
Captain Jack, the celebrated rifle shot, arrives
in Sydney shortly with a party of real Indians. ’ He is
under engagement to Mr. Coppin, of Melbourne.
Miss Kate Vaughan is said to be the most
graceful dancer on the English stage. Dancers usually
succeed according to what they have Vaughan.
Chairini is doing well with his circus in Ade-
laide. He visits Tasmania next; thence to Sydney,
where he arrives in about three weeks.
We are glad to hear that Mr. Liddy will remain
in Sydney for some time ; he has accepted the business
management of the Queen’s Theatre for three years.
Ainslie Scott, the Tasmanian Sir Joseph Porter,
crossed the seas to Melbourne without notice. Lots of
people in the tight little island would like to hear from
Mr. Hinchy, one of our amateur vocalists,
was asked to jo’in the Patti troupe. He declined the
offer on account of his at (present holding a lucrative
position.
The Carandinis are doing well in New Zealand.
Miss Donkin, a Sydney lady, who is with the company,
is spoken of by several journals as having a voice of good
compass and great sweetness.
Mr. Hopkins, the author of ‘ All for Gold,”
and other pieces which Mr. Dampier has for some time
been producing with such success, is a gentleman of
means, and writes for the stage purely for the love of it.
It was at the Opera. She sat in the dress
circle. In the front, as usual. The overture com-
menced. She opened her score. It was a large score.
A stentorian voice from above said, ‘ Here beginneth
the first lesson.’
Private letters from Berlin state that young
Kruse, who was sent from Victoria by subscription to
study under Herr Joachim, is now a really magnificent
violinist and pianist. His father is Mr. Kruse, of
‘ Fluid Magnesia’ fame.
The Charles Kean Amateur Dramatic Club,
since its formation four years ago, has given four
benefits annually to the various charities of the city.
The Chib now announce a benefit for themselves—the"
first of the "kind —and a good bill is put forward. We
wish them a crowded house.
Professional interpretation of an opera sonu
(Faust) —‘Loving smile of sister kind,’ as someone re-
marked at the Victoria Theatre on Saturday last on
seeing 1 Tabitha ’ —the sister critic of the Herald —give
a grim and ghastly glare at our critic. Let brotherly
love continue.
Rumour says that the celebrated and popular
tragedienne, Miss Augusta Dargon, is shortly to be
married. A clever American medico is the fortunate
individual. Better news still is that the lady selects
New South Wales as the place of her future residence.
Coonambla is the favoured spot.
Mr. Hegarty, the popular lessee of the Queen’s,
has just completed an eight years’ lease. He has
been one of our moat successful managers, and has
amassed what is nothing short of a neat little fortune.
At the close of the Dampier season the Queen’s is to be
so improved as to be virtually rebuilt.
One of the Yaidis sisters, recently with the
Froliques (who are now playing successfully under Mr.
Simonson’s management in Tasmania), surreptitiously
got married in Melbourne and ran away from the troupe.
Mr. Loamy's connection with the Company has been
severed.
E. B. Boothman gave a benefit performance at
the Hobart Town Theatre, assisted by amateurs, but
would not admit the Press, though he made a speech
about it, giving his own opinions of his acting, with
which the published accounts do not agree. The usual
fate of the prophet in his own country.
We hear that when the juvenile ‘Pinafore,’
which is to succeed Mr. Creswick, has run its course at
the Bijou Theatre, Melbourne, a lady, once known in
Victoria as an accomplished actress and a charming
woman, will make her ra-appearauce on the boards of
Mr. Lewis’ pretty little theatre.
The Melbourne Abous (April 7th) speaks in
glowing rapture of Carlotta Patti, of M. De Munck, and
especially of Signor Ciampi-Cellnj, whom Mr.;Keily
declares to be the finest baritone ever heard in Aus-
tralia. But then, Tabitha is not there! Her genius
did not shine in Melbourne, where her Cassandra
croakiugs were not considered congenial.
Signora Fabris, with Signor Pompei, Fraulein
Pietzker (of Sydney), pianiste, and Miss Hanson, a
Tasmanian soprano, are to form a Concert Company for
New Zealand. Mr. Ellis Dean, a farmer at Macquarie
Plains, whom Pompei has persuaded that he has a
voice, etc., will find the money, besides singing himself.
This is another of Pompei’s Tasmanian Concert Com.
panies.
At the Aquarium in London, a young and
handsome woman has been shot out of a cannon nightly
for the amusement of sensation lovers. However on a
recent evening she was thrown up so high that she nar-
rowly escaped striking the girders of the gallerv. She
fell on the floor with an appalling crash. One side of
her face appeared to be black from extra vasated blood;
her teeth projected through her cheek : her body was
quivering in the most violent manner; she was perfectly
unconscious.
A monster testimonial is to be presented to
Mr. Edward Ledger of the ‘Era’ for his courageous
defence of the profession, and especially for exposing a
speculator who advertised ‘a dramatic ball, to be at-
tended by all the leading actresses of London,” but
which was patronized only by the nymphs da pave. A
letter of thanks, signed by the actors and actresses now
playing in Sydney, was forwarded to Mr. Ledger last
mail by the Sydney representative of the ‘ Era,’ Mr. E.
Lewis Scott.
We aro sorry to have to announce the death
at the age of 43. of Mr. J. J. Bartlett, the well-known
actor, to whom, it will be remembered, a benefit was
given in Sydney a few weeks since. Mr. Bartlett had
been ill for a long time past from a complication of
diseases. He was an actor of no mean ability in the
school of the legitimate drama, and had during his
eventful life, taken part in heavy theatrical specula-
tions. In private hia good nature, gentlemanly
bearing and conversational powers, rendered him a
universal favourite. He leaves a widow but no family.
Singular that so erudite a critic as Mr. Keily
of the Amub should be oaught napping (d U ‘ Tabitha’
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Writte for THE BULLETIN.)
IX.—‘The Unmarried Woman With a Mission’
Is either a lady of uncertain age or a gnshing girl in
her teens; if the latter, she is a zealous Sunday-school
teacher, a constant district visitor or attendant at the
sewing class in connection with the Sunday school, a
thorough devote at all church services—week-day ones
included—where her bean-ideal of man, in the guise of
some high-church curate, with strong ritualistic ten-
dencies, officiates; who parts his hair in the middle,
folds his hands reverently, and raises his eyes piously
when singing; who comes so often to take tea with
them, and praises all her little efforts so warmly while
doing so j hopes she will not mind his plain speech, etc.;
for whom she strains her eyes working altar-cloths and
other fancy articles. If she has money as well as
beauty, he, as likely as not, converts his little ‘ parish-
help’ into his wife, to the envy of all her circle of
friends, and she finds out only too soon, that she must
for the future eat her cake without its customary
gilding.
But the maiden lady with a ‘ mission,’ so far from
setting her cap at the curate, often sets him to rights,
socially and clerically. She, too, is a steady church-
goer, and woe betide any little child who drops a book,
or fails to find its place. She knows every psalm and
every hymn that is sung or chanted; can repeat all
litanies —responses and all—without once referring to
her book. She knows exactly how often pretty Eose
Baxter smiled on that audacious Will. Webster, who
always made a point of saying ‘ Amen ’ loud enough to
wake the dead. She will sit a whole morning covering
books with brown paper for the Sunday-school library.
If the clergyman is married, she is his wife’s bosom
friend; retails all the scandal of the parish to her, says
how it hurts her to have to report such a case of
hardened depravity, as that about ‘ you know who, my
dear’; but it’s her ‘ mission ’ and in justice to herself she
must be conscientious, even at the expense of others.
She attends soup-kitchen meetings, lectures the poor
worn creatures on the sinfulness of waste, and in giving
out a dole of coals or potatoes, urges them to use both
sparingly, as things for which they will have to account
—she does not add when or where —and the poor out-
casts of humanity take the bread of charity from her
and feel that it turns bitter in their mouths after her
fulsomely pious harangue.
At Dorcas meetings she looks serenely on young
mothers soliciting a little help, and to some poor, mis-
guided ones she talks so severely as they sit, forlorn
enough already, that not unfrequently the infants’
garments they are busy over seem literally * sewn
in tears.’
But with all this your woman with a ‘ mission ’ can
sometimes do good. She has been known to nurse sick
. mothers and little children, and to read by death-beds,
which few women would care to venture. At all
feaststond school treats she is almost indispensable. If
she and likes to be present on such occasions
’ who shall gainsay her ? Not the children ; for out in
fields by purling brook or sweet-scented hedgerow your
woman with a * mission ’ is their best friend. She
makes and shares in their games, feeds them liberally—
has it not cost her a week of patient begging and a
baking to accomplish this school treat ? And if she
crams the youngsters with psalms and collects for many
a weary Sabbath they forget it all—not what they have
learnt, but the trouble it cost them—in that long, de-
lightful day in the country given them chiefly through
the energy of the woman with a ‘ mission.’ And
although she knows the history of so many, how few
know hers ! or what cruel buffets she has met with,
while life’s journey was still young, that have tnmed
her into the much-condemned and yet not unfrequently
useful ‘ old maid with a mission.’
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
Ki dear Bean-Blossom,—
I started this morning with a country cousin,
intent on a little shopping, wherein my town knowledge
might be useful. After that we intended going to the
4 Picture Gallery,’ but alas, you know what women ore.
When shopping, time passes—colors are attractive, this
texture and that shape have to be properly discussed.
The shopman’s opinion, given deferentially, yet with the
certain knowledge that he at least knows what to call
the material, is, as often as not, first rejected and finally
taken. I must own to a most unprecedented trait in
the female mind, a wholesome horror of shopping, hut
on behalf of one for whom I have a sincere regard, I can
cheerfully put aside my own idiosyncrasy and enter
into those of my friend.
After going from shop to shop, at last we were free,
purses empty, hearts light—mine because I had been
showing my cousin how to spend her money to the best
advantage, and hers with the pleasure in store of wear-
ing all her pretty things when she should return. We
had arranged prior to starting to join some friends and
lunch at the Coffee Palace. It was too near luncheon-
hour for us to venture out of town, so I proposed we
should go to the picture gallery after instead of before,
and in the meantime look into the first furniture dealer's
and inspect hie pictures. Agreed. We stepped into a
well-known dealer’s not many doors from the Coffee
Palace, little thinking what a treat awaited us. We
were asked by a civil shopman to walk upstairs, and on
our entering a little room, he unveiled to my delighted
eyes the much talked of, written of, disputed ‘ Dan®,*
She has been washed since I first made her acquaintance.
I assure you, my dear Bean-blossom, there is no such
picture in the Palace Art Gallery as this incomparable
‘ Don®.’ A copy, perhaps, hut still the work of a great
master. The calm repose of the whole figure, the dreamy
half-closed, wistful, brown eyes, the little ear with the
pear-shaped pearl drop, the ruddy brown of the hair,
the perfectly-moulded limbs, the flesh tints worked in so
exquisitely give an almost startling reality to the
recumbent figure. The dark back ground is lighted by a
streak of lightning, by which means Jove appears to
shower hie gold from above; and the sturdy, saucy
Cupid looking up at the gold pieces as they come
tumbling down, is doubtless speculating how many it
will take to vanquish ‘ Dan®.’ The whole picture teems
with life, and as it were, tells its own history.
Later in the day we resort to the art gallery. I fee
spoilt for all modern(subjects. My mind still reverts to
* Dan®,’ so we turn to the machinery sheds, preferring
the incessant noise and life going on there, to the
slightly incongruous medley of pictures and people in
the art gallery. There are two centres, not of gravity,
but attraction, in the ‘ sheds.' One is the man who
makes colored ice sticks, and charges enormously for
his perishable goods; the other, the French lolly
depot, where they not only make a greater portion of
their sweetmeats, but also, with the help of a canning
charcoal oven, bake delicious little batter cakes.
Almost instantaneously, the ‘femme’ powders them with
sugar and hands them to any one willing to buy.
Ladies crowd to this stall and indulge their love of tast-
ing without buying, greatly to their own satisfaction.
The little French woman smiles on all, saying, ‘ You ore
welcome, what you buy ? ’ But if she looses by the
ladies, she makes her harvest out of the throng of old
and young men, whom her rather pretty, foreign face,
and deliciously broken English attract. They even try
their best to talk her language, regardless of the smiles
that go round. After their worst blunders she laughs
and apologises in a breath for her troublesome tongue,
not being able to speak properly ; but she makes them
pay although she cannot count the change, and they
take another packet just to make all square. My Palace
Letters are drawing to a close-in another week the
Exhibition closes and with it my letters, I suppose
because there will be no more Palace post.
Yours resignedly,
PEA-BLOSSOM.
A DEGREELESS ODE TO DR. BADHAM.
ARGUMENT.
Professor Badham —sitting in a railway carriage
over the door of which hangs a card marked
private on the side facing the public, and on the
other side the Doctor’s motto ■. —* Odi profanum
vulgus et arceo ” —is carried by the “ iron horse ”
over the first Zig-Zag. Being now elevated, he
beholds, through the dim vista of a pair of spec-
tacles, the genius of the classic ages sitting on
the limb of a gum tree (Eucalyptus Globulus)
weeping over the estate of Numantia. The
Doctor, during this long trip, has been thinking of
the Senate of the University, Forster’s long
absence, a trip to Europe for twelve months on
full pay, the best means of accomplishing this
end, and many other subjects (all of which have
been considered in pure Greek), when suddenly
Faulconbridge breaks upon his view, and, inter-
rupting his reverie, he perceives a head which he
mistakes for that of Jupiter, and in the ecstasy of
classic enthusiasm he exclaims —‘ ‘ Eureka !
Eureka ! ! Eureka ! ! ! ”
For sequel see business paper in re questions
asked by Jack McElhone and Angus Cameron in
“their places in Parliament,” in re “Private
carriage for Dr. Badham.”
To flatter Sir Henry’s vanity
Was the very best thing you could do.
For who will dare speak of inanity
In a scholar so learned as you ?
But if at the coming election
Old Harry should go to the wall
And Will. Forster step into his shoes, sir.
Won’t you then look socially small ?
For Forster won’t sanction such scheming,
And will never agree to your stay
With old classic fossils in Europe
Whilst drawing from us your full pay.
You played Henry Parkes as a trump card
And we grant he’s a knave of some power
But Farrell has euchred your left, sir,
For in Forster you’ll find the right bower.
We all thought that you, my good doctor,
Th’ incarnation of honor had been ;
Sedhorrihile dicta, we’re sboeked, for
The “ cloven foot’s ” palpably seen.
You bolster up Latin and Greek, sir,
Tho’ in your heart you must know it’s a sham,
For ’Enry knows nothing of ‘ heither ’
And you say he’s a truly great man.
May he banish your fustian and logic,
They arc things scarcely needed in schools,
Give English, but keep donkey medals.
Form great men, not Badamac tools.
For Parkesau satellite magsmeu,
Windeyer and Backhouse are two,
Onrnis generis haj as of Cads-men *
The ’Varsity boasts not a few.


, S M Herald), in the matter of taking a concert
o f t “l T , une as an authority on the names of pieces,
composers. In writing of the first Patti
operas. g cr ]tic says that Madame Patti and Signor
sang the duet ‘ Dnnque io son,’ for Norina and
in ‘ Don Pasquale.’ The duet named is in
o mini’s ‘ Barber of Seville,’ and we don’t believe it
B ° SS =nne by the artists. The Age falls into the same
Tier but it would have been one of the wonders of
’if it hadn’t.
,«- r Walter Slierwin, of the Carandini troupe,
% ns a copy of the Timaru Herald, containing a
8*°“! addressed to the editor by the Rev. Archdeacon
ir Vner in which that gentleman ‘ expresses regret that
“Professional company (the Carandinis) were about to
a P ro festival of sacred music on Good Friday,’
that ‘ any public professional entertain-
4D<* * on so sacred a day must he a cause of serious
m ~ “ e the consciences of many who at another time
™,ld gladly patronise so excellent a Company.’—The
SP-th Canterbury Times, the Timaru evening paper
f the same date, soundly rates the same gentleman,
01 1 a ,,. g that ‘these sentiments coming from such a
an “ lpl Christian enlightenment and toleration as the
irfnprable Archdeacon must excite profound astonish-
V t The Times odds that it was under the im-
PP«ion that Timaru was being unjustly favoured by
Kfonportnuity offered for suitably celebrating this
Christian holiday. It points out that only on the pre-
cis Good Friday the company gave a similar concert
nder the patronage of the Acting-Governor; that the
Episcopalian Bishop of Queensland over and over again
“mmended these performances; and that the Georgia
Minstrels had given a jubilee concert in Dunedin on a
fV>od Friday.’ In conclusion, says the journal: ‘ Had
the Archdeacon raised his voice against the sailing of
iPats the running of trains, cabs, and omnibuses, or a
score of other things that are calculated to have ft dis-
turbin'' influence on the puritanical conscience, we
PiPht have sympathised with him; hut in getting up
Ms back at selections from the Messiah, Naaman,
Effiah and the other prophets, he has exceeded the
f„VI of the Glasgow magistrate who mode whistling on
Sunday a penal offence, and out-Cromwelled Cromwell.
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
The House Committee of the Randwick Asylum
we added insult to injury. Messrs. Allen,
Bowden and Allen have for more than a quarter
nf a century been solicitors to the institution, but
the House Committee, without consulting the
directors, have thought fit to take the business out
of the hands of that firm and give
it to a Mr. Arthur Dowling who—
they said —had a sort of hereditary
right to it! Mr. Allen, the junior
partner, was dead, they said: Mr.
Bowden was also dead ; the remain-
ing partner, Sir George Wigram
Allen, was Speaker of the Assembly.
They wanted a worker, not a Speaker,
and though Sir George, they said,
didn’t speak much, he didn t do their
work So the House Committee
snubbed Sir George, as the directors
thought. To snub the House Com-
mittee and to soothe Sir George’s
terribly wounded feelings, they sent
the treasurer to the Speaker to tell
him that though they had snuffed
him out of their law business, they
would not forget him ! They may be
quite sure that Sir George won’t re-
turn the compliment.
The changes in the officials of
the Supreme Court remind one of
the Jack-in-the-box toy. Mr. T. M.
Slattery, the Prothonotary, every-
body’s friend, prefers principle and
friendship to the principles of
worldly wisdom. He refused to dis-
miss without any cause his friend,
Mr. T. Chapman, from the agency
for intestate estates at the dictation
of the Government and in defiance
of the judges. So the Ministry
dismiss Mr. Slattery instead. Mr.
T. Chapman resigns his position
under the Prothonotary, and another
Mr. Chapman slips into the protho-
notary’s shoes. What the end may
be it is not quite easy to see : but
there are long odds that though the
new Prothonotary may have got into
the old situation, the old Prothono-
tary will remain master of the situa-
tion after all. They say that dead
men tell no tales ; but the subject of
dead men’s estates will entail a tale of
some magnitude for the law courts.
It’s an ill wind that blows
nobody any good. The blow that
Mr. Anderson gave Mr. Cohn Simp-
son in front of the Union Club has
blown some good to the Sydney
charities, amongst the three princi-
pal of which Mr. Simpson has divided
the hundred and fifty pounds he
gained in his action against Mr.
Anderson. The assault and battery
has thus provided bread-and-butter
for the orphans for many a day to
come : they will wish that the wind
may blow in the same direction
frequently that they may get another
wind-fall.
The public ought to feel much indebted to the
S. M. Herald for its reprints of musical and
biographical sketches taken from old text-books
by its musical and dramatic critic at every oppor-
tunity that occurs of putting on an appearance of
learning, which may be very easily and cheaply
acquired by—copy. Though the subjects of such
sketches may have been “ done to death” on many
a previous occasion, there is nothing like having
the memory freshened whenever a new critic
chooses to enlighten us with something that is new
only in his or her own imagination: it saves us
some trouble, and will make the Herald a sort of
“Enquire Within” that will stand the test
of ages. Tabitha’s second-hand knowledge
takes the place of positive argument: vide the
critiques on “ Hamlet ” and “ St. Peter.”
The New Babylon.
We give (on page 4) another illustration from
this startling drama, which has been attracting
crowds to the Duke’s Theatre, London, for over
four hundred nights, and which is to be produced
m a few evenings at the Victoria Theatre. It is
written by Mr. Paul Merritt, of whom we know
uttle, but who has by this work stepped into the
arena of fame. Amongst the leading attractions
of the piece are—a collision in the Atlantic (an
illustration of which appeared in our issue of last
week) —Tattersall’s and the Horse Sale —Cre-
morne, with its dancing platform and thousands
p hghts—Goodwood on the Cup Day—the Thames
Embankment—and Seven Dials by Night,—all at-
tractive pictures. The play consists of a series of
scenes from modern life. In London one of the
Principal characters—Flotsam, an' American de-
tective—is played by Mr. Clarence Holt, formerly
a great favourite here, whose son, Mr. Bland
tloit, will take the part in Sydney.
The Intercolonial Boat Race.
The annual intercolonial eight-oar contest between
the amateur oarsmen of this colony and Victoria came
off on Saturday last, the 10th instant, and proved to be,
as we predicted, a very soft affair for Victoria. This is
the third contest in eight-oared boats between the two
colonies. The first was rowed on the Yarra, and both
colonies were represented by the best men that could
be procured; it was won by Victoria. The second took
place last 3'ear on the Parramatta River, and both colo-
nies had strong crews. New South Wales scored
a win on that occasion, making one victory to the credit
of each colony. This year Victoria was represented by
a very good crew, stroked by Mr. G. Upward, who was
backed up by Messrs. R. Brown, R. Booth, W. H.
Tnckett, J. Booth, J. R. Irvine, A. Nichols, and A. R.
Tunbridge, with the youngest Edwards as coxswain.
New South Wales sent down a weak lot. Mr. Stewart
was stroke, and had with him Messrs. Anslow, Gaden,
Woodriffe, Bros, Zolluer, Simpson, and Thompson.
The Melbourne crew were 3st 121bs heavier than our
men. All arrangements were satisfactorily made by
the Victorian Rowing Association, and both boats got
away about 4.30 p.m. the Sydney men, however, having
slightly the best of the start. They kept the lead for a
hundred yards or so, when the Melbourneites gradually
forged ahead, although rowing slower than the Sydney
men. A good race for nearly a mile took place, with
Melbourne averaging from half to three-quarters of a
length ahead. After that, however, the Sydney crew
stood no show. They made one or two desperate efforts
but without avail. The Melbourne crew continued to
increase their lead, and won by about three and a half
lengths. Nearly 20,000 people witnessed the race. In
the evening both crews were entertained at a dinner, at
which the Hon. W. J. Clarke, president of the Victorian
Rowing Association, presided. There is a general
opinion that each colony will in the long run be found
strongest on its own waters.
A man named Dance was found dead the other
day outside bis bouse at Creswick witb a gun in bis
band. Inside, a cat was found dead of starvation, and
bis dog, wbicb was chained up, was in a pitiable state of
weakness from the same cause. Dance bad been
* spending Easter,’ and bad drunk three parts of a
bottle of brandy.
Mr, Sydney Hall, who has just resigned the
appointment of chief clerk in thepTraffic Department of
the Southern, Western and Richmond Railways, to join
the firm of Wells and Smith, auctioneers, was on
Friday evening last banquetted and * addressed ’ by the
officers of the department. Cripps provided a sump-
tuous repast and a most enjoyable evening was spent.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Mr. Hungerford, M.P., has resigned.
The French are about to occupy Tonquin.
Sheep disease is spreading alarmingly in Wilts.
A Melbourne larrikin has fractured a man’s
skull with a stone tied in a handkerchief.
The Bathurst-street eolumnites have a ‘ national
anti-Chinese league ’ on the tapis.
Queensland has been allotted 8,000 feet of
space at Melbourne Exhibition.
A rich lead appeal’s to have been discovered at
Chiltem, Victoria.
The cutting of Panama Canal will cost
843,000,000 francs and will extend over eight years.
No. 1 East Mountain Maid, Copeland, have
struck a ten-inch reef showing gold freely.
Mr. F. Chapman, of Daintrey and Chapman,
solicitors, succeeds Mr. T. M. Slattery as Prothonotary.
The piercing of the St. Gothard tunnel has
been completed.
* The hairless horse ’ was roasted alive during a
fire at Philadelphia.
Miss Fidler lectures on cookery at the School
of Arts, Parramatta, at 3 p.m. on Monday next.
The Earl of Derby will probably be the new
Secretary of State for the colonies.
The private correspondence of Peter the Great
is to he published by the Russian Government at the
end of the present year.
Each colonial university will in future be
allowed to nominate a student to a cadetship at the
Royal Military College, Sandhurst, England.
A very pleasing amateur concert is promised
for Monday night at Ashfleld. The programme is
unusually attractive.
Hurrah for the Sydney larrikins. They have
risen to be somebodies at last. A bill is to he introduced
into the Legislative Assembly for their suppression.
Mr. Thomas Alcock, the well-known tanner,
‘bonnetted’ John M’Elhone at Mort’s wool-stores the
other day by way of a joke. John didn’t hit him back,
nor did he swear too much, but he straightway took out
a summons and had it served before the ‘ bonneter ’ left
the place.
An English diver named Fleuss is said to have
discovered means of going down into deep water in a
diving dress and staying there without my supply of
air from above. In the presence of Dr. Richardson he
remained under water twenty minutes and came up free
from oppression, Us pulse steady, Us breathing free,
and Us complexion natural. It has been surmised that
he has condensed air concealed about his person.
The mails by P. and O. mail steamer,Assam ’
reached Sydney overland on Thursday morning. The
despatches are dated London, 27th February.
A grand ball is to be held under the auspices
of the Robert Bums Lodge, 817 E.C. (Masonic) next
month.
At Orange, the other day, it was reported that
there was a Chinese leper in town. Cabbages were im-
mediately at a discount.
The names of forty-seven Ministerial supporters
have been placed on the list of Melbourne International
Exhibition Commissioners.
General Roberts denies that he ordered whole-
sale executions or that he was guilty of unnecessary
cruelty at Cabul.
Until a large amount of deposits now held at
a Ugh rate of interest have been run off, Melbourne
bankers will not raise the rate of discount.
The first sale of allotments at .Suva, the future
Fijian capital, will be held on the ground in September
next.
The Service Ministry have warned all electoral
registrars and returning officers against being members
of political associations.
The shareholders of the A. and E. Bank,
Melbourne, have decided that the difficulties of the
institution arose from directoral incapacity.
One of the results of the Sydney International
is that a local technological and industrial museum will
shortly be an accomplished fact.
Two French released prisoners attempted a
burglary at Brisbane on Sunday night but were arrested
by detectives who were in waiting.
King Thebau of Burmah, doesn’t seem to be
dead after all. He has caused 700 men, women and
children to be burned alive as an expiatory sacrifice to
check the spread of small-pox.
The peace armies of the Continent number
2,000,000 men—five times the number Imperial Rome
ever maintained. The expenditure exceeds £120,000,000
per annum, without counting loss of labour. That is to
say, the interest at 4 per cent, of three thousand
I millions sterling is wasted upon armaments ; and if 10s.
per week only be allowed for the average value of each
conscript’s labour, £50,000,000 per annum more is ex-
pended on unproductive toil.
The new Queensland loan is a success,
£2,000,000 was wanted and £6,000,000 was offered. The
average price realised was £9O 14s. sd.
Forty representatives of Masonic lodges at-
tended the funeral of the late Archdeacon Innes, of
Hamilton, Victoria.
Unless information leading to the arrest of the
Kelly gang be given within three months the Govern-
ment rewards will be withdrawn.
There were in March, 1879, 57,193 native males
and 51,431 native females in Fiji. The births from
January to September were—males, 1288; females, 1379.
J. B. Barlow', of Waverley, has been awarded
a first-class certificate by the jurors of the Victorian
Juvenile Industrial Exhibition for his poem ‘ By the
Sea.’
Nearly 800 civil servants are located in the
new public offices, Treasury Gardens, Melbourne. It i*
proposed to supply luncheon rooms for their accom-
modation.
The drawing for the prizes in the Plattsburg
Art Union is again announced ‘ positively ’ to take
place on Saturday, the 24th day of April. This
affair has now' been before the public eighteen months.
The Newtown people agitated enough until
the railway bridge was widened; hut now they submit
to a toll-house being put up on it, which lessens the
width by 10 feet.
Work has been resumed in the A. A. Go’s, old
pit, Newcastle, an amicable arrangement having been
arrived at between manager and men concerning the
proposed ; cale of reductions.
It is said that the great tin mine at Pulltop,
near Wagga, has been abandoned in consequence of a,
well known Sydney authority having pronounced it
uny ayable.
A farmer at Lancefield, Vic!oria, says that
during 17 years pasc he has, while ploughing his land,
frequently turned up sovereigns from a considerable
depth.
At the quarries of Messrs Low and Kerr, of
Callan Park, on Saturday afternoon last, three snots
fired in ho’es 17 feet deep, each charged with 161bs.
of H ill’s blasting powder, displaced 1000 tons of stone.
Mr. Pilcher has introduced a bill into the
Assembly providing that a wrritten notice shall be served
on the owner of any property through which a pro-
posed road is to pass, instead of as at present, the mere
publication pf|a Gazette notice; and that where a parish
1 road has no trustees it shall he fenced by Government.
Extra buildings are to be erected
at the Melbourne International, in order
to "provide room for American exhi-
bitors.
The matter of the Improvement
Board and the Paragon Hotel has not
slipped our attention. In our next a
pungent article.
Now that colds, coughs, &c., are
so prevalent, there is a run on Arm-
strong’s Pectoral Cherry Balsam, wbicb is
spoken of by the medical profession as
the best known preventive of these com-
plaints. Mr. Armstrong’s establishment,
which is situated in George-street, oppo-
site the markets, may be visited for the
very best description of medicines.
Twenty-five of the pictures now
in the gallery at the Garden Palace have
been secured by the trustees of the art
gallery of N.S.W. at very low prices. The
total amount of the trustees’ purchases is
£4,000, and among the pictures secured is
that charming subject ‘Une Femme
Copte.’ Further additions to the colo-
nial art gallery, from the same source,
are contemplated.
Near Riverstone, on the western
line, the other day, a person taking a walk
found a man blind of one eye lying on
the railway line with his arm cat off
,'and quite dead. He at once gave informa-
tion to the station master at Riverstone,
who telegraphed along the line to|a train
that had some time previously passed,
and on search being made for likely
marks the missing arm was discovered
still adhering to the engine.
The San Francisco mail steamer,
‘ City of Sydney,’ with despatches from
London up to 6th March, arrived in port
on Wednesday afternoon last. She was
due here on Monday, the 12th inst., hut
a fire which occcurred on board caused
her to be five days late in leaving 'Frisco.
It will thus be seen that she picked up
two days on the trip. In future the
’Frisco mails due here amder present
time table on Mondays will probably reach
Sydney on Fridays.
Mr. Jack, the Queensland Govern-
ment geologist, and party, were recently
attacked by blacks near Cape Granville.
Mr. Jack received an ugly spear wound in
the neck, but dispersed the niggers. The
party discovered in Temple Bay a wreck
which apparently occurred seven years
ago. The vessel had been laden with
cedar, and was covered with pare copper
to the water line and with muntz metal
above that. It is in the same locality
where a white woman was seen some time
ago.
The Rev. J. Miller Ross, of Lon-
don, who has been appointed by the Pres-
byterian General Assembly to organize a
sustentation fund and to act as general
agent of tbe church, was welcomed to the
colony by a large and influential public
meeting which assembled on Monday
night at St. Stephen’s Church, Philip-
street. Mr. Joseph Paxton, J.P., jire-
sided. Mr. Ross is evidently the man
for the work he has taken in hand.
It lias been decided to devote the surplus
balance of £lBO, now in the hands of the Captain Cook
Sta.no Committee, to the erection of a suitable railing
round the statue of the great navigator in Hyde Park,
A ‘ United New England Co-operative Butcher-
ing Co.’ to open up a local market for stock, is on the
tapis. 1,000 £1 shares out of 5,000 have already been
allotted.
The establishment of a grand line of French
steam packets, to rim between Reunion, Mauritius,
Melbourne, Sydney, and New Caledonia, is said to be
contemplated.
In the Victorian political world it is freely said
that Mr. Service will meet with no little trouble from
some railers (in two senses of the word) who are of the
never-satisfied sort. These, report saith, will be led oy
a burly ex-minister not unknown to fame and squatt r-
dom. Sir John O’Shanassy.
It has been decided by the French Government
to appoint no more army chaplains in time of peace
unless for the hospitals or for military stations where
not less than 2,000 men are at any great distance from
any town or church.
A selector named Desmond and his w’fe were
drowned last Sunday while crossing the Darling in a
canoe near Wentworth. Their three children, the
eldest a girl of nine, witnessed the death of the un-
fortunate parents.
Until the close of the Exhibition children re-
siding within 50 miles of Sydney may travel to the city
for 6d.; and those beyond that distance for Is. Excur-
sion trains will run from Wagga on 14th and from
Orange at 13th inst. at unprecedentedly low rates.
One of our leading merchants —a Jewish
gentleman—the other day handed Mr. G. R. Dibbs a
cheque for £5OO towards defraying the cost of the recent
big action. Mr. Dibbs, while thanking the kind donor,
declined to acc ipt the money, and ran his pen through
the signature to the document, which he will preserve
as a memento of his friend’s sympathy.
At Tl.ornborough, Hodgkinson River, Queens-
land, the publicans combined to keep up the price of
nobblers to a shilling. At Kingsboroigh, two miles
away, there is tree trade, with no oombina ion and six-
penny drinks. The consequence is that Thornborough
is going down the hill. The niggers will ytt prolably
meet to settle disputes in the Court-house.
Mr. E. R. Cole’s Book and Stationery
Establishment.
Herewith is given a capital engraving of the
well-known book and stationery establishment of
Mr. E. R. Cole, at the corner of George and King-
streets, in this city. This may be reckoned one
of the finest houses in the book and stationery
trade of the colony, the stock being most varied
and extensive. Its situation on the principal
thoroughfare of the metropolis commands an
enormous business ; but the success which it has
won is mostly attributable to the fact that here
MB. E. B. COLE’S BOOK AND STATIONERY ESTABLISHMENT.
may be found at the lowest rates every description
of book likely to be required in a colonial com-
munity. Every standard work on mechanics,
science, medicine, education, agriculture, grazing,
etc., is here obtainable. They appear to have
been selected especially to suit our requirements
in this colony, and are placed before the public at
but a trifling advance on the home prices.
Shipments of the latest English and American
works are received by every mail and
ocean-going steamer, and though the same chan-
nel come all the latest novelties in cards and the
thousand and one other articles that make up a
stationer’s stock. Books for presentation, works
of travel, romance, history, &c., with a most ex-
tensive assortment of bibles, prayer-books, church
services, &c., make up a grand collection of
100,000 volumes. There is really no book that a
person requires which cannot be obtained at Cole’s;
it is the very same in respect of fancy stationery
and periodicals, and as to the latter the house is
one of the principal mediums here between the
English and American publishers and the Aus-
tralian community. Mr. Cole has now been
established in his present place—corner of King
and George-streets—just eight years, and he does
an increasing business throughout this and the
adjoining colonies.


BRIEF MENTION.
George-street is ‘up again.’
Dead Sea Fruit. —Mr. Shepherd’s verdict.
The Mayor gives a grand Fancy Dress Ball
shortly.
There were 260 more marriages (or 8 per cent.)
in Victoria in 1878 than in 1870, whilst there were 570
less babies born. How does philosophy account for
this ? Is it a fruit of wisdom, of climatic change, or of
the divorce law? In New South Wales there was a
contrary state of affairs ; there was an all-round in-
crease ; 1469 more couples were “ spliced” (or 38 per
cent.) in 1878 over 1870, whilst babydom increased in a
fourfold ratio to the squeaking tune of 5680. This may
he said to be of vital interest to the colony.
The Town Hall clock is not going ‘ tick’ for its
doctor’s bill.
Lord Loftus’ sons now dance. It is therefore
clear the Bulletin has a mission.
An admirer of The Bulletin says: —
The Bulletin, epigram-like, is a thing
With just a buzz, some honey, and a sting.
At the last East Sydney election a well-known
voter who wears a glass eye was objected to on the
ground that he was not natural-eyes'd.
Sir Henry Parkes has presented Bishop Barker
with a plot of ground at Faulconbridge for a church. He
is about to do the same for Dr. Vaughan.
It is not a fact that the Town Clerk of any big
city in New South Wales has half the civil servants
under his thumb on screw day.
The policeman is the larrikin’s natural enemy.
Not, however, that the Sydney policeman ever did the
larrikin any harm.
David Buchanan wants the permanent judge-
ship. He got into Judge Windeyer’s shoes the other
day at Wagga, and that was a step towards it.
People ask what has become of the attachment
issued against the Evening News at Mr. John Shep-
herd’s instance. Has there been any sacrifice ?
Splendid Municipal management again! All
Pitt-street blocked up. Could not half the street be
done at one time ?
The Hon. Thomas Holt is thinking of pre-
senting the Warren to the Government for a high
school. The Government think it too high.
Debtors and others have had high times during
the last three weeks or so, but now the new Prothono-
tary is appointed writs are once more to the fore.
A model of good taste —Dr. Badham’s apolo-
getic stump-oratoric letter in favour of Sir ’Enery
Parkes. Ne sutor ultra crepidam.
A Fact.— ‘ What a fool you are, girl!’ testily
exclaimed an irritated mistress to a mule of a servant.
‘ Whoso calleth his brother a fool shall be put into hell
fire,’ meekly replied the slavey.
A letter recently came to Sydney for a well-
known sporting reporter. It was addressed thus: —
* Mr. . office of the . If not there try
Young Men’s Mutual Improvement Association.’ Of
course they tried the latter place first.
It is a splendid indication of our future to
find very few lads on the city ’buses now. ‘ Only the
brave deserve the fare,’ has always been their maxim.
The dishonesty among the growing youth of the city is
alarming.
Major Wells is getting out a work on Artillery
Drill. ' It is likely to be very novel. This officer was
once a captain. We always thought he’d make a very
good major. Of course it wouldn’t much matter if it
were druhr-major.
Says a metropolitan contemporary, which has
evidently secured the reportorial services of a ‘ Shwiss’
gentleman: ‘ A few seats near the front of the hall
were unoccupied, but the vacant space at the door was
crowded.’
The Daily Twaddlegkaph of the 12th in-
stant, under the head ‘ Amusements,’ has ‘ St. Peter at
the Exhibition.’ We were there, but didn't see him.
The resurrection must have been an ap-pauling sight.
Did the reporter act as ‘ Paul bearer ?’
We hear that Mr. Lucas is waiting for Mr.
Fowler, the Mayor, to give £500 for some charity, so
that he might follow suit. Mr. Fowler says he’ll never
put Mr. Lucas to any such expense. Mr. Lucas says
Mr. Fowler is a very fine fellow after all.
Larry Kinn has a funny joke about “ the bloke
wot crys, * Periwinkles’ in the streets." He says,
* though he mayn’t be able to fall quite asleep, it cer-
tainly may be said of him that he very often gets forty
“winks” between the beginning and the end of his
call.’
People would almost think the Transit Board
was in the pay of the ’Bus Company. Where is the
uniformity in the fares, &c., that we were to get ? It is
threepence cash here and fourpence there, if you don’t
chose to purchase just double the number of tickets
you want.
Now that the wet weather seems to have set
in umbrellas will be at a premium Something after the
style of the Umbrella Loan Depots of New York might
be advantageously introduced to this city. At present
the odds are that if you meet a man with an umbrella
and (accost him (politely, saying, ‘ I beg your pardon,
that’s my umbrella** he’ll give it up without a murmur.
We have one umbrella in the office, but it’s stamped
‘ Bulletin.* There’s room for another.
The Transit Commissioners’ officers are doubt-
less very efficient and a great boon to citizens; but
why, if they must have a costume (we beg pardon, uni-
form !), is it not complete ? Their trousers and boots
generally spoil the effect of the upper man. How is
this? Is it because it is Government measure, and
therefore falls short ?
Pawnbrokers had best make hay while the
sun shines. David B. has been * spouting’ so long, and
finds the ‘ interest’ so absorbing, and the pawnbrokers
so * protective’ that ho is going to bring in a Mont de
Pi<ste Bill. Go it, me braw laddie. If you follow the
Bulletin’s suggestion we’ll write you a neat obituary,
and completely pass over your early political history.
A live bull in a china shop is a lively thing
enough, but it is nothing to a ‘ live’ Bulletin in the
shop of Uncle ‘ Echo.’ It acts like a red rag does on the
infuriated quadruped in question. Determined not to be
done out-and-out and defeated by the young Bull-etin,
Uncle ‘ Echo’ has taken fright, and advertises himself
as the most live-ly paper in Sydney. Yes, —deadly
lively.
‘ She earned a precarious living as a barmaid
and in other notorious callings,’ says the Wagga Wagga
Advertiser. Does the Advertiser wish to convey
that a barmaid must of necessity be disreputable?
Whether lit does or not we know someone connected
with a certain paper not far from Wagga who patronises
barmaids very extensively, and whose tongue, when its
owner is in his cups, is the terror of every respectable
Hebe in Sydney.
Here is the chorus of a cantata, by ‘Spray
Wreath,’ written for the Melbourne International, and
printed in a Melbourne paper:—
Part I.
: Chorus —Sound! sound ! the clarion,
Strike!! strike !! the drum.
Peal!!! peal!!! the organ—
Welcome they come.’
The above is graphic and doesn’t remind us at all of the
music of a larrikins’ tin-kettle orchestra. Part 2 is' a
splendid paraphrase of Henry Kendall s poetic and
music-inspiring words ‘A Hundred Years Ago. Here
goes—.
• Fifty years back or less.
Here was a wilderness ;
Black skin and nakedness.
Savagery—wretchedness,
Now look around.’
This really ought to have ‘ fetched’ Sir Samuel Wilson,
who was one of the judges, and can ‘ look around ins
runs without seeing a solitary nigger. We’ll conclude
with a brief glance at Part 111., which jingles as delight-
fully as do the words of Mr. Meaden’s cantata. The
verse reminds us a little of the lament of poor old
Robinson Crusoe —alias Alexander Selkirk and a great
deal of those delightful nursery rhymes which always
commence, ‘ There was ayonngman,’ &c., but which per-
haps after all are merely imitations of Byron’s earliest
poetic effort: —
Part 111.
‘ We’re young, brother Nations, we’re young.
Be kind to what failings you see—
We’re saplings transplanted.
Success God has granted—
Success we will drink unto thee.’
Author ?
‘Old Man,’ writing to tbe Herald on the
subject of gentlemanly mendicants, says : ‘ The other
day two respectable young men came before me. One
said he was the son of a clergyman in England.’ All
unfortunate young men, and women too, are, according
to their own accounts, the children of clergymen. The
evil one can’t touch the ganders, so he seizes the
goslings.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Samuel Hordern, who left recently for
England, intends touring over the Continent.
p a t K n, on dit, is fidus Achates to a well-
known M.P. Can Mr. Levey explain ?
Bowie Wilson smokes n briar-root pipe in the
street and wears his trousers shorter than ever.
Mr. A. H. Jacob, one of the best debaters in
the Assembly, is a native of Calcutta, He has well-
defined political principles, and his public career is not
without points of interest. We hope soon to give his
portrait and an interesting sketch of his life.
The Chief Justice, Sir Francis Smith, is Acting-
Governor of Tasmania.
Governor Weld left the Hobart Town wharf
amidst mingled groans and cheers.
Mr. Shepherd is a great believer in mesmerism.
Hence the ‘ fear of Mr. Dibbs’ goggles.’
David Gaunson is a candidate for the Victorian
Chairmanship of Committees.
The Prince of Wales * deeply regrets that he
is unable to visit Australia.’
Rosa Bonheur is the first lady member of the
Order of St. Leopold of Belgium.
The Austrian Crown Prince is affianced to the
daughter of the Belgian King.
Mr. W. M. Mowbray, warden of the Hodg-
kinson goldfield, is a good fellow, and doesn’t have fever
more than twice a year. There is no parson on the
field, so W. M. performs civil marriages and gets
therefor half-a-crown from the bridegroom and a kiss
from the bride. He has married many barmaids, but
never kisses them before the ceremony. The girls, who
doat on his dark face, brown eyes, white teeth, splendid
chesnut horse, and red necktie, say that it’s tantalising
of him to kiss them under the circumstances. All
things, they say, come too late.
Tabitha. —At the Herald office they call her
, Little Buttercup.’ But what’s in a name ?
Mr. George Higinbotham does not appear eager
to have the vacant Victorian Supreme Court Judgeship.
He has declined judgeships before.
Mr. Walter Smart assisted the police in keep-
ing the course at the late race meeting. Beally magis-
trates are getting useful at last!
Tom Moser lives at Ashfield, talks broad
Scotch, drinks Walker’s Whiskey, and writes * Zig-
Zag Papers.’ Truly we’ve much to be thankful for.
Princess Bismarck has the largest foot in the
German Empire. Her daughter, it is said, walks in her
steps.
Archdeacon Innes, of Hamilton, Victoria, has
died of diphtheria. He was respected by all denomina-
tions, and was a man who practised what he preached.
Captain Reddich, the naturalist and explorer,
recently fell overboard from the missionary steamer
Ellangowan and was drowned.
The proposal to send a British Flying Squa-
dron round the world has been abandoned for the
present.
Bishop Murray (R.C.) of Maitland, is going to
England for the benefit of his health, and to bring out
Nuns and Christian Brothers for his diocese.
Mrs. Weld, wife of the Governor of Tasmania,
has been presented by her lady friends in Tasmania
with a very handsome and costly diamond suite.
Tom Oldham, a Maryborough civil engineer,
is so thin that people call him ‘ the needle.’ However,
a thinner man has come along now, and they call him
* the thread.’
Mr. Slattery, the ex-Prothonotary, has inter-
viewed four legal luminaries, who have advised him
that he has a good ground for action againt the Govern-
ment.
From S. M. Herald’s news of the ‘weak’ we
cull the following marriage notice: —‘Chaffer—Galla-
way.”—We think it quite bod enough to chaff a gal
away into matrimony without advertising.
Miss Dobbyn, of Sydney, sister to Lieutenant
Dobbyn, was last week married to Mr. Lark (of Young
and Lark) —what a lark! The lady's friends can no lon-
ger say, ‘ Gee, Dobbyn.’ Anna Dobbini 1860.
A well-known “pigeon” shooting cafe pro-
prietor has been speculating in Japanese curios. We
believe they have turned out a better spec, than the
‘ pigeons’—at any rate he was up to ‘ traps !’
Once more a second paper is to be started in
Hobart Town, Mr. T. C. Just, of the Cornwall
Chronicle, Launceston, being the leading spirit in the
enterprise and general manager.
The coroner is a busy fellow. How he patrols
the streets. What hundreds of inquests has he not
conducted, and how often has he not heard the simple
words ‘ wilful murder ’ sounding in his ears !
Three well-known ‘ blackbirders,’ alias Gov-
ernment labour agents, who frequently visit Mary-
borough, Queensland, in South Sea Island traders, are
known as • The world, the flesh, and—the angel.’ The
nicknames are appropriate.’
Angus Cameron makes a good thing out of the
bedroom at the Assembly Chamber which is allotted to
him as Chairman of Committees. Lodgers pay ss. per
night, and Angus stands a nightcap. The apartment is
grand, and the bed simply gorgeous.
Judge Hargrave states in his report on the
case of Mr. T. M. Slattery, that the Government evi-
dently considered Mr. Slattery a pipe through which to
convey their displeasure. The Government have put
the pipe out.
The succeess in business of J. F. Gunsler, of
the Cafti Gunsler, Melbourne, where the Intercolonial
crews dined on Saturday night) is principally due to his
honesty. Some years ago he failed for a large amount,
but having got a fresh start he prospered, and paid
off his creditors in full. Mr. Gunsler is a Jew, and has
the finest establishment of its kind in Melbourne. Mr.
Jones, his partner, was accountant of the Commercial
Bank,Sandhurst, and left banking to go into business
as a restaurateur.
Sir John Robertson gets in better health every
day. He looks now twenty years younger than he did
twelve months ago. He gives an honest, firm shake of
the hand—one that any man might be proud of. He still
drinks whisky.
Colonel Roberts, Commandant of Artillery, is
brother to the Afghan hero who conducted the second
campaign with such eclat. He formerly belonged to
the Eoyal Artillery, and has accepted command in the
colonial service mainly for pastime, we suppose. He is
one of the wealthiest men in New South Wales.
As a result of Black Wednesday, Victorian
civil servants are becoming practical. Two Lauds
Office clerks recently married into big hotel businesses
and are not above brewing ‘ cocktails ’ and * shandy-
gaffs ’ for their former comrades—to whom, however,
they don’t give an undue amount of credit.
Some time ago a very young man —young in
office as in feature—wasynstalled as medical officer of e
certain big gaol. Thenrst time he did his rounds tha
head warder omitted to salute him. Galen was
irate and reported the matter to the governor. A
meeting was called, and it was decided that it was not
necessary—some officials even went the length of saying
that it was not desirable—for the head warder to salute
the medico, who has bent himself to circumstances.
His motto formerly was aut Ccesar aut nullus; now it is
morituri te salutant.
Commander Brydges, of H.M.S. Wolverene,
was ‘ spliced' to Miss Wilson, of Woodlands, Wim-
mera, Victoria, on the 31st of March. He was on the
eve of being an April fool, but there was no jilting, and
all hands aboard the Wolverine * spliced the main-brace’
on the occasion.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs has assigned all his belongings
for the benefit of his creditors in general and Mr. John
Shepherd in particular. However, it is fortunate for
Mr. Dibbs, and unfortunate for Mr. Shepherd, that the
numerous belongings of Mrs. Dibbs and family can’t be
assigned.
Manaena, the Maori chief, wanted his boots
polished at Napier the other day. The bootblack
brightened one boot and demanded sixpence before pro-
ceeding any further. Manaena walked off to the opposi-
tion bootblack, gave him 3d., and saved 50 per cent, by
not paying cash on the half-completion of the contract.
Tremblay, the celebrated flower painter, has
died in wretchedness in the solitary room in the Rue de
Mornay which served him for bedroom, kitchen and
studio. He was found dead in his bed. He had in his
room a coffer full of old gold pieces, and had probably
deprived himself lof necessaries, not from avarice,
but from love of his numismatic collection.
Colonel Richardson, Commandant of the
Forces, was formerly a captain in the 12th Regiment,
and won his medals in the New Zealand war. He is
liberal, capable, and courteous. He is impartial, too,
and enjoys now, as he ever did, the respect and esteem
of men in all branches of the service. Very naturally,
he is inclined to the militia system.
Two newspaper men—Charles Bradlaugh of
the National Reformer, and Henry Labouchere of
Truth (son of a former Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer)—have both been returned for the same elec-
torate (Northampton) in the British Parliament.
Another newspaper proprietor, Mr. Edwards, of the
London Echo, has been returned for Salisbury.
Sir Laurence Palk and Sir Arthur Guinness
(the great porter brewer) are to be elevated to the
peerage. Pork and porter go very well together. The
title of the former should be ‘ Earl of Swinemunde ’
(Swine’s mouth) j the ‘ Baron of Drinkwater ’ might be
considered as a sounding set-off for the former knight
of the porter.
Of late there have been many more marriages
in the literary profession in Sydney than we think
wholesome for these times. And there are still more
litterateurs on the three dailies willing to accept the
patronising smiles of the fair. If all we hear be
correct, three reporters on the Herald are shortly to
lead as many wealthy widows to the hymeneal altar.
Tabby has taken to a new line. Music, pianos,
and such like, not being in vogue just now in Sydney,
she goes in for ‘ wearing apparel and articles of adorn-
ment,’ and describes a whole list of mantles that have
just at the last moment been put into the Exhibition
for sale. Well, a good cloak, like charity, covers a
multitude of sins.
Brown was telling his friend Jones what fun
he had dancing with lunatics at the Gladesville Hos-
pital about a week ago. But he could not understand
Jones kicking him two or three times while he was
holding forth. The lady sitting next to Jones only came
out of the Hospital three days before, and her mother
was giving her a treat by taking her out to Jones’ house
for a quiet evening.
It is said that at the Trinity College Bazaar,
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, the most consistent and
capacious customer of the refreshment bar was a wearer
of the black cloth and white tie. Of course, it is diffi-
cult to say what the allurement was. People say it was
the acting barmaid. The most unenchautiug female,
when placed in command of a regiment of bottles, at
once becomes dangerously fascinating.
Mr. Maurice Brodzky, law reporter for the
Evening News, has initiated a slander action against Mr.
John Shepherd, M.L.A., in connection with the Shep-
herd v. Dibbs case. The action arises out of a statement
alleged to have been made by Mr. Shepherd that a
certain portion of the Press was in the pay of Mr.
Dibbs —in consequence of which statement Mr.
Brodzky has been discharged from his appointment.
Mr. Brodzky has the ‘ sinews of war.’
The robbery of Mr. Buchanan’s big boots by
the wags of Wagga has been turned into a nuisance to
the frequenters of the Victoria Theatre, Sydney.
David has bought a new pair which creak horribly, and
he will persist in perambulating the dress circle during
the softest passages of the drama to let people know he
has them on. This would have been all well enough
during the performance of ‘ Puss.’ Si inilia, similibus
curantur.
Francis Horace Stubley, of Charters Towers,
the most successful of northern reefers, who holds the
bulk of the interests in the * Patrick Block' and other
rich claims, is a blacksmith by trade. Some years ago,
while in Victoria, he speculated heavily in Wamambool
potatoes and failed. Then he visited England,
and on returning went to the North, where he ‘ got on
to the mundic.’ He is a great favourite with the dig-
gers, and represents Townsville in the Queensland As-
sembly. Some time ago he married a Sydney lady
named ‘ Musseu,’ but the alliance was nevertheless not
a * mussenary ’ one.
Strenuous efforts are being made in Melbourne
to secure the release of David Henry, the money-lender,
who was convicted of embracery and has been impri-
soned for 17 months, during which his health has com-
pletely broken down. His son, Dr. Louis Henry, who
is a very young man, greatly distinguished himself
MR. BLAND HOLT as “Fleck Flotsam.”
THE GOODWOOD CUP:
Another sketch from “New Babylon,” to be produced at the Victoria Theatre.
MR. J. L. HALL as “Erza Lazerick.”


t college in Germany, and received a valuable
’"hutment from the Empress personally. He is a
accomplished musician, and is now secretary of
Society of Victoria. Henry, sen., holds
the j~l medals for having saved persons from drowning.
r V ler all tbe circumstances of the case, it is thought
he should now be released.
Kinder, who was murdered bv Bertrand, was
. onn of an Anglican clergyman who for many years
1“t Leu principal of the Church of England Grammar
Auckland, New Zealand; and his wife, the
a some woman whose charms led Bertrand to his
h a ? a wag a daughter of Rakan Wood. She has, since
riir’unfortunate husband’s death, been earning a pre-
,s living on the goldfields of the West Coast of
f?” Zealand, as a barmaid and otherwise. A few weeks
** e ” was rumoured that a woman in one of the
ithern townships of New South Wales was identical
qh Mrs. Kinder, and she was in consequence sub-
■2-ted to many annoyances. However, she the other
r y, ro ught one of her traducers before the Police
rvmrt got the offender fined, and at the same time
proved that she was not Mrs. Kinder.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The general feature of the jewellery worn at present
js that it is rather artistic than costly.
There are twin sisters in Charlton that cannot he told
apart, and so they have to be told everything together.
Anklets are now fashionable in Melbourne. Dresses
are consequently becoming shorter.
A Spanish proverb says, * The man who on his wed-
ding day starts as a lieutenant in the family will never
pe promoted.’
They say Mrs. Langtry can be more graceful in
snubbing her toe than most women can in throwing a
kiss.
Fur is now much worn in Melbourne ballrooms.
'"Swan’s down dyed is also a favorite material. Muffs
re now made expressly for balls and the theatre. They
ar e of satin and plush, and trimmed with satin and
flowers. The fan and the handkerchief are carried in
them, or left in them when not wanted.
The old-fashioned bead necklaces are to be worn once
more Rows upon rows of Egyptian blue and amber
beads, the latter being especially becoming to a dark
complexion. Blue Venetian glass beads are very pretty.
Now is the time to resuscitate the belongings of our
grandmothers, and bring to light the old necklaces so
long out of sight.
Miss Charlotte Angus Scott, the young lady who has
done so well at Cambridge, having secured a position
equal to that of eighth wrangler in the recent mathe-
matical tripos examination, was bom in 1858, and is the
daughter of the Rev. Principal Scott, of Lancashire
Independent College, Manchester. Her education till
1876 was carried on almost entirely in her own home.
A national association for the promotion of marriage
has been established at Cincinatti. The aim of the
society is declared to be ‘in all honorable ways to pro-
mote the marriage of citizens, and to secure such end
this society will, so far as is in its power, assist and
give material aid to young couples in beginning married
life, such as helping them to secure incomes, and the
husbands in getting employment, or in any other manner
within the province of the association.’ A pic-nic was
recently held, the chief feature of which was the mar-
riage of three couples, alleged to have been promoted
and brought about by the efforts of the society’s
officers. Six thousand persons paid 25 cents for admis-
sion to witness the marriage ceremony, which was con-
ducted on a high’ platform so that all could see. The
bridegrooms were an engraver, a painter, and a pedlar,
and the brides were all three remarkable for personal
; attractions.
Yet Another Testimonial.
The Bulletin, always in advance even of
occurrences, gives its readers to-day a sketch of
an approaching event in connection with the Great
International Exhibition. Our artist depicts that
well-known statesman, Mr. John Davies, in the
act of presenting that distinguished showman,
Mr. John Davies, B. F., D.A., X.X.P., &c., with
an address and a purse of sovereigns for his ser-
vices in behalf of the colonial, the British, and the
foreign exhibitors ; and not only are we enabled
to give in this issue a sketch of the interesting
ceremony, but we are also permitted to publish in
advance the speeches which will be delivered on
the occasion. It was with the greatest difficulty
that the Commissioner, Mr. Davies, could be pre-
vailed upon to accept any reward whatever for
Ids services, given, as they always are, purely for
the benefit of the colony; he was willing, however,
to accept the address and vary the general
custom by leaving out the sovereigns. But
Mr. Davies, the legislator, eventually prevailed
on him to permit the public to show their
appreciation of his services. Mr. Davies, M.P.,
contended strongly that Mr. Davies, 0.G., should
accept both the address and the sovereigns, and if
he left out anything it should be the address. Mr.
Davies, 0.G., yielded, and now Mr. Davies, M.P.,
is busy arranging for the presentation. The
speeches, as already stated, have been forwarded
to us for publication in advance, and we here give
them. The proceedings will be opened, we believe,
by Mr. Davies, M.P., reading the address (Honor-
able Sir, &c.) and making the following remarks :
-—“Mr. Davies, 0.G., 8.F., XXXP., &c. —Sir, a
generous public, desirous of recognizing your
disinterested services at the Exhibition, have got
up this address and subscribed these sovereigns.
It would be out of place for me to say that this
presentation surprises you. We know you have
watched the growth of the subscription from day
to day, and you know I am stating the truth when
I say there are 500 sovereigns or thereabouts in
this purse. We know you are not a testimonial
man. Excepting the late Oily Gammon, nobody
ever had a stronger objection to testimonials than
you; but to refuse this testimonial would be to
hurt my own feelings and offend a generous pub-
lic, who, I may add, are but waiting for the East
Sydney election to put you in your proper place
once more. Accept them, honoured sir. Accept
then, honoured sir, these sovereigns.” (Cheers.)
Mr. Davies, 0.G., will hei’e slowly rise, in response
to numerous calls, and proceed as follows ; —“ Mr.
Davies, M.P.—Sir, I can hardly—indeed I might
say I can scarcely—inform you how thankful —that
is, how much surprised I am at your generous re-
cognition of my distinguished services. True, I
have tenderly watched the growth of this testimo-
nial, not, however, to see what was contributed,
but who was contributing. I distinctly—that is,
steadfastly declined this testimonial (Mr. Davies,
M.P. ; hear, hear); but my friend who has just
spoken pressed it upon me and I could resist no
longer. But, gentlemen, if you have forced these
sovereigns upon me, you must permit me to do
with your gift whatever I may think fit.
You know how much we all owe to
the charitable institutions of the colony—to
the Randwick Asylum, the Benevolent Asylum,
the Foundling Hospital, &c. This purse of sove-
reigns I now divide equally among these great
charities, by which I will be mostly known to pos-
terity. I thank you again, gentlemen. Allow
me—had no intention making speech—overcome
such manifestations—never can —always remem-
ber—kept as heirloom —deep feelings—proud po-
sition—Town Hall —Macquarie-street South —next
picnic all present—free lunch—ln conclusion,
*e.” Mr. Davies will, as previously arranged,
be here quite overcome, and will allow himself to
be cart(er)ed away. The proceedings will then ter-
minate. The presentation takes place next week.
Only a Tract.
(WRITTEN FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I found it under my saucer at breakfast. For-
merly, the purveyors of this instructive description
of literature were content to cram my letter-box on
Sunday with mild tracts containing meek admoni-
tions to reform, or well-chosen extracts from the
lives of pious children with long faces and short
coughs, who, before dying, reclaimed their hard-
drinking parents from their errors and then passed
away with a sweet smile. Gradually, however, as
my case appeared too far advanced to be reached
by gentle means, the character of the tracts
changed, so that now the chidings inculcated by
children with large brains and slender legs have
given place to warnings of a much more disagree-
able nature. The infants with forgiveness always
on their lips have disappeared, and I am now
introduced to a totally different class of persons—
to men and women who appear to enjoy raw spirits
and indulge in language objectionable both from a
grammatical and a moral standpoint. They are a
bad, vindictive set, especially one Irishman who,
when in liquor, wanders about with a murderous-
looking bludgeon in his left hand, anxiously
watching for his neighbour, in order, as he himself
observes, to make a hole in his head “ big enough
to rowl a cat in.”
Although, of the two, I prefer these thirsty
individuals to the impossible infants of Sunday
school notoriety, I am occasionally curious to
discover why the biographies of demonstrative
hodmen and sturdy ‘ lumpers ’ should be supposed
to possess such interest. Their lives may, no
doubt, point a moral, but it is not always easy to
discover what that moral is. There is indeed, one
well-marked peculiarity which even the most care-
less reader cannot help noticing in their histories.
So long as the persons mentioned enjoy good
health and plenty of gin, their lives are positively
shocking. They drink, quarrel and blaspheme in
the most spirited manner. It is only when a part
of one of them is removed by a circular saw or a
pile-driver that he thinks of repentance and a
future life. In fact the sincerity of his reformation
seems to be in proportion to the amount of flesh he
loses. Up to a certain point, such as the mashing
of a finger or a hand, no improvement appears to
take place ; but, on the contrary, the sufferer often
indulges in an outburst of condensed profanity
surpassing his best efforts before the accident. It
is only when the spinal column has been shifted
and a compound, comminuted, depressed
fracture of the skull, with a copious exudation
of brain matter, occurs, that he forgives his
enemies and resolves to lead a pious life. This, it
will be observed, is quite in keeping with the well-
remembered stanza concerning the resolution of
tbe sick devil to turn monk, and his disregard ox
that resolution when he got well.
But to return to the tract I found on my break-
fast table this morning. It bears the startling
title, “No damned place.” lam not_ disposed to
quarrel with a name, and I recognise without
hesitation the right of a writer to call his produc-
tion what he pleases. One imaginative person calls
his modest contribution to the religious literature
of the day “ Hooks and eyes for unbelievers
well, continuations” —only he did_ not say ‘ ‘ con-
tinuations.” What I object to is being placed
on the horns of a theological dilemma, and thus
being rendered unfit to receive in a proper spirit the
parting caress of my wife as I go to work.
“ Reader,” says the tract, “ You are on the way to
one of these two places —heaven or hell! Which is
it?” Now, there is a directness about this
question, a desire to go at once to the root of the
matter, which must arrest the attention of any
candid mind. A flippant person might say that he
preferred striking out for “ Fiddler’s Green,” just
as an unconverted negro observed when a some-
what similar question was put to him, that he
would probably “ Take to de bush ; ” but these
answers are scarcely worth consideration. It is
but just to say that a third place is suggested,
where the departed lead a sort of negative exis-
tence, equally removed from the pleasures of
heaven and the torments of Hades. Any half-formed
desire, however, on the part of mortals to explore
that mysterious country is speedily crushed _ a
little further on by the information that belief in
it is “A mere device of Satan, and that other
words, even if such a place had a local habitation
and a name,” a lengthened stay there_ would be
almost as unsatisfying as being carried in a sedan
chair without a bottom.
Among the curiosities of this class of religious
publication are the rude good health and animal
pleasures enjoyed by the most hardened offenders
until, generally at an advanced age, they see the
error of their ways and repent a few hours before
death. A blow from a steam hammer on the small
of the back has sometimes been known to suggest
serious thoughts, while two or three conversions
have been traced to the sinners sitting with some
emphasis on a hot stove. One thoughtless fellow
owed his regeneration to a chance meeting with
a cross-eyed billy-goat, which “ treed ’ him tor a
few hours, thus giving him time for reflection and
repentance. These latter examples, however, are
quite exceptional, the great mass of sinners living,
as before remarked, the most reprehensible lives
up to the time that failing health gives warning
of an early dissolution. A tolerably long acquain-
tance with the cheap religious works I am writing
about has convinced me that, in order to pass
through a few brief moments of pain, and then
awake to perennial enjoyment in the next world, it
is only necessary to indulge during the greater
part of your life in “ three up ” and ‘ three-star,
varying the entertainment by knocking your own
wife down occasionally, or eloping with your
neighbour’s—always taking care not to_ give up the
ghost before singing a hymn and forgiving those
who, although leading inoffensive lives, _ are
unfortunate enough to entertain unorthodox views
regarding spiritual matters. People who carry out
these rules of conduct in their integrity can travel
every Sunday in the year in excursion trains and
steamers and never get a scratch. They can fall
down shafts with impunity, or sit securely on the
safety valve of a boiler. It is the poor spiritless
creatures who avoid rum and object to blasphemy
whom troubles overtake. Just let one of the latter
go boating on Sunday, or try to get an hour’s read-
ing at the School of Arts, or hum the opening bars
of II balen, and let us know the result. In
conclusion, I hereby warn the person who appears
to take such pleasure in making law-abiding
citizens uncomfortable by morbid descriptions of
a future abode where “ cold shivers ” are never
epidemic, that I shall write tracts and publish
them in The Bulletin, and they shall proclaim a
code of morality quite different from that taught
in the Sunday schools. Tmmv
VAURIEN.
THE “LITTLE BOYS” WHO DRINK THE PORTER AT RANDWICK ASYLUM.
Mr. JOHN DAVIES. M.P., PRESENTING MR. JOHN DAVIES, EXHIBITION COMMISSIONER, &c., &c„
WITH A PURSE OF SOVEREIGNS.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
The Waterfall.
Down in a deep delightful glen,
On soft dead leaves I lie- —
The loveliest spot I know of yet
Beneath the southern sky.
I look int« dark and dreamy eyes
And think of their witching power
To make me forget the flight of time
As I idle away an hour.
I describe to you the delightful spot
And I think I hear you say,
«’Tis just the place with a charming girl
To loiter away the day.’
There's a wall of rugged red-brown rocks
O’er which limpid waters flow,
As they hurry along with a life-like leap
To their rest in the pool below ;
And the spray as soft as a summer mist
Is caught on the ferns around,
Where fancy sees a water-sprite
Whose hair with pearls is bound.
There are giant trees whose massy trunks
Attest the flight of time,
And lovely flowers to weave a wreath
Around a hat to twine.
As I lie at ease on the leaves and moss
And hold as soft a hand,
I ask no more for an idle hour
And sigh for no fairer land.
There’s an echo like to the vesper bell
I have heard in Italia’s clime,
Tho’ a stranger here I have learned to love
The bell-bird’s liquid chime;
In varying tones its cadence rings
Through the lazy summer air.
And Music's soul can claim than this
No melody more rare. .
As the evening shadows grow in length
And the golden-rose lights fade,
I think of many as fair a scene
And of many a lovely maid.
I dream of eyes of the deepest blue
And of hair with a golden sheen—
Of the loving looks and the warm caress
Received from my heart’s first queen—
And then I think of that Spanish girl
With hail-like the raven’s wing,
And the bell-birds echo the passionate words
I heard the dark beauty sing ;
While the Jackass there, with his mocking laugh,
Who sits on the branch above,
Seems to ask me why to that beauty dark
I foolishly spoke of love.
I think of many a fairy scene,
Of ballrooms bright and gay,
And I wish for a dip in Lethe s stream
To banish thought for aye.
For the golden beauty pined and died
And the dark turned out a shrew,
Oh 1 many a sorrow deep I trace
To women. Do not you ?
I heard one breathe the teuderest vows
When she was wishing the while
For a ride with Tom, on an Arab horse
Down that darling “ Ladies’ Mile.”
I have looked into eyes and truly felt
That Heaven’s whole truth was there,
When she was thinking ‘ was that blue dress
Becoming enough to wear ?’
But a truce to this! lam wiser now
And bask in a sunny smile
Without enquiring whether the girl
Is thinking of me the while.
I like very much for a little hand
To caress and arrange my hair,
But I look on a woman and treat her just
As a flower rich and rare.
And as here I lie, on the soft dead leaves
And list to the bell-bird’s song,
I truly hope that my fate may not
Tie me to a woman long.
E. B. PAENELL.
Sydney, April, 1880.
Mormon Blessings.
There, in the holy city, breathing the golden air,
Watching the silver streamlets Hash thro’ the valleys
Therefwhere the Prophet’s mandates give us of wives a
sc ore
The road to Heaven is easy by taking a dozen more.
Bess with golden ringlets, Marian dark and pale,
Nell with a face like a picture, and Taoitha stem and
But S OIG for the awful riot! Oh! tor the sleepless
Hearing those darlings quarrel for what they .call “ their
rights.”
Think of the heaps of dresses -think of the cases of
Thiuk'of the sick-room messes of the wool and beads
for mats. .......
There in the lonely city I teel just ready to faint.
And Oh! from my heart I pity the woes ot a’ L itter day
Saint.’
Sydney, 10th April, 1880.


ft
P
I*,
=
8
fc
O
fc
X
«
0.
3
P3
-
S
«
§
'H
s
©
'd
©
<1
W
5
«
H
O
3
Ch
o
Tarragon
£
Bose of Australia.
Heron
Bustard
Castrel
Miss Hap
p. of
Orville
Eosanne
Sheet Anchor
Lottery
Morgiana
D. of
Bay Middleton
Nitrocris
FI. Dutchman
BayMiddlet’n
Sultan
Cobweb
Barbelle
Sandbeok
Darioletta
Boarding-
Plenipotent ’y
Emilius
Harriet
school Miss
Marpessa
Muley
Clare
New Warrior
Pyrrhus I
Epirus
Fortress
(imp.)
Colocynth
Physician
Camelline
Ludia
Waverley
St. George
Splendora
Peri
Gratis
Satellite mare
FlyiugPiem’n
FI. Dutchman
Bay Middleton
Barbelle
(imp.)
Equation
Emilius
Maria
Days of Old
I. Birdcatch’r
Sir Hercules
Guiccioli
(imp.)
Days of Tore
Old England
Glaucus mare
The London Pottery Works, Camperdown.
One of the most promising industries now being
developed in or about Sydney is that of the London
Pottery Works, carried on at Camperdown by Messrs.
J. and T. Baldock and Co. The undertaking being in
the hands of experienced and practical men, a steadily-
increasing business is done, and the imported article,
notwithstanding the prejudice in its favour, is gradually
being displaced by the substantially excellent descrip-
tion of goods manufactured at these works. The pro-
prietors undertake to make any variety of stoneware,
place it beside the best imported goods for comparison,
and then they say to the buyer— ‘ We can let you have
our goods fifteen or twenty per cent, under the figure of
the English article.’ This is a grand triumph for
colonial industry, and one which ought to be known to
every man in the wholesale or retail stoneware business.
It might with absolute fairness to all parties be brought
forcibly under the notice of the Government. Some
of those members of Parliament who are known to pos-
sess practical sympathy with bona fide colonial under-
takings should visit the works and see what a promising
industry is here being established in the face of every
discouragement. Then, if no special protection could
be given it, at least some consideration might be shown
for its manufactures, especially when they are proved
to be of equal quality with and cheaper than the im-
ported article. A description of these works cannot
but be of interest. Our artist gives a sketch of one of
the principal sections of the interior, where the men
are busy moulding the clay, and a glance will give some
idea of the variety of articles manufactured. The pro-
cess from first to last is an interesting one. The clay is
received in the yard, and is puddled into a semi-liquid
state. It is then removed into a large slip pan. Heat
is applied beneath by means of furnaces, and the water
evaporating in steam, the clay is left pure and damp.
For this branch of work there are also large sun-pans,
where the evaporation of the water goes on by a natural
process. After this, the clay is put through a pug-mill
and ground to ensure its being absolutely fine. It is
then made up into sizes to suit the work in hand, and
is given to the potter, who is busy at the revolving
table fashioning the clay with deft hands into all sorts
of elegant shapes. Leaving the workman’s table the
articles are allowed to gradually dry—some days being
required for this —and being dressed with glazing pow-
der are then put in the kiln and burnt at the greatest
possible heat for twenty hours or more. The kiln is
allowed to cool very slowly, a week or more being
absorbed in the operation. The article on being removed
is found to have been converted into an elegant piece
of stoneware, not to be surpassed anywhere in style,
appearance, or durability. There are two kilns for the
work, the larger onebeing used for the better description
of articles, and the other for drain pipes, garden tiles,
etc. At the time of our reporter’s visit the men were
busy executing a large order from one of the Sydney
warehouses for spirit gallons, and likewise for water-
filters. It is in respect of the last-named articles that
the London Pottery Works will certainly come to the
front. Round about the pottery may be seen a splendid
collection of articles of stoneware, including spirit
bottles, cream crocks, chums, jam jars, cheese pans,
tobacco jars, garden tiles, etc. But the water-filters are
the leading line. These filters absolutely surpass any-
thing yet introduced to this colony, and the enterprise
of the proprietors in designing and manufacturing
them deserves the heartiest support from the Govern-
ment and from all classes of the community. The best
material and the best skill obtainable anywhere are
devoted to the production of these articles, and the
proprietors engage to submit them to any test with any
other known description of filter. The filters are made
to any size, some of them of great capacity to suit the
requirements of large schools. The make is perfect,
the design being elegant and the manufacture absolutely
faultless. The material ordered for the purpose of
filtering the water is a strong additional recommenda-
tion. Seven pounds of pure animal charcoal are used in
the ordinary sized filter, making with other ingredients
a filtering depth of about six inches. The water after
passing through is found on scientific examination to
be absolutely pure, and certificates to this effect are
forthcoming from the leading analysts of Sydney. At
all the exhibitions where the filters have been exhibited
—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Philadelphia—first
prizes have been awarded, and now the Government
contract has been secured for supply of filters. Mr.
George Barr, of George-street, Haymarket, is the
business agent for the pottery company, and he speaks
very hopefully of the increasing business done with the
wholesale houses. He is now arranging, we understand,
to provide all the schools in the colony with filters.
The public departments are already supplied, and it is
considered but right that the health of the thousands
of school children in the various schools of the colony
should be looked after in a similar way. Filters of
large capacity are now being manufactured specially for
the purpose, and it is to be hoped the enterprise dis-
played by the proprietors in this and other lines will
meet with due recognition from the Government and
the trading community.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
In the late inter-university boat-race the Cam-
bridge men were the heavier.
Hanlan now offers to bet .£4OO he can beat any
man in the world five seconds in a five mile race. Where
is Courtney ? Where is Cour—we mean where is Riley ?
Weston and O’Leary were matched to commence
a six day walk at ’Frisco on the Bth ult. Up to the pre-
sent time 553 miles is the best six-day record
Miller (the Australian) and Muldoon are
arranging in America for a contest for the wrestling
championship of the world.
An effort is being made to have Courtney go
to San Francisco during the coming summer, and row
Daniel Leahy, who recently defeated Hoyt.
Chester’s full brother byYattendon from Lady
Chester, has been sold privately by Mr. T. S. Clibbon to
the Hon. James White for 1,000 guineas.
Mr. Savill is willing to abandon his action
against the South Australian Jockey Club, on condition
of their removing his disqualification and paying legal
expenses. The Club is advised to assent.
First Lord, by Yattendon from First lady, has
become the property of the Hon. William Brisby at
300 guineas, and we hear that he is intended for the
stud.
It is rumoured that a well-known sprinter re-
siding near Newcastle has ‘cleared out’ with between
£BO and £7O which had been placed in his possession as
bets on a recent foot race.
Hawkins, of Newcastle, swam a 150 yards
match for £lO aside, at West Maitland, last Saturday.
Morris, who was the favorite, led for 100 yards, but
became exhaused and had to be lifted out of the water.
At Tima.ru, Hegarty, a long distance walker,
has completed the by no means sensational task of
walking 112 miles in 24 hours. He was fearfully
exhausted towards the finish, but says he can walk 115
miles in the same number of hours.
The match between the Warwick and the Carl-
ton cricket clubs was concluued last Saturday, and
resulted in an eass win for the Carltonites. For Carlton
Jones scored 116. The scores were respectively 142 and
335.
At a meeting of the members of the Y.R.C.i
Capt. Standish in the chair, it has been resolved not to
abolish the New Year’s Day meeting. It has also been
decided to take action for the purpose of having the
totalisator legalized.
The race horse Ginger, by Kingston from
Satanella (late Saucebox), was purchased from Mr.
Andrew Loder by Mr. H. W. T. Lee, and his destination
is the Manning River, whither he goes to be used for
stud purposes. We have not been made acquainted with
his figure. Perhaps his new owner will inform us.
The following are the prizes won at the Sydney
Autumn Meeting Mr. Harry Haines, £5O; Mr.’Mayo,
£5O; Mr. Fennelly, £5O; Mr. Howie, £45; Mr. F. Went-
worth, £42; Mr. McMullen, £35; Mr. W. A. Long,
Cup, said to be valued £25 ; Mr. W. Eoyds, £lO ; and
smaller sums made up a total of £320.
fhe match at Forest Lodge on Saturday,
between the Derwent Cricket Club and Woollahra
Victorias whs won by the former by 21 runs. The totals
ware 55 and 34 aims. Robinson was top scorer for the
winners with 31 runs, and Pooly, with 22, tor the losing
side, the other ten men making only 11 runs, due to the
effective howling of Passau and Law, the former taking
5 wickets for 16, and the latter 3 for 2 runs; Robinson
2 for 16. Holdsworth bowled very well for the losing
side, taking no less than 8 wickets, the fielding of both
teams being very good.
The first International bowling match between
Victoria and New South Wales was played at Arman-
dale on Wednesday last, the visitors winning by 21
points, having scored 112 points against 91 by then-
opponents. Want of space prevents us giving further
particulars.
A correspondent has written to us asking can
the official time be correct, 5 min. 1 sec., for the Steeple-
chase, 21 miles, run on Saturday last, and won by Planet.
All the information we can supply is that the time is
correct; hnt the distance, from our point of view, was
considerably less than 21 miles.
Mr. Dave Murray, well known as one of the
leading spirits of the Mercantile Rowing Club, has left
the service of the A.S.N. Co. and joined Mr. John A.
Wilkinson (of Coolalta wine celebrity) in business as a
wine merchant. We hope that David will continue till
the end of his days to have enough money to support
his aquatic friends.
On January 29th, Edwin Bibby and Andre
Christol began the struggle for 500 dollars and the
Graeco-Roman middle-weight wrestling championship of
America. The conditions were best three in five falls.
The contest is described as being a splendid exhibition
of skill. The match was won by Bibby, who gained the
first fall in 4min. and the second in 60 min.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club had races
for 24ft. and 22ft. boats last Saturday. Snowdrop won
the 24ft. race, beating Victor, &c., after a magnificent
race. Syren won the 22ft. race after a grand spurt with
Florrie. The races were handicap ones. .Snowrop was
allowed four minutes by Victor, and Syren, being at
scratch, allowed Florrie one minute.
A coursing match has been arranged for £lO
a-side between Ralph Goundry’s slut Lnn, trained by
M. Durham, and J. Anderson’s dog Harbinger, trained
by himself—at Kangaroo x-ats the best out of five
points. The match takes place at Hexham on Saturday,
May Ist, and as this is the first match of the season, it
is causing some speculation. Luna, having a good repu-
tation on account of past performances, is fancied by a
few.
We were really sorry to notice the absence on
Saturday last of the Father of the Australian Turf, Mr.
John Tait, from the Eandwick Race-course, which was
brought about by the death of his wife, whose demise
occurred on the previous Friday. It was owing to
this that Mr. Tait’s departure for England was
postponed, hut we learn that he leaves our shores in a
fortnight. We offer Mr. Tait our condolence, and
sympathise with hi-n in his bereavement.
A portion of an article in one of our contem-
poraries last week, relating to the position of starter
to the A.J.C. is so devoid of fact that it is very likely
to mislead the public. The article in question states
that the ‘ billet of starter has always been an honorary
one, and beyond severe criticism.’ This is not so, for
all starters to the A.J.C. are paid £5O a year or £25 a
meeting; so there is nothing really honorary in it.
What onr contemporary means by ‘ severe criticism ’
we do not pretend to know, bnt certain it is that almost
all the starters employed by the A. J.C. have been very
little good, and consequently have been very severely
criticised.
The two imported Clydesdale stallions, King
O’Clyde and Modem Type, were submitted on Tuesday
last for sale by Mr. G. Kiss at his bazaar, Pitt-street,
but the bidding was by no means brisk, and they were
both passed in at the reserves, Modem Type at 700
guineas and King O’Clyde at 500. They are two of the
finest specimens of the Clydesdale horse this country
has ever seen, and it is very singular that for this very
paying breed of horse flesh purchasers could not be
found. We can enly say that if the ‘ principals had
been present and bidding and not the ‘ agents,’ both
horses would have realised over and above the prices
asked for them.
Mr. W. C. Baldock, of Melbourne, has pur-
chased the 3-year old colt, Caspian, by King of the
Ring from Seaspray, and also Wentworth, by Maribyr-
nong from Gipsey, and both, we believe are intended for
the Indian market. Wentworth is a well-bred colt, but
Caspian, besides also being fashionably lined, has capital
performances to recommend him, the V.B.C. St. Leger
and A.J.C. Eandwick Plate being scored to him, and
with such doings as these he ought to pay his way
handsomely in the new home he is intended to figure in.
Heron, by Tattendon from a sister to Clifton, has also
been disposed of to go to India, having become the
property of a Mr. W. Macklin. This trio, Mr. Yuille
sold at his bazaar in Melbourne.
It is announced in the London Sportsman
that Christopher Barras has authorized the editor to
retain £5O stakes in the Boyd-Elliott match and
challenge Hanlan, in behalf of Boyd, to row within the
stipulated time for £2OO aside, for the championship of
England and the Sportsman’s Challenge Cup trophy.
Barras is willing to add £3OO more to the stakes if
Hanlan would like to row for £5OO aside. However,
from information received from an English gentleman
in San Francisco just before the mail left, it appears
that Boyd’s challenge has been withdrawn. Hanlan
himself says it is notjlikely that he will go to England
during the coming summer as the withdrawal alluded
to leaves him nothing to go for. He expects to row
Courtney at Washington on 15th May.
We notice from the Hamilton Spectator that
the Coleraine Racing Club authorities have decided to
discontinue the ‘ Great Western Steeplechase,’ on the
grounds, apparently, that it is found that now-a-days
even a sweepstake with £2OO added will not bring many
good horses to the post, even in Melbourne ; that £2OO
is a great deal more than any country racing club can
be expected to give, and none but a really first-class
cross country horse would stand a show over the old
Great Western course. However, sporting men—even
in Sydney, where there is comparatively little cross
country racing—will be sorry to learn that this time-
honored event is now among the things of the past. On
the Great Western course many of the steeplechase
champions—sons of old King Alfred—made their debut.
The sale of Mr. Joseph Silberberg’s racehorses
took place on Tuesday last at Feunelly’s bazaar. The
number in buyers was limited and the bidding was only
slow. The 1 rood mare, The Alpaca (foal to Maribyr-
noug), dam of Woodlands, Llama, Eingwood, Telephone
and Cherub, and who is by Kingston from Lilia by New
Chum f-tom Eva by Young Marquis, was sold with a foal
at foot by Maribyrnoug to the Hon. James White for
525 guineas and was not a dear purchase. A yearling
filly, sister to Woodlands, by Maribymong from The
Alpaca, went to the Hon James White for 190 guineas.
Woodbine, by Tim Whiffler from Carnation, went to
Mr. W. C. Freeman for 41 guineas and J.S. to Mr. Sam
Cook, of Melbourne, for 33 guineas. There were other
of lesser note “disposed of, the lot realising a total
of £B9B 9s. Woodlands was sold privately some days
previous for 400 guineas to Mr. E. Weekes, who intends,
we believe, taking him to India.
On Monday evening last Mr. B. S. Thompson,
the well-known bookmaker, who is about to leave this
country for America, where his parents reside, was en-
tertained at dinner at Tattersall’s Hotel by a number of
sporting friends who wished to bid him farewell. Mr.
Alfred Joseph, of Sandhurst, Victoria, occupied the
chair. After the usual loyal toasts had been honoured,
the chairman, in proposing the health of the guest of
the evening, remarked that Mr. Thompson had been in
these colonies for fourteen years, during which he had
been upright in business, foremost in charity, and inde-
fatigable in all matters relating to the elevation of the
turf. As a consequence, he had gained a high position
in the profession—one, in fact, not even second to that
held by his brother, ‘ the Leviathan,’ Joseph Thompson.
Mr. Thompson, in replying, said, among othei things,
that during his colonial life he had met with many suc-
cesses and reverses, but that no one could point to an
action on his part of which he need be ashamed. He
would take his Australian experience to America with
him, and hoped also to be able to introduce to America
Australian racehorses. After several other toasts, in-
cluding ‘ Prosperity to the Turf,’ had been dealt with,
the company separated.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club.
Autumn Meeting.—SATURDAY, APRIL 10.
BY NEW WARBIOR.
Patron, His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus ; Presi-
dent, Mr. J. S. Parnell; Vice-President, Mr. E. Lee.
Under the management of the Committee of the
S.A.T.C. Judge, Mr. W. Dargin ; Starter, Mr. E.
Rouse; Handieapper, Mr. J. A. Scarr; Clerk of the
Course, Mr. W. J. Ryan.
Some time ago the meetings of the Sydney Ama-
teur Turf Club had been so considerably on the wane,
each meeting as it came causing a loss to the
club’s exchequer, that the committee, secretary, and
everybody else connected with the management had very
grave doubts about continuing the gathering, until it
was decided a few weeks previous to the Autumn Meet-
ing of the A.J.C. to try once more what could be done ;
and a liberal programme was drawn out, the result being
that good entries were received, and every promise
given of good sport. However, the race goers of Rand-
wick had had such a big meeting preceding it—
one which extended over four days—that no doubt they
were pretty well tired by the time the amateur meeting
came on; and as the day was as bleak, cold, and miser-
able as could well be, several things told a tale, and
militated against a large attendance. The racing was
good enough to entice visitors, and altogether the sport
was very enjoyable. Lady Loftus and suite and Gover-
nor Welds’ party from Tasmania were present; and
although it rained a little during the afternoon, they
saw the programme through. It was announced in the
paddock that the winners conld receive their stakes on
the coarse immediately after the races, and there
can he no doubt that such an arrangement speaks
much in favour of an indefatigable secretary.
The opening event on the programme was the Hurdle
Race, for which four faced the starter, and opinions
were divided between Esmonde and Zephyr, the Deer
coming in for a small share of favour from a select few.
The Deer, as is his wont, cut out the work for about
half-a-mile, when he fell, and as he treated his rider.
Hunt, to a severe ‘ purl,’ was not afterwards remounted.
At this stage Zephyr was taken to the front, and running
very kindly, took her hurdles nicely, winning with
something in hand from Esmonde; the other starter.
Lord of the Forest, being a bad third. The journey was
run in 5m.14 s. The Shorts, a handicap over |of a mile,
had the imposts so well apportioned that a field of nine
went to the post, and Sunlight was made favourite at
2 to 1, while Balthazar was supported at a point longer;
and Cremome, representative of Victoria, better known
as Roland, was backed at a similar figure, his friends
‘ coming in ’ with a rush after the saddling bell had
rung out its summons. How the race was run will be
found described below; suffice it to say that Middlesex,
about whom 10 to 1 went begging, shot out from the
distance and won a good race from Cremome, the
unthought-of customer, Croydon, finishing third. Five
sported silk for the Selling race, and Fragments,
who was supported first at 5 to 4 and then at 2 to 1,
came home rather an easy winner from the Sydney Cup
winner, Kingfisher, Trickett finishing third. Had
Trickett not ‘ broken down ’ at the distance, it is quite
on the cards that he would have troubled the favorite ;
for notwithstanding that the winner is by Angler from
Scraps, he is far below mediocrity as a racehorse.
The Two-year-old Race saw eight face the starter, and
the Queenslander, Lothair, with Richmond Rose, were
most in favour at 5 to 2 each, Sapphire also coming in
for a little support at 4to 1. Richmond Rose, with the
great dash of foot she possesses, and served by a light
weight, looked very conspicuous at the distance, hut
Otira came with a rattle from the Leger stand, and won
comfortably by a length from Sapphire, Creswiek finish-
ing third. Planet, who ‘ went as straight as an arrow,’
and quite bore out the opinion formed of him by ns in onr
last, won the Steeplechase ; and Rocket, who was pur-
chased by Mr. Royd for 24 guineas, was second, with
Cruiser third. Jupiter, who was a good deal fancied,
slipped at the fourth jump, and was never afterwards in
it. First Lord, who was well ridden hy Mr. Harry Haines,
won the Amateur Cup ; and Black Swan, who was hacked
hy her owner, Mr. Mayo, to win a ‘ monkey,’ appro-
priated the Open Handicap from a field of thirteen, Free-
mason running into second place, with First Lord third.
Mr. Ivory, jun., rolled off Stranger while doing his pre-
liminary in the straight. Lady Emma, a two-year-old,
was entered for the Open Handicap, the distance for
which was 1 mile 3 furlongs; but as the two-year-olds
are not, according to A.J.C. rules, allowed to start in
any race in which the distance exceeds li miles, she was
not allowed to start. She was weighed out, however,
and taken to the post, but we cannot conceive how it
was that such an error was not discovered sooner. There
was an oversight somewhere. We have to congratulate
Mr. Rouse on his starting, than which nothing better
has been seen on Eandwick; and as he got his field
away as evenly as could be, horse-owners may at any
rate under the present state of things certain be that jus-
tice will be done them.
The following is a short r esutni of the running:—
The Hurdle Race, a Handicap of 5o sovs. About 2J
miles.
Mr. E. Howie’s ch m Zephyr, by Smuggler, Quick.
step, syrs 10.9 Scobie 1
T.l S. Clibbom’s b g Esmonde (late Torpedo)
aged, 10.9 Corrigan 2
E. Terry’s b h Lord of the Forest, 5 yrs 8.7
O’Neil 3
S. Harding’s b g Deer, 4 yrs, 8.7 Hunt (fell) 0
Betting: sto 4 each against Zephyr and Esmonde, 4
to 1 others.
The Deer, as usual, cut out the work, with Zephyr
lying second, but falling at the hurdle near the mile
post, he gave Hunt a nasty fall, and was not afterwards
remounted. Zephyr, who was left in front after the
accident, went as straight as an arrow, and running very
kindly, was never collared. She won easily by eight
or ten lengths from Esmonde, who appeared very dan-
gerous after the first mile. Lord of the Forest saved
his distance and was third. Time, 5m2 s.
The Shorts, a handicap of 40 sovs ; 6 furlongs.
Mr. F. ;M‘Mullen’s ch h Middlesex, by Kelpie
—Amethyst—s yrs, 7.5 Gardiner 1
C. Flemming’s b h Cremorne (late Roland), by
Oliver Twist —Gelatine, 4 yrs, 7.7... E. Walker 2
S. Walter’s b h Croydon—4yrs, 6.l2...Henderson 3
Sunlight 4 yrs, 9.4., Auckland 5 yrs, 8.3, Blackthorn,
4 yrs, 7.2, Balthazar 3.7.2., Prairie Bird 3.6.7., and
Speculum 3 yrs, .6.4, also ran.
Betting: 2to 1 Sunlight, 3 to 1 each Balthazar and
Cremorne, 10ito 1 Middlesex.
Sunlight, Balthazar, and Blackthorn were in front
until they come to the home turn, at which point Sun-
light came away from his field; but Croydon, Cremorne,
and Middlesex coming out at the distance a great race
home ensued, Middlesex, who finished under the judge’s
box, just winning on the post. Cremorne, the Vic-
torian representative, was second, a head in front of
Croydon. Time—l min 17 3-10 secs.
The Selling Plate, of 40 sovs; selling allowances. IJ
mile.
Mr. M. Fennelly’s b o Fragments, by Angler—
Scraps, £20 —3 yrs, 6.6 Norton I
W. S. Hill’s ch g Kingfisher, by Kelpie, £6o—
Martineer 2
J. Abraham’s b g Trickett, £20 —6 yrs, 6.13... Cuff 3
Get Back, £6O, aged, 7.13, and Paddy-go-easy, £4O,
aged, 7.6., also ran.
Betting: At first 5t04 on Fragments, afterwards 2to
1 each against Fragments and Kingfisher.
The colors of Paddy-go-easy and Get Back were seen
in advance for the greater part of the journey, but at
the home turn ‘ Rags’ came out when called upon and
won easily by two lengths from Kingfisher, Trickett
finishing third, and Get Back last. Time —2 min 19-10
secs.
The Two-tear-old Stakes, handicap of. 50 sovs;
J of a mile.
Mr. F. Wentworth’s bl f. Otira,, by Maribymong—
Telopcia—7.7 Wilkinson 1
Hon. J. White’s b f Sappnire, by The Drummer—
Amethyst—B.o Gordon 2
Mr. C. T. Roberts’ b c Creswiek, by Yattendon, Q.E.D.,
6.12 Williamson 3
Lothair, 8.3., Nancy Lee, 7.5., Neva, 6.7., Richmond
Rose, 6.6., including 2 lbs over, Yarraville, 6.4. .in-
cluing 2 lbs over, were the other starters.
Betting, 5 to 2 each against Lothair and Richmond
Rose, 4 to 1 Otira.
Neva, Creswiek, and Richmond Rose showed most
prominently until the distance was reached, when the
almost unthought of Otira came through and won com-
fortably by a length and a half from Sapphire, Cres-
wick, who looked very dangerous at the distance,
finishing third. Time —1 min 17 secs.
The Steeplechase, a liandioap of 60 sovs. About 2i
miles. ,
Mr. H. Haines br g Planet, by Panic; aged—lo. 6,
including lOlbs over M'Guinness 1
W. E. Boyds’ b g Rocket, aged, 10.7 Scobie 2
E. Howie’s br g Cruiser, aged, 12 10 Corrigan 3
Jupiter, aged, 10 4 (fell). Rainbow, aged, 9.3, Forest
King, 5 yrs, 9.0, and Telegram, aged, 8.7, started.
Jupiter fell before they bad gone a mile, and Planet
taking up the running at the tan crossing took his fences
in great style and won cleverly from Rocket, Cruiser
being third, Rainbow fourth, Telegram next, and Forest
King last. Time—s min 1 sec.
Thb Amateur Cup, a silver cup valued £25; Welter
Handicaps. To be ridden by amateur members of any
recognised Racing Club. 1J mile.
Mr. W. A. Long’s b h First Lord, by Yattendon—
First Lady, 4 yrs, 12.4 Mr. Harry Haiues 1
J. Cook’s b c Oak Hill, 3 yrs, 9.10 Mr. Gosper 2
T. Jardine’s bl h Blackthorn, by Hawthornden—
Black Rose, 4 yrs, 11.4, 2 lbs over Mr.
Maxwell 3
The Dean, Mr. Terry, 5 yrs, 12.7; Cremorne, Mr.
Coyle, 4 yrs, 11.7; Poverty, Mr. M’Mullen, aged, 10.7;
Vril, Dr. Cortis, 4 yrs, 10.4; Stranger, Mr, Ivory, aged,
10.0; Tribulation, Mr. West, aged, 10.0; Cocoa, Mr.
Betts, aged, 9.12, also ran.
Betting: 3to 1 v Oak Hill, 4 to 1 each v Cremorne,
First Lord, and Blackthorn,
Before the start Stranger made a pretty good exhibi-
tion of Mr. T. Ivory, junior, who rolled out of the saddle
and caused a general laugh by coming to earth rather
heavily. The race needs little description, as First
Lord, who lay in a good position all the way, came out
at the distance and won a good race comfortably by
half a length; but Mr. Haines, by whom he was ridden
well, was unable to pull him up, and First Lord did
another quarter of a mile on his own account. Oak
Hill was second, and Blackthorn second.
Time —2 min 20 6-10 secs.
The Open Handicap, of 60 sovs. 1 mile 3 furlongs.
Mr. J. Mayo’s bl m Black Swan, by Yattendon—
Maid of the Lake, 5 years, 8.9 Pigott 1
M. Fennelly’s ch h Freemason, by Grandmaster
—Nydia, 4 yrs, 7.4 Walker 2
W. A. Long’s b h First Lord, by Yattendon —
First Lady, 4 years, 8.0 , Hailes 3
Sunlight, 4 yrs, 9.0; The Dean, 5 yrs, 8.4; Gipsy
Cooper, 3 yrs, 7.10; Eavenswood, 3 yrs, 7.10; The Pon-
tiff, 3 yrs, 7-6; Middlesex, 5 yrs, 7.2, Croydon, 4 yrs,
6.6; Retrospect, 3 yrs, 6.4; Jester, 3 yrs, 6.2 ; Esmonds,
aged. 6.0; and Oak Hill, 3 yrs, 5.7, also ran.
Betting : 4 to 1 v Black Swan, 5 to 1 others.
The Pontiff, Sunlight, Freemason, Jester, and Croy-
don were in the van until the home turn was rounded,
THE LONDON POTTERY WORKS, CAMPERDOWN.


s
YDNEY
PIANOFORTE
178 Pitt-street.
WAREHOUSE
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
Cheapest and best House in Sydney for
PIANOS ORGANS HARMONIUMS
&c.
A, and C. HUENERBEIN have again been awarded the
W
2 FIRST PRIZE B
« FIRST PRIZE M
Ph first prize
u FIRST PRIZE 4
S)
FIRST PRIZE
S at the H
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION,
for the
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
In addition to this A. and C. HUENERBEIN have
again been awarded the
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
Ph for the t?d
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE (PIANOFORTES
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
SOLE AGENTS—A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. H. have just unpacked a superb lot of
PIANOFORTES
Bluthner, Kaps, Ronisch, Mnnnsfeldt,
Erhordt, Biese, Neumeyer, Kriebel
Wittig, Winklemann, &c., &«.,
All iron-braced and bound. Guaranteed to withstand
the effects of this changeable climate.
PIANOFORTES by
Aucher Bord, Aucher Frere, Erard.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
for any Instruments.
HARMONIUMS by
TRAYSER, ALEXANDRE, KRAUSS.
ORGANS by
GEO. WOODS, PRINCE, PELOUBET, Ac.
A. and C. H. have also for sale, cheap,
TWO CATHEDRAL HARMONIUMS,
two manuals, 16 stops, foot pedals.
Letters promptly attended to.
Old Pianos taken in exchange.
PIANOS TUNED. REPAIRED, AND REGULATED
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
187 Pitt-street (opposite Victoria Theatre), 178.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
T
HEA T R E
R
L.
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar.
Business Manager A Treasurer ... Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Stage Manager Mr. Geo. Warde.
FIFTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LYSTER and GARNER’S LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
FRIENDS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION.-Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls,
35.; Family Circle, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and Co.’s, 321 George-
street, where seats may be secured for the Dress Circle six
days in advance.
Doors open at 7.30; overture at 8. Carriages can he
ordered at 10.30.
ICTORIA THEATRE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Rainford
GRAND SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT
FOR 12 NIGHTS.
Greatest Triumph of the Season.
LEGITIMATE AND BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
Mr. B. FAIRCLOUGH
THE GREATEST TRAGEDIAN OF THE AGE,
And pronounced by the most competent
London Critics
TO BE WITHOUT A RIVAL.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
THE GREATEST TRAGEDIAN OF THE AGE.
Mr. B. FAIRCLOUGH H
RICHELIEU. Mr. B. Fairclough RICHELIEU.
Mr. B. Fairclough
OTHELLO. Mr. B. Fairclough. OTHELTO.
TO-NIGHT (FRIDAY) TO-NIGHT,
RICHE LIEU.
Read the following powerful cast of characters, being
the most legitimate Shakesperian Company in the
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
RICHELIEU ...
Frangois
Julie de Mortemar
Marion de Lorme
Mr. B. FAIRCLOUGH
Miss Laura Wiseman
Miss Myra Kemble
Miss DOeyMainwaring
FREE LIST entirely suspended, with exception of
tne Press.
Season Tickets not available daring Mr. Fairclough’s
Engagement.
FRIDAY—RICHELIEU.
SATURDAY—RICHARD 111.
TUESDAY—MACBETH, with the whole of Locke’s
celebrated music.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. M. Hegarty.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION OP
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER,
and his daughter,
LILY DAMPIER.
TO-NIGHT (Friday) April 16th,
and until farther notice..
THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK
THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK
Of Charles Reade’s wgrld-famed Sensational Drama,
entitled,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
It’s Never Too Late To Mend.
MR. ALFRED DAMPIER,
as TOM ROBINSON,
and
LILY DAMPIER,
as the BOY JOSEPHS.
New Scenery and Effects,
And still Great Success,
And CROWDED HOUSES.
THE ENGLISH FARMYARD.
THE BEAUTIFUL WATERFALL,
the theme of general admiration.
Mr. HEGARTY’S BENEFIT is Postponed until
further notice on account of the unprecedented run of
IT'S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
In preparation—DßlNK.
In rehearsal—HAMLET.
Dress circle, 3s ; stalls, 2s; pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
LIDDY, Business Manager,
GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(mo DOORS FROM PFAHLERT’S HOTEL),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
fJIHE CHARLES KEAN A. D. CLUB
will give a
DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENT
in the
GUILD HALL,
IN AID OF THE LITERARY FUND,
On MONDAY EVENING NEXT, the 19th instant,
When will he produced the beautiful Comedy, in three
Acts, of
‘SILKEN FETTERS.’
To be followed by the laughable Farce of
BORROWED PLUMES.
The IMPERIAL BAND have kindly given their ser-
vices, and will plaj. choice selections throughout the
evening.
Tickets —Front Seats, 2s; Body of Hall and Gallery, Is
F. G. CUMMINS,
Hon. Sec.
HFI E L D P U,B LIC SCHOOL.
A CONCERT in aid of the School Funds will be
given by the Pupils, assisted by Lady and Gentleman
Amateurs, at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Ashfield, on
MONDAY NEXT, 19th April, commencing at 7.15
sharp.
Admission Front Seats, 25.; Back Seats, Is. Chil-
dren half-price. A few Reserved Seats, 3s.
N.B. —Moonlight night. Trains to Sydney every half-
hour.
Block Swan, well ridden by Pigott, came through
won a good race rather comfortably a length from
mason, First Lord occupying third position.
*Tiine—2 min 27 secs,
r adv Emma was weighed out and taken to the post,
was brought back into the paddock and did not
start-
GOULBURN RACES.
<n, e Goulburn annual races were held on Tuesday
S Wednesday last on the Goulburn Race Course,
aa usual, the Goulburn people did not muster in any
b"p’ t force, and the visitors alone helped to make up a
{Sy gathering. Our correspondent telegraphs the fol-
\*Ling information :
Ist Day, Tuesday.
'Total Stakes —
1 Croydon, 4 yrs.,Bst 21b 1
Annandale, 2 yrs., 6st 21b ... ... 2
Rome, 4 yrs., sst 71b 3
autumn Handicap—
Arrogant, 5 yrs., sst 121 b 1
Jester, 3 yrs., 6st 21b 2
Middlesex, 5 yrs. 7st 91b 3
Shorts— .
Strathmore 1
Stanhope 2
Star 3
PONt£? ACE— 1
Blink Bonny 1
Hack Race—
The Deuce 1
Secret 2
Grand Handicap—
Tattoo 1
Star 2
Arrogant 3
Five started ; won easily.
City Handicap; 2 miles —
Jester 1
Gazelle j
Middlesex 3
Won cleverly, if not easily, by two lengths.
uroni, who was fourth, was as poor as a crow.
PONY Race—
Actress t
Fairy *
Flying Handicap—
Balthazar 1
Gazelle 2
Strathmore ... 3
Won cleverly in the last few strides.
Forced Handicap—
Croydon...' 1
Tattoo 2
Macaroni 3
Hack Race—
Caustic 1
Secret ... 2
MURRURUNDI RACES.
Ist Day, Wednesday.
[By electric telegraph, from our own correspondent.] I
Maiden Plate ; It mile—
Scrubber 1
Rosinante 2
Lady Murray 3
Mcrbueundi Handicap ; 2 miles.
Victor 1
Sunwreath 2
Stranger 3
Nine started, and it was a good race; time. 3m. oosec.
Members’ Purse ; li mile—
Revise 1
Sunwreath 2
Vanity 3
Time, 2 min. 24 secs.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
After an absence of about four years, Mr. Fairclough,
always a favourite here during his former engagements,
renewed his acquaintance with the Sydney public in
Shakespere’s ‘ Hamlet,' on Saturday evening. The very
full house and the plaudits bestowed on the actor bore
ample exidence of the continued favour he is likely to
enjoy. Though time has a way of rolling on rapidly, it
is but the other day that Mr. Fairclough and his
‘Hamlet’ were before us; they are known to every
playgoer. And it is altogether too late to analyse
Shakespere’s plays for the purpose of displaying
an actor’s merits or demerits; though every new read-
ing of the poet’s masterpiece is entitled to mature
consideration, for there is always a diversity of opinion,
as there ore new beauties to be considered.
Mr. Fairclough’s impersonation of the Danish prince
is highly meritorious—painstaking, intelligent, and
scholarly, without being brilliant. Yet this quality is
attained in two scenes, that of the play, and the duel in
the climax. The former was most effective, though
slightly marred by an over loudness on the phrase,
‘The story is extant and writ in choice Italian;’ the
succeeding lines pass almost unheeded.
Mr. Fairclough’s representation consists rather of a
series of rich photographs than of a complete picture;
and, very naturally, some are not taken so well as
others. t
The first scene with Horatio and the others, ‘ Hold
yon the watch to-night?’ was altogether too hurried,
and without sufficient reflection. In his first soliloquy
Mr. Fairclough singularly missed a line ; and he makes
an error in metre in putting an accent on the second
syllable of ‘ complete ’ in the phrase ‘ in complete steel,’
in the address to the Ghost. The speech beginning,
‘What a piece of work is man,’ was too quick and
rather conventional; but the address to the players was
undoubtedly the very best of Mr. Fairclough’s readings:
it is very natural and intelligible, spoken in a directing
manner, yet advising kindly. The inflections were
here well marked, giving colouring to a style that is
occasionally monotonous. This is one of Mr. Fair
dough’s failing points—too great an evenness in tone,
a want of vocal light and shade ; but his elocution is
otherwise most agreeable; the enunciation of each word
very clear and distinct. He has, however, a tendency
to hurry one sentence on to another ocaasionaly ; thus
—‘Very well follow this lord’—without any pause be-
tween the phrases. In the succeeding phrase, too —
‘ look you mock him not,’ there should be an emphasis
on the word ‘ you,’ implying, that though Polonius
might be subject for mirth to Hamlet, his position is
too high for him to be the jest of an actor. The phrase,
‘Though you may fret me you cannot play on me,’ was
spoken as pregnant with meaning, The scene with the
queen was rather loud and wanting in earnestness; and
ffie ‘ So again—good night,’ was in rather too imperious
a tone; the cruelty in order to be kind was rather in
action than in word. The whole of the last act was
admirable; in elocution almost faultless. It is a comfort
to know that Mr. Fairclough is neither a ranter nor a
mouther; like others of our modem young dramatic
artists he is doing good work in helping to banish that
detestable school. On the whole the performance was
far better than ever we had anticipated.
( Mr. Vincent was without exception the very best
‘ Ghost’ we have had in the colonies. The stage figure
majestic, the movements spiritual without awkward-
ness. Mr. Vincent’s voice was pitched deep without being
unnaturally sepulchral; and it was perfectly clear and
resonant so that each word could be heard. The read-
♦‘■ag. too, was not thoroughly monotonous ; the actor
V ‘Owed himself a license by natural inflections, not
conventional perhaps, but very effective. We can take
but two exceptions to Mr. Vincent’s reading; the
Phrase ‘Brief let me be,' was uttered too suddenly
ufter the preceding sentence; and in the passage when
he speaks of the queen, Mr. Vincent modulated his
voice to pathos as if moved to tears : a spirit may wear
shape and have the voice of one who was its em-
bodiment, but would not be moved by the natural
™ections of corporeality.
The Polonius of Mr. S. Whyte was another very
capital assumption. We have so often written against
the idea of making this part that of a miserable old
hotard rather than that of an elderly courtier quite
capable of filling his office, that we are very glad to
compliment Mr. Whyte on the change he effected. It is
only when fooling Hamlet to the top of his bent that
Jcoionms becomes ridiculous. In other situations he
conducts himself as a man thoroughly worldly and
"■j 1 ' ® to his position. His address to Laertes carried
1 "my the serious import of the text, and was not like
« drive Rings of a dolt. Such language was never
bo be drawled out like the words of a pantomime :
a a consequence, the elocution was good, except in the
maxing the word ‘to’ emphatic instead of the word
a , ance ’ in the sentence ‘ Beware of entrance to a
wk * r^e sternness of his demeanour to Ophelia
dan Pt nat,u 'al manner of a father to a motherless
gnter when concerned for her welfare, and warning
her of indulging a passion for one so high above her in
station though she was the favourite at court. It was
in marked contrast with his demeanour to the King and
Queen and to Hamlet. Mr. Whyte mahe two good
points: the one was by laying a stress on the last ‘ ’tis ’
in ‘ ’tis true, ’tis pity, and pity 'tis ’Us true; ’ the other
‘ Take this from this, if this be otherwise,’ emphasising
the last ‘ this ’ as he points to Hamlet’s love-letter.
If Mr. Dillon could learn to pitch his voice in a lower
key it would acquire effect. His reading of the part
of Horatio was more than good; it showed a righteous
regard for due pronunciation of ‘ the Queen’s English.’
His delivery was easy and conversational —the conver-
sation of a gentleman and a student. He acted well up
to Mr. Fairclough in the scenes with him.
Mr. J. L. Hall was a most sententious, philosophical,
and humorous grave-digger.
Mr. Douglas has played Laertes so often that we need
make no further allusion to his careful performance.
Miss Myra Kemble makes a very pleasing Ophelia;
her desire for well-doing occasionally outruns her abili-
ties, but she has made so vast an improvement that we
may well overlook little defects in the rendition of a
character so difficult of pourtrayal as the Danish love-
lorn damsel; especially as the elocutionary faults are
easily to be eradicated, and Miss Kemble has a very
natural and agreeable manner in acting.
With the best desire to do well, Miss Julia Merton —
a steady, pleasant actress—is not in her element as the
Queen.
Mr. St. Lawrence was better as the first actor than
as Osrick ; and Miss Docy Mainwaring spoke clearly as
the Queen. Of the rest-nothing. Some of the cos-
tumes would bear improvement.
The chamber scenes were good, !but there was no
oratory. ‘ Othello ’ and ‘ Richelieu * have been the
dramatic revivals of the week.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The best friends, they say, must part, but the
‘ Friends ’ at the Royal do not seem inclined to part
with us so easily ; for, on each evening of this the fifth
week of their appearance before us, the theatre has
been as crowded as when we first made their acquaint-
ance. We have ‘to grin and bear it,’ enjoying the per-
formance without the necessity of writing anything
about it, for we have already exhausted ourselves on
this pleasant comedy, and it is useless to repeat our
praises. We must therefore wait in expectation of good
things to come.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
When once the tide of success flows into a place it
takes a long season to ebb, and so it appears at this
theatre. Whatever is put on the stage seems to take
with the public; and ‘Never too Late to Mend’ has
now been drawing good houses throughout its third
week of performance, due to Mr. Dampier’s excellence
and the careful way in which it is acted and mounted.
We could wish to see Mr. Dampier in pieces in better
keeping with his talents, yet there is considerable
merit and some good writing in this piece.
The powerful melodrama of ‘ Drink ’ is to be the next
novelty, and then, no doubt, (Mr.* Dampier will give
some legitimate productions.
SCHOOL OP ARTS.
Miss Augusta Dargon (whom we are glad to see once
more amongst us) gave two unassisted and fairly suc-
cessful readings on Monday and Wednesday evenings.
We prefer Miss Dargon’s reading to her acting, and in
saying this we say a great deal.
CRITIC.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER V.— continued.
Mr. Blisset assented half-inquiringly, surveying
Myles all the time from his impassive eyes, and
then he said:
“ I am sorry my niece should have to go to the
reading-room. She tells me that one evening more
will finish what she has to do, otherwise I should
not permit it. But I should think you have
frightened the fellow away for a time P”
Oh yes ! He won’t trouble her again,” said
Myles, with contemptuous indifference, forgetting
that beaten-off insects, with or without stings,
have a habit of returning with blundering per-
sistency to the attack. ‘‘ But couldn’t she go in
the daytime ?” he asked suddenly.,
Mr. Blisset shrugged his shoulders.
“ There is so much work to be done in the day-
time,” said he —“correspondence, and reading,
and manuscript to copy. But I spare her as much
as I can. I never ask or wish her to work after
she returns in the evening. The rest of her time
is her own.”
“ I should hope so ! —from nine o’clock !”
thought Myles, a little surprised. “ She must be
ready to go to bed at ten, after such a day as that.
I wonder at what time it begins. Why, I am
better off than that.”
“The rest of her time is her own,” repeated
Mr. Blissett as if he clung to that concession with
fondness and pride, feeling that it made up for all
other privations which her day’s work might
entail—which indeed was the case. His infirmity
—his long confinement to one house and one spot
—the absorbed concentration of his faculties upon
one work —a work which he was determined should
burst upon the world, and make him illustrious—
all this, and above all, Adrienne’s own devotion
to him and his pursuits, since she had come to
live with him, and fostered his natural egotism ;
till now he verily believed that his yoke was easy
and his burden light to the young creature who
bore it, and that that hour “ after she came in ”
was an elastic period, in which any amount of
private work and reading could be done, and
pleasure enjoyed.
His intense and almost forbidding coldness of
manner was soon understood by Myles, who dis-
covered before long that it arose chiefly from
physical weakness and languor —not from any
want of interest in the questions of the day, or in
the men and things about him.
“You are writing a great book, sir ?” inquired
Myles, by way of something to say.
“ A book,” corrected Mr. Blisset—a slight but
ineffable smile playing upon the marble of his
face. “ Let no men and no generation call any of
their own achievements—whether in literature or
legislation—great. That is for posterity to
decide. ’ ’
(“ Humph !” thought Myles. “ That implies
that posterity will take some notice of it, in which
case —’ ’ but the reflections opened up were too
large to be fully followed out then.)
“Then yours is not a scientific work,” said
Myles, politely.
“It is chiefly historical and speculative, but
based, I trust, on the truest and most profoundly
scientific principles. It is an inquiry into the
question whether highly advanced civilisation and
an art-spirit living, original, and capable of pro-
ducing new and great works, can exist together—
whether they are ever likely to go hand in hand.”
“ And what do you conclude P” asked Myles.
“I began in hope,” said Mr. Blisset. “But the
hope has died away. Music still remains—a wide,
only partially trodden field, but for the rest ”
he shook his head. “Of course it is a gigantic
undertaking,” he went on, “ and I have been en-
gaged upon it for twenty years. But I think, when
my work is complete, that I shall have pretty well
exhausted the subject.”
“And your readers, too, perhaps,” thought
Myles, unwillingly forced to wonder whether there
were much use in Mr. Blisset’s gigantic undertak-
ing.
At this juncture Adrienne came into - the room
again ; and Myles, beholding her for the the first
time in indoor dress, was sensible of a warmer,
deeper feeling of admiration than he had hitherto
experienced. There was a nameless foreign charm
about her, which worked like a spell upon him.
She held some trifling work in her hand, and com-
ing quietly in, seated herself, and lent her atten-
tion to her uncle as he went on discoursing in a
monotone which by degrees fascinated Myles, so
that he listened intently, and nolens volens.
It was only afterwards, in thinking it all over,
that he remembered what a sad, dreary life it must
be for the young girl, alone with this stupendous
egotist, listening while he discoursed of—himself;
helping him in his stiff work ; writing letters relat-
ing to his vast undertaking; studying hard in
order to supply him with facts. That was all
true ; but at that moment Myles did not think of
it, for Mr. Blisset had spoken about subjects that
the young man had thought about himself —sub-
jects that made his heart burn —of government
and peoples, and the lessons which history may
teach us.
And when Myles heard the treasures of learning
and research which Mr. Blisset had undoubtedly
accumulated, brought to bear upon his own view
of the question, and found that the speaker too was
one of those whose watchword is—
“ The people, Lord ! the people!
Not crowns and thrones hut men!"
his admiration speedily grew to enthusiasm, and he
sat listening, his handsome face all flushed with
eagerness, and was disposed, before the evening
was over, to rank Mr. Blisset as a demigod.
Mr. Blisset was pleased, like other philosophers,
with the admiration he excited, and surveyed the
young man with a favouring eye.
“ You must come and see me again,” said he.
“It is always a pleasure for me to know one who
has thought and felt upon these subjects. But I
have talked till I feel almost exhausted. Adrienne,
my love, suppose you give us some music.”
“Yes, uncle,” said she; “ I like you to talk in
that way.” she added, touching his forehead with
her lips. “ Then you do yourself justice.”
There was a piano in the room, and Adrienne’s
playing for her uncle when the day’s work was
quite over —a sort of requiem upon the toil they
had passed through—was as regular a thing as the
falling of night upon earth. There in the world of
harmony was her kingdom—there she ruled : from
thence she could sway the hearts of men. '
The harmonies she made for them that evening
were calm and grave—a pathetic Tema of Haydn’s ;
a solemn Ciaconna of Bach’s ; a slow movement,
the “singing together of the morning stars,” of
Beethoven’s.
Mr. Blisset shaded his long pale face with his long
pale hand, and sat, with closed eyes, listening too:
but ear, with Myles, was subservient to eye, and
to thought. His gaze never left Adrienne, and the
longer he looked, the deeper became the charm.
There had slumbered in his mind, throughout these
years of toil and striving, a latent dormant ideal
of loveliness, purity, and fitness for worship, and
it was as though, when Adrienne’s fingers touched
the keys, the door of heaven was opened, and
a ray, falling upon her fair head, proclaimed her
his soul’s dearest wish.
With a sigh, promptly repressed, he rose from
his dream as she finished, and took his departure,
after Mr. Blisset had made him promise to come
again.
It was Saturday night, and Myles found the din
of the town not yet hushed. He saw sights which
were familiar enough to his eyes, heard sounds
to which his ears were accustomed—drunken men
reeling out of the public-houses which must be
closed: brawling songs shouted hoarsely up and
down—all the ugliness of rude, coarse natures tak-
ing their pleasure. He had never in his life found
pleasure himself in such things : but equally, he
had grown accustomed to the fact that others —
men with whom he was on good terms —did take
pleasure in them. He thought of the scene he had
just left, and there shot a sudden sense of chill
doubt and discomfiture through his frame of
musing, high-strung happiness, a desperate feeling
that those whom he saw about him in the streets
now, were his class, his companions : that ever
since he had begun to hope and think, he had
hoped for their advancement, their good, and he
must not be untrue to them.
“ Pah !” said he to himself, “as if she could
ask a man to be false to what he ought to be true
to. She’s like truth itself.”
(to be continued.)
The Agent-General.
The fact of Mr. Stuart resigning the Agent-
Generalship indicates a coming storm. Mr. W. B.
Dailey is shaping for the Assembly, and Mr.
Forster will soon return ; and what more probable
than a re-organisation of the present shattered
Opposition? We will closely watch approaching
events.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton has consented to
allow himself to be nominated against Mr. James
Watson for the Lachlan. Judging from the closeness
of the contest at the last election, it will not be sur-
prising to find Mr. Watson out in the cold on this
occasion.


z
lONS, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to liis PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate, viz.: —
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 84s, worth £6 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coatmg and black
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, half
their value , „ . „
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit all
FANCY B and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s 4d, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOUSE,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
T
HE
GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL.
(Late “La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
;he public generally that he has entirely renovated the
ibove 'premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which, cannot be excelled in any house in tne
Terms Strictly Moderate.
c.
W ROBERT
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT.
Market-street.
S*
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
J 6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country
isitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
iEFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALACE.
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously cool.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
Union club hotel.
■ Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGQA WAGQA
(Close to the Railway Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYRNES, Proprietor.
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A First-cliss Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well supplied with fresh and
wholesome provender, and be under the supervision ot
careful rOOms ' BILIjIAEI) s. BATHS.
r
HE
SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397. GEORGE STREET.
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY,
i’ifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Boom has two of Alcock’s Best Tables.
Ihess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
W&s. First-class Cooking. Bill of
i’are constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
loffee. Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies and Gentle-
nen’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
U Blooms 6 are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
lightly. Meals only charged when partaken ot. JNo
ees or gratuities to HUGHES,
General Manager.
ICENSED VICTUALLER S’
ASSOCIATION
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OP THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
E T H U E
CUBIT
T,
157 (late 203) PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFICE
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTED
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS, DEATHS
and MARRIAGES.
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
24 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS,
most intricate cases have met with marked success.
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF AST
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only)' 0 f
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made a
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
£JUNS,
JJIFLES, ~
JJEVOLVEE3
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
EMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul.
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BEON.
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in* “the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
# Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE:
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia : —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. 8. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOE FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Prick List :—
No. 1.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANE, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Do?
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keepicff
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of a*
extra profit represent the common beers referred to n»
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL ana
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Hayni®
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at T HS
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-etreet
p< HA S. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, MANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
L L,
David m* c a
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL Oh
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K C M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOPTUS, K.C.M.G. _ ~, ...
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen si Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
T7IASHIONABLE SCARFS AND
- L FOR GENTLEMEN,
NECKTIES
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET.
Near the Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! I
J. L. HORDERN.
N IC
HOLSON AND ASCHERBER
325 GEORGE STREET.
G,
LILY QUEEN WALTZ. —By A. Moul. One of the
most popular waltzes ever published. Second
Thousand already sold out. See Press notices.
Superbly illustrated in colours. Price 2s 6d, by
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH. —By A. Moul. Comically il-
lustrated in colours. Very bright and effective;
its popularity is assured. Vide Telegraph, Decem-
ber 6th. Price 2s, by post 2s 2d.
THE FARMER AND HIS PIGEONS.—Song, by
Taubert. Second Edition. Charmingly bright
and effective. Sung by Miss Jeannie Sargent at
the Urso concerts. Always encored. Price Is
6d, by post Is Bd.
Fourth Edition 111 Fourth Edition !!!
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE No 13.
i Wonderful Success. No less than 15,000 sold in Six
Weeks. Everybody is talking about it. Contains flf-
;een Popular Songs and Pieces, including the songs
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on our Block, Old Log
Gabin, Speak only Speak, Take me Home, &c., &c.
The sale of this book is so great that worthless imita-
dons are being offered to tbe public. Ask for No. 13
‘AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE.” and see
:hat you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCHERBERG,
325 George Street.
Humble and nicholson-s patent
WASHING MACHINE.
Is the Best Invention before the Public.
Its Action is Entirely Different from Any Other.
It is Self-acting and Does not Destroy the Clothes.
It Saves Money and Labour, and Produces no
Noise or Dirt.
It is Impossible for It to Get out of Order.
It is the Quickest in Its Action.
It Cleanses Equally well Partially Soiled or
Very Dirty Clothes.
Its Superiority is Established beyond a Doubt.
See Opinions of the Press and Other Testimonials.
CAUTION.
Several persons having made imitations of this Patent
Washing Machine, we beg to give notice that we will
take legal proceedings against any one making, using, or
exercising, or vending copies of their invention.
On SALE by the Agents,
DRYSDALE and ROBERTS,
397 GEORGE STREET, opposite Royal Hotel.
K
EAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEWMAN,
, PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by apxxnutment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
JF. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) George Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
TO BRAY FOR YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address :
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
c.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN.
22 HUNTER STREET.
FRESH FISH EVERY DAY.'
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
Robert cassin,
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET. WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
’BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY.
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN are all executed
under their own personal 'Supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, carriages, fours-in-hand, &c.,
cannot be beaten for duTaWßity or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, aud only the most skilful work-
men employed.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
JjlO R
all descriptions
MEDICINES
O F
OO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
86 OXFORD STREET.
B
UY YOUR BLANKETS IN TIME,
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL TO-MORROW
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-DAY,
EDWARD HORDERN
(the original firm of the name),
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of the LADIES of NEW
SOUTH WALES
to
THIS SEASON’S SHIPMENT,
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by him
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
SNOW WHITE, PURE WOOL, EXTRA WIDE,
“ PLENTY to TUCK IN."
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the COMFORT, LUXURY,
aud
SWEET REPOSE PRODUCED
by a pair of
“EDWARD HORDERN’S”
BEAUTIFUL SNOW-WHITE WHITNEY
BLANKETS,
Prices from 4s 6d to 35s per PAIR.
ORDERS from the COUNTRY promptly and faith,
fully executed. All goods packed in EDWARD
HORDERN’S well-known style, SECURELY IN CAN-
VAS.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
No Branch Houses anywhere.
IMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
THE UNDERSIGNED, having purchased all the LATEST IMPROVEMENTb in KEROSENE LAMP,
exhibited at THE GARDEN PALACE, have pleasure in informing customers that they may select an;
of the Lamps on show, which will be reserved for them till the close of the Exhibition.
CHANDELIERSJor—
CHURCHES
SCHOOLS OF ART
PUBLIC ROOMS
MANSIONS
THE DRAWING ROOM
THE DINING ROOM
THE STUDY
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS,
TABLE LAMPS in—
DOVETON WARE
WEDGEWOOD WARE
CERAMIC CHINA
CRYSTAL GLASS
PATE SUR PATE
BOHEMIAN WARE
I
MAJOLICA
JAPANESE CHINA
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A PHENOMENON IN PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
