

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 47
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1880.
The Gospel of Hatred.
The Legislature has, very properly, provided a
drastic enactment for the suppression of obscene
publications. The morals of the people require to
be protected against the calculating pruriency of
any scoundrel who hopes to turn a dirty penny by
thrusting his filthy thoughts, in print, under the
noses of every man or woman, lad or girl who
passes along the streets. But morality comprises
other virtues besides chastity of thought and
action. There is no grosser immorality than
inculcating hatred of one’s neighbours. It is
worthy of the attention of the new Parliament,
that the Act passed last session does not go half
far enough. If it be really desired to purge the
community of immoral publications, attention
should be given to a class of journals published in
Sydney which spread a moral pestilence through
society. These are devoted to exciting hatreds,
ov/vivvj • j
and could the portions be excised
that aim at? keeping the bad
blood which is in men’s veins
always at simmering heat, there
would be nothing notable left in
their contents. Christian minis-
ters, forgetting that the very
essence of their religion is peace
on earth and good-will towards
man, and that their faith is
founded upon a rock and is im-
pregnable to all assault, have
discovered a necessity for supple-
menting their pulpit efforts by
resorting to journalism. Now we
don’t believe Christianity is in
such straits as that proceeding
would tend to show. Imagine
Christianity driven to such ex-
pedients ! The thing is absurd on
any supposition which Christian
ministers dare adopt. The weak-
ness and need for extra help must
therefore be in the ministers—
not in the faith. The very re-
sources attempted prove that
rina is the case. None but men
whose heads are screwed on the
wrong side up would blunder upon
the conceit that they could make
efficient journalists out of ineffi-
cient pulpiteers. Men who fail
to influence society to rf spect
their ideas —even when diffused
through the congenial medium of
a circle of adherents trained to
accept everything they say as a
sort of minor inspiration —must
be crazy to imagine that by en-
larging their auditory, so as to
include numbers of people not
so predisposed to unquestioning
deference, they will effect any-
thing else than to expose their
own insufficiency. _Of course,
there is this to be said : that pub-
licity is a great means of attract-
ing kindred souls. Ned Kelly
got a fine band of sympathisers
merely by becoming a public
character, and getting into the
newspapers. ■^There are people
who enjoy incitements to hateyi
their neighbours for thejove"6V <
God,
who enjoy incitements to love
their female neighbours for the
Devil’s sake; and the ° n ®. class
will buy a so-called religious
journal iu order to stimulate
their religious cravings, just as
readily as another will lay
pence on copies of Wild Oats
and filthy prints of that descrip-
tion, for the same
There are laws in existence m
every Christian community in-
tended to restrain from holding
up persons to hatred or contempt.
Such laws are based upon a
genuine morality; yet the so-
called religious newspapers of
Sydney seem to exist for no
other purpose than violating the principle ot
these laws —a principle, be it noted, that not
one of the reverend editors dare deny. When
they are not inciting to hatred, they are
holding up their neighbours to contempt.
They rake the hells of history for provocatives,
as a lecher might fumble in the casket of a
poisoner of the middle ages. Professed servants
of God deliberately set themselves to do the
Devil’s work, and set men longing to fly at each
others’ throats. There is no secular newspaper in
Sydney which approaches in immorality of teach-
ing the so-called religious organa. The former,
without exception, make honest attempts, accord-
ing to their lights, to help to build up a national
sentiment. But the latter are perpetually
straining to range the people into bands,
to indoctrinate impressionable people with
the conviction that they inherit a vendetta which
it is their first duty to fight out to the bitter end.
According to the Papist papers all Protestants
are fools, their conversation a thing to be avoided,
their faith a pernicious folly, and their founders
men of bad characters in their day. The Protes-
tant organs, on the other hand, appear set upon
convincing Roman Catholics that all priests are
villains. They rave with a fury utterly out of har-
mony with the humane spirit of the age, and froth
malice and venom on all mankind outside their
own communion. The Protestant Standard
of last week furnishes an apt illustration. Ex-
ulting over the issue of the elections, after a list
of names, it prints, “here is a list of twenty-one
Papists slaughtered.” Why “slaughtered,” of
all expressions, oh, ministers of the Gospel of
Peace P This is the language of Solomon Islanders
or Turkish Bashi Bazouks. The people of Aus-
tralia find no enjoyment in this conception of in-
ternecine massacre, which the reverend editors
evidently gloat upon. Australians have no mania
for avenging St. Bartholomew’s Eve, or taking
reprisals for the Battle of the Boyne. Peace and
good-will toward men have entered much more
deeply into the texture of “ worldly” men’s minds
at the present day, than reverend bigots, eternally
sniffing up the putrid hatreds of bygone times,
have any idea of. In the name of God—we make
the invocation with all reverence—why can’t these
immoral publications leave good-will to grow in a
[country where there is so grand a chance for a
fair start? We declare emphatically that the im-
morality of loving one’s neighbour too much is less
injurious to the community than the immorality of
hating him —or her. The “ obscene” print is less
mischievous than the sort of “religious’ ’ publication
which flies in the face of the gospel it pretends to
serve. What secular newspaper would have been so
ghoul-like as to scratch the corpse of the unhappy
lecturer, Tyerman, out of the grave, and hold a
post 'mortem orgie over the remains, in order to
prove that its organs were diseased ? Nay, what
is gained by it ? Men of all classes have suc-
cumbed to drink before now. Were the example
set by the Protestant Standard to be emu-
lated, what horrible reading papers would become!
How would Dr. McGxbbon like the idea that
after his decease his widow and orphans should
be offered an obituary written by the pen of a
malignant enemy ? Would a Freethinker’s bio-
graphy of Ward Beecher prove Christianity a
sham ? This war of jarring sects is exotic. Aus-
tralians want none of it. If so-called “ reli-
gious ” papers persist in teaching the immoral
doctrine of hating one’s neighbour, the provisions
of the Obscene Publications Act will have to be,
sooner or later, extended, so as to reach them.
Australians, as a body, are so horribly heterodox
as to adbpl as their religious motto the words,
“ Give us peace in our time, O Lord !”
Great Expectations.
The general public anticipate great things from
the reformed Parliament. Not only has the
Legislative Assembly been amnlified by over a
score of additional members, but the Legislative
Council has been made more symmetrical by the
addition of ten extra members. This encouraging
contribution to the collective wisdom of the
country naturally gives some assurance of political
vitality; and the gentlemen who have been
honoured by the people’s choice, or nominated by
the Government, must, if they have a scintilla of
patriotic feeling, do their very best, which is
something higher than their “level best,” to
expedite legislation and promote the best interests
of the country. The present Administration is
generally supposed to be strong, and to some
extent compact and clever. A great deal will
depend on the temper its members exhibit when
they confront the representatives of the people.
A cowardly reticence on their part would be an
act of suicidal folly. No South Australian
conventions, no diplomatic negotiations with
Victoria, no plenipotentiary platitudes or antics
on the part of the Premier, Sir Henry Paekks,
will condone for any lache in putting the financial
position of the colony on a right basis. These
remarks will be in the hands of our readers before
we can possibly see a copy of the vioe-regal
Address ; and hence, we ask them, for the honour
of the now Parliament and the vindication of the
national honour, to study that document, to
examine what the Government proposes to do, not
only to carry on the public service, but to
expedite those public works on which the future
progress and prosperity of the colony so largely
depend. There certainly has been neglect some-
where up to the present hour. It would be,
probably, very difficult to fix the blame on the
right person, but it is now admitted by
common consent—a sensns communis seldom de-
ceives—that the formation of the city and subur-
ban tramways has been from the beginning a
colossal bungle. We can most feelingly sympa-
thise with those gentlemen who
have called an “indignation
meeting” at Waverley, because
we are convinced they have been
ill-used—put to needless and In-
jurious annovance. It is doubtful
whether the fear of a water-famine
is not another grave charge rf a
dereliction of duty on the part of
our rulers. We do not want to
exaggerate these grievances, or
add to the public conviction of
incapacity in high places, but wo
maintain that the whole com-
munity-legislators and electors—
are bound to watch the conduct
of the Government in reference
to finance and the proseoutisn
of public works. There never
was greater need for a strong
Opposition than at the present
time ; and hence it is to be hopsd
that Messrs. Pabnell and Frr*-
patbick will ignore their petty
ambitions, and work harmoni-
ously for the good of the country
by watching the acts and opinions
of the Ministry, and promoting a
vigorous administiasion of pnblio
affairs. When Mr. W. Forster,
late Agent-General in London,
takes his seat in Macquarie-street,
he will be a skilled and caustic
censor: ho will look keenly into
questions of public policy, and
sharply scrutinize the conduct of
public men. In the meantime
there are others who ought to bo
equally vigilant, if their protes-
tations are worthy of belief —if
they have not been intentionally
deceitful from hustings and
putilic-house balconies. It is only
just to the Government to warn
its honorable members on these
and other points, and let them
clearly understand (that it is
onlv through upright deeds they
can hope to secure the confidence
ot a majority in both Honses of
Parliament. While indulging in
these reflections, it may not be
amiss to state that the Depart-
ment of Works has nearly as
Shadowy a reputation as that of
Lands, and that both are sup-
posed to be disorganised, if not
demoralised. We venture to make
this statement relying solely on
public report, and not because
we know much of either depart-
ment from our knowledge; but
we think both the Hon. John
Lackey and the Hon. James
Hoskins should bo reminded that
their administrative abilities are
not so highly appreciated as they
wore a year ago, and that they are
both likely to bo closely observed
during the present session ,of
Parliament. Men are not neces-
sarily alarmists who give warning
in time, and we certainly think
there is great need for vigilance and pluck—for
zed and energy—in this colony at the present day.
Madams Rose Hersee.
Songstresses are unfortunately as plentiful
as fallen leaves in autumn. Charming young
MADAME ROSE HERSEE.


people, “ who really sing very nicely,” and bring
their own music, are painfully familiar to tho
wearied {esthetic. But divas of unmistakeably the
‘ premier rang” are so sparsely scattered over the
world, that, wherever one is found, she gleams (in
a double sense) a star in the firmament. Madame
Rose Hersce is one of these, and we have uo
hesitation in saying a bright particular star in her
generation. Exceptional advantages are vouch-
safed by a lavish Providence upon the subject of
these remarks. Not only is Madame Hersce a
soprano vocalist of superlative merit, but she
unites with her rare vocal gifts the desideratum
of being a highly-accomplished and an intelligent
actress. Some of tho greatest vocalists of the day
havomoro powerthan the subject of our portrait, so
far as vocalism pur el simple is concerned ; but,
as an actress, Madame Hersce compares favourably
with almost any of her contemporaries. It has been
remarked that prodigies seldom ripen into artistes.
That this is a false canon is evident from the fact
that Madame Hersce, like Patti, Nilsson, Arabella
Goddard, Lonisa Pyne, from the earliest age dis-
played remarkable evidences of musical organiza-
tion. Her first appearance before the general
public took place at a concert in St. James’s Hall,
London, given under the auspices of the well-
known impressurio, Mr. Henry Mapleson. From
the date of her first appearance, Madame Hersce
established herself a warm favorite with the
musical public, and her representations, both
in concert and opera, in tho principal cities of
Great Britain (even while, comparatively speak-
ing, an inexperienced artiste) were characterised
by an amount of enthusiasm on the part of her
audiences which fulfilled tho favorable prognosti-
cations of the veteran entrepreneur when he first
engaged her. In September, 1869, Madame
Horace transferred the scene of her triumphs to
America. The Press of New York, in which city
she_ first appeared, exhibited in their favorable
notices of her performances an uncommon unani-
mity. The New York Herald wrote of her; —
“ Her voice is pure, clear, and flexible. Even
after the exhausting labours of a first night be-
fore a strange andience, she maintained her powers
and command of voice to tho end, and was, in-
deed, better in tho difficult scenes of the last net,
down to tho trying findle, than in the beginning.
Her success was unquestionable.” The other
dailies wore equally flattering. These encomiums,
however, are merely an echo of tho spirit of the
London Press. Of the many brilliant triumphs
achieved by this clever little lady, perhaps her
interpretation of Amina, in “La Somnam-
bnla,” may be selected as the choicest
flower from the splendid bouquet of mu-
sical flowers embodied in her extensive reper-
toire. On the 27th of January last Madame
Hersce sailed for these shores, under a twelve-
months’ engagement to the late Mr. W. S. Lyster,
as prima donna aesoUita of the Melbourne Opera
House. How she has fared amongst us is well
known to tho many thousands who have been en-
thralled by her singing—charmed by her acting.
At the present time, in “ Carmen, 7 ’ she seems
to eclipse all her previous performances.
We trust, in tho musical interests of the colony,
that Madame Hersce will remain long amongst us,
and we cordially echo the written opinion of the
eminent musical critic of the Times, that “such
an artiste can ill be spared.”
Mr. R. E. Smith and his Triumphs.
Respecting the joke perpetrated in our last issue
we have received the following “ I was much
surprised on my arrival in Sydney last Saturday
evening to observe a paragraph in The Bulletin
of that morning headed as above, commenting in
a very extraordinary manner upon Mr. Smith’s
late visit to the Macleay River. I can hardly think
tho_ paragraph in question had passed under the
revision of the editor, and so far at least as “ our
paragraph” is concerned I ask your permission to
state (as one of a large committee of electors
formed on the dissolution of Parliament to secure
Mr. Smith’s return for the new electorate of the
Macleay) that yon have been grossly misinformed.
All arrangements in connection with Mr. Smith’s
(reception and entertainment on the Macleay were
made by the committee on that and the adjoining
rivers, and quite without Mr. Smith’s knowledge,
beyond what was necessary to communicate
through the secretary, and the demonstration
made was purely spontaneous, and a simple act of
recognition on the part of a large majority of
electors of the Macleay of Mr. Smith’s services
in Parliament during the hist ten years. I think,
Mr. Editor, if the residents of the Macleay, Bell-
inger, aud Nambacora saw fit to show their respect
for a visitor who had for ten years served them as
their representative, by entertaining him in as
handsome a manner as they could, the object of
their courtesy should scarcely be made the subject
of such a shaft as the last issue of The Bulletin
contained. —Yours truly,
O. O. DANGAR.
The Opera.
After very successful performances of different works
during the past week the Opera Company at the Theatre
Royal is now engaged.in the production of “ Carmen."
This piece has acquired a very widespread reputation,
upon the strength of which a crowded audience
assembled on Tuesday night to witness Its first per-
formance by the present company. We cannot say that
we fully concur in the general verdict which establishes
“Carmen” in the position of a work of very high
excellence amongst musical compositior s. It bears a
great deal more of the impress of technical skill than
of native genius on the part of the composer. Its chief
strength lies in the elalHjrato character of its orchestra,
but this feature, however much it may command the
admiration of critics, is scarcely of the kind which is
calculated to secure for it a general and enduring
popularity. Beauties of this kind require a trained ear
to detect and appreciate, as those who do not under-
stand the technical construction Of the music entirely
fail to see the wealth of stilled resource which the
composer displays, and which the educated musician
alone is able to admire. But real music requires no
education to understand, nor any training in order to
appreciate. It appeals to the natural feelings of the
listener, and not to his learning—the outcome of true
native genius ; there is no necessity to travel through
the labyrinths of art in Older to approach it, but it is
accessible to all, aud there is no human being entirely
beyond its influence. It is the few of those bright
gems interspersed through the composition of some of
the ol;r operas which the company perform that fixes
them so firmly in the recollection of the general public,
and invariably ensures for them a hearty reception.
But the average listener might sit at the performance
of “ Carmen ” any number of times, without one
fragment of the music lingering in his memory. Its
charms are nil artificial, consisting of skilful subtleties
of arrangement, bnt that kind of music which speaks in
common language of nature directly to the heart of the
listener is not there. It is unnecessary to say a
great deal of the dramatic merits of the piece.
The performance on Tuesday night took place
with a very strong cast, but it did not go as evenly as
might have Icon expected, although all the leading
situation? were erected with a full meed of applause.
Madame Hersca’s impersonation of the title rSUs was a
pleasing exception to the general rule ; and her careful
■actin'.. of the. part of Carmen fully deserved the loud
plaudits wind A he audience frequently bestowed upon
her. Mr. Beaumont did not appear to particular ad-
vantage as Don Jose, and in his vocalization there
occurred two or three defects arising from a temporary
coll. Mr. Farley displayed some traces of origin-
aJity in his interpretation of the character of the
Toreador, and, being in capital voice, his singing
elicited a good deal of applause. The part of Michaela,
a very important one in the piece, fell to Miss Bessie
Royal, aud hod she thrown a little more animation
into the character she would have done more justice to
it. As it was, although her rendering of the music was
fair, her lugubrious bearing throughout the whole of
the performance was somewhat oat of harmony with
the character which she had to sustain. The other
performers did nothing to add to their previous repu-
tations ; and, on the whole, their acting and singing
were suggestive _of imperfect rehearsal, which, how-
ever, is sure to improve with each performance. The
orchestra was evidently not so well up to its work as
on previous nights ; but we would not go to quite the
length of the gentle critic who expressed a sanguinary
wish to have all the performers decapitated. The
irascible fair one to whom we allude has frequently
lavished her highest commendations upon far worse
playing; and if beheading were to become the general
purishment for professional shortoomings, at least one
fair Caput would have long ago disappeared from the
sanctified precincts of the Herald office.
“The Finding of the Snark.”
All who enjoyed that clever nonsense of Lewis
Carroll’s, “ The Hunting of the Snark,” will be
delighted to hear that a fresh treat is in store for
them, in the shape of a sequel to that “ most
exquisite fooling,” namely, “The Finding of the
Snark.” An early edition has been published,
and from one of these advance copies just received
we give our readers the following extracts. Per-
haps no sequel is ever as good a "he book that
suggests it, and a great deal of the old fire is
sometimes missing here ; bnt enough fun is left
to make the book almost as popular as its prede-
cessor was.
The reader will remember how the hunters are
left bereaved of the baker, and cajoled by a
Boojum. The story picks up the thread of the
old narrative at this point.
The sorrow-stricken group are surprised by a
sudden exclamation of the butcher’s, who dis-
covers a photograph lying on the ground, and,
remarks—of the poor vanished baker—
He is gone from our view—he is lost, it is true;
But, at least, he has left us his carte.
They ail crowd round to examine the new dis-
covery, save the bellman, who remains proudly
aloof, and when the conjectures have been ex-
hausted, gives his opinion—
When they’d all said their fill, then the silence he broke
With the voice that they all knew so well,
And, as an accompaniment, still as he spoke,
He mournfully tolled on his bell.
His opinion is that it is not a likeness of the baker
at all; and, after indicating essential points of
difference, concludes that it is a likeness of the
very object of their search—
“ This appears like a man who could tell chalk from
cheese.
Preach a sermon, make plain things look dark;
Wear number nine shoes, hold orthodox views;
In fact, it looks more like a Snark.”
After some argument, they agree to hunt up the
banker, who tke reader will remember was driven
mad by a Bandorsnatch, and they proceed to
do so—
They sought for the hanker, with sticks and stones.
They pursued him with poker and tongs ;
They found him still rattling away at his bones.
And chanting his mimsical songs.
They showed him the likeness with scrupulous care,
They showed it with forks and with hope :
He dropped both his bones, ran his hands through his
hair.
And demanded clean towels and soap.
They supplied him with the required articles, and
he then —after tranquilising himself by drawing
several cheques for small amounts—unfolds a
secret he had long kept hidden —
‘‘ I was young, I was fair, I had once not a core," —
Said the bellman, ‘‘l don’t wish to still yon.
But I’ve heard that before in a song, I am sure, —
Give us something original, will you ? ”
The banker, thus checked, tells them how he
once lived in a town that fairly abounded in
Snarks. The bellman is naturally incensed that
this information had not been supplied at an
earlier stage of the voyage, but the banker thus
excuses himself —
“There are things,” said the banker, addressing the
crowd.
In reply to the bellman’s remark,
“ That may never be uttered or spoken aloud—
Need I say they refer to a Snark ?’’
He goes on to state that he told this important
secret often to inanimate objects, but without any
change being made in the ship’s course—
" I muttered it oft in the dead of night.
When all, save the watch, were asleep;
The mainmast I told—’twas a pitiful sight
To see how that mainmast did weep.”
On being pressed to divulge the secret, he informs
them that in order to find the land of Snarks the
following course must bo pursued—
“ You must tie the mainbrace in a wonderful knot
No mortal could ever undo;
You must ask if the flgure-fiead finds itself hot.
And regale it on sweet Irish stew.
You must call it odd names, and amuse it with games,
You must strew the lee-scuppers with cards.
Trim the sails with point-laoe, wash the cathead’s
sleek face.
Make the carpenter square all the yards.”
All these instructions are faithfully carried out,
and the adventurers find themselves off the long-
sought shore. They land, and speedily find a
Snark, but the author still keeps us in delightful
uncertainty as to the nature and appearance of
this strange being. They surround the Snark
carefully—
“ For they thought of escape he’d be thinking ;
But he showed no alarm, took the barrister’s arm.
And asked his opinion on rinking.”
The Snark is then taken on board, and the trouble
fairly commences. He proves a regular Tartar,
assumes the complete control of the ship, and
reprimands the bellman —
Said he ought to be fined and disgraced.
Put in irons and rated, his neck dislocated,
Because the backstays wore unlaced.
******
He insulted the banker by calling him “ Cash ;”
He christened the butcher “ Cold Veal,"
He broke thro’ all laws, without reason or cause.
He ‘would talk to the mau at the wheel.
*Hc’d assemble the crow when they’d plenty to do,
And setting astride of a block,
Would lecture them soundly, and talk to them roundly
On the breeding of pure anchor stock.
At last, roused to just indignation by his insisting
upon calling np all hands at 3 o'clock in the
morning to listen to hia opinion on South African
policy, the Snark, and, most unjustly, the banker,
are cast overboard, with a life-buoy between
them, and when left, the Snark is still cheerfully
chatting to the banker—
In fact he was offering to bet
Large sums in bank notes that “ this buoy, if it floats.
Will prove that the water is wet.”
A newly-married lady residing near Sydney
seeks to attain notoriety by driving in her carriage
with a lamb either sitting or kneeling beside her.
However, during a recent country election, she indulged
in a change. She looked after the interests of a little
black Kidd.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Queensland and Tasmania will send represen-
tatives to the adjourned International Conferenoe,
Mr. W. J. Watson, M.L.A., was entertained at
a soiree by his committee at Young on Monday after-
noofi.
Mr. Thomas Rome, of Rome Bros., stands for
Mr. Moreheod’s late seat in the (Queensland As-
sembly.
Messrs. Cook and Bodel, the newly-elected
members for Forbes, were banqueted on Friday night
last by their constituents.
Polling at Maryborough (Q.) election Palmer,
375; Keith, 362; Hurley (late member for Hartley),
172. This gives the Government a supporter, as
against Douglas, an Oppositionist, who resigned.
Mr. Levin, one of the new members for the
Hume, when addressing the electors on the occasion of
his nomination, said “ he was going to live in Sydney
to manage the business of his firm, and in his leisure
he would attend to the interests of his constituents.”
Notwithstanding that he placed the “ constituents ” in
such a secondary position, they returned him. Their
self-esteem must be smaller than in most electorates.
Mr. George Day, member for Albury, was
soundly rated from the pulpit of the E C. Chapel, by
Father Dunne, the other Sunday, for having said at
the hustings that “ although he had voted against the
Education Act, he would not do so again; and if his
vote would upset it to-morrow, he would not give it.”
Mr. Day was sitting alone in this front pew, and ap-
parently did not relish the public calling to account in
a place where he could not reply.
The motion of want of confidence in the
Victorian Ministry, was moved by L L. -Smith in a
speech of over an hour. Berry did not reply. Mr.
Service said the opposition could not do otherwise
than support the motion, but disclaimed any responsi-
bility. The division was —ayes 39; noes it ; majority
for Government, 6 ; Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, M’Kean, and
Sir John O’Shanassy, who until now have been Minis-
terial members, voted against the Government.
Parliament was opened at noon yester lay, when
the new members were sworn in by a Commission,
consisting of the Premier, Treasurer, and Minister for
Works. There were 05 members seated on the
Ministerial side of the Assembly, distributed os
follows :—Ministerial = front bench, 12; back bench,
12; corner, 41. On the Oppooition side there were 31
members seated, as follows : front bench, 3; back
bench, 3; corner, 25. Besides these, one or two others,
known to be Ministerialists, entered while the House
was in a state of “mix.” On the Opposition benches
sat. araonar others. Messrs. Fitzpatrick, Farnell,
O’Connor, Reid, Slattery, W. Clarke, J. Sutherland,
and E. B Smith, Sir George Wigram Allen was unani-
mously elected Speaker, on the motion of Dr. Eenwick,
seconded by the Hon. J. F. Burns. Sir George was
enthusiastically greeted by both sides of the House.
On the motion of the Premier, the House adjourned
until 1130 to-day (Thursday).
Mr. William Forster on Sir Henry
Parkes.
Mb. William Forster and Sir Henry Parkes
are not yet friends, and it is more than probable
that the re-appearance of th@ former gentleman
in the Assembly will serve only to widen the breach
that already exists between them. In point of
fact, all Mr. Forster’s letters indicate this coming
storm. This by way of illustration. Some friend
of Mr. Forster wrote him saying Sir Henry had
given him the reputation of “ being a curse to any
Ministry.” The caustic William has replied in
these words:—
“ These things are easily said, hut, badly as I have
been treated and abused, I do not believe that anyone
believed these things of me. Their best refutation is
in the fact that every Ministry sought my services—
not excepting the “ great Panjandrum ” himself, who,
nevertheless, has never ventured to assert that
Ivver accepted, or showed the least disposition to en-
courage such a base alliance. In fact, I was only pre-
vented by Jennings from writing an insalting letter,
which, read aloud by the maker of a new Cabinet,
would have been “ nuts" to many. As for Badhatu, he
is only an object of contempt. I wish him no worse
harm than he has done himself.”
The drought has produced a run on Foster’s Ale
and Stout.
According to the European Mail, Ismail
Pasha, late Khedive of Egypt, one of the most extrava-
gant and sensuous mouarchs that ever graced a throne,
has forsaken his “ vile and haughty ways,” and now
lives in great simplicity and with plain surroundings.
Randerson’a podophyllin lozenges, for all
bilious complaints, indigestion, &c. They impart tone
and vitality to the whole system, removing morbid and
sick headache, giddiness, shooting pains, and nervous
affections, and in all cases of liver complaints, indiges-
tion and costiveness, speedy relief is insured. Parents
will find Kanderson’s Lozenges very useful where
children are requiring a mild aperient. There is
no disagreeable taste, and all the little members of the
human family prefer lozenges to pills. Try them. Sold
by all chemists Is. a box. Edward Row & Co, Pro-
prietors, Sydney.—Advx.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
last^Thu^'^° r ' ° f Sh° re > gave a large party
Lawn-tennis is all the rage with the Hobar-
town ladies now.
Stfcnley-street is to have a marriage of its own
on the 28th current.
Mrs. Harry, of Ashfield, gave a grand ball „ a
n ednesday evening.
Sergeant Sleigh’s daughter is setting all the
fashions in Launceston now.
A wadding took place in Bourke-street l.*t
Tuesday. Miss Ellis was the bride. N
Mr. Weiss, of Bourke-street, entertains his
friends with a ball to-morrow (Friday) night.
The new Mayor gives a luncheon at the Town
Hall on Thursday. Still the ladies excluded.
The city of Hobart is almost “ empty.” All its
leading citizens have repaired to the Melbourne Exhi-
bition.
There is likely to be a very fashionable attend-
ance at the Manly bazaar on Saturday. Lady Augusta-
Loftus will be present.
Lady Augustus Loftus’s garden party proved
very enjoyable, and brought out an unusual display of
y»uth, beauty and stjle.
There is to be a bachelors’ ball—a very “swell"
affair- in Braidwood, on the 29th inst. The spins)
ore to provide the supper.
The marriage of Miss Busby to Mr. Donkin
took place at St. Andrew’s Cathedral on the 10th, aml
certainly proved the affair of the season.
The latest marriage on the topis is between a
gentleman formerlj- of Sydney, and now connected
with a Melbourne banking institution, and a wealtbr
Victonan young lady. The affair is fixed for Pebruoi d.
In imitation of the B.othsehild principle, all the
marriagable members of a well-known local Jevi-b
family are engaged to their cousins. This keeps Ih.
money in the family even though it shouldn’t keen
lunacy out.
A young Hebrew from a neighbouring colo
who has come over to Sydney expressly to marry find-
himself and his £BOOO going abegging among the Jewish
maidens. It is more than probable he will return
his own city.
A charming young heiress of this city was much
attached to Lieut. Bower who met with such nn
unhappy end in the Sandfly disaster. Her app. »r-
-mice in mourning in Georgc-street last Wednesday told
how one heart in particular was touched by the melan-
choly news.
Mr. J - Iking, of the E.S. and A.C. Bank, was
the recipient last Wednesday week of a very handsome
present from his brother officeas. The cadtau was in
the form of a coffee service, and was in view of his
marriage, which event is referred to in another para-
gaph.
A very pretty and stylish costume was seen in
Gteorge-street last Saturday, and attracted much atten-
tion, as also did the fair wearer. It was composed of
black and white check, and black sateen bat, a la Marie
Antoinette, caught with carnations. The whole was
a charming combination of simplicity and exquisite
taste.
The new year will witness a double marriage in
one of onr marine suburbs. In oue case the eldest sou
of a well-known master mariner will lead, the charming
sister of a prominent footballer to the hymeneal urinr;
in the other the youngest son of a retired A.S.N. C >.
officer will take for better or for worse, the second ml
prettiest daughter of a yachting doctor.
The Albury skating season is now over, .-.mi
the habitues of the rink greatly miss the pastime ,f
seeing a certain local ecclesiastic, with his long black
coat and thin legs, exercising his ungainly figure bj
cutting the moot grotesque capers conceivable, oi.ly
varied occasionally by measuring his length uu the
floor, or knocking over some of the fair rinkore.
The other evening Mr. Crooke, of Tivoli. Mel-
bourne, gave a ball. Just at tliejinoment when *• the . Id
storj- ” was being rehearsed by the happj- tenant of
Tivoli’s bowers and winding paths, the unkind hostess
caused the lime-light to l<e turned on and in the twink-
ling of an eye the whole garden was illuminated from
the tower of the house. We fancy that something like
this was once dune by the captain of a French, man-of-
war in Sydney harbour. The officers on board saw
“ sights.”
Garden parties are becoming pleasantly more
frequent, and much more attention is conseqneutlj-
being paid to the costumes. A very beautiful dress ha's
just been fabricated at D. Jones and Go’s, for a lady
residing on the Edgecliffi Road. It is composed of a
qnadrilled skirt, of old gold surat, with drapings of
white pongie, richly embroidered with water-lilies and
coral; revers of cardinal satin, also embroidered; and
collars and cuffs to match. The dress was designee by
Mr. Tolle, of the firm named.
Lost Thursday evening was the occasion of a
most enjoyable birthday dance at Kirribilli. The
dresses of the ladies were for the most part unique.
The hostess wore a black silk trimmed with white lace
and old gold ribbon. Her daughter, whose birthday
was being celebrated, wore a velvet dress, with sleeves
puffed with yellow satin, and a pretty little gold-em-
broidered cap on her head. Of the visitors’ dresses the
most striking were a black silk dress trimmed with
cardinal silk; white washing silk, trimmed with pink
silk; plain black satin; light blue silk, trimmed with
pompadour to match; white grenadine, trimmed with
white satin; white cashmere, trimmed with while
satin; and cream-silk, trimmed with rubj r velvet.
A fashionable wedding took place at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst, on Wednesday, when Miss Thorne be-
came Mrs. King. The bride wore ivory satin, with
drapings and flounce of rich Duchesse lace, tuille veil
and wreath. The bridesmaids wore white China silk,
with wreaths of lilac. One of them, it may be men-
tioned, is to be a bride herself in February. Among
the guests we noticed Mr. and Mrs. Bundle, Mr. and
Mrs. James White, Mr. and Mrs. John Marks (the
latter lady wore a magnificent dress of silver grey satin
and brown brocaded silk, with bauds of black and gold
galoon). Mrs. Thome wore black silk and jet, with
honiton lace collar and cuffs. The bride’s trousseau
was made at Farmer’s, and is a credit to the establish-
ment.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
S.S : Please look down the “ Last Minute
column of the number in which the verses referred w>
api>eared. “ Exeter On reference to onr last num-
ber you will jcotioo that it contained the substance of
yonr very acceptable communication. “Tim": hot
this time, but try again. There is a town, but no river,
of the name you mention.——“J.S.P.".- We’ll beep
your paragraph, which may be of use. “A Sub-
scriber": Wo don’t think your story hears its rial
meaning on the face of it, so far at any rate as- < In-
ordinary public is concerned. —Back Blocks": k l,ll
have omitted to send ns the first page of jour sujte-
ster y. "Monad" (Duaranga) ; Much obliged
“Subscriber " Adeloug : "Focused,” we takeitj sho uu
be spelt with one ‘s,’ Just as “ banqueted ”•« sj" 11
with one *t.' Anyhow, the shorter way is t h*•
better one —forTiu: Bulletin at least. “Celebrity
glad to bear from you again. —”R. H J• : j' *'
probable that on association of the kind will shortly b._
formed. However, the matter will have to-be fullyauu
properly considered. ——“ J. F.”; (Brisbane). “aij
received.— ‘E. H. Wilsftn (Bulli)No, yon dent
"Constant header:” Kather too general to be ■>.
interest. However, we preserve your M S., which may
yet be of service. “ Sou Fils"; In onr next.
It is usual in Turkey to smoke from sixty t 1
seventy pipes of tobacco daily.
There are at the present time 133 daily new --
papers published in the United King-lorn.
Three-and-a-half tons of valentines returned to
the London Dead Letter Office. Soma bleeding fie
in the great city.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Dissertation on Flirtation
(Written At the Request or a Young Ladv).
What is flirting ? that's the question
That I’ve got to write about.
All the meanings, symbols, tokens.
Must endeavour to And out.
Lies it in the glance that sparkles
In the depth of honnie eyes.
Or in whispered words low-spoken
That the music’s charm out-vies—
Is it meant by bud or floweret.
Dropped by accident, ah yes :
To be kept and prized by some one,
Very foolish, I confess.
Speaks it in the blush that mantles
O’er the half-averted face ;
Does the fan’s slight motion show it
As it moves with careless grace ?
Is it felt in gentlest pressure
Of the hand that meets your touch.
As you say good-bye at parting,
Careless words oft meaning much ?
********
Look at society ebbing around us.
Look at the future that sketches before.
Then back on the echoing ages that bound us,
And fancy a world where there’s flirting no more !
Fancy the courtships, how would they be managed*
Small talk forbidden leaves little to say;
The drapers’ and dressmakers’ trades would be damaged.
For dress would be useless were flirting away.
Fancy the poets, poor follows, forbidden
To sing of the things that they sang of, of old;
Smiles and soft whispers all hastily chidden.
Bouquets and glove-bets put out in the cold.
Well, fancy all this, then, and flirting quite banished,
And all talking coldly of science and lore,
And I think that we’d miss a few charms that hod
vanished,
And wish onrselves back ’mongst the customs of yore.
That I’ve sounded the subject myself I can’t flutter.
My fair taskmaster’s pardon, I sadly am needing,
But the fact is, that all I know of the matter
Was from what I've been told, or have found out by-
reading.
December 18. 1880.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Basutoland rebellion still raging.
A literary and debating club is to be formed at
the Glebe.
The new tramway rails are to effect a saying of
£'Boo per mile.
Salt water is to be used for laying the dust in
Sydney streets.
Tenders are invited for building the Qeorge-
street Arcade.
The boss of the Brooker Island desperadoes is
named “Jack.”
A Ratepayers’ Defence Association has been
f‘ >nuod in Sydney.
doOO ratepayers disfranchised before the late
Municipal elections.
Reform is needed at the Botany waterworks,
says the City Engineer.
The N.S.W. Freemasons contemplate erecting
it new hall in Elizabeth-street.
Dr. Dansey. the city health officer, urges the
establishment of a fever hospital.
The Albury Borough Council have voted £lOO
in aid of the railway opening demonstration.
The American Novelty Company is diatribut-
ing gratis a magnificent lot of Christmas gifts.
The Orient reached Plymouth on the 11th inst.—
841. days from Adelaide. This is the fastest trip on
record.
The Sydney Sanitary Reform League have re-
solved to agitate in favour of the Liemur system of
drainage.
Compagnoni’s new billiard-rooms have been
opened. They are splendidly furnished, brilliantly
lighted, &c.
Mr. Williams, Victorian Minister for Mines, says
he is going to bring in a bill to prevent Chinese from
:ibr»uring in mines.
Sydney is now drawing on the rainfall of last
year for ita water. Last year’s fall was only 29£ inches
compared with the average of 52.
Mr. T. A. Dibbs’ claim of ,£24,000 on the in-
solvency of his brother, Mr. Q. E. Dibbs, has been
disallowed by the Commissioner in Insolvency.
After being committed for the murder of Miss
Dohie, the Maori Tuhi said: "I do not wish tor any
more trial. I want to meet my death here now.”
The six New Caledonian escapees who recently
arrived at Maryborough are to be detained in custody
until the necessary extradition papers arrive from
Sydney.
John West, lately a marine on board the Danae,
has been committed for trial on a charge of having
stolen two registered letters belonging to his mess-
mates.
Should Mr. Justice Faucett’s health permit,
judgment will be delivered before the end of this term
in the equity appeal cases of Dibbs v. Brown and
Brown v, Dibbs.
Mrs. Pampa, who was wounded by the swagman
Wilkinson when he shot Menz, at Albury, is dead.
Wilkinson will be brought up on habeas corpus charged
with the second murder.
There is now a commodious hall at Mount Vic-
toria, and theatrical troupes touring westward might,
with advantage to their treasury, arrange for a per-
formance en route at this township.
The tender of Howard Smith and Co., at 14a. Bd.
per ton, has been accepted for supplying the Victorian
Government with coal during 1881,—making the selling
price at Newcastle about 7a. 3d. per ton.
The Imperial Hotel at Mount Victoria is the
popular resort of visitors to the mountains. Mr.
Cousins has managed his hostelry in such a way as to
make it quite the attraction of the West.
At Adelong, Chinese are being employed in
preference to whites. Some laboring men have in con-
sequence had to go to Cohor for work, meanwhile
leaving their wives and children in a state of starvation.
An order for 15,000 tons steel rails for America
has been given to a Sheffield firm. The Americans, who
are straining every nerve to keep the trade in their
own country, find it impossible to exclude Sheffield
goods.
Mr. Mar gules, the Temora mining registrar, has
taken a libel action against Mr. W. 8. Quail, auctioneer,
who is alleged to have accused him, in a letter to the
Hines Department, of drunkenness during office-
hours.
At last meeting of the Engineering Association
of N.S.W., the president, Mr. W. Cruickshank, read an
instructive paper on “ The strength of cylindrical
shafting.” Discussion was postponed until a future
meeting.
A deaf and dumb foreigner, charged with lar-
ceny, was the other day arraigned at Maitland, but not
being able to communicate except by signs, was re-
garded as being unable to plead, and ordered to be de-
tained in custody during his Excellency’s pleasure.
At Pookapunyal, near Seymour, Vic., a child
uamen Arthur was lost in the bush for five nights and
font days. When found her legs were covered with
grass-seeds and scratches, and her clothes tom to
ribbons, but she was still walking. She is recovering.
Messrs. Turner afid Henderson are just now
exhibiting a very fine collection of Australian floral,
Christmas, New if ear, and birthday cards. The various
designs of the cards are quite new, very rich and ai>-
propriate, and altogether the collection is a valuable
one.
A writ for ,£5OO damages has been issued by the
National Mutual Life Association, against Mr. James
Barker, travelling agent for the A M.P. Society. De-
fondant is charged with having imputed dishonesty to
the secretary of the plaintiff company and fraudnlency
to the Association.
134 persons died iff Sydney of measles ; 38
through hooping-cough ; typhoid fever, 13; diarrhoea,
47 -j cholera, 5; dropsy, 12; cancer, 14; phthsis, 42 ;
cephaltis, 18: apoplexy, 8; convulsions, 64; heart dis-
ease, 27; bronchitis, 51; pneumonia, 54; congestion of
the lungs, 41; gastritis, 4; entritis, 17; and liver disease
•5, during the past three months. ’
During the voyage from London to Sydney, the
captain of the ship Brilliant put a man in irons for
insubordination, whereupon 13 of his messmates refused
to work unless he were released. As the vessel was
endangered, the captain had to comply with the demand,
but on reaching Sydney he handed the men over to the
police. At the Water Police Court, on Saturday, they
were sentenced to 13 weeks’ imprisonment each.
Washington Rivers called a meeting of the share-
holders of the Victorian Dress Supply Association, for
the purpose, he said, of deposing the directors. The
circular convening the meeting was signed by 30 persons,
but, on the original being produced, only a few names
were found to be attached. Then a shareholder moved
that Mr. Elvers be thrown out of the window. A vote
of confidence in the directors was passed.
Out of a small consignment of 643 oranges,
shipped from Adelaide to London, 580 arrived in excel-
lent condition. They were gathered with a part of the
stem attached, just as they hod turned colour, but
were not ripe enough to eat, and were packed in the
ordinary wooden market cases pretty tightly, though
not so as to bruise. inside of the boxes was lined
with newspaper. Tirey arrived at a time when such
fruit was pratically unobtainable.
The Heeald reporting staff had a very enjoy-
able reunion at Compagnoni’s last Saturday evening.
It is very seldom that the members of the st aff of any
daily newspaper can be got together, but in this instance
the affair was managed, and was looked upon as a
capital preparation for the work of the coming session.
Niue of the gentlemen actually engaged in the reporting
and five of the gentlemen associated with the “ internal
economy” of our big contemporary sat down to the
dinner, which was got up in a style that ought always
prevail with newspaper men.
A mongrel bred il blackee” from the Mauritius,
earned Peter Felix, deliberately shot a white Irishman
tamed O’Neill, in cold blood, just a few feet, or inches.
on the N.S.W. side of the Queensland border. Had it
happened on the other side, “ blackee” would have
infallibly been hanged, oat of hand, long since A- it
was, he was taken to Armidale, tried there, found guilty
and imprisoned for hie. Both meu were employed on
the Queensland railway works, and it barely was evident
that the event happened “ over the border.” It seems
that it is not considered murder for a darkey to kill a
white Irish Queenslander. It is hoped that the Banana
Government will not retaliate and hold out a premium
to murder N.S. Wales men over the border. Sir ’Enry
is no doubt a great statesman, or such miscarriages
would never happen.
There is a genius named “ Achates” writing
"smart” town pars, for the Manning River Times'
He is modest, however, which is a commendaule feature
with town scribes who write for country papers.
"Achates” commences well. He says—“My first
attempt at scribend- 1 will I fear be a very poor one.” As,
however, modesty is, so very often, the forerunner of
startling genius, we are somewhat disappointed to find
that the Manning River Times man seldom soars
above the standard of a Junius. He is very conscien-
tious, but a little prosaic. Give him a good subject,
however, and he really sparkles. He has evidently—
like the man in the play—the “Hiof a ’awk.” Nothing
(in the Herald) escapes him. In an earthquake he
fairly revels. Rend this 1—“ Austria sends ns appalling
news of an earthquake, not a babyish one. but a real
full-grown one. This for Austria is a very unusual
piece of information, and I trust it will never occur to
it again.” Referring to the loss of gold from the s.s.
Tararua he says—“ It is better for a bank to lose it
than any other poor individual.” Touching upon
another "burning question," he calinlv says of Turkey
and Greece that, “neither coum4l*o (rie) are in a tit
state, in a monetary sense, to cross swords.” Passing
on from this little attack of grammar. “Achates”
plunges, so to speak, into the question of beer. With
dread solemnity he remarks—“ It may not be generally
known that we are having a new importation here in
the shape of ‘German beer.’” This is almost as re-
freshing as “lager” itself, which ho thus describes —
"It is remarkably tasty and agreeable, and I doubt
not but that it will soon become as renowned ns Basses’
or Tooth’s, or even Castlemaiue.” (xic). If “ Achates”
will call round here in a state of even partial sobriety,
we will give him a letter to Alfred Bennett, of the
Evening News. They want some one on the Evening
Lyre who can “ sling ink."
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
In Bulli, where some people keep shops open
until nearly midnight, there is room for an early closing
movement. Mr. P C. Hodgkinsou, one of the late
candidates for Queunbeyan, has entered a libel action
against Mr. John Allen O’Neil, of the town named.
Damages £2OOO. A Temora doctor signed a death
certificate of a woman from syncope of the heart. Two
hours afterwards she was up visiting her friends.
Some scoundrel poured oil over two quartz heaps ready
for crushing at Duugog, the object being to spoil the
crushing. At the Qilgai, a resident, named J. Gore.
was cutting a limb off a large log and at the same time
standing ou ft rock. The log when partly cut turned
round and Gore was caught between the log and the
rock and fixed by the legs in a hanging position. His
dog barked loudly and brought to the spot his friends,
who released him after he had suffered tor half-an-hour.
A poor fellow was brought, to Inverell hospital the
other day in a state of starvation. The men who com-
mitted the burglary at Mrs. Pearson’s, Newcastle
were arrested at Maitland with the greater portion
of the stolen property in their possession.
The eldest daughter of Dr. Newton, of Mudgee, died
suddenly last week, aged 17. A gentleman from the
Cape diamond fields intends prospecting the Gulgoug
district for precious stones. The coroner’s jury
found that Barker, of Coonamblo, killed his wife and
shot himself while in delirium. The prison labour
question still agitates the Mudgeeites. However, all
prison artisans and mechanics will, in February next,
be drafted off to Trial Bay, to work on the breakwater.
The Berryites say they’re going to reduce the
•alaries of the Supreme Court judges. The North
Glanmire Co., Qympie, have divided 3d. per share.
Many visitors to Colo’s circus at Auckland complained
that they suffered subsequently from headache and
dizziness, and attribute it to the electric light. The
officials at Cole’s circus have evidently eyes to business.
They wore blue ribbons in their button-holes at Auck-
land the other evening, in compliment to Laycock’s
victory in the Hop Bitters race. An Auckland
chemist has been trying a meat diet of rats. He says
they are cheap and plentiful. Sir Arthur Gordon gave
offence in certain quarters while at Levuka by showing
it partiality for attending the services of the Roman
Catholic Church. A queer thing this for a “ moral
Aberdonian” to do. Pas is the latest society weekly
published in London. It is printed on pale sea green
paper, and is exquisitely got up. Geo. A Sola appears
to be a leading contributor.- —The Ipswich memorial
to Governor Blackall, who died ton years ago, at
Toowong, will consist of a drinking fountain surmounted
by a column. Hon. J. G. Francis (Vic.) spends all
the pay he receives as a member of Parliament in
Christmas prizes for the children of his electorate.
George Cummings, recently convicted at Toowoomba
of horse-stealing, has been discharged, as in the opinion
of the Attorney-General he is innocent. Robert
Wright, the well-known owner and driver of the Bed-
oliffe (Q.) coach, died suddenly. The first nnmlier of
the Western Qbazibr, a very neat paper, was published
at Wiloannia on 2nd inst. Two of the camels (or
their progeny) lost by the Burke and Wills search party
have been captured by an Afghan near Wilcannia. Of
two others that he tried to “ corral,” one lay down and
died on being captured after a long chase, and another,
while being pursued, ran against a fence, and suffered
serious injury. The Western Grazier speaks of a
donkey having “ careered off towards the Barrier Range
with his tail in the air, and singing a poem of victory,
while the boy, etc.” According to latest accounts,
there were 40 men at Mount Poole rush, The pros-
pecting party only were on gold, which is coarse and
promising. Whenever a new editor arrives in Wil-
cannia, they gauge his ability by asking him to multiply
£l9 19a. 11 jd. by itself. The last editor says he can’t
do it. A blue shark, 13 ft. long, which for some time
past has been annoying the fishermen of Illuwarra
Lake by breaking their nets, was caught on 26th ult.
The Campbblltown Herald . isn’t satisfied with
Australians merely attaining sculling honours; it
wants to see a Cornstalk “ carry off the University
prize, and eventually attain the premiership of Great
Britain.” In a shearing match at Bolleston, Christ-
church (N.Z.), B. J. EUett v. P. Burton, 100 sheep, £25
upside, the former won easily ; time, 5 hours3o minutes.
Hr. Mallard, late police inspector, has become
manager of the Dunedin branch of the Union Insurance
Company. At Forbes £1 each is offered for doing
scalps. Last Guudagai escort brought 1413 i oz. of
gold. Thomas Taylor (who discovered the first gold
at Parkes), has got 30 oz. coarse gold from 30 loads of
dirt at Wood’s flat. Coombing Park estate, Carcoar,
has been sold by Mr. loely to Mr. Frank Whitney for
£30,000, One half share in a claim ou the lake at
Bermagui has changed hands for £5O. Good coarse
gold is obtained from it; 22 ozs. have been washed out
in M’Gregor’s claim. At Macquarie River, a girl of
twelve, named Quirk, has been burnt to death owing to
her dress having caught fire. A Coltingwood trades-
man is forwarding butter to the Cape, and to England
—to the former place in hermetically-sealed tins, to the
latter, frozen, in tubs.—Sen. Constable Johnson, of
Bulli, has been presented by the people of Broughton
village with Ja haudsome gold watch on the occasion of
his removal from the latter station. The charge pre-
ferred against the mother and sister of Byrne, the bush-
ranger, of having stolen a saddle, broke down. It is
recorded in the police-books of Bomscy (Vic.) that a
J.P. once dismissed a lunatic “with a caution." —-A
woman, who pretended to be the mother of the convict
Edward Kelly, visited a drapery establishment at
Williamstown, and obtained some goods without pay-
ing for them. The woman who alleges that she is
Nod Nelly’s wife, is believed to be insane. A J.P.
appointed by Berry, the other day “ squeezed his wife's
throat and dragged her by the leg out into the street,"
besides inflicting other usage said to be of “the grossest
character." Kemp and party at Temora, in a trial
washing, got loz. 13gr. gold from atrough of dirt. Lewis
M’Hive put through 51 loads for 83oz. Several largo
nuggets nave been found at Temora. Temora public
school now musters 83 children. A young man, of 23,
sound in mind, wind and limb, frankly told the Water
Police Bench on Monday that he got his living by
begging. He was sent to gaol for six months. A
Mechanics’ Institute has been opened at Plattsburg.
The Garrick Amateur Dramatic Club, of Newcastle,
gave an entertainment on the occasion. At Parkes,
268 loads from Powell’s claim went lOdwt. to the load ;
and 500 loads from the east side of the lead 7 to Bdwt,
—Buckley’s claim, Temora, last week yielded 2500 z.,
and Keating and Hayos’ claim 425 oz., in nuggets.—*—•
At Hotham, Melbourne, three boys have been sent for
trial for assulting n Chinaman.——Capt. Hobson, of the
ship Salamanaca, reports the discovery of a new reef
near Kerguelen Island. At Cipeland the Mountain
crushed 147 tons, for a yield of 5250 z of retorted
gold. At Charters Towers, says a local paper,
“mayors from the "effete’ old country have been tried
and ‘ dulfered out.’ Young Australia should be repre-
sented by a mayor ‘racy of the soil.”’ The s.s.
Corea is being put on to trade between Cooktown and
Normautown, Gulf of Carpentaria. Discouraging
news reaches Cooktown from the Coen. Some of the
Chinese are returning. For a good while the average
earnings have only been one dwt. per day. Blacks are
swarming round the diggings. '1 he blacks are again
troublesome on the Laura. Richard Powell,
familiarly known as “Old Dick,” an Inverell worthy,
!as £ we ®k.-— • i heodore Wood has been lecturing
5” .Maryborough on “ The sugar trade and prospects of
’——George Bailey, a boy of 15, has been senten jed
to death at Bowen for a capital assault on a girl. At
Adelaide, Mary Ann Ford, originally charged with in-
fanticide, was convicted of concealment of birth, and
awarded a mitigated sentence of six months' imprisou-
ment. The man who murderously assaulted Mrs.
Tilly, near Verosdale (Q.), was found dead in the bush.
l’here is a great rise in the price of coal at New-
castle. It is thought that, coal will be down below 7s.
there after the new year. A child named Tookor was
drowned at Wickham on Tuesday afternoon. Beceus,
who was wounded in the shooting gallery at Temora’
declines to prosecute Green, who fired the shot. ’
THE LAST MINUTE.
Berry often says he’s “sick of it.” Other people
are, too.
The Australian team netted £6OO a man by
their late trip,
Seagrave, sen., has a company at Gympie (Q),
where he intends to produce a pantomime.
The Victorian police say that they have the
persons who stole the 425000 worth of gold under sm*.
veillance.
The late Hon. T. Highett left .£300,000. The
Victorian Treasurer congratulates himself on £30,000
probate duty coming in at the right time.
Signora Antonietta Link was to arrive from
Melbourne to-day (Thursday), to take part in "The
Messiah."
After all, the Musgrave opera troupe (in reality
one of Lyster’s enterprises) may result in Madame
Bose Heine's remaining in the colonies yet a while
longer.
The large organ for the now Congregational
Church, Glebe, which is now being erected, will bo
opened about the end of the present month with a
grand concert.
The programme for the next Victorian Ministry
is just now something like this O’Loghlen, Francis,
Murray Smith, O’Shauassy, L. L. Smith, and other
three selected from the two corners, together with Dr.
Hearn in the Upper House. Policy, Conservative, and
the Catholic vote to be secured bo the granting of a
Koyal Commission on the Education question, thus
blocking the Berryitos at the ballot-box.
At a party in the suburbs the other day, two
matrons—one old and experienced in family matters,
the other young and inexperienced—were conversing
rather loudly under cover of the music. Suddenly and
unexoectedly the music ceased, and in the silence that
followed the elder lady’s voice was distinctly heard re-
marking, “ What Ido you eat cabbage 'i You should
never do such a thing as that; it is sure to disagree
with the baby I never do.” A good many ®f the
people within hearing hastily adjourned to the
verandah.
LATE SPORTING.
Yacht Race for Mr J. Henniker Heaton’s
Trophy.
A oheat deal of interest, not only amongst sailing
men, but amongst the general public was centred in
the sailing match which took place last Saturday for
the i!5O trophy given by Mr. Heuniker Heaton. The
action of that gentleman in offering so valuable a prize
to be competed for is a refreshing indication, on his
part, of a desire to advance the interests of yachtsmen,
and it would undoubtedly be conducive to the enjoy-
ment of amateur sailing if other citizens followed Mr.
Uenniker Heaton's example. The result of the race—
like, indeed, the result of most races—was a surprise j
bat we think we shall be expressing the opinion of the
majority of the public when we state that from the
mere fact of Mr. John Want’s Guinevere being success-
ful, the surprise was a pleasant one. With the excep-
tion of the Oithona nearly every “ ship" of any pretence
to speed competed ; and, we may remark, that the tip of
the aquatic quidnuncs was the Harpy—“ns far us you
could see her." As it was, the Waitangi was the only
first-class yacht entered, and she, in (if we may be
allowed the term) the preliminary cauter, carried away
the head of her mainmast, and was, in consequence,
incapacitated from starting. The result was that the
race was limited to two classes of yachts only—first
and second. The actual starters were Guinevere,
J. H. Want, scratch; Harpy, C. A. Buubow, scratch;
Pleiades, E. W. Knox, three minutes; Daph m, C.
Gedye, six minutes. Third class: Australian, E.
French, six minutes; Mabel, W. J. Trickett, seven
minutes; loue, A. G Milson, seven minutes; La Belle,
J. L. Adams, nine minutes; Doris, Dr. Milford, uine
minutes; Kilmoay, P. F. Adams, eleven minutes.
Perhaps one of the prettiest sights seen for a long time
in Port Jackson was the flying sturt—a reform in
yachting, be it said, brought about by Mr. J. U. Want.
Imagine the cloud of white canvas pertaining to twelve
yachts: all these sails shivering, head to wind, ready
to bend to the strong southerly breeze. Imagine the
sun gleaning down ou the waters, illuminating the
feathery spray, and making the deep blue of the ocean
look a still deeper tint, and the shadow of the smoke
upon the waters appear as though it had been painted
on the face of the ocean with sepia. At the start, tlio
Guinevere sustained on injury irom colliding with
Daphne, and carried away her topmast. The breeze
was, however, so stiff that the mishap turned out to be
a positive advantage, since the wind would not allow
any boat to carry topsails, and even a single reef in the
mainsail was the rule with each yacht. In the result,
the victory was scored by the Guinevere, not so much
through the superiority of the sailing powers as by
reason of the surprisingly excellent seamanship ex-
hibitod by Mr. Want. The winning crew, on
rounding the judge’s boat, gave three enthusiastic
cheers for Mr. Heaton, and we have no doubt that their
good opinion of the prize-giver will ie generally
endorsed by the public. The Pleiades was seemd, the
Harpy giving up after a mishap on the ticks close to the
goal. Undoubtedly this was the most interesting
aquatic event of the season.
Miller is “going it.” The fourth monster
sweep for the champion was drawn ou the 10th Decem-
ber, and the fifth is now open.
The Elsinore V. Institute C.C. mot last
Saturday afternoon. The play resulted in a win for
the former by 25 runs. Elsinore Ifiil, Institute 81.
Notwithstanding Banian's hurry to get back to
Canada when Laycock challenged him, he can now
spore the time to show Boyd the way over the course—
after Laycock is done with him.
Spofforth and Bonner will have much to say
anent the Britishers when they return to their native
lair. When they again commence to do the block the
fair smiles that have vanished since Trickett’s defeat—
but this is anticipatory.
Chesterfield seems to be favored in both the
Summer Cup and Tottersall’s Cup. Should he win the
former, he will have a groat chance for the latter. Re-
trospect did a grand gallop this week, and has been
backed to win both events for a large sum. The betting
is brisk, but the “books” fight shy of anything but
mixed ” doubles. The horse that wins a mile-and-a-
halt handicap takes a lot of beating from the same
horses in two miles.
The supper given to the Australian Eleven a
the Melbourne cricket ground on the 6th inst. was to
have been an enjoyable evening and a regular carnival.
But Tennent and many others must have been greatl
disgusted, for the viands were of the scarcest, the foo
of the meanest, and the arrangements of the wors
Everything was devoured, aud all was over by 1130
and not one will say that it was not half-a-gninea throw
away.
As a rule, onr intercolonial cricket aspirants for
fame did not cover themselves with glory on Saturday
last. The Albert aud University match was anything
hut an exhibition of good cricket. Dave Gregory was
foolishly run out, partly through his own fault;
Arthur Gregory was howled by im easy one from Samm
Jones; Tindall did nothing, either with bat or ball
and Crane clean bowled Garrett. Allen, and Jones, the
I niversity representatives. However, the wind was
high and the weather was cold ; but if that be an ex-
cuse, let ns pray for a flue day for tho great match.
The acceptances for Tattorsall’s Cup, which is
to come off at Randwick, on New Year s day, are
published, and the list promisee a great field for the
event. Sweetmeat has got a “ steadier ” with 9st 31bs.
but he ought still be in tho front rank as he is a genuine
two-mile performer. The Pontiff, Auckland, Strath,
eru, Creswick, Kamilaroi, Chesterfield, Retrospect and
Nancy Lee, seem well in it, but the most favoured are
Black Swau and Hesperian, one of whom ought to win
it according to previous running. The Pontiff is about
the beet favourite, and taking into consideration his
Metropolitan performance he deserves notice: but
Hesperian, who ran second to him, is a constant game
horse aud will come when the former will be found
wanting. Black Swan’s extraordinary running at last
Randwick meeting should place him, if flt and well,
high in the estimation of backers.
Evans played with the Warwicks against the
hewtovrn team aud was knocked about the field, but
with practice ho will prove himself worthy of
public confidence in the great match. Ho is now
batting better than ever he did. Hiddloston, who is
without doubt the finest batsman in the Now South
iv ales team, made double figures, but his hands got
knocked about somewhat. His splendid driving will
come into effect on the fast Melbourne ground, where
he will be admired greatly. His defence is unsurpassed,
and he hits smartly, after the style of Billy Caffyn
He never wastes his strength by hitting the ball into
the air, but drives it beautifully along tho carpet
Melbourne is his native city, and this is his first visit
since he left it ns u mere child. His cricket has been
learnt in Sydney, as he graduated from Moore Park.
Lot usjhope he will do something for the honor of Now
South Wales, and that his compatriots will feel proud
of him oven if ho materially helps to beat them. On
paper, the match looks to be a certainty for New South
Wales; the team excels in jbatting any vet sent to
Melbourne.
Contrary to general expectation, the match be-
tween the Australian Eleven and tho Victorian Fifteen
resulted in an easy victory for the former by eight
wickets. Coulthurd, whom onr readers will remember
as being the umpire for tho last English team, and who
created universal dissatisfaction here by his unfair de-
cisions, made top score for tho fifteen, scoring 20 in the
first innings and 51 in the second. Tobin, who will be
remembered as having played in England for one of the
Australian Elevens, scored 48 in the first innings, but
was ran out for 1 in the second. Edwards, who stemmed
the tide of bad fortune which set in against the fifteen
in the first innings, fell a victim to Spofforth in the
second. M’Shano scored 32 and 18. The innings of
the fifteen closed for 168, and 145, against which the
eleven scored 291 and 25 for two wickets. Alick Boa-
nermaa came to tho front with 58, with Boyle close up
with 55. Tho giant Bonuor scored 50, making some
magnificent hits, including throe splendid hits for 5.
Spofforth performed well with tho ball securing 8
wickets for 63 runs in the first, and 7 for 71 in the
second. Palmer got two wickets for 31 runs, and five
for 76 in the first and second inningsjrespectively.
The sculling match between Laycock and Hos-
mer, for £2OO a-side, on tho Thames champion course,
on the 2nd November, resulted, as our renders already
know, in an easy victory for Laycock. Hosmor woo
born in Boston, and is 21 years old. His rowing weight
was 9st.',Blb. He was trained by Higgins and Jack
Qretn. Laycock was steered by Harry Kelly, and Has-
mer by Green, from eight-oared entters. Hosmer,
winning the- toss, elected to take the Middlesex
station. The tide was running up slowly. Mr. Ireland
giving tho signal, Hosmer was the first away, and was
clear at the London Boathouse, both rowing 40 strokes
Subsequently be gained half a length ahead at the Mill
Bench, tho time being siuiu. 7isec. Laycock was level
at tho Crabtree. At the Soap Works both spurted, and
a foul was avoided, both giving way. Laycock was.
slightly leading at Hammersmith-bridge, which was
reached in 9min. 51sec. Hosmer, spurting vigorously,
drew up half a length. This was Hosmer's last des-
pairing effort, but failed, and all his vigonrwnsex-
hausted. Laycock rowed on leisurely, reachidg Mort-
lake in 26min. Si sec., three lengths ahead. The opinion
was that Laycock could have won by twenty lengths.
A canvasser for one of tho elected candidates for
South South I toasts that ho alone “ ran in " 16 dead-
head voters. A fact.
A Yiotoria-streot man beat a five-year old baby
girl, then charged her at the Water Police Court with
plucking a leaf from a rose-bush. He was fined 30s. and
costs. Cheap amusement.
Dr. Neild, dramatic critic of the Austral-
asian, when occasion requires, can properly “slate”
an actor. It is a curious coincidenoe that he is also
regarded by the medical profession as a “ don " at post-
mortems. Thus he can “cutup" both the living and
the dead.
Mr. Cecil Forrester, the mimic and humourist,
and Mr. T. Bcrgin, the possessor of a fine baritone
voice, who, according to Thb Aaors, “sings as a gen-
tleman should sing, and who maybe hoard of again with
pleasure,” were at latest dates giving entertainments in
the western districts of Victoria.
Mr. Henry Varley was once going to Geelong,
and as he had just taken his seat in tho carriage a man
rushed frantically in, mopped his face with his hand-
kerchief, sat down, aud commenced to curse all the
railways up hill aud down dale. When asked to explain
his conduct, ho excused himself by saying he had got
into no less than four different trains and found they
were not for Geelong. “ Such mismanagement,
Ac., Ac.” Mr. Varley was very shocked at his strong
language, and mildly asked him “ if ho knew where he
was going.” “ Well, upon my soul, after two days’ ex-
perience I don’t think it sate to say I do." “Ah, yonng
man, you’re going to hell." “ Good heaven! .wrong
train again!’’ aud away he cut.
Verdi’s last compositions are an “ Ave Maria,’”
and a “ Pater noster."
Mr. Cowen, author of the celebrated song, “ It
was but a dream,” is a conductor of promenade concerts
in London this year.
Richard Wagner, composer of the operas,
“ Tannhauser," “ Lohegriu, and others, has just
completed another opera which he intends cubing
“ Pharsaie."
The performance of Hector Berlioz’s “ Damna-
natiou of Faust” has proved itself a greater success
than was anticipated by. the directors of the London
Philharmonic.
The Secretary of the Shakespeare Amateur
Dramatic Society (Glebe) writes, saying that tho state-
ment to the effect that one of tho members was at a
performance the other evening to try and embrace
Muggie Oliver, is “ utterly false.” We are glad to hear
this. We had a suspicion that the story was a “ put-
up one. It bears improbability stamped on its face.
London Punch says of Haverley’a Mastodon
Minstrels The whole programme is certainly the
most go-a-head nigger entertainment we’ve seen for
some considerable time -varied os a kaleidoscope;
never stopping; the minstrel boys taking encores in a
sharp, business-like, ou-wo-go-again sort of manner,
sometimes on tho stage, sometimes in the orchestra,,
giving themselves scanty breathing fcime, and the,
audience no flunking time, delighting everybody,
specially tho antiquarian, who may here see the Mastu-;
don, and Study liis Original Bones.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Wanted, a “ caul.” Apply to St. Peter.
A Forlorn Hope.—The Wagga Postmaster.
A man who will undertake anything—Melville.
The beat judges of a divorce case—The general
public.
“ Water, water, everywhere and not a drop to
drink.’*
A turner in luck. —The member for Northum-
berland.
Peter Campbell got a farthing damages from
Punch for libel.
Seven women are going to give evidence impugn-
ing “ his honour.”
Theo. Hamilton and “ The Danites ” visit Syd-
ney about February.
Was the “ Song of the Poll ” in Friday’s Lyre
written by a barber ?
A bride’s carriage was stopped in George-street
the other day by a hearse.
“ I inklose you my biograph,” wrote a worthy
alderman to an editor lately.
A little “ missing friend” is about to set on a
Victorian shore one Cnbitt foot.
We are afraid the whisky of Lome has become
much more popular than the Marquis of Lome.
The best way to get assaulted is to ask a de-
feated candidate to ante-up for his printing bill.
There is much more flirting going on in
Wynyard-square than straight-out, honest work.
The tramways are the trick by which the city is
to be bamboozled out of its long promised railway.
The youths who took the bag out in the boat
the other day were oystered with their own petard.
A sixty per cent, man has become a victim to
he present rage for fuchsias. He calls them /uturss.
What is, in some cases, a legislative luxury ?
Give it up ? —A clean shirt. That’s a nail in somebody's
coffin.
The Mudgee “giraffe” is now the plaintiff in
an action for libel; damages, £lOOO. This is a funny
world 1
The 5’25 is one of the fast Parramatta trains.
It stops at Eookwood only to land an auctioneer and
a Lands-offloe clerk.
Thus an editorial note in the Balmain Inde-
pendent:—“ Address Litterary (sic) Communications
only to the Editor.”
Peter Campbell says that “ all who write for the
newspapers are blackguards." The Wasp was not a
newspaper, therefore.
There was a nice little item in Monday’s
Muddle, simply labelled :—“ Forgery, murder, and
suicide." Oh, James!
Alderman Garrard lately remarked in the Bal-
main Council that no one could be a liver in a street
where there were no lights.
Petersham is making rapid strides in the march
of civilization. It has recently developed two new
churches and one new watch house.
The Herald announces that M'Guven is the
same of the local inventor of a machine for the conver-
sion of filth. Did Proctor know this ?
The editor of the Sixpenny Side-splitter
and a popular publican have taken to dressing alike.
So now they are called Punch and J udy.
A Fact.—Wrote a newly-elected M.P., recom-
mending an object of charity : “ He as neethur farther
nor mouther.” We are certainly improving.
There are some worn-out locomotives on the
suburban lines. One hour and some minutes to Ash-
fleld is hardly good enough. Come, Mr. Bead 1
You have merely to ask Armes Beaumont the
nation, “ Will you take shares In this old mine P” to
that his guttural notes are as so ana as ever. f
The Adolong Debating Society recently dis-
cussed the subject of “ Love.” The man who started
the question is bald-headed, which is significant.
“Wanted, a gentleman child to dry-nurse.
Apply, 8, Oxford-«trset. Brighton Cottage, Leichordt.”
The above is cut from the Herald of December 8.
When the Distress was given a Frenchman to
read the other day. he glanced at “The Kambler’s ”
rambling, and mournfully ejaculated, “ C'est duerl ”
Peter Campbell warns “ journalistic dabblers in
scurrility" that, in future, he will take criminal pro-
ceedings against them. “ A word to the wise," etc.
The Lands Office clerks are getting jubilant.
A certain M.P. passed there twice yesterday, and on
neither occasion did he expectorate on the door-step.
“When John Roseby said he was the mouth-
piece of the temperance people in that Parliament, a
wag remarked that they were largely represented there.
A Bondi man went out “in the gloaming” to
kill a snake. He chopped it with an axe, and then
found out that it was his neighbour’s new girden hose.
A leading storekeeper in Maryborough (Q ) ad-
vertises thus: —“Wanted employment at washing by
the day.—Apply J. E. Noakes, Adelaide-street.” Poor
man!
There is a well-known Catholic divine chief of
a Temperance league, who when occupying a suburban
presbytery was noted for the excellence of his “ three
star.
The Maitland Weekly Post, which was last
week cast in 40s. damages for a mild libel, makes its
appearance this time in monrning—with “tamed
column rales."
David Walker, in Weekly Notes, says, “We
heartily wish Mr. Poster a long and useful career in
the People’s Chamber.” Mr. Poster is now, of coarse,
perfectly happy.
A story of the Lyre : —“ Bridget, children want
mother Don’t be cruel and come. Don’t separate
them.— P.B."Let ns hope that “ P. 8." had nothing to
do with the separation.
There is an apartment in the Weekly Waters
office sacred to second-hand blocks and jack-knives.
This, a Sydney engraver (jealous, no doubt), has dabbed
the Alfred Graving Dock.
The people at the Express office are getting
jealous of Niuian Melville in his new rdle of preaching
funeral sermons. “ Good chance,” they sneer, "to have
an undertaker and parson in one 1“
For a long time past we’ve been under the im-
pression that Mac Jac Elhone was going to leave the
House and take a t rar on the oontinong. However,
John still shows no signs of tonring.
“ Scratch-back Government ” is what Sir Bryen
O’Loghlen now terms the Berry administration. It is
evident that his own fur has been robbed the wrong
way, and that he is itching for revenge.
Fowler’s left the civic chair;
Fowler made a tip-top Mayor;
Show us then the gangrened growler
Who’ll speak ill of Bobby Fowler I
The Town and Country JonßNALoalmly tells
a correspondent, “ H >rn;t ” (Burburgate), that “a
combination of syrnp of iron, qnini e, and strychnine
is also a very successful tonic." [I ll]
The Fiji correspondent of the Telewatson
writes:—“My principal diet is fruit, which I eat
all day, principally at breakfast." His engagement on
the Evenino News may shortly be expected.
Talking of the Balmain classic, a subscriber
sadly remarked to a local tradesman, “ That paper of
ours is rather too independent' Sometimes it comes
and sometimes it don't. It generally don’t."
Sarcastically observes the Camden Times :
“We have received the sixth number of the Church or
England Record. Like its Bathnrst namesake, it is
doubtless much appreciated by its subscribers."
A suburban band intends serenading us. We
entreat them, with tears in our eyes, to commence with
the “ White-Tie-and Spectacle Lancers ” This will
make ns Soottisohe, ana wo shall then polka away.
Why do the invitations to the Mayor’s inaugural
banquet so much exceed those to any other civic feed
given during the year ? Because one Mayor invites,
and the next has to pay. This man was not invited.
A cab driver of advanced years was found by
the police recently in the Treasury Gardens, Melbourne,
entirely divested of clothing. But the Wednesday
Watson didn’t say it was a bare fact. We do—with a
sigh.
The squatters in the far West are always agi-
tating for railway rates to be reduced in proportion as
the distance from Sydney increases. We never heard
of inverse ratio being applied to the fixing of carriage
rates.
More progress at the Glebe ! The local musical
society meet for their practices and get on without either
conductor or secretary. These are the gentlemen, how-
ever, who will weai' the largest button-hole at the next
concert.
A certain well-known ecclesiastic of Hobart was
so deeply interested in the noble game of “ tennis,” that
he allowed the time for his afternoon service at the
Cathedral to slip by unheeded. N.B.—His bishop is in
England!
A certain member of Parliament would have
appeared to much greater advantage at a recent funeral
had he kept his greasy meerschaum out of his iin-
shaven mouth. However, “you cant make a silk
purse,” &c.
The following characteristic sentence appears in
the Farthing Bam To her next neighbour—a lady
noted for her powers of repartie (sic) and witty answers
—a friend remarked something on the subject of
scores.” (III!)
“ The deceased was immediately conveyed to
the Infirmary, where he had his wound dressed, and
afterwards walked home with his friends.” So says the
Herald. And yet our contemporary calls itself the
temperance organ.
Thus the Lyre, in its Dibbs report; —“ Mr.
Dailey here referred to the extraordinary manner in
which Mrs. Dibbs had him protested when he com-
menced to cross-examine her by the interruption of it.”
We pause, breathless, for an elucidation !
It was an awful meeting. Both were book-
canvassers for the same man, and each one had told the
other in confidence the district he was going to work.
But in the full glow of the noon-day snn they came face
to face in a Balmain right-of-way. It was terrific.
A well-known clergyman, residing at one of our
principal watering places, has lately been very absent-
minded. While performing the rites of matrimony the
other day, he suddenly became confused, and intro-
duced this baptismal service. Exit, bridal party.
It is rumoured, but we oannot credit it, that
the reason the City Council will not have the accounts
examined for the last ten years, is that certain of the
aldermen have been purchasing Corporation stores at
cost price, notwithstanding the £lOO penalty for so
doing.
A three-year-old was recently telling his first
experiences of Sunday school, and said: “ Oh, ma, the
daughter of Herodiaa danced, and the King said he
would give her anything she liked. And what do you
think she asked for? The head of John Davies on a
plate.”
Those aspiring youths who send us as original
poetry verses clipped from the New York Clipper, and
who put Sydney and the date upon which they “ wrote
it ’’ (out) at the bottom of the piece, may save their
souls and their scissors. We exchange with the
Clipper.
Ashfield was rather lively on Saturday last when
the foundation stone of the new School of Arts was
laid. Dr. Badbam was, however, disappointed at not
seeing either the Mayor or Alderman Glissold there.
Some one informed him they were at a land sale; but then
“Schools of Art" are Hot “ Town Halls," as everybody
knows.
There is a lady in Auckland who is very proud
of an old silk dress which she treasures up most care-
fully. The value of it consists in a large rent, which her
friends are informed was done by the Duke of
Edinburgh, who, whilst dancing at a ball, accidentally
trod upon and tore the skirt. Money would not buy that
torn old dress.
The wealth-coiner of the Tenpenny Shrill
writes: —"There are at this date over three hundred
articles, tales, poems, sketches, &c. (all very good),
lying at this office awaiting insertion.” Unless we are
mistaken, there is a considerable amount of Barlee-
water, Scottish whisky, and Dale-ishious verse amongst
this ton of M.SS.
During the last Parliamentary session, the very
seedy correspondent of, say the Wantabadgery Wor-
rier, entered the Herald room at the back of the re-
porters’ gallery, and patting his umbrella on the sofa,
was about to proceed to his place in the scribes’ pen,
when the chief of the staff said, “Br-oh, yes, this
room’s set apart for the ’Erald.” Rejoined the seedy
scribe, “ What Herald ?’’ “ The Stdnet Morning
Herald,” gasped the Muffin representative. “ Never
heard of it,’’ said the journalistic outcast. They didn't
interfere with him any more.
The plaintiff in a recent libel case acknowledged
to having lost two cases previously of a similar nature,
but he had paid neither defendant the cost’.s given
against him. “To do unto others as you would,” &c.
From the Evening News •. —“ Way is a
literary man the most extraordinary phenomen onof
nature?—Why, because, don’t you see, his tail comes
out of his head,” Yes, Alf.; but yours comes out of
the Family Herald.
The Petersham station-master, described by the
lady telegraph operator as the most courteous gentle-
man in the public service, is about to have mirrors sup-
plied to the ladies’ waiting-room. Here is an example
for other station-masters.
Mr. W. Meaden, the poet laureate of Victoria,
was asked, the other day, how he sold his “ poetry.” He
replied, “By the yard.” Tben the man put down a
shilling, and said, “ Then measure me out a mile of it,
and be sharp with the change.”
A journalist up country has lately turned butcher.
We commend his example to some of the brevity men
on the Penny Puzzle. However the wisest journalist
we ever knew was Newton Goodrich, who lives in Mel-
bourne. He turned pawnbroker.
A man who recently put up for “municipal
honors,” but was defeated told the electors that if
they put him in he would retire on his wealth. He is
now going round among his friends canvassing for sub-
scriptions to pay election expenses.
Mr. Mitchell says what put him out was a
coal-itiou. Joe, however, is to be made a J.P. shortly,
in which case he feelingly remarks that though when
preparing for the Bench he will study his coke, he will
have nothing to do with Little-ton.
A man who lives not far from Candelo says that
If there’s a Judge, an awful Judge,
Whose head with law’s o’er-brimming.
The law can’t come upon the Bench,
IE the head is with the women.
One of the lately-appointed M.L.C.s, some
years ago requested a Prime Minister to appoint him a
J.P. in return for some electioneering offices, when he
was told, “ My good fellow, ask me anything else; but,
for goodness’ sake don’t ask me to make you a J.P.”
Mr. De Saxe, of the “ haunted” house, Parra-
matta, remarks that since the matter has attracted
the attention of the spiritualists, the great coats and
umbrellas in the hall have exhibited an extraordinary
vitality. He now hangs his milk-jug out with a chain.
“ Got a bit of terbaoker, mister?” enquired a
bar-loafer, about to toss off a glass of dark brandy,
which he had after some difficulty “ hung up.”
“ There’s a smoke in every sip of it," returned the
exasperated hotel-keeper; “ what more do you want ?’’
Sydney is a wonderful city according to the
Inspector of Nuisances. During the past year, 16,316
dead fowls, 3,440 dead dogs, 2,855 dead cats, 2,248
dead goats, 14,458 dead rats, 637 dead rabbits, 2 dead
native bears, and 1 dead monkey were removed from our
streets, lanes, and alleys.
Said a man who heard Mr. J. J. Toohey declaim-
ing against the remission of interest on free-selections,
“ What has this Government done for us ? Here I've
been in this country for five an’ twenty years, and
all I’ve got’s arf a blank blanket and a blank dog.
I’m on—yer con ’ave my vote! ”
“ iEgles” says that not the least charming of
the papers read at the Social Science Congress was that
of Mr. De Castella upon tie Vine with illustrations—in
wine-glasses. There was nothing to compete with this
paper, unless Mr. H. Q. Turner had enlivened his bank-
ing lecture with samples of his £1 notes.
It is rumoured that when a certain Sydney
newspaper proprietor took up hie S. M. Herald, while
awaiting his breakfast, and saw the whole of the Dibbs
divorce case fully reported, he cried out, “ Mary, tell
cook she need only cook half that herring, and —and—
yes—let the girl only bring a penn’orth of milk daily
for the next fortnight."
Dr. G—rr—n. 1. much obliged for your sport-
ing ballad, also for your offer to translate Zola’s latest
for The Bulletin. We respectfully decline the former,
because we feel that in accepting it we’d be wronging
“The Meddler.” As for the translation, Mr. G. will
§ut it in the Echo. 2. The Evening News office is in
'itt-street. Happy to give you a letter to Alfred.
Two old men had a dispute at the Liverpool
Asylum the other day. Both looked about for a weapon,
but neither for a moment could find one. At last a
happy thought seized the elder of the two. He caught
up his daily ration of contract beef, and struck the
other over the head with it. And murmuring “ cow-
hard," the assailed fell back senseless on the grass.
A writer says : —“ Many a little heart —ah! and
big one, too—has been gladdened by the message of a
Christmas Card. They cement parent to parent,
brother to brother, sister to sister, aunt to aunt,
uncle to uncle, and I don’t know how much more good
they do on their mission of blessing. To accommodate
the most varied tastes —the most extravaeant fond-
ness, the meanest penuriousness ." What rather
takes the romance out, though, is that the man who
wrote this eloquent par.—sells the cards. Anyhow, the
inspiration was “ all there."
The Queensland Secretary for Lands, Mr. Per-
kins, who is a big brewer, while recently travelling by
rail from Rockhampton to Withersfleld on his way to
the Barcoo, “shouted” for a crowd of carriers,
“cookies,” &c, who were hanging around. The
“ many-headed ” wishing to pay the Hon P. P. a delicate
compliment, called for “ beer,” but it was observed that
the minister, whose judgment in such matters is not
to be despised, drank whisky himself. Mr. P has made
beer enough to drown all the marsupials in Queensland,
and has surrounded sufficient whisky to float his next
loan.
After hearing that Mr. Ninian Melville preached
a funeral sermon at Lambtoa the other day, it is very
instructive to read, in Henry Kendall’s new book,
that:—
In the fly-blown village pothouse, where a dribbling
bag of beer '*■
Passes for a human being, Nin commenced his new
career—
Talked about the “ Christian swindle"—cut the Bible
into bits —
Shook his tist at Mark and Matthew—gave the twelve
Apostles fits:
Slipped into the priests and parsons—hammered at the
British Court—
Boozy bobbies were astonished: lubbers of the Lamb-
ton sort I
Yards of ear were cocked to listen—yards of mouth
began to shout,
u Here’s a cove as is long-headed—Ninny knows his way
about!”
This is the sort of experience a hyper-romantic
young man gets when travelling down to Gerogery in a
sleeping car. Before retiring he saw a woman, youth,
fnl and handsome, perhaps even approaching to be-
witching, with a blush like the roseate dawn of May-
and eyes beaming like the diamond stars which stud
the heroic belt of Orion. The passengers, excepting
himself, are now wrapped in slumber deep. He is dis-
turbed by a fierce snoring proceeding from an adjacent
berth. The stertorous artist seems to be choking half
the time, and, startled by the self-prod need discord,
springs half awake with a kind of epileptic snort.
Gradually, however, his senses lose the consciousness
of sound, and he sinks into temporary forgetfulness.
In the early morning as he peeps abroad, the curtains of
the other berth are drawn aside, and, with unkempt
hair and glossy skin, the fair vision of the preceding
night, with graceful embarrassment descends. Ye
angels, are the goddess and the sonorous snoress
identical ?
A little snob.—Who is he ?
The Brisbane Courier says that, judging
from the excitement in Brisbane over the 'i'rickett-
Hanlan match, there would really appear plenty of
ground for the theory that the Australian of thefutrrre
will disregard learning, eschew art, and devote himself
altogether to athletics. “Had a battle been lost or
won by a British army (asks the Courier) would more
interest have been evinced ? We are inclined to doubt
it. At all events, we never heard of the same stir when
the news of Isandulaor Kush-ki-Kakhud reached the
colonies, nor did people turn aside from their custo-
mary avocations when the tidings arrived that Sir
Frederick Roberts had gained a very signal and crush-
ing victory.” This is all very well, but we Australians
do not take much interest in “ glorious victories ” over
nigyers. If the editor of the Courier had ever run
the last hundred yards of a fast quarter mile with a
Maitland Ashael at his heels, or found himself, after
rowing three miles, and when a few yards from home,
just half a boat’s length in the rear,—he’d know there
was a lot more pluck required in handling a pair of
sculls than in being rushed on with the crowd in a
nigger battue. The news of a Balaclava, an Inkerman
a Gravelotte, makes the blood rash through our veins ;
bat when gatlings and * hrapnel are pitted against match-
locks or assegais, we don’t care about speculating as to
who’ll win in the long ran.
The verses that follow are inspired by the
nnder-clipped advertisement, which Peter inserted in
last Tuesday’s Evening Lyre ;
“ To Journalistic Dabblers in Scurrility and Malicious
Libellers.—Owing to the verdict of yesterday in Camp-
bell versus Hicks (Punch), I will in future take only
criminal proceedings against any of you who may be fool-
hardy enough to publish malicious, scurrilous, and
untruthful attacks (per the Press) against Peter Camp-
bell.—14th December, 1880."
In what sweet, soft, and most alluring metre
Shall one immortalise thee, great divine P
How shall we fitly grovel ’fore thee, Peter,
Invoking while we humbly cringe, the “ tuneful Nina
We know thy power, prophet, and we fear it;
We know thy virtue, bright as the Aurora;
We know thy journalistically “waspish ” merit;
And sorely we do fear thee, “ Pastor " of Temora
Thy talents are pre-eminently splendid:
Thy culture high, altho’ thy church is low;
Thy “ doc;rines” to all holy thoughts have tended;
Thou conld’st not crush us, Peter, who do praise thee
sol
As thou art great, be merciful, O Pete !
Nor grind us ’neath thy well-worn hob-nailed blu-
: her;
E’en though revenge to thee, good man, is sweet.
Blight, not we do entreat, implore thee our fair future 1
We’ve marked thee through thy great and grand
career;
We’ve watched thee, Peter, with an int’rest keen;
And even of the “ spons." we’ve some idea
That thou’st receiv’d in “ box four hundred and
eighteen."
We know that thy proud soul would scorn all pay-
ment ;
That thy e’er-wagging tongue’s a holy clanger;
We know thou toilest but for “food and raiment,"
Board at the Coffee Palace, and a long black “ banger."
We love, admire, revere thee, holy howler !
Our admiration liveth on this page.
So do not, at us, Peter, be a soowler,
Since we do dub thee “ scavenger of this dark age."
The shark, we are told, rashes open-mouthed
at its human victim only when that victim is
motionless. The worm, except at Melbourne Hos-
pital, attacks but the bodies of the dead. The vulture
flies, not at the glistening orb of the athlete, but at the
leaden eye of the moribund. The ghoul will feast on
the dying man, or will battle with the bird of carrion for
the remnants of poor humanity. The wrecker will rob
the corpse; there are men who after the fight will strip
the fallen, out off the jewelled finger. And there are
beings who, ghouls by nature, ecclesiastics by training,
journalists by accident, and men but in name, who will
battle with the worm for the flesh of their dead foes —
holding np to light of day the mouldering skulls of
their enemies (skulls which once held brains, and not
merely tongue and “cheek”), and who will piously
ejaculate, “Thank God, I am not as that man was 1
Alas, poor Tyerman I
(Continued on page 13.)
THE LATE LIEUT. BOWER, R.N.
Yon are a member—that's quite sure;
A J. P. you may be:
All that, and very little more.
You small non-entity ;
You have a placid smile for e’er
Upon your little “ mug
Th’ expression of your face, we dare
Asseverate is “ smug - ’*
You’re well received in what you call
The “ best sooietee
You foot it nimbly at a ball—'
To all their Excellencies crawl.
And with humilitee
You ne’er by any chance do sing
Out for a chicken’s “liver wing.”
Your name is not Montgomery,
Nor Howard nor De Vere,
Nor Hamilton, nor Choufieury,
Nor Bufus Delamere;
Your ancestry, O little man.
We have a shrewd suspicion
Has more of the commercial than
The blue-blooded patrician.
You prosper—lots of letters put
Both ’fore your name and after,
You think it does impress us, but
It only calls forth laughter.
You’ve money, “ jumped up" titles, too.
Which we’ve no wish to rob;
For with them or without them you
Are but a little snob.


The Fiji Islanders, who, up to six years ago,
wheu England adopted them, were cannibals, and
indulged in fricaseed traders, with cold missionary on
the sideboard, have become so civilized that they wear
clean shirts on Sunday, sing hymns, and eat yams and
beef-steak like orthodox Christians.
In the ladies’ cabin of a troopship there were
four wash-basins, one of which was larger than the
others. There were three ladies in the cabin whose
husbands were about equal in army rank, and there
was a great discussion as to which of the wives was
entitled to the big basin. The dispute was referred to
the captain of the ship, whose decision, which they
agreed to accept as final, was worthy of Solomon. He
decided that the oldest lady should have the biggest
basin. That basin wasn’t used once during the whole
voyage out.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncotoured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet— Kaex,Theodore Staioek, analytical
chemist." —Advt.
The Referee
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Racing is in full swing in N.Z. at present.
The Australian Eleven leave for New Zealand
on 4th. January.
The Auckland Amateur Athletic Club held a
meeting on Nov. 2.
Betrayer has been scratched for the Dunedin
Cup and Handicap.
Mata, the whilom champion of N.Z., has been
converted into a hack.
There was great rejoicing in N.Z. towns over
Laycock’s victory in the Hop Bitters race.
Three splendid greyhounds arrived by the Sala-
manca, consigned to Mr. Henry M'Quade.
Three fashionable stud mares have been pur-
chased in Australia by an Auckland gentleman.
Entries for the Hobart Town Cup (of 300 sovs.
with a sweep of 7 sovs. added) close on January 3.
The members of the Australian Eleven have
decided to take no part in the Intercolonial Match.
The Auckland, N.Z., yacht which competed in
the Melbourne Regatta has been christened Tanewha.
Luna won the Spring Handicap at Wellington
Meeting, the Australian Lone Hand 2, and Norseman 3.
Le Loup has been sold for ,£lOOO to Harry
Goodman, a well-known “sport ” and racehorse owner.
The Australian horse King Quail won the Spring
Handicap at Waikato, with Sst. 101 b., beating a fair
field.
At the date of latest accounts Hanlan was
located at Putney. He was in good health, but rather
fleshy.
Apology, winner of the One Thousand, Oaks and
Leger of 1874, was sold at Doncaster to Mr. Vyner for
£3200.
W. Trickett, H. Pearce, J. Laycock, and J. J.
Power have entered for the All-comers’ race at Pyrmout
regatta.
A novelty at Melbourne Hippodrome. An
intercolonial dog show, on the 13th, 14th, and 15th of
January.
Morgan beat Moriarty comfortably on Saturday
last on the Association ground in a 150 yards’ spin for
£3O aside.
Jim Swift will umpire for New South Wales in
the forthcoming Intercolonial, and Griff Jones will act
as scorer.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club has received
27 entries for the Welcome Stakes, 1881; and 38 for the
Derby, 1882.
Sheridan’s omission from the N.S.W. 15 is said
to be owing to his “rivals” having formed a “School
for Scandal.”
It is rumoured in N.Z. that the bookmakers
have won very heavily through Mata not winning the
Melbourne Cup.
Mr. H. Richardson, of Dunedin, N.Z., has
made a new totalisator, worked to some extent on a
principle of its own.
The Australian horses, Maid of Honor, King
Quail, and Kenilworth, are reckoned good things for
the Auckland Cup, run on Boxing Day.
At Melbourne, on Saturday, M'Namara (not
our Mac) won the handball match with Bowes, £5O
a-side and the championship of Victoria.
Atlantic (6st 101 b) won the Stewards’ Handicap,
2 miles, at the Dufcedin Spring Meeting, beating Le
Loup (9st 121 b) on ' the post by a nose. Time, 4min.
7secs.
The Warwick (Queensland) Gun Club is flourish-
ing, having gone in for a “Bogardus trap.” Uptodate
a dozen glass balls have done duty at eight afternoons’
practice.
The Warrnambool Racing Club have abandoned
their March Meeting, and are now only going to hold
races in May, when a big steeplechase will be the piece
■ le resistance.
The future champion walker of N.S.W. is a
sprightly youngster of twelve, who, early any morning
may be seen doing “breathers” in most wonderful
style in the Domain.
For the benefit of whom it may concern—Mata
is a gelding; don’t call him “she.” Also, the word
should not be pronounced like “ matter”; the accent is
on the first a, as in “ master."
The Auckland horse, Walter’s Billingsgate, is
about the fastest for three-quarters-of-a-mile in N.Z.
He won the Railway Stakes at Wellington about a week
ago, with 9st. 41b. up, in Imin. 20sec.
Many of the fatal accidents to fine swimmers
are due simply to a drop of water getting into the
windpipe. Very often spray-flying before the wind will
get into the throat and take its passage down the
trachea.
In a match between the Callan Park and the
Thornton cricket clubs, last Saturday, the former won
by 15 runs. The scores were 93 and 78 respectively.
Fitzpatrick, with 26, was the highest scorer for Callan
Park, and Ross, with 14, for the Thorntons.
A New York sporting journal says that Vander-
bilt has made the biggest oiler for St. Julien that was
ever offered for a horse, either in this country or in
England. It has probably escaped the memory of the
editor that Richard 111., when in a tight place, offered
his kingdom.
The Adelaide Racing Club give 500 sovs. and a
gold trophy, value 100 guineas, to the Queen’s Birth-
day Cup, to be run at the May meeting. Distance, a
mile and three quarters ; sweepetakes, 10 sovs. ; entry
fee, 2 sovs. Nominations close at 4 p.m. on Tuesday,
*th February, 1881.
Aucklanders were sadly disappointed over
Trickett’s defeat in the Hanlan match, as a lot of
money was ©n him. Great preparations had also been
made in anticipation of his victory. One sporting
boniface had a transparency painted, a baud engaged,
and ribbons, &c., prepared.
The English rowing men never thought Hosmer
would beat Laycock. An extract from the Sportsman
of October 8, wired to the New York Herald, says:
“ Hosmer has arrived at Barnes with his chief sup-
porter, W. M’Manus, of Boston. He is apparently a
poor match for Laycock. He is suffering from a cold."
The Ashburton (N.Z.) races passed off success-
fully. The big handicap was won by Moorhouse’s
Holdemess, Mason’s Lara second. The Australian
horse. Lone Hand, won one of the six principal events
on the flat, with 7st 71b up, beating the Sydney-bred
Kandwick, Sst 71b, and ran second in the Hurdle Race,
which was won by Levant.
The Parramatta Alfreds and the Glebe Strath-
mores played, on Saturday last, on the ground of the
former. The Alfreds won the toss, and remained at
the wickets until five minutes to six, treating the
Strathmores to a good leather hunt. The last wicket
fell for the grand score of 326. When the stumps were
drawn, at a quarter-past six, three of the Strathmores
were out for 18.
The Invebell Times calls attention to the
numerous stabbing cases reported in the papers, and
says that “ the Englishman is fast sinking to the level
of nations which once we very properly despised for
the very deeds which are now common among our-
selves. We say, therefore, that it becomes almost a
duty to uphold the science of pugilism.” Vide Lindsay
Gordon on this subject.
Nonpareil C.C. v. Woodstock C.C. —A well-
contested game was played at Burwood on Saturday
last between the abovenamed clubs, resulting in a vic-
tory for the latter by six runs. The Nonpareils put
together 35 runs, of which Gribben scored 15; and the
Woodstocks 41, C. Muddle, who played well, the
highest scorer with 17, not out. M’Loughlin and Nunn
bowled well for the losers.
Arrangements have been completed for the
Australians’ trip in New Zealand as under, to com-
mence about January 11, with a two days’ match at
Invercargill; three at Dunedin; one at Oamaru; one
at Timoru; three nt Cliristchurch; three at Welling-
ton; two at Napier; three at Auckland; and, if time
permits, two at Wanganui. The team’s stay in New
Zealand will extend over five weeks.
Apropos of the great match between England
and Australia, the Sporting Times says:—“The field-
ing of the Australians was nothing short of marvellous.
Whilst the Hon. A. Lyttelton was at the wickets he hit
a ball very hard to mid-on, and started to run. He had
just time to get back ere his middle stump was broken
in two by a well-directed shot from Bannerman (some
sixty yards away), whose fielding and return of the ball
would have put greased lightning to shame. The
wicket-keeping of Blackham, too, was unapproachable.
Nothing like it has ever been seen in this country.
He actually caught Mr. Lucas at the wicket off a leg
hit.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Swiss belts are coining into fashion again.
Pompadour girdles will be very much worn this
season.
One of the pleasantest things when you are in
love, is to know that he is looking at you when you are
not looking at him.
Mrs. Oliver, of Ararat, gave birth to a child in
the Ballarat train the other day. The youngster has
commenced life very fast.
Balloonists say that when at the height of two
miles they have heard women calling over the back fence
to borrow flat-irons and starch.
No woman ever feels absolutely comfortable
with a man with whom she has seriously flirted —more
especially if he has married her piretty cousin.
Mrs. Glenny, a Bathurst lady, has taken to the
lecture platform at Bathurst, where she is endeavoring
to prove that the British nation and the lost tribes of
Israel are identical.
The Queen, after pinning the Victoria Cross
to the breast of Sergeant A. Booth, the hero of the
Lantombi River affair, shook that gallant soldier by the
hand, and he found himself richer by a £2O note.
Ouida says the woman who has had a past is the
easiest to manage. She knows what to exjiect. It is
flattering to be the first object of passion to a fair
daughter of Eve, but it is troublesome; she exacts too
much.
Wedding cards, ’way out north, consist of the
Jack of Diamonds and the Queen of Hearts, with the
names of bride and bridegroom on each. If the bride-
groom’s mother-in-law is living, the ten of clubs is
enclosed.
Mrs. Harvey Holt, a Rockhampton lady, offers
a prize, to be awarded at the local agricultural show in
January, for the maker (who must be a spinster) of the
best gentleman’s white shirt, or a white frock, executed
in plain needlework—hand-sewn.
Henry Herbert Crane lived childless at Grafton,
Ohio, until he was 65. Then his young wife gave birth
to twins. The joyful father hired a band of music, and
marched through the village bearing a banner, on
which was inscribed the word “Victory.”
A prize was offered for the mother who pre-
sented the greatest number of her own children at the
Indiana State Pair. Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Line were
each accompanied to the fair by nine, but Mrs. Line
gave birth to a tenth on the grounds, and so took the
prize.
The bigger the woman the smaller the hat! It’s
your delicate little fairy, whoso lightly falling tread
scarce bends the daisy that it falls upon, who wears a
hat as broad as a coal barge, with a cluster of old-gold
plumes over it that would shut out the sun like a xiahn
leaf fan.
Ladies who would like to wear velvet dresses,
but have objections to the cost of such, and who also
dislike velveteen because of its sham appearance, will
now be pleased to hear that a new substitute for velvet
has just come out. It is called the “ Louis velveteen,”
and is said to be the best apology for velvet ever offered
to the public. It is, moreover, obtainable at a compara-
tively small cost.
The Shasters, or Hindoo Scriptures, forbid a
woman to see dancing, hear music, wear jewels, blacken
her eyebrows, eat dainty food, sit at a window, or view
herself at a mirror, during the absence of her husband,
and allow him to divorce her if she has no sons, injures
his property, scolds him. quarrels with another woman,
or presumes to eat before he has finished his meal.
This is the kind of thing we want here.
The prospectus of “ The Victorian Co-perative
Dress Supply Association (Limited),” capital
£lOO,OOO, in £1 shares, is advertised in Mel-
bourne. The directory is an influential one,
and the object of the Association is “to offer
to ladies and gentlemen resident in Melbourne
and other parts of the colony of Victoria the advantage
of purchasing every description of clothing, household
furniture, etc., etc., of the best quality at prices a little
over cost.”
“What Johnny?” said a buxom young
Woollahra cook, to one of the permanent force who had
just dropped in about supper-time—“ What 1 you say
you love me, and yet you never even think of giving me
a kiss when you come in.” He thought a moment,
musingly hiccuped and replied, “ I know what I’ll do!
So as I won’t forget it (hie) I’ll put a knot in my
hankerchief.” The next time he came round the local
butcher was in all the glories of possession. A
Woollahra divine sent us this item!
A little while ago a Maryborough girl got a
verdict for £5O against a former sweetheart for breach
of promise. The heartless defendant, not satisfied with
having eluded Amelia’s grip, now sought to evade the
meshes of the law, and so to avoid payment of the £5O
verdict and costs, filed his schedule in insolvency. It
is contemplated to make the discarded sweetheart the
trustee of the estate, in which capacity she will have
the whip-hand of Henry again, an t can refuse him his
release until he marries her or commits suicide.
Wide mouths have come into fashion for women.
This is a change trom the prevailing style of the past
year or two. The proper mouth of the present season
is worn in a constant but mild smile, the corners being
drawn back horizontally, with the lips left closed. The
expression is one of amiable, quiet satisfaction with all
the world —as though the mind was free from sorrow
and the feeh free from corns. Care should be taken
not to broaden this into an active grin, except on
mirthful occasions ; nor should the lips be compressed.
All should be in repose. The lips may be reddened if
the natural colour be too light. A practice of painting
the exposed membrane of the upper lip broad and
bright at the centre has just crept in, but it is bad, for
it gives an artificial and sensuous look. The fashionable
belle has cut the puckering string of her mouth, and
no longer murmurs, “ Prunes, prunes, prunes.” She
loan kiss two men simultaneously, and give good
[ satisfaction, where before only one could find room at
| a time.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER VIII.
A MEETING.
Mr, Spenceley, the millionaire, the richest man in
Thanshope, the man of boundless wealth and boundless
callousness, was amongst those cotton lords who, to
their lasting shame and disgrace, were determined at
this crisis not to come forward and give of their
abundance, but who preferred to hang back until the
popular voice left them no option, and the universal
indignation absolutely thrust them to the front.
For a long time Mr. Spenceley had contented himself
with abusing the sorely tried workpeople, demanding
to know why they did not all emigrate, and vowing that
he would not waste his money upon them. He amused
himself by everywhere calling Sebastian Mallory,
behind his back, a fool and a madman, a spendthrift, a
pernicious leveller, and so on; and by behaving to him
before his face with the utmost courtesy and x>oliteuess,
excusing conduct which might savour of double-
dealing by saying that such fools could never be made
to see that they were fools, and that it was best to take
them as you found them, and let them go their own
way.
When the Public Relief Committee was established,
and one and all, rich and poor, young and old, con-
tributed something, either in money, or kind, or assis-
tance, or all, the chief inhabitant of Thanshope could
no longer hold back. He allowed his name to appear
as a member of the committee, sent a subscription of
a hundred pounds, and deputed his son to act as his
proxy at councils, committee meetings, and so on.
Despite the bad times, he himself was so much engaged
with business, that ho had no time to attend to such
things.
Accordingly, Fred Spienceley periodically shed the
light of his countenance upon the council board and
those surrounding it. He continued to come, despite
a terrible rebuff he received on the occasion of his first
appearance upon the scene.
It was that rebuff, and one or two incidents connected
with it, which filled him with rage and bitterness; so
that if he had been Irish reaper, or an Olham weaver,
he would have proceeded to drink himself blind, and
then gone home and maltreated his wife, or any other
feminine creat -re within the range of his arm. Being
in a different - ton from that occupied by reapers and
weavers, and , .only veneered over into a poor, tinselly,
outward semblance of a gentleman, he only raged
frantically within himself, and cast about to find an
instrument to execute a moral revenge, which, he had
sense enough in his dull brutal brain to know, would far
more torture the objects of it than all the corporal
punishment in the world.
He arrived one afternoon, thinking the whole
business a great piece of “tomfoolery.” The Relief
Committee’s offices consisted of three rooms, opening
one out of the other. The first was the Ladies’ Com-
mittee-room, a large, spiacious pdace, where the ladies
could meet, decide upon their proceedings, and hear the
accounts of their wants and troubles brought to them
by mothers, wives, and daughters from all parts of the
town. Passing through this room, a second and
smaller one was reached, in which sat the two clerks,
Myles Heywood, and a lad who was under him.
Through this second apartment, ingress was obtained
to the Gentlemen’s Committee-room, were the council
assembled, three times as a rule, and oftner if necessary.
Coming to attend his first committee meeting, Fred.
Spenceley entered the first of these rooms, and, glanc-
ing round, beheld different groups scattered in different
parts of the room. No one took any notice of him;
they were all much too busy ; but os he looked round,
he perceived, in one of the windows apart from the rest
three persons: Sebastian Mallory, whom he hated since
he saw his face, as only a true “ cad ” can hate a true
gentleman; and two ladies—one in black, whoso back
was turned towards him, the other his sister Helena,
erect, animated, with her dark eyes flashing and her
silks in some agitation.
He walked up to the group, and touched Helena on
the shoulder, inquiring graciously,
“ Well, little one, what’s the matter now ?’’
“ Fred! How you startled me! Have you come to
the meeting?”
“ Yes, I have. Much good it will do me or any one
else, my being hero. But the governor was ”
“Oh yes ! I know. But stox>! You know Mr. Mal-
lory. Miss Blisset, let me ”
Adrienne interrupted her. She was standing, pale,
haughty, and erect, with eyes full of cold contempt;
and she iuterpiosed in a cool, decided voice:
“Pardon me, Miss Spenceley, 1 do not wish for any
introduction. I must decline to make that—gentle-
man’s acquaintance."
With which she turned away, iux>erfect outward com-
posure, and, seating herself at a desk, oalmy looked out
of the window, leaving Sebastian suprised, and yet not
surprised. Fred furious, and Helena overwhelmed with
confusion; for she knew her brother, and felt sure that
he must have distinguished himself in some far from
desirable manner towards Miss Blisset, to openly mani-
fest discourtesy. Helena’s humiliation was increased
as she realised, with lightning-like rapndity, that Adri-
enne must have some excellent re.ison for rox>oatedly
refusing to visit her at Castle Hill. Crimson, she stood
where she had received the rebuff, and know not what
to do. It was Sebastian who, after the unavoidable
momentary pause, and when Mr. Spenceley had turned
upon his heel, said just as if nothing had happened:
“ I shall lay the matter before the board to-day. Miss
Speceley, and I am sure it will be attended to imme-
diately."
Helena met his eyes as she looked up at him, and the
burning blush of mortification glowed more deeply than
before.
“You are very kind,” said she, in a low, choked
voice; “but you cannot do away with the fact that I
have to blush for my nearest relations.”
With that, she too turned away, as if not knowing
where to go ; and Sebastian decided that the best thing
he could do would be to follow Mr. Spieuoely to the
council-room.
For Mr. Spenceley, muttering an anathema, had
directed his steps away from such dangerous ground,
and with raging hatred in his heart, entered the second
of the three rooms. In that moment he would gladly
have strangled some one, or kicked his dog, or flogged
his horse, or sworn at liis mother; and if he had had n
wife, he would have caused her to spend a joyful evening
on his return home. _ ...
As it was, he found himself in a small room, in the
window of which stood a long desk, at which desk sat
two men busily writing. One of them rose, as he
entered, to fetch a ledger from a shelf at the other side
of the room. Speuceley’s rage gave way to a momen-
tary start of surprise; then the blood came surging to
his face and ears, as he found that he was confronting
that insolent, unknown operative who hod disgraced
and branded him, and degraded and punished him, ten
months ago in the club billiard-room.
Like a lurid dream it all started up again in his brain.
There the man stood—ho tingled from head to foot as
he beheld him —with face pinched and worn, but with
that same broad, unstained brow, the same scornful
grey eyes, the same muscular Angers—he seem to feel
them at his collar again—and he could not grind him to
powder, as he would like to do, nor put him to any
kind of horrible torture, such as he would have deemed
desirable for him. Myles’s eyes fell upon him, and a
sudden gleam of scornful, -contemptuous amusement
shot into them; his head flung itself backward-—his
lips curved into a kind of smile, but otherwise ho not
deign to notice Mr. Spenceley.
Into the heart of the latter the old devils of revenge-
ful desire and frantic han-ed came leaping back. Wny
had he been so quiet ? Why had he suffered himself to
be laughed at and diverted from his original purpose of
punishment ? Why had he sat down patiently all this
time with that—a black cloud of fury overshadowed his
mind. His thoiights were scarcely coherent. But it
was incredible. The fellow should and must be made to
pay dearly for his insolence. Ho had sworn it once, and
he would carry it out now. With wrath and rage con-
tending madly in his stupid, brutal soul, he went on
into the committee-room, where he was immediately
followed by Sebastian Mallory, and business com-
menced.
Fred Spenceley was too much occupied with his own
private fury, with thinking, with a sort of hatred and
love combined, of the sweet, contemptuous face of
Adrienne Blisset, which he could not banish from his
mind—of these and of other things, to take any particu-
lar notice of the man called James Hoyle, who was
summoned to read a report to the Board that afternoon.
He had been entrusted with the task of visiting cer-
tain courts in a low part of the town, whether, it was
said, a number of the factory hands had been obliged to
retire, in consequence of being unable any longer to pay
the rent of more respectable houses. Mr. Hoyle had
offered himself to the Board as peculiarly suited for the
work, being himself a minister of the gospel, and used
to strange scenes and low neighbourhoods.
“ He speaks the truth there, at all events,” Sebastian
Mallory had remarked sotto voce to Canon Ponsonby,
“ but the Father of Lies has had some share in his
parentage, all the same, sir—don’t you think so P"
“ Or else he has selected him as his peculiar adver-
sary, and left the traces of his attempts to corrupt him,”
replied Canon Ponsonby fixing his piercing eyes upon
Mr. Hoyle.
But as Mr. Hoyle really did seem well fitted and
anxious for the work,, he was allowed to undertake it.
His report was considered clear and succinct. He
was told that he had done well; a further commission
of the same kind was given him. and he was told to pre-
sent himself again as soon as possible with the required
information.
Expressing himself humbly gratified at having been
of any service in such a cause, Mr. Hoyle bowed to the
assembled Board, carefully avoiding two pairs of eyes—
a pair of lazy brown ones, and u pair of piercing grey
ones, and, with a long sidelong look at the sullen, averted
countenance of Frederick Spenceley, toon his depar-
ture.
A fortnight passed. The middle of May had come
and gone. Every day the distress grew more tremend-
ous —the efforts needed to meet it more strenuous and
unceasing. The whole time and the whole energies of
those who had begun the work were gradually absorbed
into it. Still the cruel war raged on nccross the Atlan-
tic. and Midsummer and Famine advanced hand in hand,
with long, devouring strides.
CHAPTER IX.
“ FOR A PRICE.”
A committee meeting had been called for a certain
Tuesday afternoon. An appeal for help had been sent
out to all the persons of any position in the neighbour-
hood. Canon Ponsonby’s name headed the list with a
donation of fifty pounds, which was more to him than
fifty hundred would have been to Mr. Speuoely. Some
half-dozen large manufacturing firms followed with
sums varying from one to five hundred pounds. “S.
M., flvehundrod pounds.” “ Mrs. Mallory, five pounds.”
Mrs. Mallory had so many calls upou her charity just
then, she said, she really could not afford more, or
the y arly sum she set apart for such purposes would be
exceeded.
“ The yearly distress to be relieved is also considerably
exceeded.” murmored her son as he took possession
of the contribution. “H. v. 8., five pounds.”
“ Our money! ” as Mrs. Mallory indignantly observed
to herself, and tossed her head angrily.
“H. S., ten pounds.” This stood for Helena Spence-
ley, who delivered the money over to Sebastian with n
kind of chuckle. “ You would never guess how I got
it,” said she, with a broad smile of triumph and satis-
faction.
“ Begged, borrowed, or stolen ? ” he asked, smiling
too.
“ Neither one nor the other. Nor yet was it a free
gift, nor yet did I find it at the back of a drawer, having
quite forgotten that I had put there, as I once before
did with a five-ponnd note. Oh, you will never know
how I got it.” And she laughed.
But Sebastian learnt from Adrienne how she had come
by the money.
“ Her father would not give her a penny," said she,
“ because he had made up his mind with his narrow
income to sacrifice twenty-five pounds, which he was
sadly in need of himself, so what do j’ou think she did ? ”
“ Such knowledge is too wonderful for me.”
“ She sold a lot of her dresses and things. I expect
the poor girl has been awfully cheated,” Adrienne
added, a touch of real feminine feeling and regret in
her tone. “ She said she had left herself only half a
dozen —and fancy getting no more than ten pounds for
the rest of her wardrobe—it is awful to think of. But
the money was there, she said, and she could not resist
it. She is as pleased as if it had been a hundred."
“ Like someoody else's,” suggested Sebastian.
“ Somebody else’s ?’’
Ho pointed to the written subscription list which they
had been looking over. “Life let us Cherish, £100,”
stood inscribed on the page.
“ Do you think I don’t know what hand traced that ? "
" But you won’t tell, please ! ” said Adrienne.
“ Ah, you have confessed. No ; I will not tell, unless
1 think it would be for your good.”
“ Nonsense I But was it not nice and generous in that
girl ? ’’ persisted Adrienne, wlio always would talk to
Sebastian, much more than he liked, about Helena.
“Yes; it was. But she has a generous disposition,”
he admitted, still looking affectionately at his favourite
inscription.
The celebrated twenty-five pounds spoken of by
Adrienne—it is lucky that money has not an organised
nervous system, or it might suffer keenly under the
touch of some fingers!—was committed by Mr. Spence-
ley the elder to Mr. Spenceley the younger, with the
remark that he wondered how much longer people
who had honestly earned their money would be expected
to pour it out like water “in that way;" and the
request that he would deliver it into the hands of
Sebastian Mallory, the treasurer.
Mr. Frederick Spenceley, who did not appear to find
business so engrossing as his father, strolled down to
the committe-rooms, arriving on the scene of action
some ten minutes or quarter of an hour before any signs
of action had begun to manifest themselves. The well,
known man vain quart d'heure may be evil in many ways,
kinds, and degrees of badness. Frederick Spenceley had
no intention of spending his fifteen minutes more aim-
lessly or mischievously than usual; but his guardian
demon had ordained that they should be consumed
more reprehensibly, perhaps, than all the rest of his
existence put together.
There was no one in the first room, no one in the
second room; in the third room was a solitary figure
standing in one of the windows—a figure in black cloth
clothes, with a bundle of documents under one arm—
the figure of Mr. James Hoyle.
There were two windows to the room. Mr. Spenceley,
jingling the coin in his pockets, strolled up to the other
one, and stood at it whistling to himself, and looking
out upon the prospect—what there was of it. The two
windows were on the same side of the room, and looked
upon a kind of open yard, separated from the street by
a low wall. It was a slanting street, like so many others
in that up-and-down town, Thanshopo. Exactly oppo-
site the window in which Spenceley stood was a gate,
through which any one on coming to the committee-
rooms must puss, and, going under the windows (to the
right) of the other two rooms, at last arrive at the door
opening into the Ladies’ Committee-room. There was
also a separate door leading into the second room, or
clerk’s office, where Myles Hey wood and his fellow
clerk sat.
Half absently, Spenceley began to collect the money
together that his father had given him, and to lay it
out, two five-pound notes and fifteen sovereigns, upou
the window-ledge before him. Ho looked at it pensively,
and Mr. Hoyle’s little sharp) eyes were fixed with a side-
long gaze, full of interest, upon his face. Mr. Hoyle
had surveyed the prospect to more purpose than Mr.
Spenceley, and was very anxious that the latter should
give over counting out his money, and return to the
apparently innocent pursuit of looking out of the win-
dow, which he presently did.
He xdunged his hands into his piockots, and gazed out
again, swaying to and fro from his toes to his heels, in
the rhymtic manner common to pieraons in his position.
Presently the rhymtic movement ceased. Mr. Spence-
ley’s attention became concentrated on outside objects,
on a Ague some two hundred yards distant, approaching
down the hill. He looked at her as she came along, in
her black dress, with her pale face and her warmly
tinted hair. He hated her for a thousand reasons, and
because she looked sad and lovely at once, because she
was gentle to others, and to him an icicle; and most of
all, because he had made a great mistake about her in
his gross, clumsy, blundering way, and knew now, that
if he had but known what she was, he would never have
insulted her, but would have tried with all h's might,
though he was not clever, to become good enough for
her. But she had prevented that, she had refused him
the faintest chance of letting her know that he had re-
pented, and by , he thought savagely, he did not re-
pent. These women were all alike; either worse than
the devil himself, or too icily cold and pure to glance
aside at such as ■ he. He watched and watched, as if
fascinated ; watched how she came along, looking tired
and pale, but lovely ; despite his hatred he felt, with all
the finer feeling he had, that she was lovely, and his
head turned, his eyes followed her steps, till she arrived
at the gate, and then her face changed, and he gave a
great start, for, standing there, exactly as she came up,
was Myles Heywood, who had been coming (as the
astute Mr. Hoyle had perceived) up the hill from the
opposite direction.
[to be continued].


Tailors, Drapei
JJAYID JONES AN]
ORIENT CLOTH
For Gentlemen's Spring and Sumi
reliable fabrics, fashionably i
finished in the best manner.
DAYID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their
made clothing for the Spring as
being unequalled in style, qt
■whole of their stock having b
pressly to meet the requiremi
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business
Gentlemen's Iromeuat;
Gentlemen’s Travelling
Gentlemen’s Dress suit
Tailors, Draper
J. B - YOU
FANCY AND GENERAI
656 GEORGE ST:
(J ast below Liverpc
Spring Millinery for Christmas.
premises.
Cut paper Patterns, all garments.
application.
J. B. Y 0 U D
JgXOELLENCE WITH
171 PITT stre:
EDMUND W
NAVAL AND MILITAB
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 21i
TROUSERS. TROUSERS
All wool and well (
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUP
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED befo
T
HE BEST AND LA
of
WOO L L E
in the colony
FASHIONABLE AND
GARMENTS TO C
at
J. TURNER ROBIN
MARKET CLOTH
482 (late 48-1) geoei
Opposite the Fruit A
Estaß' ishkd 18
REDUCED PR
TROUSERS TO ORDER,
TROUSERS & VE!
SUITS TO MEASUR.
N
•3T All goods well made, wol
perfect fit guarani
OTICE! NOTICE
M. GUTHRL
LONDON HOUSE. 81 OXF
Begs respectfully to inform the i
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Sv
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENE
those centrally situated premises 1
the purpose of carrying on busin
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOT
DRESSMAKING
Will be her special features, being
ladies only recently from the b
Ladies, therefore, who wish to st
do well to come and see the STY!
Tailors, Dra.per
mHOM P S o N AN
JL DENISON HOI
358, 360, 362, GEORGE
SEEING NOVI
In consequence of the great in<
their importations this season exc
FIFTY THOUSAND
THEY" are now making their firstc
early shipments in all cU
THOMPSON AND
having purchased these goods in
±he world, are marking them at pi
CHALLENGE COMFI
The same quality of material can
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
(THOMPSON
opened their
of Millinery,
exhibiting in
all choice go
snred that tl
with an inspc
gratified at tl
J now displayh
' comprise an <
of British an
made especial
Giles by the
London auc
trimmed Boi
18s 9d. Lac
Feathers, 1
„ ments, &c
(THOMPSON
TLES, PICE
—We wish ti
attention of
Department,
the finest 10l
Capeletts, ar
ever been e
Our Stock ci
designs in sh;
J variety of Br
" lid to 30s; 1
trimmed, fror
Cashmere Ma
Large lot of 1
chased very n
prices; some'
at very low pi
Jerseys, to
every colour
dren’s Jersey
„ every size.
(THOMPSON
TUME DEPj
first houses i
in every style
can select in i
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6
J signs and trin
j variety of W
cambrics an
printed sate
G Uatea stript
from 15s to 3(
well made,
tumes, in a v
„ other fabrics,
("THOMPSON
ING FABRi
plain and pri
Materials is
bracing all s
both French
and Linen T(
and eolourinj
best efforts,
affirm that a
■’ ment of cboii
has never b«
colonies. Br
to 8-Jd; Freni
to ltd ; Frei
to 18d; Plain
lOd to Is 6d
Galatea Clot
talea Cloth, h
to ltd; Fren
„ and plain ; Bi
(THOMPSON
SOLS and
have receivei
designs in Fai
will find nov
description e
ness. Our i
lid, 4s lid,s
20s. We hav
■ of 5000 Paras
New styles a
Satin, Sateen
embroidered,
handsome I
shapes at mo<
Tailors, Drapei
T ADIES WILL BE MUC
-Li WITH THE BARGAINSt
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDVi
(the “ Hordern ”oft he cite i. LA
have ALL THE A FPFA RANGE
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN
PAIR ; up-town shops CANNOT
2s 6(1. Come and see them.
R6R BRICKFIELD HI
J] MPOEIUM OP
THE
STANDARD
AMERICAN
SHIRT and CLOTHING
FACTORY,
Comer of
WVNYARD STREET
AND
WYNYARD LANE.
SYDNEY.
Excellence & Economy
Combined.
A PERFECT FIT
GUARANTEED
OR NO CHARGE.
LATEST
English and American
STYLES.
White Shirts to Order
A Speciality.
A Trial Solicited.
To
TT
Shir
tore
of tl
comi
tord
duty
basis
bnsii
dm t
Th
tnile
Gem
StP6f
havi:
desii
diou
coin
unci
of a<
renti
euah
onte
cent.
teilo
whih
the i
theh
mam
bo e:
perfc
mad<
price
garir
burd
no (
them
come
lishn
T.-.ilc
wh.-T
work
gunn
BOCIU
THE STANDARD Ali
SHIRT AND CLOTHINt
Corner of
WYNYAKD STREET AND W’
|
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
READERS OF “THE B 1
recollect that
HORDERN
PITT S T R E
is still
THE CHEAPEST
for all kinds of
SILKS, SATINS, AND (
Witness the splenc
CHRISTMAS SILKS, at
now being
EXHIBITED IN MY W 1
211 PUT STREE
T HE
OSBOfiNE WIBE
SELF-BINDING HAB^
AND THE-.
NOB COMBINED REAPERS
Eecemfcer IP, 1880.


Hotels, &c
OCCIDENTAL
WYNYARD SOU
SYDNEY, NEW SODT
WM. TANNER, Prc
(Late Club House Ho
Situation Central. Terr
c.
W. ROD
MARKET STRE
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &<
rilHE COMPAGNO
CAFE AND CAT EKING C
The ladies' and gentlemen’s KBS'
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late chef de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne
Three hours notice required for pi
The spacious rooms of Messr
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid ti
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1830.
/■'10MPAGNONJ PALACE
serve up iu their be
O VS IKK S r l EWS
OYSTEKS SCOLD
OYSTEKS SKIED
and
OYSTEKS NATUI
Patrons of our Theatres and Co
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONTS, opposii
ARTIS’S CLUf
Corner William and Do
This new and splendid HOTEL 1
by Mr. ABT1S. As the Propietor
service of the A S.N. Co for thirt
will be a sufficient guarantee that
the comforts of a tirst-class house.
The BILLIARD KOOM has c
Tables, and is replete with every r
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c
only.
Omnibnssea pose the Hotel even
J. E‘
(J1HE SYDNE1Y COFFEE
158 George-street, and 13 Ni
Circular Quay
IS NOW OPE
The Premises are Three-Storit
frontages to both George-street nuc
Quay, with a through depth of
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with conve
tiring room, <fec-)
Coffee Room
Two Biliiard Rooms, Reading Bo
(all leadjng papers), Parlour
Rooms, fee., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed R oms and an Op
Roof, wi h View of Sydney Hu
The Dining kooms, Kitchen, Bid
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lar
and spacious Shop Accommodatio
a most complete manner, and quit
the den lauds of thousands of persi
Family and Picnic Parties sup
to order «n the shortest notice au<
terms.
fllATTERSALL’S
JL terkaka,
PATRICK ST A
(Late of Sydney and Mi
Proprietor.
«ir None but first class ALES, V
in STOCK.,
Every attention paid to Visitors
Accomodation.
’IEKM< MODFKJ
ALC >CK’S FJLfj-SIZED BIT
UO«»Es and BoGGY aiwaj
r 'oTaiaeroial Travel lero and
HAVEN supplied witu Private or
on receipt of 'el -gram or letter.
SHOW RO( MVT for Comnur inis
The ’•Bulletin” Coacn meets SI
fro n the Hotel.
E W Z E A
To Tourists and others Visiti
WATWERA HC
(Hot Springs and Mineral Ci
NE.tR AC KLAI
LAKE HOUSE, OHINE.VIU1
(Sulphur and oth-r baths of ovei
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL. Tf
(Wairoa). in the vicinity or the f
HANA TERRACES, one of the W
World), near Ohinemutu.
* -fcf*
1
'SI
Hi
wm
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
18 MACQUARIE PLACE. SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BOX ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A.. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
ana effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can he used with or
IRToSi'* Cor^‘s ' This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
*B*^
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
ever j Genuine Bottle.
T
HE ‘GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by th
/r fu£c/Ct >
C
Manufactured
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Eh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Koj
By appointment to His Ko.vo
Prince of Wale
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; Nev
18ti2; Oporto, 18(15; Cordoba (A
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown. 1877. (I
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are caui ior
spurious IMITATIONS, frauduh
Colognes; and notice is hereby g
Marks being duly registered, all i
ceeded against to the full extent o
JOHANN MAH]
J
WHOLESALE AG:
MESSRS. RABONE, EJ
3 WYNYATID SQl
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEP1NG M
THE REALLY GOOD TEA
SENTED TO I
“ I have analysed an Origin
Tabuing Mixture, and I ceri
posed of Pure Uuu coloured T
flavoured with delicate and
I
ICE. ICE
E
FROM FILTERED
Supplied in ant Qti.
AND AT REDUCED
Direct from tli
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATERLOG
Office— 24 O'CONNEL
F O 8 r r I<
The BEST ALE and STOU'
SOLD BY AT L STOEEKEEP:
MEECHANTS
VI11GOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now bo obtained of
all storekeepers aud inspects Me hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common we tk minia-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
xn
mm
(it
s
s
/q
I%r1
to
5?]ft£
an
5U:
; n
KH
Bl
:«
:sv%i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent.—C Ft A !
2 BRTDOK STBKBT, f=
5*»
IT is not the clearnet>o uunuitx
Ale that presen es this brain
mation. Common bitt er 'rude beei
but no other brand has im san e n
ter, the fulness on ’he pa ate, at
qualities of the Bull flop Ale C‘
fore cautioned against traders whi
extra profit represent common
equal in quality to the Bud Deg.
CO., Sole Agents.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Sam Poole is restored to health.
Burton’s circus plays in Young next week.
W. H. Leake plays “ Hamlet” for his benefit.
De Vivo is the coming operatic manager. Vivo
voccl
M'Lean’s Troubours are still successful in the
North.
Honolulu will shortly possess a first - class
theatre.
Cole’s circus took .£3,500 in five days in
Auckland.
Ashton’s Circus shows at Inverell during the
race week.
De Murska and Wilhelm j, it is said, will shortly
visit Australia.
The Empson family play at Inverell on 14th,
15th, and 16th inst.
Agnes Robertson (Mrs. Boucicault) contemplates
a visit to Australia.
Willie Edouin is doing well with Manager
Maguire in San Francisco.
Haverley’s Mastodons have finished in London
and are now at Liverpool.
Miss Marion Melrose is specially engaged to
play “Little Nell” at Christmas.
Harry Sefton has been very ill, but has now
resumed his part in “ Kerry Gow.”
“ A dramatic cucumber ” is what the N.Y.
Dramatic News calls Dick Stewart.
Mr. Lester, of the Kelly Comedy Company, has
been very ill, and confined to his bed.
Oh! Harry Emmet, that coat you wore in
“ Kerry Gow.” “ Coat to, Coat to, Gow to.”
Herr Bandmann says that Harry Emmet is his
brother. On which side is the compliment ?
The passion play was announced by Henry
Abbey, for Booth’s Theatre on 6th December.
At a late date, Mr. D’Orsay Ogden was, we
hear, thinking about visiting North Queensland.
Poor Morris Greenwall (the agent) is, we are
very sorry to hear, lying seriously ill in Melbourne.
The Millicent-Crofts Froliques Company, which
includes Miss Patty Holt, are about to play in Adelaide.
Edwin Browne was to commence a two weeks’
season at Brisbane in “ Good as Gold” on 13th current.
The favorite age of actors now is 22. We
suppose it is because so many juveniles are now in the
field.
The Misses Marie and Madeline St. Clair and
their company have given successful concerts at
Goulbum.
Solomon says that, at the Gaiety, he is going to
Marshall his forces, and that he is not at all a-Fred of
the result.
Miss Patty Laverne has accepted an engagement
to appear at the Opera House, Melbourne, and sailed on
the 27th October.
At the Bijou, Rockhampton, it was intended to
play a piece from the pen of Mr. Robison, editor of the
Northern Argus.
Edwin Browne opens in “Good as Gold” in
Brisbane on the 13th inst., supported by J. J. Walsh,
West, and Thomson.
There is a rumour abroad that both Henry
Irving and Arthur Sullivan are to receive the dis-
tinction of knighthood.
W. G. Carey, of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
goes to Hobart Town (with Dodge and Co.), as leading
man and stage manager.
Mr. Harwood, formerly of Melbourne Theatre
Royal (and late landlord of the Oxford, Sydney),
returned to Australia by the Potosi.
The proprietor of the Egyptian Hall gives away
geese nightly, but he says he would not on any account
give away Cox—his genial treasurer.
When one of our noted actors heard of Lay-
cock’s recent victories, he enthusiastically ejaculated:
“ Pass the worrd, the bxrrd has won.”
A theatre is being built at Temora, and is, so
says the Herald, to be occupied at Christmas by a
strong dramatic company from Sydney.
Proctor is carrying all before him, and leaving
very little behind him. in New Zealand, as showmen
who follow in his wake find to their cost.
“ Pinafore,” with Edwin Kelly as the Admiral
has had a successful run of two weeks at the old Schoo
of Arts, Brisbane, under P. Keogh’s management.
All our coming actresses start in the ballet.
The latest is Miss Harriet Tulloch (Mrs. Chas. Sea-
grave), who is engaged for Christmas at the Gaiety.
Were a good storm to rise, it would certainly
lift the root of the Queen’s Theatre. The actors can
always make sure of a good shower-bath on a wet
night.
Little Florence and Ida Murray appear as
Toddie and Budge in “ Helen’s Babies,” at the School
of Arts, on Saturday and Monday, the 18th and 24th
instant.
New song in the Queen’s pantomime—“ We
learnt the piano from Ketten." Lance Lenton is the
perpetrator of the music, and Harry Emmet scribbled
the words.
R. S. Smythe estimates that the profits of Mr.
Proctor’s New Zealand tonr will be from £2OOO to £3OOO
more than they would have been but for the Porkes
persecution.
Morton Tavares has taken the Brisbane Town
Hall for a season, and has fitted it with a proscenium,
etc. He and Mrs. Tavares gave a performance on
Friday, the 10th.
Benj. Clark, the well-known Australian tenor, is
still in San Francisco, where he has been engaged to
sustain the tenor role in a new opera entitled “The
Carnival of Rome.”
If Sara Bernhardt has such a thing as a wart on
her left arm, it is thaught that she could realise an im-
mmense profit upon it by selling it in sections to
American curiosity-hunters.
A marvellous tenor has been discovered in Paris,
working on one of the railroads for three francs a day.
He now expects to have a stud of horses and £lOO,OOO
worth of plate in a few vocal months.
Miss Kate Slattery, Miss Steffaini, and Mr.
Hollingdale, of Sydney, met with a most excellent
reception at a concert in aid of St. Joseph’s Orphanage
at Goulbum on Thursday night week.
Dampier returns here with two leading ladies
and a complete wardrobe, &e., for the production of a
spectacular version of “ Henry IV.,’’ in which he him-
self appears as Edward, the Black Prince.”
As Armes Beaumont was singing “ ’Tis the
mark on the arm,” in “ The Bohemian Girl”’ the other
night, a baby in the pit began to cry. The cherub had
just been vaccinated, hence the infant’s tears.
Salvini’s first American engagement will be
played in Boston. He took London and all lovers of
Shakespearian drama by storm when he appeared there
as Othello. He happens to be just the color, naturally.
The Gaiety Theatre managers believe in com-
fort behind as well as before the curtain. Three
cottages adjacent have been fitted up as as dressing,
rooms, and a spacious green room will be a special
eatore
Theodore Hamilton has had to give up his
management of the printing business (late Charlwood’s.)
Too many irons in the fire, so he couldn’t make it pay.
Marshall has bought up all the “ plant,” and has now a
monopoly.
Mr. Frank Davis, dramatic critic of the S. A.
Advertiser, has recovered £B5 damages against Mr. J.
Holloway for assault. Holloway denied that the
assault was cowardly, and asserted that he had never
hired people to applaud him.
Slippers and stockings without number, and
300 pairs of gloves, accompany Sara Bernhardt to
America. A female critic says she is tricky, wears her
hair like the mane of a Shetland pony, has high cheek-
bones, and eyes like those of a gazelle.
An actor noted for his generosity and geniality
lately left Brisbane. Before he departed, the stage
hands waited on him, procured a “ half-pint ” each, and
toasted him publicly thus : “ Your very good health,
sir ; may you never return to Brisbane.”
The Australasian says that Miss Pomeroy’s
impersonation of Viola “ will rank in succession after
tbe other three —namely, Juliet, Rosalind, and Imogen.
And this, perhaps, principally on account of its being
of lesser prominence dramatically than others.”
The crimping business is finding its way into the
theatre now. Some managers have started engaging
actors through the medium of “theatrical agents,"
who ask ten per cent, on a man’s salary and yet
guarantee nothing. Cheek beats talent nowadays.
Joe Jefferson, who for the last ten years has
confined himself exclusively to playing Rip Van Winkle,
is going to attempt another part. Bob Acres in the
“ Rivals ” is the chosen character, and if he makes a
success in the States he will visit England once more.
At Brisbane, Alick Andrews’ (Capt. Corcoran)
pants were six inches too short. Said Kelly (the
Admiral), “ I could not think of allowing my captain to
marry in such pants as those.” Captain : “ My
Lord, love levels all ranks; please don’t mind his
pants.”
At Campbelltown, Tasmania, a dramatic club
has been started. Rev. C. Vaughan (late of Sydney),
Frank Pitt (schoolmaster and actor), and Dr. Naylor
are among its most prominent members. Under such
auspices, the Campbelltown dramatis club bids fair to
be a success.
George Darrell’s new drama, the “ Captious
Corpse," is enshrouded in mystery from beginning to
end. In it not only funeral bells are rung, but also the
changes. George plays the hero, an opulent under-
taker, who, he states, has many a good line which will
fetch the private boxes.
Included in the repertoire of the Kelly Comedy
Opera Company are the following pieces, which they
intend producing in Sydney and Melbourne in good
style:—“ Pinafore” (by permission of J. C. Williamson),
“Les Cloches de Corneville,” “ Chilperic,” “ Madame
Angot,” “ Trial by Jury,” “ The Doctor of Alcantara,”
and others.
Mr. E. Marshall was engaged by Mr. Chapman,
Mr. J. Allison’s agent in London. Fifty pounds was
given to Mr-r Marshall to pay his passage with. On
squaring up, Edmund was rather surprised to find his
passage money treated as a loan. He now says he don’t
approve of such advanced notions in connection with
theatrical management.
Says the World, speaking of a new opera
lately produced at the Strand Theatre : —“ The whole
performance was very efficiently led by Mr. Hiller, as
the bill states, but this gentleman bears the most
striking resemblance to a Mr. Hill, lessee No. 7 of
Mademoiselle lima di Murska, and nephew to Mr. Weist
Hill. But, of course, one must not judge by
appearances.”
Such a Christmas was never before known for
dramatic people. Instead of being crowded out by
pantomimes, they are actually wanted. Leake and
Miss Pomeroy each want a company for the Ballarat
circuit; Bandmann a strong company for New Zealand;
Dodge another full corps for Tasmania; Garner wants
people; and the Gaiety plays drama. Only one panto-
mime in Sydney.
Mr. Gastaldoni, of Vincenza, Italy, has invented
a new pianoforte, which can make the sound of each
key last as long as the player wishes, just like a violin,
flute, or any other instrument, violin or not. And yet
it is not on organ, but only a pianoforte. Liszt, Ruben-
stein, and other great pianists, are quite enthusiastic
over this invention, and say that quite a new era in
pianoforte playing begins with it.
Mr. C. R. Butterfield, who wishes to be known
professionally as Mr. Cecil Burt, will make his in
opera this (Saturday) evening 18th inst, with the Lyster
Company, when he takes the part of Pomponnet in
Madame Angot. Mr. Burt has many private friends in
Sydney, who will be glad to welcome him back, and to
hear that while in New Zealand he achieved much suc-
cess as a ballad singer on the concert stage.
Barnum was showing Phoebe Cary round his
museum. He preceded her, and had passed down a
couple of steps. She was intently watching a big
anaconda in a case on the top of the stairs, and, not
noticing them, fell. He (that’s to say, Barnum) caught
and saved her from going down stairs altogether. Said
Phoebe, recovering herself, “ How history repeats
itself ! —The serpent, the woman, and the fall again.”
“ Patience is a virtue.” A newly-married actor
exemplified that attribute by waiting for his wife out-
side the ladies’ baths for a whole hour whilst she had
her swim. We certainly think that, upon that occa-
sion, he indulged in his whim, so far as endurance goes.
However, he beguiled the hour by singing, “ I’m wait-
ing, my darling, for thee.”
“The Amours of Sara Bernhardt” is in the
press. Her principal plays are “ The Stranger,"
“ Adrienne Leconvreur,” “ The Sphinx,” “ Antony,”
“Phedre,” “Frou-Frou,” and “Camille.” The English
translations of these pieces are illustrated by peu-and-
ink sketches from the pen of Sarah herself. Mademoi-
selle will be accompanied to America by her son, the
theory of his existence being that in the crowd of her
admirers it was easier to find a son than a husband.
A certain local actor, thinking to ingratiate
himself with his manager, tried to to’ oust an
by offering to perform the employe’s functions and his
own likewise. The manager informed him that one or
two persons would have to be consulted upon the
matter. Now the joke is that this so-called employe
is in the firm, though net ostensibly so, and turned the
tables upon the lamb-like “ spouter ” by giving him a
week’s notice of discharge. The dark horse scored a
win that time.
The Carandini Company give a concert at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Boxing Night, when Madame
appears with three of her daughters, one of whom, it is
announced, will on the occasion sing for the first time
before a Melbourne audience. The genial Madame,
whom we all have come to regard as the colonial mother
of song, always has a new daughter to trot when she
gets to Melbourne. And, by the way, we hear that
Miss Palmer, her grand-daughter, gives promise of be-
coming a fine vocalist.
An American bishop denounces the Passion Play
as it is given at the Ober-Ammerigans as “terrible bias
phemy,” and deprecates its proposed introduction into
a New York theatre. He is afraid that pious Christians
will sit eight hours gazing on Calvary amid the jests
and irreverent peanut-munching of boys and heartless
unbelievers and reporters, who cannot spend a single
hour at church on Sunday without complaints of the
tedionsness of the service. This is the parsons’ fault
and not the people’s.
The members of the Bandmann-Reynolds Com-
pany for New Zealand are as follows : —Herr Bandmann-
Mr. Walter Reynolds, Messrs. Cathcart, Fisher, Cot-
tier, Costello, O’Brien, and others. The ladies are
Mdlle. Beaudet, the Misses Hathaway, Crauford, and
Cousins. The company, who open at Sloane’s Theatre,
Invercargill, on 24th current, in “ Hamlet,” will also
play at Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington, and Audi,
land. Mr. Reynolds hopes to return to Sydney in May
next, in search of fresh attractions, or go to England
for a company. It is some time since N.Z. had such
a good combination.
“ Old Kohler,” who has ventured on a five years’
lease of the Adelaide Academy, has spent some money
in small improvements, and is doing his very best to
attract audiences. The local folk (remarks a news-
paper correspondent) remember the days when Kohler
used to wring melody from wooden blocks, dignified
under the name of “ Bush pianoalso, how he once
went down to the Botanic Gardens, and procuring
sundry flower-pots, strung them up, _ and drove old
Francis, the then curator, nearly frantic by extracting
“ The Last Rose of Summer” out of the rows of flower-
pots. May he prosper!
Mr. J. R. Clarke, of Pitt-street, has re-published,
under the editorship of Mr. Montague Younger,
organist of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, the Christmas
hymn, “ Hark the Herald Angels sing," the music of
which was composed by the celebrated Dr. Arnold, for
some years organist of Westminster Abbey. The piece
itself, which is written for three voices, is one well
known to most lovers of music, and therefore requires
no treatment at our hands, while the mere mention of
the composer’s name is sufficient to recommend it to
the favour of all disciples of Euterpe as a valuable
addition to their repertoire. The general get-up is
excellent, and the price is within reach of all.
On Monday evening last the Mercantile Dramatic
Society tendered a benefit to Miss Maggie Oliver, as a
farewell to that lady, who is about to leave for Hobart,
under a twelve months’ engagement. The hall was
very fairly filled, and the audience testified in an un-
mistakable manner their approval of the efforts made
to please. The pieces chosen were the three-act
comedy, “Not Such a Fool as She Looks,” and “ The
Royal Diamond,” the hencficiare appearing to advantage
in the respective characters of Mrs. Mould and
Margery. She was ably assisted by Mrs. Holloway and
Mr. Rainford, the remainder of the characters being
sustained by members of the M.D.C. Of those latter
we would mention particularly the actfng of A. Isaacs.
The Young Australian and Metropolitan bands gave
theirservices on the occasion.
The author of that astonishing success,
“ Helen’s Babies,” is in trouble. Elated at the nume-
rous editions and financial results of his well-known
book, he attempted a comedy-drama, named “Deacon
Crankett,” which has met with unanimous ridicule
from the Press. According to one critic, Habberton
hauls his characters about in a pitiless manner, and
worries their souls out of their bodies, merely that he
may produce the most desirable climaxes at the most
desirable places. Such powers of chilliness, such mas-
sive resources of insipidity, such fertile opulence of
garnered pap as are possessed by tbe author
of “Deacon Crankett,” make him the brawny
Hercules of this competition of folly—as per news-
paper opinion on the spot. Another journal says that
“ Deacon Crankett ” is smothered over with Sunday-
school treacle, and completely saturated with cant.
For ourselves, we can’t understand how anybody could
ever have had patience to read the “work,” if such it
can be called, by which Habberton made his “ name.”
The maiden name of the bearded lady was Re-
becca Westgate. She was born at Pembroke, Genesee
county, N.Y., in 1824. When she was quite young her
parents removed to Ogdensburg, where she remained
till 1841. Long after her marriage to a Mr. Lyon, and
when she had reached her 44th year, a very heavy dark
beard began to appear upon her face. Her features had
nothing masculine in their appearance, and she was
greatly embarrassed by the growth upon her face. She
employed various means of removing the fast-growing
beard, but without avail, and it was not long before it
reached her waist. It was soft and silken, like the hair
of a child. Barnum learned of her and sought to induce
her to enter his museum and become its greatest at-
traction. She was reluctant to make an engagement,
but the showman was persistent, and her friends
favored the proposition so strongly that she at last
consented to do so, and for several months attracted
crowds of people. A suit was instituted against Bar-
nnm for an alleged imposition upon the public, it being
stated in the complaint that the woman was an impos-
tor. It was currently believed at the time that the
suit was brought at Barnum’s instigation for advertising
purposes.
Macready was always anxious that the smallest
minutke in stage business should be properly carried
out, not only to the satisfaction of the audience, but to
his own. He was naturally passionate, and the appear-
ance of a new super, rather stupid, but most desirous
of doing all things right in the eyes of the great trage-
dian, roused the anger of the actor to its highest pitch.
During rehearsal, the unfortunate banner-bearer would
stick close to Macready’s heels, notwithstanding reiter-
ated orders to the contrary. At last the young fellow’s
persistence in following the footsteps of the leading
man was stopped in this wise. There was a prominent
nail in one of the boards at the back of the stage, and
he was told to remain there and not move an inch. He
managed to keep the position during the day, but at
night, the stage being covered with green baize, he
found some difficulty in discovering his proper place.
Meanwhile, Macready was declaiming in one of his
most serious parts. Hearing an unusual burst of
laughter from the front, he turned round, and beheld
the persevering super on his knees, feeling all about in
a most idiotic manner. “ What the dash are you doing
now, sir?” he enquired. The answer was, “Please
Mr. Macready, sir, don’t be angry; I’m looking for the
nail!”
“Zulu” (W. H.) Thompson got married last
Wednesday to the girl of his excellent choice. Some
men accept the gifts of Providence in silence and se-
clusion—not so the Zulu panorama man. He wanted
forty-five of his friends and they all came. St. Peter’s,
Woolloomooloo, was crowded when the bewitchingly
pretty bride, Miss Heil, and her five charming atten-
dants arrived. Hamlsorue George Thompson was best
man, and the portly bridegroom was literally carried by
Harry Rowell, J. H Rainford, Lewis Scott, Walter
Reynolds and Phil Stuart, to the altar, where Canon
Moreton tied the nuptial knot. Then twelve carriages
started with their joyous freight to Baden Baden, ac-
companied by a drag conveying “ Zulu’s ” own band
Compagnoni had prepared a splendid breakfast,
with a wedding cake at least three feet high—all cake,
and no wood in it. The chair was occupied by Lewis
Scott —after stating which it need hardly be said that
eloquence was the order of the day. The bride wore
white cashmere trimmed with white satin, a white
satin jacket and the customary orange blossoms. Two of
the bridesmaids wore white and cardinal; and three
white and heliotrope—which latter word almost tempts
us to perpetrate an obvious Greek pan. The happy pair
departed for Sandringham, followed by a shower of rice
and blessings.
“The Messiah.”
Handel’s grand oratorio, “ The Messiah,” the great
masterpiece of the composer so dear to English people,
has been in vigorous preparation for the last two
months, and will be produced at the Garden Palace by
the Sydney Musical Union and '(he Sacred Choral
Association, under the conductorship of Messrs. Sydney
Moss, L.C.M.. and Montagu Younger, on Saturday
afternoon, 18th inst. The two societies have con-
centrated all their energies in endeavouring to produce
a rendition of the great work in a manner hitherto
unknown to this city, and to their united efforts the
public will be indebted for a real musical treat. No
money and n" pains have been spared to make the
rendering as complete a success as possible The joint
committee have from the first recognised the great
importance of securing the best available artists to
undertake the solo parts of the oratorio, and they have
succeeded in obtaining for this occasion a cast of
unusual excellence. Those who have heard Signora
Antonietta Link in the same oratorio, produced
on two previous occasions by the Sydney Musical
Union will be glad to learn that, imme-
diately on hearing of that distinguished artist’s
return to the colony, the committee engaged her
services fo r the soprano part. Miss E. A. Lambert, of
the Opera Company, has undertaken the alto solos; and
for the first time the Sydney public will be offered the
treat of hearing the popular favourite tenor, Armes
Beaumont, as an oratorio singer, as which he has
always reaped the greatest praise and applause in
Melbourne, The principal bass parts will be divided
between Messrs. John Bushelle and Andrew Fairfax.
Particular care has also been bestowed by the com-
mittee on the selection of the orchestra, led by Mr. W.
Rice, which contains, besides many of our best local
instrumentalists, some valuable additions from the
ranks of the operatic orchestra. The two conductors
have been most assiduously engaged during the last
few weeks in practising the choruses with the members
of the societies, re-inforced by members of city and sub-
urban church choirs —the total number of performers
amounting to about 400. Only two prices of admission
will be charged, viz., 2s. fid. for reserved seats (tickets
obtainable at all the music warehouses), the plan of
which may be inspected at Messrs. Moss’s, in Hunter-
street, and Is. for tickets to be sold at the gates from
one o’clock on Saturday. A very large concourse of
people is expected.
Stationary and postage cost Government school-
masters in Sydney several pounds a ' ear, for which
they get no refund. Their expenditure is row just nine
times greater than it was under the Council.
The New Orleans Times finds the following
on an alleged tombstone :
“ Sad was the fate of Zachariah Blummach,
Kicked by a mule 9 times in the stomach;
His soul went to heaven in the gloaming.”
PEPPER AND SALT.
‘ Sic transit gloria mundi,” is a quotation that
has been of late extensively used by the country journals.
Few of the rustic editors know what it means, but they
all pretend to be familiar with the Latin proverb. A
Sydney correspondent of a paper in the far North lately
sent his editor his weekly letter. In it was the passage
“ The cortege was long and imposing, and the police and
‘ T.C.’ arrangements beyond all praise. Sic transit gloria
mundi!” Well, the principal storekeeper, on reading
this, mooned round to the office, and said to the editor
“What’s the meaning of that bit of FrenchP” “It
ain’t French, James,” replied the scribe. “ Latin, then
—come, what is it all about ? ” The editor coughed.
He didn’t know, but yet it would have been ruin to
betray his ignorance. Suddenly a happy thought
struck him. “ J ames,” he said, “ sic transit gloria mundi
means—that is—hem ! —freely rendered, you know ”
“Yes?” eagerly interrupted the man of sugar. “It
means” (with an effort) “the city transit arrangements
were gloriously carried out on Monday.” “ Yes,” re-
plied the storekeeper, “but the funeral wasn’t on
Monday.” “True,” smugly rejoined the editor: “that
is an error of our correspondent’s. It ought to have
been Sic transit gloria Thursdi." And the grocer went
away much impressed.
Here is a good joke about the Sydney Infirmary.
A man had received, by accident, while practising with
a revolver, a bullet in his thigh. He was in due course
removed to Macquarie-street, where for the first two
days the surgeon in attendance did nothing but probe
the wound. “What in brimstone are you about?”
howled the patient, at length nearly dead with pain.
“I was looking for the bullet,” replied the doctor
“Why didn’t you tell me that before,” moaned the
sufferer, “ I have it in my pocket!”
We have received the following letter with en-
closure, both of which (though we entertain some
slight doubt about the matter) we trust are genuine:
To the Editor or the Bulletin.
“Sir,— The accompanying poem is, I know, immortal.
Publish it if you desire fame and riches. ‘ Awassa’ is
my guiding spirit. Last night he rapped out the lovely
Iryic inscribed upon the other side. I part with it with
a sorrowful heart, but yet something tells me that
. . . In a word—have you the soul to appreciate
genius ? .... If so . . . . But what am I
saying ? ... . lam .... alas! . . . .
perledged
“ Yours in the spirit.
"PHILIP.
“P.S.—Dale .... he'Ias!"
When one of Farmer and Painter’s lovely
daughters of toil gave her young man the run, it was
the custom in olden times for the lady in question to
call the other “Singer and Wilson’s” around, and
inform them with pardonable pride in her breast, and a
cold meat pie in her hand, that the unfortunate
fellow had vowed there was nothing now left to ease
his Ibleeding heart, or to prevent the weary gloom of
a sorrow-stricken life, but the cold, cold waves which
would soon chant their dirge o’er the spot which
marked the wretched suicide’s grave. She doesn’t say
that now, however. She simply says “ George got a
nasty jar.” And George—if he is a sensible lad —skips
round to Uhde’s, and gets a nice one—one of those with
a boar’s head outside, and the creamy juice of the hops
within.
The band of a certain fire brigade in this city
would do well to engage at least six more drummers.
At present a number of other instruments can be
distinctly heard with the naked ear, and this is by no
means a thing to be desired in a hot climate.
Zulu Thompson “gif abarty” last week, and
although he’s a good ’un himself, still he took his crowd
to Baden Baden. Mr. Lewis Scott occupied the chair,
and, having provided himself with a foot of salt ling,
as a thirst-pro voter, Lewis did the usual " ample
iustice to the good things provided.” In proposing the
health of the Queen, Mr. Scott observed that Victoria
was ‘‘the grandest woman in the whole world” —bar
one ; and if the company were not in any sort of an
indecent hurry, he could make one of the grandest
speeches in all the world about her. Quite a crowd or
interested guests immediately arose, and drew the
speaker’s attention to the fact that Christmas was
close at hand, and they would therefore be quite agree-
able to imagine half Mr. Scott was about to say, ana
take the rest at 60 days. The health of Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson was then proposed, and drunk with such
remarkable goodwill that the worthy lecturer went
slightly “ off his head,” and, fancying he was revelling
in the atrocity show once more, let out as follows:
“Ladies snd Gentlemen, —On the morning of the
15th August, 1861, at 23$ minutes past 5 the sentry
stationed on the bluffs of Bull’s Eun observed a . smf V,
detachment of the Black Horse Brigade approaching a
the rate of about five miles a week,and at onc> L^ e l )0 /v,,
the same to General Stonewall Jackson. The,'--on-
federate army had just returned after a successful rai
on two fowl roosters and a baker’s shop and w
immediately despatched to give the enemy battle,
the men with the biggest moustachios were sent to
front to cover those behind, and such of the regime •
as had no boots were sent to the rear, in orderJL ,
those in front shouldn’t tread upon their unprote ■
cornfields. At 12 minutes 16 seconds P a ®£ kreakfas -u-f
first shot was fired by Corporal John Thompson,
as he had unfortunatelv loaded his gun with olac' !
instead of gunpowder, little damage followed. j
Sherman, of the New York Terriers, then adyancea.
spat down the barrel of Corporal Thompson s gu ,
TO A STAR-LI T OYSTER (AND OTHERS).
Soft glimm’ring ’neath each twinkling star.
Beauteous bright bi-val-vu-lar!
Secluded e’en as in a ker-loister;
Oh, I adore thee—bounding oyster !
Thy moon-illumined beards e’er will
Remind me of my thrilling Shrill.
When naiads, void of any guile,
Do sport around ye, then ye smile !
When softly laps the coming tide.
Ope ye gently your mouths wide!
Sweetest shellfish ! with pale ale,
Ye are dear to Philip Dale!
VERSICLES.—THE NEW M.L.C.’s.
Onslow, A., Captain R.N.,
Is now one of the “fossil” men.
Sporting Richard Hill. J.P.,
Parkes has made an M.L.C.
John Smith—o patrician name !
Is a member of the same.
Patriotic Patrick Higgins
Also’s shunted to these diggings.
“ M.L.C.” at last does mutter
Cangowra’s king, bold Billy Suttor.
Louis Levy—even him —
Save the grammar’s— in the swim.
Charley Moore was very sore—
Merely for a minute ;
Now, his tip is “ Hip, hip, hip,
Hurrah! you boys, I’m in it! ”
As you have been a friend to me,
Says Parkes to Lucas—“ M.L.C.”
[Volumes could not express more.]
“Very proud, of course, I feels.
At being thus ‘ sent up,’ ” says Bales.
THE BERMAGUI MYSTERY.
Dear harp, awake! yet from each tuneful string.
Touched lightly by a sympathetic hand,
Let there a soft and mournful cadence spring,
And float upon the breezes o’er the land.
There is a rocky, wild, and barren shore ;
There is a mist of blood obscures the sea ;
And each refrain of the great ocean’s roar
Doth seem to mourn a fatal tragedy.
Death cherishes with care a secret dread.
And in our hearts yet lives a fearful doubt; —
Where are these mortals ? Are they quick or dead ?
All we know is that they are “ blotted out.”


Notice.
The fact that this issue of The Bulletin is printed on
white paper is due to our having used up all the
line tinted paper in the colonial market. We believe
that our readers prefer tinted paper, but shall be under
the necessity of continuing to use white pending the
arrival from England of direct shipments arranged for
some time ago and now overdue.
a sanguinary battle at once ensued. The battle lasted
-for 18 mouths, 7 weeks, and 14 days ; both sides were
-cut to pieces, and the ouly one left to tell the tale was a
man who had accidently fallen down a 70-ft. well during
the beginning of the war, and who had the good sense to
stay there until the next pay-day. On the 21st of the
following September, at 16 minutes ” (Brother
Glass here interfered, and after explaining to Mr.
Thompson how matters stood, the lecturer sub-
sided, and all hands once more drank the health
of the charming bride and genial bridegroom.) May
they both live long and prosper.
The late Mr. Horatius Flaccus, when he com-
placently observed cxcgimonuineatumperennius, boasted
of having built up a big reputation by the manufacture
of verses, but Phil. M'Carroll rests his claim to
immortal renown upon the combined production of
poetry and pork sausages. However, it remains for
posterity to decide as to which of the two names shall
endure the longer; but in the meantime, as all the
learning of all the civilised world has now and then
launched out in praise of Horace, we think it is about
■time now that somebody threw in a word for Phil.
We would not advise our sanguinary friend to place
too much confidence in his poetic achievements, for,
speaking candidly, we think the Roman has a slight
advantage over him in that line ; but the upright
manner in which he acquits himself in the commercial
arena gives him “the bulge” upon most of the Muse’s
votaries. Let us contrast his line of action with that
of a romantic bard who vegetates within the classic
portals of a government office. This poet went up
King-street, and got whitewashed. So did Phil. The
political songster went forth again and accumulated
property and ready money. So did Phil. But here the
resemblance ends, and the contrast begins. The tune-
ful legislator makes ostentations grants of land to
churches, and gives donations of books to the Ashfield
School of Arts —trying to force upon God the things
be owes to Cmsar. Phil, devotes the fruits of his labour
to the work of removing whitewash and paying twenty
shillings in the £ to his creditors. The Twopenny
Tea-meeting has not yet electrified ns with a leader
upon the subject.
When we consider the great number of preachers
■in Sydney, and the very few who can really preach, the
wonder is we don't hear of more assasinations. Sun-
day week a reverend suburban divine who preaches ex-
tempore sermons, which he buys by the pound in King-
street, was describing the escape of Moses and Cos.
across the Red Sea, with the subsequent washing out
of Pharaoh’s gang; and in order to give his drowsy
flock some idea of the state of the poll on that occa-
sion, he said.- “ Imagine to yourselves, my brethren,
two immense walls of foaming, raging watah uplifted
high on every side; imagine the favoured Children of
Israel skipping gaily on between ; imagine the haughty,
naughty Egyptians rushing into the breach; and then—
imagine these seething walls crashing down and de-
stroying all before them Imagine all this happening
in a few brief seconds of time, and then remember oh !
my brethren, so quiet and and still was this once raging
sea five minutes after, that when Joshua came down
for a bucket of watah, he found a little bare-legged
Hebrew boy squatting down on the bank, and catching
■2lb. cod with a junk of fried bread and his mother’s
hairpin. We will now warble the 771st ’im.”
The Melbourne Leader is hungering so much
for anew tale that it has just offered £IOO to the part.f
who sends in the best by a certain date. Knowing the
editor’s weakness, I have just sent him a tale which
ought to scoop in the prize without any further
■rouble; —
“Yes, I’m bound to win—what I say is true —
For I’ve sent him the tail of an old kangaroo.”
Gentle reader, for Heaven’s sake don’t think that
couplet’s mine. I bought it second-hand from the
grocer-poet, Meaden, and a grosser poet never drank a
Bishop Barker.
“ Philip Dale,” the “great poetess,” and the
pretsnda of Barn’s “ lieutenant,” Shrill Happilando, is
quite an aesthetic. To her there is no world. She
lives in a magic sphere of her own —lives but for the
•divine art in which he so truly excels! ! ! To her the
matutinal steak and onions are wafers blown together
by the gods; and the tripe the great bard often
“wolfs,” manna showered down by the angels; the
pint (with a “ dash of English ’’) with which she nightly
washes down the “perspiring Dutchman,” the most
ambrosial nectar. When the butcher calls with the
‘slbs . of corned “ brisket," to her it is as though a
bouquet of fairy flowers was being wafted towards her
upon the aromatic breezes of Arabia; and when the
gifted “rhyme-puncher” takes the threepenny ’bus,
-she is only conscious of reclining in Paradise on a
couch hollowed out of a single pearl, with the spirit of
Lord Byron fanning her with a palm-leaf. When the
little rude street-boys ask her for “ a brown,” she
gazes upon them with arched eyebrows—her own—ex-
pressive orbs looking far away into
The sky-line’s blue-burnished resistance;
and dreamily says :
Money, I know it not!
There to as a dross so called when I did dwell
Upon the venal earth. Take, therefore, then,
Thou rough, uncultured slave, this paper scrap ;
It will admit thee through the gates of Paradise !
A 'bus-ticket
It was said of Augustus Csesar that he ought
■never to have been bom, or never to have died. And
we might with equal reason say the same of poor Jim
Punch.
“ He was a man, take him for all in all,”
We shall not look upon his like again.
When people say the Kelly troupe were solely
patronised by the larrikin class they lie like the special
correspondent of a daily sausage-wrapper. Asa proof
•of this I may mention that one of the most influential
men in this city was met the last night of the show by
Frank Warden, who asked if he hod been in to see the
Kellys. “ Been in,” replied the in flueniial party, ’ why
T go in ten times every night. That costs me half a
sov , but what of that; Jim gives me all his old pipes,
and Kate throws me ten of her brightest smiles.
“ Holy snakes!” cried the tall divine as he skipped
briskly off. “ I’d better clear from this, for verily the
spirit is weak, and the flesh may get it down and dance
on it.” y
Signor Morley and his pupils gave a successful
concert at Dunedin recently.
The Czar has appointed the Empress of Austria
■an honorary ColQnel of a Uhlan regiment.
The Gundagai Times says that a Gundagai
woman, who had received from a Sydney friend a box
labelled “Tom. Cats.,” at first refused to open it.
However, she afterwards discovered that it contained
44 Tomato Catsup.”
The Australian Star (Adelaide) says; “ The
Irish are divided into four parties—the Nationalists,
the Land Leaguers, the Orangemen, and the Priests,
As the French sav. L’hoimne propose, Licit dispose, la
femme oppose, ct le diahle transpose. Well may the Irish
put on their banners * God save Ireland! It is in a
poor pickle, and likely to get into a worse. Which
party does our contemporary insinuate acts as the
devil ? That there will be the devil to pay in Ireland
shortly we have no doubt.
The other evening, in Crown-street, a drunken
man was amusing himself by throwing stones anywhere
and everywhere. A carter passing by was struck by
one, and descended from his vehicle to chastise
offender, when he was almost immediately arrested.
The inebriate, being left in his glory, recommence
his stonethrowing, and struck a young girl in the ey ,
inflicting a nasty wound. It was not o
hour afterwards that he was taken to the lockup. £>o
much for our guardians of the law.
“ Yes, I think you will do very well,” remarked
the proprietor of a useful evening contemporary to a
vouug English gentleman who applied for a billet on
the staff. “ Let me see. Your passage out cost yon
£63; vour board will come to 255. per week ; you must
dress decently; have your washing done outside; and
well, come, I’ll treat you liberally. £2 a week for a
start ” Then there was a noise as of coals being vio-
lently chucked on to a fire, and one person was heard
hurriedly descending the back stair-case, while a
muffled voice in the editorial sanctum howled piteously
for arnica.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Pastor Chiniquy says he has converted five
more priests.
Four Congregational churches in Sydney are
now without settled ministers.
Messrs. Riley Brothers have given .£lOOO for a
new marble altar in St. Mary’s Cathedral.
At last monthly meeting in aid of the building
fund of St. Mary’s Cathedral, £lBO5 was received.
The Rev. Father Moriarty, a newly-ordained
priest, just from Ireland, has been appointed to Bega.
Mr. Robert White delivered a lecture at the
City Hall on Sunday night, on “ Spinoza, the father of
modern Pantheism.”
A convention of delegates from the various
colonial Young Men’s Christian Associations has been
sitting in Melbourne.
The Rev. P. H. Cornford intends to settle in
Napier. He was warmly welcomed by his old friends
in Auckland on arrival.
The corner-stone of a new Synagogue has been
laid in Moray-place, Dunedin. Mr. Maurice Joel,
president of the Hebrew congregation, officiated.
The Express says that the Anglican Church of
the present day is “ the new vine of private judgment
put into the old bottle of hierarchical organisation.”
On Monday night at the Glebe Presbyterian
Church, the Rev. A. Gardiner, M.A., delivered an
interesting lecture on that celebrated divine. Dr.
Guthrie.
The foundation stone of the New Wesleyan
Church, Wollongong, will be laid by Mrs. Bright, on
Wednesday, December 15. An address by the Rev. G.
Hurst, of Sydney, will be delivered.
Mr. Charles Bright’s lecture last Sunday even-
ing had for its subject, “What do you give us in its
place?” There was an excellent attendance. A large
and an efficient choir admirably rendered a couple of
selections.
One million members of the Church of England
in Australia —yet it is complained that the meanest
Methodist connexion was better represented than the
C. E. daring the latter part of last session in the Par-
liament of New South Wales.
It is proposed to erect in Rome a monument to
the honour of the late Victor Emannel 11., the
liberator of Italy, All artists, Italian and foreign, are
invited, without distinction, to contribute designs,
and the only condition imposed is that the cost of
the erection of the monument should not exceed nine
million Italian lire, or £360,000.
They are going to have a new precentor at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral. The Rev. Christian Corlette
has found the afternoon service too much for him,
seeing that he has to preach morning and evening at
Ashfleld. The new intoner, the Rev. Mr. Ellis, is
expected shortly. He is very highly spoken of, and has
for a long time officiated in Bangor Cathedral.
In regard to the impeachment of the Rev. Chas.
Strong on a charge of heresy, a Victorian writer says
that “ if to be able, eloquent, Christian-like, attracting
thinking, sincere men of all denominations, improving
their lives and conversation, stripping religion of its
repulsiveness—if all this be heresy, I am convinced
that Mr. Strong is most heretical. The very title brings
up the hideous fascination of the stake-and-faggot pic-
tures in Foxe’s ‘ Book of Martyrs.’ ”
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDERN OF THE SUN.]
December 13.
Berry is still like Grand Flaneur. He won’t let
Progress come to the front.
Mons. Kowalski, the pianist, dined recently with
Archbishop Goold, at Brighton.
Why don’t they give the statue of Burke and
Wills a wash. It looks terribly rusty.
Ortori still lounges over that violin. He won’t
go to Mauritius whilst he can get sugar here.
Now is the season for balls, evening parties,
flirtations, marriage and misery in Melbourne.
The Strauss Band can’t play “ square dance ”
music. The ladies consider their waltzes “ quite too
awfully nice.”
Foreigners, with long moustachios and “ lardy-
da” collars, are in great demand with the young ladies
who stroll round the International.
A new star has arisen on the cricketing horizon.
This time a well-known city solicitor, with a strong
predilection for bronzes and Doulton ware.
Hirsch, the duellist, walks the street and treads
the ball-room in a would-if-I-oould-if-I-couldn’t-how-
could-I-could-you style. It is not a majestic air.
The “ sweet girl-graduates ” (of the Avenir) are
complaining of the beat that was allowed by the Uni-
versity senate to enter the room during the recent
matric. examinations.
James Kingston has been all round the world,
and he has come to the conclusion that there is no place
like Melbourne. So he said at a recent conversazione. J.
H. is now in Melbourne and so ought to be happy.
The Exhibition organ is still in a state of dis-
organisation. Lewis Lucas Lewis is busily arranging
his back hair in readiness for the performance on
closing day, when, it is believed, the organ will be com-
pleted.
The boy-doctors are having their innings at the
Melbourne Hospital. A poor woman was blown to death
(we mean fly-blown) at that institution, and Dr.
Newman has himself received a blowing-up for his
in-Newman treatment.
Syme, of the Age, goes to England shortly, to
study the truths of Free-trade and its working. He will
have a picnic given to him. In accordance with the
Liberal views of the Age oflice, carte hlanche has been
given to Mr. Sargent to supply all the muflins.
A mischievous fellow, the other day, stood right
in front of the Austrian Strauss band and vigorously
sucked a lemon. The mouths of Messrs. "Murphy”
and Co. watered to such an extent that they couldn’t
play, and Mr. Mischief was asked to depart.
Until lately you could always tell when the
sermon was on at'St. Patrick’s Cathedral by the number
of devotees assembled at the bar of the Old White
Hart opposite. However, Vale, the Attorney-General,
who is a teetotaller, has changed all that. No liquor
on Sunday now.
Picnic on the Upper Yarra. In the solitude
of Studley’s rugged hills, pretty young ladies, intellec-
tual young men, tongue, turkey, lager-beer, bon-bons,
cherries, hunt the slipper, Benjamin, bull-dog ants, a
bathe, Topp, the cramp, and home in three boats, Jack
Cody, snags, a dance, a flirtation, darkness, oblivion
and reminiscences.
A certain lively young spark of Mount Macedon,
Queensoliff, and Geelong fame was lately at the wax-
works in company with a well-known legal practitioner
of this city. One hour later the man of law was
parading Collins-street with the legend pinned to his
back—" John Dunne, No. 11. How these giddy young
things do travel round, to be sure.”
Mr. Caddy, an Egerton schoolmaster, who knew
Capt Moonlite before he was hanged, has charge of the
Victorian State school exhibits at the International.
He is in communication with telephone Edison, of
MeuePark, for the completion of a scheme for connect-
ing the electric telegraph currents of the world, and at
a given moment to blow up the universe. Caddy will
toss up with Edison who’s to be last man.
“ Our old friend “ J.H.” branched out from his
mail routes at Le Bal Levi and helped a few graceful
females through the tortuous lancers and mazy schot-
tische. G. B. W. Lewis and his dark-eyed wife, who
might have passed for a daughter of Judah in the
Oriental throng, were elaborately present; so also was
Baron von Mueller, who is susceptible to the languid
glances of the pretty young Israelites.
In connection with the recent “attempt” at a
duel in Melbourne, it may not be generally known that
everything was carried out with the strictest regard to
German etiquette up to the moment of the check by
the police authorities. Herr Speyer, in accordance
with the usual custom, attired himself in uniform,
with epaulettes, sword, white gloves, and curled mili-
tary moustachios complete; and, in the name of Kaiser
Wilhelm, demanded that satisfaction which his oppo-
nent did not give.
The only institution in Melbourne that keeps in
the background of progress is the Athenaeum. It has
a grimy newspaper room, a dingy reading room, a
gloomy library, and one of the finest halls in Melbourne
(scarcely ever used). The Athenaeum is deeply in debt
and hence these tears. The only life about the place is
to be found in a conversation with Mr. Smith or a yam
with Mr. Curtis the indefatigable. Rumour has it that
a new institution under the title of the “ Pantheon ” is
to| be founded. It will offer more advantages than the
Athenaeum; it will be unencumbered by any debt, and
the initiators are going to make overtures to Messsrs.
Curtis and Smith to take the management of the new
institution.
Mr. Nathaniel Levi’s invitation ball at the Town
Hall was perfect from all points of view. It was
thoroughly Jewish, but was none the worse for that.
The costumes in some instances were extremely elegant,
and the types of costumes prevalent were varied,
mostly uncommon, and artistically bewitching. One
young lady, whose home might have been in the gilded
East, if we judged by features, was a perfect embodi-
ment of our ideal “ Light of the Harem." Her well-set
eyes were enroofed by the most delicately-pencilled
eyebrows that ever graced the brow of maiden, whilst
the tout ensemble was such as would have made the
closest-fisted eunuch bid the highest price for this
valuable acquisition to his master’s seraglio.
Washington Rivers is the name of a financial
hero who has become, within the last few days, more
notorious than celebrated. This individual, person,
gentleman (for he is known by all three titles in the
dailies), commenced his Melbourne career as an ex-
pounder of the Gospel; but, finding that the religious
ze»l of the community was in excess of their desire to
sling out the current coin of the realm, went in heart
and soul for finance, and gave to the world sundry co-
operative associations and perpetual bond societies,
which looked, on the face of them, like “little
shwindles." The conduct of this “ Yankee bubbler"
was brought before the Attorney-General, who re-
marked that he had seen the “individual," and was
pleased with his suave manner and style. Vale on
manners is absurd.
“ The Celibates’ Retreat ” is the title of a house
about to be founded in Melbourne for those discon-
tented male members of a family who wish to throw off
all the restraint and troubles of modern home-life, and
enjoy themselves in a more Bohemian-like and “ go-as-
you-please ’’ style. The plan is to hire a commodious
house and grounds in a healthy suburb, to engage the
services of a good cook, a good housekeeper, and a
butler. Each celibate will have a separate bedroom
and study, and there will be a common dining-room
and parlor; but at the same time, should any celibate
wish to dine solus, it will be allowed. The rules to be
observed are punctuality, cleanliness, and temperance
(not teetotality). No ladies will be alio ved to enter
the “ Retreat,” but at the same time it is ro be under,
stood that these gentlemen do not make h vow to per-
petuate their celibacy.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
December 10.
Last Sunday there was a full choral service in
the Melbourne Town Hall. The Bishop of Melbourne
preached to a large congregation, including the Volun-
teers of the metropolitan and suburban corps.
On Saturday a musical conversazione was held
in the committee-room of the Exhibition Building.
The artistes were Madame Carlotta Tasca, Signor Or-
tori, Mr. Angus, and Mr. Julius Herz. In the nave of
the building the Australian Band performed under the
conductorship of M. Caron. The total attendance for
the day was 9409. On Monday afternoon the first of a
series of recitals on the organ, in the south transept,
was given by Mr. Summers. M. Henri Kowalski gave a
classical recital on Thursday afternoon, assisted by
Mr. Weston and Mr. Hart. The ladies’ toilettes
during the week have been composed of thicker mate-
rials than usual at this season, but the weather has
been quite wintry. A lively discussion is still in pro-
gress about the sale of goods by the exhibitors in
the building. The exhibitors maintain that if they are
debarred from selling their goods the Commissioners
will rest under the stigma of having broken faith with
intending exhibitors, for it appears that a clause in the
Exhibition regulations extended this privilege to the
occupants “ of one court only, which shall be specially
set apart for the sale of exhibits, &c.” Another little
matter that has been in dispute is the design for the
Exhibition diploma, which was pronounced by Mr.
Folingsby to be a “ worthless production." The Com-
missioners have now appointed Mr. Folingsby and Herr
Tannert to execute a new design.
The Cotopaxi smuggling case was heard on
Monday at the City Court, when the Crown proceeded
against Mrs. Florrie Inglis and Mr. Robert Cornish,
both residents of Toorak, for having fraudulently
evaded the Customs duty on two sealskin jackets.
During the enquiry it transpired that one of the jackets
in question had been brought out to the colonies four
years ago by Mrs. Inglis ; that the other belonged to
the lady’s mother, and that both had been sent home
to be lengthened and otherwise altered. Mr. Cornish
brought them out, and as they had previously been in
use four years it was concluded that no duty was
chargeable. The Bench decided very properly that
Mrs. Inglis had no intention of defrauding the Cus-
toms, and dismissed the case; but they were divided
in their opinion concerning Mr. Cornish’s conduct, and
came to no conclusion. It is likely that we have not
heard the lost of the case, though it is understood to be
the intention of the Commissioner of Customs to ask
Mr. Call to state a case against Mrs. Inglis. The Bench
arrived at their decision regarding Mrs. Inglis on the
evidence given to the effect that Mr. Clark had said
“ there was no case against the woman ; 11 but Mr.
Clark emphatically denied having said this. The vul-
garity of the sentence is proof against him, however.
Subsequent proceedings against Mr. Cornish resulted
in a dismissal.
Mr. Kingston, and some one who writes for one
of the Melbourne papers under the nom de plume ot
“ The Lounger,” are at variance. The latter takes Mr.
Kingston to task for eulogising our colonies as perfect
to the depreciation of other lands, and accuses him of
doing this at the expense of facts. Of course Mr.
Kingston defends himself, and then some one steps in
who declares that neither of them knows much about
the subject on which they write.
The Bishop and Mrs. Moorhouse gave a garden
party at Bishopscourt last week, at which nearly 400
guests were present, including the Marquis of Normanby
and the Earl and Countess of Ellesmere. The Countess
wore a cream-colored silk dress trimmed with crimson.
On Tuesday evening, a large party was given by
Mrs. J. G. Francis at her residence, Albert-Street, East
Melbourne. The ofiicers ot the Finisterre attended,
and a great number of fashionable guests were present.
Among the young ladies. Miss Rowe, of East Melbourne,
Miss Wilkie, and Miss Moore looked particularly well.
Mr. Nathaniel Levi’s ball took place at the
Town Hall on Thursday evening, and was most
successful. The guests numbered about 700. The hall
was beautifully decorated with flowers and pot plants.
Contrary to the usual custom, supper was given in the
refreshment room upstairs, and as seats were provided,
every one enjoyed supper in comfort. 1 suppose
no people in the world dress so much as the Jewish
ladies, and on this occasion they quite maintained their
fame in this respect, the worth of the diamonds worn by
them alone being estimated at £150,000.
Mr. George Eobertson, bookseller and publisher,
gave his staff a picnic to Mordialloc last Friday, which
proved enjoyable.
Mrs. Madden has issued invitations for a picnic
up the Yarra. It is a little early for picnics this year,
as the weather continues cold and wintry.
Mrs. Taylor, of East Melbourne, gave a large
dance on Thursday evening. Mrs. Taylor was a Miss
Fisken in years gone by—a belle of Melbourne society—
and niece of the late Mr. Kussell, one of the first Mayors
of Melbourne.
Mrs. W. J. Clarke’s garden party takes place at
Sunbury en Saturday. The guests are to be conveyed
by special train.
Major Sprent, a dismissed Customs-house
officer, has lately been appointed manager of one of Mr.
W. J. Clarke’s stations at a salary of £BOO a year. The
Government, in getting rid of such men as Major Sprent,
Mr. Warded, Mr. Byron Moore, and other really
capable officers, have undoubtedly inflicted a loss upon
the public service. It is pleasant to see that the
abilities of the gentlemen referred to are appreciated
outside.
During the past week the Duke of Manchester
has been staying with Sir Samuel Wilson at Ercildoun,
A very pretty gathering of juveniles took place
last evening at Mrs. McKinnon’s, of Brighton, on the
occasion of her children’s fancy dress ball.
The East Melbourne youths who were arrested
for assaulting the Chinese hawker were, on Friday last,
committed by the bench to stand their trial at the
Criminal Court. Report says that the magistrates were
afraid to deal with them after Mr. Berry’s allusion to
the case in the House, when he said that if the
magistrates didn’t do their duty in the matter he knew
how to do his duty to the magistrates.
On Monday, Mr. Pickersgill entertained the
Australian Eleven at a luncheon in the Exhibition
building, which seems to have been a most enjoyable
affair. In the evening, after the moonlight concert
given in their honor by the Austrian band at the
Melbourne cricket ground, they were entertained at
supper by the members of the M.C.C. The Hon. W. J.
Clarke presided on both occasions.
To-day a public half-holiday was proclaimed, and
a match between the Australian Eleven and fifteen of
the Victorian players was commenced on the Melbourne
cricket ground.
Miss Pomeroy performs Juliet to-night for her
benefit, and is sure of a good house, though some
regret is expressed that she did not choose Imogene for
the occasion.
The over-offioiousness displayed by the police
officer in preferring a charge of infanticide against the
two actresses at Hamilton is much to be regretted.
The evidence went to show that the officer initiated the
whole proceedings “on his own hook,’’ though after
his avowal in court it is difficult to decide why he even
imagined that the defendants were guilty. The corpus
delicti was found; but then it might, so far as the pub-
lished evidence goes, just as well have been produced
in evidence against the man in the moon os against the
unfortunate women and the almost equally unfortunate
man who were dragged all the way from Adelaide to
Hamilton.
The head of King Charles was always getting
into the way in the life of Mr. Dick, and in like manner
the Act of Charles the Second has proved a stumbling
block to the rigid Sabbatarians of South Australia.
Two laborers on the railways there, for working on the
usual vocations on the Sabbath day, were proceeded
against under the provisions of King Charles the Second’s
enactment for the prevention of such offences, and on
being duly convicted the infliction of punishment was
found to be impossible, because the Puritans of that
colony hod no “ stocks ” in which to put the muscular
offenders!
It is a matter of note that no less than sixty
fancy sales and Bazaars have been held here lately, and
they were all well attended and the sales were brisk. I
suppose that the fact is solely owing “ to this glorious
climate” of Victoria!
As the excitement of balls and parties for the
moment is languishing the male portion of our colonists
are turning attention to political matters which, as I
last week remarked, wore getting rather “mixed."
This week the “honorable members in Parliament
assembled” have had what our American cousins would
call a good time. “ The only legally qualified doctor ”
who advertises in the papers, andwhoisM.P. for Rich-
mond, asked the other night, “ Where is the Liberal
party?" Echo answers “where?” So irretrievably
mixed have things become that Sir Bryan O’Loghlen
has changed sides and become one of those nondescript
political monsters whom he used to describe as
“ Oligarchs."
The opening of letters in the Post Office has
been brought under the notice of Parliament; and this
reminds me that, following the lead of his betters, a
clerk in the Telegraph Office is accused of selling to a
Ballarat broker information wired from Melbourne.
Thus violence to first principles does injury allround,
and lowers public morals.
The Kew High School held their annual ath-
letic sports on Thursday, at the new recreation ground,
Kew. It was a cold, showery afternoon, and this in a
manner spoilt the sports. A great many ladies were
present, mostly relations of the boys, and the dresses,
though quiet in tone and colour, were much admired.
To-day I went to Williamstown to see the
Sorata in the graving dock. On descending into the
dock, everyone is struck with the completeness of its
arrangements. The Sorata is a noble vessel, and even
to feminine eyes presents, in what they call her
“ lines," a symmetry and beauty which is very strik-
ing. I was asked by one of the officers to admire her
“clear entrance," her fine “floor," and “handsome
run." “Nothing there to stop her way,” said my com-
? anion. Her injuries consist of a large hole situated,
was told, “ amidships, on her starboard bridge, close
to her keel." I have no doubt of the hole, because I
saw it, and doubtless in the place so described. In ad-
dition to this, there is some ninety feet of her keel
crushed inwards and upwards from bumping On hard
rock; and all along her “ floor " the plates to that ex-
tent are loosened in the seams, that they must have ad-
mitted a serious leakage. Altogether, from her appear-
ance, one is forced to admit that a great amount of
pluck, determination, and skill was display ed during
eleven weary weeks of hard work in overcoming the
difficulties of floating her again ; and all here hope that
for these things Captain Fowler will receive the con-
sideration generally accorded to success when called to
account for losing her. This reminds me of an old
story of Captain Moriorty, who once got a man-of-war
ashore in Port Jackson, which he afterwards succeeded
in floating. Whereupon he remarked that it was very
lucky he was there, otherwise the ship would have been
lost.
The stationers’ shop windows literally teem with
Christmas cards, among which are some of the most
beautiful I have ever seen.
Dr. Blair’s paper on “training nurses ” has re-
ceived favourable comment and should be read by all
women in the community.
Alexander Dumas says in his new work entitled,
“ Women who kill and women who vote ” that the
women who kill are those who have been wronged or
forsaken by their lovers and revenge themselves by
killing the ifaithless one. The author declares that they
do so because they are not sufficiently protected by the
law, and urges that this fact proves that the code of
law wants to be reformed. Most women will agree
with him.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be-glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with snort, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
he glad to receive authentic information in this regard
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed," to which column the at»
tention of our readers is specially directed.


Public Comp:
C
OMMEECIAL BANKIN'
SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £550,000. Reserve
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Joh
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , 1
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnsor
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head OpFiCE—George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burl
Gaden, Branch Inspector; Q,
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office—39 Lomb:
Directors: J. A Youl, Esq., C.:
Esq.; F. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel C
Branches in New South Wal
Anuidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral.
Campbelltown, Cannon bar, Carcoa
Cobar. Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, C
dra, Culal, Dubbo, Dungog. Forb
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gunda
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murrumndi, Murwillumbah (Tw«
brook. Narrabri, Newcastle, Narar
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Q
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singlet®
Tumbammba, Wagga Wagga, W:
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, W
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongon:
Young. With the following
Branches in Qukenslan d .- Bris
Maryborough, and Eockhai
Agencies in the C<
Victoria: The Bank of Victor:
Australasia, Colonial Bank
Commercial Bank of Austral);
South Australia .- The Bank of
National Bank of Anstralas:
Adelaide.
West Australia; National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Die:
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and Westi
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union
Manchester = The Manchester an
Ireland: The Belfast Bankinf
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco; The Bank of I
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Mor
India. China and Singapore : T
India, Australia and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Loi
Cetlon : The Chartered Mercan
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and C
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security,
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, i
lects bills payable at any of the i
elsewhere, at current rates; collec
in public companies, and interesi
for its customers in the investmei
ties in Great Britain or in the colt
to undertake the agency of Banks
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURATs
VICTORIA (LIM1
Established a.d.
NEW SOUTH WALE
9 Wynyard-street, I
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Ch
Ebenezer Vickery E
Andrew Drysdale, E;
This Society is established for L
granting of Annuities and Endow:
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the ent
Society at every attribution ther
LOANS granted on Mortgage oi
nmtiiwH nrith T.ifa
CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF F l
Ex Orient steamships LUSITANA and
I* RAP KS AND S FT A W are now mak
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the g
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOR
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OP
INSPECTION TO
PE APES AND SHAW.
NOVELTIES,
FOR
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
AND
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASE!
NE PLUS LEATHER DESI
ASSORTED SCENT CASKI
ROVAL CABINETS OF GAJ
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CAS
SILVER BROOCHES AND EAR!
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING
Gold wall and corner bra
P 'CKET MIRRORS AND TOILET (
LADIES’PANS FOR DRESS OR PRC
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS H
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND KOULj
LADIES Fitted TRAVELLING
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “ NOVEI
COMBINATION JEWEL CA:
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAI
CARVED WOOD BRACKET!
COMPENDIUM OP GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&c. &c.
Do yon want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentle
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SH
Bracket and
119 BATHURST STREET, SY
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangye Bro
Public Comp:
rjlHE AUSTRALIAN JOII
Incorporated by Act of *
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £1
Directors
Edward Lord, Esq., t
George A. Murray, Eaq. I Jere
William B. Walford, Esq. | Wil
Moses Moss, I
General Mana
Vincent Wanostrocb
Head Office, Si
City and Suburban 1
Haymarket | Redferr
London Office—18 King Wil
Branches throughout the Co
Wales and Queensland, and Ag
Colonies, Great Britain, A merit
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL (
BUSINESS.
IHE MERCANTILE BA1
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.l
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wils
SECRETARY
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, G
LONDON BANE]
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha]
Agent—G. H. Alexam
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the mostfavoi
Bills discounted daily.
Bills neg' (tinted and advances m
other produce shipped to England
USTRALIAN MUTUA]
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STR
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LI
AUSTRALIA
D I R E C T O 1
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., 3
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Depnty-(
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Is:
Robert J. Ring, Esq. S
CHIEF MEDICAL OI
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.B.C.P.
Terrace.
ACTUARY:
Mon-ice A, Black, F.I.A. ( J
Extract from Post Magazine (
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinqu
Society:— . . ; ‘ I-t is, as a w
plete statement ever issued by a
affords an incontestable proof that
success it tells is the result, not of
tical and theoretical ability, gove
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Loud
1880, says : —‘ No British Compan
with the Australian Mutual, which'
of its existence, has received in inti
than it has been called upon to paj
ACCUMULATED FUND, TH
STEELING.
IORNWALL FIRE AND I
ANCE COMPAN
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2Jd. PEE GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 35s., WITH PLUG 3.
ft
III 1
I
w
Ills
m
ii
'J*-
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
GALVANISED IKON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—631 GEORGE STREET.
pENTEAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTEECOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
T. B U E P I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Australian wine.—caemichael’s
PORPHYBY, equal to the finest Rhine Hook.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
December 18. 1880.


Tobaccoaisl
nn H E G E K
VIRGINIAN TOB
Comprising Every Des
Manufactured by the renowned 1
Richmond, Virg
To be had at the Whole
6 ? 9 GEORGE S
Haymarket.
C. LOUGH
JAMES
celebrate;
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Lei
Best Imported Br
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and J
159 PITT ST
Next Post Oflii
TIN TAG TOBt
None are genuine but the 3
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANK]
DIXSON & SO
155 YORK STREET
SMOKE
EUREKA GIG.
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
at
m
%
Manufactured 1
T. S A Y W E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACC
Clarence-street, S;
rjl H O S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSP
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, Sj
HOSE, Ac.
Chemists and Dn
m
r^a
m
IJ B L I C
N
THE following Li
WATSON’S RENOWNED I
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to tt
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wo:
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo
Watson’s Compound Chid
Watson’s Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Vem
Watson’s Excelsior Tooth
Watson’s Concentrated GK
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and r
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STR
11 OXFORD STR]
Near Hyde Park (
(N.B.—The Tram-car stoj
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Nov
the cA?Jlly
nfri
0 -
mt
m
W. D. E. thanks the public and
mi 4-lin anvumwt V, itVinw+o V»
Business Annour
W. H - p A
PIANOFORTE WAI
352 George-stn
PIANOFORTES. PI.
JUST RECEIVED. JUS
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROP
A splendid stock to se
EVERY RENOWNEI
AMERICAN OR
By the celebrated
W. BELL, A 1
Which gained first and i
OVER ALL OTI
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIO
HARMONIC
BY
ALEXANDRE and other REN(
in all the various:
A FEW GOOD SECOND-]
at low prices, now :
W. H. PALING, agent for Erarc
Sonfieto’s, Kirkman’s, and H
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Watei
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEORGE S
Opposite Wynyard
Sydney.
A (wO
Chemists and Dr
T
A K E NO MO
bat try
EANDERSON
PODOPHYLIN L02
Do you SUFFER from HEA1
Then try
PODOPHYI
Do you Complain of Indigesti
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, an<
RANDEESC
Do you constantly suffer from
If so rememb
podophy:
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MED!
Are any‘of your children sick
can safely give them one
for the small members of
TAKE WE:
W Remember this, and alway
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pi
EDWARD ROW and i
45 and 47 Goorge-si
JJY ROYAL LETTS
The Creates
WONDER OF TH1
JOSEPHSON’
AUSTRALIAN OIN'l
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Matte
Being made from the Wild Plan
in the Bush of New S01
This Ointment is not a mere ci
public, nor does it require any pt
as it has been so well proved for t
that it is impossible that the publ
long deceived. In fact, people are
lous regarding its effi-acy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the r
High and low, rich and poor, hai
fits from its use, and scarcely at
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of thee
The quick and instant relief fron
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP T
which, taken altogether, prove the
to be the Eighth Wonder of the 'V
and tender eyes, stillness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualities attending the human fi
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OP THI
Who would suffer from Sandy I
find immediate relief and be perf
Josephsou’s Australian Ointment t
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephsoi
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft C<
moved by applying constantly fo:
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns a
can Have immediate relief by aj
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoria
tion when a remedy like Jose
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles '
Josephson’s Australian Ointment i
It stands unrivalled. The won
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-en
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants ft
and totally free fr*m any and all
souous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S .
OINTMENT,
which is guorauted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storel
and Is 6d each throughout the col<
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
Til AT HP "P AT. T> TT
Vhm Oldest Cricketing
Depot in the Colonteo.
Adv
BATS bearing my NAME ca
The largest and best assorted stoc
in Sydney to Select
SYDNEY COHEN, Ir
408, George-stre
R I N T
Of Every Descrij
AT REDUCED


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS &
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
£IOALCLIP
When first sold In Sydney (twe;
lowest payable price was fixed FO
net, not only in view of the foreseei
Newcastle Coal, but also of a pre (
coal, and its low price—a prejudice
trade rivals. However, honesl ar
have pained it a fair trial and a st
mand; and now I have received
tomers, who have fairly tried it, nun
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM
KILNS, LIME-BURNING an
it not only saves, compared with any
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 pi
durability, but also produces a fire u
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, bi
sulphur, clinker or splinter. There
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bar
longer by using it; and all classes di
get used to its management they pre
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SN
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in to
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engi
235. Ditto double-screened
225. Ditto single ditto
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at curren
A. B.
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING COI
J
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESI
420 (late 4-10) GEORGE
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand,
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for tke country by
Country and Shipping orders prof
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA
lowest possible price consistent wit
and material.
Sole Agents, ROYLE an
JOHN
BRTNSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA
Prices, from 44 gur
Sole Agents, ROYLE am
JOHN
BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA
a five years’ guarantee given wit
Sole Agents, ROYLE am
Tg BINS MEAD
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AG
H. PALING, and appointed as SOI
TIVES for New South Wales Me
HOGG, to whom all applications foi
be made.
JOHN BRINSI
’OHN
BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA;
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all t
of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE end HOG
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores. Sy
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIAI
Gained first and only prize abovi
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and
Professional Addx
MR. JOHN B :
ADDRESS ;
Box 502. General Post Offlf
o NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
I
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE fga MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1378.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, See.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in ill) packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value ?
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements ottered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY. The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double —Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enamelled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot rail —Patent
Sanitary Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors —Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites —Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards —Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials —An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames—Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables —Papier,
machc goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets —Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes —Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Ser-vices
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match —Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from—Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper-
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Separate tables being laid out with
SPECIALTIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
K
ng street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see tlie New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Homcks s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, oil marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET,
FUN AND FANCY.
Public spirit—whisky.
A stuck-up thing—A show-bill.
A drunken steamer —The Titan.
Widows’ weeds are easily removed by an active
young husbandman.
“ Send in my ulster and a pair of clean sox,”
wrote an alderman to his wife.
An old thermometer is never very popular.
Nobody wants to see a thermometer over 70.
The difference between a hungry man and a
glutton—One longs to eat, and the other eats too long.
_ Statistics lately issued show that in Italy
17,000,000 can’t write. But they can play a hand organ.
A ‘' new chum ’ ’ says he never fully realized how
much more there is in anticipation than realization till
he attended a pic-nic.
A bachelor’s toast : —“ Marriage—The gate
through which the happy lover leaves his enchanted
regions and returns to earth.”
The last valse but four —time 2’35 a.m. Wife
of his bosom : ‘‘Don’t keep looking at your watch,
Algy! One would think you were in church."
Said the master to one of his pupils, “ In the
sentence ‘ The man kills the boy,’ what case would the
boy be ?” “ Car-case,” responded the smart youth.
The Emperor of Russia’s legitimate children
called him “ Sire,” while the others called him “ papa.”
It was Wales who alluded to his defunct parent as
“ My orful dad 1”
J osh Billings suggests that if a man is on his way
to the woods to commit suicide and a bull suddenly
gives chase, the chances are that he will run for his
life. A woman would, anyhow.
Lillie had the toothache, and cried. Said her
mother, “I am ashamed of you; I wouldn’t be such a
baby before everybody.” “ Oh, yes ; it’s all very well
for you." "Why?” “ Because if your teeth ache you
can take them out.”
/* The bearer has been in my house a year—
minus eleven months. During that time she has
shown herself diligent—at the housedoor; frugal—in
work ; mindful —of herself; prompt—in excuses ;
friendly—toward men : faithful—to her lover; and
honest —when everything had vanished.” Good for-
mula for a “character” for Bridget.
Said a candidate for Congress, who was making
a speech the other day in defence of himself against
charges made by a local paper, “ I scorn such impu-
tations. I shall not notice them. I have been unjustly
called a gambler, a drunken loafer, and a debauchee ;
hut, thank Heaven, no man has ever dared to breathe
a suspicion against my moral character.”
As my wife and I, at the window one day.
Stood watching a man with a monkey.
There came a cart by with a broth of a boy.
Who was driving a stout little donkey.
To my wife then I spoke, by way of a joke.
There’s a relation ot yours in that carriage.
To which she replied, as the donkey she espied,
“ Ah, yes ! a relation by marriage.
There is a Rabbinical tradition related by
Fabricius that, when Noah planted the vine, Satan
attended, and sacrificed a sheep, a lion, an ape, and a
sow. These animals were to symbolize the gradations
of ebriety. When a man begins to drink he is as meek
as a lamb; then he becomes as bold as a lion; his
courage is soon transferred into the foolishness of an
ape, and at last he wallows in the mire like a sow.
** Here is a sketch,” said the poet.
Unto the editor gray,
" That I tossed me off in an idle hour
To pass the time away.”
" Here is a club,” was the answer.
In a bland and smiling way,
“ With which I frequently toss me off
Six poets in a day.”
Here is an epitaph :—“ Sacred to the memory
ot Lady Elizabeth O’Looney, first cousin to Burke,
commonly called the Sublime. She was bland,
passionate, and deeply religious. Also she painted in
water colors, and sent many pictures to the Great
Exhibition, aqd of such is the kingdom of Heaven. She
lived the life of the virtuous, and died of cholera
morbns, caused by eating green fruit in the full hope of
a blessed immortality at the early age of twenty years,
three mos, and sixteen days. Reader, go thou and do
likewise!”
The New Arrival.
MA.
A charming little tiddy iddy bit of mother’s bliss,
A tiny toddles, sweet as flow’rs of spring;
A precious popsy wopsy—give its mammy, den, a kiss,
A pretty darling, itsy witsy ting!
Pa.
So that’s the little fellow ? H’m! A healthy-looking
chap.
Another mouth to feed as sure as fate !
No wife, I don’t consider that his coming’s a mishap,
But still I could have done with less than eight.
Brother.
My eye ! Is that the baby ? What a jolly little pup!
But, I say, ma, wherever is its nose ?
And I say, father, by-and-by, when he gets more grown
up.
He’ll wear my worn-out jackets, I suppose.
Uncle.
Another? Well, thank goodness, lam not a married
man,
What! Don’t I think him pretty ? No, I don’t.
To keep him from the workhouse you must do the best
you can.
Don’t think that I’ll assist you—for I won’t!
Doctor.
How are we getting on to-day ? I trust we soon shall
mend.
We mustn’t think we’re strong just yet, you know ; “
We’d better take a something which this afternoon I’ll
send.
And let me see—hum t—ha! —Ah, yes—just so.
Ndrse.
He’s lovely, that he is, mum ! See them sturdy little
legs!
He’s twice the size of Lady Smithers’ third;
And when he comes a-cutting of his little toosey pegs.
He’ll be a man, he will, upon my word.
Neighbour.
Oh, yes, dear, he looks healthy, but you mustn’t trust
to that —
I do not wish, of course, your hopes to dash :
But when I see a tender babe, so ruddy, strong, and
fat,
I—look, dear, on his face ! Is that a rash ?
Ma (da capo),
A charming little tiddy iddy bit of mother’s bliss,
A tiny toddles, sweet as flow’rs of spring ;
A precious popsy-wopsy—give its mammy, den, a kiss.
A pretty, darling, itsy-witsy ting !
—Pun.
December 18, 1880.


In one of our large public schools, not far from
Crown-street-,, a novel mode of inculcating kindness to
smimals has been adopted. A teacher on discovering a
beetle in the sch >ol, fixed it to his table with a pin, and
left it to writhe there. * *
Once upon a time a certain Brisbane dignitary
who is wont to style himself “ Your most obedient
servant, and whose late withdrawal from an exalted
position has caused plants to droop, and the birds and
beasts to cease from waking nature with their joyous
outbursts, pud a visit to one of oar public storehouses
° f -fi!' t ev, anf n° l V rl0 ai ltles ' r J? th e course of conversation
with the chief officer of the institution, who is not an
Englishman, the dignitary considered this gentleman’s
bearing not (> sufficiently deferental, and assumed his
• authority in such a manner as to overcome the
patience of the official, who, mildly gazing on Lewis,
hisCod If you do not get out ob dis, dere vill not be zo
much ob you lef’ as vill appear at de resurrection.**
rev seconds after the dictator could not he seen for
dust.
General election, 1880. Simple proportion, or
the rule of free drinks. If the 30 free and independents
of the Upper Hunter who, immediately after the de-
claration of the poll, drew their 2 new members round
the town of Scone in a buggy, being harnessed thereto
by ropes, visited the only 5 public-houses in the town
and in response to an invitation from the aforesaid 2
new members, or one of them, accepted the offer of
aid did consume 100 drinks at each of the 5 houses,—
What ratio would their then state bear to that of W
Clendming, the defunct candidate, when he told them
that he would have top’t the poll but for the rum and
sugar (qy., Roman sugar) ? Here
x = 100 x 5
=16.6’6’
30
•. product of extremes = product of means Q.E.D.
Ours is not the only Assembly which has a
preacher in its ranks. The Victorian Ninian Melville
is Mr. Henry Bell, one of the members for Ballarat,
who in his sermon on a recent Sunday evening, in
dealing with the injunction in the 1st Psalm, to avoid
the ways of the ungodly, came, by a very natural tran-
sition of thought, to speak of the Victorian Assembly.
He said he had been warned by his friends that he could
never retain his religion if he went into Parliament; but
he had found grace to preserve him, and now believed
that, if the Lord thought fit to send him to the “Gates
of Hell, He would give him sufficient grace to occupy
the position. Mr. B. did not say, but he left to be
interred, that the one position could not be much worse
than the other.
It is said that on the oecasion of the poll taken
at Lower Tenrnra for the Mudgee electorate an ardent
supporter of Mr. O’Connor’s entered the booth and
recorded his vote in the usual manner, and immediately
afterwards paid a visit to a hair cutting establishment
upon emerging from which he felt sufficiently rein-
venated and invigorated to once more give a plumper
for his favorite candidate. Not content with this, he
next proceeded to alter his appearance by assuming a
different attire, and then boldly and successfully re-
peated the experiment.
“ Birth.—Slattery.—November 30, at her resi-
dence, Premier Terrace, 173 William-street, Mrs. T. M.
Slattery, of a son.” —Herald.
Welcome, tiny cherub pink.
Image of your pa;
Keep your little weather eye
Steady on your pa I
Soon as you can speak, dear,
Toddle in the parks;
Watch your daddy “ give it ”
To Sirenriee Parques.
For solid ingenuousness, commend us to the
Daii,y Lynch. Following a notice of the Opera Com-
pany, in Tuesday’s issue, comes this delicious par.
“ By a curious mistake in our notice of yesterday, the
name of Madame Rose Hersee was substituted for that
of Miss Elsa May, and a clarionette solo (sic) was
erroneously included.” Now, there is something in
this that provides food for reflection. To “ substitute”
Rose Hersee for Elsa May is in itself a “rum” little
vagary, but when we see “ included ” in that charming
young diva a “clarionette solo,” we begin to wonder
what sort of people dish up the critiques of the Daily
Telabanger. It is evident either that the gentleman
who wrote the critique never went near the theatre or
that he had been to a picnic before entering upon his
nocturnal critical duties. The droll part of the affair
is, however, that the reporter, in his notice in Monday’s
' paper, considering that he is “ nothing if not critical,”
writes: —“ The choruses were not sung with the careful
accuracy which might have been expected from past
experience, but the orchestra was thoroughly efficient,
the clarionette solo with variations on the air “ The
heart bowed down” being as usual encored.” How
truly wrote Colton, when he observed, “ Criticism is
like champagne-nothing more execrable if bad, nothing
more excellent if good.” But, then, we suspect that
few, if any, of the Telegraph Solons have ever heard
of, much less read, the author of " Lacon.”
It was at a Pitt-street hotel. On the first floor
of this caravanserai lives the hostess—a lady, be it said,
of unexceptionable loveliness. It was a post-office clerk
who passed there regularly every morning. He was
wont to gaze up at the window at the ethereal form
seated at the casement, and sigh so heavily that he
usually burst off the two lower buttons of his waist-
coat. But day after day, as he passed and sighed, she
always appeared oblivions of his existence. Then he
sent letters, bouquets, gloves—even jewellery; he wrote
her that he was fading like an autumn leaf —withering
Uke a frost-bitten lily. All to no purpose, however.
The lady cheerfully accepted his presents, but firmly
declined his visits. Now, it so happened that the lady
ni question had two penchants—one was for cooking,
uad the other for her husband. The former she
sometimes gratified, the latter always. It came to pass,
one summer’s morn, that the fair enslaver hungered
for a beef-steak pudding. So having the necessary
ingredients brought upstairs
He passed again, in all the glories of a white waistcoat
und blue tie ; the tin “ cap ” of his 7s. 6d. “ gingham "
flashed, and his aluminium watch-chain sparkled ; he
looked up at the well-known window, and beheld her
whom he had adored waving something white, as
rignal. This was enough I With a bound he was on
the stairs ; with another, in the room. He rushec
forward to ker-lasp her to his breast, when she hastily
retreated. “I saw your signal, and I—” (he faltered.'
’Signal!” she replied, “I was shaking a pudding-
cloth out.” Then he suddenly remembered he was late
fer the office.
She stood in the dock at the W.P.C., sniffing at
the Bench in a supplicatory manner. She had on two
odd boots, a bonnet something the shape of a battered
kerosene-tin, and that badge of Sussex-street aristocracy
—k-.red shawl. Her nose was bulbous, and her dexter
•riio was artificially blackened. All her front leeth
■been knocked out, excepting one, which in size and
ur resembled the solitary molar of the gnome-king
pantomime. She was charged with stealing a
Pair of trousers, a table-cloth, and another (un-
mentionable) article, from the clothes-line of a
Neighbour. There were seventy-six convictions against
her in all, and her cognomen was “the Kent-street
terror.” Joe Lowe defended. “Your worships," he
after having glanced at a curl-paper, which repre-
sented his brief, “I shall ask you to disregard the
cadence in this case. My client is a lady possessing
perhaps those eccentricities which history tells ns the
jetrest and most accomplished of England’s belles are
"eir to, but her intentions are always good. You have
fjeard that she—hem!—adopted these things, and—
“Qmph!—temporarily deposited them —for safe keeping,
“Oubtless—with an avuncular relation. This we cheer-
ily admit. At the same time —well— t— that is to say
~~you see—” (in desperation)—" Gentlemen, look at my
Does she appear capable of such an offence H ”
there was a convulsive shriek, and when that had
mwsWed, “The Terror” was sent up for six months,
ri !S e sentenc o being pronouncad, she immediately
herself in an attitude of defence, assaulted the
Policemen, and. after a vain attempt to reach her
r~ voc ate, bawled out—“ And to think Mary Ann pawned
0ar quilt for this ?” Oh, Joseph! Joseph I
It 18 not generally known that magistrates
6S n dj ' uilcate n P° u cases in the absenoe of the
Dmang the recent elections an ex-M.P. was
V i n Sydney, for underrating the
when he himself was at a nomina-
wp ifi 8 ° f awa y- Lift e a late Chief Justice.
onj fnr Vhl m ’.. There 18 «ot one law for the rich and
one tor tne poor.
t terest ‘ n ® telegram reached us
. Brisbane last Saturday “ Considerable excite-
-s®,'Q a ®®“ sfc reet this morning. Swanwick. ML A.,
Bunch Byrne with horsewhip re article making
hl , m last Bunch. Byrne, after receiving second
closed, threw Swanwick on kerb, causing nasty
scalp wound back head, and tearing coat in half. Marks
blood still on pavement. Hooray !’’
~ juror was excused from serving at Dunedin on
tne ground that he was a chemist and had left a boy in
cnarge of his shop, who might poison half-a-dozen
people if unassisted. Judge Harvey remarked that the
excuse was similar to one in the celebrated trial of
Bardell v. Pickwick, and that in that in that case it had
not been allowed, but Mr. Dermer urged that his case
was the stronger one, because the boy he had left was a
Maori.
The Principal of the Scotch College, Hobart,
has been making vigorous attempts to bring some
sports off at the end of the year. Ha, on his own
account, issued “collecting cards” to the boys, and
the whole affair has been greatly ridiculed in Hobart.
“® masters of the school, en masse, kicked against it,
and the unlucky Principal has been again “ let in ” for
some rather unpleasant jokes among Tasmanian schools
generally.
A lady, residing in a fashionable locality, who
seemed to be in great grief, caused by the death of her
favorite daughter, was sitting in the parlor in a very
dejected attitude. She was disturbed by a friend com-
ing into the room for a pocket-handkerchief to cover
the face of the departed. The friend was told where
to obtain it. Then a thought suddenly struck the be-
reaved mother, for she rushed out of the room crying
loudly, ‘‘Take any you come across, but not my point-
lace one I"
This is how the editor of the Northern
Miner writes : ‘‘ Mr. [here we catch sight of
Judge Windeyer] goes to the meetings of the hospital
committee, apparently for the purpose of exhibiting
how low and brutal he can be. Whether whisky is at
the bottom of his brutality, or not, we do not care to
inquire. Some of his remarks on Thursday night were
worthy of the lowest pitman from his native Black
Country, and show the inherent and ineradicable bru-
tality of the man’s nature. Scratch a Russian, and
yon come to a Tartar; scratch ————, and you come
to the bestial pitman of the English collieries. We
refrain from publishing his ruffian remarks on Thurs-
day mght, and, in meicy to him, keep them from the
puhlic who, if they learnt them, would yell him off
the held.
There haa been a terrible row at a Southern
college. The daughter of the Principal and one of the
hoarders have been wooing Cupid. She has been sent
to a nunnery, and he, “the noble scion of a noble
house,” who tried to run away with her, has been con-
fined to a class-room for the remainder of the term.
The Principal says he can’t endure “ married boys.”
It would seem, after all, that the Marquis de
Ray’s emigrants are not doing so badly, and that the
Marquis' speculation is a bona fide one. The editor,
who some months ago wrote “there ore no words in
the vocabulary sufiiciently strong with which to ade-
quately denounce the heartlessness of this little
swindle,” must be feeling that he has been a little
hasty. It’s lucky, anyhow, that the Marquis is not a
reader of the little handbill in which this stuff appeared.
Lucky for the editor.
“ Are yon Mrs. TibbeyP” asked Inspector Hyam
of a witness at the Central Police Court on Friday.
Then there was a pause, during which the woman drew
her plaid shawl, in a dignified manner, about her undu-
lating form. “ I ham Z” she at length haughtily re-
plied. “Christian name?" “ Hangelina Hemily.”
“ ’Ow many rooms ’ave you got in your 'ouse ?” en-
quired of her a well-known lawyer. “ Yes, ’ow many
hupstairs,” put in a J.P.—and so it went on. The offi-
cial in charge of the Court now says that he will re-
quire an assistant, as it takes him too long every even-
ing sweeping up the H’s.
The Y.M.C.A. Muffin Wrap saith:—“ In the
last issue of the New Zealand Christian Record we
find the following ‘ The New South Wales Young
Men’s Christian Association is doing good work. Its
Monthly Notes is interesting.' A fortnight before the
Melbourne Southebn Cross was kind enough to speak
of us as “ an enellent little paper, and well calculated
to serve the important purpose for which it is issued.’"
These are indeed notices to be proud of. Why in thun-
der can’t some of these influential (!) journals give The
Bulletin a lift. We entreat them to do so. If they
comply with our humble prayer we can promise to
return them our printed thanks, and pepper (and salt)
with them.
A man recently stole a bottle containing “ Bal-
main brandy ’’ from a public-house not a thousand miles
from Mort’s Dock. He was seen to take it, and a cus-
tomer informed the landlord of the occurrence, saying
“ Shall I fetch a policeman P" But the landlord merely
smiled darkly, and shook his head in a negative manner.
Shortly afterwards he was observed to go out in the
yard, and “laugh consnmedly." . . . A week later,
a pale, gaunt, and attenuated form crawled into the
hotel, and putting down threepence on the counter,
demanded a nobbier. “Of what ? ” enquired the land-
lord ; “ Balmain brandy ? ” The pallid face became
livid. “ No, thank’ee,” replied the man ; “ it’s too ex-
pensive a drink for me. The last bottle I drunk cost
me £3 in doctors." So he drank up the rum, and glided
out; and the Boniface immediately proceeded to bait
the trap once more.
We trust that Lady Burdett-Coutts’ friends will
be careful not to show her the Balmain paper. Her
Bodyship gets a severe setting down in that journal:
ana, mind you, when the Independent does fasten on
tu. an , y ,9 ne > V 1 ’ 8 rea lly. yon know, something terrific,
j ihe slating, however, of the Baroness, in which she is
accused of meanness, may be termed one of the un-
kindest Ooutts of all.
When A. B. Rae last lectured in Sydney there
was one solitary spectator in the gallery at the Masonic
Hall, who appeared to pay profound attention to the
discourse. A. B. having concluded, the people woke
up and departed, leaving the gallery outcast still a fix-
ture. Mounting the stairs the literary Rae woke him np.
Ihen he rose, saying, "Thanks, ole fler (hie)—why
where—(hie) —oh, thought I was at the (hie) circus."
~ A doctor amputates the little toe of a patient in
the Sydney Infirmary, Thereupon a reporter of the
evening Pellet pounces down, takes full notes, de-
scribes the nature of the operation, tells the doctors he
has been under, and the hospitals he has been through,
and finally winds up by calling the affair one of the
most remarkable surgical operations on record, &c., &c.
John Hennessy, a collector, fell down in a dying
condition while Sir Henry Parkes was speaking at the
Mayor-elect s banq net, and expired shortly after reach-
ing the Infirmary. “Hennessy,” so the doctors
said, was the cause of death. As has already been
stated by us, the sudden decease of a man at Mr David
Buchanan’s election meeting at Mudgee was attributed
to David having wielded the weapon with which Sam-
son slew his thousand ; but it wouldn’t he fair to make
a similar accusation against the Premier.
The new appointments made by the Government
to the Upper House would make it Luc-as though they
wanted to fill the Chamber. One man amongst them
will have to Levy’s office a little earlier to attend. The
Moore Jack Smith tries to climb up the pelitical Hill
the more will he find his Bales slipping, and he must
go Onslow-ly till he is King. Suttornly this has com-
posed by someone in office hours, Higginst the rules •
but as his boss was busy at the time writing up the
new Lunacy Bill, the sub. jumped at the chance.
A well-known young gentleman, living at En-
field, has a decided penchant for wild animals, and
visitors have to be “ kinder keerfnl.” The menagerie
contains the following:—Four snakes, two iguanas,
one adder (rather deaf), one riug-tailed opposum (minus
tail, bitten off by a dog), a native bear, a kangaroo, two
tom-cats, an imported dog, of the “ litter” species—a
present from some admiring frjends—a paddy-melon, an
emu, and a jew lizard. He hasn’t been long in the
country, and wants to get together a collection. The
bear is a great favorite, and takes np most of his
owner s attention. Some friends have suggested that
ha should purchase a “yahoo," and he has written for
one, and also a black boy to " shepherd " him. His
how completely occupied in chewing bread for
the bear and coloring a meerschaum pipe.
A well-known gentleman recently endeavoured
to “ run" a church at a certain country town,
but finding the offertory by no means encouraging re-
sorted to informing against sly grog sellers as a more
certain way of raising theindispensible. He had, how-
ever, to beat a very hasty retreat to escape vengenoe.
Let ua give this in its entirety. We need hardly
remark that it is clipped from the Evening Ciecula-
tion : —“We are glad to be able to state (says the
Dubbo Dispatch) that Mr. Norton’s condition con-
tinues to improve. He is thoroughly sensible, and his
wound is apparently healing fast. His right side and
arm are still paralysed, but it is said the arm has shown
slight signs of sensibility. He is also unable to articu-
late." There must have been something wrong with
the Hogue-garthian scissors!
A well-known clergyman, whose godliness is
beyond question, is setting to the inhabitants of a
charming marine suburb a most commendable example
in the matter of cleanliness. He is evidently of opinion
that poor people don’t require much fresh air, and has
been building on pieces of ground 30 ft. x 40 ft. wigdow-
less, low-roofed cottages, the outhouses attached to
which are within a few feet of the doors. It is believed
that he wouldn't go to the expense of having any doors
at all to his human styes were he able to induce his
tenants to ascend and descend the chimnies. “ For
such is the kingdom of Heaven."
The other day a woman gave a certain police
court lawyer ten shillings to conduct a summons case
for her. The moment he clutched the “ half-guinea,"
he vanifhed over the way to see a man. When ne came
back he found the case just over, and his client vic-
torious. “Is this the way you take my money and
don’t appear i” screened the client on beholding her
advocate. The lawyer was about to make a deprecatory
reply, when afaoetious J.P. remarked, “In our opinion,
my good woman, Mr. Doe-and-Eoe has done you a very
good turn. You ought in mere justice to give him
another fee.” The court was, of course convulsed; and
yet unto this day that lawyer can’t make out what they
were laughing at.
Several journals have recently been started on
the lines of The Bulletin. The latest about the Auck-
land paper is that the editor, who, according to his own
account, weighs eight stone seven, and has heart disease,
was the other day attacked at his office by 40 men,
several big sticks, and a bull-dog, on account of his
having printed a paragraph in this strain-“ Messrs.
Dargaville, Greenwood, and Hopkins, were resplendent
in the uniform of British officers. The costume suited
the two former admirably, but the last-named looked,
if possible, worse than he does when he walks about
town in riding trousers." There was great trouble in
Sandhurst the other day over a reference mode by our
Melbourne imitator to a local celebrity, who took upon
himself the task of breaking the supposed writer’s jaw,
and for so doing had to pay £IOO and publicly apologise.
We manage things better in Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dan O’Connor has been picnicked.
Mr. Bligh, the Warden of Gympie goldfield, has
died suddenly.
A damp bed was what gave G. F. Grace the cold
which killed him.
Mr. C. N. J. Oliver has been appointed Under-
secretary for Lands.
Madame Thiers, widow of the late President of
the French Republic, is dead.
Dr. Carroll, of Gonlburn, burst a blood-vessel
on Saturday last, and is seriously ill.
The Queensland Premier goes to London to
float the Trans-Continental Railway Company.
Alderman Harris has been elected Mayor of
Sydney. He polled fifteen votes to Mr. Hardie’s five.
Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus were shown
over the Colonial Secretary’s offices on Monday by
Sir Henry.
The father of Mr. W. K. Thomson (of James
M’Ewan and Co.) died at Glasgow on 3rd iust. at the
npe old age of 80 years,
'* Dr.” L. L. Smith, the mover of the want of
confidence motion in the Berry Ministry, speaks the
most execrable of cockney English.
Mr. W. T. Pinhey, J.P., acts as coroner for the
Metropolitan district during the absence of Mr. Shiell.
This appointment has given general satisfaction.
The editor of the Melbourne Age, Mr. A. R.
Windsor, is a freetrader “ in principles,” whatever that
may mean. He originally came out to the Argus.
M. Gounod, composer of “ Faust,” is about to
write an oratorio in three parts, to be called “ The
Redemption," for the Birmingham Festival in 1882.
M. Jules Joubert denies that he has made any
to stay permanently in Victoria. He
says that he intends, as long as he can, to make Sydney
his home.
Colonel Scratchley’s engagement by the colonies
will shortly expire by effluxion of time, but there is
little doubt that the Colonel will be asked to extend the
duration of his visit.
Truth says that the stories circulated to the
effect that the Prince of Wales is in an unsatisfactory
pecuniary condition, and that that is the reason he does
not visit Australia, are pure nonsense.
We have received from Mr. William Maddook a
copy of Mr. Henry Kendall’s new volume of verse, en-
titled, “Songs from the Mountains," and will take an
early opportunity of noticing the same at length.
Anton Rubinstein, the champion pianist of the
world, intends making a tour round the world. Pro-
bably ho will visit Australia, when the Sydney folk
may expect a greater treat than Ketten afforded them.
One of the United States Presidential candidates
had a rather lively time of it. During the ten days
ending September 30th, 5210 persons visited General
Hancock on Governor’s Island. It is not difficult to
think of this as being altogether too much of a good
thing.
Mr. Gresloy Lukin was, on Saturday evening
last, entertained at supper by the members of the
Johnsonian Club, the literary den” of Brisbane, and
was presented with a handsome album containing the
portraits of all the members. The Hon. S. W. Griffith
presided.
When William Saurin Lyster died he was in
affluent circumstances. He held a sixth in a £30,000
property, the leading Melbourne theatre—was the
owner of a farm worth between £15,000 and £20,000
and had a good bank balance : the fruits of enterprise
and good judgment.
John Donnellan Balfe, of Hobart, has had a
paralytic stroke. His wit and safe counsel will be much
missed in the Assembly. He has not been doing much
writing lately, but what he has written, like his
speeches, will long be remembered as the emanations of
a mind quite in keeping with his giant body.
Mr. Ramsay, the ex-Chief-Secretary of Victoria,
said the other night in the A ssembly, with reference to
the capture of the Kelly gang, that “ after several inter.
I views with Mr. Hare, he induced him to take up the
matter, and at the final interview Mr. Hare said he
would not return to Melbourne without the men having
been caught.” The result is well known.
On the 18th November, whilst Mr. and Mrs.
Thurston were on the verandah or their private resi-
dence at Nosova, leaning against the railing, the
woodwork gave way, precipitating both on to the steep
descent below. Mrs. Thurston sustained a fracture of
her arm and the tendons of the knee-cap were severely
injured. Mr. Thurston escaped with a sprain of his
left wrist.
That the Hon. William Highett, M.L.C., of
Melbourne, should have died intestate must be very
vexatious to his numerous nephsws, whose expecta-
tions have been of the greatest. However, now that
the lamented gentleman has "gone home," all the
relatives in question can do is to wait patiently until
nie heir-at-law, a son of an elder brother, arrives from
England to administer to the estate.
In “ Charles O’Malley ” there is an account of a
commissioned officer who complained to the Duke of
Wellington in camp that an officer of division had
threatened to hang him if certain stores were not ready
at a given time. The Iron Duke’s reply was, “ Then
I’d advise you to have them up, for he is sure to do it.”
The commissariat officer afterwards settled at Braid-
wood, and was the father of the present member for
that electorate.
When the Australian cricketers arrived at Sand-
ridge, from England, they were met by a loving crowd,
at least so far as the ladies were concerned. A drug
and four was sent to convey them all to the city, but
no cricketers were visible when it got to the spot. A
search was made, and they were found in various places
under the pier, behind the piles, Ac., welcoming in
orthodox style their girl friends, who ware determined
not to be at the heel of the hunt.
One of the leaders of fashion (writes a Mel-
bourne correspondent), who rarely patronises thatluse-
ful vehicle the ’bus, had occasion to travel in one
lately. A working man was seated next where she took
her place. His arm was stretched oat behind her on
the edge of the window, which was open. She requested
to remove his arm, as she wished to lean back
Right you ore, mum," replied he, “ but mind, I didn’t
put it there for no love I’ve got for yer: it’s for me own
convenience."
Poor Lord Mountmorria wrote, only a few days
before his murder, to a creditor of his in Dublin, ask-
ing him to renew for the third time a bill for £2O, add.
ing, “ For a year and a hah I have received no rent.
My income does not exceed £lOOO. I have just got
decrees against my tenants—execution to be stayed
until after the harvest." He attended the ball given at
Cong, the other evening, by Lord Aridilaun. All the
guests went armed. Lord Aridilaun next morning found
a deep grave dug in front of his own hall door.
The Bboa Standard somewhat paradoxically
says that “ with the amorous vagaries of a certain high
judicial functionary in everyboly’s mouth, it is cleariv
our duty to draw attention to the matter." It adds •
We are not going to sully our pages with the disgust-
ing details. Suffice it to say, we have the testimony of
seven well-known residents to bring forward at an
enquiry that the(Government must, and doubtless will.
ho!d, to prove that the high office of a judge is dis-
graced by the conduct of the man who holds it."
.4: rumour is abroad that we are shortly to be
d m- slj axwel j^. or ’ as Bhe is m< > r e generally
known. Miss Braddon This clever novelist has, owin'g
partly to her husband’s help as a publisher, made a
f£“ d8 ° me . f ??*une through her pen. Her first essay in
the art of literature was that famous work, “ Lady
8 S® cre t, published in an unknown halfpenny
work of fiction. The honorarium she received for this,
one of the best novels of oar time, amounted to the
magnificent sum of £lO. It was a case similar to that
of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe and “Uncle Tom’s
Danin, which, after much perseverance on the part of
its author, originally found a publisher in the pro-
pnetor of an insignificant American newspaper. Mrs.
~~s remuneration for a work almost as widely read
as the Bible, was 15 dole.
Bobby Byrne
Gave a “turn”
To Swauwick, MIA,
“ When I meet him,
Then I’ll bear, him I ”
Swan wick bold did say.
They met and fought,
A.ud things turned out
Not as they ought;
For it is said
That Bobby broke poor Swan wick’s head.
FRANCIR SAVAGE, A.B., SURVIVOR. OF THE SANDFLY MASSACRE.


BOXING DAT,
DECEMBER 27, at 12 o
On the Ground,
THE NEW MARINE TOV
NEWPORT.
THE HE AD OP PITTW
WITHIN EASY DISTANCE '
THE PORT of the MAGNIFICENT
THJ) RHINE of AUSTR
Mills, pile, and gilchei
instrnctions to hold a SECO
GEOVND, NEWPOI
on
BOXING DAY,
DECEMBER 2
at 12 o’clock,
of the UNSOLD ALLOT
of the
NEW MARINE TOWNSHIP £
which has been laid out on a t
STREETS 66 FEET and 32 F
The ALLOTMENTS have each 66 F
and are from 200 to 600 feet
The Government have secured a
the TOWNSHIP for a PI.BLIC SC
A CENTRAL SITE has been rese
TELEGRAPH OFFICES.
NEWPORT possesses the following
*** IT IS NEAR a beautiful
at tho head of a lovely bay
headlands.
*** It lias extensive frontages
of PITT WATER LAKE.
*** THE LINE of STEAMEJ
WATER and the Hawkes
NEWPORT WHARF.
**» THE SCENERY is beaut
the views from tho adjac
most extensive, the vegetf
*»* IT WILL be the head oen
and FISHING PARTIES
AS A PROOF of its prospects, it
that although the HOTEL (now
house only, until a license is got fo
occupied ONE MONTH, yet the
APPLICATION for 12 additional r<
contribute to tho cost of tho same.
ATTEND THE SAI
LIBERAL TERM
T 5 deposit on each lot, balance
LITHOGRAPHS NOW
HEA T E E
Lessee
Manager
Acting-Manager for Opera Company
LYSTER’S ROYAL ITALIAN AND
AND OPERA BOUFFE C 1
Conductors...Ghas. Van Ghele an
POSITIVELY LAST TWC
of
CARMEN.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING
Bizet’s world-renownet
CARMEN.
On SATURDAY EVENING, Dece
request,
LA PILLE DE MAD AMI
in which Mr. CECIL BURT will mi
ance on any stag!
Dress circle, ss; stalls, 3s; upper
XTEEN ’ S T H
Managers . Messrs. Coppin, Her
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY. Ifl
HAMLET.
HAMLET.
HAMLET.
For the farewell BENEFIT of M
SATURDAY. 18th De.
DRIVEN FROM H(
AND THE IRISH VOLI
In active preparation, with all t
Theatre Royal, Melbourne, and
Sydney, the Christmas Pantomime
JACK THE GIANT-K
ivr a s o n i c
YORK STREI
A OBAKD
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL UN-
Tendered by tho members of the
Dramatic and Musical Societj
TYERMAN BENEFIT
will take, place in the abc
TUESDAY, EVENING, DE(
Front Seats, 2s ; Back S
D. BI
m ■m i XT I , r> T Id (( TO
T
HE CLOSING LAND S
YEAR 1880.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD
FOR UNI
ON THE GROUND,
by
BATT, RODD, AND I
ST. JOHN’S WO
IN AREA ABOUT 40 .
has been
SUBDIVIDED on an entirely N
which is certain to meet the approv
SALE ON THE GROUND,
BOXING DAY,
by
BATT, RODD, AND ]
ST. JOHN’S WOOD is
«#*Almost opposite that wellknc
GENT’S PARK, but is nearer to
andROOKWOOD Stations, and is
pick) of the
CHISHOLM ESTiS
&T Without exaggeration, the
ELEVATION excel those of any
miles of Sydney.
®r A RICH BLACK SOIL ride
with good specimens of both box a;
indications of the RICHNESS O
COMMANDING most clear and e>
surrounding scenery.
BATT, RODD, AND ]
ST. JOHN’S WO(
«3T THE ESTATE is now being
Licensed Surveyor BINSTED, ai
ready in the course of a few days.
THE ROADS are all being ]
the Reserves as well ns the allotn
ont and numbered, and signposts ei
of each street, so that the public w
CULTY at the time in viewing
identifying the several lots.
THE TITLE is FREEHOLD AN
03- TERMS. TERMS.
JeS DEPOSIT ON EACH ALL
BALANCE BY 24 MONTHLY II
ONLY 6 PER CENT. INTEREST
N.B. —IN LIEU of discount to CA
the VENDORS will give FREE ;
OTHER PURCHASERS will conv
in payment-of the full purchase m(
T. JOHN’S
I
SAALEON THE GROUNI
DECEMBE
As the SALE DAT is a PUBLIC
TICKETS will bo issued to those w
families the Pleasure of an Excurs
AMUSEMENT'S for CHILDRE
Refreshment Tent will be open
5 p.m.
Conveyances will ply all day to
and the estate.
BATT, ROD
T . JOHN’S
«3*THE SPECIE features in th
1. THE RESERVES, which ai
MORE LIBERAL scale 1
EVER OFFERED TO TF
2. ALL the ALLOTMENTS tl
are of UNIFORM DEPTI
3. ALL FRONTAGES are to
the RESERVES, which ii
wide, and bounded on each
wide) make the total width
&,r ONE HUNDRED AND FIT
t. SITE, SOIL, and ELEVA’I
5. WITHIN EASY WALK
STATIONS.
WBONA FIDE SALE—ABSOL
RESERVE.
THE AUCTIONEERS with co
ESTATE in the MARKET for UF
anticipating from the public the 6
that has been accorded to them or
SALES the/ have held during the
BATT, ROB
HHE GREAT LAND SAD
THE FAMOUS “GIB” I
THE NEW TOWNSHIP OF
“GIBRALTAR" and “NOR']
NOTICE TO ir.-M V’xSl.i .•‘OR MINE!
NOTICE is hereby given, that üßlcrn 1« irer? execute and 1
Mineral Lease within thirty dcj'- £• it will be -
NOTICE TO API j i'-.' ' - S.i ' ±t GOLD-M
NOTICE is hereby given that unit: ai . L execute and
Gold-mining Leases within thr ’ , '■■■• "Ais date, the
NOTICE TO AFPMC NTH EOJi GOLD-M
NOTICE is hereby given that nnlc: : tI ’ ■ execute and
Gold-mining Leases within third» ‘ • ‘■ vo ■ • date, they
a7l- 77
A 72- 2
A 72- 63
72 lit
154
a 72-156
72-
„ 342
„ 382
73- 57
„ 1.59
.. 287
A 73-301
~ 302
„ 303
73-
„ 332
„ 333
„ 342
„ 347
„ 355
„ 366
„ 357
„ 35H
„ 363
„ 364
367
„ 381
„ 395
74- 33
309
m
768
Name.
r-" TT.ocixr IJ saiJiicT.
F. Harvey and others ...
C. T. Gaban and others
J. Watson and another
| r -. A. Joseph and another
'V. Porter and others
r . Williamson and another.
1 1. Ward and others
'V. Johnston and another .
J). Hogg and others
W. Ley and another
P. Cram
W. Ehrlich and others
J. Watson and another
Do
Do
Yic.(i'-'::.io Hill, near 0
White Hose Reef, En
Pij.eHc.ff Reef, Dona 1
HaisfeiSl M'Mahon I
TTf. :ito Bog Reef, Adc
■Wombat
w?r Hercules Eohinso
QraatK Hill, Chance
Bruil oC Hope Reef, I
do
O, Hill Gully. Bi
D'.vcArg's Gully, Bur
N> .Tmction of Ara
do
Hw Bnilorts Gully, ,
r r jr. B dlor’s Gully,
• do
‘7-ovv Adelong
i- y . Vriocnt Reef, Sh<
Fr.iv Irioc Reef, east e
Isfo. r Bant Golden C
bla. viin.ven River, F*
v . Vgvcu River Go
do
2 c.xit of Wollan 1
T• -ft btciic of Adelong
v<- .. Bailor’s Gully, i
:\c. 2 V7cst Excelsior
New C3fca Hill, Kiai
:■ '’smucr.
L. Byrnes and others . Ld.t.ei j,..ver, Williaa
A. Munro and others .. ■ i ™
J. Thvnue and others 1 ■ ;o. aver Gold i u
t . i , . a --
J. M‘Kain and others
S. Croker and others
Do
R. Taylor and others
J. Lamond and others
S. Wollan and others
R. Smith and others
J. M'Kain and others
M. Keoughand others
H. Manton and another ...
C. Hoswell and others
All Toy and others
S. Wollan and others
J. Macintosh and another
A. Stewart


Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and ARLELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
f f'ent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-si., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1830. — GEO.
BENCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Solo Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-stroot.
SWALLOW AND ARLELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2, 7,14, and 231bs each, and in casks of 14, 2, 3,
and 6J cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
*pd 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Euooro Sance,
Jid assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
QHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMAEKET.
TEA, Is per Ih.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City aud Suburbs daily.
■ COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. OHUBOHWOOD,
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horso Brand Se.lt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Jnst arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, aud OO.
-Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
JjJ CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
ANTHONY HO E 0 C N & SONS,
OF Tlxj ■
HAYMAKER
CHRISTMAS AND X E V K ./ J PEESE N T S ! !
Welcome news for all those affectionate Et-ia v>, Sisters, Brothers, Lovers, Wives
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., Ac.., ,ul 4.1 >—ah to gratify those they love with a
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHRISTMAS or ■; '' 1 * . < '.‘’S DAY, but who “really don’t know
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORiUKRN AND SONS’
PALACE SHOW .iOoivCS,
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELITItS • ' r ’.ry civilized country under the sun,
INCLUOev. >
FAX'
ALBTTiIS,
lACELSJTS,
OPERA
DRESSING OAST.S,
FANCY PE&sj’UM CY,
ILLUMINATI AT, M IKS.
RUSSIAN LEA'PHHB G'.rdie,
LOVELY DOLLS ITBOM lav VO X,
SEALSKIN PURSE POCAEI SUO IS,
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIO?-. VATC3ES,
STATUETTES, OLEOG'A VCS, ,T K ’ELLERY,
LADIES’ COMPANIONS, CLOCKS. C0’, JGBTINAS,
JET ORNAMENTS, MAN'. ML .t 04 J>l ~ .cLAMENTS,
TRAVELLING BAGS, SORT. ‘ . Si.’Al.U*.-. '-2Y, VASES,
WORK BOXES, FRENCH TOY:-'.. O i COYS, PURSES.
TOILET SETS, PHOTOGRAPH! Cv i,; HE '.SITE FRAMES,
CHINESE GOODS, INDIAN GOOI . A ,»••£. DILET GLASSES,
DRESS HOLDERS, NECKLETS, INK-STAND- -.COCOPEER WITH A VERY
FINE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER GOOD. OC- ... C*> EYOU3 TO PARTICULARIZE.
And you cannot fail to make a selection, ju i;> .ui-C i •. opy ! BUT NOTE THIS FACT,
THAT OUR ONLY ADDRESS IS
ANTHONY HOE)) H.L S $■ SONS,
HAYMABKGT i.
NEAR THE KAIL WAY Sj.A'.G.ON, 3TDKEY.
Business Cards
[Lesal.J
s
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
M A C L E 0 D.
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
KEARET BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
G.
AND S. P R E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
JPOWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
OBERT BUTCHER & C 0.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
E.
MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
O N.
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l2l ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
.1. LAIVLEE,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
60S Goorge-streot.
I!
IIEAD OFFICES:-363 (late 217), GEORgE-
-1 STREET
• Capital, 1100,000. Subscribed, i 11,019.
Directors :
Sir I'. A. Jennings. R.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Aldermen John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. ] Hon. P. Higgins.
T. .1. Chapman, Esq., J.P. ! E. J. Ruble, Esq
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fee-
or other expenses : premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMEN l’.~Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS Ln "
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDK K s
participate iu the profit.
JAMES S. HR AY.
Secretary
iMm.
lh~
;•//
h~
P
ASSO
mHE NATIONAL MUTUAL FINK
1 ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited .
Established 1860.
The only Lile Office iu the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
Now South Wales Branch : 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dikuctoks ;
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E, Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddnlph, and Alsop)
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
II JThe whole of the profits made by tho Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is iu
K inq-st root.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, t<>
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from Is lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from -Is 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4.)d per
pair, Ladies' Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fischus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, Ac., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time iu placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
TEAMWAY TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS,
G R O C B B S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WESES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
B
O OTS !
BOOTS ! !
boots::!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
N
AT
H. HILD E E ’ S
EW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
all new goods, just landed,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
®gr NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. MILDER,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
GLASS O N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Harris-street, off G®oroe-street,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would bog to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which wonld cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. O. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder ol Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Hanis-stroet, near Railway Bridge.
R. L A R K I N,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-4S George-strcet West (late Parramatta-strcet),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
p. r. laTrkin,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
I. IA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
O, AND COLOR MERCHANT,
I mporter of Paporhangings,
Oils, Colei’s, Varnishes,
_ite Lead, Glass, Brushware,
: ) d Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
7 'euders. Tiles, and Grates,
■ md Picture-Frame Mouldings.
:i I r.'j), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
r J.C A R V E Y,
9 * "''XU 1LWEIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
>Ay axi) Enoink Stukkts.
Established 1851.
; >■•■ r, f ■ JSGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
.- TSSS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
J ■ .jtors would find it to their advantage
i . ' -j .arge stock of seasoned material
1 ’ 11 ■ ■ ' " Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. H A R V E Y,
Ay and Engine Streets.
I T ! N O W T H E OPINION
T -,T THE EXHUilTlOX OK 1880
IS AT
!. ; ; AU .RICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
■ i i ■, i; peeted to buy what yon do not require.
(Opposite Court-house),
DABLINOHUB8 T.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
313 AXII 345 KENT-8TEKET, XEAQ KtSTO-STREBT.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
It. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal aud Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
.T. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilotand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M, Hunt & Co.’s Goulbnm Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEBET, near Kij g-stroet.
E
LOUR S U P E B ■ F I N E.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
M
A I Z E N A
F L O U R.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bag’s or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN VVEAKNE.
CO.,
TAMES P E M E L L AND
• VICTORIA PLOUE KILLS,
sussex-steEet,
XK.U1 THK HAiMARKBT.
OFFICES AND STORES :
7! 17 GEOKGE-STKEET SOUTH. SYDNEY*
OPPOsm: THK RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,:
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Kay and Chaff,
Potatoes, &c.
s
YDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMP ANA
(LIMTIED).
Winners of the FIRST PHI/>^-Vienn ;i
▼Philadelphia, 1^76 ; and GOLD MED AT., Pans, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EATRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the .-stablialunents ot—
Messrs. H. S. Bin! and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, Gaorgc-street
,T. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-stroet
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, ParKunatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-pboa
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street. Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STEEET.
JOHN M c M IN N AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS. PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Specpv.1 attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Interooloniai shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
MJmm
Jtar ir.RTTJirt
a mai h a v as nr
j V :v fit. NOTIONS, ARTICLES OP USEFUL
NTION, FANCY GOODS, &c.
'fOi'S . . jCiuUty—every description. We are
v itifaoturers and Importers.
, A ;,- j. • lot PE ALL CEMENT tof mending
' 'fi , Or Ass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
1 ■ i • , 7 . in; TINCTURE —instn daueous relief in
worst cases.
.
I r£t>v-'. - ls> «•. Aow Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
.* - f i. I kN NOVELTY COMPANY,
40S GEORGE STREET
(S ,M-.y posite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
' : '"> AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.


REMEDY
CIIAHSINt
10 WATER FILTER /
mm
FOR I M P U
RAPID WAT
THE UNDERSIGNED ar
Rapid Wateb Filteb, whic
others by the English and Foi
Medical Profession, Hospitals,
found in every establishment oi
dom and the whole of Europe
most remote parts of the Glo
other Filter. Its superiority
rapidity of action, simplicity o
ciency is verified by the numer
been awarded in England, the
Australia.
Thousandf had a d/rink of
were placed in the Garden Pc
Exhibition.
GUARD against TTPHOI
arising from drinking impure w
CHEAYIN’S RAPII
GEORGE STREET, STD
JEYES’
Non-poiaonous!
PERFECT PURII
Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An!
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in 1
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials
From Dr. Dansey; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for house
by all classes of Society. Prom Rev. Geo. Woolnowgh.M
for my throat I could not desire anything more effect™
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Syo
equal as a disinfectant and purifier.—-From J- h. Neuter
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit
Purifier is unrivalled. __ TT a/vrrT ,
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-i
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sy
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
CD
(*
it
PRIZE
COCOA
CO
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Speciai First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
B'A
CD
0*
OC
These goods i
fresh, wholeson
and genuine. T
Exhibition Judg
Eeport says:—
“ Deserving
special notice. T
quality is fu
equal to imports
they are well a
tastefully got uj
CO
PD,T!ZE
IVlUstarO
(RINGER’S GENUINE SEW
ALL FOEMEB YEAES OUTDONI
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE
TEA IMPORTEI
EASTERN AND COl
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignment
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualith
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prii
PRESERVES—Indian P
COFFEE—Plantation No
Do. „ Pe
Do. „ Nc
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B 1
OFFICES :—348 GEORG
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
REDGAT
PATENT
And FOOD OF
The most wholesome n
children or persons in <
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO S
Sold Sr all Grocers and
o
PITT STREET
aS
ALLWOOL
TRn TWEED
TO
M
Miscellaneous
D
EYSDALE AND
397 George Stri
76, 78, 145, 147 York
33 Pjtt Strke
IRONMONGERS, lEONMER
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensii
which besides being the largest in S
varied ; and comprises all the latest
Engines Engineers’ Material aj
Agricultural Implements, Thr
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rii
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, i
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandi
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hin
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Ga
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joi
And
GENERAL IRONMO
W
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STR]
IHE BEST PAINT IN
It
£
£
Of
pS
LASTIC
22
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBI
is mixed ready for
supplied in cans containing 1 gal
These cans form a convenient Pi
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin
us:—“Woollahra. August 20th, 188
RUBBER PAINT to be all that i
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it
and appears as fresh, clean and gloi
last week —the same with the fenci
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC 3
will cover 85 Square Yards —one <
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thr
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMJ
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, nea
MERICAN MACHIN
H. P. GREGORY A
N*. 11, PITT-STRI
