

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.- No. 19.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 5, 1880.
Price—3d.
®[je §itlMrn.
SATURDAY, JUNE J, 1880.
The Queen and the Berryites.
The straw that shows the wind’s direction is
contained in the Willi vmstown Advertiser
of the loth ultimo. We of New South Wales
have had, and unfortunately still have, some news-
papers whoso hideous indecencies would render
them a disgrace to any civilised country, but we
fortunately have never had printed on this side
of the border so flagrantly disloyal and cowardly
a rag as the publication named above. There
arc in tlie Victorian Assembly a pair of brothers
named A. T. *and W. M. Clark. The first-
named was, until he became a member of Parlia-
ment, an official of the Victorian Customs
Department; the latter is by trade a printer
and still follows that business. A. T. Clark,
whose native houhoinmie lias been the means of
ingratiating him with the working-men, who in
Williamstown, tjie locale of the Government
workshops, are very numerous, a few years ago
attached himself to the Berry party, and started .
The Williamstown Advertiser fort hecto, bio
purpose of supplementing the C3OU per annum
lie received as a member of Parliament and of
counteracting the hostile influence which a
respectable Conservative paper exercised in bis
electorate. Thou ho extended the operation of
his extremely democratic organ to Footscray, an
adjoining manufacturing centre, the working
men of which place were in due course asked to
send into Parliament as their representative Mr.
Clark the printer. The latter, who politically
is an utterly incapable addle - brained creature,
was in the interests of respectability opposed by
Mr. J. L. Peeves, the distinguished Victorian
advocate, but of course the “people” shouted,
as other “people” did eighteen centuries ago,
“ Deliver unto us’ — Clark the democrat. Now
the Berryites, as everyone knows, were lately
kicked out of power, and the only tiling of a
consolatory nature which has occurred since Mr.
W. M. Clark and the people of the “ fishing
village ” lost their share of the political loaves
and fishes is the defeat of the Beaconsfield
party in England and their replacement in office
by a Liberal Government. Mr. W. M. Clark,
who it appears is responsible for tbe subjoined
choice sentiments, labours under the delusion
that Gladstoncism and Bcrryism are iden-
tical, and that ho who journalistically withers
up Beaconsfield must necessarily be very
severe on Service. This is what The W illia ms-
town Advertiser says; —
’What a blood-red page the renegade Jew mountebank
has written in the history of our country. A seven
years’ bountiful harvest for the reaper Death; and the
net results, titled distinction to the charlatan, an obese,
not overburdened with brain, old woman dubbed Empress,
Zulu murders, Afghan massacres, and millions added
to the national burden !
The foregoing appears in a journal the pro-
prietors of which are two members of Parliament
—one of whom, too, is a volunteer officer of
high rank. It affords an excellent index to the
motives by which some of the most prominent
Victotian radicals are really actuated, and fully
justifies the opinion expressed by the Argus,
that whichever of the pair is responsible for this
gross and scandalous act of disloyalty, this cruel
and brutal insult to an innocent lady honored
for her virtues and venerated for her misfortunes
by every true man “ should be hooted from the
Victorian Assembly and have his name dragged
in the mire of infamy throughout all time.”
That the latter end may bo attained so far as
this colony is concerned is our sole excuse for
disgracing our pages with the extract from The
Williamstown Advertiser, owned by A. T.
and edited by W. M. Clark.
Imprisonment Under Civil Process.
Is Mr. Dibbs to remain in Darlinghurst for
twelve months to fully satisfy the measure of
the law’s requirements and of his friend’s revenge ?
This question has been asked by many, but wo
(- an solve the riddle and suggest the remedy by
answering the question. It is undoubted law
that if the State chose Mr. Dibbs as a member
°f its legislature the prison doors must open
’witoout judge’s order or warrant. The law and
custom of England are to the effect that should
Mr. Dibbs be elected to Parliament the Speaker
need only send that muscular Christian, the
Sfi-geant-at-anns, and demand the prisoner for
his country’s service. It would certainly be
better that a man circumstanced as is Mr. Hums,
should—if qualified for the position —spend his
time and servo his sentence in the Macquavie-
streot forum, than waste so long a period in
comparative inactivity at Darlinghurst. The
custom of protecting members of Parliament
from arrest during 'c >' rings of the House,
and for forty days 1 after be closing
of the session, wa-vinstTTuted more than 1200
years ago, and two notable instances arc quoted
by May where prisoners in gaol on civil process
were elected during the currency of the periods
of their incarceration, viz., t he oases of Mr. Mills
and Mr. Christie Barton, in ISO 7 and IHO‘J,
respectively. In each case the incarcerated
choice of the electors was ordered by the Speaker
out of the custody of the Fleet, and summoned
to the councils of the country. There arc,
too, instances of resistance to Parliamentary
orders by sheriffs-and gaolers, who in several
oft-quoted cases were committed, to the Tower
for their contumacy. \\ e can fancy Mr.
Cowpeb and Mr. Head showing fight to the
bearer of the mace, and being ordered to the
quarters now occupied by Mr. Dibbs, there to
await, the pleasure of the Assembly. Leaving
English precedent, however, we have at our own
door the case of a member, for lamworth
for some trifle was debarred from iiuendi eg to
bis Parliamentary duties; and in this instance
the Sheriff on learning the law ordered the
bon. member’s release. It is a great pity that
a man of Mr. George 11. Dibbs’ energy and
ability, and one, moreover, whose honourable
conduct and force of character have been such
as to win the admiration of his bitterest foes,
should be compelled for twelve months to remain
in gaol simply by reason of his inability to pay
the amount of a verdict given against him.
Were Mr. Dibbs suffering incarceration under a
criminal process the justice of his imprisonment
might not be a matter open to argument, but in
these days, when imprisonment for debt is sup*
posed no longer to he mi institution, it is surely
(lie most ridiculous of mockeries to incarcerate
u man for twelve months before giving him the
chance of tiling his schedule and releasing himself
from liability. We do not look forward to the
passing of Mr. lli'ch avax’s bill for the abolition
of imprisonment under civil process, and must
regard it as unfortunate that a politician so de-
void of tact should have entrusted himself with
the initiation of so needful and logical a law.
lint surely in an Assembly which numbers among
its members a Hasxkv Bennett and a Niman
Mki.v i in. i: there i- at least room for an able man
who now is merely suffering imprisonment to
gratify a debtor’s revenge.
The Sampson Verdict Again.
Concerning the unexceptionally correct senti-
ment expressed by that well-conducted magazine
the Pacific Weekly, in its third leader of last
issue, we have little to say. Wo are quite as
anxion- as our contemporary that “ this most
disgusting social scandal of our time” should
come to a conclusion, though while saying this we
do not mean to imply that we share the Pacific
Weekly's enthusiasm concerning the conviction
of Sampson, or that wo comprehend the process
of t . ...aing by which the twelve men who found
lil u arrived at their decision. Witliiu «nr
exporkfSv?’ there never waaajeanse into the hearing
of which there entered so many elements fraught
with danger to justice, and; now that the verdict
has been given and the sentence pronounced we
may add that public opinion in regard to Same-
son’s case appears to have undergone a violent
and complete change. We do not say whether
people now believe him guilty or innocent, but wq
do unhesitatingly assert that a great many of
those who up to the time that he was sentenced
considered that Sampson’s every action branded
him as a liar and a perjurer, and who may not in
any way have changed their moral opinion on that
score, have nevertheless now arrived at the con-
clusion that ho should not have been convicted.
A great many people, in short, think that had the
charge been an everyday one. involving no one’*
character but the prisoner’s, Sampson would have
been given the benefit of the legal doubt which
unquestionably existed as to his culpability. The
issue submitted was practically as to whether
Sampson on one side or Mrs. Dibps and Mr.
Shepherd on the other had been guilty of per-
jury. The jury appear to have been unconsciously
led away by the unjudicial bitterness of the forensic
combat to the conclusion that if Sampson were
not found guilty an ineffaceable stain would of
necessity be placed by them on the character of
those chiefly and directly concerned in the prose-
cution, and to have altogether overlooked the fact
that they could by acquitting the prisoner have
returned a verdict of "not proven.” The Pa-
cific Weekly evidently inclines to the theory that
" whatever is, is right,” and is perfectly willing
to accept the finding of the jury as final and con-
clusive. However, without further alluding to
the Sampson case we ask the public to read the
Pacific Weekly's third loading article and then
to peruse the third paragraph of " Club Gossip ”
in the same issue. The editorial comments in
question cannot, we submit, bo made to fit in with
the remarks of “ Cain,” who writes the pleasant
chatty paragraphs under the heading just alluded
to. Says “Cain,” speaking of electioneering
ladies: —
What chance has a candidate who finds himself con-
fronted on the other side by a pretty and eccentric
woman j> Argument is of course at an end. She may
deal in all sorts of extravagance and wildness of asser-
tion with a pout of offended duiooenee and a bewitching
jerk of the head and carry* V meeting by storm. You
must not subject her remarks to harsh criticism; you
must not accuse her of distortion of facts, or of uu-
truthfulness, for she is a lady and claims all the privi-
leges of her sex. How are you to deal with an antago-
nist that refuses combat in such a way ? (The legal pro-
fession has not of late days been subjected to female
innovation, and we have only the voracious narrative of
Shakespeare concerning Shylock and the Merchant of
Venice to warrant the supposition that any lady ever
made her appearance in a court of law as an advocate.
But with his wonderful insight into human character,
Shakespeare has given us a shrewd forecast of the bad
logic which would confound both judges and juries if
beautiful Portias were once admitted to plead before
them.
Now we want to know what essential difference
there is in point of effect between beautiful
Portia addressing the Court and. beautiful
Portia telling her tale in the witness-box?
Heaven help justice, wo say, when a jury com-
posed of men wdio have read newspaper reports
and newspaper articles concerning a groat social
scandal are, after listening to the impassioned
addresses of counsel and witnessing conflicts be-
tween Bench and Bar. sent to a room at the
Criminal Court to deliberate whether they will
take away the honour of a woman or the liberty of
a man.
MR. C. E. PILCHER, M.L.A. (SEE PAGE 2) .
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
XIII.— THE GOVERNESS.
How often have we hoard it remarked by fathers of
families that they would rather see their daughters
scrubbing a floor than slaving as governesses ! The
remark, however, though doubtless meant in kindness,
is rather misplaced, Mary the housemaid, round and
ruddy, is content to rise early, scrub, sweep and dust
from morning till late in tbe day. She sings at her
work and exchanges light chaff with the baker or
butcher as she 4 polishes up the handle of the big front
door. 1 Her grammar is faulty, her tongue ready, and
her hearty laugh is the admiration of all her numerous
friends. But hard as the daily life of; a governess too
often is, education—for which her father has paid—
prevents her taking a situation like the huxom Mary.
At ten years old, when Mary was a hardy girl standing
by the hour at her mother’s wash-tub, the governess was
a thin, unattractive girl at some boarding-school,
cramming to pass her first 44 examination.” When Mary,
at the close of a hard day’s washing, carried a basket of
clothes home to some of her mother’s cus-
tomers, she stepped out boldly, balancing the
basket on her head with a figure as erect as a
drill-sergeant. At the same hour the embryo governess,
with languid step and mental fatigue stamped on her
face, might be seen slowly pacing with her school com-
panions round some dull square for a constitutional,
after the long close hours of study. The two girls,
types of two distinct classes, are both ready to take a
place at the same time. Both have been training for
their future life, but the training has been of a totally
opposite nature and the results are equally so. Mary
steps into the kitchen at the close of her day’s work
sure of her welcome, while the governess, too often,
hardly knows, when she has brought her charges to the
drawing-room, whether she is expected to remain or
withdraw. Her heart sinks lower and lower as she sits
quite unnoticed near her pupil’s mother, and hails with
inward delight the first look of .dismissal in her face.
If musical she soon learns what she is wanted for in the
evening. Her talent must be made to do good service


Mr. C. E. Pilcher. M.L.A.
Wo give the portrait to-day of Mr. Charles
Edward Pilcher, the representative of West
Macquarie in the Legislative Assembly, and one
at the leading members of the New South Wales
bar. There are few of our legislators whose
utterances carry so much weight as those of Air.
Pilcher, the oratorical powers which have helped
Mm professionally being backed up by sound
political principles aud good practical experi-
ence. Mr. Pilcher’s practice at the bar is large
and lucrative, requiring much time and attention,
yet be has at all times assiduously devoted him-
self to his parliamentary duties, and done good
.service to the country. Mr. Pilcher appears to
have token a right view of legislative work, for
while attending to the wants of his own elec-
torate his actions in the Assembly have all
through been of a thoroughly cosmopolitan
character. Mr. Pilcher is a native of the colony,
and was bom at Maitland on the 21-th April,
1844, He is a eon of the late Henry Incledon
Pilcher, Ksq., who enjoyed for yearn one of the
largest legal practices in the Norl hem district.
Mr. Pilcher was educated at tho High School,
West Maitland ; afterwards, nt Mr. Saving’s
school, Cook’s River, and then at M'Arthur’s
school, Macquarie Plains, lie went to the
University and graduated as B.A. at the end of
the third year. He chose the Bar for his profes-
sion, was admitted to practice in April, 1867,
and his career has been one of a very great
success, Mr. Pilcher was elected to Parlioineut
as member for West Maeqnarie in 1874, and he
he ever since represented that constituency.
LATE SPORTING.
Mr. Oharias Heberts, jnnr., has leased those
extensive premises lately occupied by Mr. J, S.
Smith at Mature, South Creek, his term of occu-
pation to last for five years. There are a lot of
lax-ge roomy boxes, and an excellent track for
horses to work on, and nothing better could be
wished for that tho new proprietor is not in posses-
sion of. Tom Brown, in charge of Messrs. Smith
land Long’s string, is at present located at D yn-
nolly’s well-known half-way house at Ranchvick.
I have been asked to state that tho fact that
the Melbourne entries for the Metropolitan Stakes
were not posted at Tattersall’s on the night the
entry took place, was not the fault of the A.J.C.
officials, bub arose from a mistake or misunderstand-
ing with the telegraph office. Mr. CTlb-
born had made arrangements for the telegram
containing the Melbourne entries to be sent to
Tatters ail’s Hotel, where his clerk was waiting for
them instead of at tho secretariat, but this was
not done, the telegram having been taken to the
latter place after office hours, and as there was no
one to receive, Mr. Clibbom did not receive the
entries until the following morning. Hence
delay.
The well-known two year old oolfc Creswick by
Yattendon from Q.E.D. has been sold for 300 gs.*,
but the purchaser’s name has not transpired.
There has been no betting dode during tho week
of any consequence, but double books are open on
tShe Derby and Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. 500 to 5 being offered on the former
double and 100 to 10 on the latter.
COURSING.
The Woodstock Coursing Meeting has been
postponed from tho 26th inst. to tho 3rd of July.
Muswellbrook Races.
FIRST DAY-WEDNESDAY.
The weather was fine, and there was a fair attendance
of specta tors,
Maiden Plate, U mile.—H. C. White’s Gleam, 1; W.
Murray’s Reform, 2; M'Carthy’s Stanley,3. Nine
started; won by half-a-head. Time, 2 min. 22 secs.
Hack Race.—What You Like, I; Damsel, 2; Fire-
light, 3. Won easily,
Muswollbrook Handicap, 1J mile. —B, Lynch’s Rose-
hud, 1; Mayo's Black Swan, 2; Kerr’s Recherche, 3.
Time, 2 min- 44 secs.
Welter Race, 1 mile, —Bulgaria, X : Echo, 2.
Didies’ Mile.—Rosebud, 1; GumLkl, 2; Cameo, 3,
Seoosd Day.
|By Kfectrie "Mepraph.—Proin ourovm Gorrospomient.)
Muswellbrook, Thursday.
PoQovrlng arc the results of to-day’s running:—
Prince of Wales Stakes.—Robin ftood.
TattePsaJl's Handicap.—Cameo 1, Lady Mary 2.
Upper Hunter Handicap. — Bulgaria 1, Eureka 2,
Black Swan 2. Pride was fourth, and only tho four
-started. It. was a groat race between Bulgaria and
Enroka, and it was only won by a neck. The betting
was 7 to four on Black Swan, 6 to 2 against Bulgaria, 4
Eureka, 8 Pride. The great pot was ups. t.
Scptafter's Handicap. — Bulgaria 1, Maid of Aus-
tralia 2.
Forced Haadicap. Pride 1, Mari of Australia 2,
Glnpeo a.
Tho weather was splendid, but there was only a
nrjekorate attendance.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Empress of Austria, it is asserted, never
rides a horse after he has once thrown her. Her Irish
stables contain six horses for hor own riding.
The question of the decline of marriage is boino
fiercely discussed through letters in the columns ofthS
Arucs. The controversy has now been raging for three
weeks, and there is as yet no sign of an end. Yet there
are to our knowledge in Melbourne “more married
people than keep good houses.”
The diamonds sent by the Egyptian Khedive to
(oeuend Sherman have l»eu made practically useful by
the latter. He has made from them four sets of neck-
laces, earrings and pendants, and has bestowed a set
upon each of his four daughters, Mrs. Fitch and the
Misses lizzie, Eliie and Hocluiel Sherman.
The Mayor of Maryborough, Queensland, in
opening a bazaar the other evening, announced that one
of the articles to be rallied was “ a good-looking young
gentleman, of fair complexion, with a set of most
beautiful white teeth; and moreover, worth at least one
thousand a year to anyone who might >«j fortunate
enough to win him.” Hueh articles should really not
be raffled. Sydney gills are willing to buy thorn right
out.
The human jaw easily can ho dislocated by an
exaggerated yam, the consequence of which, too, may
be that tha yawner remain a with his or her
mouth immovably fixed wide open, until the dislocation
con be reduced. A Wellington (N. Z ) man knows this
and when his wife talks too much be yawns. Then she
yawns and is in a moment rendered speechless and help-
less, compelled to wait with mouth open to its widest
streteh, a mark for the derision of her unfeeling
husband.
The Lite Oomtesse de Colloredo, who was once
a leader in Htuxipeiui society, was one day taking her
daily constitutional on the terrace at Wiestoden when
a young man come up to her and bowing, said : “ Bon-
jour, Madame la Comtosse.” “ Monsieur,” replied the
lady stiffly, “ I have not tho honor of your acquain-
tance.” “ But I have had the honor of lieing presented
to you." pleaded the stronger, with a smile. “ Possibly ;
but, as I have already said, I have not the honor of
knowing you.” “I am the Prinoe of Wales,” remarked
H. E. H., bowing once more, and moving on. The poor
Oomtesse fainted, and died four days after.
Politics are fashionable among English ladies.
Lady Karnsay, Lady Harcotirt, Lady Major! bonks, and
Mrs. Gladstone appeared prominently during the recent,
elections, and nt Hereford Lady Biddulph made the
following neat oration -—“Gentlemen, These are elec-
tion tames, and uncommon times, and we ore at present
allowed to do things we don’t do at other times : so I
will make that my excuse for addressing you, and I will
make you a little speech. Mr. Biddulph cannot to here
to-day, but I am here as Ids wife and representative,
and I ask yon to put him at the head of the poll, and
make him a happy man and me a happy woman. He
has your interests at heart, and nobody loves the county
more than Mr. Biddulph, I declare to you.”
Their Royal Highnesses Princes Edward :md
George (sons of the Prince of Wales), have toen eujov-
ing themselves at Trinidad. As Prince George will
soon to in Sydney it may interest the fair sex to learn
that while at Trinidad Prince George “ devoted himself
chiefly and pleasantly to the Creole demoiselles,” with
whom, in the gushing and donkoyish words of the local
journal, “he was joyous and jubilant, joking and
Laughing, and making the pleasantest remarks, some of
which, to tell tho truth, have been whispered about,
aud are pleasant and amusing in no small degree, and
we can assure H.R.H. open to the least criticism or hy-
percritical remark.” Prince Edward, on the other
hand, was, we are told,happy only when in the company
of the young married Indies. He’s evidently copying
his royal and much-respected papa.
FUN AND FANCY.
What city docs a kiss resemble ? Nice.
An engagement ring— a lover’s puli the door-
bell.
If I lot yer,” said one small boy to another,
yer’ll be usin’ yerself for snuff ter morrer.”
Von Snppe's new opera is to be called “ Hell
on Earth.” Married life set to music, as it were.
Sunday-school teacher : —’’Why should a man
only have one wife?” Boy: “Because no man can
serve two masters.”
A lady asked a little boy to give an apple to the
handsomest of three ladies who were present. Ths
Little boy utethe apple.
I think the goose has the advantage of you,”
said a landlady to an inexpert boarder who was carving.
“Guess it has, mum—in age,” was the withering retort..
The boy who doesn’t leap over seven posts, kick
a lame dog, snatch a handful of beans in front of every
grocery store, knock over a box or two, and work the
handle of every pump on his way to school, is either
lazy or doesn’t feel well.
A “ spooney ” young fellow pinched ULs lovely
sweetheart’s arm and said he knew where there was
another arm just as pretty. The storm on the lady's
brow- didn’t pass away until the rude fellow had ex-
plained that he alluded to her other arm.
How much are these goods a yard?” said a
gentleman in a dry goods store the other day, as he
picked up and examined a piece of ruffled silk, “ Good
gracious!” cried the horrified clerk, “that isn’t for
sale! That’s the end of a lady's train ! Sbe’s just gone
up to the third story in the elevator.”
The rose was young, and its folded loaves
Were smiling to reach the light.
And the sweet, south wind, with its whispered vows.
Made the blush on her cheek more bright.
She sighed to herself, in her beauty rare;
“ Of all earth's buds, the rose is most fair.”
Town Amusements.
Chiarini’s Circus is still on gold nt the Hay-market,
We learn from M. Agrati that Chiarini’s present Aus-
tralian tour tops his previous one by some thousands
of pounds.
The Keliy and I/eon proprietary ha ve called a meeting
of their creditors. Wo bop; to see Mr. Kelly very soon
on his feet aoraiu. The First Admiral wili do it when
Pinafore” comes hero again.
Dumpier continues to draw at. tho Queen’s. Tb«j
present season has boon very profitable.
Tho London Comedy C ompany steadfastly hold the
boards of the Koyal. Their success has been great.
They will remain till August. It’s all Garner and
Kitts’ doing.
Brinsmead's pianos are selling at the rate of ten a
week at Boyle and Hogg's, in Bond-street.
Tho ecclesiastical works of art imported by Boyle
and Hogg of Bond-street have been inspected by large
numbers during the week.
Messrs. Bice and Colville’s Hyperion Patty, whose
numbers have been augmented, announce an nnnsnaUy
attractive programme for to-night at the School of
Arts. We hope to see those talented artistes make a
king eta.y.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. G. L. Nairn (P.) has resigned.
Cootamundra ehtm-h building fund baaaar w
ted £330. c '
The Dunedin Y. M. C. A. unreservedly condemns
novel reading.
Dr. Marsden, Anglican Bishop of Bathurst is
visiting Dnbbo.
The Rev. G. Gunn, M.A. (P.), of Yonu"
called to Balmain West.
Mr. Matthew Burnett has completed his first
series of meetings at Adelaide.
The Raikes centenary is to bo celebrated
throughout the colonies by Sunday schools.
Rev. C. 0. Elehum has laid the foundation-
stone of St. Paul’s, C’ of E., Narracoorte, S. A.
Mr. Samuel Cook, sub-editor of the S. M.
Herald, teaches Sunday school and edits the Echo.
A new journal, entitled Anchor, is to I> 9
started in London, in opposition to the Rock.
The personal estate of Dr. Buncombe, the late
Dean of York, has been sworn under half a million.
By latest accounts Mr. Moody, the evangelist,
was at St. Louis, who intended to take a holiday
Texas.
Rev. H. M. Pinnigan has commenced an action
for Hbel, damages ihSOOC*, against the Bdbhakuosc
Chronicle.
The Rev. W. Moss, of the Victorian Asylum for
the Blind, was married on 13th ultimo to Miss Herds-
man, of Smith Yorra.
A society is to bo established in Paris to
encourage the study of wo His relating to the history
and literature of Judaism.
A committee of clergymen and representatives •
of the various denominations has been formed to watch
the progress of the new Licensing Bill.
The sum of ,£‘3ooo was collected at sir meetings
in Scotland of the Wesleyan Thanksgiving Finn],
Wesleyan work in the north was spoken of ns most
encouraging.
The London committee of the Oollins-street
(Melbourne), Independent Church, have selected n stac-
cessor to the Ilev. Thomas Jones, but his name is not
yet announced.
Dr. Barclay, the new Anglican Bishop of Jeru-
salem, met with a jfieasiug reception on entering the
ancient city. He was met by a large detachment of
mounted soldiers and citizens and escorted into the
city.
It has been decided, in accordance with tiro
wishes of the Bishop of Manchester, to apply the whole
of the money subscribed on the occasion of his mar-
riage, to founding a scholarship in his name at tho
Owens College.
Archbishop Vaughan laid the foundation-stone
of the presbytery to lar attached to St. Benedict’s
Church, last Sunday. ;<OOO irersous were present, in-
cluding a large number of the B. G. clergy and laity.
£570 was received
A clever sermon by the Rev. W. E. Mellouc,
who has just joined the Unitarian Church, Emerald
Hill, as pastor, has attracted much attention in Mel-
bourne. The title of the discourse was “ The Vindica-
tion of Christianity.”
The R. C. priest arrested in Melbourne the
other day tor disorderly conduct atMenzies’ Hotel, was
the Kov. K. J. Brawders, and was a clergyman who bad
l>een “ silenced” by his Bishop. It is therefore not true
that he was at the time an officiating priest.
At the last meeting of the Church Asso-
ciation, in London, it was asserted that Ritualism
wits not on the increase, but on the decrease. Fifty-
nine ceremonies and practices hud been stopped. The
cost of the Maconochie trials was stated at £12,000.
Dr. Maclagan, Bishop of Lichfield, in England,
assures his clergy that the Greek word translated in the
Ring James version of the Bible “ eternal” or "ever-
lasting,” in relation to the penalties of the future state,
docs not mean literally "endless,” but only “very
long.”
A New York journal says if Irish servant-girls
can build St, Patrick’s Cathedral, at a cost of over
£600.000, in twenty-five years, why' should not the
weal thy Episcopalians of New York build one far larger,
more massive, and in a l>etter style of architecture, in
five years ?
Rev. E. Youngman, of the Wesleyan Foreign
Missionary ‘Society, gave to a meeting held in connec-
tion with the soiety on Monday evening last, the result
of his observations while labouring in China. He said
that much success had attended the efforts of the
Chinese mission.
Mr. Robert Artherington, of Leeds, has given
C-’iOOO to the Loudon Missionary Society for a steamer
for Lake Tanganyika, Africa. The vessel must visit all
the villages on the shores of the lake, and bring the
l>opnlarion of these regions under the influence o?
Christian teaching.
Mr. Cheong, a Chinese student of the Melbourne
University, lectured on Sunday (30th May) at St.
Saviour’s Church, Melbourne, on behalf of the Chinese
Mission. Several of the Chinese attached to the Wes-
leyan Chnroh in Melbourne are excellent scholars and
very sincere in their conduct.
Tho ninth annual meeting of the Victorian
V. M. C. A. was very numerously attended, and ad-
dresses were delivered by the Bishop of Ballarat, the
Keys. A. J. Clarke, Dr. Gilchrist (the chairman), Alder-
man Ham, and the secretary, Mr. Marsh. Pupils of the
Blind Asylum gave music during the evening, and a
collection made on behalf of the institution realised
over £BO.
The at traction of the last Lenten season in Paris
was Pere Didon. The subject of his conference was
science and religion, and thousands of young people
attended. Pere Didon is a liberal. He was called to
liome at the conclusion of his lectures. His speeches
W a very democratic tendency, but were it is rumoured
dictated by the Pope himself.
Attention in Loudon lias been drawn to the fact
t hat the number of marriages recorded in the Times
us having occuiTed in Lent in Anglican churches vvus
151, or less than four a day. In only two instances did
the number ran into two figures in any one day, and on
five days there wore none chronicled.
Rev. H. A. Barker, 8.A., curate of Sfc. John’.g
Dariinghorst, has been presented with an address,
signed by 33 Sunday school teachers, and a handsome
tea and coffee service, in recognition of his efforts or.
behalf of St. John’s Sunday school. The Sunday school
children also contributed an addres sand elegantly ,
bound volumes of Canon Farrar’s “ Life of St. Paul.” jl/
The famous “ Passion Play,” which for some ,
centuries has been acted with astonishing power and
impressiveness every- tenth year by the villagers of
Ober-Ammergan, in Bavaria,, was to be repeated on
certain days in May, the present month of June, and of
July, August, and September. A new edifice had been
built for the purpose, capable of holding 1500 people.
The Hon. James Service, Premier of Victoria,
is a Unitarian. His pastor, or rather pasteress is Miss
Martha Turner, sister of Mr. H. O. Turner, the well-
known Melbourne banker and Literary man. Miss Tur-
ner can hardly be termed pretty, but she is perhaps the
cleverest woman and certainly one of the host preachers
in Australia. When Sydney people hear her they will
have an Intellectual treat.
Dr. Morrison, of tho Scotch College. Melbourne,
has received an anonymous donation of £lOOO towards
Ormond College. Mr. Ormond has promised an addi-
tional £2300, provided £7500 more can first l*e obtained-
The Council has resolved to invite Dr. Dykes, of Lon-
don, to accept tho post of president of Ormond
College and Principal of the Theological Hall, at »
salary of £l5OO per annum,
“There was to h-avo been a grand children's pic-
nic at Gympie on tlx; Queen’s birthday, but it did not
come on. At the lastomoiuent, and after the youngsters
had been kept on “ the tip-toc of high expectation” f°r
over a month a row misi-ed . The Church of England
people demanded the right to head the procession,
he other denominations oi.i toted, and offered to decide
this all-important (jnestior by h&Hot. So compromise
towards helping to amuse the guests. She is never in-
troduced unless some ora; specially requests it, and then
the introduction takes place with the prefix; “My
children's governess.” But this only applies to some
few eases. There ore mothers who know well how to
treat the stranger whom they believe good enough and
•sufficiently talented to train their children, and who
treat her from the first a>« a friend whose children are
taught to love and respect hor. In such houses the
governess finds a home in every sense of the word, and
many have been known to repay, by a life-long devotion,
the genuine kindness shown to them when they first
came as strangers to their present homos, where they
haye lived so happily from youth to middle-age—who
still stay on when their pupils are okfleuongh to marry, 1
for their presence, like that of a valued friend, has
become a necessity in the household and in their former
pupils' home there is always a welcome. They have been
known even to teach their pupils’ children—with whom
their word is law, because their mot her loves them. In
the new children’s society and baby talk, the governess
feels quite young and is content to take to her warm old
heart her children's children, as she quaintly calls her
latter pupils, for the governess seldom turns into the
married woman. Educated as she is and often pretty in
her youth she is penniless, so while Mary the housemaid
has sweethearts by the score all through her days of
service, and has long settled into a bustling, scolding
wife and mother, tho governess still plods on, ages
quickly, seldom marries, but passes into the too-often
neglected, tineared for, but kind old maid.
A Love of a Bonnet.
Oh, the bonnets of my girlhood.
The kind I wore at school—
I really thought them pretty!
I must hare been a fool;
And yet I used to think myself
On hats a jaunty miss.
Perhaps I was, as fashion went;
But what was that to this ?
Oh, the lovely little pancake,
The charming little mat—
It makes my head so level,
And so very, very flat!
Oh, a sister’s love is charming,
As everybody knows !
And a handsome cousin's love is nice
(That is, I should suppose).
And the love of a true lover
Is the love that cannot pall;
But the love of a new bonnet
Is the dearest love of all-
in fact, I think it’s better
Than going to a bull!
Recollections of a Criminal.
Uo sat within his lonely cell
And gloomily he said,
My life is now a wilderness ;
I would that I were dead.
I once was blessed by a loving wife.
And smiled on my infant boy;
As he sat upon his father’s knee.
And clapped his hands, with joy.
But I, alas! forgot their love,
And to the tavern went;
And there I met with countless “ friends,”
Till my “ little all ” was spent.
Twaa then my friends, my ruin, cams
Still lower did I sink ;
Till here I stand a erimteal.
Adi through that demon drink.
Lot sweet oblivion liiie the past,
For though my death is near,
I’d giwe my life tor one “ long glass,*’
Of Ttenh or Toohoy’s beer.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN)
The Kiama Ghost, the Blacksmith, the
£50 and the Premier.
ARGUMENT.
The immortal Kiiuua ghost (who, to his honour, be
it said was always rather a little over zealous in
watching over the interests of f this country), seeing
that the Government have the means of giving num-
berless good billets, by the intention of Government
work within the colony, and thus as iu duty bound,
fostering the manufactures which cau be pursued in the
country with advantage, orders Ball the blacksmith, a
typical artisan, to seek Government employment,
promising him success if he should do bo, and
threatening him with dire vengeance should ho not
comply with his commands. Hall, in desperation,
offers to Sir Henry his lost penny—his £50 —the
saving at a life-time, for any Government employment.
MORAL.
Should the Government do its simple duty in this
matter, Thomas Ball need not pay £5O for a billet.
THE SIMPLE BLACKSMITH.
There was a simple blacksmith who had full fifty poun,’
Who wrought hard for a living in this ’ere Sydneytown;
Long hud lie been a ’totaler, a doing without his beer.
And years had been a saving what he might iu every
year.
Could lie but find somebody to put him in a billet,
From the Government of the country, and be well paid
to fill it,
Where nor brains nor skill were wanted, but only just
enough
To pare his nails and kill the time like many another
muff',
For this was the very work —the very kind of all
Most suited to a man like him —so thought the black-
smith Ball.
Delightful state of blessedness, where neither smoko
uor sound.
Was of the ringing anvil or the roaring bellows found,
Where he his aching hands might rest and he his
sweat might, spare,
For hammering with a heavy sledge it is hard work
to hear;
’Tiv said this notion struck him while one night being
asleep.
And ever after he it in his noddle used to keep,
'Fill a spectre ’peered unto him, bidding him not to fear,
But make his application unto Parkes the Premier ;
But should he procrastinate or hesitate at all
There was a rod in pickle for tho blacksmith —Thomas
BaU.
Soro amazed was the blacksmith and terrified of course.
The threat of his ghostly visitor but making matters
worse.
For the blacksmith, though at one time, to spirits
much inclined.
Saw the spirit now before him was of another kind;
Soon the very little hair he had was standing on his
head.
From fear mixed with reverence for rive ghost and what
he said ;
Afterwards, the thinking made him daily grow more
lean.
Till he became the shadow of what ho once had been.
While thus procrastinating did the spectre on him gall,
This time breathing vengence on the blacksmith—
Thomas Ball.
Now r the bhicksmith, a York shoreman, he was prudent,
he was brave.
He says unto the spectre, “ What from oi would you
have ?
Who be you, and what want yon ? or else and by the a’ ”
“ Silence, silence,” said the spectre, “I’m the Ghost
from Kiama,”
“ Unless you to Sir Harry go'-aml tell to him your story
Kl tiiji eMtat perioulumfom.
Then straightway went the blacksmith a-seeking for the
billet,
Its hopes that if he got it he'd be well paid to fill it;
Bus> surd Sir 'Enry’s memory must indeed be very
small.
He once having been an artisan like simple blacksmith
BaU.
A Tale of the Sea.
E. B.
May, 23rd, 1830.
Tlie day had just begun to break,
A lark sung loud mi high ;
The sea was tranquil as a lake,
Mot a cloud wa s in the sky.
A sfwith light hearts we set the sail.
And trimmed onr honuy bark ;
We never thought of stormy gale.
Or of corpses stiff and stark.
Jfow in the boat we sailed away,
Onr hearts on pleasure bent.
And watched the ruddy streak of day.
As with the tide we went.
We blithely son? a merry song,
My brother Will and I,
And never felt the morning lomr.
Or thought the waves ran high.
Wo wore so happy all that day.
And yet before ’1 was night,
But one of ns so blithe and gay,
Saw evening’s waning light.
We watched the waves come leaping ou.
And heard the sen fowl cry,
We felt the boat rush swiftly on
As though her speed to try.
Then all at once, with sudden fright
My brother felt the blast;
’The fierce gale came in all its might
And snapped our slender mast.
We sang no more, but closer crept
To cheer up one another;
I tried to pray hut only wept
And clung tight to my brother.
Then Will, ho cut the tiller-rope
And bound me to the mast;
Just then a huge wave o’er us broke.
Our boat was filling fast.
I felt Will’s kisses on my face,
His hot tears fell like rain ;
I never heard the cruel blast,
Or saw Will’s face again.
One bitter cry, then all was still,
The surf broke o’er my head.
The waves now tossod me at their will.
And yet I was not dead.
The day was spent, I woke at last.
Kind faces smiled on me
1 floated safely on the most,
But Will was drowned at sea


cuiild, however, be arranged ; the picnic fell through,
nud the children thus taught to detest the very miuio of
religion learned early “ How these Christians love
one” another. ” Bo rue people want to know why tho
o |iv-e-br.inche« couldn’t have hoen marched to tho scene
cf the proposed festivities “promiscuous-like”—nil
together ?"
At Honolulu there is au Episcopal bishop with
two clergy, a Catholic, church, four Congregational
churches, a Young Men’s Christian Association, and a
considerable body of Mormons. The Latter-day Saints
luive a mission there, and profess to have 4000 mem-
lew- The presiding eider who rules this social-political
trading-ecclesiastical association is a ’cube and capable-
looking specimen of sanctified humanity.
The All Saints Church people at Brisbane are
holding a bazaar. The money not coming in as fast as
they would desire, they have hit on a novel idea. At
9,30 p.m. the stalls are moved aside and n dance takes
place. The small foe of Us. tid. is charged to allow ono
to participate in this waltz towards heaven. How’s
that for High r (Church). Neither Budolfsen in his
‘■Dance of Death.” nor Mrs. Dr. Milton Bowers in her
Dance of Life,” mention osimilar eases.
Canon Farrar, the distinguished author and
clergyman, is a man under forty-five years of ago, of
florid complexion and sanguine temperament. He Is
compactly built and under the medium height. He has
a good voice, but reads like an untrained schoolboy. As
a preacher, tho canon is somewhat verbose, but fall of
fascinating imagery. His delivery is earnest, rather
rapid, sometimes vehement, but he goes through his
forty minutes discourse without a gesture of tho hand,
though his head and body, nodding and swaying, lend
their foroe to his utterances.
The Bishop of Manchester, presiding at u Sun-
day school gathering in Manchester recently, said “ he
was afraid th it a great deal of the unhappy and un-
wholesome controversy that marked the religions mind
of the present day arise from people not understanding
that there was such a tiling us a law of proportion in
tbs Christ ian faith, that some doctrines were more im-
portant than others, that on some points meu might
tie allowed to differ in opinion ; while there were others
that must be held to bo fundamental, and could not bo
given up so long us Christianity was recognised as a
revelation from ( rod at all.
At Cardiff, ]>r. Vaughan, tho Dean of LunJaff,
und Master of the Temple, while speaking at the open-
ing of a coffee tavern, said he would lie no party to
putting down the moderate use of God's good gifts.
He conld not engage in any enterprise which considered
there was any sin, any g-rdlt, in the creature to which
they had given the name of wins, and ho could not join
in any fanatical warfare against what bo believed to bo
n bene He ini gift of God, with the blessing of Christ upon
it Tha Eev. Philip Richards (Homan Catholic priest),
amid much applause, said ho was surprised at tho
■ gingerly” way in which the Dean of Landaff hud
spoken of the vice of intemperance, which was destroy-
ing their country, raining their prospects, and dis-
gracing them in the sight of the while world. The
uftw mis infested with it, the army was invested with it
—it waeja sort of rinderpest. A demonstration against
the Dean followed the; speech.
At a recent meeting of the London Presbytory
a discussion arose on the subject of “lapsed” Presby-
terians, The liev. Dr. White spoke at length on the
wiiv in which Presbyterians, on couiiag to England from
Scotland nud Ireland, deserted tho Church of their
ancestors. The Rev. I>r. Eraser thought that many of
those people who were termed “lapsed” were perhaps
very innocent and perhaps very righteous people, who
went to other places where they got us mnoh good for
their souls as if they had remained Presbyterians.
Professor Chalmers felt that tho prestige of tho Church
Of England was among the causes which operated
against Presbyterianism. He thought the most loyal
body of Christians in England were the Wesleyans, and
the Presbyterians would do well to establish class
meetings on the Methodist principle. Mr. H. Wales
thought the remedy wonkl be found in looking after
the young. Tho Eev. Mr. Mat Meson advocated looking
oftcr lapsed masses rather than lapsed individuals.
The Her. Dr. Kennedy Moore thought that the fault
lay with the ministers in Scotland, who had failed to
attach tho people to Presbyterianism. After the dis-
cussion, an overture was adopted to the effect that it
was of great importance that tho young Presbyterians
should bo encouraged and guided into u careful study
of the Church doctrines and polity.
Mr. C. H. E. Blachmann.
Just at the present time, when all the business
of onr great International Exhibition is being
brought to a close, the efforte of men who have
helped to rear tho splendid structure in which it
was held should not be forgotten. No one gave
the Colonial Architect more valuable help than
Mr, 810/chmann, and the former gentleman is only
too glad to hear testimony to the Matter’s great
professional skill, both in respect of designing
and in the practical carrying out of his work.
Mr. Blachmann gave no small assistance in pre-
ps ring the dra wings and dealing with the innumer-
able details of the great structure. The erection
of the Exhibition building, uuder the circumstances
of the time, was a grand architectural triumph,
and tho skill and industry of tho men who achieved
t well deserved more substantial recognition than
they have obtained. Mr. Blachmann now leaves
the public service to assume a private practice in
this city—another instance of a good servant being
(out to the public through wont of liberal and
Pteper treatment.
Ante-Mortem Obituaries,
No. IV.
THE LATE JOHN HURLEY, M.P. FOR BLATHER-
SKITE PLAINS.
John Hurley was born.
We don’t know where.
Some people say it was at Madagascar.
However, he was born.
That’s enough for him ; too much for the world.
He says he went to school; however, it doesn’t
a PPear he stayed long.
He hadn’t time to study principles, and when
Sfot into politics he grew worse.
He did not care much for his constituents, and
there was no love lost between them.
He was a Habbath-breaking law-maker, and a
ww-making Sabbath-breaker.
He tried to get Sydney capital into a Qaeens-
““ri coal mine ; but it didn’t gee very welh
He was a faithful man, and stood by Shepherd
ff heu the shadow of Q. R. Dibbs was upon him.
“ Hen he returned to Sydney with his friends,
thsy said he was afraid of Dibbs, but the fact was
■The said unto himself, ‘‘ Wherever mv friend is
were am I.”
He banked with the City Bank, but heconid not
* JJt *t with Neill.
Phe deceased gentleman was in good health last
but this morning a gnat choked him.
li irtley Vale and Blatherskite |Plains, his old
■°D-itituencies, are in tribulation.
d 1 hoy cry out, where shall wo go for another
nriey? And Tue Bulletin answers—straight
Tai-ban.-
-R.I.P.
Present Victorian Ministry are not disiin-
riipri * l2 r t beir politeness. The other day a lady ,vp-
Gillies for a. mv pass to Balk rat. ' His
tio n , n ti°usnese prompted him to refuse the applicu-
Em’tK ‘ Tmi % the bell for the attendant and handed
fitllia, ■' ™ re ' saying brusquely, “Get her a ticket."
chap d la tt bear HIlL i a good follow, but he’s not a Good-
itment »*»t»tthe Kelly* at Beeehworth
thy .-f 1 . hlrle, i. and t-.be police have returned. No doubt
SeomZ„i’Vk' c ' r< ' * tC!n ut Mrs. Byrne’s house. The police
T odt '’t ° . t ? un " ,<i ' H at Greta, where the gang were be-
jhving. The utmost activity is prevailing,
lievea q '-adent Haro has arrived in BenoJia. .Ho re-
Kclh Nicholson. It is believed Itiss
Boppiytng the outlaws with food.
D. B. the Son of Temperance.
Our artist happened to be in the How last
Wednesday evening when Mr. David Buchanan
waa “orating” on the Licensing Bill, with what
result the accompanying sketch will show. Mr.
B. procured a small tumbler from Punch’s hotel,
and getting to the peroration of his speech
frantically raised the glass overhead, exclaiming.
“ Here’s the glass you get now ; in my time it was
only a good sized pint or a quart that would satisfy
a man.” And he put it to the House whether that
was fair and whether there ought not to be a special
Act compelling the use of pints and quarts instead
of nobblers. True, in Davy’s time pints and
quarts were used, especially‘at Morpeth, where
sheep were slaughtered on Sunday and carried
through tho town. In those times, too, men
attempted to enter churches in their shirt sleeves,
pelt pebbles at tho parson ; but there was always
a lock-up, and things have changed since then
and smaller tumblers are used, and men have
become members of Parliament. After all it is
not the size of the tumbler’s, but its contents that
make the difference. We are sure Mr. Buchsnan
will agree with us in this. We are glad further-
more to hear that the tumbler has been returned
to Punch's. Mr. Buchanan, in future, is to have
what he calls a “ doepsinker’' -more, it is said, by
way of custom than requirement.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Plenty of rain in Victoria.
Fires almost every night now.
Afghan affaire are improving.
Chili and Peru are still fighting.
Tomora rush has good prospects.
Herbert Waters tin lode ia a fraud.
Araluen gold mines are paying well.
A god many fires ia Adelaide lately.
The Druids have skirted at Lithgow,
There are 3,500 public houses in N.B.W.
Mahommed Jan is still on tho war-path.
N.H.W’s. annual liquor bill ia ■£2,500,000.
Dubbo people want their railway finished.
Great Cobar mine is yielding splendid returns.
Broughton (Queensland) diggings are improving.
The Durham has arrived at Aden from Mel-
bourne.
750 more emigrants are on their way to New
Ireland,
The Proctor lectarea at Melbourne nro very
popular.
The Part Macquarie gool-breakcrs are once more
“ in quod.”
The Cotopaxi is not fitted with meat-carrying
appliances.
It ia untrue that raxa-U-pox has broken out at
Melbourne,
At Melbourne colonial safes have beaten im-
ported ones.
Tho Turks don’t seem inclined to fulfil the
Berlin treaty.
Over 100 Chinese left Melbourne last Tuesday
for Tasmania.
Paint in cr advertisements on Sydney footpaths is
now forbidden.
K'ing Theban’s subjects nro tired of letting him
bury thorn alive.
English Radicals want Sir Barilo Frere sent
tack to the Capa'.
Gleneig South East Company is to be wound up
and re-constructed.
Melbourne International building is to be in-
sured for £153,000.
The ” piner ” Eva Ims been wrecked on the west
coast of Tasmania,
K.8.W., says tho Sat.vbdat Eevtew, has
administered its public affairs with prudence and
moderation, but Victoria has been in a great measure
governed by revolutionary demagogues of an especially
] obnoxious typo.
Jesuits expelled from France are refused an
asylum in Switzerland.
The new Indian Viceroy, the Marquis of Bipon,
has arrived at Bombay.
Bagdad Arabs demand self-gov eminent under
an English protectorate.
Garottors- -two of them—have been committed
ter trial in Melbourne.
A Pastoral and AgrteultTj.ru 1 Association has
been formed at Corowa.
James Elsdalo and Jimmy Ah Sue wort' hanged
; at Brisbane lust Monday.
Perth, W.A.. ha* held a mimic review. 300
. volunteers participated.
A baker’s cart collided with the Elizabeth - street
tram, but didn't upset H.
Captain Hildebrand! is the agent hero for the
best Chinese oil paintings.
A pnblie-Hchool for aborigines is to be established
at Wantngeeda, Murrey Hirer.
At Nattai, the nine children of a M,r. O’Brien
are dangerously ill of typhoid.
Mr. I>l ward Ellis, a Colac editor, has recovered
£250 from a contemporary for libel.
Hir Henry Parkes proposes an intercolonial
conference on the Chinese question.
A ‘ - super.” has been charged with passing off a
spurious (stage) note on a publican.
A tramway is to be laid down through Mel-
bourne streets to the International.
Two Frenchmen have been sentenced to seven
years each, for burglary at Brisbane,
Reductions are to be made in all departments
of the Victorian Government service.
Julius’ restaurant, Pitt-street, has been bought
by the Sydney Coffee Tavern Company.
Leprosy is ho prevalent in the Bandwieh Islands
that a small island is set opart for lepers.
The Hon. VV, F. Do Balia says that unless
there’s law reform there’ll be lynch law.
A big fire has occurred at Halstead and Kerr’s
timber yard. Melbourne, Damage, £5,003.
Q. A. Lloyd is trying to settle the differences
between masters and miners at Newcastle.
Holdfast. Bay Baiiwky Co. is about hi borrow
£23,000 and to issue £13,000 worth of new shares.
Tho new extension to Wellington has necessi-
tated considerable change* in tho railway time-table,
Tho large hall of the Victorian International
has been opened. The decovatioua are mnch admired.
Mr. James Tyson has just bought over 16,000
acres of land near Dalby at the Government upset
price.
Tho Booth Australian Government is urged to
immortalise itself by carrying a trans-continentni
railway.
Quite* a revival of mining is shown at Junction
Point, Victoria 1- lat, and Do# Trap, writes tho Tnmkfy
Warden.
The monthly report of the Bandwick Asylum
directory shows everythin# to be lovely and serene. As
usual.
Sydney Infirmary nureee, it has been decided by
the committee, are to continue to wear uniform in the
streets.
The literary and fine art section of tho Roya
Society held a most interesting conversazione last
Friday.
There was a largo attendance at the University
dinner at Melbourne Town Hall. Lord Normaab’y
presided.
A race at counting coin is on the tapis. The
probable competitors ore the paying telle re of several
town banks.
“ No compulsory voting clause and no emtetU-
ment of the electoral liberty of tfc c Catholics,” says
The Her a an. ?
Woilongong people are up in arms against the
Herald special, who stated that EUawairu coal was of
inferior quality,
A New Ireland emigrant has arrived. He reports
that the Chandernagore left tho expedition without
landing the medicine chest, consequently all hands,
except the officers, became afflicted with malignant
ulcere. They are now at Duke of York Island, in
charge of misskmnriess G. Brown and B. Dunks, The
latter are practical Christians, and their ,journey, ia aa
open boat, of Its) miles, should at once convince all
sceptics of the charity which these sous of the Church
extend to suffering humanity. Yet Mr. Brown is the
man who was charged with having used weapons to
defend his family from savages.
The Colonial Mutual Assurance Society has an
income of £lOO, OOO, and the last quinquennial showed a
profit of £6814.
A grand amateur concert in aid of a Jewish
home for the aged and afflicted poor ie announced for
the Oth instant.
A Melbourne photographer wae paid by John
Woods for no loss than S,*oo copies of photographs of
tho Woods brake.
Sir Henry says that tho principal objects of the
Licensing Bill ere to raise the characters of the publi-
cans and their liquors.
A letter has been received at the Sydney post-
oflicr, from Baris, addressed “ Sir John Lucas." It bus
gone to tho dead-letter office.
‘‘No Gazette, no present.” said Heaney to
Bailliere. •• ISo ukwo rum, no more halleinj-abs," said
the biackfollow to the bishop.
The Victorian Governor communicates with the
Imperial authorities respecting the transportation of
Chinese convicts to Australia.
In the United States a strong Republican anti-
third term convention opposes tho intended nomina-
tion of General Grant for President, •
The banquet at the Wellington railway opening
was provided by Crinps, of Pift-etreet, covers being
1-aid for 200. At the ball there were f>oo. On m-U hands
there is but one expression of satisfaction at the excel-
lent manner in which our popular Sydney caterer car-
ried out the whole affair.
A special commission hue been appointed to
enquire into the case of Sinclair, aow lying
under sentence of death a t Maitland.
The Eandvvick tramway has been commenced,
and 400 men will continue to work at it till the Ist Sept.,
whoa ft. will probably be open for traffic.
The Burmese are tired of being buried to pro-
pitiate the gods, and they are now seeking to put the
King and his Government under the sod.
At Maitland a lad named Warbrook has had
both thighs rua over and broken by a dray loaded with
two tons of stone. He can hardly recover.
liocal option, elective licensing boards, no Bun-
<lae trading, no dodging over transfers, and no liquor to
any youth under 19, say the Temperance bodies.
Many men and horses have been sent forward
by the police department to Beechworth. A strong,
effort will shortly bo made to capture the Kellys,
It is said that the temporary courts of Mel-
bourne International cover i>X),OOO feet of space, and
are equal to the whole of the Sydney Exhibrtiou.
A number of gold and silver watches, said to
belong to two commercial travellers was seized at
Melbourne by the Customs ou the arrival of the City of
Adelaide.
Mr. Zos’a motion that in future strangers bo
not excluded from the Victorian Assembly, on the vote
of a single member was found to bo informal, and was
withdrawn.
Gazjittk notices Acting Sub - Inspector
M'Kay. to be Inspector ; Sen.-Sergt. L irkins to be f+n>
Inspector; Sergeaate Hyaru, M'Doruild, and Hutton to
bo Senior-Sergeants.
“It is satisfactory,” says Tub Herald, that
onr V ietorian neighbors have discovered in out Inter-
national but little which they cannot commend, and
which they may not copy.”
Major Strathan, Governor of Tasmania, is
gazetted a knight, und Messrs. Charles Domett of N.Z.
tuid J. B. Thurston of Fiji as Companions of the Order
of 8.8. Michael and George.
A public meeting held at the Gdanrmia Hall,
Paddington, w the licensing question, was attended by
twenty people. Ten were on the platform and ten in
the body of the hall.
The engraving of Ketten in last week’s Maii.
was a splendid bit of wood cutting, and reflected no
small amount of credit on the talented artist, Mr. F,
Mason, who, we are told, produced it.
The Union B.S. Co.’a a.a. American, bound for
the Cepe of Good Hope, has foundered a-t sea. The
crew and passengers took to the boats, and most of
them had reached land when the mail left.
Hig. Simonetti has completed hie day model of
the third of the three sandstone statues for the ex-
terior of the now public offices. “Minerva” is the
subject and is most successfully treated.
This is the telegram a Sydnoy correspondent
sent for publication Isa! week: -‘'’Affairs Newcastle
alarming. One hundred ftnd fifty men formed joined
women their demons} traitors against blacklegs,”
What promisee to be a very enjoyable amateur
musical entertainment will be given this (Saturday)
evening at the Temperance Hall, Pitt-street. under the
auspices of the Sydney Typographical Association,
The excuse given by A. T. Clark, M.L.A., and
W. M. Clark, M.L.A., in regard to the disloyal para-
graph in their paper, the Willixmotows Advi:«-
tisbh, is transparently unsatisfactory und shuffling.
The aborigines who assembled at Dandaloo to
receive their blankets on Queen’s Birthday showed
terrible signs of poverty and disease. Some of them
hod come from long distances - as far as the Queensland
border.
Government decline to provide funds to attaint
a rifle-toam to visit Brisbane, but the Council of the
N.B.W. Kifle Association have decided to send repre-
sentatives. The Association’s funds arc low and con-
tributions are invited.
_ Darlinghurst Quarter Hess ions. —• Mary Ann
Emerson aud Margaret Haynes, keeping disorderly
houses, six months ; Tom Pepper, aboriginal, stealing
from the person, nine months; Henry Biehardson,
stealing pawn ticket, twelve mouths.
bHr Henry Parkea on Wednesday night moved
the second reading of the Licensing Bill, which was
strongly opposed by Messrs. Buchanan, Fitz])atriok,
and Jacob, und supported by Messrs. Garrett and
Melville.
The Wellington extension of the Western Rail -
way, opened on Queen’s Birthday, is 56 miles. This
brings oar completed lines up to 800 miles. There were
the usual festivities, including a bullock roasted whole.
Beef, however, is no treat out west.
Our attention baa been called to a new safety
lamp and to some useful personal novelties, imported
by Messrs. Bailey and Kerr, of George-street, who have
on hand at their store, opposite the Central Police Court,
goods of a class not to be obtained elsewhere in the
colonies.
The Royal Albert Hotel, at the corner of Gtppa
und Macquarie-street South, has become quite the re-
sort of the theatrical profession. The proprietor in
Mr. Nat, Cohen, well known in five profession, who
has never been slow to do a good turn. The best
liquors, Ac., are kept, and there is the additional at-
traction of all the theatrical and sporting papers.
Bishop Stant on, after enjoying a “ high old
time” in Brisbane, lecturing the men and being feted
by the ladies, has gone to England to “ bury his father. ”
1 had an inclination (says our Brisbane correspondent!
to write you u par. contrasting his conduct with that
enjoined by a revered authority near the sea of Galilee,
some eighteen centuries ago, to one who proposed to
absent himself for the very same purpose. But cm
second thoughts I let it alone, as too radical for you,
Mr. Rogers, a barrister-at-law, and a witness,
are responsible for the following : —“ Did you ever see
him drinking wine P” “No!” “Did you over see him
drink champagne F” "Yes.” “Don’t you call that
wine S'" “ 1 thought you meant colonial wine.” Mr,
Sogers brought this line of argument to a dose by
remarking that when he meant colonial wine be said
colonial wine, because ho did not consider that wine.
(Laughter),
Scene in the Ministerial train.—Captain Onslow
in winter suit and slouched travelling hat. Niniau
Melville in a new suit of clothes, paper collar, and shiny-
hat. Ninny (loquitur): Ah! Onslow’, glad to see you,
old fellow. I see they’re all at cards to pose the time
away. Come and take a hand with me in a game of
poker F Captain Onslow (with withering scorn/ : Nq
thank—you—(aside to u friend) —1> n the fellow.
Baron Rothschild, before Jews were admitted
to the House of Commons, was returned three times,
but—noble gentleman ms he was - was as often refused
permission to sit. So he stood on the hustings, thanked
those who voted for him, and soid he was the choice of
the people. Then a low, deep, hollow voice from out
the erowdsaid, “ And so was Barrabas ” which remark,
though cruelly unjust, was nevertheless perhaps the
bitterest and most sarcastic sentence ever uttered. But-
Mr. Daniel O’Connor said an almost equally withering
thing about Mr. Greenwood the other night. Mr.
Greenwood taunted the member for West Sydney with
being “ the nomine© of Archbishop Vaughan.” ' Now
Mr. Greenwood, who is still a Christian, was formerly a
clergyman, and Mr. O'Connor, after denying the impu-
tation against his political independence retorted tipis .-
—"Archbishop Vaughan is a gentleman possessing
martellons talents that would enable him to find a post-
tion in the first representative body in tho world -tho
British House of Commons, and by application of his
rare abilities he would undoubtedly attain fame and
fortune; yet with all these advantages to win success
in the world, he—the representative of a noble family
- gave up the luxuries which fall to the lot of fame and
fortune, to devote his powers to elevating and instruct-
ing the poorest section of the community for Christ's
sake. What a noble contrast, Mr. Speaker, that Gto
mem who. having sworn fealty to Christ, sell him, like
■Judas, for silver, but even worse than Judas, they, in
obedience to the teaching of a dark soul, stick to the
price of their fipostacy.”
MR. C. H. E. BLACHMANN.


BRIEF MENTION.
We can’t Kettenough of Ketten.
Lost heirs ! Square it with Cubitt.
Mon eat porridge now till they can’t stir-about.
The Evening News lias knighted Saul Samuel.
Ninny never drinks tea now. 1 has les Chinois !
The seats are very vacant after sunset in the
parks.
“Money speaks all languages,’’ says Joe
Thompson’.
“Sentimental journey,’’ Under the northern
coast range.
Mr. Ward, of The Mail, is a first-rate editor
—for a parson.
The Cooktown Courier calls blackfellows
“scented pets.”
How to stop M’Elhone from speaking so much.
Cut his said off.
Sam Banks is writing a poem. The subject is a
profound secret.
“Those tedious old fools,” as Sir John says in
the Council.
A prayer-meeting is held at The Herald office
every Sunday night .
Did yon ever drink with him ? No. Did he ever
drink with you ? Yes.
McElhone, M.P.. sometime* sends his washing
to the Steam Laundry.
Handy Andy- (for church people in want of
funds), Mr. A. Fairfax.
Ninny wonders if he will ever be as weighty a
member .ts our Hanley. '
The He rald has found a big gooseberry in the
shape of a 65 lb. mangold.
George Coppin says he saw “ Drink ” 50 years
:?go. Wbieb accounts for the gout.
Formerly the foolish virgins had no oil. Now
theyTe too free with the kerosene.
An Adelaide p aper places the report of an exe-
cution under the head of “ sporting.”
It’s a scandalous thing to say, but still it’s true,
that Alderman Kippax is a fowl murderer. He has
already “ cooked many a man’s goose.”
Twenty-one inches one Scriptural Cubit. Sixty
inches equal one Missing Friends’ Cubitt.
Mr. S, C. Brown is spoken of by the C. and E.
Examiner as “Steve—not Hart—but Brown.
In New South Wales “ M.P.” means member of
Parliament. In Victoria it also means “my pay.”
The Shanghai cable was interrupted on the 27th
instant, but catapults continue to be used in public
places.
The Australian Eleven ought to win nearly every
match they play—thev have made such grand big-
innings.
Mr. Hoskins, the Secretary for Lands, says he
was born in London. Ted White says that ho was bom
•a New York.
The Cooktown Herald says the local mayor
“ shouldn’t be scowled upon by aldermen as if he were
fr malefactor.”
Different pronunciations of “G. E. Dibbs.” —
Shepherd and coterie “jeer" Dibbs. Vox jxqmU,
‘cheer” Dibbs!
If you wish to have a sleepless night try to
think of an Euglisk word commencing with a Q which
ts not followed by a U.
‘ Censure,’ says Swift, ‘is a tax a man pays to
the public for beiug eminent.’ The tax collector won’t
often trouble Greenwood.
Eed was a favourite color in Brisbane during
the race week. The ladies wore it on their toilettes and
the men wore it on their noses.
There was a nice little elopement the other
evening, However, as it was only, a second-class
affair, we won’t go into particulars.
Dr. Eenwick is going to represent us at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition, which will, consequently, be opened
with prayer, whatever it may be closed with.
The proprietor of a paper in this city says that
most of his subscribers are lost to sight though to
memory dear. So he is touching them np.
“Eip Van Winkle” is what they call a Lyons-
torroce doctor who writes to The Herald condemning
tramways. Not enough casualties, you know.
Flash ’Arry has just put his shoulder out in try-
ing to squeeze his oue-and-eleven-penny- gingham into
the dimensions of a twenty-five-and-sixpeuny silk.
Passion disturbed his features! He kicked an
old hat in Boomerang-street, all unmindful of the geo-
logical specimen of our old gray rocks, concealed
therein.
A well-known Sydney man, who wears an eye-
glass, left his carpet slippers outside his bedroom door
the other night to l>e polished. Of course he lives at
an hotel.
Modest Melville remarks that “ whatever he
luulertakes he’ll carry out.” A fervent prayeris breathed
oißhtlv that he will “ undertake " and “ carry out ’’
himself.
Back to the nursery. How doth the busy shears
improve the country “ chronicles of the hour ” by
fcfgthering pars, all the day from the Bulletin's abun-
dant shower.
It’s reported that when Her Majesty was asked
bamake J. B. Thurston into a knightshe objected, saying
that the last Fijian knight she made hadn't turned out
well enough.
A meeting of the numerous friends of Ben.
Palmer will shortly be held on the racecourse for the
purpose of devising means whereby he may he induced
to wear a necktie.
The you ngest member of the House, i’faith but he’s
a funny ’un,
What shall we call bis turnip-bead—a Ninian or au
onion?
A Dubbo man was recently presented with a
testimonial -a gold watch—-which he gave himself with
ins right hand and accepted with his left. Copying a
certain Sydney politician, eh !
Someone told Melville that, if he had the power,
he would he a second Erostratns. Melville is hunting
round wanting to know; “ W T ho the death’s head
and croeebones —was Erostratns ? ”
Philip do Mueller was arrested the other day at
Kockhampton. It was a case of “Philip drunk,” and
the man who took him in hand was Constable Hen-
uessy. Probably James Hennessy.
Lord Belmore on hoarding his money was bent.
Sir Alfred was fond of the lasses.
His money on horses Sir Hercules spent.
But Lord L. seems addicted to asses.
■ The leading hotel keepers of Brisbane are com-
plaining about the number of younger sons with ex-
cellent appetites and no money who are being thrown
into the colony by the Orient steamers.
'*JThe S. M. Herald no longer takes notice of
executions. Such affairs are too depressing for the
editor, who, it is said, will shortly omit all reference to
tea-meetings and other solemn gatherings.
A boy on the 24th ult. got a shilling. He com-
menced* the study of pyrotechnics. He plays with
Woolloomooloo mud pies with his left-hand now, and
says he does not mind being deaf, not a bit.
A chalk-mark on Mr. Justice Windeyer’s face
would he quite invisible if his honour happened to
“feel strongly ” in court, which, it is to be hoped—but
not too confidently-—he “ hardly ever ” does.
The Yankee, if sometimes very eccentric, is
sometimes very kind also. There is a Yankee of this
sort on one of the tramway engines. He was a hush-
ttuiger in his own country; but they call them generals
vut there. However, this engine-driver is a kind fellow.
Ho has fallen in love with a little street Arab. He
calls him “ Boh.” Bob sells matches and oranges, hut
makes with great regularity for the three minutes past
ten tram. He’s stowed away aboard just abaft the
funnel in n warm nook and taken to the Hayraarket. It
is perhaps the only five minutes of real happiness poor
Bob ever has.
The Clarence and Eichmond Examinee is
the most respectable of country journals. It never
copies from any paper but The Herald. The result is
that the Examiner is . But here we stop.
The murder is out 1 “ The Vagabond” has
written, or at least assisted in writing, a play. We are
glad “ The Nihilists” has proved a success, and hope
our eccentric confrere will now give the barber a turn.
It’s said that Max Kreitmaycr, of the Melbourne
Waxworks, who recently saw George Milner Stephen
perform a miracle, is going' to model the barrister in
wax and show him. Of course, not in the chamber of
honors.
There has been so much dissatisfaction in Eng-
land with regard to the new Burials Bill that many re-
spectable fathers of families have refused to be buried
at all. They prefer stringing on in hope of more liberal
legislation.
What fools these novelists are. One wants to
know “ what will he do with it ?” Another, “Did she
love him ?” “Shall I win her ?” “ Will he marry her ?”
“ Will she have him?" “What next?” Howthedeuce
do we know ?
An old story disentombed. One day, many
years ago, some plaster fell from the ceiling of the
Supreme Court, Sydney, while Mr. Broadhurst was
addressing the jury. ‘Fiat jusiitia rout celuii' .” ex-
claimed the wit.
It is stated that three or four of the railway
officials at the Sydney terminus are about to enter the
wedded state. The station-master, however, objects to
their all going off at once, so probably the traffic will
not be impeded.
When Ball is brought before the Criminal
Court, we hope to bearon cross-examination how many
of the present Ministry are creditors of members of
the public service. Perhaps there are none, but some
people say otherwise.
An Age reporter recently had trouble with his
proprietor. He killed a man and held au inquest on
him, and the man was mean enough to turn up next day,
and not only to protest but to threaten David Syme with
an action for damages.
Mr. G. E. Bibbs’s levee continues. High and
low, great and small'.have been up to see him. His
visitors number about eighty a day, and ten or twelve
often meet at one time. There’s one man, however,
that’s not been to see him.
The Prince Alfred Literary and Debating Society
have been discussing “ which was the greater novelist,
Dickens or Thackeray ?” It’s reported that their next
debate will be—“ Which is the more humorous man—
Carlyle or The Vagabond?”
A well-known Queensland journalist the other
day left his home, alio a letter for his wife intimating
that he would never return alive. For a week they
searched for him, and then he turned up drunk and
penitent. His nerve had failed him.
A printer applied for assistance at a city office
the other day. Ho said he had been working on the
Echo, was a strict teetotaller, always said grace before
meat, invariably went to church on Sunday, and in-
tended to go overland to New Zealand.
S. and G. Grime’s produce store at Brisbane
was burned down the other night. The most excited
person in the crowd was an insurance agent who kept
explaining to the crowd that this was the “fifth Pro-
testant flro since a Papist had had a chance!”
The astute member for Gold Fields West (Mr.
Beyers) is spending all his spare time in endeavouring
to improve on the famous 15 puzzle. He fancies he
ought to get 17 squares into the allotment originally
intended to hold 16'only. If he doesn’t succeed no one
will.
There were actually several columns of light
reading in last week’s Queenslander. They were a
most agreeable relief from the tedium of its atribilious
and supremely respectable leaders which mostly vibrate
between frozen meat, the bovine population and bank
balances.
“Ninny” Melville invariably rehearses Ids
speeches. ’ He plumes himself upon this. _ His
greatest commendable aim is to form a bury Ministry.
He says he has in his professional capacity—laid out
and cut up Park(e)s, and he’ll do it again! This is a
grave subject.
A respected and earnest advocate for sanitary
reform arrived at Petersham the other day rather late
fortbe train. “ Who shut me out ? —Why do you not
open the door ?” he plaintively asked the guard. “ For
public health, sir, and public good,” ejaculated one of
the genus larrikin.
The Oatrns Advertiser hard up again for
news. Its leading “local” is in regard to a terrible
catastrophe the falling-in of the town baker’s oven.
However, we’re glad to learn, in The Advertiser's
words, that the “well-known energy of Mr. W. Jones
came to the fore.” .
The blondes of Queen-street, Brisbane, are being
daily replaced by the brunettes. It is considered the
height of snobbishness to express astonishment either
by word or look at the disappearance of what polite
people call an “auburn,” and the vulgar* and un-
educated a “ginger pigtail,
A well-known member of the Assembly was
lately accused in the Australian Club of having been
jnebriateu on the previous evening. He indignantly
denied the charge, but admitted having spent an hour
or two in trying to find out what o'clock it was by the
weather map of the Sydney Morning Herald.
M r r, i i.;_ inffin hmnolif nn
x "h- G. h. Dibbs lias had Uis lathe brought up
to his apartments, and works at it for exercise. He is
very expert and out of vegetable ivory from the
South Seas turns napkin rings, studs, pipe howls, Ac.,
the most artistic manner. He is now turning a toil,
so he is hound to be a statesman. Sir Henry says
•< anybody eon turn a top; but what you want is a top
thatcan spin on its ’ead. Them’s the kind of tops I’ve
been making all my life- spin any way jon want em.
A man told Daron Maclay that a man had told
him tho man (Np 3) , lt tlie rldou Club that Tyson had
to]d hhn (man No . *>) that he (Tyson) had seen hairless
plucks on the Bullone. Maclay is going to start in
search of those bald-headed natives which Tyson said
he saw. This par. looks involved, but it’s true.
At a dinner party given at Creer s hotel, Graf-
ton, recently, a local man took, first porter; then
followed in succession ale, claret, colonial wine, sherry,
colonial wine, porter, champagne, ale, port wine, cham-
pagne, claret, porter, champagne, port wine, coffee, and
then a smoke. He beats Lord Derby at mixing his
liquors.
Writing on the effect of the arolito seen at
Cooma recently, a gentleman says he ‘ observed the sun
shaking.’ This is nothing to what has occurred in
Sydney. Mr. David M‘Boots, M.P., assures us that
when returning from the Assembly the other evening
he distinctly saw the earth move and at last it got up
and hit him.
Wo pity the Sydney postmen. Many of them
are old, some of them are lame, and all of them work
hard for very little. Winter has come, ard the
bleeding country which has so much money and can
afford overcoats for policemen and gorgeous bedrooms
for Premiers surely might give each postman a
twenty-shilling macintosh.
The clerk recently asked a prisoner what he had
to say why sentence should not be passed on him. The
prisoner said he had witnesses to call as to good
character. “ Witnesses be blowed ? ” cried the Judge;
“ what sort of a looking woman is your wife ?” The
truth of this statement is vouched for by a N. Z. bar*
risternt present visiting Sydney.
Hearing that George-street was about to be
paved with cubes of hluestone, one of the religious
booksellers in that crowded thoroughfare was betrayed
into brimstone, and gave it as his candid opinion that
the place would speedily he turned into one paved with
good intentions. Those who say the good work won’t
be finished until doomsday ore scoffers, and should be
treated as such.
Langridge, representative for Larrikinwood in
the Victorian Assembly, was preparing a hill of fare for
a banquet and handed over the bill to the secretary.
The latter looked at the paper and smiled. “ What are
you laughing at?*’ asked the legislator. “Why,” re-
plied the secretary, “ you spell ‘ celery ’ .salary.” “Do
I ? ” was the prompt retort ; “ well, 1 don’t spell words
like the Jiaristocmcy.”
Time was when Sir Henry boasted that John
had actually cried when pressing his application
for a place on the commission of the peace—-which ap-
plication, however, he had refused on the ground thal
John wasn’t fit for such au appointment. But times
have changed, though the men are still the same. The
man who wasn’t good enough for the commission of the
peace has been a Minister and is again a Minister-ex-
pectant. Carter will write the minutes.
Inspector Eobert Johnstone, of Herbert Eivor,
and Perd. Sachs of Townsville, are the crack shots of
Queensland. The former gentleman can bring down
the smallest bird from the tallest gum-tree without
ruffling a single feather, whilst Mr. Sachs astonished
the strong nerves of “The Vagabond” during his re-
cent Queensland tour by perforating with a bullet at a
distance of 100 yards a jam. tin placed on the polished
cranium of the well-beloved Thomas. The “Vag.”
wasn’t afraid. He knew his head was bullet proof!
It is not true that Mr. M‘Beath, our respected
City Architect, swore lustily last Sunday when he
examined the roof of Glamis Hall, Paddington, after
the meeting re the Licensing Bill, at which Mr. Eoseby
roared to sucb purpose on the previous evening. To
tell the truth, though the noise was something awful,
no great harm was done. By-thc-bye. it was a pity
that all the audience, including the reporters and the
policeman, were not accommodated with seats on the
platform. There was plenty of room for them there,
and to spare.
With stately step the veteran comes. A hah*
man yet is he. Around him throng the citizens, pride
and wonder expressed in the face of each. Then doth
the boldest burgher speak“ Noble stranger! soldier!
Second Veteran, it is with pride we welcome thee to
this our country town. Say, whence art thou ? ” Then
out sx>ake he, the scarred one and hale: “ From the
wild park of Moore I come. ’Twas there I left an eye
and thumb. 'Twas there these many wounds I got.
For know, of our football fellows I’m the pioneer, and
have come, with others, to play your club right on
here.”
‘ Where do yon live, sir?’ enquired a knowing
barrister of a witness at Ararat, Victoria. ‘ Bullock
Town.’ ‘Do you live alone?’ ‘No, sir.’ ‘ls any per-
son living with you—a female, eh—on your oath, sir ?’
‘Yes, she is.’ ‘ls she your sister, sir?’ ‘No.’ ‘ls
she your mother?’ ‘My mother’s been dead some
years.’ ‘ls she your wife, sir ?’ ‘ No, I’m not married.'
‘ Oho ! Ha, ha! That will do, sir,’ with a knowing wink
at the jury. ‘You may go down, yes, you may go
down.’ ‘ Stop, sir!’ cried the other barrister, ‘one
moment. Is not the venerable lady who has shared
your homo for the last nineteen years your grandmother ?’
‘She is, sir!’ returned the witness, with a titter. But
even now people shako their beads and say, ‘ There was
a deuced queer story about some woman, don’t you
know, at Bullock Town, never satisfactorily explained.’
Of all the different phases of advertising the
mysterious is the most outrageous. As au instance—a
short time back the town was placarded with the words
“Drink ” and “Cambridge Sausages,” without explana-
tion. Whether these were the names of some new stars
or dramas no one appeared to know, but various were
the conjectures. W'hen, however, the announcement
was seen “Drink” —“Cambridge Sausages”— all
speculation was thrown to the winds, and the curious
gave it up in despair. In rash and hungry moments we
confess to having eaten German sausages, hut never
in our most thirsty times, when beers were scarce and
“ shouts” were rarer, did we ever think of drinking
them. Now, however, the mystery is solved. “Drink” is
merely a moral drama, and nothing more; the other,
merely a rival sausage, and nothing more, We have
resumed onr study of the “fifteen ” puzzle.
Says “ JEgles ”in The Australasian : —“ An
Australian journalist tells me that there is an Austra-
lian journal in an Australian city ‘ run ’ on alcohol.
This is his allegation. The editor has been drunk for
years ; the sub-editor is invariably tight: the leader of
the reporting staff, like his superiors, has never been
sober within the memory of any pressman ; the musical
critic observes talent through the bottom of a tumbler;
the shipping reporter never tries to write without a
preliminary observation just over his little finger; the
rank and file of the staff, including police and parlia-
mentary reporters, are never in their sober senses
unless they can’t help it; the machinist needs as much
lubrication as his printing-press, and the conqmsitors
drink whisky for breakfast. The singular nud quite
discouraging moral is, that there is plenty of money in
the paper, and its circulation is increasing daily.” The
above, some people say, has a local application.
Arthur Sketchley.
“ A goodly portly man. i’ faith, and a corpulent,
his age some fifty and inclining* to three score,”
will, in the language of the immortal bard, do-
scribe the original of onr portrait, Mr. George
Rose, who, some twenty years ago, under the
assumed name of “ Arthur Sketchley,” first came
before the London public as a dramatic and
humorous writer, his time having been devoted
previously to an academic and educational career.
Mr. Sketchley’s great success as an author and
reader has been in recounting the adventures and
experiences of a creation of his own, one Mrs.
Brown, whose sayings and doings have extended
through many hundred editions of Is. volumes, and
whoso narratives, as related by the author, have
absorbed a considerable amount of public atten-
tion in England during the last eighteen years.
Although it would be out of the question to claim
entire originality for the character of Mrs. Brown,
since old women of her type are to be met with in
the classic drama, as well as in the Dame Quickly
of Shakespeare, Sheridan’s Mrs. Malaprop, and
the Mrs. Partington of Theodore Hook; yet, it
must be conceded to Mr. Sketchley that Mrs.
Brown has nothing in common, not oven as to
language, with either these ladies, and ia a distinct
creation from Mrs, Gamp ; it having been the
author’s design to draw an English matron of the
humbler class, and one who, tho’ she may be liable
to human errors, has a strong sense of both duty
and propriety. That Mr. Sketchley has been ex-
ceptionally popular in England is certain from
the unanimous testimony of the press, both metro-
politan and provincial. Ho has moreover been
most favourably received and criticised in Vic-
toria, Tasmania, and New Zealand 1 , and there can
be no doubt that he will find duo appreciation
with the good people of New South Wales, to
whom ho addresses himself with hearty sympathy,
it having been a long cherished wish on his part
to visit the colonies, in which ho takes a most
lively interest, and would have visited long since
had not pressure of business detained him at
home. To the laughter-loving public Mr. Sketch-
Icy makes his especial appeal, altho’ his talents
have not been devoted exclusively to comic writing,
ho being the author of several successful comedies
and novels, as well as a writer on matters of more
serious interest. Mr. Sketchley will make his
first appearance in Sydney at the School of Arts
on the Bth June, and will, from what we have
seen of him in other places, command the success
which his cleverness deserves
MR. ARTHUR SKETCHLEY.
AH CHOW: You comcec up, horse; take cabagce Maket. No sabce! A lightee; me
whip pig-tail.
THE HORSE (soliloquising): Oh! Jce-ru-sa-[?]! Is it come to this. A British 'ONN
whipped by a pig-tail.


MASON. LAND AGENT, 227 Bonrke-
street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
of LAND for Sale at Waverley, also Allotments in
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
Kearey brothers, coach and buggy
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
I* F. CBIPPS. PASTRYCOOK AN D
• CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Stdnkt.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., catered for in the
best style.
KO B E R T B U T C H E R & G 0.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
598 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Countht Orders Rkceivk Pbompt Attention.
HAS. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, UKANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial iSntnul Life Assurance Society
S
HORTEEAFI T Z G E E A
Solicitors.
69 CASTLEHEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
LD,
And
Macquarie Street. Dtjbbo.
T EGAL.—-Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235,)
ITTT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Gr.
AND
P E E D D B Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Euskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Oases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
F
ESTABLISHED 1837.
O W L E E’ S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPER DOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application,
n H O M A S PLAY F A I E,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
10 3 GEORGE STREET.
GLEE
TOBACCONIST,
710 GEORGE STREET SOUT
J.
J.
SON,
Best Brands of Tobacco or Cigars.
A 1)0
LPHE GABRIEL
C O
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two noons from pfahlket’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m * c a l l,
U HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH.
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869,1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips. Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
R
O B
ERT CASSI
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
N,
BRANCH AT NAEANDERA.
w
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Casein’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Makek,
574 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GUEWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no mams
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
ASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDEEX’S NEW MERCERY AXD OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Neae the Victoria Theatre.
F
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT!!!
J. L. HORDED N.
jyj' E S. SPENCEE
of the
VICTORIA LUNCHEON & SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre),
Knowing the, aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining in town after the theatres are
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in the evening or day can
ha ve joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW!
X.B. This is not restricted to suppers, hut cooked
meats, etc. <sua he served and obtained at as v time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as itsnal.
Cleanliness, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling the possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for Five Shillings, may
be had at the cash counter.
Note the Address —
m PITT STREET.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Garner is a Bath man.
So them plays in London this year.
Appropriate.—Kitten, a mew-sician.
Gres wick is Emery’s senior by a year.
Charles Coote died in London on March S.
Fred. Marshall’s birthday is sth November.
Nellie Farren is no longer Mrs. Bob Soutar.
At Melbourne Juvenile Pinafore still draws.
J. K. Emmett is going to play Fritz in Russia.
Tho British-American circus is still at Wagga.
Sam Emory will centenariatc if he lives till 1914.
Buckstono played in “ Bos and Cox ” over 2000
times.
Ketten goes to Melbourne under engagement to
Lyster.
Florence Marryatt is dramatising one of her
novels.
Ketten is a Polish Hebrew, but chooses to be
French.
Signora Link visits N.Z. shortly with a opera
company.
Maggie Oliver is to be married to a Brisbane
bookmaker.
There is some talk of the Lingards visiting
Queensland.
Wilhemj, another great violinist, is coming to
the colonies.
Old Paul Bedford’s sons are on the English
provincial stage.
What a falling off is there I ” Eaiuford is now
an ex-acting man.
Toole looks much aged since his late illness, but
draws as well as ever.
“ Jean do Nivelle,” M. Leo Delibes’ comic
Opera, is the talk of Paris.
Lecooq is finishing a new operetta entitled
“The Marquis of Windsor.”
Signora Boema’s farewell concert at (Mel-
bourne was a splendid success.
Shepperson and Howard are organising a company
to do the provinces of Queensland.
Kind, keen King Ketten keeps knocking kick-
ing kettledrums—or rather pianos.
Mr. Hegarty, of the Queen’s Theatre, is building
a residence on the Blue Mountains.
Fairolongh was playing “ Hamlet” at Anck land
to capital houses when the mail left.
Ben. Webster is the oldest living London actor;
Mrs. Keeley the oldest living actress.
W. S. Gilbert’s new comedy, written for
Sotheru, is entitled “ Fairy Bebecca.”
Garner is the tallest. Marshall tho shortest, and
Roberts the fattest actor in Australia.
Pearce’s Lilliputians have been performing at
Hay aud go to the townships northward.
The Australian Blondin is still giving open air
performances iu Brisbane and is doing well.
It was Creswick who “ created” the part of
Martin Truegold in “ True to the Core ” (1666.)
J. E. Planclie, of the Somerset Herald, the
well-known dramatic author, is dead. Aged 84,
James E. Kitts turned tho scales the other day
at 16 st. 6 lb.-—thanks to our country-tilled beef.
Rainy seasons, Oriental agriculturists say, are
good for Bice. However, Colville begs to differ.
Adelaide Corporation requires Mr. Garner to
furnish additional means of exit from his theatre.
“ David Garrick ” and “Pygmalion and Gala-
tea ” are the Dilloji Go’s, latest at Rockhampton.
Mis Kate Saville, nioco of Miss Helen Faucett,
the original May Edwards, has retired into matrimony.
Miss Nellie Playfair, a very pretty young lady,
is about to make her debut with the Comedy Company.
The Froliques have concluded their Dunedin
season, which terminated with a benefit to Mr. Simonson.
The People’s Theatre, Melbourne, has been
closed again, the nigger combination having proved a
jiasco.
The gospel truth. The tent on the Haymarket
Reserve draws better than its namesake in West
Sydney.
Leybonrne, the “Lion Comic,” was hissed at
Manchester for warbling a ballad a little “too near the
breeze.”
Lewis, Hicks and Hobbs, theatrical managers,
of Melbourne, are insolvent; liabilities, £570; assets,
u jmiual.
The Melbourne Argus is the only Australian
paper whose theatrical critic pays for admission to the
theatres.
Kate Vaughan has had the audacity to announce
her re-appearance on Dio boards of the Metropolitan
Theatre.
Negotiations have been opened for Professor
Fepiier visiting Queensland. (Nothing definite has been
arranged.
Trouble between artists and managers. The
fomer, it is said, having made money, want to kick out
the latter.
Carlotta Patti considers Adelina slightly over-
rated. Adelina is small, but the public make a great
deal of her.
Marshall, of the L. C. C., was educated to the
stage from childhood. ’Twas in ’4B, in Glasgow, he first
saw the light.
Darrell is still in Brisbane playing at the theatre.
His future movements are uncertain. His engagement
has terminated.
Harry Lemon (now in Sydney, son of tho great
Mark) has written some new character sketches for
Sydney Colville.
Alfred Dickens, of Hamilton. Victoria, ever and
anon gives public readings from the works of his father,
the great Charles.
Harry Compton’s son and daughter are both on
the stage. Edward is great, and Kate is good both on
and off the boards.
Signora Antoinetta Link left by the E.M.S.
Malwa, on Friday, for Venice. Fritz (Mr. (Neustadtel)
'hd not g* with her.
Ella Carrington goes further into tho tropics
itnd neturus to (Rockhampton after finishing her
Norttiern engagements.
Hiss Christian re-appeared at Melbourne on the
~lst ult. In respect to voice, it is said, she has benefited
by her visit to England.
Charles Lascelles is a right-out professor of
music in classic Maritzbnrg, (Natal. So says that ras-
hly Hamburgh journal.
Mr. F. H. Cowon is a candidate for the conduc-
orship of the London Philharmonic Society, just
vacated by Sir J. Benedict.
Boarding-school misses who hate practising will
Please note that it isn’t genius which has carved back
me tips of Kettens fingers,
Marshall, of tho London Comedy Company, is
vcing to take a week’s rest. He and his wife intend to
oralise on Mount Victoria.
Haggle Oliver has returned from Queensland,
ne is under engagement to Coppin, to open in Syd-
U6 y, with Biggs, the Irish comedian.
Albert Sowinski, a once famous pianist, in his
y days a rival of Chopin, Liszt, and Thai berg, but
°rgotten of late years, is dead, aged 74.
Hrs . Bates is very realistic in the washing scene
tor s he thorongly souses Miss Anstead
v ‘rfPttw.j nightly, Some say this is because
Miss Anstead has made a great hit in the piece and Mrs.
Bates has not: bnt such Scandals are of course the
invention of the evil-minded in Melbourne.
Wybert Reeve's generally-condemned play,
“For Life,” was composed by the author during a
steamer voyage between Sydney and Melbourne.
Boucicault has been asked to write an Irish
play without a soldier, a grasping landlord, or a process
server, and which shall be without a prison scene.
Real water has often been introduced on the
stage, but there is no truth in the report that Dampier
introduced real spirits into Ms character in “ Drink.”
Henri Wieniawski, the great violinist with
whose works Ur so made ns all so familiar, died at Mos-
cow of heart disease and dropsy, on 2nd April, aged 45.
The Moore and Burgess Minstrels, who have
hitherto rarely loft London, wore to perform at Birming-
ham owing to the necessity for repairs at St. James’
Hall.
“ The Colleen Bawn” has been played at Cook-
town School of Arts by the local Histrionic Club, and
has run six nights to crowded houses. Boucxuets were
plentiful.
Dr. Neild is the theatrical critic of the Austra-
lasian. His twin, de plume, “Tahite,” is an anagram
of Hattie, the Christian name of the lamented Miss
Sheppard.
Mr. Ure. who now conducts the orchestra at the
Bijou Theatre. Melbourne, has only lately left the soft
goods line. He was formerly with Messrs, Sargood and
Stevenson.
The success of M. Ketten has" been greatly con-
tributed to by Mi-. Montagu, whose courtesy to the
profession and his brethen of the Press has won him
golden opinions.
De Vivo is organizing an Italian Opera Company,
including Signora Boema, Signora Coy. and Signori
Coy, Verdi and others. After playing in Melboure they
will visit Sydney.
Two more of the children in Pinafore have lost
their voicesjand have been replaced. The six weeks’ run
of this Opera has made havoc with even the chorus
children’s voices.
Baron Maolay visited the Brisbane theatre the
other night but left shortly after the rising of the
curtain because the management would not supply him
with an easy chair.
The troupe which Shepperson and Howard are
organizing to do the provinces in Queensland purposes,
besides minor pieces, to play “ Fra Diavalo,” “ Trova-
tore,” and “Aladdin.”
W. Farren, jun., thinks he will “ hardly ever”
forget the lines of Sir Geoffrey Champneys. He played
the part at the Vaudeville, London, nightly from
January ’“5 to June ’7B.
Several American artists play in London this
season, including Mr. and Mrs. Florence (in “ The
Mighty Dollar”), J. T. Kaymoud, Frank Mayo, and
Salsbury’s Troubadours.
The South and Dillon Company opened at the
Rockhampton theatre, to a £3O house. They have not
done so well since, the “ Stray Leaves” at the School of
Arts being too much for them.
It is nearly ten years since A. Garner made his
first appearance on any stage at the Prince of Wales
Theatre, Liverpool. About fonr years of the intervening
time has been spent in Australia.
The London Comedy Company have shown us
how society pieces should be played. The public of
Melbourne, Sydney, and Adelaide have testified their
approval of Mr. Garner’s venture.
An amateur “ Pinafore” troupe is on the tapis
at Melbourne. The male parts are to be assumed by
clerks iu one of the Government departments. Some
people say it’s the Education Department.
Darrell’s Brisbane season terminated last Satur-
day, bnt nejstill holds the boards. Wednesday, “ Back
from the Grave,” Thursday “ Hamlet,” and Friday, tor
the author-actor’s benefit, “ The Four Fetes.
Fra Giovanni, the famous tenor, whose chest
notes possessed a higher range than those of any other
singer, living or dead, and whose voice attracted crowds
of listeners to the Sistine Chapel, Borne, is dead.
Dampier opens in Brisbane on 17th July. He
will Vie supported by.the stock company, his daughters
Lillie aud Rose, andJHorry Sefton. The last named will
perhaps be better recognised as the “Dancing Spider.”
The London Times devotes over ha,lf a column
to a favorable criticism of Darrell’s “Forlorn Hope.”
It is written by “ our special at Melbourne” aud quoted
by the Age, May loth. Arthur Sketchley, we presume.
John Bennett, of the Victoria Theatre, visits
Brisbane immediately, to make arrangements,it is said,
for the construction of the proposed new theatre. If
anyone in the island cun bring the affair to a head it is
J.B.
Adelina Patti has come to the conclusion that
she cannot sing more than twice a week without suffer-
ing fatigue. It is admitted on all hands that she was
most wretchedly supported during her recent Paris
season.
Miss Annie Taylor is going to appear in “ Stage
Struck.” She and (Roberts set all MelVtourne on the
broad grin with this farce. Marshall played Tom Tape
one night, and fairly divided the honours with Miss
Taylor.
The liquor sold at the bars attached to the
Melbourne theatres is of what David Buchanan would
call “atrocious” quality. Lots of people wish the
Melbourne cafes would share the fate that has befallen
the Sydney ones.
“ Properly handled,” says The Spirit of the
Times (N.Y.) “The Pirates of Penzance” will make
Gilbert smd Sullivan millionaires, and D’Oyly Carter
rich enough to buy a special milk-white steamer to
carry them hack to old England.”
Amy Sherwin is a decided favorite with the Xew
Yorkers. She had been engaged for the fourth Cinci-
natti Biennial Festival, which was to commences uuder
Theodore Thomas’ direction on May 18th. Annie Louise
Carey, Campanini, and herself are the principals.
The Josephine of Lewis’s “Pinafore’ at the
Bijou, Melbourne, has completely lost her voice, and
her place has been taken by another of the children.
A correspondent of the Aliens condemns the “Juve-
nile Pinafore ” as simple cruelty to the children, and
several writers have taken up this side of the question.
Miss Helen Gordon, who has appeared during
the present opera season in Melbourne twice in
Maritana, and three times as Genevieve in “ The
Chimes of Normandy” (“ Les Cloches de Corneville ”),
is the daughter of Mr. Bussell, the first Government
surveyor sent by the N.S.W. Government to Melbourne
in 1836.
Madame Carandini’s benefit at Dunedin was
most successful. Madame sang several of her favorite
pieces, including “Forsaken,” and “ Auld Eobin Gray,”
and was enthusiastically received, as were also Miss
Carandini (who was encored for “ Kegret ”) and Miss
Deakin, who sang “ 1/Aranta” aud “If.” Mr. Sherwin,
Mr. Gordon Gooch, Mr. Baker, and an amateur violinst
were the other performers.
Sims Reeves has decided to take his farewell,
bnt it will occupy him two years in doing so. In the
autumn he commences in the English provinces ; and
he intends to take advantage of his tour to introduce
to his admirers Mr. Herbert Beeves, his son, who is
said by the family to have a very fine organ. Sims
Beeves has been before the public for 41 years, during
31 of which he has been without a rival as a native-born
tenor.
In the four-act drama, on “ The Mystery of
Edwin Drood,” by Charles Dickens and Joseph Hatton,
the murderer of Edwin Drood turns out to be Jasper,
the choirmaster. The play ends with an exciting scene
in the opium-smoking den, where Jasper beholds in a
dream the details of his crime and arrest, (which are
also made visible to the audience, aud wakes to find the
realisation of the climax of his vision in the entrance
of Die officers of justice.
The list of engagements for the Royal Italian
Opera (London) season, commencing on 13th April, con-
tained very few new names. Among the sopranos there
were two only—Mdlle. Morini and Mdllo. Lcnari—who
were to make a first appearance in England. There is a
new contralto, Mdlle. Peppina Malveesd; two new
tenors. M, Engel and Signor Orloff: and one new bari-
t-CEre, genres SaSKt-e Athes, templates the list. Tit*
nrirae donne were to be Adelina Patti, Albaci, Turolla,
Valleriu, Bauermeister, Cord.
From the very strong company now playing at
the Brisbane theatre Shepperson and Howard are form-
ing a troupe to do the provinces—iu more senses, it is
feared, than one. On the return of (this troupe about
a fortnight “Pinafore” (listen, Williamson) is to be
mounted in Brisbane. Tills will be about the caste:
Buttercup, Lydia Howuule; Sir J. Porter, amateur;
Josephine, either Emma Bogers or Lillie Marsh: Dead-
eve, Sam Howard; Captain Corcoran, Stuart Bolton;
Chorus, amateurs.
“ Les Cloches de Corneville ” (which was in Mel-
bourne first produced at the Academy of Music by the
Bracy-Thompson company) is again being played. The
following is the cast Henri, Mr. Beaumont; Greui-
cheux, Mr. Vernon; Gaspard, Mr. C. H. Templeton;
the Bailie, Mr. George Leopold ; Gobo, Mr. G. A. John-
son : Christophe, Miss Begley; Germaine. Miss Helen
Gordon ; Gertrude, Susanne, Catherine, aud Margarite,
by Misses Boyul, Harris, Smith, and Mayon. Madame
Bose Her.see takes the part of Serpolotte. The stage
appointments, etc., are described as excellent, and the
piece goes very smoothly.
The management of the Theatre Royal, Mel-
bourne, the other week struck off the Daily Telegraph
staff from the free list and withdrew their advertise-
ment, owing to an adverse notice bv Mr. Simmons of
Wybert Beeve’s Australian drama “ For Life.” George
Coppin is an old foe of the Telegraph. Once previ- j
ously Die paper “ slated ” a piece produced at
this theatre. George was equal to the occasion. He
came to the footlights, and commenced thus—“ Ladies
aud Gentlemen, The Telegraph has been very severe
on the management of this theatre. There are at the
present moment sixteen Daily Telegraph reporters in
the dress circle. They condemn the piece, but appear
to like it all the same.”
On Saturday. May 22nd, the Brisbane theatre
caught tire, and Madame Eugenie Legrande had a very
narrow escape. They were playing Darrell’s “ Back
from the Grave,” and iu the house-burning scene the
flies caught, and the fire got too stroug for the mecha-
nicians. It would have “ bossed” the theatre had there
not (been ten lire brigade men present, who were en-
gaged in case of such a disaster. As it was the firemen
turned on the water, and Madame was dragged from
the stage with her dross in flames, more frightened, for-
innately, thou hurt. The ’audience applauded vocife-
rously, and Shepperson “shouted” for the “dead-
heads” of the Press.
The Australasian gives to “ Drink” awither-
ingly denunciatory notice. It says in reference to
“ L’Assommoir,” “It is brilliantly nasty. * * It
makes one sick with its pictures of vileness. You seem
to be looking at vice through a microscope. You see
the germs cf wickedness: its very molecules are revealed.
The whole world seems to l>e ulcerous, gantreaous, or
putrefying. * * It includes adultery, bigamy, drunk-
enness, madness, murder, and starvation, not to speak
of revenge, hatred, malice, and much selfishness. The
ouly good man iu it is a workman who drinks only tea
and lemonade, and who preaches temperance principles,
whenever he gets the chance to do so.” Aud much
more to the same effect, which will not do the manage-
ment a great deal of good.
Says our Adelaide correspondent:—“ The Trou-
badours at the Academy of Music have been a big hit.
They are going to Sydney soon, I believe, and should
take well. I hear it mentioned that they intend pro-
ducing a travestie on “Pinafore” entitled “Pinbehiud,”
written by a recent arrival from Sydney—Mr. Linklater.
The niece, which I have read, should be a. success.
Mr. L. M. Bayless, the manager, is, 1 believe, to be
summoned to the Police Court to answer a curious
charge—loyalty to Her Majesty the Queeu. He burst
out so loyally that be has incurred the ire of the
authorities by putting up too many flags on Queen’s
Birthday. The flags flapped iu the faces of the passers
by, and they objected. But they are a curious lot here
—shops shut at G o’clock aud pubs, at 11 sharp ! This
don’t suit ‘your Own C.,’ though I’m getting used
to it now."
Our Brisbane correspondent writes : ‘ Hamlet”
was produced at the theatre on Thursday evening, aud
for the second time Legrande was taken ill aud
Lillie Marsh left to play Ophelia. Darrell's jterformauce
was not the failure the quidnuncs prognosticated.
Taking it throughout it was a painstaking and effective
rendering of the part., and in thjts third act, more espe-
cially where he has the interview with Ophelia, his idea
of the situation was well conceived and admirably ear-
ned out. He allows the King and Polonius to be mo-
mentarily seen and afterwards, speaking as it were at
them whilst addressing the lady, a motive is given for
Hamlet’s put ting on an imtio disposition which other-
wise would have to be set down solely to his madness.
His closet scene was also good, particularly at; the
Ghost's exit; but the full effect of it was somewhat
marred by bis showing the Queen the medallion on her
turning to him for a blessing —a stage trick unworthy
the excellence of the remainder of the passage. In the
last act the fencing scene was nicely managed, Mr. Dar-
rell adopting the mode of disarming Laertes and hand-
ing him his own foil, which does away with the awkward
changing of the foils in the, agjosually-played .scuffle.
The death of the King was also given in a different
manner to what most players are accustomed to, Hamlet,
after killing him, at last staggering on to the throne as
though to show that if only for a moment he was
“ King iu Denmark.” Mr. Darrell succeeded iu holding
the attention of his audience throughout, aud was the
recipient of much applause during several passages and
at the eud of the acts.
Says a correspondent Henri Ketten is a
wonderful musician. Throwing his whole body and
soul into his performances he stirs up the enthusiasm
and elicits the applause of numbers who ordinarily arc as
deaf to and unconcerned at the charms of high-class
music as most Christians are to the pleadings of their
parsons. To hear him is a rare treat; but to attempt
to describe what one hears would lie as useless as
trying t o convey the sensation of XXX after a walk or a
view of Sydney at sunset. We would rather leave it to
the educated ear and prolific pen of the Herald’s
rhododendron while wo simply glance at the pianist's
manner of execution. Sitting well away from the
piano his brilliant eyes wander dreamily among
the audience, spotting the dead-heads aud estimating
the takings. Then a tuft of hair that o’er hangs his
massive forehead is seen to give two spasmodic jerks,
his body gradually bends forward until his nose almost
comes iu contact with the notes of the instrument, his
hands ure raised two feet above his head, his coat tails
are seen fluttering with nervous excitement, and he is
now ready for the grand passionate fortissimo movement.
With a crash down come his hands, away goes his
scalp at the rate of forty strokes a minute, and before
the audience can recover from their consternation he
is wrapt up in a musical delirium, iu which every part
of his bsdy seems to be affected. By a peculiar muscu-
lar development he has a musical novelty in the shape
of a scalp movement. With it,assisted by his eyebrows
and moustaches, he beats time. This heightens the
general effect considerably for the adagio, allegro, and
marcia movements. He has for each a characterist ic-
style, which requires to be seen iu order to be appre-
ciated. We cannot speak with certainty as to Lis soul,
but from personal exjierience we believe that he throws
more body into his performances than all the musicians
put together that have ever visited Australia since
Captain Cook. He is a wonder.”


SPORTING.
TO OUR SPORTING READERS.
The secretaries of racing clubs, also the authorities
mid members of cricket, ro-tcimg. football and
other athletic associations (whether in this or
the neighbouring colonies) and sporting men
in general, are incited to favor us with lists of
their fixtures! and are informed that the
columns of The Bulletin Vd/ always beat
their disposal and'■ that any acceptable line of
news sent along to this office mill find ready
publication. It is the aim of the editor to make
this journal the premier sporting record of
Australasia. Communications should be as
brief as possible.
The meeting hold last Friday night for the pur-
pose of forming a committee to raise the funds
necessary to defray the expenses of Triekett’s
visit to England was in every way a success, and
though many people strongly object to the time
selected for the match with the renowned Cana-
dian oarsman everyone, now that a contest has
Been definitely arranged, appreciates the necessity
of. fairly facing the situation, and no one doubts
that-in the event of untoward circumstances re-
sultant on the severity of English November
weaiher leading to our man’s defeat, Trickett will
hfLable, under mere favourable conditions, at an
early period of next year , to reverse positions
with.Hanlan. Money is steadily coming in from
afj. quarters, but whether Trickett will leave by
the_Orient as originally intended, and whether his
brother William Trickett will or will not accom-
pany him, depends notjso much on the receipt of
thq. funds —for that Ls assured —as on
tint, oarsmen satisfactorily arranging their private
affairs before the date fixed for the big boat's de-
parture.
* * *
Though the race last Saturday at Melbourne for
tliQ_Victorian Eowing Association’s challenge cup
resulted, so far as its ultimate issue was concerned,
exactly in accordance with our predictions, a rather
unexpected element was imported into the contest.
Lavcock, who commenced the race in his usual lazy
style, and hung behind apparently with the idea
that If ho did otherwise he might row himself out
too soon, was fouled whenever he attempted to get
pas£ his leaders. The fouling appears to have been
thexesult of a preconcerted arrangement between
Melbourne men. The brothers Edwards had been
cautioned on at least one previous occasion against
fouling, and as notwithstanding past warnings
they distinguished themselves in so discreditable'a
manner during the race under notice we hope
that the Victorian Eowing Association will give
them and all other such offenders fair notice that
deliberate fouling after one caution will in future
involve absolute disqualification for a greater or
loss period from entrance to programmes under
the Association’s auspices. Wo are glad to see
that the V. E. A. authorities dealt so promptly
the Edwards brothers on the present occasion,
and that no one in Melbourne attempts to justify
or: extenuate the action of the scullers last named.
It is only by the most decisive action in such
instances that the good understanding which now
exists between the rowing men of the two colonies
can be maintained.
* *
While speaking of the Laycock v. Edwards race
—for such it may bo termed, as practically no one
else was in it —we may remark that R. Edwards’
attempt to foul Laycock was all the more to be de-
plored by reason of the fact that the former is now
Victorian re presentative sculler. While it cannot
bff denied that New South Wales is at present very
Badly off for rising professional talent, Victoria
it must be admitted. Is even worse situated in this
regard. Christie, than whom no better all-round
athlete it would be hard to find, and who a year or
two ago had it all his own way on the Yarra and
Saltwater, is passee; Cazaly belongs to by-gone
days -. and it is now perfectly clear that Mes-
senger cannot be counted on in any contest
in' which our second-best man is numbered.
Robert Edwards, though the best of little
men, is too small to hope to successfully oppose
a .rower of Laycock’s weight on level terms.
He, in fact, belongs to the old school as
contradistinguished from the class to which the
Tricketts and Courtneys of modern days belong.
It. Ls true that Hanlan, a man only 61b. heavier
than Edwards, has beaten some very big pullers,
including Courtney and Wallace Ross —both of
whom are splendid specimens of humanity and
accomplished scullers —-but the defeat of long, wiry
scullers by compact oarsmen of the Sadler species
is,. altogether at variance with our experience in
Australia, particularly since the advent of sliding-
seats and swivel rowlocks. Let us hope that our
experience so far will be borne out by future events
—that Trickett will beat Hanlan, and that young
Edwards, who is as yet but nineteen and a half
years old, and must before attaining his majority
reach Hanlan’s weight, will stop fouling tactics,
improve himself to the utmost, and aspire to the
possession of the English light-weight champion-
ship.
# # #
When are we to witness a race for the inter-
* lonial amateur sculling championship ? Mr.
Tuckett, of Melbourne, has never been beaten
since he commenced sculling, and the public would
like to see him measure blades with some of our
best gentlemen oarsmen.
* * #
The movement with a view to sending home an
Australian football team is likely soon to have a
tangible result. Wo learn that Mr. McNamara,
the well-known Sydney leather-hunter, has been
quietly negotiating for some time past, and that
he has succeeded in inducing a number of the best
footballers in Australia to promise that they will
join him in a trip to England. Should Mr.
M'Namara be so fortunate as to marshal a really
representative team there will be little doubt as to
the men making a good show in any quarter of
the world to which they may be taken.
# * #
Messenger, it seems, was not satisfied with his
defeat by Robert Edwards on Saturday last, and
so the pair made up a quiet match for £5O aside,
over the same course as that on which the Vic-
torian championship was decided. The result
went to show that Edwards can give Messenger a
stone and a good beating, for the race which w §
rowed on Monday, terminated in a ridiculously
easy victory for the tough little sou of the Mel-
bourne boatbuilder, who. by the way was himself
once the Victorian champion.
* * V
That quiet, demure individual, Laycock, it ap-
pears, has gone off to England by the Aconcagua.
Sydney people hardly understood what took him
to Melbourne to row for a £5O challenge cup,
which had to bo won three times, and a paltry £3O
sweepstakes; and it was not until it became
known that a well-known Sydney bookmaker, “ a
regular plunger,” had him in hand, that the
Sydney rowing men began to comprehend the
reason for his having gone down south. Laycock
has long dreamt of a visit to England, and though
his departure by the Aconcagua took those who
wore not in the secret by surprise, and was by
most people regarded as the outcome of a deter-
mination very suddenly arrived at, it is now
pretty well known that Laycock before leaving
Sydney made up his mind to see England and pull
alongside some of the old-country cracks. No
doubt we shall soon hear of bis having made a
match with Boyd or Hawdon. Hanlan is out of
the question untilaffcer his race with Trickett, and
should the latter bo defeated on his merits —which
people hardly expect—Laycock’s chances ns
against the Canadian champion would of course bo
but small. Laycock is agood oarsman, buthounde-
niably lacks Trickett's speed, finish, and nerve,
and has an awkward habit of never waking up till
the finish of a race. Trickett commenced rowing
when a child, and may almost be said to have been
brought up in a boat; Laycock, on the other hand,
did not commence active practice as a sculler until
he was a middle-aged man. It is as much to
Trickett’s lengthy practical experience of aquatics
as to his great personal strength, trimness, and
pluck that his numerous successes have been duo.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Captain Boyton’s death is reported.
Bathurst coursing commences on Bth June.
The latest idea in sculling is the patent oscil-
lating stretcher.
A Gun Clnb was hatched at the Royal Hotel on
Friday. Mr, G. Lee Lord is the secretary.
“ In veno veritas,” as the public said when Veno
upset the pot and won the Adelaide Hurdle Eace.
The Mercantile Rowing Clnb hold their annual
Ball in July next. We wish them as successful a one
as their last.
Only two persons spotted the double —-Barber
and Major—at the late Brisbane races. The odds were
about 20 to 1.
The Australian team have beaten Rochdale by
an innings and 26runs. For the Australians, M’Donneil
was top scorer, with 51.
On 10th March last the University Athletic
Clubs of England decided to apply the present definition
of an amateur to bicyclists.
Private Boardman, of Bathurst, firing at 500
and 600 yards, seven shots at each range, has made a
total score of 63—the highest yet locally recorded.
Among the entries for the Grand Challenge and
Stewards’ Challenge Cup, at the Henley Regatta, this
year, is one from a German Eowing Clnb at Frankfort-
ou-Maiue.
M'Herker beat Brittain easily on Satnrnay hist in
light skiffs for £5 aside. The course was from the
wharf in Blackwattle Bay to a boat moored off the soap
works at Johnston’s Bay.
Ben. Page, the well-known Sydney amateur
billiard-player, was beaten by the “Boy” marker at
the Oxford Hotel on South Head Eoad, hist Tuesday
evening, for a wager of £lO. The game was 253 up.
Last Saturday afternoon, Mr. C. A. Benbow’s
yacht Harpy headed Mr. J. H. AVant’s Guinevere over
a ten-mile course; hut as the wind was very unsatis-
factory, it was agreed to sail on another day, for double
or quits.
Percy M‘Donnell, the promising young cricketer
who made the highest score for Australia at Eochdale,
is a son of the Hon. M. A. M’Donnell, formerly Vic-
torian Attorney-General, and is a clerk in the Education
Department. He is but 20 years of age.
Coincidence. —In the first match played in Aus-
tralasia by W. G. Grace and team the Melboumers were
beaten by one innings and 21 runs. In the first match
played at home by Boyle and hik team the Englishmen
were defeated by one innings and 21 runs.
Onr attention has again been drawn to the cos-
tumes (if three-quarters of a yard of material may lie
termed such) of some of our amateur rowers. Wo will
perhaps at some future time address a few of the delin-
quents by name should occasion require it.
A maiden pair-oar race took place on Saturday
afternoon last in connection with the Mercantile Eow-
ing Clnb. Messrs. Bros and Johnston won the first
heat, and Messrs. Coker and Hebblewhite the second.
The final heat was won by the latter gentlemen by half
a length after a magnificent race.
The Queensland Turf Club ran the totalis ron
their own account at the late races. They earned by it
(10 per cent.) £260. But from this must he deducted
the expenses, say £5O. They were “ had ” over the last
race, which was run between the lights. Several
tickets showing wrong numbers were paid.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Coonamble J. C June Bth and 9th
Hunter Kiver Amateur June 12
Northern Downs J.C June 23, 2*
Cobar Annual J one 21, 25
Clarence Eiver J. C July 7, 8
Eockhampton J.C. Annual July 8,9
Hawkesbury August 25. 27
A.J.C. Spring September
Bendigo June 16
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Coonamble General Entry June 5
Victoria A.T.C. General Entry June 14
Northern Downs J.C. General Entery June 18
Warrnambool General Entry June 22
Cobar General Entry June 23
Deniliquin June 30
Eockhampton District Plate Hurdle Eace and
Members’ Handicap July 1
Clarence Eiver J.C. General Entry July 5
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Hunter T.C Handicaps !... June 5
Bendigo Handicaps June 5
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps June 7
N.D.J.C. Handicap, Flying Handicap, Dalby
Town Plate June 8
Warrnambool June 8
Eockhampton and Port Curtis Handicaps June 15
Y.A.T.C June 19
Great Metropolitan Stakes June 23
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap June 23
Bockhampton District Plate, Hnrdle Eace, and
Melbourne Cup June 23
Members’ Handicap July 5
Deniliquin July 10
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Coonamble and Castlereagh H’dieaps accept. June 5
Hunter Eiver T. C. acceptances June 9
Warrnambool acceptances June 15
Bendigo acceptances June 11
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps acceptances June 21
Eockhampton and Port Curtis Handicaps
acceptances July 1
Eockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Eace, and
Members’ Handicap acceptances July 6
Great Metropolitan Stakes —first forfeit July 14
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap acceptances July 14
Deniliquin acceptances July 20
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Answers to Correspondents.
Cooma.—Kamilaroi is not entered for the
Champion Race.
Racing Man. —First King's t ime for 3 m iles has not
been beaten in Australia; it vas 5 min. 26 sec.
Rataplan's is the fastest on record, viz., 5‘21.
Cricket-bat. —l. Both Murdock and Spofforih mere
in the last team. 2. Twopenny, the aboriginal
cricketer, is still alive, and may he daily seen in
the streets of Sydney.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
During the week the attention of horsey folk has
been turned to the Muswellbrook Meeting, which
I referred to in my last, and the closing of the
principal stakes for the Spring year of New South
Wales and Victoria. The results of both will be
found in other columns, and next week I hope to
review the lists and have more to say on the sub-
ject. The results of the Muswellbrook Meeting
will be seen in their proper place, but being only
telegraphic they are necessarily brief. The Coo-
namblo sportsmen are to hold their annual gather-
ing on Tuesday and Wednesday next, but the
locality is too far distant to admit of horses and
followers from the metropolis being present. The
Hunter River Amateur Meeting is the only other
fixture which need be looked forward to during
the coming week, and from what I can gather a
good day’s sport is likely to result. On this
Saturday the general entry for Coonamble closes,
and the Hunter River as well as the Bendigo
Handicaps are also due. with those of the Clarence
Eiver Jockey Club and City to follow on Monday.
Then those imposts are due on Tuesday for the
Dalby and Warrnambool good things ; and when
acceptances have been declared for the various
events on the Coonamble and the Hunter Eiver
programmes, on the sth and 9th respectively,
owners’ duties with respect to things requiring
attention will have been concluded for the present
week.
The South Australian Rapid Bay stud has been
broken up, and the brood mares, sires, and horses
in work have been disposed of for a total of £BBOO.
There were in all 40 lots, and they averaged £220,
the highest prices realised being for the following:
—Emulation, £530; Talk of the Hill, .£460;
Tregalie, £300: Triton, £260 ; and Echo, £2lO.
I am pleased to find that the line for the tram-
way from the city to Eandwick has at last been
commenced, and I hope ere long to tell of its ter-
mination. Visitors to Eandwick races will, when
the tramway is an “ accomplished fact,” find the
moans of locomotion much easier, more comfort-
able, and entailing less expense than has hitherto
been the case, and I shall without a doubt have to
chronicle an attendance of thousands in place of
the hundreds who formerly visited the convincing
ground in question.
A day's racing took place at Blacktown on
Saturday last, and drew together about 250 spec-
tators. The racing on the whole was good con-
sidering the quality of the nags engaged, and
everything went off well, so much so that 1 regret
that pressure on our space necessitates the curtail-
ment of particulars. The management was in good
hands, Messrs. Maguire, J. Watts, Garland. L.
Hyland, T. and F. Fitzsimons, and H. Taylor,
M.L.A., being the responsible persons, and no
hitch occurred to mar the day’s proceedings. The
Flying Handicap was won by Mangalala Squatter,
8 st. 12 lb., with Jerrawang second, and Happy
Jack third: and the following are the results of
the other events ; —Galloway Handicap—Toby,
6 st. 12 lb., 1; Lady Chester, 8 at. 7 lb., 2 ; Mary
Anne, 9 st., 3. Blacktown Handicay of 15 sovs.—■
The Hatter, 7 st. 7 lb., 1; Verdict, 8 st. 7 lb., 2 ;
and Lavinia, 5 st. 7 lb., 3. Disqualified Galloway
Eace —Jerrawang, 9 st., 1 ; Aubrey, 7 at. 8 lb., 2 ;
and Little Dick, 8 st. 4 lb., 3. Selling Race—
Lavinia, 8 st. 12 lb., 1 ; C. S., 9 st., 2 ; and Mary
Anne, 8 at. 12 lb., 3.
Morris Griffin, the well-known steeplechase
rider, who was disqualified by the V.E.C. some
few months ago, was ejected from the Flemington
saddling paddock on the day of the Melbourne
Hunt Club meeting by ord.er of Mr. Bagot. Mr,
Bagot was not the secretary of the Hunt Club in
question, nor had Griffin been disqualified by that
body ; and as he feels himself an injured party he
threatens the Club with legal proceedings. Mr.
Bagot may not have had power to expel Griffin,
but as the latter knew he had been disqualified by
the V.E.C. he had no right inside that Club’s
paddock enclosure at any time, and I maintain
that the action of Mr. Bagot was justifiable.
The protest against Banter, and the subsequent
decision of the Adelaide Racing Club stewards,
have caused no small amount of talk in sporting
circles, and several well-known Victorian metal-
lieians, I am told, have refused to pay their
liabilities. This must bo all bunkum, for the
stewards having awarded the stakes to Banter,
have declared him the winner, and beta must
follow the stake. Mr. Loughlin’s action against
the stewards for the recovery of the stake cannot
affect the wagers on the race ; for, supposing Mr.
Loughlin to be successful in his suit, he will only
gain the amount of the stake, but that does not
alter the course of the bets. It is foolish to
suppose that beta go contrary to the stake. It
appears, from what I can gather, that Banter
weighed out lb. overweight, which he did not
declare, thinking it, I suppose, unnecessary owing
to the 2 lb. allowance; but on returning to
scale after the race, he was 2Jlb. over and above
what he weighed out, which was three-quarters of
a oound more than his allowance. It was raining,
I am informed, previous tojthe race, and the jockey
may have received an addition in the shape of mud
and rain, quite sufficient to account for the extra
weight. A case of this description happened on
Eandwick some two or three meetings ago, the
winner, if I remember aright, being 41b. or 51b.
overweight, as were also the second and third,
and the committee of course under the circum-
stances declared the first horse past the post the
winner, although he was pounds heavier than
when he weighed out. This no doubt was the case
with Banter ; and if it was, there would have been
a corresponding addition in weight to the other
riders —but although I have not heard any reason
assigned for the decision, I take the above to be
the correct view of the case. If the stewards wore
of opinion that Banter’s overweight was not caused
by the rain or mud thrown on to him, then they
have acted in defiance of, and contrary to aT racing
law and rule, and Banter should have been dis-
qualified. Stewards in a case of this description,
where no rule provides for it, should have, I main-
tain, a discretionary power, but it only goes a point
further to show the foolishness of carrying over-
weight and not declaring it. Until I hear the
correct surroundings of the case, I must continue
in the belief that the extra weight was caused by
mud and rain, and that the decision of the stewards
is a correct one. Admiral Eons who -was perhaps
the greatest known authority, was of opinion that
in cases of this kind the stewards ought to have a
discretionary power, as the overweight was caused
by no fault or carelessness of the rider or owner.
“Augur” says six of Mr. Blackler’s yearlings
were sold in Adelaide, and averaged 125 guineas ;
a filly, by Winterlako from Instep, realised the
highest price, Mr. J. Pile becoming the owner at
250 guineas.
Mr. Perkins’s Jennie Hewlett won the English
Oaks on Friday last, Mr.Cookson’s Bonnie Marsden
being second, and Mr. Carleton’s Warhorn third.
The winner is described as by The Palmer out of
Jenny Diver, and is a chestnut. She has been a
good performer, as also have the fillies, who ran
second and third, several good races having been
placed to the account of each. Bonnie Marsden
is a daughter of Lord Lyon and Cornelia, and War-
hom owes his parentage to Thunderbolt and War-
horn.
Perhaps no more remarkable man has over been
professionally connected with the Australian turf,
ns a trainer or a jockey, than the late Mr. Samuel
Waldock, whose death was recorded in last week’s
Melbourne papers ; for the writer of this, after an
acquaintance of twenty and some years, nover
kuovv any one who more thoroughly loved all kinds
legitimate sports for themselves alone, and put
him where you would he was at home. In the
saddle, on the flat, or over a country—on the box
of a tandem cart or .a four-in-hand drag, he was
equally
The man that could handle four horses,
Or ride o'er a country on one.
Ho was fond, and a good judge of coursing, de-
lighted in the music of the “ spotted beauties,” —
When “Chorister,” “Concord,” and “Chorus,”
With. “ Chantress” commenced their glad song;
When Bellman went jingling’ before us.
And Sinbad was sailing- along.
And I don’t think ho was over so thoroughly in
his glory as when he met Ins field, as Master of
the Flemington Hunt, at the commencement of
a season, mounted on his prime old favourite
“Happy Jack.” Excellent ho was, too, with
“ the gloves,” besides well able to take his own
part without them when occasion arose: and I
well remember in the very earliest days of his
Victorian career as a. jockey, a gentleman who
knew him not as a horseman, said to a friend—
“ If Sam can ride as well as he can fight he'll do."
I never in any country saw any nattier man, or
bettor dressed, leave the saddling paddock on a
racehorse to face the starter ; his get-up faultless
in every minute particular, as though he had just
been turned out of bandbox. This was]particularly
remarked on the day he rode Fireworks over
Eandwick, in the Barb’s second Sydney Cup.
eleven years ago last Autumn Meeting. Poor
Sam? ho was as genial a follow ns ever lived,
besides kind and obliging to a degree, as many
horse owners and trainers have discovered who
have been indebted to him for all kinds of timely
assistance. As I have read a long account of Mr.
Waldook’s career in the Australasian I null
not proceed over the same ground, having only
been anxious to pay a small tribute on my own
account to an old friend, who in his kindness to
his fellow-man set an example worthy of being
followed by people of higher position and much
greater pretence. I coin only hope that Mrs.
Waldock may do well in the hotel she will con-
tinue to occnpy ; and so in memory of Sam Wal-
dook Vale.
The English Derby was run on Wednesday week
last, the 26fch May, and was won —as I told the
readers of The Bulletin in my last—by the
Duke of Westminster’s b c Bend Or, who is given
as by Doncaster out of Rouge Rose. As a two-
year-old he appears to have won all his races, and
having performed well at a year older, it is quite*
on the cards that he was one of the most fancied
for the Bine Riband of the English turf.
From the Australasi an I gather the following
particulars of a sale of blood stock hold at Mr.
John Field’s residence, Tasmania; —The two-
year-old colt Meander, by Castle Hill from Black
Bess, 70 gs. ; colt by St. Albans from
Edella, 51 gs. ; colt by St. Albans from Zillali.
£35 : colt by Castle Hill from Lady Bird, £3O;
yearling colt by St. Albans from Deception, £35 :
and a colt by St. Albans from Queen Mary, £4O.
The fatal accident which befel the well-known
jumper Rover, at the Melbourne Hunt Club meet-
ing a few days ago, has robbed the tnrf of one
who was destined sooner or later to leave his
mark. Ho was spoken of as a horse of great
promise, and it is said his rider, Hoywood, mi-
raculously escaped severe injury when Rover fell.
I was sorry to learn that Glenormiston had
“broken down’ ’ while undergoing a preparation
for the late Adelaide meeting. If the injury is so
severe as I am led to believe, Glenormiston will
never race again, and must perforce in the middle
of what promised to be a glorious racing career,
do duty at the stud.
In the Victorian Legislative Assembly last week
Mr. David Gaunson moved for leave to
bring in a bill to more effectually prevent the
evils arising from betting on racecourses. He said
the object ho had in view was, at the desire of the
chief racing club in the Australian colonies—the
Victorian Racing Clnb —to legalise thetotalisator.
Ho did not know anything about the totalisator.
but ho knew that though the law jiractically
refused to recognise betting, a great many people
suffered from their rashness in betting, and it was
asserted that if the totalisrtor were legalised it
would reduce the evil of betting to a minimum. Of
two evils the principle seemed to bo to choose the
least. Some said that the introduction of the
totalisator would ruin the bookmakers, and also
racing. If he were disposed to be facetious, he
might claim the votes of religious persons on
these grounds. Mr. Sharpo seconded the motion,
which was agreed to. The hill was brought in,
read a first time, and ordered to be printed, and
read a second time on Wednesday.” The above
is an extract from the Melbourne Argus, and
here wo have an instance of a well-known Victorian
politician (?) actually holding himself up to ridi-
cule by asking for the introduction of a bill the
principle of which, as ha himself acknowledged,
ho knew nothing about. After this, there would
be nothing to wonder at if Mr. Gaunson or some,
one equally knowledegablo were to bring in a bill
to legalise monte, fan-tan, or some other such
game; and as the latter pastime is continually
being played in the very heart of Melbourne, I
think it would redound more to the credit of the
members of the Legislative Assembly of that
colony if they turned in that direction, instead of
aiming a blow at a noble pastime. Mr. Gaunson said
it was at the desiro of the V.E.C. that ho took
such a step, but I can hardly force upon myself
the belief that all the responsible members of the
V.E.C. (I mean tho committee) over allowed
themselves to bo cajoled into tho idea that the
introduction of such a lying instrument as the
totalisator is beneficial to the interests of the
turf. It is rather strange, from my point of view,
that horse-racing should have been carried on for
hundreds of years up to the present time, and
brought to such a point of excellence, so much so
that it find patronage from persons in all stations
—commencing with tho Prince of Wales —and that
wo should now learn that an instrument which
is notorious all over England and America
as a medium for swindling is necesssary to support
the turf. It was only tho other day wo wore told
by the wire tint the Duke of Westminster won
the English Derby, and do we not read daily of
noblemen in England speculating with book-
makers to tho extent of hundreds of thousands
of pounds, while wo hear of other very rich
persons—tho Count Lagrange, for instance—being
“forestalled” in the market, and scratcliiug his
horses in consequence f How would matters be.
then, if bookmaking—which, I take it, is abso-
lutely necessary for the successful continuation of
horse-racing—were to be done away with, and
such an innovation as tho totalisator substituted ?
The South Australian Register of a few
days back has a letter which so exactly coincides


P
o
s
0)
p
!>
>»
■§
M
P
<
Hi
g
fc
5
P
5
CQ
be
P
3
«
-2
V
o
o
a
w
<
g
5
m
FQ
Raillery
£
>
c3
o
P3
a*
>
s
-!
2
o
w
a
eg
cc
.s
s
fc
H?
w
«
H
>*
hJ
3
w
o
o
r3
g.
?,
i-3
><
Empress
Walton
Parasol
Smolensk©
Jerboa
Royal Oak
Orville mare
Octavian
Shuttle mare
Camel
Banter
Comns
Waxy mare
Cervantes
Marianne
Confederate
Quadroon
Blacklock
Mundane
Comns
Marciana
Whalebone
Selim mare
Lottoi-y
Miss Wentw'th
Buzzard
Alexander mare
Peruvian
Musidora
Orville
Miss Sophia
Alexander
Brunete
Partisan
Fawn
Slane
Garcia
Touchstone
Lady Staffo
Medora
Mosti
Brntandorff
D. of
Camel
La. Elizabeth
Castrel
Italia
Master Henry
Boadicea
Venison
Queen Anne
Poynton
D. of
Hetm. Platoff
D. of
Pantaloon
Banter
Waxy
Penelope
Wanderer
Thalestris
Bustard
Orville mare
Filho da Puta
Britannia
Gladiator
Lolly pop
Pantal oou
Festival
Lottery
Morgiana
Bay Middleton
Nitrooris
Selim
Bacchante
Eeveller
Lush
Sorcerer
Golden Hocks
Waxy
Vixen
Cap-a-pie
Paraguay
Rous’ Emigrant
Cornelia, (imp)
Whisker
Woodbine
Manfred
Cossack mar©
Whalebone
Peri
Heron
Fairy
Sweetmeat
Pantalonade
Sheet Anchor
D. of|
Sultan or Bei.
Lucetta
Soothsayer
Bess
Sir Hercules
Flora M'lror
Whisker (im)
L. Emily (im)
Sir Hercules
Snowdrop
Pepperm iut
Mambrace
PUegon
Mariael la
Cossack
Younsr La'V
Emily
with my views on the question that I make no
apology for copying it. It runs thus “To the
Editor. —Sir —I must premise the few remarks I
wish to make with the statement that I am in no
way a betting man. I have been in the Australian
colonies for four years, and have never made a
single (or for the matter of that a ‘ double ’ bet.
I am, therefore, quite a disinterested party on all
subjects connected with betting ; but I have, as
most Englishmen have, the noble sport of racing
most sincerely at heart. It seems to me that the
totalisator is doing, aud will in future do, an im-
mense amount of injury to horse-racing wherever
the instrument is permitted to bo used. Book-
makers are no doubt an evil, but they are a neces-
sary one, which the totalisator isn’t. They make
the'success of the meetings. Would any owner
of horses in his senses start his animal in an open
race unless ho could get the money on ? And how
is ho to do this ? Can ho go to the totalisator and
be put on 1,000 to 80, or whatever may bo the odds
ho wishes to get ? No ! Ho must go to the ring
for that; but if the totalisator is at work on the
course what bookmaker with the smallest preten-
sions to brains could afford to lay such odds ? It
is the ring who in reality start the horses : for un-
less the owners can got the odds they require they
will scratch their animals without the slightest
compunction. What will be the result, then, if
the totalisator is allowed to have its way ? It will
simply result in this, that only owners who can
•afford to race for the love of sport will start their
horses, and the public will be treated to a series
of matches. But what man is going to pay 10s.
or 7s. 6d. to see a match between Mr, Elder’s
‘This'and Mr. White’s ‘That?’ Again, every
,£T that is put on a horse in the totalisator lessens
the dividend (so to speak) which each man will
draw should that horse win ; and yet people are so
blind to their own interests that you may see them
waiting around, and when a so-called ‘ knowing
man ’ has put his fiver on any particular horse
they rush and scramble like a flock of sheep to
follow suit. They say that ‘ the instrument can’t
lie,’ but that statement has itself been
proved, to put it mildly, a perversion of
the truth at the late meeting at Adelaide.
These are not the only evils of the inven-
tion. Bookmakers, as is well known, will not bet
except with well-accredited customers ; but the
totalizator accepts all and any constituents. Boys
and girls, couutcrskippors, and clodhoppers are all
the same to it. And where are these to obtain the
money necessary for an indulgence in their pet vice?
Talk of the evils of list betting, why they were not
a patch upon the totalizator. Spoons and forks,
spare cash, and loose jewellery will not be safe, to
say nothing of the amount in bank tellers’ hands.
It is the old story of ‘ out of the frying-pan into
the fire.’ Bookmakers may be bad, but you
needn’t bet with them ; and they are, as a rule at
any rate, honest —the machine isn’t. Should the
totalizator be continued, there can be no doubt
that bookmakers will be the first victims, but
the public will be the real sufferers, for ultimately
there will bo no racing at all. — I am, &c., Guards.
Adelaide, May 14.”
I shall always bo happy to publish any shor)
correspondence on this subject from those who
think themselves qualified to give an opinion, and
shall always be willing to hear both sides of the
question well argued.
The first of my tabular pedigrees for this week
is that of Banter, the winner of the Adelaide Cup ;
but, although he has been entered since the com-
mencement of his career as by Conrad from Badi-
nage, none of the stud books published in Victoria
credit Badinage with a foal of his description.
The two latest Victorian stud books credit Badi-
nage, and quote progeny for every year since 1867,
excepting ’7O and ’7l, and none are given by
Conrad. Thus it comes about that doubts have
been raised in many minds as to the genuineness
of what is set forth ; but as I find that a Banter
by Conrad from Badinage was running in Adelaide
as a twp-year old in May, 1874, he must have been
foaled in 1871, and that year’s foal haring been
omitted from the Victorian stud books will account
for the omission of Banter’s name. For my part,
I see no reason to doubt the pedigree ; on the con-
trary, I have taken no small amount of trouble to
tabulate it, and lay it before my readers as genuine.
Ho was, I believe, bred by the Hon. J. Baker, of
South Australia, and although most of his ante-
cedents are not so “aristocratic” as are some
pedigrees they will be found creditable ones
withal.
The following pedigree will be seen as Trevallyn’s,
a colt I referred to a week or two ago, and who has
been a good winner at the late race meetings at
Adelaide. Ho owes his parentage to Gemma di
Vergy and Young Emily, and was bred by Mr.
Thomas Tindall, but Mr. Prank Eeynolds, of
focal, purchased Young Emily, with the foal, who
was afterwards sold as a yearling to Mr. Samuel
Martin, of Melbourne, for 500 guineas. I well
remember the high encomiums passed upon him
when ho entered the ring, and as he is as “ big as
a fountain,” and a grand shaped ’un, neither
weight nor distance ought to stop him in his big
three-year-old engagements. Ho is entered for
the A. J. C. St. Leger and Derby and the V. E. C.
Derby and Leger, so that the good things of his
gear allow him a run for. He has ere this well
paid for himself, and ho will yet bo hoard of to
advantage. Gemma di Vergy, his sire, inherits
some of the beat blood known, respected, and
sought after by breeders, going back as far as
the good old Waxy, a strain also to be found on
his dam’s side, as well as that of the old Sir
Hercules.
Entries for the Big Events.
The following entries were made on the Ist of June :
Hawkesburt Handicap.
Bate Nerissa Bathurst
Milbrodale Avernus Sapphire
Sannterer Grand Flamur Cinnamon
Napper Tandy Friday Prairie Bird
Lord Barghley Othello Gipsy Cooper
Secundus Stiller Retrospect
Elastic Freemason Pole Star
Soothsayer Tomboy Jester
Black Swan Democrat Aralaeu
Golden Locks Chester Terrara
Calamia Martindale Valeria
Sam Wallon Pontiff Blantyre
Fisherman Jewess Havens wood
Maitland Eosinante Juventas
Strathearn Sweatmeat Mata
Nellie Andover Adventurer
Eookwood Lorton Wellington
Croydoir Liberator Lowlander
Annandale Master Avenal Caraballo
Deer Sunlight Perseverance
Sunset St. John Hastings
Black Eagle Auckland Trevallyu
Middlesex Thorntopper Euclid
Orator Oakhill Firebell
Woolstone Love Not Surprise
Miss Magus mare Hesperian Venom
There are 47 for the Guineas for 1881: 159 folds
described for the Mares’ Produce Stakes, 1832; and 373
mares for the Mares’ Produce Stakes, 1883.
GPvEAt Metropolitan Stakes.
Remembrance Sannterer Retrospect
Nellie Democrat Strathearn
Lady Emma Chester Valeria
Freemason Martindale Eosinante
Tomboy The Pontiff Orator
Eookwood Bathurst {late Oakhill
Croydon Telephone), Sunset
Jester Sapphire Kamalaroi
Aralaen Cinnamon Gipsy Cooper
Avernus Secundus Cap-a-pie
Grand Flaneur Elastic Rapid Buy
Friday Black Swan Moonbeam
Juventas The Rake Otim
Woolstone Nerissa Middlesex
Maitland Auckland Black Eagle
Calamia Thorntopper The Dean
Sam Lord Burghley Hesperiou
Pole Star Lord Lisgar Sunlight
Othello Sweetmeat St. John
Sunshine Andover Euclid
Napper Tandy Dover Lohengrin
Mata Western Princess Bandalbion
Foul Play Progress Aspen
Adventurer Yardley Riverton
Trevallyu Respite Chatterer
Surprise Wellington Venom.
Perseverance Lowlander
South Hamilton Camballo
Melbourne Cup.
Mata (late Star of Baron Von Muel- Pawnbroker
the West) ler. Mullyan (late
British Workman Foul Play Viceroy)
Robbie Burns Tide ABC
Napper Tandy Adventurer Pimpampa
Camballo Queen Bee Zambesi
Progress Terrific Respite
Western Princess Latrobo Constance
liowlander Yardley Wellington
Lothair South Hamilton Surprise
Euclid Trevallyu Woodlands
Odd Trick Faublas Tidal Wave
The Stag (late Herbert. Levant
Phiz) Rivertou Sir Joseph
Gloster Aspen Imperial
Kinsman Chatterer Lion
Bandalbion Lohengrin Lord Harry
Cynic Columbus M’Pherson’sAver-
Jeeter Chatterbox ness
Avernus Stockbridge Sunshine
Grand Flaneur Secundus Tomboy
Friday Elastic Remembrance
Bertie Calamia Nellie
Geraldine Grand Prix Juventas “
Democrat Guinea Auckland
Chester Sweetmeat Thorntopper
Cinnamon Andover Kamalaroi
Martindale Dover Middlesex
Bathurst (late Valletta Rapid Bay
Telephone) Lord Bnrghley Moonbeam
Echo Lord Lisgar Bosworth
Delamere Alethe Japan
Banter First Water Geide 01 Gothach
Wandering Jew Rothschild Glenormiston
N erissa Totalisator Aurora
Darriwell Rita Rivalry
Royal Consort Dynamite Enos
Aiblins The Scoop Richmond
Champion Eace.
Mata Euclid Guinea
Mulligan Gloster Gossamer Colt
Sir Neodred Cynic Lord Bnrghley
Dowling’s Robbie Heron Lord Lisgar
Burns Chatterer Remembrance
Latrobo Columbus Sweetmeat
Respite Sir Joseph Rivalry
First King MTherson’s Rob- Enos
Progress bie Bums First Water
Yardley Grand Flaneur Rothschild
Constance Avernus Monaco
Western Princess Friday Totalizator
South Hamilton Bertie Royal Consort
Wellington Chester Aiblins
Trevallyu Martindale Baron Von Mnel-
Lothair Bathurst (late ler.
Faublas Telephone)
Ambassador Grand Prix
The Race for the V.R.A. Challenge Cup.
The race for the Victorian Bowing Association
Challenge Cup and a sweepstakes of £5 came off
on Saturday last on the Saltwater Eivor, and is
fully described in The Age, from which we
abridge our report:—The starters, weights, and
allotted positions wore E. C. Laycock, of Sydney,
12st. 91b., No. 1; S. Edwards, 9st, 81b., No. 2;
W. Greenland, Bst. 18 lb., No. 3 ; J. Miller, lOst.
51b., No. 4; C. Messenger, list. 71b., No. 5; B.
Edwards. 10 st. (51b., No. 6. The betting at the
start was 3 to 4 to 1 on Laycock, Eobert Edwards
and Messenger being the only men who wore sup-
ported even at that figure. The pullers haring
accepted the preliminary caution, were sent away
at 4 hours 12 min. 35 sec. to a good start. They
each led off at a rattling pace, dipping up to
about <lO to the minute, but that was slackened as
they adopted the courses they intended steering
and got fairly under way. Laycock kept well
into his shore, pulling sharply and with good
power. Ho was attended by Sydney Edwards,
who also courted that side of the stream, but with
a better advantage. Greenland kept in mid chan-
nel, but without much hope of success, his effort
from the commencement causing him to be separa-
ted from the others. Eobert Edwards steered
directly for the sugar works wharf, and Messenger
shaped a similar coarse; but Miller edged the
latter in by making for the northern shore at too
early a stage of the race. One hundred yards
from the start Sydney Edwards led very slightly,
and as well as could bo seen over such a wide space
Messenger and Eobert Edwards were next, with
Laycock well up, and all pulling well. Eobert
Edwards was at work in earnest with a fine
sweeping stroke; Messenger’s style was more
admirable and equally effective, and Laycock
pulled with the skill and patience of a man who
knew that ho had a long race before him. Miller
was vigorous, and Greenland rather impotent.
Sydney Edwards made as much use of his lead as
he possibly could, and as he was closely pressed by
! Messenger on his right he unwarrantably shut in
Laycock by taking his water, and os a consequence
the latter was forced in among the rushes beyond
i the sugarworks. The partisans of the local man
cheeredhis manoeuvre lustily,but those who desired
that the race should be characterised by fair play
throughout expressed their dissent. In the mean-
time Eobert Edwards, taking advantage of the
: position of his most dangerous opponent, kept at
his work, steering a good course, and passed the
junction three lengths ahead of Miller, with
Messenger next. Laycock had some trouble to
extricate his boat, and the umpire noted the fact
that Sydney Edwards had disqualified himself by
his conduct. The visitor, however, soon resumed
his pulling, and once again in the fair way ho
crept by Sydney Edwards and came well up with
Messenger and Miller. It was thought that
Eobert, who was quite six lengths ahead, and
who was travelling at a steady stroke of about
thirty-four to the minute, could not be caught,
and the interest of the race was from this time
centred in him, Laycock, Messenger, and Miller,
Sydney Edwards being slightly in the rear, and
without much chance of recovering himself.
Eobert was in the smooth water under the south
bank, Laycock was strongly and evenly sculling
' in his wake, Miller was close up to the latter, and
Messenger was in mid-stream south. The leader
appeared as if he would not be overtaken, so
confidently had he settled down, but there were
decided manifestations which impressed the
onlookers that Laycock was waiting, some person
suggesting for the purpose of allowing Messenger
to come up and race with Edwards. Each hugged
the north shore and got the benefit of the placid
water, and Messenger neared Laycock. The latter
made his first spurt as Humbug Eeach was opened
up, and again slackened off, Messenger, Miller and
Sydney Edwards doing likewise. Greenland was
hero passed by the steamers, and was out of the
contest. In the stretch of straight steering
which was afforded by the Eoach the pulling was
very fine. Edwards had brightened up slightly,
and was evincing a determination to keep his
position if possible. Messenger did not look so
fit, although he pulled well, but Laycock was in
grand fettle, and the race was moat exciting.
The work of the two first men was faultless, but
the superior skill and better judgment of the Now
South Wales representative told in his favor. Ho
decreased the length of his opponent’s advantage
surely and steadily. He kept his water, and
forged gradually ahead, E. Edwards keeping close
up on the other side, with Messenger about two
lengths in the rear. Sydney Edwards abeut four
lengths behind the latter, and five lengths before
Miller. Approaching the wool scouring sheds
there was not much difference in the positions.
Laycock still led, and Edwards and Messenger
took the centre of the channel, the latter about
half north side. He spurted, but approaching too
closely to his companion their boats collided, and
Edwards appealed by raising his hand, and Mr.
Nichols disqualified Messenger. Proceeding
along towards the gasworks Laycock lead by a
length and a half, and pulling easily, his friends
offering unlimited odds on him. Messenger again
interrupted Edwards by being too obtrusive, and
the latter was again delayed. They were away
together at once after Laycock, who led by about
two lengths, Edwards on the south side and Mes-
senger in mid-stream apparently beaten. About
150 yards from home Edwards made a grand spurt,
for which ho had been reserving himself, and
Laycock, who was quite surprised by the attack,
steered almost at right angles for his proper
position in the river. This move completely
chocked the Victorian, who was forced close into
the bank, and in endeavoring to free himself he
knocked a piece out of the blade of his scull. He
was solely to blame, inasmuch as he was altogether
away from his allotted ground, and as the two
boats pressed each other very closely a foul
occurred, and Edwards was disqualified. Laycock
then had everything to himself, and, leaving his
opponent, he pulled passed the judge, Mr. W.
Kemp, four lengths ahead of him at 4 h. 38 min.
5 sec., doing the distance, miles, in 25 min. 29
sec. Messenger gave up before the finish, and he
and the others pulled in leisurely. E. Edwards
was disqualified for having left his ground, and
having been the cause of the foul between him
and Laycock. The crowd cheered each of the two
men, and immediately afterwards dispersed. Mr.
A. D. Miehie was starter and Mr. A. Nichols
umpire. Laycock, the Edwardses, and Messenger
all rowed in imported boats —the throe former in
crafts by Swaddle and Winship.
In the evening Laycock was presented with the
cup by Mr. H. G. Turner,|at Young and Jackson’s
Hotel, and several speeches were made in honor of
the occasion.
Coursing.
Meetings to Come.
Bathurst Club, Autumn, Claremont, June Sando.
Hon. Judge, Mr. J. M’l’hilLamy, Junr.;
Slipper, Burgess.
Lovers of the leash are promised another jubilee
at Bathurst, as the local club of that now
thoroughly coursing district will hold their
Autumn Meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday
next, the Bth and 9th instant, with (according to
present appearances) every prospect of great
success. The Bathurst Coursing Club, originally
planned out by Mr. J. E. Tonkin, the sporting
host of Tattersall’s in that city, has boon well
taken up in the matter of membership, not only
by district sportsmen but by metropolitan coursers
who are members of the Now South Wales Club;
and at present the muster-roll is a very satisfac-
tory one. Mr. Tonkin energetically fills the post
of honorary secretary, and the head-quarters of
the club are at his hostelrie, as thoaeof the Metro-
politan Club during their coursing weeks are at
the Eoyal. The “ convincing grounds,” too, of
the club are different, for while the largest meet-
ing is held over the broad acres of Mr. George
Lee, Mr. W. Kite, Mr. John Leo, and Mr. Thomas
Leo, out at Loeholmo, Dookairne, and Woodlands *
the smaller fixture, being but of two days, will Bo
brought off on the Claremont and Millbank es-
tates of Mr. John Lee and Mr. William Lee,
within a mile-and-a-half of the centre of Bathurst,
so that visitors have really only a pleasant day’s
walking to put in to see every bit of the sport and
enjoy it thoroughly. I believe that there will bo
no difficulty in running off: all the courses on these
convenient paddocks, as hares are plentiful enough
there, and the ground is for the most part very
good going. The stakes consist of the Derby,
Oaks, and Claremont stakes, besides another
event which will bo filled up either on Monday or
Tuesday night; and as the winners at the late
meeting have taken their departure for the big
things of Melbourne, the supposed second-
raters ought hero to have a throw-in. The entry
for the Claremont Stakes, the paying up for Derby
and Oaks, and the draw for all, will take place at
Tatter sail’s at 7 o’clock on Monday evening, after
which some Calcutta sweeps will bo improvised,
which will give owners an opportunity of backing
their dogs not likely to bo this time afforded by
the “ ring.” Judging from the greyhounds that
have already loft for Melbourne. I should takh
the following as the best of those likely to run at
Claremont next week: —Miss Molly for The Oaks,
Mr. Lee Lord’s or Mr. W. Leo’s chosen one or
Sultan for the Derby, Helpmate or whatever oaa
beat her for the Claremont Stakes. As your
readers are aware, Mr. Goodchap has acceded to
the bon. secretary’s request for excursion fares ;
so that our Sydney sportsmen may take advantage
of what will be not only au enjoyable but an inex-
pensive trip.
SIRIUS.
Football.
The King's School team defeated n team of the Syd-
ney Grammar School at Parramatta last Saturday
afternoon.
A game was played on the Parramatta ground On
Saturday last between the Parrmntta and Burwood
Clubs, the former winning by three trios to nil.
The Gonlburn football team beat the Mittagoug team
at Goulburn on Saturday last by two goals and five
tries at goal, the Mittagong players failing to score
anything. Dunn kicked both goals for Goulburu.
The Australian Cricketers.
The Australian Eleven defeated eighteen of Rochdale
by one innings and 26 runs.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club.
The annual meeting of the above club was held oa
Monday last at the Exchange Hotel, with Mr, M.
Arnold in the chair. The balance sheet showed that
the Club had to its credit upwards of JB7O. The follow-
ing office hearers for the ensuing season were elected
Patron: His Excellency the Eight Honorable Lord
Augustus Loftus, G.C.8., Ac., Ac. President: Sir
Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Lieutenant-
Governor. Vice-presidents ; The Hon. Sir John Hay.
K.C.M.G., M.L.C., President of the Legislative Coun-
cil; the Hon. John Campbell, M.L.C.; Mr. John Jack-
son Calvert, Mr. Thomas Oadell, and Mr. Thomas
Bucklaud. Committee: Messrs. E. T. Cape, E. I*.
Simpson, E. W. Robertson, E. M. Betts, W. B. Young
and B. A. Arnold. Auditors : Messrs. L. A. Vessey and
8. H. Foirland. Secretary: Mr. Frank Walsh.
Treasurer : Mr. P. J. Clark,
Carver v. Dean for £200.
This much-talked-of match between the above well-
known pcds., over a distance of 150 yards, wan decided
at Wagga Wagga on Monday last, and resulted in au
easy win for Carver.
Rifle Shooting.
The following scores were made in a match at the
Newington College Range between the post and present
members of the Newington College (bidet Corps. The
ranges were at 200, 400, and 500 yards, and the match
took place on Saturday last:—■
PRESENT, PAST.
Sergt. Cobb ... 50 More 44
Sergt. Morloy 43 Bradrige ... ... 411
Sergt. Warden 43 Coates ...
Q.M.S. Howard 40 B Gill 3»
Cadet Moore 40 Falser 3$
Captain Waterhouse ...39 W. H. Fletcher ... US'
Col. Sergt. Bygate ... 37 W. Gill Sjf
Cadet Dawson 35 Oakes ... 34
Corp. Way 32 Bayner ... S4i
Cadet Bales 31 Perkins .33
Cadet Robertson 31 Owen ... SJJ*
Cadet Rogers ... ... 31 Sanders 25
462 1 423
Sydney Grammar School Begatta.
On Friday, the 28th May, the first annual regatta of
Sydney Grammar School took place at Mossman'a B_y,
and was largely patronised. The steamer Lillie Denham
was the flagship. Mr. A. B. Weigall, head master of the
school, acted as umpire, and Mr. Chas. Goldie as starter.
Mrs. Weigall, at the conclusion of the races, presented
the prizes to the various winners. The races, which
were well contested, resulted as follows:—•
Single Sculls, disstance three-quarters of a mile;
priae presented by Mrs. Fache. First heat: 0 Sparrow
1, A. H. Thomas 2, F. Guy 3. At the start all fouled.
Sparrow then got away first, and kept the lead through-
out, winning easily. Second heat: J. Cox 1, T. Old 2.
Cox took the lend, in this heat, and maintained it
throughout.—Juniors in Pair-oared Skiffs, half a mile;
prize presented by J. Perry, Esq. Antill and Brown I.
—Double Sculls, three-quarters of a mile; prizes pre-
sented by Messrs. Weigall and Cape. A. Pratt and L.
Smith 1, C. Sparrow and J. Cox 2, T. Guy and T. Old 8.
Pratt and Smith took the lead at the start, and after u,
most exciting race beat Sparrow and Cox by half a l>oat'e
length.—Single Sculls, three-quarters of a mile. W. A.
Faxquhar 1, C. Hawkins 2. All got off to a capital start,
but Farquhor was enabled by his superior training tf>
quickly draw away from his opponents and win easily.
House Race, in pair-oared skiffs. F. Guy and T. Old 1.
G. Morrice and It. Hnngerford 2. Guy and Old
won easily.—Pair Oars, for Grammar School Boys under
15, three-quarters of u mile. G. Backhouse and A. Too-
good 1, H. Lippman and A. B. Amess 2. All fouled ah
the start. Then Lippman and Amess got away, bub
were quickly passed by Backhouse and Toogood, who
pulled a good race and won.—Single Sculls, final heat.
C. Sparrow 1, A. Thomas 2, J. Cox 8. Sparrow took the


Department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 21st May, 1880.
rjlO COX'I’RACTOBS AND OTHEES.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11
o’clock on TUESDAY, the 27th July, from persons
willing to contract for the construction of the Works on
the Extension of the. South-western Railway, from
Namndera to Hay, a distance of about 106 miles.
Plans, specification, and form of tender may be seen,
and further particulars obtained, at the office of the
Engineer-m-Chiof for Railways on and after the 21st
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ‘ Tender for Extension from
Nnrrandera to Hay.’
The Commissioner does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. QOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
CPTY HAIRDRESSING AND BATH ROOMS.
220 IT IT STREET
(Opposite Tattersall’s Hotel).
Mr. JAMES CLARKE, PROPRIETOR.
•»* The BATHS of this establishment are unsur-
passed in Sydney, being fitted up and supplied on
absolutely new principles, which cannot but win for
them an extensive public patronage.
N.B.—The best brands of Tobaccos, Clears, Ac.
Novelties in Pipes, Walking-sticks, and other articles.
QOUXTEI - KILLED ME A T
„ Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
Tire finest display of
COUNTRY-KILLED BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST HE A SOX A BLE PRICES.
Come and see,
Asb Judge for Y* our selves.'
Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be bad at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can bo purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d'hote on Sundays at 1 p.m.
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COMK AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO
PRICES.
PORTRAITS : —
Carte be Visite 10/- per dozen
„ ~ 76 per half-dozen
Cabinets ' 25 - per dozen
„ 17/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA:—
C Box Tons 2,6
16 Double Gems 2,6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrauce-VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY', Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Maiine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
E. LARKIN
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Goorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlingiinrst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats,
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholesale axb Retail Wise asd Spirit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
PECTORAL CHERRY' BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well os the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist asb Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JB. ABRAHAM’S PELLS (DANDELION),
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calome
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. 8. ABE AH AM,
At tihe Eubajtstoiy, 434 OeaßseteteeC, Sydney.
Be c&r&tiO sal' set imitations;.
JJOUSE
FURNISHING MADE EASY.
Ask for the
FURNISHING GUIDE,
at the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
GRATIS.
It contains elaborate printed lists for the simplification of
House Furnishing,
which shows how for the sum of
FIFTEEN POUNDS (£l5)
TWENTY-FIVE POUNDS (25)
THIRTY-FIVE POUNDS (£35)
FIFTY POUNDS (£5Ol
ONE HUNDRED POUNDS (£100)
TWO HUNDRED POUNDS (£200)
THREE HUNDRED POUNDS (£3OO
And
FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS (£500)
yon can furnish a house by payment of
PROMPT NET CASH.
You can
TAKE THE GUIDE IN YOUR HAND,
and examine every article according to the list,
all separately marked in
PLAIN FIGURES.
Any article may he rejected, and another substituted;
or any single item may be had at the
MARKED HOUSE LIST PRICE.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHISHING ARCADE,
426 Goorge-street, Sydney.
O E AND AGAINST
“ FREE-THOUGHT”;
A Monthly Illustrated Journal
Devoted to Arguments on
FREE THOUGHT, SPIRITUALISM, MESMERISM,
CLAIRVOYANCE,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Published Oil the loth of each month , beginning with
the loth February, 1880.
PRICE—9d. PiiE Co ft.
Published by E. CYRIL HAVILAND,
BOX 152, G.P.0., Sydney,
The name “ FREETHOUGHT” has been chosen as
being a word under which a wide margin may be
allowed for discussion.
Papers have been promised by eminent men AGAINST
Spiritualism, &c.; and well-known writers will argue
IN FAVOUR of it, so that the subject will be well
ventilated;
■Well-authenticated Phenomena will find a place in
its pages. The latest and best instructions as regards
holding of seances, mesmerism, &c., will he given.
Notices of public mediums and speakers, arrived and
o arrive in the colony, with reports of their doings,
will he published, and everything will be done to make
“ Freexhocght” a vehicle for thought in its freest
sense.
15 THE 15
GREAT PUZZLE
15
BUY AT THE HEAD-QUARTERS,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.’S
DEPOT,
(OPPOSITE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK
BANK)
AND
MARKET-STREET,
15 SYDNEY. 15
HE NFR E Y AND CO.,
(Established upwards 35 Years,)
Manufacturers of Double Aerated Soda Water,
Lemonade and T onic W a tern, Liqueurs and Cordials,
By Appointment to His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh, and His Excellency
Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.
Supplies to the interior of the International
Exhibition and all the principal Hotels, Cates,
Club Houses, and throughout Sydney. Goods for-
warded to all parts of the Country, cither direct
or through any Merchant.
English Porter or Bottled Stout in bottle or bulk.
METROPOLITAN BREWERY,
129 CAK’LBBaA«B-h"mH Sydney.
Australian mutual provident
society.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STEEET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Good lot, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Suddingten, Esq. j Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. Kins, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.K.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrioe A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazinm (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society : . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chanoe, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any ago can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a, larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
II HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices ; 253 (late 247), GEORQE-STREET
(formerly tho Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: .£lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.0., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
S. W. Gray, Esq., M.P. jP. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J'. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Ruble, Esq,
T. It. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
Dr other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
: ow as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
n the profits. „
JAMES S. BKAY, Secretary.
Jk USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital —£loo,(XX), with power to incaeaseto £1,000,000.
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wctherill, Esq. WilliamHezlct,Esq., M.P.
First Fire Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part op their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonus out op Profits
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liability. .
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums,
Damage by Lightning and Explosionsbt
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office—l 44, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evening News).
Melbourne intkknatioxa l
EXHIBITION, 1880.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
EXHIBITION OF WINES.
The increasing importance of the Australian Wine
Industry has induced the Commissioners for the Mel-
bourne International Exhibition to make special pro-
vision for the reception and storage of Wines in the
new Permanent Buildings in the Carlton Gardens. No
effort will be spared to make tho Exhibition of Wines
national in every respect; and as the various Wines
will be submitted to Jurors who are acknowledged
experts, it is particularly desirable that Australian
Viguerons should avail themselves of the opportunity
offered for testing their Wines by the standard of the
best Continental Vintages, many of which are to be
represented.
Special facilities will be offered for the Sale of Aus-
tralian Wines in various parts of the Exhibition in order
that the Exhibitors may place their exhibits before
the Public as well as before the International Juries of
Experts.
Copies of the Regulations for the Exhibition of Wines,
and Forms of Entry, can be obtained <iralis at the office
of the New South Wales Commission for tho Melbourne
Exhibition, 123 Macquarie-street.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM,
Secretary to the Commission.
M
ELBOURNE intkrnation a l
EXHIBITION, 1880,
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
The Commissioners appointed under the Groat Sea
of the Colony of New South Wales, for the purpose of
taking such measures as may lie necessary to secure the
representation of the Arts, Manufactures, Products,
and Inventions of New South Wales, at the Interna-
tional Exhibition, to he opened in Melbourne, on the
Ist of OCTOBER. 1880, invite the 00-operation of the
Producers and Manufacturers of New South Woles in
the work of securing the fitting representation of the
Colony of New South Wales.
All charges incurred in the conveyance to and from
the Melbourne Exhibition, and in the fitting display
thereat of such articles us shall appear to the Commis-
sioners to he worthy of exhibitioe, will be borne by
the Commission.
The Commissioners will bo prepared to receive, at
their Stores, in Sydney, articles intended for Exhibition,
from the 15th of MAY to tho 15th of JULY.
In order to give the ’Commissioners the opportunity
of milking adequate arrangements, forms of application,
which may be obtained gratis at the Commissioners’
Office, 123,' Macquaric-street, should bo sent in without
delay.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM.
Secretary to the Commission.
Office of the Commission,
123 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
N
OTIC E
O F
REMO V A L
THOMAS BROWN, STATIONER,
(Late of Castlereagh-street),
Respectfully thanks the public for past favours, and
wishes to inform them that he has removed to those
extensive premises 271, Pitt-street, two doors from the
School of Arts, where ho will be enabled to execute all
orders entrusted to him with despatch, and in the best
style of workmanship, in his business of a stationer,
lithographic, and letter-press printer, bookbinder, and
account-book and paper-bag manufacturer. Having
purchased an entirely new plant of machinery, printing
and lithographic presses, typo and lithographic stones
(some of which are the largest in tho colony), all now
material, and engaged Urn best workmen in each branch
of the business, together with his kmg experience In ail
branches, baring extensive promises, enables him ti>
make his manufactory second to none. It will always
be his his motto, ‘ Small profits tartl extensile trade.'
water first, closely followed l>y Thomas, Cox being bast.
After rounding the first boat, a tight 'race took place
between all three until near the end of the course, when
Cox by a gmnd spurt passed Thomas, who was second,
bnt was unable to beat Sparrow, owing no doubt to his
having polled in most of the preceding races.—Double
vfeulls, open to all boys attending the Sydney Grammar
School, one mile. C. Hawkins and H. Woolnough 1,
V. Guy and T. Oil 2. Hawkins and Woolnough took
the lead at the start, and maintained it throughout.—
Pair-oared Skiff Scratch Crews. Marshall and Smith 1.
This proved rather a hollow affair. Marshall and Smith
having got away first, kept the lead throughout, and won
easily.
Pigeon Shooting.
There was a fair crowd of spectators at the Mail' Pigeon
Match held at Hondwiek on Saturday, the following
being the result of the shooting. The x>rize was a valu-
able breech loading gnu given by Mr. G. Adams of Tat-
tarsalls, and for which Messrs. Delgratta and C. Austin
tied.
yds. killed.
5. Delgratta 28 1111111 7
C. Austin 23 1111111 7
“ Doctor “ 26 0111111 6
De Mestre 26 1011111 6
A Johnson 26 lllllOn 5
G. Dent 25 111011k 5
6. Smith 20 1110011 5
Tslip 2:! 111110b 5
- Novice" 22 011110m 4
W. Forrester .20 1110001 3
Nightingale 26 00111k 3
G. O. Skarratt 21 011001k 3
J. M'Laughlan 21 OOlllR 3
E. E. Jones 20 100110b 3
“Galler” 20 000111b S
H. E. Lord 26 00110b 2
T. M. Laycock 28 00110b 2
Baguall 26 00110b 2
Wyndhom 26 01100b 2
V. Davis ,. 26 OOllOn 2
“Thomas” 25 100100a 2
Pitman 23 00011b 2
“ Tyro ” ... ■ . ■ 21 10000b 1
H. Thorpe 21 10000b I
“ New Chum ” . ... 22 000100b 1
Broughton .. 22 01000b 1
“ Nabocklish ” 22 100000k 1
J. Herald 20 010k 1
.T. M. Forrester 21 00001b 1
G. Turner... 23 000k 0
O. Adams 21 Wb 0
Wilson 20 OOiOE O
Gulgong Annual Races.
FIRST DAY —Thursday May 28th.
Maiden Plate, of 3 sovs each, with 30 sovs. added ; one
mile and a quarter.
Mr. R. Bouse, jnn.’s b f Mavonmeen, Gst 111 b 3
It. Bouse, juu.s b g Satan, Bsf 4lb 2
O. Higginbotham s b g Ben, 7st 3
Shorts Handicap, of 2 sovs each, with 20 sovs added.
One mile.
Mr. R. Rouse’s be The Admiral, Sst 1
11. Hughes’s c g Trump. Sst.Tibs 2
J. Lennox’s b h Black Hawk 7st 111 b ... 3
Won 3jy a length.
Turf Club Handicap, of 4 sovs each for starters, with 50
sovs added. One mile and a-half.
Mr. W. Green’s hr h Kainbow, Bst 111 b 1
H. Hughes’s b m Songstress. Sst 7lb 2
E. Terry’s br h The Dean, 9st 3
Welter Handicap of 2 sovs each for starters, with 25
sovs added.
Mr. R. Rouse, jun’s b g Skyrocket list 21b ~ 1
H. Lowe's Corrie, Sst 31b 2
E. Rouse's b m Bully, 9st 71b 3
Hack Race, of 10 sovs. Tall Boy Ist Quicksilver second,
Ply third.
Second Day—Friday.
Trio! Stakes, of 2 sovs each, with 20 sovs added. One
mile and a quarter.
Mr. H. Bouse, jim’s. b £ Mavonmeen,6st 111 b 1
B. Rouse’s b e The Admiral, 6st 131 b 2
H. Hughes’s e g Trump, Bst 121 b 3
Publicans' Purse, of 2 sovs each, with 20 sovs added.
Once round the course.
Mr. J. Lennox’s b h Black Hawk, 7st 121 b ... 1
H. Lowe’s b g Corrie, Bst 31bs 2
H. Hughes's b m Songstress, Sst 71b 3
Town Plate, of 3 sovs, with 40 sovs added; one mile and
a-half.
Mr. B. Rouse’s bk h Retrospect, 7st 71b 1
W. Green’s br g Rainbow, Sst 111 b 2
W. Hughes’s b m Songstress Sst 31b 3
Von by a short neck.
The Selling Hack Stakes of 10 sovs. Idle Boy, 1.
Forced Handicap Corrie, 1, Trump second.
Kensington Park Races.
Hurdle Race. —Stampede, 1.
May Handicap.—Maid of Honour, 1.
Steeplechase. —Selector, 1; Ace of Trumps, 2.
Railway Handicap.—Phillistine, 1.
Canterbury Races.
May 24.
Mayor’s Cup.—Gigler, 1.
Queensland Turf Club Autumn Meeting.
Wednesday.
The principal winners at the lute meeting were Mr.
I 'Wilsou, £329 ; Hon. J. P. Bell, £227 ; Mr. J. Finnic,
£179; Mr. J. Abrahams, £105; Mr. W. Brown, £103;
with others. The total amount paid away was £1203.
Rockhampton Races.
The following nominations have been made:—
Port Curtis Handicap.
Recovery Orphan Bookwood
N'matin King Cole Croydon
Warbawk Barber Geelong
Sydney Balthazar Wrangler
Satirist Sunset Major
Rake Thyra
Rocrkampton Handicap.
Recovery Barber Wrangler
Norman Balthazar Major
Warhawk Sunset Euclid
Sydney Thyra Barania
Bookwood Pirate
Orphan Croydon Logic
King Cole Geelong
Adelaide Race Meeting.
Wednesday.
Two and Three Year Handicap.—Britannia, 1; Aurora,
a ; Englishman, 3. Time, 1 rain. 21 sec.
Corinthian Cup.—Banter, 1; Electricity, 2 ; Abbot, 3.
■Won by half a length, lime, 3 min. 30 bocs.
Steeplechase.- Turpin, 1; Tiberoo, 2 ; Warrior, 8.
City Hondicap.—Filibuster,; Pawnbroker, 2; Monar-
<pje, 3. Time, 2 miu. 47 secs.
Saturday, May 29,
This one day meeting was well attended.
Consolation Stakes, 30 sovs.-Monar.iue, 1; Don
Oarloe, 2 ; Monitor, 3.
Handicap Steeplechase, 60 sovs.—Abdallah, 1; Turpin,
2; Lightfoot, 3.
Free Handicap, 40 sovs.—Don Carlos, 1; Pawnbroker,
Abbot 3.
Wind-up Flutter, 25 sovs.—Tho Englishman, 1;
Devilshoof, 2; Monitor, 3.
A literary man gave a dinner party and when an
awkward footman let an ox-tongne slip from its dish to
the floor, the host excited the laughter of the company
'•by exclaiming, “never mind, gentlemen, it’s only a
■Li/ptm* liaguai. A parvenu present didn’t understand the
joke hat joined heartily in the laughter all the sumo.
Me in his turn, gave a dinner party, and when hiw foot-
mim, in aooordanoo with inwtr notions let around erf beef
Sail on to the floor, he couldn’t understand why no one
*>mn smiled whoa he ejaculated, * cover mimi.
ulon, its only a lapsus


Robert Edwards, the Victorian Sculler.
We present our readers to-day with a sketch of
jjobert Edwards, the Melbourne oarsman, who.
though defeated by our representative, Laycock,
last Saturday, is still bo young and has improved
so rapidly during the last twelve months as to give
promise of a great futnre as a light-weight sculler.
\Ve hope that when Edwards is next heard of it
will not be in connection with a foul, and that his
successful competitor, Laycock—who can now
afford to forgive the Melbourners for the trouble
they caused him by infringing the conditions
under which the Y. E. A. challenge cup was con-
tested-will in England meet with all tho success
which his tine physique, dashing style, and honest
determination to win deserve.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Justice Lntwytche is ill.
Victor Hugo is seventy-eight.
Dr. Beaney’s motto is Virtue sola nohililas.
Colonel Formby is to be the new Tasmanian
COiiimaHclatit.
Graham Berry, since he left office, has exchanged
his bell-topper for a soft felt hat.
Mr. Shepherd has had a new sign-plate fixed at
his office. A brass one, of course.
Lewis Sampson was at one time a commercial
traveller, in receipt of £lOOO a year. -
Mrs. Lipson, wife of the late Capt. Lipson, the
first naval officer in South Australia, died May 30,
aged 90.
‘‘ People who know ” say that the medical pro-
fession paid Bailliere’s expenses in his action against
Beaney.
Lord Normanby says that after relinquishing
his present position he hopes to go homo and retire
from the service.
The gay deceiver in a certain big divorce case
is in town now. He’s no beauty, aud has hair like that
of Tommy Traddles.
Mr. Garnet Walch is seen no more in the haunts
he frequented of yore. Ho is too busy with his “ Vic-
toria in 1880 ” book.
David Gaunson has taken up his old position as
a political Ishmael. He is mad about losing the chair-
manship of committees.
Henri Ketten drinks a great deal of soda-water
and immerses his hand and head in cold water immedi-
ately after playing a piece.
Mr. Willoughby, the leader of tho A rods staff,
is the smartest pamgraphist in Australia. The fact is
acknowledged even by Liberals.
J. W. Payter, of the Melbourne Telegraph Office,
is one of the most popular of Civil Servants, and de-
servedly so. Ask the “ owls.”
The editor of the Age never reads the Age
reports. He always prefers the Aeocs reports when
gathering data for leading articles.
James Smith, the Argus leader-writer and
editor of Melbourne Punch, is the real, though not
avowed, editor of the Victorian Review.
Mr. Jkmes Macassey, the eminent New Zealand
barrister, has died at Adelaide, aged 38. He was a
clever pressman, and wits formerly a resident of Mel-
bourne.
Dr. Moloney was the author of three exquisite
discursive essays in tho Australasian, entitled “ Under
the Greenwood Tree.” For his sonnets, see “An Easter
Omelette.”
Fanny Marshall advertises in the Brisbane
Telegraph an apology to one M'Dcrmott for saying
he was not a married man. We don’t see where the
insult comes in. r
Edwin Banks, of Melbourne, has been left
£50,000 by his father, William Banks, late of Highmoor
House, Cumberland, England. Let us hope the Banks
will never break.
Mr. Brett, for many years general manager and
inspector of the London Chartered Bank, is about to
retire on a liberal allowance, and will be succeeded by
Mr. Charles Guthrie.
Tlie most popular, if not the prettiest, barmaid
la Brisbane has been christened “ The Queen of all
Nations.” She derives her title from the vessel which
brought her to Queensland.
Henderson Africanus was at the Melbourne
Volunteer review, and although buffeted about a good
deal by the crowd he eventually secured a prominent
position near the royal standard.
Messrs. Service and J. J. Casey appeared in
Melbourne on Queen’s Birthdayin fullWindsoreOßtume.
The former blushed under his golden coat, but the latter
W uot unaccustomed to such a gaudy turn-out.
Mr. Carlyle has not been well of late, having
been unable to take oven carriage exercise. Ho sees no
society beyond his own family circle and a few literary
friends, including Mr. Fronde and Mr. Lecky. An oc-
casional failure of memory is said to be the only sign
of mental weakness shown by the Chelsea Sage.
Dr. Beaney is a short, podgy man, and has so
big a bump or self-esteem on the top of his head that
he wears out his hats in no time, He bears a sort of
“ general ” resemblance to the first Napoleon.
Jay Gould travels in a private car, comprising a
parlour, stateroom, kitchen, and smoking saloon, besides
a compartment for luggage and supplies. It has
movable trucks and can bo run on any road in the
country.
Mr. Sydenham Bowden, formerly of Fiji, well-
known in Sydney society, was, on 11th ultimo, married
to his cousin, the eldest daughter of Mr. Warden
Harry Graves, member tor Delatite in the Victorian
Assembly.
Amelia Ratcliffe, otherwise known as the Coun-
tess of Derwentwater, haa just died in England. She
had spent all her money in lawsuits, had been adjucated
a bankrupt, and had been committed for a time to New-
castle gaol.
The Crowthers are an influential family in
Hobart Town. The “oldman" is in Parliament: he
has three sons doctors, one of whom prepares more
persons for their long journey than any priest in
“ Hobarton the fair.”
Mr. Thomas H. White, who was war correspon-
dent of the Paul Mail Gazette in the Pranco-Prussian
campaign, is now in Melbourne. He is contributing a
series of articles to the Herald on “ Celebrities I have
met”—about the most readable matter that has appeared
in the paper for years past. Mr, White speaks seven
la ugua;,t ;s *
Herbert Spencer, the English philosopher, is
so years of age, and is a bachelor. He was educated for
a civil engineer, hut his philosophic tastes led him into
a more studious life. Like Dr. Abernothy, “he has
never had time to make love.
David Blair and Marcus Clarke had an encounter
last Friday, in the presence of Mr. Sheffield, the librarian
of Melbourne tistorjf of tlio
origin of tho quarrel will short J i ppc, .
Dr Byrno we ll-known on Gympie in former
d3ys as the “ jumping doctor,” is contesting the seat
for Dumfries. Scotland. He calls himself a “ Liberal-
Tory,” and declares that he can find justification for
Beaeonsfield’s foreign policy in the Bible,
Baron Maclay boasts that during the last ten
years he has been almost constantly living amongst the
aborigines of various countries and that his pencil-case
is the most deadly weapon he has ever carried. But a
pencil in the hands of some men is a most offensive
weapon.
The remains of Mr. Samuel Gorman, of the
Criterion Hotel. Waggn Wagga, who was thrown out of
his buggy and killed, were interred at. Haslem’s Creek
on Sunday week, in the presence of a large circle of
relatives and friends. Poor Gorman ! he was about to
be married.
Major I. Charles Bell, late of the Ottoman army,
is in MellHinrne, and put in an appearance at tho
Queen’s Birthday review in Turkish uniform. Ho was
a companion of the hard-fighting A. H. Campbell dnriug
the Bueso-Tnrkish war. Ho is a fine-looking man, of
about thirty.
There were but two fonr-in-hand drags on the
Brisbane racecourse the other day. The one was
driven by the acting-Governor and the other by Pope
Cooper, the eminent barrister. All Cooper’s hands
were engaged with the reins; his mate on the box
carried the whip.
James Gordon Bennett owns, among other good
things, a Fifth Avenue palace, a Newport villa and
block of stores in the same town, a fine house and 20
acres in the. suburbs of New York, the Bennett com-
mercial building and the N. Y. Herald, w>rth 3,000,000
dollars per annum.
The Vicomte do TocqueviDe, nephew of the
author of “Democracy in America,” is visiting Sun
Francisco with bin beautiful young - wife. Both are
greatly pleased with America. The Vicomte is a man
of thirty, a member of the Assembly, and was a captain
in the Pranco-Prussian war.
David Blair says he will make the name of
David Svme “ infamous all over the civilized world.”
The irate Blair intends to take a trip through Austral-
asia, America, and Europe, for the purpose of deliver-
ing a lecture on “ The history of the Aon newspaper.”
The fact is that David Symo is no enemy of Blair, but
George is. He, like Blair, started life as a parson.
The Premier of Queensland has purchased the
mansion and adjacent grounds belonging to John Ward,
now of the Pacific WBEkxT. It is one of the most
valuable properties near Brisbane, the site being
unexceptionable, the mansion and offices roomy and
faithfully built, and the grounds most tastefully and
expensively laid out. —This is not an advertisement.
The Times writer on Victorian affairs, whose
articles have been largely reprinted in Melbourne, is
Mr. Charles Austin, now in Sydney. He is a distin-
guished HtUrafeur, having been connected with the
Bombay Gazette, London Standard, and latterly
with the Times. But he does not talk about the
Colonials in the Anthony Trollope style for all that.
Old Mr«. Burns, daughter of the celebrated
William Hone, is 79 years of age and very poor. She is
much in need of assistance, and owes her reduced oir-
oumstances to a flood in Gippsland. Mr. James Smith,
of the Auer'S, Melbourne, is interesting himself on her
behalf, and will gladly receive the smallest subscrip-
tions in aid of this unfortunate child of a celebrated
man.
A. P. Martin is 20 years of age, 5 feet 10 inches
in height, and unmarried—os yet. He founded the
Melbourne Review, four years ago, in conjunction
with Messrs. H. Q. Turner and A. H. Topp. Ho ha»
edited it from the first, and regards Topp, who is small
in body, hut large in mind, as his chief counsellor and
friend. Ho returned to Melbourne last Monday, after
a high time of it here.
Baron Maclay has arrived in Brisbane just when
the Queenslander is dishing up a weekly column of
“atrocities” perpetrated by the native police on our
aborigines. Tho Baron is carefully collecting these
records. He will use them in a book which ho will
publish shortly. He thinks that he can prove by them
that the Bashi-Bazouk was as gentle as a turtle-dove
when compared with an Englishman.
A Jewish gentleman has discovered the following
in the calendar of tho British Home Office Papers under
date of May 26,1767: “ Invention—Petition of Benjamin
DTsraeli, for a patent in England, etc., for his invention
of the art of making women’s chip hats and bonnets,
and the materials called platt or platting. Referred to
the Attorney or Solicitor General, May 29.” So after
all, we have some kind of precedent for Sir Henry
Parkes’ transactions in tops.
Talking of sprees, Mr. Ebenezer Ward, of
Adelaide, must be a “ whole team and a big dog under
the waggon ” at that kind of game. In course of a
recent libel action in which Mr. Ward was plaintiff, a
cheque from a Mr. Horn, “Pay barmaids and cham-
pagne, for E. Ward, £110,” was produced. This hi
something far above saveloy-machine driving, and is
a really gentlemanly amount. We wonder who got the
best of it—the barmaids or tho “ fizz < ”
Bismarck’s autographs are rare, and are be-
coming rarer still as the Prince has of late put his
signature to hardly any but official documents. At one
time his autograph might bo obtained by sending him a
birthday present; but since a Berlin shopkeeper availed
himself of tho occasion to express his most distin-
guished consideration with a barrel of beer and exhi-
bited the autograph letter of thanks in his establish -
ment, even this method of collecting autographs is in
the Chancellor’s case no longer of service.
As an instance of how Beaney was bled, and what
" friends " occasionally, it is stated on good authority
that Dr. Beaney. on one occasion, being desirous of
making a present to the wife of a friend, told her to
order a suite of furniture at a well-known Coliins-street
store. The husband went and ordered a suite which
cost TOO. But, not satisfied with this, he told the
furniture man to charge £l2o—thus making t» cash,
commission of £3O on buying his wife's present.
Miss Eva Carmichael, the heroine of the Loch
Ard disaster, is about to be married to Mr. W. G. Mac-
kay, the son of a wealthy Dublin merchant. She has a
fortune of £250 per annum. The foregoing information,
comes to ns from a, most reliable source, but until we
received it, we and a great many more people were under
tho impression that tho lady was married imme-
diately after her arrival home. It was so stated in
several papers. Our faith in tho press has consequently
been rudely shaken.
Sir John O’Bhanassy said the other day, in the
Victorian Assembly, that Scotchmen had no wit. Yet,
so far ns onr experience—and it is net inconsiderable-
goes, James Service, the Premier, is the most caustic
wit in the Victorian Legislature. The only really funny
thing Sir John is credited with having said is his answer
to the question,—" What shall we do with onr boys ? ”
“Marry them to the girls,” suggested the big man.
However, as stated elsewhere, it would appear that.
“ Barkis isn’t willing."
Most people who have travelled in Queensland
know Billy Bells, the popular auctioneer of Toowoomba,
Billy has a knack of getting himself into little scrapes.
The other night, while returning homewards, a stranger
met him, and, by way of introduction, struck BUly
“ straight from the shoulder ” on the nose. While
Billy was amusing himself spitting out blood and
curses, the stranger lit a match and apologised—ha
had mistaken Billy for someone else! Billy declares
his assailant was twelve feet high, stout in proportion,
and dressed in buckram.
The Rt. Hon. G. J. Goschen has been appointed
British ambassador at Constantinople. He was First-
Lord of the Admiralty in the first Gladstone Govern-
ment. Smith, the railwav-hookstall man, was Dizzy***
First Lord, and “Pinafore’s” told us all about bun.
The music-hall people used to say cruel things about
Goschen, too —
“ May Goschen have a notion
Of the motion of the ocean,
If ever I cease to love."
Anthony Trollope haa a high, round head, bald
on the forehead, and bordered by curly, fluffy hair. H#
has a large moustache, and an immense full beard. Ho
is now G 5 years old, and overbearing in manner. When
MR. JOHN HUBERT, M.P. FOR BLATHERSKITE PLAINS (SEE PAGE 3.)
EGBERT EDWARDS. THE VICTORIAN SCULLER.


at table on board the A. S. N. Co.’s steamer between
Sydney and Melbourne, Anthony was asked by a gentle-
man opposite him (the eon of a knight) to “puss the
holt.” Anthony did so, and suarlingly told bis friend
tci “ask the waiter ” next time, “ Dear me,” was the
retort courteous, “ I reall> thought I was addressing a
waiter.”
Olaf IV heeler, a reporter on the Melbourne
iIeRALo, stands a good chance of making money. He
has invented a new- railway brake, said to be superior
to, Woods's (that is to say, to the Westlughouso).
Stanford (tho sewing-machine man, brother to the
ex-Governor of California,) and other capitalists have
taken the maker up. and the affair has “ geo'd ” so far
that Olaf has already received .fclOO and promises of
plenty more. The invention is to be patented in Eng-
land, America, and Australia. It's not the first time
' o heard of a newspaper man “ making u break.”
Olaf,is brother to Mr. I). O. Wheeler, the well-known
Haxsajui man, formerly a descriptive writer in the
Anars.
.Oh, Queen's Birthday, a Zulu chief, brother to
Kus£ Cetewayo, was presented to His Excellency the
Governor of South Australia at the levee in Adelaide.
Oiu"the day before, says our correspondent, the black
Prince was observed with his i terpreter buying feathers
for his heac and large curtain-rings for bracelets and
leg-bangles. He does not hold a very exalted position
foV the brother of a king. He is employed in tho rather
obscure, not to say menial, occupation of blacking tho
hoots for the lodgers in a certain Adelaide hotel; but he
made a good show, and wneu His Excellency conversed
with him (as the programmes sail) in his native tongue
the probability was that neither understood a word the
other was saying. The confab, however, sounded very
pretty, and gave the Governor an opportunity of dis-
playing his linguistic powers.
Mr. Bailliere related a carious story during; his
evidence against Heaney. AI out two years ago. Dr.
Beauey with two other medicos were sitting with
Bailliere in his book par lon r discussing various topics
Pertaining to the profession, of which Bailliere thinks
ho forms part, when one of the medicos observed that
Bailliere was suffering from a soft tumour. This was
contradicted by another dee tor present, who olfirmod
that it was a fibrous tumour, and a bet was made on the
subject. In order to settle the matter, Bailliere offered
to-let the three medicos experiment upou him, provided
the loser “shouted" a case of champagne. The offer
was accepted, and the operation commenced forthwith.
Bailliere was laid up three mouths, and registered au
oath that he would bleed those medicos a hundredfold.
Balliere kept his promise. Vide report of trial,
t Tlie disclosure-t made during- the recent trial,
!•■- F. Bailliere c. Dr. Beauey , were amusing in the
highest degree, and afforded a splendid insight into the
manner in which the gentleman known ns “ Patients
♦tnd Diamonds ” used to advertise himself. The cams
rclli was Beauey’s refusal to pay pJaintiff a sum of i'JOO
tor obtaining for him (the doctor) a commission to
inspect the home hospitals on behalf of the Victorian
Government. It cume out that the medical works
Published (and ostensibly written) by Dr. Beauey were
tu (ruth and in fact written by n person whom Bailliere
li.-id employed, and were merely intended ns advertise-
ments. It also appeared that Bouncy Lad during a few
years distributed many thousands of pounds among the
fawning, penniless parasites by whom he was sur-
rounded. it hen Beauey was a t home recently n lending
article appeared in the IkxshTimvs of which the follow-
ing is au extract“ With such credentials it is not tobe
w ondered that Dr. Beauey was received with open arms
By a number of the most eminent of the medical and
surgical profession of Dublin and London, who were at
first moved by his commanding introductions, but on
nearer acquaintance found that he required no intro-
duction beyond his own worth.” The article went on
to speak ol “ his personal character, his splendid attain-
ments, his previous history, his official position, his
unquestionable credentials," but the effect of this glow-
ing Milesian panegyric was somewhat spoiled by tho
fetor's admissions that he hud given certain pressmen
little presents, such us snake diamond-ring's and gold
chronometers. However—Verdict tor defendant.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER IX.
A TEA-PARTY.
"Mir war' s so wohl, so weh!"
After that evening. My If a found himself in a
position which he at least found full of difficulties.
Two tilings happened, both of which he looked
upon as probable ; the news of what had happened
spread, and Frederick Spenoeley did not prose-
cute. The waiter who had allowed Myles to go
into the billiard room was dismissed ; the billiard-
marker who had stood by shared the same fate.
It would be difficult to guess what object, real
or supposed, was gained by this measure; but it
seemed to afford great satisfaction to many minds.
Hpenceley found it convenient to leave home for
home weeks, and Myles heard no more of his share
in the transaction.
J here were endless tales in circulation-—the
facts, the names, the causes of the affair, all got
mixed up in the wildest and most inextricable
confusion, as in such cases they always do. The
principals maintained absolute'silence, and let re-
port work what wonders it would or could.
“ Bear not false witness ; let tho lie
Have time on its own wings to fly !"
They adhered to the precept, and the result was
that they and their grievances were soon com-
pletely obscured in the buzz of talk, conjectures,
wrong guesses, and wild surmises which gathered
about them like a thick cloud. One tiling soon
became apparent; and. once secure of that Myles
cared nothing for tho rest. Adrienne’s name was
not known. The cause of the fracas was generally
Supposed to be a woman ; but the tale which
gained the greatest favour was one taking the side
of the workman —that mysterious “workman”
whose name had somehow disappeared in the
midst of contradictory reports, and whom no one
could distinctly specify, because there were so
many workmen in Thanshope. How was a gen-
teelperson to know one linen jacket, or its -wearer,
fr° tn another r 1 This report, which preserved a
kiadoflikenesaamidst all its variations, was to tho
effect that Frederick Spenceley had deserved his
thrashing; for that he had been taking undue
liberties with the young man’s sweetheart -and
liec name was .Sally Eogers, was Frances Alice
Kershaw, and she was a dressmaker, was a mill
hand, and lived in half a dozen places, and worked
in as many factories, quite certainly and posi-
tively ; she was very pretty, and he was very
pretty, and he was very jealous ; or, she was not a
particularly good-looking girl, but Fred Spenceley
had hail words with the young man before, and
had wished to insult him.
Myles maintained a rigid silence upon the sub-
ject, even when Mary came in one day in u state of
unusual excitement, exclaiming;
kh ! Isoil. Myles, have ye heerd tell o’ what’s
happened !• ”
“ What ? ”
Jack Hpenoeley’s lad has had such a leather-
ing,” said Mary; and told the rest of it with
ranch excitement and volubility, for her.
Edmund manifested a lively interest in the
story, and Myles admitted indifferently that he
had heard something about it.
They wore, however, not much given to gossip-
ing at that house, and the subject soon dropped.
Then came Myles’s other difficulty. Ho did not
know, whether boldly to go • and call at Mr.
Hlisset’s, as ho longed and desired to do, or 1
whether to remain away. He plagued himself
with wondering what she thought about it, and
then tried to believe that she had perhaps not even
heard of it—her life was so very retired, she saw
and heart! so little of what was going on outside.
Then ho might go r But suppose she did not and
he appeared as if he eame to bo thanked and made
a hero of: he contradicted himself ten times a
day ; decided to go -to stay—to go —and stayed
because he absolutely could not decide which was
best.
So the days went on until Saturday, and ho had
not had a glimpse of her —only the remembrance
of her grateful eyes and the pressure of her hand,
as she bade him good-bye at her uncle’s gate
before it had all happened. When Saturday
afternoon came, his longingto see her was growing
almost unbearable, and he had the sensation that
if he went out of the house, his feet would turn
mechanically towards Blake Street.
* * * *;
It was Saturday afternoon ; the deckhands
pointed to five : Mary s '‘ cleaning ” was over, and
the house was quiet. Edmund lay upon a sofa
with n headache, and Myles was softly reading to
him. glad of some monotonous occupation which
should divert his thoughts somewhat from the
topic which at present tyrannised over them.
Edmund had been reading in the magazine about
the works of the Bronte sisters, and Myles had
procured him “Jane Eyre’ and ‘Wuthering
Heights ’ from the free library. ‘ Wuthering
Heights ’ lay as yet untouched ; it had not yet laid
its strong and dreadful spell on the hoy’s spirit.
They were deep in ‘ Jane Eyre.’ It proved a spell
which caused Edmund to forget his headache, and
enchained the mind of Myles with its passionate
expression of the equality of soul and soul, and its
eager conviction of the supremacy of mind over
the differences of rank or place. Its burning
radicalism went straight to Myles’s soul, while its
deep joetry touched Edmund's inmost heart.
At this moment they were wandering with
‘ Jane ’ over the summer moors, homeless, friend-
less, food less, penniless ; and they had forgotten
all outside things witli her, as she'reposed herself
beneath the broad sky, on the friendly bosom of
her mother Nature.
‘“Hist!” said Edmund, suddenly, ‘“there’s a
knock."
Myles paused. Borne one knocked at the front
door. Mary had heard it, and rose from her rock-
ing-chair.
" Thee go on wi’ thi reading’,’’ said she. going
out; and they heard her open the door, and a low
voire a woman s voice—ask her some question.
With an inarticulate exclamation Myles half
rose, the book open in his hand, and as Edmund
was in the act of inquiring what was the matter,
Mary came in again, looking rather bewildered,
and saying, as she turned to some one who fol-
lowed her :
“ Myles here’s a lady wants to speak to thee.”
“ Why did you not come f” said Adrienne, going
straight up to Myles. “ Why have yon never been
to see me? I have waited, and waited until I
bohld wait no longer.’’
He stood, crimson, nnable to speak a word, but
looking at her with eyes that told their tale—
which must have warned her had she been less
excited and earnest.
How could you go and do a thing like that, and
then never take any further notice of me r” she
continued. *“ I have thought of nothing else since
I heard of it. It was most wonderfully foolish—•
oh, very foolish ; but oh, I do thank you. and hon-
our yon for it, witli all my heart. It is exactly
what such canaille deserve, and it was nobly done
—it was indeed 1 ’ ’
“ Miss Blisset . , . you . . . you it
was nothing. Any one would have done’ it. I
couldn’t have rested or slept till I had punished
him, I was obliged to do it."
“ Ah, that is how you put it, no donbt —but any-
one would not have felt so -only you would. I
can never thank you—never."
Well, don’t then ' I—it makes me ashamed
of myself—it does indeed," said he earnestly.
But whatever is it o’ about, miss:-" said Mary,
putting into words her own and Edmund’s bound-
less astonishment.
“Is it possible," said Adrienne, turning with
wide-open eves to Myles— - “ is it possible that you
have never told them r Did he not tell you r”'
"Nay, he’s ne’er told us newt,” said Mary,
I never heard of anything so extraordinary,"
said Adrienne, with still a vibration in her voice,
which showed how much she was moved. “ Yon
must have heard about that man —Spenceley—who
insulted me, and . .
“ Thank heaven, your name has never been ut-
tered." interposed Myles, hastily.
“ And your brother, who had once before sent
him away when he tried to annoy me, at the
library, went to make him promise to behave him-
self and he would not. Was not that it? So he
flogged him."
“ Eh—-Myles I” said Mary, w ith a long-drawn
intonation, compounded of incredulity, pride, and
pleasure. “ Eh—h—Mylea 1 I niver did—no
niver!”
“Bo it were you, Myles," said Edmund. “ Thou
hast kept some and quiet about it. But I’m glad
thou did it.”
“ And he has never come near my home—never
given me a chance of thanking him," pursued
Adrienne. “ You must understand, now, why I
have come."
“ Ay, I can so,” said Mary, reganling her with
great favour and cordiality, for this praise of
Myles touched her to the very heart. “ Won’t
you sit down r" she added.
“I don’t wish to disturb you." said Adrienne,
hesitatingly.
“ Eh, no sich thing. Bit you down," said Mary,
drawing up the rocking-chair in which Addriene
sat down, and Myles stood leaning against one end
of the mantelpiece, feeling the need of a support of
some kind ; for he felt a sort of intoxication and a
bewilderment, and a strange, subtle, new life in
the very fact of Adrienne's presence.
“ I had to inquire where you lived." she said,
looking up at him. “Yon did not even tell me
that. You once mentioned that you lived on the
Townfield, and I thonght I should never find
your house: but the first person I met told me
where you lived.. But would you never have
come ?”
“ I—l hardly liked to come. I did not know
whether you might been—displeased, perhaps,"
he said, with some embarressment.
“ My uncle has often asked when you were com-
ing. He wants to see you again. But now you
will come soon yes 1”
“ I—yes. I should like to.” said he.
“ I hope you don't mind my coming here,’ said
Adrienne to Mary.
“Eh, no I Lord no!" said Mary, earnestly.
“I’m reel glad to see you. Yon chap would ne’er
ha’ told us what he’d been doin'. He’s so—
stupid."
“ Yes -so I should think.” said Adrienne,
meeting Mary’s eyes with a smile.
And then, looking at Edmund, she said, “Ive
of you, too. You are not strong.”
No,” said Mary, answering for him. “He’s
ne’er one o’ th’ strongest, ami to-day he’s getten a
headache.”
“ Don’t you do anything for your headaches;-”
“ Nay, I just hide em out.”
“ That is a pity. I could do something for
them —if T come again. I will bring yon something
that will do them good.”
She went on talking to Mary and Kdumnd, who
seemed to feel no embarrasment in the intercourse
Adrienne certainly possessed in a high degree the
j art of putting people at their ease in her company.
Mary and Edmund were not usually communica-
tive in first interviews with strangers ; but this
stranger appeared to take their hearts by storm,
and quickly succeeded in making them forget
that there was any difference between them in
station. She apologised for her intrusion much
more particularly than she would have done to a
woman whose servant had opened the door, taken
her curd, and announced her with a flourish. This
demeanour was not put on—it was her natural,
spontaneous nature, springing from instinctive
politeness and geniality of nature. Everything
about her was true and pure what Myles was ac-
customed to call in the vernaeular "jannock.”
Mary, also, was nothing if not jannock ; and the
two girls—the lady and the factory-worker seemed
instinctively to get on.
”1 must not detain you any longer now,” said
Adrienne, at last. ” I see you are going to have I
tea. But I should like to know yon. Would you
mind if I called now and again p”
“ Eh, Fst be very glad,” said Mary, “if so bo
we’re not too simple and plain like for you. Yo’
seen we’re nobbut working folk . . .”
“ Well, I am a working person too, and like
seeks like,” said Adrienne.
“ I reckon you’re a different kind o’ worker fro’
us.” said Mary.
“ I am sure 1 work as hard ns you at least, and
am as tired and as glad aa you when my work
is done.”
“ You look tired now.” said Mary, fixing her
largo, dear eyes upon Adrienne’s pale and some-
what weary face from which the glow had faded.
“ Where do you live r”
Up at Htonegate, in Blake Street.
“My oortyl But that’s a good step I” said
Mary, who, like many of her class, was nothing of
a walker. ” Were just goin’ to have our tuy—
won’t you draw up and have n sup, and a bit o’
gamma! t-o eat.
That homely, cordial Lancashire invitation;
“ Come and have a sup, and a bit o’ summat to
eat ’ ’—what Lancashire ears are there that do not
know it and love it for the kind thought it arouses I
It went straight home to our lonely Adrienne : a
mist rushed over her eyes ; she said somewhat
hesitatingly :
“ Oh. I should like it. You are very kind, hut
I fear •” she half-turned to Myles.
“ Myles, coom out o’ yon corner, and behave
thisei’. mon! Thou can when thou’s a wind to.”
said Mary, briskly. “ Now draw up,” “Tab’
off your hat, and I’st hang it up so I And Myles’ll
see you homo. He's got nowt to do to-neet.’
Mary must have been possessed when she made
this remark
“ (>k, 1 need not trouble him now,” said
Adrienne, with a radiant smile upon the approach
ing Myles—•“ unless he has forgotten the way to
my uncle’s house, as I begin to think.”
“It's much better I should go with you. It’s
Saturday evening,” said Myles, seating himself
beside her, and throw ing a fleeting glance towards
her face.
(to be cokttnced.)
Colonial Produce.
Station Products, Lite Stock and
Wholesale Butchers’ Meat. —An improved
feeling exists for exports, and values consequent
upon reduced freights are going higher. Prime
mutton tallow per ton. £27 to £“2B ; ditto beef, £26
to £27; station or inferior, £l7 to £24 ; sound
shankbones £4 to £lO ; N.S.W. wattle bark, £3
10s to £4 5s 6d ; Tasmanian, £6 ; sound horns of
large sorts sell per 100 at from 1 Sts to 27s 6d;
small to medium, 8s to 17a fid; wool per lb —
scoured, 16d to 2e ; fleece of medium quality,
| Is 3d to la 4d ; greasy, fid’d to lid : short wool or
! pelts, 2id to 4£d: heavy hides. 4d to 4id ; dry
ditto, medium. 3d to 3/d; horsehair, tail, Is to
Is 4d (scarce) ; mane, 9d to Is ; mixed, lOd ; large
horsehides, each, fin fid to 9s ; yearling, 4s fid to
7s fid ; calfskins, la to 3s 9d ; kangaroo ditto, 4d
to 2s. At the Sydney railway yards and Home-
bush, etc., a fair trade is reported. Best
cattle average per 1001 b from lls to 14s 9d;
medium, 10s ; prime milch cows each, £lO to £l2
10s ; medium, £7 to £9; poor, £4; fat calves,
20s to 37s fid ; medium, 14s to 19s ; poor, 5e to 12a ;
sheep, 8s to lls 9d ; lambs fie to 14s ; pigs (alive),
3d to 3Jd. In this branch Messrs. Kills &Co
mention large dealings at top prices. Wholesale
butchers’ meat at the sheds meets with a good
enquiry ; beef in carcase per lb, Id to l|d; fore
ditto:' bind, Ijd to 2d; mutton, l-'d ; pork, in
carcase, 3Jd -. best salt beef for tierce, £3; pork
in barrels, ditto.
Hohsefeed, Ac. — AtDarlingHarbour, supplies
of hay, straw, Ac., of prime quality, are short, and
a rise is established. The supplies are chiefly from
Qoulburn, Orange, South Creek, Mnrrumburrah,
Bathurst, Picton, Brewongle, Richmond, Penrith,
Campbelltown, Cross-roads, Menangle, Ac. Oaten
sells well. Mr. William Inglis and Messrs. Wells
and Smith Brothers made some capital sales. —
Wh eaten hay is well supported. Messrs. Dent
and Hoskin placed large lots. —Clean straw is
lower.—Lucerne of prime cowkeeper's quality,
owing to shortness >T bran, sells well. Mr. Sea-
forth Proctor and Messrs. M’Minn and Co. realised
good values. Summary of auction sales is thus
Best oaten hay, per cwt, at from 5s 4d to fia Id,
Large demand ; good, 4s 9d to 5s ; when ten, 4s 2d
to 5s ; clean straw, 2a fid to os Id ; superior lucerne,
4s and 3s lOd. Maize is falling : large lota of good
quality, 2s; medium, la lOd per bushel; oats and '
feed barley, 2a to 2s 2d ; malting lots, 4s to 4s 9d ;
prime Hunter lucerne, per ton, £4 (a rising market);
medium and inferior are not required : Hunter
wheaten or oaten, £3 to £4,
Vegetables. —lmports of potatoes during one
week are 973 tona ; prices are hardening. Prime
New Zealand, Victorian, per ton, £2 12s fid to
£3 ; imported onions, £3 ; pumpkins, per dozen,
Is 4d to 2s 3d.
Wine. —Hunter, Port Macquarie, or Albury,
per gallon: New, medium to good, 2« 9d to 4s:
old, 5s to 12s. Messrs. O’Doud and O. have
effected large sales at top values.
Dairy Produce. Poultry, Ac. Butter
market is a little dull—-medium to best, per lb,
lOd to la for Hlawararra, Bowral, Ac., in kegs,
fresh roll sorts lid to 17d; cheese, 3id to id ;
bacon, fiid for good. medium, 5d ; hams. 6-id to
lOd ; Lard, 4d ; honey, ditto; beeswax, fid to lid ;
lueeme seed, 5d ; loaf tobacco J9d to Is. manu-
factured Is fid to 2s fid ; millet brooms, per dozen,
8s to 10a ; common case eggs Is Sd to Is lOd, fresh
ones 2s to 2« fid ; fowls, per couple, medium to
good, 3s to 4s 9d ; ducks, ditto ; geese, 5a to 7s :
non turkeys, ditto, cock turkeys 8s to 12s ; pigeons
2s ; sucking pigs, each, 4s to fig 9d,
Timber, ITkewood, &c.-—Cedar, prime, in lop r
per 100 superficial feet, 14a to 15s Pd, good 12a to
13s, inferior 10s ; pine log, 0s to 7s ; hardwood
in lop, southern, ditto, northern, 7s to 7a 3d •
firewood, billet, per ton, Pa to 11s 3d. bundles 10s
to ,12s, out lengths 12s Gd to 15s ; posts and mils,
per 100. sell at from £2 to £3 15s ; palings, 10s to
15s. Messrs. Wells and Smith Brothers and Dent
and Host in have made first-class sales at top
values.
Flour and Ok ain Bepobt.—A steady trade
is done at follow ing prices :—Best superfine Ade-
laide flour per ton of 2,000, nett, .£ll 2s. Gd. up
to ill 10s ; good brands New South Wales, Vic-
torian and country Adelaide. u£lo 12s. 6d. to .£ll ■
outside brands, ,£lO to £lO 10s. ; beet Adelaide
wheat per bushel, 4s. Gd. to 4s. Bd. ; ditto, New-
South Wales and Victorian, 4s. sd. to to 4s. 7d.;
inferior samples, 4s. to 4s. 4d.: fresh bran, per
bushel, Is. to Is. 2d. (very scarce) ; pollard, lid.;
best unadulterated bread, for 2 lb loaf , 3-Jd.
144 Snssex-street, June 3, 1880.
J. A. McCAREILL.
Answers to Correspondents.
J. C. (Grafton) writes : —* £ Whal teas the time and
distance in the race for the championship he*
tween Trickett and Rush on the Parramatta
River?” The distance wan 3 miles 330 yards,
and. the time 23 min. 35 sees.
T. W. (PictonJ: Only one policeman was shat in
the Bo ego Brush melee; his name was Raymond.
Horto-ricus asks “ Was any vessel ever seized
in Sydney by prisoners?” Yes; the brio Har-
rington teas seized in Farm Cave, May 15, 1808,
by twenty-three prisoners. The vessel was after-
'wards captured by the frigate■ Pheonix. She was
subsequently lost, and most, of the escapes were
perished.
B. B. ("Brisbane) asks; —1. “What was the largest-
number of men ever executed in New South
Wales ?” 2. “Is there any record of the number
of executions that hare taken place in the
colony 9” 1. Nineteen. It was in August. 1821.
2. There is no complete record, hut it is known
that between 1825 and 1877 there were 554 per-
sons executed. The largest number of executions
took place in 1832, when the total was 82.
ANTI-HUMBUG.—Much obliged. The fact of the
name of the ostensible uniter having been affixed
guarantees our good faith. The error occurred
in “ making up.”
MONTPELIER HOUSE. Had never seen the
verses before and “ took our correspondent's nx>rd,
for it.” “John Bunn” is probably a “ crossed ”
bit'll and has to fly to other people's poetry for
consolation.
TRUTH. Possibly libellous.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
“ Babj lon (the Newt has fallen,” and Blind Holt ha a
gone to Melbourne, the company following- in a few
days. The hist performance, on Monday, was wit-
nessed by almost as largo au audience as on the first
performance.
Tuesday night was given to the Bismarckian stage-
manager, Jim Kainfotd, for a benefit, The Victoria was
crowded. The play wak Lord Lyttou’s comedy,
“ Money.” There was much more money in the house
than on the stage. The drama was repeated on Wed-
nesday, with a contrary result: more “Money” on
the stage than in the house -very little there. To-
night, John Hail will again be himself and Captain
Gingah -umn persona- -in ‘‘Onr Girls,” (or his own
benefit. On Saturday, Trickett’s friends will rally
round their favourite in a bumper benefit, and Harry
Teece, one of onr best amateur elocutionists, will don
Hamlets “inky cloak” for the occasion. This will
scud Trickett on his way to England rejoicing.
On Monday that charming favourite, Alice Lingurd,
will, with Horace Lin gat'd, and the rest of their com -
pany, appear at the Victoria in a little drama entitled
“Stolen Kisses.” We should like to Is; tho stealer.
Unfortunately, after Monday, everybody will want to
be a partner in tho result, and we don't go in for
divided honours. So we shall resign our claims in
favour of Mr. Liu gaol literally mid tho public
generally.
CRITIC.
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
O. Wallace, King-street
E. Callaway, King-street
J. Gleeson, 71U G-eorge-st.
George Hill, George-street
Nash ~
J. W. E. Clark/: ~
E. E. Cole ~
Gordon & Gotch „
Sandon ~
Collide, Qeorgf-et. west
E. Turaer, Brickfield Hill
W. Johnson,3s4 Elizabeth.
street South
- ■ Clarke, Pitt-stneet
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. L. Bcrgfcocfcr, Pitt-st.
■ Schneberger, Oxford-sv
Bpragg & Adams ~
- - Lapham ~
(i. Barker, Sussex-street
- • Thereby, Erakine-street
,T. Walton, Railway Static?)
J. Cooper, Railway Bride?
—Pierce, William-street
J, Withers, Park-street
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
AS MI DALE—
H. Mai Lam
Ashpield—
W. J. Banks
Balmain —
W. J. Small
Bathurst—
H. Bridges
Beoa —
O. Welby
Bon alia — •
W. Brock
Coot amendea —
J. Percival
Echcca—
G. Foedyke
Forres —
B. Chapman
Gebmanton —
T. Brown
GlenInnes -
F. Marshall
OOrLRtJHN
J. Walsh
Gcnnedah ■
— Fitzgerald
Lam bton
J. Firth
Li sworn: -
— Jones
Maitland (West) —-
C. W. Clarke
Morpeth—
James Maher
MVDOEE--
W. HaU
Nahkabbi •
O. Hanssman
Newcastle •
Hal© >¥111181(1©
I 1 . Alcock
Newtowh -
B. Bray
North Shore •
Deacon & Son
Nicholson Bros.
Obasoe—
K. LesseUs
PARRAMATTA—
G. W. Green
.1. Eeeve
Petersham -
~ Thompson
Poet Mawjvabie—
J. J. Penn
Krne—
K. Young
SCOHE—
M. F. A as or
Shoalh.wen
-Wicks
SlNGLETON -
J. P. Quinn
Waco a Wagoa
C. H. Daniel
L. B. Joseph
W attle Plat —
L. Grimwood
Wellington (n.s. iv. )—
W. Booth
Yocno—
G. F. Oil
INTERCOLONIAL:
Melbourne—
Munders & Co.
W. Yard
C. Muskett, Bourke-st.
C. J. Bird, „
Nath. Levi. Spencer-
street Railway Stn.
Brisbane—
Gordon ft Gotch
Stajtpmohbr (Q.) —
J. F. Williams
On the Queen’s birthday the Sunday Schon
Union at Brisbane held high carnival. Over 5001'
children anil teachers wore entertained at a picnic in
the Queen’s Park. The Church of England and Roman
Catholic people, not travelling to heaven on the anno
road as the others, refused to join the festivity. But
the mothers in many instances came and sat’ on the
grass while their little ones despoiled the Egyp —, we
mean, dissenters, by visiting their refreshment booths
and loading up with cakes and tarts, which they duti-
fully carried to their parents. It would be spiteful to
aild that these parents revenged themselves on the
victuals.


JJOMES FOB THE PE O PLJB.
It is difficult to understand why struggling l peonle
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned otters a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS JH
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
‘2l QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBEM, fee., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense protit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Boattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
CIENTRAL HOUSE AND BUSINESS
> AGENCY,
289 GEORGE STREET, opposite HUNTER STREET,
In conjunction with my well-known LAND ami
ESTATE AUCTIONEERING BUSINESS, which has
been so successfully established and carried ou by my-
self for a number of years, I have, in consequence of the
numerous applications dally made at my rooms by view
arrivals and others desi ring to rent or lease various kinds
of properties, determined, at the solicitation of many
clients, to undertake the LETTING and LEASING of
DWELLING-HOUSES, HOTELS, SHOPS. FAC-
TORIES, FARMS, &c., its also the COLLECTION of
RENTS, in Trust and otherwise.
To enable me to carry out more successfully this ad-
ditional branch of my business, I Imre engaged the ser-
vices of a Gentleman who has had great experience, ex-
tending over many years, in the Letting of Houses,
Collecting of Renta, and General Management of House
Properties, who will, under my own special supervision,
attend solely to this department.
I feel certain that Owners and Trustees of House and
other Properties will derive a considerable advantage,
and save themselves a vast amount of trouble and an-
noyance, by entrusting their interests to my care. My
extensive intercourse with all classes of society gives
me peculiar facilities for obtaining good and respectable
Tenant s for all Properties placed in my hands to Let or
Lease, and my great, experience will considerably aid me
in the selection of tenants.
Having a thorough and practical knowledge of all
matters connected with Building, 1 shall be able to
effect a considerable saving upon repairs and alterations
when necessary.
My terms for Leasing, Letting, or Collection of Rents
will he strictly moderate.
The attention I have hitherto given to my present
business, and the success that it has commanded, will,
I feel [sure, be a sufficient guarantee for the care this
branch of business will receive at my bauds.
Leasing and Disposing of the Goodwill of Hotels,
Trades, ami Manufactories will receive my closest at-
tention, and I need not say that all Business passing
through my,office will lie conducted upon the strictest
business principles, with a view to the mutual interest
of all parties concerned,
W. PRITCHARD.
AUCTION}; ER, IV ALUA T O R. Ac
289 George-street,
Sydney,
Opposite Hunter-street.
MR. A. GODFR F E Y.
80LICIT0 R,
Also of the Supreme Court, Queensland.
Office—s 3 E lizabefh-stbeet.
MATRIMONIAL.
Young Englishman, in years of age, in good
position, gentlemanly appearance and kind dis-
position, is desirous of corresponding with a YOUNG
LAD\ 22 to 28, well educated and thoroughly domesti-
cated, with a view to MATRIMONY. Address, in the
most strict confidence, to “Edgar Harold,'' Bum-etih
Office, Sydney.
JJ RINS M E A D PIAN O S.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from
Mr. W. H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE
REPRESENTATIVES for Now South Wales,
Messrs. ROILE and HOGG, to whom all applica-
tions for sub-agencies must bo made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
“OHX
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Prin-
cipal Towns of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Solo Agents.
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
SONS’
JOHN’ BRINSMEAD AND
“ i SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney. 1879-80.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and HOGG-
J
OHN
BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
gained Ugliest and special honours at the principal
previous International Exhibition.
Solo Agents. ROYLE and HOGG.
"OHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
are without a rival.
Sole Agents : ROYLE and HOGG.
SONS’
J
SONS’
OHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best work*
mans)dp and material.
Solo Agents. ROYLE and HOGG.
OHX BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices from -14 guineas.
Sole Agents. ROYLE avid HOGG,
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a fivi? years guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents. ROYLE aim HOGG.
D
ULCET ORGAN FAR MONTH-MS.
The Instruments exhibited at the Garden Palace,
and which have been awarded
THE FIRST FRIZ E,
are now on SALE
at
ROYLE AivG HOGG’S
BOND STREET STORES.
HEA T B E
11 O
A L
Business Manager & Treasurer .
Stage Manager
Mr. Samuel Ltzar
Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Mr. Geo. Warde.
TWELFTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LTSTEE and GARNER’S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY-.
THIS (Friday) EVENING
will lx; given
BLOW FOE BLOW.
Characters by the London Comedy Company.
SATURDAY, June 5,
STILL WATERS RUN DEEP
And
STAGE STRUCK.
Alteration of Time.—Doors open at 7; commences
4kt,7'4d. Prices as usual.
XT I C T O Bl” A THEA T E E.
MONDAY", JUNE 7th.
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY".
THE LINGARDS
and
FULL COMPANY.
FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY,
Grand Comedy Drama.,
STOLEN KISSES!
By the Author of New Babylox,
Played in London and Provinces seven hundred nights
X q t 0 B I A T H E A T B lE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Rainford.
FRIDAY NIGHT.
BENEFIT OF MR. J. L. HALL.
BENEFIT OF MR. J. L. HALL.
BENEFIT OF MR. J. L. HALL.
SATURD A Y N IG HT,
BENEFIT OF MR. E. TRICKBTT.
BENEFIT OF MR. E. TRICKETT.
BENEFIT OF MR. E. TRICKETT.
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET.
E. H. TEECE, Eslj.
E. H. TEECE, Esq.
MONDAY NIGHT,
TH E LINGARDS,
STOLEN KISSES
Stolen Kisses
Stolen Kisses
Stolen Kisses
Stolen Kisses
Stolon Kisses
- 1 C T O rTYYa
STOLEN KISSES
Stolen Kisses
Stolen Kisses
Stolen Kisses
Stolon Kisses
Stolen Kisses.
T H E A T R E.
THIS (Friday) EVENING,
FAREWELL BEN E F 1 T
of
JOHN L. HALL.
By Particular Request,
OUR GIRLS.
JOHN L. HALL.
Captain Gingah.., r
By kind permission of Mr. A. Gamer,
MR. ROBERTS,
of the London. Comedy Company,
Will appear
IN SEVERAL OF HIS SPECIALITIES.
Ib'jb e ~n~’ r
Q
THEATRE.
Lessee..
Mr. M. Hogarty.
Come and see your old favourite,
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Fairy Actresses,
LILY and ROSE.
TO-NIOHT (Friday) June 4, ISSI,
THE LAST NIGHT
'The Last Night
Tire Last Night
of the New Play
of Dm New Play
written by Mr. Dumpier and “The Vagabond,”
THE NIHILISTS
The Niliilists
The Nihilists
laptalu Arthur Hamerton Mr. DAMPIER.
Special Notice.
Entire CHANGE OF PROGRAMME TO-MORROW
(Saturday Juno 5.
Grand Double Bill for this night only.
Mr. Dam pier in two new pieces.
Admission -Dress Circle, 3s; Stalls, 2s; Pit, Is.
Bok plan at Nicholson and A sober berg's.
LIDDY, Business Manager.
T
E M P E R A N 0 E HAL L-
SYDNEY TYPOGRAPHICAL ASSOCIATION’S
INAUGURAL CONCERT.
Under the Patronage of
HUGH GEO RG E, E S Q.
The above Concert will take place
THIS (Saturday) EVENING,
June sth.
Between Ist and 2nd parts
P R OFBSSOE GOR D ON BARKER
Will appear in his
TEMPLE OF MYSTERY.
H. D. M - DONALD,
See. Concert Committee.
jyCENSED VICTUALLERS’ ASSOCIATION.
GRAND ANNUAL BALL.
Under the Pat ronage
_ of
THU WORSHIPFUL the MAYOR of SYDNEY".
This PLAIN and FANCY DRESS BALL, under the
auspices of the Licensed Victuallers’ Association, will
take place at the Masonic Hall, Y'ork-street, on the
evening of MONDAY", June 14 next.
, Tickets Gentlemen’s, 155.; ladies, Ids. 6d., may be
had of the Treasurer, Mr. Sebastian Hodge, Commer-
cial Hotel, King and Castkreagh Streets; of the Secre-
t’tty at the Royal Hyde Park Hotel; and of the
following members of Hie Council Messrs, J. Apted,
~ kite Lion. Riley-street; T. Curran, Pfahlert’s Hotel;
V Kelsey, Garden Palace Hotel; J. E. Kelsey. Oueeu’s
ytths. Oxford-street; R0w.41, Oxford Hotel, King-st.;
la - Bharman, Willow Tree, liverpool-street; F. Smith,
urmagong Hotel; E. Tramain, City Arms, Stanley-
” reet; W. Walter, Shakespeare Hotel, Dcvonshire-
- land Alderman J. J). Young, Three Crowns
Hotel, Church-hill.
GREAT WAX WORKS’ EXHIBITION.
OPEN, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-
ARRIVED, from New York, THE
WONDER OF THE WORLD - Miss Millie
Zi~7. yj c i i w ruia i * —miss JxLime
haiS 9 * 6 * khe two-headed Nightingale, a Lady with two
' ?“ s > arms, four legs, and one body.
-ttlrutssi'jn la, children haM price.
price.
>0 fvm, to 10 p.m.
H I A K I
EOYAL ITALIAN C
and
PERFORMING AN
HAYMARKET RES
THIS (Friday) EVENII
Entire change of Pro;
EVERY EVENING, at
MATINEES,
WEDNESDAY and KAT Fit DA ’
at half-past 2.
Enthusiastic Recep
TRIUMPHANT SU<
of this
MAGNIFICENT COMB
Pronounced by the Press
The BEST CIRC
WHICH HAS EVER 1
AUSTRALIA
The spacious Pavilion crowded
Saturday evening, and hundreds tu
gain admission.
The Proprietor begs to anno an oe
cession of Novelties will be present
NEW and TALENTED 1
WONDERFULLY TRAIN!
ZEBRAS, ROYAL BENGI
<fcc., <fcc,, &c.
Prices of Admissi
Dress circle (chairs), 4s ; stalls (ci
2s, Children tinder 12 years of age, 1
Special rates for Schools when co
CHOO L 0 1
Mr.
ARTHUR SKETCH
of the
Egyptian Hall, Piccadilb
author of
“ The Brown Papers,” “ Mrs. Br
in India,” has the honour 1
HIS FIRST APPEARANCE
on
TUESDAY, Jum
Of Mr. Sketchley the Times of I.
experiences of Mrs. Brown are (
admirable humour and with such a
ledge of a particular type of charoc
make a capital magazine article wit
of oral delivery; but Mr. Sketchlc
equal to his matter, and his exhibiti
of the worthy matron may bo
nounced as the best thing of the
heard since Albert Smith’s engine©)
perennial ‘ grievances.’ "
Seats may be secured and pdan
Messrs. Nicholson and Ascherberg
SCHOOL OF
HYPERION PAR
TO-NIGHT (Friday), TC
THE NIGHT of the 8
GRAND EXTRA ATT
NEW PROGRAM
In adddition to the Hypterion
JOHNNY COWA
has kindly consented to appear in
Acta.
First appearance in Sy
DOT EVEREST
The Infant Terpsiohoreai
COLVILLE,
in a new local Sketch, <
ALL MEALS SIXPI
(specially written for him hv IN
PROFESSOR RI(
the Marvellous Psyehometrist, spec
to test his wonderful power of
Tickets may obtained and seats se
Paling’s, George-street.
Reserved seats, da.; second ditto,:
Overture at 8 o'clock prompt.
.. Carriages may be ordered at 10.30
BV REQUEST.
A Grand MIDDAY PER FORI
plueo on Saturday, for the coaveuiei
schools, to commence at 3 o’clock,
dren, 6d. Leader of the Orchestra,
Managi
w.
PRITCHARD’S HOU
HOTEL, & GENERA
FOR THE LETTING Al
Of every descriptio
At saunderss* well-known barley
MOW HOTEL,
Park and Castlereagh-strreets,
HUM AND MILK
From five o'clock in the morning. Price 3d,
Soda and .Milk, or the pure fluid by itself.
THE COUNTER LUNCH
as usual from 10.31), with a glass of Tooth’s celebrated
treble X or a glaas of Marian's ale, for :sd.
Country visitors or permanent lodgers can be accom-
modated with a good table, well-ventilated bedrooms,
and a private drawing-room upstairs, with use of piano.
Charges very moderate.
OR ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
eo to
SELF E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
METROPOLITAN STAKES CONSULTATION.
1880.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ... ... 200
Starter* (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usua
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to he made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattersull’s Club, Sydney.
mHE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT,
COLLAR, AND CUFF FACTORY,
100 KING STREET, UPSTAIRS
(entrance in right-of-way).
A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
ORDERS EXECUTED
with
NEATNESS AND DISPATCH.
GENT.’S WHITE SHIRTS
in three qualities.
CRIMEAN SHIRTS,
excelling all other makes.
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALLY
THE TRADE.
GIVEN TO
All work done at the above Factory is under
the superintendence of a gentleman of
20 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
in
AMERICA.
Co
every flower that
* breathes « frayrranee.
SWEET SCENTS
LIGN-ALOE. OPCPONAX.
’LOVE-AMONG-THE-ROSES.'
frangipanni. /i
AM) A THOUSAND OTHER'
2t. 6rf. each; or threat
i„ a ca*.u. v o-v
Street'
O* A
rp H E OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
Ac. Ac.
3 4 OLAR E N O E STRE E T,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMPORTER.
WH. P A L I N
• PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
ERARD S GRAND PIANOS,
h ive gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT
Agent:
W. H. PALING.
G,
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
nou-competitive,
but unsurpassrd.
Agent:
W. H. PALING.
W. BELL fc CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS *
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
over all others
Sole Agent:
W. H. PALING.
PALING and COMPANY’S RENOWNED
PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE,
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING.
052 GEORGE STEED.


TW lONS, I'KIZK ME DA L T AILO R.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose eueoess is attributed to his PR ACTICAL SKILL
In catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate. viz. :
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SCITS, 01s, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SCITS, to measure. His, worth £6 Gs.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
KITIN' u MEASURED at ZION'S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 255; worth Oils
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, IDs Gd. half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to tit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS. Gs Gd
SILK COATS. Meu’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s Gd and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s hi, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WAR S A W HOTS E,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
ITHHST- PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At The Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Ma shines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and redac-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.’’
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by BHEEK MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any port of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTEKMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
G 74 George - s tree t, and 21 PHt-street,
Sydney.
I’N O U N D R Y ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
is very much stronger than t he same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Gottndry’e Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
OOUNDHY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED ’TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea. in five
tr.urutes ns can he drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to au ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabal, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
’The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
four rears ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
2GO and 2G2 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peateand Hareourt’s),
Mow open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
c*
Xjl STIEFVATEB, GUXMAKEE,
107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET.
Country orders promptly attended to.
G
CSS,
R
IFLES,
R
EVOLYERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
O. COWLES,
Puicneoi GtruMAEjm,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
■WINTER NECESSITIES.
VASES
For the Dining Room,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Boom,
&c„ Ac.
HEATING STOVES /,
For Public Schools,
Churches, y
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Marufaetnre.
r,--
IKE IK NB,
Nickel-plated,
And will not rust.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
F E N D E E S,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces
Of the
Latest designs.
THE SYDNEY GAHDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured far the-ISiO Seas an.)
F. LASSETTEB & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
!
Jl K E AUSTRALIAN
(Now in its Fourth Volume),
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH MONTH,
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BO O K S E L L E E S.
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE OP THE DAY.
ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOTYPES.
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clippings, Reviews,
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertisements,
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS, TRAMWAY, AND
’BUSES.
Almanac, Phases of the Moon, New Lectionart, &c.
Sear! 12 Stamps for Specimen Copy, and then if approved.
THE THIRD VOLUME JUST COMPLETED.
E. CYRIL HAYILAND, Publisher and Proprietor,
No. 1, LITTLE GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
p. w E L C H,
PRACTICAL VENETIAN A GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND M ANTE A CTUBEB & IMPOR T E E,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
X.B Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
■n
PW7 VM 'l
Outside Venetian.
Oriental Blinds,
gYDNBV INTERNATIONAL eMSitioj,
FI USX PRIZE.
KER R ■ g
Patent
Safety Lamps,
for in and
'loop use, burns
kerosene without
glass chimneys
eighteen hours
for one penny
Light equal to
Mink Casdies
Size of lamp, is
inches high.
Price (ready for
use) -10 s. 'tid.
Packed free for
•steamer or mil
on receipt of
stamps or money
order.
The
EXHIBITION
T O P
spins on a piece
of thread in any
position.
Is. each.
Ss. Od. dozen.
The
EXHIBITION
CEMENT
mends every,
thing. Price-
-Is. per bottle; by
post Is. (14.
That extraordinary und amusing trick “The Finger
through the Hat,” as performed at the Exhibition—
a capital joke. Price, 3s. 6d., with instructions howto
do it. Post free, Is.
The Copying Pencil, as shown at the Exhibition, copies
letters, marks linen. Is each, by post 18 stamps.
The Alligator Glass-cutter, Knife-sharpener, Cork-
screw and Tin opener—ls each, by post 18 stamps.
-errk-.
IMm
... s*
amusing games awl
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and
tricks at
BAILEY & KERR'S NOVELTY EXHIBITION
508 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(Opposite Central" Police Court),
For ONE MONTH ONLY, prior to B. & K.’s visit tQ
Melbourne.
REDGATE’S
TEKT M:
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeeper!.
MPitO Y E D HO M E SHUT T L E
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
£ «w
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stew
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you bj
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Beducep Price List
No. 1. —For Hand Uso, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £d.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, co®"
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and Now Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
W Y N Y A B D - L A N E, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull B'
Ale that preserves this brand iirst in public es
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very a"-
but no other brand has tuc same mellow vinous
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keep
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are the
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake oi
ext ra profit represent the common beers referredlt•,
equal in quality to the Hull Dog. J. B. CATTELL.
CO.. Sole Agents.
SYDNEY.- Printed and Published by John
and J, F. A itemrrad, Sole Proprietors, at *
Bui istik Office, 147 Qitstlere»gh-«tpeet
The great northern hotel.
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
tbe public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terras Strictly Moderate.
ATHANIE L C O H E N
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that be has taken the
ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL,
at the corner of
GIPPS & MACQUARIE STREETS, SOUTH,|
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Glr in the Ronrheg.”
CJ. R O B E R T S’
, SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
ds per bottle.
Pnro West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
AND HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mn. P, STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the ana can bo had La the
immediate neighbourhood.
