

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 20.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 12, 1880.
Price—3d.
®lje §nl(dut.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12, 1880.
Mr. Dillon and Judge Meymott.
It is satisfactory to find that a man of the in-
tellectual capacity and judicial attainments of
Air. Davis has been appointed to enquire into
the charges against Judge Meymott ; and the
fact that to so capable a commission has been dele-
gated this most onerous and important duty se-
cures the community and Judge Meymott
against a danger with which they might under
other circumstances have been seriously threa-
tened. An article appeared the other day in a
Sydney paper stating that it was not intended to
confine the commission appointed in connexion
with Mr. Dillon’s charges to evidence taken in
accordance with the rigid laws which regidate
the reception of testimony in our courts of jus-
tice. In other words, the public were informed
that to the gentleman or gentlemen composing the
board of enquiry was to be given a roving com-
mission, empowering the examination of wit-
nesses of all kinds on all sorts of subjects,
whether directly connected or not with the
charges under investigation. Nmv we know
nothing of Judge Meymott or his doings be-
yond what has been related in the news-
papers. We are aware that popular feeling is
against him, and we are therefore extremely de-
sirous that that his ease shall be dealt with on a
basis which which will ensure his receiving fair
play. Judging from various statements which
have been made in the Assembly and Press, it
would appear that Government are bent on treat-
ing the indicted official after a style which must
inevitably place him, whatever be the merits of
his defence, in a very awkward and unfair posi-
tion. Mr. Dillon is, it seems, not to be confined
to specific charges, but every old woman in
the country is to be invited to appeal' before the
learned Commissioner and deliver her impeach-
ment of the District Court Judge —who will no
doubt thus be confronted with numberless alle-
gations relating to occurences which took place
years ago, and which may only be remembered
by those chiefly interested, viz., the accusers.
Nearly everyone who has lived long in New South
Wales Jmows that there is in the country dis-
tricts a not inconsiderable class to whom judges
and policemen arc specially obnoxious, and whose
delight it is at all times to impute unworthy mo-
tives to those who make them feel the power of
the law; and fully appreciating this fact, we are
by no means unprepared for a most wonderful
array of further charges against Judge Mky-
kott. We think that the reception of evidence
outside the charges submitted to Parliament will
greatly prejudice the judge’s case and unneces-
sarily embarrass a man who is on his trial for
more than his life. Air. Dillon should submit
specific charges and be held to them. The justice
which the meanest citizen is entitled to in a
court of law should not be withheld from the
Judge. Wo say this without for a moment deny-
ing that should any one of the allegations brought
forward by Mr. Dillon be substantiated, Judge
Meymott should at once leave the public ser-
vice for ever. The proposed basis of the enquiry
is bad, but it is satisfactory to find that the in-
vestigation will be conducted by an accomplished
lawyer and not by a layman.
Churches and Hotels.
What may happen to a man in New South Wales
is forcibly shown by the experience of Bernard
Bogan, of AVoolloomooloo, the frequency and
unsuccessful ness of whoso applications for a
publican’s license have passed into a proverb.
Bogan, concerning whose case innumerable letters
have reached us, wants to obtain a license for very
fine and commodious premises, but a» these happen
to be near a church — though, so far as wo cun
learn, not in such close proximity to the place of
worship in question as to render the granting of
a license peculiarly offensive —his application
meets with strenuous opposition. It cannot be
denied that as matters at present stand there is
but little in common between sermons and
whisky, and wo therefore do not impute the
slightest blame to those who conscientiously
oppose Bogan’s application on the ground that
public-houses should not stand near churches.
But the one feature in Bogan’s case deserving
of special notice is the means which have been
employed to prevent him from attaining his long-
sought object, and which means, it must be
affirmed, are not justified by the end that those
who use them have in view. Whenever Bogan
applies for a license, the Bench is packed by
hostile Justices of the Peace—some of whom, it
is alleged, have on more than one occasion
travelled very long distances for the purpose of
recording their votes against the establishment
of the proposed hotel. Sometimes Bogan thinks
to catch the enemy unawares, but they are too
watchful for him, and a renewed application
only eventuates in a fresh refusal. There can be
nothing more scandalous than this continued
fight between an applicant and a number of
prejudiced magistrates—for Justice* of the Peace
can have little regard for their oaths of office
if they go to a court with minds committed to a
particular course of action. We do not say
that there are not men on the other side equally
to blame —men who before taking their seats on
the bench are as fully determined to vote in the
affirmative as their friends are in the negative.
Bogan has been and still is a shuttle-cock
between two contending factions. He bears a
most excellent character, held a license many
years ago, when security bad to be found for a
licensee’a good behaviour, and has spent his all
in improving tho house which he desires to have
licensed as an hotel, A good hotel, however
near a church, would do less harm than a bad one
however far away; but those who oppose tin-
license are right from their point of view, and
Bogan is right fromB. is. The community, we
think, will hail with satisfaction the day on
which such matters are first settled by a respect-
able and impartial tribunal; and those most
immediately interested in churches and hotels
respectively will bo glad to have some definite
means of ascertaining the rights of each in
regard to the licensing law.
Mr. William Saurin Lyster.
We h avc much pleasure in presenting our readers
to-day with the “counterfeit presentment” of
Mr. William Saurin Lyster, the. leading and in
fact the only operatic entrepreneur of Austra-
lasia, Mr. Lyster, a fuller sketch of whose re-
markably adventurous career will, we hope, find
a place ere long in the columns of this journal,
was bom in Upper Ragot-street, Dublin, on the
21st March, 1828, and is consequently now 52
years of age. He comes of a good old stock, and
his father, Captain Chaworth Lyster, the scion
of a well-known Irish family, served in the
British army throughout the Irish rebellion
of 1798. On his marriage with the mother of
the subject of our present notice (Anne
Keightley, eldest daughter of Thomas Kcightley,
Newtown Park, County Kildare, and sister of
the historian of that name) Captain Lyster
retired from the army and accepted the agency of
several Irish estates, including those of the Earl
of Orkney, Colonel Percival, his own brother-in-
law the Bishop of Dromore, and of Mr. W. S.
Lystcr’s godfather and namesake the Hon.
William Saurin Lyster, then Attorney-General
of li'eland.
After passing through a very severe illness
young William Saurin Lyster was, at the age of
thirteen, sent by bis father on a voyage round the
world. He visited Alelboume and Sydney in the
year 1812, returning home after an absence of
twenty months. He was then sent to Calcutta
with letters to Judge Alexander, his father’s
intention being that he should become an indigo
planter, but getting homo-sick ho returned after
little more than a year’s absence. Then he
visited fhe Cape of Good Hope where, in fhe
year 1817, he served as a volunteer during the
Kaffir war under, Sir Hurry Smith. In 18f8 bo
sailed for America and, being the possessor of a
splendid voice, adopted the theatrical profession,
in which he remained with varying success until
1855, when he joined General Walker during the
revolutionary war and served as a captain in the
Nicaraguan army in fhe battles of Grenada, St.
Leon and Rivas. Fortunately for himself, and
we may add, for the Australian colonies, ho was
sent to the United States on a recruiting
service and thus escaped the massacre which
followed Walker’s insane attempt to have him-
self elected President of the Nicaraguan Republic,
In 1857 Mr. Lyster organised an opera company,
and after a successful campaign through the
United States and California, arrived h*
Melbourne in March, 1861, his career since which
date is too well known to call for description.
We need tell the profession nothing about
Mr. Lyster; but to those of fhe general public
who have not the pleasure of his acquaintance
we may say that lie has proved himself during
the course of his long Australian career to be a
firm friend, an honorable gentleman and a most
capable ami considerate manager. He has just
taken a benefit at Melbourne Opera House, and
we hope ere long to welcome his familiar face to
Sydney.
MR. WILLIAM SAURIN LYSTER.
CONCERTS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
Mr Beak, Bear-Blossom
The opportunity for a letter comes more quickly
than I thought. We have been enjoying a succession
of the most exquisite Pianoforte Concerts by that
prince of pianists, “Henri Ketten.” His playing hi»
marvellous, his execution grand. No critique, however
clever, can do him justice. His rendition of the grand
old “ masters ’* is perfect, and although he plays a full
j>rogramme every night with constant changes, he
never has a sheet of music before him, so that hia
memory is as wonderful as his playing. He sits like one
inspired and brings out such columns of sound that
one can hardly credit that it is produced by but one
man and one piano. We h&ve had a crowded half
nightly, and such strict silence is maintained that
when the people turn the leaf of their programme, the
faint crackling sound made by the paper is instantly
suppressed. I have been to nearly all —you know well
what such-a musical treat is to me. To one of these
concerts a “ lady who keeps a large boarding-school
brought sixty girls. Picture then, my dear Bean-
Blossom,” slowly filing in two and two, sixty “bread
and butter misses.” From their inexpressive faces few,
if any, had a soul for music. It looked more like a
public advertisement for the college. Sixty chairs fully
occupied by sixty well-conditioned girls beaming all over
with rude health and exuberant spirits, all in their
Sunday frocks, which, like Joseph’s coat, were of divers
colors. The want of uniformity was painful, because
those who did not know they were school girls might
wonder how such a heterogenous mass of girl-idiid
managed to he admitted. I suppose girls ore considered
to be more musical than boys, for there has been no
attempt on the part of head masters to bring their sixty
boys. Imagine a music hall for grand musical concerts
almost wholly occupied by two schools of opposite sexes,
with the heads of the two establishments glowing with
pride and beaming all over with satisfaction, os their
eyes mentally take note of the effect such an astounding
lot of hoys and girls must have ou the rest of the house,
not excepting the brilliant pianist, who must he aware
what a tribute they are all paying to his genius.
Apparently he was not at all overpowered by tide
juvenile effort ou the port of Australia’s daughters,
who, let us hope, caught uo colds by their contact with
the night air and were conducted by the Principal
safely hack to their dormitories. We have lost Ketten
for a time. Melbourne claims him for the next six
weeks and there ho is sure of a good reception *and »
brilliant career duriug his stay, although ho cannot
possibly have a more appreciative aud packed audience
than that who nightly welcomed him in Sydney. Of
course such a word as “ circus” should not be breathed
in the same paper that mentions " Ketten.” As dross
is to silver or gold, so is “ Chiarini ” to “ Ketten,” but
the purer the metal, the more necessary there should
bo a little alloy, and so it is that while " Ketten " draws
his appreciative hearers by hundreds “ Chiaxini **
gathers ibis sawdust-loving admirers by thousand*
under his’ great big tent. I .shall tell you all about it,
when I have been.
Yours musically, .
PEA-BLOSSOM.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Sydney Corporation hard up again.
Vtealandin. h.s., left 'Frisco 7th hist.
Newcastle miners’ strike has been settled.
Largs farmers dill agitate for protection.
Dunedin .and Sydney aldermen are fraternising.
The annual Masonic ball was a grand success.
'The Camperdown has arrived with 10U htuni-
grauts.
A pet monkey has severely bitten a Braidwood
woman.
Tramway motors should bo fitted with cow-
catchers.
Melbourne larrikins have severely stabbed two
Chinamen.
Goreral Grant has a good chance for a second
re-election.
The “ 13, 14,15” puz/.10 mania is raging fiercely
in Auckland.
200 men are now employed at Peak Downs
copper mine.
The French man-of-war Rhin has. left Sydney
for Melbourne.
Last month 250 signed tho pledge at the Sydney
Temperance Hall.
More “ Chinkies” for Sydney per the s.s. Bris-
bane—lBl Of them.
A swordfish measnriug 13 ft. din. has been
caught at Wollongong.
A National Art Gallery will probably soon bo
established at Adelaide.
Assaults upon females are of frequent occur-
rence in Auckland (N.Z.)
Next British and Australian census is to be
taken on 3rd April, 1881.
The railwayt o the summit of Vesuvius will be
Shortly opened for traffic.
The Melbourne pnblie sympathise with Beaney
rather than with Baillicre.
The second reading of tho Licensing Bill was
curried without a division.
A soup kitchen, similar to the Sydney one, is to
be established ip Dunedin.
Mr. John Plummer is to lecture at the Bathurst
School of Arts on the ‘-’lst.
Only 412 aborigines claimed blankets in tho
Wide Bay district this year.
The French have annexed Rai Tea, u fertile
island in the Society Group.
Sydney master butchers are considering tho
propriety of Sunday closing.
10,000 [Sunday-school children will festivate iu
Ihe Garden Palace on tho 2t>th.
A small piece of wharf wall is to be erected on
the east side of Circular Quay.
Gold has been discovered in Fiji, bnt as yet
there are no grounds for a rush.
The Albanians are firm in resisting the cession
of any portion of t heir territory,
Shotty gold has been found on tho aoa-beacb, at
Tilba, at the foot of tho Dromedary.
Wagga Council has accepted an offer to supply
the town with gas fit ft cost of £5,000.
The Bricklayers’ Union have granted <£2o in
aid of the Newcastle minors on strike.
The Quebec Legislative Assembly lias negatived
bill to abolish the Legislative Council.
The second reading of the Victorian Payment
of Members Bill was carried by 38 to 34,
Caithness concrete paving lias been laid down
At, Sydney, and appears to Ik; u success.
A magnificent tin lode has. it is said, lieen
found in tho vicinity of Tinaroo, Cairns.
Nine more deaths among New Ireland colonists,
who for the most part are old men mid boys.
Three N.Z. stowaways ex Tararua were last
week each fined £lO, in default one month.
John Woods and Co. were the successful ten-
derers for tho 30,008 tons cube tramway setts.
Mr. Justice Fancett objects to the Full Court
being constantly composed of only two judges.
British troops have been despatched to the Bur
ruesofrontier iu consequence of tho rebellion.
Sydney larrikins severely beat and bruised a
young woman named Margaret Stuart last week.
The San Francisco mail for Sydney consisted of
51,331 letters, 3,804 books, and 31,055 newspapers.
B. M. Stout, a Western Australian editor, luia
been committed lor trial for stealing newspapers.
The second session of tho seventh Parliament ol;
New Zealand was opened in Wellington 38th May.
Annie Thompson, sentenced to death for infan-
ticide at Ballar.it, has hud her sentence commuted.
Frank Fowler has been committed for trial for
•rape on a girl sixteen years* of age at Tiraaru (N.Z.)
Angus ('amevon is introducing a Game Protec-
tion Bill in the interests of the Zoological Society.
Garfield, representative of Ohio, is nominated
for the Presidentship by the Bepublican Convention.
The Builders’ and Contractors’ Association
protest against M.P.’s acting os agents for contractors.
Tho total English and Dutch stock of tin is
11,000 tons. The English stock of copper is 43,000
tens.
A railway guard named Egan has been killed
at Ararat by falling from the train against an iron
(oat.
Richard Have, a shunter, has tiled at Lithgow
from the effects of having one of his legs run over by
trucks
Mr. G. C. Davis, barrister-at-law, has been
appointed to investigate the charges against Judge
Moymott.
Kydney Swauwick has apologised and been re-
leased after entering into recognizances for his g.ed
behaviour.
The Brisbane Government Printing Ooflice has
Inlely taken many good printers from the Government
office here.
Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Bons are build-
ing a splendid pile of four-storied warehouses at a cost
«>t;£2o,Ooo.
*' Wo acquit tho prisoner, but consider him
morally guilty,” [said a Syduoy.Quarter Sessions’ jury
Ou. Monday,
At the R. M. Court, Wellington (N.Z.), a pub-
lican named Sloiab, aline Fisher, was fined £2O for sly
grog-selling.
Rosenthal, Aaronson and 00.. Melbourne, have
bud a large quantity of jewellery stolen from thorn by
ha, employee.
It is now very likely that the old Exhibition
building, Prince Alfred Park, will Ik; converted into a
meat, market.
The Service Ministry may bo considered mori-
bund. “Coalition with the Comers ”is now the Con-
servative cry.
Owing to a gas explosion at Carlton, Melbourne,
*» man named Stephen-on urn his wife were injured, tho
f ormer severely.
The Government have agreed to purchase a
portion of the Gamine collection of drawings for the
ACademy of Art.
The American Novelty Company have opened
•aestahlishment in George-street, nearly opposite the
Coffee Palace. Suoli a collection of novelties and
fntndy household or personal requirements have never
secu before in Sydney.
Darlington aldermen aro exercised in mint) as to
whether three form a quorum under the Ist section of
the Municipal Act.
During 1871*. HH.tkH persons vlsvhsit lie Austral-
ian Museum. Of there or more than a third
were Sunday visitors.
While they were roasting the bullock at Wel-
lington the other day the beast dropped oft its hook
and fell into the tire.
Lord Odo Russell and < funeral Sir Linton
Si nan one represent England at the Berlin Conference
of the Great Powers.
The vested funds of the Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Company are now £.'!!),605, yielding an an-
nual interest of £.1,700.
On account of the Cavngnari massacre the Im-
perial Government refuses to acknowledge it he treaty
of Gundamnk as binding.;
The Wotongu had her propeller blades carried
away olf Botany during the gale on Tuesday night, and
had to pat hack nnder canvas.
The* Victorian medical profession are instituting
enquiries into the value of diplomas alleged to ho held
by two prominent local doctors.
A Sydney drayman named John Dwyer has been
fined IT), in default n mouth, for boating a Chlnanmu
who refused to “ shout ” for him.
The working jewellers of Dunedin 'intend to
petition Parliament to he placed ou a foot ing of equality
with the working jewellers of Victoria.
A man named Lockwood had a difference with
his wife at Dunedin, and struck her. The woman died
suddenly. The man has been arrested.
A Sandhurst woman with her baby fell into a
30-ft. shaft containingi> feet water, and remained there
all night. Neither was seriously injured.
A terrible outrage has been committed near
Queanbeyun by u man named Singler on the child of a
surveyor. The accused has been arrested.
The Cairns Co-operative G. M. Co's, claim,
Mnlgrave, is looking well and the partners are sending
down quartz to Sydney for a test crushing.
A foreign Exhibition commissioner went to Par-
ramatta for a day's shooting, fie mistook tame ducks
for wild ones. Twenty shillings, or seven days.
A young follow of 2U w is charged at the W titer
Police Court; on Tuesday with having deserted his wife,
aged 17, and child. A case of “ married in haste.-’
Tho Canterbury (N.Z.) Philosophical Institute
celebrated its loth anniversary by h conversazione and
exhibition of articles illustrative of constructive art.
Mrs. Rowland Shelby was on Thursday week
thrown out of her buggy and severely shaken owing to
the horse she was driving having taken fright at the
tram.
In Melbourne plain-clothes police have arrested
under the Vagrancy Act large numbers of disreputable
women, who are to he kept in guol during the Interna-
tional.
Attention is specially directed to the advertise-
ment in another column regarding- the lecture to he
delivered at 7.150 a.m. on Sunday evening by Mr. Charles
Bright.
At a sale of the allotments composing Hanson's
paddock. Newtown Bond, 1,10,01 s .'ls. (XI, was realise*!.
Only n. few lots were passed iu, and prices reached £22
l>er foot.
The Birthday Hall at Brisbane was more
numerously attended than it has l>een for many years
past -a proof of the popularity of the Acting-Governor
—Joshua Ball.
For tripping a constable and rescuing a drunken
mau, Edward Phillips was recently sentenced h,v tho
Timur a K.M. to IB hours’ imprison merit without the
option of a fine.
Mr. Rutherford, of Cobb and Co., wihlo mount-
ing his horse at Cobb's stable. Bathurst, on Monday,
was drugged mid kicked, and, we are sorry to nay,
revevely injured.
The dead body of a man. name unknown, who
had evidently committed suicide by shooting himself
with a revolver, has been found at Melbourne. Along-
side him was a piece of paper bearing tho words, “ j.
Muller, Melbne."
The directors of the Rub urban Bank have had a
verdict given against them in a civil action brought by
a man who hail purchased bank shares ou their incor-
rect representations.;
We have much pleasure in observing, by refer-
ence to our advertising columns, that Mr. Godfrey,
solicitor, who has been practising iu Queensland for
the last ten years, has commenced practice in Sydney
at Elizabetk-street.
George Stacey. Hcnten(*ed last 'week to 1H
montlis’ imprisonment for stealing from a hoarding-
house, says that he is a British peer, and that he served
through the N.Z. war.
A woman named Koeunnnh Malone died of drink
last week. A man who had been living with her, and
who was arrested on suspicion of having caused her
death, was discharged.
Mr. Chino, an engineer who was engaged by tho
Wellington (N.Z.i City Council to prepare a scheme for
the drainage of that city, has issued u writ against the
Council for Tloll 19s id.
Tho splendid avenue leading frmp Kedmyre
railway station to TJvei-pool road planted by sub-
scription—is iu a fair way of destruction. Vagrant
quadrupeds aro this cause.
Mrs. Boldt, the heroic wife of the captain of
the Moorburg. will ha presented with the medal of the
National Shipwreck Belief Society of N.B.W. on tho
arrival of the ship at Fremantle.
It i« officially announced Unit those exhibitors
at the Garden Palace who have been placed second in
the list of awards, will receive, not medals, but
“ highly commended ” certificates."
Mr. John Spiller, of Mackay. manufactured
‘sjso tons of sugar, value .1570,000, t his season, and is
now going to plant extensively ou the Burdekin, which
promises to bon magnificent district.
The first commission appointed nnder tho new
Act which provides tor examination under oath and tho'
compulsory attendance of witnesses is that in con-
nexion with the case of Judge Meymott.
The employes of Mr. Henry Vale, of Pyrmont
Engine Works, who left for England by the Orient,
chartered the launch Minx, and accompanied the big
boat to the Heads to sec their employer off.
There is only one 15-puzzle in Wollongong,
which goes from nouse to house. Two clergymen and
one editor are now waiting their turn. Here is an
opening for tho American Novelty Company.
The P. and N. Co’p. largest steamer, the KaLser-
i’-Hiud. 1.023 tons, was to leave Southampton for
Australia on oth June, which date was also fixed for
tho departure of the Orient Co’s, s s. I’otosi.
A boy named William Davis, whose parents re-
side at Surry Hills, was run over and ent in half by a
tramway motor at Kedfem on Sunday afternoon. The
poor little fellow’s laxly was completely severed.
The extreme protectionists, headed by Mr.
Buchanan, had a majority at the meeting held nnder
the auspices of the •‘League for the Encouragement of
Native Industries," at the Masonic. H ill on Monday
night.
Fenia nolle ufatnlo. the festival of the grand
charter of Italy was celebrated ou Monday night by a
banquet at Perkins' Koval Exchange Hotel. Dr.
Mara.no, Italian Consul, preside*!, and Mr. Ton.aghi
was vice-chairman.
The Daily Obillrvkh has heal’d that the
Colonial Secretary his declined to receive Sydney
Swanwtck's resignation on the ground Gmt Swunwiek
has done nothing to decor\ o dismissal. The Observer
concurs with this view,
‘2,400 more copies of the <Certificates of Award
foa the Exhibition line arrived. They are mainiflcent
specimens o’ engraving, ami ha v never U«n surpassed
for beauty of design and excellence of finish. J he Amo
riean Bank Note Company arc the engravers.
The publicans of Brisbane are changing places
in finite u mysterious manner. Phillips has sold the
jV.ti.-N. Hotel to Fishly and takes the Queen’s. Steve
Byrne joes t<> the Koval. Jack, the present proprietor
of the Royal, goes for a six. mouths' tour through
Europe.
A fanatic named Herika, at Napier (N.Z.; put
an old blind - and deaf Maori named Herionu. into a
native copper, with the object of boiling an evil spirit
out of him; and when the old fellow resisted sat upon
him to keep him well down on the stones. The victim
was re-sc nod.
Sinclair, convicted of rape, and O’Brien,
Sea wen, and Bykos, found guilt of the Glebe murder,
have bad their sentences commuted - the former to im-
prisonment for life, the first three years in irons; and
thw three latter to ten years, seven years, and six
months penal servitude respectively.
A young woman named Margaret Nolan, charged
with having stolen ten guineas from a hoarder at the
restaurant where she was engaged, was discharged on
the grounds that, though the money was found sewn up
in her bed and she admitted taking it, her confession
was the outcome of a promise made by prosecutor.
Tho gambling mania has reached Auckland.
Michael Gallagher, who keeps a “sporting” house in
that town, has been tined in tho Police Court for allow,
iug professional “ speelers ” to play in his house; and
the light-fingered gentry were ordered by the Bench to
“ seek fresh scenes and pastures new,” under penalty
of imprisonment.
During his visit to Sydney, a son of Mr. Demp-
sey. contractor, Auckland, hurst a blood vessel, and was
advised by his medical attendant to return to Auckland.
The young man became worse on hoard the Kotouia-
haua. but fortunately Dr. Carl Fisher, of Sydney, was
a fellow. passenger, and by his assiduous exertions the
sufferer was saved.
Nicholas Punch (o) and Philip Hyland <5) died
on Wednesday afternoon from injuries received inn tire
at the United .States Hotel. Woolloomoloo. Another
child, aged 3. named Hay don Hyland, was severely
burnt, but it is expected to survive. The children were
all lying iu one bed, which caught fire it is supposed
owing to their having played with matches.
An exciting scene took place in East Melbourne
the other night. Between ten and twelve a guy young
banker’s clerk paid u visit to his chief's house while
the latter was playing cards at the Melliourue Club.
The banker’s wife was the attraction. The card circle
broke up earlier than usual, and the consternation at;
Villa, may be imagined. The young Lothario fled,
and the injured husband is flying to the law courts.
It has now become known that Sergeant ’Ken-
nedy's life was taken by the Kellys in a very cold-
blooded manlier. He was hut wounded on fhe day of
the encounter, and was allowed to live all night, so that
the gang might learn from him how to work his
Spencer rifle. On the following morning Ned Kelly
shot him dead through the breast. This fact having
become known to the sympathisers of the outlaws, has
produce® a coolners ltd ween them and the gang.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance .Society's
annual report shows tho seven years’ revenue to !*■
£5261, of which sum, during the period mentioned
was absorbed inn -j per cent, bonus, and the re-
tnaindor added to the reserve fund. Last year’s busi-
ness amounted to £22,t3.Ki. giving a clear profit of
FB.TBB. A SO per cent, bonus is declared, and the
balance added to the reserve fund. The society’: in-
vested funds now amount to £dO,flbo, yielding £il7U>
interest annually.
The Sporting Depot of Sydney.
The well-known firm of Holdsworth, Gardyne,
and Co., of George-street, in this city, besides
having one of the largest hardware businesses in
Sydney, has now gone largely into the importation
of the various descriptians of sporting goods, and
their warehouse may In consequence he spoken
of as one of the principal depots for these lines in
this city. With the view to meeting the require-
ments of the present season the firm recently im-
ported from the oldest London makers the best
descriptions of footballs, and there is nowon view
at the warehouse a collection in this line alone
that we'l deserves inspection. And if the make
is good the prices are the most reasonable, the
goods being offered for sale here at almost the
same figure that rules in London. The house;
supplies the various Sydney clubs and the city
and suburban schools, and with the accompanying
neat little sketch the attention, it is hoped, of
country schools and clubH will further bo at-
tractecl. While on the subject of football it may
be mentioned that Messrs. H olds worth, Gardyne,
and Co. import extensively the beet descriptions
of cricketing goods, lawn tennis, foils, single-
sticks, boxing gloves, sporting firearm*, Ac., and
a very large wholesale and retail business is done
in the city and the country districts. The wants
of coursing patrons have also been attended to, as
special Lines of slips, collars, and collar chains
have been imported. In all these articles the firm
arc represented by competent agenta at home and
on the continent; and the colony has the fWAvan-
tage of being supplied through this house with
■roods of recognised merit, and at prices that placo
them within the reach of everybody.
Watson's Steam Brass, and Electro-
plating Works.
In an unpretentious-looking establishment at •yl
Pitt-street a very promising industry is being
carried on. and success won by dint of perse-
verance and good workmanship. Fifteen years
ago the brass works here spoken of were
established, and after a long
period of struggling they have
developed into an industry
employing a large number of
hands and competing in respect
of its productions with the
very best description of im-
ported brass work. All de-
scriptions of plumbers' and
engineers’ brass work is done
at the establishment, and
besides winning the highest
awards at our great Exhibi-
tion the proprietor has secured
almost exclusively the pa-
tronage of the trade for his
productions. The workman-
ship exhibited in every article
turned out is substantial and
solid, and the prices being
lower than for the imported
good-. The best result cannot but be predicted.
One of the principal lines made here is Watson «
beer engines, a sketch of which engine is given
above. These won the highest award at the
International Exhibition as colonial productions,
and to onr credit, be it said, their admitteo ex-
cellence has won for them a. good demand and ready
sale in the capital of the adjoining protectionist
colony. For the speedy and efficient manufacture
of articles of this kind the factory is well suited,
having several handy furnaces and numerous
lathes, dressing and polishing appliances, etc. It
is however in another branch that the works have
come prominently before the public of Late. Mr.
Watson has established in connection with the
brass works the entirely new industry ot cleetro-
nickel plating, which has already reached the
highest degree of excellence. The very newest
mechanical inventions have been imported tor the
purpose, and a portion of the premises has been
specially set apart and built for the work. _ Ihe
most experienced workmen have been obtained,
and this new branch of electroplating is carried
on with a success in point of workmanship that
cannot be surpassed in London or Paris. It was
the excellence of the nickel plating on the beer
engines that attracted so much attention at the
Exhibition, and now that this description of
plating is found to bo cheaper yet more brilliant
and lasting than silver plating the capabilities of
the work are tested to the utmost. Articles ot
domestic use, such as spoons, forks, cruets, sal-
vers, tea and coffee services, <fco., can hero bo re-
furbished at a very low figure, and made equal to
new. Gold and silver plating is likewise done oh
the works. All descriptions of coachbnilders’ re-
quirements, such as stalk hoops, caps, &c.. are-
done in the very highest stylo, as also jewellers
work, in the shape of watch-oases, Ac. This is
quite a new industry, and is carried on on a
scale that must be of absolute advantage to the-
trade. A visit will bo well repaid. No manufac-
tory can come up to these works in point of price
or workmanship for the nickel plated beer engines
made here, and the matter is well worthy the
attention of hotel proprietors who care to make
some kind of appearance at their bars. The en-
ergetic proprietor deserves all the success he has
won, .
THE AUSTRALIAN.
This periodical is again to hand and it a con-
tents fully justify the care and taste displayed in
the form in which they are placed before the
public. As is usual, the leading feature of Thk
Austkalian is the cleverness with which varied
tastes are met by its matter, from which we
purpose giving occasional brief selections.
The splendid specimens of ceramic and other
wares which Messrs. Las setter and Co. securest at the
International Exhibition have been nearly nil bought
up. The firm arc arranging for a further introduction
of those beautiful articled of household adornment.
An Artistic Association Is forming in Sydney.
It will include members of all the artistic professions,
and will be formally inaugurated by a conversazione
and exhibition, probably at tbc Masonic Hall or the
School of- Arts. What will Mr. Du Four say to this ?
Maddocks’ library.
We give in this issue an illustration of the pre-
mises iu which Mr. William Haddock conducts the
business of his Circulating Library, in George*
street. The front part of tho premises i.s employed
as a book and stationery warehouse, in which a
very large and well-conducted trade is carried on ;
the promises from cellar to garret being well filled
with ©very article pertaining to the supply of
literature in every form, and also with stock to fill
the wants of merchants, lawyers, and all who use
stationery: and, in this age of penny poets and
Government education, who does not? At tho
rear of the shop is a large room which forma the
library, and which from early morning to dusk is
thronged with tho fashion and wealth of our city,
the ladies being certainly the more numerous, as
we pres race the class of three-volume literature
provided for their more especial delectation ia
sooner got through and is more captivating than
the more solid pabulum for the male sex. Wo feel
almost inclined to qualify our last sentence, how-
ever, us we have half an idea that the three-
volume novel is not always tho special perquisite
of the fair sex ; we confess, for our own part, that
Miss Braddon and a good cigar are very pleasant
companions on a holiday afternoon. Haddocks’
is the Sydney Mndie’s. and although we do not
hear of 1200 copies of Tennyson’s last poem being
put on the shelves the supply of every class of
reading matter, novels, travels, biography. Ac., is
very ample. Tho library has been established
about 15 years, and beside enjoying the patronage
of all the elite of the city ami of many of our
wealthy landed proprietors throughout the country
has been patronised by our representatives of
royalty in succession since its establishment.
Some little time ago the proprietor, Mr. Haddock,
interested himself with the Commissioner for Rail-
ways to obtain a reduction in the rates of carriage
per rail on library exchanges, and the Commis-
sioner, after due consideration, was pleased to
reduce the charge to one-fourth of ordinary par-
cels’ rates. This must bo a great boon to country
residents living witliin rail communication of the
city, and wo hope in no very long time to see a
similar process every morning from Ma*block's as
there Ls from Mndie’s when boxes of now books
are sent off by rail all over England. Nothing
can bo more pleasant, or can form a more perfect
link with civilization for those who are buried in
tho dull districts of tho interior than a constant
change of new books and magazines, nndthosocan
bo had from Haddock’s within about six weeks of
their publication in London. We heartily wish
the courteous proprietor of the library every suc-
cess andan increase inliis task of purveying for the
various tastes of those in search of mental
pabulum or recreation*


LATE SPORTING.
Coonamble Races.
By Electic Telegraph.
i’iyinv' Handicap—Marobcme, 1; Ma voumeen, ii.
Time, 1 min 51 secs.
Jockey Club Handicap.—Bainbow, 3 ; Gila, 1‘; little
Nell, It. Time, 3 min Hi sees.
In my tabular pedigree of Jester, St. Xichoiae
should road as a eon of Emilrus, and not as
one of Liverpool.
The draw takes place on next Tuesday for the
Australian Club Oourtdng Cup. for which sixty-
four nominations have bean made.
In the Hunter River Amateur Turf'Club Races,
the following are the non-acceptors Shorts :
Fancy Boy. Reform, Norma, Sunlight, and Maid
of Australia, all engagements.
We have received a letter from Robert Edwards
in regard to the late race for the Victorian Cham-
pionship, and shall have much pleasure in publish-
ing same in our next issue.
Mr. John Young, of Anntmdalc, was invite lb y
the MoMxjuitic Bowling Club to take part in a
match a few days ago on the Melbourne ground,
and his health was afterwards drunk by the
players present . Ha was heartily thanked for the
courtesy he had extended to the Victorian players
while in Sydney.
A well-known light-weight boxer was challenged
a few days ago by a new arrival, ‘ * Young Lbitohey. ’ ’
to a glove encounter for X 25 aside. Xed accepted,
but on Thursday evening, when the money was
supposed to be posted, Hutehey ’’cried ago,” and
gave as an excuse that a “ prior arrangement” had
altered things, and he could not make a match.
Date,hey has since gone hawking.
The name of the Sydney Amateur Turf Club has
been changed to the Sydney Turf Club, and the
following office-bearers have been elected; —Pre-
sident, Mr. Edward Loo; Committee; Messrs.
V. Dowling, E. Betts, J. J. Taylor, E. Moriarty ;
B. Richards, and E- Terry; bon. treasurer, Mr.
IL Terry; secretiry, Mr. ’J'. S. Clibbom. The
name of the club has been altered with the view to
making things pay for themselves, as the commit-
tee, perhaps very justly, h tato that an amateur club
will not attract sufficient notice. A programme
of 390 so vs. lias been drawn out for the 13th of
September, but it has not yofc been approved of.
The following is a list of the prizes won at the
late Queen’s Birthday mooting of the South
Australian Jockey Club, as also the names of the
various winners Mr. C. H. M’Donald. X 719;
Mr. T. Gordon, X 3 t 5 ; Mr. Bowler, X 333; Mr.
Drysdale, X 205: Mr. Moore, X 157; Mr. E.
Jellett, XT2O ; Mr. S’. M irtin. X 3 3; Mr. Ooglin,
X7I -. Mr. B. Coleman, X7l: Mr. Jenkins, X7l ;
Mr. R. T. Reid, Xt>s ; Mr. R. Aughly, X7B ; Mr.
Mr. Lough!in, X 5 3: Mr. F. Liang, XIS; Mr.
Saville, X 23; Mr. H. Power. X2O; Mr. A. K.
Finlay, XIU; Mr. J. H. Hill, XTO; Mr. Pile, X 7 :
Mr. Haines JX3 ; Mr. Ayliffe, X 2; making a total
of X 2477.
Town Amusements.
“ Still Waters linn Deep ” has been a great hit
at the Royal. It seems an entirely now piece as
played by the company. (Mr. George Wards, as
John Mi Id may, is as neat and enjoyable a represen-
tative of that character as we have seen on the
boards of the Royal. Mr. Tithoradge plays Cap-
tain Hawkesley with consummate skill and un-
doubted success. Mr. Edwin Shepherd as Mr.
Potter is immense, and the house, to use a sport-
ing phrase, has “ gone straight ” for him. Mrs.
Marion Stammers gives a capital impersonation
of M's. Hector Btornhold. Tne other characters
-ire well sustained, and the house bestows its
favours in rapturous applause. In “ Stage
•Struck,” which has concluded the performance
tKich evening, Miss Annie Taylor has been an un-
qualified success, in fact none greater. TomTapo
apjiears to have been written lor Mr. Roberts; it
is a most humourous and very capable repre-
sentation. Mr. Shepherd’s talents once more
came out in Sir Matthew Bcraggs, and he played
the parn capitally right through.
'The Lingards have drawn well at the Victoria
in “ Stolen Kisses,” but are leaving in the height
of their popularity' for Adelaide. The Victoria
•comes again with more novelties at ones.
Mr. Dampier (with Lily and Rose) continues to
keep up his great dramatic rim, one of the best
the old (Queen’s Immu has ever seen. “ Only a
Fool ” is the x>resent attraction, auu it is certainly
the most taking of all Mr. Hopkins’ productions.
Mr. Arthur Sketchiey, as Mrs. Brown, made his
-appearance for the first time in Sydney at the
School of Arts on Monday night. _ He is now
drawing good houses, ant) should be heard by
■everyone who likes shnmaring fun,
Chiarini bad a street parade on Monday, and
thus introduced a new programme at his monster
pavilion at the H-ty market. ‘The one line is
wrowds every night and art- c v-h masCnea.
The Great Central Boot Company’s
Establishment.
The enterprise of three or four capitalists in
Sydney is revolutionising the retail trade of the
great metropolis, and it may with certainty be
said that in some particular lines goods are now
retailed at figures even below the wholesale rates
of a couple of years back. The investment of
capital here in the everyday requirements of life,
backed up by our liberal importing facilities, is
resulting largely to the benefit of the whole com-
munity, for in manyrespecte the people are placed
on an equal footing with those of the manufactur-
ing centres of the old country. In drapery, for
instance, this has been a noticeable fact for some
time, and thanks to the operations of the Great
Central Boot Company, this is now an accom-
plished fact with respect to boots and shoes. The
accompanying engraving gives some idea of the
interior and exterior of this splendid new place of
business. The premises are situate at 510 G orge-
street, directly opposite the Central Police
Court, in this city. They lutve been virtually re-
built, and well deserve the title by which they are
known. The front of the establishment is alto-
gether of a new and grand design, the windows,
for size and appearance, being altogether un-
equalled in Sydney. The interior is one grand
show-room, lavishly and elegantly furnished, giv-
ing in all a floor space of about 2,000 feet. Ihi
either side are ranged handsome benches, settees,
Ac., and in the centre is a neat little department
for the cashiers. The goods are in drawers or on
shelves all round the extensive show-room, and
the arrangement is such as to admit of great des-
patch of business. The eastern end of this large
apartment is formed of an extensive mirror, and
the effect produced at night time when the chan-
delier )ots, Ac., lire lighted, is very brilliant.
Special attention has been paid throughout to the
lighting, and the appearance of the front (if the
establishment at night is grand and and attractive.
With respect to the description of goods sold here,
it may bo mentioned that a more varied, valuable,
and cheaper stock is not to be found elsewhere in
tha colonies. Here ore to ba found boots and
■shoes ranging from 3d. -per pair to 15 guineas, tho
latter,bring perfect works of art from Pisnet and
other celebrated court bootmakers of Paris, Ber-
lin, Vienna, &c. The last shipment of English
and continental makes amount to £4,030 worth,
and this stock Ls just now I wing opened and
offered, etrauge ae it may appear, at a. trifle under
the London price*. With regard to the general
requirements, fa factory has bean established in
Sydney, and the Company have the goods made to
| their s.oeri.bl order. The great aLm of Om Gum-
pany is cheapness. They manufacture largely
and buy extensively, and command the market
for best makes. Their investments being large,
they sell lower than they could otherwise sell, and
the public reap the result in solid advantages. The
place is managed by Mr. A. B. Johnston, and he
has an efficient staff of assistants.
Colonial Produce.
Station Products,Lit k Stock, and Whole-
ham; B CTciiKiis' M k at. Lower prices in London
have caused an easier feeling in tallow. Boat
mutton, per ton, X2G to £27 10s. beef ditto X 25
Ids to X2G. station lots or mixed Xl6 to £23 :
sound ehankbones .£ 1 to £9, common bones .£2
to XI; N. S. Wales wattle bark X 3 to ft 2a Gd.
Tasm tnian Xo 5s to £(>: sound large horns, per
100. have good sale at from 20s to 30s. small to
mo Him Rs to 19s : wool (good demand), fleece, per
lb, 11s to [ls tSd, Is 2d to 2 , greasy 6i|d to lid,
pelts or short wool 3.1 to 4:;d; hides (lower), best
heavy old t 044, dry 35-d to lid. medium 3d;
sheepskins (active), good to best Gd to 7;d, me-
dium 5d to old: horsehair (wanted), tail Is to Is
Id, mixed 9d to lid, ma.uo 8d to lOd, clean cow 9d
to lOd, dirty lota sd; large horeehides, each, Gs to
7s Gd, small to medium Hs to ss, yearlings Us Od to
Os Od, calfskins Is to 3s Od, kangaroo 3.Vd to Is
lOd. In this branch Mr. John Bridge Inis quitted
some large parcels. At Homebusli and the Syd-
ney railway yards, Ac,, an easier market value is
established this week consequent upon large sup-
plies. Fat cattle average, per 100 lbs., for good
to prime from 10s to 13s, Od, medium lbs Od, milch
oowe, each, good to best £9 to .£l2, medium .£0
10s to X 9 10s, poor X 2 5s to X 5 10s, fat calves
from 30« to 355, good 15s to 19s, poor 5s to 12s 9d ;
sheep 0s Od to ils Od. lambs 5s to 13s : pigs
(alive). 3d to hi. Mr. William Digits Ims effected
capital sales at high values. Wholesale butchers'
meat at the railway sheds is in good «upi*ly, and
prime carcases are scarcely so dear as last week.
Good beef, in carcase, ail round, per lb., Id, fore
•id to i'J, hind Ijd to l;,'d; mutton Id to I’d ; pork,
in carcase, 4d to 41 d; corned beef, in tierces, £3
for prime : salt pork ditto. In country killed moat
Me»»rw. Wells and Smith Brothers, likewise Air.
C. R. Bedwell, report heavy dealings at top prices.
Hokski-ehu, A-Oi—At the auction sales held at
Darling Harbour pood oaten and lucerne hay com-
mence to show a rising tendency, but inferior
kinds ore not In request. Average quantities of
bay, straw, chaff, Ac., have arrived from Rich-
mond. Bathurst and Goulbimi districts. Moss
■'i’lhUi. Kcto.. QaapbeUtown, Bowrai. ILtrulan,
' Penrith. Cross Roads. tlamjibellfieldH, Menanglc,
Newbridge, Liverpool, Riverstone, Windsor, Bro-
wongle, &c. Oaten hay was sold at high rates by
Messrs. Dent and HosMn ; good wbeaten is scarce
but medium kinds arc unchanged: superior clean
straw shows an improvement. Messrs. McMinn
and Co. sold considerable lots at full values. Lu-
cerne is steady, Summary of auction sales, is
thus Extra fine oaten hay sold per cwt. for
fls Id, (is, 5s 7d, 5s sd, and 5s 3d: good lots, Be,
4s lid, and 4s 7d: medium. 4s td and 4s; in-
ferior, 3a lid, 3a Bd, and 3a 5d.; superior wheaten
and oaten, 5a 2d; medium wheaten, 3s 9d and 3s 7d;
extra superior straw, 3a sd, 3s Id. and 3s ; good,
2a lid : medium, 2a 9d and 2s 7d. Maize has
suffered a serious fall- agents and settlers must
try a new export field in Europe. Best dry
samples of maize per bushel, I s lid and Is 10d.;
good medium, Is 9d and la 7d; oats, Is lOd to
2s 3d; Capo barley, ditto ; malting barley, 3s (id
to 4s (id. Messrs. O’Dond and Co. report exten-
sive sales St top prices. Prime green Hunter lu-
cerne, X 4 per ton. medium X 3 to X 3 7s (id, in-
ferior XI 10a; Hunter oaten and wheaten Xo to
X 4. Mc=sr« J. N. Meiklojolm and Co. have sold
considerable lots.
Vegetables. —During six weeks imports of
|X)tatoos amount to 5,02 i tons. Beat New 7j«i-
tand or Sutton Forest per ton, £2 15b to XS’jVio-
torian, X 2 10s to .£"2 15s; 'Tasmanian or “Vic-
torian onions, X 3; Swedish turnips, X 2 to X 3;:
pumpkins, per dozen, 2s to 3s. In this branch,
Mr. J. F. Horsey and M’Minn and Co. mention
considerable export dealings.
Timber, Firewood, Ac.- Builders being slack
quotations are only for small lines. Best cedar, in
log, per 100 superficial feet, from 14s to l(is; good.
J2h to 13s (id: inferior, 10s; pine, log, tie to 7a;;
southern hardwood, in log. (la; northern, <>s (id 5
beech, in log. 11s to 12s. Timber, owing to fair
weather, is plentiful, Billet, per ton, 9s to lls;;
bundles, 10s to 12s: cut lengths, 12s to 14s s
posts and rails, per 100, from X 2 to XI; palings,
9s to 15s. Messrs. Dent and Hoskiu mention con-
siderable sales.
Malt. —The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Company report a. sale of 10 tanks New Zealand
malt, at 8b per bushel.
Vine. —For good samples of full-bodied quality
suitable for winter’s consumption a lair demand
exists. New Port Macquarie, Albany or Hunter.,
per gallon, 2s. (Id. to 4s. ; old, from two to five-
ycara’ age. sa. to 12s.
Dairy Produce, Poultry, etc. — Best Sut-
ton Forest or Illawarra butter, in keg. per lb, l®d
to Is.; fresh roll, by rail, 10)-d to IG.Vd ; cheese,
3d to 6d ; bacon, good to best, 4d to Od; hams, fid
to 9id ; lard, 3d to 4d ; honey, ditto ; beeswax, 8d
to lid; lucereno seed,sd; leaf tobacco (scarce).
lOd to 1b ; manufactured, inferior to best, Is 4d
to 2s 2d ; millet brooms, per dozen. He to 10s ; ease
eggs. Is Od to Is Bd, fresh ones, by rail, I s - B*l to
2s ; fowls, per couple, medium to best, 3s to 4s Gd-.
ducks, ditto; geese, 5s to Gs Gd ; hen turkeys.,
ditto; cock turkeys. 7s to 12s Gd; pigeons, -s,-
suckiug pigs, each, 3s to 7s. In this line Mr.
Seaforth Proctor has made some capital sales.
Flour and Grain.- —Prices continue low, and
are not likely to go higher for some time. Best
superfine Adelaide town brands flour, per ton of
20001 b. nett, from Xll 2s Gd to XU 10s; good
N. 9. Wales, country Adelaide, Melbourne. Ae,,,
from XlO 12s Gd to Xll; common sorts, XlO to
XlO 10s. Best Adelaide wheat, per bushel, 4s Gd
to -is 8d $ ditto, N. S. Wales or Victorian, 4s ,5d to
4a 7d: inferior, 4s to 4s id. Largo parcels best
fresh bran. Is ; small lots. Is 2d to Is 3d. Pollard,
ditto. Bakers charge old ] >er 2 lb. loal tor tho
l>uro nnadultora.ted lu-ticle.
J. A. M'CAR[?]
144 Sannex-street, June 10,188 U.
Trickett’s Departure for England.
At 7.30 this (Saturday) evening Trickett will leave
Eedforn Station by the Wngga train en route for
Melbourne, where he joins the Orient, which loaves
for England or. Tuesday. All financial arrange-
ments connected with the champion’s departure
have been satisfactorily made by the Committee,
(itid Trickett lias disposed of his hotel to Me.
Hunt, late manager for Mr. G. IV. Roberts, of
George street. We hope to see the public assem-
ble in force to give the champion a hearty parting
cheer.
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wa.lluco, King-street
li. Collaway, King-street
J. Gleoaon, 711* Oeorge-st-
Goorge Hill, Georgo-street
— Nash
J. W. R. Clarke
E. K. Cole.
Gordon & Gotch „
— S.uidon „
— - Colliss, Georce-Bt. west
E. Turner, Brickfield Hill
AY. Johnson, 3W Eliza beth-
street South
— Clarke, Pitt-atrwt
Mm. Kirhv, Ritt-etrerf;
J. L. Berghoefer. Fittest.
— Schnebergcaf, Oxioxxl-h.t..
Spnvgff & Adiwua ,,
— Lapbtuu ..
i}. Barker, Bnsseifrtrodt
— Thoraby. Em kine-strnot
J . Walton, Railway Station
J. Cooper, Railway Bride*
— Bieroe, \VUllaiu-»tre»
J. AV ithers, Rara-hire-er
SUBURBAN AMD COUNTRY:
A noun alb—
H. Mallam
Ashfield —
W. J. Banks
Ji.U-MAIN—
W. J. Small
BiTHf wrr —
XL Bridges
Broa —
O. AVelhy
BODA-UuA —
AY. Brock
{.VtOTAMCNllKA —
J. Revolve!
C<iww-
li. Stevenson
Bchpca—
G. Fosdyke
I'OTIKKS—
E. Chapman
» Okkmawton —
T. Brown
Gt.KV IWVBH —
F. MnrshuiU
Gov Minis—
.1. 'Walsh
GrJfNEDAH —
• — Fitzgerald
IaM TITOS —
J. Firth
EisstonB—r
-- Jones
MattlvN d (Wkmc) —
C. W. Clarke
Mov.fhth —
James Maher
MvjKiKB—
AV. Hall
NAKiiAnni —
O. Hati88ma.il
NKWCASTEB —
Hale Williams
T. Alcock
K Kvnxnvx —
1’. Bray
E. Sheridan
North Shoek—
Beacon & Son
Nicholaon Bros.
Ojlanok- ■
Xi. Losooll*
F.vii»AMAm-
G. W. Oreon
J. Reeve
PKTWiaHAAt —
— Thompson
Roux -
.T. J. Fenn
IfTllW —
K. YoVmg
Soosim —
M. F. Assor
H HOALHxniff —
— vt
Sl»i»LKtOK —
.). X'. i^uinji
Waco a Waijua—
C. H. name?
I.. H Joseph
Wawu; I't.vv —
L>. GrirawocH
Wixu j*> zro.v Cs^.nM) —
VV. Booth
Yors <)- -
(X. F. Oil
is tkkco i .ox iax, .-
MKl-TK>niXB- -
Mandarw i Cd.
W. Yard
C. M UKkctt, liocrfv.xsl.
C. .T. Bird,
Nmrli. Leri, 9[n*ric:i*-
nureet Railway Strx
BuiaiiAS.e —
Gatcdon & Got c-h
StvVtWKjre tQ.fi —
J. J;', WUF<u«ir*
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Min who Wins the Bread.
(By reply to " The [?].")
You may folk to us of handsome menE ,
Willi Pew itching airs and graces,
Whose hinds can scarcely guide a pen .)i
Or shave their pretty faces,
But when the ■ talk of sweet wed-lock, ”,
And think with us to wed.
We choose the man, and not th j block,
Whose hands oan win the break
Some men are much given to prattle
Of things they know nothing about.
Whoso tougm s, like tin infantile rattle.
Are eternally making o, rout;
Who selfishly think, when they marry
Some girl with a sensible bead.
Contented at home she will tarry
To hake for “him" his daily bread.
We like to sing the last new song.
Or paint some frosh-cut flowers.
The time thus spent is never long
Though we sit alone for hours—
And when the day is growing late.
And we hear the loved one’s tro id.
We run to meet him at the gate
Instead of baking broad.
Men ho,vo troubles we very well know.
And their homes are their havens of rest, )
But with lingers all covered with dough
We cannot be looking our best;
.So we hope you won’t take it amiss,
In despite of all you have said.
If we welcome you home with a kiss.
And prefer it to making good bread.
E. E.
Jnne ti, 1839-
EXTERIOR OF THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY’s ESTABLISTMENT.
EXTERIOR OF THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY’s ESTABLISTMENT.


BRIEF MENTION.
Extremes meet—Kid-man.
Dave Cooper’s piebald still exists.
Beaney, Bailliere, Berry, Butters.
No longer a miss-ing star —Dargou.
Beyers is teaching the M‘Elhone French.
The Government Juggernaut—the tramway.
Dibhs says he’s “ out of the Hurley hurley.”
Ninian gets his living when another man dies.
Nothing can blow up the Czar now. His wife’s
dead.
Turkeys are scarce out west since the Wellington
banquet.
Another novelty. New headquarters for tho
postmen.
Sampson is writing a splendid panegyric on
Buchanan.
Lord Loftus expects his first batch of chickens
in a few days.
Hanley Bennett is studying the “ 15 ” puzzle.
Poor Hanley!
“ Sweet are tho uses of adver ” tising in
The Bulletin.
Ninny thinks he will be able to mould the con-
stitution afresh.
How to make Holmes happy —Deal with the
King-street baker.
The helmet and mail are more than the city
postman cares about.
Shepherd v. Dibbs is tho only case on record
which has no moral.
Chinese believe in a yellow sovereign. We like
yellow sovereigns too.
For sportsmen. There’s plenty of game in
Goullmru-street— fan tan.
Jem Mace sells coffee in his bar. He must have
seen “ Drink ” at the Royal.
It is rumoured that M ; Elhono was once seen
without the pipe in his mouth.
Mrs. Kelly, late of Pentridge, has been dubbed
** The mother of the Gracchi.”
The drapers had more stock-iu-trado than trade
in stockings this football season.
Religious people now take in “Words of Grace”
nud The Bulletin, and are happy.
Ninny Melville, says a country journalist, though
an undertaker, is by no means mute.
Mountain still holds his billet. But we notice
many city surveyors in our rambles.
Fosbery ought to have gone home with tho
Eleven. How soon he caught that Ball.
Slavery in Australia. A well-known Cannonbar
J.P. recently bought a black boy for £lO.
How to pass the wet evenings. Read the Echo
or Combes’ book; they arc so nice and dry.
When the active Spronle perambulates the slums
of the city larrikins look out tor an alley by.
Angus Cameron’s circumference is increasing.
The chairmanship evidently agrees with him.
How history repeats itself! The original Jack
Shepherd’s motto was “ Down with the dibbs J”
Fashions change. Men now part their hair in
the middle; ladies prefer theirs on the left side.
At the Instruction Office they spell Surry Hills
with au e-Surrey Hills. Perhaps they are right.
When the member for Northumberland laughs
in the House they say, “ There’s Ninny s-coffin !”
Who has the best profile in Sydney? A large
number of persons are prepared to C. D. the right.
Ninian Melville always reads The Bulletin
after he has polished off a funeral, to cheer him up.
Some very fashionable demoiselles, daughters of
an Upper House millionaire, take big sevens in hoots.
Life at the Winter Palace is said to be very dull
now. The Czar hasn’t been shot at since last Friday.
There will be many a run on the banks when
Trickett goes home. Banks of the Thames, you know.
David Buchanan says—and he ought to know
—that there’s no man so mad as ho who goes to
extremes.
News by the mail. It ap-pcars so. Buffer says
he does not like brevity in a medlar but would iu the
other kind.
Our Adelaide correspondent says that tho news
to he picked up in that city is only fit for a purely
religious journal.
“Dearest Dennis” and “Myra” still corre-
spond through that convenient medium, the Herald's
“personal” column.
“ The dust on your window isn’t gold-dust,”
said a yisitor to onr office the other day—“ for if it were
it wouldn’t stick to me.”
It’s not true that the children were asked to
sign the address recently to the super-
indent of Rand wick Asylum.
Smith wanted to know if it was a fact that
Hurley could Hartley Rydc. Wee Waa goiug to .
But we made tho Cooon amble.
Mr. Fairfax says that he would rather have had
absence of body than presence of mind when his late
Occident on the railway occurred.
An inebriated Waverloy man, lying on his back
(jjßzing at the moon, spoke thus : —“ Blowod if I aiut in
wcask. It’s lucky the bung’s out.”
On Tuesday the thermometer was as low as a
Kont-street larrikin. Been tho Post Office clock and
the Coffee Palace waitresses looked cold.
A man who offered for =£lo to put anybody on
the track of a paying investment seated an applicant on
the rails of the Elizabeth-street tramway.
“The Vagabond” is writing another play.
K* nihilo, etc. “The proverb is somewhat nasty, but
hard dollars were made out of the Nihilists.”
Euclid revised. To describe an equilateral
triangle. Draw a straight line from the crown of
Angus Cameron’s helltopper to the hut of his oar.
Wo noticed David Buchanan marching down
King-street the other day with a piece of brown paper
sticking to his heel. It spoiled all the elegance of his
gait.
It was recently said, when a certain temporary
judge was appointed in one of the Australian colonies,
that the appointment was a necessity. It now appears
that the necessity was of the kind which knows no law.
A Melbourne man. Mr. Levonthorpe Hall, has
written The Lord’s Prayer seven times on a piece of
paper the size ot a three-penny piece. But we know a
Sydney man who couldn’t write it on a quire of fools-
cap.
“ Any young lady desirous of having her heart
broken by a man she has snatched from the grave
should attend Mrs. Macpherson’s lecture on cookery
for the sick-room,” says the Maryborough (Q.) Chro-
nicle.
Hookey, of the Survey Department, decorated
tlie Ministerial train for Wellington, with the aid of
three able-bodied men, in the short space of 1 hour and
40 minutes. There were no larrikins left in Sydney in
consequence.
The other day Mad M y, a well-known
character in Surry'Hills, when nn Oxford-street chemist
declined to accede to his demands, addressed him thus
—“ When you go to heaven may you he made to take
your own pills.”
The editor of a certain high-toned Melbourne
periodical, who is a Yankee, once kept a barber's shop
in San Francisco. Marcus Clarke alludes to him in a
notice of the last'number of the Review in the Aon as
“ the latest importation of American barbarism.” 4
Where are the wide belts that ladies used to
wear here ? We know a fellow who’s got a new razor
strop, and the other day we noticed a bulldog with a
most artistically-got-up collar.
Interesting scientific problem. To ascertain the
intrinsic value of the gold and large silver medals
given to non-exhibitors, (and that of the bronze and
small silver medals awarded exhibitors.
An advertisement in one of tho dailies informs
“ Mr. Buchanan, if he does not come for his luggave to
a certain hotel, it will be sold to defray expenses.” This
is not our David. He has no luggage.
The CooktownCourier alludes to the Herald
—the Cooktown Herald, of course, not the S.M. of that
ilk — as “our irresistible contemporary, the Midnight
Garotter and Great Northern Incubator.”
A member of “ the ministry ” in the Petersham
Literary Society calls a programme “ a proergramme.”
The association are going to invest a portion of their
consolidated revenue in the purchase of a dictionary.
Byron, with prophetic foresight, evidently
alluded to our obituary notice of Mr. John Davies when
he penned the line —
“ He fell, yumortal in a Bulletin.”
Tho following unique advertisement appears in
a Melbourne print:—“Wanted—Situation as amanu-
ensis or valet; can use a pen or handle an oar, clean a
boot on a rifle, sing a song, or be deaf and dumb. No
objection to travel.”
It is not true, and we have pleasure in contra-
dicting the report, that Messrs. Fairfax and Sons stand
in with the Marquis de Ray in the New Ireland swindle,
although the puffing article they gave to that enter-
priso (?) made the ungodly rejoice.
A sarcastic man tells us that Blacksmith Ball
was very foolish when he tried to bribe Sir Henry with
£5O. Our correspondent suggests that legal loans instead
illegal and direct gifts should he tried in future by all
who ask legislators for Government billets.
Charters Towers newspaper proprietors have
been falling out. O’Kano taunts Carter with having
been “ horn in a stable,” and Carter, in rejoinder,
remarks, “ If you had been horn in a stable, you might
have had a better chance of becoming comfortable in
the future.
The new copying compounds are used in some
Government offices to take off half-a-dozen circulars.
It then takes a junior clerk (doing the ordinary stroke)
over nn hour to clear that corhpo. Nothing like
economy. The circulars could have been written in
twenty minutes.
“ Newspaper, Wellington Gazette ; forma-
tion, limestone,” says a Sydney paper in describing
Wellington. Mr. Porter edits the Gazette, and a smart
young fellow in the country states that the union of
acid porter and alkaline limestone produces spasmodic
temporary effervescence.
At Orange they hare built a very grand post-
office, which was duly opened some time since with
great ecldt. It has never been used, because they forgot
to leave a hole for the letters and newspapers. A fresh
contract is to be called for, to pull down the front, so
that the place may be made available. This reminds us
of the Ballarat men who. after completing elaborate
arrangements for a moonlight concert, found that on
the night they had fixed the moon didn’t put in an
appearance.
The champion mean man of Sydney is a mil-
lionaire who invites his friends to pigeon-matches and
makes them pay eighteen-pence all round for the
brandy.
“The infant member for Carlton is crying for
his sugar,” said a Melbourne man on hearing that
young Gardiner, M.P., was goiug iu for payment ot
members.
The two members of the Victorian Assembly
who did not take payment for their services were the
only two whom no one dare oppose at last February’s
general election.
Should Constable MTntyre die before the
Kellys are arrested there will not be sufficient evidence
to convict the outlaws ot the murder of the three
Mansfield troopers.
It might be thought from his style that the
member for is an intractable fellow. Not at all.
The other night he allowed himself to be led away
from the Assembly.
A Tasmanian Ministerialist lately got tho front
of his residence elaborately decorated. The place is
now alluded to by an irreverent Opposition member as
“ a gilded monkey-house.”
A smart correspondent tells us that since Mr.
Roberts went out of office the city streets have become
Fowler. The pun isn’t so bad; but it must be recol-
lected that when Mr. Roberts was Mayor he could
spend what money he liked over the city streets. Mr.
Fowler has to ask and beg for all he spends. In any
case, there’s very little to get, and the Mayor does his
level best.
There are a great many reasons, of a diverse
character, for drinking, and there are as many for
buying a paper. A certain politician when “slated”
by The Age, told his wife that The Age was a rag and
wasn’t to enter his house. However, he buys the
paper regularly every morning, and she, it is said, sends
the servant out every morning for a pennyworth of—
probably pepper.
It’s said that Dr. M‘Gibbon’s cook, who has
been in his service for a qnarter of a century, holds pro-
nouncedly-ultramontane opinions. But for the social
disparity which exists between the positions of master
aud servant, there’d be a tremendous theological row
in the rev. doctor’s kitchen.
The Orangeites were very indignant at not being
allowed to remain on the platform to await the arrival
of their Ministerial Highnesses in their grand train, but
Policeman X was inexorable. No one, save our special,
saw the landing of our heroes, Jacko and Samuello.
Everybody said something was wrong when John Davies
did not go in for the feed.
Says the leader writer of the Forbes Times,
speaking of Shepherd v. Dibbs : —“ What grim skele-
tons some men carry about with them. Laurelled
amongst their fellows in the outside world they are in
truth ignoble heaps, with cobra-coils binding them to
charnel houses of death, and the candle of their lives
is gutted down by lust of the basest sort.” Yah!
The chief draftsman of a certain Government
department likes to make his subordinates aware that
knows when they’re late. He talks sharply to the he
junior officers, but when nn official immediately beneath
him doesn’t turn up before 9.90 a.m. he (the chief)
visits the offender’s room, leaves his hat on the table
and walks out. His only regret appears to be that he
has but one hut.
Tho ex-clcrgymen who write leaders for onr
Hunter-street contemporary have now discovered that
one should not place faith in the parables. In the Echo
the other day it was argued that the story of the man
who fell amongst thieves was not at all applicable to
modern life. The ex-parson contended that we should
“ pass by on the other side.” Messrs. Fairfax are long
descendants of the Priest and tho Levite.
Just after some divisions which seriously affected
the position of the Berry Ministry had been taken the
Victorian Premier ordered the Government Printer to
strike off in large type some copies of the division-lists
for the use of the Cabinet. When the lists arrived, it
was found that the respective parties were ranged
ander the headings, “ Apes ” (Ayes) and “Noes.”
Berry waxed wroth. He didn’t know that the “y’
and “p” boxes adjoined, and thought the printers
wanted to express an opinion that “ the Monkey
Ministry ” were supported by apes. ,
There are considerably over one hundred places
of worship within the municipality of Brisbane. Wher-
ever a church has been built, there has a chapel sprung
up in its immediate vicinity—proving that
“ Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
The devil builds a chapel there;
And’t will be found, on examination.
The devil has the largest congregation.”
The S. M. Herald expresses its sorrow at the
death of the Russian Empress inn most touching way.
In an unguarded moment it once allowed a contributor
to “ take a rise ” out of the gushers who brought them-
selves into contempt by their howling lamentation*
over the decease of a distant connection of the Royai
Family. A few ultra-loyal scoffers took “ Betsy Jane
to task, and now the old woman o£ Hunter-street,
profiting by past experiences, means to wail and how!
over the funeral pyre of every monarch, from Alexander.
Lord ot all the Rnssias, down to King Billy, tho last ot
the Croagingolongs, who reigns supreme over a dilapi-
dated blue blanket, two half-starved dogs and a cross-
eyed gin.
Mr. John Macnamara.
This is Mr. John Macnamara, one of the best,
most demonstrative, and resolute followers of the
leather in the island of Australia. His enthusiasm
in footballing has led him to undertake the forma-
tion of a team to represent Australia in the fields
of the old country, and his venture, we are told,
has so far succeeded that men from Victoria,
and six from Adelaide have promised to jom the
team. Mr. Macnamara is a member of the V\ ara-
tab Football Club, and under the tutorship of Mr.
Hook has been brought to his present proficiency.
He is particularly conspicuous for his brilliant
play as a half-back, and is unequalled at using his
hand to throw off opponents. He “gruels” his
Jriends so much that people are commencing to
ask where he buries all ho kills. We hope that
all arrangements for sending homo the team will
shortly be completed, for wo know that when once
Australian footballers do show themselves in
England their victories will bo even more brilliant
than those of our oarsmen and cricketers.
Mr. Arthur Gamer.
We give the portrait to-day of Mr. Arthur Garner,
one of the principals of the London Comedy Com-
pany now plaving with much success at the Roya.
in this city. ' Mr. Garner has proved himself an
excellent manager and a comedian of high talent;
and he has contributed in no small degree to
securing for his company one of the greatest
dramatic triumphs ever won in Australia. So
assured is the success of Mr. Garner and his
company that it is quite superfluous on our part
to wish them a continuance of their present pro-
sperity.
It is proposed to bring to Melbourne water
from the Watts Kiver. The Yan Yeau water is com-
paratively dirty and exercises on lend a chemical action
which often leads to lead-poisomug; but the Watts
water not only has no such action, hut, mixed with
Yan Yean, cures the latter, is brilliantly clear ana
sparkling, and could he supplied at the rate ot forty
million gals, per diem.
The Australasian says that Sir Henry
Parkes allows bis zeal as an educational reformer to get
the better of bis prudence as a statesman when ho
makes and repeats the declaration that “legislation
might yet he found necessary in order to protect
parents in the exercise of their right to have their
children educated in the manner they choose to do.”
All the most liberal education can secure to the citizen
is the right to act as he pleases.
Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus visited Hyde
Park Benevolent Asylum on Monday, on the occasion
of the inmates, 280'in number, being entertained at a
sumptuous repast and excellent concert by a number of
kind friends of the institutfon. Amongst those who
contributed their professional services were Miss Laura
Wiseman, Mr. Vernon Reid, Mr. J. Hall, Mr. P.
Lloyd, Mr. Hodge, Mr. Broadhurst, and ever-verdant.
Japanese Tommy, Messrs. Bechet, Bamet (Colonial
Architect) .Walker, and Moore (of the Botanic Gardens)
At Newcastle the other day a woman named
O’Dowd applied for a warrant against a man named
Doohan in connexion with some dispute arising out of
the late riots. The Police Magistrate, Mr. Buchanan,
refused the warrant. Thereupon a lately-elected and
very windy M.P. interviewed Mr. Buchanan with the
applicant and pressed her request, “ I have already
refused,” said the P.M., “andthat is my answer.” “Do
you know who lam?” asked the legislative ninny. “ I
am “ Very well—l am a Police Magistrate, and
hope I know my duty. Please retire, sir. ”
The Mayor's quarterly luncheon at the Town
Hall on Wednesday morning was perhaps the most in-
fluential!}- attended and successful affair of the kind
which has taken place in Sydney. Amongst the guests,
who numered 250, were the Hon. the Premier, Sir John
Robertson, Sir John Hay, members of the Ministry,
and onr leading citizens and visitors. After the splen-
did repast had been properly discussed and the formal
toasts gone through. Sir Henry Parkes proposed the
health of the Eight Worshipful host, and in doing so
remarked that Mr. Fowler represented one of the oldest
Sydney mercantile families, and worthily held his own
in the high position to which he had been elevated. He
(Sir Henry) could pay the citizens no higher compli-
ment than to express the wish that the Mayor of Syd-
ney would never be u less worthy man than Mr.
Fowler.
The Australasian baa a withering article
re the Bailliere v. Beaney case. It quotes the well-
known lines :
“Great fleas, ’tis said, have little fleas
Upon their backs to bite ’em :
And little flies have lesser fleas,”
And so ad infinitum,
and says that Beaney has “long posed as a social para-
site of" the first magnitude : that upon his back appears
the estimable Bailliere and upon Bailliere’s back the
lesser plague Henningham." It calls Beaney “a medi-
cal salamander,” and alludes to Bailliere as a man who
has improved on the practices of the unjust steward of
scripture, and who himself took the accounts rendered
by his lord’s debtors, writing £136 for £B9, £l9 in
place of £l2 125., and so on. It says that as to Beanev
the exposure is lamentable.” He stands an impostor,
self-confessed. Everything about him is false. His
authorship was not genuine; his lectures were an ad-
mitted fraud: his delivery of the lectures was the
result of Mr. Hill’s coaching, and of Mr. Bailliere’s
supervision. The embassy was got up ; the ovation in
England was at best obtained by false pretences. The
gushing articles of the Irish Times and other journals
were associated with chronometers and snake-diamond
rings. The M.D. degree itself savours of a donation.
Even the salt-cellars that were sold at the auction as
real silver were discovered to be plated. What can we
snyof a “ senior surgeon ” who, when he distributes
publicly medals to his pupils at the hospital, delivers
as his own au elaborate addresss of which he never
wrote a line?” etc., etc. “ When rogues fall out," etc.
MR. JOHN MACNAMARA.
MR. ARTHUR GARNER.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is said that Adelina Patti is getting a mous-
tache.
Ninian Melville wears his watch-chain ousido
Ins overcoat.
Mr. E. B. Armstrong, says rumour, means to
mn for the new electorate of Young.
Our old friend Rochefort has been severely
■wounded in a duel. His opponent escaped unhurt.
It is said that the Duke of Edinburgh isn’t half
so liberal as the heir apparent, and is the bugbear of
-waiters.
Gustavo Dore wanted to marry Patti ever so
many years ago, hut the Empress Eugenie Caux-ed her
to refuse him for another.
Professor R. A. Proctor, now lecturing at Mel
bourne, is 4-'i years of age, and displayed a strong inte-
rest in astronomy even in his boyhood.
We don’t think wo ever before beard of the
insolvency of a Victorian doctor. Now, however. Dr.
Poland, of Sandhurst, has filed his schedule.
Mr. Charles Winchester, advocate, Aberdeen
bias died in the 100th year of his age. He was the oldest
lawyer in Scotland and was a schoolfellow of Lord
Byron.
Rev. Dr." M - 'Gibbon denounces the theatre
fiercely, hut his brother-in-law is a regular play-goer.
The joke is that Mr. A. is a pillar of the Doctor’s
church.
Mr. Thomas Bracken, the well-known editor of
the Satubdat AdverTiseu, and poet-laureate of New
Zealand, has just had the mortificatiou of being mis-
taken tor a barber.
Mr. Poor has accepted the Queensland Attorncy-
<xeneralship. Mr. Perkins is memt»cr for Toowoomba,
aid in the House the new Attorney-General is called
(llarclay and) Perkins' Beor. ,
Zox is preparing a lecture which he intends to
deliver shortly in the Town Hall, in aid of the Mel-
bourne Hospital, the subject chosen being “ Personal
Reminiscences of a Contested Election.”
Joseph Jones calls Longraore “ Smiler,” and
Lmgmore in return addresses Joseph as “ Coffee-pot.”
The latter once kept a “ grocery,” and is known in Bal-
larat as “ Coffee Jones.” He is a Quaker, and a clever
little man.
R. A. Proctor, the astronomer, is the rage in
Melbourne. He is not only a brilliant star but a social
•** cuss,” who loves Bohemia and detests convention-
ality, but wears withal “ the grand old name of
gentleman.”
The Masonic body are taking steps to have a
handsome marble monument erected on the grave of
the late Mr. John Lazar, in the Hokitika cemetery,
N.Z. Drawings and prices of memorial stone have been
received from Melbourne.
Strange and sad it is to say that the distin-
guished names of Nelson, Pattison and Parnell are of
ivnohle origin. The first was the son of Nell, that is
Nell's “ loveohild: ” the second stands for Pattie’s
sou ; and Parnell is derived from Petronella.
Two white camellia trees were planted on Sun-
day by two officers of the French warship Khin, at the
beautiful “ Lynn,” Fletcher’s Gully, Bondi. May they
tie emblematic of peace and friendship, which should
■always subsist between France and Australia.
Clifford Wilson, a relative of the late Viceroy
of India, was charged last week at the Melbourne Po-
lice Court with attempting suicide. Bottled dama-
tion,” in other words, Carlton ale, was the cause of the
iregularity. Clifford was warned and discharged.
Joshua Peter Bell, the Acting-Governor of
■Queensland, drove four chestnuts to the Brisbane races.
Sir Arthur Kennedy, the Governor, used to go hi a one-
horse shandrydan, with a Chinaman perched up behind
jis a footman, and he insisted ou passing in as a “ dead-
head.”
Professor Richard A. Proctor visited the Mel-
bourne Chinese quarters ou Thursday night week. 'The
Astronomer took a great in the lotteries, and marked a,
sixpenny ticket. The Chinese object to the Professor's
visiting them again. They say lie would “bleak them.”
E\ ery number ho marked was drawn and he won Fail.
It is a well-known fact that commercial men at-
tend Lady Loftus’ receptions with their wives, mid
then, after pleasure, are to he seen on their wharves, in
swallow-tails and lavender kids, watching the loading
or unloading of the steamers, while the wife stands in
all her bravery of dress to he stared at by the lumpers.
Such is high life in the Antipodes.
Fred. Hart, ono of the best known, and liked,
diggers in Northern Queensland, has struck payable
stone. The other day he was going to the township, a
distance of about three miles, and being a bit of a
“ scholard,” he wrote and posted this notice over his
paddocked stone" Any one touching these specimens
daring my absence will be shot ou the spot."
No religions compositor (an there are a few) is.
ever entrusted with Dr. M'Gibbon’s ma nuscript. One
sheet of it engenders more profanity than a barre of
whisky. The recipient of a letter from him on one oc-
casion wrestled with it for a waek, and then submitted
it to all his friends. None of them could decipher it,
so they scut it back to the doctor himself, and even he
could not make it out
Honors are being showered on the Civil Service
of Queensland. It is not so long since their Under
Colonial Secretary blossomed into Hir George Gore, and
-now in Soilleau, the third clerk in the same department,
they have discovered that they have been entertaining
a Baron una wares. Soilleau has gone home to take
possession of his estates,which are situated somewhere
in Peru. He has been succeeded by Brown, of the
Lands. From Soilleau to Brown ! O my poetic soul!
Mr. Richard Birnic. M.A. (son of the celebrated
Sir Richard Biruie, the London Police Magistrate) and
author of the charming essays in the Australasian', is
very much in request at the Masonic lodges, where he
is known for his extensive knowledge of Shellev’s and
Tennyson’s poems. After the banquet “ has (in the
language of reporters) been done justice to,” Mr. Birnie
delights his brethren by his recitations. There is a
great run ou his second series of esssays, now being
re-printed.
David Blair, the other day, tried to ascend Bca-
■oonstield Tower, situated on Doncaster Hill, near
Melbourne, from which the finest view of the metropo-
lis can be obtained. It is called Beacomsfied Tower be-
cause of its “ dizzv ” height. Blair got up halt-way,
iuid reached the platform at a height of 120 feet, when
he was seized with vertigo and didn't know where to
”... He stopped, and wrote in the visitors’ book the
following couplet:—
“ For want of nerve-power
I could not ascoml the tower.”
Blair, since his rupture with Marcus Clarke, has
made a new friend —an architect. David acts in obe-
dience to the dictum of Dr. Johnson, who said, “ Sir,
when a man loses his friend by death or otherwise
<Rlair lost Marcus “ otherwise”) ho should at once get
another one or else he will find himself Utc-a-telc all his
life.” George Selwyn used to say, “ When I lose a
friend, I go to the coffee-house and get another.”
David and his new friend took a walk on Saturday
through tlie Exhibition, and they came to the conclu-
sion that the annexes resembled “a sea of cattle
sheds!”
Mr. William Barker died the other day in
poverty at Melbourne. Prior to the year 1533 ho was a
leading manufacturer in his native town, Alierdeen.
He proceeded to Charlestown, Carolina, and w as there
-a merchant and cotton-planter. He came to Mel-
bourne in 1851, and engaged first in general commerce
and ship-owning and then in wool-broking, with but
scant success. Latterly ho had had a terrible struggle
with honest poverty, being a man who would have died
of want in the streets rather than lie dependent upon
public charity. His tall, spare, bent figure had been
well known for many years in the Public Library, whore
he was an omnivorous reader. Up to a week of his
death, at 82, he retained all his physical and mental
faculties, and a few of his old friends themselves bore
his remains to their last resting-place. Obituaries of
rich and prosperous men arc plentiful enough. Let
the fashion (says “ -Egles ”) bo varied by a brief memoir
of one who was neither—one who was rich only in
silent endurance and unobtrusive integrity.
Mr. Edward Ellis, who got a verdict for X"2o0
last week in an action for libel against the proprietor
of the Colac Heralp, edits the Cot AC Kefoumek, and
was formerly a. prominent journalist in San Francisco,
where he was attached to the CttßOKictF. He edited
the Mfibouknf Echo, now defunct, which was started
hy Dalziel, the husband of Dickie Lingard. and was
said to have been heavily subsidised hy L. Stevenson
and Co., who at the time were l>eing prosecuted for
evading customs duties. Mr. Ellis is a clever conver-
sationalist. and is the best abusive writer in Australia.
David Blair, Marcus Clarke, and all the rest of them
pale their ineffectual tires before Mr. Ellis’ heavy vol-
leys of journalistic mud—not that he cannot and does
not usually write in a pleasing and good-humoured
style. He will yet he heard of again In metropolitan
newspaper affairs.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Should not Cbiarini bo spelt—Chi-arena P
Mr. George Darrell has returned from Brisbane.
Every siapcr has a Marshall's baton in his knap-
sack.
Lynch Bellringers are still doing the New Zea-
land towns.
Mr. and Mrs. Hewitt arc playing in the Canter-
bury district,
Teddy Haygarth is manager for De lias
(Shylock) Auckland.
There is another Panorama in the field —Lacy's,
now in New Zealand.
Several good show towns in N.Z. are without
amusement of any kind.
It is now said that the Brisbane now theatre
project has fallen through.
The long and short of the London Comedy Com-
pany —G-.iruer and Marshall.
Hoskins still holds out at Christchurch, with
his company on half salaries.
Hiscock’s Mammoth Minstrels and Geo. Leopold
are talking of visiting Brisbane.
D’Orsay Ogden and Madame Beatrice are badly
in want of an opening in Sydney.
Thompson’s Diorama (new) opened lately at
Invercargill, N.Z., to big business.
The Empsons. at latest dates, were playing at
the School of Arts, Boekhanrpton.
Titheradge was born 9th December, 1848. En-
tered the dramatic profession in 1800.
Fairclongh, with Miss Clara Stephenson, are
not doing big business in New Zealand.
Dillon’s company have been playing “ The
Streets of New York” at Kockhampton.
A passable anagram on the Theatre Royal is—
“ Ar the real toy.” Lazar holds to this.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (“ Happy Hours”), at date,
were showing in the various Dunedin towns.
Thirty is the nnmber of times “ Hamlet ” has
been played in this city since Ist January, 1818.
The world is full of <! gags,” but the mothor-in-
law remains the chief snpxxn-t of negro-minstrel end-
men.
A new claimant to fame in the Australians,
Edmund Brown, arrived in Auckland per City of New
Y'ork.
Several second-rate “ pros.” arrived in Auck-
land. from Sydney, by the last mail steamer from
Sydney.
By Last advices, business was rather on the
mend with the South and Dillon company at KOck-
ham p ton.
BaylLss and M'Lean have taken proceedings
against Williamson, re “Struck Oil** and defamation
of character.
Japanese Tommy objects to a par. In our last.
He says he is the shortest and fattest actor in Australia.
We apologise.
Stacey’s Panorama Company and the Raphael
Family have been performing ut the Academy of Music,
Christchurch.
Dave Clinton, well known to the profession of
the colonies, has taken the Theatre Eoyal, Wellington,
for six months.
Williamson’s “ Pinafore” Company, Adelaide,
are still doing a splendid business. They continue till
the middle of June.
At Mr. Armes Beaumont’s benefit at Melbourne
Opera House, last week, numerous choice bouquets were
thrown on to the stage.
Wybert Reeve's first dramatic piece was a farce
entitled “ An Australian Hoax.” Its first production
was at Fynuont in IBofi.
Five of the eight principal characters in the
“Juvenile Pinafore,” at the Bijou, Melbourne, are
played by Jewish children.
“ H.M.S. Pinafore” has been presented to the
Sydney public eighty-nine times. It was first performed
here on .‘!rd May last year.
Bulwer is set down ns the author of ‘‘Still
Waters Kim Deep” in the Ti;i,eoeawi of the 4th inst.
Does this seem right, Taylor ! J
Mr. Harry Emmett, of the Victoria Theatre, and
Miss Marion Melrose, of the Lin gard Company, are to
be married to-day (Saturday).
“The Nihilists” was withdrawn from repre-
sentation at the Queen’s Theatre in consequence of the
death of the Empress of liussia.
Martin Simonson's “ Froliques ” are doing well
in New Zealand, and they are the only ones, for N .Z. is
in a very bad state theatrically.
Henry Irving, who is considered the greatest
living representative of the part of Shylock, plays it
without any accent whatsoever.
Charles Florence, at one time connected with
Simonson’s Opera Company, had t>ccn giving Drawing-
room Entertainments at Dunedin.
Billy Wilson and Hosoa Easton (“Georgias”)
assisted by Amy Johns (burlesque) and others, have
been performing on the West Coast.
Mallinger, the German prinia donna, has mar-
ried a man named Schimmel pfennig. lids as well that
she retains her maiden name for stage use.
Gordon Gooch was thrown from a horse at In-
vercargill recently and broke his arm. He expects to
reach Auckland about the middle of June.
Bacheldcr’s Phivntascope. and Chalet, ventrilo-
quist, have been playing at Nelson, Now Plymouth, and
several other small towns in the provinces.
The Arethnsa Dramatic Company, who have
been showing at Wanganui und adjacent towns, have
returned to Wellington for another season.
Lystcr’s Opera Company. Melbourne, broke up
on Saturday night with a crowded benefit to Mr. W. S.
Lvster. Ketten now holds the Opera House.
Charles Florence (tenor) and his wife were occu-
pying tho Queen'a Theatre, Dunedin, at the latest dates
with their musical drawing-room entertainments.
Harry Leston must have thought he was back
at his old business when he donned a nigger shirt for
the other evening, at the Queen s.
Mrs H. Chapman, who had been connected with
the theatrical profession of the colonies irom the ear-
liest days—her first appearance dating as for bock us
1843 —died at Melbourne last week. She hod been mar-
ried twice—first to Mr, Deering, one of the earliest of
colonial theatrical managers, oml then t<> Mr. Chnp-
njnii, who accompanied Mr. G. B. W. Lewis on his In-
dian tour and died of paralysis about eight years ago.
Mrs. Chapman has left six children to mourn her loss,
three of whom are members of the profession, viz., Mr.
Oily Deering. Miss Lilly Chapman (of the Theatre
Koval), and Mrs. W. B. Gill (of New Fork).
Signor Morley, well known in connection with
several opera companies, has organised an Opera Com-
pany (amatenrs), and is doing very well at Dunedin.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers concluded a
successful season in Wellington on May 24, and at
latest dates were at Napier. They next visit Auckland.
The Turks’ Oriental Exhibition of Curios (Kaart
and Ali, proprietors) was being shown at the IV est
Coast. N.Z., at latest dates. They have made money in
New Zealand.
Mr. and Mrs. John Jack (Annie Firman) hare
arrived safely in Loudon. A Paris newspaper announces
that on theSChh March , Mrs. J. presented her hushamd
with a son and heir.
The mysterious box which Adelaide Stoneham
in days gone by used while performing the “ Arabian
Box Mystery,” lias been disposed of by auction at
Auckland, it brought £7 ss.
Mr. Henry Irving owns David Garrick’s ring,
the cross which Edmund Kean wore in “Richard III..”
Charles Kean's prompt book of “ Louis X 1.,” and
Edmund Kean’s “Hamlet” sword.
Lyater’s benefit was really an immense success.
Mr. Proctor, who was there, says that Gabriella Boe-
ma, of whom lie had never before heard, is one of the
best singers and actresses of the day.
Miss Dargon always declared that she’d never
wed, but, as iu the case of Benedick, “ who thought to
die u bachelor yet lived to see himself married ” the
mischievous little god was too much for her.
Chiarini was riding one of his black stallions
down Georgc-street the other day. The German Baud
struck up “ The Blue Danube,” and the beautiful little
horse began to waltz round at an alarming rate.
Coppin and Co.’s management are trying to got
the People’s Theatre, Melbourne, intoastateof “closed
up.” It is to lie hoimd that they won’t succeed, for the
poor “pros.” are unite badly off enough already.
The renowned Barlow, of “ Blue Tail Fly” no-
toriety, lias left for the Cape. He has resided for some
years near Castlemuine in a pretty cottage known as
Hill Top Cottage, buff has gut rheumatics and wants a
change.
The “ Now Babylon” goes to the Koyal in Mel-
bourne. Theo. Hamilton has made arrangements with
Bland Holt to close up the People’s Theatre during the
run of the piece. Theo. is ’cute, and will not lose by
the arrangement.
J. C. Williamson had bettor look after his rights
in Auckland. A hashed-up production of “Pinafore,”
(says our correspondent under date 27th May) took
place a week ago at the Albert Hall. “ It was the
warmest of the warm.”
In “Juvenile Pinafore,” at Melbourne. Mrs.
G. B. W. Lewis’s son now plays the Captain. It is said
that now the youngsters have become completely fami-
liar with the words, they speak much too quickly, and
as a consequence indistinctly.
Wm. Hoskins. Florence Colville, and dramatic
company, assisted by Sally Lloyd and Putty Gill
(variety people), were at the Theatre Royal, Christ-
church at latest dates. Naughty "Pink Dominoes”
was among the pieces,produced.
Carmini Morley, the tenor, has again produced
“ Mari tuna ” at the Princess Theatre, Dunedin. He
was assisted by a host of “amateur professionals.”
Lococq’s opera “Retained on Both Sides” was also
put on the boards for the lirst time iu the colonies.
Camilla Urso and her concert company drew
crowded houses in Napier and Wellington. Thou she
appeared at the Oddfellows' Hall, Christchurch, to
good business, and ut latest ilate-s Muduino Crso was
playing at the Garrison Hall, Dunedin, to splendid
Douses.
At the rnalince at Booth’s —(the curtain had
just fallen on the last act of the grand pantomime)
Mamma.: “ Now, darling, it’s all over, and we must be
going.” Elbe (with lingering impressions of church);
“ Oh, no. Ma dear, not yet. Can't we stay for evening
service ?■’
The Mammoth Minstrels and Loftus Troupe
Combination go to England, W. Horace Bent declines
to go although the most tempting offers were made by
Hiscocks. Horace is one of the very best and most
genial of professional gentlemen, and his place cannot
bo supplied.
Martin Simonson's “ Proliques have done
splendid “biz.” in Dunedin. Martin, at Ids farewell
bene tit, stated that he would return to Dunedin with
the best opera company ever seen iu New Zealand.
At latest date (J one 2) the “ Froliques ” were at Christ-
church, doing w ell.
During the week at Brisbane, writes our cor-
respoudout, Le grande and Sam Howarde have held the
boards with “Queen’s Evidence,” “Our Boys,” and
“ Zoe.” On Monday, 7th June, Lydia Howard is to re-
appear, and during the week there will ho produced
“ Nemesis ” and “ Trial by Jury.”
The passages of the Loftus Troupe to England
will amount to £OOO, while the salaries for the principals
alone for the stipulated term will be over £5700. Every-
thing iu connection with the affair will be Australian,
even to the chair covers, printing, and agency. The
agent leaves iu advance by the Orient.
Miss Nellie Daley, the actress, formerly married
to Mr. Digbv, the well-known journalist of Christ-
church, has again entered the holy bonds—this time
with a wealthy Celestial. It will lie rememliored that
after lie and liis wife were divorced Mr. Digby married
tills fascinating Solauge Novaro, who played with George
Kignold in Henry V.
Miss Maggie Oliver denies the truth of the
statement made in regard to her in our last, on the
authority of onr Brisbane correspondent. However,
we’re sure our paragraph can iu no way affect, either
“ for better or for worse,” her well-earned position on
the colonial boards. We need hardly say that it was
not intended so to do.
Mr. J. C. Williamson, who has his company
now- at Adelaide, offers £lOOO for the best play written
in the colonies. We presume that Walter Cooper,
Garnet Waich, F. K. C. Hopkins, and otherswill lie
amongst the candidates for the honour, if nor for the
money. George Darrell has been commissioner to
make'the necessary urrrngements.
Charles B. Hicks (of the “ Georgias”) and
Horace Copeland, comedians, are passengers by the
outward ’Frisco mail, bound to the States. “ Charley”
comes hack to the Australian colonies by the August
mail steamer, with an entirely new company, which will
make their first appearance iu Auckland. Amougthom
will tie the Hyers Sisters, who have obtained some dis-
tinction in America.
! We are glad to notice that Mr. George Simms,
j the veteran actor, is not doing so badly as lias been
! lately represented. He is still able to tread the hoards
I as a. comedian, and on Queen’s birthnight, at Inverell,
I took part in a successful entertainment.. He has with
i him Mrs. Simms and Miss Lisa Simms, and assisted by
] them has been playing at various country towns near
i the Queensland border.
j Kelly and Loon have met with a. good deal of
| sympathy in their difficulties over their Opera House.
; Wc’U not be surprised, however, to see Mr. Kelly on
I his lows asrain very sisjil. ith “ Pinafore ” here, as
I we ore promised, and Mr. Kelly as the Admiral, the
1 public would soon make amends for their past want of
| appreciation. Williamson would do wadi to secure
1 B UI, Fredericks, and Beaumont Head, while they ore
j here. Who can forget the hit all those artistes made
! when “ Pinafore ” w as first produced 1
Now that Jews axe no longer hunted and perse-
-1 e-nted (writes our Brisbane correspondent)—now that
J they are amongst the principal patrons of our theatres
and public amusements, how is it that some ’cute ca-
trepivwur has not thought of rendering Shylock with a,
difference? How is if, for instance, that someone
doesn’t make the Hebrew refuse to recant and “pre-
sently become a Christian,” and represent him prefer-
ring to die game ? Why, such a man would crowd the
house, and think what a big loan he could negotiate
shortly afterwards!
A club on the lines of the famous Lotos Club of
Xew York is announced iu London. Already many of
the leading actors and actresses have put down their
names. Charming Miss Button, pretty Miss Florence
St. John, saucy Miss Violet Cameron, petilc Miss Lee
(of poor “Jo” notoriety), laughing liose Hersee, and
tho invincible Miss Nellie Barren are down as mem-
bers ; while among tbo gentlemen are the names of Mr.
Henry Neville, Mr. Harry Paulton, Dir. E. T. Sothem,
Mr. Arthur Swanborough, Mr. Edward Terry, Mr.
Herman Vezin, Mr. Charles Wyndhom, Mr. Shiel
Barry, and Mr. A. Henderson.
A new trial has been granted in tho case,
Taylor r. Bennett, in which Tom Taj lor, the play-
wright, sues Mr. John Bennett, of the Victoria Theatre,
for having without permission produced “The Ticket-
of-Leave Man.” The jury found in favour of Mr.
Taylor's sole right, hut did' not give damages against
Mr - Bennett on the ground that the theatre and the
services of the company were at the time leased to
Mr. Gamble. The new trial was granted on the ground
that as tho members of the company were at tho time
being paid by Mr. Bennett, they played as bis agents,
and could have been prevented from so doing had ho
chosen to stop them.
Says “ Andante,” in the Australasian, “’ll o
have had drink dramas often enough before, but never
a hot-water tight. The tight in ‘ Madame Angot ’ was
hot, but not hot-water hot. It did not go beyond cap-
pulling and slang-whanging, to use a vulgar, if etymo-
loglcally inexpressive, phrase.” People will recollect
that it ouco did go beyond cap-pulling. Jeannio Winston
and Clara Thompson, between whom a. great deal of
iealonsy existed, once had a regular stand-up combat on
the stage. Winston was the taller of the pair, but
Thompson, who was “ nuggetty ” and determined,
got the better of the mill, which created great excite-
ment.
Mr. B. Fairc!ough. tho tragedian, says our
N.Z. correspondent, under date of -7th May, is doing
good business at tho Auckland Theatre Royal in his-
favourite roles. The casts include Clara Stephenson,
Marie Wilton, Jessie Raymond, Julia Byers ; Messrs.
J. B. Steele, E. G. Hay-garth, Byers, O’Brien, Dumar,
Kennedy, Charley Weightmau (the “Man Fish”) ami
others. Under date 3rd J one our correspondent informs
us that the company were in the third week of their
season at the Theatre Koyal, and business continued
good. The company had been strengthened by the
addition of four who recently arrived from Sydney,
viz., J. A. Patterson, W. Reynolds, Thomson, and
Grace Hathaway.
TO HENRY KETTEN.
II ow wondrous is thy t ouch of fire,
E quailing Orpheus with his lyre!
X ow wild, now weird, now sad. now sweet ;
K ouud thee, each night, with joy complete,
V outh and old age in homage meet.
K ing of Music, fare thee well!
E ach evening weaves a fresher spell;
T hrilled and enchanted by thy power,
T o rivet us from hour to hour,
E ntranced and rapt from earthly mood,
N o tongue can speak our gratitude.
M.A.V.
Savs our Adelaide correspondent;—“For tho
last week Adelaide has been treated to a managerial
dispute between Mr. Williamson and Mr. Bayless.
Mr. Bayless, us you know, is playing M'Lean’s Trouba-
dours at the Academy of Music, and, finding amongst
their repertoire of pieces the well-known drama of
“ Struck Oil,” put that play on the stage on Saturday
last. The result was that on Monday evening two
young gentlemen from the office of Mr. Williamson’s
solicitor attended at the Academy with a corresponding
number of notices addressed to Mr. Bayless and Mr.
M'Lean respectively, which those gentlemen, after a
little natural hesitation on their part, accepted. The
purport of these excessivelj' legal-looking documents,
us Mr. Williamson took care to lot the public know in
the advertisement columns of the nest day, was that
Mr. W. objected to Mr. Bayless playing “Struck Oil,”
alleging that he was the sole registered proprietor of it
in this colony. But in that he was slightly wrong, for
Dir. Dt'Leiui, having years ago paid good hard cash to
some gentleman in Now South WaJes for the right to
represent the piece, had, with an astuteness and fore-
sight trulj- Scotch, registered that right immediately
on his arrival here. But this was not all. The piece is
an American one, and os |such may be played wherever
the English law prevails (as it does here) hj- anyone.
On Tuesday night the Academy teemed with solicitors,
and bristled with their clerks! Jemmy Moort\(Mr. NN .’s
brother-in-law) was there, and paid at the door for tho
privilege of seeing what he had doubtless always
considered as his brother-in-law’s peculiar property
played, and played, too, in a manner which fairly took
tho wind out of the sails of the colonial proprietor of
“ Pinafore.” But nothing came of it, or seems likely to
except indirectly; for Mr. W. having, it is alleged,
incautiously remarked iu public that Dir. Bayless was a
thief and had stolon his play, with a few more remarks
of an equally playful and polite tendency, Mr. Bayless
immediately issued and served a writ for slander, and
the case will come on iu due course—
Williamson threatened to sne for “ Struck Oil,”
But didn’t e’en issue a writ;^
But B. was more prompt—W. in tho toil
NVas caught—so the biter was bit!
“ Pinafore ” is about played out: but tho real secret of
the bad houses at tho Royal, Academy, and Garner’s, is
that the races ore over—nothing doing, and the town
dead empty. Tho Governor went to the Royal the
other night, and had. it all to himsell.
The O’Reilliad.
Canon O’Reilly’s bells have been going at half
speed lately, aud those resonant peals of dis-
cordant agony, those changing fantasias of
harmonic misery, those chaotic jiuglings of inhar-
monious melancholy (suggestive of music in
delirium tremens) which erewhile disordered tho
intellects and shattcredjhc tympani of the inhabi-
tants of AVynyard Square and its vicinity have
been temporarily reduced to a minimum by
muffling the clappers. We have been informed
that this has been done out of compliment to a
deceased bell-ringer. A resident of Grosvcnor
Terrace with a peculiarly sensitive tympanum has
confided to us his hope that arrangements will bo
made for the weekly sacrifice of a succession of
bell-ringers, whoso lives, spent in malignant
annoyance and persecution ot their fellow
creatures, will be amply atoned for by the happy
results following their deaths. “If they ran out
of bell-ringers let ’em try clergymen,” says our
friend with the tympanum, “ only let tho bells be
kept perpetually muffled in compliment to the
memory of somebody.” Of course this mau is a
heathen, a reincarnated Greek, probably, whose
poetic soul would be incapable of appreciating the
beauties of “Sun of my Soul” hammered out ot
two thousand pounds of bell metal by a gang ol
semi-intoxicated ruffians, and wbo would rather
hear the dinner gong of the establishment where
he boards than the triple-bob major of St. Paul's
Cathedral. We are apprehensive that this para-
graph uuw produce an explosion on the part of the
worthy Canon. If it does, thank I leaven the office
of our contemporary, the Daily I wadblmgkai’H,
is more within range than our own. According to
generally-accepted laws of gunnery our office
couldn't bo hit unless considerable elevation were
employed, and Canons of the church never get
elevated —or ut any rate, if they do. they oughtu t
to.


SPORTING.
To our Sporting Readers.
The secretaries of racing clubs, also the authorities
and members of cricket, voicing, football and
other athletic associations (whether in this or
the neighbouring colonies) and sporting men
in general, are invited to favor vs with lists of
their fixtures and are informed that the
columns of The Bulletin will ahraijs be at
their disposal and that any acceptable line of
news sent along to this office will find ready
publication. It is the aim of the editor to make
this journal the premier sporting record of
Australasia. Communications should be as
brief as possible.
Index to Races to Come.
Hunter Eiver Amateur June 12
Bendigo June 10
Northern Downs J.C June 23 and 24
Warrnambool June 23 and 25
Cohar Annual Jane 24 and 25
Victoria Amateur Turf Club July 1
Clarence Elver J. C July 7 and 8
Eockhamptou J.C. Annual July 8 and 9
Hay J.C July 13
Deniliquiu July 21
Hawkeshnry August 25 and 27
A.J.C. Spring September
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Victoria A.T.C. General Entry June 14
Northern Downs J.C. General Entry Tune 18
Warruamhool General Entry June 22
Cobar General Entry June 23
Deniliquiu June 30
Eockhamptou District Plate Hurdle Eace and
Members’ Handicap July 1
Clarence Eiver J.C. General Entry July 5
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Rockhampton and Port Curtis Handicaps Juno 15
V. A.T.C .Tame 19
Great Metropolitan Stakes June 23
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap June 23
Melbourne Cup June 23
Bockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Eace, and
Members’ Handicap July 5
Deuiliquin July 10
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Bendigo acceptances June 11
Wurruauibool acceptances June 15
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps acceptances June 21
Bockhampton and Port Curtis Handicaps
acceptances J uly 1
Rockluimptou District Plate, Hurdle Eace, and
Members’ Handicap acceptances July 0
Great Metropolitan Stakes —first forfeit July 14
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap acceptances July 14
Deniliquiu acceptances July 20
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
The Late Entries.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
Tuesday, the Ist of June, was a rod letter day,
and in fact always is so far as the Turf, its sur-
roundings. and supporters in Now South Wales
end Victoria are concerned, for on that day are
the entries for all the great events of the Spring,
including the Great Metropolitan Stakes, Hawkes-
imry Handicap and Guineas, Melbourne Cup,
Maribyrnong Plate, and Champion Race, besides
a’.host of others made up of future Derbies, Legers,
end Produce Stakes, —so that the date mentioned
may well lay claim to such a title as I have seen
tit to give it. Taken as a whole, the entries made
on Tuesday week are the grandest lot I over
noticed, for the Hawkesbury Handicap never
comprised so many, neither did the “Motrop.,”
and the Melbourne Cup is a full one, although a
trifle short of what last year’s magnificent entry
amounted to. There are 78 iu the Hawkesbury
“ Grand,” and this total must have surprised even
the most ardent admirer of the H. R. C.. but too
big an entry for any stake run for under the
auspices of this popular and rising Club is a thing
impossible, as the members with a liberality
approached only by few clubs extant liave become
Bo noted for taking into consideration the well-
being of owners and horses that no body is more
deservedly popular iu the present day than the
cue I refer to. Always ready to make expenses as
light as possible, and increasing the stakes when-
ever opportunity offers or occasion demands,
they arc rapidly approaching the highest rung of
the ladder. Unlike most clubs, the H. R. C. are
continually improving the course and laying money
out on the surroundings, and each year as it comes
round fetches with it either reduction of forfeits,
increase in prizes, or some noticeable addition in
the shape of boxes jor additions to the stand or
gome such good likely to bring the Club into
repute, and no one will attempt to deny that it is
much more preferable that such a state of things
should exist than that the money'should ho allowed
to lie idle with the sole object of the paltry interest
that might accrue. In the list which I published
fast week there will be seen but few Victorian
entries; but this is not to be wondered at, for
Victorian owners as a rule rarely do extend any
great stretch of support to the good things of the
Hawkesbury. In Lowlander, Firebell. Camballo,
Trevallyn, Surprise, Euclid, Adventurer, Perse-
verance, Mata, Wellington, and Vernon the sister
colony and New Zealand have by no moans a bad
lot: but with such as Chester, Nellie, Calamia,
Sunlight, Martindale, Sweetmeat, Andover, Se-
cundus, Black Swan, Democrat, Strathoarn,
besides a host of our grand two-year-olds and
others, the chances are greatly in favour of this
big event staying in the colony. Queensland horse
owners have been more than usually quiet in
making a move, and with only Napper Tandy and
The Rake to do battle for them their chance is
very remote. The “ Guineas ” for next years has
an entry of 47, four hailing from the sister colony,
and if the produce of such sires as Hawthornden,
Malta, Kelpie, The Marquis, Angler. Fireworks,
King of the Ring, Julian Avenel, Maribyrnong,
Goldsbrougb, The Tester, Yattendon. Valentia,
Kingsborough, Rapid Bay, Gemma di Vergy, Sun-
light, and Barbarian, from some of the best mares
in the land, do not fetch together a long field, it
will be cause for surprise. The list shows that
brothers and sisters to Grand Prix, South Hamil-
ton, Chester. Goldsbrougb, Robin Hood, Dover,
First King, Petrea, Robinson Crusoe, Woodlands,
and Bertie are engaged, with a half sister to
Kamilaroi; and such an array as this must
naturally lead one to expect a great race. There
arc, also 159 foals described for the Mares’ Produce
Stakes of 1882, and 373 mares nominated for a
similar stake to be run for a year later. It was a
good move, as I at the time predicted, for the
H. R. C. to charge no fee for the nomination of
the mare, and only a pound when the foal was
described, —and nothing further needs saying,
or anything brought forward in favour of it. than
the long list of “described” foals mentioned
above. I will venture to say that had 1 sov. been
chained with the mare in the first instance, the
total entries would not have exceeded the number
of foals described, and taking the very highest
estimate there would not have been more than a
hundred replies to description : so that, I take it,
the Club has acted wisely, and increased their
exchequer by at least £59 more than what would
under other circumstances have been the case.
Once again I congratulate the Hawkesbury Racing
Club, and think it quite on the cards to have to
tell in Juno next that of the 373 mares described
a near appi-oach to a couple of centuries for young-
sters will send in their pounds. Eighty-one re-
sponded to the A. J. C. secretary’s call for the
“ Motrop.,” and Victorians have come out well
with an entry of 20, while Mata, Camballo, and
Foul Play represent the land of the Maori.
Queensland is here very conspicuous by absenting
itself entirely, and not one representative do I
notice in the entire list. At least one would expect
the Queensland entiles in the “Grand” to have
been in the “ Metrop.; ” but no, the colony is not
to he “in it.” Such a state of things is not within
my province to account for ; but if the disqualifi-
cation of Melbourne and Sir Andrew at tbe
Hawkesbury, and Whisker through informality in
his entry at the A. J. C. meeting, be the cause,
then Queenslanders are a more shallow-minded and
idiotic race than I was led to believe. The dis-
qualification of Melbourne at Richmond may not
have been just; but as it was proved to the satis-
faction of the committee on overwhelming evidence
that Mr. Williams’s horse had gone inside a post,
they would have acted unfairly to the second horse
and in violation of all racing rides had they not
disqualified him. I well remember the noise made
over Whisker’s case at Randwick, but Mr. Kellett,
who I believe nominated the horse, had not sent in
his entry as it should have been, thereby not com-
plying with the rule on the subject,—and nobody
but the nominator was to blame for Whisker not
being allowed to run. Of course it is very annoy-
ing. to say the least of it, where one horse comes
in first, and is disqualified through no fault of the
owner, and it is equally as “ galling” to an owner
who fetches his horse some hundreds of miles
thinking everything to bo correct, but finds, after
heavy expenses and some weeks’ training, that he
cannot be started. The first case is the worse,
inasmuch as the owner is concerned, but the latter
was an error caused through no fault of the Club,
consequently the blame is elsewhere. How much
worse was it, then, for the owner of Woodlands,
when his horse, alter winning, was declared short
weight through scales that were afterwards proved
incorrect? But the owner of Woodlands had as
others have had to do, “ grin and bear it.” Once
more I say, if the absence of Queensland horses
from the Metropolitan Stakes list is owing to the
cases I have quoted, then the sport of horse-racing
is quite foreign to them, and their ideas as to what
things should be, but are not, is considerably
“ hampered by limits.” The most pretentious of
the Victorian contingent, so far as past perform-
ances warrant me iu thinking, are Trevallyn,
South Hamilton, Respite, Wellington, Lowlander,
Aspen, and Riverton, with the two “ demons,”
Mata and Foul Play, thrown in ; but wo have a
formidable (at any rate, what appears so) array
to pit against them, composed principally of
Chester, Pontiff, Lord Burghley, Andover, Sweet-
meat, Strathearn, Cap-a-pie, The Doan. Nellie,
Avernus, Calamia. Martindale. Black Swan. Rapid
Bay, Democrat, Secundus, Gipsy Cooper, and
Sunlight, besides a host, at present, of good two-
year-olds, including Kamilaroi, Dover, and Grand
Flaneur. With such “ talent ” as this to do battle
for the elder colony, and in the more than probable
absence of tbe New Zealanders, the chances
for other than those of New South Wales are not
of the most roseate hue. It will bo noticed that
Petrea, Savanaka, Sowarrow, First King, Darri-
well and Warlock are absent from both handicaps,
and no doubt the names of this half-dozen iu the
list would surround each event with more than
ordinary interest; but all, save Dan-iwell and
First King, have retired for at any 'rate a term,
and we could hardly expect the Melbourne Cup
winner. Petrea, lam afraid, has retired for good,
and will do duty as a hack, but the others well
merit the spell which has been accorded them. The
entry of RapidJkiy surprised many, after having
done stud duty, but he has been in preparation
for some months, and I, amongst others, will be
curious to see him “shape” again. The Hon.
James White has seven engaged, Messrs. Long,
Wentworth, Ivory, and Mayo three each, while
one less has been entered by Messrs. Warn,
Rossi, Fennelly, Do Mestre, Archer, Royds, and
Kite. The Melbourne Cup has a total of 109 (or
13 loss than last year) notwithstanding that the
conditions are more severe than either of the great
spring events on this side of the border. For the
score of entries accorded the Metropolitan and the
nine in the Grand, wo send no less than 33, while
Adelaide comes in with 2G, so that only 50 arc
really Victorian, which is not by any means out of
tbe way, and in fact might bo called miserably
poor, seeing that we have ourselves 59 in the
Grand and 59 in the Metropolitan. There is this
to be said, that Savanaka, Petrea, First King,
Sowarrow. and Warlock being absent, do not by
any means make the list as imposing as it has been
of late years ; stiil there are horses of good stamp
to do battle for Victoria, but our own nominations
wear a more trustworthy look, and it behoves our
neighbours to look well to their laurels, for our
representatives are strong —in fact, very—and will
take a deal of “ wiping out” while trying to wrest
this much-coveted prize. I hope that the weights
allotted to the New Zealanders in the different
handicaps will be considered satisfactory, for I
should like to see the crack Mata measure strides
with the champions of both colonies, and such a
meeting would be worth a long visit to see. No
Victorian owner has gone in extensively for enter-
ing, but Messrs. J. White and W. Long have 5
each and Mr. Ivory 3, and these are the principal
nominators from New South Wales. Those from
Adelaide present a formidable front, as they in-
clude Bosworth, Banter. Darriwell, First Water,
Richmond. Rivalry, and Glenormiston, and the
presence of even such names as these is sufficient
in itself to warrant those entries made for Ade-
laide having more than a fair show. The 49 in the
Champion Race include 16 from Now South
Wales, with Chester, Avernus. Bertie, Sweetmeat,
Lord Burghley. and Martindale as perhaps the
most to be relied on : and although we will have to
contend against such as Rivalry and First Water
from Adelaide, and Mata, Respite, First King,
South Hamilton, Wellington, Trevallyn, and Co-
lumbus as representatives of Victoria and New
Zealand —our chances are by no means small.
First King’s presence will no doubt drive a lot
out who might otherwise stop in : and I should be
prepared to witness a groat struggle for supre-
macy were Mata, Chester, and First King to see
the post each one well “ wound up.” lamat a
loss to know how such a colt and filly as Kamilaroi
and Geraldine are omitted; the former, grand
colt as ho is, should have figured in the list. To
the reduction of the forfeits, Ac., in the Maribyr-
nong Plate, must be attributed the splendid entry
of 126, a number that far exceeds the totals of
other years, and the committee may well shake
hands with themselves on the present occasion, for
they undoubtedly made a good move when they
took the question of owners’ expenses into consi-
deration. I would like to see a reduction made
also in the Melbourne Cup, and the entrance fee
reduced to a sovereign. Space will not permit me
to wade through the other stakes entered for in
their proper order, but a healthy state of things is
shown by the following:—There are 118 in the
V.E.C. Normanby Stakes, 113 in the Ascot Vale
Stakes, 125 in The Derby, 65 in the Oaks, 125 in
the St. Leger. IOS in the Sires Produce Stakes,
and 173 in the Mares Produce Stakes.
Sporting and Athletic Meins.
Carlton has beaten Melbourne at football by 5
goals to 1.
Abe Hicken, the pugilist, has settled in Auck-
land, where he is running a boxing saloon.
The Australian Eleven defeated 18 of Burnley
in one innings. The 18 is spoken of as a very weak
one.
The match! between Trickett and Hanlan has
been fixed to be rowed on the Thames on the 15th of
November.
“ What is Heaven’s best gift to man f” sbe
asked, smiling sweetly on him. “ A boss,” he replied,
with prudence.
C. A. Messenger, the Victorian sculler, intends
settling down in Sydney shortly. He comes over with
Austin. What’s up ?
Tickets for that f ishiouablo annual gathering,
the M.E.C. ball, to be held this year on 22ud July, are
being rapidly disposed of.
Sir. J. R. Fairfax has presented a ■£2s trophy to
be pulled for under the auspices of the Bowing Asso-
ciation at the October regatta.
C. Bannncrman has been backed for ,£lO to run
“ Albert,” Frank Smith’s stableman, the match to
take place on next Tuesday week.
The cup won by Mr. E. C. Laycock in the Vic-
torian champion race is on view at Mr. J. Austin’s
Huntsman’s Inn, Parramatta-street.
The greatest sporting jeweller in Melbourne is
H. W. Holloway, of Elizabeth-street. He belongs to
almost every athletic club, and makes more medals and
trophies than all the others put together.
At Narrabri, Coorabadole Billy gave T. Greyson
0 yards in 150 for £2O a-side, and beat him rather easily.
Yellow Tom beat Tallyman for £5 a-side, but for a simi-
lar amount and at the same distance ho had to suc-
cumb to Greyson.
George Cowlishaw’s trip to Sydney has not im-
proved his shooting. He was hardly mentioned at the
nigeoa match on Saturday week in Brisbane. John
Herman, of the Imperial Hotel, Brisbane, secured
sixteen birds for seventeen shots, and thereby made a
pot of money.
The light skift’-raco between the officers of the
Account branch of the Treasury for a silver cup took
place lats Saturday, the course being from Garden Is-
land to Ireland’s boatshed. Three heats were rowed,
and the winner turned up iu Fligg, who beat Cleland
very cleverly.
Mr. Murphy of Parkes. according to the Forbes
Times, has signified his willingness to back Aplitt to
run either Callaghan, Oarver, or Bob Watson for £2OO
a-side. Why not make it “a monkey,” and Bob will
accommodate the Parkes “flyer,” but nothing else
will tempt the champion.
The oldest jockey in Australia died in Tasmania
a short time ago. He was known as “ Jockey Brown,”
and used to relate amusing tales about racing in the
olden time. More than half a century ago he arrived
iu Tasmania, and, amongst others, he rode for Sir
Bichard Dry’s father. At the time of his death he was
8G years oid.
The youths’ 21 hours’ “Go-as-you-please,”
which took place at the Old Exhibition Building on
Friday and Saturday Isst, and was a fraud. Lever won
by performing the extraordinary distance of 90 miles
10 laps; Assonhcim, next man, only getting over 93
miles 4 laps ; and Fisher, who came" in third, having
at the close only 8G miles 5 laps to his credit. Lever
also won the prize for remaining longest on the track,
by “ putting in ” a continuous spell of 0 h. 55 m.
The committee of the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion held a meeting on Friday afternoon last, when
several new members were elected, and the following
business was done: —A resolution to the following effect
was passed : “ That it is desirable for the Association
to have a steamer to attend all important rowing races,
reserved for members only, but occasionally for friends,
who are to be Indies or non-residents of Sydney. The
committee having been misled in estimating the annual
income by many members failing to pay their subscrip-
tions although they baveused the Association steamers,
it was agreed that unless the same be paid before July
I, the names would be struck off the roll. Messrs. \V.
Moore and A. Jackson were elected by the Glebe Club
as delegates. Notices of motion for discussion of the
following were given—(l) That the junior oar-race be
rowed iu string-test gigs. (2) That outriggers be al-
lowed on string-test gigs.
New Zealand Sporting Items.
(FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT).
Bob Ray (the well-known Now Zealand sport)
has disposed of his training establishment and racing
stud to Dr. Pius, of Christchurch. Bob visits Austra-
lia shortly.
Since the cable announcing the result of the
Guineas has came to baud the Auckland stud company
has raised Musket's covering nearly double.
Petronel has only two other engagements this
season, the Prince of Wales and the Seventeenth
Biennial, at Ascot, the former of which is worth
nearly ±3OOO.
A walking match for £l5 aside, three miles,
came off at Auckland on May 31st between Willis fan
Aucklander) and M'Douald (a South Australian). The
latter won by about twenty yards.
At the Grand National Steeplechase meeting at
Christchurch on May 24th (Queen’s Birthday) that
great cross-country horse’ “ The Agent ” won the
Grand National Handicap of 200 sovs., distance four
miles, in the respectable time of 10 mins. 3.1 sees. Also
the same day ho won the Hunt Club Cup of 150 sovs.
of three miles; time, 7 min. 14 secs. In both events
ho carried a crushing weight, and beat large fields,
including the Australian Lone Hand, which horse has
turned out a complete fraud since his arrival in Maori-
lund. The Agent won the same two events last year,
and is the property of Mr. P. Butter, who also owns
among others the Australian horse Laertes.
The Queen’s Birthday meeting of the Dunedin
Jockey Club was a great success. Adamant (Traduoer
blood) won the two big events, heating Liiania and
York among others.
A scratch race meeting took place at Ellerslie
Gardens. Auckland, on May 24th. The Australian
horse King Quail won the big event, beating Vampire,
Laertes, Libeller, Zataga, and Malvern. The last-
named horse broke his leg, and had to be shot.
The Canterbury Jockey Club have decided that
at the forthcoming Spring Meeting the Maiden Pace
must he ridden by boys who have never previously won
a race of the value of £25.
At a meeting of the Wanganui Jockey Club a
motion “ That no two-year-old horse he allowed to start
for a race over one mile in length ” was lost.
Swindling being suspected, the police seized the
totalisators at the late Auckland Autumn races. The
proprietors were taken before the magistrate and
sentenced to one month’s imprisonment.
A Mr. M‘Lay, of Dunedin, has been pleased to
bestow on a race horse of his the name Boropaothoneco,
which he says, in answer to an inquiry, means “ prayed
for.” It is a Brahma word. What could have been
the owner's motive in lucking out such a name as this ?
To ninety-nine people oat of every hundred it will he a
perfect puzzle, and even to those who know the inter-
pretation the word signifies nothing appropriate to the
turf. It the horse ever becomes n medium of wagering,
the bookmakers will cut it down. ‘‘Breakneck ” they’ll
call him probably.
A purchaser has been found, in Dunedin, for
the Bundoora Park youngster, viz., the brown filly by
The Peer from Crumbs, by Marihyrnong from Sweet-
bread, by Flying Pieman from Cassia (imported), by
Sweetmeat. The importer takes the unsold stock back
to Victoria.
The two thoroughbred brood mares that Mr.
Stead, of Canterbury, N.Z., recently imported from
England are not in foal as was anticipated, although
the former visited Queen's Messenger, and the latter
Winslow, prior to leaving England. The following is a
description of the mares :—“ Pnlchara is a bright bay
mare with black points, standing about fifteen hands.
She shows great quality and symmetry, and has
beautifully-turned hind quarters and good hocks. If
anything, she is a trifie slack behind the saddle, and
somewhat on a small scale, but altogether a’most
beautiful mare. Crinoline is a raking big mare, sixteen
hands high, with immense quarters and barrel. She
has a plain determined head, well set on to a powerful
neck, let into grand shoulders. She has the regular
Lord Lyon fore legs, and is a fine roomy mare, bat does
not show the quality of the other.”
The following are the pedigrees of the three
First Prize winners of the late Canterbury, N.Z.,
Coursing Meeting Derby winner: Mr. E. Mason's
f w Yaldhurst by Inverary—Eamage. Oaks winner:
Mr. M. Gruut’s hd w Encore by Spring—Tricolor-
Birthday Stakes: Mr. J. D. Kett’s f b Petrea by-
Geelong Comet or Almond ’Water JJueeu Death.
Thisjslut is sister to Kathleen, Queen Death being,by Bed.
Kail out of Couutes.
At a pigeon-flying match at Christchurch (N.Z.)
Mr. Hicks' First King did 95 miles in 4hrs. 5 min.
At the Cambridge Jockey Club Autumn Meeting
(N.Z.) on May 27th, the well-bred three-year-old Kisca-
torious (7st) won the principal event, beating a field of
six, including two Australians, King Quail and
Vampire.
Mainly every town in New Zealand has its-
coursing club.
The South Canterbury Coursing Club’s opening
meeting at Waimate, N.Z., was successful.
With the exception of two or three steeple-
chase meetings, the racing season iu New Zealand is at
an eud.
The following arc the weights for the Wanganui.
Steeplechase, to he run ou June 19;—Agent, 12st
121 b ; Grey Momus, 12st; Baron, 12st; Te Whetu, list
71b : Ireland, list 31b ; Loch Lomond, lOst 121 b; Ven-
ture, lOst 81b ; Eaugatira, lOst 81b ; Harkaway, lOst
slb ; Otoway, 10st41b; Abolition lOst : Mickey Free,
lOst; Mata, lOst; Tricoffere, lOst; Ada, 9st 121 b; King
Don, 9stl2; Clips,9st 101 b: General, 9st 01b: Sunbeam,
9st 01b; Lupakn, 9st 51b; Hard Times, 9st 21b; Diver,
9st 21b.
Several opening coursing meetings have recently
taken place iu the Waikato, N.Z.
The London Daily Telegraph gives currency
to a rumour, apreyos of racing prospects, that Sir
Hercules llobinsou is in treaty with Matthew Dawson
for a boy who may don the gubernatorial colors of
Christchurch, and make the New Zealand people familiar
with the sight of these “Zetland spots” which were
wont to rouse the enthusiasm of North-countryman
when home to victory at Epsom and Doncaster by
Voltigfeur, and at Newmarket by Vedette.
Abe. Hicken has been giving the Maoris a taste*
of his skill nt Cambridge, Waikato, N.Z. He is doing-
well iu Auckland.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
The past week has not been a busy one for
owners, and nothing has occurred to upset the
usual dullness, so far as actual racing is con-
concerned, which prevails in New South Wales at
this time of year. The magnificent entries made
on Tuesday week last have given rise to some small
talk anent the various probabilities, and almost
everyone one meets in the street, if his proclivities
are at all “horsey,” enquires “what has been
done, and which is worth backing? Opinions as-
to “ good things ” likely to do “it” differ very
much—as indeed they must before the appearance
of the weights, and the operations on Rand wick in
the morning—are not of such a nature as to lead
one one to have a fancy. Long prices in some in-
stances have been accepted for the various
doubles, and the most important business will be
seen quoted in another column. The finish of
this month will provide sport for the million in all
directions, a few of the most important being
quoted in the Index, commencing on this Satur-
day. when the amateurs at the Hunter River will
hold their gathering, and from entries, Ac., iu
another column, a good day’s sport ought to be
the result. The 10th is the day sot apart for
running out the Bendigo programme, and in meet-
ings to come those mentioned are the most im-
portant of the week. Inasmuch as stakes requiring
attention arc concerned, the horse-owners of Now
South Wales have nothing to enter for during the
coming week, but Victorians are reminded that
the general entry connected with their Amateur
Turf Club requires entering for on the 14th—next
Monday, the meeting to take place on the Ist of
July. ’ Then on the coming Friday the Northern
Downs general entry closes, but this is an item
that will not cause N.S.W. horse-owners anyalarm.
On Tuesday next the Rockhampton Handicaps are
to be declared, to be followed on Saturday with
those for the T.A.T.C., and both these meetings
have been looked forward to, and their coming
waited for, with no small amount of interest. To-
day (Friday) will witness the acceptances for Ben-
digo, and as the programme is a good one and
preliminaries look well, the list of malcontents
will not, I imagine, be a lengthy one. The Warr-
nambool acceptances are asked for on the coming-
Tuesday, and there is nothing further in the Index
that needs mention this issue.
The 1 ADEit says that Mr. H. Haines disposed
of his horse Devilshoof while in Adelaide, but
neither the purchaser’s name nor the figure re-
ceived is given.
Mr. W. A. Long’s b c by King of the Ring from
Musidora, bas been named “Rupert,” and the
Hon. James White’s b c by Yattcndon—Lady
Chester. Monmouth. Both are yearlings.
The Muswellbrook meeting of Wednesday and
Thursday, 2nd and 3rd instant, and which was the
first mecing held at that township for a number of
years, gave good sport, and in most races the-
favourites were overthrown. Black Swan, who
was backed for each of the two big races with odds
on her, was beaten in both cases, in the first in-
stance by Rosebud and in the other by Bulgaria.
Both the “ black mare’s” victors are owned, or
at at any rate ran in the name of, Mr. R. Lynch,
who must have had a good turn, for he won almost
all the good things. Rosebud is a four-year-old, and
is by Hawthornden from a Kingston mare, and is
spoken of as rather a good stamp, but I should not
expect much from the aged horse Bulgaria, by
Bulginbar. Mr. Mayo bad Maid of Australia as a
companion for ‘ ‘ The Swan,” but neither could score
a win, and the clever owner of the blue and yel-
low is said to have had rather a “ rough deal.”
I hoar that Falmouth has gone into Mr. De
Mestre’s hands to be trained for future engage-
ments, but as these engagements are nil, I imagine
lie has gone to ruralise in the paddocks at Terrara.
Falmouth will one day make a worthy desendant
of a grand sire, for he has already given proof
when only half fit that he is a good ’un, and a
spell is all that is necessary to cause him to turn out
one of the best horses of his day. When next he
appears on the turf he ought to be well taken no-
tice of, and if he doesn’t give a specimen of good
ability, I am greatly mistaken.
It was Mr. P. Brennan, who purchased Cres-
wick, and iu future he will run in that gentleman’s
name.
It seems that the members of the Mudgee Turf
Club have at length awoke from their lethargy, and
intend reducing the heavy debts at present stand-
ing against this once popular club. The districts
around Mudgee boast of some of the most in-
fluential and wealthy men in the colony, and I
wonder the debt has not been wiped out long since.
However, better late than never.
At the annual Lindenow sale at Kirk’s Bazaar
a few days ago the following found purchasers -. —
Tide by Smuggler from Sea Foam, Mr. D. Walt,
lace, 130 gs.; colt by Prince William from Quick*


3
7i
I;
s i
«
s
o
o
«
«
M
F 1
H
C
3 1
fl)
1
o I
0) )
m
«
H
w
5
K
2 i
<
pi
Ph
i
2*
S'
s
I
J
1
F=*
[
a
a
cS
IS
w
a
3 j
H
p3
s
©
I
s
H
a
W
O
j
>—
«
s
fi(
H
2 i
>
A
A
W
>“5
i\
|i
>.!
SHOUTS.
st. lbs.
at. lt>8.
Volunteer
!> 0
Fancy Boy
7 8
Nemo
8 10
Janitross ...
7 i
Avalanche
8 5
John Bull.
7 0
Satellite ...
8 0
Scrubber
G 10
Elos
8 0
Rodyn . .
fi 7
Speculation
L ucre tin
7 10
7 10
Stanley ...
Fly
« 7
G 0
Rosalind
7 10
Kanaka
« 0
Reform
7 9
rosy
at. lbs.
Foxhunt er
RACE.
G 0
*t. lbs.
Johnny Smoker...
8 n
Flower (iirl
0 in
Lapwing
8 »
Lacy
0 0
Jusperess . . .
7 0
..\ mi's
St. lbs.
MILK.
St. lbs.
Nemo
12 0
Councillor
11 2
Satellite
12 0
Athos
10 0
Rosalind .
IS 0
Loma
9 10
8crul>bcv . . -
11 s
Faust
9 7
TROT.
Yds.
Yds.
Darkle
Scratch
Old Sloes
480
Charlie
... 000
Creamy
... 500
Firefly
... 400
Cignct
... GOO
Methuselah
... too
TUttF CLUB
HANDICAP.
st. lbs.
st. lbs.
Sir Solomon
9 2
Reform
« 9
Volunteer
S 0
Fancy Boy
G 8
Nemo
7 10
Janitress
rt i
Avalanche
7 5
Scrubber ...
0 t
EIom
7 0
John Bull...
G 0
Maid of Australia
7 o
Councillor
GO
Sunlight
G 13
Lapwing ...
G 0
Speculation
Luoretia
« 10
0 10
Loran
Kaua kn ...
a o
Rosulind
G 10
Fuust, . .
5 7
CITY
HANDICAP*
st. Ills.
st. lbs.
Black Swan
£t
s
Mirabean
« 7
Crusader .
H
10
Ynrrauniu. . . .
« 7
Barber
8
1
Frederick
« 4
Clarence ...
8
0
Pole Star
ii 1
Lin wood ...
7
t
War ilufflo
6 S
Butterfly ...
7
I
Auuaudalo
fi 0
Shamrock ..
7
11
Zulu
5 12
Plorut*
0
IS
EsperauCc
5 10
cun
HANDICAP.
st. lbs.
st. lbs.
Block Swan
it
i
Plormi
0 6
Crusader ...
8
6
Mirabomt
f> d
Barber
8
0
Yarranmu . .
li 2
Clarence ...
7
!>
Frederick
6 0
..
7
1
Polo Star
(i 0
Liu wood ...
7
0
The Wreck li ns .
0 0
Butterfly . .
(5
IS
Yately
5 12
Glentren ...
0
11
Victoria
5 12
Shamrock
6
;>
Auuaudalo
5 10
Mozart
0
0
Zulu
5 7
Althea ...
0
8
Hiifm.K Race.
Two miles and a half.
at. lbs.
St. lb».
Rover
11
7
Newmarket
f
Filibuster
11
0
Kingston
9
I
Nimrod
10 12
Telegraph
i»
t
Star
10
7
Lucifer
9
0
Veno
. 10
7
Wnit-a-W'hile ...
ft
0
Myrniontt... ..
Jack Tar ...
10
!1
5
ft
Marshall
Villiers
ft
8
0
12
Canezou ...
a
0
Argus
8
7
Express ...
»
7
Welcome
8
7
Noma
a
0
SXEKW.ECHA8E
About three miles.
Kt. lt>9.
St. lbs.
Greystanes
11 10
Suowstorm
10
0
Turpin
10
1
Colliugwood
0
10
Acc of Trumps
10
2
Selector
ft
7
Express ...
Quainby ...
10
lu
0
0
Telegraph
Pemberley
ft
ft
7
*/
TELEOIUrU
Stakes. One mile aud a miarter.
st. lbs.
st. lbs.
Filibuster
8
7
Nurrebri
7
4
A. T.
8
0
Dundreary
7
2
LI
Supple Jack
f*
11
Marshal]
<5
Baronet ...
7
lo
Wnit-a-While ...
ti
12
Fizz
7
7
Tamboiu'ino
0
10
Diomed ...
7
7
Philistine
0
8
Cremorue...
7
7
Pstter
0
4
Wild Rose
7
1.
Maid of Honor ...
6
0
Coon joola
7
1
Perseverance
5
12
Wee Jim ...
I
Little Queen
5
7
flu
W
<
j*
O
o
X
w
SC
G
'o
or.
o
c
w
C£
Thorinanby
o
»
GJ
to
C
K
Ellen Horn
Sir Hercules
Guiccoili
Economist
Miss Pratt
Sulton
Trampoline
Mnley
Clare
Touchstone
Vulture
HockiiiKham
Electresa
Blizzard
Picton maro
Melbourne
Lisboth
Castrel
Idalia
Touchstene
Decoy
Mu lee
Nancy
Lottery
Cervantes maro
Catton
Orvillina
Selim
D.of Skyscraper
Emilias
Harriett
Waxy
Pawn
I. Purdcatcher
Echidna
Glencoe
Marpessa
Orlando
MissTwicken-
ham
JKatan
D. of
r
I
Pantaloon
Phryne
MuleyMoloch
Eehecca
Sandheek
Johanna
Plenipiotent ’y
Pawn, junior
Clie Baron
’ocahoutas
reddington
Sis. to Singa-
pore
.Melbourne or
Wind hound
Alice Haw-
thorne
Redshank
Delhi
| Lottery
I Morgiana
Priam
Miss Fanmv’s cl
Camel
Banter
Tramp
Kite
Sultan
Cobweb
Priam
Octavana
I Whalebone
I Defiance
Middleton
Little Folly
*
Cain
[ Margaret
! Bay Middleton
Myrrha
j Trump
Miss Syntax
Edmund
Squib
j Sir Hercules
r jGuiccioli
jEmilins
j Variation
| Humph .Clinker
Morpeth’s dam
j Touchstone
] Ghuznoe
Sheet Anchor
Miss Letty
Touchstone
Lady Moore
Care nr
BayMiddl’ton
Crucifix
Defence
Folly
n
Ion
EllenMiddlt’u
Little Bed
Hover
Eclat
I. Birdcatcher
Elphiue
Molhonrue
Meeauee
Weather bit
Mendicant
Cowl
Diversion
Wild Dayrell
Cruiser’s dam
Warlock
Leila
Wastrel
Hiss Hap
drville
i'osaune
[lottery
Morgiana
3ay Middleton
Nitoeris
Sultan
Cobweb
Sandbeck
Dariolotta
Emilins
Harriett
Mnley
Cluro
Wbaleboue
Selim mnro
Master Henry
Boadicea
Castrel
Mali a
Lottery
Cervantes mare
Gladiator
Lollypop
Pdntaloon
Festival
Lottery
Morgiana
Bay Middleton
Bustard
D. of
Sheet Anchor |
I), of
iss
BayMiddl’tou I
'
Barhelle i
Plonipotent ’y'
Marpessa |
e
Camel
Banter
Pantaloon j
liobecca
t
Sweetmeat
Pautalonade
Sheet Anchor
IX of
t* H
.—
W *J
S K
tr 1 c
~ o
a ©
E ES
%• . 1
c
W S'
s - s H. S*
os; o»5
tJ o
C- t3
a c
o a —
o 5.
o e
g o
O
o
a
step, Sir. D. Wallace, 145 ga.: Mariulo by Flying
Dutchman from Drift, Mr. D. Wallace, 55 gs. ;
Sepoy by Flying Dutchman from Countess, Mr.
H. Power, 53 gs. ; Proteus by Smuggler, Mr. W.
McMillan, 51 gs. ; Midshipman by Smuggler from
Georgiana, same purchaser as last, 40 ga. Several
other unimportant lots were sold, most of which
were for India.
The well-known Victorian jumper Veno, a son
of Panic, has been purchased by Mr. J. Pile, of
Adelaide.
From the Australasian I gather that Mr.
A. K. Finlay returned from England per the mail-
steamer on Wednesday week last.
Satirist, who won the late Ipswich Cup, has his
pedigree “ run out ” in this issue, and it will be
seen at a glance that he has a fashionable line of
ancestors. His sire is Maribyrnong, which says
sufficient for that side of the question ; and on his
dam’s side, Parasite, he is very closely related to
Trevallyn, whose granddam, Mainstay, is also
granddam of my subject. Parasite is by Lord of
the Hills, a grand bred one, being as he is by
Touchstone, better than which is hard to be
found; and his dam, Fair Ellen, going back to
Whalebone and Pantaloon, makes up a pedigree
as fashionable as the veriest stickler for “ blue
blood ” could wish for. Ho has not been a great
performer, but his last win augurs well for his
future.
The big two and threo-year-old races of the
English Turf have become so popular with racing
men in Australia that a largo amount of betting
is invariably done on each event as it comes round,
and, without exaggerating, I may say that as
much interest attaches itself from the colonies to
the English Derby, Leger, and Oaks, with a great
many, as can bo found centred in any of the big
“goods” of Now South Wales. This being so, I
intend from time to time tabulating the pedigrees
as far as practicable of the winners of the stakes
mentioned, as also those of the one thousand and
two thousand guineas, and as I presume they will
be found acceptable in some quarters, with
breeders for instance, I hope they will be kept as
a reference for future information. If this be
looked to, it will save correspondents a deal of
trouble iu asking, and an unnecessary amount
of labour in answering questions. Jennie Hewlett,
the winner of the Oaks, is by The Palmer, from
Jenny Diver by Buccaneer, from Fairy by Warlock,
and is the property of a Mr. Cookson. It will be
seen that she is by the sire of the imported horse
Bethnal Green from a mare called Madame Eglan-
tine, and as the pedigree is an excellent one, as
can be seen at a glance, I will leave my readers to
judge without any further remarks. I may say,
however, that she has not been a bad performer,
having been victorious in the Hartington Plato at
Manchester, and the Filly Stakes at Doncaster.
The Derby winner. Bend Or, is the property of
the Duke of Westminster, and is by that grand
horse Doncaster (who also won the English Derby
and was one of the best horses of his day), Irom
Eouge Rose by Thormauby from Ellen Horne,
who goes back to that very desirable strain of
Waxy blood. Bend Or, as I mentioned in my
last, has been a great performer, never having
been beaten as a two-year-old, and the English
papers credit him with having won the following :
—The Chesterfield Stakes, the Richmond Stakes,
Prince of. Wales Stakes (at York). 22nd Triennial
Produce Stakes, Rous Memorial Stakes, and last
of all the Derby. Such a brilliant career as Bend
Or’s must have found for him a host of admirers,
and no doubt he had the largest number of fol-
lowers for the Blue Riband of 1880.
I learn from the Australasian that the well-
known jockey. J. King, was disqualified at Ken-
sington Park for throe months, the cause being
foul riding. “Augur” says that he caught hold
of the reins of another horse, and I quite agree
with my brother scribe that the term of disqualifi-
cation was far too short. King has been rather a
fortunate rider, and success has made him, to use
a vulgar term, flash. He is just the sort of
customer, unless held in check, to sooner or later
get himself into trouble. The A.J.C. will do well
to watch such individuals as ho, and should they
he caught in the act of foul riding or such like,
mete out to them a punishment that will have a
lasting effect. His present penalty will no doubt
act as a warning to him.
A meeting of gentlemen favourable to the forma-
tion of a trotting club was held in Melbourne, at
Goyder’s Hotel, some few days ago, and a com-
mittee appointed to arrange preliminaries and
fetch up a report, and I understand they have
discovered that <£lsoo will be necessary to form a
track at Caulfield ; but this being too expensive
at present they have decided to apply to the
Government for a piece of ground likely to answer
the purpose at Elsternwiek. If the reply is not
satisfactory they have agreed to purchase a piece
in close proximity to Melbourne.
Mr. C. S. Guest has informed me that the name
of Rosinante, by Mazeppa, was omitted from the
Hawkesbury Handicap list sent by him.
The Randwick grand stand is at the present
time undergoing several important changes and
alterations, composed principally of an official
stand nearly opposite the weighing room, and a
tea and coffee stall in the centre of the grand
stand, immediately connected with the “drafting
rail.” There are permanent cake and fruit stalls
to bo erected, and both the grand and Leger
stands are being treated to a coat of paint, the
Derby stand already being nonest. While on this
subject it would be as well to state that the
A.J.C. have decided to give a day’s racing on a
day, not yet fixed, in December. There will be a
race for two-year-olds with a prize of 200 sors.,
and a like amount will be added to a cup, the dis-
tance for which will be only one and a half mile.
The two-year-old event ought to fill well, and
the cup with such a suitable distance, after the
Metrop. and Melbourne Cup have been got
through, ought to entice a large field of entries.
Several additions and improvements have boon
made since the last meeting to the Hawkesbury
racecourse and its surroundings, and a rail is now
in course of completion to extend all round the
course, and which, as the committee justly aver,
will do away with horses running inside posts.
For my part I do not agree with a rail round the
course", but would go in for light posts fitted in
sockets, for the danger of running inside a post is
very small compared with horses running against
the rails and causing injury to both life and limb.
Of two evils loss is the better, but after all
there are lots of owners who prefer the rail to the
posts ; and it may be at their suggestion that the
H. R. C. have made such a move. Another
noticeable feature, and a great improvement too,
is altering the front of the grand stand and
causing it by moans of steps to slope on to the
lawn. This will admit of people standing on the
lawn until the horses are at the post, and instead
of as heretofore having to go behind the stand to
ascend they may by moving a step or two witness
the race from start to finish without any 'incon-
venience.
The Ipswich races came off on Saturday last,
the cup Doing won by Satirist, a son of Maribyr-
noug, with Orphan second, and the results of the
different events will bo found in another column.
The Grand Prix of Paris, which has 4000 soys,
as added money, has been won by the English
horse Robert the Devil, a colt owned by Mr. C.
Brewer, from Bertram by Castoff, and was ridden
by T. Cannon. The race was run—as most big
French ones arc—on Sunday, and I doubt not
that such a good performer as Robert the Devil,
who was unbeaten as a two-year-old, was right
well supported. That the Devil should win on Sun-
day was curious. He won the first October Two-
years-old Stakes at Newmarket, and the Rous
Memorial Stakes at Goodwood. He was second
in the 22nd Newmarket Biennial Stakes ; beaten a
head by Lord Falmouth’s Apollo, 5 to 2 being laid
on him ; and also finished in a similar position to
Bend Or in the Derby. Speaking of Robert the
Devil the English correspondent of the Austra-
lasian writes as follows : —“ Then came the big
race of the day, viz., the Biennial, which intro-
duced us once more to Robert the Devil, the un-
beaten two-year-old which has with Bend Or
shared the honour of being favourite for the Derby.
When seen in the Birdcage ho hardly pleased, for
he has not much improved during the winter, and
decidedly gave me the idea of his not turning out
a stayer. True, he was hasdly fit, as Blanton, in
view of his more important engagements at Epsom
next month’, had not wound him up to concert
pitch, but ho seemed to have only grown upwards,
and not to have filled out in a corresponding pro-
portion. In other words, to use a nmch hackneyed
phrase, he did not “fill the eye” like a winner.
For all this, it must not be considered that 1 think
Ihe colt an inferior one; his unbeaten two-year*
old certificate stamps him as anything but that,
and here he was not fit, and, as will be seen
presently, was only beaten a head.” Mons. A.
Desique’s Distingue was second to Robert in the
Grand Prix, and Mons. P. Aumont’s Milan third.
Hawkesbury Guineas,
August, 1881.
Mr. B. Eichard’s b f Polly John, hy Hawthorndon —
Fleotwing
E. Skuthorpe’s b f Flora, by Malta—Rosemary
W. J, Dangar’s b or br t Diadem, by Kelpie—
Security (imp.)
b f Queen sherry, by Hawthorn-
den—Algeria (imp.)
J. Mayo’s b c The Gem, by Kelpie—lda
E. de Mestre’s br c, by The Marquis—Beatrice
br f, by Angler—Art Union
ch c, by Hawthornden —Prudentia
br c, by Fireworks -Sunshine
hf, by Angler—La Mousse
W. A. Long’s b c Rupert, by King of the Ring—
Musidora
ch c Collector, by Julian Avenal—
Qneen Bee
b f Gladys, by King of the Eing—
Mischief
b f Aureola, by Angler- Chrysolite
b or g f Johanna, by Maribyrnong—
Jocasta
J. B. Oliffe’s b or br c, by Goldsbrongh—Miss
Livingstone
M. FeneUy’s ch c Woolsortor, by Goldsbrongh—
Loup Garou’s sister
h c Tester, by The Tester—lllumina-
tion
Hon. J. White’s b c Monmouth, hy Yattendon—Lady
Chester
h c Gloucester, by Fireworks—Sylvia
br f Etna (late Eosetta), by Maribyr-
nong—Alpaca
Mr. C. T. Eoberts’s br c, by Julian Avenal —Tiara
J. Stewart’s b c Testator, by The Tester (imp.)—
Eosedale (imp.)
J. M‘Gill’s b c Vera, Crnz, by Valentin. —Mast
T. Rutledge's b f Monetn, by Yattendon—Montana
T. Chirnside’s g f, by Maribyrnong—Sappho
b f Stella, by Maribyrnong—Signora
(imp.)
br f Primrose, by Goldsbrongh—
Corisande
E. Lee’s br e Somerset, by Maribyrnong—Keepsake
b c Roxburgh, by Kingsborongh—Phoebe
b f Shipka, by The Marquis—China Eose
l> f Gitaua, by Bapid Bay—Gipsy
S. Walter’s bl c Carnival, by Goldsbrongh—Sea
Breeze
H. Herltert’s h c Clancarty, by Kelpie—Emery
J. A. Dallas’s b c Marmora, by Hawthornden—
Spoilt Child
W. Kite’s h c, by Gemma di Vergy—Bonnie Belle
b c, by Julian Avenal —-Maiden’s Blush
b c, by Yattendon —Hebe
E. M’Carthy’s br or blk c, by Malta—L’Africaine
G. Fagan's ch f, by Julian Avenal—Sultana
A, Bowman’s ch c. bv Sunlight—Express
T. Ivory’s ch c Bine Jacket, hy Barbarian—Mar-
chioness lilly
J. James’s ch f, hy Goldsbrongh—Powder (imp.)
Victoria:-.- Entries.— Victory, Her Majesty, Neohill
colt, and Tattoo colt.
Hunter River Amateur Turf Club.
The following are the weights
Clarence Jockey Club Annual Races.
GKAFTON, Moxdat.
The following weights have been declared:
Bendigo Steeplechases.
Subjoined are the weights :
Pigeon Shooting.
The following scores were made at Parramatta,
on Saturday last. The arrangements were super-
intended by Mr. Wehlow, of the Woolpaek Inn ;
First Event.—A sweep of 10a, live birds each,
25 yards rise.
‘■A. D.” 01101 Frank Weston ... 0010
Hamilton . . ... OHIO C. Evans ... ... 10100
P. Gannon 0100 Johnstone 1000
Delgratta 0001
“ A. D.” and Mr. Hamilton divided.
Second Event. —A sweep of 10s, 4 bird each>
handicap.
Hamilton, 26 yds, ... 1101 F. Gannon, 23 yds ... 0111
“A. D." 26 yds ... 010 E. Wallace. 24 yds... 001
Johnstone, 23 yds ... 001 C. Evans, 25 yds . 1010
Hams. 24 yds ... 010 Campbell, 24 yds ... OCO
Fred. Weston,24 yds 010 Frank Westou,2syds 0111
Delgratta, 23 yds ... 1010
Messrs. Hamilton, Gannon, and Frank Weston
divided.
Third Event. —Sweep of .£l. Five birds each.
Handicap. First prize. ,£10; second. ,£5.
H. Payten, 27 yds ... 1011 Delgratta, 26 yds ... 0019
F. Gannon, 27 yds ... 0101 Smart, 24 yds ... 1001
O. Friend, 27 yds ... 11111 J. T. Ryan, 24 yds ... 001
Hamilton, 27yds ... 000 “Quondam,” 24 yds 0111
C. Evans. 27 yds ... 1010 Johnstone.” 25yd5... 000
“ Heui'y.” 27 yards Gill “A. D.,” 26 yds ... 1010
Frank Weston,26 yds 0110 J. Stela, 27 yds ... 1011
“ Doctor,” 24 yds ..11111
Divided.
Fourth Event. —Sweep of £il, 5 birds each.
Handicap. First prize. ATO ; second, =£s ; third,
£2.
H. Payten, 27yds ... 0110 Smart, 24 yds ... 11000
F. Gannon. 27 yds . . 0100 J. F. Ryan, 24 yds ... 100
O. Friend. 28 yds ... 11101 “Quondam.” 24 yds 100
Hamilton,27 yds ...11101 Johnstone, 23 yds ... 010
C. Evans, 27 yds ...OHIO “A. D.” 26 yds ... 0191
“ Henry,” 27 yds ... 10111 J. Stein. 27 yds ... 11111
Frank Weston,26yds OHIO Smith, 27 yds ... 0101
“Doctor,” 26yds ... 1010 P. Payten, 23 yds ... 1100
Delgratta, 26 yds ... 0011
Messrs. Friend, Hamilton, and Henry divided
second and third money.
Fifth Event.—Sweep of 10s. Three birds each.
First miss ont. Handicap.
“A. D,,” 28yds ... 01 “Quondam,” 24 yds 0
Smith, 27 yds ... 0 Henry, 27 yds ... HO
Hamilton, 27 yds ... HI C. Evans, 27 yds ... 0
“ Doctor,” 26 yds ... HO Lackey, 26 yds ... HO
Westou,26 yds ... 110 J. Stein, 27 yds ... !•'
Gannon, 27 yds ... HI O. Friend, 28 yds ... Ho
Johnstone. 24 yds ... 10 Smart, 24 yds ... 0
Divided.
Government Printing Office Regatta.
This annual regatta took nlace on Saturday afternoon
last at Mosmau's Bay. and the weather being Hue the
sport, which was good, was thoroughly enjoyed. The
following are the results of the various races :
Youths under 21. pulling pair oars. The Nellie—
Perkins and Johnson Ist.
All comers, pulling pair sculls. —Five started.
Gazette (Burning), Ist; Oalamia (Keiley), 2nd; De-
bates (Fairweatber), 3rd.
All-comers, pulling pair oars.—Tbe two to be em-
ployed in the same room. The Chester (Marks and
Skinner), Ist; Savanaka (Fairweatber and Buckleton).
2nd.
Those not rowing in the All-comers’ race, pulling
pair oars.—Two heats; the first and second in each
heat to draw for boats. Ist heat, Chester (Williams
and Laurence), Ist; Nellie (Giles and Kearney), 2nd.
Second heat, Secundus (Sabthori>o and Jossep), Ist;
Dolly (M’Mahon and Sims), 2nd ; final heat, Secundus,
Ist. . ,
All-comers, pulling two-pair sculls, time handicap.—
Potrea (Fairweatber and Bell, Ist; Burning and Chap-
man (Chester), 2nd.
For Scratch Crews, pulling pair oars.—Dolly (Bell
and Winnott), Ist; Nellie (Buckleton and Pollock), 2nd.
Football.
REDFERN v. GLENHEAD.
The following teams met on Moore Park on Saturday
last, oora]K)sed of the players undermentioned:
Eedfem : Allen, Harnett, Inglis, S. Jones, Mulcahy (3).
Mnnday, North, Payten, Taylor, Thorne, Watson,
Wilson; umpire, Mr. M. Williamson. Glen head :
Baylis, Begg, Bradridgo, Butler, Canstlell, Grainger,
Hixson, Jennings, Jones, Martin. Palmer, Russell.
Smith. Tooher, Warren; umpire, Mr. M‘Arthur,
The Glenheads won the toss, and chose the northern
goal, hut owing to repeated disputes, and cries of “ off-
side ” when there was really no occasion for either, the
game was abandoned. The Glenhead team, in our
opinion, was decidedly at fault, though the game so far
as it went resulted in a win for them by a goal to
nothing. The Glenheads had Hie hest of it from the
start, forcing their opponents to touch down after the
first twenty minutes, and the ball was kept in the
vicinity of Kedfern. goal all the afternoon. Messrs.
Cansdell, Martin, Smith, Baylis. and Tooher, for Glen-
head, and Messrs. J. and P. Mulcahy, for Eedfern,
played well.
2nd Fifteens.
The 2nd fifteens met at Double Bay, and resulted in
an easy victory for Glenhead by three goals and two
tries to nothing. Messrs. Ilillyer, Bethel. Hixson, and
Roxburgh, for Glenhead, and Messrs. Flannery and
Williamson, for Redforn, played well.
Engagements of the Glenhead Football Club.
Ist Fifteen:—May 13th—University v. 20, Moore
Park; May 22nd Arfonaa, Petersham; May 29 Ist
Toxteth, Moore Park. June sth—lst Kedfern, Moore
Park : June 12th—1st Balmain. Double Bay Reserve ;
June 19th—2nd Warratah, Moore Park: June 20th—1st
Parramatta, Double Bay Reserve. July 3rd—lst St.
Leonards, North Shore; July 10th—1st Newtown,
Moore Park; July 17th-Ist Toxteth, Moore Park ;
July 24th—2nd Waratah, Moore Park; July .'list-
Ist Parramatta, Parramatta. August 7th—lst Balmain,
Double Bay Reserve ; August 14th—1st Redforn, Double
Bay Reserve; August 21st—1st St. 1,601101x18, Double
Bay Reserve; August 28th—2nd Wallaroo, Moore
Park. Sept. 4th—lst Newtown.
2nd Fifteen May 29th—1st Cook’s River, Cook’s
River. June sth -2nd Redferu, Double Bay Reserve;
June 12th—2nd Parramatta, Moore Park; June 19th—
Collingwood, Burwood; June 26th —nd Parramatta.
Parramatta. July 3rd—Oriental, Moore Park; July
10th —2nd Newtown, Newtown; July 17th—Collingwood,
Double Bay Reserve: July 21th—1st Cook’s River,
Double Bay' Reserve; July 31st—1st Arfoma. Double
Bay Reserve. August 7th —2nd Balmain, Balmain;
August 14th—2nd Redforn, Moore Park; August 21st—
Oriental, Moore Park : August 28th—Rugby, Double
Bay Reserve. September 4th—2nd Newtown, Double
Bay Reserve.
Balmain v. 2np Waratah.
A game between these clubs was got through at
Moore Park, but. contrary to expectations, resulted in
a draw—-each side having obtained one goal and,one
touch dowu. Z. Cameron, Bronghton, and M‘Donald
played well for Balmain, and Druce was most conspicu-
ous for Waratah. Both teams were strong, and as will
he seen from the following list, the Waratahs apjiear to
have ’* rung in ” several of their first eleven; —Balmain ;
Cameron (21, F. Thallon, Buzacot. M‘Donald, Creer.
Corkhill, Wemforth, Broughton, Waugh, Evans, and
substitutes (3). Waratah: Butler, Blackstone, Colls,
De Clouet, Drnce. Eaton, Fuller, Healey, Jennings,
M’Douald, Small, Lees, Hinwood, and Ireland.
Melbourne v. Carlton.
The Melbourne v. Carlton match was played-ojjt he
ground of the former, on Saturday last, and resulted iu
an easy victory for Carlton by five goals to one. The
attendance was estimated at between fifteen and twenty
thousand.
Arfoma r. Rugby.
These clubs met at Petersham on Saturday, and the
former scoring a goal and three “ tries.” while their
opponents scored nil, were declared the victors.
Coonamble Races.
First day, Tuesday.
Maiden Plate-Waxy, 1; Mavonrneen, 2. Time, 2
min. 19 secs.
Town (Plate.—Admiral, 1; Era, 2. Time, 2 mm. 59
secs.
Selling Plate.—Jerry, 1. Time. 2 mm. 10 secs.
Castlereagli Handicap.—Rainbow, 1; Starlight, 2;
Little Nell, 3. Won easily.


KEAKEY BROTHERS, COACH AXD BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Near Park-street.
J.
P.
CRIP P S, PASTRYCOOK
CONFECTIONER,
A N D
267 (late 250) Pitt Strekt, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., catered for in the
best style.
R
OBEBTBU T C H E B &
(Late William Doug),
C 0.,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
538 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Cottxtrt Orders Rkckite Prompt Attbktios'.
H A S. H. D A N I E L,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, UR AN A ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Mb. a. godfe f k y.
SOLICITOR,
(Also of tbe Supreme Court, Queensland.)
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
OrnrE —& J E LIZ A BETH- BTK EET .
UHO KT EE A PITZG KHA L D,
Solicitors,
00 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
And
Macquarie Street. Dtbbo.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slatteey,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at IH9 (late 3-15)
ITTT-STKEET, opposite the Byesiko
Nines Onat.
G
A N D S. P It E D D E
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
10 Easier xk Strekt.
Y.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Tunlier,
Doors. Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
MonidiixgT - , Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
O W L B E’S PC T T E R Y
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPER DOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
rjl HOM A S PLAY FAI K,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
103 GEORGE STREET.
D MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
• WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Grocers, Ac.,
Corner of York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Our Prices Current for Groceries, Ac., giving lowest
market quotations, is issued the first of every mouth,
and circulated gratis throughout the colony. Htore-
heepers who have not received our Circular will do so
by forwarding us their address.
Cl A L L K R D I N G AND SON,
* * 31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Practical
Chronometer Watchmakers, Jewellers,
AND - OmCAKS,
Importers of every description of English, Swiss, and
Waltham machine-made Watches—
In Gold and Silver.
The “Liver” Telescope, the cheapest and most port-
able Telescope for the bush—Price, il Is.
Illustrated Catalogues post free on application.
Sole agents for V. Kullberg’s Ships Chronometers,
which were awarded first prize at the International
Exhibition.
HS A M W E L L S,
• CARRIAGE MAKER,
Little Flikeeks Street, Melbottrke,
Calls special attention to his I’ateut Two-wheeled
Brougham, lately exhibited at the Show-rooms of
Messrs. Hainiug and Schimel, Coachbnildere, Castle-
reaph-street, imported by the agents to the order of
J. Harris, Esq,, M.P., of Sydney.
Orders for similar vehicles received by the agents,
DRYSDALE and ROBERTS,
397 Goorge-street.
GABRIEL A CO.
*" SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
' (two noons from n* able jit’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m • c a l l,
U HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Hoyul Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable tho EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOPTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1889, 1870,1873. and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch axd Clock Majoui,
4 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
w
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
Ip MASON, LAND AGENT, 227 Bonrko-
• street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
of LAND for Salo at Wavorley, also Allotments in
Narmndera and Wogga Wagga.
OLD WOUNDS, BORES, Ac. A certain remedy.
No Cure, no pay. X.Y.Z., Bpluhtik Office.
Department of Public Worts, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 21st May, 188 i).
rj(o CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11
o’clock on TUESDAY, the 27th July, from persons
willing-to contract for the construction of the Works on
the Extension *of the South-western Railway, from
Nuraudera to Hay, a distance of about 10t> miles.
Plans, specification, and form of tender may be seen,
and further particulars obtained, at the office of the
Engincer-in-Chief for Railways on and after the 21st
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ‘ Tender for Extension from
Narraudera to Hay.’
The Commissioner does not bind himself toacccpt the
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
O T I C E.
Since the establishment of my Disponing Business in
William-street, Woolloomooloo, a.d. 185:5. I may be
credited with having introduced many VALUABLE
MEDICINES, but none that have )>oen more generally
appreciated than my preparation of LIME and IRON
and STEER’S RHUBARB and CINDER PILLS for
Indigestion and Stomach Complaints.
STEER’S RHUBARB AND GINGER PILLS
arc a very excellent Stomach Aperient Medicine, so
mild that the most delicate of either sex may take
them with safety.
As a Dinner Pill they merit especial attention, being
found to assist digestion better thiui any other medi-
cine. One pill taken immediately before dinner
speedily corrects those derangements and obstructions
that produce a torpid action of the digestive organs:
and the same dose may bo repeated at bedtime if
required.
They are also much recommended ns a mild laxative
for females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in their
operation, leaving no disposition to oostiveness, and
being free from any tendency to cause pain or irritation
in their action.
Sold in boxes, per j>ost, Is. 2d. each.
FR E DERICK E. SLOPE R,
M Oxford Street, Sydney.
pOUNTIir - KILLED ME A T
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
COUNTRY-KILLED BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE FRICKS.
Come and see,
And Judge foe Yourselves.
Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMAEKET.
riIHE BEST SHILLING LUNCH IN TOWN
(including a Glass of Alo or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON'S MERC ANTI E HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Choose
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can bo purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m.
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
OOMK AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
■VTICTORIA PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO
PRICES.
PORTRAITS-.
Carte de Visite 10/- per dozen
~ ~ 7,0 per half-dozen
Carinets 25/- per dozen
~ 17/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA :
C Bon Tons 26
16 Double Gems 2,6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance—VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET.
Atlas foundry ond engineering com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders. Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths ana Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to-undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
P.
R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail
N,
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
+B Gcorge-street West (late Pamunatta-streot),
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street, and
D.irliug-street, Balmain.
Pure Capo Barley and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Sri hit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarkct,
EMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, ns well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds. BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tick Rug in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
B, B. ARMSTRONG, M.F.S.,
Family Chemist and Ajpothecaut,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
#56 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market/, Sydney.
SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN'S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Nkae the Victokia Theater.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TEY IT!!!
J. L. HORDERN.
T HE
OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
Ac. Ac.
34 CLAR E N C E STRE E T ,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMPORTER.
JO R AND AGAINST
“FREETHOUQHT”:
A Monthly Illustrated Journal
Devoted to Arguments on
FEEETHOUGHT, SPIEITUALLSM, MESMERISM,
CLAIEVOYANCE,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Published on Ike loth of each mo nth, beg inning with
the 1 bih February, 1880.
PRICE—On. Pee Coiy.
Published by E. CYRIL HAVILAND,
BOX 152, G.P.0., Sydney.
The naano “FEEETHOUGHT” has been chosen as
being' a word under which a wide margin may bo
allowed for discussion.
Papers have been promised by eminent men AGAINST
Spiritualism, Ac.; and well-known writers will argue
IN FAVOUK of it, so that the subject will be well
ventilated.
Well-authenticated Phenomena will find a placo in
its pages. The latest and best instructions as regards
holding of seances, mesmerism, Ac., will be given.
Notices of public mediums and speakers, arrived and
o arrive in the colony, with reports of their doings,
will be published, and everything will be done to make
“Fheetkougkt” a vehicle for thought in its freest
sense.
THE 15
GREAT PUZZLE
15
BUY AT THE HEAD-QUARTERS,
WHOLESALE A RETAIL
AMERICAN NO V E LTY CO.’ S
I) E P O T,
(OPPOSITE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK
BANK)
AND
MARKET-STREET,
15 SYDNEY. 15
METROPOLITAN STAKES CONSULTATION,
1880.
”000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ISOO
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters tdivided among) AlO
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usua
terms) and closes oe early os possible.
Constituents ore requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattersaii’sClnb, Sydney
15
Melbourne international
EXHIBITION, 1880.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
EXHIBITION OF WINES.
The increasing importance of the Australian Wine
Industry has induced the Commissioners for the Mel-
bourne International Exhibition to make special pro-
vision for the reception and storage of Wines in the
new Permanent Buildings in the Carlton Gardens. No
effort will be spared to make the Exhibition of Wines
national in every respect; and as the various Wines
will be submitted to Jurors who are acknowledged
experts, it is particularly desirable that Australian
Vignerons should avail themselves of the opportunity
offered for testing their Wines by the standard of the
best Continental Vintages, many of which are to be
represented.
Special facilities will be offered for the Sale of Aus-
tralian Wines iu various parts of the Exhibition in order
that the Exhibitors may place their exhibits before
the Public as well us before the International Juries of
Experts.
Copies of the Regulat ions for the Exhibition of Wines,
and Forms of Entry, can be obtained gratis at the office
of the New South Wales Commission for the Melbourne
Exhibition, 123 Macqnarie-street.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM,
Secretary to the Commission.
Melbourne international
EXHIBITION, 1830.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
The Commissioners appointed under the Groat Sea
of the Colony of New South Wales, for the purpose of
taking such measures as may be necessary to secure the
representation of the Arts, Manufactures, Products,
and Inventions of Now South Wales, at the Interna-
tional Exhibition, to be opened iu Melbourne, on the
Ist of OCTOBER. 1880, invite the co-operation of the
Producers and Manufacturers of New Sonth Wales in
the work of securing the fitting representation of tlie
Colony of New South Wales.
All charges incurred in the conveyance to and from
the Melbourne Exhibition, and in the fitting display
thereat of such articles as shall appear to the Commis-
sioners to bo worthy of exhibitioe, will be borne by
the Commission.
The Commissioners will be prepared to receive, at
their Stores, in Sydney, articles intended for Exhibition,
from the loth of MAY to the 15th of JULY.
In order to give the 'Commissioners the opportunity
of imiking adequate arrangements, forms of application,
which may tie obtained gratis at the Commissioners'
Office, 123, Macquarie-street, should be sent in withou-t-
-dclay.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM,
Secretary to the Commission.
Office of the Commission,
128 Macqnarie-street, Sydney.
OTIC E O F R E M O V A L.
THOMAS BROWN, STATIONER,
(Late of Castlereagli-street),
Respectfully thanks the public for past favours, and
wishes to inform them that, ho has removed to those
extensive premises 271 ■ Pitt-street, two doors from the
School of Arts, where he will be enabled to execute all
orders entrusted to him with despatch, and in the best
style of workmanship, iu his business of a stationer,
lithographic, and letter-press printer, bookbinder, and
account-look and paper-bag manufacturer. Having
purchased an entirely new plant of machinery, printing
and lithographic presses, type and lithographic stones
(some of wbicli arc the largest in the colony), all new
material, and engaged the best workmen in each branch
of the business, together with his long experience in all
branches, having extensive premises, enables him to
make his manufactory second to none. It will always
be his his motto, * Small profits and extensive trade.’
JJOMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can iu a few
years realist!
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of thoir families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
M CASH,
■ and
•21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS ‘WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There arc no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Bcattie-strcct, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
At saunderss’ •well-known barley
MOW HOTEL,
Park' and Costlercagh-strreets,
RUMIAND MILK
From five o’clock in the morning. Price 3d.
Soda and Milk, or the pure fiuid by itself.
THE COUNTER LUNCH
hs usual from 10.30, with a glass of Tooth’s celebrated
treble X or a glass of Marian’s ale, for 3d.
Country visitors or permanent lodgers can be accom-
modated with a good table, woll-veutilated bedrooms,
and a private drawing-room upstairs, with use of piano.
Charges very moderate.
c
fOLONIAL WINE, CLARET (Hermitage), and
FREKCH RED.
O’DOUD A Co.,
lit Snsso. Street.
F
O R
ALL DESCRIPTIONS
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
S 5 OXFORD STREET.
O P
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
• Kkoistxhed.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophylliu, Calonic
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, gidiliness, Ac., arising fit®
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
In cento 1 only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At Che Laboratory, 4iU Gcorgo-street, Sydney,
Ec careful not to get imitations.


LITERARY ITEMS.
„ Iney is to have another paper—the Illus-
tjiateo Christian Weekly.
It is proposed to establish in Brisbane a three-
uv weekly newspaper. The promoters have placed
$OO £1 shares in the market.
From private letters received by the mail it
,H oppear that Sir Charles Gavuu Duffy’s history
pHie “ Young Ireland” time of 39 years ago will very
shortly see tlie light.
Mi- E. C. Stodman, who has fame in Wall-
otet as well as in the literary world, is pronounced by
io London Academy “the most distinguished poet
Porn in the U.S. since 1829.”
Professor Adler’s lecture on “ The Modern
persecution of the Jews,” which discussed with great
ability the revival of prejudice against the Hebrew race
iu Germany, has been published iu pamphlet form.
The current number of Queensland Punch
a attractively humorous. The illustrations, the most
noticeable of which is a splendid portrait of Mdlle.
begrande, are even more artistic than usual.
We must go from home to learn news. The
En'dish critical journals arc favourably noticing an
jlaborate philological work by Mr. John Fraser. Ho
ig the proprietor of a school at West Maitland, and is
said to be ouc of the most learned men in this colony.
Two Hornet celebrities are at present in
Sydney- -Mr. Arthur Sketohley, who was one of its
earliest contributors, and Mr. John Plummer, who was
for two years its working editor aud principal contribu-
tor, under Mr. Stephen Fiske, the famous “special”
ot the New York Herald.
A club has been instituted in London for tlie
promotion of the study of Eahelais and the formation
of a Rabelaisian library. Among the members are
Henry Irving, Edmond About, Bret Hirte, and other
well-known men. It is proposed to form affiliated clubs
in France and the U.S.
TRANSLATION FRON SOPHOCLES.
EDITUS AT COLONOS, 1225-1237.
fiirth into mortal life is not a boon.
As sad experience with its logic shows ;
Most happy ho this inn who leaving soon
Back to his antenatal country goes.
Folly to thoughtless youth will over cling ;
Envy aud struggle middle life await.
Peril aud death, where hatt’e-trumpets ring;
While darkest lowers on age the frown of fate.
In loathed, unsocial impotence it dwells ;
Bursts ou its head calamity's wild spray.
As on a surt-smit strand the ocean swells.
While raves the north wind through the wintry day.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The B. C. Bishop of Armidale is now on a tour
in the Clarence district.
The late Bev. Moses Eintol, of Melb mrne, had
his life insured for £l5OO.
Dr. Ealeigh, one of the most eminent of English
Congregational ministers, is dead.
A new paper in the interests
of tbe Anglican church, will shortly
make its appearancem Sydney.
Archbishop Vaughan says that
“ a n;aii should be able to look at
his heart as; at a glass, and see no
flaw in it.”
The Bight Bev. Moneignor
Cupel, D.D., one of the most distin-
guished English Eoman Catholic
prelates, has been declared bankrupt.
The new Mormon tabernacle at
Salt Lake, wbiph has been three
years in course of construction was
recently opened by a conference that
lasted two days. Apostle President
Taylor severely attacked the enemies
of polygamy, and said ho wanted to
see whether tbe Lord or the United
States was to prevail. For his part,
ho was going to stick to the Lord.
The enthusiasm was intense There
is considerable rivalry among the
Mormon chiefs for power in the
church government, and the struggle
promises to come to au open rupture.
Dean Cowpev delivered to the
Christian Association last week an
able address on Sunday observance.
His concluding words wore these:
—” Above all, my friends, aim at se-
curing fbe largest amount of spiritual
good by tbe consecration of the day
to the Lord’s service. Make the
most of it that, you can. Prepare for
it before it comes, and then employ
it diligently, prayerfully, that it may-
shed forth upon you the streams of
blessing with which it is charged.
As individuals, us citizens, and as
members of the common wealth, let it
be seen that you are in earnest, and
that you desire that the colony may
derive from it the same blessings as
other lands have done. that, it may
b 3 elevated, purified, and made happy
by means of the observance, in its
true spirit, of the Lord’s Day.”
The following is a summary of the
demands of what is known as the
Liberal Eeligious Party in the U.S.: —
The imposition of taxes on ecclesiasti-
cal property; the discontinuance of
paid army and navy chaplains; dis-
continuance of all public appro;-ri-
ft ions fort educational and charitable
institutions of a secatrian character ;
abolition of all religious services sus-
tained bv Government, and the
prohibition of Bible-readiug in public
schools ; abolition of all public re-
ligious festivals and feasts; abolition
of the oah aud the substitution of
the simple affirmation; abolition of
all laws directly or indirectly enforc-
ing the Sabbath observance; abro-
gation of all laws looking to tbe
enforcement of “Christian” im-
orality, and the conformation of all
laws to the requirements of natural
morality; abolition of all privileges
and advantages conceded to Chris-
tianity ; the administration of the
entire political system on a purely
secular basis. Aud whatever may be
thought of the abovementioned pro-
gramme, it must be admitted that the
organ of the league, The Boston
Index, edited by Francis E. Abbott,
is one of tbe most brilliantly written
papers in the world.
A young English lady with j£70,000 has become
a nun, and sailed from London to a Queensland
convent.
The Franciscans open a new church and school
at Eandwick shortly. Archbishop Vaughan is an-
nounced to lay flic foundation stone on the 20th inst.
Tlie latest addition to religious literature in
Melbourne is the Jewish Herald (fortnightly). Mr.
Nahum Barnet is its editor, but doesn’t make a living
by it for he thrives on bricks aud mortar.
Mr. Matthew Burnett flatly denies that ho is
milking money out of his Temperance campaign nt
Adelaide, and those who know him will be ready to ac-
cept his statement. In six weeks he induced 4019
persons to sign the pledge.
The archdeaconry of Hamilton (Vie.), rendered
vacant by the death of the Lite Archdeacon Inues, has
been offered to the Eev .1. H. L. Zilimun, locum fcm:nx
in the parish of Bt. John’s, Melbourne, during the
a ’seiiec in England of the Eev. Canon Chase.
Fifteen years ago there were sittings m London
for but 39,000 Nonconformists; now there are sittings
for 100,022. They are now building 30 chapels with
sittings for 1,000 each and have money in hand for 20
more, each with the same number of sittings.
The will of the late Eev. Moses Eintel, Jewish
Eabbi, of Melbourne, was last week sworn under £4,500
and ju-obate was granted to Elvina, bis wife, on the
motion of Mr. Neighbour. He leaves the whole of his
estate to his wife and appoints her executrix and
guardian of his child.
Leo XIII is bent on enlarging the Papacy’s
sphere of action in America, and with this view has
invited all the archbishops, bishops, and priests in
America to gather information and transmit it to Romo.
These statistics will form the basis of a formal project
for extending the influence of the Papal Church there.
The Eev. Mr. Goldrich, formerly of Sydney,
now minister of the Ballarat Hebrew congregation,
whilst making a funeral oration at the grave of his
father-in-law at Melbourne cemetery, entered into a
disquisition on the grammatical structure of averse in
the Bible. It was not much appreciated by the crowd,
who had to listen to it for two hours in the cold.
The Eev. W. Poole (Baptist),of Melbourne, who
is going to Queensland, was last week entertained at a
social reunion and presented with a substantial purse
of sovereigns. Mr. Poole was formerly sub-editor of
the Age, and displayed, while discharging the duties of
that trying position, an amount of tact and journalistic
ability which clergymen rarely possess. We are not
disrespectful when we say that Mr. Poole is regarded
by all pressmen ns a “ first-rate fellow.” Ho is honored
in Melbourne by people of all creeds.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A breach of promise case is on at Ballarat :
damages, £5OO. Defendant has just been married.
A Chinese lady and two children attended a
Sunday School feast at Townsville on Queen’s Birth-
day.
An Adelong farmer has led to the altar his
fourth wife. The latest victim has herself bmied three
husbands.
Ladies’ dresses will bo worn short this year, but
this will not tend to lengthen the purses of indulgent
husbands.
Madame de Lesseps says that American ladies
surpass all others in style of dress; but her husband
adds, in beauty also.
M. Worth is said to have made this remark to a
lady who was dowdily dressed, “ Madame, I cannot risk
my’reputation on you.”
A Melbourne girl has married a Chinaman. He
had some difficulty in explaining the state of his heart,
but she finally got his queue.
A man arrested for murder proved that on the
night and at the hour of the murder he was at home
whipping his wife, and this fact saved him.
Four of the widows of Brigham Young have'
found rest and consolation with second husbands. The
rest are so homely that they are waiting to die.
The Government analyst cautions people against
consuming coloured sweetmeats, which he says nearly
all contain highly injurious metallic preparations.
When ladies meet they always greet with kisses
heard across the street; hut men. more mild, don't
get so wild—they meet, then part, when both have
“ smiled.”
Among the graduates of an English Dental
College recently was a young lady. This is as it should
be. It’s the only way under heaven to soften the agony
of tooth-pulling.
Did you ever consider the despotism of kissing ?
The men kiss the women without caring whether it is
agreeable or otherwise, and the women kiss the defence-
less babies remorselessly.
“ I have a love-letter.” said an Irish servanterirl
to her mistress. “ Will ye rude it to me, plase ? A d
here,” she addtd, “is some cottou-wnll ye can stuff iu
yor ears whoile y-o rado it."
A wedding is shortly to come off at Mudgco
between a well-known local resident and a daughter of
the most influential Mudgee wool-kings. The young
lady ip at present in Europe.
Says the China Mail, “The wife of Shibata
Tobei, a hotel proprietor of Kiobasliisanchome, was
married to him when she was 14 years old, and has
given birth to 17 children, On the 22nd March she had
four children at a birth, all of whom are doing well.”
A young lady in Charleston (N.Z.), at present
acting as barmaid in a leading hotel, has come in for an
inheritance of £14,000, to he paid to her when she
attains her twenty-first birthday. The bachelors should
roll up to look at this fair Hebe —at least one woidd
imagine so.
The Government analyst says that the following
preparations should ho eschewed, on the ground than
they contain deleterious compounds of lead, and may
lead to paralysis:—Ayer’s Hair Vigour, Mexican Hair
Restorer, Mrs. Allen’s World’s Hair Eestorer, and
Gamble’s Hair Vigour.”
The hostile feeling which has been aroused
against the Jews in Germany has even its ridiculous
side. A German paper tells us that at Mannheim, a
hatter has publicly announced that he will no longer
serve Jewish customers. It is somewhat curious that
Hen- Marr, one of the principal instigators against
the'Jews, was twice married to Jewesses, llinc illae
lachrmncn.
In England, the Princess of Wales has instituted
certain reforms, or at any rate alterations, in the hall-
programme. Lady Augustus Loftus, whoso word is
and should be law in the fashionable world of (New
South) Wales, has determined to bring about certain
changes in Government House ballroom. Her Lady-
ship is shocked at the “romps” which now abound
and says she never saw such a performance as the
Sydney “ Sir Eoger.”
It was at a dance. She was a beauty. Ho was
already enamoured, and the process ot introduction
had not fully revealed her name. “Let us change our
seats,” he said, “as the gentleman approaching is my
particular detestation.” “ Yon are speaking ot my
husband," said the fair one, with a severe glance of
disapproval. “Ain I not right, then, in detesting
him ? ” was the reply.
Some of the Talmudical stories are very amusing
A Jewish gentleman the other day related to ns one of
them, to the following effect:—The devil had a sor.,
aud gave him the choice of two professions. The
youngster elected to be a doctor. “ Very well, my son,
said the father, “ you will be a clever aud wondertuUy-
successful physician. You will never err in your
opinion concerning a patient’s chance of recovery,
for should yon on ontering a sick man’s room not see
mo sitting at bis bedside —and I shall be invisible to all
bnt you—you may at once pronounce that bis return to
health is assured ; but should you, on the other hand,
meet me iu the room, you may instantly conclude that
there is bo hope for the invalid.” The son became a
doctor, went intoi.practio’” folio
sfractions, and, unlike all the other medicos, nevef-
made a professional mistake. The young man’s fame
reached the king, who had fallen desperately ill, and ho
was summoned by his majesty. But the ” old gentle-
man ” sate by the monarch’s bed, and the doctor shook
his head ominously. " I will give you,” said the king,
“half my kingdom in return for health.” Then the
doctor commenced to revolve in his mind means whereby
the devil might be chased away. At last he whispered,
“Look out. father, here’s mother! ” The devil took
to his heels, the king got well, and the son went
halves with the monarch. Of course this is a very free
translation.
FUN AND FANCY.
Sound Investment. —A telephone.
Bound to Look Well. —A braided eoat.
Is the baby elephant rocked in its mother’s
trunk ?
How long does a widower mourn for his wife ?
For a second.
Can any one improve his condition by whining ?
If not, whine not.”
If an old sheep can only jump a fence they call
it a “ spring lamb.”
The language of flowers —Anthologlc for “My
dear Jim.” Jas. mine.
He who Mrs. to take a kiss
Has Mr. thiug he should not Miss.
The placidity of expression worn by a man who
is “next” in a full barber-shop cannot bo counterfeited.
The hornet and mule are too tender-hearted to
look upon suffering. They always turn their back when
they strike.
Philadelphia possesses the champion modest
young lady. When she hangs stockings out on the
clothes-line she puts veils over them.
A boy committed suicide because his mother
scolded him for smoking. It’s cheerful to remember
that there is another world where everybody smokes.
Brigliam Young was first to solve the boss
puzzle with fifteen wives. Ho had very little trouble
with Nos. 13,14, and 15, so long ns the Gentiles let him
alone.
The latest sweet thing is entitled “ Kiss me
Quickly, Birdie Darling.” It is described ns serio-comic
the scrio part probably beginning Upon the arrival of
the old man.
When a man advertises for a lady to elope with
him, it is embarrassing both for him and the woman
who answers the advertisement to find that they are
already husband and wife.
Little drops of pepper-
Mint, and grains of tea.
Doctor up the human breath
Quite ingeniouslec.
Subjoined is a statement of charges recently
brought against n Victorian state-sclrool teacher by an
angry parent;—“ 1. Immorrality ; 3. Parshaility; 3.
Keeping disordly school; 4 Carying unlaflc weepings.”
Untravelled Englishman (studying the carte at
a Paris restaurant) : “ Fricnndeau a I’oseille—filet de
boeuf aux imchois —omelette aux confitures,” Waiter.-
“What shall IJbring. monsieur ? ” U. E.: “ Oh —ah—a
French dictionary! ’’
Is a porcupine an animal or a
fruit P Tlie latter, because it's the
offspring of a prickly pair.
It has cost the British Govern-
ment about twelve millions to get
Cetewayo to wear trousers, and now
he wants to sneak out of the legs.
The explanation given by an ex-
cited Celestial in Vicksburg—“ Me
playee poker with Melican, alle same
toe gletteo flo aces; me bette ten
dollar, nobody clum in. Me gletteo
ilo tlnshee; me bettee fifteen dollar,
evly son of glun clum in. Me cleaneo
out.”
“Were any minutes taken at
year meetings r ” enquired Mr. Hick-
man Molesworth, barrister, Belfast,
( Vie.) of a member of a school com-
mil te i against whom the teacher had
brought an action for illegal dismis-
sal. “ Minntes ! ” exclaimed the
witness; “it wasn’t minutes wo
tuk ; we war - hours at it.”
“ Where is your mother ? ” said
tt worthy man to a little street miser-
able. She answered, diffidently,
“ She is dead!” Have you no
father?” “Yes, sir; but ho is
sick.” “What ails him?" con-
tinued the questioner. “He has
got a sore linger, sir.” “Indeed!”
“Yes, sir.” “Why don’t, he cut
it off, then ? ” “ Please, sir, he hain't
got any money to buy a knife.”
Adam is no longer to bo neglee-
ted in this age of testimonials. “He
is, says an American contemporary, to
have a cenotaph. It may seem a
rather late day to recognise the ster-
ling merits of our first father by giv-
ing him any cnotapby, as it were, but
it is better Late than never. If any
man ever deserved a monument, it was
Adam. He was a man of the strict-
est habits ; he never smoked, neither
did ho chew; he attended no lodge-
except that celebrated lodge in the
wilderness; and he lounged around
no grocery corner. The monument
is to be erected at Elmira, New York ;
and this is how the subject became
started. Eev. Thomas K. Beecher,
in nn unguarded moment declared tha t
Elmira was a Garden of Eden, This
sor the people thinking that they
could not choose a better spot for the
erection of a good-sized tombstone for
Adam. Subscriptions of Sodols. eacb
entitle the giver to a life member-
ship ticket. The monument is to be
of marble, and will be seventy-five
feet high. Perhaps the raising of
.such a uiommientwill not be so diffi-
cult as the preliminary 2,000 dols to
complete it. The statue is to he un-
veiled next spring, and Mark Twain
will furnish the inscription. Mark
is singularly fortunate, inasmuch as
his summer residence is in Elmira,
and he can spend a portion of each
summer vacation in weeping over the
regularly certified monument to
Adam; and thus mistakes which were
made in this direction in the past
will be blotted out by the tears he is
now prepared to shed, as soon as the
foundations are solid enough to ad-
mit of such an inundation in the neigh-
bourhood. Send on your subscriptions
to the Adam momnmont fund.”
' Fellow Citizens.” said a local candidate,
“ there are three topics that now agitate the State-
greenbacks, taxes and nhe penitentiary. I shall pass
over the first two very hrielly, ns my sentiments are
well known, and come to the penitentiary, where I shall
dwell for some time.
The Scandinavian Union held their annua
masquerade in Brisbane ou Monday. It was high old
sport, says our Brisbane correspondent. Romeo shared
a bottle of porter with Ophelia, and Hamlet “put on
side ” with Juliet. Claude Melnobte and Camille were
all there, and Tom Tug and Mrs. Bundle joined in the
mazy. Helen McGregor danced a Highland fling with
the butterxnan, with Punch and Lady Macbeth as vis-
a-vis. The guests resolved themselves into a discus-
sion class about four o’clock in the morning, somebody
having started thetromentonsargument “Is life worth
living ?”
VICE-REGAL SPORT.
MINE HOST OF WAGGA.


rji h k
A T li H
Lessee
Business Manager A. Treasurer
Stage Mamger
B
3
1
I
THIRTEENTH WEEK and
SUCCESS
of
LYBTKE and GARNER’S LO>
COMPANY.
THIS (Friday) EVE*
LAST NIGHT O
Tom Taylor’s World-renowi
STILL WATERS RUN DEE
Still Waters Run D
Still Waters Run
Mr. Potter
Captain Hawksley
John Mildmay -
Dunbilk
Langford
Markham
Giidet
Joesop
Mrs. Mildmay
Mrs. Hector Stemhold
Mr. Et
Mr. G.
Mr. G<
Mr. R.
Mr. Fi
Mr. A 1
Mr. W
Mr. Hi
Miss A
Mrs. A
After which (to conclude the t
will bo given the scree mi
STAGE STRUCI
Stage Struck
Stage Struck.
Sir Matthew Scraggs ... Mr. E.
Count Glorious... Mr. A 1
Tom Tape Mr. R
Milton Mr. He
Captain Dorrington ~ Mr. Fr
Lady Scragge . Mrs. Hi
Lilly Scraggs Mias A
Poplin ... .. Miss N
SCENERY BY MR. GEORG
SATURDAY EVENING
will bo revived with all the orb
appointments, and tho groat
the brilliant Como
FRIENDS.
Prices of Admission. —Dress C
3s ; Family Circle, 2s Pitt, Ib.
Box Office open at Elvy and O
street, where seats may be seoun
Circle six days in advance.
Doors open at 7 ; overture at
can he ordered at 10.30.
•UT I O T O E I A T ]
FRIDAY. JUNE L
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT
THE LING ART
ami
FULL COMPAIT
LAST TIME IS f
Grand Comedy Dm
STOLEN K I
By the Author of Nhw I
Played in London and Provinces sev
M M E N S E S'
of the
Mrs, BROWN BE(
at the
SCHOOL OF AR
gCHOOL OF
IMMENSE SUCC
of
ARTHUR SKETCH
the
CELEBRATED A
of
«< nr- . If-,,,,-,. ” “ ’TV,..
-ITT I e T O K I A T
Messrs. OOPPIN, HENNING!
have the honour of annonneiu
taken the above popular place oi
short season, and will have the
ducing several novelties now to 1
commencing __ , ,
, TUESDAY, 15th J
with the First Appea
IRELAND'S COME
GRATTAN RIG(
in his great speciality and prate
THE IRISH DETE<
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK IX—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER IX.— Contined.
Mho was content, pleased, even flattered at the
friendly way in which she held been receive*!. Her
expression said that as plainly a* words could do.
Myles began to lose some of his bewilderment, and
to gain somewhat more confidence.
“ Eh, I’ve forgotten th’ mewffins 1” said Mary,
tmddonly, .a shade crossing her face. “ We mnn
really wait while I toast the mow thus.”
• Hhe jumped up and produced tea-cakes out of a
cupboard, and Myles suggested that perhaps it did
not matter about the muffins. Mary, was, how-
ever, firm, and bade him cut some bread and but-
ter while she toasted.
“ And mind thou cuts it nice and thin, and not
all i’ lumps,” she added in admonitory tones.
Myles, much too simple-minded to see anything
derogatory in cutting bread-and-butter, began, but
in half a minute Adrienne had jumped up and laid
hold of the knife.
“ Stop 1 That clearly is not your sphere,” said
she, laughing into his embarrassed, yet ever-at-
tractive face, ” It is not stem enough—not com-
manding enough. Let me do it.”
Unaware of the distinguished example sot by the
Wetzlar heroine in the bread-and-butter cutting
line, Myles watched the deft fingers of his oa-
ehatrtronri us if no woman had ever been known
to cut bread-and-butter properly before.
Mary, who grew visibly and every moment more
satisfied with her quest, toasted the ” mowffins,”
buttered them, and t ea was proclaimed ready with
acclamation.
Then Edmund came to the table; they all sat
there, ti.nl Mary made tea in state, apologising for
not having the best tea-things because of the im-
promptu nature of the visit.
“ I o.m sure these sewn delightful tea-things,”
eaid Adrienne smiling.
The festivity was altogether successful as regar-
ded Adrienne, Mary, and Edmund. lint Miss
Ulissit oast every now and then fleeting gances_ at
Myles, and was not quite at her ease about him,
for he alone of all the party was silent and grave.
It was the deep intensity of the delight within
him that caused tliis, but Adrienne could not be
supposed to know that—in very truth, as yet sho
lionostiy believed the greater admiration and lik-
ing to bo on her side. That delusion was soon to
be ended, but at present sho was under its in-
fluence.
The meal was not long over when she said sho
mast go, and promising Mary to oome again, she
wont away, accompanied by Myles.
Their way lay through what was called “ the
Park.” They turned in at the largo iron gates of
a town pleasure-ground, laid out in gravel walks,
grass plots, seats, and flower beds. They wore on a
height. The town lay below, with the gilded spire
of the town-hail cleaving the air, and the hazy-
lookiii* blue wall of Blacking to the north and
north-west.
As they walked slowly along a broad terrace,
unoccupied save by themselves, Adrienne asked,
■ 11 her quick foreign way :
“ Say to mo, Mr. Heywood —you are vexed that
I camoP”
•* X —vexed —nay!” was all that ho could say.
'lTie current which for the lust week had ever
bean hurrying more and more quickly forward had
now arrived at the verge. It leapt over it in a
Island, and carried everything before. He was
madly in love, and all he could do was to say as
little", be as brief as possible, for fear of showing
tier, startling her, perhaps rej>ellmg her ; for ho
■was intensely conscious of the difference; all his
dearly-loved," passionately cherished theories of
equality could not blind him to the fact that
that they wore not equals —that while he loved her
with a strength that shook his nature with its
power, yet the bare thought of touching her, hold-
ing her hand, speaking to her on easy and familiar
terras, oamc to him with a souse of impropriety—
brought him the conviction, no-n, sum dio/me,
“You were so quiet,” said she. “You would
hardly speak to me. I was afraid I bad offended
you.”
“Not at oil,” said poor Myles, unable to say
more lest he should say too much.
“ I am sure,” pursued Adrienne stopping in her
Vidk and looting earnestly at him —‘ ' I urn sure
you know that 1 did not mean to offend you ; and
you could uot Ix 3 so hard as to wish me to keep
silence, Yon have behaved splon didly. I felt that
I must thank you for it.”
It was growing too much for him to stand there
quiescent, and hear that voice, which contained all
melody for him, and to see that face, those eyes,
looking ut him so. The eagerness of desperate
love come storming down upon p nr donee, and hur-
rying words of devotion to his lips. Mastering
himself by a strong effort, and clasping, or rather
clenching his hands behind him, he said, in what
seemed to Adrienne a singularly calm, colourless
voice;
“ You make too much of it. I would rather not
bo thanked for it.”
“ You are hard upon mo to say that. It gives
rae such pleasure to thank you, but you deserve at
my hands that 1 should comply with your wishes—
after what you have done for me. But you can-
not guess what a delightful feeling it is to one so
lonely os I, to suddenly discover that there is some
one who has been not afraid to stand up for her —
and to some purpose.”
“I should have thought you would Lave many
friends,” remarked Myles, endeavouring to change
the too-fascinating subject.
“ I —no indeed. I don't think any one with
fewer friends ever lived.”
“ Bat you may have left friends behind you on
the Continent P”
A momentary pause while he looked at her. It
was af? though some sudden blow had struck the
words back from her lips to bur heart —then she
wiid steadily:
“ gome few; but chiefly benefactors rather than
friends —benefactors who befriended and helped
me in my loneliness and destitution, for my father
and I were sometimes almost destitute.”
“ Destitute P” echoed Myles, shocked.
“ Oh yes! I have, not always Hvod in Laa-
«a>hire, you know. No one seems to bo poor here.
I have "known what it is to look at a piece of
money worth sixpence, and know that if I spent
that upon my supper I should not have a penny in
the morning to buy breakfast with,”
“ But not seriously ?”
“ 1 assure it seemed very serious to me. 1 hare
sank lower. I have known what it was to go
Ksuppcrlees to bod, wondering what poor little
trinket or book I oonld spore in order to get a
breakfast next morning.”
Myles was silent, and Adrienne continued s
* Not at all 1 I like it. After all the fever and
Abe tkurmoils, and upe and downs, and dreadful
-Mnoortainties of that life, my present one is like
Paradk-xj. Oh, >c*t Is a very sweet thing---rest
and security aud a strong arm to help you.”
(Myles turned to her with her parted lips.) ‘‘Your
homo is beautiful. That sister of yours is so culm
and good. I love her dearly, Hhc must he very
dear to yon,”
“ Ax, I love Mary dearly.”
Yes. Both she aud you, aud all of you, look os
if you had had a home all your lives. I>o you
think I might go to see them again r”
“ They’ll only be too glad. I never thought you
oould sympathise so much —with our sort,” said
Myles constrainedly.
To-morrow you will oome to Htonegate, will
you not ? and then I will hdl yon my story', and
you will perhaps understand how it is that I sym-
pathise with ‘ your sort,’ as yon call it, and why I
think so much of what yon have done for me.”
” I will come with pleasure.”
** To-morrow afternoon, then, I shall expect
yon.” .
The walked the rest of toe way in silence, aud
Myles left her at the gate.
CHAPTEKK X.
” Dbispek, ani> Dkkpbu I'nu,"
It was a lovely Hunday afternoon on which Myles
took his way to Htonegate. Ho found Adrienne
alone. She said her uncle was taking his afternoon
airing in his bath-chair in the garden, and did not
wish to be disturbed ; Ins old servant, Brandon,
was with him.
” But sit down,” she continued, ” we can have
a bilk.”
■With that she picked up her knitting and began
to work.
“ You will folk,” said My Ice, “ if you keep your
promise. You promised to toll mo about yourself.”
“ Do you really want to hear that?”
” I came on purpose."
“ Well, I will tell it you, and i hope It will have
the effect I intend.”
” What effect is that ?”
“ I came on purpose."
“ Well, I will tell you, and I hope it will have
the effect I intend.”
“ What effect is that P”
” You arc determined to look upon mo (I have
seen it, so don’t be at the trouble of denying it) as
something hue and delicate, and unused to rough-
ness and hardship."
“Yes, one can see plainly enough that you are
that. ’ ’
” Can crop Well, I’ll begin my story, land you
shall learn how appearances may deceive.”
Adrienne related well, she did not exaggerate;
there was nothing strained —no striving after
effect ; but there was colour, pathos, life, in her
tale, and a subtle poetry thrown over all, by her
way of loooking at things.
Myles, in listening, felt as if he wore actually
wandering with her on that nomadic UiV she spoke
of; through the great foreign capitals, and the
country villages, and the towns, big and little ; to
be sojourning with her in the gay, feverish
watering-places ; to survey the distant, rose-tinted
Alps. He utterly forgot where ho was, and knew
only her and her life.
There had been two brothers, she told him, of
whom her father was the younger and liar uncle
the older. Kith aud kin they had none, aud their
patrimony was small. Both were gifted, but in
different ways. Adrian, her father, was artist to
the marrow of his bones. Richard, her undo, had
also some taste for art, but more of the analytical
and critical than of the synthetic description ; he
had been, moreover, at one time a practical man
of business, and hod mode money ; he vas not rich
but thoroughly independent. Her fa' her had hod
the gift of spending, not of making. The brothers
hod parted early. Adrian, o« soon us ho was his
own master, had said farewell to home, and had
gone, first to Germany, there to study the music
which his soul loved, and which had beatified his
otherwise weary, disappointed life.
Home time was spent in Germany, thou two or
three years in miscellaneous aud somewhat aim-
less travel; then hock again to Germany, to music
and to love. The fair, clover, and penniless
daughter of a poor professor and man of science
won his heart, as ho hers, and they married.
With marriage came the feeling of an insuffi-
oiency of means, and the desire to augment them
led him into business speculations of a nature
which ho did not in the least understand: the
bubble burst, and Adrian Blisset found himself a
ruined man in less than a year after his marriage.
Adrienne’s mother died at her birth : the girl had
never known that holy bond, however much she
might have longed for it. Her father chose to lay
part of the cause of his wife’s death to the anxiety
induced by his extravagance and folly—moreover,
he had adored her, and from the hour of her death
ho had boon a ebauged man. He had his own liv-
ing and that of his child to gain, but ho settled
nowhere. His life became nomadic. He and the
little one did not sojourn long in the tents of any
particular tribe. Scarce a city or a town of any
importance in Europe, but had sheltered the un-
conscious head of the infant, or been trodden by
the child’s uncertain feet, or by the sedate step of
the maiden, careworn before her time, while she
know intimately many an out-of-tho-way nook, un-
named by Murray, Bradshaw, or Baedeker,
deep in the sunny lands of Franco; Thuringian
wood and slopes, or sleepy red-roofed lihonish
hamlets.
A restless ghost drove the musician with his
child and his violin hither and thither, never per-
mitting him to stay long in any one place and
gather substance ; but ever, so soon ns the novelty
had worn off, seeming to drivo him forth on a
fresh search after —what ? Adrienne had learnt at
an early age to ask herself that question, and sor-
rowfully to give up the answer.
• Sometimes ho was in funds, when ho showered
all kinds of presents upon her, and called her bis
dear child, his Herxallerliebste ; but oftoner they
wore plunged in poverty, sore, sordid, dreadful
poverty. His moods varied distressingly, from
kindness that had in it something fitful and sinis-
ter, up to the dark and melancholy silence which
was his most frequent humour. He was proud
and his pride was of a touchy aud intractable kind;
it offended men of business, and estranged pupils
and friends.
Adrienne had had many teachers ard many
strange lessons, and the whole had combined into
a varied and truly most unconventional education.
Her father had lavished mnsical training upon her.
At Florence, where they stayed a whole year, lon-
ger than any whore else, she had wandered about
with a kind old artist, who led her about with him
j to the great galleries, and showed her the grandest
1 pictures, and made her know the beautiful buil-
dings, till she had imbibed the undying loveliness
! of such masterpieces as Giotto’s Campanile, or
j Michael Angelo’s Dnomo, and had discovered that
I her favourite thing in Florence was the 4 Pensioro ’
I Medici of the last-named artist,
“ Yon remind me of him,” she added, tmddenly
looking at Myles. And she had sat, at thirteen
years of age, for a picture of * Gravity- 1
“ Was that what ho called you?” asked Myles.
Yes. Gravity, or eeiateu-jHB was hfs name for
mo—-and it suited mu.”
i,vo be cosT-mnn?.,/)
TRAMWAY NOTES
A SINGULAR CONVERSATION.- —SOME VALUABLE
HINTS.
Everybody who has travelled by the tramway
knows that as the cars turn the bend in Pitt-street,
after running through Beltnoro Park, a tine view
is obtainable on the right of the splendid Paloee
Htores of Anthony Hordern and Sons, Haymarket.
A glimpse is likewise got of the site on which the
tirm are about erecting a structure that promises
to surpass any building we have in Sydney, either
bf extent or in style of architecture. It is not
unnatural that the immense business done by
Anthony Hordern and Sous should frequently
form a topic of conversation as the care fly past.
Something after the following, which was over-
heard last Saturday afternoon, is the usual
result; —
Young Lady to Gentleman Friend: See, those
are the new stores of Anthony Hordern and Sous.
You have nothing like them in your city.
Gentleman : Well, we have some big houses in
Melbourne, but wo give in to the Horderns of the
Haymarket. Is it a fact, however, that they do
the enormous business that they are reported to '
bo doing r
Lady : I’ve been in Paris and London, and I have
really never seen so many persons in an establish-
ment os you may find at Anthony Hordorn and
Hon’a any afternoon in the week. On Saturday or
Monday afternoon the place is like a fair.
Gentleman : I'd have thought the tram would
have carried the people on into the city.
Lady : So should 1; but the fact is, people know
the cheapest house. You would hardly imagine
where they came from. People from all parts of
the city, from the suburbs and the country dis-
tricts, all flock there. Y'et there are many who
know nothing of the bargains.
Gentleman: I suppose that I; really tlio case
But how can they soli so cheaply 'i
Lady: Well, I hear they buy wheu the merchants
are forced to sell. Then they make enormous pur-
chases in London, and buy for cash. And they
invest beforehand, I’m told, to suit the season.
Gentleman : Do they sell for cash only i’
Lady ; That is all. Do yon know, several things
I’ve p'aid, say 10s. fid., for what I've got after-
wards at Anthony Hordern and Son’s for Gs. fid.
Gentleman.: But is there not a corresponding
difference in the quality Y
Lady: None whatever. But, it there ever is, it
is on the side of the Haymarket Palace.
Gentleman: I suppose the whole secret is their
capital ?
Lady: Well, I don’t know about that. They
had ten tons of Berlin wools a few weeks ago;
now Grey have precious little of it, Vt ell, do yon
know, they wore selling for. hs. fid. what you had
to pay 12s. fid. for in Oxford-street and in other
parts'of the city, and their prices over the counter
were actually lower than the wholesale houses
agreed should be current prices,
* Gentleman : Nonsense !
Lady : It is most certainly a. fact. They have
the cards at Hordern’s to prove it. And it is the
very same with every article you require. You
can' save 7s. Gd. in the £ by spending the note with
Anthony Hordern and Son’s. Thousands know
this ; yet many do not know it.
Gentleman : W r ell, that is to their cost.
Lady : Exactly. But they have as much business
as they require. Their takings frequently rise to
£1700 a day. and they’ll increase very much, no
doubt, when the now shops go up.
Gentleman : Yon would think they had enough
room already.
Lady: Well, thoir Palace Stores already are
without equal in any of the colonies.
Gentleman : Well, 1 shall go and see them.
Lady: Do no, and tell me banes Gy whether I’m
not correct.
Thus the conversation ended.


H I A K I
EOYAL ITALIAN GJ
and
PERFORMING AM
HAYMAEKET EES]
EVERY EVENING, at
“MATINEES,
WE DNESDAY and SATURDAY
at half-past 2.
THIS (Friday) EVENIN’*
Another complete change ol
Enthusiastic Recep
TRIUMPHANT 8U(
of this
MAGNIFICENT COMB
Pronounced by the Press
The BEST CIRC
WHICH HAS EVER 1
AUBTEALIA
The spacious Pavilion crowded
Saturday evening, and hundreds tn
gain admission.
The Proprietor begs to announce
cession of Novelties will be present
NEW and TALENTED .
WONDERFULLY TRAIN
The School of Perform
ZEBRAS, EOYAL BENG
&e., Ac,, Ac.
Prices of A dmiss
Dress circle (chairs), is ; stalls (i
2s*, Children under 12 years of age,
Special rates for Schools whan a
Or
BAND
21 HOURS’ WAI
ME NT.
BETWEEN
J. W. TAYLOR AND 1
for £lOO.
COMMENCING FRIDA
at 10 p.m.
ITiov to the above, there will
Hoars GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE t
everybody. First prize. £5; se
This will he started at 8 o’clock si
to be in the hands of Mr. F. W T I
Hotel, at 10 p.m., June 2i.
P R E ETKO V OH T
THEATRE KO
SUNDAY EVENIN'
Mr. CHARLES B
Will deliver a Lootu
A PLEA FOR THE HUNU
iuid
A PROTEST AGAINST 1
TO SUPPRESS
“ Give me the liberty to know, t
freely according to oo iscience, ah
* • And though nil the minds
loose to play upon the cart h, so tr
do injuriously by licensing and pre
her strength. Let her and fata
ever knew Truth put to the woi
encounter ? * * * * For who
is strong next to the Almighty f g
or stratagems to make her victims
shifts that error uses against h(
And what do they tell ns vainly o
this very opinion of theirs, that uc
whom they like, is the worst and i
Others?”
JOHN MILTO
Commence at 7.30.
T
NOi
HE GREAT WAXWORJ
fOW OPEN, opposite the Vic
street. Just ARRIVED, from
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE V
Christine, the two-headed Nightin
heads, four arms, four legs, and on
Admission Is, children half pri«
10 n.m. to 10 p.m.
fJTHE
INTER COLONIAL,
ASSOCIATION, Llh
Heac Ofvicks 253 (late 217). *
(formerly the Mercant
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Share
Subscribed, £5O
Australian mutual
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 18
HEAD OFFICB-PITT-BTEEI
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LII
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTOR
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M
John H. Goodlet, Enq,, Deputy-Cl
Robert Saddington, Esq. j Isa:
Robert J. King, Esq. j S. 1
CHIEF MEDICAL OF I
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P.
Terraco.
ACTUARY:
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. i A
Extract from Poet Magazine (I
comber, 1879, on the sixth Quinque
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a wl
pleto statement ever issued by a
affords an incontestable proof that
success it tells is the result, not of i
tical and theoretical ability, gover
meat and prudence.’
Tub Commercial World (Londo
1880, says:—‘hio British Company
with the Australian Mutual, which,
of its existence, has received in iutej
than it hits loon called upon to pay
ACCUMULATED FUND. THI
STERLING.
EBEIBLE AC
Are continually happen
FRIGHTFUL MUTIL
and
LOSS OF LIF
are recorded as the result of accide
the daily press,.
The best investment to pm
ACCIDENTS OF ALT
is to take out a Policy
AUSTRALASIAN ACCIDE N
ASSOCIATIO]
(Limited).
CAPITAL—iJIOO
OVER 300 CLAIMS ALEE.A
Head Oalccg- 255 Pitt-st., coi
JA
CHOICE AGRICULTURAL
FARMS.
JOSEPH J. ROBERTS has n
from Mr. Charles Mould to
James Cullen’s Hotel, Moss Vale,
On SATURDAY, Jane Pith, at
His very choice and well-situ
main road from Moss Vah
about six miles from the fi:
and four miles from the Fi
LOT 1. -Consists of 130 acre
eastern side of the Shot*
vided into three convenieu
is thoroughly fenced and &
watered in the driest sensor
stumped and cleared. The
acre containing fruit trees
description. Stockyards,
land is first-class.
LOT' '-’.—Containing 90 acres
and 50 acres conditionally ;
farm is erected a very neat
roomed house, with all nec
the hind is thoroughly fenc
is of the richest descriptor
Terms, liberal, at
The Auctioneer begs to cftll spe
above sale, as the owner, having tr
leave the district, intends selling;
of a. comfortable homestead and pa
do well to inspect this snug little
of sale, as it is seldom such a chai
purchasing a farm so highly in
favourably situated.
Mr. Mould, oi the properly, will
chnstwe over the land. Full pa:
tained from the Auctioneers,. 70C li
’ every ttower that
hi'entl.vn n frasrau-c
SWEET SCi
LIGN-ALOE. OPCI
LOVE-AMONQ-THE
M
ADDOCK’S SELEC
J5Bl GEORGE BTB}
BTDXEY.
This) Library will bo found to eontai
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLOI
which are received, immediately on
and fast ocean steam
Arrangements have been made w
publishers for full supplies of eve
interest to bo sent os soon as pnhlisl
la addition to the above wi
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTER
Subscribers may join at any dat
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Hates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One month, ss. ; Three mouths, 12
255.; Twelve months, P 3 2s.
To Heads of Families,—'Those s
a larger supply of books than one se
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two set
taken from the Library at once for
Books or Periodicals may in all <
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to St ds et. — Subsets
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors v
may even join for n Fortnight, and
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents,— Specie
made for the benefit of Country Sul
taking a parcel of from Three to Tv
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MAD
shall be Carried by Kail at ONE-
parcel rates. A card of country t<
application.
Subjoined will bo found a LIST o:
BOOKS now in circulation:
The Story of Barbara, by Miss
A Pink Wedding, by B. M. Jepl
Memoirs of Madame Remersat,
Life and Writings of Thomas B
Magnum Bonnm, by Charlotte ’
Sunshine and Storm in the Easl
The Greatest Heiress in Englar
The Letters of Charles Dicken*
The Root of nil Evil, by Floren
Young Mrs. Jardine, by Miss JV
Cousin Henry, by Anthony Trc
JeeeheTa Daughter, by Wilkie (
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Grin
Her Dignity and Grace, by H. (
The Seamy Side, by Besant and
Lily of the Valley, by Mrs. Ran
'The Old Regime : Court, Salon
Catherine Charlotte, Lady.
The Heart of Holland, by Henr
Hugh Heron, by ths Rev. R. St
Russia and England, by 0. K.
Memoirs of Bishop Milman, by
Maria Milman
The River of Golden Sand the
noy through China and Eos
mah, by Captain Gill
Moths, by Ouida
Two women, by Oeorgiana. M. C
A Sylvan Queen, by the author
Green Ferno Farm, by Richard
Our future Highway, by Veru
C.B.
Royal Windsor, vols. 'i and 4
Dixon.
Life of James Hepburn, Hurl of
rick Sohiem ; transbkted fn
Rev. David Berry, F.B.A.C
Free Land, by Arthur Arnold
England under lord Ben cons tie
Four Months in a Sneak Bo
Bishop
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Three Recruits, by Joseph Hat
An Australian Heroine, by E. 1
if'or Her Dear Sake, by Mary C
Loyal and Lawless, by W. Balp
Ac. Ac. Ac.
HADDOCK’S SELECT
!SBl George Street By
Open from f* a.m. to 8 p m.
WM A €
• PORTRAIT PAW
325 Bourke-street, Woo
1 E X TEAL PH
J 78 (LatoB4i KING-81
DISPENSING ESTABL
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet
Every article carefully selected.
felmif;
AMES C C
PRIZE MEAT PEES
~\'Wr PEITCHAKD’S HOU
V \ • HOTEL, A GENER4
FOB THE LETTING A:
Of every descriptio
BUSINESS PE
By Auction or Private C
ESTATE AND LAND HAL
289 GEORGE STREET (Oppob:
N.B.—A Register kept (free of ch
ties To Let or Businesses for Sale.
WELLS AND SMITH BJ
tioneers. Commission Age
Salesmen, hold Sales by A
BEEP, Mutton, ami Pork, at the C
Company’s Sheds. Darling Hurl
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Durlin
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, 1
Ac., lit Darling Harbour Kailwa
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Ch
Ac., at their Suleyurds, 699 Geoi
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtc
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, an
WOOL, Sheepskins. Hides, and Tal
Darling Harbour - every Thursi
HEAD OPPICE—699 GEOEGE-S
W H. P~A
• I’XAN OPO KTE WARS
352 George-streef
EEARD’S GRAND V'.
have gained the
TWO FIRST PHI
in
THE FRENCH CO
Agent:
W. H. PALI
PIETEI/S CELEBRATE
uon-competitm
but unsurpaesr*
Agent:
W. H. PALIN
VT. BELL A CO.’S CANADI
have Rained the
FIRST and SPECIAL
over all others
Hole Agent:
|W. H. PALIS
PALDfO and COMPANY’*
PIANOEORTI
have
GAINED ANOTHER
at
THE INTERNATIONAL 1
W. H. PALI?
352 george sti
COMMEECIA L STORES, KI
JOHN McM I N N
AUCTIONEERS. PRODUCE M
GENERAL COMMIBHIO
Special attention given to Consign-
Hales promptly rendered, in
and Country Orders executed ’
ITSTTM. BEDE CHRISTIE. 1
¥ ¥ Surveyor under the Real
LAND AGEN'I
li Bridge-street, S;
Loans granted wn
moderate rates, on nil kiiuls
ments to suit convenience of lion
LOAN OFFICE. 96 Castlereagh
King-street. Established 3859,
Three tears before *
QUEENSLAND FROM NE
A poor Woman, mother of four
seven, the youngest two years oidi.
Creek Lunatic Asylum, oad died th
were sent to Sydney, their father :
living in the new colony us lest h
ago, fortune smiled upon him, an
this city in search of his children, i
of the undersigned for that pur
MORE THAN ONE MONTH u
of whom nothing had been heard ft
FIVE TEAKS, were traced and id
ARTHUR CUDI
‘Missing Friends and Private
157 Pitt-fctrecl, Syt


Foe fourteen days (
B. <t K.’s visit to Melbt
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
FIRST PRIZE.
iiMtt
That extraordinary and amusing tr
through the Hat,” ns performed at
a capital joke. Price, 3s. Gd., with ir
do it. Post free, 4s.
The Copying Pencil, as shown at the
letters, marks linen. Is each, by poi
The Alligator Glass-cutter, Kuift
screw and Tin opener—ls each, by po
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and an
tricks at
BAILEY & KERR’S NOVELTY
508 GEORGE STREI
SYDNEY.
Norn. —OpiKxnte Central Pol
REDGATI
PJITEIT ]
And FOOD OF 1
The most wholesome m
children or persons in d
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SI
Sold toy all Grocers and
IMPROVED HOME
IX)CK STICK
SEWING MAC
To prevent fraud and deception
the following words on the steel sli(
they ship their sole agents in Aastr
AH Genuine Mach
stamped
M. MOSS and C<
•WINTER NECESSI
0O A L VASES
For the Dining Boom,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Room,
Ac., Ac.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved. American
Mitrufacture.
: \
THE SYDNEY GARDEN PALACE
(Manufactured for the 1880 Soasor
F. L ASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEOR'
T
HE A U S T R i
(Now in its Fourth Yolui
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLE
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE
WITH PHOTOT
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clip
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertise!
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS,
’BUSES.
rg lONS, PRIZE MED.
ESTABLISHED TWENT'
Whose snocess is attributed to his PI
in catering for the million at sn(
PRICES as to enable every working
and fashionably, while those with n
disposal can wear so many extra
reasonable rate, viz.
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 ;
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, wo
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to moasun
Who will not avail themselves o
ETTIN* 3 MEASURED at ZIO
ESTABLISHMEN
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE 1
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fane
cloth, 25s ; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all
their value
BLACK CLOTH mid DOE TROUS
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA
SILK COATS. Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s Od
WHITE DRESS SHIRT’S, ready fo
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, will
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WE
A TRIAL WILL CON
Do not mistake the promises—
W A USA W H O
409 GEORGE STRI
THE ONLY ZIO NS IN f
- PRIZE SEWING
At the Sydney Intel-national Exl
1880, after a contest extending over
severest tests yet applied to Sewing
India, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST I
for
SEWING MACHIJ
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEI
on every point.
READ THE AWA
“The New Davis .Sowing Machim
departure from the ordinary style c
possessing all the advantages of su
machines, and in addition an increa
with the greatest simplicity of cons
lion in number of working porta, wo
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more tl
by SHEER MERIT in competitio
WORLD, the opportunity being ful
Samples of work, and illustrated C
post free to any part of the colonies
Fall instructions gratis, and ft U
system.
Every Machine guaran
13. O. HOLTEKMANN
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 I
Sydney.
O U N D
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
is very much stronger than the sain
'rhe reason is very simple. The gre
to bear on the leaf crashes the sn
tain the essential strength and rea
and which is to a great extent lo
loose tea is used,
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compr
adulterated.
An immense saving is ramie by ns
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
As much strength is drawn out
minutes as can be drawn out of
Compressed in five hours. The tab
the consumer can calculate to on out
bo used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell Gate Secretary of
opinion that the English Govemme
adopt this method of solidifying its
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his spe
given in his honour after his retun
was one of the most valuable impro
commissariat plans.
T
HE GEEAT NOETHEEN HOTEL.
(Late “ La Flore Anstralienne”)
12 CHAELOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Booms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
Terms Strictly Moderate.
\TATHANI E L C O H E N
J3I Begs to inform his numerous circle of aoquam-
tanoes (those who do know him and those who dou t)
that he has token the
EOYAL ALBEET HOTEL,
at the comer of
GIPPS & MACQUAEIE STEEETS, SOUTHS
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. GO HEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and bear the man under the bar counter and
the Gir in the Eum-keg.
c.
j. bob b R t
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT.
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
J 6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rom,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
f~*OACH AKD HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Boilvniy Station.
Me. P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
*•* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
< FirsLclas9 sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
