

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 35.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1880.
Price—3d.
§nlMn.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. 1880.
Parkes in Penumbra.
Why should political action be ordinarily, if not
always, vermicular ? Why will men wriggle
towards the attainment of an object to which
they can go straight P Why should mystery en-
wrap all diplomatic movement till time is ripe
for an explosion or a sensation of some kind ?
Why, finally for this is the question we are
chiefly driving at) should our Premier, with all
his “potentialities,” be both a wriggler and a
faquir of Bureaucracy ? It must be, in his case,
an organic defect of character —an inherent
idiosyncratic weakness —because he loses more
than he gains by his attitudinising; and his mys-
teries are the most transparent of illusions. Some
of our readers may not know, or remember, that
hypocrisy literally means acting a part —strutting
on the stage —attitudinising. It would not mat-
ter much if this passion—the emotional product
of vanity and duplicity—simply made the person
in whom it existed ludicrous or contemptible;
but when it supplies to a gentleman in a high, re-
sponsible position an element of statecraft, it be-
comes injurious to the community, because it
tends to degrade political morality. We have
stated that Sir Henry Parkes is fond of getting
up, in a stage-like way, “ strong situations ; ” but
he and his motley retinue of parasites are im-
mensely mistaken if they suppose that many
people are deceived by these periodic sensational
exhibitions. We wish he would take friendly
advice and give the scheming up. He will not
do so—far from it. He is playing a deep game—
or a bold stroke —just now. Before taking bis
departure for Melbourne—whither he went as
self-constituted mentor to a masterful man, who
never liked and never fully trusted him, to wit,
Sir Hercules Robinson —he laid his plans, in
concert with his colleagues, for a great campaign
during the parliamentary recess, and the expedi-
tion has been already initiated. The scheme
consists of a grand spouting-tour of Ministers to
the principal centres of population in the colony,
where they hope to interest the public in their
behalf and awake a waning popularity. The
probable truth is, the Premier saw sooner than
anybody else that he was entering a region of
shadows which might culminate in a Ministerial
eclipse unless he avoided the obscuring agency;
for in the nebular system of political chicanery—
unlike that solar system on which Mr. Proctor
is not allowed to lecture on Sundays—the moving
bodies can, whenever they please, change their
orbits and make for Heaven or Hades as the
spirit moves them. Well, Ministers are, or will
be soon, on the “ wallaby.” “ Dear” Sir John
—genialand garrulous—“blows” to-day (Thurs-
day) at Wallerawang on the sham occasion of
turning the first sod of the Mudgee railway ex-
tension. It is really funny to see the Minister of
Education abandoning his learned anxieties —so
congenial (very !) to his bright intellect —leaving
his bureau to take part in such a trifling cere-
mony, one which would be more significantly per-
formed by a stout navvy, the “ boss ” of a gang.
The next scene will disclose Messrs. Suttob and
Baker “ starring ” in the western districts, and
tater, Sir Henry Pabkes and Mr. Lackey
“doing” New England, Tenterfield, and other
districts of the north. Our special Bulletin
medium has not yet been able to interview a spirit
which can illuminate us as to the parts assigned to
Messrs. Watson and Wisdom in the campaign;
but we should think in reference to the former
that he will reserve all the speeches he is likely
te make this year to the few and homely remarks
that will be extorted from him on the hustings
his present and future constituents, unless
mider the late electoral metamorphoses his “con-
fluents” have a new name. Mr. Wisdom will
*how his sapience by saying as little as possible—
nothing at all if he can manage it. He may not
in a position to break with his chief over the
Bboctor affair, but no legal luminary of a
Cabinet ever suffered so supremely insolent and
®°mplete a snub as he has received. Fancy the
Edward Butler being so treated.
. Would have seized that well-worn old
*imll pen of his, and dashed off such a letter
the Premier as would have made that strong-
bcwed man tremble like a child, or “ blush like a
Let us not be misunderstood. We
Te no fault to find with Ministers going forth
° n a spouting and banqueting expedition. They
(but of a different political race) do it in
England, and sometimes (fitfully) in France;
but here the thing is being naturalised ; its prin-
ciples formulated; its means of bamboozling the
public chuckled over! We do not find fault
with the projected Ministerial tour and talkee;
but we have the gravest objection to the cowardly
reticence which kept it from the public. Why
were we not told all about it at the Ash field
banquet? Simply because it pleases the grim
humour of our mighty vizier to surprise the
public. He may before long find that the public
can surprise him, as they did once before when
he had to go lachrymosely to Canterbury to find
a seat, or “retire” into private life, which would
be the greatest punishment that could be inflicted
on a man of his mental calibre and complex
ambitions.
The Underground Machinery.
The writer in the Herald who a few days ago
hinted at the working of the oracle —the
manipulation of the wires—by means of which
Mr. John Davies is to be “ decorated,” knew a
great deal more than he cared to set forth in
print: he knew as well as we do how the
machinery was put in motion; but in deference
to the real or assumed dignity of his position, he
was contented with intimating that knowledge
without disclosing it in its entirety. He well
knew the career of the individual who, a few
years ago, Sir Henry Pabkes described “as the
man Davies that dared to question him in the
lobby of the Assembly.” How times are changed,
and how men are changed with them! The de-
spised intruder of the Assembly has become a
man of mark; he has sworn a new fealty; he
has acted “ whip ” for the Coalition Ministry,
with or without pay, but always with an eye to
the honour of being gazetted C.M.G. None of
either our serious or jocose contemporaries has yet
struck on one point in the affair that must be
gruesome to Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., himself.
How can he get over the tutelage of the two
Saints of the Order in which he is about to be
enrolled ? It is probable he never venerated the
name of St. Michael, the Archangel, and
that St. George has been to him only a mild
form of obsecration —such as, “Yes, by George,
we’ll do the Opposition that way; at least, let’s
try our level best." This aspect of the case
should not be overlooked by those who are
solicitous about the genuineness of the new
Companion’s orthodoxy, because such “ patro-
nage” of Saints savours of rank idolatry!
White Slavery.
A word to the sincerely Christian people who
are so anxious to put a stop to the Sunday labour
of lecturers who do not dub themselves
“ reverend.” There is work ready to your hands
if you, gentlemen and ladies, are in earnest,
in a good cause instead of a bad one. Let the
poor, over-worked lecturers alone. They can look
after themselves. So can the two or three at-
tendants who labour for a couple of hours on
Sunday evening over this business. As for the
audiences that collect, it is evidently not labour
to them, but enjoyment, recreation, rest. Leave
the whole of them alone. They will survive.
And if the burning impulse of philanthropy
within you will not allow of your being happy
when simply minding your own business, cast
your eyes in the direction of the Coffee Palaces,
over which some of you, reverend and otherwise,
are actually presiding. A number of damsels,
as yet apparently healthy and active, are in the
employment of these Institutions, which are to
set an example of all the virtues to the wicked
hotels. And what are the hours of labour to
which they are doomed f In a paragraph in last
week’s issue we made, upon authority, a
statement which remains uncontradicted. These
poor girls have to work thirteen hours each day,
sixteen hours on Saturday, and for one Sunday
out of three. Thus every third fortnight they
labour incessantly for thirteen days. Some good
people —shining lights in the religious world,
who sympathise deeply with the hon. member for
Canterbury in his anxiety on behalf of the
“ poorer and weaker classes ” —are pocketing
handsome dividends from these “ palaces.” The
slaves who toil within the “ palaces ” receive the
munificent remuneration, we believe, of some-
thing less than half-a-crown a day. Now, good
people, rally your church forces! Come forth,
ye reverends and right reverends, deacons, priests
and doctors —servants of the Lord, all of ye!—
come forth and head this new crusade! And
after you have obtained something like justice,
if not mercy, for the slaves of the “palaces,”
there are hosts of other “ white slaves,” male and
female, in the smaller shops, who are looking
with straining eyes for someone to say a word for
them, as they have literally not the time to utter
a serviceable syllable in the public ear on
their own account. Ask yourselves this ques-
tion. If seats are wanted and they
really are wanted —for drapers’ assistants, are
not shorter terms of labour also needed for the
women who walk rapidly for hours daily in a
close and heated atmosphere, carrying burdens
which, though individually light, in the end more
than sufficiently tax the too often puny strength
of the bearers ? These women go to work at 7
a.m., and they must therefore rise at 6 a.m. in
order that, by actually working never less than
thirteen hours out of the twenty-four they may
help bogus philanthropists to pile up dividends
such as rarely fall to the lot of the pawnbroker
and never to that of the respectable publican.
Does it not strike these “ philanthropists ” that
human beings may be usuriously traded in, and
that under certain conditions a woman may more
surely be sent to physical or moral ruin, or
both, by selling coffee and pies to those who like
cakes without ale than by passing the brandy-bottle
to those who prefer its contents ? We want in Syd-
ney a few less ostentatious self-dubbed “philan-
thropists.” We want a few more women like
‘ Australie ’ and one such clergyman as the Right
Rev, Dr. Moorhouse —who, happily privi-
leged to dwell in the broad highway, know the
wretchedness and misery that is in the dark lane,
but whose generous natures are never all shadow
and never all shine. Dr. Mooriiouse is exerting
himself on behalf of the work-girls in Mel-
bourne, and there is room for someone to imitate
him in Sydney. Surely any man who learns that
white women are, in this land of freedom and
plenty, compelled by “philanthropists” to work
never less than eighty-one hours, often ninety-
four hours, and on the average eighty-four hours,
weekly, must be tempted to paraphrase Tom
Hood, and to exclaim :
O that lunch should be so dear.
And flesh and blood so cheap I
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C M.G.
Brilliant success, whether in politics or private
business, on the arena of Law or of Letters, is not
always the outcome of real desert. There are
many chances of startling achievement —in the
Australian Colonies especially—open to men of
pluck, energy, and foresight. It is not everyone—
nor every ten in ten thousand —can see and gauge
the sheen of golden opportunity —that “tide in
the affairs of men ” which leads to fortune—and
employ his mental and physical powers in utilising
his chances. On the other hand, there are in-
dividuals on whom the fickle goddess frequently
smiles, and still they prove in the end utter if
not ignominious failures. How then are we to get
the key of the apparent paradox, and find a crucial
test for the qualities which make a man thoroughly
and deservedly successful ? Chiefly by observing
how he demeans himself in the days of his triumph
and prosperity. If, while the world courts and
flatters him, he preserves his innate modesty;
while the senses allure him to a life of ease and sen-
suous indulgence, he maintains his original energy;
and when in fine, he uses the rewards of his industry
and intelligence as much for the good of
others as for himself, we may without further
analysis of his character pronounce him to be a
worthy man—an ornament of society and an honour
to his country. Tried by this standard (and it is a
critical one), no man in the colonies to-day would
better stand the test than Sir Patrick Alfred
Jennings, the recognition of whose many ptblio
services, but more recently of those in connexion
with the first Australian International Exhibition,
is now a subject of gratulation throughout the
colonies. The praise he would prize cannot be
embodied in words, because to a man like him—
bustling, earnest, wide-awake, and impatient of
SIR P. A. JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.


sham —the language of commendation always sounds
like “blowing.” It is otherwise with a very
different kind of “ flattering unction,” —namely
the grateful recognition of hie services hy the whole
body of his fellow-colonists —their satisfaction at
the honours he has Such spontaneous
unanimous avowal of worth is better than all the
poeans that were ever penned. The men of thought
and men of action, who are giving shape to our
young commonwealth, look for their highest
reward in the conviction that they are doing good
in their generation ; and, secondly, in a generous
public acceptance of their services. The events
in the career of the distinguished gentleman whose
effigies adorn our first page to-day are common-
place enough, taken separately: it is as a whole, as
indicating a character and markingan individuality,
that they cause surprise, and set one a-thinking
how such simple combinations should produce so
fine a result. We have heretofore, in our issue of
10th April, —given the most important par-
ticulars of Mr. Jennings’ life : and a resume of
these will suffice for present piirposes. He was
born at Newry in the North of Ireland, in 1831,
received the rudiments of his education in his
native town, afterwards removed to England with
a view of pursuing his studies for professional
pursuits, and after some few years, in obedience
to the promptings of his energetic temperament,
came out to Australia, in the van of those enter-
prising men whom the fame of our goldfields
attracted to our shores. Arriving at Melbourne,
he lost no time in making up his mind to acquire
the knowledge necessary to succeed at the
diggings. He went to work in real earnest, but it
was not all physical work with him —he exercised
his mental powers as well as those of a robust
body, and was one of the first to introduce
crushing machinery on an extensive scale, for
which he received the thank's of a large body of
miners. With the money saved during three
years’ industrial efforts, he saw a fairer field and
a freer life before him in pastoral pursuits. His
career as a squatter was a great success.
Although everything he touched with a speculative
finger did not turn into gold, and although he had
to bear the ups and downs, the triumphs and
failures, of life in the bush, his resoluteness, fore-
sight, submission to the inevitable, and open-
handed dealing with all having dealings with him,
drifted him slowly on to riches and high social
position. Identified with the interests of the
Eiverina district, ho joined (1863) the Association
formed there to obtain redress of real grievances
from the Government. His thoroughness and clear-
headedness soon brought him to the front, and he
was (in 1869) nominated to the Legislative Council,
in the hope that he might reconcile antagonistic
parties, and dissipate the mass of prejudice that had
through these jarring elements accumulated. He
succeeded, and remained an M.L.C. for four years,
when he resigned on becoming a candidate for the
representation of the Murray electorate, for which
constituency he was returned. He occupied a seat
in two successive Parliaments, and then resigned
in 1872.
In 1875 began the ora of those public services
which are now a matter of permanent historical
record. In that year ho became N.S.W. Commis-
sioner of the Victorian Exhibition, and sub-
sequently (1876) he represented three colonies—
New South Wales, Queensland, and Tasmania—
at the great Centennial in Philadelphia. It was,
however, as chief executive officer of our Inter-
national Exhibition that he manifested his best
qualities—his powers of organization, his un-
wearied industry, his firmness, blended with bon-
hornmie, and his disinterestedness. Foremost in
initiating the great movement, because he thought
the country’s honour was at stake in the issue, he
afterwards, at a self-sacrifice no mere chivalric
distinction could repay, devoted himself to make
the undertaking a great success. Such it was,
notwithstanding the opinions of a few Parliamen-
tary croakers, whose one “ potentiality ” is fault-
finding to the contrary: but even these hyper-
critical gentry do not refuse to admit that
whatever success attended the Big Show was
mainly due to the efforts of Mr. Jennings.
Nothing more may be added to these remarks,
as the sequel to them would only be a report of
current town talk. It has been publicly announced
that Mr. Jennings will receive that distinction the
offer of which to him the country has been long
expecting. He is practically now a Knight Com-
mander of the Order of SS. Michael and George,
but instead of being disturbed in his career of
usefulness by the pale halo of that distinction, he
is preparing himself for high responsible duties—
he has been invited to stand for the Bogan at the
ensuing general election, and has consented to do
so. Wo shall congratulate the Boganites if they
return as their representative to the next Parlia-
ment a man so able, so versatile, so influential,
and so thoroughly trustworthy as Sir Patrick
Jennings.
Sir Henry Parkes at Albury.
Sir Henry Parkes was banqueted at Albury
on Tuesday night, and in replying to the toast of
his health gave a pleasing picture of the prosperity
of N.S.W. Among other things, Sir Henry
pointed out that N.S.W. possessed 310,000 square
miles as against Victoria’s 88,000, and that in
that fact we had an assurance of our future
prosperity : because, in so vast an area, containing
such varied soil and climate, we might hope in the
course of time to produce everything wanted for
the use of man. He was struck the other day
with this fact in going through the Melbourne
Exhibition, when he saw that New South Wales
more extensively represented the national sources
of wealth than any other Australian colony.
During the last three and a-half months we had
so mounted up by the natural operations of trade
that we were about £320,000 in excess of the
revenue for the corresponding period of last year.
The customs showed in three and a-half months
an increase of £40,000. Our estimated population
was 734,280; Victoria’s, 891,300. The following
statistics were also quoted by the Premier:—
Revenues for 1879-80—N.S.W., £4,475,000; Vic-
toria, £4,621,000. Taxation—in N.S.W., £1 15s.
sd. per head; Victoria, £1 19s. 6d.; South
Australia, £2 Is. 3d. ; Queensland, £2 18s. lid;
Tasmania, £2 2s. 6d. ; Western Australia,
£3 Is. 7d. ; and New Zealand, £3 4s. 4d.
The rateable burden upon every soul in N.S.W.
was £2O 6s. lOd. For Victoria it was £22 6s. lOd.;
South Australia, £25 9s. 6d.: Queensland, £46
16s. ; Tasmania, £l5 7s. Bd.; Western Australia,
£l2 lls.’. lOd. ; and New Zealand, £5l 13s. 3d.
The total amount of debt in New South Wales
was £14,937,000, and in New Zealand it was
£23,958,300. N.S.W. had 736 miles of railway,
and Victoria 1,125 miles ; but N.S.W. had 280
miles and Victoria only 74 miles in course of con-
struction. We should now soon have the railway
open to Albury, and that would be the largest
railway in Australia. At the end of last year we
had 7,517 miles of electric telegraphs, and in
Victoria they had only 3,555. We had in course
of construction 498 miles, and Victoria had only
28 miles. The imports of N.S.W. for last year
amounted to .£14,198,800; those of Victoria were
=£15,530,600. The imports of N.S.W. amounted
to .£l9 17s. 6d. per head, and those of Victoria to
.£l6 18s. sd. The exports of N.S.W. amounted to
=£13,860,800; those of Victoria amounted to only
.£12,454,100. The amount of the united trade in
N.S.W. was £27.285,700, and of Victoria
£27,482,700 : or, in other words, the united trade
of this colony amounted to £3B 4e. 3d. per head of
the population, while the united trade of Victoria
amounted to £3O 18s. 9d. per head. The total
revenue of . this colony up to the 16th
of last month was £3,146,536, and the
total revenue up to the corresponding period
of last year was £3,088,905, showing that
we have been progressing since to the extent of
some £85,000. This lessened the chances of fresh
taxation. The surplus fund, when it received the
sum of £400,000 due to it on loans account, would
be more than a million and a half, and that money
would be expended in carrying out great produc-
tive works. The balance due on conditional pur-
chases amounted to 9 millions sterling, and the
interest amounted to no less a sum than £450,000
per annum. During the last year the interest
received on these balances amounted to over
£200,000, and if that sum had been given up there
must have been some form of fresh taxation
to the amount of £200,000, and it would
fall very heavily on the small freeholders.
After briefly impressing on the electors the neces-
sity of looking after the general fitness of candi-
dates, and of remembering that they were electing
men who would deal with their liberties and their
lives, Sir Henry said that the next ten years would
disclose to the world an advance of human progress
in Australialwhich has never been witnessed before
in the same time, and he ventured to say that in
that period the population of Australia would
reach 3,000,000. He trusted that we should emerge
from our sectional course of action, and occupy a
much broader platform, and that many questions
might be treated as affecting the whole of Australia.
He should be very happy if he could do anything
to bring about such a result. He assured them
that the Government had at heart nothing but the
good of the whole country. (Cheers).
Latest Political.
Mr. H. Zions contests the Manning.
Mr. David Buchanan stands for South Sydney.
Mr. T. M. Slattery is expected to have no oppo-
sition for Burrowa.
Mr. B. O. Holtermann’s friends at St. Leonards
are showing increased activity.
The Hon. F. B. Suttor is to be opposed at
Bathurst by Alderman Butler.
Mr. Bile has received a pretty numerously
signed requisition from Burwood and Ashfleld.
Mr. John Davies, owing to the cold reception he
received from his friends, will not contest South
Sydney, but will run for Mudgee.
The Man-Woman at the Egyptian Hall.
She was seated in a cane-bottomed chair in a
roughly papered compartment, which resembled a
packing case without a lid. To her left paced the
electric-boy, and facing her was a highly coloured
water-colour drawing, representing half-a-dozen
red-coats slaughtering a few millions of spider-
legged Zulus. She was dressed in a plain black
stuff gown something of the corn-sack shape, and
her scanty hair was worn short and in little bob-
curls upon her forehead. Her face is swarthy,
her eyes small and close together, and the general
expression of her physiognomy is one of hopeless
apathy. She divided her gaze between the work
of art I have alluded to and the electric-boy ; but
in no instance did she pay any attention to the
general public. When contemplating the galvanic
stripling her face wore a look of perplexity tinged
with merriment. She evidently considered him to
be an amusing type of lunatic, confined there for
her especial edification. In company with the
genial proprietor of the Temple of Solomon, we
interviewed the lady. Two questions sufficed to
assure us that she was hopelessly insane—not
dangerously so, but undeniably afflicted with
softening of the brain. To an enquiry as to how
she liked the show business, she readily answered
“Pickles!” while in reply to another formal
question, she said something which sounded like
“ Jugglethacker.” Usually, however, she did not
answer at all, not appearing to understand what
was said to her; neither did the proceedings of
two small boys who were trying to crack the
joints of her fingers appear to engage her atten-
tion. Her hands are large and brown, but very
soft. They bear but few traces of the long years
of rough labour she is said to have performed.
Her voice is low, with arough “ Geordie ” inflect-
ion. Her figure, like a top-boot, is the same size
all the way down, and she resembles a man dressed
up in woman’s clothes far more than a female
clad in her proper habiliments. It is interesting
to watch her, but not exciting. She sits with her
hands before her (when nobody has hold of them),
slowly twiddling her thumbs. Occasionally, also,
she taps her foot in time to the music performed
by the young patrician soloist in the passage.
Mrs. De Lacy Evans draws well, crowds of
people flocking to her levee daily. The electric-
; boy has thus in a manner to play second fiddle, an
I orchestral position which, unless we are much
i mistaken, preys slightly upon his spirits. In
1 respect to the “ man-woman,” we must confess to
a feeling of disappointment; yet we hardly know
why. It would be scarcely fair for us to expect
that she would either execute a cellar flap or sing
a topical duet with her galvanic colleague. Still
there appeared a want somewhere.
The fixed part of Mr. Solomon’s show is
excellent. At one moment we were thrilled at
the vividness of the Kelly picture, at the next we
were moved almost to tears at the pathos depicted
in the “Defence of Yorke’s Drift.” Altogether,
the Egyptian Hall is an exceedingly interesting
place of amusement, looking at it merely from a
museum standpoint, irrespective of the other
manifold attractions which Mr. Solomon offers his
patrons. In conclusion, we earnestly entreat our
readers to hasten to visit Mrs. De Lacy Evans
without delay, since there is no knowing how soon
she may be run away with; for is not a silent
woman the rarest flower
That blooms upon this mortal sphere ?
Trickett in England.
News has been received that Edward Trickett
arrived safely in London, and was met by Mr.
Charles Lett at the Paddington Station. The next
day he interviewed the leading sporting news-
papers, and engaged the services of Harry Kelley as
trainer. In the afternoon he paid a visit to
Putney and took rooms at his old quarters, “ The
Bells,” where he found all the old servants in the
same occupation as when he was there before four
years ago. The people were glad to see him there
again, and fired a salute of 12 guns in his honour.
When the mail left, Laycock was living quietly in
London, no one appearing to know where he
resided. The cable, however, has informed
us of his match with Blackman, and
that he and Trickett are together at Putney.
Their trip to Newcastle-on-Tyne the other day,
when they rowed over the North Country course,
caused some excitement, and crowds visited the
river to see the Australians. A cablegram informs
us that the style and form of neither man were
admired. We can imagine how the Port Jackson
scullers must have inwardly chuckled as they
“ foxed” in the presence of the “ Geordies,” and
we expect to hear very different opinions expressed
about our representatives before they leave the
old country. Hanlan has arrived in England, and
taken up his quarters at Mortlake. He suffered
severely from sea-sickness during the voyage.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad to
receive information from correspondents living in town
or country or the other colonies on subjects of general
interest, more especially on matters connected with
sport, the drama and fashion. Communications from
Ladies will be especially welcome.
To Correspondents.
“ Negrita” : Much obliged. ‘ Legal : Some
of your matter would be considered spiteful. It is at
any rate not sufficiently good-humoured. ‘ Bal-
(main”: No doubt true, but libellous. “Sam”
(Merriwa) : Thanks for your suggestion, but you will
notice that we commenced with but six pages of read-
ding matter. “ A.S.H. " : Much obliged ; printed in
this issue. “ Una ” : Many thanks; paragraphs,
however, must be on subjects of public, and not merely
private interest. “A.J.W.”: Thanks; but what you
don't know is exactly what those whom the paragraph
would interest might like to hear. “ Campbell-
town ”.- Seventeen libels in every line. Send it to the
Evening News.
We regret that great pressure on our space
compels us at a late hour to omit from this issue a
large number of important items, including prog-
nostications for Saturday’s Amateur Atldetic
Sports, theatrical notices, matter relative to Bal-
main Regatta, Ac.
FACTS FOCUSSED.
A dramatic society in connection with the p rep
thought body has been started. Sir Samuel Wilgo
shears a quarter of a million sheep at Yauko tV
season. The pursuit and capture of the Kellys
£40,000. Alex. Robertson, i hook-agent, recentf*
sued an Echuca resident for £4 10s., the value of
bible which defendant admitted he had ordered, but
which he contended was not up to sample. Verdict for
plaintiff. Some rich specimens were the other day
unearthed in the Aurelia Co.’s claim, Gympie. qa"
Exhibition commissioners refused to take them at •>
valuation of 100 oz., but when crushed they turned out
1490 z. W. J. Cheeseborongh, under committal fo*
cattle-stealing at Gundagai, made a big hole in the gaol
wall with a chisel, a key-saw and a gridiron handle but
was caught just before he managed to get through.’—J
About 336,300,000 gallons of beer were manufactured
in the United States in 1879, and 1,245,600,000 gallons
Great Britain. Within 20 years 20,000 divorces have
been granted in four New England States. A 'Frisco
ice manufacturer, who owned a magnificent black beard
was caught in the wheels of some machinery, which
tore almost every hair from his chin. So terrible was
the pain and fright that his hair, which was coal black
when he went in, turned perfectly white the next day
The sacredness of human life has been so far
stricken from the American code of ethics that the
right of assassination will soon become part of Amen-
can common law. Justice has not overtaken young
Kalloch, who killed Charles De Young. The N.Z*
Freethinkers have opened subscriptions for Bradlaugh
A proposal has been made to change the name of
New Zealand to “ Maorauia ’’ which would certainly be
most musical and appropriate. Captain Alexander
Ferguson, of the Island trading steamer Ripple, has been
murdered by Bougainville Island natives. The Blay.
ney G.M. Co., have struck gold in their lease, the
prospect being 12grs to the dish. The shaft is down
121 feet. The Right Hon. Baron Fitzroy Kelly, Lord
Chief Baron of Exchequer, is dead. At Fremantle
W.A., the prison van is a four-in-hand affair During
the first eight months of the present year 1,899,892 per-
sons or equal to seven times the population ofjthe colony,
travelled on the N.S.W. Government railway. The’
N ewcastle people were the other day hoaxed by a report
that Dr. Knaggs had “dropped dead." A fossicker
on the Crookwell River recently picked up a small
diamond in a crevice of a rock. The stone is very white
and brilliant. 28 trade societies, numbering 8,000
men, each society having its distinctive banner and band
ofmusic, “process "at the opening of the Melbourne In-
ternational.- Last crushing from the Ida reef on the
Palmer, was 886 oz. 17dwts. from 419 tons of stone,
Thomas Wilson,aged 65,was arrestedatGeelong the ether
day on a charge of having deserted his wife at Ballarat
19 years ago.-—-It is believed that platinum has been
found in alluvial diggings near Clarence Heads. At
Alligator Creek (Townsville) boiling-down works, 265
five-year-old cattle from the Flinders averaged 2931h5.
per head of tallow, equal to about £3l4s.—: —Mrs. Maria
Brennan, who weighed 27 stone, died suddenly at Ballarat
from overexcitement at seeing an old friend. Mr. Con-
nor, solicitor of Melbourne, is commencing proceedings
on behalf of the children of the late Mr. John Mooney,
squatter, to recover property of the value of from
£75,000 to £lOO,OOO, in Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
lying between the General Post Office and Latrobe-
street. The medals awarded to Tasmanian exhibitor*
at Sydney Exhibition were impounded on landing until
some £l9 was paid in the shape of duty. Warden
Gill telegraphs that there is a great want at Maytown,
Palmer, of good quartz miners and general wages men.
Wages from £3 to £4. The Queensland Assembly ha*
decided to allow its members free passages from their
constituencies to Brisbane and vice versa once a year.
Mr. W. Frost, saddler, of Caramut, Vic., has
patented an ingenious but simple contrivance whereby
a bolting or kicking horse can be instantaneously re-
leased from a vehicle. That cause ceUhre Macdonald
v. Tully, may now be considered finally settled by the
award of £13,700 and costs to plaintiff. At Micalago,
a young fellow named Hayes narrowly escaped being
killed, owing to an attack made by a hen plover on a
spirited filly he was riding near hernest. Mr. Warne,
of Cooma, is sending direct to England S'XlO oppossnm
skins. At Micalago, a Chinaman has banked 38oz.
gold. At Adelaide, a man named Crawford has re-
covered £2O damages in an action for breach of promise.
He claimed £5OO- 3000 trout ova have now been
placed in the waters of the Upper Hunter.- —-
In Victoria, in 20 years, there were 1572 suicides recorded
—1320 males, and 252 females. Allowing for the increase
in population, the annual rate has varied little. The
current gold returns from Sandhurst last week were over
4000 oz. Several cases of scarlatina and chicken-pox
have occurred at Charters Towers, Ravenswood, and
Townsville. Robert Osborne (“Barefooted Bob”) died
at Charters Towers from sheer starvation. He was a
butcher by trade, and son of a publican in Canterbury,
Eng. The Cooktown people very badly want John
Walsh, their senior M.L.A., who is now in business at
Wagga, to resign. Mr. Walsh says he’ll see his consti-
tuents glorified first. “German Charlie," a miner
lately working on the left hand branch of the Palmer,
14 miles from Byerstown, is supposed to have been
carried off by the blacks. Owing to further de-
predations by the blacks, the Cooktown Heraid
loudly calls out for increased police protection.—
Amongst the amnisbiis who left for France by the John
Elder was the celebrated Louise Michel, condemned for
having taken part in the Commune at Paris, and known
by her writings on the subject of the education of the
youthful Republican generation. The Albury G. M
Co., capital £12,000 in 40,000 shares, has been floated.—
A man named Joseph Dines, at Adelong, was, while
drunk, thrown from his horse and nearly bit his tongue
in two. The Orange G. M. Co., has been floated. —
“ Amalgam," writing in the Castlemaine Repbbsbntit-
ive says that Soudry and Mrs. Greer are to be married.
Mr.Esling is now holder of the Melbourne Handicap
Chess Tourney Cup, he having beaten Mr. Bums, from
whom he received the odds of pawn and move.—-
Gold has been found upon the upper waters of the
Pioneer River, Mackay. The first stallion show held
at Mudgee was an “ entire ” success. Thomas Stack,
a boy of 16, who gallantly rescued three girls from
drowning at Cooktown in October last, has been awarded
the Victorian Society’s medal. The “Young he*
Zealand Prospecting Party ” (Forrest and Co.), have
taken up an area two miles below Maloney’s, Temora.
The party in question represent the first contingent oi
New Zealand miners who have arrived on the goldfieW
A couple of splendid blocks of coal, taken from a
seam 4ft 3in thick, at the Burrum, Queensland, arrived
by the Keilawara. The body of a waterman name-
Walker, who was afflicted with cancer in the stomacm
was found floating near Grafton Wharf last Satnrda)-
During a debate in the Victorian Assembly,
Bent alluded to the “cheek" of another hou._ member,
and spoke of the Ministerialists as “ a crowd/’ Beau*
referred to the members generally as “mea," but witn;
drew the latter expression in favour of “ gentlemen.
in deference to the Speaker. A boy named ’
residing on the Coldstream River, was bitten by 8 ® j/
and remained unconscious for fourteen hours, when
recovered. A 730 z. 6dwt. nugget has been found i
mine at the claim north of Maloney’s, Temora. ,
of 300 men belonging to the Victorian unemp
offered work at Lancefield, only one responded.-- 1 .
Victorian Commissioner of Customs has presenteu
Captain Jones, of the steamer Dawn, a piece oi P ’
and to the crew various sums of money, in recogn
of their efforts in saving life from the Eric the beu-i
A block of land at the comer of Collins-street
Queen-street, Melbourne, having 135 ft frontage,
been purchased by the English and Scottish B ‘ JO
£60,000. The Melbourne Gas Company “eclm*
allow experts to examine the gas. Sweeping .
tions are being made in the various Victorian 0 (
ment departments—in some instances the amo
one-fifth of the entire staff. The salvage stoex
the Soratn realised very high prices at a ! ict ' o ,„ prt i' s iiii
laide, the drapers running each other for aa los ,
purposes. Jane Duff, who some years ago. wn
in the Wimmera scrub with her little br°t m
them under a tree to sleep, and covered tn
clothing which she took off herself to pro her
from the cold, is married, and has been given . ’ _
share of the fund raised for the children at t „_ ene J
The National Gallery of Art in the Domain
yesterday by his Excellency the Governor, i 4' I]e 1 ] eo tion
of a brilliant assemblage of citizens, in jj water-
comprises 44 oil paintings valued at ’.her work*
colour drawings £2300, sculpture £lBOO, and . eC I ',
of art of the value of £BOO, making a tow1 -OM
irrespective of several valuable P r ® 6 ® n , s a «-s, di 1 * 1
Charley King, an aquatic celebrity of byg . RiTer.-";
last week at Longnose Point, Fanrwm*. nrp <*e
Mr. Charles D. Smith has given £25 for * y r £. b-
stocking the Nepean River with trout. pX hansn ,e
Hamilton, barrister-at-law, has published an gaffidng
and useful “ Manual of the Law and Practi
The Battle of the “Books.”
(A SPORTING DITTY.)
’Twas as the evening sun was setting.
With bars of crimson streaked on high,
And the city clerks were homeward getting.
That a lot of “books ” at Tatt’s. were wetting
their throttles dry.
There were Billy Freeman, Leviathan Joe,
Harry Coleman and Josephs (A.),
And plenty more you wouldn’t know
Of the “ chosen people ’’ —a grim array I
Such whiskers and noses—the truth is plain—
Were never seen out of Petticoat Lane.
There’d been a “ barney ” about a horse
(Bat that is neither here nor there).
And William, be was monstrous cross.
And Joseph—Lord ! how he did swear.
In short, the air about those bars
Was heavy with anathemas.
Soon, William, tiring of the fuss,
Lights up his weed, and goes outside
To hail the passing four-horse ’bus.
To waft him where he does reside.
He gives a call —the driver stops—
And Thompson “lands him in the chops.”
“ Good 1 kill him, Joe! ” the Hebrews cry;
“ Now, with your left, gouge out his eye I”
The ring is formed round deeper;
When Billy, quickly stepping back.
Hits out and lands an awful crack
On Joseph’s dexter “ peeper.”
Then they go it —up —now down—
Crack! that's one for Thompson’s crown;
Bang! you couldn't wish a
Neater drive, in sooth, than that.
It’s knocked poor Joseph over flat.
And puffs up all his “ kisser."
“ Here come the ‘ traps,’ Joe’s backers shout,
(Although no police are seen about).
And Joe is carried in.
His injured “mug" they then do bathe,
His battered crown they also lave.
With water mixed with grin.
The final scene is in the train.
Where Joe, propped up, in awful pain.
Is tended by his keepers.
Eaw beef is on his well-barked nose.
And drops of “ claret ’’ stain his clothes;
He's leeches on his " peepers.”
And as the train moves off, he moans,
And shakes his head, and sadly groans—
“ In sooth, it serves mo right.
Oh, Josephs"—(here he heaved a sigh)—
“ What made you tell that awful lie—
That Billy couldn’t fight f ”
Sir Arthur Gordon’s Farewell to Fiji.
[ORIGINAL.]
Farewell to Fiji, where the gloom of my glory
Arose and o’ershadowed those isles with its name.
I am sent away, now, but rejoice that the story
Of Ba (a), Ea (b>, and Colo (c) redounds to my fame.
I have warred with a land which has vanquished mo
only
When my love for the niggers allured me too far;
I have humbugged all men, who despise me thus lonely.
And laugh os they follow the set of my star.
Farewell, my Fiji! when Nasova (d) was round me
I made thee the bane and the footstool of Birth («);
'Tis due to myself that I leave as I found thee.
Taxed down to the Devil and ground to the earth.
Confound those petitions (/), and d n those who
“pasted”
Unfortunate me ere the battle I won;
Or my train, whose red show now forever is wasted (<;),
Had still been supported by Cakobau’s son.
“The Vagabond’s” pen will show up how he found you,
Nor cares he one straw for my Government’s voice ;
The links will unbind of the chain that has bound you,
And a joke will be made of the chiefs of my choice.
Farewell, my Fiji! But when Liberty rallies
At lost in your islands —you’ll think of me, then—
Of my mirth, and my jokes, and my suave shilly-
shallies.
Then down on your knees with “Sa oti” (h). Amen.
(o) At Ba a chief’s wife put a woman to death with
great cruelty, but the matter was hushed up by the
Government.
(b) At Ba a second “ Eape of the Sabines ” was com-
mitted, and treated by a . tipendiary magistrate instead
of being dealt with in the Supreme Court.
(c) At Colo during Sir A. Gordon’s "little war," some
prisoners were shot and hanged in cold blood by order
of the Governor, who was on the spot. The execu-
tioners were two gentlemen who ore now Government
officials of the colony.
(d) Nosova is Government House and buildings.
(e) Government appointments were distributed in all
directions to incompetent youngsters imported from
Aberdeen for the purpose.
(/) Petitions sent home to the Queen, praying for his
Excellency’s removal or recall.
S Oxford scarlet D.C.L. gown, which his Excellency
,'hts in wearing over his Court uniform, and which
does duty for the High Commissioner's, there being no
special uniform attached to that office. One of Cako-
bau’s sons and one “ moral Aberdonian ” act as train-
bearers.
(h) Sa oti, a Fijian expression, meaning emphatically,
•* It ! s all over.”


Amusements
HEATEE EOYAL.
Lessee ... Mr. Samuel Lazar
TWENTY-NINTH WEEK IN SYDNEY
and
SIXTY-SIXTH WEEK IN THE AUSTRA-
LIAN COLONIES
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING,
and during 1 the week,_
will be produced, for the first time in Sydney, an
entirely new and original comedy, in three
acts, entitled,
THE GIRLS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Public are specially requested to note that
the new comedy, “ The Girls,” is in no way iden-
tical with a play entitled Weak Woman,” which
has been repeatedly given through the principal
cities of Australia under the title of “Our
Girls.”
In active preparation, with entirely new scenery
and appointments, and a powerful cast of charac-
ters, Albery’s brilliant comedy,
TWO ROSES.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
THE LEWIS JUVENILE “ PINAFORE ”
COMPANY.
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
Last nights
Last nights
Last nights
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday
GRAND MATINEE, Next Saturday.
Admission—3s., 2a., Is. No half-price for Children.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’e.
Doors open at 7 —commence 8 sharp.
A CARD. —During my ABSENCE from the
colonies, all communications if addressed to Mi 1 .
T. SINCLAIR, Harris-street, Pyrmont, will he for-
warded.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
gCHOOL OP ARTS.
Lessee Mr, W. H. Thompson.
Unprecedented SUCCESS of
THOMPSON'S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
ZULU WAR,
received every evening with unbounded applause.
Every evening during the season the Proprietor will
distribute a number of elegant and costly presents, in-
cluding a complete suite of furniture, parlour clock,
silver watch, and fifty other useful articles.
Admission, Is, fie, 3s.
Children half-price to first and second seats only.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8 sharp.
Descriptive Lecturer Mr. W. H, Thompson.
Philip Stuart Agent.
g ALM AIN REGATTA, 1880.
PROGRAMME.
First Race to start at 10.30 a.m.—ALL YOUTHS under
21 years of age, pulling a pair of sculls, in wager boats.
Course: From Long-Nose Point, round Schijappcr
Island, and hack to flagship.
Second Race, to start at 10.45.—SKIFFS UNDER
CANVAS, not exceeding 16 feet in length, 6 feet beam,
and 20 inches deep; fins or centreboards. Course ;
From Sugar Bay Works, round Rodd Island, round
Flagship, round Rodd Island, and back to Flagship.
Third Race, to start at 11 a.m. SKIFFS'UNDER
CANVAS, not exceeding 19 feet in length, 5 feet beam,
and 20 inches deep; fins or centreboards. Time
allowance, 1 minute and a half per foot. No boat to
rank less than 17 feet. Course: Same as No. 2.
Fourth Race, to start at 11.5 a.m.—CANVAS DIN-
QIES, under canvas, 14 feet andjunder; no boat to rank
less than 12 feet. Time allowance, 1 minute per foot ;
to be sailed and manned by youths not exceeding 16
years of age. Course : Prom Sugar Works Bay, round
Schnapper Island, round Flagship, round Schnapper
Island, and hack to Flagship.
Fifth Race, to start at 11.15 a.m.—ALL AMATEURS
pulling two pair sculls in light skiffs, with coxswain.
Course: Prom Flagship round Schnapper Island and
back (by south side of Cockatoo to Flagship,
Sixth Race, to start at 11.30 a.m.—CHAMPION
SCULLERS' RACE, for bona-fide amateurs, in wager
boats. Open to all colonies. Course: Same as No. 5.
Seventh Race, to start at 12.—MEMBERS OP ROW-
ING CLUBS, in eight-oared outriggers. From above
Rodd Island to Flagship.
Eighth Race, to start at 12.15 p.m.—FIRST-CLASS
YACHTS. Course: From moorings off Cockatoo Is-
land. round E.S.Y.S. buoy off Manly, round Flagship,
round Shark Island, and back to Flagship.
Ninth Race, to start at 12.20 p.m.—HANDICAPPED
YACHTS, 9 tons and under 20 tons. Course : Same as
No. 8.
Tenth Race, to start at 12.30 p.m.—HANDICAPPED
YACHTS, under 9 tons. Course: From moorings off
Cockatoo, round Lightship and Sow and Pigs, round
Flagship, round Shark Island and back to Flagship.
Eleventh Race, to start at 12.45 p.m.—ALL-COMERS,
in wager boats. Course: Prom Flagship round Rodd
Island, and bock to Flagship.
Twelfth Race, to start at 2 p.m.—OPEN BOATS, un-
der canvas, not exceeding 24 feet, and not less than 7
feet beam, and 3 feetdeep. Course: Prom Sugar Works
Bay round Vernon, round Lightship and Sow and Pigs,
round Flagship, round Fort Denison, and back to Flag-
ship.
Thirteenth Race, to start at 2.15 p.m.—OPEN BOATS,
under canvas, not exceeding 22 feet in length, and not
less than 2 feet 6 inches depth. Time allowance, 1
minute per foot; no boat to rank less than 20 feet.
Course: From Sugorworka Bay round Vernon, round
Lightship and Sow and Pigs, and back to Flagship.
Fourteenth Race, to start at 2.30 p.m—MEMBERS
OF ROWING CLUBS who have never won an adver-
tised prize at a public regatta, pulling four oars in
string-test gigs, with coxswain. Course : Same as No. 5.
FIFTEENTH RACE, to start at 3 p.m. Skiffs under
canvas, not exceeding 18 feet in length, 5 feet beam, and
20 inches deep : fin or centreboards. Course: Some as
No. 2.
SIXTEENTH RACE, to start at 3.30 p.m.--All Ama-
teurs who have never won a race at a public regatta,
pulling two pairs of sculls in light skiffs. Course;
From Flagship round Schnapper Island, round Flag-
ship, round the Vernon, and back to Flagship.!
SEVENTEENTH RACE, to start at 4 p.m.-
Steamers’ and Ships’ Gigs. Course: same as No. 16.
EIGHTEENTH RACE, to start at 4.30 p.m.—Bona-
fide Amateurs, members of rowing clubs, pulling pair
of oars in club skiffs, with coxswain. Course : same as
No. 16.
NINETEENTH RACE, to start at 5 p.m.—Gig and
Dingy.
M. A. H. FITZKARDINGE > Joint
G. C, ELLIOTT ) Hon. Secs.
SYDNEY ELECTION.
L J. JOSEPHSON.
Of Macqnarie-street, is a
CANDIDATE
For this Electorate.
gT. LEONAEDS ELECTORATE
GENTLEMEN ELECTORS.
I hereby, in accordance with the wish of several of my
friends in the above electorate and the support of
K. SEI/DON, Esq.,
who has kindly resigned in my favour, offer my services
as a candidate in the forthcoming Election.
Believe me, Gentleman,
Tours very faithfully,
B. O. HOLTERMANN.
r|lo THE ELECTORS OF EAST SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —
I purpose offering to yon my Services at the next
General Election as your REPRESENTATIVE in
PARLIAMENT.
Water Supply, Sewerage Works, Parks and Recrea-
tion Reserves, Sanitary Measures, and the General Im-
provement of a great city like ours, do not, in my
opinion, receive half the consideration they are entitled
to.
I am in favour of the Public Instruction Act, the
Extension of Railways to the Interior, and an Under-
ground Railway from Darling Harbour under Tork-
street to the Commissariat Stores, Circular Quay.
I am, and always have been, a FREE-TRADER.
These and other Public Questions I will refer to when
the proper time arrives.
1 am,
Tour obedient Servant,
Sydney, 123 Pitt-street,
September 30,1580.
CHAS. MOORE.
. a nstralia and New Zealand.” A magnificent saw-
>nh measuring IfSft. 6 in. from tip to tip, has been
'..cured for the Brisbane Museum. Superintendent
Uare who was wounded at Glenrowan, has had his
land opened and bone splinters removed. It is feared
that after all he may lose the limb. Mr. Eisenstadter,
formerly well known at Charters Towers, has taken up
ten-acre lease on Little River, Araluen, where there is
ireat excitement, as the stone prospects splendidly.
The honorary magistrates of Sydney have “ caucused ”
,n the subject of granting permission for music or
lancing in public-houses, and have ordered that when-
ever such applications are received special meetings of
instices shall be held. All the liabilities of Glen
Walker and Co., are to be paid in full. Captain Stan-
,lish is to receive a testimonial from the members of
jhe Victorian Police. He publishes a valedictory notice
addressed to the force, in the current number of the
Pouch Gazette. The first open-air performance of
the Austrian Strauss band will he on the Flemington
racecourse on October 9. Captain H. J. Stanley
suggests that there should be a coast pilot service for
our large ocean steamers.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Fighting has commenced between the British
and Basutos.
The Porte continues obstinate. A blockade of
the Hellespont is talked of.
The cane is freely used in the infant school
Rockhampton, by the young teachers.
Money seems scarce in Rockhampton. Their
, ie w church is progressing very slowly.
Miss Louise Beaudet has made a great hit as
Ophelia whenever she has played the role.
Judgment in the Evening News contempt
cil se will be delivered on Friday, 24th inst.
The Sunday school boys of St. Peter’s had a
j.itched battle recently. The “ Ayes " had it.
Loafers, sly-grog sellers, and Chinese procurers
nourish at Narandera, and the local bench don’t object.
Mr. A. C. Fraser is progressing rapidly towards
recovery, and is expected very soon to be once more fit
(or active duty.
The Independent is delighted to hear that the
factories at Mudgee gaol are increasing. A blacksmith’s
shop is the latest.
Jules Ferry, the author of the celebrated pro-
posal for the ejection of the Jesuits from France,
succeeds Freyoinet.
Precautions are being taken against the resis-
tance which it is expected will be offered to the evictions
in the West of Ireland.
Two men have been arrested for passing forged
notes at Melbourne. About 2000 for £1 and £5 were
found in their possession.
We now hear that an old Sydney friend is re-
sponsible for the plagiarised article re the Garrick case,
printed in the Fiji A nous.
Strong pressure is being brought to bear upon
the Sailway Department to have the tram at once ex-
tended from Randwick to Coogee.
Latest cables state that in consequence of their
inability to cope with the Jesuit question, the Frey-
cinet Ministry has been reformed.
An irate husband informed a Haymarket post
office official that giving letters to ladies does not
necessitate squeezing their hands.
The weather prevailing lately in New South
Wales has been similar to that of about 60 years ago,
when there was a three years’ drought.
Skobeloff returns to St. Petersburg t» take com-
mand of the Russian Army in the event of an invasion
of Turkey being decided on by the Great Powers.
Dr. Tanner’s wife now declares that her hus-
band’s fast of 40 days is a fraud, and a bet of £lOOO is
offered in England that he cannot repeat the fast under
strict watch.
The Australian team only play three more
matches, viz., at Bradford, Nottingham, and Crystal
Palace respectively. They sail for home by the first
mail in October.
The epergne presented to Mr. C. J. Roberts is
exhibited at the Melbourne International by Mr. Evan
Jones, and is said to be equal to anything in the same
line likely to be shown there.
Mr. James Cathcart, Mr. Stirling White, Mr.
W. N. MctoaJf, and Mr. H. N. Douglass, come to Sydney
from Melbourne in a few days to join the Howard’s
Opera House Dramatic Company.
Mr. Ex-Mayor Roberta and Mrs. Roberts left
•verland for Melbourne on Friday, to bo present at the
opening of the Melbourne International Exhibition.
Mr. Roberts will return to Sydney in about a fortnight.
One of the largest sugar planters in Mackay, who
has visited the Burdekin, says that its capabilities for
sugar growing are five times as extensive as those of
Mackay—in his own words, “There are five Mackay s
there.”
An Aahfield Sunday school teacher assured his
•lass the other day that he never told a lie. The boys
grinned. One of them inquired about George Washing,
ton’s axe, and another wanted to quote a text about
Sapphira, but he wasn’t permitted. The class say that
they will convert the teacher.
The Wagga people have determined to confine
their demonstration in honour of the visit to their town
of his Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus to “process-
ing and addressing." The storekeepers are unwilling to
close from 2 p.m. on Saturday, and characterise the pro-
posed sacrifice as unnecessary.
The budding genius who grinds out the Sydney
correspondence for the Southern Arous says that
Qiorza’s No. 1 Mass consists principally of solos “ ex-
tending over 59 bars.” This captious individual may
he an authority on bars—especially free lunch ones—but
he should leave musical criticisms alone.
The whole of Burwood is now turned into a
grazing field. Stock ramble everywhere. Meanwhile
the police are after the bushrangers. A hot Municipal
contest rages at Burwood, but whatever the result is,
the ward will continue as at present. Mr. Walton, pop-
ularly known as “ The Ajax of theSnburbe,” threatens
to play the part of Cromwell if matters don’t mend with
the Alderman.
The compulsory provisions of tho Public Instruc-
tion Act are about to be brought into operations in Nos.
L and 3 school districts, which include Sydney, Pad-
dington, Woollahra, Waverley, the North Shore,
Balmain, Glebe, Newtown, and the suburbs generally
as far as and including Canterbury and Ashfleld—in
fact, embracing nearly the whole of what is called the
metropolitan area.
The wrecked ship Sorata, which there
is now no possibility of saving, represents tho
magnificent amount of £120,000. Her engines alone
are said to be worth £60,000. One portion of the
machinery weighs twenty tons. It is said that £15,000
have already been expended in endeavouring to get her
off. and that the obtaining of pumps from Melbourne
coat £2,000. The Sorata’s back is completely broken.
The heroic conduct of Mrs. Boldt, wife of the
captain of the German vessel Moorburg, who, when all
°f the ship had succumbed to illness, brought
J“ e otherwise doomed vessel of her husband into port,
oas. we learn, been forcibly brought beforejthe public of
rertfi, W. A., by a well-executed painting from the
tSiuT, r ' C. Princess, entitled “The Woman at
“ e heel.” The picture is said to he a highly artistic
f ®4uction, and will be shown at the Melbourne In-
ternational.
T he train conveying the Ministerial party to the
„ T Hln -'*f the first sod of the Wallerawang and Mudgee
r i„.7 ay e “ Te3 tho Redfern terminus at 8 this (Thurs-
inH and reaches Wallerawaugat 1 o’clock. Sir
' J* 11 -“Ohertson will perform the principal role in the
w dl be supported by the Minister for
, 8 (Mr. Lackey), the Colonial Treasurer (Mr. Wat-
»on>’ and the Attorney-General (Mr. Wisdom). The
sorry will leave Wallerawang at five o’clock the same
fe Uc| l °° Cf arrive in Sydney at 25 minutes
An ex-Teacher points out that the fact that
all the assistants but two or three in Sydney are tem-
porary, should make no difference in their pay, inasmuch
as they do the same amount of work as do permanent
ones; that about £132 is the maximum pay of tem-
porary assistants, while £l2O or less is a much more
common rate; that some assistants in low class schools
with low class certificates get as much or more than
assistants in high class schools with certificates two or
three grades higher. He further points out that though
teachers have to study much and keep up appearances,
they only get labourer’s wages.
The dramatic season at the Opera House opens
ou Saturday week under the management of Mr. Sam
Howard. The season will re-open with a round of
Shakesperian representations by Herr Bandmaun, who
will be supported by Miss Louise Beaudet, and Mr.
William Hoskins (the veteran actor), “ Hamlet" will
be the initial piece, and a rare treat may he expected.
The manager is sparing no pains or expense to put the
plays on the boards in a first-class style. The business
management of the Opera House during the season will
be in the hands of Mr. R. B. Wiseman, who comes
specially from Melbourne for the purpose.
We hear on unreliable authority that within a
week of the celebrated first “ pastoral ’’ by Archbishop
Yaughan there was a great split in the Cabinet, which
wound np by three Ministers swearing eternal fidelity
to Sir Henry and two to Sir John. Then, while yet the
Ministers were apparently irreconcileable, appeared the
pastoral. The olive-branch, in the shape of an agent-
generalship was held out by Sir Henry to Sir John; but
as it was clearly seen that political capital could bexnade
out of the attitude assumed by the Roman Catholic
Chnrch.a treaty, based on Punic faith, was patched up.
Sir Henry showed his pique for several weeks afterwards
by not even bowing to certain of his colleagues when he
met them at the Executive table. In view of these un-
doubted facts it is really very comical to read tbe cor-
respondence between “ Dear Sir Henry ’’ and “ Dear Sir
John,” and the report of Sir Henry’s Ashfleld speech.
The Royal Furnishing Arcade continues one of
the great attractions of the Metropolis, and bids fair to
maintain its fame and usefulness. Mr. W. B. Campbell,
the founder of the Arcade, having first well schooled
his sons in its management , has now handed it over to
them.
Aquatics.
The Clarence River Regatta takes place on 7th
Ootober.
The Regatta in connection with the Telegraph
Department took place in Mossman’s Bay on
Saturday afternoon last, and proved a thorough
success. The races were got through with a
punctuality worthy of imitation by more ex-
perienced bodies, and excepting perhaps the
inconvenience of being detained on board a rather
crowded steamer during the afternoon, a very
enjoyable time was spent by those present.
The programme for the Balmain Regatta has
been published, and, as might have been expected,
it is a most excellent one, all classes of boats
having apparently been considered. Exception
might be taken to the eight oar-race which is
almost certain not to be contested, the course
being most unsuitable. Senior Pours in outriggers
or string test gigs would take far better, but if an
alteration is about to be made the sooner the
better.
Tho Fowler Cup Race for senior members of the
M. R. C. came off on Saturday afternoon, and
resulted in a victory for Mr. W. Brett, the present
amateur champion. His opponent was N. Lock-
yer. Both scullers went away to a fair start,
and as they had both wind and tide to contend
against there was not a great display of
speed. Brett, who rowed his new outrigger built
by Donnelly, soon went to the front, and at the
mile point was two lengths ahead, gradually
increasing tho lead to seven lengths when off One
Man Wharf. Shortly after, Lockyer eased off,
and Brett won with comparative ease. Both
scullers showed very fair form, but the loser, who
is a much lighter man than Mr. Brett, had a
serious defect in clipping the water with his
right scull. Time, 27 minutes.
The four-oar outrigger race for the Munro
trophies took place on the champion course on
Saturday last. Only two crews entered, one
stroked by J. Thomson and the other by J.
Arthur, the crews being limited to tho Sydney
Bowing Club. The race was a very hollow affair,
Mr. Arthur’s crew, consisting of himself, Finlay-
son, Anslow and Bremner, having the advantage
considerably in physique and weight. They
jumped away at the start, and eventually won by
about 30 lengths.
The entries for the Rowing Association Regatta
have boen received, and though the eight-oar race
will be a walk-over for the S.R.C., yet the remain-
ing portion of the programme should attract a
considerable number of visitors. For the senior
sculling race Messrs. Arthur, Lockyer, Lord and
Bull have entered. The gentleman first named is
looked upon as an easy winner—if so there will no
doubt bo a good race for second place. Four
crews have entered for the maiden gig race, two
for the clinker outrigger, and four for the junior
double sculls, and it is satisfactory to know that
all the rowing clubs will be here represented.
The match between the Australian team and
the first eleven of Nottingham was commenced on
Tuesday. The Australians went first to the
wickets, and succeeded in putting together 183 runs
before they were disposed of, Boyle being top
scorer with 60.
The American Novelty Company.
Sydney, and, indeed, the colony generally, is
greatly indebted to the American Novelty Co.
for he introduction of some of the most remark-
able and useful of American contrivances.
Every branch of domestic labour is reached by
these inventions, and the work of a household is
lightened fully one hundred per cent. In America
the faculties of the people have been
largely devoted to the production of practical and
labour-saving appliances, and the character of the
American Novelty Company’s business may be
estimated from the fact that this house is tho
channel by which all these useful inventions are
now for the first time introduced to thia colony.
Our sketch, on page 2, illustrates the establish-
ment where the business was first commenced.
It is here that the attention of the Sydney public
was first attracted, the articles on show indicating
the description of the larger stock stored else-
where. The test of the value of the goods im-
ported is found in the proof that no other business
started in this city has ever had such a prosperous
career. _ We will not attempt here a description of
tho various articles, particularly those of use in
the household; a list should be procured through
the post, or a personal visit made to the establish-
ment. The company have recently opened a
branch show-room at -408 George-street, nearly
opposite the A.J.S. Bank, where they make a yet
grander display. It may bo mentioned that the
Novelty Company have branches in Victoria,
Queensland, and New Zealand, and in all the
principal cities of America, with head-quarters at
New York. Mr. Little is the manager for theso
colonies. The establishment of their business
hero is of two-fold advantage. In addition te
importing a new line of goods, they have turned
attention to manufacturing some of their novelties
in this city, where they have met with liberal and
appreciative support. The company’s exhibit of
mechanical toys at the International was the most
varied and valuable ever seen in these colonies.
They are now getting these goods manufactured
here. Having secured competent hands, they are
producing toys in altogether a superior style to
those imported, and at a figure exactly 30 per cent,
cheaper. It is expected from the present increas-
ing sale that employment will be given to a large
number of hands at no distant date. We can only
wish the company continued success for their
enterprise.
Mr. F. L. Barker’s Wool Stores.
In continuation _of our reference to the business
of the approaching wool season, we give a sketch
of the wool stores of Mr. P. L. Barker, Circular
Quay. Here, as in the other principal wool stores
of Sydney, every preparation has been made for
the approaching season, and it may now bo
fairly concluded that the great mass of the wool clip
will find its way to this port. Mr. Barker’s stores
are solid stone structures each of three storeys, with
patent lifts operating front and rear on each floor.
Drays can be loaded and unloaded under cover
from the weather, and when wool is to be shipped
for the home market it can be removed to the
ship’s hold in the space of a few minutes. Mr.
Barker commenced business seven years ago, and
his trade now extends throughout this colony and
Queensland. The business comprises wool, tallow,
hides, sheepskins, leather and general produce.
2000 hales of wool are passed through the stores in
the height of the wool season. The totals in the
other lines are about 1000 hides, 600 casks tallow,
40 tonssheepskins, and the remaining business in
proportion. Mr. Barker personally superintends
the business. His office is at 86, Pitt-street.
Mr. H. H. Brown, M.P. for the Paterson.
Mb. H. H. Brown, the member for the Paterson,
whose portrait appears on page 13, announces his
intention of again soliciting the suffrages of his
old constituency. Pew members enjoy wider
popularity in their districts than Mr. Brown.
Though acting in Parliament with a thorough
independence he has vigorously battled for the
interests of his electorate, and secured for it a
representation quite equal to that which it enjoyed
under the gifted Mr. Arnold. The subject of the
present sketch is a native of the colony; was bom
at Pemberton Grange, Parramatta, on the 12th
March, 1839, and is the fifth son of the late Mr.
John Brown, J.P., of Colstown, Paterson. He re-
ceived his education under the Rev. W. H.
Savigny, at the Collegiate School, Newcastle, and
subsequently at Cook’s River. Mr. Brown spent
most of his early life on the Paterson, and at all
times took an active interest in politics. For some
years he occupied a seat on the Paterson District
Board, through the medium of which large sums
of money were annually spent in improving the
district; on every occasion Mr. Brown has been
returned at the head of the poll for a seat at this
board. In 1874 Mr. Brown contested the election
with Mr. Arnold, but was defeated, though only
by a very few votes. At this time Mr. Arnold had
represented the district for nineteen years, and
was in the height of his popularity. In 1875,
owing to the lamentable death of Mr. Arnold by
drowning, an election became necesssary, and Mr.
Brown offering his services once more was re-
turned _ triumphantly against a very strong
opposition. At the last general election Mr.
Brown was accorded a “walk over,” in recognition
of his valuable services to the district, and up to
tho present time no opposition to his return at the
coming election is spoken of. Mr. Brown quietly
exercises a great deal of influence in the Assembly,
and in the new Parliament is likely to exercise
even a greater influence to the benefit of his dis-
trict. Mr. Brown married the daughter of Dr.
Linderman, of Cawarra, Paterson River, and has
a large family.
Mr. W. H. Gill.
It is pretty certain that the Manning will witness
a very severe contest in the coming election. There
will be at least four aspirants for the two seats,
and it will be somewhat difficult for the electors to
make a choice. Mr. W. H. Gill, whose portrait is
shown on page 4, is announced as one of tho
candidates for the Manning, and he bases his
claims to their support on a lengthy residence in
the district, and continued activity in whatever
concerned the welfare of the electorate. He con-
tends that he is acquainted with the whole district,
and knows its requirements in respect of agricul-
ture and general business, and feels confident that
the electorate, if properly represented, will rank
second to none in the colony. Mr. Gill has the
moans and the opportunity of giving the district a
vigorous and independent representation,being now
one of the largest shareholders in the rich gold
mine at Copeland, known as the Mountain Maid.
Mr. Gill has spent tho last ten years in visiting the
goldfields of the Australian colonies, and inspect-
ing the crushing and gold-saving apparatus in use
on the various fields. He is confident that with
respect to this colony a great improvement can bo
effected in this direction, and he promises, if
elected, to introduce some important reforms. For
the Copeland district he has already done valued
service, and secured for the district important
representation in Parliament. Mr. Gill promises
to proceed to the Manning at an early date and
address the electors on the political questions of
the day.


BRIEF MENTION.
John Davies’ genius.—C.M. G.-ness. Author !
The George-street asphalt blocks are not
eternal.
John Davies has a handle to his name. Sir
Enery turns it.
Motto for the City Bank (re Hardy Brothers):
Neill de xperandum.
Burwood people look brighter, and cleaner too,
since the rain came.
The Petersham Railway station is almost
finished—being hoped for.
The Manly Herald has gone “ bung.” Not
even Tippoo could save it I
There is a paradoxical alderman who is never
fading but always Withers.
**Government underground engineer” is what
the Herald calls John Davies.
The Loftns Troupe are off to Victoria. Not the
Victoria Loftns Troupe, though.
The fare for a handsom-j cab at a funeral in
Brisbane is the same as that for going to a ball.
“A sort of theological Punch” is what
Charles Bright calls the Protestant Standard.
Alderman Hordern advertises his cheap ribbon
in the Council. It’s a way the whole family has.
Lazarus, we are told, was full of sores. Lazar
is verj sore, too. Chorus: ** And sore all of ns."
What the Berry Government can do for the un-
employed—clear out of office.— Melbourne Punch.
The ex-editor of a local paper and a Chinaman
are the two candidates for aldermanic honours at Cook-
town.
The Brisbane P.M. thinks that the best way to
secure the payment of fines when a man has nothing is
to levy on it.
In the boot trade in Brisbane business of late
has been so brisk that salvage stocks had to be removed
by moonlight.
The fire at the Theatre Royal owed its speedy
death to the presence of mind of Messrs. Shepherd and
Fred Marshall.
A well-known religious solicitor has ceased to
call himself a “Proctor,” on the ground that such a
title is now objectionable.
Ned Kelly is to be tried on the 15th October,
and if convicted is to be given his choice between being
hanged and being made a C.M.G.
John burst into tears at the news of his C.M.G.
He could only utter, “ I really don’t deserve it, I am so
umble. So ’umble, sir, so ’umble 1”
When the peripatetic vegetable vendor arrives
at the house of a certain legal luminary, he always
calls out, “You wantee cabbagee, Lo Lowee?”
At an Ashfield church recently, a little man was
too busy praying for rain to see the collector's plate.
He always has special devotions at that moment.
The scare of Rockhampton just now is the
Chinese leper. The fierce and plump-looking health
officer visits him daily. That leper is “ a terror."
An argument in favour of the “justification”
plea, furnished by the Chief Justice. “Mr. Windeyer
has all the impudence—without a grain of the ability—
of his father.”
The editor of the Witness insinuates that the
editor of the Protestant Standard is one who has
cast aside verity. Common people would say that was
calling him a liar.
A beer-drinking match recently took place at
Wallsend, N.S.W, A large barrel of beer was con-
sumed by six men in two days, and the smallest vessel
used was a bucket.
The proprietor of the Northern Miner
(Charters Towers) intends publishing a list of defaulte
ing subscribers. This is the way in which they tak-
the bull by the horns up north.
Peter Campbell has erected a building at
Temora which he calls "The Tetnora Evangelical
Union and Undenominational Free Mission Church."
Peter evidently thinks that there's a good deal in a
name.
Dr. Beg has been lamenting to someone on our
Eabbi Davis’s recent abolition of Hell and the Devil ’’
Charles Bright said on Sunday that the Rev. Doctor
had “ lost all hopes of feeling at home in a future
state.”
A Maitland journalist writes his subscribers to
materialise at once, and says that, “ We will be most
happy to receive it in postage stamps or whatever way
is most convenient." Surely not in ducks, or goose-
berries ?
“ Honesty” advertises in the Morning Muf-
fin for “a silent partner with two hundred pounds."
If he means a wife he might, in all conscience, dispense
with the filthy lucre. For is not silence in itself
“golden?”
Celestial knocks ; —“Want to see Jolly Davie.”
Mary Jane: “John Davies, Esq., C.M.G, lives here.”
Celestial: “No savee squirem, no savee see im gee;
Jolly Davie shoe my horsee once; never see im gee
after that."
Speaking of the sudden spasm of regard for the
working classes manifested in certain quarters, Bright,
last Sunday, quoted Holyoake, that “ nothing can be
given to the working classes but what has first, by force
or fraud, been taken from them.”
St. Leger Stand, “Sir Hercules” Day.—Cus-
todian (hq ). as Hibernian gentleman with broken arm
in splints descends ladder: “Pass, sir?” H. Q.:
“ Pars, is it, bo gorra! Sure, isn’t this divil of an
arrnm passport enough to go to the divil and back, ye
gossoon ?’’
Somewhere near Sydney there lives a “ surgical
and mechanical dentist ” (the title ought to draw) who
the other day, whilst practising tooth extraction, broke
a lady’s jaw. Not being quite satisfied, he suggested
that an assistant should hold his patient while he made
another try.
On Sunday night, at St. Jude’s, Randwick, the
minister in his sermon had just said “ Thank God,”
when he had to pause while the clock in the tower
struck eight. He then said “Thank God,” again,
and thereupon one of his congregation fervently added
“ that is done.”
Mr. Baylis, P.M., of Wagga, fined M‘ Mahon, a
Norandera publican, £2O the other day for not having
a license for a billiard-room on his premises. A full
court ruled that Mr. Baylis was wrong. The appeal cost
M’Mahon £6O. Mac. now says he wishes Baylis had
gone to catch the Kellys.
It’s said that Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., has
urged upon the Colonial Secretary the necessity of
prohibiting the further production of “Pinafore,”
unless the song_ “ I’m the ruler,” etc., be struck out.
The words of this ditty, he contends, are calculated to
bring aristocracy into contempt.
When it was first announced to Mr. John
Davies that he had been made a “Companion of Michael
and George ”he exclaimed “What Michael ? Ton don’t
mean Michael Fitzpatrick, surely ! Of course George
(Carter) and me has been bosom friends alius, but I
can’t make so free with Michael.”
The Melbourne Argus calls Mr. Williams, the
new Minister for Mines, “a double-distilled traitor"
and an “ infamous renegade.” In New South Wales
were a wealthy paper to say such things about a
Minister, the latter would make his fortune out of the
libel action and be able to buy a new mule.
Petersham folks declare that they know two
proverbs which are founded on fact. These are “Stolen
kisses are the sweetest,” and “ What the eye does not
see the heart never grieves for.” The aforesaid declara
tion arises out of three circumstances—firstly, that
water has been excessively scarce at Petersham of late;:
secondly, that a great many residents have been noc-
turnally stealing water from the police tank; and
thirdly, that a dead cat has been m that tank for the’
More than one doctor in Brisbane receives com-
mission from chemists on their prescriptions. Hence
the nnmher of sponges and quantities of eau-de-cologne
prescribed.
The Queensland admirers of Daniel O’Connell
subscribed a considerable sum of money about six years
ago to build a centenary hall. The foundation stone
was laid with a flourish of trumpets, but that was all.
What has become of the money ?
One of the greatest national “ drunks ” ever
known in Banana Land has just come off. The Governor,
Government, and a whole host from a too-much-
governed people, went to Roma to open a railway, and
they felt bound to do as the Romans done.
Four “ Printers’ devils ” attached to the
Gtmpie Times, have been accused of stone-throwing and
bad language. They wrote to their editor loftily thus .
“We can assure you, Sir, our respectability is far above
such gross imputations." One of the four will pro-
bably turn out to be a Ben. Franklin, and another a
Horace Greeley at least.
On Sunday night, after reading some extracts
from The Witness decidedly uncomplimentary to the
editor of the Protestant Standard, Mr. Bright said:
“ Of course Dr. M’Quven entertains precisely the same
opinion about his brother. . . . There we find both
of them giving their candid opinions of each other, and
it is a rare circumstance for me—who am supposed to
be an outside infidel—to be enabled to say that I cor-
dially agree with both of them.”
Our friend Bass spent last week in. the Blue
Mountains, and took his saxophone with him. On his
way back he had just put the instrument to his lips
when a bumpkin, looking through thp carriage win-
dow, exclaimed, “ Lor I look at that big chap's meer-
schaum.” The guard also called out as be passed,
“This is not a smoking carriage, sir.” However, he
did light up, but it was the air, " Behold, how brightly
breaks the mom!" The yokels have not closed their
mouths yet.
The Gympie Borough Council has passed a bye-
law providing that a fine of £5 be imposed on any indi-
vidual who shall improvise any music (?) with kerosene
tin kettle, bullock’s horn, or any other instrument
against the desire of the contracting parties in any
marriage that may in future come off. This virtually
squelches tin-kettling, as it’s hardly likely “ contract-
ing parties" will give their consent to being “ tin-
kettled.”
The Municipal Council of a certain town in
North Queensland numbers among) its members four
publicans and a money-lender. These five magistrates,
it is openly alleged, meet monthly and “ go yankee
grab” to see who’ll have the four weeks’ pay of a
mutual debtor, one of the Council’s employes. The same
corporation have a site labelled “refuse may be de-
posited here," and, strange to say, the aldermen are
more frequently seen in that locality than in any other
part of the town.
Didn t they send Lord Loftus a free ticket to
the banquet to Sir Hercules ? He was not there! That
must be the reason—for the unbatched C.M.Q. was
also absent.
During 1 the trial of Mary Coglan on Friday at
the Central, she “landed" the policeman one “in the
respirator." That constable now says that he doesn’t
believe any more in Tennyson’s line—
Oh 1 for the touch of a vanished hand I
A young gentleman was seen the other night on
a bicycle going down the hill in the Domain leading to
Woolloomooloo at the gentle rate of twenty-seven miles
an hour. The gates were shut. Dealers in old iron
would do well to pay a visit to Macquarie-street.
The horse attached to the cab which conveyed the
charming daughter of a certain statesman from the rail-
way station the other day fell “ all of a heap ’’ in front of
the distinguished father, who was standing on the
steps of the Secretariat awaiting his daughter’s arrival.
* * * * It was the first time the animal had seen
Sir .
This is how “Nero,” writing in the Towers
Herald, desert bes an episode in the local council: “ Or.
Lamond—who was in full war paint—rose, and while his
red cheeks grew redder, and a roseate hue inflamed his
proboscis, fixed an eye like that of a defunct Dundee
codfish on the Mayor, and • axed ’ him in the guttural
language usually heard among the blacks of the Maranoa
district, what he meant by signing that petition be-
half of the Council, telling him,” &c.
Mr. Itoseby, on horseback, is something to be
remembered. He rode in short trousers, dusky socks,
and 7s 6d shoes. His horse—evidently a descendant of
Eosinante—is a weird and wondrous animal. Its facial
aspect is melancholy, as though continually musing
upon tombstones, and the way it goes “’ammer,
'ammer, ’ammer, on the ’ard ’igh road ” is a fearful
spectacle. Now that John is to be opposed by Mr.
Humphreys the way he slings the tombstones about is
something awful.
The cartoon in the current number of the
Melbourne Punch is a most effective picture. It
represents Mr. Thomas Higinbotham—whose ever firm
but gentle features are vividly pourtrayed—lying dead
in his room. A masked fury, “ Black Wednesday,”
hovers near and casts its shadow on the bed. The
cartoon is accompanied by some most poetic verses,
which every one should read and which we wish we had
space to reprint.
When you are about to purchase camellias in
pots, inspect them thoroughly. Several buyers at
recent town sales were shamefully victimised. They
took home what they thought were vigorous young
shrubs, and only found out when too late that the pot
was all they had for their money—that the “ tree "
consisted merely of a cutting, to which had dexterously
been attached a piece of root, the aforesaid root being
artfully made to protrude from the orifice beneath the
They have got a healing medium (in Melbourne
ine feuow who ‘ manages ” the medium formerly ran
marionette show. Then, he pulled the strings, and tb<
marionettes danced. Now his duties are less arduon
He has only to pour magnetised water out of a tin can
ready-up the usual instalment of cripples, and his dol
will dance without any wire-pulling at aIL
“ Country cousin.”—We don’t know what th
figures outside the new Union Bank are intended!
represent. The one with the gilded toasting fork w
don t think is intended for the manager. The other ma
be meant for an allegorical figure of an overdraft, bu
we hardly think so. No, you are not allowed to cu
your name on either of them.— Melbourne Punch.
It fakes very little to disturb the equanimity n
an audience. The other night at “ Thompson’s Mirro
of the Zulu War,” while the talented lecturer wa>
dilating upon the gallant defence of Rorke’s Drift
shrill female voice from out the darkness was heard’t
ejaculate the monosyllable—” Don't!” For the nex
quarter of an hour Mr. Thompson had to give his W
ture in dumb show.
Dowie has assumed a dignified, almost insolen
am, since he again announced his intention to court de
feat for East Sydney. He stands in front of Holmes
window and mentally addresses the tarts: ” M
Speaker”—but a point of order is raised:—“ T 1
honorable member must call for a division.” The cas
will go to Mr. Holmes, the tarts to Dowie. And h
counts himself out!
During a Police Court case the other day, Mr
Inspector M’Kay asked a witness if she believed all sh
beard, and the lady replied in the negative. Then Mr
Cmtoll ( who was on the defence) “ups and sez’’—
That’s right! Only believe half you hear in the or
din ary way, but nothing you hear in a Police Court
This advice so tickled the attendant constabulary tha
there was a loud guffaw.
Conversation heard in a bush bar :—Landlord
“ I suppose these colonials will play eleven gentlemei
players of England before they leave?” Youn
Bushee: “ Ah! how many of them P” Landlord
Why, eleven, of course.” Bushee : “ Eleven ? Anc
are there no more than eleven gentlemen cricketers i
England ?" Landlord: “ No, that’s all; and they hav
to get Lord Harris to make up the team."
The Pressman’s prayer ;
From prelate’s howl,
“ M'Guven’s ” growl.
And Cowper’s writs ca re ;
From judge’s claw.
And Parkes’s law, —
Te gods deliver me.
A Gundagai man says that after gazing for
long time on the portraits of the present and the late
Berry Ministry, the Service Ministry, and the Parkes
and Gladstone Ministries, he “fancies there is more
sound sense, reason, and high moral rectitude in anv
three or four of the Gladstone Ministry than will be
found in the other four Ministries put together—anc
this making every allowance for climatic influences ’
This fellow, who calls himself “the Peripatetic
Philosopber,” ought really to come to Sydney.
The Rev. H. B. Macartney, of Caulfield, Yic.
now on a visit to Sydney, is a son of the Very Rev. the
Dean of Melbourne, and used to amuse himself and the
Southern folks by predicting that the end of the world
was fast approaching. The planet on more than one
occasion obstinately refused to die on the date fixed by
the rev. gentleman, who in view of that fact accommo-
datingly got into the habit of postponing the calamitous
event. At last Mr. Macartney went to Tasmania, fell
in love, and got married—since which we haven’t heard
any more prophecies.
There is at Campbelltown a neat little paper
the Herald, and in its issue of last Saturday “ Our
Young Woman" (probably the editor’s best girl),
writes eloquently thus The beautiful goddess of
liberty has been scourged and exiled from the shores of
New South Wales; and, in her stead, intolerant clerical
bigotry and haughty official tyranny flaunt aloft their
black banners of enslaving despotism. But fear not!
Australians will not suffer this to last, and ere long
Liberty will be enthroned upon a loftier pedestal than
she ever occupied here before, whilst her oppressors
will be plunged into the black depths of oblivion.” Yah!
John Davies says C.M.G. does not and never
did mean “ Crawling Multiform Geebung.” or “Chame-
leonic Manoeuvring Gyrator.” He affirms that the only
reasonable interpretation of the initials is “Cheek
Must Gain.” He adds that “ Cant, Mushrooms, and
Greasiness." “Charlatanry, Mucilagousness, and
Gutta-percha,” have nothing whatever to do with his
title; and that ho is still quite prepared to give his use-
ful and disinterested services to an envious and un-
grateful public, even at the risk of being made a
K.C.M.G.. and being further exposed to what he knows
is after all but the simulated contumely of those Cove-
tous Mendicant Growlers who are never pleas ed at seeing
an honest and deserving man get on in the world.
That vigorously-written paper, the Co lac Re-
former, remarks that David Syme, of the Aoe, who
has applied himself to the breeding of traitors, is now
reaping his reward. He has succeeded in returning five
of his paid servants to Parliament, and they have pub-
licly disobeyed his commands and followed another
master when there. In the division-list which gave
Mr. Gaunson the Chairmanship of Committees, Messrs.
Deakin, Dow, O’Hea, Pearson, and Quick, every one of
them creatures of Sjmn’s creation—men who owe him
their seats and their daily bread—voted against his
publicly-spoken mandate given that very day, and
followed the arch-rebel whom the Aoe had made Pre-
mier.
The originality and truth of the following story,
says the Afternoon Alfred, is vouched for by persons
whose veracity is unquestionable “ The other evening
a little girl in Balmain was saying her prayers at her
mother’s knee, when her young brother passed by, and
gave her flowing ringlets a pull. She turned around with
a placid, hesitating countenance, saying ‘ Please, Lord,
’sense me while I bang Tommy,’ and she banged him.’’
In this yarn we cheerfully recognise a venerable fossil,
of the palsezoic age. At any rate, minus the “ flowing
ringlets” and “ placid, hesitating countenance," it used
to be related in ancient Rome. However, the name of
the bad little boy wasn’t then Tommy—it was Julius
Caesar.
We see by the S. M. Herald of the Bth Sep-
tember that the colony is happy in being the recipient
per Chimborazo and Cynisca of some really fine works
of art, including the historical paintings of “Cromwell
refusing the Crown of England ” and “ Cromwell dic-
tating to Milton ” —masterpieces of those celebrated
English artists, Maguire and Newenham. We hope our
friends of the Academy of Art will see their way to
secure these gems. They can hardly, we think, fail to
meet with the sympathy of the powers that be, as there
can be no doubt that our Premier will be immortalized
on canvas, to the delight and edification of future
generations, in a companion pair of paintings to the
above, as “ Parkes refusing the £5O bribe," and “ Parkes
dictating to Proctor.”
A b?.zaar was recently held at Wallaend. The
ladies who took part in it are thus described by a writer
in one of the Maitland papers :—“ Never in the whole
course of my life of bach.dordom—never from the very
first moment that I arrived at the age that I could form
an accurate conception and justly appreciate and
admire the excellencies of women, have I had the privi-
lege of seeing such an extensive collection of beautiful
creatures as assembled nightly at our bazaar. Oh,
bachelors, look and weep. Their pearly teeth their
flashing eyes, their dark or golden curls, you may seek
in vain in other towns, but the Wallsend girls for me.
Let dazzling stars and splendid belles assemble from all
quarters of the civilised world, and I am confident their
dazzling brightness and splendour would sink into
oblivion when compared with the sublime beauty and
exquisite loveliness of the enchanting fair, etc., etc.
Wallsend must be quite a nice place to live in. Only
the sight of at least a couple of hundred Alice Dun-
ning Lingards could have inspired such an outburst of
eloquence.
QUIS CUSTODIET CUSTODES IPSOS?
Two Proctors at the ’ Varsity
Ait as centores morum,
And “draw ” the Parks and streets and lanes.
And fine men brought before ’em;
But S dnev’s crowded up with Parks,
With P< rfe tbey’ve overstocked her,
And here in the antipodes
Parkes proctorizea Proctor I
OXONIENSIS.
MR. W. H. GILL, CANDIDATE FOR THE MANNING.
No Thoroughfare.


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIX— Continued.
“ I have some preconceived ideas upon the
matter of logic and reasonableness, common sense,
and all that kind of thing. Will that be against
me in this case ?”
“ I dislike flippancy,” said Laura.
“ I did not mean to be flippant. I merely wished
for information.”
“We will take the suffrage first,” said Miss
Mereweather, raising her voice somewhat, as if to
scatter such irrelevant remarks to the winds.
“ Are you in favour of extending the franchise to
■women —I mean women householders and rate-
payers ?”
“ On what grounds ?”
“ On the only grounds on which they can claim
it; on the grounds that they are mentally,
morally, and, in the practical affairs of the world,
the equal of man; and that, as they bear equal
burdens for the State, so they should have equal
privileges.”
“ I could never grant them the suffrage on those
grounds.”
” “’What!” exclaimed both ladies, while Helena
started forward, and dropped her fan, her eyes
flashing, and her face flushing.
“ Because it would take too long to prove your
case. What is more, if you fight the question on
that ground, I doubt whether you will ever win it.
You cannot be said to have proved a case to your
opponent until you have got him to agree with
you, and you will never, in your lifetime at least,
get more than a number to agree with you on that
point; it may be an influential number, and a
select one, but it will not be at all a majority.”
“ Your argument is not logical, it is a quibble,”
said Miss Mereweather, disdainfully. “ Your
real opinion is that women ought not to have the
franchise.”
“ I never said so. If they think it a privilege,
and if they would be pleased to have it, why
not?”
Miss Mereweather, unaccustomed to this style,
neither agreement nor opposition, was silent a
moment. Then a shade of pique crossed her
brow.
“ You do not think
women worth discuss-
ing anything seriously
with?” said she.
“ Excuse my saying
that you are quite
mistaken.”
“Then why don’t
you discuss this ques-
tion seriously?” was
the decidedly feeble
reply of the most re-
markable woman of
her time.
“ But I do. I say
why not give them the
franchise if they would
like to have it? I
suppose that by de-
grees they would get
educated up to it.”
“ Mr. Mallory! you
are absolutely insult-
ing,” cried Helena,
angrily, and Sebas-
tian merely answered
with a grave look, and
the remark:
“ I am sorry I have
offended you.”
Helena’s lips,
opened to utter a
reproach, closed; with
a look of embarrass-
ment she became
silent, and Miss Mere-
weather, in a busi-
ness-like tone, said:
“ Mr. Mallory is not
So dark as he seems
to you my dear. I
have good hopes for
him. We will turn to
another branch of the
subject. What is your
opinion, Mr. Mallory,
of the relative status
before the law of hus-
band and wife? What
do yon think of the
laws about married
women’s property P”
I think they are bad,” said Sebastian, stifling
a yawn, and glancing at Hugo, who was fanning
himself with Helena’s fan, while she leaned eagerly
forward.
“Ah!” said Laura, “an opinion at last! You
agree with us that there, in that most important
of all relations, the woman is a slave.”
“ I don’t think I said so. I suppose the woman
might be a slave if every husband were as bad as
the law would allow him to bo. Men are not all
tyrants, nor women all slaves ! so I suppose that
is why the law has not been changed.”
“ Certainly.”
“ It is an important subject for you, my dear,
dear child, said Miss Mereweather to Helena. “ I
only hope your resolution will remain firm, and
that you will resist temptation and specious pro-
mises. In your case you will have plenty of both.”
Of course I shall resist,” said Helena, a lit-
tle crossly. “I am not quite imbecile, Laura, and
know how to take care of myself. My mind is
‘luite made up on that subject.”
In what direction ?” inquired Sebastian..
I have told you already. I know I shall have
property,” said Helena, trying to speak with
mfty indifference, but,' all the same, aware that
the young man’s eyes were fixed upon her face, and
with her own wavering as she went on with the
speech which she had uttered many a time before,
and which struck her for the first time now as
tailing somewhat flat, and not being quite equal to
the occasion. Other young men had looked at her
ahd said they were sure she didn’t mean it, and it
Was too cruel of her, and other “vacant chaff”
ot the same description. Sebastian only looked at
her,.gravely, calmly, as it seemed to her, almost
lovingly, in perfect silence.
The glance stung and galled her. She would not
6 deterred by that look. What was Sebastian
yiallory but a man—a thoughtless young man, who
uad dared to laugh at her views ?
eonti P ro P er ty entails responsibilities,” she i
'u cer tainly does.”
* s^a U therefore never marry,” said Helena,
»rageously, though her face burned, and she
wiaiied she had never insisted on the discussion.
A shall look after my own affairs, and arrange
em according to my own judgment. I will be
r ®e, and nobody’s servant.”
A rer ywiae resolution; provided, first, that you
keep it; and second, that you feel equal to dis-
posing of so large an amount of property,”
“ I have no doubt about that, said she, with a
lofty smile, still not raising her eyes, and very
angry with herself for not being able to do so.
Sebastian smiled, and the smile made Helena
feel hot and uncomfortable.
“ I hope,”l said he, with extremepoliteneas, “that
you will feel the satisfaction which should be the
reward of such high motives.
Helena flushed again. She had argued the point
more than once with different people, and without
this feeling of embarrassment. Why was she em-
barrassed now ? _ What would that “nicest girl”
he ever knew, think if she were here? Had she
money ? He had said she had been brought up in
the school of adversity. That reminded Helena of
another point in the argument, which she ought to
have advanced long ago. She was dimly conscious
of a kind of bathos as she said, “ I don’t believe
‘in useless fine ladies, you know, all the same. I
think women ought to be able to earn their own
living if necessary. They ought to be able to be
quite independent of men, if they choose.”
“Do you think they ever would choose?” he
asked, with a suppressed smile.
“ I know this, that I would rather earn four-
pence a day as a needlewoman, than depend upon
any man!” said Helena, hotly and indignantly.
“ And I could always do that.”
“ In that case I congratulate you,” he retorted
ironically. “You are superior to all calamities
and misfortunes. I wish I could feel myself
equally secure.”
“You have not argued a single point,” said
Helena with passion. “ I shall never be at the
trouble to talk seriously to you again.”
“If you will only talk to me at all, I shall be
delighted.”
She had risen, andjwhirled herself away to the
other end of the room, where she busied herself
setting two young ladies to screech duets, while
she conversed (seriously or otherwise) with the
clergyman.
Sebastian turned with a half smile to Miss
Mereweather. He found an unaccountable plea-
sure in goading Helena into a passion. He had a
dim, vague idea that if he tried, he could not only
irritate her into fury, but soothe her back to calm-
ness ; but he was quite sure he never would try.
Rages, he thought, were not in his lino. He liked
better, as a permanency, the perfect temper, and
calm self-possession of another character. No one
would yearn to tease Adrienne.
His mind half given to such thoughts, he oon-
versed with Mias Mereweather, and hia opinion of
Helena’s discrimination was gradually raised.
Mias Mereweather was not at all bitter at her
defeat —if defeat it wore. She was clever, sensible
and accomplished. She owned that she did
think a great deal about the advancement of
women and their improvement, and she was an
ardent advocate for giving them the franchise;
but, she added, she could not go to the lengths
Helena did, and very soon they left that subject
and turned to others. Their conversation was
perfectly amicable and agreeable, and Helena
watched them from afar, with a darkling, some-
what resentful glance. Dear Laura’s one fault,
she thought, was that she was too facile —that
she compromised too easily.
As the Mallorys drove home, Mrs. Mallory,
completely deceived by the long conversation
which had taken place, was in a disastrously, un-
suspiciously amiable frame of mind, and was cor-
respondingly dejected when Sebastian, summing
up hia description of the evening’s entertainment,
said that Miss Sponceley had adopted the strictly
feminine line of argument, “ Agree with all I say,
or I will quarrel with you !”
“As I did not agree with all she said, she
quarrelled with me. Voila tout! Did she talk
women’s rights to you, Hugo?”
“ To me—no !”
“ Why I should be selected as the victim, I can’t
imagine,” purused Sebastian. “It is a pity she
does it, for she could be nice, lam sure ; and as it
is, she makes herself simply a bore.”
Mrs. Mallory was silent, mentally heaping op-
probrium upon Helena’s crazes.
BOOK 11.
CHAPTER I.
THE FIRST OF THE STORM.
The year 1861 had closed in thick clouds and a
great darkness, with the mutter of war in the far
west, and with the threatening of famine at home.
The year 1862 dawned, but with a dawn so dark
as scaree to be distinguishable from profoundest
midnight.
“Earth turned in her sleep for pain.”
_ January, February, dragged slowly by, and
times only grew worse. Few chimneys smoked,
no workers tramped through the streets; faces
were pinched, fires burnt low and meagre in the
bitter weather; money was not forthcoming,
clothes were few, pleasures wore at an end. Men
paused and waited, as it were, while the thunder
growled and the first heavy drops of the storm
began to fall, slowly and deliberately, and then
faster and ever faster, till none could escape the
universal drenching.
One bitter morning, in the beginning of March,
Myles and Mary Heywood turned out to their
daily work._ A furious, stinging wind, and a driv-
ing, scourging rain, saluted them as they entered
the long sloping street leading to the factory.
Myles pulled his collar up about his ears, and
Mary folded her shawl more tightly round her,
pulling it also further over her face. They walked
in silence, and did not look at each other. In
truth, both their hearts were sad as sad could be.
They were entirely changed from the well-to-do,
untroubled, noble-looking brother and sister -<vho,
six or seven months ago, had walked home! to-
gether in the heat of the August afternoon. What
a hot, plentiful blaze of sunlight then ! what cold,
what wet, what inclemency of elements now ! The
contrast was pointed and searching, and went
home to both.
For months now, Myles’s heart had been grow-
ing bitterer and harder, and more rebellious; ever
since that evening on which Sebastian Mallory had
come and interrupted his talk with Adrienne. He
had not seen her often since then, or rather had
not visited her often since then ; but on the few
occasions which he had done so, she was changed.
He had seen the change distinctly, had seen now
her eye wavered and her colour changed under his
piercing glance, for he could look at her steadily
enough now, without bashfulness, and with agaze
of desperate, hopeless enquiry, which, he thought,
must burn her secret from her heart. With each
visit, each conversation with her, he had grown
more hopeless, more despairingly certain that what
little part or lot ho had ever had in her life had
now vanished —was done with for ever more.
Once, strolling aimlessly along, he had seen her
home out of a shop, and had been going to speak
to her, when Sebastian Mallory had come up,
smiling, and lifting hia hat, and fixing hia eyes
upon her face.
The sight had been quite enough for Myles, who
had plunged his hands into his pockets, and turned
away with bitterness in his heart. Once or twice
—ho did not know how often —he had purposely
and pointedly spoken to her of Sebastian, and had
even asked her a question or two about her former
acquaintance with him, and had watched cruelly
and unflinchingly to see how she took it. And she
had taken it just as he had expected, with down-
cast eyes, a heightened colour, and a sudden con-
fused silence. He had been satisfied with his ex-
periment ; now he had given over going to Mr.
Blisset’s house, saying to himself :
“ If she cares for us, and is worth anything, she
will come—she will come if it is only to see Mary.
By this I shall know her. If she comes I’ll keep
quiet, and try to be satisfied with her, and try to
to bo satisfied with her —friendship. And if she
does not come—l’ll hate her; no, I’ll think not of
her—l’ll forget her, and rid myself of this plague
that has been with me ever since I knew her.”
Adrienne did not come, days and weeks went by
and she came not, and Myles did not hate her; he
did not cease to think of her. His “ plague ” tor-
mented him more greivously than ever, and his life
was miserable. His days wore long, there was
only half the usual work to fill them. The weary
afternoons and evenings were unutterably long.
Ho sat at home with his books open before him,
and stared at them, and knew nothing about what
was in them, while the chimes played ‘ Life let us
cherish!’ and Myles thought of the hun-
dreds, now daily augmenting, dwelling in the
houses beneath those chimes, to whom, in their
destitution, the tune must have seemed a melodi-
ous sort of mockery. * Life let us cherish !’ while
the men across the Atlantic were locked in the
deadly grip of war, and the cotton in England
was coming steadily, surely to a standstill. A
few more throbs of its mighty pulse—a few more
desperate struggles to break through the desper-
ate paralysis that was creeping over it, and then
the iron lungs, the great throbbing heart of it, its
huge limbs, its vast arteries, would bo quiescent—
for who would venture to say how long ? It was a
deadly prospect.
With these various causes of distress gnawing
perseveringly at his heart, the young man might
well be silent, as he set his teeth against the wind
and stooped his head to shield his face from the
rain.
While Mary, on her side, had cause enough and
to spare of unhappiness. The poor girl’s heart
was full to bursting of a dread fear that she had
had for many weeks now, and concerning which
she had not breathed a word to any one.
“ That it should ha’ begun just now!” she
thought to herself; “ just when times is hard, and j
work is short, and I can none get him all he should
have.”
She kept up a brave face, worked our her daily
task at her looms, and her much harder, heart-
breaking task at home ; had caresses, and smiles,
and tender words for Edmund, and a good face to
turn to poor Myles, in his gloom, which oppressed
her faithful heart like a chill hand upon it. She
had her meed of consolation for Harry Ashworth,
who said he was growing deafer and deafer. She
had her own private astonishment at Adrienne’s
long absence, but no thought that Adrienne
meant any slight qr ill-will to her or hers.
Still, her secret cares had thined her cheeks,
and taught her lips to assume a sadder curve;
had placed a line or two upon her frank calm
eyes, and lent a quiet pasaiveness to her dark-
brown eyes. It had always been a good face —
now it had the dignity and pathos of well-borne
sorrow.
They entered the great gas-lighted room. Myles
went to his part of the mill, and Mary to hers.
How hot and overpowering it felt, after the bitter
rawness of the outside air! She cast aside her
shawl, and set her looms going, and in a few
minutes the old accustomed roar of the machinery
had somewhat soothed her ; and her monotonous,
weary pondering over ways and means, and sharp,
stinging fears as to some dread eveiit hovering in
the near future, bad been somewhat disipated by
attention to her work, and chat of a fellow factory
workfer.
“I reckon we’st soon have to shut up shop here,
Mary,” said the latter. “ I yeard Wilson say as
how wo couldn’t hold out mich longer.”
“ Eh, what?” said Mary, with a start —“ eh, I
hope not, lass. What mun we do, if we’ve no
work?”
The other girl shrugged her shoulders.
“ I’ve yeard say too as if we do have any work,
it’ll be wi’ Surats, and I mun say I would rayther
have none at all. I conno’ work yon stuff,”
I care nowt at all, whether it’s Surats, or what it
is, so as I’ve summat to do, and summat to earn,”
said Mary.
“ Thou may work twelve hours a day at Surats 6
and not earn above six shillin’ a week,” said her
companion, cynically ; and then the conversation
ceased, and Mary was left to her reflections.
At eight they went home to breakfast, and at
half past they were at their work again, and con-
tinued at it until half-past twelve, when Wilson
put his head into the room, and called out:
“All the hands in this here room will please
wait a few minutes in the big yard I’ve got some-
n.;— <■„ >»
thing to say to you.”
The same announce-
ment had been made
in all the other rooms
and the result was, all
the hands were as-
sembled, and waiting,
some curiously, some
apathetically for the
communication that
was coming.
Wilson jumped up
on a lorry which stood
in the yard, and in a
clear, distinct voice,
read out from a paper
which he held in his
hand this announce-
ment:
“ I hereby give no-
tice that on and after
Friday, March the
—th, this factory will
be closed, owing to
the present condition
of the cotton trade,
in consequence of the
American war. At
the same time, as I
am anxious to keep
ray hands together,
and to save them as
much as possible
from distress, I un-
dertake, for the pre-
sent at least, and un-
til other circumstan-
ces shall make a
change desirable, to
furnish them with the
moans of subsistence,
and such of them as
are my tenants will
not be pressed until
the times improve.
Each head of a family
is requested to at-
tend in the ware-
house of this mill oa
the afternoon of Mon-
day next, at 3 o’clock
when the conditions
of relief will be made known, and the names and
addresses of all in receipt thereof taken down. I
request you earnestly, and with perfect confidence,
to try, all of you, during this present trouble, to
act together, and assist me in the preservation of
order, and the relief of distress.
“ Sebastian Mallobt.”
There was a short silence; then murmurs ; then
from some lips; an attempt at a cheer. Some girls
and women were wiping their eyes with their
aprons, and one or two men waved their hats; ex-
clamations and murmurs arose all around. “ Eh,
but that’s reet down kind, that is !” “ Th’ chap
is a good sort!” “ Well, we needna fear to clem
just yet!” and so on. The gratitude is very real
if expressed with true Lancashire reticence and
absence of effusion. But almost greater than tho
gratitude was the gloom —the sense of shame and
degradation—the feeling that this was a draught
too bitter for any amount of sugaring to sweeten
and that they had done nothing to deserve to have
to swallow it. Sebastian had done wisely in com-
mitting to Wilson the delivery of the message.
Wilson seemed to the work-people almost as one
of themselves; he, too, must suffer somewhat
from this calamity. The humiliation would haye
been too intense had Sebastian read the announde-
ment himself. He, like hundreds of other masters
was making money—netting large profits at this
stage of the crisis. His piled-up warehouses
would be emptied at profitable prices of the accu-
mulated results of last year’s over-production,
while the impossibility of getting at the stores of
cotton which were undoubtedly reposing in large
quantities in Manchester and Liverpool ware-
houses. relieved him from the immediate expense
of working and of paying wages. That part of the
“ panic,” as it was and is always called by tho
work-people, was one of unmitigated severity for
the poor man—for the worker—capital added
hugely to her stores. Yet every employer of any
foresight was troubled to know what was to be-
come of Ilia work-people during the groat distress
such skilful, practised, deft-handed, soft-
fingered work-people as no other comer in the
world could supply him—work-people who, if they
once got scattered, or emigrated, or separated
from their labour, could not be replaced—tho
choicest of craftsmen and craftswomeu.
(to be continued) 1
MR. F. L. BARKER'S WOOL AND PRODUCE STORES. (See Page 3).


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
B. Y O U D A L
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
E,
This New and Commodious Establishment is now in full
operation, and customers have an opportunity of
purchasing from a well-bought stock of Choice, Cheap,
and Useful FANCY and HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY,
Corsets, and Trillings.
J. B. Y O U D A L E.
NEW MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
E
ASSIGNABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I I I
J. L. HORDERN.
T
HE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9a. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 634 GEOEGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
FJTHE BEST LARGEST STOCK
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
%t
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) geobge street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
BST All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
j. VICARS & CO.,
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. *
SYDINrEiY
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-stroet),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12g. 6d,
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s,
~ Suits 635,
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
JJCONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
nos removed to the more spacious and commodion
premises on
WYNYAKD-STREET,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
WHITE 16 FineSt and Best Fitti ng
’ CRIMEAN,
and
. ~. , , . REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheapei
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest Wesf
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Gofcio and See—then judge for YonrseVcs.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JQAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits.
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
/Comprising Coat, Vest.!
I and Trousers, in all the
•I favourite colours Well I , ]it
cut and finished in the ® er su *
I best manner. )
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
Orient
Sac Suits,
/The latest shape; ause-
I ful and durable suit
[ for business and ordi-
l nary wear.
35s per
suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
D
(In light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban-1 43s per
nockburns. for Spring f Suit,
and Summer wear. j
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
Ik Choice Oriental
Tweeds, excellent for
general wear, in neat
checks and mixtures.
48s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
D
{Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials I
having been well f ,)Js P er
shrunk before being I sultu
made up. J
|AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior OrlentaH
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and V
finished the same as 1
L ordered clothing. J
68s 6d
per suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
! Beautifully light
Texture, permanent in f 38s 6d
colour and very dur- f per suit
able in wear.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY'S
attention is in-')
] vited to our Orient I
Gentlemen’s | Clothing, as being | Genlemens
Orient -J the best value, and J- Orient
Clothing. most perfect in sUle I fclothing.
| and flnsh procurable |
L in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s fin Superior Tasmanian')
Cricketing and 1 Flannel, thoroughly/
Boating ') shrunk. C 18s 5 “
Trousers. L )
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
fChina Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d oach.
I Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
-J All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
I Superior Sergo Coats, 21s each-
| Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
fin fine Black Alpaca, 22s (id each
1 In Super Black Merino, 255.
) In Blue Sergerette, 455.
Lin Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s fin fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
D.B. Frock ' In Black Merino, 30s.
Coats. Lin Super Sergerette, 555.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
f Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s Gd.
I »• „ in Self Colours, 8s Gd.
■{ ~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s Gd.
1 Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s Gd.
LBlack Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
fin Superior, all Wool - )
-] Tambary Tweed, well [■ 30s each
L finished. )
The
Orient.
I
A Special Dress Over-')
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, heauti- j-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
55s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
"PLOY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
PAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theu EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits. v
Boys”
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suita
(Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
goretto Suits.
C "1 7s Gd, 8s
jln neat fashionable Bd, 12s Gd,
J Tweeds, neatly cut [ 13s Gd, 15s
I and well made, and f Gd, 17s Gd,
finished. | 19s Gd per
L J suit.
flu new shapes, very~) 12s Gd to
■J prettily trimmed, and > 19s Gd per
L thoroughly well-made..) suit.
iln fancy and plain')
' Drills, trimmed in I
J new and effective ('
L styles. J
/ For dress wear, extra')
J finished, superior (
J material, and excel- C
I lent shape. )
/In superior Navy Serges!
I complete with lan-1
j yard, whistle, badge, f
I, collar and undershirt. J
5s lid, 7s
Gd, 9s 5d
per suit.
20s to 27s
Gd per
suit.
24s Gd to
27s Gd per
suit.
fin light and dark mix-')
| tures, cut in fashion- | 21s Gd to
■! able styles, well fto 23s Gd
( trimmed and strongly | per suit.
L made. - J
/In fine durable Esta-\
I mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
J adapted for school and f Gd.
\ general wear. )
(For dress wear
■j trimmed and made ip
' a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit,
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s Gel., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
Chemists and Druggists
EMSTEONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
L. AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as «
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dj zz j’
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d. J
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack*
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickline
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4s
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOrI
HAGE.” Can always be BELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s. i
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E. B. ' A E M S T E 0 N G,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE
NO M O E E
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
, PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any’of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
«3T Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuahle Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
B T
EOYAL LETTEES PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attendiug the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE,
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
[ can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
I Australian Ointment ?
! . Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guarunted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTEAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
H Y S I C
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malign mt Diarrhoea, Piles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours o£ Consultation —10 to 12,
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance, Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.
EXCELLENCE WITU ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
Have a look at the sfd pompadoue
CAMBRICS, at EDWARD HORDERN’S, just
landed from the S. S. JOHN ELDER, FAST COLOURS
and NEWEST DESIGNS. 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL
only.
Family beeeavements, suitable
MATERIALS for SUMMER WEAR, FULL
ASSORTMENT, LOW PRICES. The only RELI-
ABLE HOUSE in Sydney for BLACK GOODS.
EDWARD HORDERN, Importer, 668, Brickfield-hill.
Horses and Vehicles
K
eaeey beothees,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
T H A E V E Y,
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Steeets,
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets,
s.
G
AS S O
N
S
STEAM COACH AND WHEEL WEIGHT
WOEKS,
Hareis-street, off Geoegb-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Eailway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Eailway Bridge.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBL I C
NOTICE
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibiiious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG STOEES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUE APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H, Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilliug. Sold everywhere.


Hotels, &c.
H I S K Y FRAUDS.
READ PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
KOE’S **• FIVE-YEAR-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Eecommended by tbe Faculty
ROBEET PHILLIPS and CO.,
Solo Agents for New South Wales.
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Maokie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot be
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very fine spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
thoroughly matured, and can be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and Queensland,
JAMES BURNS.
Tobacconists
T
HE GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
689 &E 0 E GE STEBET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to moke imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words „
or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES EVE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOE SMOKING MIXTUEE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired. ,
159 PITT STEEET,
Next Post Office.
Money
\L
O N E Y.
M O N E Y,
fNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
dvanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
reehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
BCURITY: repayable by instalments as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7 6
0 10 6
10 0
15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
xeir business during the day, these offices will be
pened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
renings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
T OANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
I i moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-streeh next comer
King-street. Established 1869.
Boots and Shoes.
B
OOTS !
BOOTS! !
BOOTS !! !
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AX THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
Auctioneers and Commission Agents
gCO T T, READ, & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CENTRAL TEMORA.,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydney
Firms.
Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & CO, 322 George-
street, are tbeir Sydney Representatives.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
1
T. B TJ R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET.
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
PW. CROWE & CO., STOCK, STATION
• AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
4 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows: —
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station —on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour—every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY,
P
ITT, SON, AND BADGERY,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY.
N.B. —All Fat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuality rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
IHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leadjng papers), Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, fvc., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meetmg
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order ©n the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
c.
FOR
W. BOBER
MARKET STREET,
FIRST-CLASS WINES. SPIRITS,
BEERS.
T S,
AND
\ F A C
Cm- That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(comer of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink,
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuffs.
T,
Proprietor, DAVID H. WARBY.
OLONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
Hotels, &c.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Me. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can bo had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
Royal exchange hotel,
Coknkb King and George Streets).
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Rooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
N.B.—Pic-nics. Balls, Parties. Clubs, &c., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWARD PERKINS.
'y I C T 0 R I A HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel and made extensive
dterations and which will be fitted up in the most
ashiouablo style, I trust that by keeping the best
irands of Wines, Spirits, &c., and conducting it in tne
nost respectable manner, to merit tlie support of tne
?Übho, GEORGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
IRADE MARK
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Business Cards
S
[Legal.]
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
1" EGAL. —Mr. T. M. SLATTERY.
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREBT, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Roberts, karris, and weston,
Licensed Surveyors,
LAND AGENTS, ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt, with.
Run Maps compiled to latest date. Office —Royal Blue
House ; Chambers, 130 Pitt-street.
B
LACK MANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURSE STREET. WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Gr.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, <fcc., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
T 1 O W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
C WOODFORD AND CO,,
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gastttters.
J.
F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
CONFECTIONER.
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
CO.,
JOBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
O
N,
Em a s
• DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
IVT R • AND MRS. BOOTH,
LTJL Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
kTOTICE.—I beg to inform my numerous
N friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
7 LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
lOTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
lankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
alances. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
REMOVAL.
IHE undersigned have removed their present
" business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
rly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
ce (now in course of completion), where they solicit
mtinuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE A.ND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
P
A T
R I N T IN
Of Every Description
REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN,’
G
10 THE THEATRICAL PROFESSION AND
LADIES GENERALLY.
A choice variety of COMPLEXION POWDERS
m Sale, also fine PERFUMERY and TOILET
irtioles, &c., &c.
W. D. FAMES,
Chemist, 14 Oxford-st.,
Near Hyde Park.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimulant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
J
UNIPEE TREE
P. MELCHEES.
GIN.
$5O
&
&
rg
Q
&
Si
3
i
SUPEEIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Cele brat ed for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
CHAS. BATH
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET


Berry to Parkes and Parkes to Eerxy.
The following correspondence has been handed to
us for publication. We print it readily, as it
explains the apparent inconsistency of our Colonial
Secretary in preventing Mr. Proctor, but not other
lecturers, from holding forth on Sunday
Melbourne, September 6th, 1880.
■Dear Sir Henry,—I write on my own behoof and on
that of the Berryites to congratulate you on adopting
the principles of Protection.
’Tis true that I have dealt with those principles so
far as t iicy aflectod the trade of the working man; but,
in preventing Mr. Proctor from delivering his lecture
yesterday, you have dealt with them in the interests of
the clergy. Mr. Proctor would undoubtedly have drawn
a vast number from the churches; but that was not the
only danger. There was the risk of a precedent being
formed which would enable any stranger to visit your
colony and lecture on Sunday, to the pastors’ detriment
and ultimate ruin.
. Assuring you of my personal regard for your welfare
in your new line of conduct,
I have, &c..
The Honorable
Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G.,
Sydney.
Graham Beret.
Sydney, September 9th, 1880.
Dear Graham,. —I have to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of the 6th instant, conveying to me your
own congratulations and those of that influential and
respectable body, the Berryites, on my adopting the
principles of Protection.
I feel very thankful for these expressions of feeling,
and I assure you the perusal of your nicely worded
communication afforded me the liveliest satisfaction.
Personally, I have no objection to the delivery of
these Astronomical Lectures on Sunday, for at my own
house hardly a Sunday passes by but the constellation
of the Three Stars and the Battle Axe form the theme
of conversation. Further, the splendid glasses in my
possession bring the objects within a very short distance
and assist greatly in extending the range of our vision.
But I hold it to be wrong that itinerant lecturers of
note should lecture on Sunday, to the detriment of our
permanent lecturers and our ecclesiastics. Sunday is
the clergyman’s chief day of trade, and it is far from
right for a stranger to lecture and draw the people from
the churches.
The Honorable
Graham Berry,
Melbourne.
I have, &c.,
Henrt Parses
STAGE GOSSIP.
Miss Emily Soldene was playing in Dublin on
July 4.
Burton’s circus is at present camping at
Appiu.
Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Eoberts have opened at
Adelaide.
Menser’s Bright Stars have been very success-
ful at Wagga.
* Dullness reigns supreme over theatrical matters
in Melbourne.
Seaton’s Burletta Troupe have been drawing
well at Coonamble.
Mr. W. H. Hoskins is by far the best “ Graves ”
Australia ever saw.
Grattan Eiggs contemplates a visit to New
Zealand and Tasmania.
One of the ladies of the Juvenile Troubadours
will shortly marry and retire.
Maggie Knight is burning to play Juliet in Ade-
laide to Fred Thome’s Romeo.
Greville has engaged Harry Leston as comedian
for his dramatic season in Sydney. .
H. H. Vincent has returned to take the post of
stage manager and lead at the Queen’s.
H. E. Walton is in Melbourne, trying to engage
operatic artists for a season in Tasmania.
G. B. W. Lewis still intends organising a circus
company for the Exhibition season in Melbourne.
The latest nows from South Africa is that
“ Pinafore ” has reached there. Bleeding Africa !
Mr. W. H. Hoskins and a select comedy com-
pany are playing at Goulbnrn to delighted audiences.
As a preliminary to opening at Sydney Opera
House, Sam Howard has a company at Goulbnrn for a
week.
M'Loan’s Troubadours only did a fair business
at Newcastle, money in that district being really very
scarce.
At last. The Queen’s Theatre is now fitted up
with new dressing rooms, and has some water on the
premises.
Billy Sweatman, one of the best American
negro comedians, is a member of Kelly’s Comic Opera
Company.
Grattan Eiggs has proved a big success at
Ballarat, in which city he opened on Saturday, 11th
September,
Dan. Briggs, of Eockhampton, helps every
deserving actor or charity, and never takes a penny for
his services.
At Melbourne Opera House Haselmayer, the
magician, has been giving a very clever exposition to
moderate houses.
The S. F. Morning Call of July ISannounces
the arnvaP in that city of Mrs. F. M. Bates, who left
here a few months ago.
Miss Ginlietta Arditi, a daughter of the con-
,1 1 , c , or at Her Majesty’s, has made a very successful
debut as a tragedienne.
i They object to “ The Old Toll House” in Ade-
, ~ and Holt has been tearing his hair out by
nandsfull in consequence.
£7O a night for a bare theatre for a benefit to a
veteran comedian is a liberal demand. It was asked of
Mr. Hoskins for the Royal.
Frank Lloyd is in Eockhampton, on the map
racket. He and Alick Andrews gave an entertainment
which was a big money success.
Morton Tavares now drives a pony chaise and
pair. Some say he deals in horses. He does in chaff
yet never smiles except Satanically.
Shepperson and Lydia Howardo are at Wel-
lington, N.Z., where it is reported that they have en-
gaged all the professionals of Sydney.
At the Eoyal, Melbourne, during the week. Mr
E. Browne succeeded Mr. B. N. Jones. Robinson did
not arrive in time to complete the trio.
Baker and Farron commence a season in New
York next Christmas Day, and after an American tour
return to Australia, their land of fortune.
Hegarty had a bill of costs for playing dramatic
authors pieces which amounted to about £32, but with
a little explanation it was reduced to 10s. 6d.
The “ Stray Leaves ” Combination opened at
»t. George s Hall, Melbourne, on Saturday last. This
very clever company return to Sydney shortly.
, Dr. Silvester (“The Fakir of Oolu”), was at
latest date at Fremantle, W.A., doing good business.
Mrs. Silvester had been very ill, but was recovering.
“ Liddy ” is out on a Northern Tour with Kelly’s
Comic Opera Company. They opened at Grafton on
ihursday, September 16, and proved a great success.
The debris of the Loftus Troupe—including
Sallie and Jeff, de Angelis—have been playing at Gympie
to fair houses, and were at latest dates at Maryborough,
John Bennett’s trouble now is that he hasn’t a
theatre and company to place at the disposal of the
-Loudon Comedy Company in case of their being burnt
out.
The best-played comedy Sydney has seen for
many years was “Sour Grapes,’’ at the Victoria
theatre, and only one “London” actor (Mr. H. H
Vincent) in the cast.
Annie Mayor, being called on in a case of emer-
gency, studied and played Eunice and Bell Lorimer. in
New Babylon,” at Adelaide, at two hours’ notice-and
played respectably, too.
■A portion of the Italian and English operatic
artists now swelling the ranks of the Victorian
nnemployed, proceed to Adelaide shortly under the
management of Mr. S. Lyster.
Snuko was told that the fire at the Eoyal was
confined to the new scenery painted for “Money.”
baid he, “If I’d ha’ knowed there was so little fuel.
I’d never ha’ budged a hinch.”
Theo. Hamilton thinks his friend Jack Wallace
has been improved by the Sydney air, and says that if
assisted by Mr. Topp he might throw a medium-sized
snauow on a sunny afternoon,
Mr. Frank Davis, dramatic critic of the South
Australian Advertiser, has issued a writ for £5OO
Holloway, the actor, for assaulting
him in the cafe in the Theatre Royal.
lbo ’ir ne Bijou “The Woman in White,”
and Stolen Kisses” underlined. G. R. Ireland
wuFSwiu- i this theatre, and every theatre-goer
ill tfla.-llj' welcome bun back to tbe boards.
khd South company have been ap-
to great houses at the Towers. “ Richelieu,”
«Thi h Serion a H “ P a Pe n rU ° hi °’’’ “ David Garrick,” and
duced. S 1 amily were amon g the plays pro-
Mr. Barlow (“Inimitable”) who a few wool™
S’ W? f T ewe » of Victoria^has arrival Tthe
Cape, and, according to a Cape newspaper of Julv 22
Huccesl me entertainment there with agreeable
Twoof everv character in the Juvenile Pinafore.
Surely this ought to draw. We have seen Richard ITT,
£i,rvH!l| re with five Richards—Roberts, Welsh,
' Holloway ' and And «ws. The first and last
Dampier, with Mrs. Dampier, Lily and Eose
departed for England on Tuesday, September 14 per
the John Eider Mr. Dampier returns tnnstralia P in
, br i n « n S wJ th him a complete company
of star artists and a f all wardrobe. 1 f
The Williamsons at the Royal, Melbourne, Sep-
tember 18, in "Struck Oil” and “The Fool of the
Family." Later on these artists produce an American
dramatic extravaganza, entitled “Evangeline,” and for
the Cup week, it is said, reproduce “ Struck Oil.”
A well-known actor has been engaged as promp-
ter for six months at the Queen’s under the coming
Greville dynasty. He says it’s no use cultivating a
cavalry moustache to prompt in, so he has dismissed
it until a fitting opportunity presents itself for his
“ Hamlet.”
Thompson’s Zulu War Panorama is composed of
the very best war paintings ever exhibited in the
colony. The other evening, a gentleman just from
Zululand said every scene was perfect and true to
nature. The foliage alone is worth the money, and the
lecture—oh !|
Truth to state, Mark Twain’s “ Gilded Age ”
was a failure at the People’s. Johnny Hall tried very
hard, but even he could not redeem the wretched dul-
ness of the play. “ £lOOO Reward” is the attraction
now. On Saturday, the 25th, will be produced “ The
Danites,” with an exceptional cast.
Miss Alice Doorwyn is playing Anne Catherick
and Miss Fairlie in “The Woman in White,” with
Wybert Reeve, at Melbourne. Sydney playgoers will
recollect this pretty little lady struggling “ manfully” up
to the part of Marion Halcombe in the same drama,
and how she surmounted all difficulties.
We notice from the papers that at Adelaide
“The Old Toll-House,” “Fra Diavolo” (burlesque),
and “The Octoroon” have followed “ New IBabylon.”
As Beppo, in the burlesque, Mr. Bland Holt
is said to be intensely amusing, and to give an
exhibition of dramatic acrobatism seldom seen from a
“ star ” actor.
Professor Pepper, at Adelaide, from a financial
point of view, has not met with half the prosperity his
entertainment deserves] (says The Australasian corres-
pondent). Some severe persons think his style is too
popular and genial, and deplore the introduction of
jokes. Others think he might joke only, filling up the
gaps with experiments.
lima de Murska has been worsted in her action
against Mapleson. She had been engaged for a series
of winter concerts at £2lO a month. Part of her money
had been paid, but Mapleson claimed to deduct the
balance on account of the absence of the plaintiff
through illness. Mr. Justice Grove said he considered
that Madame de Murska was suing for salary which she
had not earned.
The management of the Melbourne Bijon keep
• a sharp look-out for novelties, and from the ashes of
the old Yic, have picked up some good things. Miss A.
Gilbert has now made her debut at the Bijou in “ The
Woman in White,” and is highly spoken of by the local
Press. We are always glad to chronicle the success of
our old friends, and congratulate Mr. Wybert Reeve
on his judicious selections.
George Darrell opens at the People’s Theatre on
the 16th October with a drama entirely new to the Mel-
bourne boards. The scenes are all local, the incidents
strong and situations effective. A new company, in-
cluding Jennie- Watt-Tanner, Annie Mayor, will be
engaged for each part. Every scene will be painted
expressly, and Hamilton means to spare no expense to
ensure a success. Darrell plays over the race week.
De Yivo announced that the “ magic and in-
spired fingers” of the great Kowalski, the prince of
pianists. Would punish a “new grand ” for tee first time
in the Australias on Monday, September 20th, at the
Melbourne Opera House. The king and the emperor
of all the pianists is now en route—his name, Herry-
pettywopsagy. The minor Istars must look to their
laurels. Kowalski has |opened in Melbourne and is a
brilliant success.
Apropos of the alleged assault of a gentleman
connected with the Preps in Adelaide by an actor named
Holloway, poor Ted Sadler used to tell a story of a boy
in the gallery of the old Prince of Wales Theatre who
was shouting out between the acts, “ Holleraway !
Holleraway!” Ted went and expostulated: “ Why he
isn’t playing to-night.” “ I don’t care,” said the lar-
rikm, “he told me to come an* ’oiler, an* I mean to do
it; 'olleraway ! which, however, was possibly not
true.
Catherine Lewis ‘ bested ’ the acute manager,
Daly. At the head of a Royal Middy company she was a
prime favourite with the New Yorkers. Manager Daly
wanted to take his company on a tour with an inferior
star,’ but the inland managers telegraphed back when
they heard of his intention, ‘ Don't want the Royal
Middy without Catherine Lewis.’ Now, Manager Daly
who had discharged the lady, was obliged, on a three
months engagement, to re-engage her at double her
previous salary.
The Melbourne Exhibition Cantata is melodious
and fairly characteristic, but it is wearisome from its
abnormal length. The final “Amen” chorus, a fugue
movement, seems interminable from its unnecessary
repetitions. The soloists are Madame Simonsen, Mrs.
Cutter, Armes Beaumont and Verdi. Each of these
artists do justice to the numbers allotted them, but
Verdi has the most effective and tuneful song. The
chorus is numerically strong and is efficient. There is
however too much “ Lewis ” element about the affair.
Barnum’s new Museum at New York will be
five stories high, and will embrace an area of eleven
acres, the whole of which is to be devoted to the
amusement or instruction of the public, who are to be
induced to attend by a hitherto unattempted combina-
tion of attraction, combining Pat Women, Military
Reviews, Punch and Judy, Italian Opera. Scientific
Giants, Ethnological Specimens, Flower
kkows, Trotting Matches, Panoramas, Wizards. Con-
cert Singers, and scores of other items.
Madame Rndersdorff, the great prima donna
was once singing for a manager whose friends had made
him engage a youth who fancied himself a great vocalist
but who could neither sing nor act. Madame deter-
mined to get rid of the conceited tenor. The latter
“ shtood ’’on her very long train one evening—it was iu
Dublin. Madame seized the train with both hands and
stepped swiftly aside. The youthful aspirant’s legs
were drawn from under him, and he measured his
length on the boards. The light tenor appeared not
again.
The Dillon and South v. Nash case has been
postponed untillnext sittings of the Rockhampton Court.
The whole affair is a very silly piece of business. It
appears that there was trouble about a professional’s
wine-bill, some 325., which Nash (the proprietor of the
theatre and of the adjoining hostelry) wished South to
pay as well as rent, etc. J. S. declined to do so without
an order from the debtor, whereupon Nash closed the
theatre. For his action in doing so Dillon and South
claim £4OO damages, so that their next appearance will
be under the patronage and in the presence of the Dis-
trict Court Judge.
An alarm of fire was raised at the Theatre
Royal on Saturday night last. Just after the concln-
sion of the first act the peculiar crackling noise made
by a rapidly-progressing fire fell upon the ears of the
packed audience. For a moment there was a rush, and
then Mr. Frederick Marshall appeared on the stage to
announce that there was no longer any danger. The
performance was proceeded with after an extended in-
terval during which proceedings were enlivened by
the orchestra. The cause of the alarm turned out to
be that a badly-placed gas-jet had set fire to part of the
scenes. Considerable damage was done to the canvas,
but the flames were readily subdued by the hose. The
audience as a whole behaved with great presence of
mind. ,
T a x co * lcert latel y in aid of the Royal Albert
Institute, Windsor, the Princess Christian played with
Mr. Otto Goldschmidt an arrangement of Sterudale Ben-
nett s celebrated overture, “ The wood nymphs.” Her
Royal Highness displayed charming talent for style and
admirable command of execution. Madame Lind-Qoid-
schmidt followed with the songs “Schilflied’ (Mendels-
sohn) and ‘Orpheus with his Lute’ (A. Sullivan), the
well-remembered notes and expression of the Swedish
Nightingale recalling to the memories of many present
the enthusiasm created by a display of her unrivalled
powers when she charmed the town as .‘Jenny Lind
there was naturally a great rush for tickets, which in
some cases realised advanced prices. The proceeds of
the concert amounted to £l5OO, leaving a balance in
hand of £5OO after liquidating the debt on the building
It is related of the author of “La Fille de
Madame Angot ” that once having had (while still a
player) to sell his block stockings to get a dinner, he
blacked his legs, and the audience discovering what he
had done waxed so wroth that the curtain had to be
rung down. He was advised to write for the stage
instead of acting. “ Madame Angot ” and “ Les Cloches
de Comeville " were the result.
Those of Adelaide Neilson’s jewels which were
not disposed of at a late sale of a portion of her theatri-
cal effects in San Francisco, are of great value. They
consist of a circlet of diamonds, worth about fifteen
thousand dollars ; a set of black pearls, ear-rings, brace-
lets, and pendants—the pearl in the centre of the oma-
ment, and surrounded with large diamonds of the first
water —three bracelets, one with black pearls, one white,
and one with turquoises, all of them banded with bril-
liants ; a diamond spray of wild roses and leaves for the
hair; a diamond butterfly, whose body is of topazes and
rubies ; a diamond lizard, which the actress called her
“luck;” a Maltese cross, in immense stones of great
whiteness and purity; a Roman gold bracelet, set with
diamonds, worth about three thousand dollars; a set of
sapphires in diamond clusters ; and rings and brooches
of almost every precious stone known.
Theodore Hamilton is undoubtedly the shrewdest
and most enterprising manager in Melbourne. He has
offered per advertisement a prize of £250 for the best
original drama, to be written by an Australian author.
The dialogue, scenes and incidents must be entirely
original—no dramatisation, by amateur playwright,
, with names altered—party and political subjects entirely
excluded. Hamilton claims the right to the first 24
performances of the drama at the People’s or elsewhere,
after which the author will receive a nightly royalty.
A committee of three gentlemen will decide on the
merits of the play offered, and all MSS. are to be in
before October 15th. The offer is a liberal one, and
doubtless a quantity of MSS. will be forwarded. In Mel-
bourne, Walch is too busy, so he says, with 1880 and his
150 newspapers to compete. Marcus Clarke gives no
sign—Patchett Martin avoids “lager” and thinks
deeply. This is omnious. “Warrior” Brown growls
that the time is too short to give a fellow a chance, and
George Darrell avers that he has too much work on
hand for his opening to go in for “specs.” at all.
Inspector-General A. M. Topp has opened a book on the
event, but he will only lay 5 to 4 on the field.
The Australasian gives to Mr. Edwinßrowne,
for his impersonation of Tender Jim in “ Good as Gold”
the most flattering of notices. It saysHe has played
but a week, but he deserves to play many weeks. You
need not embarrass yourself by the question of whether
he can play Hamlet or Richard the Third. It is probable
that he knows better than to attempt either; but you
may be quite sure that he can play characters of which
Tender Jim is the type. He has a good appearance, a
pleasant voice, and a natural manner, and he used all
these attributes with the best effect in showing what
was intended in the character he personated. He made
the two sides of the character clearly apparent. There
was no confusion between them. One could see that he
desired to make the idea of the transformation
thoroughly manifest, and his success followed well upon
his desire. In the early scenes his modesty was charm-
ing, and in Itke latter, his bravery irresistibly pictur-
esque. In the scene where he turns suddenly upon the
cowardly crowd, and electrifies them by his new-born
valour, he showed the most perfect knowledge of stage
effect, but effect in complete accordance with the
dramatic meaning. So we hope we shall hear more of
Mr. Browne.”
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Two or three Queenslanders stand in for a good
thing on Pontiff.
The Geelong Sires’ Produce Stakes of 1881 closes
on the 30th September.
The principal bookmaker in Brisbane just now
will lay the odds, even to a “ tanner.”
John Purcell, the owner of Viscount, has died at
Brisbane. Pecuniary embarrassments had turned the
poor fellow’s head.
The entrances for the Queensland races in
November are very poor. “Mrs.” J. Abrahams is the
nominator of Sunset.
Messrs. Burrows and Gleeson. of the Adelaide
Brewery, were the largest subscribers to the Trickett
fund, having given a cheque for £5O.
The match with the 11 gentlemen of Scotland
was a Boyle over for the Scots. Boyle’s “hat trick”
caused them to capitulate.—Comic papers please copy.
The Elswick Bowing Club was the pioneer row-
ing association of Victoria. It was pretty well extin-
guished when its rooms and its boats were destroyed bv
the great flood of 1863. J
Oxenham the pedestrian the other day attempted
to run ten miles within the hour at the Squatters’ Hotel
yard, Wagga, but it took him the hour and ten minutes to
run the distance, as announced.
Dr. King, of Colac, Victoria, in a letter to Sir
Samuel Wilson, states that while fishing in a stream
near the river Watts, he saw a splendid salmon, and he
feels certain this species of fish visits that water.
The Hon. J. P. Bell will be in Melbourne about
Cup time, and regrets he has not got a youngster to
carry his colours in the Maribyrnong Plate.
The Brisbane Bowing Club numbers 42 members
all Scotchmen, AValter Snelling, a Cockney, has now
joined, because he is anxious to learn the language.
By the ‘ sound ” investment of a half-crown in
the throw-off for some spare tickets in Byrne’s (Bris-
bane) Sweep on the Met., Eorke—not he of Eorke’s
Drift, but a solemn-looking man—won the big money
(£200).
The Petersham Cricket Club trophy for highest
batting average during the past season was again won
by Mr. E. H. Seale, with the grand average of 30 3-10 runs
per innings for 20 matches, which, we think, is highest
obtained in the colony for such a number.
In consequence of the admissions made by the
jockey Bancroft in regard to the charges preferred by
him against Mr. Joseph Thompson, the committee of
Sydney Tattergall’s have disqualified Bancroft from
ever again riding at any race meeting under their
control.
In a match played at home recently, Warnham
Court v. Horsham, the former team made 587. Eight
members of the Lucas family played for Warnham Court,
and three of them made over a century each, A. P. Lucas
the well-known Surrey crack, getting 115, M. P. Lucas
137, and P. M. Lucas 141 not out.
The Australian team beat the gentlemen of
Scotland at Edinburgh. The scores were—Scotland,
hrst innings, 143; second, 130. Australia, first innings,
142; second, 4 wickets for 131. Alexander, who was
caught, made top score, 47. Jarvis, who, by the way,
has not hitherto figured in any home match, also played
well for 41. J
At Foley’s baths on Saturday next an interest-
ing programme will be gone through. Professor Cavill,
champion long-distance swimmer of the world, and his
clever children, will give natatory exhibitions, and
among the events are included an aquatic polo match
and a “ flutter ” through the briny between Larry Foley
and Scone Watson.
A fish weighing 41b., and believed to be a sal-
mon, was last week stranded by the floods in a paddock
near Braybrook, Saltwater Eiver, Vic. It was found by
a fanner and presented to Mr. W. M. Clark, ML A
who had it cooked. The meat had that rich flesh
colour peculiar to the tribe, and a flavour that the king
ol fish alone possesses.
“ Cloanthus ’ says that a gig from the same
mould as the boat which won the Senior Four at the
anniversary regatta for the S.E.C. is now being built
hy Fuller, of Melbourne, for the Wellington Eowing
Club, N.Z., which is also having a couple of sculling
boats built. The Colac and the Brisbane Club are also
having boats built to order at Melbourne.
ft transpired that Bend Or, the winner nF
the Derby, was shod on an American principle witL
layer of gutta percha between the hoof and the
this plan having been tried with a view of lessening- tif*
tremendous concussion on the hard ground. Now hoif
in Australia, the ground in summer is generally
attention^* 1 “ Eugland * and the P lan seems north
A lot of rubbish (says the home correspondent of
The Australasian) appears every now and then in tb»
English papers about Trickett, making rather lieh+of
him and his visit, and trying to get him to while awnv
his time by endeavouring to beat Boyd,” but of tW
of course, Trickett will take no notice, as he will resprvi
November f ° r the mCe against in
A foot race took place on the Association Cricket
Ground on the afternoon of Friday, the 17th W
between T W. Garrett, the well-known cricketer
and Mr. P. Fairland, a prominent member of the Sydney
Amateur Athletic Club. The distance was ISO yaSbf
Mr. W. P. Simpson and Mr. M. Arnold acting intbi
respective capacities of starter and judge. The com
petitors were sent away very evenly, but from the start
Fairland went to the front and eventually won ratW
easily by 3 or 4 yards. race was run in a shower
taken ground was 80 heavy that no time was
The race between Aplitt and Carver last Satnr
day at Botany was witnessed by about 1,000 spectators
but it eventuated in a “ fizzle.” The distance was ISn
yards, the stakes £lOO aside, and each man ran on t
roped track two yards wide. Carver got a little the
best of the start, but when about sixty yards had been
got over Applet went to the front without effort and
won exactly as he pleased. The time was given as 15*
sec. Aplitt was the favorite at about sto 2. J. Boss and
M'lnues subsequently ran 100 yards for a small wager
the former winning after a good race. There is some
talk of a match between Aplitt and Scone Watson thn
champion. ' e
The other night, Mr. William Freeman of Sydnev
charged Mr. Joseph Thompson (the “Leviathan”)
bookmaker, of Melbourne, before Sydney Tattersall’s
committee, with having given Bancroft, a jockev £Sn
four years ago to pull a horse called Laertes, belonging
to 1 reeman. Bancroft, when examined by the com
nnttee, admitted having made a statement to the effect
that he had been bribed by Thompson, but declared
that the allegation was untrue. The charge was
thereupon dismissed. Freeman and Thompson
subsequently had a stand-up fight, the result of which
was that Thompson went off to Melbourne with one of
his eyes “ in a sling.”
The Australasian refers in no measured
terms to the scratching of Sweetmeat for the Metro-
politan by Mr. Ivory just previous to the race. It savs
that under the circumstances his presence at the forth-
coming meeting of the V. E. C. will not be welcome-
regrets that there is no law of racing which in such
cases as the scratching of Sweetmeat for the Metro
pohtan empowers the stewards to prevent a repetition
of ‘conduct which in the eves of all straightforward
and honourable men is deserving of the strongest
censure—which opens the door to unlimited fraud, and
disgusts every honest person with what is called the
national sport of horseracing.”
In a recent match, Notts and Surrey, at Ken-
nington Oval, the latter team was dismissed in the first
innings for the very small total of 16, which included no
less than seven duck-eggs. Morley’s bowling in this
innings, which, of course, was on a dead wicket, was
something superb, viz., 78 balls, 12 maidens, 9 runs, and
7 wickets. In the second innings the Surrey men did
much better, for they put together 165, Jupp making 28
and A. P. Lucas 21; but even this failed to avert a one-
mnings defeat, the Notts men, who batted on a drv
wicket, realising in their first and only innings 266 of
which the veteran Daft made 47, Shrewsbury 33, Barnes
38, and Shelby s*. Surrey sl6 is the lowest score ever
recorded in a genuine county match,
M r- Ct \ J-Bonner, of the Australian Eleven, is
nS'L ot !l B*. and was born at Orange
(N.S.W.) He is ,6ft. 6Jin. in height, and is one of tie
best-made men ever seen. He is a splendid all-round
athlete. As a runner he can do his 100 yards in 104 sec •
can throw a cricket-ball 130 yards; is a really good swim’
mer and rower, and a magnificent boxer; but it is as a
cricketer that he is best known. He has knocked a ball
the unprecedented distance of 178 yards, gets a “sixer ”
in nearly every big match, is a splendid field and good
change bowler, but strange to say, wasn’t considered
good enough to play for N.S.W. in last Intercolonial
match. In private life lie is a quiet, unassuming eentle-
man, and is a great favourite with everybody. He is a
talented musician, sings a good song, and is the best of
company. One could not wish to spend an evening with
a better fellow. 5
The recent \ arra floods covered the floors of
the rowing-club rooms, but, all moveable property
having been taken away by the owners, no great harm
was done. However, at Geelong affairs were otherwise,
ihe sheds of the Bar won and Grammar School clubs
were borne down by the force of the waters and almost
destroyed. The B.K.C. lost a large and varied
stock ot boats, the entire damage and loss being esti-
mated at about £600; they succeeded in rescuing two
damaged eights and a few oars out of a flotilla of dbout
20 craft of all descriptions. Their new Closper eight
and four were smashed into pieces, the two alone haring
cost the club close on £2OO. The shed, fencing, fittings
and landing stage cannot be replaced for less then £4OO.
The Grammar School Club have lost eight boats and
other property, valued at £460, and now only possess a
solitary racing four. Other clubs also lost heavily.


The perfume manufacturers in the department
of the Maritime Alps consume annually 600,000 pounds
of rose-leaves and the vicinity of Grasse and Cannse
Is thickly studded with rose farms. On one hectare of
2\ acres 30,000 bushes are planted, a single bush yield-
ing for twelve years. A single hectare in good cultiva-
tion will net an average profit of 24 per cent, per year.
Why not cultivate roses in New South Wales ? Mr.
Theodore Piesse, of the celebrated perfumery firm,
will, if sufficient inducement be offered, guarantee a
market.
“ Mind your own business ” is often expressed,
and it seldom occurs that this reminder is without
its effect. Therefore, attend to your own state and con-
dition by keeping your Liver right, for half the com-
plaints to which the human family is heir arise from
disordered Liver, Indigestion, and Dyspepsia follows.
Then attend to your own Body, and bear in mind that
the best known remedy now before the Australian pub-
lic is “ Randerson’s Podophyllin Lozenges.*’— [Advt.]
PEPPER AND SALT.
Discreet people, in obedience to the old maxim>
wash their dirty linen at home. David Buchanan
however, who is not a discreet person, has an-
nounced that ho means to wash his hands in
public. Some powerful solvent should be at
hand when the-operation takes place ; for David’s
“ mucksloshing ” habits must be very defiling.
Isn’t it a pity, though, that he can’t operate upon
his besmirched intellect at the same time that he
is engaged on his soiled hands !
I was walking down the block the other day with
a companion. Suddenly, on turning into King-
street, a lurid phenomenon flashed by us.
“Doesn’t it remind you of Bardolph?” enquired
my friend. “No,” said he, “certainly not,
Bardolph’s face was as wax-work to that fellow’s.
His physiognomy is like a Greek comic mask
moulded out of eruptive sausage-meat.” I ad-
mitted that this description of a well-known
magisterial Dogberry fitted.
We can count up about 37 members of Parlia-
ment, 28 barristers, 11 solicitors and 41 nonde-
scripts who persist in putting on “ airs of
self-consciousness ” when you ask them who wrote
those letters in the Herald about “ Theatres and
the Law.”_ For myself, if I were heavily
cross-examined on the subject my tip would be
R.B.V. for “ Basil,” and J.G.L.I. for “ White
Letter.” “Dr. M'Guven ” is of course either
J. McE . or D. O’C . “ Zaccharey ” and
“David” are probably “Themselves.” Nobody
would care to personate them. And “ Pastor
Allen,” for the same reason, must be “ himself.”
But where’s “Frank Warden?” Isn’t he in it!
And how is it some of the Obelisk men have not
dived in ? But perhaps they formed a portion of
the various congregations who have been consoling
the Premier with addresses.
Freethought lecturers will please take note of
this. There’s a respectable British citizen and jury-
man down at Woollooraooloo who says the Proc-
tor lectures are all “bosh”; —the world is flat!
This is a positive fact, and what makes it all the
more remarkable is that is also true. In the way
of newspaper facts I therefore regard this item as
quite a novelty. What Woolloomooloo should do
is to trade off some of its glucose mills, and buy a
tew non-sectarian schools with the results thereof.
It might also add a gross or two of O’s to its name,
which would push the trade for our lunatic
asylums. Woolloomooloo should cut this out; it
may save its lives, and property.
Government clerks and clerks in general who
travel by the Manly boats on Saturday afternoons
should never get on the screw. On the steamer’s
screw I mean ; because its movement disarranges
the spiral movement of their cerebral molecules;
brings on severe endosomosis, and makes them as
■sick as a barber’s cat on Friday. It also causes
them to sing out of tune coming home, and quite
frequently occasions a total loss of moral charac-
ter, health and latch keys. This is a friendly hint
from a scientific man who has been there himself
and can certify to the above results. Manly paper
please copy.
At last Ketten has had one “square” ride in
perfect safety. He got into a butcher’s cart, and
the butcher-man tied a net over it. I have never
•seen the gifted Henri ride myself, but I have seen
a scissors stuck on top of a gate and they tell me
this is a perfect photograph.
There was a youthful pair occupying a Hyde
Park seat last Sunday night, and the sexes of the
pair were antagonistic. He was a Reginald ; she
•a Maude. They had discussed the position
■of the British troops in Afghanistan, the 39th
clause of the Land Bill, funeral reform and other
topics peculiar to lovers in general, and at last
there came a pause. Then Maude bent her lovely
face unto her companion and said, “ Reginald,
dear, are there not times when your bosom is filled
with a sort of weird,unutterable unaocountableness,
when the thoughts of all things gross and worldly
are swept far away from your bursting soul; when
you, feel a kind of sinking of all that is mundane,
and a great upheaving of all that is celestial;
when this earth with all its vanities,cares and fears
are forgotten; and you experience a strange
longing to be at peace and at rest in what seems
to bo a bright and near elysium?” Now, as
Milton would say, this rather “flabbergasted”
• Reggie. If he had been a bank clerk I think he’d have
‘up and run for it.” However,he sat and scratched
his bump of benevolence for a while, and at last
his face lit up with intelligence. “ Yes, Maude,
there are,” said he. “ When?” eagerly enquired
his Maude. “ Well, the last time I was bitten
that way,” replied her Reg., “ was when I went
out to fish wiuh the Nimrod Club; the sea was
mountains high, and, by Jove, wasn’t I sick ; you
could have heard me lurch at —as far off as
Parramatta.” “ Beast!” responded Maude, “ we
part to meet no more.”
There was a public man in Corinth named Sisy-
phus , and he w as convicted of fraudulen t ins olvency.
The Temporary Judge of the time laid himself out
to give Sis. the hottest sentence he could devise.
The prisoner was accordingly ordered to roll a
large stone up a hill, and as soon as this stone
reached the top it always slid down again, and
Sis. had to be mighty spry to keep his corns from
under it. This Judge meant well, but his inven-
tive powers were limited. What he should have
done was to make Sisyphus a tram-driver, and
order him to run his cars to Randwick. Of course
he’d have always run off at Botany-street, and the
small boys would then have pelted mud at him
whilst the passengers made use of opproprious
epithets.
Rabbi Davis says there’s no Hell. That’s all
the Rabbi knows about it. There is a hell. I have
been there. It is in an old shed near a certain sub-
urban railway, and it is at its best when a certain
brass band are mashing up “Nancy Lee” inside
of it. The Devil will be exposed in a short time
also. Dr. McGuven has received more information
about him, and will be on his track by Sunday next
—if it don’t rain.
Touching the popularity of The Bulletin,
I will a plain, unvarnished tale unfold. Lewis
Scott* took the last issue to the Coffee Palace to
read whilst he ate his dinner, because he was
pushed for time and wanted to fill up his mental
and bodily vacuum by the one fell swoop, as ft
were. He got so interested in his copy, however,
that he lost his head, and actually ate the paper
and read his dinner. What a wonderful thing is
man—especially a hungry one.
Next week I intend to open up in the epitaph
business. There seems to be a dearth of good
epitaphs of late, and the writers lack imagination.
Haying the coming picnics and elections in
view, I have brewed a few in case of sudden
demand. I admit much of my poetry is borrowed
from the Greek bards and Phil. M‘Carroll; but
the bards’ heads won’t ache for all that. The last
of them died when Julius Caesar used to wear a
“ pinny,” and “ wag it” down the Tiber Creek to
smoke bits of cane and old “sojers.” We don’t
find any poets in Greece now—we only find insur-
rection —and lodging-house potatoes. In giving
the following sample of my wares, I have written
the parties’ names in Welsh, out of deference, as it
were, to Mr. Justice Windeyer. No. 1 would suit
a defunct politician;—
Upon Llfgwdd’s tomb inscribe this placard :
He lived a beast, and he died a blackguard.
That style would be 50s. No. 2 is short and cheap,
as it would only do for newspaper men, scientists,
tailors, and liars in general. It simply reads : —
Hie JACET (here lies)
The jaeet in large letters, because it means lies.
One like that would cost seven-and-six and a suit
of deceased’s best clothes. No. 3 is a sort of
general, all-round affair, and would suit every class,
but more especially electioneering agents, country
editors, and cricketers : —
Dwfdg’s maxim through life was odd ;
’Twas his venter first, and then his god.
Venter means stomach, but I don’t like to say so.
This would cost 30s., and I would make a reduction
in cases where I had several members of the same
family. Please address orders to N. Melville, Esq.,
“ The ’Ouse.”
There is one painful episode in connection with
the Telegraph Regatta which I would fain pass
over in silence, but justice must be done and the
fraud exposed. It was well known before the race
that one of the rowers, a‘ man of giant strength
and form, held a soft thing. The scullers’ race
was a perfect gift—yet, although he started on
Saturday afternoon, he didn’t pass the post till the
following Tuesday. This was considered slow
work for a mile, and people talked up loud and
said this was a put-up job. He said it was false
as water or a George-street belle’s back hair —but
I hold the proof. On Tuesday night this perjurer
stood in certain bar and held out five coppers, the
remains of his base, ill-gotten gains. The other
six were glucosed. I will not mention names, but
in the way of bad caligraphy, this man was the
superior of even Horace Greeley.
A Woollahra ’bus stood still at 121 minutes to 5
on Friday, and one of the two noble crow-roosts
attached thereto wa? vigorously pawing the earth
beneath him. He couldn’t paw the earth above
him very well because he hadn’t attended Proc-
tor’s lectures, and didn’t know any more about
the other worlds than Dr. McGuven does. He was
probably endeavouring to dig his own grave and
save the company money. Presently an excited
umbrella was “ jabbed ” into the driver’s back and
came out in front of his waistcoat, and a feminine
organ shrieked, “ Good gracious, driver ! do you
think the horse is going to bolt ?” “ Well, I can’t
say for certain, marm, until you remove your
gingham and put back my interior,” replied the
driver; “ but I don’t think as how he is about to
bolt; leastways, he’s been eight-an’-forty years
a-pulling ’busses now, an’ he’s never bolted once,
that I’ll swear to.” This calmed the feminine’s
fears, and she withdrew her remarks and the four-
and-ninepenny cotton also.
Proctor says that so far as the Telegraph De-
partment is concerned Trickett’s laurels are safe
for the next 2,500 millions of years. Tompkinson
says Proctor is unnecessarily rough on good
men. Tompkinson, by the way, _ is the
coming oarsman, but his style is pecu-
liar. In the first place, Tompkinson sits in the
rear, and whenever the front man is bending
back Tompkinson is always bending forward. This
makes the first man sick, and by the time he has
gone a mile there’s a hole in the first man’s back
about as long as a Blue Mountain tunnel, and
about twice as wide as the Zig-Zag. Secondly,
Tompkinson always works his oars one after the
other, and a man on shore would fill himself with a
confused idea that Tompkinson was a sort of
patent windmill. There’s one thing, however,
which is greatly in this rising sculler’s favour.
He doesn’t pull quite as neatly as Trickett, but he
kills plenty of fish, and makes what Mr. _ Manta-
lini would call a demnition splash about him.
It is a somewhat remarkable coincidence that
whilst the telegraph clerks were training for their
late regatta the price of arrowroot biscuits rose 25
per cent, and the various hens about the neighbor-
hoood of each clerk’s residence didn’t seem to lay
quite so well as formerly. Anyway the hen’s
proprietors didn’t get the eggs.
The picnic of the Master Butchers was about
the biggest thing I’ve seen since the days of
Belshazzar’s party. As a rule butchers don’t read
much of Plato, or the other pagan metaphysicians,
neither do they start religious fights or worry up
the “ little heathens,” but I have noticed they are
ever amongst |the first and strongest squad to
promote the welfare and interest of their city, and
their fellow citizens. Like Henry V., butchers
“cannot look greenly, nor gasp_ out their
eloquence,” but they have ever a helping hand for
a friend, and a shot in their breeches’ pockets also.
We want more butchers —and less bunkum.
John Davies says the most delicate piece of
sarcasm he has ever seen was perpetrated by the
men of Surry Hills on Sunday last. They erected
a platform for Dr. Vaughan to orate upon, and
above his head they swung a yellow flag. John
further says they want more bigotry in Cook
Ward and the coming man must look to it. He
won’t because the coming man is ex-Alderman Steel
and his motto is “ may the best man win.”
V.
* Mem. for Editor. —If Lewis Scott’s name won’t do,
put in anybody else’s—except the Zigzag man’s. He’s
■a friend of mine.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
A Wesleyan Church to cost =£2500 is to be
erected at Wollongong.
Rev. Thos. Spurgeon has been preaching to
large audiences in Toowoomba and other South Queens-
land towns.
The Rev. S. Humphries, a popular Presbyterian
Minister, who has been for several years at Gympie, is
about to leave for N.S.W.
The Southern Argus understands that Dr.
Lanigan is on his way back to Goulburn, bringing with
him 10 priests for his own diocese.
Rev. S. Hebditch preached his introductory
sermon in Collins-street Congregational Church,
Melbourne, on Sunday last. There was a large congre-
gation.
The first edition of the revised translation of the
New Testament may be expected in the autumn. The
Athenaeum says :—“ It is with regret that we hear it
said that the form in which all Englishmen know, and
most of them use, the Lord's Prayer, is no longer to be
the form which is to pass current."
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. F. T. Humphery, late official assignee, ought
to impress the Shoalhaven electors more than, their
1.0.G.T. effigy.
The next House will have an increase of legal
blood in it, Pigott, Trickett, Humphrey, Foster, Keid,
Proctor, and perhaps Fitzgerald!
Mr. B. O. Holtermann exclusively addresses
himself to “ gentlemen electors,” just as the aldermen
in Petersham call themselves “ gentlemen aldermen.”
It is high time some announcement was made as
to the actual number of members which the various
electorates are entitled to by number of voters. There
are too few good men out yet.
Sir Henry says he knew instinctively that the
people whom he prevented hearing Proctor intended to
go outside St. James’ Church and hoot and cheer! —
Evidently he knew they would hoot—and whom !
Sir George Pile, in selling the Elswick Estate,
addressed his audience as ‘‘gentlemen and fellow
electors,” and instead of inviting bids, asked for votes,
and declared the land sold to the man who was “ top of
the poll.”
There arc five parties in the Victorian
Assembly at present: the Constitutional, with Mr.
Service at the head; the Liberal-Conservative, officered
by Mr Wrixon; the Catholic, commanded by Big Jack;
the Liberal, captained by Mr. Berry; and the Radical,
with Mr. Longmore as leader and Mr. Mirams as con-
vener. So far, owing to the four parties hating each
other like poison, Mr. Berry has the game, and looks
well to play a good hand.
The Devil’s Bridge.
(Translated from the French for The BULLETIN.)
The Eeuss, which runs in a bed sixty feet deep
between peaked rocks, intercepted all communi-
cation between the inhabitants of the Val of Comara
and those of the Valley of Goschenen, which lies
between the Grisona and the people of Uri. This
caused such damage to the boroughs that they
assembled their most skilful architects and had
several bridges built at their joint expense from
one shore to the other ; but one could never be ,
built strong enough to resist the tempest, the tide
or the avalanches. A last effort of the kind had
been made towards the end of the 15th century,
and the winter being almost at its end, gave a hope
that this time the bridge would resist these attacks,
when one stormy morning the bailiff was told that
the passage was again intercepted. “ The devil
alone would build us a bridge sufficiently strong,”
cried the exasperated bailiff. He had scarcely
finished the words when a servant announced
“ Messire Satan.” “ Let him in,” said the bailiff.
The servant retired and made room for a man of
about thirty-five years old with a dress familiar
to the Germans—namely, tight red pantaloons, a
black justau corps, with a slit in the sleeves show-
ing a lining red as fire. His head was covered
with a black tocque, a head gear to which a long
red feather ’ gave by its undulations quite a grace-
ful appearance.
After the'usual salutations the bailiff sat in one
arm-chair and the devil in another. The bailiff put
his feet upon the dog fire-irons ; the devil put his
on the burning charcoal.
‘‘Well my poor friend,” said Satan, “it ap-
pears you are in want of me.”
“Really, Monseigneur, I must say your help
would be most welcome.”
“ For that cursed bridge, I suppose, eh? Is it
so very necessary ?”_
“We cannot do without it.”
“Ah ! ah !” said Satan.
“ Well, now, be a Igood devil,” said the bailiff
after a short silence, “ build one for us.”
“ I was going to make you the offer.”
“ Very well, then, we have only to arrange the
” here the bailiff hesitated.
“The price,” continued Satan looking in
his companion’s face with a strange expression of
malice. _ ]
“ Yes,” answered the bailiff, feeling that this
was the point upon which there would beeome
trouble.”
“Oh!” said Satan, “I will be ’easy on that
score.”
“That is right,” said the bailiff. “The last
cost us sixty marks of gold. We will pay you
double that sum for the new one; we cannot
possibly give you more.”
“ Eh! What do I want with your gold, when
it is in my power to make it. Look! ”
He took a live coal from the fire as if he had
taken a burnt almond from a sweetmeat box and
said to the bailiff, who hesitated “ Be not afraid ;
give me your hand.” And he gave him a bit of the
purest gold, and as cold as if it had just come from
the mine.
The bailiff looked at it and wished to give it
back. .
“No, no, keep it,” said Satan, crossing his
legs. “ I make you a present of it. The price I
wish to receive for my work must be the soul of
individual who will crossupon the bridge.”
“ Granted,” said the bailiff.
The agreement was made and signed by both.
The devil took the job of building a bridge that
would last for five hundred years; and the pay-
ment for this was to be the soul of the first
unfortunate that chance or necessity might force
to pass the Eeuss on the passage improvised by
Satan. .
The next morning the bridge was built. The
bailiff soon appeared, to see if the devil had kept
his promise.
“ You see that lam a man of my word, said
Satan.
“ And I - also,” said the bailiff.
“What! my dear Curtius,” replied the devil,
astonished. ‘ ‘ Would you sacrifice yourself for the
salvation of your co-citizens?”
“ Not precisely,” continued the bailiff, putting
at the entrance of the bridge a bag he had brought
upon his shoulder and of which he untied the
strings.
“ Soolim ! ” cried the bailiff. And a dog dragging
a frying-pan tied to its tail jumped terrified out of
the bag howling at the feet of Satan.
“ Well,” said the bailiff, “ there is your soul
for you.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
“Dear little ducks of girls” often have long bills.
Her name was Mary, and she was bad-tempered,
so he jocosely Called her Mary, Queen of Scots.
Freckles are not so bad. It is said that one girl
does not object to seeing them on another girl’s face.
If our grandmothers had been as careless as are
their granddaughters there would have been no old
chinaware.
“ Vick’s Chicks ” is the irreverent heading of an
article in a Canadian paper on Prince Leopold and the
Princess Louise.
Women give us as a reason for marrying tor
money, that they now seldom find anything else in a
man worth having.
A Bendigo woman, it appears, has christened
her infant daughter, “ Isabella Leanha Maria Johanna
Buchanan Corkadale.”
Somebody says a wife should be like roast
lamb— tender and nicely dressed. A bachelor adds—
“ But without any sauce.”
It is said that a number of married women have,
formed a Come-home-husband Club. It is about four
feet long, and has a brush on the end of it.
• The Empress of Augusta, of Germany, has a
mania for wearing black silk dresses, holding that no
jady beyond middle age should wear light colors.
Queen Victoria’s three warmest personal friends
are, it is said. Dean Stanley, the Dean of Windsor, and
Principal Tullock, editor of Fraser’s Magazine
It is said that Miss Flood, who is to marry
General Grant’s son, used to “sling ” beer in a saloon .
She is now to “ sling ” plenty of money into young
Grant’s pocket.
Girls in China are believed to have no souls. To
kill them is no murder and therefore not to be punished.
A good many arguments can be adduced in support of
this celestial tenet.
The Countess Lehon, once a celebrated beauty,
well-known in the Parisian world during the reign of
Louis Phillippe, is dead. She was the mother of the
Princess Poniatowski.
A hairpin often does duty as a button-hook,
glove-fastener, gimlet, waistband buckle, pick-lock,
pipe-cleaner, medicine-mixer, lemonade-stirrer, egg-
beater, and a score of other things.
The other day who couldn’t sail a boat
much got by accident close up to Hegarty’s baths, St.
Kilda, Melbourne. He says that the maids reminded
him of lead pencils enshrouded in pillow-cases.
Two young women will this year carry off the
highest honours of the University of California.
Another, who took the principal honour two or three
years ago is the poet this year for commencement.
The Mormon elders in Auckland, N.Z., are sub-
jected to great annoyance. Schoolboys, in view per-
haps of a possibly approaching scarcity of sweethearts,
daily pelt with stones the followers of the prophet.
Said an eloquent preacher recently;—“ The
little good any of us can do must be done with our
hearts thumping against the hearts of our fellow-men.”
And every young woman in church looked at a young
man and smiled approvingly.
Sarah Bernhardt is so meagre and scraggy that
in parts requiring decollettce she wears a false throat,
and a bust made of thin layers of gauze, the outer one
being glazed by wax, and the artistic arrangement is so
complete that the illusion is perfect.
Mrs. Whitmore, a pretty American widow, com-
mitted suicide at Paris, at the house of Lady Albert
Pelham Clinton. The lady in question was once en-
gaged to the Marquis of Anglesey, and his marriage
with another lady preyed upon her mind.
A portrait of the Queen of England in silk upon
velvet, worked by Mdlle. Julie Qiraud, who has already
presented M. Grevy and M. Gambetta with several por-
traits of themselves, is to be presented to her Majesty
as a mark of the young lady’s admiration.
Mistress : —“ Why, what causes these spots
the linen ? They have been mildewed, surely.”
Laundress: —" Lor bless you no, mum. Them ’ere spots
on the Sun as the Great 'Stronomer talks about, must
have spotted them that way in the drying Mum."
The town a man lives in has the most beautiful
woman, and yet a man nearly always goes away from
the town he lives in for a wife. However, perhaps this
is natural enough, for the town where a man lives the
girls all know him, and they will not willingly be
deceived.
Says an American woman of Paris -. —"It is the
most beautiful the hands of man have ever reared. It
is the wickedest city that exists on the face of the
earth. It is a lovely place either to visit for a week or
a twelvemonth. It is the cruellest spot in the world to
pass a lifetime in."
One of the American scientific societies has
recently had brought under its notice a grandmother
who is only twenty-six years of age. The person in
question is a negress, who had a daughter at the age of
thirteen. The daughter, who was thirteen last autumn
gave birth to a child in the first week of June.
Believers in metempsychosis have had their faith
refreshed by the recent birth of a child who, upon
coming into the world, made a searching scrutiny of
his surroundings, and sinking back into the nurse’s
arms remarked, “Thank heaven, at last I have got
myself bom into a family that is comfortably fixed!”
Nursery scene. New baby howling. Tommy (a
3-yeor-old) has been left in charge. Enters anxious
mother, who enquires what’s the matter with Baby ?
Tommy: (nervously) “ I only tried Ma if our Baby was
the same as my new dolly.” Anxious Mother: “ What
do you mean my boy—speak up." Tommy: “ I squeezed
him to see if he’d squeak.”
Melbourne boasts of the presence of a lady
bicyclist, aged sixty-four years, who is stated to be a
thorough artist upon the machine. This “ girl of the
period,” who, by the way, is Germanic, travels from
Brighton every morning, and back again from Mel-
bourne every evening, after putting in a good day’s
work at a Fitzroy shirt factory.
The Adelaide Destitute Board propose to
decrease the mortality among illegitimate children by
detaining the mothers who are confined in the Asylum
four months, and for a longer period if necessary. The
question is whether this will not deter the girls from
going there. It is, however, the only way to keep the
babies bom in the Lying-in Hospital alive.
A reverend gentleman lately married in Washing-
ton Territory took his bride for a bridal tripup a river,
travelling in an open boat, he rowing and she steering,
this mode of travelling being considered typical of
the passage which they were starting upon down the
river of lifelin the sameboat. For novelty and economy
the idea is not to be beaten. In adopting this style
of tour, newly married couples in some places would
find a great drawback in the shape of sandflies and
mosquitos, which would interfere very much with
" love’s young dream.
John Hepner, of Reading, Pennsylvania, was
bom in Germany, in 1815. In 1841 he married. His
wife lived eight years, and bore him seventeen children.
She presented him with twins in the first year of their
marriage. The next year other twins were born. Every
year for four years thereafter Mrs. Hepner gave birth
to triplets. The seventh year was signalised by the
birth of only one child to the couple. His second wife,
whom he married in February, 1819, and who died in
1857, bore him fifteen children, and his third wife has
already become the mother of ten.
“ Kiss me. Will,” sang Marguerite,
To a pretty little tune.
Holding up her dainty mouth.
Sweet as roses born in June.
Will was ten years old that day.
And he pulled her golden curls
Teasingly, and answer made—
"l’m too old—l don’t kiss girls.”
Ten years pass, and Marguerite
Smiles as Will kneels at her feet,
Gazing fondly in her eyes.
Praying, “Won’t you kiss me, sweet ?”
* Rite is seventeen to-day j
With her birthday ring she toys
For a moment, then replies—
“ I’m too old—l don’t kiss boys.”


Public Companies
lOMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £525,00©.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; "Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairmau; Hou. John Frazer, M.L.C.- E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq,, Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. K. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street. Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green, Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branchesat Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl. Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar.
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden!
Camp bell towu, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar
Cooiah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble.
Cootamnndra, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germauton,
Gleu lunes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Gunnedah
• running, Inverell, Zempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee
Murmrundi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar!
audera. Orange, Parkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton
Mnennbeyan, Quirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single!
ton, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett.
Wallerawanz, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass. Young
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay
Maryborough and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South. Australia :, The Bank ot South Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank,
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore: The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt: Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
. < <f i bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates ; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
mHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
J- ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
?* r -, Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
F. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P,
t. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Ruhie. Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
m the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary,
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
The standard life assurance com-
PANY.
Head Office
Sydney Branch
George-street, Edinburgh.
233 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The next DIVISION OF PROFITS will be made as
at 15th November, 1880, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T. WATKINS,
Secretary.
Lion fire insurance company.
Limited.
Chief Office—s, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000.000
Paid-up Capital ... 200JXX)
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
TO LADIES.
I) O YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
, Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
. Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW'S
T)° YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO-BUTTON GLOVES @ 2.6?
Try PEAPES & SHAW'S
YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME?—
Try PEAPES k SHAW’S
T)° YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OR FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
I) O YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Makers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
J)0 iOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES k SHAW'S
T)0 YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PARASOLS?-
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JQO YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PRESENT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
JJO YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?
, Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T>o YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLAES ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T\o YOU WANT a Stylish SCAEF, TIE,
or BOW F
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
J)0 YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OYEECOAT ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
Tl° YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or. TEAYELLING BAG ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILOES and HABIT MAKEES in
the CITY p
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Public Companies
rjHIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCkHbaNK
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase t.
£1.000,000. w
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Dieectoks:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
Georgo A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle Esr.
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq ‘
Moses Moss, Esq. *'
General Manages,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Kedfern 1 Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain. America, India, and China
tXC,, &C. *
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
The meecantile bank oe Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
m DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.'
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-strqet.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
A^ cy ,-? usmess on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
Austealian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
T DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Haddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq'
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph Eso
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER: *
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
„ ACTUARY : I SECRETARY
Momce A, Black. F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Hociety : . • ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’ J 8
The Commercial World (Loudon) of 2nd February,
1880, says:— No British Company of any age can vie
vnth the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
ot its existence, has received ininterest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims/
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STEELING.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANT-
Capital, £500,000. _ Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T. WATKINS, Manager.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
boiTowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager,
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
> illas. Cottages, and on their Estate at Els wick. Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices. 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors :
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the'
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles,
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
T
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
There is no word in the English
LANGUAGE to adequately describe the beauty
of the
“POMPADOUR CORSETS”
imported DIRECT FROM PARIS by
EDWARD HORDERN, of 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL.
They are made of BLACK SATTEEN with EXQUI-
SITELY HAND-WORKED BOQUETS of the choicest
Spring Flowers. “ Come and see them." Only 8s 6d
per pair, well worth 1 guinea.
Si.AC£ET AND D a vy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents eoe Messes. Tangte Beds., Biemingham,
ADVT
TANDY’S COTTON BELTING.
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S files,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
VJT, WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian,
N.B-—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
nss
mHHk
Oriental Blind.
s
k
£
m
&
m
a
6/
UNADULTERATED
BAK/A/C POWDER
m
acknowledged TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
manufactured by W. DAVIES & C? couibufn.N.SW
N
W
SEASON
Ex s.a. Menmuir.
S,
The arrival of this steamship has given us the opportunity of selecting with care and judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
Wo present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will bo
appreciated by our Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
-2s 6d per lb Very Choice Rich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s „ A Rich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congou, very good and
strong
Is 6d ~ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a family’s stock of Groceries, we would most respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
VS-NOTE THE ADDRESS —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
M'CLELLAND AND ROACH,
6GG GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.


Business Announcements
International exhibition, isso.—
SWALLOW and AEIELL were awarded two First
for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
Lrent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 315, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
XSTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
SBNCKAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
fnr their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
?T1 tins 2, 7,14, and 231bseaeh, and in casks of 11, 2,3,
Sd 6i cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
,nd 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
313 and 345, Keut-st., 3 doors north King-st.
fcALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
*4**
i F.ALLBRDITje&SoXI
Chbongmetir,Watch Makers., &***
AND OPTI Cl AMS.
zk 'if iTER ST ««r
Sydney < <
vg ■ ~ f • ’ \*
-X;‘uVtV<* f -i C Atllijur. s -pc'-f f rsV Vn Afpljiatittn t
(2J. B. M O D I
'-*• GUNMAKEB AND CUTLEE,
602 George Street, Sydney, 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every descrijition of Firearms repaired and Guns Ee-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
ATEST INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APFAEATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BEETEAM, Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH. Toronto
Messrs. EITCHIE & SON, Toronto „
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, & c.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other Derated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
&c., &c. *
EIEST PEIZE (International Exhibition) Soda-
water Machinery, Crated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
4 3
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
GLOBE BUILDING,
SUSSEX STEEET NOETH.
Business Announcements
JJOMES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIE OWN FEEEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
ICTOEIA VAENISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes',
"White Lead, Glass, Brush ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
D.
SLATTEEY AND
Wholesale and Retail
C 0.,
G E 0 C E E S,
705 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
P. MAHON Y,
AGENT, ETC.
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL PRODUCE, &c.
P.
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREET,
SYDNEY.
N,
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended t®. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
GO U N D E Y * S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Business Announcements
"jyrADDOCK’ S SELECT LIBEAEY
' L * JL 381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGEAPHY
POPULAE THEOLOGY, Ac.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUAETEELY EEVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12s. 6d.; Six months
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus —Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all eases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from MADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application. ’
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Pipistrelle, by Ouida
Moths, by Ouida
Alan Dering, by Mrs. Fetherstonhaugh
The Story of an Honest Man, by Edmond About,
translated by Bertha Ness
A Modern Greek Heroine
Lady Laura, by Mary Elizabeth Christie
Memoirs of Madame de Remusat
Fair-haired Alda, by Florence Marryat
Second Thoughts, by Rhoda Broughton
The Duke’s Children, by Anthony Trollope
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jane Worboise
Travel and Trout in the Antipodes
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by Hon. Lewis Wingfield
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackmore
The Duke of Albany’s Own Highlanders, by James
Grant
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C. Craw-
ford
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Poet and Peer, by Hamilton Aide
Poor Zeph, by author of “ Grandmother’s Money”
Random Recollections of an Old Actor, by Fred.
Belton
Roughing it in Van Dieman’s Land, by Edward
Howe
Brazil, the Amazons and the Coast, by Herbert H.
Smith
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesworth
Holidays in Home Counties, by Edward Walford
Memoirs of Catherine and Cranford Tait
Curiosities pf the Search Room
Renan’s Hibbert Lectures
Beauty’s Daughters, by the author of “Phyllis”
A Cruel Secret, by Lola
Wooers and Winners, by Mrs. Linnaeus Banks
Eros; Four Stories, by Sarah Tytler, Lewis Wing-
field, and Miss Butt
Soldiers of the Victorian Age, by C. R. Low
Life of the Prince Imperial of France, by Ellen
Barlee
The Violin Player, by Bertha Thomas
Troublesome Daughters, by L. B. Walford
Glimpses through the Cannon Smoke, by A. Forbes
Memoir of Rev. John Graham,|by his Brother, Rev.
Charles Graham
Caroline Von Linsingen and William 11., by Theo-
philus Q. Arundel
Life and Letters of Horace Bushnell
MADDOCK’S SELECT LIBEAEY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Atlas foundey and engineeeing
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
JpiIEST - PEIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OP THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL PEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
««The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working ports, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time yment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. 0. HOLTERMANT and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street, and 21 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
AuctWj, Sales
GA D S H t . l i
CROYDON
The RESIDENCE of DANIEL HOLBORRO-w
J.P., MAYOR of ASHFIELD. J q "
This MAGNIFICENT ESTATE, containing an area
of about
TWENTY-ONE ACRES,
together with residence and highly improved grounds,
will be submitted to public competition upon a
liberal plan of subdivision,
ON THE GROUND.
During the early part of NOVEMBER
63rThe property has a large frontage to
LIVERPOOL ROAD
CROYDON ROAD
and
THOMAS STREET,
is opposite to the residence and highly improved grounds
of S. Dickinson, Esq., and is distant only a few yards
from the
CROYDON RAILWAY STATION
ON THE CROWN OF THE HILL
overlooking ASHFIELD, BURWOOD, CROYDON.
FIVEDOCK, and the pretty wooded country around
CROYDON PARK and COOK’S RIVER.
The TERMS for GADSHILL ESTATE will be
LIBERAL.
Plans and further particulars will be duly prepared.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
Auctioneers for
GADSHILL ESTATE, the residence of DANIEL
HOLBOROW, Esq., J.P.
EW SOUTH WALES.
TO CAPITALISTS, GRAZIERS, AGRICULTURISTS
and others
The most Luxuriant and extensive Freehold,
Pastoral and Agricultural
Northern Estates,
comprising
** DARTBROOK," near SCONE, area
13,965 acres, in five lots.
“ST. HILLIERS” at MUSWELLBROOK, area
14,126 acres, in two lots.
“ GUNDIBRI" near MERRIWA, area .
27,141) acres, in seven lots.
These magnificent Freehold Pastoral Estates, will be
submitted to public competition, and will be' sold
pursuant to a Decree of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, in its Equitable Jurisdiction made in the
cause of Hall and another v. Hall and others, with the
approve of the Master in Equity, by
RICHARDSON and WRENCH,
at their Rooms Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Monday, 4th October next, at 11 o’clock, in the
following order.
DARTBROOK ESTATE, County of BRISBANE.
LOT 1. —730 ACRES, near Lot 2, in the Parish of
Yarraman, known as Pikes Grant of 640 acres,
and two other small selections.
LOT 2.—4,984 ACRES, 4 rood, 24 perches, known as
the “ Sheep Station," in the Parish of Myrabluan,
and permanently watered by the Wybong and
Guangua Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between Lots two and five, in
the Parish of Halscot, a square of 4 Sections
adjoining Lands belonging to D. MTNTYRE
Esq., and S. WRIGHT Esq.
LOT 4. —640 ACRES, near Lot five, in the Parish of
Strathearn, adjoining the. property of W.
STEPHENS Esq.
LOT 5.—5,081| ACRES 1 rood 23 perches at Dartbrook,
on the Railway-line between Muswellbrook and
Scone, in the Parish of Strathearn, adjoining the
pastoral property and highly improved estate be.-
InogingtoD. MTntyre, Esq. On this Lot are two
Family Residences, with all necessary convenience.
The greater portion is cleared, securely fenced,
and subdivided into Paddocks.
ST. HILLIERS ESTATE,
adjoining Muswellbrook,
COUNTY of DURHAM.
LOT 1.—8.799 ACRES, being the whole of that
Magnificent’ tract of highly improved rich Agri-
cultural land extending from Muswellbrook to
Scone, and including Sparkes 2,000 acre grant
adjoining the Permanent and Temporary Com-
mons. On this is a commodious Family Residence
fitted with every convenience, and having all
necessary out-buildings. Also stockyards, Men’s
huts etc. This estate is watered by the Hunter
River,|Muswellbrook, St. Hilliers Brook and other
tributaries, and the Railway passes through the
Property.
LOT 2.-5327 ACRES. Parishes of St. Aubin’s and
Balmoral, close to Lot One and the Muswellbrook
Town Common.
GUNDIBRI ESTATE,
COUNTY of BRISBANE.
LOT 1. —7297 ACRES, the Southern portion of the
Estate, in the Parish of Hall, and watered by
Hall’s Creek.
LOT 2.—9143 ACRES, adjoining Lot 1 in the parishes
of Hall and Merriwa. On this Lot is the Home-
stead, comprising Cottage Residence, Men’.s
Quarters, Stock Yards, and other improvements.
LOT 3. —1694 ACRES, adjoining Lot Two and boun-
ded on the West by Hall’s Creek.
' LOT 4. —6918 ACRES, next to Lot 3, in the Parish of
Webimble, on Hall's Creek.
LOT 5. —1120 ACRES, situated at the Northern end
of the Estate, and having a considerable frontage
to Hall’s Creek.
LOT 6.-928 ACRES, West of Gundibri Proper, and
situated in the Parish of Coulson.
• LOT 7.—40 ACRES, on Reedy Creek, South of Gnn-
dibri Proper.
«g- It is not the intention of the Auctioneers to add a
single comment on the value and profitableness of the
above Freehold, Pastoral and Agricultural Estates.
They prefer merely to furnish the above particulars
and to leave such well-known and valuable properties to
stand on their own merits with capitalists, thefore will
only say that as the several lots are in the market for
honajidv sale the attention of Capitalists is particularly
directed to unquestionably the best opportunity for
investing in this Interest, which can be afforded to
them throughout the whole of the northern portion of
the colony of New South Wales.
PLANS of the Several Lots are now on view at the
Rooms of RICHARDSON and WRENCH, Pitt-street,
Sydney, and also at the Offices of R. G. FITZGERALD,
Esq.. Solicitor, Muswellbrook.
TERMS LIBERAL: One-quarter Cash on the fall of
the hammer, and the residue in equal amounts at 1, 2
and 3 years from day of sale; interest, 6 per cent, per
annum.
Messrs. HOLDEN auci| LAURENCE,
No. 35 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
SYDNEY.
CHARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices' of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS:
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental), Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B.—Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
; TAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
> ** VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
I i SUSSEX-STREET,
SEAR THE HAY MARKET.
I OFFICES AND STORES :
i 797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION, K
Silk-dressed, Snperflue, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard, j
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Corn, Barley, Oats , |
Pea-i, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff, |
Potatoes, &c.
GEOBGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.


o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSONS EXTRACTofSOAP.
rjs-ade mai
mark “Arm and Dolly” on every jacket, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AJfD SHOULD ALWAYS BB USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &o.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in ilb packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IS OVER,
GTOC K-T AKING
AND
Mb. W. B. CAMPBELL
Having retired in our favor, we have much pleasure in
informing our friends and the public generally that the
BU S I N E S S
• OP THE
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE
will henceforth be earned on by our Firm under the
TITLE of
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
and we trust, through our united efforts, to receive a
continuance of the support so liberally accorded to OUR
FATHER.
ALFRED BRANCH CAMPBELL
CHARLES JACKSON CAMPBELL
WILLIAM WEBB CAMPBELL
HENRY CAMPBELL
THE RESULT of STOCK-TAKING leads to tbe Re-
marking and Reduction of Goods to such an extent as to
render tbe present BARGAIN ROOM totally inade-
quate. It is, therefore, our intention to establish
THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET.
Sept. 13tb, 1880.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
X> HEL LYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
43 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear eqnal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
QOALCLIPF COAL.
When first sold In Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only In view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
cpal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from munerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES. BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
n not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
u f e( *’ from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
rvn p^oduCoB a flr e unequalled for GRILL-
INO, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
win h v« clm £ e . r . or B l’hnter, Therefore, as all engineers
k! U . k K°' r ' bo l lets, tubes, fire bars, &0., will last much
]P.? ger by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A OF
HAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANS
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES. tOAL to BANS
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town;
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened >
225. Ditto single ditto J
CoaiclHT.
Newcastle.
Small coni by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, 4c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
347 Qeorge-atrect,
New reflecting lamps foe gas op-
KEEOSENE.
*
&
to
BK
\/A\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c.,
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BUENEKS JUST AEEIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFOED, 65 MARKET STREET.
S T
J.
M A N,
E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND ,
NOTED BEIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEOEGE STEEET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
gIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HEEBAHSTS,
Sell all kinds of HEEBS and HEEBAL MEDICINES,
TEEAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HEEBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PAEKES,
240 GEOEGE STEEET NOETH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
M
URPHY AND
IMPOETEES OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and-
rolled)
* Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Eesin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
White and Bed Lead
Turpentine
Eaw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, EEADY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
EEQUIEED.
All orders promptly executed by Bail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAEEHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEOEGE STEEET WEST.
"T IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition of 1830
13 AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
ADVT
JUST AEKIVED
JUST AKIUVEb
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, &c.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
40S GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT TO MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FUN AND FANCY.
Heat generates motion—so do policemen.
A musical composer is a man who invents a new
noise.
Why are blushes like girls ?—Because they
become women.
A medical student asks if the bone of contention
isn’t the jaw-bone ?
A certain maiden lady has resolved to change
her name to “ Conclusions,” having heard that men
sometimes jump that way.
Judge Church left a large fortune. Generally
we find a church in debt.
The kangaroos are dying out. They have been
for years on their last legs.
“Should old acquaintance be forgot?” Not
while they have a single groat.
A piano affords a young lady a good chance to
show her fingering and her finger-ring.
Foreign hair can be worn so naturally as to
make it difficult to tell which is switch.
Having asked his girl for a kiss, as a tonic, she
replied that there was such a thing as being too tonic.
“ Read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest ” is
the motto over a hoarding-house advertisement in the
Boma paper.
Warning to a Preacher.—lf you do not stick to
the thread, of your discourse, your congregation will not
cotton to you.
When two young men meet they address each
other as “old man, and when two old fellows meet
they say ** my boy."
The world is the book of women. A disre-
putable old bachelor says this may be so, but some
women don't read it.
A queer old hen declined an invitation to a
gander party recently, for the reason that the ganders
did not belong to her set.
The passion for antiquities is on the increase,
bat old ladies are not appreciated more highly than
ever. Neither are mothers-in-law.
A whisky flask exactly resembling a prayer-book
is the latest Sunday convenience. And yet some people
argue that Christianity is a failure.
They now say of a liar: ‘‘ He can tire out a fact
quicker than any newspaper writer living, by the simple
process of harnessing it up to his imagination,"
People who wonder why men’s hair turns grey
before their whiskers, should reflect that there is about
twenty years’ difference in their respective ages.
It is very hard to realise that a woman is an
angel when one sees her pick up a clothesprop 14 feet
long to drive a two-ounce chicken out of the yard.
A person being asked why he had given his
daughter in marriage to a man with whom he was at
enmity, answered : “ I did it out of pure revenge.”
Photographer (about to remove the screen from
the camera)—“All ready! That is very good; but
a little intelligence in your
We have seen a dumb-waiter, but never to our
knowledge a dumb waitress. Dumbness doesn’t seem
to run in the female line any more than whiskers or
tobacco smoking.
Young ladies who wish to have small mouths are
advised to repeat this at frequent intervals during the
day: _ Fanny Finch fried five floundering frogs for
Francis Fowler s father.”
When reform spelling becomes universal a three-
penny novel hero can write, “ I kum uv a prowd and
hotty rase, without giving himself dead away as
regards his early education,
W hat a benevolent aspect a clergyman with a
big umbrella on a wet day does present. But if he
happen to tread on a piece of orange peel—well, clergy-
men after all are only mortal.
Howells said once in an after-dinner speech
that such was his stem impartiality as editor of the
Atlantic Monthly , that on one occasion he respectfully
declined one of his own contributions.”
Did you ever notice that if you go into an office
where the man is on the street talking politics all the
time he isn t in bed, you will always see a framed
chromo hanging up over the desk, •« Time is money.”
An American editor suggests that persons send-
-I®g.ln mg eggs will please accompany them by severa
ordinary sized ones, not for publication, but so that the
faith? 13 * W 1 1)0 a PP arent » and as a guarantee of good
A woman, to whom the world had grown cold,
before drowning herself in a shadow trough strapped
her head down in the water for fear that her courage
might fail her when she began to smother. A sensible
w oman,
A complaint is made that the verandahs of the
Government buildings at Tambo are frequented by the
f oo *. *? 'T et weather. That (says the Western Cham-
uLcomfort!ble Se ® mtoriors are 80 dilapidated and
the wall-flower from a distance
ho walked up to her with becoming grace and asked.
Are you engaged for this dance, miss ? ” "No " she
“ WeU then s!mg on.” said he.’ And
There are seventeen and a half men to every
T^l 6 W the territory ot Dakota. «• Well.” said Mtes
she read the above item : “If
wbat \ they’d take that half man
rather than none at all. *
A Hopeful Case.—Patient: “ Then according to
you. Doctor, in order to live at all I must give up all
that makes life worth living ?’* Doctor: “I am afraid
so—at least for a few years.” Patient: “Perhaps
you'd recommend mo to marry ? ” Doctor" (a confirmed
bachelor): “Oh, no! Come, my dear fellow, it's not
quite so bad as that.”
“ ’Tis sweet to hear the watch dog’s honest bark
Bay deep-mouthed welcome as we draw near home.”
That’s certainly Byronic. And it’s sweet after that to
hear the grim old lady at a neighbouring window
cachmate, as the honest watch-dog bowls off down
the lane at the rear, with the bast part of your bran-new
fantail-banger dangling from his barking apparatus.
“ No man shall ever kiss me except my future
husband,” she she, as he was about leaving her at the I
gate, “ Suppose I agree to be your future—- f ”
‘Why then I’ll agree to kiss you,” she said, eagerly;
and she did. Her mother was informed that he had I
proposed, and the old lady called round next day to I
fasten matters, and before lie knew it he was eternally I
booked. It was a mean advantage, but a bird in the I
hand is worth two on the front gate. •
It ia now said that cancer, tumonr, &e., yield
readily to a vegetarian diet. *
A gentleman may carry a brace of snipe, but not
a leg of mutton. He may be seen in the omnibus-box at
the opera, but not on the box of an omnibus. He may
be seen in a stall inside the theatre, but not at a stall
outside one. He may dust another person’s jacket, but
he must not brush his own. He may do anything, or
anybody, in fact, within the range of a gentleman—go
through the Insolvent Court or turn billiard-mar-
ker, but he must never on any account carry a urown
paper parcel, or appear in the street without a pair of
gloves. He may kill a man in a duel, but he musn't
eat peas with a knife. He may thrash a cabman, but he
musn’t ask twice for soup. He may pay his debts of j
honour but he need not trouble himself about his trades- i
men’s > bills. Ho may drive a stage coach, but he
musn’t take or carry coppers. He may ride a horse as
a jockey, but he musn’t exert himself rn the least to get
his living. He must never forget what he owes to him-
self os a gentleman, but he need not mind what he owes
as a gentleman to his tailor.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
A Bold Resolution.
In leisure moments I have penned this scrawl.
Business is.bad, and customers don’t call,
My mind runs riot through the realms of thought
And tiring*, turns earthward, finding nought—
That is, no money has been taken to pay
The heavy burden that from day to day
Binds care, a crown of thorns about my brow
And makes my life a sad one to me now.
I wonder now how many men like me.
Are deep in debt and no escape can see.
My needy brethren by these lines you’ll know
Your hapless neighbour, too, is plunged in woe.
His groans and prayers at midnight rend the skies.
But still he cannot pray for his supplies,
His baker, grocer, butcher, money want
And lengthy bills his breakfast table haunt.
His debt, like hobbles, keep him in the rear
And troubles fresh with every mom appear,
He money owes and money’s to him due,
Bnt that’s no good; book debts ain’t worth “ a sue.”
His troubles don’t his appetite decrease
And growing children’s appetites increase—
He s out at elbows and his boots want soles.
Their garments ragged labyrinths of holes.
Alas, poor wretch, to whom can he apply ?
No help on earth, no haven of safety nigb, •
To heaven he calls, no answer back receives—
No helping hand his pressing want relieves.
Belief, he thinks, I’d surely find in death;
But there’s my family. While I can draw breath
Life I’ll not shirk, so this time I will spare it,
Eesolved right manfully to grin and bear it.
GEO. BLACK.
Wagga Wagga, 20th Ang., 1880.
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY’S DEPOT. (See page 3.)


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Henry Kendall is about to issue an edition of
his poems, entitled “ Sonars from the Mountains.”
They are trying to “squelch” the big divorce
case, and it’s to be hoped, for a variety of reasons, that
they will succeed.
Mr. Vescys, Mayor of Waterloo, has, we are
sorry to hear, found himself compelled by ill-health to
retire from bis position.
Young Weiss, the Glen Innes billiard champion,
bas arrived in Brisbane again after a successful tour
■among the Northern “ mugs.”
Superintendent Singleton, who recently died at
Alhury, was employed in 1858 in following the great
forger, Miranda, to South America.
King, the speaker of the Queensland Assembly,
■described “ The O’Donovan,” the Parliamentary
Librarian, as “ rather a stiff man."
Melbourne Punch represents Dean Macart-
ney whitewashing what he calls the " immoral" French
pictures in the Melbourne Exhibition.
Villeneuve Smith actually elected to be non-
suited at Adelaide the other day. He was “ falsely
instructed,” —poor dear, innocent Villeneuve/
We regret to hear that Mr. Lackey, of Liver-
pool, the venerable father of the hon. the Minister for
Works, is so ill that his recovery is very doubtful.
The Shoalhaven News has it from reliable
authority that a young gentleman of Terrara is shortly
to be married to a daughter of an ex-Mayor of Sydney.
The Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G., the now Agent-
General, has been compelled by the pressure of private
engagements to decline the compliment of a farewell
dinner.
People want to know what rank is held by the
gentleman who gives “ the block ” a treat by constantly
appearing thereon in evening dress and wearing several
medals ?
The Professor of Antipodean Etiquette, Social
Amenities, National Esthetics, and Parliamentary De-
portment was there to see Sir Hercules off. That was
as it should be.
The Adelaide coroner was mighty hard on the
doctor of the “ Sorata” because he allowed some young
ladies to make him comfortable. Are doctors, then,
devoid of taste ?
The Duke of Manchester attended and spoke
at the Hamilton (Vic.) Pastoral Show. However, he
only dealt in platitudes, and did not treat his audience
to anything original.
The name of an ambassador from the King of
Siam who recently had an audience with her Majesty
the Queen, is Chow Phya Bhnauwongse Maha JCosa
Tiboda ti Phraklong.
Smith has resigned his commission in the Bris-
bane Rifles, but still has a handle to his name. He is
leader of the Government in a Debating Glass, but is not
a second MTlwraith.
Sir William Robinson, Governor of W. A., has
arrived at Melbourne, and been received with the usual
honours. He will be the Marquis of Normanby's guest
till after the Exhibition opening.
The body of the intestate Austrian millionaire,
Otto, has been exhumed, after being buried about a year.
The rumour runs that the coat which he desired to wear
in the grave contains his last will.
Douglas the Mild is the bore of the Queensland
parliament. He distinguished himself recently making
50 speeches in one night. There is a great deal of “ oily
gammon ” about the unpretentious John.
Palmer, the Colonial Secretary for Queensland,
has been in an exceptionally bad temper this session.
He was never a pleasant-spoken opponent, but this ses-
sion some one has trodden on the tail of his coat.
The Hon. J. P. Bell, Administrator of the
Government of Queensland, will be present at the
opening of the Melbourne Exhibition. There will be
but few there to vie with him in physique and personal
appearance.
On dit in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane, a certain
young lady of Eoman Catholic parentage has recently
been banished to the Ipswich convent to prevent her re-
ceivingthe honourable attentions of a gentleman of high
Masonic degree.
During the temporary panic at the Theatre
Eoyal on Saturday night, a certain very learned gentle-
man, who sat near the stage in the dress circle, was the
first to “ clear out,” allowing his daughters to follow
him as best they could. ,
A retrograde movement. Griffith, the leader of
the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament, has taken
to “ bridge-olaspers,”—in other words, he affects
gold-rimmed “ specs.” But then no one heard of a
lawyer going into “specs." in which there wasn’t gold
for certain.
The Melbourne Argus understands that the
Earl and Countess of Ellesmere,the son-in-law and daugh-
ter of the Marquis of Normanby, will visit Victoria dur-
ing the Exhibition season. They will leave England in
■October, and will arrive in Melbourne towards the end of
November.
Lady Augustus Loftus holds a reception at
■Government House to-day (Thursday) from 3 to 5.
Her ladyship will also hold receptions at Goulburn,
Wagga, and Albnry, during her visit to those towns
■«n route to Melbourne, for which city the vice-regal
party leave to-morrow (Friday).
The pretty daughter of an influential gentleman
■equally well known and liked in Sydney and Melbourne,
got married last week to the man of her choice —it is
reported, without even a semblance of paternal consent.
However, it is understood that, as is usual in such eases,
the “Governor” has capitulated.
The Hon. James Hoskins, Minister for Lands,
never lost an opportunity to denounce the International
Exhibition; yet James has accepted a certificate of
merit and a silver medal from the Commission for
‘distinguished, services.” What humourists those
Commissioners must be! Consistency, thy name is—
not Hoskins!
Beor, the Queensland Attorney-General, who
has recently been created Q.C., returns to England
shortly. The question is, who will MTlwraith appoint
is successor ? The only lawyer (?) available on the
Government side is Amhurst —but it is too much of a
joke to suppose that the genial little man would take
such a position.
Messrs. W. E. Johnston (of Melbourne Univer-
sity) and Henry Hardy Massy Bindon were on Tuesday
admitted as barristers of the Supreme Court of N.SW.,
on the motion of Mr. Darley. It may be mentioned
that Mr. Johnston, while in England, gained a scholar-
ship of 100 guineas in international law at the Middle
Temple, and a studentship in Roman law and juris-
prudence of 100 guineas for two years, granted by the
Inns of Court, and was called to the English bar by the
Middle Temple on April 21, 1880.
Joseph, the historic and faithful retainer of a
generation of Governors, was last week, at Government
House, favoured by his worthy spouse with a bouncing
addition to his nice little family of 25 children.
Joseph, who, like his older namesake, is a prosperous
man in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and is,
too, “a goodly person and well-favoured,’’ is a living
contradiction to that venerable axiom, “ History repeats
itself.” Judged from the Vicar of Wakefield’s stand-
point, this modern Joseph deserves at least four times
as well of his country as does the average citizen.
. Mr. James Kingston, “ The Australian Abroad ”
is a quietly living notary practising in Melbourne. For
25 years he never stirred from his desk, but when he
did stretch his legs he let them out with a vengeance.
Taking fifteen hundred pounds and a Gladstone bag with
mm, he went to see the planet in 18 months —and
did it. He kept and albumed vouchers for every crown
ke spent, and brought back forty saucers full of the
coinage of different countries—the spare change left
m his pocket from place to place. His saddest experi-
ence was that of the dying bed of his poor brother the
well-known E. P. Kingston, of Artemus Ward connec-
+i,on ‘ our *” J- H. ” is a single man, and far beyond
the frowns of fortune and all care for them, he is but
“king a little spell ere starting for some out of the way
Places yet to be seen. The world’s his oyster, of a
verity.
In our issue of the 11th it was stated that Mr.
Solomon, the present Attorney-General of Fiji, was
editor of the Fiji Argus, in which there recently ap-
peared a plagiarised leading article. In justice to Mr.
Solomon, we now feel called upon to state that we have
since learned that he is editor, not of the Argus, but of
the Fiji Times, and that he is not in any way connected
with the first-named paper.
There’s an old, vigorous, and much-respected
waterman at the Circular Quay (of course anyone can
guess that Tom M lis referred to) who predicted a
fortnight ago that we were sure to have a break-up of
the drought cither on the 9th or 10th of the month—
and we have had it precisely at the predicted time. Our
Astronomer had better (as Sir Isaac Newton with the
shepherd on Salisbury Plain) put himself in meteoro-
logical communication with “ Tom.”
Professor Reuleaux, the representative of the
German Empire, (says Melbourne Punch) is to take a
back seat in the sixth row at the opening of the Inter-
national. This seems very like asking a man to your
house, and patting him in the kitchen to dine.
They made him (it was in another colony, of
course) an Offl. Ass. People couldn’t understand the
appointment, and looked in vain for the “ woman who
was at the bottom of it.” They will find her soon in the
shape of the accomplished daughter of a high official in
the Crown Law Department. It is only fair to provide
a good living for the young man under such circum-
stances.
The Orpheus Club, Hobart Town, pave a con-
cert the other evening, and the first three songs
on the programme appeared thus : —“ When Daylight’s
Going,” “Stars of Heaven Guide Me,” (Mr. H. J.
Westbrook) “Over the Garden Wall.” Now Mr.
Westbrook is a great favorite with the fair sex, and
wouldn’t make by any means an ill-looking Romeo. Not
that it has ever before been said that " when daylight’s
going stars of heaven guide him over the garden wall.”
Reed, an old North Queensland pressman, starts
the Western Grazier at Wilcanuia next month. This
will be his sixth paper, and he has made money by them
all. Amongst other good works of his must be numbered
the importation of Teddy O’Kane to Charters Towers.
Out Darling Point way “ Brewers’ hops ” have
been quite a correct thing. And some very respectable
people go to sample them. Lady Robinson and some of
the Herocleidse assisted at one the other night. Sir
Hercules was to have been there too, but not having
quite recovered from his South Pacific “aleraent,” he
apologised with the most polished glucosity which
words could have been made to XXX press—
" He was sorry to say, though invited by cable.
He wasn’t just fit to sit up at table,
And for frolics saltatory felt quite unable.”
Victoria’s present Attorney-General, W. M. K.
Vale, is a peculiar combination of the worst features of
the usual Victorian politician. He combines the over-
weening vanity and empty-hendedness of Berry with
the blundering stupidity of O’Loghlen ; the ferocious,
uncultivated boorishness of Woods; the sarcastic hy-
pocrisy of Longmore ; the foul-moutheduess and trea-
chery ef Gaunson ; the little-mindedness of Mirams;
the blustering ignorance of A. T. Clark ; and the con-
summate impudence of the pseudo-Majaw Smith.
Verily, Nature made but one such specimen of dema-
gogic imperfection, and in making it, broke.
Mr. James Kingston, who saw the five divisions
of the world in 18 months, encumbered only with a
travelling bag and several quires of thin foreign made
paper, posted his sketches as he made them. He prizes
the manuscripts for the mail marks they bear. It is not
everybody that writes from Petra, Siout. Nazareth,
Kioto, Damascus and Jerusalem. What was so written
partakes of the influence of the time and place, and if
they smell of any lamp at nil, it is of such as swing from
the poles of a bell-tent. Tent life is still that which
travellers in holy land must all endure for their time
there.
A certain gentleman who had announced him-
self as a candidate for Bourke and had commenced to
stump his electorate, the other day fell into the h ands
of the police on a charge of drunkenness and suspected
larceny. When brought up at court he addressed the
Bench in a flighty manner, imputing the prosecution to
resentment on the part of the authorities at his having
denounced public corruption. The Bench fined him £1
or three days on the charge of drunkenness, and
remanded him to gaol for a week for medical treat-
ment.
Lotti Wilmofc is lecturing in Dunedin. The
leading says that the leading characteristic of
her oratory is its fluency; that she is flippant without
being witty or clever; and that her lecture resolved
itself into an address on women’s rights, with sidelong
shots at “ shouting ” and drinking customs, and at the
multiplicity of bachelors. A tax on the last-mentioned
“ charming objects ” was strongly supported in a style
of language and argument that caused much laughter.
However, she apologised for shortcomings on the
ground that she had been subjected to a good deal of
worry.
Speaking of the staff on the Volunteer vote,
Morehead, M.L.A., Queensland, said, “What else but
waste money could it be considered to pay a lot of
ornamental men to ride flash horses about Brisbane and
to generally enjoy themselves. He believed they were
very good fellows, but they could pay too much for
good fellows.” Boyde, you are jealous because you
can’t ride. Then he went on to say, “ The thing was
rotten at the core and was simply the means of em-
ploying a number of nice young men, very good at tea-
parties and balls who were highly and improperly paid
by the State, &c., &c.
A certain newspaper man once got Waxman,
the Melbourne money-lender (who has a palatial resi-
dence facing the Pitzroy Gardens), to advance him £25
on a three-months’ bill, with another Pressman as
backer. As may be expected, the document was not
taken up at maturity, and shortly afterwards Waxman
happened to drop across his friend at Gaxton’s. “ You
haf dreated me vorry bad, Mr. .’’said Aaron,
“ shocking bad. and afder me inviting you to my house,
too.” “And didn’t I come?" returned the impertur-
bable Dick. Mr. Waxman was some time before he saw
it. However, he saw the joke before he did his
monish.
The well-known Leviathan metallician of Mel-
bourne has a fine house, in which he gives very fine
feed To one of these banquets he once invited a well-
knoWn and genial sporting writer. Subsequently, on
the pair meeting in Sydney, they quarrelled, and the
book-maker, with that elegance of diction for which he
is celebrated, exclaimed: “Don’t yon talk about not
being a gentleman. Why, when you was in Melbourne
I asked you to Don Juan House to learn yon how to
I eat." “ Yes,” replied the scribe drily: “ and such is the
force of example, that it is all I can do to refrain from
swallowing my knife ever since." Then there was a
laugh, and Joseph retired in some confusion to manipu-
late the “ Peter."
Archbishop Vaughan visited St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral on Thursday afternoon last, and was shown over
the building by the Rev. William Browne. To this fact
the wags, political and religious, professed to attach
great importance—some affirming that His Grace had
been converted, and others being equally certain that
he contemplated either buying or seizing the edifice.
However, these are degenerate days. Time was when
the Anglican and R. C. biehops used frequently to meet
at dinner, and chat on the b ducation question over the
walnuts and wine. How nice it would be to see Dr.
Barker, Dr. Vaughan, Dr. Steel, Mr. Jefferis, and all
the other ecclesiastical dignitaries meet once more in a
friendly way on a common platform!
Handsome “ Pwed.” Cooper has been called
from his duties in the Queensland Assembly to act as
Attorney-General for four days. He left for the North
by the Lady Bowen s.s. and his get-np was so
“ gorgeous ’’ that a nurse girl standing on the wharf
went into hysterics through admiration, and the
passengers were in doubt whether Commodore Cottier
had not resigned his command to the magnificent one.
Yet, after all, “Pwed” is but a mortal. Once upon a
time he went from the Hodgkinson to the Burke dis-
trict on an electioneering campaign, and, though he
purchased a sugar-loaf hat before leaving with “Johnny
Little,” his complexion was much damaged by the trip.
Worse still, when he got to Thornborongh he bad but
one shirt, and remained in bed until they washed it —
remarking the while how fortunate it was that clothes
didn’t take long to dry in the Par North.
Mr. H. F. Neal, chief clerk of the Victorian
Industrial Schools Department, and one of the ablest
and most conscientious officers of the Civil Service, has
been dismissed from the position which he so long and
creditably occupied, in order that Mr. John Dent
Ryland, a protege of Mr. Berry, may get a billet. It
would, of course, be wrong to say that J. D. R's motive
indirectly or indirectly vituperating Mr. Neal through
the convenient medium of the columns- of the Age was
that he might one day step into some one else’s shoes ;
but it is still a fact that he did write letters such as
those indicated and that, whether or not he had in view
Mr. Neal’s dismissal, he has at last brought about th it
for him, happy result. Mr. Ryland, who is by profession
an artist, and has mode a speciality of drawing interiors,
has developed an old bachelor’s abnormal liking for
children, and for years past has been in the habit of
fossicking round Melbourne streets in search of infant
prodigies. And now Berry has given Mr. Ryland an op-
portunity of gratifying his hobby and showing still more
forcibly how like a Herod was Mr. Neal.
The other evening at a well-known hostelrie not a
thousand miles from the Supreme Coutr, a jovial party,
presided over by a well-known litterateur, held high
wassail in the back parlour. Among the company were
a Riverina squatter and a well-known Police Court
pleader, whom we will call—just in order to distinguish
him—Josephus Lowanthus. Well, Josephus boasts a
particularly smart new “tile,” and the night being
warm he laid it aside, with other less elaborate cha-
peaux, in order to let the nocturnal breezes fan his
massive brow. About 10 the gentleman from Riverina
got up to go, selected a hat from the pile, bade the com-
pany good night, and retired. Hardly hod he departed
when a shriek of anguish rent the air. Then a voice
of agony exclaimed, “ He has taken my hat!’’ This
voice was even as the voice of Josephus, and that
gentleman having uttered the words, tore out of the
hotel and down King-street, bearing the stranger’s hat
(rather a seedy one) in his hand. When he had nearly
caught him, Josephus shouted, “ Hi—yon—hullo—hey !
Stop!—you’ve got my hat.” Then the Riverina man
stopped short, uncovered himself hastily, and said—
“ Thanks, thanks, Mr. Lowanthus : I shouldn’t like to
lose that hat: I always keep a £5O-note in the lining
for fear of accidents.” So saying, he drew out, the
crisp “ flimsy,” handed the man of law his hat, and de-
parted. When left to himself, Josephus Lowanthus
heaved a deep-drawn sigh, and ns he replaced his “ gos-
samer ” said, in a voice half stifled with rage or emo-
tion, “ This is what comes of being honest!’’
MR. H. W. BROWN, M.P. FOR THE PATERSON.
TRAVELLER (SOLILOQUISING): WHICH IS THE WAY TO MACQUARIE STREET?


Amusements
T OOK Out for the men with the IRON LUNGS,
J-i The greatest mechanical steam works ever ex-
hibited will open in a few days.
CENTRAL COUNCIL C. D. CONFRATER-
NITIES.
Annual Excursion in aid of St. MARY'S CATHEDRAL
BUILDING FUND,
TO CLONTARF,
On Mpnday next.
Imperial Braes Band of 20 performers engaged and
national musicians. A fleet of steamers will ply from
Circular Quay I and Woolloomooloo during the day.
Tickets, 2s j Children, Is.
CHAS. J. DOYLE, Hon. Sec
L’ESTRANGE’S GRAND FREE BALLOON
ASCENT
Will take place from
COOK PAKK,
Saturday afternoon, 25th instant (weather permitting).
A COLLECTION will be made on the grounds for
the purpose of defraying the expenses of the ASCENT,
which will be very considerable, and as this will be his
LAST attempt at an ascent, Mr. L’ESTRANGE hopes
the public will liberally respond.
rjlO THEATRICALS AND OTHERS.
TO LET, the VICTORIA THEATRE, WEST MAIT-
LAND, thoroughly renovated and re-modelled.
J. HART, P West Maitland.
THEATRE, NEWCASTLE
TO LET, from September 13. Apply,
E. NUTTER, 102, King-street, Sydney.
H
UNTER RIVER AGRICULTURAL AND
HORTICULTURAL ASSOCIATION.
ON THURSDAY, the 14th OCTOBER, 1880,
on the
ALBION GROUND, WEST MAITLAND,
A FLOWER AND POULTRY SHOW WILL BE
HELD.
Entries must be made in writing and lodged with the
Secretary on or before 6 o’clock p.m. on THURSDAY.
7th OCTOBER.
Entrances for Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Amateurs,
free. Entrance for Poultry, Members free. Non-
members must pay one-fourth the amount competed
for.
Schedule of prizes, with regulations, can be obtained
free on application to
THOMAS K. OSBORNE.
Secretary.
JIREETHOU6HT PLATFORM
THEATRE ROYAL.
SUNDAY EVENING, SEPT. 26, 1886.
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a LECTURE
(suggested by the Premier’s reply to the Wesleyan
address), entitled:
SIR HENRY PARKES,
AND
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THOMAS PAINE.
Doors open at 7. Commence at 7.30.
No preliminary reading.
Sittings as usual.
N.B.—Regular attendants at these Lectures will please
remember intimation relative to Name and Address.
BURWOOD. BURWOOD.
THE EDROP ESTATE. THE EDROP ESTATE.
With FRONTAGES to
VICTORIA-STREET,
LUCAS-ROAD,
EDROP-STREET,
and i SAKAH-STREET.
ONLY 300 YARDS FROM STATION. NO TRAM!
BATT, RODD, and PUR VES have been instructed to
sell the above Valuable Estate by public auction,
on the ground, on
NEXT SATURDAY,
at 3 p.m.
WITHOUT RESERVE,
«5T This magnificent BLOCK of LAND, by its eleva-
tion commanding extensive views over the Parramatta
River, Ashfleld, Redmyre, and the whole surrounding
country, is but three minutes’ walk from the Burwooa
Station.
«sr The estate has been carefully and liberally sub-
divided by Mr. Licensed Surveyor Binsted, as fol-
lows :
Section 1.—36 ALLOTMENTS, having frontages
severally to VICTORIA-STREET, LUCAS-
ROAD. EDROP-STREET, and SARAH-
STREET.
Section 2.—18 ALLOTMENTS having FRONT-
AGES to EDROP - STREET, SARAH.
STREET, and LUCAS-ROAD.
Section 3.—10 ALLOTMENTS, having FRONT-
AGES to VICTORIA - STREET, SARAH.
STREET, and EDROP-STREET.
TITLE—TORRENS’ ACT.
«5T TERMS:
15 percent, deposit, 10 per cent, in three months, and
the BALANCE in equal instalments at one, two, and
three years, bearing interest at only SIX (6) per cent,
per annum.
Coupled with IMMEDIATE POSSESSION; no
mortgage required, and with liberty on part of any
purchaser to pay off the balance at any time, with in-
terest only to date.
«ST The EDROP ESTATE may fairly challenge com-
parison with any in this most popular suburb, its
special features being—
1. Its HIGH ELEVATION.
-■ Its NEARNESS to the STATION (within three
minutes' walk).
!. Its FRONTAGES to good made WIDE ROADS.
)• The immense advantage of being rich laud
HEAVILY TIMBERED.
5. MAGNIFICENT VIEW of the country for miles
wound, taking in the BLUE MOUNTAINS and the
waters of PARRAMATTA RIVER.
LARGE SALE PLAN on view at the Rooms.
LITHOGRAPHS of the Subdivision now ready, at
the Rooms of the AUCTIONEERS.
Solicitors to the Estate, Messrs. NORTON and
SMITH.
Special arrangements will he made with the Railway
Department to convey intending purchasers to the
Sale. APPLY FOR TICKETS TO
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
88, PITT-STREET.
kwREFRESHMENTS PROVIDED,
Department of Mines,
Lrcjrp „ Sydney, 31st August 1880.
10l oi applications received in the Department of Mines for permission to mine under roads &c
&c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28. •
E. A. BAKER.
Locality.
Description of Land applied for.
Purpose for which
land is to he used.
Coast between
Port Hacking
and Long
Eeef Point.
=
Under the foreshores of the sea; To mine for coal,
coast of this Colony, and ex-| Ac.
tending seaward as far as its]
jurisdiction goes under the
Pacific Ocean; Commencing;
at the south head of Port;
Hacking and extending thence
along the coast northward to*
Long Eeef Point.
jyjUTUAI. LITE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA.
Established 1869 and Incorporated by Act of Parliament,
Principal Office GEORGE AND WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY,
With BRANCHES at AUCKLAND and BRISBANE, and AGENCIES throughout the Colonies.
DIRECTORS:
THE HON. S. D. GORDON, M.L.C., Chaihmax.
IHE HON. SIR Q, WIGRAM ALLEN, M.L.A., Deputt Ch Ala m an.
JOHN DAVIES, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A. j S. DICKINSON, Esq.
THE HON. J. B. WATT, M.L.C. | ALEX. STUART, Esq,, M.L.A.
INDEFEASIBLE POLICIES, Low Rates of Premium, Conservative Management, and
UNDOUBTED SECURITY are the distinguishing characteristics of this the second oldest Mutual
Life Office in these Colonies and the first to free Assurance from restrictions.
J. C. REMINGTON, Secretary.
Business Announcements
T
HOMPSON AND GILES
DENISON HOUSE, ’
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT,
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they ore now
I exhibiting in their Show-Rooms
all choice goods—and we feel as.
THOMPSON sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
an( j gratified at the novelties they are
j now displaying. The importations
GILES' 1 comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
MILLINERY made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
L ments, &c.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9 S
lid to 30a; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
j Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
every size.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
other fabrics, &c.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4Jd
to 8-|d; French Percales, from 9Jd
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9jd
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
10d to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
L and plain; British Cambrics, Ac.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SALES and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasolls. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tossy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s Hd; Black Umbrellas at
_ all prices.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ CAM-
I BRIC HANDKERCHIEFS.—Our
importations in this department
I are very extensive, having opened
j this week 1000 doz. Handstiched
Handkerchiefs, which we shall
offer for the half dozen 3s lid, 4s
; lid, 5s lid, 6s lid; this shipment
is the best value we have ever had
_ the pleasure of offering.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ TABLE
LINEN AND HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT.—-It has always
been our study to import goods
of this class of thoroughly
genuine character. By this
means we have year after year
increased our sale of first class
Drapery. We are now showing a
very nice shipment of Damask
Cloths and Napkins, both Double
and Single Damask. These goods we
have in every line and at prices
unequalled for cheapness and value
L in the colony.
I THOMPSON and GILES’ BLACK
| SILKS Extraordinary.—loo pieces
I Black Gros Grain Silks, standard
J makers, free from jute, 2s lid, 3s 6d,
14s 6d, 5a 6d; can be recommended
to wear. These goods are con-
siderably less than wholesale
L, prices.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
CAMBRIC
HANDKER-
CHIEFS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
TABLE
LINEN,
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
BLACK SILKS.
THOMPSON & GILES.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1860. •
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accept FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
rj ENT R A L STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322. George-street, Sydney. .
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colotue
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Coni
missiou on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of an.
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once
: sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot u
1 under offer may be withdrawn from register on wv
| notice. MURRAY" DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stoo
| and Station, Land, and General Commission Agent*
JJEINSMEAD PIANOS.
-SPECIAL NOTICE.
Referring to certain advertisements that have lately
appeared in the daily journals, Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG desire to call the attention of the public to' the
following fact, viz.: That the Judges of musical in-
struments at the recent Sydney International Exhibi-
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPECIAL MENTION for
Pianofortes, and that was to Messrs. JOHN BRINS-
MEAD and SONS. A reference to the book published
under the authority of the Commissioners, and entitled
Official Awards, will clearly prove this assertion.
We append letters, signed by a majority of the
judges, which establish this fact, and fully explain to
the public the position of affairs.
“Sydney, July 27, 1880.
To the Executive Commissioner.
“ Dear Sir, —At the final meeting of the Judges of
Pianos at the Sydney International Exhibition, it was
decided to award to Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD and
SONS the ONLY SPECIAL MENTION.
“ This was duly presented and confirmed by the Exe-
cutive Commissioner. Afterwards, at the request, as
we understood, of the Secretary, we drew up certain
particulars for the official catalogue ; but this was in no
way intended to invalidate the distinction to Messrs.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS-viz., the HIGHEST
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO EXHIBITS, and as
such are entitled to a higher award.
“ We give you these particulars in justice to the firm
entitled to special distinction, and, no doubt, von will
see this duly carried out.
“ We remain, dear sir,
“Yours obediently,
“ C. J. JACKSON,
“ MONTAGUE YOUNGER,
" EDMUND T. BLACKET,
“CHARLES PACKER.”
“ To H. Brins mead, Esq.
“ Dear Sir,—l received your letter of the 19th inst.,
and am very much surprised at its contents.
“ You are perfectly correct in saying that your pianos
were the ONLY ones which received any special men-
tion from the Judges of Musical Instruments.
“When it was proposed to give yon this SPECIAL
AWARD I objected, and divided the meeting on the
subject, but was outvoted, and the special mention was
made, and I signed the report accordingly. lam not
aware that any alteration was made in this report, and
if it was so it was not done with any knowledge or con-
sent on my part, therefore cannot bo said to be the
report of the Judges.
“Your statement that the ONLY SPECIAL notice
among pianos was given to you by the Judges of
musical instruments is ABSOLUTELY TRUE, as the
report itself will show.
“ I am, dear sir,
“ Yours truly,
“ EDMUND T. BLACKET.”
Pitt-street, Sydney,
“July 28, 1880.
“Organ Manufactory, Newtown
“ Sydney, 1880.
“ Messrs. John Brinsmead aud Sons,
“Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in being able to
vouch to the degree of perfection to which you have
brought the art of pianoforte manufacturing. I must say
the improvements invented and patented by your firm
are of such value that the musical judges, after care-
fully examining the instruments, competing with about
70 or 80 other manufacturers, awarded your pianos the
first prize above them all. I am also of opinion that
your pianos with such simple action, simplicity of me-
chanism, strength of construction, combined with the
remarkable purity and sweetness of tone, are unrivalled,
whilst your patent action produces a touch absolutely
perfect.
“ I am, Gentlemen,
“ Yours truly,
“ C. J. JACKSON.”
ROYLE and HOGG,
BOND-STREET STORES,
Sole Agents for JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS’
Celebrated Sostenente Pianos.
Highest award above over SEVENTY' other Manu-
facturers at the Sydney International Exhibition.
Highest awards : Paris, 1867, 1869, 1874, 1878.
Highest awards ; London, 18511862,1871.
Highest awards, gold medals everywhere.
PRICES to SUIT ALL.
Rive years’ guarantee with every instrument.
INCOMPARABLE for
TOUCH,
TONE,
WORKMANSHIP,
DURABILITY,
and PRICE.
A splendid selection now on view at the
BRINSMEAD PIANO DEPOT,
Bond-street Stores.
BOYLE and HOGO,
Sole Agents.
IF YOU WANT
A Cap of
RF.ALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TAEPING
MIXTUE E.
PACKED INTO 1-lb AND 1-lh PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents for
THE TAEPING MIXTURE:
EDWARD CLARKE,.
Oxford Street.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William Street.
S
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. K. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.


Government Advertisements
20. Tarago or Boro, Bungendore and Qneanbeyan, three
times a week. (Tenders required for one and for
three years.)
21. Bungendore, Molonglo and Foxlow, three times a
week.
22. Boro and Mayfield, twice a week.
23. Queanbeyan, Molonglo and Foxlow, once a week.
24. Queanbeyan and Uriarra, via Yarralumla, once a
week.
25. Queanbeyan, Williamsdale, Michelago, Bredbo and
Cooma, six times a week.
26. Nimitybelle, Brown Mountain, Numbuggaand Bega,
via Benbooka Station, once a week.
27. Candelo, Kameruka, and Brown Mountain, via Ben-
booka Station, once a week.
28. Braidwood and Monga, twice a week.
29. Ballalaba and Fairfield, via Jerrabat Gully, once a
week.
30. Eurobodalla and Nerrigundah, twice a week.
31. Eurobodalla and Wagonga, twice a week.
32. Cobargo and Tilba Tilba, once a week ; and to and
from Cobargo and Tilba Tilba, via Bermagm, once
33. Cobargo and Bermagui, once a week.
34. Cobargo and Wandella, twice a week.
35. Bega, Kameruka and Candelo, twice a week.
36. Bega and Tanja, once a week.
37. Breadalbane and Collector, three times a week,
38. Breadalbane and Gurrnndah, once a week.
39. Breadalbane, Parkesboume and Merrila, three times
a week.
40. Railway Station, Gunning, and Post Offices, Gun-
ning, Lower Gundaroo and Upper Gnndaroo, three
times a week. ( Tenders required for one and for
three years.)
41 '‘Upper Gundaroo, Ginninderra, Canberra and Quean-
' beyan, three times a week. (Tenders required fo-r
one and for three years.)
42 Gunning and Dalton, three times a week.
43! Dalton and Blakney Creek, via Byrneville, once a
44. Yasslfiailway Station and Post Office, Yass, includ-
ing the clearing of the letter receiver at North
Yass, seven or more times a week.
45. Yass and Murrumbateman, once a week, for two
years only. .
46. Yass and Good Hope, twice a week. .
47. Murrumbateman, Jeir, and Ginninderra, twice a
week for two years only.
48. Downing and Tangmangaroo, twice a week.
49. Downing and Bookham, three times a week.
50. Railway Station, Binalong, and Post Offices, Bxna-
long and Burrowa, six times a week, and to and
from Burrowa, Marengo, and Young, three times
51. Marengo and Cowra, via Bang Bang, 'Wateinandra
and Crowther, twice a week.
52. Morangarell and Wyalong, via TarangaJay. and
Barmedman, once a week.
63. Wallendbeen and Cullinga, twice a week.
54 From Cootamundra to West Temcra, via Daeey s,
' Davidson’s Station, Geraldra, Telford’s, Grogan s
Station, and Keane’s Narraburrah Station, re-
turning to Cootamundra, via Combaning, James s,
Cowan’s, Emery’s, Hengerty’s, Boyless,
Lenane’s, Keames’s, and Dnlfy’s, twice a week,
for one year only. ~ ,
55. Cootamundra and Woodstown, three times a week.
(Contract to terminate at three months .notice
on either side.)
56 Coolac and North Gobarralong, twice a week.
57. Coolac and Jugiong, three times a week.
58 Gundagai, Nangus, and Clarendon, via Kimo,
Tenandra, and Wantabadgery, twice a week.
59. Line withdrawn. ~ _ , , .
60 Adelong Crossing-place, Shepherd 8 Town, Adelong,
Gilmore, and Tumut, six times a week.
61. Adelong, Reedy Flat, Laurel Hill, and Tumber-
umba, twice a week.
62 Adelong and Mount Adrah, once a week.
63! Clarendon and Wagga Wagga, via Oura and Eunon-
yareenyah, twice a week.
64. Junee Railway Station, Junee, JThe Reefs, and
Sebastapol, via Erinvale, once a week.
66. Junee Railway Station and Junee, once a week.
66. Junee Railway Station and Nort h Berry, Jerry, once
67 From Wagga Wagga to Downside, Marrar, The
Rooks (M’Donald’s), Mimosa, Quandary, Broken
Dam, and Ariah, returning to Wagga Wagga via
Warri, Murrill Creek, Cowaboe.Kindra.and Down-
side, once a week, with a branch mail to and from
Broken Dam, Mandamah, Wallandry, and
Wollongongh, once a week.
68. From Wagga Wagga via Houlaghan s Creek (Down-
side), Kindra, Cowabee, Murrill Creek, Warri,
Ariah, Broken Dam, Quandary, Mimosa, The
Rocks, Marrar and Downside to Wagga Wagga,
once a week.
69. Wagga Wagga and Bmoedale, twice a week.
70. Hay, Wanganella, and Deniliquin, six times a week.
71. Railway Station and Post Office, Deniliquin, twelve
or more times a week.
72. Balranald, Euston, and Wentworth, twice a week.
73. Jereelderie, Wilson, Argoou, Waddai, and Darling-
ton Point, via ;Spring Plain and Kulki, twice a
week.
74. From Tarcutta to Murraguldrie, via Obeme, re-
turning to Tarcutta, via Hartnett’s and Nugent’s,
on the South side of the Tarcutta Creek, twice a
week, for two years only.
75. Nelligen, Bateman’s Bay and Milton via Woodbnrn,
once a week.
76. Merimbula, Wolumla, and Bega or Tathra, Wolumla
and Bega, on arrival and departure of steamers.
77. Merimbula Wharf and Post Offices, Merimbula,
Pambula, and Eden, once a week.
78. Eden and Timbilica, once a week.
Northern Roads.
1. Manly, Blackwall, Kincumber, and Gosfoad, via
Brady’s, Jenkins’s, and Boulton’s, twice a week
(the mails to to be conveyed between Manly and
the Head of Pitt Water by coach, and between
the Head of Pitt Water and Gosford by steamer.
In the event of bad weather preventing the
steamer from crossing the bar, contractor will be
required to convey the mails on horseback between
Gosford and Patonga on the same day as des-
patched from Manly or Gosford).
2. Gosford, Blue Gum Flat, Wyong Creek, and Coo-
ranbong, twice a week.
3. Gosford, Erina, and Wamberal, twice a week,
4'. Newcastle Wharf, Post Office, and Railway Ter-
minus, fourteen or more times a week.
5. Newcastle and Stockton, six or more times a week.
6. Newcastle, Glebeland, The Junction, and Charles-
town, six times a week.
7. Railway Station, Waratah, and Post Office, Waratah,
six or seven times a week.
8. Railway Station, Wnratah, and Post Office, Waratah,
Lambton, and Wallsend, six times a week.
9. Wallsend and Cooranbong, twice a week.
lo". Line withdrawn, —See Supplementary Notice,
ll! Line withdrawn. —See Supplementary Notice.
12. Line withdrawn. —See Supplementary Notice.
13. Raymond Terrace and Nelson’s Plains, six times a
week.
14. Taree, Cundletown, Ghinni Ghinni, Croki, Cooper-
nook, Camden Haven Punt, and Port Macquarie,
three times a week.
15. Port Macquarie, Telegraph Point, East Kempsey,
and Kempsey, three times a week.
16. Booral and Bulahdelah, three times a week.
17. Gloucester, Barrington, Copeland North, and Cope-
land South, six times a week.
18. Bulahdelah and Coolongolook, once a week,
19. Coolongolook and Coolongolook Gold Field, once
a week, for one year only.
20. Taree and Redbank, twice a week.
21. Dingo Creek and Whetrol Flat, twice a week.
(Contractor to travel via Dingo Creek Bridge in
times of flood.)
22. Woodside, Knorritt Flat, and Nowendoc, via Coop-
lacurripa, once a week.
23. Cundletown and Oxley Island, twice a week.
24. Port Macquarie and Ennis, via Fembank Creek,
twice a week.
25. Telegraph Point and Holland's Plains, three times
a week.
26. Kempsey, Frederickton, Smith Town, Gladstone,
and Summer Island, twice a week. (Mails to be
conveyed between Kempsey, Frederickton, and
Gladstone, by boat in times of flood.)
27 Kempsey, Frederickton, Nambncca, Deep Creek,
Femmount, and Boat Harbour, via Seven Oaks,
and Nambucca River Heads, twice a week.
28. Summer Island and Rainbow Reach, twice a week..
29. Femmount and East Raleigh, once a week-
-30. Rainbow Reach and Ara.koon (Trial Bay), once a
week.
Government Advertisements
31. East Maitland, Largs, and Paterson, to travel via
Belmore Bridge, in times of flood, seven times a
week, with a branch mail from and to Largs and
Woodville, seven times a week.
32. Gresford, Allynbrook, Halton, and Eccleston, three
times a week.
33. Wollombi and Laguna, three times a week.
34. From Morpeth to Hinton, fourteen times a week,
and from Hinton to Morpeth, seven times a week.
35. Morpeth and Miller’s Forest Post Offices (or 1 mile
beyond the present site of Miller’s Forest Post
Office, in case of the removal of that office), six
times a week.
36. Hinton, Seaham, Clarence Town, Brookfield, New-
park, and Dungog, three times a week. (If floods
prevent the mails being conveyed between Hinton
and Seaham, Contractor must travel via West
Maitland, and the Belmore and Dunmore
Bridges.)
37. Bendolba and Underbank, twice a week.
38. Bandon Grove and Underbank, once a week.
39. Railway Station, and Post Office, Branxton, fourteen
or more times a week.
40. Singleton, Boggy Flat, Warkworth, and Jerry’s
Plains, via Thorley’s, three.times a week.
41. Singleton, Scott’s Flat, Sedgefield, Westbrook, and
Glendon Brook, twice a week.
42. Warkworth and The Bulga, three times a week.
43. Glennie’s Platform, and Post Office, Camberwell,
six times a week. (Contractor to convey the
mails arriving by the evening train when the
steamer arrives too late at Newcastle for them to
be forwarded by the mail train.)
44. Railway Station, and Post Office, Muswellbrook,
fourteen or more times a week.
45. Muswellbrook, Denman, Gungal, and Merriwa, six
times a week, and to and from Merriwa and
Cassilis, three times a week. (Contractor will be
required to provide boat at Denman.)
46. Muswellbrook and Kayuga, three times a week.
47. Muswellbrook and Dunbar’s Creek, twice a week.
48. Merriwa and Craeton (M’Rae’s Krui River) via
Terrangong, Mountain Station, Cream of Tartar
Creek, and Messrs. Bourke and Simmon’s Resi-
dence, twice a week.
49. Cassilis, Turee, Coolah, and Binnaway, twice a
week.
50. Cassilis nnd Turee Creek, via the surveyed line near
Rotherwood, once a week.
51. Denison Town, Bolaro, and Cobbora, twice a week.
52. Aberdeen aud Rouchell Brook, twice a week; and to
and from Rouchell Brook and Davies’ Creek,
once a week.
53. Scone and Bunnan, twice a week.
54. Blandford and Timor (Silver Mines), once a week.
65. Murrurundi, Glasston, Blackville, Yarraman, Bun-
della, and Tambar Springs, twice a week.
56. Railway Station and Post Office, Quirindi, twelve or
more times a week.
57. Quirindi and Wallabadah, via Quirindi Station and
Main Road, six times a week.
58. Quirindi, Warra Ridge, Pine Ridge, and Colly
Blue, via Mooki Springs, Kiokerbill, and Webland,
twice a week.
69. Railway Station and Post Office, Qnipolly, twice a
week.
60. Narrabri and Dunmore’s, via Gregory’s, Arndell’s
Farm, Baker’s, Billingsley’s, Davis's, Capell’s,
Roache’s, Orman’s, Standford’s, Pratt’s, Sorel's,
Tbirkettle’s, Miller’s, and Ward’s. Enlah Creek,
once a week.
61. Narrabri, Eulourie, and Bingera, via Killamey,
Edgeroi, Single’s, Berrigal (Terri-hi-hi Out-
Station), Rocky Creek, Pallal, and Derra Derra,
once a week.
62. Kunopia and Mungindi via Graman, Colunah, Cham-
pain’s, and Myall Plain, once a week.
63. Kunopia and Goondiwindi, once a week.
64. Railway Platform, Duri, Goonoo Goonoo, six times
a week.
65. Railway Station, Tamworth, and Post Offices, West
Tamworth and Tamworth, seven or more times a
week.
66. Tamworth and Moor Creek, twice a week.
67. Barraba, Elourie, and Moree, via Tareela, Mount
Lindsay, Currangandi, Ullembarella, Pallal,
Derra, Banghet, Gineroi, Gravesend, Binnigi, and
Baldwin’s, once a week.
68. Bingera and Bundarra, via Coorangoora, Keira,
Beverley, and Long Reach, once a week.
69. Warialda, Bogabilla, and Goondawindi, via Oregon,
New Gunyerwarildi, Allison’s Old Gunyerwarildi,
Yalaroi, Tooloona, and Coppermarenbillen, twice
a week.
79. Tintln Hull and Swamp Oak, via Griffiths and Amos
Brothers’, six times a week.
71. Bendemeer, Surveyor’s Creek, and Walcha, twice a
week; and to and from Walcha and Glen
Morrison, once a week.
72. Stanborough and Tingha, three times a week.
73. Inverell and Warialda, via Bannockburn, Piersby
Hall, Reedy Creek, Qragin, and Myalla, twice a
week.
74. Bonshaw and Tenterfleld, via Clifton Station, Mole
Station, and the south side of the Severn River,
twice a week.
75. Bonshaw and Texas (Queensland), once a week.
76. Armidale and Bundarra, twice a week.
77. Armidale and Oban, via Quyrah, Rock Vale, Aber-
foil, and Ward’s Mistake Head Station, once a
week; and to aud from Armidale and Oban, via
Guyrah, Coningdale, Kilkoy on the Chandler,
Camperdown, Lyndhurst, Aberfoil, and Ward’s
Mistake Head Station, once a week.
78. Armidale, Sandy Creek, Wandsworth, Kangaroo
Camp, Elsmore, Brodie’s Plains, and Inverell, via
Eversleigh, OUera, Moredon, Paradise Creek, and
Newstead, twice a week ; and to and from Armi-
dale, Sandy Creek, Wandsworth, Kangaroo Camp,
Tingha, Gilgai, and Inverell, via Boroolong, 01-
lera, and Cope’s Creek Station, once a week; and
to and from Wandsworth, Elsmore, Brodie’s
Plains, and Inverell, via Moredon, Paradise Creek,
and Newstead, once a week.
79. Armidale, Wollomombi, and Kempsey. via Hill-
grove, Giogla, Long Plat, Towel Creek, Peedre
Creek, Nulla Nulla, and Toorookoo, once a week.
80. Glen Innes, Y Water, and Vegetable Creek, three
times a week.
81. Glen Innes and Red Range, once a week.
82. Deepwater, Tableland, and Silent Grove, via Nine-
mile, once a week.
83. Vegetable Creek and Tent Hill, three times a
week.
84. Vegetable Creek and the Gulf, once a week.
85. Tent Hill and Deepwater, twice a week.
86. Tenterfleld, Timbarra, Boorook, Drake, Tabnlam
and Lawrence, twice a week, for tiro years only,
(Tenders required for coach and horse-back service.)
87. Clarence River Steamers and Post Office, Duka, as
required to meet steamers that arrive and depart,
or that pass up and down the river; and to and
from Post Offices, Iluka and Clarence River
Heads, twice a week,
!. Wardell, Dalwood, Richmond River, and Altson-
ville, twice a week.
89. Ballina and Emigrant Creek, once a week.
90. Grafton and Southgate, twice a week.
91. To Tabulam, Copmanhurst, and Grafton (in times of ]
flood to travel by the surveyed road), twice a week,
for two years only.
92. Lismore and Bexhill, once a week.
93. Tweed Junction aud Tweed Heads, via Cudgen
(Boyd’s) once a week.
94. Harwood Island and Chatsworth Island, on the
days that the Grafton steamers from Sydney ar-
rive at Harwood Island.
Suburban Road.
General Post Office, Waverley.andßandwick, twelve
times a week.
F. B. SNTTOR.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 18th September, 1880.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
Supplement to General Advertisement dated 27th August,
1880, calling for Tenders for Mail Service, to com-
mence on Ist January, 1881.
TENDERS for the following Mail Services will be
received up to noon on Tuesday, the 19th October
next, viz.
Southern Roads.
79. Bringellyand Greendale, via Greendale Public School
and Greendale House, six times a week.
80. Dapto and Marshall Mount, three times a week.
81. Young and Temora, via Milong and Grogan, three
times a week ,for one year only,
Government Advertisements
82. Cootamundra and Temora, via Cowan’s and Com-
homing, six times a week, for one year only.
Nobtherm Bo ads.
95-. Hexham Eailway Station and Kaymond Terrace,
seven times a week, for one year only .
96. Kaymond Terrace, Limelmmer’s Creek, Booral,
and Stroud, four times a week, for one year
only; or,
97. Hexham Kailway Station and Eaymond Terrace,
seven times a week; and Kaymond Terrace, Lime*
burner’s Creek, Booral, and Stroud, four times a
week, for one year only.
The above services Nos. 79, Southern Road, and 95,
96, and 97, Northern Road, are called for in lieu of the
services Nos. 2, Southern Road, and. 10, 11, and 12,
Northern Road respectively, advertised in General
Advertisement of the 27th August, 1880, which have
been withdrawn. . ;
Each successful Tenderer for the Mail Services num-
bered Northern Road 95, 96, and 97, must, within three
days, either personally or by the hands of his agent in
Sydney, deposit with the Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, to the credit of the Secretary, General Post
Office, Sydney (and must lodge the Bank deposit re-
ceipt therefor with the Secretary' to the Post Office), a
sum equal to 20 per centum of the animal amount for
This which the Tenderer offers to undertake the service,
amount to be absolutely forfeited to the Government in
case the person whose tender may be accepted shall fail
to complete within thirty days of the date of notice of
the acceptance of his Tender the usual bond and con-
tract to the satisfaction of the Government. The notice
of acceptance of Tender, if delivered at the Sydney
address of the Tenderer or his agent (which” address
should be stated in the Tender), shall be deemed
sufficient.
The conditions will be the same as those published in
the Government Gazette, in the general advertisement
dated 27th August, 1880; and Tenders will not be con-
sidered unless in accordance therewith.
P. B. SUTTOK.
Department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 20th September, 1880.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS—RAILWAY SMALL
STOKES, 1881.
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
11 a.m., on TUESDAY next, the fifth day of Octo-
ber, from persons willing to contract for the supply of
the following Small Stores for the year 1881, for the
Government Railways, in accordance with the condi-
tions attached to each schedule, viz.:—
Building materials
Brushware
Timber—South and West Lines
Timber, hardwood—Great Northern Rahway
Timber, softwood—Great Northern Railway
Ironmongery
Machine and boiler fittings
Castings, iron (cylinders excepted)
Oills, colours, &c.
Ship chandlery
Smith’s coals, &c.
.Drapery
Leather and grindery
Steel Locomotive cylinder castings.
Tenders are to be endorsed “ Tender for Building
Materials,” or as the ease may be.
The Tenders are required to be made on printed
schedules only, which contain conditions and list of
prices, and may be obtained at the Eailway Stores at
Redfem and Newcastle.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
G°
VERNMENT RAILWAYS.
OVERLAND TO MELBOURNE,
MELBOURNE INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION, 1880.
NOTICE is hereby given that for the convenience of
persons attending the above, arrangements have been
made for the through journey to Melbourne, from
Sydney overland, and for which first-class return
tickets at £5 5s each will be issued.
The issne of tickets will commence on the 23rd Sep-
tember next, and tickets issued from that date until the
30th November will be available for return until the 31st
January, 1881. Tickets taken on and after the Ist De-
cember will be available for return for two months.
The journey will be accomplished as follows: —
Sydney to Gerogery, by rail
Gerogery to Wodonga (20 miles), by coach
Wodonga to Melbourne, by rail.
To prevent the overcrowding of the mail coaches,
tickets will be issued only by Cobb and Co., who will be
able to regulate the coach accommodation according to
the wants of passengers.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
Department of Public Works, Eailway Branch,
Sydney, 10th September, 1880.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLATA WINE CELLARS,
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
RED WINES
Quarts
s. d.
Bungundy 30 0
No. 1 Coolalta Red 21 0
No. 2 ~ 16 0
Yin Ordinaire 12 0
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30 0
No. 1 Coolalta 21 0
No. 2 „ 16 0
Vin Ordinaire 12 0
C E!
I C E! !
The CITY ICE COMPANY are prepared to
supply the public of Sydney and Suburbs with
PXJRE ICE made from filtered water from the
Botany Works, all at the lowest possible rates.
For particulars apply to the Manager, 24 O’Con-
nell-street, Sydney.
SEASON 1 8 80-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
c
Government Advertisements
General Post Office,
Sydney, 27th August, 1880-
ONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
TENDERS for the following I,*'AIL SERVICES,
•A pr i, v coach or on horseback, for one or three years
the exception of those lines for which a special
i i-in is named), to commence from the Ist JANUARY,
will be received up to noon on TUESDAY, the
10th day of OCTOBER next.
Vnr full particulars, see Government Gazette, a file
which is kept at every Post Office in the colony. No
Lnficr will be considered unless the terms of the notice
published in the Gazette be strictly complied with.
Weltern Roads.
1 Railway Station and Post Office,’Parramatta, four
times or oftener daily.
2. Balkham Hills, Castle Hill, and Dural, six times a
week.
3 Ermingtou Wharf, Field of Mars, and Pennant Hills,
six times a week.
4 The Railway Station and Post Office, Windsor, four
times a day.
- -Windsor and Wilberforce, six times a week,
g' wilberforce, Ebenezer, and Sackville Reach, three
times a week.
7 1 Windsor and Pitt Town, six times a week.
8." Richmond, North Richmond, and Kurrajong, six
times a week.
q Castlereagh. Penrith, Mulgoa, Luddenham, and
Bringelly, six times a week. (Contractor to
travel by the main road between Mulgoa and
Luddenham.)
10 Hartley and Lowther, twice a week,
ll' Bowenfells and South Boweufells, six times a week.
12 - Mudgee, Avisford, Hargraves, Windeyer, Pure
' Point, Campbell's Creek, Lonij Creek, Upper Pyramnl,
and Crudine, twice a week.
13 Mudgee, Cullenbone, and Guntawang, twice a week.
U. Mudgee, Meriudie, Burrendong, and Ironbarks,
twice a week.
15 Home Rule and Canadian Lead, six times a week
Ifi! Dubbo and Cobbera, twice a week.
17 Muudoorau, Merrygoen, Binnaway, and Coonabara-
bran, via Luckey’s Caigan, Mobala, and Belar,
twice a week. . . „ ,
18 Coonabarabran and Tambar Springs, via Bradley s
at Baby Creek, Clay Holes, and Saltwater Creek,
once a week.
19 Gilgaodra, Collie, Tenandra, and Quambone, via
Merigal, Buudclla, and Wonbobbie, once a week.
00 Gulargamboue. Quambone, and Carinda, via
M’Quade and Flynn’s Stations, twice' a week.
21 Coonamble, Buggil, and Walgett, via Yowee, Bundy,
Wingadee, and Nugal, twice a week.
22. Rydal, Meadow Flat, Mitchell’s Creek, and Yet-
holrae. three times a week.
23. Tarana, Mutton’s Falls, and Oberou, three times a
04 oberon, Black Springs, Jerrong, Curraweela, and
Taralga, via Tokeborough, once a week.
25 Oberon and Gingkin, twice a week.
2fi! Oberon and Fish River Creek, three times a week.
27 Taralga and Curraweela, once a week.
28 O’Connell and Essington, twice a week.
29 Bathurst and Duwkeld, three times a week.
30. Bathurst, Evans* Plains, and Fitzgerald’s Valley,
three times a week.
31. Bathurst and Chambers’ Creek, once a week.
32 Bathurst and Esrom, six times a week.
33! Bathurst and Hill End, via the Bridle Track, three
times a week.
34 Bathurst and White Rock, six times a week.
35 Peel, Clear Creek, and Limekilns, twice a week.
36 Hill End, Tambaroora, and Hargraves, once a week.
37. George’s Plains Railway Station and Post Office,
Cow Flat, and Eockley, six times a week.
38 Cow Flat and The Lagoon, twice a week.
39! Railway Station, Newbridge and Post Offices, New-
bridge and Caloola, three times a week.
40. Newbridge, Moorilda, Mount Macquarie, Shaw and
Carcoar, via Five Islands, twice a week.
41. Trunkey Creek and Long Swamp, once a week.
42. Trunkey Creek and Tuena, once a week.
43. Blayney and King’s Plains, twice a week.
44. Mandurama and Walli, via Egan’s and Cliden, twice
a week. .
45. Cowra, Goolagong and Forbes, three times a week.
46. Spring Grove Railway Station and Post Office,
Guyong, three times a week.
47 Spring Grove and Forest Reefs, twice a week ; and
to and from Forest Reefs and Cndia, once a week.
48. Guyong, Byng and Icely, three tinies a week.
49. Orange and Lucknow, six times a week.
50. Orange and March, twice a week.
51. Orange, Springside, Cadia and Carcoar, via Burnt
Yards, once a week.
52 Orange, Borenore, Cheeseman’s Creek, Cudal, Too-
gong, Murga, Eugowra and Forbes, six times a
53 Condobolin, Cngong and Eauabolong, along the
north side of the Lachlan River, once a week, for
one year only. .
54 Condobolin and Eauabalong, along the south side of
the Lachlan River, twice a week.
55 Eauabalong. Willanthry, Hillston, Whealbah and
Booliga l , twice a week.
56. Eauabalong and Lake Cudgellico, twice a week.
57. Hillston, Merribung, Gilgunma and Cobar, via Roto,
Maroopa, Mummuon, Herme s Hotel, M Kellar s,
M’Donald’s, Summon’s, Priory, Gwynne’s and
Hurley’s, once or twice a week.
58. Molong and Ironbarks, three timesa week.
69. Molong, Bridgewater, Neurea and Wellington, twice
a week. ,
’ 60. Molong, Meranburn, Bumberry and Parkes, six
times a week. . _. . ,
61. Parkes and Bulgandramine, via Gmnaniguy and
Coradgery, twice n week.
•62 Obley Bulgandramine and Dandaloo (Contractor
to travel once a week via Wanda Wondong, and
once a week, via Graham's Dillederry), twice a
<63 ObYey and Dubbo, via Wambangalang, The Springs,
and the Meadows, once a week,
64. Railway Station and Post Office, Wellington, seven
or more times a week. . _ , . ,
•■65. Wellington, Goodrich, and Parkes, via Buckinbar,
66 WeTlinYton, Montefiores andComobella.oncea week.
■67 Dubbo, Brocklehurst, Burslem’s and Gilgandra, via
Coal Boggie Creek, Talbragar Ridge, and Terra-
mungamine, twice a week.
68 Timbriebungie and Tenandra, via Burroway, Bun-
demar, Reaks’ and Wonbobbie, once a week.
■69. Gongolgon and Brewarrina, twice a week.
70 Brewarrina, Talawanta, Brenda and Goodooga, via
Bundabulla, Llangboyde, lon the'Biree, Weilmo-
riugh Station, Ton the Culgoa, Tatala, Guomery
and theßiree Stations, once a week.
71. Bourke, Mungunpah, Enngonia and Barringun, via
West Bourke, Gedia Camp, Lake, Box-holes,
Native Dog Spriag, Lila and Belalie, once a week.
72. Bourke, Cobar, and the Cornish, Scottish and
Australian Copper Mines, once a week.
Southern Roads.
1 Homebush and Druitt Town, six times a week.
2 Line withdrawn —See Supplementary Notice.
3. Camden and Brownlow Hill, six times a week.
4. Broughton’s Creek, Bomadary and Nowra, three
times a week. .
5. Douglas Park and Wilton, three times a week.
6. Mittagong and Joadja Creek, twice a week (Contract
to terminate at three months* notice on either
7. Post Offices, Moss Vale and Berrima, twelve times
ti week.
8. Sutton Forest and’Cross Roads, four times a week.
9. Bowral, Kangaloon, East Kangaloon and Robertson,
three times a week.
10. Nowra. Tomeronpr, Wandn.ndian, Conjola, xatteyat-
tah, Milton and'UUadulla, three times a week.
11. Nowra, Terara and Numba, via Green Hills, six
12. Nowra, Berrellau, Pyree and Greenwell Point, six
times a week.
13. Tomerong and Huskisson, once or twice a week.
14. Railway Station and Post Office, Goulbum, twelve
or more times a week.
15. Goulburn, Woodhonselee, Laggan and Crookwell,
three times a week.
16. Crookwell, Binda, Junction Point and Tuena, three
times a week.
17. Bigga, Greotnantle and Lyudhurst, once a week.
18. Woore and Peiar, once a week.
19. Wfieeo, Norrawa, Reid’s Plat, Graham and Cowra,
once a week. (Contractor to travel from Graham
to Cowra, via Harris’s, Bennett’s Springs, return-
ing to Graham, via Darby’s Palls).
The Oldest Cricketing;
Depot in the Colonies*
to-
rn
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and beat assorted stock of Cricketing QooOs
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.


Miscellaneous
D
ETSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being 1 the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders* Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Bnggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
«c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
"Y^ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &o.
S.
lIEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
machiner
Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prise Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber find Ijeatner Bolting Raw-liide bflcing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
IHE best paint in the world.
■& Jtt
r*
x>
*
(imSi
a
to mmt
"s
C 2 of
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
. is mixed ready for use,
supplied m cans containing 1 gal., J gal., and i gal.
complete 08,113 fonn a convenient Paint Pot with handle
„„ Siln < i ,w to ® ti . mon y to the following constantly reaches
RUBRFR OO^^^. 8 * 2 ?. tb ,’ 1880 ’- 1 have found the
f PAI ? T *° be all tbatlB said of it, Durable
T lt ® lar ge covering properties
lam inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences."
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
wiu cover 35 Square Yards—one coat j 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
.S? Card ® °{ Colours and Price Lists free on
? Packages of any size required are
and submbs ai y ° f cbarge to aU I ,arts of the city
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmout Bridge.
Improved home
LOCK STICK
SEWING
SHUTTLE
MAC H I N E.
lu Ji 4 frai i d and deception, the makers stamp
iwl 1 P W S g - WOr ? 8 on the Bteel slid e of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
w^io boBe r w .° rds before making your purol
vLilrTof courterfeits a b « f °™d upon yo
PMZffiExhTbiUon. 6 thatr6CeiVed an * awardat
V 1 THE home shuttle
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE years
XT , Reduced Price List .
1. For Hand Use, complete, £4,
No 3 “oßto^S. 6 Use ’ w ‘ th , table complete,,
jdetef £7. °° Ver and lock and key. c
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTABD-LANE, SYDNEY.
R
EME D T
sr*ov«B
OUIIUNt
po R I M PURE WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rap™ Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the elite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of 'pure water from these Filters which
ivere placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
SOLE AGENTS:
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. HARPER & C o.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
TEN FIRST PEIZES
and the
SPECIAL FIRST
. the BEST OF THEIE CLASS
in tne
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
R. HARPER & CO
SYDNEY.
Buy
PRIZE
:
BUY
PRIZE
R. HARPER & CO-,
SYDNEY.
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says:—
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
gINO E R ’ S GENU I N E S EWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
..a A^? e Publio bav . e the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing
“ d that any Machine sold by the Com
JKMSSTifi; Cash LLS L t Stanford and Co -) 18 exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
TV> l SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Pubhc are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
rjIHE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it P Haro you 81. th, rer 7 beet of it, tod, and be
Ae.e„o ri r»MS^
lnspection invited. 8
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAßLElGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
(PATENT),
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials
palmer",f •?■
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for ° C
nternati
ON A L
SYDNEY, 1879—80.
EXHIBITION
„ , LEATHERS—
Sole
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c "
Harness, Strap, and Bag!..!!.!!!!.’!!”!!!
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing!...'.."!!!..".’
Splits, Levants, &c !.!”!
Patent Enamel and Japanned
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridie Mid-’
dlings
Morocco Roane, Levant, and Book!!.
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
Special Ist Prize
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 187&—Leathers Bronze ditto
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, &c Special Ist
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin ) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
18 ?~ 8 2r^ ea £. ller3 —Broilze aud Silver Medals at Lon-
don. Pans, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY -STREET. BRISBANE.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND~CoT f
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
D°* it Peaberry
«> Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA— Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PJITEOT meal
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet foi
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Bold by all Grocers aud Storekeeper*!
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL.
TWEED
SUITS
8c3.8s
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
>1
f,
j't-
l&M
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
3000FATTERNS CHOOSE FROM
H.L.SUMMERFIEIO
PITT STSYONEY.5 T SY0NEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO. ’ S
PRIZE
ALB U R Y WINES.
Red Wines: White Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and pnblished by the Proprietors,
John Hatnes and J. P. Archibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
