

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 17.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 22, 1880.
Price—3d.
®(jc |su(lctur.
SATURDAY, MAY 22, IS3O.
To our Readers.
It is with much satisfaction that wo are able to
inform our readers of the complete success of The
Bulletin, aud to announce that on and after the
of date next publication this journal will consist of
twelve instead of eight pages as heretofore. When
the proprietors first launched their venture on the
sea of journalism they, while fully appreciating
the difficulties attendant on the enterprise, were
in no way deterred by the oft-heard cry, ” We
have too many papers already.” They had before
them the facts that in no Australian colony was so
hearty a support given to respectable journalism
as in New South Wales ; that no colony was so
progressive ; that it had been found all over the
world that the success of new journals did not
necessarily involve a diminution in the circula-
tions of those previously established ; that San
Francisco and other American cities with white
populations considerably loss than that of Sydney
supported at least three times as many newspapers
as were printed here; and that the most widely-
circulated modern journals owed their success
in quite as great a degree to the fact that they indi-
cated fresh wants and gratified new tastes, as that
they mot long-felt and well-recognised necessities.
However, The Bulletin in G* enlarged form
will not lose sight of the principle which has
been so powerful a factor in its success —viz.,
brevity. In its pages will bo found compressed
the news of the colonies, divested of that useless
and tedious verbiage which lias done so much to
make the ordinary weekly paper into a ponderous
magazine. Recognising, as we do, how powerful the
pencil is when aided by the pen, and that, as the
written word is to the voice so is the picture to the
mere description, our comments on current events
will continue to be accompanied by the handiwork of
the most accomplished artists. Manly sports of
all kinds and the drama will receive from us that
greater share of attention to which they are
entitled by reason of the circumstance that they
are not truly represented in the general Press, and
that they appear in many respects to have been
regarded from a merely mercantile point of view.
In conclusion, we may remark that it is alike a com-
pliment to our style and a guarantee of our future
success that many of our contemporaries, including
the oldest Sydney journals, are endeavoring to
take a leaf out of our book. It is no small source
of pleasure to us to find that we, while “ fighting
for onr own hand,” have wrought an improve-
ment in journalism all round.
Disagreement of Juries.
The fact that solicitors are able to demand and
obtain from the Crown, a week prior to the hear-
ing of a criminal case, a list of the sessional
jurors’ names is undoubtedly at variance with the
interests of justice. It is no secret that there is
a rumour abroad to the effect that several mem-
bers of the jury which tried a remanet from last
sittings of the Criminal Court at Darlinghurst
(the prisoner, who is charged with rape, having
been remanded on a previous occasion by reason
of the disagreement of the first jury), were
“interviewed” by an interested party. It is fur-
ther stated that the prisoner in question, who has
at length been discharged on his own recognizances,
has realised on his property and is about to leave
the colony. As neither jury has thought fit to pro-
nounce an opinion on the case, we do not feel
called upon to comment on the testimony submit-
ted. We presume that the prisoner, in the absence
of direct evidence to the contrary, should not be
chargeable with the fact that, after being tried
twice, he has neither been convicted nor acquitted.
To try the man again would he un-British and
would savour of persecution. We would bo very
sorry to assert that any members of the jury who
tried Ellison were tampered with ; but we feel
it our duty to call attention to the rumour above-
mentioned in order that the Crown may in future
keep secret the names of jurors until their names
are hoard in Court.
Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P.
Judging from certain signs and wonders which
have lately manifested themselves, the day of the
demagogue has come in New South Wales. The
individual who owns the unfortunately-appropriate
name of “ Ninian ” Melville and who in the
political scheme of creation occupies a place
closely approximating to that filled in the ornitho-
logical world by the magpie and the mopoke, has
lost no time in opening fire with his wordy blunder-
buss. In the discussion which took place on
Wednesday night concerning the Agent-General’s
salary the Premier, in order more forcibly to
express his sense of the necessity which exists for
having the duties appertaining to the Agent-
Generalship properly performed, said in effect that
either the Agent-General should be paid a salary
in accord with his position or the office should be
abolished. Of course the latter alternative was
merely intended as a reduclio ad ahsurdnin. for no
sensible member of Parliament or sane man can
for a moment contend that the circumstances of
this colony are such as to admit of the abolition of
our home representation—this especially in view
of the fact that each of our neighbours has in
England some one of colonial experience to guard
its interests in the money markets of the old world.
However, “Ninny,” whose trump cards and
only ones are “economy” and "no Chinamen,”
thought he saw an opportunity of still more deeply
ingratiating himself with those whom he is sup-
posed to represent, and ho accordingly cried out
in a loud voice, “ Do away with the Agent-General
and all the expense which that pampered person
entails on my bleeding country.” Ninian, like
all other demagogues, would abolish everything
and replace it by nothing. Now that Ninian, the
colonial Dennis Kearney, has parted, so far
as he is personally concerned, with the Agent-
General, and satisfied himself that affairs at home
can be safely left to take care of themselves, he
will perhaps be so kind as to let us see a way in
which the expensive luxuries of Parliamentary
elections and Parliaments can be dispensed with i J
When he does so wo will be very glad to abolish in
their official capacity the members of the
Legislative Assembly, commencing with N inian
Melville.
“Mr. Garner is Right.”
In case any of our readers may have got somewhat
puzzled as to the real issue of the parag] ph xnd
advertisement in the S. M. Herald relative to
the Barracks theatricals’ controversy, it will be well
for us to give a statement of the true facts of the
case. Mr. Art t . t ur Garner engaged in England a
company of Thespian ladies and gentlemen and
called the combination the London Comedy
Company. By the terms of their agreement these
artists sold to Mr. Garner the exclusive right of
their talents and services during the pcricTd
mentioned in such agreements. This company
was so large that, even with the long cast of some
of tho comedies, there were four of the artists
who were not required on Tuesday night week.
Now it is tho rule that whenever an actor is out
of the cast, he shall present himself at the time
for commencing a performance to the stage
manager in case of any default or accident which
may require his services. But on Tuesday nhjht
week these four artists, whose services are Mr.
Garner’s alone, went to a serai-private invitation
party at the Victoria Barracks in this city and,
gratis, amused the assembled company without
even paying their employer the compliment of
asking his permission so to use his property. At
first sight it might have been thought possible that
during the evening they were asked to “ oblige.
But no —a stage, which took days to construct, had
been erected for their acting, and only the four
members of the London Comedy Company and
an amateur appeared to amuse. Naturally. Mr.
Garner, on reading the report, felt exceedingly
hurt and wrote as he felt, and the fact that his
protest appeared in the advertisement columns of
the Herald seems to hint at illiberality and
unfairness on the part of that elephantine
daily. Thosi who surreptitiously usol Mr.
Garner's property should, at least, acknowledge
their error. A little story and its application and
we have done. A rich man, once a shoemaker,
invited a celebrated singer and insisted on his
singing to amuse his friends. The singer sang,
then invited the parvenu and in the presence of
his company brought out tools and leather and
asked his guest to make a boot! Each to his trade.
Let Mr. Garner ask the Victoria Barracks guests,
retaliate as our singer did and what a multiplicity
of occupations ho would be instructed in !
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
XII.-THE LAWYER.
I have in a previous paper spoken of the predeliction
young Australians have for the medical profe i' ; oa. I
■ think, conscientously speaking, there are only two
professions which our native youths think it worth
while studying for Law and Physic—and in their choice
of one or other they show an amount of precocity
, beyond their years. Either of the above-mentioned
professions is the most lucrative they could possibly
take up, and yet they are the very opposite of one
another in character. While the [doctor is almost
forced by a variety of circumstances to begin life with a
great deal of outward show, often keeping up an appear
ance far beyond his actual means, the lawyer takes a
modest room, perhaps two, calls them his chambers,
paints his name in white letters on a black ground, gets
a little office furniture, a lad who acts as clerk and
errand-boy. These are unite sufficient for the lawyer to
commence with, and as surely as the sun rises and sets
business begins to flow steadily in, clients read the
name, new to many, hut known to others as that of the
son of an old friend. Our la wyer begins to prosper ; his
‘ bag ’ holds many briefs, and his wig and gown may
frequently he seen in company with their owner airing
themselves up King-street, ou his way to one or other
of the courts as he hurries to plead, more or less elo-
quently, the cause of one or more of his clients. He
has a clerk now, permanently attached, who finds his
hands pretty fidl of work. As to friends, from tho day
he is admitted as a member of the ‘ Bar ’ he steps into
society, and that of the best, and except now and again,
when eases are prolonged and the court sits late, his
evenings are quite at his own disposal. If he is clever,
fond of study and has the intention of rising in his
profession, he isjmore often to he found in the ‘club’
than in the drawing-room. He accepts all invitations to
dinner, because he meets men who, like himself, can
discuss most subjects in connection with law. Ho is
not above asking or taking advice from those older than
himself, whose knowledge and well-known ability is the
result of long years of steady application to business.
He is rather given to after-dinner speaking, says it gives
him confidence for more public efforts. Should ho
accept on invite to an evening party he arrives late,
when he knows that it will be remarked. He saunters
up to his hostess and is profuse in his apologies, fixes
his glass to his eye and looks round at all the girls
present, puts Lis charming hostess through a regular
catechism, not only as to each pretty girl’s name, but us
to a little of her family history. He excuses himself from
dancing and slips away to the card-room where ho plays
whist steadily all lawyers do, it’s such a relief to the
tedium of country circuit. Later on, at supper, he
brightens up considerably and delights' his partner for
the hour with his witty, pleasaut conversation. Ho
knows all [about the piece heiug enacted at the theatre
and gives her a graphic account of it, full of comical
additions, and laughs more at the fun and laughter he is
creating than the actual subject needs. He mentally
makes a note in favor of his pretty partner’s eyes and
teeth. Just then he is called upon to return thanks for
the ladies. He makes a dash at his glass of sauterue,
and with a remark sotto coco to his companion which
makes her blush and smile, rises, gives a pull at his
waistcoat, twirls his glass ’twixt finger and thumb and
then without hesitation gives, very likely, the best
speech of the evening. In the ball-room he perhaps sits
out a dance with his supper partner. He seldom dances
or stays late. As time runs ou —so often on gilded
wheels for the lawyer he finds himself a man of capital.
His profession throws mauy a tit-hit in the way of
lauded estates, mortgages, and divers other items
into his keeping. He begins to speculate carefully
watches the rise and fall of the money market, knows
exactly the time to press a tardy creditor and when to
give him grace. He has his house out of town, where ho
gives dinners and card parties. He keeps a showy trap,
drives himself, has his mau behind him, means to many
hut does not hurry—admires so many he can scarce say
for certain that he is capable of concentrating his affec-
tion ou one individual. As likely as uot he marries
quite out of his visiting set—a girl well endowed with
money as well as beauty, for your lawyer is fastidious
in his tastes, aud the woman who heads his table must
lie worth looking at. They begin their married life in
ease and affluence, hut he remains in ‘ harness ’ although
commanding a princely income. His dinners arc tho
most recherche; her halls the talk of the season. As
time passes he steps slowly hut surely up the ladder of
life. Ambition lands her favored child on the top. His
own cool head keeps him there, aud before ho has
reached the prime of life he holds a position that
entitles him to rest from his labour and to take his ease
for the rest of his days in the land where he has made
his money, and of which he is proud to call himself a
colonist.
The Hon. John Sutherland.
One of the greatest efforts of The Bulletin
will always be to preserve the link between the
_ past and the present —to sketch for the reader of
the present time the career of those who have
served their country in the past. There is an in-
clination in those days to lightly value the ser-
vices of men who have fought many a good fight
for the people inyears gone by. This was not
wholly the case with the gentleman whose portrait
appears on our first page to-day, for he is now as
popular and powerful as ever, but he has to a cer-
tain extent dropped out of the political world.
Mr. Sutherland is now engaged in commercial pur-
suits which require his undivided attention: and
just as he has given himself wholly up to them,.
The Bulletin takes a glance at his past career,
and gives to its readers in brief form the
incidents of his political life. Mr. Sutherland
has proved himself all through to be a man
of the stamp that has given to Sydney its solidity.
He has been governed in his political acts by the
same steady, straightforward principles that
influenced him in business, and it might not be
altogether to our disadvantage if in the effort to
become a little more active in public matters we
still hold on os much as possible to the Sutherland
stylo of conducting the affairs of the country.
THE HON. JOHN SUTHERLAND.


Mr. Sutherland, we learn from Heaton’s “Dic-
tionary of Dates and Australian Men of the
Time,’’ was born at Hemfrigs, near Wick, County
Caithness, on the 16th of February, 1816, arrived
in New South Wales in 1838, and for many years
was in business as a builder with credit and suc-
cess. In April, 1837, on the restoration of the
City Council after the commissioners’ regime he
was first elected Alderman of the City of Sydney, and
Farnell Government of 1877-8. The period of
his political career was one of good service, to the
country and of hononr and credit to himself. Mr.
up to a recent period held that office continuously,
with the exception during which he was a < Minister
of the Crown, viz., in the Eobortson Ministry of
1868, the Parkes Administration of 1872, and the
'{Sutherland, some months ago, vacated his
seat for Paddingon. and the opportunity
was taken by those who had been
associated with him in politics to entertain
him at a banquet, which was most influentially and
numerously attended. It is no less by the straight-
forwardness which has characterised his political
life than by the energy and enterprise he has
always manifested in developing whit must even-
tually become the greatest of the manufacturing
industries of New South Wales —the iron trade —
that Mr. Sutherland’s name will baknown in future
years.
Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Son’s
Establishment, Haymarket.
There can bo no question that in the establish-
ment of Messrs. A. Hordern and Sons, Haymarket,
this city possesses one of the most extensive
soft goods businesses to bo found in any British
community out of England. The largest houses
in Melbourne approach nowhere near the enormous
business done by this firm, and it has with a good
<leal of truth been observed that they
fairly rule the retail trade of the metropolis and
the colony in general. The creation of this
splendid business has resulted in absolute benefit
to the whole community. It is a positive fact that
this house by its large and timely speculations in
the colonial and the homo markets, and its ar-
rangements with all the leading manufacturers,
lihs placed the people of this city quite on an
equality with the people at home in respeofc of the
advantages of a cheap retail market. The business
has been established over fifty years. About ten
years ago, when the present young proprietor came
into the management, the premises comprised
an area of only 30 x 40 feet, now it covers a little
over one aero, and there is now in course
of erection an additional edifice with
frontages to four streets, which for capacity
and stylo of architecture mil equal if not surpass
the highest style of Parisian or Now York ware-
house. Ten or twelve years ago not more than
half-a-dozen hands were employed ; now 160 are
kept regularly at work inside, while at least 200 are
constantly engaged outside making up goods for
the business. The trade during the year amounts
ta .£300.000, the counter takings rising to as much
as AT,700 par day. The visitors to the establish-
ment average all through the year 8000 per day.
and the place, particularly on the Saturday and
Monday, presents all the appearances of
a' fair. From these figures it will be
very easily imagined that the assistants are
kept pretty closely at work, and in order to keep
pace with the demand, they all lunch on the’
promises, ,a spacious, well-furnished cuisine de-
partment being provided by the proprietors for
their special use. A ramble through the promises
will surprise most people; in fact persons in the
trade travel from Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane for the purpose of paying a visit of inspec-
tion to the great emporium. The Georgo-street
front is not very largo, yet very attractive, but
the moment one enters he finds spacious depart-
ments, crowded with people, opening out before
bis gaze; from building to building he may walk
and yet see the same sight, crowds of enstomors
in every department being expeditiously and cour-
teously attended to. The portion of the building
extending from George-stroot to Parker-lano
comprises the men’s clothing and the hat depart-
ment, and here there is a very large open stock.
Crossing Parker-lane, the new Palace Stores are
reached. Those are bnilt on plans dictated by
experience in the trade, good light and good ven-
tilation being secured all round. This branch
comprises the fancy, the haberdashery, the up-
holstery, and the furnishing departments, and a
grander display of goods is not anywhere to bo
found. It is marvel whore the people come from
who daily crowd into this branch. It is one bnsy
hive from daylight to dark all through the
year. Overhead is the wholesale and country
trade departments, where a very large business
is done. Passing out of this grand edifice we
came to a yet grander one. This is the now Palace
Warehouse. Entrance is gained by a flight of
stairs from Parker-stroet and Park-lane, and the
spectacle which opens out before the visiter is
really of dazzling grandeur. The floor is a
spacious aim of about 100 square feet, with a
high coiling supported by lofty iron pillars which
are decorated in a most artistic style. The light
and ventilation are faultless. The room is fur-
nished with splendid show cases, some of the best
sent to the International Exhibition, and these are
now decorated with the various descriptions of
goods on sale. Here also may be seen the various
descriptions of wool-work done in the colony and
to which this firm had given special assistance.
The proprietors tell us that woollen shawls, boots,
Ac., can be made cheaper and better hero than
elsewhere, and already a large number of persons
are employed in this flourishing young industry.
Just to hand has come eight tons of Berlin and
other wools for this purpose. It is a strange fact
“That Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Son retail these
below wholesale prices. Beneath these stores are
the most spacious cellars to be found in Sydney,
and they are now packed with an enormous stock
of goods in bulk, which have the additional at-
traction of having all been paid for. Adjoining
this building preparations are going on for
the erection of a palatial warehouse with magni-
ficient architectural fronts, costing in the total a
sum of A 25,000. It will be three storeys high
Math an entrance from Gipps-street of about
fourteen feet. The interior plan of the structure
will present many new features, and will be fur-
nished with grand staircases and new style of
lavatories, elavators, etc. Constant employment
will be given on completion of the building to 500
persons, and a great additional business is
expected to be done. It is greatly to
the credit of Mosssrs. Anthony Hordern
and Son that succeeding themselves, they have
not overlooked the interests of their employees.
First of all in designing their new structures, the
proprietors have been careful to consider what was
beneficial to the health of the men who from dav
to day laboured in their service. Then they have
over been careful to make to the industrious many
a situation in their employ worth keeping. That
is why some of those engaged have been twenty
years in the service of the firm, and others ten,
twelve, and fourteen years. No firm ever de.
served bettor success than has fallen to the lot of
Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Sons. They have
won a fortune and built up a grand business on
one foundation —the solid foundation of energetic
and upright trading.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Darlington is now lit with gas.
Service Ministry almost moribund.
Miss Fidler is cooking at Bathurst.
Parnell is to load the Home Rulers.
O’Shanassy fiercely opposes Service.
More gold found at Trunkoy Creek.
Melbourne is in urgent need of coal.
A S. A. Fishing Co. has been formed.
Pauperism is subsiding in Melbourne.
More lamps are wanted at Petersham.
A big dog worried a Newcastle woman.
Melbourne is to have a Corn Exchange.
Stream tin has been found near Oberon.
is now the saloon fare to Melbourne.
Liverpool, England, is to have a bishop.
Last Parises escort brought 477 oz. gold.
A Republic lias been proclaimed in Cuba.
The Pacific Weekly ought to be read.
A new central police station is asked for.
Famine rages in Kurdistan and Armenia.
Last Gympie escort carried G 127 ozs. gold.
100 skylarks have arrived in New Zealand.
Gunpowder, used as snuff, cures toothache.
30,000 workmen have struck at Blackburn.
Maldon (Vic.) has been promised a railway.
The Sunday lecture clause is to be dropped.
Last week’s Sandhurst gold yield, 2,200 oz.
Only 17.000 ozs. gold went by the Hydaspes.
The Sydney Coffee Palace has been enlarged.
The Chinese Emperor has an English doctor.
The sea-wall at Coogee has been commenced.
Northern niggers make picks into tomahawks.
Cafe keepers have made their last legal effort.
More local litigation over Florida water labels.
Melbourne International is being hurried forward.
Last year’s rent, &c., for Circular Quay, <£7023.
47 societies shared last year’s agricultural grant.
More emigrants have left Spain for New Ireland.
A Mudgee shearer has died from blood poisoning.
A strike at Roubaix, and the military called out.
England will deal gently with the Irish question.
Copeland wants alterations in the leasing system.
Abdul Rahman wants to arrange with England.
Great Britain’s annual liquor bill, <£I4O,OOO,(XX).
- Gatehouse’s joking party have been fined j£3o in
all.
Doctor’s Reef, Clermont —14 tons for 70 ozs. 15
clwts.
The Orient boat Liguria is on her way to Aus-
tralia.
The Associated Miners still decline to resume
work.
Poisonous berries grow in Hyde and Belmore
Parks.
Another rich reef discovered at Fingal, Tas-
mania.
Victorian M.L.A.’s have decided to pay them-
selves.
Mr. Cooper Is now' Victorian Chairman of Com-
mittees.
The Cotopaxi left the Cape for Adelaida on Bth
current.
Victorian wheat yield shows 50 per cent,
increase.
Franco and Russia have made it up over
Hartmann.
In Adelaide they’re going to convert the news-
paper boys.
A working men’s club is to be established in
Melooums.
Captain Norris is to command the Goulburn
Volunteers. „
Last week 53 tons copper were received at Red
fern station.
Armytage v. Campbell. Verdict for plaintiff,
£1,055, 17s sd.
The Groat Powers order Turkey to ‘squelch’
the Albanians.
Since last war Russia has bought 700 heavy
guns from Krupp.
A ’Frisco land agent has been murdered by his
Chinese servants.
Polynesians in Queensland are committing as-
asults on women.
The Orient Co. are to have jetties for their own
splendid steamers.
Government buys 200 sets of the Evans points
for the tram lines.
A battery has been placet! at the Mount Mulligan
reefs, Hodgkinson.
Chinese cooks are being discharged from Mel-
bourne restaurants.
A ‘ Moat Preserving Mooting’ is called for 2Gth
current at Maitland.
A bottled snake Is the latest present received by
a Queaubeyau editor.
The front of the new Union Bank Is the hand-
somest in Melbourne.
At Braidwood, the Melbourne Mundic Co. are
working the old shafts.
J. L. Pnrvos says a Victorian policeman is no-
body, for he can't vote.
An aboriginal mission station is to be established
on the Mnrnimbidgee.
Leighton’s splendid cartoons are to be shown at
Melbourne International.
In the case of Ellison, charged with rape, the
jury were unable to agree.
Professor Pepper is going to teach science in
Victorian State schools.
Chinese tributors at Haddon (Vic.) have mutually
agreed to cease gambling.
Sandhurst mining sharks now send reports on
amalgam by pigeon-express.
A yacht with a beam of 150 feet! is being built
on the Clyde for the Czar.
Howard Smith and Co. and the S. A. Steamship
Co. have buried the hatchet.
Lady Augustus Loftus’ reception last Friday
was well attended by the elite.
The Clyde immigrants, numbering 390, arc
healthy and desirable colonists.
Cardinal Newman has received the N. S. W.
salver from the Duke of Norfolk.
An insane confineo of Oamaru gaql dashed her
baby’s brains out agaiust the wall.
Licensed Victuallers’ Ball, Juno 14, at the
Masonic Hall. Plain and fancy dress.
It was reported the other day that Ned Kelly’s
henchman, Byrnes, was at work on the Narandera line.
Two troopers went for him and the fast-fading kdOOO but
were disappointed. The man, though like Byrnes, was
not identical with that individual.
Insurance Companies oppose Joseph Aaron’s
insolvency certificate application.
Land continues to rise in price daily, particularly
at Ashfield, Croydon, and Burwood.
Berryitea say that for the ‘ Berry Blight’ has
been substituted the ‘ Service Rot.’
The furniture. &c., of Queanbeyan Mechanics’
Institute have been seized for rent.
Locusts are numerous in S. A. Wild turkeys
are having a good time in consequence.
The microscopical section of the Royal Society
ojeued their session on Monday night.
David Hanlon, aged 78, postmaster at Bigga,
hanged himself on Sunday while insane.
At Macartlmr, Yie., marriages are on the in-
crease and kerosene tins at a premium.
The N. S. W. Seamen’s Union levies 2s 6d per
member to assist the Newcastle miners.
Alderman John Davies has been installed in the
chair of No. 50 Loyal Orange Institution. ;
’Frisco Chinamen have been smuggling opium
between the outer and inner soles of boots.
The Windsor police are huddled together in a
small building infected with typhoid fever.
The paymaster of the Northern railway line has
been stuck up at Walcha and robbed of £BO.
Last pay day the Lambton miners gave half
their earnings (£1075) to support the Union.
It is said that the Kellys are really caged in the
almost inaccessible valley of the King River.
A Glebe waggonette proprietor, a yonng man, is
dying from injuries inflicted by a policeman.
In October last 401,080 deaths from fever occur-
red in the N. W. provinces of India and Oude.
Silk weavers are to be sent out from Lyons to
work the looms at the Melbourne International.
Mr. Buchanan is moving for copies of all cor-
respondence on the subject of Mr. Bibbs' arrest.
A yonng woman who had been refused admission
to Rockhampton Hospital died on her way home.
A Sydney policeman has been dismissed for
having, while drunk, assaulted a newspaper man.
A Yass pig-dealor has been putting live pigs into
air-tight boxes for conveyance to Sydney market.
Wreckage, consisting of a IKK) ton vessel’s mast,
hue been passed by the Alacedon, from Melbourne.
A convention of Hunter River District Good
Templars took placo at Newcastle on Saturday last.
A child of three years, named David Bertram,
has been killed at Pyrmout by fulling from a balcony.
At Eskbank ironworks 200 tons of rails and 250
tons of bars have been rolled within the last ten days.
Mr. Lochhead, arbitrator for the Seamen’s
Strike, is trying to settle the Newcastle mining dispute.
For robbing Denis Bros, jewellers of Melbourne
his employers, a lad has been seat to gaol for three
years.
Dan. O’Connor says that a certain J,P. in this
city is ‘ the immediate descendant of a Madras abori-
ginal.’
Members of the Teachers’ Institute wore enter-
tained at a conversazione at the Observatory on Monday
night.
A man named Mooney was killed on Saturday
night by falling from an hotel balcony in Goorge-street
south.
The Petersham railway footbridge has been
swept sometimes since The Bclletin noticed its con-
dition.
A movement has been initiated for converting
a portion of the old Exhibition building into a meat
market.
A man has been committed at Bombala for rob-
bing the dead liody of a Chinaman (Toe Cue) of an £8
cheque.
Bismarck’s chief remaining task is to give
Prussia a prepoudtranee of voting- power in the Federal
Council.
Bradlaugh protests against the committee’s de-
cision in regard to his application for exemption from
the oath.
We hear that Sir John Robertson is inclined to
assist the denominational school teachers out of their
difficulty.
Spann, a Melbourne man, and his assistant
Hislop, h ive been arrested at Adelaide for smuggling
jewellery.
Liabilities, <£5175; assets seven pairs of new
skates, says the balance-sheet of the Gore (N.Z.) Eink-
ng Club.
It is proposed by the Victorian Government that
a census be taken simultaneously all over the colonies
next year.
Baron Miklouho Macleay says payable gold will
not lie found in New Guinea. He has resided there
three years.
A writ for libel will shortly be issued at the
instance of a Sydney pressman against a notorious
Bathurst paper.
Phoenix Co., Gympie, have paid .£17,000 in divi-
dends in years, and have crushed 11,174 tons for 14,093
oz. It dwts. (pld.
Cooktowu, says the Queensland Minister for
Works, will be in the possession of the blacks within
the next two years.
City Mission’s annual meeting was held on
Monday night. The report was favourable and the
assemblage small.
Mr. Torning tried to knock a tramcar over with
his buggy ou Monday. It’s really a pity. The buggy
was a very neat one.
Larrikins have been amusing themselves by
writing ou the monument erected to the memory of the
late constable Bowen.
The Greenock Advertiser is dead. This
was the piper whose editor rejected the poet Camp-
bell’s ‘ Hohenlinden.’
There is a man living near Koggrah who has
been boiling down for the hist eleven years, and says
he's none the worse for it.
The Petersham Musical Society, 80 strong, arc
practising Mr. J. Churchhili's cantata * The Emigrants.’
The libretto is by * Australia.’|
The new Education Act reduces the incomes of
the hardworking teachers by at least one-half. The
privilege of being Civil servants.
Niuiau Melville already feels quite at home in
the Assembly. From a reporter’s point of view he is a
villainous addition to the House.
Captain Payne, the Melbourne harbourmaster,
favours the erection of a lighthouse half-way between
Cape Otway and Port Phillip Heads.
At Bogamilda a man named ‘ Jimmy the Tinker’
has been stabbed to the heart without provocation by a
tramp. The latter iris been arrested -
The gentleman wbo presides at the organ in
St. Mark’s, Pott’s Point, is engaged to the accomplished
daughter of the Rev. Thomas Kommis.
The latest stylo of eib is a really gorgeous
affair. Like Lord Tomnoddy’s vehicle, it is in colour
‘ dark rirle green with a lining of drab.’
There are in Brisbane about 250 followers of
Swedenborg. They have a neat little wooden church
opposite All Saints, on Wickham Terrace.
Positive, Kit; comparative, Kitten; super-
lative Cal. Explanation:—Kit, means Giorza ; Kitten,
Ketten ; and Cat—Tabitha, bracelet, and all.
Gympie crushing*—No. (! Lady Mary, Co tons
15 cwt. for 6J7 oz. retorted gold ; Golden Crown Co., 75
tons for 217 oz. Id dwts. 12 grs. smelted gold.
A Circular Head somnambulist recently jumped
from a third story, thirty-six foot, on to broken bricks
and stones. No bones were broken, and the only
casualties were a few braises and smashed teeth.
damaged the bricks very much.
Nngal Jack, whom Albert, the condemned
aboriginal, murdered, had killed throe blacks. Yet the
Executive is going to pat Albert to death.
M‘Elhone has found another mare’s nest—this
time at Goulbnrn. Horrible cruelty on the part of
teacher. everything’s right now.
The owners of the Macleay Herald an( j
Macleat Chronicle have been quarrelling. However
the libel action has been compromised for AGO.
Mr. Coonnn says Captain Charles represents a.
thousand aborigines. Captain Charles says he'll break
Mr. Coonan's nose. Mr. Ooonan says he’s not afraid.
The Nairno (S.A.) railway navvies have struck
for eight hours and Bs. per day. Employers refuse, and
say they cun get plenty of men from the other colonies.
Chess has been played between Littlebamptou
and Brighton, six on each side, the moves being trans.
mitted by telephone, and most distinctly heard at each
and.
David Buchanan is introducing a bill for the
abolition of imprisonment for debt. Mr. Shepherd will
net gracefully by taking no jpurt in the discussion of
this.
A ship has been sent by the Admiralty to Am-
sterdam Island, on which lights possibly lit by snj..
rivers of the missing ship Knowsley Hall—have been
seen.
Sixty officials, it is said, are to leave the Lands
Office at the end of this mouth. It is to be hoped that,
if reductions are really contemplated, fair notice will
be given.
The prospectus of the N. S. W. Fresh Food
Export Co., capital £lOO.OOO in 10,000 £lO shares is pnb.
lished. Sydney is to be the head-quarters of the
company.
For the year ended 31st March, 1880, Victoria
had under cultivation 1,687.100 acres. Last year’s yield
averages 13 3 bushels per acre; the previous year’s only
B’B bushels.
“Mr. Combes’ report on school buildings in Great
Britain and the Continent and the latest sanitary im.
provements therein, is out at last. It is comprehensive
and valuable.
7"All the single female immigrants per Clyde were
engaged within a quarter of an hour after hiring com-
menced. Another consignment of ‘ slaveys ’ arrives
within ten days.
Mr. Jones, of Denison-square. Burry Hills, is
sneing the Corporal ion for £lO,OOO damages sustained
through depreciation of property consequent on the
overflow of a sewer.
A Melbourne gentleman offers ,£OOOO towards
establishing an hospital for incurables, on condition
that the Government grants land and the public sub-
scribe £6OOO more.
The N. Z. Fine Art Distribution for the disposal
of joaintings by Gnllv, Gibb, Hoyte, and Neville, shown
at Sydney International, takes place shortly at Nichol-
son and Ascherberg’s.
D. and J. Benjamin, merchants, of Brisbane,,
Toowoomba and. Roma, called a meeting of their cre-
ditors for 19th. It was expected that everything would
be arranged satisfactorily.
E. F. Graves, who broke open a trusting friend’s
box, stole his money, and passed himself off in Sydney
ns ‘ The Duke,’ has been arrested in New Zealand anil
brought back to Melbourne.
Eight hours will in future be the standard day’s
work of corporation operatives. Aid. John Young says
that some of the aldermen work their own cm. loyth
twelve and fourteen hours a day.
The Brisbane Freethought Association meet
every Sunday evening in a room which they rent in the
Town Hall." The Society, however, is split up and
weakened by cliqnism and jealousies.
The Byron A.D.C. give an entertainment at
St. Benedict's Hall, Abercrorabie-street. on the evening
of Queen’s Birthday. The programme will consist of
‘Checkmate’ and ‘Make Your Wills.’
In regard to the recent interdiotment of * The
Happy Land’ in Melbourne, the Pall Mall Gazette
says it wasn’t previously aware that Berry was a more
important person than Mi>. Gladstone.
Emerson’s oyster saloon. Garden Palace
Grounds, has been sold and removed, and is now to be
used as an Anglican Church of England at Eumore.
The spirit has beaten the flesh this time.
Mr. P. A. Jennings, C.M.G., Executive Com-
missioner for the International, has been formally
thanked by the Queensland exhibitors for the considera-
tion shown them during the Exhibition.
. The prospectus of the Whitehead Meat Exportn-,
tion Co. has been issued in Queensland. Capital,
£150,000 in £lO shares, 3000 of which are reserved for
the colonies. Place of business, Eockhamptou.
Mr. John Taylor Lingon, M.A., barrister-at-law,
will probably commence a libel action against the
Mudoee Independent, on account of a paragraph
nnder the heading * Brevities,’ in that journal’s issueof
the 15th.
A 50-acre mining area has been taken up at
Grahamstown. £5)00 will be expended on proved
ground, a 20-head battery will be erected, and the con-
cern will be managed by Mr. Bolton Moliueaux, of
Sydney.
Compressed asphalt blocks, from America, are
to be tried for Sydney footpaths. The blocks, which are
12 in. x 5 in., have each beau subjected to a pressure of
50 tons, and are described as clean, noiseless, slippery,
and durable.
The Hornet and Statesman, two London
newspapers, have ce ised to be. In regard to tho former,
it may be remarked that no journal with a spiteful
name h is ever ultimately succeeded either iu England
or Australia.
The Queensland National Association hold their
fifth exhibition in Bowen Park on July 20th. Already
forty entries have been received from Sydney exhi-
bitors, mostly of goods which have done duty at the
Sydney show.
An unemployed man was impudent to Mr. Bent,
Victorian Minister for Woi'ks. Bent threatened to give
him in charge. The man ran away, but Bent took off
his co if. ran after him and caught him. The unem-
ployed man apologised and was allowed to go on his
way.
Messrs. Henfreyand Co. have received a splendid
testimonial from Messrs. Young and O’Connell, for the
manner in which their supply of aerated waters, cor-
dials, tea., was kept up during the Exhibition period.
At times orders for 2900 dozen were executed iu the
spxice of a few hours.
Says the correspondent of a leading English
journal, in describing a recent ball at Government
House, Sydney‘ So pretty are they (the ladies) in
face and costume, and so perfect in figure th it it wvs
difficult for a stranger to realise that he was 11,000
miles away from the European fashion.’
Richard Thomas Ball, a respectable-looking
young fellow of 23, who hvs always borne a good
character, has been committed for trial for offering Sit
Henry Parkes n, I tonus of £5) on condition tbit a G>
verumeut situation should be given him. Defendant
says he was out of work and didn’t know he was doing
wrong.
Mr. King, second officer of the Kemble, fell
overboard early on Wednesday' morning during the trip
from Newcastle. He was at once missed, the engines
were slowed, and as bis voice was hoard a boat was
lowered, and he was picked up within five minutes fro" 1
the time of the accident. Mr. King’s escape was simply
miraculous
The proprietors of Tub Criupnir, who recently
commissioned a number of leading artists to express
in paint their respective ideals of feminine beinty, ha r ®
had the collection on view in London. The Princess ot
Wales, who his viewed the pictures, gives hor vote ll
favor of Sir Frederick Leighton’s ‘ Selene ’—a dart
beauty, exquisitely lovely.
Dan King (Chinaman), condemned at Tamwortji
for the murder of Elizabeth Betts, is to be execntel-
Henry' Sinclair, for criminally assaulting a child, w
Maitland ; and Albert, t’ao aboriginal, for murdering ll


are also to be handed. Joseph Poison,
.riiile drunk, murdered bis two children, is to be
imprisoned for life with hard labor.
1 An Italian organ-grinder, well-known in Sjclnej
' *j v proceeded to Albury with organ and monkey,
r° e fbe panose of crossing into Victoria. The Customs
authorities on the Bonier stopped him, and de-
*nded £S 10s for duty. He protested, hut iu vain, and
1U in consequence forced to return. It’s really too bad
'o'put a duty on anything connected with music or the
gpe arts.
Mr. Hurley’s (Hartley) motion for the removal of
from the commission of the peace and the
Tiiiointuient or re-appointment only of suitable persons
»as opposed by the Premier and negatived by 31 to 5.
<phe minority consisted of the mover, and Messrs.
('oo nan, M’Culloch, Shepherd and W. C. Browne. Ninny
talked, as might have been expected, about the ‘ choice
of the people.’
]Vfr. William Armstrong, of Hexham Park sta-
tion, Vic., is trying the experiment of shearing his long-
' oiled sheep inore than once a year. The result of
four and a half mouths’ growth proved an average of 41
j bs 0 f wool par sheep, or at the rate of Ilb each per
‘nth. These sheep, unshorn, were bringing 12s iu the
market, while without the wool they fetcned Ws. So
it’s jiretty plain what the result of the experiment
will be.
There is no less regret in Sydney than in
Wagga at the lamentable death of Mr. Sam Gorman of
the Criterion Hotel, in the latter town. Mr. Gorman
died from injuries received iu a buggy accident. His
Ikxl.V was brought down to Sydney on Friday, at the
desire of his relatives. Poor Sam was very much es-
teemed by the people of the Wagga district and will be
,'reatly missed. He was a kind, genial, jovialfellow.
After a verdict for ,£l2O had been given against
jfr, H. Swauwick, M.L.A., of Brisbane, barrister-at-
jg W , in (favor of a client whom he had defended, and
who had given into his charge certain monies which the
learned counsel did not return, defendant’s brother,
g vduey Swauwick. made some threatening observations
to Mr. S. W. Griffiths, Q.C., who bod conducted
plaintiff’s case; Sydney Swanwick was immediately
arrested, and on his person were found a loaded revolver
and a sheath-knife. He has committed for contempt,
and says he’ll shoot Mr. Griffiths when he gets out.
According to a telegram in the Courier the
flotation of a company to construct a railway from
Koma to Parker’s Point, on the Gulf of Carpentaria—
js miles west of Burketowu—is almost accomplished.
The company asks for 8300 acres of land for every mile
of railway constructed. This concession is considered
small, but before we throw up our hats in exulta-
tion we must ask a few questions. For instance, is
he company to be allowed to employ Chinamen to
he exclusion of European workmen ? Such a line would
probably go via Blackall, cross the heads of the Thomp-
son and Diamantina, crossing the main range on to the
Cloncnrry, and thence along Gulf waters.
A Melbourne contractor, one Domcniconi, has
sued Weber, a local musician, for £53, fees paid |)»y
plaintiff to defendant's wife, who practised as a ‘ mag-
netic healing medium,’ aad was, according to her own
statement, mainly assisted in her operations by a skilful
spirit who iu the tlesh was known as Dr. Elliotson.
She, however, didu’t cure either plaintiff or his wife,
who were ill, but when she called in ‘ Dr. Elliotson’ to
attend Domeuieoui’s horse Elliotson objected, saying
he wasn’t a horse doctor, and would have to call in a
spirit who had been one while in the flesh. When the
horse-doctor’s spirit came he couldn’t cure Bucephalus,
whereupon Mrs. Weber said that. ‘ Dr. Elliotson’s’ sub-
stitute was au evil ouo. Plaintiff was nonsuited. Poor
silly fool!
Mr. Dillon, M.P., says that Judge Meyraott is a
man who ought never to have been appointed to a public
position; that, he does not decide cases on their merits ;
that he is a man open to corruption in its worst form ;
that he has received bribes (in the shape of horses) and
given corrupt verdicts in consequence of those bribes;
that'the luverell publicans will not allow him to enter
their houses; that ho has ‘ let prisoners off,’ not only
because ho had strong feelings against parties, but
because he has had improper relations with persons
connected with those parties. Mr. Dillon also says
that he can put his finger on men who have given the
money to the Judge, who, in his (Mr. Dillon’s) opinion,
‘has been guilty of things in hie judicial capacity which
were worse than many of the acts of the criminals
brought before him.’ A commission will be appointed
to investigate the charges.
A look in at the new establishment of Messrs.
B. (3. Holtermaun and Co., Brickfield Hill, will not be
devoid of interest. Mr. Holtarmanu, with the good
sound sense that has stood him iu such good ser-
vice from the first day he arrived iu this colony, has
selected for his business numerous lines of the
most useful articles that come within the cate-
gory of everyday requirements. First of all, the new
establishment will be the depot of the Davis sewing
machine, which may fairly be described as the tip-
top effort of mechanical genius. The department
where these machines axe shown is elegantly furnished
and well lighted, and is generally well crowded. On the
first, second, and third floors are to he found innume-
rable samples of goods most of which are now for the
first time imported to Australia. Not the least inte-
resting are the samples of articles for household or
office use or adornment, all of wlfich are In carved Ger-
man black wood, and so cheap as to be actually within
everybody’s reach. Another line is the new description
of chemical goods, all the articles of which are of ele-
gant manufacture and remarkably cheap. The new
kinds of artificial flowers are shown in bewildering
variety: and there is another novelty in the shape of
Herman embroidered work, the excellence and cheap-
ness of which are hound to secure for it a very large
sale. Note-books and portfolios, &c., of a style never
seen before are likewise on view. Omission must not
be made of the celebrated lager beer, for the best brand
of which Mr. Holtermann is sole agent for these colo-
nies ; the sale of this article has already become very
large. Of the new Austrian veneered perforated furni-
ture the same might be said. There is another line,
which is of colonial manufacture, and which Mr. Hol-
fennaun is pushing solely ms an encouragement to
colonial enterprise—it is the new patent French polish,
manufactured by a resident of Maitlaud, and by means
of which every article of household furniture may he re-
polished in a few moments, and made to look as good as
new. We have no doubt Mr. Holtermann’s now em-
porium will become the centre of a large and profitable
trade
STAGE GOSSIP.
Patti is in the Victorian provinces.
Henry 15racy no longer wears a moustache.
Ketten is the image of Majoroni—bleached.
Simonson’s Froliques are doing well at Dun-
edin.
Miss Eleanor Carey is playing in San Fran-
cisco.
She was not at the Victoria Barracks thea-
tricals.
“ Drink ” still runs and fills the theatre to over-
flowing.
“Horse Opera” is the new title for circus
business.
Lydia Howarde is resting at the Queen’s,
Brisbane, idle.
Lance Leuton has improved wonderfully in
natch business.
Grattan Riggs and Company will probably
Play at the Victoria after Bland Holt and* Babylon’
leave for Melbourne.
Ketten brought no bracelets—bow is it that
be can play so well P
Ike English opera, with Einilie Melville, was
a failure in California.
Giorza netted less than £20,000 out of the
international concerts.
Phe Stray Leaves Company will appear at
Boma during the race week.
•‘lirclougli, the tragedian, and Miss Clara
- lepheusoa will inaugurate a new dramatic season at
the Auckland Theatre Royal this month, after an
absence of five ye irs.
Miss Eloise Juno is in Liverpool and lias for
some time past been very ill.
Goi’don Gooeh leaves the Carandinis, to settle
in Auckland as professor of music.
Dampicr intends producing “Wildrake,”
written for him by Mr. E. Lewis Scott.
Bouquets, when flung on to tbe stage
shouldn’t be all pelted from one quarter.
Signor Ciampi-Cellaj lias been engaged by Mr*
W. S. Lystor for Melbourne Opera House.
Professor Pepper, in order to draw at Mel-
bourne, has to introduce farces into his business.
Madame L'rso lias gone from Auckland to
Napier. She afterwards visits all tbe principal towns.
Mademoiselle Duboiu made a little money in
Brisbane by her concerts, and went off to Batavia on
the 17th.
Edward Marshall, who visited Australia with
the Soldenes, is playing the Haillie in ‘ Les Cloches de
Corneville.’
Professor Taylor and Lillie, “ Queen of Skaters,”
at date were playing in the various country districts
around Auckland.
The Lingards’ Newcastle season has been a
great success. It is probable that Mr. and Mrs. Lingard
will shortly go home.
Notwithstanding the “ great moral lesson ” of
“ Drink,” we still notice that the audiences continue to
‘ liquidate ’ between the acts.
The Carlotta Patti libel suit against the Pitts-
burg Post axd Dispatch has been dismissed. The singer
was accused of intemperance.
Dion Boucicault has been arrested at, New
York on a divorce suit brought by his wife, who
charges him with adultery continued through years
with one Catherine Rogers, au actress.
Miss Christian, the far-famed contralto, re-
turned to Melbourne, from London, by the Orient. Let
us hope that she will soon visit Sydney.
John Maepherson, a carpenter at the Bijou
Theatre, Melbourne, fell into the * scene dock ’ on the
evening of 12th current, and was killed.
When Harry Rickards recently ‘ went insol-
vent ’ he included, in the last of his creditors the soli-
citor who acted for him in his divorce suit.
A company formed in New Zealand, called the
‘ Arethusa Premier Star Dramatic Company,’ have
occupied the Theatre Royal, Wellington, for the past
three weeks, doing fairly. Among others, the company
includes Mrs. Walter Hill, Miss Arethusa May, Miss
Jennie Nye, Miss Bessie Vivian, Messrs. Charles Bur-
ford (leading man), Musgrave, Clinton, Hooper, J. S.
Willis (scenic artist), and others of lesser note.
Hudson’s Surprise Party advertise their move-
ments in to-day’s issue. They are off to Melbourne, and
are going to give a treat to the towns cn route.
O’Neil (Paul Billow, of ilie Dublin Theatre),
brother of the celebrated Barney, lias been knocking
about Brisbane lately. He bus left for Sydney.
Maggie Oliver has accepted an engagement
with the Shepperson and Howard company at Brisbane.
The date for her appearance has not been fixed.
Grattan Riirfis and Greville were to have been
in Sydney together. However, as Sydney could only
supply one of them with lager-beer, only one came.
The Dillon and South Company have post-
poned their visit to Rockhampton for a week. They
open with the ‘ Old Corporal,’ to be followed by ‘ Our
Boys.’
J. R, Greville, of Theatre Royal, Melbourne, is
in Sydney, ‘ fishing ’ in the bay as well as around the
Victoria Theatre. Ask Rowell for more concerning the
Greville.
Frank Hewitt and bis wife are playing in tbe
various small towns of the North Island, N.Z. The last
place visited by them before the departure of the mail
was Napier.
Sothern says that although bis new comedy by
Gilbert cost him 3000 guineas, he would not take 6000
for it now. It is a piece of the wildest and most laugh-
able absurdity.
Joseph Hatton and Charles Dickens, jun., have
dramatised ‘ The Mystery of Edwin Drood.’ Dickens
says he heard the, solution of the mystery from his
father’s own lips.
Theodore Hamilton is about to produce
“Drink” at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne. Theo. is
lessee of the People’s Theatre and is a fine actor and
most genial fellow.
At the Theatre Royal, Christchurch, Mr. W.
Hoskins’ dramatic company have done good business.
The Academy of Music was occupied by Mrs. J. B. Steele
and an efficient company.
Little Amy Brooks, aged seven, who plays in
‘ Juvenile Pinafore ’ at Melbourne, broke her arm just
before her dibiU at the Bijon Theatre, and in order to
get it set had to attend the hospital. The doctor told
her the nature of the accident, whereupon she exclaimed
• IVell, please mend it, as I’m Sir Joseph Porter and
must be in my plane. I’m not frightened, doctor.’ She
appears with her arm in a sling and reminds one of
Lord Kelson.
The Sun Francisco Hoard of Supervision, the
clergy, and the author, Salem Morse (formerly of Mel-
bourne), are wrangling over a passion-play which the
latter wishes to produce.
The Royal, all through the present season, has
done a splendid business never bettor. This speaks
well for Mr. Kitts’s management in the front and Mr.
Arthur Garner’s on the stage.
Darrell was to have appeared at Brisbane in
‘ Hamlet,’ on the 13th, with Madame Legrand as
Ophelia. Sam Howard, as the gravedigger, was
expected to redeem the representation.
To add realistic effect to “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” at Logansport, Indiana, a live blood-bound was
introduced. The brute heightened the realism by
breaking bis chain, and biting an actress seriously.
Miss Eliza Shenvin, tnc protege of Signora
Fabris and Signor I'ompei, is in Sydney. Miss Sherwiu
bails from Hobart Town, can sing a little bit, and intends
showing the benighted of Sydney what she can do in
that line.
J. 0. Williamson is the luckiest man alive.
He is exacting his ‘pound of flesh’ in the ‘ Pinafore’
business, and gets half the nett profits of 4 Juvenile Pina-
fore’ from the Lewises in exchange for the right of
running the piece.
J. E. Xitts, treasurer for Lystor and Garner’s
Comedy Company, was the Susini of bis day and sang
all the chief basso parts with Lyster’s first opera troupe.
Even now Jim can raise a corrugated-iron roof with a
few of his low notes.
There is no mistake that Bland Holt lias made
"a hit in ‘ Kew Babylon.’ His acting in the last scene
with Ramarez is about the most amusing hit of American
coolness ever seen in these parts. Mr. J. L. Hall is
simply immense as Lazareck.
Ketten, whoso performances will be referred
to at greater length in our next issue, appeared hero in
public for the first time last night at the School of
Arts, in presence of a brilliant audience, and achieved
an unqualified success.
The ‘fair’ critic of the Herald in a notice
of 4 Kew Men and Old Acres’ takes that accomplished
lady, Mrs. Marion Stammers, to task for a mere lapsus
liri'jiur, which anyone but the Geelong she pedagogue
would, know 4 was only a slip.
Miss Augusta L. Dargon, who has changed
her mind about residing permanently in K.S.W., and
goes to London by the Lusitania in July next, will
favour the public, before leaving Sydney, with a num-
ber of her brilliant impersonations.
Mr. Arthur Sketchlcy, assisted by a very ineffi-
cient company, opened at the Auckland Theatre Royal
on May 4th, for six nights. With the exception of the
first night, he drew miserable houses. The * gods’ could
not endure the entertainment, and caused a great dis-
turbance.
After doing passable business at the Princess
Theatre, Dunedin, the Lynch Family of Bellringers and
Messrs. Lyndhurst (ventriloquist) awl Santley (bari-
tone) visited the intermediate towns on their way to
Christchurch. They drew large houses at the “ City of
the Plains.’
Tbe Williamsons return to Sydney shortly.
‘ Pinafore’ will be produced by them at Kelly and Leon’s
theatre. Mr. Edwin Kelly will play the part of the
Admiral. Mr. Beaumont Read, Mr. Fredericks, and
Mr. Ball will be in the company. A grand season may
be counted upon.
Alexander, the Australian Blondin, and Harris,
tbe frapezist, are giving opeu-uir performances on the
market reserve, Brisbane, every evening. Admission,
popular prices—nothing. The hat, however, is kept
briskly circulated, and our correspondent hears that on
Saturday they collected as much as T4O.
In Bathurst, the hospital committee meet a
showman on his arrival and interview him. ‘Will yon
give us a whole night for the hospital ? ’ ‘ No.’ ‘Will
you give ns £s?‘ ‘Decidedly not.’ ‘Then we’ll kill
your show.’ And as they are also on the School of Arts
committee, they do it. Nice place, Bathurst!
Darrell’s Brisbane engagement concluded on
the 21st. He has been running his own pieces, but
declares that the stock company have not sufficient
talent to interpret his compositions. He has, there-
fore, been reluctantly compelled to fall back on Shak-
speare. He was to appear in ‘ Hamlet ’ on Friday.
Our Auckland correspondent, writing under
date 10th May, says “things theatrical have been
exceedingly dull throughout New Zealand during the
past two months, and at present little hopes of improve-
ment are visible. With the exception of the Froliques
and Camilla Urso, no new shows have visited these
parts.”
Darrell’s “Back from tbe Grave” is billed in
Brisbane for this week. The sensation consists in a
house being burned down and a young lady rescued
from it at the last moment. When this was played in
Sydney, Flora Anstead was nearly suffocated before she
was rescued. We like our sensations hot, but hardly as
hot as that.
“It never rains but it poprs.” The old
Queensland Theatre is to be pulled down, rebuilt, and
greatly enlarged. A’3ooo has been borrowed for the
purpose. Work will be*commenced at the termination
of Stepper son and Howard’s lease, the end of July, and
the house will be completed aud opened on the Ist
March, 1881.
MadameLegrand has “knocked” the Brisbane
playgoers as Camille in the drama of ‘ Camille.’ She
created a profound sensation. The Cockier says
Madame ‘ has iveen most bountifully favoured by
nature in respect of )>ersoual graces.’ We’re glad to
be able to give so neat an illustration of the courtly
grace of the Courier's diction.
Poor George Sims, the celebrated comedian
who a few years back made such a hit as the Waxworks
traveller in the ‘ Cherry Tree Inn,’ is knocking out a
precarious living at hill-sticking in Stauthorpe. Poor
old Sims! He was considered one of the very best
comedians who ever appeared on the colonial boards,
and was justly nickuumed ‘ Hobson.’
Here is the east for an amateur ‘Pinafore’
performance lately' given at Cheltenham (England) :
Sir Joseph Porter, liev. J. C. Baxter; Captain Cor-
eoran, H. Buliem, Esq. : Dick Doadeye, Rev. H. B.
Praan ; Rackstraw, Herr Lortzing, &c., with Rev. G. B;
Roberts at the piano. This precedent clearly estab-
lishes the right of Dr. Barker to give us a treat as Sir
Joseph.
Madame Fannie Simonsen is training her three
daughters for the operatic stage. Her husband eon-
templates organizing an English Opera Company, with
which he expects to make New Zealand in September.
Madame will he directress, and a tenor, whose name is
kept secret, has been already engaged. Miss Carrie
Godfrey, of the Froliques, is being trained for opera by
Madame.
Dillon and South have leased the Boekliamp-
tou Theatre for a two months’ season, commencing on
the 18tb current. The ladies of the company are the
Misses Edith Pender, Harriett Tulloch, Wilson, and
Claar aud Annie Wilson. Messrs. W. and 0. Seagrave,
Alick Andrews, C. A. Tyrell, Scott, and Farr an, with Mr.
Clinton, a local votary of Thespis, complete the troupe,
who ai'e ageuted by Mr. J. Abrahams. The
management promise occasional visits from * Southern
stars.’
“Still Waters Run Deep,” is a vile plagiarism.
It is an English dressing tif ‘ Le Geudre, ’ by Clms de
Bernard. The scene where John Medway proposes to
light a duel with Hawkesley is copied from the melo-
drama of ‘ Pauline.’ Tom Taylor even derived the
name of the play which he palmed on his English dupes
from one of the sayings of the characters in ‘Le
Gandre ’ —‘ Hien n’cd pirc one ecu caiu donnantes.’ The
same remark occurs in the original ‘ I/Assommoir,’
alias ‘ Drink.’ ‘ L’Assommoir signifies a trap.
Mr. Edward Ryan, leader in the heavy business
at the Queen’s, bought a horse recently. He (that is to
say, the horse) had no teeth, aud Mr. Ryan remarked
this, but he was assured the animal ‘ hadn’t cut ’em
yet.’ Since the purchase, the quadruped (that is to say,
the horse, again) has developed the idea of getting out
between the palings where he is ‘ stabled.’ The wors
of the thing is you have to feed a horse, hut Mr. Ryan
is determined to adopt the principle of ‘ live horse and
get grass.’ The owner lives on the boards and he can’t
see why his horse can’t do the same.
Home items from ‘ Dick ’(RichardStewart) :
‘ We left India for London in January, visited Paris,
and reached Loudon in March. At the * Criterion ’
(Spiers and Pond’s) the comedy of ‘ Betsy ’ had reached
its 190th night, aud ‘ Les Cloches de Cornevillc ’ at the
Globe its (>7oth representation, and promises to run as
many more. At the Strand the opera boutt'o of ‘ Ma-
dame Pavart ’is iu its second year. Mr. Henry Bracey
is singing one of the tenor parts. ‘ Blow for Blow ’is
being plaved at the Gaiety aud has already run several
weeks td large audiences. The Stewarts are visiting
the provinces, and making a tour through Scotland,
after wdiich they arc to appear iu Loudon.
Here is a sweet thing in criticism. In speaking
of Miss Gray’s singing at M. Meilhan’s concert, that
great ‘ know’ -body of Hunter-street said ‘ Molloy’s
‘ Darby and Joan’ was encored, and a quaint ballad,
touching the faithful loves of a youth and a maiden
from Islington, was substituted.’ And then with
characteristic simplicity adds ; —‘ We had not heard the
pong before, and do not know its title or composer.’ (!)
It’s almost a wonder she did not add, ‘ The song is
very pleasing, aud likely to become popular.’ Wo did
not think it possible for auv musical critic to he un-
acquainted with ‘ The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington,’
one of the oldest aud most beautiful of English ballads*.
Some time ago it was stated that ‘ Captain
Humphreys ’ had been sentenced to a term of imprison-
ment for larceny in Melbourne, aud as we were recently
asked whether the statement referred to did not apply to
Captain Heury Morin Humphreys, formerly of H.M.
Cape Mounted Rifles, who for some time has been a
pressman and dramatic writer iu the Southern metro-
polis, we feel called upon not only to say that our old
friend whose name is mentioned above has never been
arraigned for any breach of the law, hut that he is re-
spected and trusted by all who know him. Captain
Humphrey has not yet been able to trace this gross
slander to its source, but when besucceed iu doing so
he will not fail to exact satisfaction.
A sample of Newcastle ‘ Dispatch ’ criticism -.
—‘ The Liugards are taking immensely here, and
we must say their acting is grand. Of the Liugards
proper, praise woidd he superfluous, and they were ad-
mirably supported on Thursday night in the classic
piece, ‘ The Vestal,’ and the humorous lab-de-dab boys
—‘ Our Boys.’ Iu the former Opiuia (Miss Alice Lin-
gard) was, oh beauty, grace aud feeling combined. The
Slave (Mr. W. H. Liugards, though acting it to perfec-
tien, pourtrayed the man. We have uot space to eulo-
gise each, hut we must compliment the Blind Woman
(Mrs. Fitzwilliam) on her feeling pourtrayal of that
sacred relation, the mother—* What is Rome to me ?
This is my child.’ (Sensation.) Last, hut uot least, in
‘Our Boys,’ for the sStth time, Slaxey was mirth-
provoking iu the extreme.’ As they say in Japan,
* Happy Despatch.’
Mr. A. Kopff, the conductor of the orchestra
at the Queen’s Theatre, was presented on Monday by
the members of his hand with a silver medal, as a
token of their respect, and of the esteem with which they
regard his abilities as a musician. The medal was
inscribed on the obverse with the names of the hand—
Messrs J. Parkes, E. Cullen, R. Mills, J. Mahouy, P.
Russell, aud hod on the reverse emblems of the
musician’s art and of the Masonic order, which the
recipient belongs. In recognition of the kindly acknow-
ledgment of his services Mr. Kopff met the members of
his band at. Wangeuheim’s on Tuesday night when
toasts were drunk iu the national beverage of Ger-
many and the other accompaniments of a Ger-
man conviviality were partaken of —iu fact a very
pleasant evening was spent. Mr. Kopff in a
neat and. purposelike speech expressed pleasure
at seeing that there was not so much jealousy among
musicians in Sydney as iu Victoria, though here the pro-
fession ou.vht to have its guild to protect its interests.
He complimented the band on its efforts at the exhibi-
tion which were so good that people asked whore they
were next going to play. He was looking for a field tor
their labours, and most likely they would perform at
Athol gardens iu Spring, The baud then would be in-
creased to fourteen or fifteen.
Under (lie Loading ‘ Si non r I ero, eye one of
the latest issues of the San Francisco Weekly
Chronicle received by the last mail contains the
following paragraph; * The storyis told that
while Annie Pixley was playing iu Sydney,
Australia, she remaked pach night a certain seat
iu a proscenium box always occupied by a middle-
aged, fashionably-dressed lady. The actress was not
surprised when, after a time, she was introduced by the
manager to this interested and nightly visitor, the in-
troduction having been asked for by the spectator. The
result was au intimate and mutually pleasant acquaint-
ance, which lasted up to the time of Miss Pixley’s de-
parture. When that time came her new friend did
everything to induce the Califoruiau gii'l to remain iu
Sydney, offering a considerable sum to cancel the en-
gagements made ahead if the two could only remain
together. ! The actress declared this impossibe, and
quitted Australia, leaving her friend almost heart-
broken. A few weeks ago, while playing ‘ M’liss ’in
Boston, Annie i - eceived a letter which had been follow-
ing her all over the country, aud which proved to he
from her friend in Sydney. The tenor of the epistle
was regret at their separation, and an offer to Miss
Pixley that if she would return to Australia and live
with the writer as a daughter, she should at her death
inherit a considerable property, in fact all the fortune
her friend possessed. Notwithstanding the allure-
ments of assured future aud the probable enjoyment of
considerable wealth, Annie Pixley, after considering
the matter, came to the conclusion that she loved the
stage better than all else, aud declined the otter.
Generous, however, us the Australian friend seems to
be, it is somewhat simificant that no mention is mad
of the poor husband, and the two or three children.
Scorning a Bribe.
ARTISAN : “Here, Sir ’Enry, I believe it’s usual; here’s fifty. Any sort of a billet will
do.”
SIR ’ENRY (indignantly): “Ah—what, wbat’s that you say, sir? How daro you insult
me! Is £50 my price? This hand will never accept a bribe. Sir, I will have you
prosecuted at once. Here, where’s my dog Fosbery! Sool'im, boy!"


BRIEF MENTION.
Dibbs —obdurate and cosy.
Shepherd —defeated and uncomfortable.
Dr. Beg is still whale-hunting.
Dr. Hogg feeds his horse on pork.
Tlie Town Hall clock is going now.
Sir Henry wouldn’t take that £5O note.
K.S.AV. delighted. Tl ireo executions on.
Cane and Sargent’s ‘ bon tons ’ are going well.
Mr. Simpson is still a judge —of feminine
beauty.
George Alilner Stephen has been performing
miracles.
Yon can’t count the cabs at Darliughurst now
Mr. Dibbs is inside.
The ‘ flying horse’ is a favourite pastime in the
Mines Dexmrtnient.
Dr. Bowker was too late to look after his own
hill. How often is this so ?
Government bv Queen and Premier—(Victoria
and Beaconsfield) —Vic-Tory.
, Mr. G. R. Dibbs says he knows the sheep
from the goats among his vis tors.
Air. G. R. Dibbs is turning bis mind to piety —
ho is searching for the ‘ Good Shepherd.’
, ‘ The Vagabond ’ is never seen in public now.
lie is writing a play or a poem. From the last deliver
us.
Alderman Cubitt, of Stan more, says grace in
the form of a notice of motion, and puts it after every
meal.
Where’s John Young’s Exhibition bill? and
how much? We’ve eaten ths i>io; now let us pay.
Amen.
Mr. Hurley will have to come from Petersham
next tuns to give evidence. Wc wonder how much he’ll
A well-known young lawyer amuses himself
after hours in doing ‘ Sux>er.’ in one of our leading
theatres.
Niuian Alelville wishes he could count himself
out now. They x>ut out his gas twenty-two times the
other night.
SimonetM is modelling Jack Lucas as a Cupid
for tho Melbourne International. Statue of Cupidity
it’s suxiposed.
Mr. Sam Terry, tho moral member of tlie
Assembly, stuck up for the cafe-keepers hi the recent
magisterial conflicts.
A certain greasy politician in whose voice there
is a ring of petty larceny has been wonderfully im- i
proved by Tue Bulletin.
11. N. Douglas is described as a ‘ teacher of
music ’in Sands’ Directory. Wo never knew him sing
much —it’s a sly-go of his !
Several copies of The Bulletin were rent to
Mr. Dibbs last Saturday, hut not one address was in
the love-sick handwriting of the Shepherd.
‘A Citizen’ writes —Can any kind of a ‘shanty’
i>e erected iu city and suburbs ? Of course ; there is
nothing to prevent it. This is a free country.
The most affecting of all sights is to see
a grey-headed literary man turning over the volumes iu
a second-hand-book shop without a sou in his x>ocket.
Onr eves caught the name Fischer in Ihe
death announcements of Tuesday’s Herald, and we
danced tor joy—but we discovered that it was not snr.
It’s said that a testimonial, in tlie shape of a
big box of lace handkerchiefs, will shortly be presented
to the Rev. Mr. Bradley, the popular Woollahra minister.
Another citizen asks : ‘ What are the duties of
' an alderman ?’ None, except getting his own property
iiuxiroved, picnicing and attending monthly feeds at the
Town Hall.
There is no truth iu the statement that the
pilot at Bort Macquarie has at his own expense repaired
the local wharf, which was damaged by the collision
some time back.
A city architect lias written to Rome pointing
out serious mistakes in the architecture of Michael
Angelo. He contends that Michael evidently never
built a caboose.
‘Mr. Alelville agreed with the motion, as he did
not see the use of uu Agent-General.’ (Extract from
Parliamentary Rexiort.) We wonder whether the
Agent-General can see the use of a Air. Alelville.
Euskin has delivered a lecture showing that the
snake is a mixture of ‘ the lizard, (lack,'fish, and honey-
suckle.’ Beople are now enquiring whether man isn’t a
mixture of the elephant, the whale, the cauliflower, and
the spring onion ; and if the dogisn’t acomx>oundof the
eagle, the frog, the turkey, and stick-liquorice. We
once knew an editor—it was in Queensland —who was
called ‘ Old Rum and Onions.'
The Mayor of Petersham is be-
ing besieged for invitations to the
dinner he is about to give'
The Illustrated Svdnet News
is improving, but we don’t know why
it places a bullock-driver on the off-
side of his team. We’re afraid that
a lot of journalists have been on the
off-side of their teams lately.
They sayin England that murder
will out, hut they will find this
cricketing season thatMnrdo(ch) can't
he got onr. [This is more than worthy
•of Lewis Scott, who, however, refuses
any longer to write for the papers.lj j
Christopher Bennett is a fine
fellow, but Judge Faucettis a finer, and
Chris, will have to supplement his
honeymoon expenses by an addition
of Jt6 for absence as a juror. Law and
love’s young dream are incompatible.
■ “ Deepsinker” asks: ‘ls it in-
tended to bore for coal on the pave-
ment opposite Fraser’s auction rooms,
< leorge-street ? ’ We have not yet
heard, altho’ we have noticed the
flagging has been removed for some
months.
A Sandhurst man writes : “What is tlie name
of the ‘reef in Pitt-street, and who are the principal
shareholders ? I hear that ths stone goes down on the
underlie and that they've got colours at five feet.”
Murderers, etc. are not generally aware that on
payment of a small fee at the sheriff’s office they can
get a list of the men who are to be on their jury at the
trial. Not that any one would try to ‘ get at ’ a jury- -
not even iu Bathurst!
The owners of the coffee-stall say that tbeir
principal aim is not lo make money, but to put down
drunkenness. A sarcastic man says that this is perhaps
the reason why the coffee-stall has been shifted to the
Daily Twaddlegraph comer.
The tramway engine-drivers are furnished with
watches of the turnip pattern. They are of silver, and
are guaranteed to chock a train on a steep incline.
They are slightly heavy, which ]>erbaps explains the
lopsided appearance of the drivers lately.
After all, they say tlie paragraphs concerning
the wonderful cures’ performed by George Milner
Stephen are little innocent fabrications, designed to
advertise the eminent barrister named, who, it is re-
ported, will shortly come out as ‘ boss’ of a new church.
An enterprising (Sydney) newspaper proprietor
-recently advertised, that he’d give certain handsome and
duly specified bonuses to those news boys who, during
the first quarter of his paper’s existence, would sell
most copies. Of course, half-a-dozen arabs dabbed
together, and one of ther number bought for the lot.
The newspaxier prox>rietor now says that street arabs
are smarter than capitalists who love literature and
want to become Horace Gre3leys but can only write
with scissors.
It is reported that all the aldermen of Sydney
and suburbs have been invited to the Melbourne Ex-
hibition. It would he a ehe ip investment for the
citizens to pay the expenses of the trip and give our
civic fathers an opxiortunity of seeing some clean streets
for the first time.
Something must be done to put clown the
growing independence of the feminine mind. The
other day a stout lady dashed out from the path way and
ran in front of the tramway engine as it was going down
the steep incline in Elizabeth-strect. ‘ Stop, stop,’ she
cried. With a great effort the tram was pulled iqi.
‘ Where’s the guard, where’s the guard ?’ was the next
inquiry. The guard came round. What the old lady
wanted to know was whether he used kerosene oil on
his hair. The tram went on.
AVe misunderstood our friend on the steamer
last week. His conundrum was, ‘ What istheditferenca
Itetween the Smith of the Assembly and the Smith of
the Council ?’ The answer —‘ The one is R. B. Smith,
the other Bawbee Smith’ —will now appear more
natural and correct.
An old gentleman, we read, recently desired in
his will that his body might he burned and his fishes
scattered, ‘ so that the winds and rains of heaven might
sweeten them for further use in Nature’s wise economy.’
Very uice this. Bit suppose any portion of the de-
ceased gentleman blew into a fellow’s eye !
Mr. William Keith is editor of the Wide
Bay News and evidently has a relative in Melbourne.
Says the News ;—* The Melbourne Exhibition, then, is
situated in the Carlton Gardens—iu the immediate
vicinity of Mr. Geo. F. Keith's extensive upholstering
and cabinet-making manufactory’—etc. Some people
would have been modest enough to say that Mr. Keith's
X>lace was near the Exhibition. However, it doesn't
matter much.
Sir Henry Parkes, M. Oscar Meyer (the Italian
Commissioner), and Mr. Cooper (brother of Sir Daniel)
were making bonfires and roasting potatoes on the Bine
Mountains last week. They spent their Saudav shoot-
ing native bears. Fancy Sir Henry eyeing a native bear!
How touching are fraternal greetings! M. Meyer has
already commenced a work, to he published on the
continent, entitled ‘Shooting the Jaguar and other
Wild Game in Australia.’
Recently Air. Zions the tailor of Oeorgc-street
advertised for a cutter. Next day he got a telegram
telling him he could get particulars concerning a first-
rate cutter at such-and-such a place iu King-street,
whither he sent. Of course there was a good cutter,
but she was lying down at Darling Harbour. The tailor
enjoyed the mistake and telegraphed back that he
‘ would give 80s.—not worth more.’ By last accounts
the owner was in a good humour and was coming up to
enquire about the matter.
A small salmon was the other day caught in
the Thames, from which it’s concluded that the river’s
becoming purer. However, we don’t regard t his as con-
clusive. A very fiue-looking Salmon was last week seen
hovering round a capsized outrigger, iu a part of our
harbour which is certainly not any purer than it ought
to be.
The Hibernian is eloquent at every turn.
Describing a place near Hudson’s saw mills an old son
of the soil remarked, ‘You'll stand at the mills and
pitch two stones that way (suitingaction fo word), and
you’re there.’ The inquirer was staggered. He jumped
into a cab and alighted at the very house he wanted.
A very pretty quarrel is going on just now be-
tween two well-known literarv characters, neither of
whom shine too brightly in Melbourne society, The
latest development is the conduct tf a most envenomed
vituperative duel, carried on through the medium of
tracts published by each combatant and distributed
“ for private circulation only.” The opinion that each
of these worthies holds of the other, would suggest the
storv told of a witness wbo, upon being told iu court to
“ tell all he knew about the case.” said, “ Well, I have
heard the plaintiff call the defendant a rogue, thief, and
liar; and the defendant call the plaintiff a rogue, liar
and thief, and these are the only occasions upon which
I ever heard either of them tell the truth/'
Mr. G. R. Dibbs.
There are few men in the community so we 1
known as Mr. G. E. Dibbs, whose portrait we give
n our issue this week. Recent events have
brought his character into the strong light of
public scrutiny ; and we believe that to-day—the
period of what some consider his greatest adver-
sity —he holds the respect and esteem of the vast
majority of the < o umunity, of all who admire
steadfastness of character and the maintenance of
principle against all consequences. He is now in
Darlinghurst for the reason that he prefers
incarceration in the debtors’ prison to allowing
payment of what he and a good many others con-
sider to be a very harsh verdict. Any person ac-
quainted with the mercantile community of Syd-
ney must k nw that M-. Dibbs need not be where
he is for a moment; the amount of the verdict, we
heir, could hive been obtained twenty-fold. But
the assistance was declined, and purely on the
ground of principle. Mr. Dibbs has proved him-
self iu all his contests to be a fast friend or a man-
ful opponent, aud that is why people say that
he who cabchs hold of G. R. Dibbs the wrong
way catches hold of a Tartar. The public will
doubtless, be interested to learn some particulars
of his history. Mr. Dibbs is a native of the colony,
| and was born in Sydney on the 12th October, IS3I.
i He is the eldest son of the late Captain John
: Dibbs, and first went to school at the primary de-
nominational school attached to old St. Philip’s
Church, and afterwards spent two or three years
at the Australian College under Mr. R. Horniraan.
At the age of fourteen he left school and entered
the office of Messrs. Brown and Co., who at that
time carried on a very largo business as wine aud
spirit and general merchants. He desired, how-
ever, more active employment, and while not yet
nineteen, started ia business on his own account.
He was connected with the firm of Robey and Co.,
sugar refiners, until their establishment and
premises ware purchased by the colonial sugar
company. Mr. Dibbs then commenced business
at Newcastle, and remained there four or five
years. He resumed again ia Sydney and remained
till 1865. at the end of which year he sailed for
Valparaiso to superintend some large wheat and
flour operations. While there he was present at
the bombardment of the capital, and described the
event, as also the leading incidents of the war, for
several colonial newspapers. He thrice ran the
; blockade into South American ports. He travelled
southward of Chili to Panama, on his voyage back
to Sydney—hastened by the reports of the panic
of 18G6, but it was only at Panama he learned
that his firm had with so many others succumbed
to the disasters of that year. On arriving in Syd-
ney Mr. Dibbs compromised with his creditors of
the Sydney firm for 10s. in the £, but after many
severe struggles he was able in 1873 to pay in
full the remaining portion of their claims. At the,
general election in the same year Mr. Dibbs was
requested to stand for West Sydney, and con-
sequently was elected second on the poll; he was
however defeated in 1376, mainly on account of
his broad views on immigration and free-trade In
1857 Mr. Dibbs married the daughter of the Hon.
E. W. Eohey, by whom he has had fifteen children,
eleven of whom are now alive. Few men have
had a more chequered career or have seen more
trouble. His present trials will leave him. it is to
be hoped, with undiminished energy, and from
what we can gather he is determined that every
just clam, if his life be spared, shall be paid in
full. Mr. Dibbs has had no more active opponent
on the press than the writer of this brief sketch.
Recent events, which the writer has had the op-
portunity of closely observing, have, however,
changed his opinion of Mr. Dibbs, and the
opinion of men in general appear to have under-
gone a somewhat similar change. That being so,
the public will not wait long to find means whereby
liberty may again be restored to a man who,
whatever his faults, has pursued all through aii
upward and useful career.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Russian Empress is very ill.
Dr. Kelynack is lecturing’ at Brisbane.
Prince Leopold is on a visit to Canada.
The Marquis of Eipon has sailed for India.
The Queensland Premier is expected in Bris-
bane by 23rd June.
Sam. Griffith drives the best-appointed car-
riage and pair in Brisbane.
The late Duke of Portland used to spend
£l3OO a year in newspapers.
George Higinbotham is the author of the
phrase “Wealthy lower orders.”
“ Montefiore” means “ hill of flowers.” The
amily originally came from Italy.
Mr. M. Levy presented Air. G. E. Dibbs with
a lot of choice Havannahs .last week.
Dr. Beaney means to marry again, and has
worn fewer diamonds since his return.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales has again been
unanimously elected Masonic Grand Master.
Dr. Stanton, Bishop of North Queensland,
leaves for England, owing to his father’s death.
A son of Mapleson, the great entrepreneur , has
been in Brisbane tor some months —doing nothing.
Sknthorpe, who affirmed that he had dis-
covered Classen and traces of Leichhardt, has now
found the original mare’s nest.
J. Langridge rules the reporters of Tasmania
iu matters of literary taste. J. Simpson rules him, and
Scotch whisky rules J. Simpson.
Dr. Hamilton, the Queensland Government
whip, has returned to his work. He declares that he- was
disgusted with the depravity of Melbourne.
AIMI wraith explains that he dismissed Hamil-
ton from the Queensland Home Immigration Office
because he was always ‘ thwarting Macalister.’
Queen AMctoria has a long memory for names
and faces, and recollects the names of all soldiers —
even privates—on whom she has bestowed the Victoria
Cross.
Spicer Briggs, late second in command in tlie
transcontinental exploring trip,” is surveying on the
Bnllone. It is 90 miles to the nearest pub., or rather
shanty.
Dr. Knaggs of Newcastle is a clever medico
and a teetotaller, is an, fait at amateur prestidigitation, is
dbad against spiritualism and is short-sighted—hut no
mentally, yon know.
Joe Forbes, now of the Ba de of N.S.W.,
Rockhampton, is the strongest little man iu Queens-
land. He is the Northern Hercules —the Queensland
Percy de Jersey Grut.
Sbeaffe, one of the proprietors of the Clon-
curry Copper Mine, says he should be able to write six
figures to his name when the line from Roma to Bort
Barker is commenced.
‘ The Vagabond’ wears his hair long and fancies
he looks like Shakespeare. His digestion is like unto
that of ' an ostrich, for he can eat potato salad and
drink lager beer at midnight.
John Garun Duffy, the new Alinisfer of Lands
in Viclor'a has opened the Botanical Gardens on Sunday
mornings. Hitherto Sabbatarian influence has kex>t tho
gates locked till the afternoon.
Dr. Colletti, of Petersham, is the handsomest
Xiriest in the diocese, and is x>opular alike with Catholics
and Protestants. He is a nex>how of the x>reseut Box>e,
and may be a Cardinal himself some day.
Dr. O’ Doherty, of Brisbane, was recently fined
for fast driving. The doctor, iu saying good-bye to tho
Bench, exxiresscd a hope that no magistrate would ever
be seized with a colic requiring his sudden attendance.
Sam. Griffith, leader of the Queensland Oppo-
sition, is building a palatial residence which when
finished will have cost UTS 000. Sam. is still a long way
under 40, but his nevertheless already treated this
world as his oyster.
John Nugent, formerly of the N.Y. Herald,
a pioneer newsxrvppr man of San Francisco, who will be
chiefly remembered as the originator of the celebrated
Vigilance Committee of ’52, died on 23th March at-
’Frisco, iu x>overty.
Air. Fred. Rawlins, whilom Luder-Secretary ah
Brisbane, lost at cards, according to the evidence iu his
insolvency examination, U‘3X)O iu a. very short time.
The insolvent’s creditors are going to see whether they
can’t pay his debts with his pension.
In spite of the rumour that
Bring will not he allowed to retain the
Queensland Attorney-Generalship dur-
ing another session without holding
a seat in the House he looks as snug"
and natty as ever, and ‘ does ’ Queen-
street as jauntily as heretofore.
Joe Wallace the proprietor of
New Zealand Bunch, is “up a tree.”
He will probably revisit Hobart Town
md carry on the same old game i.e.
project and publish a subsidised comie
weekly, and then ‘ smash.’ Fortune
does not always favor the industrious.
Captain Beeston, who for some
time was in the Queensland Civil Ser-
vice and stationed at Gympie, has
received a military appointment from
the Imperial authorities. His head-
quarters will he on the Afghanistan
frontier. Latterly he has been editing"
the Wide Bat New?.
W. J. J. Reynolds, school-
master, is Ihe best baritone in Hobart
Town. H. Hunter, Government
architect, is the best tenor and H.
Smith tlie finest basso. All three love
each other like serpents. Mr. Rey-
nolds represented Tasmania in the
musical festival at Melbourne iu 1870.
A certain fashionable Melbourne editor who-
‘does Collins-street’ with a wealthy 3-onng heiress, has
of late been much embarrassed by finding that a good
many people are aware that he left a nice-looking wife-
on the ‘ Pacific slope.’ The question is, was the
‘slope’ altogether ‘Pacific.’
John Plummer, the accomplished editor of the-
Illustrated Sydney News, who does more press work
than anv other man in Sydney, and speaks artful words
to the Good Templars, was in England “boss’’ of the
Licensed Victuali ers’ Gazette. He never drinks,
now —unless someone (en)treats.
Last week, at the ball at Government House,
Brisbane, there was trouble owing to a gentleman
h iviug organized a double set of lancers (sixteen terpsi-
choreans instead of eight) after being told that Mr.
Bell had an objection to the formation of such a set.
However, matters were soon satisfactorily arranged.
Longlamls, who for over 25 years has been in
the Queensland Civil Service, chiefly in the Roads*
Department, leaves for home this week. He goes, he
says, as an amateur immigration agent and believes
that he has sufficient influence to induce a number of
married farmers to immigrate. He goes via 'Frisco.
Many years ago Graham Berry couldn’t get a
hearing in demociatic Colliugwood. He had offended
the plebs. over something. When he tried to address
them in the Oddfellows 'Hall they commenced singing
“Old John Brown.’’ “Whenever,” said Mr. Michic-
MR. C. R. DIBBS.
The authentic Keetes that swallowed Jonah—Neither a Whale nor a Shark.
(From a sketch by our special artist taken in Italy d[?]pr[?]s the original on the porch of the Cathedral of Gaeta.)


<now Sir Archibald) “ Mr. Berry’s soul wanted to march
ou that old John Brown’s soul kept marching on in oppo-
sition. In vain the candidate pointed out the iu.j ustice of
the thing—that whereas he had paid for the Hall, they
had the use of it.” There’s a reminiscence for you of the
“ Great Liberal Chieftain.”
Arthur Patchett Martin (such is A.P’s. name
in fall) has, so says a Melbourne paper, written a three
act comedy, called “ An Adventurer,” which he wishes
Mr. Arthur Gamer to take. A good Australian comedy,
played by such artists as the London Comedy Company,
ought to be a success. At any rate we wish the piece
good luck.
The lion. W. R. Giblin, the Tasmanian
Premier, who is now on a visit to Adelaide, is about 35
years of age, but has never previously been out of his
own colony. Tasmania is ‘ all the world to him’ and to
a good many other inhabitants of the tight little island,
hut Mr. Giblin is nevertheless an able lawyer and a very
well-informed man.
William Saurin Lyster, of Operatic fame, served
under the filibuster Walker in the conquest of Nicara-
gua —a marvellous episode which would bear telling in
prose though Joaquin Miller has told it in verse so
Beautifully. Something of interest concerning William
Saurin Lyster aforesaid will shortly appear in the
columns of The Bulletin.
Garnet Waleh was born in Tasmania, the
hook-trade of which island is “run” by his people.
Garnet’s brother, who is a very successful man —a
millionaire, in fact, from a Tasmanian point of view—
goes regularly to church. Garnet doesn’t go to church, j
and is mean enough to say that if he were successful he |
would he thoroughly religious.
In F. R. C. Hopkins’ “Ladies” Australian
Annual,” an elegantly printed hook of last season, the
story that attracted most attention was called “ A
Romance of Coma” by Mura Leigh. It was a mere
sketch but singularly well done. “ Mura Leigh ”is the
atom de plume of a young Melbourne lady closely related
to a literary gentleman now on a visit to Sydney.
It was Sir James Martin who spoke of Went-
worth as ‘ First of first-bom Australians.’ Eloquent
words, these. Grand, too, was the conclusion of
Sir James’ oration. Speaking of the spot to which a
grateful country had that day consigned the remains of
Wentworth, he said: —‘Australians yet unborn will
wander thither and catch perchance some inspiration
from his tomb.’
Dr. Hamilton, the member for Gympie, has
been going in for athletics down south, at St. Kilda,
Melbourne. He carried off the silver champion cup for
diving. It was a gambol open to all comers, and the
meeting was held under the auspices of the South
Melbourne Swimming Club. The doctor is a grand
athlete and was in the early days of Gympie best man
among ten thousand.
The Hon. Neil Black, M.L.C., a Victorian
colonist of 41 years’ standing, died last week, aged 76.
He was immensely wealthy, and owned several of the
very best stations in the Western district of Victoria,
including Glenormiston, The Sisters, and Mount
Noorat. He will he chiefly remembered by his far-
famed N.B. brand of bullocks, which for years has
topped the Ballarat market.
The two eldest sons of H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales are coming to Australia in the Bacchante. Of
one of them—Prince George—it was a long time ago
related that on a certain occasion he was naughty and
was told by his royal mother to go under the table. He
did so. but at once proceeded to divest himself of his
apparel and came out in Adam-like simplicity, in full
view of the distinguished company. They say he’s
very like his father.
Mr. Harcus, of the Herald, the teetotal
monarch, is a “jolly little cuss” and a big man among
the spiritualists. Robbins’ gatherings see him every
week. Mr. H. has a lock of spiritual hair given him by a
materialised spirit. The spirits think a deal of Mr.
Harcus —in fact they always do treat reporters with
profound respect. However, it’s said that the teetotal
boss doesn’t think ranch of the spirits. The spirits of
men who have died of D.T. (Daily Twaodlegraph)
»sver appear to him.
Garnet Waleh of Melbourne, late of Sydney,
Parramatta, and Heaven knows where not, author and
induce of good fellows, is busy writing “ Victoria in 183),”
a handsome three guinea volume, descriptive of the
other colony. The illustrations will he most lavish. The
artist is a young man named Charles Turner, originally
intended for the church It is said that Garnet was the
cause of young Turner devoting himself to Art instead
of Theology as he at once perceived the marked ability
shown in a series of water colour sketches.
Lord Henry Yorke AstleyLoftus brother of His
Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, who died at home ou
23th February, was the youngest son of the second Mar-
quis of Ely, by Anna Maria, his wife, daughter of Sir H.
W. Dashwood Bart. ; was uncle to the present Marquis
of Ely. Lord Henry was educated at Oriel College,
Oxford, when he graduated in 1843: and he had a cap-
tain’s commission in the Wexford Militia. He married
July 5,1864, Louisa, Dowager Countess of Seafield, widow
of Francis William, sixth Earl of Seafield, but had no
issue.
A Mr. Reinhardt, being a believer in Spiritual-
ism, has seceded from the Brisbane Swedenborgiaus
and has built a brick building, which he call the ‘ Holy
Church of Zion.’ However, as our correspondent is a
non-believer, he is not admitted to Sunday services.
Every Wednesday evening Mr. Reinhardt gives a free
entertainment in his chapel. His daughter goes into
a trance and answers questions or quotes Swedenborg.
Miss Reinhardt is a teacher in one of the Brisbane
public schools. She is an exceedingly clever young
lady and her parents thoroughly believe in her.
F. F. Bailliere, the well-known Melboorne
bookseller and publisher, is sueing Dr. Beaney for
£4OO for procuring for defendant the appointment to
inspect, on behalf of the Victorian Government, the
charitable institutions of Europe. From this it would
appear that the happy family are falling out. Bailliere
and Butters, with Ralph Neppard Honuiugham, the
auctioneer and a few others used to be the constant
recipients of the doctor’s favors in consideration of
their services in conducting hospital elections, &c., on
his behalf. But now the glory is departed, and it’s a
case of * Jehovah Jira.'
The Marquis of Lome has just written a
National Anthem for Canada. He’s a beautiful
rhymer. The ancient Thomas couldn’t hold a candle
to him. For instance :
She does the victors nurture ;
Her’s are the conquering hours.
No foeman’s stroke shall hurt her.
This Canada of ours.
‘Nurture’ and ‘hurt her,’ and ‘hours’ and ‘ours’ show
roil poetic finish. Sir Harry’s ‘Murmurs of
the Stream’ sink into oblivion. Yet he held that
‘sun’ and ‘son’ were the correct thing in rhyme.
However, the verse is ‘very good —for a Marquis.’
Theodore Wood, who a few years back owned
Waitemata plantation, near Maryborough, and the
schooner Chance, and made no little stir in Queensland,
is now editing the Fiji Argus. The opposition paper,
the Times, goes for him tnusly : —‘ The ignorance of an
upstart, a miserable scrawler, who has seized the pen
as a last resource to eke out an existence * * and
who is in fact open to write or say anything for thirty
shillings a week, and is a dear article at that price.’ To
which Theodore replies in the Argus, ‘ Dat’s me: I
recognize my portrait, and feel flattered accordingly.’
‘Ouida’ is believed to have drawn her portrait of
4 Chandos ’ or at any rate a little bit of it, from Theo-
dore.
In one of our Sydney colleges there resides a
professor of classics, who a few years ago took distin-
guished honors at one of the home Universities, and
now reduced to a salary of £l5O per annum. So con-
is he of his own mental excellence that he is
thinking of editing a Latin grammar for the use of the
students at the University. He has a very poor opinion
of Smith, Zurapt, and a few other editors of Latin
grammars. Ou one occasion a young student, (who by
the way, hails from the same delightful clime as the
professor), thought fit to join issue with him on a point
of grammar viz : the use of the latiu conjunction
qiium. iha stndent quoted Zampt as his authority,
whereupon the professor stated that he did
not agree with Zumpt’s view of the case, as h"
was c mvinoed that the great German grammarian was
wro-ug. The student, equal to the occasion replied -n
reply which is still cherished by bis fellow <i himni as ;•
masterpiece of wit—that “it was great pro sit pt-ion on
the part of the learned professor to contradict Zumpt.”
Of course loud cheering followed this, and the professor
reasoned with pupils in vaiu. Talleyrand says that “to
attempt to silence a wit by force of logic is like
attempting to drown au echo by raising the voice.’’ One
for Bismarck against Home Rule.
Mr. J. S. Butters, who will best be remem-
bered as the husband of the handsome and clever lady
of that name (now. we regret to hive to siy, deceased),
has got into trouble through keeping company with
Mr. Gatehouse, the saveloy-maehiue-at-two-o’clock in-
the-moiming-riding ex-Mayor of Melbourne, who hos of
late been performing a series of funny aud expensive
practical jokes in various parts of Victoria. Butters,
by the way, was Mayor of Melbourne when the Dude of
Edinburgh first visited Victoria, and was so close and
constant an attendant on His Royal Highness that the
latter, it is asserted, used to say every morning when
he opened his eyes, ‘ O Lord, give us this day our bread
without our Butters.’ Butters, who is really a bold
speculator, has tried everything; hut of late years For-
tune has not smiled on him as she might have done.
He was Emperor of Fiji, or at any rate one of the
numerous emperors of Fiji during Burt & Co.’s regime—
in those glorious times, prior to the advent of Sir
Arthur Gordon, when ‘ square gin’ was a shilling a
bottle a f Le/uka. When the South Sea bubble burst
and the Fijian Monarchy was wound up he returned to
Australia, and bought the celebrated big Mudgee
crystal which he said was a diamond, but which the
Rev. W. B. Clarke assured him and the xmblic was only
quartz. People laughed, and a Collins-strcet confec-
tioner was cruel enough to make big candies and deri-
sively call them ‘Butters’ diamonds.’ This was
rough. Since then J.S.B. has been iu a good many
ventures, the late it being the Victoria Club, without
‘striking ile.’ But he is plucky, and we hope to see him
come out right in the end.
The ArsTßALivx (Windsor) says that Mr.
Benjamin Isaacs, of Windsor, Hawkesbury, is perhaps
the oldest compositor in the .colony, being 85 years of
age. He is a native of London, served his time with
Benjamin Rose Goakman. of Devonshire St., Bishopgate,
was on 3 of the first subscribers to the Printers’ Pension
Society in England, and came to the colony in 1832
(Governor Bonrke’s time). He was first employed as
overseer of the Sydney Monitor ; then he went to N.Z.
and conducted the Bay of Islands Advocate. He re-
turned to N. S. W., fulfilled four engagements at the
Government Printing Office, and then started the Parra-
ii ATT A Times, which failed. Subsequently he tried his
luck at Bathurst in the Bathurst Advocate and was the
first carry a press over the Blue Mountains. He has
been resident at Windsor for 29 years, is still hale and
hearty, has a bright recollection, can relate some funny
anecdotes of his life as an apprentice and as a master
and is without doubt one of the most surprising typos
in the colony.
Mr. Anthony Hordern.
The name of Hordern will always occupy a very
prominent place in the history of the solid mercan-
tile progress of Sydney. By the force of sound
principles of trade, unflagging energy, and un-
swerving integrity, all of which characterised the
career of the founder of the name, a business has
been built up in this city which has no equal in
the southern hemisphere. The benefitss which
this community has received from the establish-
ment of such a business have been manifold. The
retail trade of the whole colony almost has been
ruled by this one house, and all the advantages of
a free trade system have been secured to the
people ; and it must be to the general satisfaction
that this business now carried on so extensively
at the Haymarket has been committed to able
hands. Mr. Anthony and Mr. Samuel Hordern
form the present proprietary, and they have during
the past few' years developed the business to an
extent that is perfectly astounding. We give the
portrait to-day of Mr. Anthony Hordern, ■who,
during his brother’s absence in Europe, has the
sole management of the business. He was born
in Victoria in 1546, but came to this colony with
his family at an early age. When fourteen he was
sent to England to be educated, and spent two or
three years at Eugby. He returned to Sydney, but
went to England again in 1861, and spent two
years in a continental tour. On his return
to Sydney he entered his father’s business and
made himself thoroughly acquainted with all its
details. About two years ago the business of the
firm required Mr. Hordern’s presence in London
and New York, and on this occasion he chose the
San Francisco route. His trip was about the
quickest ever made. Having transacted his
business, he started homeward by way
of the Suez Canal. He proceeded to
Bombay, visited Agra and Benares, Calcutta,
and reached Sydney by way of Singapore five
months from the date of his departure. With all
the calls of his business, Mr. Hordern finds time
to see to the judicious investment of his capital in
improving that portion of the suburbs whore he
resides, and erecting dwellings on the most modern
plans and in healthy quarters for people of smaller
means.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Zulu woman have rings in their noses. Handy for
husbands.
We are to have plenty of female doctors, &e., shortly.
We’ll then want some female women.
Eugenie’s intimacy with Queen Victoria is said to
have injured the popularity of the latter in France.
He said, ‘ I love you my darling so trne’ —and she
artlessly added, * I’ll have my trousseaux ordered at
once.’
It is reported that the wife of Mackey, the bonanza
millionaire, has purchased the title of marchioness in
Spain or Italy.
Brisbane girls and Sydney ones, too, have taken to
their jackets and muffs, signs of approaching winter.
A good many take to mitflfs all. the year round.
Spaniards have a saying: ‘ln choosing a wife shut
your ey s and commend your soul to God.’ This is a
good rule, too, to observe in being hanged.
‘Jane,’ cried a fond mother, sticking her head out of
the bed-room door, ‘ it’s eleven o’clock. Tell the young
man to please shut the front-door from the outside.’
An American Justice, who was called upon to marry
a couple, ran off with the girl and wedded her himself,
leaving the lover in his office to look over law-books and
apostrophize his luck in getting left.
Mrs. Adolphus Trollope, the clever novelist, is quoted
by Mrs. Brewster, as exclaiming: ‘ Have you an ugly
woman in the United States ? For, surely, only beauti-
ful ones comes to Europe from your country! ’
A drunken officer recently excited horror by appear-
ing at a Brooklyn ball with a woman’s skeleton, strongly
articulated, for a partner. However, the bony lady was
quite harmless. She couldn’t articulate a syllable.
In the Leap-year balls now in vogue in New York, the
right of giving invitations to dance is claimed and
exercised by the ladies, who have, we regret to hear,
been a little more partial in their selections than one
would expect from the fair sex.
A boy of seventeen married a woman of seventy at
Jasper, Ala., but his parents captured him immediately
after the ceremony, and banished him to a distant
school. The bride was wealthy, and the husband
claimed to know what he was about.
The Empress of Austria, daring horsewoman although
she is, carries a large brown fan when hunting, and
holds it before her face when going over a fence, for
fear of getting scratched. It will not do for Her
Imperial Highness to be careless of her looks.
He told her that he loved her
In tones so soft and mellow ;
But she said she couldn’t marry him.
For she’d asked another fellow.
(This is leap year.)
Dr. Robertson. M.E.C.S., in lecturing at St. Kilda,
Melbourne, on the treatment of the apparently
drowned, said that efforts for the restoration of female
patients would be attended with more difficulty than in
the cases of men, owing to the manner in which lovely
woman injures herself by tight lacing and throwing
upon the upper part of the lungs the whole work of
those organs.
There is no 'place like San Francisco for enterprise,
after all. The other week the wife of a well-known
business man eloped. The departure was discovered
about ten o’clock in the evening, and at the same hour
the next morning the husband had the furniture sold at
auction and delivered up the key of the house to his
landlord the afternoon of the same day. He was
terribly afraid she would change her mind and return.
A Zulu princess named Amazulu has arrived in
Loudon, attended by three South African ladies acd
four men. She wears a kind of coronet, said to lie of
gold, as a head-dress, and a bodice even lower than the
prevailing fashion in English circles authorises. She
has been mobbed in the streets by a ruffianly crowd,
whose main object appeared to be to gratify their
curiosity, and bore this indignity with great composure,
thinking it an ‘ ovation.’
She wore the prettiest frizzled hair.
Of yellowish, golden sheen;
Her style it was so debonnaire.
And haughty was her mien;
Her actions, grace in every move.
Her walk—oh, heaven’s gait!
In fact, a creature made for love.
But, alas! her shoe was 8.
At a ball lately given by a well-known lady of Paris
several original ideas were developed. A flower
quadrille was danced, the ladies composing it repre-
senting the rose, the violet, the pansy, and other
flowers. The coiffures of other I idles wei e modelled on
certain historical portraits. Marie Antoinette. Mary
Queen of Scots, and Queen Elizabeth were said to be
so alarmingly correct that the people turned to the
pictures in question, fearing to see the frames denuded
of their canvas.
In the old days, says an English w. iter, the duchesses
and countesses reserved the lavish display of their
charms for the Court circle and the flunkeys, but since
the fashion of wearing priceless exotics in front of their
bodices has come in, no lady can wrap herself up,a nd
so the roughs and the loiterers are treated to an exhibi-
tion outside. Many a modest little milliner must have
blushed crimson as she passed through the crowd the
ether day and heard the men jeering at the ‘naked
Wennses ’ cn their way to Court.
MR. ANTHONY HORDERN.
How Randwick Asylum is Managed.
“And at the very same time that the banquet was going on, and some
wore drinking wine and others drinking water and oily speeches were being made on every
hand, there lay imprisoned almost beneath the banquet table three or four orphans
without food or raiment, who vainly sought in one another’s anus the warmth which the
management denied them.”— Extract from the minutes on the Loss of the Key of the Black
Hole at R[?]ndwick Asylum.


T
Lessee
H E A
T K E
Business Manager & Treasurer .
Stage Manager
TENTH WEEK and CONI
of
LTSTER and G
LONDON COMEDY
EutLmsiastic Reception of To
Comedy
NEW MEN AND 01
THIS EVENING, and UNTIL
Grand production, with all tin
effects, as produced at the Roy
bourne, of Tom Taylor’s brilliant
NEW MEN and 0D
Marmaduke Vavasour, Esq., ...
of Clove Abbey Id
Samuel Brown, a Liverpool
Merchant M
Bertie Fitzurse M
Mr. Bunter, a self-made man... M
Berthold Blasenbalg, a Minor
and Financier M
Seeker M
Gantry, Butler at Cleve Abbey M
Montmorency.servt. to Bunter M
Lady Matilda Vavasour M
Lilian Vavasour M
Mrs Bunter M
Fanny Bunter M
Prices of Admission.—Dress (
Family Circle, 25.; Pitt, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and Co.
where seats may be secured for
days in advance.
Doors open at 7; overture at 7.
ordered at 10.30.
ICTO R I A
Stage Manager M
HOLT’S NEW BAI
WITH ROUND AFTER ROUI
and
CHEER UPON CHEER OF
We on Saturday inaugurated tin
of
HOLT’S NEW BAI
HOLT’S NEW BAI
Already this truly great and gloi
played for four weeks, but those f<
accompanied with such happy re
flitted by as one.
Entwined in garlands wov
Exalted yet hum
Proud yet gratefn
we have passed into our fourth we
HOLT S NEW BAB
HOLT’S NEW BAB
From many and many a valle
throughout happy New South Wa
already resounded. Alter our pre
however, we hope that our eulogis
cast o’er the length and breadth c
perous laud. The ‘ Horse of Steel’
from that almost unknown but tra
beautiful interior. In fact, our iro
in from the four quarters of New
welcome visitors. They in good t
when far away in the mighty foresi
pool grassy plain, the thought of tl
Victoria Theatre will flash acros
struck by remembrance, will gathei
around his or her side, and, while
three hours of their lives over agaii
listeners of the wonderful drama cs
HOLT’S NEW BAS’!
The narrator will sf
I never laughed so much in
HOLT’S NEW BAB"
I never was so much exc
HOLT’S NEW BALE
I never saw such gorgeous s
HOLT’S NEW BABI
I never saw such a cast of ch
HOLT’S NEW BABI
When the narrator has said all tl
other thiings, he will only have spo
of the truths that may be uttered ii
HOLT’S NEW BABI
THE COLLISION on the .
is til A hpßf TIIOPP r»f mOdlioniorn .
U E E N’ S T H
Lessee ]
STILL ENTHUSIASTIC
of
ME. D AMPLER
LILY and EOSi
THIS (Friday) EVENIN’
For One Nifrht 01
HAMLET.
HAMLET ...
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s; Sh
Box plan at Nicholson and A
LIDDY, 1
AE K I
By
Specially chartered si
MACEDON.
CHIAEINI’S
ROYAL ITALIAN Cl
and
PEEPOEMING ANH
HAYMAEKET EESI
For a
SHOET SEASON O
commencing
THIS FRIDAY, Me
and
EVERY EVENING, at
MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS and SAT
AT 2 P.M.
20 (TWENTY) FIRST-CLi
A DEN OF PERFORMING ROYAL
SPORTING.
Bathurst Coursing.
BY SIRIUS.
[CONCI.UIiED.]
The finish of the coursing, after I wrote yon last
was quite ou a par with the sport ou the opening days ;
and the weather continued grand right through. On
Saturday night a special train was put on, by which
several Sdyneyites departed ; but a considerable numler
remained, and there was a good attendance at the
paying over of stakes, which took place at the Royal.
This is a great improvement on having the cheques
handed over to to the winners at the Sydney Royal, as
heretofore. There was a plentiful supply of ' fizz,’ aud
the usual amount of speechifying, the eloquence being
of several qualities, the toasts comprising the Queen,
the President, the winners, the losers, the judges aud
supper, the chairman (Mr. George Lee), the trainers,
etc.; but somehow neither the ladies nor the Press
were proposed. The judge aud slipper seem to have
given pretty general satisfaction ; there being ouly two
or three Imunnurs at Mr. M’Culloch’s fiats • but it
would be a perfect marvel if a fallible white man went
through five days’ hard coursing without making some
slight mistake. At any rate, nobody doubts the loan
lutes of either Mr. M’Oulloch or Mr. Bamuer ; and both
are highly esteemed up here for their courtesy, quiet-
ness, and absence of side. As for the greyhounds that
ran, there are many not up to a high standard of ex-
cellence. r ihe best to my liking are the Dockairne and
Derby winners, and Lethe; but some of the puppies
that were early pat out will be heard of again.
Bince the coursing, I have had a look at the Clydesdale
stallions, Jack’s the Laird,aud Old Yorkshire Hero.both
looking well, though the former is a good deal higher
in condition than I like to see.
My old friends, Rayner aud Stanley, are hero with the
American Tour Panorama, aud had a capital house last
night. Mi-. Stanley does the talkiug business in his
usual excellent style, and is as auiusinga companion off
the stage as ever, full of information, acquired by
years of travel all over the world. Mr. Mathias, who
travels with the troupe is one of the best comet soloists
l over heard in the colonies, and the show is a good one.
I’m sorry to find Mr. Rayner exceedingly deaf, which is
a sad affliction.
I am glad to say The Bulletin takes well here, and
will make its way throughout this district. People say
it’s the best-got-up paper published in Sydney. It only-
wants pushinq to ensure success. All the coursists
have departed to their homes, and the city looks dull;
which is about all the news I have to tell concernin'*
the sports we have had.
Touching the future, I may tell you that when Mr.
Goodchap was here last week he was asked by Mr.
Tonkins, the honorary secretary of the Bathurst Cours-
ing Club, to grant excursion fares for the meeting to be
held here on the Bth aud 9th of June, to which he at
once gave an affirmative answer; and he has since wired
up to say that racehorses will be taken to Parramatta
Races at a single fare for the double journey. The
coursing here of the local club promises to be a great
success.
Bathurst, May 19.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Jason, the racer, lias been rallied for £4O.
In Canada many horses are suffering from
small-pox.
Mr. W. F. Neilson, the well-known X.Z. sports-
man, is dead.
The Q.T.C. propose to run the totalisator
on their own hook.
The Dalby, Ipswich, and Toowoomba races
take place in June.
301 b. fish, caught near Merrendee, have been
on sale at Mudgeo.
Hart, winner of the O’Leary belt, bags 22,000
dollars by his victory.
The Autumn Meeting of the Queensland Turf
Club commences to-day (22nd.)
Barney Simmons’ (Cafe Royal) sweep, £5OO on
the Brisbane Cup, is filling up well.
A correspondent wants to know how many
Bulls there are in the Glebe Bowing Club.
The Haidee and the Ethel are to sail another
match at Adelaide. Last time the former won easily.'
That grand old horse Yattendon, the property
of the Hon. E. K. Cox, died on Friday week at Penrith.
The Hon. George M‘Lean of X.Z. has unavail-
ragly offered the Hon. W. J. Clarke 1,000 guineas for
Petrea.
Attention is drawn to the capital programme
provided by the Parramatta Kaciug Club for
Birthday.
A bill to legalise the totalisator in Victoria has
been drafted, printed, and distributed at the instance
of the Y.R.C.
In 128 hours, Terront, the French bicycle
champion, winner of the recent great English contest
rode 1,272 miles.
Steve Byrne, of Brisbane, has a £l,OOO sweep
open on the Melbourne Cup and the Metropolitan His
list is filling rapidly.
We notice that Lone Hand and Agent are both
to carry the same weight (12st 7lbs) in the N.Z. Grand
National Steeplechase.
At the Upper Hunter Gun Club’s pigeon
match at Muswellbrook on Friday, last Mr. Charles
Father was the winner.
A pigeon match takes place during the Brisbane
race week, at which several crack shots from Sydney
are expected to put iu an appearance. J
A. J. Phillips has sold the A.S.X. Hotel, Bris-
bane, and goes to Sydney. His successor is a Mr.
t ishley, who originally oecnpied this house.
Callaghan and MacGuire had a prize fight near
Philadelphia on April sth. The latter was nearly
beaten to death. Callaghan and his seconds fled.
The Barb and Orphan are locally most fancied
for the Brisbane Handicap, while the Major, Sydney
Warhawk, and Orphan are equal favourites for the Cup!
The Australian cricketers have beaten Derby-
shire by three runs and eight wickets to spare. The
scores were—Derbyshire, 43 and 125 Australia 129
and 42.
The Australian team has beaten eighteen
gentlemen of Hampshire in one innings with 21 runs to
spare. The scores were—Australians, 250; Hampshire
11C and 113 respectively. 9
The long-looked-for foot-race between Carver
and Callaghan fell through on Monday last, Carver’s
backers forfeiting the £5O staked. Carver is said to be
suffering from influenza.
The Brisbane Race Course is now a favourite
rendezvous in the morning. Messrs. J. P. Bell, Wilson
k iunio. Brown (Glen Innes), J. Abrahams and other
trainers are to he met there.
Carver’s party offer to back him to run Calla-
ghan at the end of May for £l5O aside; and Callaghan’s
followers l>ack their man to run any one in the colonies
150 yards for £lOO or £2OO aside.
A four-mile race for 30,000 dollars is proposed
in ’Frisco for November next. Eaastem racing men
wdl nominate if Governor Stanford and Theodore
Winter guarantee payment of the prizes.
Joe. Silberberg, the bookmaker, is now in
Brisbane. His honourable conduct in arranging at
great personal sacrifice, hia book after the Sydney Gold
Cup has won the confidence of the public and he is
being well patronised.
At the South Melbourne Swimming Club’s
meeting, M’lndoc swam 100 yards in 1 min. l” seconds.
He swam in costume. Wc believe the best home time for
this distance has been 1 min. 10 secs. There is some
talk of sending M’lndoe home.
Mr. S. IT. Hvam, Commodore of the Sydney
Sailing Clnb, was on Saturday last, at the luncheon
given in connection with the closing cruise, presented
by the members with a splendid claret-jag in recognition
ot lus valuable patronage and assistance.
Petronel, winner of the 2,000 Guineas at New-
market, is by Musket (now standing in New Zealand),
son of the ‘ roaring ’ Toxopholite, who all but won
ixoru Derby the ribbon he coveted most of al! symbols
ot honor, and which it was ordained he never should
wear.
Oxford ond Cambridge men, sure of their
social position, admit to competitions at, Lillie Bridge
sports many a man of low degree who would be in led
out of open competitions organised bv London clubs,
they laugh at the thin line which divides ‘ gin tic men
engaged in business ’ from * men employed in trade.
The Government Printing Office Annual
Eegatta takes place at Mosroau’s Bay on the sth of
next month. At. daylight everv morning the boats in
Woolloomooloo Bay are besieged by comps, in active
training. A prominent member of the Carltons is
doing lus work in Johnson’s Bav. The ‘slide’is ia
extensive demand.
Ld wards and Baker kept most wonderfully and
beautifully close together during what appears by - sonic
clever people to have been regarded as their very ex-
citing 4S hours’ contest at the Guild Hall on Friday and
baturday. Edwards of course won. He covered the
sensational distance of lot miles and C laps; Baker
°7® r miles and live laps. The Victoria Band
attended.
Some punctilious people sav that the members
of . Glebe Bowing Cinb might mlvantageously spend
a little more money on their aquatic wardrobes One
?/• t , W ° ot J'.V e n!elnbers are vei- y '>ke in stylo unto
Hislop, a Melbourne rowing celebrity. The latter has
a. representation of a full-rigged man-of-war tattoed ou
lus herculean chest. The girls, who modestly admire
him through the willows on the banks of the Yarra
call him * the picture gallery,’
It is said by the local paper that after Poland
who ran Gardiner the other day at Bnlli for £5O aside’
had been defeated, he was left to put on hiscloth-s as
best he could. He sat down and remarked, ‘ Now that
I have lost the race they’ve left me like a dog.’ < He was
allowed to wander about Bnlli withont a soul to cheer
him or a penny in his pockets, his trainer and backer
going straight away home after the race. Only tor a
person who took compassion ou him giving him i’l and
a pair of boots he would have hid to walk to Appiu and
thence to Wagga, where he belongs to.’
W bile waiting for Lynch and Sullivan to
start last Saturday alight skiff race took place between
George Gordon of Eyde and George Ocoles of Glades-
ydle, tor £2O a-side. Great interest was fakenin it by
residents on the Liver, and two steamers were well
tilled by the friends of the competitors. Gordon was
the tavounte, but he had not the ghost of u show with
lus opponent, who won in a canter from cud to end We
hear that the winner, who sculled over fourteen stone
and is barely of age, was brought out by the Tricketts,
and we think that if he is well looked after he will
ngure in tar more important contests,
A sculling mat eb between James Lynch and
Peter Stilli ran took place last Saturday afternoon
over the Champion Course, Fan-amatta Liver, resultin'-
man easy win for Lynch. The steamers Prince of
Wales and Princess accompanied the race, hut were
poorly patronised. About half-past fonr the men ap-
peared at the post, but not much interest was mani-
fested, as L; nch was greatly fancied. The tide had
commenced to run up, and Sullivan having won the toss
wisely took the northern station. No time was lost
and the men, starting by mutual consent, got away at
the first attempt. Before 100 yards had been covered
Lynch showed slightly in front. As they approached
Cfir s Point he increased his lead and crossed his op-
ponent, who was rowing a long laboring stroke. From
this to the end it was a regular procession. Lynch,
who, altho he scnlled with his work too high, rowed
very nicely, eventually passed the winning post ten
lengths ahead, slightly under 24 minutes from the
start. .Neither ot the men may be termed and
it is time both gave np racing.
At last Tnte»-Uu iversity athletic sports, belt!
at Lillie Bridge, London, in March, Lucas (Cambridge)
won the 100 yards’ race in 10 2-sth seconds. The hurdle
race over the usual course and distance.fell to Laurence
(Oxford), who won by a yard in 1G 3-sths secs., which
seeing that the wind was blowing against the runners
tor the wost part of the way. was a very good per-
formance and within one of a ’Varsity best ou record
i he qmuter-mije turned ont an easy victory for Macaulay
(Cam.) in ol 2-oth sees. The three-mile event was won
by Hough in 15 min. 1 l-sth sec. The best time pre-
viously made for three miles at these sports was It min
46 sec. Hough, it is thought, could under favourable
circumstances beat this. East (Cam.) won the weight
putting with 3/ ft. 5 in., and also the hammer throwing
with 116 ft. The high jump was appropriated bv
Macaulay (Cam.) with 5 ft. 9 in. ; and Wood (Oxford')
won the long jump with 20 ft. 11} in.
It is said of old King, the Flying Pieman, that
during his younger days—before' he descended to
decorating his legs with copies of the Sydney Morning
Herald— his favourite amusement was racing the mail
from Sydney to Parramatta. This feat has lately been
eclipsed by a somewhat similar one jierformed by a
prominent member of one of onr rowing clnhs and an
officer of the Audit Department. As the symptoms are
somewhat similar we may yet have to record the fact
that these gentlemen have taken to clothing themselves
with Hie woi-u-ont skirts of our aged coutemjiorary It
was during the late inclement Easter holidays The
mail coach while on its way to Campbelltown had
stopped at Bnlli for refreshment at 10 p.m. As the
moon shone out brightly and there were prospects of
fme weather our enthusiastic pedestrians started on foot
ahead of the coach. They bounded away in the ex-
uberance of their spirits and sped along merrily. They
reached the junction of the roads where the mail road
turns suddenly to the right,ascending the Bnlli Pass but
innocently they passed it and sped on away along the
coal-cliff road, nothing daunted, cheered with the idea
that the coach was far behind. It was only when
stopped by a torrent that crossed the road half way up
the mountain, the thought suggested itself that they
were on the wrong track. The rain commenced to de-
scend in torrents, and, to make matters worse, their
overcoats were on the mail coach. Turning about
through slush, mud and rain, they flew down the moun-
tain to find on again reaching civilisation that they
were indeed on the wrong track, and that the coach
turned off to the right two miles further on. With the
prospect of a tramp of 34 miles over a dreadful road in
the worst of weather, they made the best of their way
to the junction of the two roads and there ascertained
that the coach (was but a quarter of an hour ahead.
Already wearied and almost knocked up they com-
menced the ascent of the Bnlli Pass, only pausing at
brief intervals for the purpose of getting the necessary
wind for a combined cooey, to be answered by the
howling of the wind and the rushing af the mountain
torrents. At last they reached the top, where to their
intense joy they found the coach delayed by a broken
trace. But even here their troubles were not ended
Being thoroughly drenched, to rest was to be almost
frozen, for the wind was bitterly cold, the country now
being comparatively level. Our heroes decided to start
on again, and s acceded in reaching the stables at King’s
I alls at one a.m., a distance of some fifteen miles from
Bulb ahead of the mail and where they were able to
obtain a welcome change of warm clothing.
The Ghost.
A party o. gentleman had camped out at Marubra Bay
One of them, looking along the beach, beheld what he
considered an apparition indulging in weird antics. He
approached timidly, and saw it was a fisherman.
The grim mis-shapen thing now glided near.
With grim fantastic gestures now it springs •
In front with angry glare the billows gleam, ’
Behind, the shadow of the spectre clings.
To what fell purpose tends that frantic leap ?
O ! powers of Heaven, why that desp’rate clutch ,J
Is t battling with some spirit from the shades
That I am not allowed to see or touch ? ’
Far down the south, above the stormy sea.
The sword of God divides the murky vault •
The monstrous apparition stands erect
And shrieks a shriek that seems to bid me halt.
It waves aloft a dark and bony claw
Horror! unearthly bonds around roe twine,
A grating yell hursts on the affrighted ear,
‘ Sfoa thundering fool, got off my fishing lino!
G. I. M.
Messrs. W. Tayler and Co’s. Warehouse.
We give in the accompanying engraving a sketch o
the warehouse of Messrs. W. Taylor and Co., wholesal
druggists, &c., Pitt-street, in this city. The house i
well known to the trade throughout the Australian
colonies, having for more than a quarter of a century
been of the chief emporiums of chemists ant
druggists goods in Sydney. The building is admirabh
suited for its purposes; it has a great depth with
splendid cellarage and extensive floors or flats, where
the various branches of the present large business are
carried on. The^front of the premises are devoted tc
the clerical stall, counting-house, &c. On the seconc
floor there is what is undoubtedly one of the finest dis-
plays of surgical instruments to be found in these colo-
nies. It includes all the latest improvements in these
instruments, the aim of the proprietors being to place
the profession hero on a par in this respect with the
profession in London. It is satisfactory to find that the
provincial hospitals of this colony are taking advantage
ot the facilities thus offered them. The second and
third floors of this part of the building are devoted to
light pocking and to the making up of chemicals, Ac.,
from the hulk to the smaller stock. Returning to the
maw portion of the edifice, a capital arrangement is
found for facilitating the work carried on there. The
floors rising to the height of four storeys, are in extent
about 80 feet long by 30 feet wide. And extending
the whole length of the building are splendid
cellars oi considerable depth, where there is an
enormous stock of oils, resin, naptha and other
dangerous material. Ou one floor several experts are
engaged obtaining tinctures and making pharmaceuti-
cal preparations, and in this respect a very large busi-
ness is done with most of the retail houses in and
out of Sydney. Drying ovens and appliances for these
and other like purposes are to be found on the premises,
and the work is earned on under the immediate superiu-
donce of the head of the firm. On the other floors the
work of packing, or of reducing bulk to smaller stock,
is being carried on, fifteen to twenty assistants being
engaged in tins work alone. It would be useless tc
attempt here an enumeration or a description of the
stock, even on view. It must suffice to say that it
represents a large amount of capital. Several persons
are engaged in these premises bottling and labeling the
celebrated Qninetum Wine, which is the sole property
ot DrTayler. This wine is made up in bottles in the same
manner as the better descriptions of champagne and
has without doubt the largest sale of any colonial
proprietory of the kind. It has won the highest
testimonials from the medical profession in this and
the adjoining colonies, and is termed by them * The
Modern Tonic.’ A large business is likewise done in
the Concentrated Extract of Sarsaparilla, as prepared
by Dr. Tayler. This article is likewise commended by
the profession as one of the most genuine preparations
of its kind yet presented to the public. Messrs.
Tayler and Co., are the colonial agents for Messrs.
Kilner Brothers, the famous English manufacturers of
bottles, and import all their goods. They are likewise
agents for Goundry’s Consolidated Tea, Hayden’s
Salicylic Acid, and the majority of English and Colonial
Patents and Proprietaries.
TVe find that pressure on our space
compels us again to omit the continu-
ation of “ Adrienne,” our musical and
dramatic review and the bulk of our
sporting’ matter. However, we hope
that our _ readers will overlook these
shortcomings in view of the announce-
ment made in our leading columns in
regard to the ENLARGEMENT of
The Buxletix, commencing with next
publication.


"pi O R AND A
“FREETHOUGI
A Monthly Illustrate
Devoted to Argnmeu
FEEETHOUGHT, SPIRITUALS
CLAIRVOYANC
AND OCCULT SC IE
j Published on the 15 4 h of each men
ihe 15th February,
PEICSr—9b. Per C
PUBLISHED BY B. CYRIL
BOX 152, G.P.0., So
The mime “FEEETHOUGHT”
being ft word under which a wi-
ll! lowed for discussion.
Palters have been irromised by cmi
SinrituaUsm, Ac. ; and well-knowi
IN FAVOUP. of it, so that the s
ventilated..
Well-autbeuticatod Phenomena
its pages. The latest trad best inst
holding of seances, mesmerism, Ac
Notices of public mediums and s;
o arrive in the colony, with repo
will he published, and everything »
“ PEF.ETHOCfim” a- vehicle for til
feuse.
15 THE
GREAT PUZZJ
15
BUT AT THE HEAD-Q
WHOLESALE & E
AMERICAN NOVI
D E P O T,
(OPPOSITE AUSTRALIAN
BANK")
AND
MAEKET-STEE
15 SYDNEY.
rjIHB STANDAED AME]
COLLAB, AND CUFF I
100 KING STEEET,
(entrance in light-of
A PERFECT FIT QUAj
ORDERS EXECt
with
NEATNESS AND DR
1 TTUVTm *CI UTITTtn? Cl
Australian mutual
society.
ESTABLISHED 11
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STHS
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LI I
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTOR
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M
John H. Goodlot, Esq., Deputy-C
Robert Saddiugton, Esq. I Isa
Robert J. King. Esq. I S. i
CHIEF MEDICAL OF
Dr. W, F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P.
Terrace.
ACTUARY:
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. ( A
Etc tract from Post Magazine (I
ceiuber, 1879, on the sixth Quinqw
Society : . . ; *lt id, as a wl
plete statement over issued by a
affords an incontestable proof that
success it tells is the result, not of i
tic.il and theoretical ability, gover
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Londo
1880, says; ‘No British Company
with the Australian Mutual, which,
of its existence, has received in inter
than it has been called upon to pay
ACCUMULATED FUND, THP
STERLING.
ICTOEIA PHOTOGRAI
PRICES.
PORTRAITS
Caete di: VisrrE
Cabinets
MULTIPLYING CAM
(5 Bos Toss
16 Double Gems
Open from 0 a.m. till
Entrance—VESTIBULE. VICTC
PITT STREET
Atlas foundry and eng
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron a
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—l
prepared to undertake contracts for
Marine and Stationary Engines, D
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Shee
Sugar Mills, and all other deacrip
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with i
price given for old metal.
CIITY HAIRDRESSING AND
J 220 PITT STREP
(Opposite Tattersatl’s
Mil, JAMES CLARKE, P
V The BATHS of this establ:
pasted in Sydney, leing titled uj
absolutely new principles, which <
them an extensive public patronage
N.B.—The best brands of Tol
Novelties in Pipes, Walking-sticks,;
■JIIEST - PEIZE SEWING
At the Sydney luternatiocnl Exl
1880, after a contest extending over
severest tests yet applied to Sowing
tralin, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST 1
for
SEWING MACHII
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEI
on every point.
READ THE AWA
“Tho New Davis Sewing Mach in
departure from tho ordinary style C
possessing all the advantages of su
machines, and in addition an incren
with the greatest simplicity of cons
tion in number of working parts, we
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes conld express no more tl
by SHEER MERIT in competitio
WORLD, tho opportunity being ful
E
ley and
OPERA HOUBI
corner of King imd Yort
.THIS (Friday) EVENING
POSITIVELY LAST 1
of
KELLY andJLEOI
GIGANTIC VAUDE\
and
SPECIALITY OOMI
KE-APPEARANCE OF THE
He-apx>earance of the oi
In New Pieces, Specialities, and Mas
Xu order to meet the general deair
-mi-uieiuent have great pleasure In
111 POPULAR PRICES, POPUJ
Dress Circle...Us
Stalls 2s,
Pit Is
Brilliant Success, Brilliant
OBLIGING A FREE
Groat Success. Great S
ESMERALDA,
Immense Sneeess. Immens
LESTER'S ELECTIC BA
Tremendous Ovation. Tremendoi
THE ONLY' LEO
In his New Specualit
Big Success, Big Sn
BELLES OF THE KPI
Box Plan at Nicholson and I
UEEN’S BIETHDA
Parramatta races, parbj
Hurdle Race, closed with
Flying Handicap
Prince of Wales Stakes
Birthday Hiuidicap
Park Stakes
Two-year-old Handicap
Galloway Handicap
Fares by train: Return Tickets
and FIVE PENCE, cheaper tha
letter sport.
The best place for a day’s outin
PARRAMATTA RA
-|VT U L L I SEC
Tha most successful SHOW ev
Australia.
HUDSON’S SURPBISI
OP
LADY AND GENTLEMEN
The Monarchs of F
who have just concluded the most b
achieved by any company on the c
Queensland.,
Will perform at
WAG G A W A
ON
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TU
WEDNESDAY,
22nd, 21th, 25th, and 2ili
MELBOURNE (ST. GEORG
From
SATURDAY' (sth June) to FRI
inclusive.
__
r_iT. BENEDICT’S HALL,
STREET.
On QUEEN’S BIBTHNIQH T 1
CLUB will give an entertainment,
duced the sparkling comedy “ CHE
ciude with the side-splitting fare
WILLS ”
Front seats, 2s; back seats. Is.
ti) commence at 8, sharp.
P. J. 1
rjtjHß GREAT WAXWORK:
NOW OPEN, opposite the Vi etc
street. Just ARRIVED, from
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE W(
Christine, the two-headed Nightingv
he;ids, four arms, four legs, and one
Admission Is, children half price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
-]|/f A S O NIC
Tweed trousers to m
well shrunk. LEWIS, 63 Wi
W INTER OYER
* * LEWIS, 63 William-street
Xfl MASON, LAND AGEN
street, Woolloomooloo, Syd
of LAND for Sale at Waverley, i
Narrondera and Wagga Wagga.
K EARLY BROTHERS, COAI
BUILDERS,
200 PITT STREET, SI
Near Park-street
JF. CRIPPS, PASTE
• CONFECTIONED
267 (late 250) Pitt Stse
Bulls, Suppers, Pic-nics, dtc., ca
best style.
Robert butci
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME:
533 GEORGE STRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Cocxtet Oepf.tss Receive Pro
C
HAS. IL D J
GENERAL STOREYEI
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD,
A.wnt for the Colonial Mutual Life
OCULIST.— Professor 1
Oculist, (Late of the
Eye Hospital) 129 WILLIAI
may be consulted daily—lo
2 to 4 r.M,
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. S
SOLICITOR, has eon
proof ice of his profession, at
PUTT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
Q AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIMb
16 EIiSKINB SfUEI
Every description of Foreign an
Doors." Sashes, Shingles, Palings, 1
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at
ESTABLISHED 1
XIOWLER’S P(
AND
BRICK WORK
CAMPEEDOWN, NEA
Price List on applicn
DOLPHE GABR]
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC
18 WYNYARD SQU
(two dooes from pfahi.ee
SYDNEY.
CAUTION
Owing to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. Q. and Co. fl
caution their patient;
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS If
David m
14 HUNTER STREET,
By Special Appointi
SADDLER AND HARNEi
to His Royal Highness the DUKE
His Excellency the Eight Honora
BELMOEE, His Excellency Sir He
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency I
LOFTUS, K.C.M.Q.
Awarded First Prize for Gentleme
Atrricaltaral Exhibition 1839, 187


lONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENT
Whose success is attributed to his P
iu catering for the million at su
PRICES as to enable every working
and fashionably, while those with i
disposal can wear so many extra
reasonable rate. viz.:
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure. 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS. 635. w.
BLACK DRESS SUITS,- to meism
Who will not avail themselves -
GETTING MEASURED at ZI(
ESTABLISHMEb
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, iu fan
cloth, 25s : worth CTs
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, ul
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TEOUS
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA
SILK COATS. Men’s and Bovs’, Os
CRICKETING TROUSERS,*I2s 6d
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready f<
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WI
A TRIAL WILL CON
Do not mistake the premises—
WARS A W H O
409 GEORGE STRI
THE ONLY ZIONS IN
O U N D
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
is very much stronger than the san
The reason is very simple. The gre
to bear on the leaf crushes the sn
tain the essential strength and rea
and which is to a great extent lo
loose tea is vised.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compr
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by ns
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
As mneb strength is drawn out
minutes as can be drawn oat of
Compressed in five hours. The tab
t be consumer can calculate to au our
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell Gate Secretary of
opinion that the English Govemmt
adopt this method of solidifying its
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in bis spei
given in his hononr after bis retiin
was one of the most valuable impro
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it a!
specially to England for a fresh sup
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Bri
brated Tea at Winchester, and whev
four years ago discarded the ordi
continued to use GOUNDRY’S COJ
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir
the Tea, and acknowledged the advii
so easily stored, whilst still retain!
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families wi
A trial is respectfully s
To hs obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLOR o
Wholesah
175, P
Sole Agents for the Australian C<
TO BRAY FOR YOU!
It is the cheapest shop iu tl
Note the address
E. BE AY,
Stationer and Books
Newtown Road.
F
OR ALL DESCRI
MEDICINE!
GO TO
SEL F I
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STRE
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL C
An elegant preparation for all ai
WINTER NECESSI
OA L VASES
For the Dining Boom,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Boom,
Ac., Ac,
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
)]p
m
THE SYDNEY GABDEN PALACE
(Manufactured for the ISSJ Seasor
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORi
rjaEAU S T E A
(Now in its Fourth Voeus:
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH
PBICE—ONE SHILLING.
_j
ALL BOOKSELLE
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE
ILLUSTBATED WITH PHOTOT’i
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clip]
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Ahyeetisem
TIME TABLES FOE FERRIES, MAILS, 1
!
’BUSES.
Cr UNS ’
J^IFLES,
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY
C. COWLES,
Practical GrxjiAK
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE
B
OYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PJ
200 and 2(52 GEORGE-S'J
(over Peate and Harco
Now open to the Public. The highi
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Col
Crayon Water Colours, anil
will be produced
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fadi
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respccl
n
S T
YDNEY INTERNATIONA
FIRST PRIZE.
That extraordinary and amusing i
through the Hat,” as performed
a capital joke. Price, 3s. 6d., with
do it. Post free, 4s.
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and a
tricks at
BAILEY & KERB’S NOYELT
503 GEORGE STRI
SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Polic
For ONE MONTH ONLY, prior t
Melbourne.
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAG
- *
To prevent fraud and deception
the following words on the steel sli
they ship their sole agents in Aust)
All Genuine Maob
stamped
M. MOSS and C
Sole Agents,
Svdnev. N. S. \
The great northern hotel.
(Lato “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel- and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
AND HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mr. P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
*** Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
M
ETEOPOLITAN STAKES CONSULTATION,
1860.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-starters (divided among
£lOOO
400
200
200
200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usual
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
TattersalTs Clr.b, Sydney.
