

THE BULLETIN
No. 9.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1880.
Price—3d.
Wty Ihtlldra,
SATURDAY, MARCH 27, 1880.
The School of Arts and the Sabbatarians.
As the people of New South Wales have with-
drawn State aid from religion, practically assented
to a secular system of education and manifested a
disposition to divert the revenue of the Church
and School lands from a religious into an educa-
tional channel, it might be imagined that the
community as a whole had decided no longer to
brook ecclesiastical interference in strictly politi-
cal and social matters. However, it now appears
that those people who wrote more inflammatory
letters to the papers and made more violent
speeches at the recent education meetings than
their neighbours, object, not to ecclesiastical
tyranny, but merely to clerical interference of a
particular sort. The dispute in regard to the
proposed opening of the Sydney Mechanics’ School
of Arts on Sundays shows strikingly that C-ffISAB
and Pompet are very much alike, and that, how-
ever undesirable it may be for bishops and priests
of the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches to
import religious considerations into politics, the
toleration by the community of an undue exercise
•of power by clergymen and semi-clerical persons
of other denominations is attended by equally
•calamitous results. That irreproachable and
immaculate body, the Young Men’s Christian
Association, having arrived at the foregone con-
clusion that the opening of the School of Arts on
Sundays should be pre-
vented, at once proceeded to
give effect to the resolution
which it had kindly adopted
in the interests of the com-
munity by making extensive
additions (of a proper kind)
to the list of members of
the institution named, and
“packing” the meeting
called for the purpose of
considering whether the
decision arrived at by a
previous meeting should
not be rescinded. The argu-
ments used against the pro-
posed opening of the School
of Arts were as lame and
impotent as were those
employed by Mr. Bu-
chanan in the recent poli-
tical discussion ; but as the
Young Men, at the head of
whom is the Sydney
Morning Herald, occu-
pied in regard to the
audience a position exactly
similar to that which the
blatant Mudgee apostle
filled with respect to his
hearers on the occasion
just referred to, bigotry
triumphed just as political
ignorance had done before
it. The Young Men, who
cannot compel people to go
to Church, are determined
to show them that there is
no medium between reli-
gious exercises and drunken
brawls, and are bent upon
forcing on the public an
intolerable dogma concern-
ing the observance of the
Sabbath. No one objects
to people going to church
°r to any one church in
Particular, but the State having absolutely
. P®d hands of the sects and placed Pro-
stants, Roman Catholics, Jews and Gentiles
», a , common footing, we have as much
1 v to object to the young men attending
• .J. °n Sunday as they have to prevent our
wfi^T^ 8011001 of Arts 011 that day of the
wee*, in the interests of employes and of the
an species the State has a right to see that no
aster compels his_ workmen to labour on the day
i° m immemorial has been one of
tliio ICal r ’ knt while exercising its right in
enoi., r *!? arC * «?d securing the toiler against the
1,. a tmg effects of unceasing work, the State
SnnrW n S i?l_ ss dictate in what manner the
whioli e , R P ent - And though any power
fairlv i, 068 on K to the body politio cannot
vef fLj 6 exerci s o d by a member of that body, we
into a 1 r um ber of people banding themselves
deavni,^ e bgaous ass °ciation and successfully en-
munif/ j° orce down the throats of the com-
a dogma which is revolting to one’s
tCpn™ SonSe i 5? ? he dogma of the Infallibility of
Heb™ woul d be to Pastor Chiniqut. The
r ehgious c ° 1 “° lun . lt y;.the least bigoted of all the
School rf denominations, might demur to the
have a opened on Saturdays and
than Im-L-a+m' ar F ume nt to support its objection
institution i 10 ? s. Puritans who object to an
i devoted .to intellectual Iculture being
available for the use of the public on the only day
on which a large section of the community are
able to attend it. It is enough that already
the ears of those who walk on Sunday in our
parks are offended by the ungrammatical
blasphemies of canting impostors; that many
useful public institutions are closed on Sun-
day ; that an honest man cannot legally pro-
cure a cigar and a glass of beer on Sunday ; that
one who has worked hard from Monday morning
till Saturday night cannot on Sunday take train to
the Blue Mountains if he so desire. We want no
addition to the disabilities under which the com-
munity labours by reason of the fact that narrow-
minded persons wish in the nineteenth century to
maintain or re-institute the bigotries of past-
generations. It is argued that the opening of the
School of Arts on Sunday would necessitate some
one losing his Sabbath rest. It would certainly
involve someone’s working on the first day of the
week, but if the person in question happened to be
one whose conscience allowed him to work and who
was not forced to do so by the members, we fail to
see how, on the principle of “ the greatest good to
the greatest number,” one man should not work
in order that a hundred may amuse themselves
in a worthy manner. The large attendance at the
Free Public Library on every Sunday is a testi-
mony to the good effects of making such institu-
tions available on the day of public rest. The
established policy of this colony now appears to
be thoroughly secular, and there are grave obvei-
tions to the State any longer continuing to heavily
subsidise an institution whose members are
governing it on so-called “ religious ” principles.
The Sabbatarian subscribers pay a poor compli-
ment to their institution by regarding it as unfit to
be entered on Sunday. There are really thousands
of persons, including clerks and literary men, who
have no opportunity whatever during the week of
availing themselves of the many advantages
offered by the reading-room of the School of Arts.
The action of the Sabbatarians in this matter
should, however, be resisted as a matter of princi-
ple and apart from all considerations as to the
result of the recent vote on the working of our
Mechanics’ Institute. If hostilities continue
there will ere long be need in Sydney for a new
institution conducted on modern and rational
principles.
Legal Vagaries.
Mtstbeious are the ways of the law and the
lawyers. The brilliant David Buchanan has
been vigorously defending some of the net-full of
small fry who were arrested the other evening in a
place which has been dignified by the name of a
“ gambling hell,” but the operations at which are
after all as insignificant when compared with those
of some well-known Sydney houses —frequented,
not by printers and bootmakers et hoc genus omne,
but by men who throw dice for hundreds —as are the
transactions at a Mongolian fan-tan party in a
fossioker’s tent beside those which take place at
Monaco faro-tables. Of course it does not matter
that only a week or two ago, during the debate on
Mr. Teebt’s bill, the very same David delivered
a thundering philippic on the subject of gambling
and gamblers. It may, however, be a little more
easy to account for a lawyer, especially if that
lawyer be Mr. Buchanan, talking on two opposite
sides within a fortnight than it is to reconcile a
verdict given last week at Young Assizes with one
arrived at a little while ago at the Supreme Court.
The evidence in both cases was practically identi-
cal, yet the verdicts were the very reverse of one
another. It is true that at the first-named Court
the case was a criminal one—of forgery—and that
the Assize Court could take no cognizance of the
civil action previously decided in the Supreme
Court; yet the whole case when before the latter
tribunal hinged upon the question whether or not
a certain document negociated by a Bank was
genuine. The verdict was that the promissory
note bore the signature of the ostensible drawer
and was not a forgery, and the then defendant was
mulct in the amount. Either the bill was genuine
or it was not. If the former, the Supreme Court
verdict was correct, and Dr. Bennett is now
unjustly suffering for a crime of which he is inno-
cent ; if the latter, then Dr. Bennett is serving
a just sentence. Yet as Mr. Chew has been held
to be legally liable for the criminal act of another
person, there is presented the anomaly of two
different verdicts having been given in the same
case by two different but legally-constituted tri-
bunals. There can be little justice in a law which
punishes two parties for the act of one and leaves
both without redress. The jurors in the Supreme
Court action were no doubt well qualified to
weigh the evidence adduced, and brought not only
matured minds but lengthened experience to bear
on its merits; whilst without in any way impugn-
ing the desire of the jurors in the criminal case to
do justice, our experience leads us to the conclu-
sion that their qualifications were in all probability
not such as to guarantee the soundness of their
decision. We are thus brought to the subject
which we wish to place before the public, viz., the
revision of the jury lists in the country districts.
This is a matter the Bench take little interest in
and which is either not attended to at all or dealt with
in a very cursory way. It is a fact that one of the
jurors who sat in Dr. Bennett’s trial had during
many years been struck off the jury list and that
another was little more than a boy. Had
Napoleon met with such a case in the history of
British jurisprudence he might well have observed
that the English were a “ nation of shopkeepers ”
—a people who submitted lawsuits concerning
property to the arbitration of competent jurors
and placed in the hands of boys, or, it might be,
of ignorant or wilful men, the honour and liberty
of the citizen arraigned on a criminal charge.
In the Supreme Court, civilly, Dr. Bennett’s
version was accepted; at Young assizes, criminally,
it was rejected. We don’t know, in the present
matter, who is right and who is wrong. But we
do know that one case was tried by a presumedly
intelligent jury and the other by a compara-
tively ignorant one —that in the first instance,
when Dr. Bhnnett was believed, he appeared as
a witness; that in the next, when he was dis-
believed, he was under the disadvantage of
appearing as an accused man, with his tongue
tied, in the dock. It would really be well if, as
was suggested some time ago in England, young
barristers and solicitors were, for a certain time
after admission, compelled to serve as jurors.
The community would then have a chance of
securing the return of intelligent verdicts. As
matters stand, the decisions of juries in criminal
cases are often such as would disgrace Glades-
ville.
Night Traffic.
It is strange that without risking the conse-
quences of a breach of the law, it is almost impos-
sible to obtain refreshments in Sydney after
midnight. In compliance with the Act regulating
such matters, all respectable licensed victuallers
close their houses pretty promptly at twelve
o’clock and leave in the cold those of the public
who do not demand sleeping accommodation for
the night, or rather morning. Theoretically, no
trade is done after midnight in any hotel: but
those who know Sydney are perfectly aware of the
fact that it is only about midnight that certain
licensed houses in leading thoroughfares commence
business. That these places in some respects
supply a legitimate want must be admitted ; but
that a man who at two in the morning requires
food or drink should, in order to procure the same,
have to visit a den of infamy and patronise an
hotelkeeper who, in defiance of the law, fattens on
the proceeds of vice, is iniquitous. It is now
illegal for hotelkeepers to trade after midnight.
and much as we desire to
see the law amended, we
have a still stronger wish
to see it obeyed while its
exists. Night traffic should
be either regulated or sup-
pressed ; and above all,
the pitiable specimens of
humanity who prey on the
unfortunates of their raoe
should not be allowed a
privilege denied to the
respectable hotel-keeper.
Mr. Inspector-General Fos-
bebt has just cleared a
King-street gambling-house
but he would perform an
even greater public service
by issuing instructions that
the keepers of certain so-
called ‘ cafes ’ be no longer
allowed to contravene the
law. These hells are the
nightly resort of scores of
drunken disreputable wo-
men. The proprietors have,
legally speaking, forfeited
their licenses thousands of
times over. Licenses are
held by men and women
who were born, and will
die, in infamy. The police
know this full well, yet on
licensing day they give the
licensees good characters!
An unfortunate laborer who
gets drunk is fined. What
is virtue in a ’bus company
is vice in a cabman. A
publican who on Sunday
night supplies a family
with a jug of beer, has to
spend half-a-day at the
Police Court, and is fined
40s. Yet crime, drunken-
ness, and disease shake
hands in full view of the
police on every night of the week in King and
Pitt streets. Unless some action be taken by the
police we shall say more on this subject.
Last Saturday’s Sailing Race.
The long-looked-for race between the 24-feet
open sailing boats “Carlotta” and “Victor”
came off on Saturday last; and, as was generally
expected, proved to be a most exciting match
throughout. A good steady nor’-easter lasted
during the contest. The sailing capabilities of
the boats were fairly tried, as the race was from
Fort Macquarie round a buoy near Manly twice
(this being a four hours’ spurt), half the distance
“ close hauled,” and the rest with a “ free sheet.”
On reaching Manly the first time, Carlotta had a
lead of over a minute-and-a-half, but the enor-
mous foresail then hoisted on the Victor for the
run back soon made a change in affairs by bring-
ing her up level to the Carlotta at Bradley’s Head,
and causing intense excitement on board the
steamers and smaller craft following the raoe.
This was increased to a state of almost frenzy
when the buoy at Fort Macquarie was rounded
the first time by Victor several lengths ahead of
the Carlotta. What a difference, however, when
the buoy was reached the next time, as the win-
THE “CAELOTTA.” THE PEEMIER SAILING BOAT OF AUSTRALIAN WATERS.


ning post! In the tacking down Carlotta proved
her superiority by again reaching Manly in the
front, rounding three minutes in advance of her
opponents. “ That’s nothing,” thought those
backing the Victor, “ Wait till our squaresail goes
up,” and the Carlotta’s friends could not refrain
from remarking “ The race is not over yet.” But
what a thrill of surprise ran through all when a
still larger squaresail than the Victor’s was run
up by the Carlotta’s crew, for Ellis had not let
his men go to sleep while making Manly, but had
got them to reeve on an extra strip to his main-
sail. This piece of judgment surpassed any dis-
played by Fletcher or Montgomery in the Victor,
and by it a probably exciting termination was
made a “ soft ” affair, as the Carlotta won easily,
the Victor capsizing off Bradley’s Head, when
than a minute astern. Mr. Hyam owns the
Carlotta, a boat to be proud of ; and although Mr.
Elliott’s Victor belied its name on Saturday, he
may well live in hopes of it sailing as a victor
should sail on some future occasion.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Creswick is drawing big houses at the Academy
in * Love’s Sacrifice.’
Gabriella Boema is Lyster’s 'tenth and best
Harquerite.
The great theatrical * gag ’ word of the day is
' author! ’ See Mr. Dampier.
Boucicault’s daughter (Mrs. Clayton) is writ-
ing for the stage.
Mr. and Mrs. Williamson have gone from
Melbourne to Adelaide to open the Theatre Royal.
Hudson’s Surprise Party after playing several
nights at Maryborough with success, left for Gympie.
Camilla Urso’s concert at Maitland on Tuesday
night was in every way successful,
Mr. Richard Stewart and his family have gone
to England from India. Mr. Harcourt Lee and his
agent have returned to Melbourne.
Dr. Slade is engaged to be married to a Sydney
lady. He will shortly be here to test the truth of the
San Francisco journals respecting him.
Mr. Grattan Riggs, the new Irish comedian,
recently arrived in Melbourne, looks the stage
Irishman to the life.
Miss Augusta Dargon and agent, Mr.
Morris GreenwaH, have parted company.
Mr. John Bennett of the Victoria has regained
his health.
Mr. Dampier plays Hamlet at the Queen’s on
Good Friday night.
Particular attention is drawn to the sacred
concerts on Good Friday night at the Victoria Theatre,
Masonic Hall, and at Kelly and Leon’s Opera House.
Mr. and Mrs. Fairclough gave entertainments
in Maryborough, Queensland, last week, and are coming
south.
The little Troubadours at St. George’s Hall,
Melbourne, grow in popularity ; and no wonder, for they
are singularly bright and intelligent.
In the Orange Liberal appeared a most
elaborate criticism on the singing of Madame Carlotta
Patti, who however, did not ‘ vocalise’ at Orange. The
Orange man is decidedly * green.’
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s new comic
opera, ‘ The Pirates of Penzance; or, Love and Duty,’
is a worthy successor to ‘ Pinafore.’ If anything it is an
i mprovement upon the latter, being less broad in
burlesque, but more pointed in satire.
Mr. Ores wick’s re-appearance at the Melbourne
Academy of Music, or, as Mr. Lewis now calls it, the
Bijou, on Saturday night, was the theatrical event of
last week. The picture of Virginius that he draws is os
true as before, but it is less bold. Miss Lester played
Virginia, instead of Miss Ashton ; Mr. Ireland, Icilius;
Mr. Appleton, Lucius; and Mr. Joyce Dentatus.
The new grand [organ, built by Mr. George
Fincham, of Richmond, for St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Melbourne, is estimated to have cost £lOOO. The organ
is a very fine instrument, the largest stop being 16 ft. in
length; trumpet, Bft., and the pedal is made up of 3
composition pedals and 3 complems.
Mr. Ogden and Miss Beatrice have taken a
benefit at the People’s Theatre, in Melbourne, * East
Lynne.’ Miss Beatrice did not appear to advantage as
Lady Isabel, and Mr. Ogden was wholly out of his depth
as Archibald Carlyle. It is a pity so talented a lady as
Miss Beatrice is not in better hands.
Signora Gabriela Boehme, a Hungarian vocalist
of European fame (who, with her husband, Signor
Steffani, an eminent;violinist, passed through Sydney
from Batavia some months since to Melbourne), made a
great success as Margarita in ‘ Faust,’ on the opening
night of Lyster’s Opera Company, at the Opera House,
Melbourne, on Monday.
It is not generally known that in consequence
of a severe accident while travelling many years ago,
Madame Carlotta Patti suffers from a physical infirmity
which renders it impossible for her to lift her foot any
distance from the ground. The only vehicle she could
obtain in Orange to convey her to the concert hall was
a high-stepped buggy which after many vain efforts
she found it impossible to ascend. Though there
are fine carriages in Orange there are few good
Samaritans.
De Lias, the Auckland manager,is here (Sydney)
looking out for talent. With dramatic companies doing
business at four theatres, don’t he wish he may get it.
He has been trying hard to hook Emery, but the old
fish has hair on his gills and won’t bite. His terms are
•* all certainty and no chances," and these terms won't
suit De Lias who looks blue and says—for the thousandth
time —that he intends retiring from management. Wait
till something drops into your nest, old bird, and then
chirp.
The Kennedy family, after performing in Cape
colony, proceeded to India in November last. Messrs.
James Kennedy, jun., and Robert Kennedy were with
their sister Margery at Milan, where they were study-
ing vocal music. The former was lately engaged at
Brescia, and his singing was much admired. He was
also at Piacenza, where he sang on the occasion of a
grand musical festival. Mr. David Kennedy is still in
India, but he bids farewell to the boards at Calcutta,
shortly and goes into a printing and newspaper con-
eoncern. The remaining members of the family go to
England in June next; after this a tour through
America, and then they “ hie for Australia.” They
wpect to open at Melbourne in June, 1881.
Mr. John Bennett has received a very pleasant
letter from the Governor of New Caledonia. It reads :
—‘l have been informed by the French Consul at
Sydney of the generous impulse with which you offered
to Mr. Jules Joubert your theatre, and the readiness
with which the distinguished artists you have under
your management have joined in giving a performance
in behalf of the victims of the cyclone which devasted
New Caledonia. I have the honor to transmit to you,
and through you to all the ladies and gentlemen of
ea ,^ re ex P ress i° n of gratitude of the people
of this colony, and beg to assure you, sir, of the grate-
Sr which I personally shall ever entertain.—
M. le Governor, Glut.*
Mr. Riccardi, who is now singing the part of
the Admiral in IVilliamson’s * Pinafore ’ company—vice
Mr. Williamson, was originally (though au
Englishman), a member of an opera company in Italy.
He stopped at Auckland about two years ago on his way
to Australia. Having sung in private, means were used
to induce him to stay in Auckland by procuring him a
Sivernment billet; and he also gave lessons in singing,
ut the ruling passion being too strongly on him, he
threw up his appointment some months since and
tormed • Riccardi’s Opera Company,’ which soon how-
?Z er ’/? ur ?*. u P’. ®* r- . Harding, the baritone who is doing
the Captain in Williamson’s company, was also till
recently resident in Auckland, at once an artisan and
an artist—or singer.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
Oxford won the University boat race.
Nearly 100 horses were on the Randwick course
on Tuesday morning.
Solomon easily heat J. G. Warren last Satur-
day in a 125 yards’ race for £25 a-side.
Mr. P. J. Clark goes to Melbourne to coach
the Sydney eight. He takes the trip at his own cost.
Hanlan cables that he ‘ cannot’ pull Trickett,
We don’t think he could.
Singleton has easily defeated Morpeth at
cricket.
Empress has won the Liverpool Grand
National; Liberator, 2; Downpatrick, 3.
In a 175 yards’ spin at North Shore last
Saturday, between F. Blakeman and F. Pracey, for £lO
a-side, the latter won by a yard after a good contest.
James Wilson, the trainer, is sueing the Age
for £5,000 damages for libel, in reference to certain re-
marks concerning the late meeting.
Teams of fifteen representing Adelaide and
Perth have fired a rifle match on their respective
grounds. Perth won points, scoring 1349.
The right to the gate for the A.J.C. Autumn
Meeting has been sold by Mr. George Kiss to Mr. Un-
derwood for £lOBO.
Alderman Young has arranged for an inter-
colonial bowling match between N.S.W. and Victoria,
to be) played at Annandale before the close of the
Sydney International.
The light skiff race between Messrs. Donovan
and Ray on the Parramatta course last Saturday, proved
a gift for the former who was much heavier than his an-
tagonist.
James Lynch and John Laycock row in light
skiffs over the Parramatta course, to-day (Saturday),
for £25 a-side. E. Trickett is referee and stakeholder, and
steamers leaving Circular Quay follow the race.
Trickett hopes to receive from Hanlan shortly
some explanation by letter of the latter’s non-acceptance
of the challenge forworded.| |At any rate, the laurels are
now Trickett’s and ours.
Wright, of Hamilton, raced Rice, of Lithgow,
100 yards for £lOO aside, last Saturday, at Newcastle.
The latter, who lost three yards at the start, was
beaten; but owing to a dispute the stakes have not yet
been paid over.
In London, on January 2nd, W. Mitchell and
F. Bennett played a billiard match 1000 up. The play
was at first pretty close and for a time in favour of
Bennett, but towards the finish Mitchell speedily ran
up, scoring;2l9J(6B'Spots) intone break and winning by
At Randwick last Saturday afternoon “ Tyro ”
and ‘ Blackstump ’ shot a pigeon match, eleven birds
each, 30 yard’s rise, 100 yards’ boundary, for a small
stake, the latter using 2| oz. shot and ‘Tyro’ being
limited to half that quantity. * Tyro ’ won easily, shoot-
ing six birds out of his first eight, while ‘ Blackstump ’
only potted two out of a similar number. The birds
were very bad.
Efforts are being made to bring about a match
between W. Trickett and Laycock or R. Edwards of
Melbourne. The later is a light man, as colonial scul-
lers go. But he rows in splendid form, is beautifully
put together, is game, and is the best little man whom
the champion (E. Trickett) has ever seen. However, he’s
exactly Hanlan’s weight—lOst 121bs—and should be a
good match for the Canadian champion. People may
augh at this but nevertheless it is probably true.
The committee of the International Grand
Pigeon Match ,in order to avoid clashing with the A. J.
C. Autumn meeting, have decided to postpone the match
until the Tuesday and Wednesday in the week follow-
ing the race meeting, when it will be shot on the Rand-
wick Racecourse. The nomination will close with Mr. G.
Adams, of Tattersall’s Hotel, at noon, on the 2nd April,
and the handicap will be declared before 9 p.m. on the
same day: acceptances to be declared at or before 9 p.m.
on the following day. The committee have determined
that only one trap shall be used and that the number
corresponding with the shooter shall be placed in a bag
and drawn by the umpire after each bird is trapped, and
he (the umpire) will then declare the name of the next
shooter.
On Saturday last a scratch crew, consisting of
the following, gave the representative N.S.W. eight a
spin from Charity Point to the Brothers:—Lockyer,
Cope, Hall, Metcalf, Q. K. Clark, Brett, Strange, Arthur
(stroke). Mr. Woodrifl, of the representative eight,
was absent, and his place was filled by Mr. J. E. Meyers.
The first-named crew were conceded a length and a half
start, which they maintained till Gladesville was
reached, when the representatives began to draw up.
Towards the finish the comparatively inferior condition
of the scratch men told on their form; and the repre-
sentatives, winding up with a lively spurt, brought their
boat to * The Brothers’ a length in advance. The time
was 21 m.|45 secs., with an ebbing tide, and a moderately
fresh wind ahead.
On Monday night last the annual meeting of
Tattersall’s Club took place, Mr. J. B. Oliffe in the
chair. From the statement submitted it appeared that
the expenditure during the past year amounted to
£3983 6s 6d, and that amount included £2241 for prizes
paid over, £609 13s 5d for the clubroom, and £2OO for the
use of the A. J. C. course. The income came to
£5593 2s 3d, and that included a cash balance from the
previous year of £1474 15s 6d. The statement of funds
showed a fixed deposit in the bank of £l5OO. The fol-
lowing office-bearers were elected: —President, Mr. R.
Driver, M.L. A. ; treasurer, Mr. C. Skarratt; auditors,
Messrs. A. L. Park and S. Ackman; committee, Messrs.
G. Curtis, W. Forrester, J. B. Oliffe, A. Prince, J. Daly,
W. Gannon, and G. Kiss. The club has now over
£1,600 at credit.
Tips for Randwick.
“New Warrior’s’ tips for the A. J. C. meeting, com-
mencing on Monday, are as follows:
Hurdles—Zephyr, Express, Esmonee.
Autumn Stakes.—Snwarrow, Caspian, Martindale.
Champagne.—Grand Prix.
Leger.—Petrea, Nellie, Paublas.
Doncaster Handicap.—Caractacus, Sunlight.
Maiden Stakes. —Friday, Master Avenel, Mr. White’s
best.
Cup.—Stratheam and Martindale 1 and 2.
Breeder’s Plate. —Grand Prix.
Selling Plate.—Master Avenel 1, Blackthorn or Santa
Cruz,
Sapling Stakes. —Kamilaroi.
Cumberland Stakes. —Suwarrow.
A. J. C. Plate. —Suwarrow.
Steeple.—Planet 1, Cruiser or Express 2.
" Nemo ” tips thus :
Autumn Stakes.—Grand Prix 1, Geraldine 2, and
Sapphire 3.
Leger.—Petrea 1, Nellie 2, and Paublas 3.
Cup.—Petrea (or the St. Leger winner) 1, Columbus
2, and Sweetmeat 3.
The best of the others should be Hopeful, who has
evaded the writer in his work, Martindale, Secundus,
and Supple Jack.
The Breeders’ Plate should go to the winner of the
Champagne Stakes (probably Grand Prix): and the
Selling Plate will be a puzzle until the numbers go up.
That old London institution, the coffee-stall
has in Sydney hitherto been conspicuous by its absence;
but the Coffee Palace Company have now come to the
rescue and provided a really handsome and commodious
night-stall for the sale of coffee, etc. to those whose
occupations, like that of printers’ devils, takd them
abroad in the sma’ hours. A really good cup of coffee,
with some light edible, is provided for the large sum of
2d. The company’s profit at this figure cannot be great,
and those whojlike ourselves, have pleasant reminis-
cences of half-hours spent at Coffee-stalls in London
and colonial cities, even though at hours which
would shook the ‘ unco guid,’ are pleased to see intro-
duced to Sydney an institution so convenient for those
who through choice or necessity ‘ don’t go home till
morning.’
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs has been refused a new trial.
An agent sent by Colonel Yilliers has recovered
the Prince Imperial’s uniform.
Parnell, on his return to Ireland from America,
received an ovation.
Biggar says in effect that if he and Parnell fail
an Irish Hartmann may succeed.
On St. Patrick’s Day Ireland cabled its thanks
to Australia through the Mayor of Dublin.
Seventy-four sisters of mercy have sailed by
the Aconcagua from London for Brisbane and Sydney. J
The Imperial Parliament dissolves on Easter
Saturday.
In Hungary a clergyman was recently thrown
from his sleigh and tom to pieces by wolves.
The Chilian fleet is blockading the Peruvian
ports.
Tawhiao, the Maori chief, maintains an atti-
tude hostile to the whites. Rewi remains friendly.
Mr. M’Gregor has been elected for Hobart
Town.
Governor Weld leaves Hobart Town for Syd-
ney on the sth prox., and goes home by Torres Straits.
Experts think that the diamond drill at Moore
Park is in the vicinity of a coal or oil region.
Mr. Frith has been appointed collector to the
Licensed Victuallers’ Association.
There are in the United States 61 Roman
Catholic dioceses.
Mary Hegney, a girl of seventeen, has deliber-
ately drowned herself in the Yarra.
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
has started a savings bank.
The Czar is yielding ‘under the guise of
firmness.
The Special Committee of Congress recom-
mends the exclusion from the States of Chinamen.
The total quantity of coal used for gas making
in New Zealand is 29,600 tons per annum.
Tramcars are running in Dunedin. The other
dav no less than 13,000 persons travelled on them.
At Port Chalmers, on 27th February, a huge
shark bit in two the steer-oar of the pilot boat.
£BB,OOO worth, or ten tons of silver, was
coined in England during 1878.
£25,000 has been remitted from New South
Wales on account of the Irish Famine Belief Fund.
A Persian fanatic has assassinated the Grand
Sherif of Mecca.
At Newcastle the A. A. Co.’s miners have been
served with notices of a reduction in hewing prices.
Nearly half the members of the Sydney Trades
and Labour Council are, it is said, out of employment.
Deep sinking at Woolgar has been temporarily
abandoned owing to the wetness of the ground.
There are under the Presbytery of New York
seven chapels, with 3099 members and 7,586 scholars.
A greasy fluid has exuded from a diamond
drill shaft in Moore Park, Sydney. It is thought that
oil has been struck.
As was promised in the Governor’s speech at
last prorogation, a large number of public works are at
once to be proceeded with.
Mr. John Mackay, of Dungog, West Mait-
land, offers £SOO towards any project for exporting meat
preserved by the Bell-Coleman process.
Colonel St. Hill, commandant of Tasmanian
Volunteers, has been suspended owing to a charge
brought by Governor Weld.
The sale of the Bull Dog Ale has grown to
enormous dimensions —over fifteen thousand packages a
month.
Mr. John Plummer, lecturing last Wednesday
week, expressed his belief that the Anglo-Israel move-
ment had a great and glorious future before it.
In the Far North, the country watered by the
Herbert, Diomed, and Mulligan rivers is fast being
taken up.
A young lady of New York’s highest circle
recently sat as a model for an artistic club. Her iden-
tity is kept secret.
The colonial Agents-General are urging upon
the Imperial Government the propriety of reducing the
wine duties.
Hugh M’Laughton, a boy of 11, last Saturday>
in Sydney, tried to * act Blondin,’ and concussed his
brain.
Nightsoil has been deposited in a paddock near
the Newcastle Hospital. The number of deaths at that
institution has considerably increased.
A Tasmanian miner went to sleep in his hut
while drunk. The hut caught fire, and one of his legs,
from the foot to the knee, was nearly charred.
A Philadelphia lady is the owner of a valuable
relic in the shape of a manuscript copy of Wesley’s
Hymns in the handwriting of their author.
It is reported that the Jews in the Don Cos-
sack territory have received notice to leave the country
within two years.
In New Zealand Father O’Malley, S.J., late of
Sydney, is working hard at St. Joseph’s Church,
Dunedin.
3000 workmen are employed on the St. Gothard
tunnel, in which over ten tons of dynamite are used per
month.
A pugilist recently fought a bloodhound at St.
Louis. The dog was killed, and the man terribly
injured.
A shoal of several thousand sharks, varying
from regular man-eaters to juveniles of a foot long, was
seen off Newcastle on Friday last.
A boy of seven, son of a poor labourer, has
been worried to death by kangaroo dogs at Lake
Gunbar.
A Melbourne Company are about to establish
a blue metal depot at Shellharbour, and employ about
100 men.
The seamen connected with the sailing vessels
on the coast have decided to join the New South Wales
Seamen’s Union.
Personal luggage may now be sent to Victoria
by sea free of duty by persons who at the same time
travel southward overland.
Joseph Wells, for the Cunnamulla Bank
robbery, was executed in Brisbane gaol on Mondaylast.
He died calmly.
In consequence of Prance’s refusal to extradite
Hartmann, the Russian ambassador has been recalled
from Paris.
At the Centennial claim, Copeland, 50 tons
stone have yielded 163 oz. At 130 ft. the reef averages
2 ft.
At Newcastle, four young men have been
arrested on a charge of criminally assaulting a single
woman.
On the arrival in England of the Strathleven
meat a lamb was forwarded to the Queen and a sheep to
the Prince of Wales.
Many of the horses driven in the Pitt-street
'buses are broken down in the forelegs. Especially the
leaders.
The trial of the Timaru rioters has been con-
cluded by the conviction of all of them but three. The
judge began his summing up by an allusion to the way
in which the bones of Catholics mingled with those of
Protestants, and the desirableness of the same harmony
prevailing in life. A new trial has been moved for on
the ground of misdirection.
Rabbit-poisoning witb phosphorus and oil of
rhodium has been so successful in New Zealand that the
colonial supply of these articles has completely run out.
It is announced that the following gentlemen
have passed their final examinations for admission as
attorneysJ. A. B. Cahill, G. S. E. Dale, and W.
Moore.
The Cobden Club medal for political economy
has been won by a Parsee student of the Bombay
University.
A Clydesdale mare which recently gained the
prize at Perth, Scotland, has been found to baxe false
hair on her forelegs. Not the only one of her sex who
has false hair.
The British Ambassador at Paris has been
instructed to urge that no facilities be afforded to
liberated convicts for emigrating from New Caledonia
to Australia.
The seaside promenade at Coogee Bay is being
rapidly proceeded with. Coogee Bay is now the great
watering place of Sydney. The hotel at the beach is
crowded.
A young man named John Henry Logan, the
son of a widow, was on Friday last killed at Pyrmont
by the accidental fall of a steel plate which was stacked
against a wall.
Austria and Italy have had a ‘ misunderstand-
ing’ in consequence of the seizure by the former power
of two Italian vessels engaged in smuggling war ma-
terial into Albania.
The Prince of Wales has introduced to the
epicures of London sardine salad. The bone is
taken from the sardine and salad dressing and lettuce
are used.
Mr. B. Gaffney, Hon. Secretary to the Master
Bakers' Association, has been prevented by that
society with a valuable gold watch in recognition of his
services.
Only thirty persons mustered at a banquet
given to Gardiner (Berryite), the new member for Carl-
ton. Mr. Longmore was present, and denounced the
Age. ‘ When rogues fall out,’ &c.
For having stated that Mr. Rodway, an Ade-
laide dentist, had ‘ spoiled ’ a woman’s mouth, Mr. Nor-
man, another knight of the forceps, has had to pav
£4OO damages. 3
There is an enterprising newsagent in Bathurst
who has a large placard exhibited outside his premises
to the following effect:—‘The Evening News’ on sale
within, or supplied to subscribers at 4|d. per week or
Is. 6d. per month, paid in advance.”
Two of the last of Burns’ contemporaries in
Dumfries have just died almost simultaneously, Mrs.
M'Kie, at the age of 92, and Mr. William Gordon, at the
age of 97. Both remembered and spoke of the poet’s
funeral.
The four largest Presbyterian churches in
America are Dr. Cuyler's, Brooklyn, with 1685
members; Dr. Talmage’s, Brooklyn, with 1658; Dr-
Tucker’s, New York, with 1600; and Dr. Hall’s. New
York, with 1570.
During the two years the stock-tax has been in
operation the number of sheep in Victoria has decreased
from 11,278,000 to 9,379,000 ; while the meat preserving
industry, which supported 804 workmen, or nearly 3000
persons, has collapsed.
A man recently went from Sydney to Mel-
bourne for the purpose of starting an obscene news-
paper. For a week his name figured in the visitors’ list
of a certain fashionable hotel, now it is on the roll at
Castieau’s.
Mr. G. H. Reid asks the advocates of Pro-
tection to point to a country where there is less distress
and higher wages, combined with shorter hours of
labour and cheaper living’ than they enjoy here under
the present system of free trade.
There is considerable distress among the work-
ing classes in Victoria. A correspondent of the Gun-
dagai Times relates instances in which strapping and
sober men, after vainly seeking employment, have had
to apply to others for food.
The Chandemagore is to be given a clearance
to Liverpool, so that she may obtain official registration
papers. She will take home a cargo of shale, and is
discharging her present freight into the Emily, which
sails for New Ireland forthwith.
The residents of Kogerah and those parts
have much to thank their representative for. Mr. Lucas
has quietly allowed the people to be bamboozed by Sir
Henry Parkes over the proposed road improvements.
However, another meeting is to be called.
We learn that Lassetter and Co. have purchased
out and out the best collections of exhibits at the
Garden Palace in the glass and lampware line. It is
satisfactory that these splendid specimens of art have
been retained in the colony.
It has been estimated that a man who lives to
the age of 70 years will eat not far from the following
amount of food or its equivalent Cheese, 600 pounds;
fat, 1620 pounds; flour, 183 barrels; meat, 2100 pounds •
milk, 997 gallons; potatoes, 254 bushels; sugar 78
barrels ; tea, 120 pounds.
In regard to the action of Sir Henry Parkes in
laying aside the Stamp Duties Bill as amended by the
Council, and sending up another in the original form,
thereby utterly ignoring the action taken by the Coun-
cil, the Australasian says that a more pointed and
deliberate affront could hardly be devised.
Edison’s vacuum lamp won’t work at present.
The aperture through which the electric wires are in-
serted cannot be completely closed, and the result is
that a certain amount of air gets into the globe. The
remedy suggested is to fill the lamp with some non-
inflammable gas.
The usual quarterly inspection of the Naval
Brigade took place last Saturday in the Inner Domain-
The inspection of clothes and accoutrements proved
satisfactory; and the Bri *ade was then put through a
series of evolutions, which were performed in a highly
creditable manner.
The honorary [secretaries to the Irish Relief
Fund, Messrs. Daniel O’Connor, M.P., and J. T. Toohey,
have been the chief agents in bringing about so splendid
a termination to the labours of the committee of the
above fund in New South Wales. £25,000 is the total
from this colony.
Its charitable institutions strangely indicate a
country’s wealth. On this score our foreign visitors
can get a very good idea of our wealth by getting the
prize essay on the Charities of New South Wales, which
Mr. W. B. Campbell had printed some time back.
There are numbers of copies for free distribution at the
Furnishing Arcade.
The sale of the furniture of the late Mrs.
Charles Dickens was largely attended, and most of the
personal objects and the books fetched large prices.
On the other hand, the pictures went for ridiculously
small sums. It was touching—all told—to see how
carefully everything connected with her late husband
had been cherished.
Last Sunday Archbishop Vaughan opened a
new Roman Catholic school at Forest Lodge, and said
that nearly all the Catholic children had been with-
drawn from the Public Schools, and that when De-
nominational schools were no longer controlled by
Government the Catholics would be able to give their
children teaching of a much more religious tendency
than hitherto. The collection amounted to £3OO.
Some of the nicest little prizes-modals we
have seen are being got out by Mr. Kerr, jeweller, of
George-street, to the order of the committee of the
Garden Palace Highland Sports. Some of them are of
gold and some of silver. On one side of the medal is a
suitable inscription, and on the other a figure represen-
tative of the particular athletic performance for which
the prize was presented.
It is said that ‘ a Fenian of renown’ has gone
to Australia by the City of New York, for the purpo®
of raising a treasure of £60,000, the proceeds of count-
less robberies by Frank Gardiner, and now buried about


■half-a-mile from the Fish River. The Fenian aforesaid
Has been kind to Gardiner (who is now completely
broken down), and is to have the whole of the treasure
on condition of providing for the bushranger during his
remaining years.
The largest tree yet discovered was one tound
in a grove near Tnle ‘River, Prulare county, California,
in 1874. 240 feet from the ground it was 12 feet in dia-
meter, and had two limbs respectively Oft. and 10 ft. in
diameter. It has been cut down, and is supposed to
Have been 4,840 years old. A section of it, now being
exhibited in New York, is 75 ft. in circumference, 25 ft.
across, and capable of holding 150 people in its interior.
The interior, as it is now fitte I up, is arranged like a
drawing-room. A carpet has been laid down; there
are a piano, sofa, tables, and chairs, with scenes from
California hung around, and people move about quite
“ Observer” writes us as follows : —“We have
lately had an influx of street organs, played by men
who are lame or otherwise incapaei rated for employ-
ment. To such we cannot object, but last night, at
half-past nine o’clock, I noticed an apparently able-
bodied woman playing an organ in George-street. accom-
panied by two children, one about two years old, sleep-
ing on the top of the organ, and the other four years
old, sitting on the kerbstone, and leaning on the car-
riage of the organ, also asleep. As these organs are
usually drawn close to the kerbstone, is not this woman
endangering the lives of her children by their inhaling
the poisonous gases evolved by the water in the street
gutters, or possibly growing the seeds of future disease
by keeping their children out so late at night ? If she
does it to excite sympathy, I consider it would he a mis-
placed charity to assist her pecuniarily. In the interest
of humanity, I would call on the trustees of our several
charities to relieve the woman of her burdens, and so
a l low her to seek employment which should be more
congenial tl i i that of turning the handle of a miserable
organ for probably twelve hours a day.”
Not the least important of the manufactures of
Sydney are those of aerated waters, and in this
issue is given a slight insight into the working of one
of those establishments. The Crystal Fountain Works,
Palmer and Stanley-streets, Woolloomoolo, an estab-
lishment o started this summer, is striding to the front
and bids air ere long to take a premier position in the
tra ie. The plant contains all the latest improvements
in aerating machinery, and it is the intention of the
firm, in order to meet the demands of their increasing
business to erect another machine, of the most power-
'll! kind Manufactured to their order by Hayward,
Tyler and Co. of London. Everything has been studied
lor the purpose of ensuring the most scrupulous clean-
liness and purity desiderata of the greatest importance.
Perfect ventilation and drainage have been carefully
studied, and the utensils used are all of non-corrosive
m I erial. he water is all doubly purified, passing from
the m i a through a) high-pressure rapid patent filter
into a large slate tank, thence through one of Cheavin’s
filters which gave such satisfactory results when upon
triil at the exhibition. It is then ready for the aerating
machine, and entirely free from all vegetable matter,
wl ; «ih is a.i ways present in Sydney water in its normal
napurifled condition. The plant is set in motion by a
s simp! but effective 4-h.p. steam engine by Hindley
, .ii England. The business is carried on under
tfct! direct and active supervision of the firm, who have
great, practical experience, and as all the syrups and
ot. it ingredients pass through their own hands in
course of i annfactnre they are able to guarantee to the
pu lie tha t a pure and wholesome article is turned out
fri i their establishment.
Valuable Hints to Householders.
The cash system is gradually revolutionising the
trade of Sydney. The day it can be made general,
thou will we he able to say we have laid the foun-
dation a substantial commercial future for this
colony. It ' ■; perhaps more in the furniture trade
th; any other that the public of this city have
been victimised by the credit principle. Enormous
and l übiiiuv percentages have been charged to
struggling householders under the absurd time-
payment system. Recent events, however, portend
a more hopeful future in this line of business.
With regard to the engraving in another column,
there is shown what can be obtained at Mr. W. B.
Campbell’ ! Furnishing Arcade, for the sum of ,£4O,
under the cash system. First of all Mr. Campbell
is to bo cc; plimented on the fearlessness with
which he introduced the cash system in the furui-
tiiiv trade It has proved a boon to the public,
and das c ed the business of the Arcade fur-
ther tl 1 have been anticipated. It will be
seen ; , ■ engraving that a drawing-room can
be lis) d from the Arcade at a figure
fu! -cat- under what is usually charged.
Tafcug £lOO with him, a person may furnish his
house complete throughout, con;r lete to the most
minute detail, and in a stylo much above the ordi-
nary. £4O goes for the dr ,wing-room furniture,
as illustrated, and the balance obtains all the re-
quisites for a dining-coon; > bed-rooms, ser-
vants’ room, and kitchen. To what greater
advantage can £lOO be expended ? The establish-
ment that can thus furnish a home and improve
the taste of the people with the superior class of
goods provided, confers no small amount of benefit
on the public. We wish the Furnishing Arcade
was yet more frequently visited. There is to be
found a healthy system of trade and an improved
description of household requirements. Increased
trade in this quarter means healthy business
principles and an improved public taste.
Tattersall’s Hotel.
The week of the Randwick carnival is an appropriate
one for a sketch of TattersalTa Hotel in Pitt-street,
an hotel famous throughout the length and breadth of
the land. Onr artist’s sketch will he recognised as a
faithful one. Tattersall’s may he classed as one of the
first-class hotels of the metropolis, and is specially
managed with the view to the convenience of sporting
men arriving in Sydney from all parts of this and the
adjoining colonies. The proprietor is Mr. George
Adams, who has greatly increased its popularity, and by
a lavish expenditure of money improved its attractions
tenfold. It is kept throughout with scrupulous care,
and a better ventilated or pleasanter and healthier
hotel is not to he found in the colony, A short time
back, Mr. Adams finding the hotel unable to meet the
growing dem uids decide;, on enlarging it, and this was
carried on plar.s of excellent design. A new bnihfing
adjoining the ■ bo v. was erected. The ground floor was
formed into a chib-room, and it certainly is one of the
finest to he found in the six colonies. It has a dear
length of seventy feet with a width of forty, ai d is
splendidly famished with the newest and richest
designs in furniture and other appointments. A most
elegantly fitted bar stands atone end of the hall, and
at the other is a telegraph office connected with all
the provincial and intercolonial offices. The
room is used by Tattersall’s Club and on
special occasions banquets are given. The walls are
decorated with several sporting pictures by the most
famous artists. At the end or the club-room is a
spacious billiard saloon. Suites of bedrooms are to be
found on the seco-d and third floors, ranging off
expanding corridors, and every convenience in the way
of baths. &c., is provided in connection therewith. The
dining rooms, parlours, &c., are all that could be de-
sired, the table and the wines. &c., being made a
speciality of the hotel. The bar trade of Tattersall’s
is very large, the liquors being known to he of the very
best. The present proprietor, Mr. Adams, was for years
one of the principal hotel-heepers of Kiama, and he has
brought to TattersalTs a large amount of business tact.
He is assisted by his excellent wife in the interior
management of the hotel, and it is therefore not sur-
piising that to-day we find Tattersall’s, under the new
management, in the height of its popularity.
Special Musical Notice.
A copy of Beethoven’s waltzes —including ‘ Le Ddsir,’
has been placed in our office for the special inspection
and edification of Tabitha, the un-musical music critic
of the S. M. Herald, who will persist in saying (having
been bowled out by us in sundry musical errors) that
this waltz is by Schubert, after having ascribed it, as an
original, to Servais. Serve her right.
Herr Hugo Alpen, the new teacher of singing at the
Public Schools (Mr. J. C. Fisher being unable to attend
to the duties in all of them) is giving great satisfaction
by his vigorous and thorough instruction. Good for
the future musical taste of the community.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
THEATEE EOYAL.
“ For I am nothing if not critical.”-
—“Othello”
The increasing success that has attended the produc-
tion of ‘ Friends,’ by our newly-arrived Thespian visi-
tors, the London Comedy Company, has given the
management no opportunity for hinting at a change
in the programme —a circumstance of especial advan-
tage to us in the present instance, as, with four
theatres open, two sets of brilliant concerts at our
principal hall, and another entertainment at the School
of Arts, the calls on our limited space are rather too
numerous to enable us to give due consideration to
every amusement. Indeed, it will be necessary, if we
wish to criticise, to select one or two amusements
weekly for full notice, each in regular turn, so as to
render justice to all.
Good acting is always appreciated, and will ever at-
tract audiences to the theatre; and, even amongst
our not over large pop dation, there are always many
admirers of the drama in its purity who do not care for
ranting, bellowing, awkwardness, vulgarity, and un-
educated pronunciation. Such as these will rejoice at
the performance of Victorian Sardou’s ‘Friends,’ even
though they may not care for the piece itself; but the
Royal under present circumstances will certainly not
be attended by those who only enjoy the blood, thunder,
and sensational school.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
The Lingabds in “ Old Bachelors.”
The acting is, throughout, fully equal to the require-
ments of the play. Mrs. Bingard was grace itself,
combined with elegance, refinement, and naturalness.
Either in the street or m the drawing-room, she was
thoroughly the lady, whilst her anger without being
exaggerated seemed too real to be simulated. Air.
Lingard was the very embodiment of a pedantic, ego-
tistical, t mid, amorous, German music-master : his
by-play was splendid at every point: and, in contra-
distinction to his Middlewic, who s hows most effec-
tively in his open actions and unsophisticated character,
it is in these moments of concealed acting that the
peculiarities of the professor’s character and the force
of Mr. Lingard’s delineations assert themselves. It
was some moments before we could recognise in the
judge, Mr. De Belleville, so excellent was the make-up,
the change :of manner, and the peculiarity of voice.
This is one of the true tests of the actor’s art—not to
be himself in everyrole; and Mr. De Belleville
keeps up the character of the old fussy judge to the
end. Mr. Craig was less successful as Fred than as
young Champneys; the drunken scene was much over-
drawn : no ‘ gentleman ’ would think of visiting a lady
in such a state for any purpose. Mr. Fitzwilliam made
a capital old lady of Mrs. Mouse —with one eye to
matrimony, the other to housekeeping. There is not
sufficient character on the part of Ada Hope for Miss
Melrose to display any special feature in it; but she
looked pretty, moved easily, and spoke carefully. The
other parts were fairly represented.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
After a two nights’ combination of Hiscocks and
Hayman’s Mammoth Minstrels and the Victoria Loftus
Companies with the regular dramatis person® connected
with the theatre, the dramas of ‘ The Colleen Bawn,’
and ‘ East Lynne ’ have been produced. In the former.
Miss Myra Kemble took the part of pretty Eily. Con-
nor, with Mr. Jeridan as Danny Mann, and Mr. J. L.
Hall as Myles-na-Coppaleen. In the emotional play
Miss Kemble was the Lady Isabel Vine, and Mr. Vin-
cent Mr. Francis Leveson. The play is always a
favourite, and when ‘ put up ’ in the bill is sure to draw
an audience. Its morbid sentimentality and high-flown
hysterical nonsense are to our mind only the outcome
of diseased imagination. The play was as well acted as
it deserved to be : but we sincerely hope that ere our
next issue we shall have at this theatre something more
worthy of the longer space we shall be able to devote
to the performances.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
There are some managers before whose doors the tide
of success fllows on uninterruptedly, and who appear
to be fortunate in all their undertakings. Such a one
is Mr. Heggarty, who always manages to secure some
favourite with whom to allure the people—the great
mass—to his not over (in a hot night) commodious
house, the ground on which it stands deserving a better
superstructure. But reminiscences of old of G. V.
Brooke, and other artists still cling to the Thespian
academy whose boards are now trodden by Air. Alfred
Mr. Dampier and such of the profession as could be got
together to support him—a great difficulty considering
the number of dramatic performances now being given
in Sydney and other Australian cities. We have—in
our connection with other journals—too often spoken of
Dampier’s marked merits as an actor and a profound
reader and student in general and dramatic literature
to be now under the necessity of entering into an
analysis of his qualifications. For his opening night
this season, he chose the sensational drama of ‘ The
Royal Pardon ’ by George Conquest and Henry Petit,
introduced to us last year by Mr. Dampier, a companion
piece to ‘ Queen’s evidence,’ but not well written
though more sensational. In his four-fold character of
Jacob Totterag, a drunken schoolmaster, Fitzroy,
Grosvenor, a crushed tragedian, Victor Moushard, the
speculative Frenchman, and the deformed imitator of
the old boatman, Grimwood, Mr. Dampier displayed
every resource of stage effect with great success; his
best assumption being the Frenchman—with marked
French-English accentuation, and the tragic demeanour
of the stage-hero, with his numerous dramatic and
poetical quotations, accompanied with the gag-word
‘ Author’ on every occasion. This latter was excellent;
Mr. Dampier, always caraful, never forgot himself even
when bowing to the audience on being called with the
rest of the principals before the curtain. Mr. Holloway,
an old favourite remnant of the Celeste regime revelled
in heroics as Paul Markham; as, too, did Mrs. Holloway
as his true-hearted wife Helen, loud in her declamation,
to the rapturous delight of a Saturday night ‘ Queen’s
Own’ audience.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
It is some years since Professor Haselmayer first
visited Sydney and established himself as a popular
favorite one of the best quality of necromancers, escam-
oteurs, prestidigitateurs, or by whatever magical name
they are known. It is not surprising, therefore, that
he has been well received, aud that his feats of hand
trickery have been greatly applauded. Herr Hasel-
mayer is also light of tongue; he is in continuous talk
with his audience, dazzling their ears as well as their
eyes, thus materially assisting and heightening the
effect of his illusions. We need not detail the numerous
wonders which the Professor exhibits in common with
his brethren of the art; but his ‘Magical Portfolio’—
which includes local celebrities—is a novelty of his own,
very entertaining. Then we have now the addition of
Madame Haselmayer, who performs a very wonderful
crystal cabinet illusion. The Professor’s musical pre-
dilections, too, are shown to us not only by his perform-
ance on that curious instrument ‘ The Stylocarp,’ which
he originally introduced to us, but also by his’ having
placed his orchestra under the guidance of so talented
a musician as Herr Hograt.
Patti Concert.
After a concert on Wednesday iu Goulbum, Madame
Patti and her admirable party give a sacred concert this
(Friday) evening at the Victoria Theatre; to-morrow
they wing their flight to Melbourne, where they will of
course receive the homage due to the highest illustra-
tions of art, so rarely heard in Australia, that it becomes
a duty we owe to ourselves to honour such representa-
tives as a Patti—una regina del canto, a queen of
song—by every means in our power.
CAMILLA URSO’S CONCERTS.
The holiday of the week rendering necessary the issue
of our jounal earlier thau usual, we regret not to he able
to give any notice of the first of the new series of con-
certs —held at the Masonic Hall—given on Wendesday
evening by our gifted visitor, the violiuiste, Camilla
Urso, further than to say that the programme pre-
sented afforded a rich musical treat. As this was the
first of a series we shall be able to supply the omission
in our next issue.
CRITIC.
‘ The nervousness and peevishness of onr times, writes
Dr. Block, of Leipsic, are chiefly attributable to tea and
coffee; the digestive organs of confirmed coffee drinkers
are in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts on
the brain, producing fretful and lachrymose moods.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
Ode to a Musical Critic.
A joyous d ay it was for old and young,
W.'j i;n you broke up your schooland left-prolong.
Anneal w i your spleen, your cant and bitter gall
And mv.ev phrases, prigged from Bozenthal.
N 1 isbit’ v ocalist in this onr land
Mus t e’er xpect from yon a helping hand ;|
To crush, estroy and blight their every hope
Is your chief effort, if within your scope.
Your pen, venom tipp’d, abuse doth shower
On all 'copt artists fam’d above your power.
These yon bespatter in your crank essays
And do them harm, not good, with fulsome praise.
When ' Melbourne Philharmonic ’ shut you out,
‘Twos useless. Tabby, there to make a rout.
‘ The Ladies’ College ’ too, yon tried awhile.
But strange to say, they did not like your style.
And when you found that they had pluck’ sting.
Yon came to us, to here enjoy your fling.
Hit out, old girl, you’re bidding high for fame,
Bishop o« Arae to yon is all the same.
c ai/ias. < ■ itic! we know you as such,
Your pious editors must love you much.
The public estimate your bitter pill
At its right value, write whate’er yon’will.
Take a friend’s advice and give up the pen.
You’re fond of lashing, try the birch again,
li still you will indite the bitter word,
Beware the danger, ’tis a two edg’d sword.
Love’s Foolish Dream.
(FROM THE FRENCH OF C. DELAVIGNE).
I pointed to a bird, whose lay
Was carolled overhead:
' His joyous strain is not more gay
Than is my heart,’ I said.
I pin/iced a white rose from the'bush
And placed it in her hair —
More sweet than yon it cannot'be,
Npr yet,’ I said, ‘ more fair.’
By, the river-side we stood and made
*A mirror of the stream —
As smooth shall be our life,’ I said,
In my love’s foolish dream.
The nmmer bird whose merry lay
Wi(,h my heart’s joy was one
r < d-d. I listen, but in vain,;
i me snch songs are done.
The tree that bore the wild white rose
I plucked to give her j>raise
Is dun I years since, and these'.and those
Were set in after days.
Th 3 stream alone defies time’s hand
To change in any way.
Where we two stood alone I stand'
IIeight then —and bright to-day!
And. ! am glad, because I know
Th i v I and this bright stream
Vre linked by ties formed years ago
i n my love’s foolish dream.
TATTERSALL'S HOTEL.
THE ATTRACTIONS OF THE FURNISHING ARCADE.


LONG ODDC AND SHARP ENDS.
Notwithstanding all evil prognostications—our
own included, of course —he end of the Exhibi-
tion outvies the beginning in attendance, if we
are to credit that organ of v vacity, the S. M.
Herald, and the Commissioned' with their ex-
ecutive head are to be congratulate 1 on the success
which has attended their efforts ; for the “ total”
of visitors on Friday last was aun nnced in
Saturday morning’s paper to be “g .014!!”
almost double the number of any previou ■ (lay.
We were present on Friday, but could not so - the
people, who seemed to be fewer than usual.
Where did they get to ? What do the “ tell-tales'
say? How many strolled about the gromidst
How many listened to the music ? Certainly there
must have been extraordinary manipulation of the
tum-stiles to bring up the numbers ; perhaps Pro-
fessor Haselmayer was there, and made this his
first new trick in Sydney. How the Herald
arrived at this happy result, by what marvellous
calculation, we are at a loss to imagine, for we
read that there were present—
Season ticket holders 324
General public ... 1605
Children... ... ... ... ... 253
Exhibitors, &c ... ... ... 742
Kopf’s band 10
Now this would make —according to Cocker, 2934;
but, according to the Herald —and there it stands
in round numbers in Saturday morning’s paper—
-28,944! There is evidently something rotten in
the state of the returns or the Herald’s
integral calculus. As the aboriginal said of the
photographic camera, “lightning box no tell lie,”
the Herald cannot err!! Allah is great!
There were four theatres open on Saturday
evening ; the performance at one terminated at a
quarter past ten, at another at a quarter to
eleven; at a third at a quarter past eleven, and
at the other at about twenty minutes to midnight;
we are particular, for reasons. Of the many
visitors residing in the suburbs (and there would
be very many more from those outlying districts
if there were any regular means of communication:
what a boon will the tramway be to theatrical
managers !) the majority who were “let out ” first
had to wait for those who were “ kept in” till the
lost in order to reach home by the ordinary con-
veyances, and arrived something after mid-
night. If the omnibus proprietors don’t see their
way to having an omnibus for all the suburbs (on
this side of the water) at each theatre, could not the
theatre managers meet to devise some means of
making a compromise by having their perform-
ances terminate all about the same time, and that a
rational one—say, a quarter to eleven—so that
people may not have to lounge about the streets,
sleep in bus corners, or drink in public houses, in-
stead of getting home to have their drink and sleep
at proper times. As matters are arranged at pre-
sent masses of suburban residents prefer stopping
at home to visiting our places of amusement, with
the infliction of late hours. Perhaps they may
not be losers by this ; but the theatrical
managers are undoubtedly.
Australians may be given to “ blowing,” but
“ gas ” does not always cary the day, as was ex-
emplified in a recent case of “trying it on.” by
our Sydney Gaslight Company. Not contented
with having built up and bricked up a monopoly
of _ the Sydney streets which ensured to Sydney
citizens the very worst quality of gas with the
very highest quantity of pay for it, the company
objects to have the slightest chance of a loss in
the common way of debtor and creditor, but pro-
ceeds ruthlessly, turnscrew in hand, to cut off the
gas in any house occupied by a previous debtor to
the Company. Oh no, thank you. No District or
Small Debts’ Court for the Gas Company; that is
by far too legitimate and too troublesome a mode
when it has so easy a modus operandi in its own
hands, or in the hands of its collector or
“reader.” [Reader, don’t laugh—it is the cor-
rect term.] “ Just a moment to look at the meter,
please,” just a turn of the screw, and the thing is
done as neatly as as any other sieight.of-hand or
sly-handed trick. But for once this rich monopoly
had its own supply of gas—or coin—stopped by
a poor woman—a lodging-house keeper, residing in
Albion-street, who had been unable to pay a small
account of one pound tiifteen in the
house in which sho formerly resided. In the house
to which she removed she'paid her gas-rates. But
the rich men of the Company wanted to take the
poor widow’s ewe-lamb, or mite, or oil-jar: they
bailed her up for the thirty-five shillings, or rather
paid the old debt with the new money, and cut off
the gas in the manner narrated till the new score
was adjusted, leaving the poor woman in the dark
despair of total darkness. But the poor woman
was a match for the reader, the collector, and the
whole posse comitatus. She sued the Company
for breach of the new agreement and for trespass
in entering her house under false pretences, and
gained (with the assistance of Mr. Simpson, the
barrister) a verdict of <£2o and costs. This time
the saddle was on the right horse.
So the Dibbs-Brown case, respecting the owner-
ship of a Newcastle colliery—a partnership affair
at (and like most lawsuits, the further you dip
into it the more mystified you become and the less
you can understand what it is all about), seems
further off a termination than ever. The judge
seemed to begin to be afraid of an attack
of paralysis if the arguments should not
take a more lucid turn, and, becoming humane
against the interests of his craft, advised a settle-
ment, because jaundiced at the idea of a new
Jarndyce v. Jarndyce. Dibbs agreed, but Brown
turned a deaf ear to the proposal, and his lawyer
went into a brown study on learning that the fur-
ther hearing was postponed till next term, with no
termination in view then. Whilst one person can
incept a lawsuit, it takes two to settle one, as it
takes two to settle a quarrel. In this suit of the
Dibbses against the Browns, if Mr. Dibbs doesn’t
put down “the browns,” he will have to be
“ down with the dibbs ” to a very considerable
extent.
Hurrah for the Corporation ! There’s a good
time coming, boys : and even John Davies will be
kicking up liis heels in his ante-mortuary. Ex-
Mayor Roberts is going to give a ball that will
eclipse the round universe, alias creation (a gentle
hint to the fowler not to share powder and shot) —
and they have “ Struck Oil ”in Moore Park. We
have “ shoddy ” enough in the Corporation, and
now that “ile is to be added in profusion, our
Corporation will possess the two American ele-
ments of wealth, that will enable it to snap its
fingers at the Government. The cry will be for
more land round about Moore Park ; and there is
comfort even in the hope that the Corporation
spouters will be completely eclipsed by the Moore
Park oil-spouts.
A Dish of Trifle.
III.
(COOEED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Volunteer Encampment will soon be coming
off. So wall the fingers of some unlucky gunners.
He would not run away:—Manly Cove.
F. F. in one of our weeklies wants to know
“who is credited with having made the first
screw ?” Can’t say, F. F. Very likely Mr. Adam,
late of Eden. He drew his screw from his mother
—earth—and was paid in kind. More kin than
kind.
“Pinafore,” at “Our Boarding House.” When
our Spanish friend came the “ cooler” was low,
so he murmured softly—“ Pobre Copita de Mante-
quanilla.”
The Exhibition Commission deem the offer of
the vivacious concert-vivific Vivo incompatible
with their economic principles.
News for Sir H. P. —The Free Public Library
cannot be removed. It has now reached the top
of its Bent —(street.)
Condensed Books. —“Innocents abroad M‘El-
- and Eoseby on the stump. ‘ ’ Out of the
Hurly Burly”: The Comet. “The Barton Ex-
periment” : What the University electors are en-
*n- Mysteries of Paris ’’: French cookery.
The Black Dwarf” : Japanese T. “ The Path-
finder : Thy toes. ’ “Night and morning”:
1 he milkman’s call.
List here! ’Tis Garnered for thee! Miss
Blanche stammers. Does she? That’s a pity.
Why put it in the bills ? U—N6 —ED is a prettier
word for it than “ stammered.”
Shakespere again. “ I can no longer brook thy
vanities.” Thus spake the immigrant of many
trunks to the drayman of mien extortionate.
Respect for William. —During the past three years
but five pro’s have es sayed the character of Hamlet
in this city.
Muddled, but to the point. “ Tabitha, I say unto
thee arise.” Take up thy bag' and ivalk.
Strange Conduct at the Theatre Royal. —On
Thursday night last, without a word of explana-
tion, almost the whole of the audience rose and
left the theatre. However, the time was 10.45
p.m. Queer that the comedy for the Deorwyns’
benefit should have been cast(e) so many years
ago.
Sweets to the Sweet. —’Twas midsummer’s even.
Transient zephyrs gently toyed with the emerald
leaves of the gigantic eucalypti, which, gilded by
the yellow beams of the retiring sungod, rose like
columns of red red gold against the purple cloud-
arches of the flame-hued sky. ’Neath the shade
of these Austral trees he stands. Anon his eyes
seek the greensward’s sombre cloak. But he
starts, and a,cloud passes o’er his manly brow, as
the sounds of a well-known voice smite his ear.
Were they the tones of the haughty baron, Sir
Walter? No! no! For again they rise on the
perfume-laden air. ’Tis—Lollie, Lol-lie. Nice
Lollie. Fine Lol-lie.
So Kearney has been arrested. Puck (an
American publication) some short time ago
published a letter (objectionable words omitted)
which it had received from Kearney :
To the Editor.
Sir, —
etc.
17 _ D. Keaenet.
Another Jingle. —Little Dailey (very) light and
airy. How does your good speech go, with the
infidels and other rebels, who against thy church
with P. and E. are in a row ?
Pass it on. ‘' Theatres are not considered un-
healthy, but lots of people end their days there.”
Mail.— Yes, under star-light and gas.—“ The
subscriptions to the Irish Eelief Fund from the
Chinese have been large.”— Heeald. What is
there about that?— u A man is Known
by the company he keeps— Mail— Exceptio pro-
bat regulam.—“ Pressing business—a printer’s.”
Austealasian. Is this a case where the compo.
of the joke is typical of the paper? The form
needs no justifying.
Tl hat sin a name ? A combination of amateur
actors now forming in this city have, I believe,
chosen the classic designation of Susarions. It is
to be hoped they will produce something worthy
of the name.
“LANFRE.”
Gambling in King-street, Sydney.
Five-and-twenty men, of various professions,
none whom of are reputedly wealthy, were on
Monday morning charged at the Water Police
Court —the great majority with having been found
in a common gambling house, and three, viz., John
M‘Nulty, Philip Henry Solomon, and Isaac
Grounds, with keeping the house in question,
which is the upper portion of No. 100 King-street.’
Acting on “ information received ” constable
Eiley obtained admission to the premises on Sun-
day morning, but observed nothing of interest
during the day. In the evening he took
up a position of concealment between the ceiling
and the roof and waited. Play commenced at
about 8.45, and consisted principally of “hazard.”
The number of gamblers steadily increased, and
at ten o clock, when twenty-five persons were in
the room, the constable gave a preconcerted sig-
nal, and the room was rushed by his comrades.
No resistance was made, but the dice, cards &c
were very hurriedly thrown out of the window or
concealed in the room. d£96 Is. 7d. was the total
sum found on the men who were conveyed to the
police station in batches and locked up for the
night. They were brought before the Bench next
day, when the conductors of the place were
remanded till next Tuesday. The remainder were
uned 40;. each on a charge of having been found
without lawful excuse in a house suspected of
being a ;ommon gambling house. Our artist, who
likes ca rds and dice, but says he has never yet
had sufficient money to indulge, favours us with a
sketch t>f the interior of the piaoe and portraits
of sevei al of those principally concerned.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
Peep the Fourth.-
—'THE SINS OF THE CIRCLE.’
We are iu the ‘Circle* to-night. Society’s ‘Jeht
have been pulling up their aristocratic horses at t 1
gates of the ‘ Royal,’ and handsome men and wome •
with any number of pretty girls, have been steadi
streaming up the stairs, a perfect rainbow of color
flashing jewels, and flimsy clouds. I have ;a good sea.
not exactly commanding the stage so much as tlu
house. The rainbow in a more broken form has spree
itself over most of the chairs—plenty of pretty inn,
cent-looking girls, any number of young men, and
very fair sprinkling of elderly people, mostly parent
or chaperons. As the colors settle down, there is -
great fluttering of fans, mostly ugly ones. Ladies seen,
ingly find it difficult to discriminate between a churc:
fan and an opera fan. As often as not they distract
sedate congregation by flirting a gaily-painte : , high!
colored fan before their saintly eyes; and, strange dr.
versity of taste, come to opera with some ugly cheaj
invention from Japan or Fiji. I counted twenty *ma
fans’ the other night iu the circle. They give an.
amount of wind, but do not look in strict acoorcbmct
with the elaborate dress of our languid swells ant*
belles. In such a select, high-priced part of the bout*
as the dress circle, shabby gentility, be it ever > .ir
tuous, can never venture to appear. And yet Un
occupants of the circle are not all immaculate. I have
seen night after night three front chairs occupied by i
man, a woman, and sometimes, not always, a little fair
haired girl. With the man’s face nearly every one 5
familiar; that he teas a married man is equally wa'i
known, so that the woman he nightly brings with bin
can scarcely be the wife of this widower of two months
standing. She is young, good looking, with eyes
whose colour is deepened by belladonna, checks
and lips whose rich tints are the result of :i <fl. •.- #
attention to the contents of her dressing-case. Anion:.*
his friends, this man passes her off as his, ‘ward.
About the little girl who is so remarkably like him hi
is silent. It may be a whim of his pretty ward's, b
whom he is seemingly so devoted. And tha*: may ac
count for his fondness for the child, for he generally
draws her close to him and feeds her liberally with bon
bons—a trict he evidently learnt from his defu act wife.
And this is in our dress circle. Why cry out at * Peri-
chole’ in the stalls when ‘Formosa’ sits in the from
row of the circle and carries on her shameless trade be-
fore the very eyes and in the very ears of the aristo-
crats of society, whose daughters, let us hope, are at
least as innocent as their poorer sisters. One who!
season this man and his ‘ ward ’—the term is oracnla
—sat in the circle. They were seen together at a'
places of public amusement. She shared with him th*
box seat of his mail phseton; she headed his: table ?
those choice little dinners he was so famous t dr, gm
to gentlemen only who had long purses £ud litt
brains. At these little reunions it wasusuei to win'*: 1
up with cards, till late hours, or often ea: one,
warned the company to desist. At these even ng.v, oi
may be sure, ‘ Formosa ’ had her part to play. Before tin
following opera season had run three nights ‘Helen’ ha;
disappeared, and ‘Paris,’ the forsaken, soon pp ,iu*(
with another companion, this time a fair-haired bride
And ‘ society,’ which could never make up its min
whether to drop him or not, amiably forgot tie lit tl-
episode of last season, and received the newly m&rriet
couple as though nothing which was not perfectly
correct had been known in the lives of either
As to ‘ Formosa,’ she is doubtless playing her part a;
some other man’s ‘ward’; and the child—well, then
are institutions iu which such nameless children
generally find a home, and forget that they over
another, and in which, too, they are, as a rule, forgotten
qxtk.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
VII.— THE PUCTURE GALLERY.
My dear Bean-Blossom, —
By careful perusal of the Morning He. \tu, ,!
find that the picture gallery is to open this morning
lam delighted; pictures are my ‘ hobby.’ Query : whc
first invented the above little word ? I can t il you ill
about ‘Hobson’schoice,’ but ‘hobby’ baffles me, old
really must admit that I use the word without under
standing its meaning, except that everyone ac opts it a
the proper word to use on snch occasions. To wande 1
through picture galleries is always a profitable v uste of
time. To linger amid lovely scenery; the varied tint;
of light and shade ; exquisite little bits of lake scenery
Venice by moonlight;—all these and many more give
plenty of food for the brain in less happy hour:-.
We lose the pictures—the galleries are no more : but
we have stored and garnered them all in our brain, and
can recall them when we please. I go, as 1 said, with
pleasure; but I am not quite prepared for the result
preparation, there is not a single catalogue to be bad
as it is the first day. Altho’ they have had months for
I enter, trusting to my general knowledge of pictures
to make out a few. Thanks to the Graphic and many
other illustrated magazines, we are familiar wi. b most
of the fine paintings and sculptures in both British and
foreign galleries. The light is not bad, but the <; d
leries are frightfully narrow. The pictures—very
indifferently hung, evidently by ‘ ’prentice’ hands—arc
not seen to advantage. The only picture ready 'skied. 1
and that I dare say was more by good luck than gw
management, is that ugly, repulsive French * Jezebel’
a hideous mass of nude flesh —a subject for the shambles
The French artist evidently thought Jezebe: «,
thrown out of the window like a dog in a blanket, that
the fall broke her neck, tumbled her out of the rug, an.
left her there for the dogs to devour. From the home
display of teeth —no fangs—by the dogs ;one is Its! t
infer that it was a case of all bite and no bark.
The mass of people throngingthe galleries seem t
have very little notjou what they are looking at, or ho
to look at pictures. They stand as close as the can t«
an ‘oil,’ and then exclaim, ‘ Well, if that is called pain f
I call it daub.’ I remark a lady who takes art n a mo: '
artistic fashion. She is seated, not in theaftracth
French gallery, but in the proper prosaic ‘British
where Her Gracious Majesty the Queen figures in mor*
than one picture, and perhaps that is the reason why tl
lady on the settee has selected this particular court i
which to study art. She is perfectly drcssed,andlusalai
still full of energy . although the hair that surmounts
is white, almost whiter than snow. Were Ito write
the words of the gre <t ‘ Cockney orator’ I should le :
inclined to say : ‘ Site ’ad tb . hye of the beagle and U
bill of the’awk’ out tb.v: would not be clasilcul, ;■
just at present the ground we stand on is very class'
THE STRUGGLE AT THE SCHOOL OF ARTS,
FROM OUR HEATHENISH ARTIST’S
POINT OF VIEW.
IN THE HEART OF SYDNEY.—A GAMBLING RENDEZVOUS IN KING STREET.


indeed. So I shall merely say that she had black eyes and
eyebrows of the same jetty tint—a freak of nature, I
suppose. The slightly prononcee hut handsome features
as well as the clear colourless skin that has stood the
wear and tear of countless seasons of suppers unlimited
and parties endless—and yet looks better than many a
young girl’s—stamp her lineage, and will to the end of
time. She sits giving her whole attention to the pic-
ture before her —Joseph and his brethren and
to the languid swell who is endeavouring to
explain the subject. He is not very well up
in his Biblical history, and Joseph and his
brethren soon get as hopelessly mixed as
Buttercup’s babies. He breaks down at last, apolo-
gises, says it’s so long since he left college; she,
surveying him through her glasses, smiles at his
bungles, and tells him he knows more about the picture
tbnri she does herself. There’s no satire in her words—
at least her young friend fails to detect any. Others
more critical might say that with such a face, eyes so
penetrating, and lips—why the smile alone speaks
volumes for the satire—she dare not, but yet longs
to. Go, gentle youth, and thank the noble blood that
filters through your veins and colors your fair face a
little too much at the present moment —and as report
says you are a thorough linguist, remember for the
future that id langue des femmes est lew 6p6e et dies ne la
laissent pas rouiller. But the lady has daughters yet to
marry and her young friend has position. * Excelsior
is her motto and nothing will make her swerve. Her
attention is here claimed by a prettily-dressed, bright-
eyed duplicate of herself, who has been through all the
galleries and wonders what ma sees to attract her in
that ugly picture. Mamma only says: ‘My love,’ and
waves her little hand and behold all conquering Jove
smiling on her. As I leave my seat I believe our fair
friend with the blue blood in his veins is about to
relate Joseph’s history over again to the bright-eyed
daughter, and as mamma has listened once she leaves
them for a time. There is no knowing what the history
Joseph may lead to.
Yours obscurely,
PEA-BLOSSOM.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY OUIZ.
How many women of tMs kind there are
scattered over the whole civilized portion of the world!
1 shall divide them into two distinct classes, the mar-
ried and the unmarried. In this paper I shall attempt
to pourtray the * married woman with a mission.’ Mrs.
Pardiggle is just the same whether she finds her self-
imposed task of converting hrick-makers in the English
counties or among the hrick-makers of Australia. The
woman who fosters the too often erroneous notion that
she has a * mission ’ and that it chiefly consists in prying
into other people’s houses and setting them and their
affairs socially and morally to rights, as often as not ne-
glects her own. Like Mrs. Jellaby, she fails to see the
many wants of her household, in supplying those of
others. The woman with a mission—especially in the
.colonies—is almost always in a good position socially.
Her husband is a barrister or a doctor, or is one
of the many professionals whose occupation takes them
greatly from home during the day, and leaves the wife
ever so much time at her disposal. They meet at
breakfast, where he is fully occupied with the paper and
his chop; she has her notebook open by her, and between
the intervals of eating dots down various little memos, to
refresh he#memory during the morning. Her children,
not altogether neglected, are left to the care of nurses
and governess, in whom she has of course implicit
confidence. She, as a'rule, visits the nursery before
starting on her “ mission,” hears all nurse has to say.
coincides with her on most subjects, pats a curly head or
two, forgets to kiss the ruddy little lips pouting so ex-
pectantly, hurries to the schoolroom where presides the
governess. Here she remains long enough to draw on
and button her gloves, and during that process she im-
proves the shining hour by impressing on her girl and
boy how much more blessed it is to give than to receive,
—that it would be very easy for them to practically
illustrate the text by giving her their week’s pocket
money for the poor washerwoman’s family in “ Poverty
lane.” The boy perhaps puts his hands deep in his
trousers pockets, and sturdily refuses; the girl, more
plastic hy nature, gives her little store; and the gov-
erness, who is not overburdened with money, feels that
with such an example before her she also must give her
mite. A word or two with cook, and the door closes on
her. By luncheon hour this exemplary woman has
visited and helped to convert the inmates of ten houses ;
put their names down on the visiting list; made the men
in some few instances promise to go to church and to
send their children to school; talked to poor hard-work -
ing mothers who are steaming over the wash-tuh, or iron-
ing-board, about the sinfulness of letting their children
wear such rags—the rags as she aptly terms them, are
mostly clean ones, though old. At other houses she has
had the door slammed in her face, with the not-too-refined
reminder, from some grimy-faced giant to leave his
missus alone,—“he ain’t a-going to let her draw her
arms from the suds for no one.’ She has attended a
‘flower mission meeting,’ and tried, while there, to
speak a word, in season, let us hope. Whilst the girls
are busy making up ‘Hospital bunches’ she lectures
them on the inordinate love of dress displayed by girls
in particular, and woman kind in general at the present
time; she selects a bunch or two for her ‘ Dorcas ’ bas-
ket, and smilingly directs the lady secretary to specially
notice ,n her next report for the papers how deeply the
ladief' committee of the Flower Mission thank the gen*
erou. muons for their kindness. Then she starts for a
«D , v sewing class,’ where, arming herself with a
hvge .air of scissors, r does some work in an
incredibly short space of time. .She cuts out a number
of small garments, talking ail the while to the attentive
matri u—for this is a Charity Dorcas, organised
Pardiggle, where none but poor wonu u of strict,
character work and buy the clothes when nuu
mere trifle, just enough to keep the charity in n<
cotton, and bobbin; not material, for that portion ti»e
woman with a mission gets hy her energetic and I had
almost said pertinacious begging. All she wants she
obtains from the different warehouses, which she visits
periodically. From the sewing class she goes to one or
more schools, ragged ones, in which she is interested,
and where she takes a class for an hour twice in the
week. Then home for luncheon, a little tired, hut still
full of energy. After that meal, perhaps visitors claim
her for an hour or so, for she has a large circle of ac-
qnaintanees, with whom she discusses several subjects,
♦ V? education of her children being the chief topic : erf
Intrinsic value it is to a child, while yet young, to be
made a good grammarian, and so on. She believes her- j
self an oracle on most subjects. The visitors gone, she
in her turn pays calls in a becoming and fashionable cos-
tume. This fills up her time until dinner, after which
a committee of ladies occupy her drawing room. They
bring reports, read lists, take notes, and also tea, at
stated intervals, wax hot under the continued effects of
tea and virtuous indignation, as they volubly recount
the many painfully-rude rebuffs they' have met with
among the frightfully independent poor. Mrs. Pardig-
gle smiles on all; she, too, could add her testimony to
theirs, but prefers keeping such items to herself. She
is a woman of an iron will, and in spite of many rebuffs,
rough words, and evil looks, is determined in her own
mind to conquer them all, and by sheer force of will
convert them sooner or later into model men, women,
and children; willing at all times and seasons to open
wide their doors, and bid her enter, while they listen
meekly if not sincerely, to her statement of the object of
her mission.
The Egerton Bank Robbery.
Mr. L. W. J. Bruun, formerly manager of the
bank at Egerton which was robbed by the late
“ Captain Moonlite,” is naturally desirous of
ascertaining whether the written statement left
behind by the criminal throws any light on the
crime in question, which has, ever since its com-
mission, been involved jin a certain amount of
mystery. This especially in view of the fact that
Mr. Bruun, who, it will be remembered, was sus-
pected of the robbery at the time, has since suffered
severely in consequence of the odium unjustly
cast upon him. Mr. Bruun is now in the survey
department at Levuka, Fiji, and his solicitors in
Sydney, -writing in reply to enquiries made by him
of them, are unable to say more than that the
scoundrel’s statement was handed to Canon Rich
and will not be published without the consent of
the Colonial Secretary. They further state that
according to Canon Rich, Scott, while denying
that he robbed the bank does not say that you
(Bruun) are not implicated in it.” Of course no
one now attaches the slightest importance to any
of Scott’s sayings or writings, but if such be any
satisfaction to Mr. Bruun the public we are sure
will be glad to hear of his being supplied with a
copy of Scott’s statement under any conditions
which the bon. the Colonial Secretary may think
proper to impose.
Immortality.
The following is by ‘ Sharpshooter,’ the Sydney
‘ special ’of the Albury Banner of March 13th * The
musical critic of the “ Thunderer” is not a cleric, but
an elderly lady, who has gained some notoriety by her
would-be flippant style of criticism, and who is to be
seen at concerts with her head incased in a red night-
cap. As you know, Camilla Urso, the violiniste, was
here the other day. At the beginning of her short
season she is said to have given a piece of jewellery to
our lady-critic, who became a faithful disciple of
Camilla, and belauded her in the “ Thunderer.” The
elderly lady may not have all the wisdom of Minerva,
but ’ but we (Bulletin) would rather let the Alburt
Banner take the responsibility of its own paragraphs,
and prefer letting our readers find out the rest for them-
selves. Albert Banner please copy.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
VII.—'THE WIMAN WITH A MISSION.'
BRIEF MENTION.
Eco-d! it’s true. ‘ Where goes the Herald’s
morning news ?’ Echo answers, * That I use!’
The old woman of Hunter-street would like
to be Patti-d on the back.
Sydney butchers’ boys are reincarnated Roman
charioteers. They drive even faster than the latter did.
Adjutant Wilson has taken to pastoral pur-
suits. He has a good back block at Haslem’s.
A valued correspondent who attended the
Patti concert at the Masonic Hall on Tuesday night.
asks: ‘Whose duty is it to quieten the babies in the
julery? ’ We don’t know, hut we suppose its tne
'(h) .tsner’s.
s' a J . Wells still contemplates his spurs. He’ll
n his ttention by-and-hye to gunnery, Ac.
there’s only one apology for libel in the
•j i so News this week.
Ihe Bulletin’s special reporter will do the I
Easter campaign. The artists will be there too.
A map may become a mayor and yet remain an
asfT A fowler joke than this could scarcely be perpe-
trated.
Sir James Martin has a further leave of ab-
sence. Sit Kury assured us years ago he’d never say
‘ Yes, Sir Janos.’
John Davie writes by the last post from the
Garden Palace: How do you find the money market
down at the Bulletin office ? It’s awfully tight up here.
Do what I will, smile as I may, my testimonial jibs.
A permanent lodger at the coffee palace was
c: old b- them = er Mr. Hughes, delugimr the com-
pally’s couee stall beneath with water from his hed-
room window. He th ought it was and opposition stall
and was jealous of palatial rights!
Some preserved beef was tried at a luncheon at
the Exhibition last week. John Davies was pretty
nearly absent, but not quite.
In the Assembly on Tuesday evening, Mr.
Buchanan, in moving a resolution in favour of Pro-
tection, said that the members wanted enlightening on
the subject. They evidently didn’t desire his light, for
they extinguished him by counting out the House as
soon as he commenced to speak.
The other day Larry Kinn was heard to say,
* The Herald’s musical “ citric” (?) was a silly old
woman, who didn’t understand her silly old business!’
No doubt he meant ‘ critic’ when he said ‘ citric.’ But
then, how can such a sour critic be anything but
citrically critical.
Both the Cooktown papers are now owned by
bonifaces, who are very complimentary to each other.
Balser loves Poole just as a white digger does a China-
man, and Poole has got into the habit of casting grave
reflections on the manner in which Balser prepares
‘ John Collinses’ and ‘ corpse-revivers.’
The ‘grand Executive ’ of the Working
Men’s Defence Association is of 2-horse power. Martin
Guest elected Johnny West, and John West elected
Martin Guest. Now we know why Martin Guest is
spoken of as the head and trunk and Johuuy West as the
great toe-nail of the Association.
‘ Have you any money V asked the legal
celebrity, with bated'breath, of the twenty-five prisoners
in the dock at the Court. ‘ Ive not got none,’ replied
an ungrammatical defendant —the only one out of the
lot who wanted the solicitor’s services. ‘You’ve got
no money, eh? Haven’t yon got a watch?’ ‘No.’
‘Not got yer watch; then give me the ticket, and I’ll
pull you through.’
The editor of the Melbourne Review,
having somewhat shocked the religious world of Vic-
toria by publishing Mr. Marcus Clarke’s irreverent letter
to Bishop Moorhonse. is now about to placate it with
‘Easter Thoughts,’ a religious metaphysical poem
bv Dean Russell of Adelaide. This puts at rest
the surmise that the Review is about to give up the
ghost.
This is how the S. M. Herald reports a Sun-
day prize-fight Two youths stripped to the waist,
and “ set to,” surrounded by a large and appreciative
audience, whose shouts and blasphemies were anything
but in harmony with the quiet stillness of the Sabbath
surroundings.’ Yet this is the journal that owns the
copyright of Bell’s Life, which is ‘incorporated’ with
the Heeald’ s weekly edition. The Mail is a female,
just like its mother. O for the degeneracy of the ring!
M. de Munck writes us as follows: —‘ Cambridge
Club Hotel, Wednesday morning. Sydney has ze most
magniflque of all ze harbors. New Souse Vales is ze
grand contree altogether and ze Bulletin is le grand
paper. Vould you kindly say to Madame qui bring her
baby to our concerts, which baby sings quand I play,
zat either mine violincello must in ze avenir be raised
two tones or ze baby’s douce voice be depressed several
tones. The baby has nice voice, but not so nice comme
my instrument. — Eenest de Munck.’
It is said by a good authority that the face-
tiousness of the S. M. Herald is strictly attributable
to the personal influence of one of its proprietors. A
long time ago a reporter then fresh from another colony,
wrote for the Heeald what he considered to be a funny
paragraph. It didn’t go in, however. He —innocent
man! —was impudent enough to ask why. ‘Are you
aware, Mr. Jones,’ thereupon inquired Mr. F., that
the Herald is not Punch ?’ That story is told by way
of caution to every new Heeald reporter. On the arms
of the Fairfax family are now emblazoned a raw onion,
a weeping willow, and a cat trying to laugh. The gentle-
men of the statfever “hangon the lips’’ of the fat pro-
■ irietor and on his sacred, Solomonic words, fhe
Eleeald is not Punch.’
There are anxious inquiries for the cheques due
to the Garden Palace orchestra people. A rehearsal the
other attemoon was made a great success on the pro-
mise of payment of the arrears.
Every working man owes it as a duty to his
country to procure and carefully peruse Mr. G. H.
Reid’s recent speech on Free Trade v. Protection, which
has been revised by the author and printed in handy
pamphlet form. It can be obtained peek at any book-
seller’s. Mr. David Buchanan's frothy bunkum may
sound well enough in the Masonic Hall, but, unlike Mr.
Reid’s calm reasoning and quiet eloquence, it won t
stand the test of cold, prosaic, merciless type.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mark Twain is 44.
Dore is illustrating Shakespeare.
Pastor Chiniquy is making money in N.Z.
George Eliot’s earnings aggregate, over
£lOO,OOO.
Sir James Martin is still so unwell as to be
unfit for duty.
Major Smith is disposing of his Ballarat
property by lottery.
It is said that the new Victorian Agent- General
will be Mr. Murray Smith.
“Parnell” is pronounced with the accent on
the first syllable.
Kossuth is 88 and, poor old man!—supports
himself with his pen.
D’Avigdor, Mr. Jennings’ secretary, spells
Signor Giorza’s prefix, in official letters, ‘ Senior!’
Tuesday last was the fifth anniversary of the
appointment of Sir George Wigram Allen as Speaker.
Mr. Marcus Clarke is withered on one side yet
he is a fearless rider and an enthusiastic sportsman.
Mr. A. Hutchinson, late of the Bank of New
South Wales, Wagga, has joined the Wesleyan ministry.
Mr. Greville, the actor, and part lessee of the
Theatre Royal, is a wealthy man—posses some £40,000.
Pishing is his hobby.
Sir Charles Dilke, who cremated his first wife
a few years ago, is about to marry a daughter of the
house of Rothschild.
George Coppin has been free from the gout
this summer, which he attributes to his recent practice
of taking three lemons a day.
Mr. John Henniker Heaton has purchased the
residence of the late Hon. Edmund Butler. Ten thou-
sand cash.
Among the Somersetshire’s passengers were
Major and Mrs. Airey. The Major goes home on leave
and on business connected with his Imperial pension.
Sir Arthur and Miss Kennedy arrived from
Brisbane by the Derwent on Saturday. They leave by
the Californian mail.
Mrs. Macpherson, of the Edinburgh Schoo
of Cookery, and lately from Melbourne, is the lates
professor of cookery arrived in Sydney.
On Monday afternoon Mr. Gregory P. Harte,
U. S. Executive officer, was entertained at a luncheon
at Petty’s Hotel.
On Monday the German residents of Sydney
celebrated their Emperor’s 83rd birthday. Lord
Augustus Loftus visited H.I.M.S. Bismarck.
Mr. Tom Carrington, the artist of Melbourne
Punch, is to have a public testimonial in recognition of
his exertions during the recent political campaign.
J. J. Westcott, leader of the first gold pros-
pecting party at the Northern Territory, died near
Collett’s Creek on Sunday last,! while on his way to
Port Darwin.
We regret to say we are about to lose the
services, at anyrate for a time, of one of the best en-
gravers in Sydney. Mr. Edward Butcher leaves on a
business visit to England next week. We wish him
bon voyage.
Mr. T. M. Slattery, the Prothonotary, has
quarrelled with the Government, and been suspended.
The whole affair appears to arise out of a misunder-
standing.
Miss Maud Fitz Stubbs was on Sunday last
married to Mr. Harry Woods, son of Mr. John Woods,
of Manly Beach, formerly Mayor of Sydney.
Admiral Sherer, one of the last survivors of
Parry’s Arctic Expedition, has just died. He was a
midshipman during the last British-American war.
Mr A. P. Martin, of Melbourne literary celebrity
has a billet in the telegraph department. He is stout and
burly and a great favorite with the girls.
Mr. H. Short sub-edits the Melbourne Age,
Mr.A. Britton the Argus, Captain H. Morin-Humphreys
the Telegraph, and Mr. Jim Middleton the Herald.
The Rev. Dr. Steel, of St. Stephen’s Presby-
terian Church, Sydney, who is about to visit Europ’e,
has been presented at an enthusiastic meeting with a
purse of 600 guineas.
Mr. Richmond Thatcher has inherited coin
and lives in some style in Melbourne. He occasionally
contributes to the papers, but does little work literary
or theatrical.
Sir Samuel Wilson writes about salmon and is
an authority on wool, but has less poetry in his nature
than Bobby Bums. However, he was one of the judges
of the cantata for the Melbourne International.
Mr. A. M. Topp, a well-known Victorian press-
man, is diminutive and thin despite the force with
which he writes. His forte is writing on finance and
especially banking, though he deals ably with European
politics.
Mr. John Hennings, scene painter to the Royal
and also part lessee, is the best boa camarade in Mel-
bourne His brother of the brush Herr Habbe is a
man about towns—dresses to perfection. Sometimes
he comes to Sydney.
Miss Thompson (who, by the way, is Australian
bom) is painting a large picture of the defence of
Rorke’s Drift, and for this purpose has had a miniature
Borke’s Drift constructed in her garden.
Mr. Garnet Walch, the pantomime writer and
litterateur, is in difficulties, brought on by prodigality
and unbounded liberality to fellow pressmen. He has a
villa at Balaclava, near Melbourne, called ‘ Beverly,
and since his arrival in Victoria has lived luxuriously.
Mr. R. S. Smythe, the well-known agent, is in
N.Z. arranging with the railway and shipping people
for travelling ‘ Cook’s tourists,’ who are coming out to
the Melbourne Exhibition, through that colony. He is
chatty, and as pleasant as ever.
Lord Loftus has been informed by the Chilian
Consul, Mr. Eldred, that the entire Peruvian coast is
blockaded by the Chili Government. The correspon-
dence is a very chilly subject for perusal. Does Lord
L. dread the Consul’s letters ?
Mr. Thomas Higinbotham, chief engineer of
Victorian railways, and Mr. Gordon, late chief engineer
of waterworks, who were ‘ Black Wednesdayed by the
Berryites, will probably be reinstated. Ihe former is a
distinguished engineer and a brother of Mr. George
Higinbotham, the eminent barrister. Mr. Gordon is a
LIEUT. -COLONEL WILSON GOING TO THE FRONT.
UNDER THE NEW DISPENSATION.
ONE OF LORD LOFTUS'S ANOINTED.


hydraulic engineer, well known in India, where he was
engaged by the Victorian Government at a high salary
Benjamin Berry, “ of known ability,” younger
son of Mr. Berry, will be dismissed.
A well-known Sydney pressman—not on tbe
Bulletin, though—has made a good match. Blue blooc
and coin too.
Professor Edison, it is said, has discovered a
plan for extracting £4O to £6O worth of gold from tail
ings which it has hitherto been unprofitable to treat.
Mr. Jennings, C.M.G., it is said, does not card
about accepting a monetary testimonial, but will attenc
the proposed dinner with pleasure. The event is fixec
for 21st prox.
James Service, Victorian Premier, a sombre-
looking Scotchman, mightily enjoyed ‘Pinafore’ the
other night. After all Scotchmen are not as impervious
to a joke as Sydney Smith imagined. There is, too
in the case of Mr. Service, much wisdom minglec
with their wit.
Sir John O’Shannassy is so disgusted with
politics that he is giving all the powers of his dogmatic
mind to freezing meat, and expects to realise a heavy
fortune.
People in London are neglecting Mrs. Corn-
wallis-West and Mrs. Langtry and now stare at an
unknown lady who is by no means pretty and who
dresses—nobody knows why—in a scarlet flannel
costume and big grey fur hat.
David Graunson, who was unceremoniously left
out of the Service Ministry, and Mr. Thomas Bent, his
his friend, who is included, have set up a coat of arms.
Gaunson’s motto is * Broken, not Bent,' and his friend’s
‘ Bent, not broken.’
Miss Eidler is to give lessons in cookery at
the Temperance Hall. The first lesson is to be free.
We shall go to the first lesson. Are the viands to be
handed round also free ? Does Miss Fiddler use catgut
in the preparation of her stews ? The man who asks is
‘ only a fiddler.’
Mr. Sergeant Sleigh, a distinguished English
lawyer, who has for some years practised in Victoria,
and whom a recurrence of the ill-health which brought
him to the colonies has forced to visit Tasmania, is
angling for the appointment of police magistrate at
Hobart Town.
On 15th January the Bishop of Manchester
was married by Dean Stanley, at St. Peter’s, Onslow
Gardens, South Kensington, to Miss Ellen Francis
Duncan. The bride was attired in silver grey satin and
the ceremony was witnessed by nol more than forty
spectators.
Poor old Mr. Edward Smith TTill has gone
over to the majority. He was bom to good luck, and
his sister married a baronet. He feted a prince, and
decided the fate of a museum curator: but his own
final fate was death at last. Sir Hercules liked him and
he was not a bad judge of men. Mr. Smith was a native
of Sydney and was bom in 1819.
Messrs. Hardy Brothers, furniture brokers,
have failed for £20,000 with about £2OOO available for
unsecured creditors. That accounts for the milk in the
cocoa-nut, and the number of wakeful sleeping-partners
connected with the ‘ money ’ market. Where are Him-
melhoch and Co.? ‘ Heaven high ’ out of danger/,or
stuck in the mud! ‘Humelhoch’ in German means sky-
high.
John Woods, the Victorian Minister of Rail-
ways and ‘inventor’ of the Woods Patent Break, is
now in Sydney. John has taken an active part in
“breaking" the southern colony. Melbourne Punch
usually depicts him as an ugly man holding a tar-brush.
This acts as a gentle reminder of a certain little inci-
dent of a few years ago when one John Woods, then
a subordinate in the water works department was dis-
missed the service for allowing certain cracked pipes to
be tarred by contractors.
The Prince of Wales (s).
We give in the accompanying engraving a sketch
of the fast-steaming and popular pleasure boat,
the Prince of Wales. This splendid little vessel
has earned the reputation of being the handiest
smartest, trimmist, and best handled boat in Port
Jackson waters, and is in consequence chosen on
all occasions by the Press in preference to other
vessels for following boat races, etc. There is
perhaps no boat in the harbour that has had such
a demand on her services, a compliment of no
mean order to the builders, Messrs. Chapman
Brothers, of Darling Harbour. For pleasure and
picnic parties the Prince of Wales is par excellence
the attraction of these waters. With her crowded
decks she is a perfect picture at boat races as she
sweeps past like a cloud, distancing all other com-
petitors. She invariably brings the first news to
town on such occasions. We give a sketch of her
m this issue in connection with the great sailing-
boat race of last Saturday, when she was again
•xtensively patronised. It may be said, en passant,
that one of the pleasant trips on Sunday is a run
up Middle Harbour on the Prince of Wales She
goes higher up than any other boat, and does not
usually run a tail race with the Commodore or
other steamers from Middle Head homewards
Captain Waterhouse is one of the most popular
111 command in this harbour, and it is not
unlikely that his courteous treatment of all he
meets aboard has contributed in a great degree
to the popularity of his steamer.
WOMAN ITEMS.
• L ?4 i ® s New England have started a club. Ladies
in old England are clubbing their hnsbands.
A woman never buttons anything which she can pin.
A man never pins anything he can tie with a string
Eve was severely punished for her transgression.
She never appeared in a nude dress afterwards.
The Moors don’t consider a girl pretty until she
weighs over two hundred.
Ting-a-Ling is the name of a Chinese girl in San Fran-
cisco. She doubtless is a belle.
Queen Victoria receives £1250 a day. Which is a great
deal of change for one sovereign.
An American lady voter recently found too late that
she had voted her curl papers.
One female cook in a Wisconsin lumber-camp has
already caused two suicides, one stabbing affray, and
fifty-three fights.
When two women with new hats on pass each other
on the street, there are a pair of back stares made
frequently.
Adelina Patti ordered a dozen drawing-room panels in
Paris, representing her fair self in a dozen of her princi-
pal parts.
Of the Princess Louise’s contributions to the London
water-colour exhibition, the Spectator says “people
will think them very able for a princess.’
Oliver Wendell Holmes calls a kiss a lisping conson-
ant. He should have added that it usually follows a-
vowal.
Colonel Colt invented that famous firearm, the revol-
ver, and his widow sustains the reputation of the name
for deadly weapons by presenting a brass band with a
set of instruments.
An American girl has been sued by her late lover for
a valuable gold watch and chain which he gave her when
she was ‘the idol around whom his heart’s fondosf
aspirations clustered.’ Decision reserved.
<? ulu lid 1 i d 7 1 , n< > question as to what hand or
which hnger shall hold the wedding-ring. She wears it
on her nose. There is a constant reminder of the
a husband has to ring the nose of his wife. 8
A society for the prevention of cruelty to wives is
,? f “i. E^i a fv d -- In S >’ dne y People want to flog
husbands who hit their spouses. This is all very well,
but what about women who nag ?
‘Dear Louise, don’t (let the men come too near you
when courting. ‘Oh, no, dear ma. When Charles is
here we always have one chair between us.’ Mother
thinks the answer is rather ambiguous.
We cannot help feeling some sympathy for a certain
youth, at nineteen years a widower and the sire of a
seven-month-old baby. Most fellows of his age are
v fa L ot . troubling their own fathers than being
troubled by their legitimate offspring.
• d fashion, arid a very pretty one, has been revived
in Melbourne. It is the lacing of dresses with gold over
, The chemisette itself differs much
SCTmI s “ l,erl ” g « “ d
In Mdhoume rai is stiff most fashionable for dresses,
with jacket and bonnet or hat to match. A red skirt
I m a <3ar , k bl «e Jersey, red collars and cuffs, and cap
or blue and red, has been worn by a very young lady.
Another dress of black Cashmere, with a broad scarf of
flesh colour, jacket with hood lined in flesh colour, small
nat of flesh colour and black, and muff to correspond—
tne latter being an indispensable article of apparel.
A pretty costume has come into vogue at home
among iadma, namely, of carrying floral baskets in-
stead of bouquets to parties and the opera. The most
fashionable flowers are violets and pale yellow tea-
roses. Bouquetieres are to be appointed to the leading
dubs, and are to have stands in the halls, where they
wIU sell button-hole flowers to the members who desire
tobethus decorated. Designs for these dresses, by an
artist whose talent and originality in costume is pro-
verbial, are already well advanced. What a com-
pettion there will be among the fair ones to become the
flower-decorators of ‘ crack ’ clubs—and wouldn’t we
like to be on the selection committee!
With a view to in some measure secure ladies
against accident Mr. F. Lovell, writing to the Times,
suggests that riding-skirts should be as short as possible;
that the bottoms should be cut clean as a man’s frock
and left so, without any hem or binding whatever:
that the skirt should swell somewhat at the bottom like
the orifice of a bell; that the seams from the knees down-
wards should be held together by buttons, 5 in. or more
apart, loosely sewn to the under-lining of very thin
that especial care should be taken to test
whether they can be tom off with the greatest ease.
Mrs .Bell, sister and heiress to James Gordon Ben-
nett, of the New Yoke Herald, has just given birth in
PJ* ~° a . rr 1 ® kaby> and the happy father was so de-
lighted with the advent that he sent a handsome ser-
vice of plate to the doctor who presided on the occa-
sion. Mrs. Bell is very rich, and can afford to have the
costliest of babies just as often as she pleases. It is a
boy, and the happy little fellow found in his cradle 100
U. o. bonds of 1000 dollars each, as a present from his
appears to have a special liking for the
sum or 100,000 dollars, which was the exact amount con-
tributed by him to the Irish Famine Fund.
The florists in Paris ought to be doing a rare trade.
Never have natural flowers been so much worn as of
late; they appear in the hair, in the corsage, and trail-
ing round the skirt of the Parisian belle; one young
lady at her wedding the other day had orange-blossoms
on her white-satin shoes. The wedding bouquet is no
longer the simple thing it was; it takes the form, some-
times, of a huge ball of flowers hung up in the room
sometimes of a casket, sometimes of a fan. How some
of these curiosities are concocted we are unable to say ■
we can only answer for the result, which is charming!
On New Year’s Day bonbons were presented to ladies
buned in baskets of natural flowers.
The newest fans are eleven inches from the handle
outwards—a much more graceful size than the heavy
fans of last season. They have brocade silk leaves
either in small French designs or in Persian patterns of
brilliant colouring. The brocade is only visible on one
side of the fan, the reverse side being plain gros grain,
of such delicate colours as mastic grey, cream or a
colour selected in reference to the dress of the wearer.
Ine sticks are of olive wood, and the ornaments on the
outer ones are incised in quaint designs. For full dress
fans are of plain satin, embroidered with silk of delicate
colouring; some, indeed, are hand-painted on silk, by
artists of repute.
Small black artificial flies are. in Melbourne, the pet
etngies of the hour for earrings. They are made in a
marvellously natural manner. A gentleman sitting
behind a lady at a concert the other evening wa s for a
time quite put out by the persistent way in which one
particular ‘fly ’ seemed to settle on the dame’s ear, and
at the nonchalant manner in which the fair one treated
the matter. His mind was not set at rest until he
found she had a ‘fly’ on her other ear too. This
fashion has not yet been adopted in Sydney, but
judging from the ‘buzz’ which prevails at concerts
when the Herald’s lady critic manages to squeeze into
the front seats we’ll have some very big flies here
shortly.
FUN AND FANCY.
A meet occasion for rejoicing—the Strathleven newr
Chilled versus Frozen—an ice distinction.
Paradoxical. The mast-headed heef “ kept perfectly
sweet; and yet it was undeniably high.
Impatient salesman: “ O that this too, too solid flesh
would melt!
New reading of an old saw-Let ns get a return on
our mutton s.
Is it permissible to refer to Messrs. Macllwraith and
MacEacharn s Strathleven ’ venture as a ‘ joint ’
enterprise ? J
juSeto S both°? W ShaU PraiBG be M out 80 as t 0 d 0
. the , C hica ?° exporters, they’ll think the
the coolest trick they’ve been played this
Awli' V ° n ’ t be in a hnrr y t 0 f ree ™ to the audacious
Australian any more.
■Let us not be disheartened, however. If our Ameri-
can cousins give us the ‘cold shoulder,’ we are quite
contfnen r t a ha 1 ? Wld + th + l m ‘ Every true son of this
comment has a steak m the concern, and should be
ready to spill the last drop of gravy in its defence.
Honesty is the best (insurance) policy (query).
A deceiving age—Sausage.
“If you marry Grace!” exclaimed an irate father
to his son, I will cut you off without a cent, and you
won t have so much as a piece of pork to boil in the
pot. Well, replied the young man; “Grace before
meat,” and he immediately went in search of a minis-
A prize is to be given for the cure of rust in wheat
How much for the rust of inactivity ?
Undertakers take no interest in Edison’s electric
light. They would rather see people using kerosena.
If your foot is asleep wake it up quickly, for he poet
tells us that the sole is dead that slumbers.
A church pew, ‘ commanding a beautiful view of the
whole congregation,’ is advertised for sale.
‘Are you a wall-flower?’ he asked, and she replied.
No, I am a wall sir.* Then they waltzed.
Suggestion for Cartoon.—Scene: Ball-room. In fore-
ground stand two ladies—the one with her wrists to-
gether, calling attention to her bracelets, which are
broad gold bands, much resembling in appearance a
pair of hand-cuffs. IVXrs. Oldcbum; Are they not very
unique? Mrs. Newchum: Yes, indeed, heirlooms, I
presume. (Sensation.)
Proverb in Queensland. The Hurley bird picks up
the wurram.
One cow broken in to the bail is worth fifty scrubbers
m the bush.
, To u correspondent. Ear! Dalhousie.—You stayed in
the old country too long. It is several years now since
nch squatters flocked down in crowds when
an immigrant ship was expected, to select wives from
the single girls on board. Forward your address and if
nE . ENSLA -c D . I>CN ?. H ) meet with any rich squatter
who wants a wife!we will send him along at once.
Cast thy Austrahan-bred meat upon the waters, and
thou shalt find it again in Smithfleld market.
A schoolboy remarks that Moses was the only man
who ever broke all the commandments at once.
When a man sees his wife shedding a cataract of tears
for nothing it well Niagara-vates him beyond endurance
A northern editor squelches an obnoxious corves
pondent with a footnote thus :— ‘ This letter is rerdlte
with garbled sycophancy, departing from the truth/
u A S°l of Sunday larrikinism, when may a father
briSftfemu e p COmeSiCk ° f^hiS^ bbi'drcnP-^henhe’s
? 0t * tbat Mr ®- Fortune, of Oamaru, has given
Sy. tWlnS ~ glrls - Miss Fortunes never S
The following horrible announcement recently an.
peared in a window in New York‘ Baking every dav*
People’s vitals cooked.’ B ery
fJ 3 ™ S v n l T 7 ISS V a fact -~One night last week a visitor
from Yankeeland was seated on the Woolloomooloo ’bmf
and noticing the lean and scraggy condition of
horses, he surprised the driver by asking how it was he
hadn ’ t =. br ??.f h . t truss of hay. Driver: ‘What d’ye
mean?—*Wal, I guess this off horse would look no
worse for being thatched!
A Yorkshire farmer has a mile of children. His
name is Furlong, and he has four boys and four girls.
Eight furlongs one mile. 8
Reflection by a gambling card ‘ Strange that a
, or “aunt of gambling vice does oft contain a
perfect pair o’dice.’
In one of the scenes of a German play Adam is repre-
sented as running across the Garden of Eden to be
created.
■A German fellow-citizen who had heard the song
she is Fooling Thee,’ etc., immediately placarded m
his place ot business : ‘No fool here. I vill no vom..ns
artist.
THE GAME BIRD OF THE UPPER HOUSE.
ROBERT WATSON, CHAMPION SPRINT RUNNER OF
AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRINCE OF WALES (s).


ICHOLSON AND A
325 GEORGE STJ
LILY QUEEN WALTZ.— By ;
most popular waltzes ever
Thousand already sold out.
Superbly illustrated in colo
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH. —By A.
lustrated in colours. Very 1
its popularity is assured. V
her 6th. Price 2s, by post 2f
THE FARMER AND HIS P
Taubert. Second Edition,
and effective. Sung hy Miss
the Urso concerts. Always
6d, hy post Is Bd.
Fourth Edition !!! Fourt
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL M.A
A Wonderful Success. No less thi
Weeks. Everybody is talking ah
teen Popular Songs and Pieces,
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on c
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me
The sale of this book is so great 1
tions are being offered to the pu
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MA
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASC
325 Geokge Stri
lONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENI
Whose success is attributed to his I
in catering for the million at sr
PRICES as to enable every workin
and fashionably, while those with
disposal can wear so many extn
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, w
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measm
Who will not avail themselves
GETTING MEASURED at ZB
ESTABLISHMEI
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fan
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, a
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUf
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLi
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6c
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready f
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS W]
A TRIAL WILL COS
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HO
409 GEORGE STR
■THE ONLY ZIONS IN
TZ" E L L Y T AND
OPERA HOI
comer of King and Yor
This (THURSDAY) Evenh
THE LINGARDS’ COMEDY O:
The Lingards’ Comedy Ope
OLD BACHELO
Old Bachelors
THIRD WEEK AND BRILL
of the beautiful and hig
Miss ALICE DUNNING
and the world-famed O
Mr. WM. HORACE LI
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NI
OLD BACHELO
Mrs. Millie Claire (a young widov
Professor Spirt (a teacher of mi
Other Characters by the
Box Plan now open at Nicholson
In active preparation, and will si
LECOCQ’S Comic Opera) Com]
Angot'),
THE LITTLE Dl
and first appearance in
Miss ALICE DUNNING LING
TZ" ELLY AND
fjl H E A T E E
Lessee
Business Manager & Treasurer ...
Stage Manager ...
SECOND WEEK AND CONTI
of
LYSTER and GAB
LONDON COMEDY C
THIS EVENi;
AND UNTIL EURTHE
FRIEND
PRICES OP ADMISSION.-Dr
35.; Family Circle, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and
street, where seats may be secured :
days in advance.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at I
ordered at 10.30.
V
ICTORIA T
Stage Manager Mi
GOOD FRIDAY N
GOOD FRIDAY N
GOOD FRIDAY N
the
PATTI ) GRAND SACRED C(
PATTI t
PATTI f
PATTI ) GRAND SACRED C(
under the management of
at
POPULAR PRICES. POP I
FAREWELL PATTI MUSIC
Positively
FAREWELL APPEARANCI
of
LA DIVA PAT
prior to her departure for Melboi
A SWEET BOUQL
of
SACRED and CLASSIC
Interpreted by the sublime
PATTI PATTI PA
Mr. ERNEST DE M
Signor CIAMPI-CELLAJ.
Mr. JAMES H INC HI
Mr. TAYLOR, Cor
SPECIAL NOT!
In order to aiford all lovers of i
of hearing for the last time LA D 1
Concert Combination, the manager
following
POPULAR SCALE OF
Dress Circle, reserved seats, ss.
Stalls, reserved seats, 3s.
Family Circle, 2s.
Pit and Gallery, Is.
Seats for Dress Circle and Stal
Nicholson and Ascherberg’s, Georg
The Grand Stein way American '
Concert. Mr. A. Bechet, sole Age
ICTORIA T
Stage Manager Mr.
THIS (THURSDAY) NIGH
First representation of i
of
EAST LYNNE
or the
SUNBEAMS AND SHADO
An (original adaptation of Mrs
novel, by A. Dampier, Esq., duly
Chamberlain, and otherwise protec
EAST LYNNE. E.A
TO-NIGHT EAST LYNNE
EAST LYNNE. Eli
EAST LYNNE. EAST LYNNI
EAST LYNNE. EAST LYNNE
SATURDAY.
GRAND DOUBLE
KIND TO A FAI
Kind to a Faul
Kind to a Paul
And the Glorious Burl
IXION
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion.
Box Plan at Elvy’s Music
QUEE N ' S T H
Lessee
TO-NIGHT JSaUirdoy) u
JPUSHIONABLE SCARFS
FOR GENTLEM
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCI
FITTING SH(
PITT STRI
Near the Victoria
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECK
TRY IT!!!
J. L. HOR D I
A DO
LPHE GABR
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC
18 WYNYARD SQI
(two doors from pfahle:
SYDNEY.
CAUT I O I
Owing to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. 1
caution their patient
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS I
O R ALL DESCRI
MEDICINE
GO TO
D
self:
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD ST;
AVID M
14 HUNTER STREET,
By Special Appoint
SADDLER AND HARNE
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE (
His Excellency the Right Honor
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBIN
And
His Excellency LORD AUGE
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentleme
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 18!
N.B.—Greyhound Slips. Counlinc
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER IV.— continued.
Myles knew quite well the tall, slim figure, the
two dresses which she alternately wore—one a soft
flowing black one —another, soft, and flowing too,
of a blue so dark as to be nearly black. He knew
that the lines of her dresses flowed gracefully, and
were agreeable to the eye, He knew, too, the
little black fichu which she usually wore —a sort
of apology for a mantle, which she never discarded
on the hottest days : the modestly-shaped white
straw hat, with its carefully preserved black lace
scarf, and a bunch of daisies at one side, which hat
she always ended in taking off after she had sat
there ten minutes or so. She had a pale, clear,
fair complexion, bright, warm chesnut hair, and a
face which, if not conventionally beautiful in out-
line, was full to overflowing of the subtler, more
bewitching charm of a beautiful spirit. It —her
face —had a youthful softness of outline —not full,
but not thin, with a charming rounded chin, melt-
ing into the full white throat: a mouth whose
lines attracted irresistibly, so good, so spiritual
were their curves ; an insignificant but well-cut
nose ; a pair of large, luminous, expressive eyes
which in some favourable light may appear grey,
but which an impartial observer must inevitably
have confessed had a shade of green in them.
Myles and this young lady had sat at neighbour-
ing tables in the public reading-room almost
every evening throughout the spring and summer
months of that year. Whenever Myles came into
the room he had found the young lady there ; he
could not, of course, tell whether she came when
he was not there.
Conversation in the reading-room was against
rules ; but ‘ ‘ conversation ” is an abstract noun of
considerable indefiniteness, and one to which dif-
ferent minds may attach different meanings. A
few words exchanged, of greeting or courtesy,
could scarcely have come under the head of con-
versation, or if it did, the rules were infringed
every day. A little remark as one passed the
paper to the other —fifty little things might have
been said (and were said by some frequenters of
the room) without in the least disturbing the
peace of the studious.
But between Myles and his neighbour those
words had never been spoken. They had never
exchanged a syllable—Myles because of a certain
British-workmanlike silence, and a general sense
that she belonged, despite the simplicity of her ap-
pearance, manner, and attire, to the class of “ fine
ladies ” whom he disliked and distrusted—the
class which was typified for him in the person of
Mrs. Mallory of the Oakenrod —and of whom he
had the idea that they were silly, pretty, useless,
expensive things, good for nothing but to spend a
man’s money, and make him miserable with their
tricks and antics—and break his heart if he were
fool enough to give it into their keeping—incapable
of taking any part in the serious things of life.
That was his opinion of “ ladies.” For the women
of his own class he had a hearty respect and ad-
miration : they could earn wages; they could
work; they did not meddle with things out of
their sphere ; they had a distinct use and purpose;
he never littered an ill word to or of any one of
them.
He had never spoken to his neighbour, because
he was shy, and did not know how to begin a con-
versation ; but he would have scorned to own it:
he would have said:
“ Speak to her ? Why should I speak to her P
I've nothing that I want to say to her.”
Which would have been untrue; for there was
such intelligence, such sympathy in her face, that
he many a time caught himself, on reading any
striking passage, wondering what she would think
of it if she had read it.
She had never spoken to him, because —why—
because—well, what did it matter P possibly be-
cause she was a little more sensible than most
girls, and felt no wish to speak unless she had
something to say.
They met without sign of recognition. He
would take his place—she hers : she always had
some book under her arm, for which she had
stopped to ask the librarian on her way in, and
they would often pass a couple of hours thus al-
most without a word or a look. She read earnestly
and hard —not as if she read for pleasure, but for
work with a purpose. Privately Myles was
mightily puzzled to know what she could be reading
or rather, with what object she read what she did.
Once he had been quite excited (silently) to see her
poring over a musical score; reading it as if it
were a book. One of the specialities of theThans-
hope Free Library was its musical department,
which was richly stocked both in scores and in
treatises on music and musicians.
During the summer, the room was generally
nearly empty. The people were otherwise em-
ployed, so that often not more than half-a-dozen
readers were to be found in all the large airy room
Myles and the studious, unknown
“ reading girl ” were all alone there.
Myles opened the Review, and his eye fell upon
an article on the governing classes which instantly
caught his attention. In the hope of finding some
follies and weaknesses of the governing classes
sharply castigated, he settled himself with pleased
expectation to his book.
Half an hour passed. One by one the other oc-
cupants of the room walked away. The workman
and the young lady were left alone together. She
koked every now and then out of’ the window.
Her note-taking did not seem to flow so smoothly
as usual. Spread open on the table before her,
she had a fine edition of the ‘ Digues ’ of Domenico
■Scarlatti, which she studied a little now and then,
but oftener looked through the window. Now,
from that window she had a tolerably wide pros-
pect; and immediately beneath her eyes was the
handsome old red-brick house, with its flower-beds,
and its lawns, smooth, and green, and well-watered
—arural fastness in the midst of the dusty town.
There was silence that was almost solemn in the
big room, which was growing dusk : it was so high
and airy, and so isolated; raised far above the
town and its troubles; the din hushed ; the roll-
ing vehicles and the passing throng dwarfed;
books on every side, and silence, like a garment,
over all
As chimes broke that silenee, and eight o’clock
struck, the girl, with a sigh, turned resolutely
way from the outside prospect, and applied her-
self apin to her score.
.Ws, half roused by the chiming, half pleased
n a particularly hard hit at the governing
he es ’ w hich especially took his fancy, raised his
eaa at this moment, and his eyes, without any
kis neighbour. It is a gesture which
one makes sometimes in reading. Smiling
n satisfaction at what struck him as a masterly
P-unwit, Myles let his eyes fall upon her.
e too was looking up —not at him, but past
arir) ' .or eyes were turned towards the door,
k as thought there passed a subtle, inex-
ble flash of dislike, tempered with alarm,
across her face. She made a movement as if to
rise—as if to escape ; then sat down again, with a
flush, more of annoyance that confusion, mantling
in her face. Then, bending to her book, she
seemed to make some effort to keep her eyes firmly
fixed upon it.
This little bit of by-play roused Myles’ attention.
He turned his head towards the door, which was
behind him, and he saw how it was opened, and a
man came into the room. A gentleman ? he specu-
lated, as he first saw the figure, in the obscure
background. The visitor gradually approached,
and Myles, staring unceremoniously at him, ex-
perienced a feeling of surprise, disgust, and sud-
den enlightenment as to the cause of the young
lady’s disturbance.
The new-comer was a young man with a some-
what high colour, dark hair and eyes, a full
beardless face, and a coarse, animal mouth. He
was well, even foppishly dressed, and bore the
outward stamp of a person to whom money is not
a subject of painful study or consideration. But,
as Myles knew, he was not sterling coin.' His
manner, even of entering that room, was less than
second-rate ; confidence became a swagger ; inde-
pendence was metamorphosed into self-conscious-
ness. The expression of his face was bold and
vulgar. Perhaps no greater or more telling con-
trast could have been found, than that between
the workman in his work-a-day dress, and the
would-be dandy, in his gloved, perfumed, over-
dressed vulgarity.
The person came forward ; his eyes fell upon
Myles ;he removed them. A workman —a person
not demanding his attention, one of the “ fellahs ”
who came to the reading-room.
Nevertheless, he seated himself at Myles’
table and drew a Daily News towards him, with-
out speaking and without removing his hat.
Mylej glanced at the young lady, without letting
her see that he did so ; her eyes were fastened
upon the page before her, but he had studied her
expressions, and knew that she was not reading.
“Now, I should like to know,” speculated
Myles inwardly, “ what you may want here, Mr.
Frederick Spenceleyp”
He had recognised the man—the son of a rich
manufacturer of Thanabope, who had earned his
fortune as a Radical, who was living in state now
as a Conservative and a supporter of the aristo-
cracy, Church, State, and landed-gentry interest.
His son, as Myles was well aware, had assuredly
not visited the reading-room for purposes of men-
tal instruction.
(To he Continued.)


WHEN PURCHASING
IS DESIRABLE TO
TENSIVE ASSORTMENT T(
THIS DESIDERATUM ca
a* the ROYAL FURNISHIN(
THE FLOREI
THE SARAH E
THE DUMFRIES
Have brought large, valuable,
additions to our already well si
purchased before the rise of pri
bedsteads, and many other ii
quired Household Goods :
Austrian Furniture, English P
American Furniture, Canadian
Beautiful Mirrors, Cheval Glas
Gilt Whatnots, Gilt Girandoles
English Bedsteads, French Bee
Flower Centres, Flower Vases
Musical Chairs, Musical Album
Musical Companions, Music Be
Cuisine, Atelier, Bureau, Ac.,
Writing Desks, Work Boxes
Novel Compendium of Games
Table Billiards, Bagatelle Boar
Union Drawing-room Stationer
Students and Travellers’ Static
Papier Mache Work Boxes and
Fenders, Fireirons, Coal Cabin
Olivewood Workboxes and Def
Jewel Cases, Tea Caddies
Compendium School Prizes
Chess Boards, Chess Men
Draught Boards, Draught Mei
Ivory Inlaid Cribbage Board
Tete-a-tete sets, Toilet Sets
Marble Clocks, Gilt Clocks
Horlogo Mysterieuse, or the M
Crystal Inks, Single and Doubl
Crumb Trays, and Brushes, Gr
New Door Mats, New Fibre M:
Beautiful and Inexpensive Dra
Noble W T ardrobes and Toilets.
In our “ Guide to Sydney,
without charge, will be fount
Lists, with each article distinci
OUR SYSTEM OP I
IS ADMIRED BY EV
PLAIN FIGURE 1
NO ABATEME
AND PROMPT NE
A VISIT TO OUR UPST
will well repay the
W. B. CAMPBI
ROYAL FURNISHIN
(Next to the Royal
George Stee
rjIHE AMERICAN NOVE
American Mechanical ]
Instructive Mechanical Toys for Sc
Read what the Bullet
“ Some of the most ingenious me
ever seen in this city are now on v
establishment of the American 1
Market-street. They were intent
for the International Exhibition, a
mens of American ingenuity, but c
they are now exposed for sale ii
They comprise miniatures of ever
of steam engine, and the style wit
perfectly astonishing. There are f
complete, four-inch saw-benches
ances &c. Better models for our j
not be obtained. With these littl
under steam more could be explt
mind in one hour than in a montl
stances. They are, strange to sa
few pence. There are also various i
worked by springs, which travel
room, and form most pleasing anc
children. The Americans, furth
good sense by producing a variety
new in design, by means of which
gence of the child is encouraged
TVlWflrfl AnHa .-1..,11 .r
M
OUNTAIN - K I I
P. SALISBURY and Co. are do
meut are dreaming’of—viz., suppl
good wholesome MOUNTAIN-KI
F
SALISBURY and Co.’s ir
• KILLED, and of splendid
F SALISBURY and Co., tl
• supplying Lithgow-killed IS
Milk. Office—George and Hay-sfe
Mountain - killed me
Milk.
Lithgow-killed Meat. Pure Co:
Only to be obtained—
F. SALISBU
Geor;
Kearey BROTHERS, CO
BUILDERS
290 PITT STREET,
Near Park-stre
JH U B E R T
• PORTRAI
Photographer by appointment tc
Governor.
Sole Place of Bus
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE
T F. CRIPPS, PAST
* CONFECTION
267 (late 255) George S'
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c.,
best style.
TOHN CUTTER, PRAC
** 311 PITT STREET, !
Has on hand
The largest and best assorted sto
colony.
All orders attended to with c
G
.0 TO BRAY FOR YO
It is the cheapest shop in
Note the address:—
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Boo:
Newtown Roa
c.
KOHLER, FISHMOI
SALESMAN
22 HUNTER STI
FRESH PISH EVEI
LUNCH and SUPPEI
MERICAN MACHi;
H. P. GREGORY a
No. 11 PITT STI
Importers of and dealers in all des
Machinery.
Indents executed on reast
R
OBE R T c
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAC
BRANCH AT NARA
Gentlemen residing at a distam
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassir
can always obtain them by wr
establishment.
w
KERR, MAFUFACTU
Watch and Clo
574 GEORGE STREP
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, ]
Presentation Trowels desigr
the premises
DIAMOND SET
c
HAS. MONIE, SADDLI
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET. W A
Jobbing executed on the si
Wagga has long been celebrate:
JMPROVEMENTS IN KE
The undersigned, having pure In
IMPROVEMENTS in Kerosene
THE GARDEN
Have pleasure in informing cust
select any of the Lamps on show,
for them till the close of the Exhi
F. Lassettee&Co
(Limited).
F.Lassetter&Co.
(Limited).
TABLE LAMPS
Doveton Ware
Wedgewood Ware
Ceramic China
Crystal Glass
Pate sur Pe
Bohen
CHANDELIERS
Churches
Schools of Art
Public Rooms
Mansions
The DraM
WITH ALL LATEST IMI
F. LASSETTEE & C
GEORGE STB
SYDNEY.
NTERNATIONAL
The Undersigned wish to ann
visitors that they are SOLE LES
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALj
The Drinks are of the best q
picturesque apartments, are delic
YOUNG
UNION CL U
Baylis and Forsyt
NEWTOWN, WAGGj
(Close to the Railway
Under She patronage of His Ex
Robinson, K.G.C.
T. J. BYRNES. Pr
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the
A First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well su
wholesome provender, and be un
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. B
THE SYDNEY COF
393, 395, 397, GEOR(
THE MOST POPULAR HOI
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, 1
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newspapers.
[ Meals at all hours. First-ch
Fare constantly varied. Fish ah
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. T 1
men’s Dining and Retiring Roon
Gr UNS ’
JJIFLES
PRICE MODERATE. QUALP
C. COWLEi
Practical Gunm
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSI
RMSTRONG’S PECTORAL
An elegant preparation for all
monary Organs. This is the best 1
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, C
most successful remedy for Co
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness,
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG
Family Chemist and
Wholesale & Retail ’
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite
JS. ABRAHAM’S PTT.I
• Registered,
THE GREAT LIVER
Free from all noxious drugs, viz.,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in
strengthening the stomach, corre
ing or removing headache, giddi
costive habit, debilitated stomach,
require no change of diet, and t
stitution may take them with safe
Invented only
J. S. ABEAI
At the Laboratory, 434 Georf
Be careful not to get i
SCOTTISH HIGHLj
FOR human use, curing all kinc
Blows, or Eruptions of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, am
Excrescences; applied to the He
Summer it will keep away flies, m
ous spiders, &c., and may be eas
morning. Possesses an agreeable
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND Oil
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Job
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet,
Warts, and Excrescences. Preve
of exposure in diggers, shepherds,
must encounter damps. But i
result, and that which distinguisl
prevent a recurrence of the diseas
J. POTTIE
Veterinary Surgeon to the Govt
263 Elizabeth-street,
MPROVED HOM
LOCK STIC!
SEWING MAi
To prevent fraud and deceptu
the following words on the steel s
they ship their sole agents in Ans
All Genuine Mat
stamped
M. MOSS and i
Sole Agents
Sydney, N. S.
Look for those words before n
or a Worthless Imitation may 1
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that rect
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHI
has the largest sale of any Machir
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR F
Reduced Price I
No. I.—For Hand Use, comp!
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, witl
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover ant
plete, £ 7.
Sole Agents for Australia a;
M. MOSS & C
March 27, 1880.
