

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 45.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1880.
Nonconformist Uniformity.
The Herald has let the cat out of the bag. The
Education Act was never meant, it now transpires,
to mete out equal justice to all. It was devised,
and is to be maintained, as a now Act of Uniformity.
With its assistance all the rising generation are to
be indoctrinated with just so much dogma as
suffices to turn out an orthodox Protestant dis-
senter on the Congregationalist model. The
children are to be taught no more religion in the
State schools, but they are to be taught no less.
The great organ of the Congregationalists cannot
believe, will not believe, that any attempt is being
made to secularize the course of study. There is
no doubt that in being sceptical for once, the
Herald is for once right. No such attempt is
being made. But if it be imagines that, because
the Education department administers the Act in
accordance with its letter, no attempt to secularize
the Act will be made, the idea- is a
delusion. The outcry which has been raised
against the ' imagined secularization of the
curriculum will serve to open a good many eyes,
and hosts of people who helped in the demand for
free, secular, and compulsory education
will at length perceive how they have
been made cat’s-paws of, and tricked out
of the substantial object of their desires.
The Act provides nominally for secular
education, but by some “devilish cantrap
sleight,” secular education is interpreted
as meaning “ general religious teaching.”
Whoever slipped this sly interpretation
into the Act was artful beyond doubt.
But among his arts, the art of definition
was not prominent. Dictionaries define
secular to mean ‘ ‘ pertaining to things
not spiritual or holy.” The concoctor of
the interpretation clause in the Instruc-
tion Act defines it to mean “ general re-
ligious teaching.” And what, in the name
of all that is precise, does general religious
teaching mean ? According to the
Herald’s lights, the public is apparently
called upon to believe that general
religious teaching means expressly what
is contained in the Irish National School
Book series. These have become for the
nonce the Instruction Act Fanatics’Bible.
But unless the Herald lays and enforces
a claim to plenary inspiration and Papal
authority, people will venture still to
think a little for themselves. The right
of private judgment is not yet wrenched
from people who think differently from
the professed advocates of the right of
private judgment. What on earth, then,
is general religious teaching? Is it anolla-
podrida of isms, from Mahommedanism
to Mormonism P The phrase is absolutely
incapable of exact definition, and can
only be interpreted by the voice of
authority. But wo thought that we had
been struggling all this time, with the
Herald as standard-bearer, to shake off
once and for aH from this free colony the
power of authority in matters of religion.
It appears that we have shaken off the
influence of Pope and Prelate, the in-
trusion of the Missal and Bible in our
schools, merely to submit ourselves to
High Priest Parkes and the Gospel
according to the Herald. Jew,
Rat’unalist, and Papist are enjoined to
bow down before the new Head of the
Faith, and to gorge the freshly revised
Gospel according to the inspired series
of Irish National School Books, without
malcontent murmurs. The genuine secu-
larist who has been tricked into partici-
pating in an Act of oppression which he
despises, and against which all his prin-
ciples revolt, is to be cajoled into quies-
cence and conformity by the bamboozle-
ment of a false interpretation of the plain
word “ secular.” The Jew is to share
in the “equal rights” and “no offence
to any,” about which so many handsome
lies have been written, by having his
children proselytized in the schools which
he is taxed to support. The Catholic
nnd Anglican, whom cajoling has failed
to blind, are to be throttled off by the
dictum that the majority must rule.
That is to say the old appeal to
hrute force has been renewed, and
for ecclesiastical domination and
tyranny, the domination and tyranny of the Con-
venticle is to be substituted. The new rule will
doubtless be milder than the old, but the principle
underlying the assertion of right to prevail is the
same unaltered outrage, whether advanced by a
Pope or a Congregationalist union; whether
supported by the casuistry of a Jesuit or of a
Methodist, whether enforced by an Inquisition or
a Parliamentary majority. A scheme ®f education
which is truly free and secular is what the united
voices of multitudes of the people, differing
radically on points of belief, declared to be
required as equitable and necessary. No man
could justly complain that he should bo required
to have his children grounded in secular know-
ledge, and that he should pay, through the common
funds, his share of the expense of such instruction.
That was the principle which won the support of
fair and liberal-minded men. The State, they
held, had no business to teach creeds, because on
such matters there exists no ground common to
all members of the State Such, too, were the
professions of the very men who now insist that
State teaching shall not be secular. The schools,
they declare, must turn out good sound, evangeli-
cal Protestants. No more religion must be taught,
but no less ! What is this but the establishment
of proselytizing machinery throughout the world P
It is as if the State undertook to provide the
children daily with a wholesome plain meal,
towards the cost of which all parents should be
compelled equally to contribute. Fanciful parents,
who considered that plain food was not enough for
their children, would bo at liberty to sup-dement
these meals, but at their own expense. One thing,
however, was earnestly promised—that the food
would be such as all could eafyJ»l''..hout._o£ l ?ncc
caste rules 6, ’V-e> ual y the
mess is blended with pork, and Jewish parents are
coolly told that if they object, they can provide
separate dinners at their own expense. The Roman
Catholics, who have ever held (to continue the
figure) that pork without beans is injurious to the
constitution, are insulted with a similar answer to
all complaint. What is this but oppression ? The
Instruction Act, as it stands, embodies a fraud
perpetrated upon all men of liberal sentiment who
helped in the struggle for universal, free, and
secular instruction which should be fair to all.
Such men will be no parties to perpetuating a
proselytizing Act. They will fling in the faces of
exultant “nonconformists” this new Act of Uni-
formity, and lash them with the lie which their
actions in their day of power gives to the pro-
fessions dating from their time of depression.
The country must brace itself for a new struggle,
when combinations will be different, but the
battle-cry unchanged. The Instruction Act must
be purged of the deceit which has been insinuated
into its provisions, and purified till State education
becomes what honest supporters meant it to be —
Fair, Free, and Sbculae —but not Independent.
Mr. Henry Cary Dangar, M.P.
The results of the general election give indica-
tions of splendid possibilities. The whole of the
Ministry and most of their thick-and-thin sup-
porters and followers have been returned; and in
addition many men, comparatively young and pos-
sessed of very vigorous minds, have been chosen
as representatives of tho people. This discrimi-
(mating action of the publie mind gives intimations
fchat there has been recently a political awakening,
nd that men who enjoy the privileges of the fran-
bise ar( a rot likely to misuse it greatly. Anima-
•on has cceeded apathy, and a refreshing enthu-
. s t -:« Q ive pervaded most of the elec-
torates. Ail this seems to show, ax .etoreaieutionod,
that our reformed Parliament should be a good
one, more earnest in duty and much more moral
in act than any of its predecessors since the
inauguration of Responsible Government in this
colony. The triumphs of an independent vote and
the clear expression of genuine approval have been
nowhere more creditably manifested than in East
Sydney; and in the results of that magnificent
demonstration, the position given to Mr. Henry
Cary Dangar, whose portrait adorns our first page
in to-day’s issue, is one of the most significant.
That a man of culture, energy, and refinement,
a native of Sydney, should have been for three
years ostracised from public because ho would not
betray his convictions or adapt his political prin-
ciples to suit popular taste in the spirit of a craven
recusancy %vas a matter for general regret. He
had done good parliamentary service for
West Sydney, still (in 1877) he was rejected
by an effervescent majority of the electors, and
Messrs. Morriman, Cameron, O’Connor, and Harris
were returned —four good men in their own way,
but not one of whom had the special legislative
abilities of Mr. Dangar. His career from
his youth upwards has been marked and
toned by studious habits. As a boy at
school, in Sydney, ho is said to have
distinguished himself; and afterwards, at the
University of Cambridge, in England, he was
amongst the most resolute readers of his time.
He subsequently studied law, and was admitted to
the bar of New South Wales in 1854. His energetic
temperament did not seem to find full play in
forensic pursuits ; we accordingly find him
devoting those abilities which ho possesses in a
high degree to ntercantilo business, and we need
hardly say that the house of which ho is the decus
et tutamen —that of Dangar, Gedyo, and Co. —is
one of the most respectable and influential in
Australia. Mr. Dangar has ever been a liberal
patron of field-sports, and we remember with
proud satisfaction how nobly ho acted in sending,
or being the chief agent in the transaction, an
Australian rifle-team to Philadelphia at a cost of
over J3IOUO, and who did honour to New South
Wales. Other objects of his benevolence or his
bounty could be cited, but as, like the
typical man of Ross, his modesty would
rebel against all flattering allusions tohia
liberality, we shall not further touch on
that delicate subject. We have said
enough—perhaps more than enough—to
prove that he is a clever, practical man,
and a good citizen. Not to say so much
would be to conceal what should be
generally known. Mr. Dangar will make
a useful member of the Assembly. He
is not given to “ blowing,” and never at-
tempts mere declamation. Ho can put
his view forward with considerable clear-
ness and force ; but he eschews all rhe-
torical parade. As a committee-man,
when in Parliament before, he made him-
self felt and appreciated, and he certainly,
by word and example, tried to keep up
the social tone of hon. members in their
relations with each other. His views on
the extension of municipal government
are thorough and economic; and ho has
certainly announced his opinions from the
East Sydney hustings on the land ques-
tion, with a perspicuity and vigour that
must have surprised some of his hearers
—the Hon. Premier especially. “ The
land question,” Mr. Dangar is reported
to have said, “ was one which ho referred
to almost with terror. No fresh legisla-
tion on it was foreshadowed ; and it might
bo that they would bo again called upon
to exercise the great right they possessed
before fresh legislation was attempted
in this direction. In his judgment these
three Acts, which made up the Land Act,
should be repealed, and we should have
one entirely new and comprehensive
measure.” Here was a distinct enunci-
ation of conclusions, which several legis-
lators will arrive at. Equally bold was
Mr. Dangar’s advice to the electors to
exercise the franchise conscientiously.
His words on this and another point are
worthy of careful perusal. “ The pro-
gress of every country,” he said, “the
happiness and well-being of every com-
munity depended upon the exorcise of the
great privilege the electors possessed,
and it devolved upon them not to abuse
this power, and on the candidates to ex-
amine their own hearts and consciences
as to whether they wdto worthy the trust
they would have imposed upon them. He
did not present himself to them to-day,
he hoped with any unworthy motive, nor
did he pretend to expect office; but he
did pretend to the possession of that
common sense which could discriminate
between right and wrong —between that
which was expedient and that better left
alone.” His peroration was also in good
taste, as it gave the electors a guarantee
of his sincerity by teUing them that this
was the country of his birth, the country
where his children were born, which pos-
sessed all that for him could make life
enjoyable, and he pledged them his
word that ho would do everything he
possibly could to promote their interests,
his own interests, and those of the
country, and to do that which should
send New South Wales to the front in the race
going on between it and the rest of Australia,
Broken Off.
“ Incounc," a correspondent, sends us the following
Our young ladies have discovered that it is both a very
pleasant and a very profitable thing to be ‘‘engaged,”
MR. HENRY CARY DANGAR, M.P.


A sale of land at Burwood, on novel principle
is announced for Boxing Day, or thereabouts.
“ I have analysed an original packet °f
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed_ o 1
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured
and harmless scenting, which renders it very!» . j n(
I recommend it as being a wholesome and rei ~t j
article ot diet.—Karl Theodore Staioeb. (ana .
chemist." —Advt.
whatever the result may be, and the consequence is
that they will accept, and cause their seconds to
accept, an engagement almost whenever it offers,
leaving it as a matter of purely after consideration
whether or not the agreement shall be carried to the
extent of marriage. A girl who is engaged has well
nigh all the liberties and privileges both of the matron
and the virgin. She loses few, if any, of her admirers,
for they, too, know that the engagement may as well
mean nothing as something. She loses now none of
her invitations, for in these days it is no longer thought
“ bad form ” in an engaged couple to take part in every-
thing contrived for the unengaged; aud, in addition to
this, she for the first time finds herself in possession of
long-coveted liberty and of a squire always at command.
He drives her about alone iu his buggy, takes her to
the theatre, chaperons her to balls and parties, provides
her with the jewellery and baubles which have ever
made the married women her envy aud admiration, and
is bound to come at her beck whenever she is in wont of
a companion. All this is very delightful, aud since it is
to be had at the price of the word “ engaged,” there
need he no wonder if so many are ready to pronounce
that word when once it is established that no penalty
attaches to its recall. Indeed, so far from there being
any penalty there is a further advantage in it. Engage-
ments seem to be catching, so that so far from there
being less there is infinitely more chance .that a young
lady who has broken one such a bargain will "imme-
diately have offered to her another and a better. For
men are shy in (these matters, and when A. B. knows
that C. D. has been previously accepted by the woman
he wishes to adore, it is a great euconragement to him
to propose himself, whom he belie res to be at least as
good as C. D., for the same distinction. The whole
blame must not indeed be laid upon the young ladies,
though it is a far more serious matter that engagements
should be broken by them than by those of the other
sex, since they are presumed to be moved in making
them only by the purest and strongest motives. But
the men are not without reproach either. The fact
seems to be that young persons of both sexes seeing
aud being influenced by the spirit of lawlessness that is
abroad, and having a diminished respect for the sanc-
tity of obligations, have hit upon this method of “ en-
gaging” themselves as a means of obtaining more
freedom in their intercourse with each other than they
otherwise could command. It is in fact the latest and
greatest development of flirtation, and there are many
men with a sufficiently strong desire to be on tender
terms with one of their own rank and station to become
engaged, even though there should be a tacit under-
standing on both sides that it is never to “come to
anything.” That the practice will therefore increase
rather than diminish is to be expected, but whether it
be to the credit or honour of any, may well be doubted.
Another South Sea Massacre.
Lieut -Commander Bower, of H.M.S. Sandfly, and five
of his crew, were murdered by natives of Nogu Island,
one of the Solomon Group, on 13th October last. The
same old story—of sailors who left their arms in the
boat, and were surprised and butchered. The captain
eluded capture for a time by climbing up a tree, but in
the morning the niggers found him and shot him with
the rifles they had captured. Two men, Alfred Carme
and John O’Neill, who were bathing, were clubbed;
William Paterson, who was walking with Lieut. Bower,
shared the same fate; Benjamin Venton, another sea-
man, seized a boat-stretcher, and fought hard for his
life, but it appears that in revenge for this he was tied
to stakes, tortured, and then killed. Savage, the only
man out of the boat’s crew left to tell the tale, swum
out to sea. He was pursued by the cannibals, but
managed to escape through the moon being overcast,
and, in spite of great danger from sharks, reached
a small island tabooed to the king of the tribe
adjoining the murderers. However, having mode
a raft and put off with the intention of reaching
the mainland, he was captured by another tribe, and,
after a long palaver, tabooed. He succeeded in at-
tracting the attention of the Sandfly, which passed the
island, bore up for him am! took him off. A boat’s crew
lauded at Rita Bay, where the murders were committed,
but no natives were seeu until the boats pushed off to
return to the ship, wheu a largo number of them came
out of the scrub and opened fire on the boat, one shot
taking effect through the heart of a sailor named Robert
Buckle, and another sailor named Joseph Whitlock
being wounded in the left forearm. The Sandfly reached
Sydney on Monday, after a 28 days’ passage.
The Opera.
On Monday night last an English opera season of
twenty-four uights was inaugurated at the Theatre
Royal. “Maritana” was selected for the opening per-
formance—an opera which has special attractions for a
Sydney audience, not only on account of its intrinsic
merits, but also from the fact of its soft sparkling
music having beou conceived and written under the
bright blue sky of sunny New South Wales. It is true
that many critics consider it ns a piece which offers
fair scope for the exercise of their vocation, and it can-
not be said to have escaped its full share of adverse
comment. But in this case public opinion has ever been
against the critics, and “ Maritana,” performed by
anything like a tolerable cast, never fails to draw a large
audience. Monday night’s assemblage at the Theatre
Royal was a direct proof of this, the house being well
filled in every part. This time the management has
evinced the wise discretion of not raising the prices,
and this circumstance has had no inconsiderable effect in
swelling the ranks of each night’s audience. Many of
the principal performers are old operatic veterans, who
have long ago won their laurels on the Sydney boards.
Mr. Armes Beaumont, who took the part of Don Ctcsor
de Bazan, still maintains his old form, and he was
accorded an enthusiastic reception on making his ap-
pearance. The rote of the heroine was allotted to Miss
Elsa May, a stranger to Sydney, hut one whoso
personal charms and cultivated musical talent have
already won for her a host of admirers. Miss Lambert
was very effective in the character of Lazarillo, and her
excellent rendering of “Alas, those chimes,” was a
feature in the performance, and elicited the compliment
of an encore. The character of the villain, Don Jose,
was ably sustained by Mr. Farley. This gentleman has
evidently made the best use of his sojourn in Italy, and
it has proved that the fine natural abilities which he
exhibited here some years ago were susceptible of a very
high degree of culture. He sang excellently, and made
an uumistakeable impression upon his hearers.
On Tuesday night, “ The Rose of Castile” was per-
formed, with a different cast. Madame played
the part of the Queen in her usual finished style, and
she was materially assisted by the able support which
she received from Miss Lambert, in the part of Donna
Carmen. Mr. Templeton, another old Sydney favourite,
also made an excellent impression as Don Pedro. There
is not a great deal to be made out of any part in this
opera, but no importunity of making each part as effec-
tive as possible was allowed to pass without being
availed of. Mr. Howell made a very comical Don Floris,
his dismal forebodings of punishment from Don Pedro
for having permitted the escape of his interesting charge
provoking a good deal of amusement. Mr. Beaumont
did all that it was possible to do with the part of
Manuel the trio between him, the Queen, and Donna
Carmen, being one of the best executed passages in the
performance. Miss Bessie Harrison uses a somewhat
undue amount of hauteur in impersonating the Duchess,
but the character was redeemed by some touches of
really artistic acting. Madame Hersl'-o’s rendering of
the solo, “I am a simple peasant maid," was loudly
applauded, and with the exception of an unpardonable
excess iu trilling, it was well rendered. There is a line
to be drawn between music and the production of vocal
phenomena, and this kind of playing with the voice can
very easily drift from the sublime.to the ridiculous. At
the performance of this opera the dress circle was not
half tilled, and we can easily excuse the taste of its
usual occupants in reserving their patronage for more
pleasing opera". Despite the best rendering, “ The
Rose of Castile” is not the sort of a composition that
can be calculated to create much enthusiasm, and its
performance affords a better test of the Listener's
patience than of his powers of appreciating the beauti-
ful. The orchestra of the Eoyal has received some
valuable reinforcements, the chorus is also efficient,
and with these important supports to the well-known
principals which the company includes, better things
may be confidently expected before the season closes.
The Sydney public are not so often treated to really
good music that they can afford to neglect any oppor-
tunity of availing themselves of it when it is offered,
and consequently the present opera season at the Eoyal
bids fair to be a highly successful one.
The late William Saurin Lyster.
The history of the life of the late William Saurin
Lyster is the history of Opera in these colonies,
and he may fairly be regarded as its founder. He
was the one impressario under whom Opera flourished,
and by those who regard Music as an ennobling and a
refining art, his loss will be deeply deplored. William
Sauriu Lyster was bom in Dublin, on 21st March, 1828,
aud at the time of his death, last Saturday, was
therefore in his fifty-third year. His father was Captain
Chadworth Lyster, a British officer of the old school.
His great-uncles were the Eight Rev. Dr. Saurin, Lord
Bishop of Dromore, and the Hon. William Saurin Lyster
(his godfather and namesake), who was at one time
Attorney-General of Ireland. When thirteen years of
age, young Lyster came out to the colonies on a recruit-
ing voyage, and subsequently, when in restored health,
he visited Calcutta with influential letters of intro-
duction, the intention of his friends being to induce him
to become an indigo planter. This life was in no way
suited to him, and he directed his attention to the Cape
of Good Hope, where he saw aetive service under Sir
Harry Smith, in the Kaffir war. His love of adventure
and travel led him to the United States of America,
where for two years he adopted the Stage. In 1855,
Lyster, with a number of other daring spirits, joined
General Walker in his Nicaraguan exploits, and he re-
ceived a brevet as captain in the Army of Occupation.
He was present at the battles of Grenada, St. Leon, and
Rivas, but was away back in the States on recruiting
service when Walker came to an ignominious end.
While in America, Mr. Lyster formed an acquaint-
ance with some members of his first opera
troupe, who wero then on a tour, and this led to
his trying a season in Australia. He landed in Mel-
bourne. in 1861, with the Escott-Squires Company,
which included his wife. Miss Georgia Hodson, and
shortly afterwards the company appeared at the Eoyal.
From this date (1861) down to the present time, Mr.
Lyster was known to the Australian public as an
enterprising and successful entrepreneur. To him
we are chiefly indebted for the introduction
of the long list of operatic, dramatic, aud musical
artists that have made their appearance in these
colonies during the last nineteen or twenty years. Mr.
Lyster’s death did not, as is generally supposed, arise
from Bright’s disease, but was the result simply of a
complete breaking up of the system. A consultation,
we learn, took place fourteen or fifteen days ago.
between Drs. Motherwell and Bird, and it became
certain that death must soon ensue. He was removed
to the home of his friend, William Dean, at Hawthorn,
where, under Mrs. Lyster’s loving and watchful care, he
died peacefully on Saturday, shortly after midnight,
conscious and cheerful to the last. The funeral of the
deceased gentleman took place on Monday, bis remains
being interred in the C. E. section of the Melbourne
general cemetery. The pall-bearers were Dr. Mother-
well, Messrs. Geo. Coppin, Thos. Pavey, W. G. Sprigg,
W. Dean, Jas. E. Kitts, J. C. Williamson, Wybert
Eeeve, Jas. Smith, and Henry Hoyt.
Mr. Armes Beaumont.
Very few men have been more closely associated with
one another, or have enjoyed without interruption for
so lengthy a period so firm a friendship, a <)the late
Mr. W. S. Lvster and Mr. Armes Beaumont. 2 is need-
less to say that Mr. Beaumont felt very keenly the news
of the death of his esteemed friend, and perhaps the most
trying period of his professional life was those three
brief hours on the boards of the Royal, last Monday
night, when, to keep faith with the public, he made his
re-appearance before a Sydney audience in an opera
that must have called up the most lively reoollectiohs
of a friendship now no more. We have hut
brief space at our command for a sketch of Mr.
Beaumont’s career, and must reserve for another occa-
sion many interesting particulars. Mr. Beaumont was
bora at Norwich, England, but came to the colonies at
a very early age. He arrived in Melbourne, and in
1862 he joined the well-known instrumentalists, Pous-
sard and Donay, this being his first engagement. The
trio toured to Adelaide, and' succeeding well—for young
Beaumont’s vocal powers were already beginning to
show themselves —they went on to New Zealand. Syd-
ney was the next place which was honored with a visit,
and this was the occasion that Mr. Beaumont first
made the acquaintance of Mr. Lyster. The opera
season with Escott, Squires, Farquharsou, and Rosalie
Durand, had just commenced, and Lyster, at once
recognising in Beaumont the vocal abilities he after-
wards displayed, offered him an engagement. He made
his debut in opera on the 14th Nov., 1863, as Thaddeus,
in the “Bohemian Girl," and has therefore been
singing in opera sever teen years. The troupe returned
to Melbourne, and Mr. Beaumont, after acchieving
great success in “Don Pasquale,” the “Bohemian
Girl,” “ L’Africaine,” won yet higher laurels in
“Maritana.” This opera was played with an alternate
caste, Lucy Escott and Squires appearing one night
to moderate audiences, and Mr. Beaumont and
Madame Simonsen another night to overflowing
houses. It was here that Beaumont stamp*!
Don Csezar with an individuality that has ever
since been preserved. Since then Mr. Beaumont
has appeared in the “ Huguenots,” “ Eoberto,”
"Gnstavus,” “Faust.” “Trovatore”—in fact, all
the repertoire of English and Italian operas, as well
as opera bouffe. The public are sufficiently well
aware of the facts not to require more than a
passing reference here to the unfortunate accident
which befel Mr. Beaumont, and depriving of
the loss of one eye and inflicting partial injury to
the other. The occurrence served only to strengthen
the warm friendship that had already sprung up
between Mr. Lyster aud Mr. Beaumont—and that
manifested itself but a few days ago in Victoria in the
words of the dying man, and here in the deep grief
that the latter experienced at the news of the death of
his friend. Mr. Beaumont, after finishing the present
season with the troupe now at the Royal, in this city,
will return to Melbourne to take a long-earned rest.
In conclusion, it may be mentioned that Mr. Beaumont’s
career, besides being an unusual professional success,
has been very satisfactory in a financial sense.
Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Co’s Warehouses,
Sydney and Brisbane.
The firm of Messrs. Hoffnung and Co., importers, of
Sydney and Brisbane, is well known throughout the
Australian colonies. The business, from its foundation
in 1852, by Mr. Sigismund Hoffnung, has been conducted
with such enterprise as to win for it, from the first, a
prominent position among the leading houses of these
colonies. Messrs. Hoffnung and Co. may, in fact, be
credited with having hod, from the commencement of
their trade, a practical acquaintance with colonial re-
quirements ; and while meeting these wants, they
have done more—they have created a demand for many
new and improved descriptions of manufactures, adding
to the elegance of homes, the comfort and convenience
of domestic life, aud the elevation of the taste of the
people in all those material points that hear on the
advancement of a community. Mr. Hoffnung, who is
now in London managing the business of the company
there, commenced business in Wynyard-square, as
already stated, in 1852, with Mr. Henry Nathan, of
Birmingham. The business extending, premises were
taken in George-street, on the site of the Commercial
and New South Wales Banks, and additional room
being again required, the business was removed to
Wynyard-street, where the development of trade of
the house was energetically carried on. Finally
the erection of a commodious warehouse was decided
on, and in Pitt-street, on plans specially prepared by
Mr. Eowe, the magnificent edifice shown on page 5
was erected. The business having been extended to all
ports of this colony, was carried on to New Zealand and
Queensland. The trade with the latter colon v soon re-
quired special facilities, and a very fine edifice _ (also
illustrated oa page 5), was erected. This building, is one
of the handsomest in* the Northern metropolis, and
speaks well for the enterprise and liberality of the firm.
In 1871, Messrs. 8. Sinauer and D. Marks were admitted
as partners in the firm. The business of the firm com-
prises the importation of hardware, ironmongery, hol-
lowware, American products, fire-arms, ammunition,
sporting goods, bedsteads, bedding, pier glasses, cut-
lery, electro-plated ware and metal goods, brush ware,
saddlery, saddlers* ironmongery, stationers’ goods,
earthenware, chinaware, glassware, oils and colours,
Ac., patent and proprietary medicines, perfumery, fancy
goods, engravings, pictures, sewing machines and fit-
tings, watches, silver plate, and fancy articles, &c.
Besides importing goods in the above lines, which must
serve to indicate the general character of the business,
the firm give employment to a large number of people
in the manufacture of saddlery, boots, basketware, &c.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
More Fenians arrested.
British Parliament meets January 6.
Ist Coldstream Guards gone to Ireland.
Gladstone’s Government promise radical reforms
in the Irish land laws.
Terribly severe winter in America. 800 grain-
laden vessels ice-bound.
Enright, ritualistic clergyman, of Boddersley,
Warwickshire, imprisoned.
Nicholson, of Tasmania, invented in London a
new system of electric lighting.
Healy, Home Rule agitator, now being prose-
cuted, has been elected for Wexford.
A Messageries Maritime steamer lost through
collision with another vessel. 200 lives lost.
Herbert, of Footscray, Melbourne, sentenced to
death in London for the murder of his sister-in-law.
Laycock matched against Hanlan, in January,
for £5OO aside, and £lOOO contributed by the Hop Bitters
Company.
Trickett defeated Wallace Ross in a match for
£4OO by four lengths. A foul occurred during the
event, and the race is to be rowed over again.
Renewed disturbances in Ireland. The Orange-
men have been escorted by the military back from an
affected district, and the owner of the farms that were
threatened has been compelled to leave the county for
safety.
POLITICAL POINTS.
A patriotic Australian party is forming.
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, it is understood, would have
contested Canterbury bad he known he would have
been opposed for West Macquarie.
Ninety-nine out of every hundred candidates in
this campaign expressed themselves “ against im-
migration as now conducted”—which means real good
trimming.
A fistful of Old World fogies, with murderous
Old World bigotry rankly in their hearts, have ruled
politics in this country for thb past ten years. The
game is up. Australia is coming of age, and on
attaining her majority, won’t enquire whether a man
comes from the north or south of Ireland, or whether
he bows to Mumbo-Jnmbo or Borrioboola Gha.
Mr. Hugh Taylor, ex-M.L.A. for Parramatta,
was, Tuesday night, presented with an illuminated
address, a handsome silver salver,and 240 sovereigns by
a number of gentlemen who were desirous of marking
tbeir sense of the loss of his services. Mr. Taylor, who
bountifully entertained the large deputation, numbering
one hundred persons at his private residence, made a
feeling aud suitable eanly.
Messrs. Lyne, xTett, Leven, and Bond are
candidates for the Hume, and are all ruunihg on the
same ticket—abolition of interest on selections, free
trade, and the Education Act. Messrs. Gett, Bond,
and Leven may be said to be independent men, the two
former being squatters, and Mr. Levin is a storekeeper
long established at Corowa. Yet the tip, says our
correspondent, is Lyne (farmer) at the top of the poll.
Gett and Levin running close for second place, and Bond
nowhere.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
A double wedding in Bourke-street shortly.
Black satin slippers are worn for evening, even
with a white toilet.
Gold, silver, and beaded brocade are much used
for draping trimming.
The Louis XIV. coat is one of the favourite
styles for handsome costumes.
Captain Peter, of the Duchess of Edinburgh,
gives a grand party on December Btb.
Certain Lands’ officials think they are justified
in attending suburban dances uninvited.
Jersey webbing, in new shades of red, purple,
wine-red, aud olive, is among the new dress goods.
Mr. J. De Poix Tyrel, M.L.A., of Queensland,
has married the widow of the late Mr. Farley, of Sydney.
A rising solicitor, who is an acknowledged
authority on divorce law, will shortly marry a Windsor
lady.
Worth is making wedding and evening robes of
white silk plush, trimmed with satin and velvet
brocade.
The associate to a Supreme Court Judge is
engaged aud will shoi’tly ho married to the only daughter
of a well-known and wealthy wine and spirit merchant.
A most successful Bachelors’ Ball was given on
the 19th November, at Dunedin, N.Z., in the Garrison
Hall. 400 were present. The honors of belle were di-
vided between the respective daughters of a late iu-
spector of police and of a Dnnediu merchant.
Miss Elizabeth Armstrong, second daughter of
Mr. A. Armstrong, Mavor of Wollongong, was the
other dav married to Mr. John E. McDonald, second
son of Mr. D. A. McDonald, of the town named. The
wedding, which took place at the residence of -the
bride’s parents, was witnessed by a numerous assemblage
of relatii.us and friends of the happy pair.
Among the expected visitors to the Melbourne
International is a member of the nobility, who comes
with avowed matrimonial intentions. The interest
attached to his visit is, as may be expected, con-
siderable among the parents and guardians of
marriageable young ladies in Melbourne. This interest
is enhanced by the fact that the proud aristocrat in
question vinited the colonies once before, and fell
deeply in love with one of our beauties. Matters
went so fur that the young lady proceeded to England,
according to engagement, when her admirer withdrew
from the contract, owing to a misunderstanding in
the marriage settlement arrangements, which proposed
to place the fortune of his adored out of reach.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Case not proved.
A first-class agent for the American Hon Bittc™
Co. is wanted in Sydney. 8
Sporting and athletic notes should, whenever
practicable, reach the editor not later than Tuesda*
morning.
Azella, the pedestrienne, performed the feat of
walking 76 miles in 26 hours, at Campbelltown, on Fri
day and Saturday last.
What midwife is now running “ Brevities” for
the Evening Ltee ? On Tuesday that sagacious journal
said, “ Trickett is poorly.” Hallelujah!
In regard to the coming match between Laycock
and Hanlan, the general opinion amongs f the “ talent”
is that we Australians are splendid patriots, but
Voild!
Three hard nuts for colonial jaws to crack
Kelley showed Hanlan over the course; Kelley trained
Trickett; Kelley cabled to a Melbourne friend to back
Hanlan.
The Xyster and Garner opera troupe disband
after their Sydney season. Madame Hersed returns to
England, and Mr. Armes Beaumont goes to Melbourne
for a well-earned rest.
The date line at the bottom of “ The Patter of
the Shingle,” on page 12 of to-day's issue, probably
indicates the day on which the kind friend who sent the
verse to us as original copied it from the N.Y. Cupper
of a year back.
It is stated that Mr. Senior (“Red Spinner”)
the accomplished chief of the Brisbane Hansard staff’
intends resigning, in consequence of its having been
stated (that he is favoring Mr. Griffiths, the leader of
the Opposition, in Hansard’s reports.
The second-class yacht race of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron came off on Saturday last, and resulted
in a win for the Oithona. The Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club also had a day’s outing by a race for third-
class boats, resulting in a win for Desdemona.
Miss Emma Wangenheim and the editor of the
Glen Innes Guardian are not “ cousins ’’ just no*.
The lady writes thus to the quill-flourisher “If ever
it is my misfortune to meet you, I will give you a sound
thrashing, and brand you a liar and a coward, for trying
to ruin a woman’s reputation with your lying pen.”
We must have a wicket-keeper in our ranks
against Melbourne. Hall is the likely man, but he is
not much as a batsman. Woods is a good all-round
man, and quite sufficient b ehind the sticks. Meanwhile
the selection committee might be glad to know that the
best man in the colony behind the wicket plays with the
Petersham Club.
In the choir of St. Leonard’s Church there is a
little man with a big tenor voice of which he is very
proud. Whenever a member of the congregation
“howls extra” the little man marches down the aisle
and hands him a dirty piece of paper bearing the
following formula “ Will you be kind enough to sing
not quite so loudly.”
Like Judge, like Toby. Mr. Gibson, the tem-
porary Associate of his Honor Mr. Temporary Judge
Windeyer, was yesterday sufficiently impudent to
cause the reporters in the case of Dibbs v. Dibbs to be
subjected by the crier to an examination as to their
business. It was stated last week, in public-house
bars, that this young Mokanna intended thus to show
his teeth. However, a year isn’t very long to wait,
after all.
We learn from the C. of E. Record that “the
Gospel Tent has been removed from Sussex-street, much
to the regret of many who have been induced to attend
the services held there. . . . We understand that
it will not be erected again for a month, as the general
secretary of the Y.M.C.A., who has the control and
management of it, is about to proceed to Melbourne for
a short time.” Now, it would be all very well to write
like this if we didn’t happen to know that the tent ha*
been let to Cole the circus-man for a side-show.
Even The Herald, it seems, is not holy enough
for some people. After wailing about the immorality
of “ My Partner,” lately produced at the Queen’s, the
C. of E. Record for December, says :—“ Akin to this is
the recent outrageous display on the Melbourne race-
course on the * Cup dav.’ The Herald favoured us
with a long account of the costumes worn upon that
occasion by ladies who patronised the lawn, bidding for
a share of public admiration. We tremble for the future
of our land when we find mothers of families stooping
to this, and yonug ladies who, in a few years’ time,
should be directing the household in accordance with
God’s word, manifesting their utter unfitnnss to tube
the position which God assigns to woman.”
The Courier says that Sir Arthur Kennedy, on
his return to Brisbane the other day, after a spell in
England, “ landed at the Botanical Gardens, and after ii
good-humoured recognition of the coachman, stepped
into his carriage, and drove away, as though he hail
just returned from an excursion down the river.” Sir
Arthur’s carriage was always a hired trap from M’Len-
nan, the livery-stable keeper’s, and the coachman was
always a fat, good-tempered looking groom called
Charley. Sir Arthur’s own “carriage” was a one-horse
phaeton, which he drove himself, with the inevitable
Chinaman perched behind. The late Acting-Governor
also was his own coachman at times, but it was a four-
in-hand of spanking chestnuts that he used to drive.
The first regatta of the North Shore Rowing
Club was held on Saturday last, near Neutral Bay.
Five events were rowed, with the following results;—
Junior pair oars in club skiffs, with coxswain : Millie,
W. H. Fitzpatrick and E. Smith, 1; Napoleon, S. G.
Eobey and W. Gorman. 2 —Maiden oars, in string-test
gigs. 4 oars : 1.0. U., W. C Phillips, J. Dunsmure, E.
G. Sayers. W. G. Wetherill, 1; Ella, E. H. Eobey, IV.
Gorman, W. Tucker, J. E Brindley, 2. —Senior scullers,
pulling pair sculls, in club skiffs (open to members of
auv Rowing Club): N.S.E.C., J. Arthur, 1 ; Sea Breeze,
S.K C., W. Anslow, 2; Pinafore, M.E.C., C. Bros, 3.
Maiden scullers, pulling pair sculls, in club skiff;-
NS.EC., H. A. Bligh, 1; Trevallyn, S. Q. Eobey. -
Harold, E. G. Sayers, 3.—Scratch fours, in string-test
gigs : Pleiades, J. A. Molineux, S. O. Eobey, H. A.
Fitzpatrick, C. C. Medcalfe (stroke), 1: Newcastle, H.
Bligh, J. P. Brindley. W. Tucker, W. J. Wether;.!
(stroke), 2: St. Leonards, C. Eobey, E. G. Sayers, 1
Dunsmure, W. E. Sayers (stroke), 3; Progress. H
D. Bussell, W. J. M‘Leod, E. H. Eobey, J. Arthur
(stroke.)
Subjoined is an interesting extract from a letter
received by “ Charon ” from Laycock per the b® l
delivered yesterday;— •* Si far, we have got along first’
clfts- —*u fact, far better than we might have expected-
I sc’ Hanlan out every day. He has a nice, easy st vie
of rowing, which with most people at once takes the
eye, but Ido not like it myself. He doubles himself nn
with a round hick, and does not appear to put him-e
in a proper attitude for a heavy lift, nor would his opes-
handed style stand by him in a hard struggle *
cannot understand how he has attained his prc.“ ul
position, unless it is that the men he has met are her *
the average. Of course, the great race will he all o’er
ere you receive this, and you will proba'-ly see
Tiiokott has beaten him easily. If mv judement De-
fault, you may expect to hear of me working mv P as? , k ' t
back to Australia. I also see Hosraer, my 10 st. 1,1 :
opponent, out daily. I now weigh 12 st. 10 lbs , and (er-
as ‘ hard as nails,’so I ought to have a good showwu
him. He rows something after Hanlan’s style, wee
he rows me, he will have been in training onlv ture
weeks and he will surprise me a bit if he cm pull ®
Shark Island ’ behind him at the finish. I
seen Hawdon, whom I have to row—another in
fellow. In his race with Hanlan, he took 71 min. to 1
the mile. Trickett and I will use a new slide in ftU ‘
races. I think it is a great improvement. The 11,1
have to be built expressly for it; so wheu we ret ‘
yon will see all the latest improvements. The n
slide ha i not beau used in any race yet. but we na
given it a fair tri il. I find it superior to the old oa-• •
We are getting our boats built for it. We are u
well and hearty.” .
There is a house in Macquarie-street, the window
blinds iu the underground departments of which either
never existed, or have been allowed to fall into a some-
what dilapidated condition. This would not have
mattered much to the general public were it not that
one of the apartments is the sleeping place of the
servants. In a community like ours, where Paul Prys
are so plentiful, the result can he imagined. On Sunday
night last, about half-past 10 o’clock, whilst the head of
the adjoining house was doing a cigar on his balcony,
previous to retiring for the night, he noticed a person,
dressed as a gentleman, sneak leisurely along and stop
in front of the servant’s room. He was shortly after
joined by another person also in the garb of a gentleman.
'1 hey both stood for some time, then hacked into the
road, and afterwards stooped—for what purpose can be
imagined. This unmanly conduct proved too much for
our friend with the cigar, who shouted at the top of his
voice, “You mean skunks, you ought to feel ashamed
of yourselves.” They evidently realized the justice of
the reproof, for without retaliating, they beat a hasty
retreat towards the Domain gates.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Sorata enquiry proceeding at Adelaide.
A 121 b Fiji pine exhibited in King-street.
A Printers’ Temperance Society is proposed.
Sevres Vase presented by France to Melbourne.
From 15th January, 1881, gas will be 3s. per
1000 in London.
Meerschaum pipes containing indecent pictures,
seized at Melbourne.
Two men killed, six wounded by dynamite
explosion on the Tamworth railway works.
Archbishop Vaughan will devote the Christmas
holidays to a new crusade on the Education question.
The Government is compelling teachers to pay
£OO and £BO a year for houses not worth above £3O and
£4O.
The whole of the members of the Ministry are
to be invited to visit the Grafton district early in
January.
The jury having been unable to agree in the case
of Ryan, charged with poisoning a horse at Narrabri,
prisoner was released oh bail.
The servants of Lord Mountmorres, who was
lately shot in Ireland, refused to put his corpse into
the coffin. Strangers had to be paid for doing it.
The Western Suburbs Musical Society, one of
the best out of Sydney, gave a brilliantly successful
concert at the School of Arts, Burwood, on Wednesday
night.
The mother and two brothers of Joe Byrne, the
bushranger, have been arrested on a charge of having
stolen a saddle, the property of the murdered man,
Aaron Sherritt.
Victorian Assembly resolved, by a majority of
35 to 26, that land should be valued for purposes of tax-
ation, not on the basis of capital value, but on that of
its grazing capabilities.
The masters of the Bell Bird, Pelican, Prince of
Wales, and Lily Denham, have been lined for following
the Eush-Trickett race on 13th ultimo, in defiance of
the harbour regulations.
Berry says no appointment will be made vice
his Honor the late Sir Redmond Barry. Sir Bryan
O'Loghlen quarrelled with the Berryites just a little
too soon, or he might have had the apuointmeut.
George Thompson, plasterer, of Eedfern, was
terribly injured by falling out of the train at Eveleigh,
on Monday night, and died at the Infirmary on the
following morning, never having regained conscious-
ness.
A calico ball, in aid of the hospital, was held in
the Townsville School of Arts, and proved a great suc-
cess. More ladies appeared in “fancy” dresses than
calico. " Little Buttercup," and “Ralph Eackstraw”
were well represented.
At Stannif er, a black snake entwined itself round
the neck of a hoy named Robertson. The father, who
was standing by, and had probably never heard the
story of the Laocoon, took a knife, cut the serpent’s
head off, and saved his son.
Duncan M'Hugb, a young man of 20, in the
employ of Mr. Charles Bath, of Bridge-street, was
killed by falling from his cart in Erskine-street, on
Tuesday morning. The unfortunate young fellow had
only been a year in the country.
The missing schooner Ariel, Capt. Brodie, has
safely returned to Sydney. It was falsely reported some
months ago by a vessel from the Solomons that the
Ariel had been lost, and that two of her crew had been
poisoned by natives at Bouganville.
Thomas Carlyle had, according to the very latest
telegrams, recovered sufficiently to superintend the
gathering and preparation of materials for his bio-
graphy. His niece, Mrs. Alexander Carlyle, and Froudo,
the historian, are jointly at work on it.
The Australian Eleven were banqueted at the
Adelaide Town Hall on Monday night. Murdoch com-
plimented the South Australian cricketers on their im-
proved play, stating that they would have a good show
against the Victorian Eleven in their return match.
A company offers to supply the Victorian Rail-
way Department with 60,000 tons of Kilcunda (Vic.)
coal annually at Sydneyjprices, provided that a railway
be constructed to their mine. The quantity named
amounts to the annual consumption of the Victorian
Railway Department.
Mr- W. Trudgeon, of Strangways (Vic.), had
his left arm completely severed above the elbow by the
knives of a mowing machine. He wrapped his shirt
round the limb, and walked five miles into Newstead to
have it bandaged, without fainting. No more plncky
action has ever been performed.
At Lanadowne station, Tambo, 197,000 sheep
were shorn this year, and about 200 men employed,
among them many Chinese, who had the spouts, the
picking, and the rolling pretty well in their own hands.
The whites would not, for any money, stand a few hours
in water, for fear of rheumatism.
At a meeting of the Australian Frozen Meat Co.,
held in Melbourne, it was stated that the Protos ship-
ment was not expected to result in a loss; that it was
intended to put up a machine capable of freezing 2500
sheep; and that, owing to the Victorian stook-tar, the
company’s business might have to be removed to Sydney
or Queensland.
The case of Dibbs v. Dibbs and Blair, in which
Mr J. C. Dibbs seeks a divorce from his wife on the
ground of her alleged adultery, was commenced on Mon-
day at the Supreme Court, and has since been con-
tinued from day to day. Mr. Dailey appears for the
petitioner. Publication of the evidence in the case is
prohibited until the conclusion of the trial.
A most successful concert was given at the
Protestant Hall, on the evening of Tuesday (St.
Andrew’s day), under the auspices of the Highland So-
ciety of N.S.W. The Hon. Alexander Campbell occupied
the chair. The vocalists were Miss Clara Hamilton,
Miss Kate Horniman, the Misses Gilberthorpe, and Mr.
T. H. Eainford. Mrs. Colborne Fraser acted as accom-
panist, and Mr. P. D. M'Cormick as conductor.
Mr. John Wiseman Dargin, manager of the
Western branch of the City Bank, is charged with
having embezzled the sum of £4900, belonging to the
City Bank Corporation. When taken to the station he
said he had no defence to offer, and that he had been
expecting the arrest for a long time. Securities found
in defendant’s possession, and his (guarantee policy,
will, it is understood, save the bank from loss.
Alexander Drury, aged 12, son of the clerk of
the Queensland Executive Council, was while bathing
in the Brisbane river seized by a shark, which com-
pletely stripped all the flesh off his legs, from the
calves downwards, and crushed the ankle and feet
bones. A companion, named Bergin, for some time
vainly endeavoured to rescue Drury, and with another
boy’s* assistance at last dragged the poor lad away.
The wounded limbs were amputated, but the boy soon
died.
The Government inspector at Lithgow, by
refusing 1 to pass crooked, patched, and cracked raus,
has incurred the displeasure of somebody whx), the other
night, erected on a pole, near the company s works, a
coffin covered with crape and bearing the following in-
scription “ Thomas Bladen, this awaits you in the
year of our Lord 1880; may the Lord have mercy on
bis soul.” There was a farther admonition to mate
his peace with all men and prepare to meet his Creator
at once.”
William MTherson, a passenger by the Coto-
paxi, and native of Aberdeen, last week—it is believed
on the 24th ultimo— committed suicide in the hush at
Ashfisld by nearly severing his head from his body with
a knife. He had landed with a few hundred pounds,
and had become low-spirited on finding that the money
was not sufficient to enable him to carry out his original
intention of entering pastoral pursuits. He had been a
clerk in the National Bank of Scotland, was of rather
taciturn disposition, very temperate, and only 30 years
of age.
\ most elegant palace dining car, on the American
principle, is to be attached to the mail tram running
between Sydney and Qerogery, A liberal menu has
been adopted, and, as coal stove and complete cooking
apparatus will be carried with the car, passengers will
be able to obtain refreshments, including wines, malt
and spirituous liquors, tea, coffee, &c., at all hours of
the day. Messrs. Hudson Brothers, are the builders,
and to Mr. C- A. Goodohap, the ind-fatigable Secretary
for Railways, belongs the credit of the innovation.
The car was used for the first time by the hon. the
Premier and the hon. the Treasurer on the occasion of
their trip to Melbourne to attend the Conference.
Burwood is in the foreground for amateur
dramatic and musical entertainments. There is a good
deal of local talent, and every first-class entertainment
is bound to secure large and fashionable patronage.
It was so at the School of Arts on last Friday evening.
The Dramatic Company, for the benefit of its fuads,
played Morton’s comedietta, ‘ * Woodcock’s Lit tleGamo.
Mr. H. Matthews successfully assumed the principal
character, and the roles of Mrs. Colonel Carver, Mrs.
Larkins, and Mrs. Woodcock were assumed with marked
success by three young lady amateurs, who looked and
dressed well, and spoke with good elocutionary effect.
Mr. T. B. Wedderbnrn and Mr. E. B. Lnmsdaine were
fairly successful in their characters. A farce fol-
lowed.
A lady writes: —Eedgate’s Patent Meal (the
Australian cricketers’ bread) is the nicest and most
economical meal she ever used. — Advt.
Messrs. Peapea and Shaw have imported largely
of new season’s goods ; among them’many novelties for
summer wear, for both ladies and gentlemen.
The Oswego prepared corn is more extensively
used in the United States as an article of diet than any
other commodity of the kind placed before the American
public.
Mr. Stanton, formerly of Sydney and Mittagong,
has opened a first-class hotel at Terrara. Special con-
veniences are provided for Sydney visitors and commer-
cial travellers.
Mr. W. A. Brodie, for many years the popular
C.P.S. and Land Agent at Parramatta, will commence
business shortly in that town as Auctioneer, Land,
Estate and general agent.
The sale of the Trickett handkerchiefs realised
£75. And, by the way, isn’t it rather peculiar that the
New South Wales oarsman’s colors should have been
sold in Melbourne, and not in Sydney ?
Why languish and pine on the lowlands when
there is such an invigorating climate and comfortable
accommodation, combined with moderate charges, to
befonndat Cousins’ Imperial Hotel, Mount Victoria? —
Adv.
Messrs. D. Jones and Co. are this week com-
pleting two or three bridal outfits, which, for style and
richness, have hardly ever been equalled in this city.
They are for marriages already referred to in these
columns.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mr.’ J. J. Fallon, of Smithfield, Barron River,
N. has commenced to cultivate coffee. Some in-
human selectors in the north-east punish trespassing
sheep by tying string over their nose and mouth so as
to compel death by starvation. The Golden Crown
G. M Co., Gympie, have obtained splendid prospects,
and have struck a patch of lOOoz. At Gympie,
Herbert Porter died from the effects of drinking, while
in a heated condition, long draughts of cold water.
A club has been established at Gympie. A post-
master on the Manning has caught measles from a
Sydney mail-bag. It has been found uuremunerative
to send home Queensland opals and have them cut.
A shark, 12ft. lonsr, has taken up a selection in the la-
goon from which Rockhamptonites get their water.
A four-year-old son of Mr. A. Pegns, of Clarence Heads,
accidently shot himself with a pistol, and died in half
an hour. The Cooktown Courier says that the
"Flying Packer,” while on the Palmer track, lay
down one night recently, and getting up next morning.
found a death adder within three inches of his head.
“ A vapping tyke ” is what the B. and M. Herald calls
the Central Australian. Tobias Butler, a native of
Plenty River, Vic., died somewhat suddenly at Yanta
Bulla, of lung disease. The new bridge over the Fitz-
roy at Rockhampton is nearly finished, and costs
£65,000. Original estimate, £35,000. The old Empire
Hotel, Dunedin, for the past 15 years the popular resort
of sporting men, is soon t-j be a thing of the past-
Messrs Watson, Bros., having bought the proprietor
out, intend pulling the famous old place down and erect-
ing on its site a large hotel on the American principle.
The cedar trade, which has been the mainstay of
Port Douglas, has been brought almost to a standstill
by the duty lately imposed. A handsome marble
cross is to be erected over the grave of the late Mr.
O. H. Boyle by the public of Carcoar, in consideration
of the many services rendered to the district by
deceased. A Bar Mess has been formed in Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Jones, late of the Glenrowan Inn, has
been committed for trial on a charge of harbouring Ned
Kelly. The Charters Towers council consists of the
Town clerk and three aldermen. Mr. Proctor
explains away the Lot wife miracle by proving that she
was only buried under a meteoric shower of sodium.- -
The Kanaka who shot at and wounded three aboriginal
gins at Mackay, has been arrested. He says they stole
his tucker and he only wanted to frighten them. ——
Peter Campbell has been lecturing at Newcastle on
"Spiritualism.” At Hamilton, N.S.W., a child
named Burns died through having been overlain. ——A
pure white sparrow, with red eyes, has been found in a
nest in a tree on Mr. G. Holmes’ Walkerville property,
at Adelaide. Bishop Quinn has paid the libel verdict
of £BOO and costs given agaidst his paper, The Austra-
lian, in favor of Mr. Gresley Lukin. The publisher
of the Qukanbetan Age is being sued for £3OO. damages
for having, four years ago, published an advertisement
alleged to be libellous. The news of Laycock’s vic-
tory reached Rockhampton on a Sunday, and was
greeted with loud cheers. Mr. Gray, oculist of Mel-
bourne, has successfully operated for cataract on Mr.
Pugh, PM., of Rockhampton. A Ballarat youth,
who had been disappointed in love, the other day tried
to commit suicide—first by taking oxalic acid, and then
by stabbing himself with a carving knife. John
Brewster, a shepherd, has died of thirst at Saltern
Creek run, Aramac. Frederick Brennan, a station
hand, was dangerously wounded by the accidental
explosion of a mate’s revolver. At Hill End, the
Patriarch Company hauled from a lower level,
on last Thursday, stone richer than ever.
Last Charters Towers escort, 66530 z. 500 tons stone
from the Old Identity, p, c.. Charters Towers, is ex-
pected to go 3oz. On the prorogation of the Queens-
land Parliament the Postmaster-General complimented
the Hansard staff on the manner in which they had
performed their duties. At Tenterfleld, on election
day, one publican passed 1600 “ nips " over his counter.
Mr. Thomas Pitkin, an old resident of Tenterfleld,
died last week, aged 76. Some of the residents of
Apollo Bay found cases of axes washed ashore from the
Eric the Red. On trying them it was found that they were
of cast-iron, which broke instantly wood was struck.-—-
A warrant has been issued for the arrest of W. Q. Reid,
late postmaster of Coburg, Vic., for embezzlement, etc.
Reid has a wooden leg. At Auburn, S. A., George
Holmes unsuccessfully tried to kill Mr. and Mrs. William
Wilson with a knife. Mrs. Wilson received some Udly
cuts. The Governor of S.A. has headed a public sub-
scription to a Waterloo veteran named William Davis,
aged 86. Mr. Graham, the popular telegraph station
master at Newcastle, is to be removed to Braidwood.
At Temora, a youth named Avery has died—accord-
ing to one doctor, from an overdose of painkiller;
according to another, from a black spider bite. Mr.
C. Westendorff, of Jindera, the other day saw a laughing-
jackass kill a large snake. A notorious blackfellow,
Big Billy, has been arrested near Casino, on two charges
of attempted rape and several charges of robbery. ——
Digby and party have banked 50ozs. gold os the result
of a crushing from their claim at Gully Swamp, Carcoar.
A 300 oz. nugget has been found at Black Hill, Bal-
larat. Mr. J. W. Randell, the well-known draper and
director of the Colling wood (Melb.) Gas Co., is dead.
A telegram states that Ernest Giles’ party, reported
as missing, returned to Mount Elba last week. The
A.M.P. Society have purchased the Bank of Adelaide s
old promises tor £20,000 The stampers arebeing kept
going on the Mulgrave. Mr. Mackay, late of the
Australian (Brisbane), will edit the Hodokinson
Mining News. Donald Laing, the well-known pros-
pector, has returned to Cooktown from the Coen.
He says good wages may be made by Europeans,
and that the extent of alluvial is considerable.- —
111 oz. gold has been brought into Gladstone by Haw-
kins and party, from an old leader at Casino. ——In
Northern Queensland, when a newspaper subscriber
wishes to discontinue, he asks the editor to “ send ms
bill, as he has no further use for waste waper. B.
Williams, just returned from the Coen, reports that
Turner and party (3), who are camped at a considerable
distance beyond the old workings, were making oz.
per man per week, while cutting a race 2 feet wide, and
expected, when in full working order, to nett £1 per
man per day. The whole of “the district is very likely
looking, and resembles the Beechworth (Vic.) country.—
This year Qympie gold is expected to total 40,000 oz.,
and therefore to exceed last year’s by 4,000 oz. At
Mackay, a miner,from Townsville and Cobar, died at
Temora Hospital rather suddenly of dropsy of the
chest. A fresh find of copper has taken place near
the Wiseman’s Creek, Bathurst district. The de-
composed body of William M’Grogor. has been
found dead in the bush at Gympie. Deceased had
been drinking. The Apollo Candle Co. gave its
employes a pleasant picnic at Clontarf on Saturday.
The New Caledonian escapees at Brisbane are to be de-
clared as vagrants until they are handed over to the
French Consul-General. The stores of Messrs Power
and Madden, Cooktown, have been burnt down.
Stock and premises insured for £5OOO. Mrs. George
Raff, of Brisbane, has died suddenly of heart disease.
Miss Caldwell, injured in the late railway collision
at Lara (Vic.), is recovering. Dr. M‘Lougblin,of the
Sorata, has commenced a libel action against the Port
Adelaide News. An explosion of gasoline occurred
at Wood’s Hotel, Dalby,on Saturday; five persons were
severely burnt. Mr. Henry' Whitton, formerly an
officer of the Victorian Civil Service, has committed
suicide at Adelaide, by taking laudanum.—-Police
raided the Temperance Hotel, Penola, and found
whiskey, and beer. At Melbourne, a Mrs. Charles
Brown has become insolvent, owing to losing, in an
omnibus, £429, the amount of the policy on her late
husband's life. The majority of the witnesses who
appeared before the Totalisator Committee of the Vic-
torian Upper House, were in favour of giving the
machine a trial. At Melbourne the attorneys gained
a one-innings victory over the barristers. Mr. H. C.
E. Mnecke has been installed G.M. of the Scotch Con-
stitution of Freemasons at Adelaide. 600 brethren
were present. A firm called “ Wright and Co.”
coolly offered the Hamilton (Vic.) Council to play the
part of informers against sly grog-sellers, provided
“ that three-fourths of tines levied to go to Wright and
Co., the balance to the Council.” Michael Brown, the
son of an Ulmurra resident, was, with one of his
horses, struck dead by lightning on Tuesday. A man
named M’Cormack was hltten by a snake, at Grafton,
on Tuesday, but after passing through a heavy stupor,
is recovering. Thieves entered the workings of No.
4, Deutscher’s and Cook, Pitt’s and Hales’ claims at
Temora, on Sunday night, and picked over the drives.
The Governor of Queensland laid the foundation
stone of a memorial to Governor Blaokall. at Ipswich,
on Tuesday. Professor Stanieh, the aurist, has been
refused by the medical officers of Melbourne Asylum
permission to examine the deaf patients. The arbi-
trators in the matter of the claim for compensation
mode by the Milburn Creek Copper Mining Company
against the Government have awarded the company
£16,000. The dog-and-kettle business is extensively
followed at Bathurst. At Temora, Murray’s claim
washed 18oz. from six buckets. Buckley’s claim washed
70oz. in nuggets on Friday. Mr. Douglas Elder, of
the firm of Clark and Elder (Williamstown Adver-
tiser, Vic.), burst a blood-vessel and died. 5517 tons
sugar exported from Queensland between July and
November. William Parker, a Hanoverian, and an
old resident of the Cape gold-field, died suddenly on
October 30; The Toowoomba Chronicle will be
issued daily on and after January 1. Captain Brown-
igg, who is leaving Albury, is to be testi monialised.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E.M.: We gladly avail ourselves of your com-
munication. -M.F.: Much obliged for your informa-
tion. T.W. (Dunedin): The news you send we are
much obliged for: but it has, as you will no doubt have
noticed, been anticipated. However, we’ll be glad to
hoar from you again. E.H.W. : Thanks. Branix :
Surely a private affair. “ Growler” : First rate.
Violet: Just the khid of thing we like. Anonymous
(Windsor): Nobody in this office, so far as we know, is
yet disposed to commit suicide in accordance with your
suggestion. However, if you call murder or man-
slaughter may posssibly eventuate. Ida: thanks:
perhaps in next issue. Civita Veochia; Please write
ag lB n. Rockhampton: Heenan and Sayers fought 37
rounds before the referee left the ring and five after-
wards. It was regarded as a drawn battle, but in
Sayers’s favour. Viola : We print most of your para-
graphs.——“C. H. W.” : Pointless. "A. J. J.”:
Received. “ J. M.” (Goulburn) : Laycock and Black-
man’s time for If miles was faster than Hanlan and
Trickett’s. “ Caradexes ” : Thanks. “ Band-
master :’* Next week. “T. Cook:” Too hits.
" D.G." : Next issue “A.8.C.” : We had already
received the information yon kindly sent us.
WOMAN ITEMS.
In four years 48 ladies have been cremated a
Milan.
The wile’s native land is the country where she
loved.
An elegant cloak, called the “ Diavolo,” is the
latest fashion.
There were between 500 and 600 divorces in
England last year.
The woman who wishes to stay in this world will
avoid the deadly corset.
It’s very wrong to throw kisses, but then they
don’t hurt even if they do hit.
Young Tommy says Eve wasn’t afraid of a serpent,
but his mother’s afraid of a mouse.
A young man has been seen with two heads on
his shoulders. One belonged to his girl.
A Miss Fanny Butler has passed the final ex.
animation of the King’s and Queen’s College of
Physicians, Ireland.
It is a touching piece of self-forgetfulness onthe
part of Queen Christina to name her baby Mercedes, for
her husband’s first love.
Hats are of three favourite shapes—the Rem-
brandt, the Duchess and the Clarissa Harlowe. The
latter is round, and almost flat, and is a trying style.
Dora Young, the daughter of Brigham, has re-
nounced the system which he gave his life to build up
She is described as a handsome and intelligent woman.
A girl who was a Good Templaress fell senseless
when she saw her sweetheart with a glass of beer at his
lips Such cold-hearted selfishness was enough to make
any woman's head swim.
No woman, however nervous, has a right to wake
up her husband from a sound sleep, to tell him, on his
enquiring what’s the matter, “ Nothing, only I wanted
to know if you were awake.”
To educate young ladies is to let them know all
about the ogies, ominies, the ifles, the tics, and the
mistios j but nothing about the ings, such as sewing,
darning, washing, baking and making pudding.
The new hair-pin is made of spring-steel and is
very wide at the points. You press the points together
before Inserting the pin, and when you relax the pres-
sure the spring-power keeps the pin firmly in its place.
At a recent English wedding the bride's nephew,
dreesei in a ruby velvet Cavalier suit, acted as page,
holding the train; and the thirteen bridesmaids wore
mob-caps, puffed sleeves, long mittens, and paste
buckles.
Her Majesty the Queen has contributed five
etchings to an English art magazine. As the trees in
the drawings cannot be distinguished from sheep and
men, the etchings are considered very fair specimens of
modern art.
The Princess Beatrice is so marked in her atten-
tions to the ex-Empress of France, as to strengthen the
popular belief that she was intended for her daughter-
in-law. The Princess was the first to meet the imperial
lady, on her return from Africa, going aboard the ship.
The grandmother of the Baroness Burdett-Contts.
was a servant in the house of a brother of the old banker
and was named Susan Starkie. Her master had her
carefully educated and then married her. Her daughters
became Countess of Guilford, Marchionness of Bate, and
Lady Burdett. Mr. Contt’s second wife figures in F Man
Grey as Mrs. Million.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER V— Continued.
“I think you may be quite confident,” said Mr.
Blisset. “ Poor child! now she need not be alone, and
has a fair chance of a safe, untroubled future, such as a
woman ought to enjoy.”
“ No, thank you, my child. I shall need no more
reading now, Adrienne. Your wearisome, monotonous
task is almost at an end.”
“ Dear uncle, what do you mean ? ”
“I am what men call dying, my dear. Whether it is
the end of all things for each one of us, or whether it is
but the beginning of an endless succession of advancing
lives, very soon I shall know —or I shall not know.”
She kissed his hand.
“You mast not talk in that way. You have been very
kind to me, and I cannot spare you. I love you, uncle—
yon must not leave me.”
“ I feel your pleasure will not be consulted on that
point, my daughter,” said he, with a strange half-smile,
half-pity, half-deep amusement. " Ah! Adrienne, when
men have lived—or existed- -as I have done, and for so
long, they are not sorry when the machinery comes to a
stop, and they know no more.”
Much moved and much distressed, she listened to him
until he sent her away, telling her to sleep undis-
turbedly, for he would yet live to talk with her, and
convince her that it was for the best.
But he was wrong. When morning dawned, Richard
Blisset was at rest, and free from the mantle of pain and
weakness which he had worn so long.
CHAPTER VI.
“ TO THE DRVOS.”
The merry month of May, in the year of grace 1802,
and in that part of her Majesty’s dominions known as
the County Palatine of Lancaster, wore a face even less
smiling and colder than usual. Despite the gaudy sun-
shine, despite the unusual chances offered to external
nature, of showing herself to the best advantage
through the absence of smoke —despite this, all was
sad, penitential silence. One missed the burst of talk
and laughter, the chaffing and shouting in the streets
when the mills were loosed. One missed the tramp,
tramp of the thousands of clogs over the flags at. the
appointed times.
Trade had collapsed. King Cotton was discrowned;
his subjects had become a nation of paupers ; some of
whom were begging their bread, all of whom were liv-
ing chiefly on help from outside. There was a vast
organisation kept up, chiefly by unpaid, voluntary toil,
forjdiscoverimg distress, and distributing relief. Thans-
hope had now added herself to the list of towns which
bad instituted Relief Committees, and Sebastian’s
schools had been merged into the larger ones belonging
to the public body. They had served as a sort of model
or introduction, and the others were founded upon the
same plan. He himself was one of the most powerful
and active members of the committee, while Adrienne
and Helena, from their previous experience, were in
reality the head and front of the ladies' committee,
though duly subordinated in outward order to Mrs.
Ponsonby, and one or two other dames of place and im-
portance.
It was in the very beginning of the month, a bright,
glaring, sunny May morning, to look upon, with a dry,
pitiless east wind blowing round the corners and sweep-
ing down the shady side of the streets. It was the
middle of the forenoon, and the Heywoods’ kitchen did
not get the morning sun. There was no fire. Mary and
her next-door neighbour, Mrs. Mitchell, took turns
at having a fire, for the cooking in both households now
was less extensive than it once had been, and each
alternately undertook the responsibility of the other’s
baking and boiling. This was the day on wliich Mrs.
Mitchell had the lire; consequently Mary’s kitchen was
all the colder from its bareness and its spotless neatness.
She was sitting at the window, sewing. Myles was at
the centre table, with some books from the library
before him, ostensibly reading -really gazing blankly at
the page, and looking, as it is not good that a young
man, or any man, should look —looking ns men only do
look when their affairs are in a very bad way.
His sister stole occasional side-glances at his face,
and her heart wept, if her eyes did not. She and
Edmund had been living all this time upon the weekly
sum allowed by Sebastian Mallory to such of his hands
as chose to accept it. They had been aided by Myles
from his own store, in order that Edmund might have
the things he required; and that store, Mary knew now,
was at an end—had come to an end some days ago. She
did not quite know how Myles had lived during those
few dreadful days. He had accepted nothing from her,
because what she offered had been bought with Sebas-
tian Mallory’s money. He had smiled when she bod
implored him to take something and repay her when
times mended, if he would not take it as a gift; smiled
in a wav that had not encouraged her to repeat the
offer. He had made no complaints, had been very
quiet, but those days had been the most wretched
Mary had ever spent in her life. She knew what her
brother had been trying to hold out for, but the hope
continued to be deferred; and oven if it must now bo
soon fulfilled, she feared the relief would come too late
to save him from what ho and she both considered the
supreme and ultimate disgrace and shame of having to
apply for relief. Some fortnight ago, the Relief Com-
mittee had advertised for two clerks, to relieve their
honorary secretaries of the burden of accounts and
correspondence, which had grown greater than they
could bear. Candidates of the artisan class were invited
to apply, and it was intimated that, if competent, they
would be preferred rather than others, on the principle
of helping them to help themselves. Myles Heywood
hod been one of the applicants, and the decision would
not be known for two days yet. The day before, Mary
had met Mr. Mallory, and had hurriedly implored him
to use his influence, it he had any, to get her brother
in • but never, never to say she hud asked him, or she did
not know what would happen if Myles ever knew of it.
He hud promised; but there still remained a dreadful
blank two davs, and then, even with Sebastian’s efforts,
the answer might be that Myles was rejected.
Thus she sat this morning, with a sick heart, furtively
watohiug her brother in on anguish of pity. Would it
really come to the worst? Would he actually have to
turn his steps—her brother, of whom she was so proud—
towards those dreadful doors above which glared, in
white letters a foot long, “ Relief Committee’s Offices ? ”
those doors which, she thanked her God every night,
she had not yet been obliged to enter ? He had had no
breakfast, she knew; she did not know when he had last
eaten, or of what the meal had consisted. His face was
terribly wasted; so was the muscular, long-fingered
hand which lay before him on the table. There was
lassitude in his attitude, a drawn look about his lips
and his eyes; his eyes haunted her, and made her very
heart bleed when she encountered them. What would
he do ? At eleven the committee began their sitting,
and it was ten minutes to eleven now, and the offices
were some distance away. If he were going, it was time
P Sho started violently, as he, at this moment, pushed
his books away from him with a slow, resolute sweep of
his hand, and rose. What a terrible change had taken
place in the whole figure and deportment of the man !
Myles took his cap from the nail on which it hung,
and turned to her.
“ I’m going out, Molly,” said he.
“ Yes,” she answered; and something in the muffled,
toneless accent of her voice made him look at her. She
was gazing intently at him, with a fixed, almost staring
look—a glance of blank pain and suffering, passive, yet
terrible.
“ Mary,” said he, pausing, “ you know what it is. It
must be. You think it is the worst; bat I tell you it is
not so. It is not so bad as what you would have me do.”
With that he left the room and the house.
He had a pretty long walk, up and down hill. He
felt inexpressibly tired—and worse than tired; his
stomach was empty; he had a sick, gnawing sense of
hunger—absolute, grinding hunger, such as he had read
of others —destitute people—feeling; but such as he
had never before felt, till now that ho was destitute
himself. His head felt weak and dizzy : his mind du—
and stupid—he found he could only walk slowly, and he
took first this turning and then that, and presently
arrived at his destination —the one place in Thanshope
where, in these hard times, a flourishing business was
being curried on.
About the door was a crowd of people—men ana
women; young and old. The expressions upon the
different faces varied from callousness, through every
variety of unwillingness, pain and shame, uji to a care-
less hardihood that felt no disgrace, and was only
wishful to make the most of the opportunity.
[to be CONTI sued.]


BRIEF MENTION.
Colonial-grab—,£49oo.
Suffering a recovery —the Sorata.
John is now out of the Hurley-burley.
Municipal election list being “ doctored.”
“ The First of the Forties ” —Mr. Josephson.
Our public school system—free an d Independent.
The new box trick. —“Collaring” infants’
coffins.
Seventy-six intelligent electors of Balmain did
not know how to vote.
Mcßeath will lay in no more “ good foundations”
—even at civic lunches.
Kate Kelly has invested in a fashionable riding
habit at a leading house.
“Joe” has got in again for the Wollombi.
“ Bridge agin yer own door.”
_ The officer who presided at a certain city elec-
tion could not sign his name.
Obscene Publications’ Act put in force for the
first time. There’s some Wisdom in this.
We love everybody; but we more especially love
people who send us nice airy little paragraphs.
An 80-candle Argand lamp sheds a brilliant lustre
on the residence of the new C.M.G. “How we apples
swim!”
The trustees of the Burwood Park are all dead.
They beautified the place, yet their names are already
forgotten.
Mr. David M'Beath, the City Architect, has
“resigned.” There is gloom amongst the Good
Templars.
The Freeman pithily remarks that “ The ballot-
box is not an institution of the Gospel.” Thrue for
yon, Tom!
Why would the addition of a small half-circle
turn Sir ’Enery into a dog ? Because it would be Sir
Henry Barks.
Maclean was second on the poll for Inverell, but
it must be remembered that there were, ahem ! only
two candidates.
The leading article in the Cumberland Times,
of Saturday last was written by Sir Henry Parkes. It
attacks G. H. Reid.
A warning to “ persecutors ” of the Standard
—John Hurley and W. C. Browne are both rejected by
their constituencies.
A prominent Civil Servant is absent on sick
leave. Brain affected. Some (of his subordinates) say
that that’s impossible.
A Card.—Thompson Brothers (Joseph, of Mel-
bourne ; Barney, of New York ; and John, of London),
Aquatic Financial Agents.
_lt is not generally known that a distinguished
civic official has a son-in-law amongst the German band.
But it is a fact nevertheless.
In the match between the Press and Stage,
in Melbourne, George Darrell scored a round O. But
he always was a naught-y boy.
No change in the color of The Bulletin paper
has taken place, for though at present printed on white
paper the journal is always read.
A suburban parson is building a splendid house
simply on the dead—that is, on the burial of the dead.
“ For of such is the Kingdom,” &c.
Signor Carmgati’s talented dog troupe will
shortly appear in Bathurst. Advance agent, F. Leonard.
N.B.—No free list to secular reporters.
John Lemon got a month on Tuesday for stealing
a pound from George Gardener. Not the first instance
of a lemon being found out by a gardener.
Pleasant for those amongst us holding degrees
from Philadelphia. Nature says a professor of that
university, is being prosecuted for selling 11,000.
While Kate Kelly was holding a reception the
Other evening the footpath became so crowded that a
number of respectable citizens “ took to the road."
“ Whenever I see Dr. Beg,” innocently re-
marked a young lady, “it always reminds me of the
Devil." She, of course, meant “the existence of.”
Who has the contract for removing the ton-loads
of “ ability,” “ energy,” “ self-devotion,” See. that must
be lying round the now deserted hustings of N.S. W. P
A Gundagai man the other night complained
that he felt an unusually large mosquito clinging to
the calf of his leg. He looked down and found it was a
’possum.
Civil Servants have been very active at the
elections. Although the offices have been open until
one each day, certain officials have been about all the
morning.
Jim Kelly and his sister are staying at the Guild
Hall Hotel. We saw Jim on Friday night, and asked
him his opinion of the political situation. But he made
no reply.
Since the arrival from Melbourne of a certain
prominent newspaper man, the hotel in the immediate
vicinity of his office has had to be fitted with a new
door-step.
Before the 21st inst. a certain rejected candidate
used to make door-mats and couches of the seats in
first-class railway carriages. However, he now takes a
back seat.
We have not heard of the Rev. Joseph West-
wood lately. Are the back districts of Queensland
getting so pious that they can dispense with a bush
Missionary ?
Professor Bell has discovered that sound can be
transmitted along a ray of light. Instead of a simple
heliograph the torpedo corps will soon be provided with
a heliotelephone.
Hanlan’s patriotic song :
I don't want to row, but, by Jingo, if I do,
I want six weeks, I want more time, I want the
money, too.
“The Vagabond” says that Suva, the proposed
site of the new capital of Fiji, is nothing better than a
mangrove swamp, and that it is a Government land-
jobbing swindle.
The morganatic marriage between the Czar and
the Princess Dolgorouky has not turned out very
happily. Some dispute, we suppose, about the wages
of the Randwick “help."
A temperance paper calculates that more than
four billion nobblers have been drunk during the last
five years. This, we presume, is exclusive of the num-
ber taken behind the door.
A Civil servant lately left his billet for ever.
The next day seventy-five money lenders were jostling
one another in the passage fluttering “ orders ” for his
cheque. It was in the Lands, too.
The office of that most efficient gentleman, the
inspector of pavements, appears to be a sinecure. How-
ever, what’s wanted is an inspector of holes, puddles
and municipal mantraps in general.
In the Illustrated London News of Sep-
tember 23, we are told that “ the Government of New
South Wales have granted £lOOO a year to the support
of an Academy of Art in Adelaide.”
A tribe of aborigines without hair on their heads
is said to exist on the Ballone River, in the far west of
Queensland. They are going in bald-headed for a
settlement of the Chinese question.
Inspector Anderson has now completely purified
the moral atmosphere of Pitt-street. One of the caf<s-
- now displays on top of his oysters a hand-bill
advertising a Sunday-school concert.
A gentleman, advertising in the Evening
Jumble, wants to borrow £lO,OOO at 5J per cent, per
annum. There had been no response from the children
of Israel up to the time of our going to press.
A few days ago a certain candidate for the
Hunter was dining at Hodgson’s Royal Hotel, Maitland,
and the flies annoying him, he said that he killed one day
last year 6473 flies. When asked how he got the number
he said they counted some and measured the rest. How
some people will forget themseves and prevaricate.
Says Johnny to Harry, I can’t for my life
conceive how a dumb pair are made man and wife.”
“ Since they can’t with the form and parson accord,”
says Harry, “you fool, they take each other’s word.”
Mississippi in the United State leads the world
in radical reform. Married women are now made equal
to men in every legal respect. One law briefly sets forth
that “ a husband and wife may sue each other.” How
nice!
The hotelkeeper who was patronised by the
temperance candidate in the South Sydney election was
heard to exclaim the next day. “If times was always
so good I could retire in a few years. We want elections
twice a month.”
“ Are you a magistrate ?” said the usher to The
Bulletin reporter as he presented himself at the door
of the Supreme Court on Monday. “ Don’t insult me,”
was the reply, “I belong to The Bulletin.” The
usher grovelled.
An Oxford-street barber, who does a flourishing
business, combines with his usual work that of a
tobacco-hawker at the Haymarket on market mornings.
His cry of “ Tobacco here; good tobacco, 2d. a plug,”
is a treat to hear.
Mr. Richard Hill was driving to Botany, with
his aboriginal black-boy, during the election. Some
miscreant (a Fremlin supporter, no doubt) called out
for “ three cheers for the blackfellow, the best man of
the two." Richard got angry.
There is an uncertificated insolvent in the new
Parliament. He might become Colonial Treasurer.
This kind of thing is becoming too common. In the
words of a certain learned counsel, our insolvent M.P’s.
will be ruling over their creditors.
Why are hosts of people allowed to travel first-
class with second-class tickets on Saturday nights, and
to bring with them, to saloon carriages, among other
things, sixpenny cheese (guaranteed old), “high” butter,
lobsters, herrings, and babies ?
What could he have meant ? He was an inmate
of the Parramatta lunatic asvlum, and picking up a
copy of the Terald he roared out, “ Who cooks our
morning muffin ? By George, it appears to be done
with Greenwood for it is not more than half baked.”
The Campbelltown Herald, in its con-
cluding article on “ Fisher’s Ghost,” a legend of
Campbelltown,” says that it still clings to its old
opinion that “ there never existed such a thing as
Fisher’s ghost.” No doubt this is a correct conclusion !
The title Johnny Warder ” applied to vag-
rants of a certain description, had its origin from the
fact that a man named John Ward, who kept a public
house in Sussex-street many years ago, used to allow
persons of that class to congregate and sleep in a large
room adjoining his hotel.
The difficulty in getting messages sent by wire
in anything like decent time is stated to ba owing to the
enormous number of “ memos.’’ transmitted by the
petty officers of the Telegraph Department to their
wives and friends. We’d like to hear from the Tele-
graph Office on this point.
Mr. Mcßeath says a base statement has been
made about the basement of the Town Hall by a Black-
man. The Council have decided upon having a Row,
and offer to take their Davey that there’s something
wrong. Anyway, Mr. Mcßeath had better mind his eye
since they might Blacket for him.
When the Hamilton and Western District
College, Victoria, first opened, in 1870, the principal
was Mr. H. B. de la Poer Wall; the rival institution,
the Hamilton Academy, was headed by a Mr. Begg.
Boys in the district were then always asked which they
preferred—to go to the wall or to beg.
An over-confident man at Surry Hills made a
wager—his wife against £80 —that Trickett would win.
The man who won thought fortune had smiled on him.
But not so. He has been offering the rightful owner
£BO to take his wife back. The twain have not been
parted by King Death, but by Trickett.
The Tide-waiter’s song—
We’ve a gorgeous official, who owns
A cognomen rhyming with Bones,
He’s at us like bricks
To subtract four and six.
And, instead of bread, feeds us on stones.
Rockhampton is said to be the hottest place in
Queensland, but surely the House of Assembly during
the late session must have been hotter, for not only had
they a Ray from there, but also the Sun-god himself—
an Archer. This may account for the sultry language
used; or possibly the Fates had sonething to do with it.
A certain Adelaide newspaper man and Minis-
terialist was so grieved when has wife died, that in
throwing up his hat he broke the office sky-light. This
was some months ago ; and having overcome his sorrow,
he is about to once more lead a willing victim to the
halter. People say that the lady is younger by several
years than his eldest daughter. If this be the case, the
show the bridegroom will make of himself will be show-
king. Adelaide papers, please copy. Your scissors,
ear Boughton,
Queensland has expended a large sum upon the
construction of a dry dock on the Brisbane River. It is
now an open question whether it would not be better to
shift this dry dock to open water or vice versd.
Some men there are well cannot let alone,
But lose their flesh in clamouring for the bone—
Thus, Hurley shuffling for his bills of cost.
Rakes in the pool, and finds out Hartley lost.
There is a great deal of talent in the Freeman.
The staff, with the exception of the sub-editor, Mr
O’Donovan, is composed entirely of barristers, and the
editor is Mr. Tom Butler, than whom no writer in Syd-
ney is more skilful in administering a slating
The only wonder is that the subjects of his crushers
live afterwards.
A certain Glebe medico the other day ordered
some horse-fodder. It did not arrive at the time
appointed, so he ordered again, from another firm. In
the meantime the first order was delivered, but the
doctor refused to receive it. “ Begorra,” observed the
man who brought it, “ it’s the first time I ever heard of
a Hogg refusing his com.”
Monsieur Louis Suhard, the presiding genius in
the Coffee Palace kitchen, is a cordon blew. He was chef
to the Austrian Ambassador at Paris. Some say it
was politics, others an affair of the heart, which drove
him from his beloved France to Australia. However
one can’t very well speak of love in the same breath as
cotelettes a la sauce piquante.
In North Queensland, recently, while a congre-
gation was engaged in the communion-service, and just
as the clergyman was about to bless and administer the
elements, an impious kangaroo dog—name, by the way
“ Trickett ’’—came along, seized the bread and made off
with it. The minister had to keep his blessing—though
some mean people allege he gave it to the dog.
A well-known professional man and his very
pretty “pupil" presented themselves at the Ladies’
Baths in a certain city the other day. The lady asked
the matron whether her “papa” couldn't be admitted
for she wished to leam how to swim. The matron
replied that as yet Australians weren’t sufficiently ad-
vanced to adopt the continental style of bathing.
The Charters Towers people, anticipating a
victory for Trickett, got ready brass bands and a quan-
tity of tar barrels and blue ribbon. But, in the words
of a local editor, when the fatal news came, “ gloom
fell on the face of nature, and the native youths swore
all day long, and until the moon went down on Tuesday
swore and smoked, and spat and then swore again " J
Says the gushing critic of the Australasian,
“ Who has not had experience of the language of the
hards and feet, especially of the hands, less perhaps of
the feet; but it is in this latter power of expression
that Miss Pomeroy excels.” There is no doubt that an
eighteen-inch foot is eloquent, especially if it belongs to
your girl’s father; less, perhaps, if it belongs to the girl
herself.
On November 22 the celebrated Dibbs case was
adjourned for a week because Mr. Darley, counsel for
Mrs. Dibbs, was not present, having a case in another
court. On 29th N ovember, when this was again called
on. and proceeded, Mr. Darley was sick and absent.
Why should it then have been adjourned in the first
instance? Was it a case of extra “refreshers” all
around to the lawyers engaged ?
The Czar of Russia is, we regret to hear (for we
love the aristocracy), ill at Livadia, and attended by
Dr. Bodkiue. This is the first instance, we believe, of
even a bodkine being allowed to approach his Majesty
uuless guarded by a park of artillery. The medical
gentleman named is not Hamlet’s “ bare bodkin," but
the Bear’s bodkin. We have made it with some diffi-
culty. [P S.—Lewis Scott, wrote this.]
It is not always a success to try and introduce
old world customs in a new colony. A candidate (a
defeated one) at the late election had been reading
“ Pickwick,” and he thought he might gain a few extra
votes if he made himself popular by kissing the wives
of the “ free and independent." He says now that he
is glad he was defeated, it would be so awkward re-
turning thanks from behind a pair of blue specs.
That Homer nods we know, but when we have
it on the authority of the leading journal that “ there
was a nice shower of rain on Friday, which lasted only
twelve hours,” the suspicion comes naturally to one’s
mind that during the remaining portion of that re-
markably short-lived day there must have been a great
and moral influence in the shape of schnapps hanging
round somewhere about the precincts of Pitt and
Hunter streets.
“ An eye-witness” vouches for the truth of the
following:—Whilst enjoying his evening pipe on the
Burdekin, our informant espied a brown snake darting
at and seizing by the hind legs a very large frog. The
latter made several ineffectual attempts to escape, and
then turning upon its foe, cast about for a place to lay
hold of, and hit upon the tail, which came conveniently
in the way. And now commenced a most violent con-
flict, each brute being evidently bent upon swallowing
the other. They were so equally matched that in five
minutes not a particle of either remained.
Some teachers recently applied to the Public
Instruction Department for the expense of keeniuc
their schools clean, a considerable item in a fixed salarv
They were informed that the Ministers considered them
as tenants of their schools, and tenants are always sun.
posed to keep their premises clean at their own expense i
Query- Does Sir John consider himself only a tpmJ
of his office in Macquarie-street ?
Says the Protestant Standard in the course
of a three-column leader on its recent libel action •
“ It is miserable enough for us, after our many success
ful battles with publican iniquity, to have to confess
that at last there is the appearance of our having been
worsted with * persons like’ Messrs. John Hurley and
W . 0. Browne.” The Standard goes on to say that its
error was a very small one, and one more of expression
than of intention.
The Christian young man and Sunday school
preceptor who participated in Jones’ Consultation Cun
sweep declares that he was only obeying the divine
command to “cast his bread upon the waters,” etc. in
so doing. As a set-off against what looks remarkably
like a gambling transaction, he has invested a portion
his winnings in purchasing a bundle of the Rev. Corrie
Johnson’s leaflets for gratuitous distribution amongst
his Sunday scholars.
The Deniliquin editors are flourishing the
hatchet. Says the Pastoral Times man in his last
“According to our contemporary the elections are
being influenced by one person—probably two on one
side—and by a real live editor on the other. The par-
son writes a letter asking for a vote, but the last time
we saw the editor on the hustings he was in the act of
swallowing a rotten egg. Now we ask which of these
two was the more dignified ?”
Says a London paper : “A nation which feeds
on lumps of tough and badly-cooked meat will always
be gross and prone to violence. It is astonishing how
few Englishmen understand the art of dining. The
ordinary English meal consists of slabs of raw meat,
slabs of heavy pudding, wedges of new bread, and heaps
of .semi-boiled vegetables. No wonder we riot and howl
ahd kick our wives, and go in for coarse pleasures after
such a Zoological system of feeding.”
Young Kallock, who shot Charles De Young of
the S. F. Chronicle, and who was taken red-handed in
the commission of that most cold-blooded murder, is
allowed a comfortable carpeted apartment in the over-
crowded gaol, receives any number of male and female
visitors at all hours of the day and night, drives out with
friends, has liquor and cigars and ail the luxuries that
make life endurable. Kalloch, sen., who is a Baptist
minister, says his son has nothing to be ashamed of.
Local medicos are providing the Clermont people
with some fun. Great excitement was occasioned in
the Petty Debts Court by a disagreement between Drs.
Ray and Candiottis. Dr. Ray swore to a certain artery,
which Dr. Candiottis maintained had no existence in
the human body, and challenged Dr. Ray to prove his
position. Dr. Candiottis subsequently deposited a
cheque for £5O in support of his statement. This is
truly a North Queensland way of arguing about
anatomy. Hoo-ray !
We wonder how the Rev. Dr. M‘Gibbon, editor
of that high-tened journal the Protestant Standard,
can justify the insertion in his last number of the fol-
lowing “ goak : ” —“ A very modest lady, who was a
passenger on a packet-ship, sprang out of her berth,
and jumped overboard, on hearing the captain, during
the storm, order the crew to ‘ haul down the sheets.’
The reverend doctor should stick to abusing the Pope,
and not try to imitate the Herald with these rather
too domestic paragraphs.
In an Anglican Church not 100 miles from
comer of Newtown Road and Parramatta-street., a new
organ is being erected. At a “ solemn requiem mass ”
the clergyman, in parting with the old instrument, re-
called the many times it had played a wedding march
(his own included), the “ Dead March of Saul,” and
many other songs, marches, dances, &c., but lately it
has been very hard to raise the wind for it, on account
of the bellows getting out of order. He hopes he’ll
raise more with the new one.
A N.Z. writer calls attention to the rapid de-
velopment of sacred advertising, and says that he’ll not
be surprised by-and-bye to read an intimation that the
Rev. Mr. Soapy Howler in the course of a sermon on
“Death on the Pale Horse” will (D.V.) “relate three
entirely new anecdotes and describe a death-bed scene,”
or to find the Rev. Athanasius Genuflex’s announcement
of a discourse on the “ Sounding Shores of the Silent
Sea,” followed by “ N.B.—A civil and attentive Verger;
several new voices in the choir.”
At West Maitland, the other day, Mr. Fullford,
the successful candidate, told the electors that he was
in favor of local option “ or any other option;” that he
“ had been in company with the greatest statesmen
and orators of the day, through his library—which
library contains not more than six books.” He further
said that he did not know whether he was on " is ’ead
or his ’eels;” and, lastly, he invited them to meet him
“at his little ’onse, when one and all could have the
honor of shaking hands with a member of Parliament.”
At Copperopolis, a few months ago, a gentleman
played unlimited 100 until he had lost, and owed, £25
to a person in an inferior rank of life. The creditor,
thinking to strike whilst the iron was hot, followed the
debtor to the latter’s bedroom, and said, “Mr. Snooks,
your position in society would make it very uncom-
fortable to have it whispered of you that you owed a
person like me £25. I’ll take £l5 and cry quits.” To
which Snooks, J.P., replied promptly, “ I don’t care a
for my position, and I don’t intend to pay you."
And Snooks, J.P., has acted up to his statement.
In an American paper the other day we came
across some lines headed “ California.” The first verse
runs thus: —
“ O land of milk and honey.
Of orange groves and vines—
Of fertile plains, so sunny.
Of mountains rich with mines;
Bourne of the fortune-seeker.
Whose winter is a spring—
Thou land of gold—Eureka,
It is of thee, I sing.”
Now we want to know whetherthe above is “ cabbaged ”
from the Melbourne Exhibition cantata, or whether the
M. E. C. is constructed with painful exactness on the
lines of California. Of course we’re quite aware that
neither of the pieces alluded to above is strictly
original.
The apostles of the Park sometimes have a
happy knack of repartee. Last Sunday a young gentle-
man, (with a dash of the thunder and lightning style
about him, while endeavouring to affix a derisive docu-
ment to the tail of the preacher’s upper garment was
suddenly arrested in the act, and publicly admonished
to sell his habiliments, watch-chain included, and
with the proceeds “ learn manners at a night-
school." This recalls the fact that a itinerant
negro divine while expatiating upon the begin-
ning of all things once observed that, “De fust
man Adam was made ob de clay, and den dey set him
up agen de palings to dry.” An inquiring member of
his congregation hereupon desired to know “ who made
de palings?” but the gentleman in possession of the
chair said: “ Sit down, sar, such questions as dat
would upset any tistem of teology.”
THE LATE WILLIAM SAURIN LYSTER.
Each member for Northumberland,
Of billets is a spurner!
So vows the gallant Melville, and
So swears the gifted Turner;
And every measure, but their own,
TheyTl put Obstruction’s hammer on—
Out-M‘Elhoning M'Elhone,
Out-Cameroning Cameron.
In short, the very deuce they’ll pay.
With men and measures —so they say.
SONG OF THE POLTICIAN.
I was a politician when
My funds were very low.
And loafing round the Sydney pubs
Was just about no go;
Blit, gifted with a little gab,
Just a mere spouting trick,
I got elected to the House,
And then I went on “ tick.”
It’s nice to be a membah, sirs.
And do the “la-de-dah,"
For then your name’s good on the slate.
In every Sydney bar;
And if the publican for coin
Should e’er hold out his hands.
Just whisper, “ Chut I next week. I’ll put
Young Bobby in the ‘ Bands.*


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The Townsville and Herbert C.Ca. try con-
clusions shortly.
The following 22 have been chosen to practice
for the match, fifteen of Victoria against the Australian
Eleven, to be played on the M.C.C. ground on the
10th, 11th, and 13th instant; —Messrs. F. Allan,
F. Baker, A. Benjafleld, D. Campbell, W. H.
Cooper, Coulthard, J. Edwards, E. Elliott, E.
Figgis, W. W. Gaggin, T. Horan, G. Mackay,
C. Mainon, Q. M'Shane, J. Menzies, Midwinter,
H. Musgrove, G. Rickman, H. Scott, Terry, W.
Tobin, and E, W. Wellington.
New South Wales riflemen beaten by the
Victorians. Decline in rifle-shooting here.
Since Layoock beat Blackman, the Sports-
man cannot speak too highly of his rowing.
At Narrabri, the footrace between C. Col-
lins, of Narrabri, and H. Train, of Armidale, was
won hy Collins by half a yard. Distance, 100
yards; stakes, £2O aside.
Tom Curran, the well-known P.E., and
former champion of the colonies, is at present a
publican and farmer. He keeps the Swan Hotel
at Stratford-on-Avon Gippsland.
Some more quarrelling in connection with
the Glebe Rowing Club occurred at the North
Shore R. C. Stage. There seems to be nothing
but imUet-headed fellows in this one time promis-
ing young club.
The “ little stone waller ” opened bis Aus-
tralian campaign with 103 runs at Kaprmda.
Alick has secured a place amongst the top averages
but altogether his career in England was not
. iccessful; he should be second only to Murdoch.
The Alexandria and Annendel C.C.’s mot
i»v Double Bay on Saturday last. The scores were
as follows: —Alexandria, 46; Annendel, 44. The
bowling of Ellis and Macintosh for the former,
.aid that of Macreadie for the latter was very
effective,
Ned Jones is getting up a Consultation on
next Tattersall’s Cup. We recommend intending
patrons to favor him at once, so that the results
may be published early enough to secure the
fortunate investors a favorable chance of hedging
profitably.
A well-contested match was played last
Saturday between the Chester and Eastern C.C.,
and resulted in a victory for the former by one
run. The all-round play on both sides was ex-
cellent, the catching being grand, but the last
four wickets of the Eastern fell for two runs,
when they wanted four to win.
The Thornton and Wellington C.C.’s met
•u the latter dab’s ground at Eveleigh, last
Saturday afternoon. The game resulted in a
draw. The suburban team were first to fill the
crease*;, but were not disposed of until they hod
put together 96 runs, of which Kemp and Hopkins
contributed 23 and 22 respectively by good play.
The Thorntons then wont in, and when time was
•ailed had lost 6 wickets for 70 runs, Stewart,
making 23 and M’Quade 21 (not ont) by steady
play.
The Australasian hopes that the N. S. W.
and Victorian members of the All-Australian team
will play for their respective colonies in the inter-
colonial match, despite the rumor that they are
pledge-1 together not to play in any match outside
their own until their disbandment takes place.
For, justly remarks the journal quoted, it is the
intercolonial matches that have made cricket the
popular game it is. They were the means of
improving onr play, and indirectly led to the
England matches.”
At Townsville, on the Prince of Wales’ birthday,
the 150 yards' handicap was won by J. M'Lean, the 200
yards’ handicap by W. Willmett, and the walk by
Hobson.
Some of the Americanpapers were rather afraid
of Trickett on the strength of his Parramatta practice
trial, in which he is said to have got over the 3 miles
330 yards in less than 19min.
There was a very exciting race at Louis-
ville, U.S., recently between two equestriennes—
Miss Emma Jewett and Miss Minnie Pinneo.
The distance was 20 miles, and each rider had a
string of eight horses. Miss Jewett won in 46 min.
11 sec.; she changed horses seventeen times.
Miss Pinneo changed nineteen times.
Evans is going to play with us in the Inter-
colonial Match this time. He is out of form, but
a week on the Melbourne Ground will bring him
up to the mark. He bowls better there than
anywhere else, and when in form can make the
ball do anything but talk. He and Charley Ban-
nerman are always great sufferers from sea-sick-
ness ; hence it is level betting that they will go
overland.
The Petersham Club gave the Warwicks
a lot of leather-hunting, thaugh the match re-
sulted in a draw. Joe Seale contributed 51 in fair
style: Ted Seale, who has improved very much
during the practice for the Intercolonial, was
bowled by Hiddleetone without scoring. The
Petersham Club scored 145, and the Warwicks
lost nine wickets for about 40 runs, but this team
was not representative of their full strength.
The Australian Eleven exhibited their old
form in their match, last week, against the South
Australian Fifteen. Spofforth and Palmer were
dead on to the wickets ; the analysis being—the
former, 150 tells, 53 runs, 19 maidens, and 7
wickets ; the latter 148 balls, 49 runs, 18 maidens,
and 7 wickets. In the first day’s play, the
Eleven got 132 runs for the loss of six wickets,
Jarvis standing highest with 35. The Farina-
oeau representatives again showed that cricket
is improving in their colony.
H. L. Cortis, the amateur bicycle champion,
recently, at London, undertook to do twenty miles
La an hour. Gertie's performance up to ten miles
was extraordinary, and at eighteen miles he was
SO 2-5 secs, to the good, the time being the fastest
ever known. Shortly after the eighteenth mile,
there was a collision between two bicyclists, who
were present to make the pace for the champion.
two come down and had some bones broken,
or sides receiving other injuries. Cortis was near,
and although he threw himself right back with his
feet stretched towards the front of his machine, he
came downjheavily over the others, hut skilfully
managed to elear the head of one of them. Cortis
received an ngly gash cn the hip. and his arms
were much ent and bruised. The three were
immediately carried into the dressing room,
where "a medical gentleman was soon in attend-
ance.
So far, the two days match between the
Alberts and the Carltons has resulted in a picnic
for the latter dub. When time was called on
Saturday, the Alberts hod lost 8 wickets for 267
runs, Dave Gregory contributing 102 runs by a
-pleudid display of first-class batting, Massie 56,
A. Gregory and the Beauty 32 each. Neither
Geary nor Weame bowled well; from the start
they indulged in long hops and full-pitchers on
tfie leg, wlii eh were not allowed to pass by the
batsmen. Hassle's was a good hitting innings,
though his hits had an “ uppish ” tendency. Dave
ought to have played a not-out innings. He was in
when the time was np, but he incautiously allowed
the Carlton’s to finish the over, and off the last
ball he was caught in the slips. It was the
hardest of luot, bat he must be complimented upon
lie fine cricket he exhibited.
Wallace Boss, when he left America for the
Hop Bitters contest, weighed just 14 st. 7}lbs.
The other day in Tasmania, Mr. George Bailey,
I‘layiag with the Derwent C.C. against Break-o’-day,
v-ored 176 (not out) against some very fair bowling,
including that of H. V. Bayly, who was in Melbourne
last season.
Aplitt offers to run Bob Watson, or any other
man in the colonies, for £3OO a side.
Professor Cavill is getting numerous pupils at
his Lavender Bay baths.
We’ve heard enough of British fowls, and foreign
roosters, too,
Bat the Cook that lays us golden eggs is worth the
other two ;
He has no spurs, but with his blade he makes the
feathers fly.
The Yokels strut, and yet they eat our own bird’s
humble pie.
Eeplying to a correspondent, the New Yobk
Clipper states that “Edward Trickett is not a one-
legged man.”
Two English pugilists, Connor and Moore*
evaded the police and fought a battle near Oldbury, for
a heavy purse and a big bet. The former won after ten
spirited rounds in 4m. 50s. The offenders were to be
prosecuted.
Mitshell, the American billiardist, was the man
who was expected to lower young Roberts’ colors, even
after the latter’s brilliant play against his father.
The winning high jump of the American athletes
was 5 ft. 6 in. The running long jump of the champion
Canadian was 21 ft. 4| In. None of the 100-yard events
were run under 10} see.
The Croydon C.C. defeated the Parramatta
Defensives on Saturday. Score: Croydon 68, Defen-
sive 32. For the winners M’Carthy (17), Clark (15),
and O’Hara (10) made the principal figures, whilst on
the losing side Ardill (9) deserved commendation for
batting well.
“An old Victorian” writes in the current num-
ber of The Australasian an interesting article on
“ Cricxet in Sydney.” He remarks, among other things,
that although New South Wales may be congratulated
on haying some worthy rising players coming to the
front in the batting line, in the bowling department
there is a scarcity of rising talent.
The Bendigo events, to come ofl' on Doc. 1 and
2, promise well. The entries for the big events include
Soothsayer, Gipsy Cooper, Wellington, Supple Jack,
Avernns, Baronet, and Trump Yoss.
Four days after Layoock defeated him,
Blackman vanquished Claspcr in a match for £lOO u
side. It was over the Thames course, and was rowed
in 25 min. 41 sec. Blackman won easily by ten lengths.
Bauer, the French wrestler, vanquished Bibby,
the American champion, in New York recently. The
conditions were those of the Graeco-Roman.
The famous English cricketers, E. D. and I. JD.
Walker, have left England on a tour round the world.
They were in New York on Oct. 8, and were to visit the
Australian colonies.
Mr. Archer a sporting enterprise deserved
better success than to have had Book wood killed while
in fine running form at Wagga. The old horse had run
second in a good many events, notably in the Flying
Handicap at Randwick, where he met a field of over
twenty horses. At Goulburn some time back he carried
off the two big events, and in Queensland pulled off, on
the occasion of each of his four trips, most of the races
he started for. His running at Parramatta was re-
markable. At Windsor recently he did three trials, in
which he beat The Pontiff’s record. At the start in the
race which cost him his life, the bit somehow got wrong,
or was broken in his mouth, and the boy was unable to
right it till within forty or fifty yards of the post. In
oolliding with Lord Burghley he fell, and according
to the post mortem, tossed his inside right over.
He died at two o'clock the sameuigbt. It may be
interesting to note that Rookwood was at sea in a
Brisbane l>oat at the time of the Dandenong and
City ef Melbourne disasters.
This is how the celebrated American trotter,
Maud S., accomplished the mile in 2m IOJa —the
fastest on record. It was nearly 6 o’clock, and
growing dark when Maud S. was brought on the
track. The sky was cloudy and a strong south-
west wind was blowing. At the first send-off
Maud soon left her feet, and her driver, Blair,
turned her back for a fresh start. She then
trotted to the starting-point square and level,
and as her driver nodded for the word quickly
lengthened out her stride and got to the quarter
in 34 seconds. It was then believed impossible
for her to do better than 2:16 or 2:18; but when
she got down to the second quarter at a 2:03 gait,
the fastest quarter on record, there was a breath-
less interest and expectancy. It was feared, how-
ever, that the strong head-wind when she turned
would slacken her speed materially and render it
still impossible to win. She kept straight for-
ward, however, without break or skip, and marked
the three-quarter-mile pole in l - 36. Blair urged
her gently with voice and whip, and she responded
gamely, and the multitude was breathless as she
went the final quarter, and thundered down the
homestretch in 2:10}. The time by quarters was :
First, 34; second, 30}; third 31}; fourth, 34{.
Loud cheers greeted the mare, her driver, and
manager as they went to her stable.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club held a
very successful meeting on Saturday last. Cor-
bett, winner of the champion race of 850 yards, is
a second Natator; he did the distance in the
splendid time of 14 min. 48 sec., and several of
his friends talk of matching him with W. J.
M'lndoe, the Melbourne champion. The diving
for distance event was won by Doutty, who went
50 yards, right across the baths, in 55 sec.
The members' handicap, 200 yards, was won com-
fortably by W. F. Kloster, but a slashing race for
second position took place between G. H. Kohler,
Blomfield, and Doutty, the first-named having
the best of it at the finish, and the two latter
making a dead heat. Corbett and Bloomfield tied
in the sixth event (“ rescuing drowning persons”),
and the former beat Kloster easily in the 300
yards’ spin for all comers. In the 100 yards’
swim with clothes on, G. H. Kohler, Blomfield,
and Stephens were first, second, and third ; and
in the 300 yards members’ handicap, Bloomfield
beat Doutty. In the aquatic polo match, Mr.
Wynne’s team were victorious. The 100 yards
race for boys under 14 years was won by D.
Smith, Symouds second. W, C. Calloway proved
to be the best ‘‘boy under 16” in a 150 yards
event, and Stephens beat Penny, the only other
competitor, in diving for objects in 30-ft. water.
Hanlan’s Conditions.
Impulsiveness is a great feature in the colonial
character, and, oblivious of all obstacles to suc-
cess, we are always willing to make fatal conces-
sions. We have, perhaps, sacrificed our champion
in our eagerness to vanquish Hanlan, by thrust-
ing him into a very cold climate to train and
pull in the foggy London December. Now an-
other victim is to be immolated, and in the icy
and shivering blasts of an English December,
Loyoock is to wrest the lost laurels from the vic-
torious Canadian. The avarice of the grasping" crowd
at Haitian's back is to be satisfied—the £lOOO wager which
he insists on is to be raised for them. Well, after all
it is the first step which costs, and os that step was
taken in regard to Trickett, it is perhaps best, now that
we have plunged into the middle of the stream, that
wo should stem the current and reach the other side
or drown in the attempt, rather than strive to return.
Wo cannot now commence this affair de novo. We have
no dignity to stand on, for we are no longer
holders of the championship. In Laycock must
our whole hope of regaining the championship
be centered at present. He has thoroughly sur-
prised even those who knew most about his powers
as an oarsman; and in consideration not only of
the facts that he pluckily went home without
support, and has beaten every mini he has yet met,
but also in view of the circumstance that he is
nearing middle age and cannot be expected to row
for ever, we think that any number of points
may expediently be strained his favour. This
especially, when one remembers that the wager
fund was initiated by the editor of The Sportsman,
who has always given to Australians a fair field.
Probates and Administrations.
The will of Mr. John Degraves, of the Cascades,
Hobart, has been proved to be £76,24-4 14s. 6d.
The trustees and executors are Sir James Milne
Wilson, Mr. A. O. Webster, and the nephews of
the deceased, Messrs. Charles Percy Davis, of
Melbourne, and Edmund Philip Wilson, of Hobart.
Deceased devises all his property to his trustees
in trust to allow the said Alex. Qeorge Webster
a legacy of £5OOO for the trouble to be incurred by
him in the execution of the trusts, and £lO,OOO to
Sir James Milne Wilson. He gives to the son of
his late brother Henry Degraves, a legacy of£2ioo,
and £2OOO for each of the throe daughters of. bis
said late brother Henry ; £24,000 to be invested
for his sister, and to pay to her order an annuity ©f
£lOOO out of the said £24,000 without power of
anticipation ; £12,000 to be sot aside for a
Trust Fund to be invested and thereout
to pay £5OO a year to his brother William
if the Trustees think fit so to do, and after the
death of William the Trust Fund to go to his
wife Bobina. After the above legacies are pro-
vided for, his estate to be divided into six equal
parts, one part to go to the said Charles Percy
Davis, one part to the said Edmund Philip Wil-
son, one part to his nephew Fleetwood Wilson,
one part for the benefit of his neice Barbara
Oliver Wilson, one part for the benefit of his
niece Ada Gray Wilson, and the remaining port
for the benefit of his niece L vvinia Wilson, and
the income derivable from thy nieces' portions
to be paid as they may direct, without power of
anticipation. By codicil he directs £lOOO to be
invested for the benefit of his friend Lavington
Koope, of New Town, Tasmania, and after his
death to be divided equally among his daughters.
The estate was sworn under .476,22-4 14s. 6d.
The Camarian operation was recently per-
formed at Philadelphia by five doctors on a Mrs.
Burnell, a dwarf about 40 inches high. Mrs!
Burnell is one of Barnum's show company, and
her husband is a man of ordinary stature. Ccesar,
as is well known, had not the birth of common
humanity; hence the distinguishing name of the
operation, and this explains the nature of the
ordeal which the heroic little woman undertook
to submit to. The infant was released, and it
proved to be a vigorous male child, weighing a
little over six pounds. During the whole of the
severe trial, the pulse of the woman remained
excellent, and at last accounts, both mother and
child were progressing satisfactorily. The Ciesar-
ian operation is fatal in threecases ont of four.
Ex-Empress Eugenie has bought Farnborough
Hill estate, Hampshire, from the executors of the late
Mr. Longman, the publisher, for £50,000.
Mias Parker, the English female swimmer, nine-
teen years old, intends attempting the English Channel.
The lady is of line form and floats with case, her weight
b cing fifteen stone exactly.
MESSRS. S. HOFFNUNG CO.'S WAREHOUSE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MESSRS. S. HOFFNUNG & CO.’S WAREHOUSE, BRISBANE.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J B. YOUDALE,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
OEIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
J^AVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JQAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
J^AVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JQAVID
Orient
Walking Suits,
D AVID
Orient
Berg Suits.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
-j favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s Gd
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
The latest shape; ause-i
ful and durable suitl 35s per
for business and ordi- j suit,
nary wear. J
JONES AND COMPANY’S
lln light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban-1 42s per
nockburns, for Spring [ Suit,
and Summer wear. )
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In Choice Oriental'
Tweeds, excellent for 48s 6d
general wear, in neat ’ per suit
checks and mixtures.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials I
having been well J- 63 JJ er
shrunk before being j
made up.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In Superior Oriental')
Tweeds, cut in the |
latest style. and j- ~
finished the same as * >er sml "
ordered clothing. J
68s 6d
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{
Beautifully light in
Texture, permanent in
colour and very dur-
able in wear.
Iss 6d
per suit
JJAVID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Bummer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
('Special attention is in-')
I vited to our Orient I
I Clothing, as being | Genleraens
J. the best value, and J- Orient
most perfect in st> le I Clothing.
I and flush procurable |
f in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanian's
Flannel, thoioughlyf , Q „ ~
l, r la s oa
{
China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats. 14« 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Sergo Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
I
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
f ln fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■J In Black Merino, 30s.
Cln Super sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s Bd.
_, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Marul'a, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
("In Superior, all Wool")
J. Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(. finished. )
{
A
Special Dress Over-')
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- j-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
55s
JONES AND COMPANY.
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE BPEING AND sUMMEE WEAE.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS'
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatlv cut
and well made, and
finished.
7s 6d, 8s
Bd, 12s 6d,
13s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d,
19s 6d per
suit.
fin now shapes, veryN 12s'6d to
prettily trimmed, and > 19s fid per
C thoroughly well-made. J suit.
fin fancy and plain')
1 Drills, trimmed in /
new and effective (
V. styles. )
IFor dress wear, extras
finished, superior (
material, and excel-1
lent shape. )
(In superior Navy Sergesi
complete with lan- (
yard, whistle, badge, f
collar and undershirt. J
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
fin light and dark mix-']
I tures, cut in fashion- | 21s 6d to
-J able styles, well >to 23s 6d
| trimmed and strongly | per suit,
f made. J
Iln fine durable Fsta-1
mene Serge, admirably 22s to 27s
adapted for school and 6d,
general wear.
I For dress wear
i trimmed and made in
t a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEOEGE STEEET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
fTHOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
' comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
„ meuts, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
J variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
' lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 63s; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
. other fabrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS. —Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and ' we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
-j ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to 8|d; French Percales, from 9fd
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d ; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
-j of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Fi’ames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
„ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66 A C E
CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OP LACE CURTAINS, iust opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE.
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRING
MATERIALS,
Ready made for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK a»d SATIN POMPADOUR
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVERY
FIGURE.
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OP WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is in thorough working order, and is highly appre-
ciated, as shown by the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY.
A PRETTY SCARF, Embroidered Ends, only 6Jd.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality, Is 9d per
pair.
4-BU TTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
3s lid.
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS. ’
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY Tie
SELECT FROM.
Prachutes, Sunshades, and Ladie’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices.
EDWIN RICE,
500 George-street.
JgMPOEIUM
THE
STANDARD
AMERICAN
SHIRT and CLOTHING
FACTORY,
Corner'of
WYNYARD STREET
AND
WYNYARD LANE,
SYDNEY.
Excellence k Economt
Combined.
A PERFECT FIT
GUARANTEED
OR NO CHARGE.
LATEST
English and American
STYLES.
White Shirts to Order
A Speciality.
A Trial Solicited.
OF FASHION.
To a Discriminating
Public.
The Standard American
Shirt and Clothing Fac-
tory, in seeking a portion
of the patronage of this
community, the Proprie-
tor deems it an incumbent
duty to announce the
basis upon which its
business will be con-
ducted.
The heavy expense en-
\ tailed on other firms
j George, Pitt, and K
i streets being avoided—
j having secured a most
desirable and commo-
dious premises at the
corner of Wyuyard-street
| and Wynyard-hoie,' easy
of access, at a muck less
rental and expense—
enables this firm to exe-
cute all orders at 40 per
cent, less than any other
tailoring establishment,
while at the same time
the materials used are of
the best quality, the work-
manship and style not to
be excelled, and the fit
perfect or no charge
made. The exhorbitaut
prices charged for ordered
garments having become
burdensome, patrons will
no doubt readily avail
themselves of this wel-
come relief in the estab-
lishment of a first-class
Tailoring Emporium,
where excellence, style,
workmanship, and fit are
guaranteed, and economy
secured.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT AND CLOTHING FACTORY.
Corner of
WYNYARD STREET AND WYNYARD LANE.
M
ANNIX BROTHE
E S’,
1
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOE
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER.
—o—
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of, our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
—o—
Note the address:
MANNIX BUGS.,
123 (late 109)
KONG STREET.
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SAL1 SMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Laces,
Hosiery,
Corsets,
Fancy Goods,
Millinery,
TJ NDERCLOTHINO,
AND
Household
Drapery.
Spring Millinery for Christmas. Dressmaking on the
premises.
Cut paper Patterns, all garments. Illustrated sheets on
application.
J. B. YOUDALE.
JIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I I 1
J. L. HORDERN,
Jlii BEST AND { LARGEST STOCK
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’b
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
tar All goods well mode, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed,
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not he surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing rom other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
„ ~ „ ~ Baby Linen
, ~ ~ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ „ ~ „ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street).
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d,
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
~ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AIsD LINDSAY.
JJON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marchd of the Southern Hemisphere.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
JQXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrank
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
DON’T FORGET i
to calll at
THE NEW SHOP. |
T. P. SI VI EE,
77 OXFORD-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Burney & Brans).
The New
GENTLEMEN’S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &c
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PRICES.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
Rest SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TO, TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. EGBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGK »NG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mr. C. SHEATH BR, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAPE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons,
Marriette, late chdf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
/COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
- Corner William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
fJTHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 Qeorge-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have' 1 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, fjc., &c.
Thirty-seven Bod Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harltour,
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
UIT EES ALL’S HOTEL,
TERRARA, SHOALHAVEN.
Proprietor, P. STANTON
(Formerly of William-street, Sydney, and of Mittagong).
First-class accommodation for commercial travellers.
Good liquors, good table, &o.
Good change for Sydney Sportsmen. First-class
sport in the neighbourhood.
T 3 IVEE VIEW HOTEL,
• BIRCHQKOVE ROAD,
Facing Cockatoo Island,
BALMAIN.
MICHAEL M’GEATH, so long and favourably
known as Landlord of the Warwick Castlk Hotel,
begs to inform the residents of Balmain and the sur-
rounding districts that he hits taken the above commo-
dious premises, and is prepared to accommodate
Boarders and to generally minister to the wants of the
public. Only the very best brands of Wines, Spirits,
and Beer kept, and M. M'GRATH trusts, by a care-
ful and conscientious regard to the comforts of those
who may favour him with a call, to merit a fair share of
public patronage.
N .B —Visitors to the Balmain Regatta are particularly
requested to notice this advertisement.
RIVER VIEW HOTEL.
AUSTEALIAN WINE.—CARMICHAEL’S
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhino Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. 8. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
C. W A L K E E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
SEATED WATEES, GINGEE BEER,
and
COEDIAL MANUFACTUEEE,
438 HAEEIS STREET, ULTIMO.
rjIHE GEEAT PROMENADE POE LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon March* 1 Pompadour Prints at 3Jd per yard-
See the Bon Marchd Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marchd Wool Beiges at sld, 7Jd, 9Jd per
yard.
See the Bon Marchd New Linen Costume Cloth at 7Jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows —
LEADER AND STAEK,
96 KING STREET.
U‘
«=*b.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, fee. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal pas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of pas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
IOTG OA A
The Celebrated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
-tyc worvP
The Name of M.'MOSS & 00.
la on every Q-enuine Bottle.
ijihe
GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
c
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals:—London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown. 1877. (Paris, 1878 —Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hei-eby given, that my Trade-
M:irka being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jillichs-Platz, No 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uunooloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staioer,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, Willium-stroot.
R. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington,
BOYD'S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(ovor Poate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blacf
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will bo produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspoctio* of the public respectfully solicited.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office — 24 O’CONNELL STREET.
F 0 8 T E R.
v-'.
I&a
3C
m
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BT ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE
MEECHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
f(
mm
(J
OOo®3fii
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully co u pared, as largo quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find n, difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
NOTICE.— I be? to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FEEDEEICK HAEPUE,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MEECHANTS,
531 GEOEGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Couktrt Orders Eeceive Prompt Attention.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now he obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeep ts. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Giu now so largely consumed.
&
s
rd
.Q
I
cd
rd
$2
n
cS^4|||
<??
dd
i
II
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
RACE MAR
at
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with greet care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. B. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


Something worth knowing to Mothers. Homoe-
opathy has been the cause of making many leave off
taking pills and disagreeable physic, especially those
who suffer from biliousness and disordered liver. The
great discovery of the age is Podophyllin, for all liver
complaints, in small doses. Now, Randerson’s Lozen-
ges being a perfect mild and effectual aperient, and suit-
able for all ages, are becoming the favourite medicine
of the day, especially with mothers, for they ore able to
give one of them to their little ones when symptoms
require the aid of medicine. If you have not used
them, spend One Shilling and be convinced. Sander-
son's Podophyllin Lozenges are the best family medi-
cine before the public. To be had of all chemists, Is. a
box. Edward Row and Co., Proprietors, Sydney.—Adv.
A rare opportunity offers to those desirous ot
purchasing- sites for summer residences at the sale of a
portion of the Oaklands Estate —ride our advertisement
columns. This property, situated 2000 feet above sea-
level, is beautifully and healthily located about seventy
miles from Sydney, on the railway line to Melbourne,
about a mile from the Mittagong station, and adjoining
Mr. Southey’s well-known Oaklands School.
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Offenbach’s widow is an Englishwoman.
Annie Pixley drew well in Boston, U.S.
Emily Soldene was billed for New York, Nov. 8.
The Circus King is on his way here —King Cole.
The Hugo company were at Balranald last week.
Four San Francisco theatres were closed at last
dates.
The London Comedy Company are at New-
castle.
You can’t see New Zealand now for Cole’s circus
posters.
The Opera Troupe will remain at the Royal up
to Christmas.
Mr. and Mrs. Barclay were to leave ’Frisco for
Australia early.
A new four-act drama, “ Trust and Trial,” is a
great success in England.
Offenbach was buried with great pomp from the
Church of the Madeline, Paris.
Chizzola was at last accounts back again in New
York with European novelties.
Miss Maggie Oliver goes to Hobart Town
under engagement to Dodge and Co.
Miss Augustua L. Dargon, we are glad to hear,
is likely to re-appeax in public shortly.
On Wednesday next, Zulu Thompson leads
Miss Heil, of Sydney, to the hymeneal altar.
Two specially-painted panoramas have been
introduced for the Queen's Theatre pantomime.
Dickie Lingard’s Burlesque Company were at last
accounts doing good business at Wisconsin, U.S.
Mr. Fred. Marshall’s engagement with the Lon-
don Comedy Company terminates on December 10.
Harry Emmet and wife, also J. H. Martin,
appear at the new Gaiety Theatre on Boxing night.
Mr. H. H. Vincent goes shortly to Adelaide, to
become stage manager and leading man for Allison.
Mr. M. Salamon travels with Mr. Fred. Mar-
shall after he leaves Sydney, whenever that does occur.
Mr. Arthur Garner and Mrs. Garner (Miss
Blanche Stammers) are resting at Newcastle for a fort-
night.
Grattan Riggs, in “Shin Fane,” received a
hearty welcome from a numerous audience at Christ-
church.
“The World” will shortly arrive in Australia-
Then look out for conglomeration and accumulation o*
sensation.
According to Charles Kean’s own statement, he
was one of the most nervous men that ever appeared on
any stage.
The report that Mr. Edward Righton, the Lon-
don comedian, is coming to the colonies has no founda-
tion in fact.
Significant telegram appearing in one of the
New York papers :—“ Joe Emmet has a severe if not a
fatal attack of jim-jams."
Greville plays an old Dame in the Queen’s Pan-
tomime, “ Jack, the Giant-killer.” J. R. deligets in
Ladies —on and off the stage.
M‘ Lean’s Troubadours, who have been very
successful at Mackay, were to open in Townsville on
24th Nov. for a short season.
Gordon, the able scenic artist, is painting pano-
ramic views of Sydney Harbour—which looks like a
pantomime at the Royal after all.
Old Tolano, so well known theatrically in
Sydney in bygone days, has gone into the jewellery
business in Queen-street, Brisbane.
There is yet another Marshall in the profession,
brother to the Comedy Company Marshalls, who will
shortly be heard of sonth of the line.
Charley Reed, who was here with the Froliques,
lias again taken San Francisco by storm. He is con-
sidered the “king-pin" among niggers.
Mr. W. H. Leake leaves for Melbourne for a
fortnight. He plays in “Kerry Gow” on Saturday
night—its first production in Australia.
When Larry Foley played the wrestler in “As
You Like It,” he said that the foot-lights were “ the
fierce light which beats upon the thrown.”
Morton Tavares is still in good commercial carry-
ing business at Brisbane. His handsome wife boa lost
none of her charms by residing in the North.
W. J. Holloway, the most applauded actor in
Australia, and his brother Charles, axe engaged to
support Miss Pomeroy up country in Victoria.
Late advices state that the U. S. Customs
officials were uncertain whether Sara Bernhardt would
not have to pay duty on her extensive wardrobe.
Little Kate Foley comes to the Queen’s to play
“ Jack” at Christmas. The Congress scene is to be one
of the most novel and gorgeous ever witnessed here.
The Queensland Theatre will be ready for open-
ing by the middle of next February. The place only
needs to be properly looked after to prove remunerative.
Beaumont never looked better in his life than
now. In capital health and fine voice. Lyster’s death,
however, has greatly depressed him all through the
week.
Mrs. F. M. Bates has accepted a lucrative
engagement in the Baldwin company, who were at last
accounts about to leave ’Frisco for other American
inland cities.
The American papers speak highly of Bose
Hersee’s operatic success in the colonies. “Overwhelmed
with applause and bouquets, just os if she were before
a London audience.”
Walter Reynolds is arranging (on behalf of a
N.Z. capitalist) for big attractions for New Zealand
towns. He proposes to recommence his tour at Inver-
cargill about Christmas.
The best played parts in “ Van, the Virginian,”
were Miss Melrose's Louie and Jemmy Martin’s Old
Calvert. The best thing James has done this season,
and yet " no compromise."
A scratch company of professionals, led by Mr.
Cropper, and including Mr. and Mrs. Hesford, Mr. and
Mrs. Ingles, Marsh, and others, ore setting out for a
Gympie trip from Brisbane.
Offenbach’s “ Tambonr Major” is considered
by American critics to be, in a musical sense not above
mediocrity. However, the libretto, written by two
Frenchmen, redeems the piece.
Mr. Arthur Garner’s two benefits at the Royal
on Thursday and Friday evenings, were very successful
and formed a suitable finale to the talented company’s
extraordinarily successful season.
Miss Dixon will be the leading colnmbine in the
Queen’s Pantomime, and Miss Amy Chambers Harle-
quin and principal danseuse. Greville says his panto-
mime will be the attraction of the time.
Thompson, with his Zulu War Diorama, did a
splendid business at Ipswich, Toowoomba, and Roma,
for five nights each. The show proceeds to Goulhurn
for a week, and then Newcastle at Christmas.
What induced the management of the Opera
House to exhume “ The Slave ?” It was comfortably
buried decades ago. By the way, where did the black-
fellow Gambia acquire his oratorical education f
Jules Offenbach died in an asylum in France
a few days before his brother, the great composer,
passed away. Jules was a thorough Bohemian, and
spurned the comforts offered him by his family.
The chief attraction with which Emilie Melville
proposes to travel the colonies is M. Coodea’ opera
bouffe “ The Weathercock " (La Girouette) first pro-
duced at the Pantaisies Parisiennes in Brussels.
Mr. Kelly, having bought from Mr. Williamson
the right to produce “ Pinafore" in all the New South
Wales and Queensland cities, intends taking proceed-
ings against anyone pirating or performing the same.
The mutability of human affairs ! The portly
James Allison, of Adelaide renown, is one of the richest
managers in Australia. Only a very few years ago he
was in another line of business, and he was—not rich I
A Parisian impressario recently took with him
to Brussels a theatre all ready constructed and ingeni-
ously packed in boxes, comprising lustres and seats,
which can be put together and taken asunder in 48
hours.
It was a pretty and curious circumstance that
on the evening of their wedding-day Ellen Tree and her
husband, Charles Kean, appeared on the stage as the
bride and bride-groom in the play of “ The Honey-
moon.”
Negotiations were opened during the week for
the appearance in Sydney of the French Comedy
Company, recently playing in Melbourne. Terms could
not be arranged satisfactorily, and the transaction
ceased.
The London Comedy Company opened at New-
castle on Saturday night, in “ Blow for Blow.” The
dress circle was rather thinly attended, hut in all
other regards the company achieved the success they
deserve.
The verdict of Melbourne in regard to Miss
Pomeroy has been highly encouraging to that lady and
her management. She has appeared nightly to crowded
houses—in fact, her business has been the best done
this season.
One of the prettiest things in Offenbach’s “ Fille
du Tambour Major ” is a march where the soldiers
coming down the different boulevards meet to sing in
unison, while the strains of the “ Marseillaise" are
heard rising and falling in the distance.
E. D. Davies, the ventriloquist, is engaged by
the American managers, Jarrett and Palmer, for a
season of twelve months to commence from September
1881 in New York. Joe says “ Bad luck to me, when
are you going to take my legs out of the box ?”
A yam from the Far North. Scene —a first-
class hotel in Mosman-street (Charters Towers).
Subject—a pigeon match. Enthusiastic shootist: “I'll
shoot any man for £100.” Host: “ All right, shoot
O’Kane (a local editor) and I’ll give you the hundred."
The cast of “Pinafore” at Brisbane was—
Admiral, Mr. Kelly; Captain, Mr. Lister; Josephine,
Miss Emma Wangenheim; Deadeye, Mr. Welsh ; Boat-
swain, Mr. Martin; Buttercup, Miss Fanny Rogers.
The company met with an excellent reception on their
opening night.
The Victoria Loftus troupe drew rather poor
houses during their visit to Townsville, on account of
their having come too soon after the South and Dillon
company. However, they hod an excellent run at
Charters Towers and the Bronghton, where they played
three weeks and a week respectively.
“ I suppose I can get up,” said a dead-head to
Mr. Dodge the other night as he was standing outside
the Queen’s Theatre. ’ “ Certainly,” replied the artful—
“to heaven.” “ Can I go down then ?” enquired the
man, pointing to the stalls. “ Certainly,” rejoined the
irrepressible—“ to ." Anyhow, he never went.
The latest sensation in England is a drama
entitled “The War Hawk, the Thundering Terror of
the Ooean; or, Brigaldi the Blood-stained Monster of
the Deep, the Demon Bark, and the Eavine of Be-lud."
Rumour has it that the piece is by an Australian author,
and that George Darrell knows something about it.
Emmett was deranged in mind before his death.
During his last illness in his sister’s home he was under
the impression that he was still imprisoned, and a nurse
hod to he dressed in the garb of a policeman to dispel
the by assuring him that the chief inspector
had sent an officer to prevent his being further molested.
J. W. Dodge, manager of the Queen’s, left here
this week to start in Hobart Town as proprietor of the
theatre there, with his wife (Flora Anstead) as stage
manageress. The Williamsons are to be the first stars,
to he followed by George Darrell, Grattan Biggs, Bland
Holt (“New Babylon"), Louise Pomeroy, W. H. Leake,
and others.
We cut the following from the Era ; —Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Clarke, Circus, Alexandra Palace.
Charles Clarke’s magic barrel on the lofty spider
pedestal at each representation. Mrs. Clarke, in her
dashing box act on her celebrated leaping horse Kilrush,
daily until further notice.” This cannot be our rev,
lecturer, surely.
Cole’s circus has about a dozen advance agents.
Their duties axe somewhat undefined, hut they ore all
convinced that it is required of them to smoke from
one meal hour to the next. They axe very hard worked
for when they are not indefatigahly pulling at a cheroot—
they axe yawning. Eeport says their chief draws a
thousand a year, not cigars—sovereigns.
The gentleman amateur who played Ralph Rack-
straw in “ Pinafore” for the South and Dillon company,
while in Townsville, could not muster up the necessary
courage to embrace the gallant captain’s daughter before
an audience, though he openly confessed afterwards that
he had done most satisfactory rehearsals, not only in
the day-time, but behind the scenery in the evening.
An actress has been arrested on a charge of
child-murder. Pious people exclaim, “ What could you
expect ?—she’s an actress!” Will these creatures bear
in mind that this is the first time that any member of
the theatrical profession, male or female, has been
accused of crime here. Taken as a body, professionals
are in every community the most law-abiding people.
Will pious "Hoppers” please call to mind how many
times preachers have committed and suffered for capital
offences.
Tie Prince of Wales rather surprised the box-
office officials and others at Drury Lane Theatre
recently when he dropped in to see the new play of
“ The World," which is drawing such good nouses
there. His Boyal Highness has not visited the theatre
for ten years, and everybody was quite in a pucker at
his presence. Even the actors on the stage could
hardly retain their presence of mind on the occasion.
At a presentation made to Creswick, on his last
appearance in Adelaide, in speaking of the Press, he
said (jocularly, of course—he couldn’t have felt or meant
it): “ When a newspaper gives me a flattering notice,
I say * that writer has sound sense; he has studied the
art of criticism.’" “ But," said a member of the Fourth
Estate present, "what do you say when noticed un-
favourably ?" “ The critic doesn’t know his business,”
was the reply. A fact.
In the death of Mr. R. W. Lawrence many will
will the loss of a firm friend, a good man, and an accom-
plished actor. When in India with Mr. Q. B. Lewis’s
Company he scored a large number of successes, and, in
private life, secured the estimation of both high and
low. In China and Burmah also, he obtained fame by
deserving it. The curtain has fallen suddenly upon a
true, honest, manly life, and we mourn one more
amongst the Great Majority.
Sam Howard inserted an advertisement for so
many girls of seven years of age. He was besieged by
several varicose virgins bordering on seventy. Sam
told them he wanted children of seven summers or
autumns—he wasn’t particular about seasons except
“ frosty ” ones—when one of the venous virgins, who
had evidently read Wordsworth, replied “We are
seven.” “Yes," said Sam, “in number, but not in
age." Whereupon the septette shuffled out singing in
consolatory chorus “ Youth’s a folly, let’s he jolly.”
Mr. Charles Overton returns to Sydney within a
couple of mouths. He has, according to the local papers,
achieved a great success in Dunedin as Mr. St. Paul in
“ Baby Betsy." From the Otago morning journals we
also learn that Miss T. Horan was a capital exponent of
the character of Mrs. St. Paul, Baby's mother, and
created a decidedly better impression than she had
hitherto succeeded in doing, with one exception, since
her appearance in Dunedin. At the close of the first
act she was honored with a special call before the
curtain.
“The Corsican Brothers” is said to have had
its origin in on English legend. In Lamerton Church,
Tavistock, is a monument to the Tremayne family, re-
cording the death of fourteen out of sixteen sons and
daughters. The other two were twin brothers, alike in
feature, form, and every peculiarity of nature. They
Buffered the same pains, awoke and slept at the same
moment, and, no matter at what distance they were
apart, each brother could tell from his own feelings
what was happening to the other. They had a pro-
phetic instinct that they would die together, and so it
happened, for they were both killed at the siege of New-
haven, 1663. This singular legend suggested “Les
Freres Corses" to Dumas, who altered the locality
merely for picturesque effect.
That tremendous tragedian, the “ Great I Am,”
supplied straw for the manufacture of a very neat
conundrum about himself some years ago when playing
in “Narcisse" at the Boyal, Melbourne. As usual,
Herr B. was " carried all von vay by de excitement of
de blay," and ran a real instead of a property dagger
into the unfortunate person of that well-known and
talented actress, Miss Adelaide Bowring (Mrs. Steele).
Hence the following:—“Why is Bandmann the cleverest
man in the world ?" “ Because he can draw blood out
of Steele!"
On Friday evening, at Melbourne, the Austra-
lian Blondin, while carrying a boy on his hack, dropped
his balancing pole. After a few seconds, during which
he vainly attempted to retain his equilibrium on the
rope, he slipped, but luckily managed to hold the rope
with his leg, the boy also keeping a firm grip of the
performer’s shoulders. Both remained in this perilous
position, head downwards, until a constable managed
to rescue them. The spectators were much frightened
aud horrified whilst the two were in the dangerous
plight.
Baylise has every arrangement completed for
the opening of the new Gaiety Theatre. Boxing Night
will relieve his anxiety, and the Christmas bill is to be
Dickon’s “ Quilp,” with Fred. Marshall in the title
role. The remainder of the characters are to be played
by Messrs. Edmund Marshall, J. P. Martin, Harry W.
Emmet, W. H. and Chas. Seegrave, Alf. Boothman, J.
J. Byrne, Hughes ; and Miss Marion Melrose (as
Little Nell), Miss Ruth Grey, Misses Melville and
Maggie Ford; Mrs. Fred. Marshall, and several others.
Wilson is the scenic artist, and every comfort is ensured
to visitors. So surely “ the show must gee.,’
He was dressed as a pirate captain. Daggers
were in his belt; swords were on every side of him; in
his broad-leaved sombrero he bore an ebon pen-knife.
His face was as fierce as Indian ink and burnt cork could
make it. His line was heavy villani, and his name was —
Holloway. To quick music he rushed to the footlights,
clutched the heroine by her flowing locks, dragged her
along the floor the full depth of the stage, bursting
all her tapes aud laces, causing her partial concussion
of the brain, spraining every ancle she possessed, dislo-
cating every joint she was heir to, and then he observed
to the lieutenant of the gang, “ Away with her to the
cockpit—hut use no violence. This, however was Bill—
not Ned.
The Yoekshireman is very rough on Baker
and Farron. It says :—“ * Conrad and Lizette ’ itself
utterly baffles description, and to speak of it as insane
and purposeless drivel, unworthy of a strolling com-
pany in a barn, is almost to honor it, by crediting it
with being worthy of representation at all. Even
admitting it to be merely a peg upon which to hang
Messrs. Baker and Barren's performance, it fails, inas-
much as many of these gentlemen’s music-hall ditties
have not the remotest connection with the piece, and
do not help it, much as it needs help—if it is not beyond
it—in the slightest degree. * * * The singing and
dancing of Messrs. Baker and Farron are but mediocre,
and better can be heard and seen any night at a music
hall.”
Miss Ella Carrington and Miss Lillie Reid, of
the “ Stray Leaves ’’ Variety entertainment, were on
Thursday week arrested in Adelaide upon a charge of
wilful murder. The arrest took place in consequence
of the disclosure made at an inquest held at Coleraine
recently on the body of a female child, “whose
body had previously been found imbedded, head down-
wards, near the creek." The evidence all went to show
that a most brutal murder had been committed, and
subsequently an information was laid and a warrant
issued for the arrest of Ella Carrington and Lily Eeid.
These persons were members of the ‘Stray Leaves’
company, who recently performed one night in Hamil-
ton, and did not appear, as ihtended, on the second
night, owing, it was alleged at the time, to Ella Car-
rington having • sprained her ankle.’ Dr. J. F. Anderson
deposed to having made a post mortem examination,
and found that the child, which had evidently breathed,
must have been dead from seven to fourteen days. The
bones at the top of the head had been extensively
fractured, the brain protruding between them. He
believed that the child had been horn alive, and met its
death by violence and neglect. The jury returned a
verdict of wilful murder against some person or persons
unknown, and npon this the police acted, Mr. C. H.
Taylor, another member of the troupe, has since been
arrested.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Political catechism : “ Is it right for a man to
change his opinions ?” “ Yea, when he adopts yours."
Woman was originally made out of rib, or chop.
Even now-adays there are some women who are ‘‘not
much chop."
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts’ husband will not
he a Baron, but the lady will he a However, one
must stop here.
When a girl is compelled to wed first and fall in
love afterwards, she usually does so with someone other
than her husband.
Perhaps it is wrong to go fishing on Sunday;
but if the fish are wicked enough to bite on that day
they deserve to soffer.
When the Baroness Burdett-Coutts got married
the solicitor who drew up the settlements for her was
“ retained for the defence."
“ Good morning, my dear fellow! How is your
mother-in-law?” “Much better, thank you; and
yours ?" “ She’s dead, thank you.”
While carrying “ over his number,” he dropped
his stick. Said he, “If I pick you uu I’ll fall, and you
wouldn’t pick me up.” So he reeled on.
“Are you fond of donkeys, Angelina ?” asked he.
“ Oh, really,” replied the sweet girl, “ if yon mean that
as a declaration you must speak to mamma.”
“ Poor man,” said some one, indicating an old
blind negro. “Yes,” replied Verjuice, “hnt there’s
one good thing about it. He can never know he is a
nigger.”
A friend advises Dora to marry Reginald, who is
a good young man, the very pink of propriety. “ No,”
says she, “he would make too good a husband ; I’<l hff
unhappy with him.” .
An opera-bouffe star changes her servants every
month. “ What a set they are !” she says to a friend,
“to think that we must let them know all our little
secrets! Ah, if I still had my mother !"
He was a young and beardless doctor, and was
introduced to Mrs. . “Ah ! already a doctor ?” she
exclaims in surprise. “Yes, madam, but as I am yet
very young, I prescribe only for infants.”
“ Supporting corsets,” said Chowder, reading
an advertisement. “I wonder if that was what that
young fellow was doing when I saw him holding up my
daughter Matilda Jane by the waist as I went home
last night ?”
Bismarck told Baron Magnus that his conduct
in toasting La Prance Entii-re was disgraceful. The
Baron is said to have retorted that if Bismarck hadn’t
toasted the whole of France he’d done his best to warm
it thoroughly through.
In England little boys and girls make their first
appearance in this wicked world in a parsley bed. In
France little babies are found under the cabbages, and
in Germany a stork brings them and drops them down
the chimney into mamma’s lap.
A good, religious man, who had been born blind,
went to Lourdes, where his sight was miraculously
restored. When he got back to Paris he saw two pairs
of hoots outside his wife’s room. So he at last got her
to Lourdes (leeward) of him.
“ Yon see,” said a lover, unveiling to a friend
the secrets of his bosom, “I am in love with the women
and I am not quite sure which of the two I prefer.
One certainly is the younger, the prettier, the more
agreeable, and ——” “ And you prefer the other,” says
his friend coldly.
“ Well, John,” said De Tompkins to his gar-
dener, “ has anyone been here during my absence ?”
“ Nobody, sir, but the yonng man who steps into the
garden every night.” “ A thief probably. Hid you see
im take anything ?” " Nothing but a kiss (from Mrs
De Tompkins."
The fact that Elijah Lingel, the wild-beast tamer,
had been eaten by a lion, was recorded in last issue.
It is now said that the lion, having heard that Elijah
was about to sell out and devote himself to some more
promising pursuit, resolved that, rather than lose his
master, he would eat him.
Smith:—“ How much does it cost to live in
the city |old man ?” Jones : —Oh ! that depends ! It
will cost, I dare say—oh—from—£3 to £4 a day. “Oh
by Jove will it ? The wife will object to that.” Oh ! ”
you’re going to take the wife, are you ?’’ “Oh ! yes.”
“ Then in that case, you can do it comfortably for 25s or
305.”
Even obscenity has its friends. There is in
Bathurst a paper which is always obscene, and some-
times witty and obscene. The other day the publisher
of a low Sydney publication (since seized by the police)
sent a copy of his rag to the Bathurst man. Said the
latter: “We are more than delighted with it.” De
gustibus non dispntandvni.
The telephone, it is proposed, should be generally
laid between churches and chapels and the houses of the
well-to-do bed-ridden. “ Chants, hymns, and lessons
could he distinctly heard, but only a very little of the
sermon.” This will prove a great temptation to people
to stay at home, especially when one considers that the
plate can’t be sent by telephone.
Paris has burst out into quite an epidemic of
immoral literature. Everyone knows what a concen-
trated mass of naughtiness can be got between two
yellow covers. There has suddenly been developed a
plague of gutter papers, full of indecent stories. Every
day sees the birth of a new one, and the Government
has been compelled at last to take vigorous steps in the
interests of public morality.
The faithful servant of a Turkish Pasha, who.
without due consideration, had been made guardian of
the harem, one day laid his resignation before his
master. “What is the matter?" said the Pasha, who
truly loved the good fellow’s devotion. “ Are you dis-
satisfied with your place ? lam well pleased with yon,
and the ladies —why, they are quite gone on
“Yes,” responded the popular guardian of the harem.
“ but I am going to get married."
He was an editor, and prided himself on his
ability to give every journalist work according to his
ability, “ Let’s see,” said he; ‘ Mr. B , you can
give us a column on scientific burglary.’ ‘You, Mr.
H , must write half a column on the evening.’ ‘ I
will have an article from you, Mr. X , on the increase
of forgery.’ ‘ Yon, Mr. N , are down for an article
on deceived husbands.’ And I myself will write some-
thing neat about general rascality."
Here is a tale of baptism under difficulties which
should enlist the sympathies of all. In America recently,
we axe told, a condemned murderer expressed a desire
to be baptised. A Baptist clergyman was sent for, and
the murderer was taken to the river. But the Sheriff
thought the fellow was a humbug, and either wanted
to swim away or commit suicide; and so he, too,
accompanied the procession. When they reached the
river, a rope was tied round the condemned man, and
when the ceremony finally took place, the Sheriff stood
like a fisherman on the hank with the line in his hand
while the rev. gentleman proceeded with the rite. It is
said that, when all was over, the murderer remarked
that he had felt " like a fish out of water."
INTAGLIOS.
Do you Know?
“Yesterday we buried my pretty brown mare under
the wild cherry-tree. End of poor Bess."— Letter from
a friend.
H. B. B.
A Love Song.
My will is gone to sleep, dear.
And only you can wake it;
Mv heart is in your keep, dear,
To hold or drop and break it.
One day I hold most dear, sweet.
The day when first I met you;
One thing I see most clear, sweet,
I never con forget you.
Daylight without your eyes, dear,
For me all brightness misses.
The most in life I prize, dear.
The memory of your kisses.
WTien a human being dies,
Seeming scarce so good or wise.
Scarce so high in scale of mind
As the horse he leaves behind,
“Lo,” we cry, “ the fleeting spirit
Doth a newer garb inherit;
Through eternity doth soar
Growing, greatening, evermore.”
But our beautiful dumb creatures
Yield their gentle, generous natures,
With their mute, appealing eyes.
Haunted by earth’s mysteries,
Wistfully upon us cast.
Loving, trusting, to the last;
And we arrogantly say,
“ They have had their little day ;
Nothing of them but was clay.”
Has all perished P Was no mind
In that graceful form enshrined f
Can the love that filled those eyes
With most eloquent replies,
When the glossy head close pressing,
Grateful met your hands caressing;
Can the mute intelligence.
Baffling oft our human sense
With strange wisdom, —buried be
“ Under the wild cherry-tree ?”
Are these elements that con spring
In a daisy’s blossoming ?
Or in long dark grasses wave
Plume like o’er your favorite’s grave ?
Can they live in us and fade
In all else that God has made ?
Is there aught of harm, believing
That, some newer form receiving,
They may find a wider sphere,
Live a larger life than here ?
That the meek, appealing eyes,
Hannted by strange mysteries.
Find a more extended field,
To new destinies unsealed;
Or that in the ripened prime
Of some far-off summer time,
Banging that unknown domain,
We may find our pets again ?


Notice.
The fact that this issue of The Bulletin is printed on
white paper is due to our having used up all the
fine tinted paper in the colonial market. We believe
that our readers prefer tinted paper, but shall be under
the necessity of continuing to use white pending the
arrival from England of direct shipments arranged for
some time ago and now overdue.
Notice to Advertisers.
From this date the charge for advertise-
ments in The Bulletin will be Five Shillings (55.) per
inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin and
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of The Bulletin is
now guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per month.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
we find it necessary to go to press much earlier than
formerly.
Our advertising patrons are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD,
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Kowalski and the Telegraph critic haverun a-
muck. They’re at it hammer and tongs.
E. C. Levey goes for days together unshaved
in the Exhibition, and the ladies are enquiring why.
Rather a mix that Flower Show at the Interna-
tional. Verbenas beside carrots, pelargoniums and
cabbage, sweet Williams and turnips, &c. Eh 1
A recent visitor to Sydney says that your city,
considered generally, has all Melbourne’s defects and
none of its advantages. However, he excepts fine sce-
nery, tramways, and 3d. drinks.
November 17th was a very warm day. The
principal of the Hawthorn Grammar School gave all
his pupils, 300 in number, permission to remove their
coats and sit in their shirt sleeves.
A street orator the other evening said, that
Young Men’s Christian Associations were chiefly com-
posed of adolescents who, knowing that there was little
hope for them in this world, pref erred to pin their faith
to the next.
At a recent bazaar some girls were rudely im-
portunate to several gentlemen. “ Look here,” said
one of the latter despairingly, “ the first of you who
asks me to buy another thing I’ll kiss.” That affec-
tionate young man might have had small-pox for the
rest of the evening.
What led to the capture of the five gentlemen
larrikins in East Melbourne, for shanghaing Chinamen,
was the complaint of Mr. Berry (who lives in the same
locality), that some one was breaking his windows
every other morning. Several police were put on to
satisfy Berry, and the arrests made.
It’s quite a sight to note the Exhibition con-
noisseurs examining the cheese and butter. They scoop
up (with their fingers!) huge mouthfuls of butter,
although a knife is provided. They do not seem to be
able to judge of the flavor of the cheese without breaking
lumps of it off with their hands. Ugh!
A servant applied for a situation in East Mel-
bourne the other day. On entering the room the lady
found Bridget seated, and she therefore stood and
looked at her. But Bridget was equal to the occasion.
Said she, naively, “ Sit down yourself, ma’am, there’s
plenty of chairs, and it’s easier sitting than standing—
anyway I think so.”
The cartoon in the current number of the
Melbourne Punch is entitled “ Tergiversation,” and
represents Berry, who with one hand holds behind his
back a bill bearing the words “ new Liberal paper,"
gazing upon David Syme, who grovels before him in
the form of a chameleon, and exclaiming, “ What colour
i ciU the chameleon be to-morrow!”
It was rather mean of the Austrian Strauss
Band to organise a moonlight concert on the evening on
which Ketten had arranged a charitable concert at the
Melbourne Town Hall. Kowalski was a brick over that
business. “He would not play in conjunction with the
band as he did not wish his colleague’s (M. Ketten’s)
concert to suffer.” Well done, little man!
A certain hotelkeeper, of Little Collins-street,
is noted for his humorous and facetious customs. In
pursuance of the regulations prohibiting Sunday trading
he closed his house punctually at 12, with the following
notice of apology pasted on the window: —” This house
is closed by order of Graham Berry. Maybe you
wouldn’t believe it now ? P.S.—Side entrance from the
right-of-way.”
Amongst the grand displays made in honor of
tho Exhibition is a transparency (?) erected at the In-
ternational Hotel, opposite the Royal Society’s build-
ing. It represents Victoria distributing gifts to the
nations of the earth. One of the gifts is held by a dis-
tinguished looking foreigner in a kind of morning*wrap-
per, and consists of a card on which is written, “ sixth
seat.” It illustrates a pleasing incident in connection
with the opening ceremony, wherein the relatives of
the Commissioners absorbed the points of vantage, and
the visitors were allowed a rear view.
A certain Chief Secretary—of course it was a
long time ago—was one Sunday afternoon partaking of
the social glass at a well-known Parliament try hostelry
with some friends. One of the party left, with the in-
tention of returning in a few minutes. On his way out
he encountered a policeman, who told him that the pro-
prietor of the hotel would suffer as he could be con-
victed of Sunday trading. The gentleman turned back
to tell the host of his impending danger. “Oh," said
the C. S., in whose presence the information was given,
“ that’ll be all right. I’ll get him sent up country to-
morrow before has time to do any harm.” Lawmakers,
eh!!
Outraged virtue on the part of the Sons of Tem-
perance has given rise to a somewhat curious custom.
Hotham, of course, boasts of its Temperance Hall, and
as the supporters thereof do not find occasion to make
use of it every night, it is let out for dancing. On
Saturday evenings a “ select assembly" is held there,
and devotees of the light fantastic regale themselves
ad lib. This appears to have rubbed a sore spot on the
Temperance people, who, very much after the style of
the dog in the manger, assemble on a vacant piece of
ground opposite the door, and in unmeasured terms de-
nounced the dancers to the world. They have not,
however, up to date succeeded in drawing any converts
from the dance room to their ranks outside.
Little Bourke-street boasts of a hall of dazzling
light, sacred to the muses of the Gospel Mission order.
One evening last week it was too full for comfort, and
many of the “ missionaries” stood outside around the
door. The singing was most affecting. It affected a
senior constable in a most extraordinary way. He be-
came smitten with the charms of a fair member, and
•stealing his official arm around her taper waist, he re-
marked (hie) that it was the only true and loyal portion
of the city. Still caressing her they repaired into a
neighbouring tavern and quaffed. Half an hour after-
wards he was seen escorting her to the watchhonse
with all the zeal of outraged propriety and dignity of
the law. She got a week.
The Melbourne teetotallers are making a big
move in the cause of temperance. They have got the
Attorney-General at their head, and are mustering in
great force. Not only are they going to close the hotels
to the second of the time dictated by the Act, but de-
•cr.ee that the poor man shall have no beer whatever on
Sundays. Why should not the working man be allowed
his beer on Sundays as well as the bloated aristocrat
who keeps a cellar ? It is a question that may not be
■asked. Anything will do for the vulgar, and if he who
cannot afford a cask of his own cannot content himself
with au outside view of a public-house on Sundays, and
drink iraaginarv pints at home, he can satiate his de-
praved tastes by marching round the Temperance Hall
with an illuminated banner, and drinking success to Berry
in a glass of Yan Yean, whose component parts are as
mysterious as they are unintoxicating.
An old circular, of which the following is a copy,
has been sent round the Survey Office“ It having
come to the knowledge of the Government that gentle-
men connected with this Department are in the habit
of frequenting billiard-rooms during office hours, the
heads of the various branches are requested to inform
all officers in the Department that the entering a public
billiard-room during office hours will be considered
eufficient cause for their dismissal from the Public
Service. The above includes the half-hour for luncheon,
as that time is allowed for luncheon and not for enter-
ing billiard-rooms.”
A prisoner escaped from a quarry in Hobart
recently. An armed guard fired at him, but missed the
mark, the bullet finding a home in the terminus of the
Main Line Railway, where in its progress it cut through
the Jin. wooden wall of the carriage shed, carried away
a portion of a framed advertisement, passed over the
passenger platform, and, at a height of about Bft.,
pierced the plate-gloss window of a first-class carriage,
fractured the sash of the opposite window, and then
rebounded. It was subsequently picked up inside the
■carriage. Although no human head came in its way
the railway people had the audacity to grumble. A
charitable newspaper critic suggested that in future a
charge of buckshot should be used, as it would wound
the prisoner more effectively, and on a larger scale,
without carrying so far, and yet they have an S.P.C.A,
in Tasmania.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Petersham Presbyterian Church commenced.
Ritualistic disagreements at St. Paul’s, Rock-
hampton.
Bishop Lanigan, of Goulburn, will shortly leave
Ireland for Australia.
St. Mary’s new Cathedral is beginning to show
its grand proportions.
Grand flower service at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, last Sunday.
The Presbyterian Conference, Melbourne, was
attended by 250 representatives.
The next meeting of the Pan-Presbyterian Coun-
cil will be held in Belfast in 1884.
Archbishop Vaughan confirmed over 100 children
at St. Mary’s pro-Cathednl on Sunday week.
The New York Episcopal Convention decided on
urging the Government to put down Mormoniam.
The Bush Missionary Society advertises that it
has severed its connection with the Rev. Peter Camp-
bell.
Several San Francisco preachers were doubtful
whether Moody and Sankey’s visit would result in any
permanent good.
The Bishop of Montpellier, in full canonicals,
excommunicated the Prefect for turning 200 Carmelites
and Bamabites adrift.
Dr. Murray Mitchell, an Indian missionary, says
that Hindoo women give great encouragement and assis-
tance to Christian teachers.
Mr. Ormond has generously contributed .£5OOO
towards the erection or a chapel in connection with the
Ormond College, Melbourne.
The missionaries of the Free Church of Scotland
are the first to prepare in writing and grammatical order
the East and Central African languages.
Bishop Corrigan, of Newark, has been made co-
adjutor to Cardinal M'Closkey, Archbishop of New York,
with the right of succession to the archdiocese.
One of the latest sins of Professor Robertson
Smith is that he has been calling Eber, the venerable
ancestor of Abraham, an “ethnological abstraction.”
Mrs. Baeyertz, the converted Jewess, who is now
a Baptist preacher at Adelaide, is said to be very suc-
cessful. Her voice is rich and deep, and she speaks
well.
A generous “friend,” who does not wish his
name to be published, has given £l5OO towards the
erection of one of the chapels in St. Patrick’s Roman
Catholic Cathedral, Melbourne.
Thirty Mormon missionaries, headed by Elder
Springfellow, sailed from New York in the steamer
Wyoming, October 19, to proselytise hi England, Scot-
land, Wales, Norway, and Sweden.
Three-fourths of the questions discussed at the
Pan-Presbyterian Council in Philadelphia Telated to the
“common faith," and only one-fourth related to the
distinctive tenets of the Presbyterian body.
An American lecturer says that Mahomet was
not a hypocrite and an impostor, but a man of wonder-
ful genius, who laboured zealously among idolatrous
nations to spread a belief in the unity of God.
A splendid life-size marble bust of the late
Lieut.-General Sir Edward Maoarthur, K.C.8., executed
by C. F. Summers, of Rome, is being erected in St.
John’s Church, Parramatta, by Lady Macarthur.
In the Presbyterian Assembly at Philadelphia,
on the evening of the 21st ultimo. Rev. Principal Kin-
ross, of Sydney, read a paper on “ The condition of
religion in New South Wales." He stated that of the
total population of that colony (about 700,000), not a
tenth are Presbyterians, .and not a third attend any
place of worship.
Rev. T. De Witt Talmage is making an inspec-
tion of the slums of Leadville for the purpose of gather-
ing material on which to found illustrative sermons in
future. After visiting a faro bank, where a gambler had
just been shot dead, and being initiated into the fasci-
nation which surrounds draw-poker, keno, and roulette,
he visited the dance-houses, in one of .which he was
requested to lead a set.
An able preacher recently bewailed the unbelief
existing in San Francisco. He said it was a modern
Nazareth, filled with unbelief in real, vital, personal
religion. The cry of hundreds of professing Christians
was —“Just give me enough religion to keep me
out of hell, and allow me to enjoy all the pleasures of
the world —a religion that will permit me to sing psalms
on Sunday, and drive sharp bargains (luring the week.”
A cold, Christian was the curse of our day.
The Presbyterian Church in Irelan I is violently
agitated over the music-in-churches cxuestion. The
General Assembly recently voted, but by a majority of
only one vote in a total of 301, that the congregation be
appealed to, in the interests of “Christian charity and
peace,” to abstain from the use of instruments. The
matter is to come up again next year, and the feeling in
the congregations has become so intense and embittered
that it looks as if there would be another sect in Ireland
before long.
When Talmage was being tried before the
Brooklyn Presbytery, on charges of tergiversation, he
retorted on his brethren that he could let loose a sea of
moral rottenness in their churches that would fill the
sluiceways of Brooklyn scandal. Talmage was immediate-
ly acquitted. There is now again a split between the
presbytery and the tabernacle, and the leading Presby-
terians who support the latter at a cost of £lO,OOO
annually, are desirous of exchanging Talmage for some
new preacher.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
November 26.
Du Saturday, a show of horticultural and other
products was held in the nave of the Exhibition building,
and the attendance amounted to 10,766. The collection
of economic plants from Queensland was viewed with
much interest. Madame Tasca played a selection of
music on the Brinsmead Sostenente pianos during the
afternoon, but only those who were fortunate enough
to get close to the lady could enjoy her performance,
for the crowd was great, and the noise of the people
passing to and fro almost deafening. Madame Tasca
wore a heliotrope silk and a black bonnet trimmed with
poppies. The ladies were very fashionably dressed,
mostly in light summer costume. One, whose paintings
in the Victorian court are favorably mentioned, wore a
white dress trimmed with cream lace. Cream-colored
trimmings worn with white seem to bo greatly fancied.
The beautiful statuary in the Italian court calls forth
much admiration. On Saturday, which was Her Majesty
Queen Margaret of Italy’s birthday, the courts were
decorated and the attendants wore silver favors in her
honor.
In the evening, Henry Ketten gave his concert
in the Town Hall m aid of the Charities, and though
there was not a crowded attendance, the sum of £lO9
13s. 6d. was realized. The musician never played
better, and responded most liberally to the encores
accorded him by the enthusiastic audience. The
balcony and front portion of the hall had been reserved,
and the holders of seats there come in evening dress.
The most beantiful toilette was worn by a young lady,
and was composed of white satin and lace, the skirt
being trimmed with wreaths of lilies of the valley.
Another young lady wore white muslin trimmed with
moss, the effect of which was very pretty. Mr. Ketten
leaves for New Zealand to-morrow. He has ordered the
billiard table from Alcock and Co. to be sent to his
Parisian address, so after all, I suppose he is really
going.
The Strauss Band held an open air concert the
same evening at the Melbourne cricket ground with
greater success than the last. Several thousands were
present, and the music sounded beautiful! in the clear
moonlight air.
The French Comedy Company gave their final
entertainment in the Novelty Theatre on Saturday
night. It is greatly to be regretted that their perform-
ances have not been a financial success, for the members
are clever artistes, and gave much pleasure to the au-
diences who assembled. Madame Andrt'e returns
immediately to France, but the gentlemen of the com-
pany remain here for a little while, as they actually
have not sufficient funds to take them home. In order
to raise money for this object au entertainment will be
tendered on their behalf next week, at which several
artistes have offered to assist, M. Kowalski being
principally mentioned. This gentleman has been at
variance with the musical critic of the Daily Tele-
graph, who accuses the musician of plagiarism from
the Rakoczy March for his own composition, the
“ Marche Hongroise.” M. Kowalski, of course, pro-
tested against the assertion, and quite a wordy warfare
has ensued. This afternoon, at the Exhibition Building,
he, in self-defence, played first the Rakoczy March,
and then his own composition, and the opinion of those
present certainly inclines against the judgment of the
critic. M. Kowalski had a copy of the Marche Hon-
grrlse printed on white satin and presented to the
Marchioness of Normanby, to whom the piece is
dedicated.
The Wolverene left the Bay on Sunday morning
for Adelaide. What Melbourne ladies will do without
the Commodore and his officers is not known.
Monday night was a command night at the
Royal, when Miss Pomeroy appeared as Rosalind.
There was an excellent house, and the actress gained
much praise. Everyone is charmed with her graceful
manner and beautiful face.
On Tuesday a general sadness fell upon the
community when the news of Sir Redmond Barry's
death became known. Now-a-days every woman is a
lady and the men gentlemen forsooth, but in the late
i’udge’s steadfastness to duty, honesty of purpose, and
lighest culture of mind and manner, we recognise the
elements of that true nobility which alone constitutes
the grand character of a thorough gentleman. Sir
Redmond Burry was buried this afternoon in the Mel-
bourne general cemetery, and an immense number of
our citizens attended the funeral. The service at the
grave was conducted by the Bishop of Melbourne.
The Toorak church was the centre of attraction
on two days this week, when two fashionable marriages
took place. The first was on Wednesday, when Miss
Bell was married to Mr. Fairbuim. The church was
beautifully decorated, and Herr Plock played the
Wedding March. The bride wore brocaded satin and a
white wreath and veil, and looked positively lovely.
She has beautiful golden hair, soft blue eyes, and a
sweet fair face. Her four bridesmaids wore short dross* s
of Madras muslin over pink sateen, trimmed with car-
dinal satin bows, and wreaths to match the bows. The
following day, Mr. Tucker and Miss Lempriire were
married in the same church. The bride appeared to
great advantage in a white satin dress, trimmed with
brocade and orange blossoms, and a handsome wreath
and veil. She had eight bridesmaids, who were all
exceedingly pretty girls, and looked most charming.
One of them, in particular, with a wealth of fair hair,
and a tall, slender, graceful figure, captivated every-
body. They wore cream-coloured drosses, beautifully
made, of Madras muslin over sateen, with long trains
and white lace toque hats trimmed with pansies. As
Dr. Lempriore led his daughter up the aisle, people
were unanimous in agreeing that the handsome surgeon
still deserved his reputation in this regard. Mrs. Lem-
prirre wore a heliotrope silk, and a handsome bonnet.
Mr. Home was best man, but there were no other
groomsmen. The dance in the evening was kept up
until a late horn - . At both weddings there was a great
number of guests, and the brides received handsome
and costly presents.
A custom is in vogue here of sending a bride
telegrams conveying the congratulations of those
unable to be present. The attention is a pretty and
graceful one, and as the messages generally meet the
lady at breakfast they form a pleasant interruption.
On the same day, the Hon. T. F. Hamilton’s
daughter was married, at Gisborne, to Mr. Fletcher.
Spencer-street presented a lively scene in the morning,
when crowds of wedding guests assembled on the plat-
form to be conveyed by special train to Gisborne. The
Bishop of Melbourne performed the ceremony. A lady
who at one time was an acknowledged belle in Mel-
bourne society, but who is now a resident in your colony
and has gained much homage and admiration, was also
to be married in Sydney on the 25th.|
Mr. J. Hamilton and Miss Grant are to be mar-
ried on the 27th, and early next month Mr. M'Meikau’s
marriage with Miss Langwill will also take place.
Last week there was a large picnic to the Gipps-
land Ranges. A number of Sydney visitors present
expressed themselves as delighted with the scenery,
which is very beantiful.
Mr. Milner Stephen is still practising in Mel-
bourne. One lady, in rather indigent circumstances,
who went to interview him, full of religions belief in
his miraculous power, was somewhat startled to learn
from his attendant that she would have to pay him two
guineas before Mr. Stephen would even hear her case.
Someway or other she had got a confused idea that,
like the Apostles, he would do the Master’s bidding and
cure all who came to him in faith. However, she left
without a consultation, alive to the tact that in these
latter days something besides faith is wanting.
During the week throe boys have been missed
from their homes. One of them, a little fellow of only
three and a half Jyears, was kidnapped ; fortunately the
man who stole him was discovered very shortly and
lodged in the Melbourne lock-up, and the little child
restored to his people. However, the other boys have
not yet been heard of, and great sympathy is felt for
the parents.
The youths who were arrested last Saturday for
assaulting and injuring a Chinese laborer are sous of
respectable citizens residing in East Melbourne. It
appears that they have been in the habit for some time
back of playing all sorts of practical jokes on the people
of their neighliourhood, who lived in dread of them.
The occupants of one house were astonished one morn-
ing on going into their garden to see a notice neatly
posted up informing the passers by that they hod
“ lodgings to let to single gentlemen.” One evening
lately an old lady was nearly frightened into a fit by the
young rascals. They fastened a “ Catherine wheel ”to
her front door, and having set it alight rang the bell
violently and made off. The unsuspecting inmate came
blanddly to the door to see what was wanted, and
aftewards declared amidst gasps and groans that she
thought it was “ the devil himself 1"
We are all sorry that Mrs. Cross’s delightful
story, “ A Mere Chance,” came to an end in last Satu-
rday’s Australasian, though it finished, as every one
hoped it would, with the intended marriage of Rachel
and Boden Dalrymple. Mrs. Cross is the wife of a
clergyman in the Ballarat diocese, and much esteemed
by all who have the privilege of knowing her. She
received eighty guineas for her story, “ In Two Years’
Time," which was a perfect picture of colonial bush
life.
James Kingston’s travels, entitled “The Austra-
lian Abroad,” is being published by Sampson, Low, and
Co., and I see the second volume is to hand.
The report about Mr. Arthur Money’s engage-
ment to the daughter of a Collins-street doctor, pub-
lished in a contemporary, was unfounded, for the lady
in question is engaged to Mr. Hector Wilson, of Vectis
Station, Hosham.
The Cotopaxi smuggling case comes off next
week, and every one is on the qai vivc, as the offenders
are leaders of fashion.
Sir Henry Pavkes and party arrived in Mel-
bourne by special train on Thursday morning. The
overland journey only occupied twenty-one hours.
On Thursday, at the Social Congress meeting,
Mrs. E. Turnbull, secretary to the Melbourne Lodi -
Benevolent Society, read a paper on “ The system of
out-door relief of the poor in Melbourne." Mrs. T. G.
Carter read a paper on “ Cottage Hospitals,” and Mis-*
F. G. Holden, of Sydney, has also contributed a pap. r
on “Trained Nurses." The latter subject, as we all
know, received much attention from the ladies of
England.
I notice that serge, linen foulard beige, sateen.
cretonne and the Madras handkerchiefs are the
materials most fashionable, and that basque bodies are
much worn. The new mania here in hats inclines to
the coarse porcupine straw, large and shady in the
shape, and trimmed mostly with Indian muslin and
lace.
In another month I expect there will be quite
an exodus to the sea-side. People here emulate the
English, and issue Christmas invites. Several cards
are out already, and the country houses will doubtless
be gay enough.
The latest thing in gloves is the long undressed
loose-fitting kid, mostly yellow in colour. Stockings
are more elaborate than ever, because the shoes have
scarcely any frame.
SOME SOLID FACTS.
The Duke of Wellington’s plate is said to be
worth £3,000,000.
The rum business of the United States amounts
to £200,000,000 a year.
A deaf mute recently won a degree of Bachelor
of Letters, at Lyons, France.
Germany’s military system gives her to-day
1,500,000 men ready for the field.
Five hundred Indians were engaged in hop pick-
ing in British Columbia this year.
Pekin stands on the vastest plain in the universe.
It is 1000 miles long, and 200 wide.
French Republican progress. Over 150 duels
have been fought in France since last January.
The total circulation of a single issue of all of
the American secular papers reaches the enormous
aggregate of 21,000,000 copies.
The great Chinese famine was caused by drought
and the pestilence was a form of typhus fever. From
six to ten millions perished; and yet, according to
accounts, there was still hardly standing room in North
China.
A recent London paper announced in one column
the sale of some London property at £212,000 per acre;
and in an adjoining column appeared the announcement
that the paupers of the city, exclusive of lunatics and
vagrants, numbered 88,219.
Criminal statistics in New York and London
(for America and England) show the absolute failure
of the Sunday school as a preventive of crime. Ninety
per cent, of the juvenile offenders have been Sunday
scholars, and even prize winners.
Dr. Frauland reports to the Royal Society of
London that the tiny particles of water which make a
fog are, in the large English cities, coated with a thin
film of coal oil that comes from the smoke of bituminous
coal. This film checks evaporation, and gives to the
mist its irritating power.
The French Academy has distributed its annual
prizes for virtue. £BO each was awarded to a young
woman in humble life for adopting deserted children ;
to an artizan, for forty years’ devotion to saving lives
from fire; to a peasant, for preserving lives from drown-
ing; and to a widow, for fifty years’ service to the sick
and needy.
A wave of sentiment now passing over America
favors decapitation instead of hanging for capital
offences. Prisoners about to be executed even favored
the change. The fact, however, is that the death penalty
is very rarely carried out in America. Last September
saw more trials for murder in the United States than
at any previous period, and convictions were difficult
to obtain. Lynch law was again prevalent, decapitation
being in one or two cases the mode of punishment.
The leading newspapers were pointing out that with
regard to the alarming increase of duels in France,
there was a corresponding increase in assassination in
the United States, with much more fatal results.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WHITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
The Policeman.
Man of many titles
Strong of limb and back.
Crusher, peeler, bobby.
Royal blue and trap;
Watchful, sleepless, dreamless,
Restless as the tide,
Phantom grim and stately
Walking at our side.
Guardian, kind protector
Of the public weal,
But in anxious moments
Seldom ever seen;
Bulky, stem, and pompous.
Speaks you slow and fair.
Deaf ns two deaf adders
To a culprit’s prayer.
In the path of duty
Never known to slip,
Tho’ he keeps a watchdog
Eulogised as tip.
Not at all poetic.
Never known to die
From a lovelit volley
Shot from Bridget’s eye;
Passive, non resistant
Muscle, bone, and akin.
Spoil for drunken frenzie,
Sport for larrikin.
D irrikin arrested
Brought before the Beak,
Mulct in twenty shillings,
In default a week.
Wonder if his worship
Took one for his nob
If the healing ointment
Would be twenty bob.
Guess the ruffian’s future
Would be evil starred
Stalwart warder yielding
Cat in prison yard.
One is but a bobby
Paid to bo ill used,
’Tother one a justice
Not to be abused.
Thus is told the story,
Pity 'tis ’tis true.
Kicks instead of kisses
For our men in Blue.
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.


Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
C. T. Qedye, Esq.T LB;. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want,
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury
Armidale, Borraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden
Campbelltowu.Canuoubar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coouamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dimgog. Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Ounnednh, Gun
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloug, Morpeth, Mudgoe
Mummmdi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes
Parramatta, Penrith, Pictou, Queanbeyan, Quirindi
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single ton, Tam worth, Taree
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank o
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ot South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Laud.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Gotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore: The Chartered Bank oi
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues dralts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Bonks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Ruble, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes >f insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per oent. and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 14bs. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accep FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST KATES.
P. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
Peapes AJJ'D Shaw’S
Public Companies
IJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase In
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle. Esn
William B. Watford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq. '
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostroeht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Hay market ( Eedfern 1 Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. *
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank oe
ESTABLISHED 1869.
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Heury Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England-
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Jehu Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Soddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Loudon) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.*
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STEELING.
lORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LL O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
J T IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition or 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
SUMMER CLOTHING FOE GENTLEMEN.
MODERN CUT, SUPERIOR FINISH, and UNSUR-
PASSED for STERLING VALUE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S WHITE MILITARY
DUCK COATS,
Stand-np collars, patch pockets, beautifully made,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SUPERIOR SILK SAC COATS,
all pure bright silk, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S FINE BLUE SERGE SUITS,
admirably suited for Tourists or Business Men,
37s 6d the suit.
PEAPES and,SHAW’S SILKY ALPACA SAC COATS,
the very thing for office wear,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d each.
PEAPESaud SHAW’S SILK PALETOT DUST COATS,
extra well-cut and finished, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 25s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S CLIFTON TWEED SUITS,
fashionable patterns, light and durable,
42s, 45s, 50s, 55s, 63s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S MILITARY DUCK VESTS,
and Navy Drill ditto, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
LIGHT SUMMER TWEED PALETOT OVERCOATS,
27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 35s, 42s.
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRIS FY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
r- A Large Shipment j ust received.
| Newest Shapes in HARD FELT,
-j from 5s 6d each. Drab Shells, Silk
Hats and Helmets, all the latest
LSummer Fashions.
BEAUTIFUL NEW GOODS FOE SUMMEE.
PEAPES and SHAW beg to call the attention ot
Ladies to their stock of
SUMMER GOODS,
comprising NOVELTIES in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Our representatives in London and Paris have supplied
us this season with some of the CHOICEST GOODS we
have ever had the pleasure of SUBMITTING to OUR
PATRONS.
PEAPES and SHAW,
Qeorge-street.
STYLISH FRENCH
MILLINERY,
PER STEAMERS
MONTHLY.
PEAPESanHSHAW’S
GLOVES,
TWO-BUTTONS, at
HALF-A-CROWN
PAIR, ARE
UNRIVALLED.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-ptreet.
f JUST OPENED.
SPANISH and LANGUEDOC
LACE, in OLD GOL D, CREAM
WHITE, and BLACK
SILK and CHENILLE MAN-
TLES
NEW SILK and CASHMERE
VISITES
POMPADOUR SATEENS
HELIOTROPE and SILVER
RIBBONS
OLD GOLD BROCADE RIB-
BONS
SILVER and GOLD FRINGES
J and CORDS
I THE NEW SILK DRESS
I LACES
1 CHENILLE TINSELLED
| SCARVES
NEW BALL SKIRTS and
COSTUMES
NEWEST WHITE, TINSEL-
LED and COLOURED BU-
CKINGS
BLACK SATIN PARASOLS
TRIMMED SPANISH LACE,
at 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s 6d
JET NECKLETS and BRACE-
L LETS.
j
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
ft.'
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANG YE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWABH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forces, etc.,
IN STOCK.
m
%
A
m
m
22
UNADULTERATED
BAK/JVC POWDER
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MANUFACTURED BY W.DAVIES&C?COUIBURHN.SW
GEORGE BARR,
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2*d. PEE GALLON.
Gft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
c
ffl
m
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY,
ADVT
JUST AEEIVED
JtfSX ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, &C.
TOTS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each-
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—63I GEORGE STREET.
m
w.
P. W E L C II
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian,
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
■
Oriental Blind.


Business Announcements
[ALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
•5 m a
5
BEARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION,
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY,
Gb. modi
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
F-AMWIRsSoXI
Ghbonometer Watch Makers.
and OptiCIAMS. -0* vVI !
\ ' '«cAßtf c ° v |,/
jjs HUNTER S TR EEr 0
SYDMET. ,^-S
QEICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
Tobacconists
mHE GENUINE
-t- VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be bad at the Wholesale Depot,
689 GEOEGE STEEET,
Haymarket.
LOUGHNAN.
E
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159
PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
165 YORK STEEET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/r
%
m
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
p H O S. J. B 0 W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
Importers of
AS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Batburst-street, Sydney,
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
SMS
; —
'o prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
following words on the steel slide of every machine
y ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
u r a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you bj
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and ae
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :—
No. 1.—For Hand Use, complete, £A.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £b.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
pleto, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANE, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and Is fid.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s fid, and 4s
(id.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ la recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAQE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s fid and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
lAKE NO MORE PILLS
hut try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion 1
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’a
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any’of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
««r Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wua Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
cosualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfaetly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
sou’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephsou’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at ouee be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is mode,
and totally free frem any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSBPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is fid each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
P H
Y S
I
C
F. W. BOYNE.
Has commeuccdto Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhcea, Piles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation —10 to 12,
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a m., free.
Fee for one week’s at'endance, Medicines include*,
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-streot, -rear Market-street.
Chemists and Druggists
HIE
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to tho Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilioua Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at tho Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Pakk Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
SfTpj
9mm
111
mirm 'll JiPTTRI
T 1!
■•dp
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, cop ed, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
g I M S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to nil parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Offioo Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by moat authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address —
SIMS AND PARKES,
240 GEOHGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not. be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
mO BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Baud Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Ttjkning & Planing Mill, and
Funekal Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Oldest Cricketing
Depot ftn the Colonies.
kl jkj
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
-108, George-street.
jp E I N T IN G
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.'


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE A RETAIL IMPORTERS 4,- MANUFACTURERS.
I I
fJlO ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL.
MOUNT VICTOEIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort.' cleanliness, and civility
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
S T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE EST ABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEOEGE STEEET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, EOTLE and HOGG.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices, from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
rOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
five years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
JJRINSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDEAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPEESENTA-
TIYES for New South Wales Messrs. EOYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agenciea must
be made.
JOHN BEINSMEAD and SONS.
JOHN
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’'
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
EOYLE and HOGG.
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
Professional Addresses
ME. JOHN BENNETT.
ADDEESS:
Box 502, General Post Office, Sydney.
MR, & MRS. ARTHUR GARNER.
ADDEESS:
Theatre Eoyal, Newcastle, for a fortnight-
M E -
M ,! -
S. LAZAR.
ADDEESS :
Professional—Theatre Eoyal.
Private —“ Oeta,** Queen-street, Woollahra.
J. R. G E E Y I L L B
ADDEESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Mr. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDEESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
MR. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, C astlereagh-street.
MR. ARMES BEAUMONT.
ADDEESS:
Oxford Hotel, during the Opera Season.
M
E.
W. H. L
ADDRESS :
Post Office Hotel, for a fortnight.
BAKE.
MR. SAM H O W A R D E.
ADDEESS;
Opera House, York-street.
Madame rose
ADDRESS:
HERSEK.
Oxford Hotel, during the Opera Season
M
R.
H.
H. V I N C E N
ADDRESS:
St. Kilda Cottage, 99 Palmer-street, till Christmas.
T.
M
R.
D
G E.
J. DO
ADDRESS:
Melbourne, till the 10th instant,
Hobart Town, from the 14th instant.
MISS FLORA ANSTEAD.
ADDRESS :
Melbourne, till the 10th instant.
Hobart Town, from the 14th instant.
M
R. E. F A R I
ADDRESS :
Theatre Royal, till Christmas.
e y.
M E
& MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDEESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, from Dec. 20th,
1880, until end of March, 1881.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
MR, ALFRED L Y S T E E,
ADDRESS:
Hodge’s Commercial Hotel, during the Opera Season.
MR. R. B. WISEMAN.
ADDEESS:
Opera House, York-street, till Febrnary. _
MR. EDMUND HOLLOWAY-
ADDEESS;
Opera House, York-street, till February.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS -
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MISS MAGGIE OLIVER-
ADDRESS :
Crown Hotel, Elizabeth and Go alburn streets, for a
fortnight.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit ok Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture,
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale: —
■ ■ ■ ■ ' — -
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
I I - ?*"" ■ " ' ,
OUK CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We Buy foe Cash—We Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
| COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents* English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
&/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES,
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents' English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
ladies’ Qlacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Out Stock is always
Now.
For every week's
Sale.
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establishments.
An. GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
G 0 w ING BROTHERS’ TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thns insuring to ready-money customers First-class Geods at the very lowest
quotations.
GO WING BROTHERS,
MEN'S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.,
Trading under the names of
GO WlNG BROTHERS, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court),
AND
J. E. GO WING, S32 Geo hoe Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BROTHERS' SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivalled FOR PRICE AND QUALITY.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. Military Front SHIRTS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very best value in the Sydney market.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON’S EXTRAGTofSOAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly*’ on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE MARK
The GEAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWAED, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FEEELT, SOFTENS WATEE,
AHD SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, <&c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, <fec.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jlh packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN EAI7CH,
16 CHAKLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STEEET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
fIEISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
OU CANNOT DO BETTER.
If you are ready to famish, come without delay to the
KOTAL FURNISHING ARCADE. Every article is
planly marked, and complete lists are available to enable
you to select what yon require to the best advantage.
THE PRICES ARE MOST ATTRACTIVE.
Single Bedrooms furnished as follows :
Bedstead, Palliases, Mattress, Pillow, Sheets, Blankets,
Counterpane, Pillow Case, Set Mosquito Curtains,
Chest Drawers, Toilet Glass, Washstand, Toilet Set,
Chair, Hat and Coat Back, and Piece of Matting or
Carpet for £7.
A NICE SUITE OF DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE.
Spring seated Rip Couch and six Chairs, Sideboard, Oval
Table, and Whatnot for £l2.
JAPANESE BLINDS in all sizes from 6s. A FEW
CASES of Superior Frosted Fly Traps. BARGAINS IN
DRAWING ROOM SUITES, DINING ROOM FUR-
NITURE. and BEDROOM FURNITURE. KITCHEN
UTENSILS of every description at the lowest cash
prices. Glassware cheaper than ever.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
VISIT THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM,
Also
The New Show Rooms Upstairs.
pOR SALE BY AUCTION,
at 12.30,
on SATURDAY, Uth December,
at
OAKLAND HOUSE, MITTAGONG,
500 Acres of the well-known
OAKLAND ESTATE,
iu building allotments, having frontages to good roads’
and only one mile from the Mittagong Railway Station.
For further particulars, apply to—
RICHARDSON and WRENCH, Sydney,
or H. E. SOUTHY, Esq., Mittagong.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beau-
tiful MILLINERY BONNETS from 12s 6d, MIL-
LINERY HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COS-
TUMES from 3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d,
Ladies’ Corsets from is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from 4Jd per pair, Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, (Moves,
Fischus, Baby-linen, Underclothing &c.. cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
SH3 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
The fare sex—’Bus boys.
A man over-bored! —The editor.
The teetotallers’ origin—horrid gin.
A slow match—A long engagement.
If you wish to take care of your health take air.
When scraping an acquaintance, don’t rub him
the wrong way.
In spirit land the favorite amusement is reading
obituary notices.
Woman resembles ammunition. She needs
powder before the ball.
The reporter wrote that she was aufait. The
compositor printed, “ all feet.”
When a thief hears the cook crow in the morn-
ing he says : “ Shan’t I clear I ”
The man who spends all his money on a diamond
shirt-stud carries everything before him.
Whafs the matter with the north of Ireland—
Too man} Pats and riots, and too few patriots.
When a young woman is fond of fried pork
sausages, she shouldn’t appear at the Imperial breakfast
table in white satin.
The difference between a certain old song and
a man stealing milk is this : one is Kobin Adair, the
other is robbin' a dairy.
Distinguished visitor to Botanic Gardens with
pipe in mouth. Overseer: “No smoking Towed, sir.”
D.V. : I’m not smoking aloud.”
Bald-headed old gentlemen to waiter : “ Look
here, I object to eating hairs with my food.” Waiter :
“ Hairs, sir ? Must be your own, sir.”
Seven doctors gathered round him. Three said
it was sunstroke; two, heart-disease; two, epilepsy.
But the small boy proved it was orange-peel.
Texas society is agitated over the question of
whether or not the groom at a wedding should wear his
revolver-oelt inside or outside of his dress-coat.
“ If Jones undertakes to pull my ears,” said a
loud-mouthed fellow, “ he will have his hands full.”
The crowd looked at the man’s ears, and smiled.
The young man in whose pocket two hair-pins
were recently found said he didn’t know how they came
there. They probably got in while he was climbing a
fence.
It’s often the case that you can buy a man’s
wife cheaper than you can elope with her, and if there's
any kick over the price, the husband will throw in three
children.
‘‘ My love hath a red, red rose,” was what he
wrote, and the printer made it a red, red nose.” After
the writer had interviewed the printer, the latter had the
red, red nose, in addition to two blackened eyes.
There was a young man of Toulouse
Of painfully practical views.
11 Share my lot, love ?’’ said he.
“ "What’s its size, dear ?” asked she.
Which sent him out pensive, to muse.
A mathematical maiden named Chaucer said,
“ Oh, fie 1” and “ For shame!" and
“Oh law, sir,
Dividers have limbs
Like delicate hims,
So circles I draw with a saucer !"
Young men should never lose presence of mind.
When you take the girl you love to a picnic, and you
wander away with her to commune with Nature, and
she suddenly exclaims, “ Oh, George, there’s an ant
down my back 1” don’t stand still with your mouth
open ; don’t faint; don’t go for the girl’s mother ; go
f*r her ant.
A certain deacon lately formed his Sunday
school in line, and marched them along the aisles,
himself in front, singing “ Hold the Fort. However,
when the second stanza rang out
“ Sea the mighty hosi advancing,
Satan leading on,"
the deacon thought that the old way would be beet in
future.
The latest song and chorus from the London
Variety Halls: —
“ He wears;a penny flower in his coat.
Lab de dah !
And a penny paper collar round his throat;
Lab de dah!
In his hand a penny stick;
In his mouth a tooth-pick ;
Not a penny in his pocket.
Lab de dah !
Wine will bring 1 relief
To the worn and weary mind
Woman is one of the chief
Consolers of poor mankind ;
Women and wine are good
To cheer the saddened heart;
But he it well understood
You must keep the two apart.
The Patter of the Shingle.
BY “ALTONA.”
When the angry passions gath’ring'
In my mother’s face I see;
And she leads me to the bedroom.
Gently lays me on her knee;
Then I know that I will catch it.
And my flesh in fancy itches
As I listen for the patter
Of the shingle on my breeches .
Every tingle of the shingle
Has an echo and a sting;
And a thousand burning fancies
Into active being spring;
And a thousand bees and hornets
’Neath my coat-tails seem to swarm
As I listen to the patter
Of the shingle—oh! so warm.
In a splutter comes my father
(Whom I had supposed was gone).
To survey the situation
And tell her to lay it on.
To see her bending o’er me
As I listen to the strain.
Played by her and the shingle
In a wild and weird refrain.
In a sudden intermission—
Which appears my only chance—
I say : “ Strike gently, mother,
Or you'll split my Sunday pants! ”
She stops a moment, holds her breath—
The shingle’s held aloft;
She says: “I had not thought of that
My son, just take them off!"
Holy Moses and the angels
Cast thy pitying glances down.
And thou, 0 family doctor.
Put a good soft poultice on;
And may I with fools and dunces
Everlastingly commingle,
HI ever say another word
While my mother wields the shingle.
Sydney, 26th November, 1880.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Professor Huxley favors compulsory vaccination.
George Eliot is writing the life of her late hus-
band.
An ex-M.P. is said to be another victim to
glucose.
Lord Augustus and Lady Loftus visited Parra-
matta last week.
The wife of Mr. Gregory Board, an old Sydney
celebrity, died on Sunday last.
The Duke of Manchester gave evidence at the
Sorata inquiry, exonerating the captain.
Dr. James Reed, one of the oldest Victorian
medical practitioners, died at Clones last week.
Miss Barker, the well-known lady sharebroker
of bygone days, has a lolly-shop in the Eastern Arcade,
Melbourne.
His Honor Mr. Justice Barry, who died in
Melbourne last week, was a near relative of the Rev.
Dr. Barry, of Woollahra.
It is probable that Mr. G. H. Reid, M.L.A.,
will shortly visit Melbourne, and deliver one of his
popular addresses to workingmen on the subject of free
trade.
The other day, at the Wannon Falls, a favorite
pic-nicing place near Hamilton (Yic.), a young lady, the
second daughter of Mr. Donald M’Lellan, while
scrambling over the rocks lost her footing and fell a
considerable way down, her escape from death being
miraculous.
Some difficulty is likely to arise in connection
with the proposed appointment of Mr. W. H. Archer to
the charge of the Victorian Public Library. The
Government, who, it will be remembered, dismissed Mr
Archer on Black Wednesday, have not yet confirmed
the recommendation of the trustees.
In the early days of one of the Southern colonies
a gentleman and his wife had charge of a certain gaol.
The lady, a good, kind soul, bat rather fond of Irish
whisky, one day during the absence of her lord felt so
Sorry for the poor prisoners that she opened the gates
ait- 1 let them all out. However, she is still alive.
Sir Redmond Barry’s grave lies between that of
Sir Charles Hotham and Colonel Neill, the latter of whom
was deputy adjutant to Her Majesty’s forces in the Aus-
tralian colonies at the time of his decease in 1859. Within
a short distance lie the remains of Lady Barkly and
several officers who died when the Imperial Government
maintained a military force in the colony.
The sexton of the old Haddington Cathedral, in
describing Mr. Thomas Carlyle’s visits to his wife’s grave
says, “ And he stood here awhile in the grass, and then
he kneeled down, and staid on his knees at the grave; then
he bent over, and I saw him kiss the ground—ay, he
kissed it again and again, and he kept kneeling, and it
was a long time before he arose and tottered away.”
An individual whom we’ll call ancient Harry—
though that’s not his name —was, in the “ good old days ”
about to take a prominent part in what would now be
called the final act of a Kelly tragedy. Harry’s mates were
not in a hurry to ascend and called forth from him
the exclamation, “Now then, hurry up and don’t
keep the gemmeu waiting.” They obeyed, and having
shuffled on one coil soon shuffled off the other; but
when Harry reached the top it was announced that a
reprieve had arrived for him. He thus escaped after
harrying his friends off and lived to be a large proprietor
of land in N.S.W. In fact part of his estate was sold a
little while ago for over £BO,OOO.
Sir Henry Parkes and Mr.
Watson have been visiting Ballarat.
The Sydney correspondent of
the Tam worth News asserts that the
Lackey family annually draw from the
Treasury £5141.
Mr. Lackey, of Moorebank, the
father of the Hon. J. Lackey, Minister
for Works, died on Tuesday morning,
at the age of 79, after four month’s
illness.
As a recognition of the public
services of Mr. Daniel O’Connor,
M.L.A., a picnic is to he given to that
gentleman at Smith’s pavilion.
Botany, on 14th current.
The Berryites, having probably
found an “ eligible ” candidate for
the directorship of the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens, are bent on dismiss-
ing Mr. Quilfoyle, the present cura-
tor.
When Sir Arthur Gordon left
Fiji, the other day, flags in Levuka
were hoisted half-mast till the steamer
was outside the harbour. Then they
were run up, champagne flowed, and
there was a general jubilation.
The extraordinary vitality dis-
played by Mr. Norton, P.M. ofDubbo,
who was shot in the brain the other
day, renders the following, taken
from a N.Z. paper, less incredible
than it would otherwise seem:—
“Erskine Wood, shot by Hiram C.
Briggs at Coeymans, U.S., recently
ran half a mile and lived fifty-eight
hours after the bullet had passed
through his heart."
A certain individual who is just
now having a bad time of it, would
make pile a by exhibiting himself at a
shilling a pop. For the information
of inquisitive millions we may state
that he is a stout, thick-set, ordinary-
looking young man, with a rough
head of hair, and a pair of eyes very
closely set in his head. He don’t look
much like au Adenis —but then no
more did Wilkes—and then it must
be remembered that our present sub-
ject doese’t squint.
H. E. Sir Arthur Kennedy, C. 8.,
C.M.G., Governor of Queensland,
spends very little of his salary in the
colony or with colonials. The servants
of his household are all “ Chinkies "
and he has brought back with him a
full supply of groceries and wines
sufficient to lost his term of office.
These were obtained from the Civil
Service Co-operative Society of Lon-
don, of which his Excellency is a
member. We’ll never, however,
think much of Sir Arthur till he
grows his own cabbages, or becomes
in fact his eggg-sellingcy.
Mr. John Tyerman, the well-
known spiritualistic lecturer, whoso
death on Saturday last, at Woolloo-
mooloo, we have to announce, was 42
years of age, and formerly a Wesleyan
minister. He afterwards entered the
Church of England. When, in 1871,
the question of spiritualism engaged
public attention, Mr. Tyerman was
requested by his parishioners to
deliver a sermon against the growing
influence of the new teachings. In-
stead, however, of being in oppo-
sition to spiritism, the address in-
clined the other way, and influence
being brought to bear upon his
bishop, Mr. Tyerman’s license was
cancelled, and he thereupon took
up a prominent position upon the
new platform. The funeral, which
was influentially attended, took place
on Monday morning. Deceased leaves
a widow and four children.
Mr. Squire Pye, the well-known fruit grower, of
Parramatta, is now known as “ Fruit Pye.”
t. an. i. i- v , , ,
Dr. Thurston has been elected resident medical
officer of Rockhampton hospital. There were twenty-
six applicants. Dr. Skinner, a gentleman of only
twenty-five years, whose extreme youth was probably
weighed against his accomplishments, was second in
the ballot.
The young Duke of Newcastle, aged 16. is
anxious to marry, and is down on the list of Baron
Pollock for a hearing, the assent of the Court to his
marriage as an infant being necessary.
Mr. James Carmichael, late editor of the
Townsville Herald, left for Singapore by the Memuir.
His successor stands 6ft. 4in. All the men on the op-
position papers have bought big sticks. The amenities
of literature flourish in Townsville.
Henry Kingsley, the novelist, was, it is said, for
three years a digger on the Victorian goldfields. Judg-
ing from his books, he learnt very little while in Aus-
tralia.
Charles Bradlaugh expects to make a little
money out of the notice which he has of late attracted,
and accordingly proposes a lecturing tour in the coun-
try. His appointments have been already arranged for
him.
The first brief handed to the late Dr. Kenealy
was given by the late Mr. Mansford, R.M., of New
Zealand, when in practice as a solicitor in Bath.
’ , , . ~,
It was the other day urged against Mr. M Quade,
one of the candidates for Windsor, that he, though a
colonial, had gone to England for his education.
“That’s true,” repeated he, “but then every man
ought to prize a good English education."
John Dickson, believed to be the last represen-
tative of the famous regiment of “ Scots Greys," who
charged so gallantly with the heavy cavalry at Water-
loo has died at Nunbeadlane, Surrey, aged 91.
Edwin Arnold, author of “ The Light of Asia,”
is forty-eight years old. He graduated at Oxford with
« onors * soon after went to India as principal
Decoon College, Poona. He is not, as has been
stated, a brother of Mathew Arnold.
Samuel Bennett always stoutly opposed largo
assemblies. He believed four good men would do all
the business of the country, and would do it better
than a much larger number.
Mr. W. H. Wills, who on the starting of tho
Daily News was one of the editorial staff and who was,
too, closely associated with Charles Dickens in the
management of Household Words and All the
Year Round, is dead, aged 71.
Sad news from New Zealand. Miss Marie
Dob'e, the Graphic artist, outraged and mnrdered at
Opanuke. Tuhi, a Maori confesses to the crime,
’
The news of the death of George Coull, the
sailor who steered the Shannon in the action with the
Chesapeake off Boston harbour, in 1813, recalls Long-
fellow’s beautiful reference to that celebrated naval
combat.
PEPPER AND SALT.
W e are told that on an application for employment
being made by one of “the chosen race ” to the senior
member of a firm of the same persuasion—we’re not
Cohen to mention names —the latter said he “wouldn’t
employ any Jews.” There was a time when the
“ Christians ” wouldn’t employ any Jews. The young
fellow who found that his creed was a bar to his getting
work, says that Jews like the employer in question
didn’t bring about Jewish emancipation.
There are few things more striking to a stranger
in Sydney than the elegance of the Bobby’s linen, the
peaceful demeanour of the larrikin, and the pertinacity
with which reduced gentlemen hang round corners
evidently waiting for something to turn up.
She lived at Wallumbilly station, and was going
to be manned— in fact, things had gone so far that she
wanted to know the X3rice of wedding-cake. So she
wrote down to a Sydney firm, asking what a cake with
three “ tears ’’ (tiers) would cost. There was something
unconsciously prophetic in her bad orthography.
The following ominous commencement to thea-
trical pars, appears in last Saturday’s Age “ The
Opera House is nightly attended by highly appreciative
audiences." And this reminds us of a little anecdote.
Once, when Billy O’Neil was playing Myles-na-Coppoleen
in Ballarat, the reporter of the Star, who, when young,
had caught a little French somehow, remarked that
the piece was “ un succes d’cstime .” Next morning,
Billy, having concealed a foot of Kinahan about his
person, walked round to the newspaper accompanied by
a shillaleh, and “ went for ’’ the first man he met in the
office (who turned out to be a wrapper-writer) with the
words, “No man shall insult my father’s son in a
foreign language without being bate for it."
The Christian Weekly has
the following its last issue :—“ It has
been said that while mountains have
peculiar charms for men, women And
in water-falls something more con-
genial to their nature.” But the
waterfall is not now the fashion. We
don’t like to see religious editors
writing on these subjects.
“ Ninety-two Sunday trips on
the two tramways ” has raised the
bile of a contributor to one of the
religious prints. He savs we’ll be
punished for it. What he means,
doubtless, is that the large number of
clergymen and Sunday-school teachers
who take a ride on the Sunday will be
cashiered. We can see no harm in
ministers riding in a tramway car
on the Sunday. What we don’t like
is to see them ogling the pretty girls
—just as we do ourselves.
Even tho Christian Weekly
goes for John Davies. That journal,
in its last issue, says “Itis a blot
on our electioneering contests that
committee rooms are generally se-
cured in public-houses where drink-
ing is encouraged as a matter of
course.” This is a covert attack on
the great 1.0.G.T. But why shouldn’t
the publican bo allowed to prosper ?
If he happens to take a temperance
candidate, the religious papers are
down on him at once. Is an hotel
keeper to he denied the right of
accepting the best customers ?
As an illustration of the “ spirit
of tho age," it may be mentioned that
the washer woman is announced at a
well-lcnowu boarding-house in Wyn-
yard-square as ” the lady that does
the washing is here.”
“ Put a head on him,” cried an
inebriated rate-payer as Beare was
addressing the people in William-
street. “Needless,” yelled another
about five longuns ahead of the first
speaker, “needless, can’t yer see he’s
ablowin’ off his froth ?" With great
difficulty the candidate for aldermanic
honors bottled np his rage and corked
it down. “Does anyone want to
crack any questions?" enquired tho
chairman when the orator hod un-
corked himself of his opinions.
“There is a pint which I wish you
to explain,” spoke up a local shoe-
maker. Then a couple of groans fol-
lowed. *' Who shouted them two
wails?” enquired the embryo aider-
man. And when the meeting broke
up some of the crowd walked away
saying, “ That’s a kind of Beare one
can’t swallow.
Caution to lodging-house keep-
ers. Female bugs lay their eggs four
times a year—namely, in September,
November, January,’and March, at
each season laying fifty eggs, in other
words producing 200 young in the
space of a year. At tho end of eleven
weeks the young bugs have arrived at
maturity, and are ready to become
parents in their turn. With this data,
the following calculation may be
mode: —Suppose one female bug has
been allowed to enter a house just be-
fore laying time in spring, it will
produce fifty young in September,
of which twenty-five may be females.
In November the twenty-six females
(that is including the mother) will pro-
duce 1300 young. Take 650 of these
as females, we have in January 33,800,
take 16,900 of these as females,
along with the former 676, that
will be 17,576 females, which in
March will produce 878,800 young;
J; ake ~°f these as females along with the
Jo™ 161 " 17,576 females—that will make 456,976, which in
the ensuing September will produce 22,848.800 young;
add to these the former 459,976 females and the 456,975
males, there is a total of 33,762,751 bugs, all from a
single parent in the course of twelve months. If a
knowledge of this fact will not induce activity in ex-
tirpating the first bug that makes its appearance in a
dwelling we do not know what will.
MR. ARMES BEAUMONT.
A TEMPERANCE CANDIDATE.
JOHN TYERMAN.
In the universe of spirits dread,
John Tyerman’s soul is gathered :
And, as a great and honoured guest,
He ’mid those airy sprites does rest.
Sweet spirit voices, soft and clear.
Do whisper in his willing ear.
*****
This is a dream, of course, but we,
For his sake, hope exceedingly
That, now that he has run life’s race.
There’s really such a resting place.
SIR HENRY PARKES ON SIR JOHN ROBERT-
SON IN AUGUST, 1876.
Exulting yet, as home he goes,
From sneering friends and pitying foes
That shun him, loathe him, if they will,
He keeps the keys of Office still.
To promise, pause, prepare, postpone.
And end by letting things alone;
In short to earn the people’s pay.
By doing nothing every day.
These tasks, these joys, the Fates bestow
On well-fed Robertson and Co.
MISS ANNIE SAKER, THE MELBOURNE BELLE.
Fair as beauty bright can make her.
Picturesque and ruby-lipped,
Thousands yearn, in vain, to take her
By her fingers rosy-tipped.
He his bride who’ll chance to make her—
(Be he sinner, saint, or fakir),
Who unto his breast shall take her
Never could in life for-sakoher.


T
HEA T E E
E O T A L.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Manager ... ... ... ... ...Mr. A. Garner
Acting-Manager for Opera Company... Mr. A. B. Lyster
LYSTER’S ROYAL ITALIAN AND ENGLISH OPERA
AND OPERA BOUFFE COMPANY.
Conductors... Chas. Van Ghele and Harcourt Lee.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
December 2nd and 2rd,
DEE FEEISCHUTZ.
SATURDAY EVENING, December 4th,
BOHEMIAN GIEL.
Dress circle, ss; stalls, 3s; upper circle, 2s ; pit, la.
Doors open at 7'30 —overture at 8 o’clock.
Carriages may be ordered at 10.30.
Box plan at Elvy and Co., George-street, where seats
can be secured.
LY g t E R ’ S
ROYAL ITALIAN AND ENGLISH
OPERA COMPANY.
NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
The Managers having reverted to the ordinary Prices
of Admission, any subscriber has the option of return-
ing his packet of tickets ou or before THURSDAY,
December 2nd.
The sale of Subscription Tickets closed, according to
notice, on Saturday last.
ELVY nnd CO.
November 30. * <
Q
UEE N ’ S
T H E A T E E.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings, and Greville.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. H. Vincent.
For the first time in Australia,
THIS EVENING,
the sensational Drama, in 6 acts, entitled,
UNDER THE WILLOWS
Mr. W. H. LEAKE
as
ANTOINE THIBEAUT.
SATURDAY, 4th December,
Grand Production of the latest Hibernian Success,
KERRY GOW.
WANTED, twenty more Ladies for the Christmas
Pantomime. Apply between 10 and 1 o’clock, mornings.
B
ATT, EODD, and PUEYES have received
instructions to sell by public auction, at their
CENTRAL LAND SALE ROOMS,
88 Pitt-street,
Next THURSDAY, the 9th of December,
at 11.30 a.m.
THE FOLLOWING PROPERTIES.
ON THE MOUNTAINS, 40 MOUNTAIN VILLA
WOODFORD SITES, varying in size from
STATION, 2000 feet JAN ACRE to 2 ACRES each,
above sea level. commanding magnificent
mountain scenery for miles
round, situated within ONE
minute’s walk from the Wood-
ford Station, and with a large
frontage to the line. SEE
PLANS. TORRENS’ TITLE.
POSITIVE UNRESERVED
SALE. EASY TERMS.
BALMAIN,
Paul-street.
AUBURN PARK,
Rookwood.
Detached Cottage, contain-
ing 7 rooms, kitchen, &c.,
most substantially built of
stone, slate roof, garden, fruit
trees, &c., magnificent view
of the harbour. Abundance
of water. The land has 60
feet frontage by 100 feet deep,
and is known as Mr. Walker’s
property.
Cottage Residence and 11
acres land, containing draw-
ing and dining rooms, each
18 x 15, 2 large bedrooms, each
17 x 15, three other bedrooms,
kitchen, scullery, laundary,
bathroom, and butler’s pan-
try, verandah all round,
situate 3 miles from Rook-
wood station, and adjoining
other first-class residences.
ASHFIELD,
Croydon Park.
BOOKWOOK,
Auburn Park.
2 ALLOTMENTS, being
lots 5 and 6 Hosking’s subdivi-
sion, 100 x 200 feet. TITLE,
TORRENS’ ACT.
Cottage and 11 acres,
fenced and improved. The
cottage contains drawing-
room, dining-room, with fold-
ing doors, 2 bedrooms, kit-
chen, servant’s room, pantry,
bathroom, and verandah all
round.
INSPECTION INVITED.
FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS, and CARDS to
VIEW, PLANS, &c., apply to the auctioneers,
88 Pitt-ttreet.
upply to me auctioneers,
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
T
HE SALE OF THE SEASON,
The Clearance Sale of NEW GLASGOW,
PARRAMATTA JUNCTION,
the future MANUFACTURING CENTRE,
the JUNCTION of the RAILWAY LINES,
1 the HEAD OF NAVIGATION.
TUESDAY, 7th DECEMBER,
in the ROOMS, 114 PITT STREET,
BY MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST.
OVER 60 CHOICE LOTS,
LARGE FRONTAGES.
GREAT DEPTHS,
EASY TERMS.
LITHOGRAPHS ON APPLICATION.
TUESDAY, 7th DECEMBER.
GRAND CLEARANCE SALE.
THE TOWNSHIP OF NEW GLASGOW.
GRANVILLE, late
PARRAMATTA JUNCTION,
In the ROOMS, 114 PITT STREET.
OVER 60 CHOICE TOWN LOTS.
Fronting WILLIAM STREET,
BLAXCELL STREET.
CLYDE STREET, and
THE TRONGATE.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST, have re-
ceived instructions from the Proprietors to sell
by PUBLIC AUCTION, in their Rooms, 114 Pitt-
street,, at half-past 11 on
TUESDAY, 7th DECEMBER,
the remaining unsold allotments of the
TOWNSHIP OF NEW GLASGOW.
This well-known TOWNSHIP adjoins the large block
of land recently purchased by Messrs. HUDSON BRO-
THERS, for the porpose of removing there their large
It is also close to the RAILWAY STATION OP
GRANVILLE.
TERMS :
£5 DEPOSIT on eaca lot; balance 20s per month.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LITHOGRAPHS ON APPLICATION.
IN the Press, and will shortly be published,
SONGS FROM THE MOUNTAINS, by HENRY
KENDALL. This volume, now on the eve of publica-
tion, has been printed on the best paper, and is being
handsomely bound in cloth. Price, 6s ; by post, 6s Bd.
Sydney: WTLLIAM MADDOCK, publisher, 381
George-street.
TATTEESALL’S CUP.—Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee —£1. First,
.£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,”
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-
street, ~
10 the ELECTORS of GRAFTON and THE
CLARENCE.
Gentlemen,—The dissolution of Parliament has dis-
solved our political connection.
Returned to Parliament at a very particular juncture
after the passing of the Public Instruction Act, for
which consequently I had not the opportunity of voting,
I was in time to support the Land and Electoral Bills.
Although opposed to the retrospective clause in the
former, I accepted the Bill, because it agreed with my
own views on many important points—and I accepted it
also lest its return to to the Council should cause such
a dead-lock as would imperil the fate of the measure for
Electoral Reform, for the obtainment of which I had
laboured for so many years.
I have been blamed because portions of the original
electorate of the Clarence have been added to Tenterfield
and Glen Innes. On my arrival in Sydney last April,
I found the new electorates of the colony represented on
a map, with their boundaries defined, after every care
had been taken by the Survey Department to do justice,
as far as possible, to all, and I found, on consideration,
that any attempt on my part, or on that of others, to
alter what had been done would only end in throwing
such serious difficulties in the way of the measure as
would probably lead to its rejection. I, therefore,
accepted a small loss in preference to the chance of los-
ing the whole.
Again, I have been blamed as regards the boundary
between the new electorates of Grafton and the
Clarence —I think, unjustly so—and, at all events, the
numbers on the electoral rolls prove that the dividing
line was not drawn without due consideration.
When I took leave of the electors at Grafton after the
declaration of the poll, I announced that I had promised
to affect the separation of the Upper and Lower Clarence
if possible. I kept my word, and the electors should
feel grateful to Sir Henry Parkes for the concession, and
that the designation, “the Upper Clarence” has been
changed to “ Grafton.”
During the few months that I was your representa-
tive, I faithfully attended to your interests, as far as
lay in my power; if I did not accomplish more, the
fault was not mine. Your wants were not represented
to me, from time to time, as they should have been.
Moreover, a measure of temporary taxation was rejected
that would have provided payment for some works,
which have had consequently to be suspended for a
season.
There are two subjects that affect your interests on
which I feel it my duty to say a few words. I have
never heard, from any proper authority, that the present
Colonial Treasurer had any intention of imposing an
excise-tax on sugar produced in the colony, or of re-
mitting the present duty on that imported. Secondly,
I cannot see what can induce your farmers to favour the
notion of imposing a duty on imported maize, more
particularly as this colony produces so much more of
that grain than it is capable of consuming. The maize
which reaches this colony from Queensland, New Gale-
donia, or Fiji is merely in transitu to New Zealand, Tas-
mania, Victoria, or South Australia, and is not brought
here for consumption. To tax produce in transitu would
be such an impolitic proceeding that it would never be
tolerated, so that it would be useless to pin your faith
to a candidate who would propose or promise to advo-
cate such a mistake. Moreover, even if it were possible
to get such a duty imposed, would it be to the interest
of the farmer to thus lay the foundation of a system of
all round protection, which would raise the price of
every article he consumed without increasing the price
of what he produced.
I beg now to take leave of yon, and with every kind
wish for yeur future prosperity,
I am, gentlemen,
Yonrs truly,
CHARLES H. FAWCETT.
Richmond River,
November Bth, 1880.
mHE OSBORNE WIRE AND WINE
SELF-BINDING HARVESTERS'
AND THE
NOB COMBINED REAPERS AND.MOWERS
are the best in the market.
°o y>
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Sole Agent.
EW ZEALAND.
To Tourists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed ROTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “ The
Manager, at Ellerslie, the fullest infoimation will be
immediately supplied.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. I have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mentioned place) are such that
every person possessing the means ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels have been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.R.C.S., L.M., Edin.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 19th November, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS POE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that, unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the under,
mentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 816 : Richard Read and others ; portion No., 90 ;
county of Durham, parish of Darlington; 57 a. Ir.j
application No., Singleton 79-1.
No. 847 : John Moore and others; portion No., m.l. 71;
county of Cliye, parish of Silent Grove; 20 a.; application
No., Vegetable Creek 161.
No. 848: John Moore and others; portion No., m.l. 72 ;
county of Clive, parish of Silent Grove; 20 a.; application
No., Vegetable Creek 162.
Department of Mines,
- Sydney, 26th November, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes, and takes delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 754 : Thomas Higgins ;{portion!No., Mil; Louth,
county of Yanda, parish of Yandagulla; 20 a.; appli-
cation No., Bourke 6.
GLASSO N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Hakris-stkeet, off Geobge-street,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, »c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON ;
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
QOALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and. SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, cUnker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ")
17s. Ditto single ditto >■ Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened 1 v AW „„ atlp
225. Ditto single ditto S * N U
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
OHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
TO PURCHASERS.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
PAY ONE VISIT to
A. J. HTJFTON,
636 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH,
Where you can get A VARIED ASSORTMENT of
WATCHES and JEWELLERY to choose from, at
moderate prices.
R. LARK]
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N,
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended t®. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
T> HELLYER,
lAi* ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
MADDOCK’S select library
381 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This Library will he found to contain all the best and
newest works of Eiction, Travel, Biography, popular
Theology, &c., which are received immediately on pub-
lication by mail and fast ocean steamers. Arrange-
ments have been made with all the leading publishers
for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of interest to be
sent as soon as published. Also all the best magazines
and quarterly reviews.
Terms of subscription forwarded on application.
A list of the NEWEST BOOKS in circulation:—
A History of our own Time, by Justin M’Carthy.
Australian Abroad, second series, by J. Kingston.
The Mud fog Papers, by Charles Dickens.
A Peal of Merry Bells, by Leopold Lewis.
The Rebecca Rioter, by E. A. Dillwyn.
The Wellflelds, by Jessie Fothergill.
The Lady Resident, by Hamilton Page.
Two Worlds are Ours, by Rev. H. Macmillan, D.D.
What will Society Say ? by H. C. Coope.
St. Martin’s Summer, by Shirley Smith.
A Sheep in Wolf’s Clothing, by Debaus.
Society’s Verdict, by Annie Thomas.
The Dean’s Wife, by Mrs. Eiloart.
Lizzie of the Mill, by Christina Tyrrell.
Mountain and Prairie : A journey from Victoria to
Winnipeg, by Rev. D. M. Gordon.
Round about a Great Estate, by Richard Jefferies.
In Pastures Green, by Charles Gibbon.
Bells and Ringers, by Hawley Smart.
Thoughts in my Garden, by Mortimer Collins.
The Shadow of a Life, by Beryl Hope.
White Wings, by William Black.
Oliver Constable, by Sarah Tytlei.
A Very Opal, by G. L. Pirkis.
The Rival Doctors, by A. Lapointe.
The Sergeant’s Legacy, by E. Berthet.
Our Sons: How to start them in Life, by Arthur King.
Shelly : a Study, by J. Todhunter.
Innocence at Play, by Jean Middlemas.
Wait a Year, by Harriette Bowra.
Fascination, by Lady Margaret Majendie.
Winged Words, by Henry Spicer.
Forestalled, by M. Betham-Edwards.
Monsieur Guizot in Private Life, by Mdme. De Witt,
A Female Nihilist, by Ernest Lavigne.
The Sport of Fate, by R. Dowling.
Pious Frauds, by Albany de Fonblanque.
The Tenth Earl, by John B. Harwood.
w ILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Boys’l Own Annual, 1880, 832 pages, 600 illus.—
Moth, 7s 6d; post, 11s 6d ; gilt extra, 9s; post, 13s.
The Girls’ Own Annual, 1880, 624 p., profusely illus.—
cloth, 6s; post, 9s; gilt extra, 7s 6d; post, 10s 6d.
The Cottager and Artisan, illus., 1880 — Is 6d; post, 2s
3d.
Every Boy’s Annual, edited by Edmund Rontledge,
illus.—gilt, 3s; post, 7s 9d.
Sunday, 1880: Reading for Young and Old, 200 illus.—
3s; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Little Wide Awake, edited by Mrs. Sale-Barker, illus.—
3s; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Routledge’s Every Girl’s Annual, 1881, edited by Miss
Alicia A. Leith, illus. —gilt, 6s; post, 7s 9d.
Little Folks, vol. n., illus.—3s 6d; post, 4s lOd; cloth
gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Child’s Own Magazine, 1880, illus.—ls; post. Is 6d; gilt
extra, 2s; post, 2s 6d.
Kate Greenaway’s Birthday Book for Children, 382 cold,
illus., printed by Evans, Verses by Mrs. Sale-
Barker —gilt extra, 3s 6d; post, 4s. Ditto plain,
2s 6d ; post, 3s.
The Family Novelette Library: 12 High-class Novels,
vol ix, cloth —2s 6d; post, 3s 3d.
Berthet’s The Sergeant’s Legacy, Translated by Gilbert
Venables —3s; post, 3s 9d.
John Ploughman’s Pictures : More of his Talk, illus.—
Is 3d; post, Is Bd.
Fullerton’s The Family Medical Guide, with plant
directions for the Treatment of Every Case and a
list of medicines required for any household, by
George Fullerton, C.M , M.D., 3rd edition—l2s 6d;
post, 14s.
Profit on Returns: Tables for showing the price at
which goods must be sold in order to realise a given
rate per cent, of profit on selling price. Calculated
from Id to £lOOO, and 5 to 35 per cent. By J.
Scouller, Accountant.
The Crown Lands Acts of New South Wales, and the
Regulations, with notes and index. By John S.
Watkins, Esq., Barrister-at-Law—los 6d; post, 11s.
WILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
JURST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OP THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“ The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, woi
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
H
OMES
FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
▼ears realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
Ihem.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
.£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of -immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossiDia
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the . __ „
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near me
Hotel.


Business Cards
[Legal.J
SHORTER. FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
SOLICITORS.
69 CASTLBREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and _
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattbry,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
KEAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
S.
P R E D D E Y.
Gr AN D
* SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
0 W L E R’S
POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Mr . AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STRBET-
Pamphlets gratis.
S. MANDERS & CO.,
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
E.
0
N,
MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address —124 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets. Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-strect.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McM I N N AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
I NG STREET
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according l-o
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
M
Money
ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 Oeorge-streot (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Harden and Sons.
Hours : 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, Ac., Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY : repayable by instalments as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ » 0 7 6
20 0 10 6
25 10 0
30 „ .. 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
espened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M
ONE Y.
MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system. ,
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY. 760 George-street. Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street. next comer
King-street. Established 1859. ______
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above farm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery!
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and beet
price given for old metal.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, Sc.
International exhibition, isso
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCEAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of 11, 2,3,
and 61 cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
OHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge ronnd the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Major.uu on hand, Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN DT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins. 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
G
o
U N D
CONSOLIDATED
R
S
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crashes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn oat of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
he used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Qibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GO UNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since. ,
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To bo obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
w
H . ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT.
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 315 Kent-street, near King-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Beucraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows' Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 aud 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
LOUR SUPERFINE.
Fine Household aud Seconds. Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal. Pig Feed.
FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
vet offered to the public, in 71b bags or-larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
Manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS. Sue-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
F
M
AIZ E N A
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
The Goods for this Season were most carefully selected by our Mr. Samuel Hordern, who
has just returned from Europe, where his intimate knowledge of the Colonial Trade, combined
with an almost unlimited amount of ready money, enabled him to secure for each Department
throughout the House such real Bargains, both as to style and value, as we have seldom been able
to offer the public.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, of the Haymarket (only), beg to state that every
order from he country, receive prompt and careful attention, and the carriage and freight on
parcels of £2 10s. and upwards is prepaid by us.
We are constantly receiving letters from our customers in the country districts testifying to
the careful and atisfactory manner in which their orders have been attended to.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY,
Who are the original firm of the name, and who have No connection with any other establishment
of a similar name.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS are now Selling—
Horrocks’s Calicoes at less than wholesale prices
White Mosquito Net from 6£d. per yard
White Sheeting ,, 9d. ,,
Grey do. ,, 7d. ,,
Brown Holland, from 5d. per yard
Linen Table Damask from 1/7 per yard
Bedroom Towels ,, 3/- per dozen
Lace Curtains, 3 yards long, from 3/- per pair
Men’s Strong Tweed Trousers, all wool, 4/9 to 6/11
Durable Tweed Trousers and Vests, 12/- and 13/-
Four-buttou Sac Coats, 14/- and 16/-
Black Cloth Pagets, 18/- to 25/- (well finished)
Tweed Sac Suits, 25/- to 35/-
Tweed Paget Suits, 34/- to 46/-
Boys’ and Youths’ Straw Hats, Sailor and other
new shapes, 1/'-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-, &c.
Youths’ Soft Felt Hats, black, drab, and slate,
from 2/- to 10/6
The Helmet Hat, in Merino and Felt, from
2/6 to 10/6
All orders must be aocompanied by remittances, and customers are requested to make all post-office
orders payable at the “ Haymarket” Branch, to
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMAEKET (only),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION. SYDNEY.
I CTO RIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
U RPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers' Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tnr
Cement, Ac., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Bmshware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31. GEORGE STREET WEST.
R
E
Y,
JH j
• AV HEEL WRIGHT AND AVAQGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES. Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
iiisi«cct the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARV E Y,
Hay and Engine Streets.
ENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for urivate sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. Tbe fact or any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from regiator on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
ami Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
c
-g CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
ADVT
POSTAGE STAMPS.
(Opposite Court-house),
daeusghuest.
"Jg» OOT S ! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
070 GEORGE STREET,
BHICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
|g* NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
«70 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
REMOVAL.
THE undersigned have removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Tost
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
James pemell and co.,<
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STEEET,
SEAR THE HATMAKKET.
OFFICES AND STORES : k!
797 GEOEGE-STKEET SOUTH, SYDNEY :
OPPOSITE THE KATLWAT STATION. J
Silk-dressed. Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds.
FLOUK, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Corn, Harley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chatt,
, GEORGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.
JAMES CO., I
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PHIZES- Vienna. 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Pans, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Beunett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer. George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr D D Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
“ * ’ JOHN B. C. MILES, *-e’retai7.
No. 58. Margaret -street.


Miscellaneous
D EYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 Gbobge Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, lEONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Eequisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Eolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
MANGLES,
WASHING
'MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &o
Y^'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEGE STEEET.
PAINT
HE
BEST
IN
THE
It
•0
cXVU?
*
ri
*
A
BOMB
#STE*p*oa
I
m
&
C 2
WORLE
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., $ gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
abra - August 20th, 1880,-1 have found tht
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
lam inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint
My own house was painted with it about 15 months age
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Solo Agents,
foot of MARKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
N®. 11, PITT-STEEET,
M
Imparters of all Descriptions o
c
H I N
Have for Sole—
E R
Y,
A._Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
r—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Machinery- IL,„
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Eubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Eock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T, and G. Cutters. Machinery Oil, Eubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TfIYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETEM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDER LAZARUS AND^O.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET.
EME D Y
:“AISIir.CLEAIISINC
yp\i
WATIR FILTER
for impure water.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
.^ r 0 Sole -Agents for George Cheavin’s
Ramd Water Filter, _ which is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the elite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
round in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe—a success unparalleled by any
other Filter, Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
9L
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATE N_T).
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the ago. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should he patronised
by all classes of Society. From Bev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashjield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Aeyliinm, Sydney ; —Jeyes* Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. 'L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney; — My child had sore eyes for 2J years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. —-From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney; —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Miscellaneous
qlifford, love and CO
tea importers,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and no-w are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
■D°* ~ Peaberry
®°* „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE. C*
REDGATE’S
PATEMT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
R. HARPER & CO.,
i
PRIZE
e
t
mm
s?,
&Mm
WMm
<fe
c
*
f/1
ax
&
%
W
3||^ss>
•5-
<->:
s*.
c?
'P c <?
tv.:-.
%
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old by all Kroceri and Storekeepers
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
A*
BEAUTIFUL . arif*
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
111
Km
iJWEED
SUITS
'MEASURE
iSd.B«.
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns'°choose from
hlsummerfield
P!TTS T SYDN£Y.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERN'S
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO. ’S-
PRIZE
ALBERT WINES.
Red Wines: White Wines:
Reisling
Yerdeillio
Muscat
Malaga
. Tokay
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
CELLARS;
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors*
John Haynes and J. P. Archibald, at the Offices or
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney-
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
msm
&
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Keport says:—
“Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
r>
PRIZE
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
gHTGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE,
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£G 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. por-Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
THE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —PARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
s
SYDNEY.
9?
9>
O
o
$
& PAIN
*
AND
o
WK
A
187
189
Reques
*
Farmers
York
St
examine
*
Hornsby
a
STRIPPERS
A
369 f
George §[m{/&/ A9ents
M T M FOR
Hornsby’s^
Anglo-Australian
STRIPPERS
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
Our HORNSBY'S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to secure
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
The Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business.
