

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2—No. 25.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, JULY 17, 1880.
University Restrictions.
The able and exhaustive address of the Chancellor
of the University on Commemoration Day will
be read with deep interest by those who occupy
themselves with the all important question just
now of Education. And among this large class
few will be found unprepared to echo his matured
Opinion, expressed after a brief consideration of
the principles of its original framing, that “ the
University in its actual circumstances has become
unequal to the wants of the community.”
Certainly, as Sir William Mannish so forcibly
pointed out, her operations are much restricted
by financial difficulties, but we think he touched
on the real reason a little further down his address.
We are quite sensible of the peculiar charm and
grace of the old Conservative traditions clinging
like the mantling ivy round an institution such
as this, and hence we cannot forbear an emotion
of reverence for the spirit which animated the
founders of our University in devising its present
Constitution. But we submit that in colonies
such as those of which the Australian continent
is composed, where society is so widely different
from that from which the older home
Universities draw their graduates, a
departure from the traditional model is
excusable and even necessary. As colonial
society is constituted, it is the practical,
business-loving element which rises to
the surface. It is this class, therefore,
that commands the avenues to those
marts of learning which, as the mediaeval
adage so epigrammatically puts it, ever
require the possession of a “golden
purse.” But the keen* hard-headed man
of the world is scarcely the material
from which the enthusiastic and some-
what unpractical student of letters may
he evoked at will. It is this latter class,
nevertheless, which must necessarily form
the staple of a University. 'While, there-
fore, rigidly Conservative regulations are
strictly adhered to, it is evident that for
many generations to come —until, in fact,
society will have so far solidified itself
as to bear some affinity to that of older
countries —the scope ot our University’s
usefulness will be much narrowed down.
However, we feelingly unite in the plea
put forth by the worthy Chancellor for
those whom circumstances force to
desire to find in the University a
“practical help in the great struggle of
life which is before them.”
Religious Newspapers.
A BEiiaiocrs newspaper pure and
simple—that is to say an organ exclu-
sively devoted to a charitable and
disinterested advocacy of Christian
morality —ought to prove a most power-
ful agent for the promotion of every
kind of social virtue. But although the
world is very wide and very wicked,
and affords unlimited scope for such
truly philanthropic enterprises, society
has to thank very very few such
publications as these for being even as
good as it is. Truly there are many
sectarian mouthpieces which disgrace
civilization by continually belching
forth fire and’ brimstone at each other
with the most rancorous and determined
assiduity, but it would be bordering
upon a blasphemous abuse of terms to
call a paper of this kind a religous
organ. Let any one take up the so-
called religious papers of this city, look
down their columns and ask himself what
he sees. To which of the two anoma-
lously-combined departments viz, the
religious and the advertising—will he
find the more space devoted ? He will
very likely notice that one column is
given to a' dissertation upon the vanities of
life and the necessity for prayer and mortification
while the three next to it set forth in displayed
type the saving to be effected by purchasing
worldly follies and fripperies at fabulously cheap
shops. But some of the papers do not stop at
the puffing of these mundane trifles. A highly-
orthodox organ' in this city now inspires its
readers, and especially the youthful portion of
them, by advertising for their edification a
“cup consultation,” usually considered to
be an unrighteous institution, and even
more than this, the diabolical trade of
a convicted reprobate who, after having served
a sentence for one of the most heinous
of crimes has got loose again and informs
the public through the medium of the religious
press that he has once more commenced “ the
same old game.” We must charitably suppose
that the proprietors who pocket the few paltry
shillings which this advertisement brings in are
ignorant of the offence which they'arc offering to
society by publishing it, but even this ignorance
is culpable, for when men who, though professing
to preach the gospel, are not contented to live by
the gospel and aim at supplementing their incomes
by advertising quack nostrums, they should satisfy
themselves at least to the same extent as the
“secular” press of the character of the men
whom they puff. Do they forget the anger
of the Divine founder of the Christian religion
against those who converted the temple of God
into a den of thieves P The advertising notice
just alluded to would not obtain insertion in
any of the “secular” dailies or weeklies ; and it
may charitably be supposed that those who run
the newspaper for “ the glory of God and eight
per cent.” remain undeterred from publishing
an objectionable notification simply because, in
the first place, they know that only the righteous
wall see it; and because in the next, “ the Duke
may do that which in the peasant is ill-befitting.”
Mr. Buchanan on the Question "Does
Advertising Pay?”
If that great public man Mr. David Buchanan
is not good for much intellectually or politically,
it cannot be denied that he is “canny” and that
he is a striking proof of the value of advertising.
“ Canniness” is probably the only characteristic
of the land of his birth that he possesses unless
“closeness of fist” be deemed a Scotch virtue.
Those who have kept their eyes on the hon.
member for Mudgee have been rewarded by at
least one discovery. Whenever he wants to blurt
out some outre opinion, or vilify a respectable
individual, he goes to the House early, in
order to get fully reported and thereby well
advertised gratis, and then he shuffles off without
paying the least attention to the real business of
the day. This, his latest vagary, lias been
thus roughly animadverted on by the Sydney
correspondent of the Tahworth News, who
describes him (politically of course) as—
“An arrant charlatan,whose moral instincts are so
blunt, and whose execrable vanity is so overwhelming,
that he disregards all the conventionalities of refined in-
tercourse and literally exults over the humane feelings
he lacerates. No words at my command (continues the
correspondent) can adequately convey the disgust oc-
casioned by Mr. Davy Buchanan’s rliapsodical re-
marks made in the Assembly on the Glenrowan tragedy.
The maniacal rabies with which he mshed into the
affair, on a motion for adjournment, took off attention
for a brief time from the impropriety of his conduct.
When he had frothed out his last angry denunciation
against the Victorian police and the theory of reward-
ing anybody for performing any duty—however noble —
in a satisfactory manner, he threw himself all-of-ft-heap
—flushed, panting, and scowling—backwards on his
seat; and was soon figuratively “ sat on” by Sir Henry
Paukes, who for once in his life really administered a
Sk>und rhetorical flagellation to the blowhard, and put
a fool's cap, with a laughable 11 coxcomb " in front of it
on Daw’s shameless tawny brow. It is useless to in-
voke public opinion against the blatant braggadocio of
the Assembly, because he is impenetrable to all the
refined feelings of the community. He will caper his
hour, hray at his own asinine pleasure, kick, bite, and
snort, no matter how roughly he may be entreated, so
long as he has a seat in the Assembly. He certainly
made a more Quixotic Boanerges on the day referred
to than he ever did before, even in the rowdiest of his
digging days. He has, however, the satisfaction —poor
braggart!—of hearing himself talked of (despite the
rain and slush) in the principal streets of the city to-
day. But I have written more than enough on this
“ bulli " boy talkee man.”
This is sound, forcible criticism. Let us hope
that it will at least be the means of inducing the
people of Mudgee to refrain from taking Mr. Bu-
chanan at his own valuation and that it will,too,do
something in the way of regulating that shockingly -
abused and long-endured nuisance, the “ motion
for adjournment.”
The Hon. Sir John Robertson, K.C.M.G.
Politico-philosophic writers are not agreed
among themselves —will never probably agree —on
the qualities, mental and moral, that constitute a
genuine statesman. They have not in fact formu-
lated the laws of true statesmanship, although
many of them (Carlyle and Stuart Mill for in-
stance) have ably examined some of its general
principles. The opposite modes of thought, feel-
ing, and action which respectively distinguish
Disraeli and Gladstone sufficiently indicate the
difficulty of arriving at definite conclusions on a
subject so complex. It would be hardly in accord
with the canons of rigid criticism to accept the
dictum of the illustrious Ximenes to the effect
that it takes very little wisdom to govern a nation.
and that people generally are ignorant of
the ease with which they are governed,
as a solution of the difficulty. But what-
ever differences of opinion may exist as to
the constituents of real statesmanship—
the opposite of the Machiavellian
theory—and the characteristic lineaments
of a model statesman, there are few
(if any) conflicts of thought on the
qualities that make a public man
popular—that serve to raise him to the
position of a Tribune of the People. A
mercurial temperament, an eloquent
tongue, a bold self-assertiveness, a real
or ably-simulated patriotism, and a
dogged perseverance, with perhaps a
certain elasticity of conscience, will he
found amongst the principal factors that
go to make up a first-class political
reputation. The same qualities, intensi-
fied and exaggerated, constitute the
demagogue, and help to mark the con-
trast between the late Daniel O’Connell
and Feargus O’Connor. These remarks
are appropriately introductory to the
brief memoir we are about to give of
the distinguished gentleman whose por-
trait—an excellent likeness—adorns to-
day’s issue of The Bulletin, and whose
name will be for ever historic in the
annals of the colony. Sir John Robertson
is essentially a man of the people, and
all the leading circumstances of his early
life, including its accidents, tended to
fit him for his colonial career of the last
five-and-twenty years—a career haloed
with a luminous popularity, notwith-
standing the dark spots some independent
observers see on its surface. He was
born at Bow, in Essex, on 16th October,
his father being a Scotsman and his
mother an Englishwoman. Ho was their
fourth child, and was brought with
them when they immigrated to this
colony in 1820. In about his ninth year,
young Robertson entered Dr. Lang’s
Sydney College, and afterwards pursued
the (elements of learning under Mr.
Gilchrist and Mr. Cape; but it was
probably in the golden-brown bush about
Sydney, or on the dark-blue waters of
Port Jackson as “stroke” or coxswain of
a fishing-boat that ho developed those
qualities of daring and endurance which
have enabled him to hold his own in the
midst of difficulties for a whole genera-
tion. His early life reads like a romance.
Glance at a few of the facts. Eman-
cipated from the trammels of the school-
house, we find him cattle-driving, or
fencing on the banks of the Hunter,
whither his parents removed in 1835, or
establishing a station where Gunnedah
now stands. He must have endured
many privations during his early rough
| experiences of the “ bush,” and it snr-
i prises no one to learn that he begins
j to sigh for a “life on the ocean
j wave.” Full of animation, resolute to
grapple with difficulties, and obedient
to an irresistible impulse to see the world, he threw
up his pastoral pursuits before he was 20 years of
age, made for Sydney, where he found a ship (the
“ Sovereign ”) ready for sea, on board of which he
worked his way to London. There he succeeded,
through the accident of writing a characteristic
letter to the mother of a “hand” on his father’s
station, in obtaining an introduction to Lord Pal-
merston, who invited him to Broadlands, enter-
THE HON. SIR JOHN ROBERTSON, K.C.M.G, (From a p[?]rtrait by J. Hubert Newman.)


The Palmer Chronicle is for sale, notwith-
standing that on the Palmer drinks are now only six-
pence each.
Queensland Punch is out again. This
month’s number is, in our opinion, the beet yet pub-
lished. The artist has completely disillusionised us,
and furnishes a picture which should be carefully
studied by all bachelors. He gives what may be termed
a plan, (dis) section and elevation of lovely woman, and
makes her out to be even a more complete mistress of
the art of deception than would even appear from the
bitterly-worded indictment preferred against her by
“ Ouida,” in her latest, “Moths.”
The Ancient Persians, we are informed by historians
taught their youth three useful thingsTo read, to
draw the bow, and to speak the truth.” And for these
simple maxims they have secured the admiration of
posterity. Those maxims should be universal in this
colony. It is true that for people living at Eedmyre it
is not absolutely necessary to be able to ride on horse-
back because the railway is so convenient and the
fares are so low. And it is equally true that the Mount
Vernon Estate is so beautifully situate and so very con-
venient to the station that visitors may be pardoned
for drawing the long bow a little; but the auctioneers
are bound to speak the truth, and they are obliged ac-
cordingly to say that the Mount Vernon Estate, Eed-
myre, is the finest property on the railway line. And
that it will be sold by Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist, on
Saturday afternoon, at half-past 3, on the etonnd. Call
and get a lithograph.—Auvr.
tained him handsomely for a few days, and ex-
pressed a strong desire to serve him in his future
career. A certain similarity of temperament
awakened a sympathy for the young Australian in
the breast of the English statesman. Two years’
experiences as a sailor gave him a distaste for the
sea. He returned to New South Wales, rejoined
his family, soon after married, and settled down to
pastoral pursuits with a determination to succeed.
His natural eloquence (notwithstanding a grave
impediment in utterance) and his undoubted
energy soon brought him into public notice, more
particularly as an exponent of certain alleged
grievances of the squatters, especially an
attempt to limit the grazing area as then pre-
scribed. About 1852 he became a contributor to
the People’s Advocate newspaper, and besides
contending for a liberal policy in reference to the
public lands, he contributed several practical
papers on the destruction of the dingo, then the
pest of flock-masters, and suggested better because
more humane means than had previously prevailed
of dealing with the aborigines. When the New
Constitution Act came into operation in 1856 his
vigorous land policy recommended him to several
constituencies. He was the first candidate under
the auspices of the new measure to issue an
address to the electors, in which he laid down as
the basis of his political creed —Manhood Suffrage,
Vote hy Ballot, National Education, the Abolition
of State Aid to Religion, and Free Selection on
the Lands of the colony before survey. He has
never swerved from these opinions, although he
has occasionally changed front as a “ party” man,
and associated himself with former political oppo-
nente. He certainly from the first caught the ear
of the country, and has been with a few short-
lived reverses the “ foremost man of all his time ”
in the arena of colonial politics. He succeeded
in making himself necessary to the exigencies of
Mr. (afterwards Sir) Charles Cowper, in whose
Ministry of 1858 he became Secretary for
Lands. Although failing at first to win Parlia-
mentary appreciation of his Land scheme Mr.
Robertson persisted in his policy; by degrees it
became popular, and was ultimately (in 1861)
carried into legislative effect by a triumphant Par-
liamentary majority. The measure prohibiting
grants for public worship received his best aid;
and he gave ungrudging support to the Public
Schools Act of the Parkes Ministry in 1866.
Through the evolution of party tactics, he became
Colonial Secretary in October, 1868 ; retired from
that position in favour of his old chief (Cowper),
taking the portfolio of Lands, little more than a
year later; coalesced with Sir James Martin in
1872; and finally capped a political life full of
vicissitudes, but always marked with energy,
ability, and vigilance, by joining Sir Henry Parkes
on the defeat of the Parnell Ministry in December,
1873. Although rejected for West Sydney about
the same time Sir Henry had to succumb to
popular disapproval in the Eastern Metropolitan
Electoral Division. Sir John was returned for the
Bogan and Mudgee, for which latter he elected to
take his seat. On Ills union with Sir Henry
Parkes he retired from the Assembly, was nomi-
nated to the Upper House, became Vice-President
of the Executive Council, and was (it is generally
believed) in receipt of a salary at the rate
of <£1,500 a year from the joint contributions
of his colleagues. His elevation, a few weeks ago,
to the bureau of Public Instruction, placed him
financially and officially in a true Ministerial posi-
tion. The leading events of Sir John Roberson’s
life are too complex and too near onr own time to
be dealt with just now in these columns. He has
exhibited all through his public career an extraor-
dinary amount of endurance ; and if the exac-
tions of his temperament have sometimes blurred
his clearness of perception, he has never betrayed
an utter want of tact or a lack of intelligence.
For weal or woe—for better or worse —he has been
true to the political belief of his middle age ; and
whether it is or is not an instance of the obstinacy
that so often accompanies foregone conclusions,
he believes as confidently in his Land Legislation
now as he did a quarter of a century ago. He is
still vigorous in mind and body, and bids fair to
be a foremost political athlete for many years to
come.
Mr. Edwin Browne.
Mr. Edwin Browne, whose portrait we print else-
where in to-day’s issue, and who comes to us from
America with high credentials from the Press of the
States, was born in Loudon in 1844, and went to Ame-
rica with his parents while in his sixth year. After
graduating with credit at the Racine (Wisconsin) High
School, he enlisted as a private in the Union Army in
1861, and in the following year was severely wounded at
the battle of South Mountain. He rose to the rank of
captain, aud at the expiration of his term of service
donned “ the sock aud buskin ” under the tutorship of
the famous Thomas E. Mills and the late Thomas
Barry, becoming, according to several of the leading
American journals, an actor of merit from the very
start. After managing for and supporting the favorite
Eastern actress, Miss Katie Putman, in leading part for
several years in many of the largest towns of the Bast,
Mr. Browne appeared in all the principal cities of the
States, excepting those of the-Pacific Slope, to which,
however, he paid a successful visit in March and April
las, playing at the Standard Theatre. He opens in Mel-
bourne at the close of “New Babylon,” and returns
to Sydney after completing his Melbourne engagement.
The San Francisco papers—the Chronicle, Call, Bul-
letin, Alta, Post, Figaro— all speak of him in high
terms, one journal remarking in regard to his imperso-
nation of Tender Jim in “As Good as Gold ”: “ Mr.
Edwin Browne comes to us with an excellent Eastern
reputation, and not without deserving it. As Tender
Jim he displayed those characteristics always to be
found in actors brought up as such. His carriage is easy
and graceful, his face full of expression and dramatic
fire, and his elocution and pronunciation of the verna-
far above the general run of actors who become stars in
sensational dramas. His treatment of Tender Jim was
received by the audience with many marks of favor.”
We hope soon to welcome Mr. Browne bock to Sydney,
and trust that his impersonations will bear out the re-
markably favourable notices given Mm by the Press of
what must be considered his own country.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Ned Kelly has been further remanded.
The Gtmpie Mixer has changed bands.
Parliament has been prorogued until August 31.
Frost has touched up the sugar cane in South
Queensland.
The names of the streets are painted on the gas-
lamps at Stanmore.
The Coffee Palace No. 2 at the Circular Quay is
a pronounced success.
Messrs. Walker and D. Holborow are likely
candidates for Winflsor.
Dan O’Connell lease, Charters Towers, has
crushed 133 tons for 1157 oz.
It is authoritatively stated that the alleged dis-
covery of gold at Fiji is a fraud.
The Czar of Russia recently shot and mortally
wounded his confidential servant.
Ketten’s appearance at Wagga is fixed for the
26th instant, at the Masonic Hall.
The Graving: Dock, Lyttelton, where 140 men
are employed, is progressing rapidly.
The Conglomerate prospecting party (Cooktown
district) have met with good indications.
According to the New York Herald, Calcraft,
the English hangman, died worth £20,000.
Whitehead and Co are in full swing meat-pre-
serving at Rockhampton—l6o men employed.
All Communists hut those connected with in-
cendiarism and assassinaton have been amnestied.
The Inner Domain Gallery has been handed
over to the Trustees of the National Art Collection.
The eclipse of the moon was visible under most
favorable circumstances in the various N.Z. towns.
The Service Ministry desire to abolish Civil
Service pensions, gratuities, and superannuation allow-
ances.
There is a fall of ten feet in the first twenty-four
feet at the south-eastern entrance to the Petersham
Railway Station.
The Windsor people, unable to obtain a dredge
from Government, have commenced piling the river at
their own expense.
A Municipal gentleman of Manly is arranging
for a great poultry show. Part of the decorations are
already decided on.
A London physician lately advertised in the
Times for a lady housekeeper, offering liberal terms,
and received 1100 applications.
Great attention is directed towards sugar plant-
ing as a remunerative investment. Good sugar land at
the Mackay and Herbert rivers is worth £2O per acre.
Large numbers of people have this week visited
the stores of Messrs. Royle and Hogg, in Bond-street,
to see the “New Light,” which well repays the trouble
of a call. .
Haddock’s “ Guide to , Sydney ” is one of our
most successful colonial productions. In was recently
enlarged and now contains a vast fund of useful and
information.
A speculative Yankee is talking of building a
sanatorium on Athelstone Range, Rockhampton, for
invalids suffering from chest complaints. Such an insti-
tution is sadly wanted.
The Kelly and Leon Company, with Miss Emma
Wangenheim, have returned from Melbourne after a
fairly successful season there and overland. They now
meditate a provincial tour.
A big Civil servant, not a letter-carrier, residing
at Parramatta, wrote a ream of cricketing reports, and
threatens to ruin the Evening Lvbe and T. and C. for
not devoting 14 columns to his wail.
At Wellington, N.Z., during the hearing of cer-
tain sly-grog selling cases, several of the demi-monde
armed themselves with horsewhips for the purpose of
chastising the informers. The police interfered.
Mr. J. J. Shillinglaw, F.R.G.S., of Melbourne, is
hon. secretary to a movement the object of .which is
to place a memorial over John Batman’s remains, which
lie in an unmarked grave in the old Melbourne cemetery.
At Gore, Otago, a firm of merchants has issued
in the form of a circular, an essay on the general dis-
honesty of the public. Then another firm sent out an
amusing production, breathing a decidedly martial
spirit.
At Akaroa, N.Z., Mr. Wiggins, a councillor and
owner of the local paper, has been fined £lO for being
concerned in work to be done for the Council or, in
other words, publishing borough council advertise-
ments.
There must evidently be something wrong with
the New Zealand laws of divorce, as a member recently
asked the Government whether they intended to bring
in a bill to amend it. The answer was “ not this
session.
Every morning the colonists of New Zealand rise
out of their beds, Snndays included, they have to pay to
the English capitalist £4153 18s. l|d. for interest on the
colonial debt, which now amounts to £1,516,176 per
annum.
Messrs. Bailey and Kerr who left last week for
the Brisbane Exhibition were about the first to receive
the N.S.W. International Exhibition certificate. A first
prize was awarded them as agents for famous brands of
brandy.
The RepubUque Francaise, in an article supposed
to be written by Gambetta, denounced the Jesuits,
unauthorised religions congregations, Jeromists, Bona-
partists, and even the Church itself, as sworn enemies
of the Republic.
Dyson, an old tailor of British-Tasmanian ex-
traction, has been sentenced to 12 months’ imprison-
ment at Timaru (N.Z.) for stealing drapery. He told a
pitiful tale to the Bench, but, on inquiries being made,
it was found to contain no truth.
The Pastoral Times says that the Kellys and
their outrages are direct results of a system which per-
mits free selection before survey; that the facilities
afforded for 'taking up land in remote and not easily
accessible districts, where religions and educational
influences can scarcely penetrate, have produced a race
of godless, lawless men and women, half bandits, half
cattle-stealers, and wholly vicious; and that the whole
affair has a lesson for us which we ought not to miss.
Mr. Marcus Lynch, of Mndgee Telegraph Office,
has been promoted to the charge of Eylston Station —
which the many Sydney pressmen who have had ex-
perience of Mr. Lynch’s courtesy, and his rapid and
accurate telegraphy, are glad to hear.
It is directed by the Prussian authorities that
any officer who shall be struck by a civilian must forth-
with draw upon that civilian, though the latter is un-
armed and defenceless, and cut him down upon the sjiot.
An officer neglecting to perform this duty is liable to be
cashiered.
The Express, Archbishop Vaughan’s organ,
devoted a leader of a column and a half last week to
abusing the Pacific Weekly for its article on Mr.
Dailey’s address at Eandwick. The most vigorous
article which has yet appeared in the Express is that
on “ Renan and Bradlaugh,” also in last week’s
number.
The Reillys, selectors, father and sons, stuck
up a squatter named Hearue the other day near Edeu-
hope, Victoria, and made him give them a cheque for
£3OO, the amount of a disputed account. They were
all most immediately arrested by the police, to whom,
although armed, they offered merely passive resistance.
The Tines correspondent says that the Russian
authorities in Siberia made some curious discoveries
when examining the food which friends are allowed to
bring to prisoners. Two hundred and thirty roubles
(halt-crowns) were found one day in a basin of butter-
milk. A man was repeatedly found drunk. His wife
brought him milk, and the officers tasted it, but still
the man was drunk. At length it was found that the
milk-jug had a false bottom, and a hole in the handle.
What will not topers do for drink ? Another woman
essayed to smuggle brandy in a pig’s entrails. An officer
gave his opinion that 80 per cent, of the thousands of
criminals that had passed through his hands owed their
exile to drink. The correspondent concludes by saying
—“ I left Asia with the impression that if a prisoner
chooses to behave decently well, he may be in Siberia
more comfortable than in many, and as comfortable as
in most, of the prisons of the world.”
The Annual Commemoration of the Orange So-
ciety of New South Wales took place at, the Old Exhi-
bition Building on the evening of the 12th inst., and
was attended by fully 8,000 persons. R.W.G.M. Hicks
presided. The gathering was a most influential one.
A man named John Spiers was recently brought
up at the Auckland (N.Z.) Police Court for the 88th
time on a charge of drunkenness. The presiding magis-
trate remarked that prisoner would be able to keep his
centenary soon.
The bushranger Power, once the companion-in-
arms of the notorious Ned Kelly, is still an imnate of
the Pentridge prison hospital, suffering from an old
disease contracted during his bushranging’ career. He
is as helpless as a child, and now has a long bear'd which
has become qnite white.
“ Thirty Years Experience of an Irish Police
Magistrate,” a work published in cheap form, is having
a large sale. It is full of historical and other inci-
dents, and affords first-class entertainment. It may be
obtained of Mr. George Robertson, of George-street.
The Union Company’s Te Anau raced the T.S.N.
Co.’s Southern Cross from Melbourne to Hobart
Town. The steamers were abreast of each other from
Swan Island. The Cross formerly carried the colonial
blue ribbon, but compound engines have lost her
prestige.
Mr. B. W. Cameron, draper, of King-street,
who broiight an action against Mr. J. Mitchell,
now residing in New England, found to his cost- that a
husband whose wife is living apart from him without
his authority or consent, is not liable for debts con-
tracted by her without his permission; and as, on the
other hand, a wife so situated can, if sued for debt,
successfully plead that she is not liable, on the ground
that she is a married woman, not judicially separated
from her husband, her position, like that of her creditor
—is a legally anomalous one.
During the next Session of the Queensland
Parliament, the Postmaster-General (Buzacott) will ask
for permission to issue Treasury notes of the val ueof
ss. and 2s. 6d. These will he payable on demand and
prove a great convenience in the bush, where any sum
less than a note, except in the form of an 1.0. U., is very
rare. The innovation is to be made in deference to the
wishes of a number of bush residents, who are anxious
to subscribe to Queensland Punch, the subscription to
which periodical is six shillings a year, paid strictly in
advance.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
They want Saint Mark’s Church, choir, parson
and peal of bells at Petersham —yes, very urgently.
The Rev. John Alexander Dowie hasn’t fixed a
day yet for laying the foundation stone of his £20,000
church. ,
The Irish Church Mission Society for the con-
version of the Irish, was wound up in London the 12th
May, £lOOO in debt.
Mr. Latham was to bring forward in the House
of Commons a motion for the dis-establishment of the
Church of England.
The Rev. Mr. Grimm, Presbyterian, in leaving
Young, was presented with several addresses and purses
of sovereigns from different denominations.
The Rev. J. Mackie, of Edinburgh, has been
appointed Missionary to the Jews at Beyerout in con-
nection with the Established Church of Scotland.
Mr. Spurgeon has ,£5400 subscribed towards the
Girls’ Orphanage, Clapham. £7OOO is the total amount
required. £3OOO had previously been spent in purchas-
ing the site.
The financial position of the Irish Episcopal
Church “ is such as to require the serious attention of
the General Synod.” The income decreases £lO,OOO to
£15,000 annually.
It is known that there exists in the Yale of
Aylesbury beneath the Chancel of Wing Church a
crypt which dates from the early Saxon times, and has
all the appearances of a Roman basilica.
Probably the most extraordinary instance of
self-denial on record is that of the Rev. Dr. Tucket,
who has resigned a 6000 dollar pastorate in New York
and accepted a 3000 dollar call to Andover, Mass.
The Pope recently underwent an operation that
required his resting for several days. He was recom-
mended by his physicians to seek a change of air for the
restoration of his health. He declined their advice.
The Nonconformist bodies declined on the grounds
of religious equality to join in the recent movement
against the appointments of Lord Ripon and Kenmnre
us Viceroy of India and Lord Chamberlain respectively.
The Rev. T. De Witt Talmage says :—“I never
attempt a profound lecture now. I once affected snck
depth In discourse, but I found out that I made two
mistakes—the first was that the audience did not know
what I was talking about, and the second was that I did
not myself know.”
Dr. Alphonso Fraysse, S.M., D.D., will on
Sunday week, at St. Mary’s be consecrated Bishop of
Abila (in partibus in fldelium) and will succeed tbe
Right Rev. F. Yiette, D.D., as Bishop of New Caledonia.
Archbishop Vaughan and the Bishops of Bathurst and
Goulbum will officiate at the ceremony, which will he
an imposing one.
Dr. Somerville, the Evangelist who was recently
in this colon3’, had 1500 persons to hear him in the
Alhambra, Rome. Tbe veto of the municipality against
the services was cast aside. The Evangelist was invited
to Naples and Florence, where he was to be free from
official interference.
The late Mr. Buist, of Lanfahll, made several
bequests to the Established Church of Scotland. The
Home Mission gets £6000; Endowment Scheme, £lOOO
Colonial Scheme, £lOOO ; Ministers’ Widow Fund,
£lOOO. The residue of the estate, estimated at £28,000,
is to he further divided among the Indian, Colonial,
Home and Endowment Schemes.
Canon Farrar, preaching before the Cambridge
University recently, while expressing his attachment to
the Scriptures, denied that they were to give full cre-
dence to all parts; he showed that tyranny, murder,
slavery and intolerance had been supported and justi-
fied by certain passages. The Canon is said to have
been particularly severe upon the intolerance of class
and party, and of Church newspapers. In regard to the
latter his remarks have a local application.
Archbishop Vaughan makes his appeal for the
cathedral movement in these word s:—“ The queen city
of the southern hemisphere and the oldest of Catholic
archiepiscopal centres in this great continent calls for
something, in the religious sense, in keeping with the
dignity which belongs to it; and the new cathedral,
when opened, will place the Catholic sentiment in har-
mony with legitimate aspirations and make us fee! satis-
fied that the centre home of religion amongst us is in
keeping with the general advancement of the age.”
Underwood's Royal Surrey, Waverley.
There is no hotel in the suburbs or outskirts of
the city where a more enjoyable afternoon can
be spent than at Underwood’s Royal Surrey Arms,
Waverley. The house appears to have been put
up to provide a welcome, and if it has answered
the requirements of the neighborhood it has also
proved a pleasant and and well-managed rendez-
vous for persons who are compelled to leave the
busy city and find rest and recreation elsewhere.
The hotel which stands on the ’bus route between
Sydney and Waverley and Bondi, has a good
frontage to the street, as may be seen from the
engraving, and has been built to Mr. F. Under-
wood’s orders on plans dictated by considerations
of convenience and health. The foundations are
on the solid rock, and the walls are staunch. The
drainage and ventilation are excellent, and the
rooms, which are all painted instead of papered,
are large and airy. The bar, the parlors, private
rooms, cellars, store rooms, kitchen, etc., are all
set off with a good eye to the requirements of the
business, and the furnishing throughout is ample
aud in good taste. The walls are decorated with
the best sporting pictures to be found in the
colony, and with landscapes and other views done
by good artists and clever amateur friends. The
liquors like those at the Surrey Arms in the city
are not to be surpassed, as the business in this
respect is a very important one. In the upper
rooms of the hotel there is an article well worth
the inspection of our colonial manufacturers. It
is a 6U-guinea bedetead, specially manufactured
aud sent out to orderly Messrs. Smee and Co.
London. .It is quite a'work of art and doubtless
superior to any work of the kind of the colony.
The billiard rooms, however, are par excellence
the attraction of the hotel. The room in ordinary
use is large and well lighted and furnished with a
first-class table. The principal saloon adjoins, but
is separate. It may fairly be described as one of
the best billiard saloons in the colony, and the
proprietor deserves to be complimented for his
taste and enterprise. It has proved a boon to the
gentlemen residing round about Waverley. It was
specially erected for billiards. Mr. Thomas was
the architect. It is constructed of cedar, and
the roof is raised so as to admit of the
light falling evenly all round the room from the
skylights. The ventilation is faultless. A splen-
did six-light lamp, sent out for show at our Great
International, illuminates the room at night and
decorates it by day. The table stands in a clear
open space, and at the sides are slightly raised
platforms for the spectators. The seating con-
sists of the best Austrian perforated and covered
chairs and settees, and at one end qf the room
there is a splendid bronze hat and umbrella-stand.
The table is a gem ; it cost 350g5., and is Thurs-
ton’s prize table from the International Exhibi-
tion. It stands on twelve carved, massive legs,
fitted with adjusting screws to secure an absolute
level. With the table is a marking board, con-
structed on an entirely new principle, with re-
quisites for marking and scoring all kinds of
games. These, with the cue racks, make the
finest oollectiou of billiard furniture to be found
anywhere. This is the verdict of all who have
seen them. In every department of the hotel
care and good management are observable, and it
cannot but continue to do a first-ffiass business.
The most noticeable features in the result of
the Victorian general election, which all admirers of
honest Government must regret, was decided con-
siderably in favour of “tar-brushism,” were the rejec-
tion at Sandhurst of Mr. MTntyre in favour of Mr.
Quick (Berryite); the defeat at Maryborough of Mr. J.
L. Pnrves (Ministerialist), the eminent barrister; and
the return at West Bourke’ of Mr. Dfiakin and Sir
Bryeu o'Loghlen|as against Messrs. Harper aud Staugh-
ton, the Ministerial sitting members. Berry will
probably have a majority of ten, which though suffi-
cient to keep him m office will not place him in his
former powerful position. No less than three members
of the Age staff —Messrs. Dow, Dcakiu and Quick —have
been returned to the Assembly. However, anyone
conversant with Victorian political affairs will, on
scanning the results of the polling for each constitu-
ency, will find little reason to despair of the ultimate
triumph of respectability.
Richard Driver.
Gone to the silent land! and we who now
With unfeigned sorrow bend above his dust.
Must follow after, as we each in turn
Are called to render up life’s sacred trust.
When the last summons comes, may we, like him,
Sink to our sleep with every good man’s tongue
Proclaiming generous deeds, and how the song
Of life from first to last was nobly sung.
With tender care we lay aside thy form.
But gather up thy virtues one by one,
And bear them hence as heirlooms to our sons.
Fruits of a race by honor’s champion run.
We mourn thy absence as mankind must mourn
The patriot sinking in his noontide fame;
But in the cup of sorrow which we drink
Stainless and pure we see an honored name.
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.


T
Lessee
HEA T R E
]
M
EIGHTEENTH WEEK and -
SUCCESS
of
THE LONDON COMEDY (
POSITIVELY LAST TWO !
PYGMALION and GAI
and
WAR TO THE KN]
THIS (Saturday) EVENING,
The LONDON COMEDY (
will appear in a new Comedy, in tl
from the French of M.M. Henm
authors of the “ Pink Dominos,” en
BETSY,
By F. C. Bumand.
Mr. Alexander Birkett Mr. Edj
Mr. Adolphus Birkett Mr. Art
Captain Eedmond M‘Manus Mr. G. i
Bichard Talbot Mr. Fr
Mr. Samuel Dawson Mr. Fn
Mrs. Birkett Mrs. M
Mrs. M'Manus Mrs. G
Madame Polenta Miss A
Nellie Bassett Miss A
Grace Peyton Miss N
Betsjf Miss B
Stage Manager ... Mr. Fred'
Doors open at 7.15.
Overture at 8.
Prices of Admission. —Dress C
3s ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co.’s
where seats can be secured six ■
ARTHUR GARN
ICTORIA Tl
Lessees —Messrs. COPPIN, HENN
VILLE.
GEEAT DOUBLE B
SATUEDAY, 17th J
And following Event
GEATTAN RIGGS
For the First Time in Aus
JOSH THE YANKI
Josh C
To conclude with the Irish
HANDY ANDY.
Andy
NOVELTY UPON NO 1
In active preparatk
Doors open at 7. Commence at S.
Box Office at Paling’s.
Manager—J.
QUEEN’S T B
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Business
THE EVENTS OF THE
The engagement of the Colonial A
MR. GEORGE DAR
and the production of hi
THE FOELOEN HOPE.
THE FOELOEN H
THE :
TO-NIGHT (FEIDAY),
THE LAST NIGHT
THE L
of this wonderful drama and its he
mechanical effects, the theme of gei
100 TEAINED AUXILII
The Squatting Homestead —
The A. S. N. Co.’s Whs
The Field of Battle —and
Sy
pictures of beauty and naturalise
nessed upon eny stage.
SATUEDAY NEXT, J
TEANSPOETED FC
Dross Circle, 3s. Stalls, 2
Box plan at Nicholson and j
P E E A H
Comer King and Yorl
Lessee ...
THIS EVENING, Jul
GRAND AMATEUR CU
All aspirants wanting a chance t<
communicate with Mr. Davis, Opej
EEC ANTILE ROWING CLUB.
The ANNUAL BALL of this CLUB will again take
place in the EXHIBITION BUILDING, PEINCE
ALFEED PAEK, on the above date, under the patron-
age of His Worship the Mayor (R. Fowler, Esq.), and
the MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
DRESS: PLAIN and FANCY.
TICKETS :
Double, 30s: Gentleman’s Single, 20s; Lady’s
Single, 12s Od.
STEWARDSR. Fowler, Esq. (Mayor of Sydney);
The Hon. James Watson; W. M. Alderson. Esq-; F.
E. Allt, Esq. ; John Alger, Esq.; S. Dickinson, Esq.;
Owen Friend, Esq.; John Gardyne, Esq.: A. C. Garrick,
Esq.: W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.: J. G. Hanks, Esq.; John
Hardie, Esq.; John Hinchcliffe, Esq.; J. S. Jamieson,
Esq.; W. Laidley, Esq.; Janies Merriman, Esq.; C. K.
Moore. Esq.; G. Mnnro, Esq.; J. Newtqn, Esq.; John
Pope, Esq.: Charles Pearse, Esq.; C. J. Roberts, Esq.;
Carl Sahl, Esq.; John See, Esq.; H. Woolnough, Esq.
COMMITTEE:- W. E. Benson, John Blackman, V.
R. Bowden, A. Byme. C. A. Bros, F. Boulton. C. J.
Burns, W. G. Brett. E. Cleland, D. Dennis, J. S. Drew,
G. Drees, D. Fletcher, C. Garvan, W. W. Gibson, P.
Hordern, F. Isler. F. Jackson. K. A. Keddle, H.
Lockrey, R. Langley, J. M Kensey, F. Mcuntcastle, H.
Meares, E. W. Moon, L. E. Mitchell, T. F. Strange, J.
Smart, C. Williams
Double, 30s; Gentleman’s Single, 20s • Lady’s Single,
12s 6d, may now be had from tue Stewards, Committee,
or Messrs. Holdsworth, Oardyne and Co., E, Cantor,
Farmer and Co.. H. W. Webb, W. H. Paling, Elvy and
Co., Peapes and Shaw, and Parrot Brothers.
THE COMPAGNONI PALACE CATERING Co. will
provide the refreshments —Mr. C. W. P.OBERTB the
liquors and the YOUNG AL r STEALIAN BAND the
music.
D. MURRAY, Hon. Secretary! M. R. C. Ball
F. B. Ball, Hon. Treasurer > Con mittee.
ANNUAL BALL.
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
22nd JULY NEXT.
TICKETS:
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
By QUIZ.
Peep the Eighth—Galatea.
In my ‘ peeps ” hitherto the public bave generally been
more or less criticised, but in this paper I shall devote
my pen to the “ stage,” being a constant and steady
theatre-goer. Almost every piece of any merit is well-
known by me and although in my papers I bave written
concerning every part of the theatre and its inmates,
the stage and those who people it have really a far
greater charm for me. The house may be crowded, as
it often is, with beauty and fashion, and I seated
among them, but so long as the curtain is raised, the
stage and its occupants have my whole attention. The
play I intend to notice is Gilbert’s satirical comedy,
“Pygmalion and Galatea.” It has been acted by
numerous companies on our boards aud we have bad
many personators of Galatea, good, bad aud indifferent.
Until the arrival of Gamer’s “ Comedy Company,”
our best Galatea was that given many years back, by a
gifted Australian actress, Florence Colville (now Mrs.
Hoskins), but even her acting is eclipsed by that of
Blanche Stammers. From the moment that yon hear
her voice trembling in its new-found power, calling
softly but clearly on Pygmalion, to its last echo
as* she mournfully repeats his name whilst volun-
tarily turning once more into cold inanimate marble,
her whole acting, look, tones aud gesture, are perfec-
tion . Her dress, with one exception (that of high-heeled
boots instead of sandals), is perfect. Naturally a
pretty woman, her beauty is enhanced three-fold by the
peculiar surroundings of the play, her classic white
robes 1 ; statuesqne iu their drapery—where every one else
is in colors—the delicate skin tint, scarcely more
colored than when she stood as Galatea, a masterpiece
of art fresh from the modelling tools of the artist
Pygmalion—her wonderful surprise aud exquisite
delight when she views her own face iu the hand mirror,
are the very acme of good acting and shew an amount
of careful study few may give her credit for. The
innocent delight she shews in questioning Pygmalion—
whom she regards as the author of her being—her
ridiculously mala-propos remarks to him when Chrysos
is present, her pretty puzzled look when told she
“should not speak like that,’ her childish loving
appeals to Pygmalion to tell her what is right, are all
the result of careful study. She cannot reason or think,
because, as sbe artlessly told the astonished patron of
art (Chrysos), she was only made yesterday. Of course
her very innoceney is the cause of unutterable
woe to all around her, ending iu the jealous Cynisca
calling on the gods to strike Pygmalion blind.
Then comes her display of grief, when male to see the
dire consequences of her outspoken love for Pygma-
lion. Looking at him, and hearing them all say she is
the cause, in her despair she turns to the gods for aid.
She offers her own short young life as the sacrifice, and
as she listens to Pygmalion denouncing her as the
cause of all his misery—first estrangement from his
wife, then her just anger striking him with blindness—
she turns slowly away from life, and all she loved in
that short space of living bliss, and with just one little
cry of farewell to Pygmalion, resumes her stand by the
column, and returns almost instantaneously to marble.
Blanche Stammers’ acting throughout was that of a
finished artist. As Pygmalion Titheradge out-shone
himself. I found myself wondering more than once,
“Can it be Titheradge?” He neither over-acted nor
under-acted his part—in fact he may feel proud to in-
clude Pygmalion in his repertoire of stage characters.
Of “ Chrysos” I can say but little. The character is
one that does not suit our clever comedy-man, not-
withstanding that as the ex-butterman iu “ Our Boys,”
and the sporting clerk in “ Blow for Blow,” be has not
his equal in the colonies. As a Greek lover of art he is
nowhere. The rest of the characters serve to stop a
gap, but require no particular mention. The whole
plot and passion of the play rests with Galatea and
Pygmalion, in whose acting—Galatea’s especially—no
fault could be found.
FUN AND FANCY.
"THERE'S MANY A TRUE WORD SAID IN A JOKE.”
“ I like to surprise people.” That’s what Howler
said the other night when, or rather after, he sat down
on a pin. In our opinion, his friends were surprised.
They thought that Howler was coming out as a rival to
the vaulters tin Chiarini’s Circus. However, there’s
nothing like a good excuse at a pinch, and the point was
taken pretty fairly.
In a poem read at the reunion of alumni of the
Boston Latin School, appeared the following lines :
'Tis our great public schools; may their influence
spread.
Until statesmen use grammar and dunces are dead.
Until no one dare say, in this laud of the free,
“ He done ” for “ did,” and “ it’s her ” for “it’s she.”
Rockhampton has sugar-cane 15 feet
high in ten months, and plenty of it.
“ Her Majesty’s Opposition ” in the New
Zealand Parliament is in a thoroughly disorganised con-
dition.
A Sydney artisan who for some weeks past
has been out of work, who has of late found it hard to
pay his board money, and who left his last job without
getting paid, was agreeably surprised at receiving a re-
mittance of £lOOO, left to him by a relative, per last
mail. He says he has had sufficient colonial experience
and now means to travel.
Shortly after the Grand Duchess Marie’s mar-
riage with Queen Victoria’s sou she was entertained at
a nobleman’s house. A party was made up to visit the
extensive greenhouses, the Duchess leading, as was
her right, the way. In passing up the narrow aisle
of one of the houses the royal lady came to a closed
door. The passage was too narrow for any of her suite
to pass her and open the door, and she stood motionless
as a statue. “ Oblige me,” said the Duke in a whisper.
“ by sending someone around to open the door from the
other side, for she’ll not open it if she stands there
for a month.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Black lace bows are popular.
Lace seems to be worn more than ever.
Black and white check tailor-made dresses find
many patrons this season.
Floral horseshoes have taken the place of
wedding bells at fashionable marriages.
For lawn tennis and dressy yachting purposes,
pale blue trimmed with silver is most in favour.
The Countess of Bective has adopted the
fashion of wearing natural flowers on the skirts of ball
dresses.
Jersey bodices are now made to button down
the front; the skirt, cuffs, and collar are trimmed with
a band of colour.
Bonnets in old gold-coloured straw are fashion-
able, amber pearls and flowers for ornaments, with
white tulle strings and gold spangles.
English women wear shoes how for full dress
occasions in preference to boots, aud this admits of
showing embroidered stockings.
Prepared seaweed, the invention of a lady, and
patronised by Her Majesty, is a novelty for ball
dresses. It is made in red, white, and shaded green.
The most fashionable black parasols are com-
posed of broad velvet satin or silk stripes going round
the cover; they have a ring attached to pass over them
when closed.
At present silk is out of favour, and satin has
taken its place, the material being of the richest, and
trebled or quadrupled in value by the lavish em-
broidery of gold, silver, black or white jet, old
lace, &c.
Amongst the presents sent to the Empress
Eugenie on the occasion of her departure for Zulnland
by the s.s. German was a bunch of violets six feet in
circumference —obtained from the South of France by
a Miss Green.
France has 2,150 female painters who have exhi-
bited in the Salon. The lady writers in France num-
ber 1,700, of whom 1,000 are known to be authoresses of
novels or tales for the young, 200 poetesses, and 150
compilers of educational works.
In Paris, the men, who have been developing
rings, cravat pins, and wrist buttons to an unusual ex-
tent for some time past are now wearing bracelets ! As
yet these are modest little things, mostly a chain
only; but will the innovation stox> there ?
A teaspoonful or more of powdered borax
thrown into a bath tub while bathing will communi-
cate a velvety softness to the water, and at the same
time invigorate and rest the bather. Persons troubled
with nervousness or wakeful nights will find this kind
of bath a great benefit.
A Sketch on Brickfield Hill.
Just as the fine warehouses in a thoroughfare stand
prominently out from the inferior buildings surround-
ing it, so does a business of any kind that is conducted
with vigour and success stand out prominently to the
public eye from those managed in a different way. The
establishment of Mr. J. Graham, at 531, Brickfield
Hill, in this city, which is made strikingly attractive by
the painter and decorator’s art, gives proof of this in
both ways. First, the eye of the thousands who throng
the streets in this part of the city is attracted, and the
advanced, vigorous, and solid style in which the busi-
ness is carried on secures for the proprietor what may
fitly be termed the “people’s patronage.” The very
best materials obtainable in the colony or from Geelong
or the home markets are imported and made up in
various styles iu a first-class manner by the most ex-
pert men procurable here. About 70 bauds on toe
average are employed, and these are all under the per-
sonal superintendence of the proprietor, who has bad the
experience of a life iu the business. The premises are
extensive, well lighted, and well arranged throughout,
and on the lower or first floor may now or at any other
time be found the most extensive and varied collections
of tweeds, &e., to be found iu any working establish-
ment iu Sydney. This splendid business has been
built solely on the soundest business principles of
energetic and upright trading, and on this account the
popular proprietor hopes for a continuance of public
support.
Owing to a pressure of late advertisements, we
are compelled to bold over the usual instalment of our
tale and a great variety of other interesting matter.
SPIRITUALISM.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of The Bulletin.)
Mr Dear Bean-Blossom
Variety is always pleasing, more especially in
letter-writing. Indeed with me the chief charm of a
letter lies in its originality. Now I have touched on
most of the current subjects of the day since the closing
of the Exhibition that I thought might serve pour passer
le temps, as they say in France, I have even been
obliged, for want of matter, to fall back on our theatres
and criticise very gingerly the pieces if not the company.
Now I have a fresh subject—“ Spiritualism.” Since a
very recent date a prophet has risen up among us, with
the gift of healing in his breath aud touch. The gift of
healing has descended on a firm believer called “Brother
Stephen ” —I believe that is bis earthly as well as his
spiritual name. People do say the cloak of the martyred
Stephen was sent to him—at any rate this spiritual
doctor has wrestled so long in darkness that in his old
age light begins to dawn on his hitherto-benighted
brain, tossed about for years by the spirits, their butt
aud plaything by turn. He now believes in miracles,
can in fact work them himself. By his touch alone
those who have faith are cured of divers diseases. The
deaf hoar, the blind see, the halt and the lame jump
aud skip, says this would-be inspired mau and bis weak-
minded, believing followers. His ways of healing are
certainly very simple and child-like. One short hour in
his receiving-room gave me all the contents of this
letter. The room is plainly furnished, for spirits hate
furniture; they have no earthly use for it. Well, there
is a choir or two, one specially for our inspired
“Gamaliel.” lam there by invitation, with the faint
but delusive hope of becoming a believer. He is still
arguing spiritually with me, when a lady enters, tall and
stately. She walks slowly, with a perceptible limp, aud
drops into a chair carefully. To her Gamaliel turns,
sits down aud with a deep breath asks her what she
suffers from ? “ Ah, madam, yours is a case that I see
will require ft great deal of vitality. Rheumatism of
the knee-joint is tenacious, very.” He slowly draws a
piece of scarlet silk or flannel from his breast, and
dropping on one knee surveys very knowingly the
lady’s dress. Then raising his spiritual eyes to hers he
softly says, “ To blow through all these garments would
be a waste, a shocking waste of vitality, of my vitality,
madam. Therefore, allow me to raise your skirts above
your knee.” The lady assents, the skirts are raised aud
Gamaliel, placing his piece of “bunting” over the
exposed knee, blows long and strong - Then with a few
magic pats and - passes, as though driving an imaginary
“ blue bottle ” fly away, he rises aud exclaims, “yon are
tetter now,” “Yes,” says the lady, “I think I feel
better.” “ Rise, my dear madam.” She obeys, but a
little scream escapes her as the knee catches her with a
sudden twinge. She attempts to sit down, he stays her.
“ No, no, walk, you will soon be better, the vitality is in
your knee. Go borne, yon will find yourself well by the
time you arrive.” She goes with a limp, but fnll of
faith in the prophet. Enters an old mau paralyzed with
a twitching in the muscle of an afflicted limb, which he
wants cured. To him the prophet says, “ Ab, it will
take a great deal of vitality to cure yon.” He begins at
once to manipulate the limb. Whilst be is bard at
work, enters a young man wiib a slightly-bewildered,
wholly idiotic look. He is talking out loudly to no one
in particular. He says, “I am here. I cannot say why,
or bow I came, but the spirits brought me,” upon
which the prophet, dropping bis patient’s arm, takes
the young man by the hand, seats him and with a few
passes of his spiritual hands sends him off snoring.
Then he leads him to the old “paryletic,” places his
hand on the afflicted limb aud the “medium” at once
begins to rub with a will. Beads of perspiration stand
on that young man’s brow, his face grows frightfully
pink, bis breath is labored, but the patient sits
unmoved. At last flesh and blood can stand no more.
The “medium” waves his band, half whispers to - the
doctor : he wishes to say something. He again takes his
hand, leads him to the table, puts a pencil in bis fingers
’ and waits. The “medium ” does not give any trouble,
he scribbles away until the pencil drops from his
fingers. The prophet reads, looks bard at the old
paralytic, goes to him, lays bis hand impressively on bis
shoulder. “I am sorry,” he says, “we are not allowed
to cure yon, for the spirits say that yon think we are
humbugging you”—rather strong language for the
spirits. “ No, no, no,” cries the old paralytic, I never
said so. I (have faith, cure me.” But the prophe t
shakes his head. He cannot go against the spirits, so
the paralytic is dismissed. A few magic passes wake
up the passive medium, who immediately walks out
much the same as he walked in. Looking through the
window I see that precious medium way-laid by the
paralytic. I should like to hear their argument, hut I
turn to the prophet. I feel I cannot say, “ Oh, prophet,
great is thy skill, for I have seen no cure.” He is in no
wise dismayed. “ Have faith,” be cries, “ such as mine
aud the spirits will give yon power. Look, my friend,
this shirt I wear is not mine. I wear it for a sick friend;
it will go to him in a day or two full of vitality and he
will be cured. This coat is not my own. People beg me
to wear their clothes ; I can’t refuse, I bave more than
I can wear already and it’s just a question whether my
vitality will last long enough to put them all on.”
“But,” I exclaimed, “however do you live?” “Ha!
my young friend ‘ how do yon live ? ’ I cannot dig, to
beg I’m ashamed. I sleep a great deal, the spirits
wake me, and when the sun is warm I dress myself in
some other man’s clothes aud go out to seek ‘ vitality.’
I ask no fees for my healing powers, the * spirits ’ will
not let me, but often I find the postman leaves me a
letter, in which I find a ‘ thank-offering ’ iu the shape
of a cheque.” He would have still rambled on, for old
age is garrulous, but I rose, told him that although not
convinced, I was much impressed by bis conversation and
should try by coming often to unravel much that was
still veiled in mystery.
Yours spiritually.
PEA-BLOSSOM.
A Siren.
(BY BIZARRE).
Across the street at a window
I often see a face.
With a bright crown of golden hair.
And full of woman’s grace.
Sometimes I hear sweet singing.
And know that it is she.
For in the soul that lights her face
Such melody must be.
Here in my lonely office
I sit the long days through.
Waiting for ships that come not borne.
Waiting for work to do.
And yet I am not hopeless.
For when the face I see,
I know that though I seem alone.
Heaven’s very near to me.
I do not sadly ponder
Why riches none have I,
For her face says the god of love
Will see ms by-and-bye.
And so I keep on waiting
For my brave ships to come.
And dream of love, and wife, and joy.
In a cozy little borne.
Ab, I may be Ulysses,
And she a siren fair ;
But so I see her winsome face.
The shimmer of her hair.
I’ll stay on here for ever;
And count my gain in this.
That I can waft to her unseen
A lover’s hope and kiss.


The Bulletin.
Isr order to fully meet the continuous and still rapidly-
increasing demand for The Bulletin it has been
decided to alter the day of publication from Friday to
Thursday in each week. Agents will be so
good as to make their arrangements accordingly.
The Bulletin will be mailed to any address in the
colonics for Three Months for Three Shillings paid
in advance. Terms of annual subscription, Twelve
Shillings in advance; Fourteen Shillings if booked.
Advertisements are inserted at the rate of 3s. 6d. per
inch. A liberal discount on quarterly, half-yearly and
annual orders. Pest Office Orders and Cheques to be
made payable to Haynes and Archibald.
Country and Intercolonial Agents wanted.
“Bulletin” Office, 13 Bridge-street,
Sydney, 17th July, 1880.
BRIEF MENTION.
Can cock-crowing be called hen chanting!
James or Alexander for our money—which?
He (John) was not at Compagnoni’s free feed.
The she-Griraalkin admires the tips of her fingers.
Fuller’s earth —The Cumberland Mercury.
The oldest chemist’s shop in Sydney is Senior’s.
The residents of Ashfield carry lamps by night.
Three rogues live together on the Balmain road.
John Hurley wasn’t in the Taxation Bill divi-
sion.
Eailway time never agrees with Observatory
time.
If you “go up King-street,” you go to the
Deffell.
The suburban trains run very irregularly on
Sundays.
The iron armour of the Kelly gang succumbed
to Steele.
Ninian Melville has stood on the floor for the
last time.
They had another mock election at Petersham
last week.
“ Tell me where is fancy bre(a)d ?” Try Holmes
or Gaffney,
Samuel Plimsoll has the measles and is in
quarantine.
Motto for the Victorian police—He mortuis nil
nisi —“ bum’em.”
“Sandwich” advertising boards are now called
“ Kelly’s armour.”
Mr. Milner Stephen never blows about himself —
e merely breathes!
If G. A. Lloyd goes for Northumberland, where
will Ninian Melville preach ?
One fool makes many.—<£2o.ooo for a Church
with an Ishmaelite preacher.
Ninny Melville has come out as a lecturer on
“spiritualism ” at Newcastle.
Ticket offices on the suburban line open 24
seconds before the arrival of trains.
The Students at the University clamour for a
change of diet. Too much bad ham !
“ It is a nip ping and an eager air ” is a very
suggestive Shakesperianism these nights,
Sherritt met his death in consequence of hunt-
ing with the hounds and running with the hare.
Wollongong, with its famous “ blow-hole,” will
soon be eclipsed by Manly, with its whistling Pitt.
Several provincial papers have of late com-
plained of “ leakages ” in country telegraph offices.
The lady critic says that Galatea’s pedestal is too
high. How does she know ? She never was on one.
£60,000 was made by the Queensland “ Iron
King” (s)peculating in steel rails. Good steal—werry_
Another requisition for a meeting to decide the
opening of the School of Arts reading-room on Sundays.
Just listen to the girls talking on the block.
All that a fellow can hear them say is—“ And he said.”
It is stated that Ned Kelly commenced his
career of crime by stealing his neighbour’s newspaper.
Those who didn’t see the Bunter’s residence in
“ New Men and Old Acres ” are advised to visit the
Warren.
To save trouble, correspondents may bear in
mind that no more 15-puzzle literature is wanted at
this office.
It is not an uncommon thing just now for fish-
ing excursionists to come home with their baskets
bream full.
The first Cane was an able slayer. Alfred Cane
is on able artist. The one slew his brother, the other
frames him*
The Electric Telegraph Department will never
he properly conducted so long as there’s a policeman at
the head of it.
If New South Wales doesn’t outshine the other
colonies at the Melbourne International, it won’t be M.
Joubert’s fault.
Tom Punch has scored another—good luck to
him. The betting was sto I—the odds won it—John
Jones laid them.
A certain M.P. says he’s sorry the session has
come to an end: £0 a week can’t always be earned, or
even got, outside.
Six months is what they give any suspicious-
looking persons who prowl round the Government
House hen-roost.
Sir John Eobertson exhibits no patience in the
Council It is highly necessary that a Sir John
should have patients. How is this ?
It is said that “ white spirits ” haunt the place
in York street where the English labels for bottles of
colonial “ swankey ” were exhumed.
There are a great many people who will never
go to heaven unless they can go at excursion rates. The
fact is the majority go as dead-heads.
Can’t Mr. Milner Stephen be made Solicitor-
General, and breathe upon his colleagues, driving the
evil (Watson) out of the Body diplomatic.
At Compagnoni’s they have put splendid mir-
rors in the ladies’ room. In the gentlemen’s room there
are to be no mirrors. Men, you know, are not vain.
Matt. Moloney, of the Sydney Telegraph Office,
“ takes” the cables, and is said to be the only fellow
who can reuse the Dutchman at Ban joe wangle cable
station.
Judge Windeycr’s judicial opinion re the for-
feited selection business,—“l agree with my brother
Manning for the cogent reasons adduced by my brother
Faucett.”
The Y.M.C.A. of Sydney have waited on Alfred
Allen requesting him to take their ticket at the
West Sydney election. He returned an unconstitu-
tional reply.
At Bowen the other day, the editor of the
No rthern Miner, who was a candidate for Parliament,
“ did the block ” with his coat off and a revolver in his
right band.”
Mr. Trickett, Mayor of Woollahra, has been
staying a week with -his parkier, ex-Mayor Pigott, at
Ashfield, and says be wouldwt exchange the perfumes
® f r the Eastern suburb for the whole railway track.
W ell there s no accounting for— smel Is.
“The dipsomaniac ravings of the Towers
Herald Dirt Cart,” is what Teddy O’Kane, editor of
the Northern Miner, calls the leading articles of his
local contemporary
They always expectorate most on that part of
the floor of the School of Arts reading-room where the
Newcastle papers are to be read, and always between
one and two o’clock.
The officers of the Telegraph Department intend
(should the D. T. not object) holding a re-
gatta at Mosman’s Bay shortly. Moloney and Board
have gone into training.
“ What have you got there, my boy?” Street
Arab: “The Bulletin— second edition, sir.” “ Well,
give me a copy of the first.” “ It’s not out yet, sir, and
won’t he till to-morrow.”
A practical joke has been perpetrated on the
Evening Lyre. One of its beerdrinkers lately told
what his liquor was composed of, and now the “twilight
dodger” publishes a vote of thanks from a Temperance
lodge, whose secretary’s name is Beer!
A man was found in the cow-shed of Government
House hist Thursday night, but he knocked the police-
?“l°o w , n Sot away. Was he looking after the
housemaid or the 100 little chookies ?
,J on „ 8 ] lou W h aYe seen the Centenary, it was
“ e m . . Satnf Enert/? Come, ain’t that a queer go—
matV before he's dead ? I heard he was
Knighted, but saint—that’s too hot !”
John Davies is to be banquetted at Mudgee.
Stop John, it won’t be free altogether. You’ll have to
pay coach from Walierawang and back, altho’ you may
travel free by rail on public business.
Among the 340 passengers by the Rodondo the
other day was one Celestial. In an unguarded moment
some fellow tied his pig-tail to the rigging. The object
of this manoeuvre was apparent when John, becoming
sea-sick, made a wildmshto the side.
The Deceased Wife’s Sister Marriage Bill has
passed its second reading in the N. Z, Legislative
Council. Deceased wife’s sisters can in the land of the
Maori now tell John to look up poor Maria’s wedding
ring and,;make the children leave off calling them
“Aunt.”
Professor Proctor’s astronomical lectures are so
popular in the South now that when a fellow asks his
girl whether she’ll go to hear a discourse on “ Autozone
or Peroxide of Hydrogen," or take a front seatat Ketten’s
she impulsively replies, “ Oh, to the lecture, by all
means."
Mr. O’Kane, editor of the Northern Miner
(Charters Towers) has been defeated by Mr. Beor in the
contest for the representation of Bowen. Which is the
first instance on record of Beor (or any other liquor)
having struggled with on editor without coming oT
second best.
Two solemn facts. —The A.S.N. Co. are calling
for tenders for coal at Brisbane, and there are five can-
didates hunger! I. - after the vacancy at the Board of the
Queensland In 3 ara,aoe Co.
In The Bulletin Office there are only two
chairs —the editor’s and the creditors’. The former is
a gorgeous affair; the latter is of a treacherous dis-
position and has but three legs.
Sometime back M‘Elhonewas attacked by “an
old man” in a kangaroo battue northward. The legis-
lator lost his hat in the encounter. Not a kangaroo
has since been seen on the station.
The Agent-General of Queensland (Maealister)
on learning the details of the notorious rail contract,
was heard to say “ Gade Lorrd! £‘30,0(0, and only three
of them in it!’’ Who are the three ?
They call the century and five stairs at the new
offices “ Parkes’ Superannuation Scheme.” Six lads of
sixty-five and upwards have already been provided for
—“ bellows bust.” For further particulars, apply at
Haslem’s Creek, or to Ninny Melville.
By a recent resolution of the Petersham
Municipal wiseacres any ratepayer who intends to erect
a shod must ask the Council clerk’s permission. Re-
spectable people object to the indignity.
John M ; E— ——has never been known to shout,
as the saying is. He has had many splendid opportu-
nities at Punch’s and elsewhere of shedding honor upon
a diamond escutcheon —but he never shed.
The following unique announcement appears in
the Oaiiaru Mail :—“ Dunlop—On the 2nd June, at her
residence, the wife of Frank Dunlop, of twin daughters.
Gossips please remain at home and make no remarks.”
They laughed at Tram-Superintendent Roberts
when he proposed to cross two motors and four cars,
and two motors and three cars at Liverpool-st, at 1.8
on the Sunday School Centenary, but he did it and had
three feet six to spare.
At the 4th of July celebration at Sandvingjiam
“ The Vagabond” was very rough on a certain American
commercial who would not join in the proceedings, but
gave, at the expense of his firm, an opposition luncheon.
The S. M. Herald would not report “ The Tag’s 1 ’
speech. Why ?
The reporters 'say they can’t account for the
intimacy which has suddenly sprung up between the
Colonial Treasurer and the member for the Upper
Hunter. So close and remarkable is the intimacy* in
question that in the House they now call somebody
*' Watson’s lap-dog.”
Unless a fellow subscribes to the doctrine of
eternal punishment he can’t bo a member of the Young
Men’s Christian Association. This fact sufficiently
guarantees the respectability and honesty of all the
young men, for “thefear o’ hell’s a hangman’s whip to
hand the wretch in order.”
The Eight Eov. Lord Bishop Peter Campbell,
D.E., of the Three Bush Churches, is expected soon in
Sydney. A deputation is to meet him, in the W.P.
boat.
The editor of the Northern Miner (Charters
Towers), alludes to the “ low and brute-like forehead,
the receding and conical head, the close-set hyena eyes,
and savage hatchet face," &c., of a local friend of his.
Discovery of the Queensland rail swindle was
made by the secretary of the Agent-General, who re-
ceived two notices from the different Iron Co's. “ for
the same shipment,” one at £6 per ton, theotherat £9
18s Cd!
Wicked people say that David was induced not
to vote on a recent important measure because he was
threatened by Oily Gammon with a most determined
opposition at next election if he opposed the
Government.
“The biggest sponge ever seen in Melbourne
has arrived. It is eight feet in diameter.”—Melbourne
Herald. The biggest sponge ever seen in Sydney is
32 inches round the waist, 21 feet high, and buzzes
round the Exchange.
The latest puzzle is this :
Hard Eggs
Boiled Man.
The trick is to get the eggs inside the man without
breaking the shells.
Whenever David happens to be slightly rational
in the House he invariably begins a speech with these
words—“ Mr. Speaker, sir, I have listened to the re-
marks of the honorable member who has just sat down
with surprise bordering on consternation.” The way he
rolls at the last word is splendid.
We are much obliged to the numerous corres-
pondents who wish ns to leave out of our columns all
reference to stage and sporting matters. Pleasant
occupation tends to prolong life. If you want to
commit suicide without having it appear criminal,
undertake to conduct a newspaper for another man.
How we manage our Eailways.—A friend of ours
recently took a return ticket from Sydney to Croydon.
By mistake he went ou to Kedmyre. On the return
journey he got out at Croydon, and when he returned to
his home in Sydney in the evening he still had in his
possession the bi-coloured piece of cardboard handed to
him at the Sydney ticket office in the morning.
An Irish gentleman, a descendant of the great
Swift, who was at a friend’s house at Manly recently, was
great on eclipses, comets, and such phenomena, and
assured the young folk that in England and Ireland at
times the sun could not be seen for days together.
Young Australia was staggered. There wasn't a
word even about the swift kangaroo or the Australian
eleven.
There is a man in Sydney who is a member of
Parliament, ironmonger and itinerant preacher. He
perambulates “ his native heath” with a Bible in one
hand and an order book in the other—with the right eye
on souls for heaven, and the left (the better of the two)
on trade orders. He doesn’t know how many souls
he saves, but it’s quite certain that he does business in
the ironmongery line.
Wollombi Joe is greatly perturbed at the defeat
ot the Government—he has been a joint in Sir Henry’s
tail all through the session and faithfully attended to
the orders of Oily Gammon with lamb-like obedience.
The Woolombi electors are about presenting him with
a testimonial in grateful recognition of his attempt to
saddle all the small struggling farmers with a tax on
their wool, cattle and horses.
A grandly-dressed lady in church at the
favourite suburb felt at the moment at the accumula-
tion of heaven-intended cash, for a suitable coin, found
what she fondly imagined to be a shilling, dropped it
into the plate, and when passing it on for the next three-
penny bit, discovered it to be a halfpenny.—“ That was
cool!” said her husband. “Not a hundredth part so
cool as the church. I shall be glad when it’s finished.”
Because a larrikinesque crowd rushed the
Queen’s Theatre to s§e the “drama” of the “Kelly
Gang,” Dr. M‘Gibbon says all playgoers have the
same vicious taste and all plays are equally worthless—
which is tantamount to saying that a man is an infidel
who would listen gladly to the sermon of a Barry, hut
who could not endure the preaching of the fiery editor of
what must be regarded as the inflammatory handbill of
Sydney par excellence.
Something very like Tammany Ring business
was disclosed on the opening of the Queensland Parlia-
ment. A broker named Cooper and somebody else,
bought 15,000 tons of steel rails (acting, it is said, on
behalf of the Queensland Government) at £6 per ton
from the Barrow Iron Co. Tenders are afterwards
called, and an obscure firm, called the Haslam Foundry
and Engineering Co., actually re-sell the rails made by
the Barrow Co. to the Queensland Government for
“ £9 18s. 6d. per ton!”
A lady writes us concerning the “ clerical testi-
-1 monial nuisance.” She draws attention to two recent
cases in which curates whom she does not consider to
have been underpaid were “ testimonalised ” to the
extents respectively of £75 and £45 in hard cash, the
major portion of which was “squeezed” out of the
poor of their parishes. Why don’t people who obj ect
to such testimonials act in regard to them as they do in
respect to the church plate—let it pass ?
Extract from Town and Country Journal
of 15th December, 1877;—“Many foolish and many
wild things have been said in our Assembly, but never
has any public man given utterance to anything more
foolish aud wild than did Mr. M’Elhone on Tuesday,
when he desired the free selectors who think them-
selves aggrieved to take the law into their own hands
and to shoot the unjust squatters.” Didn’t someone
follow Mac’s advice in Victoria recently ?
Here is an extract from an advertisement in the
Macleay Herald N.B.—A few odd lines for sale
cheap frequently asked for: Black women’s straw hats,
striped girls’ stockings, tin chamber candlesticks,
strong men’s boots, working shirts, India rubber
children’s dolls, coloured babies sox, waterproof men’s
coats, hiccup women’s boots, strong reels of cotton,
&0.,” What with “ striped girls,” “ waterproof men,”
“ coloured babies,” and “ laceup women,” the Macleay
ought to be quite a nice place.
The Government stroke! The Hansard re-
porters have worked over fourteen hours a day during
the last eight mouths. The reporters’ wives complain
that they—not the wives but the husbands—are getting
prematurely bald. No wonder. The 33rd weekly issue
of Hansard contained 180 pages, equal to between 60 and
70 columns of the Herald. The reports of the Herald
for the week amounted in the aggregat e'to 30 columns!!!
The weary reporters will soon be at rest, though re-
porters are not supposed to go to Heaven.
A friend of ours, approaching his suburban
domicile rather late the other night, saw a recumbent
figure gracefully garnishing a neighbouring door-step.
Drawing near he discovered the owner, a limb of the
law, in a very far advanced state of intoxication.
“Wa-wazzer matter?” huskily queried the inebriate
as our friend shook him. “Come, get up, and
don’t make an exhibition of yourself. Let me
ring your bell!” “No, nem’ mind,” was the polite
response, with a deprecatory wave of the hand, “they’ll
come soon. They know my whis’le ! ”
At Compagnoni’s luncheon on Monday there were
some good jokes. Of course it was before the cham-
pagne began to flow. A squatter from the south-west
was one of the guests, and he took upon himself the
duty of interpreting the items on the card for three or
four about him. He upset three anpetites right out.
Jugged hare was made out to be stewed oxtail, and apple
sauce was turned into mashed potatoes ; viands were
transformed into soups, and gravies and cauliflower,
served up in new form, oame out chopped beaus. “ By
George,” said one fellow, “you wouldn’t know these
beans from cauliflower.” “Of course yon wouldn’t,”
was the swift reply.
A traveller in the Far North had his horse sad-
dled and was about to leave Normantowu. At the last
moment he went to the telegraph office and sent through
a shilling message, tendering a £1 note in payment.
The clerk offered him 1.0.U.’s as change. onr
friend refused, as he was coming “inside,” where they
would lie useless. Then the pair squared the matter by
going to the store, where the traveller secured half-a-
ponud of tobacco, which was “ stuck-up” to the official.
The balance was taken out at the public-house, the tele-
graph clerk “ standing Sam” with onr friend’s money.
So that a note was spent to get through a shilling
message. Nice place, Normantown.
MR. EDWIN BROWNE. (See page 2.)
THE FASHIONS AGAIN—FISHERMAN AND A FISHER OF MEN.


Auctioneers and Commission Agents
J
OHN BRID GE,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
T N. MEIKLEJOHN AND CO.,
” • Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
'COMMERCIAL STORESr^USSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
w.
PRITCHARD’S HOUSE, BUSINESS,
HOTEL, & GENERAL AGENCY.
FOR THE LETTING AND SALE
Of every description of
BUSINESS PROPERTY
By Auction or Private Contract.
ESTATE AND LAND SALE BOOMS—
-289 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Htjntee-st.)
N.B. —A Register kept (free of charge) of all Proper-
ties To Let or Businesses for Sale.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows :
BEEF, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour —every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour —every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE-699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
Horses and Vehicles
David m 4 c all,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869,1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
K
EAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
Tobacconists
rji H
EGE N U I
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
N E
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. L O U G H N A N.
JA M E S E V‘E ’ S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE.
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159
PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
P
(S
t ®
50 o i
9 3
R. C. PRINCE,
TOBACCONIST,
149 KING STREET,
Begs to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain a really first class article in TOBACCO, CIGARS,
&c., at his establishment.
Just received a fine assortment of WALKING
STICKS in %11 the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149 KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre Royal.
RS. SPENCER
of the
VICTORIA LUNCHEON k SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre),
Knowing the aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining in town after the theatres are
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in the evening or day can
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW I
N.B. This is not restricted to supners, but cooked
meats, etc. can be served and obtained ft ant time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as usual.
Cleanliness, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling the possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for Five Shillings, may
be had at the cash counter.
Note the Address—
-301 PITT STREET.
M
Legal
E. A. G 0 D F E E Y
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—s 3 Elizabeth-strkbt.
S
HOE TEE & FITZGEEALD
Solicitors,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
And
Macquarie Street, Dubbo.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, lias commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards
BEDE CHEISTIE,
Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under the Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sydney.
jgLACHMANN AND PAEKES,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEOEGE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
W.
MAO L E O
POETEAIT PAINTEE,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
D,
G.
AND S. P E E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
jl O W L E E’S P 0 T T E E Y
AND
BEICK WOEKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
s
IGN O E A L. P. FABE I S,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STEEET,
Darlinghurst.
M
ISS ELISE SHEEWIN,
(From Tasmania),
TEACHER OF THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
JSKINNEE AND CO., 18 KING-STEEET,
• BRASSFOUNDERS, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap.
I F. CEIPPS, PASTEYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
257 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
K
OBEET BUTCHEE & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
538 GEOEGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
MASON, LAND AGENT, 214 Palmer-
• street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
-ef LAND for Sale at Waverley, also Allotments in
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
H A~~S. hT DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, UEANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
fjn HOM A S PLAYFAIE,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHEE,
lO3 GEOEGE STEEET.
JLAWLEE, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
•COTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
blankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
T| MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
JLf# WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
AVholesale Grocers, Ac.,
Comer of York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Our Prices Current for Groceries, .fee., giving lowest
market quotations, is issued the first of every month,
and circulated gratis throughout the colony. Store-
keepers who have not received our Circular will do so
by forwarding us their address.
P ALLEEDING AND SON,
* 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Practical
Chronometer Watchmakers, Jewellers,
and Opticans,
Importers of every description of English, Swiss, and
Waltham machine-made Watches —
In Gold and Silver.
The “Liver” Telescope, the cheapest and most port-
able Telescope for the bush—Price, £1 Is.
Illustrated Catalogues post free on application.
Sole agents for V. Kullberg’s Ships Chronometers,
which were awarded first prize at the International
Exhibition.
GABEIEL AND CO.,
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
IS WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from ppahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patisnts that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
Loans granted without delay,
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Rep
suit convenience of borrowers CENTR
OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street. next cor
Kmg-street. Established. 1859,
Machinery
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old jpetal.
HE OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
&c. &c.
34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEM I N G,
IMPORTER.
Chemists and Druggists
C
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 81) KING-STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY
BALSAM,
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecahy,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
F
OR
ALL DESCRIPTIONS
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
OF
T S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
fJ • Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stoma ch, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 431 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
Hotels, &c.
C.
J. R O B E R T S’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
• 6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397 George Street.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms arc let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken .of. No
foes or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
T
HE
GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
(Late “La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE ALACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house i* the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
T
RICKETT’S INTERNATIONAL HOTEL.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
In thanking the public for the support which has
been accorded me, I have pleasure in stating that I
have this day handed over my business to Mr. James
Hunt, late of C. W. Roberts’s, who will, I feel sure, con-
duct it with credit to himself and to the satifaction
of all who favour him with their patronage.
I also desire to inform my friends that I have arranged
to establish cable communication between myself and
Mr. Hunt, by which reliable information respecting
the race between myself and Mr. Hanlau may be ob-
tained.
EDWARD TRICKETT.
9th June, 1880.
N
O
T
E.
Mr. PATRICK DIMOND respectfully begs to
acquaint his friends and the public generally that he
has opened a first-clcss Hotel, corner of
WILLIAM AND DOWLING STREETS,
And trusts by strict attention and civility to merit a
fair sh&eof public patronage.
Wines, Spirits, Beers, &c., best brands.
Hotels, &c.
Nathaniel cohen.
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that he has taken the
EOYAL ALBEET HOTEL,
at the comer of ■
GIPPS & MACQUAEIE STEEETS, SOUTH.I
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Gir in the Eum-keg.
O'LONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEEEAGH STEEETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Eespectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
c
ARLTON CLUB HOTE
199 Elizabeth-St., Hyde Park.
H. Oliphant Paton, Proprietor.
Healthiest position and most comfortable Hotel in
Sydney. Private Suites of Apartments.
Detached BAR; BATHS, STABLING, &c.
Hot Coffee, Enmand Milk, Ac., from 4.30 a.m. Table
d’hote 1 p.m. daily.
Id on pnrle Francais.
OACH AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
c
Mr. C. SHEATHEE, PEOPEIETOE.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
V
ICTORIA HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel 'and made extensive
alterations and which ‘will be fitted up in the most
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &0., and conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
public*.
GEOEGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
T 3 OYAL EXCHANGE HOT E L~
Corner King and Georgs Streets).;
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Eetail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Eooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
N.B.—Pic-nics, Balls, Parties, Clubs, &c., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWAED PEE KINS.
T
HE COMPAGNON I PALACE
CAFE AND CATEEING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EESTAUBANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN,
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Pish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
B
ASS’S PALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
ALE
The undersigned have been APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS for the above Celebrated Bottlers, and are in
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
M
ETROPOLITAN STAKES CONSULTA-
TION, 1880.
2000 SUBSCEIBEES at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ... ... 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on unm
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’sClub, Sydney.
MAW’S AND MINTON’S well-known
TESSELATED PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS,
HEARTH TILES, WALL LININGS, new and elegant
designs.
Also,
Some very cheap encaustic tiles, for verandahs, baths,
conservatories Ac.
BETLBY and CO.
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Mr. P. HURST, having been in the principal
boot factories on the Continent, is placed in a position
to import and sell the best makes in boots at a lower
figure than any other house in Sydney. Gent’s boots—
French calf, hand-sewn, warranted, 10s. fid.; ladies’
high-leg satin boots, fis. fid. Call and see the price and
the style.
P. HURST,
4*94 George-street.


SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Deniliquin July 21
Maryborough July 22 and 23
Avoca Annual July 29 and 30
Geelong W inter j n l y 31
Adelaide E. C. Winter steeplechase August 6 and 7
Tattersall s Spring August 14
Hawkesbnry August 25 and 27
Parramatta August
A.J.C. Spring- Sept. 4 7 9 11
Turf Club September 18
Northern J.C Sen. 28 and 29
Melbourne Hunt Club Oet. 2
?r^D r rl' )1 o October
o bpymg Oct. 30, N0v.2,4, C
Q.T.C. Spring Nov. 6 and 7
Mnrrumbidgee Spring Nov. 22,23. and 24
A.J C. Summer ... December 27
Tattersall s Annual January 1, 1881
January 1, 1881
V.E.C. Autumn .. f February 26,
w „ . I March 3 and 5
Wollongong Annual October 7 and 8
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Brewarrina M.P. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
lattersall’s Spring entries Aug. 2
lattersall’s Mares Produce Stakes, 1883.
Nomination of Mare Aug 9
Sydney T.C. Juvenile Stakes Aug.’ 2
A.J.C. Summer December Stakes Aug. 2
Hawkesbnry General Entry Aug. 2
Tat ter.sail’s M. P. Stakes, 1882—description of
foals Auo- 2
Wagga Gold Cup, Hurdle Pace, G. S. Handi-
. T C ®P» J owu Plate, and Steeplechase Aug. 10
A. J. C. Spring General Entry Aug. 18
Sydney Turf Club General Entry Sen. 1
Wollongong Handicap Sen 11
Melbourne H. C. General Entry Sep,' 16
A.J.C. Summer Cup Oct. 14
v.K.C. General Entry Ort la
Tattersall’s Cup 1881 Oct" ‘>6
General Entl T Nov. 16
I ? ew *«“£> Day Meeting General Entry Dec.' 10
A. J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Tattersall’s Spring Handicaps Aug 6
Hawkesbnry County Purse, and Flying
Handicap A 17
A.J.C. (Spring) Hurdle and Steeple Aug' °1
Hawkesbnry Turf Club and Members Handi-
cap v Aug. 26
A.J.C. (Spring) Epsom and Welter Aug 30
A.J.C. (Spring) Shorts and Squatter’s Sep’ 6
A.J.C. (Spring) Suburban and City . Sep 8
A.J.C. (Spring) Members. Waverley, and Free Sep.’ 10
Sydney Turf Club Handicap Sep 14
Wagga Cup, Hurdle. G.S. Handicap”"and
Steeplechase Sep 9 2
Wollongong Handicaps '. Sep 25
Wagga Two Years’ Old and Flying Handicap's Nov 22
W agga Mile, and Town Plate Handicaps.... Nov 23
A.J.C. Summer Cup Handicap Nov
Tattersall’s Cup Dec’ 1
y ?:9’,?. ew Y ® ar ’® Handicap Dec. 16
A.J.C. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Deniliquin acceptances j n j v oq
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug 0
Metropolitan Stakes last forfeit Sep * 3
Wollongong Handicap, non-acceptance..’.’.’.'.’.’.’.’ Oct 4
Wagga Cup, G. S. Handicap acceptances Oct. 20
Wagga Hurdle and Steeple acceptances Nov. 16
Wagga Town Plate acceptances Nov. 24
TattersalTs Cup non-accept Dec. 13
Answers to Correspondents.
Breeder, Hunter River.—Warlike is by Wedtherbit
from Heroine, of Lucknow, by Nutwith from
Pocahontas, by Glencoe. Warlock teas got by
Little John (Imp) out of Duchess.
Subscriber—Yes. Lord Lisgar is in “ The
Guineas,” and we believe is doing well in Gaul-
bum.
Tout, Maitland.—l. He takes one for the go. 2.
Mr. Mayo owns Elastic, and he is trained by J.
Moore.
Enquirer wishes to know are The Baronet and
K.G.B. related. Yes—they are brothers.
W. W. W., Grafton—Snowden was imported. The
other horse you ask about was by Muley out of
Bequest.
Another constant reader.—We cannot tell whether
Chester will start for the Melbourne Cup or not
but we think, bar accidents, that he will.
Billy Bails. 1. If the ball was pitched straight the
batsman would be out. 2. Cosstick is still alive.
I oker. We never saiv the game you mention
played. In America it is said, that a routine
push beats four aces.
Number One. —We never heard of a “ Coquette” by
Angler running at Randwick. The filly of that
name that won the A.J.C. Leger was by Sir Her-
cules from Vanity by Marquis. This Sir Hercules
mare has been in Mr. S. Gardiner’s stud; bat the
Stud Book does not show her to have ever pro-
duced a filly by Angler, by ivhichsire she had a
colt m 1877. The great authority you quote from
is not always correct.
The Week’s Morning Gallops.
The absence of a few really good showers has made
the greater number of owners betake themselves to the
“tan,” and although the course proper was thrown
open on Saturday last, no particularly fast work was
recorded. Unless a copious downpour of rain visit the
course, the “ powers that be ” of the A.J.C. will have
to devise iome means or other of making the “ going ”
lit to work on, otherwise consequences almost direful
will ensue in the shape of “ break downs,” and which
it is needless to say would have the effect of detracting
considerably from the success of our forthcoming meet-
ings. It has been suggested to me that at a cost almost
trifling, large tanks could be erected about the centre of
the course, and pipes laid on around the inside fence
which would command both tracks, so that in the
absence of rain the course could be sufficiently watered
to enable horses to receive that strong work so essential
to a thorough “ winding up.” On Saturday morning
last there was a very noticeable increase in the number
of onlookers to watch the doings, and as “work ” does
not commence much before 9 o’clock, no ordinarily early
riser need despair of bein g present. The strings of
Messrs. Pennelly, Harding, and Rayner, did their exer-
cise on the tan ; Chester, Martindale, and Democrat
being treated to strong work, but the Pontiff, who met
with a slight accident some few days ago, didn’t move
in anything like an assuring style, and as he goes very
“short” and "proppy” his admirers will not be
favourably impressed as to his ability to stand his pre-
paration. Strathearn did a strong twicer, and covered
the ground in his usual taking style, and as “ Jemmy "
has him very forward, friends need have no fear on that
score. Sunlight and St. John also worked on the tan,
and in a strong twice round, both were well liked, and
as the “chestnut” has grown, and improved a good
deal he daily becomes more and more fancied,
and this “ enrby hockld ” son of Sydney Tim
Whittier and Lady Mary may ret do a good thing.
Gainsborough and Retrospect did nothing of any im-
portancc, but Hopeful got through his duties in good
style. On the course proper Feunelly’s and Brown’s
young ones performed over a couple of miles each, and
each team gives great promise for future events. Old
Liberator with Pigott up did 2J miles at good working
pace and each morning, after a preliminary “ buck ” and
“ kick,” he bowls along as freshly as a two-year-old.
Black Eagle in sweaters did long steady work, and the
son of Yattendon and Camilla will, if all go well with
him, require a deal of beating for the big handicap of
the H.E.C. Coxcomb and Otira came next and they
each did their turns at a good serviceable pace, the last
time being particularly so, and both pulled up well.
Otira has grown and improved, and may yet add a big
thing to her credit. The two colts'iu Allsopp’s charge
were sent along slowly on the same track, but the “gay
deceh er Auckland and Thomtopper who came next
were sent together over twice round, the last turn being
done at a rattling pace; and as the ‘ ‘mile and a quarter”
was done in 2m 22‘sec and both pulled up well, the
gallop was very much thought of. Both horses are
well forward and must run well through all their en-
gagements. Koreelap and Boss’s Goldsborough filly next
put in an appearance and in a strong twice round, a fast
mile was put in, both being at their “ top.” the filly
holding the candidate for the “Blue Eiband” very
“ cheap ’ at the finish. North Star, who has not long
been “up,” did steady work with Cap-a-pie on the sand,
and then Lightning along with Hazard was treated to
strong gallops on the course proper. Shehan’s Zetland
colt also did a good working gallop followed by Nellie,
who did her morning’s performance in company with
a hack. Eosinante, who has not many good points to
show, has uovertheles a very taking appearance
when working, and gives one the impression that he is a
veritable flyer, but I have not seen sufficient of him to
form anything but a rough estimate. Brownlock
mother speedy customer, “ slipped” along by himself,
and this horse is just to my mind of the stamp to make
a name tor himself over light sticks. Next came Lor ton
and Master Avenel. and, as usual, they did long strong
work, as did also Scottish Chief. Creswick, who has
not grown in any perceptible degree, did gentle exercise,
and as he is as well as need be for the time, there are
not a few who fancy his chances second to none for
his various engagements. To my mind he is rather
small for a Derby winner. Lord Orville, who is in the
same stable, also did moderate work, and the Moon-
beam. Sardony, and Misletoe appeared, and did twice
round together, after which the youngsters dropped
out, and Moonbeam put in another turn by herself
Dover, accompanied by Sweetmeat, did a strong 2*
miles, and although it was not a “ time” making gallop
it was nevertheless a “ taking” one, and both were well
liked, the son of Barbarian coming in for a great share
of favor. Athol and Prairie Bird did nothing of any
note, and Andover was again conspicuous by his ab-
sence. Mr. Ivory, as a rule, is unfortunate enough to
have one or more of his horses on the sick list previous
to a meeting, and Andover’s absence may be another
return of his ill-luck. Kamalaroi and Gipsy Cooper
were then treated to a strong’ twice round, both running
home over the last half-mile in good style. 0
The slight shower or two with which the course was
visited between Saturday and Monday did not make the
going as desirable as was expected on Tuesday, but
still some hist work was done. The first out were Black
-bagle and Koreelah, and they wound up a long strong
gallop with a fast spin home oyer the last three-quarters
ot a mile, the Eagle having most to say at the finish.
Creswick, looking well, had Lord Orville for a companion
over two and a half miles, but nothing out of the common
was done. Creswick looks and goes very well, and has
made many friends. Goldsbrough’s brother (yearling)
did slow work with Sapphire, and then came Eosinante
by himself. This “ slippery ” customer put in a strong
twice round, while Eupert, Oriola, and a grey woundup
a mile and a quarter with a really strong flutter over
three furlongs, which was very much fancied. Moneta
sml Shipka, two of Lamond’s young ones, next put in a
fast half mile in good taking style, and they were fol-
lowed by Eetrospect and the Admiral going together
over a couple of turns. Hazard and Athol were treated
to steady exercise, the filly as usual being a trifle frac-
tious. Lorton and Master Aveuel were companions over
their usual distance, twice round, and both got along in
very taking style. Lorton, who shows a deal of improve-
ment on his last running, should have a great say by the
time the Grand Handicap comes round. Strathearn was
treated to long strong work with Gainsbrough, and then
Otira and Coxcomb wound up a slow gallop with a fast
spin home. Prairie Bird, Kamilaroi, and Lightning
worked together, the colt running over his companions
in a fast race home over half a mile. Sweetmeat and
Dover very wide out, put in a good working gallop, and
then Nellie worked on the sand. Moon beam, Eapid Ba y
Cohma, Liberator, and North Star did only mild
breathers,” and the course proper told of nothing
else important. Chester, Martindale. Sunlight, St
John, and some of Tom Brown’s worked on the tan, and
got through strong practice.
Cricket.
The Australian Eleven played a drawn game
with Eighteen of Broughton.*
The annual match between the two home schools
Eton and Harrow, has been won by the representatives
of the latter.
Football.
Most of the Norwood team of footballers left Mel-
bourne on Saturday last for home (Adelaide). They
were escorted to the wharf by most of the leadintr
players of Melbourne.
The Carlton and Melbourne teams met on the East
Melbourne ground on Saturday last, and after a most
exciting struggle the game resulted in a draw—the
Carltons obtaining 2 goals and 9 behinds against 2 goals
and 8 behinds for Melbourne.
The Waratah first Fifteen defeated the first Fifteen
of the Albion (West Maitland) Club, on Saturday, at
Maitland. The Waratahs obtained 4 goal and 3 touches
to nil.
The Wallaroo first Fifteen and a like number of the
University opposed one another at Moore Park on
Saturday last, the marsupials being victorious by 2 goals.
The teams were made up thus Univerity : Paper (cap.
tain), Bowman (2), Flynn (2), Wilkinson, Whitfield,
M’Manamy, Kygate, Allen, Elphinstone, Waldron,
Metcalfe, Mullens, and Buckland. Wallaroo- Brodie
(captain), Burkett. Brooks, Boydell, Barlow, Higgins,
Winter, Wade (2), Graham, Mair, Thompson, Eich-
mond, Fligg, and Oxley.
The Balmain first Fifteen met and defeated the
first Fifteen of Burwood, at Burwood, scoring 3 goals
to ru'l.
The Cook’s River players were also victorious over
the second Kedfems, having obtained 2 goals and 4 tries
to a smgle try for Bedfem.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Layoock has arrived in England.
The Deniliquin J. C. Midwinter meeting takes
place on Wednesday next.
The “ Thessalus,” with 2SO horses, left Mel-
bourne for India a fe vv days ago.
The Glenhead Football Club beat the Newtown
players by three goals and three ties.
The Junior Double Scull Eace at the M. E. C.
last Saturday resulted in a win for A. Bros. Coker was
second.
The entry of Camballo has been declared in-
formal for the Melbourne Cup. He was wrongly
described.
J. C. Laycock and Pearce row to-day. Both men
are in good condition, and it is to be honed a good race
will result.
The S.E.C. Eegatta takes place to-day (Satur-
day). Fort Macquarie or Dawes’ Point will be the best
points of view.
J(dui Thompson, the Victorian bookmaker left
Me! bourne on Thursday last by the Lusitania to assist
inckett in Ins training.
The repair of Laycock’s outrigger by Messenger
is one of the neatest specimens ot workmanship “we
nave seen for some time.
The N.S.W. Sowing Association have agreed to
allow outriggers to be used on the bow and stroke
tn warts of string test gigs,
Bogardus’ score in his recent match with Fred
Erb, 86 to the hitter’s 83, 100 birds aside, is the best
ever made under English rides.
Lady Emma and the other purchase of Sir
Hercules Robinson leave our shores for New Zealand
by the next trip of the Wakatipn.
Next Muswellbrook race meeting will probably
be held in January. A meeting will most likelv take
place at Wallsend in September.
At the football match on Saturday last, Wallaroo
v. Lmversity, Brodie made the best kick. Bowman re-
ceived the next and was carried off the ground.
It is satisfactory to find that so good a sup-
porter of of Queensland racing as the Hon. J. P Bell
Meeting larseSt wilmer afc th e late Rockhampton
, r . a * r -. C - ®, ro ' vu - for some years a member of the
Victorian Ring, after ailing for some time, has gone
over to the majority. He was a Victorian, and died in
Melbourne.
l lav e seen some sculls and oars made by
Head of Pyrmout. They are quite equal to Avling’s
best, and superior in finish to the majority of colonial
manufacture.
Mr. J, Spicer s horse, Coongoola, has been pur-
chased by Mr. .J. Leek, and Mr. L. L. Smith has also
become the owner of Dongatslin and the colt of Mr
W eekes s by Irish King, from Mobile.
, Mr. Brett’s trophy was rowed for on Saturday
last in light skiffs, the course being from Lavender Bay
to the Thetis buoy in Sydney cove, and the result was a
win for A. Bros after a tough struggle.
The winners in Edwards’s tournament, which
ended on Saturday night, attended at Trainor’s hotel,
Bathurst, lor the prizes won by them that morning, but
it appears that Edwards did not show up.
The footrace between Madden of Wellington
and Welsh of Orange came off at the latter place on
Saturday last, and was won easily by the Wellington
representative. The distance was 100 yards.
Messenger, late of Victoria, has settled in
Sydney, and has just finished to order of the Mercantile
Rowing Club a splendid specimen of a clinker outrigger,
olie is on view attlie Club-house, Dawes Point.
Napper Tandy has been backed to win the Mel-
bourne Cup and land £15,000 at 100’s to 3. Mata has
been supported for a much larger sum at a pointless,
and 100 s to 5 is now the best offer in Melbourne.
The first race meeting to como off within the
next few days is that of the Deniliquin Jockey Club set
down tor next Wednesday. Judging from the number of
entries, there ought to be big fields and good racing.
The disqualification of the jockey, “ J. Doul ”
by the Coleraine Stewards has been endorsed by the
118 also tlie penalty imposed upon F. Robins hv
the Stewards of the Maryborough and Carrisbrook
Club.
Messenger has challenged James Lynch for a
race in best and best boats. The old Tasmanian is as
ready as ever to meet an opponent, but we think that
fie is now too antiquated to think of tackling a foe of
Messenger’s* mettle.
~ T £' o annual coursing meeting in connection with
the Narrabn C. C., was held on Friday and Saturday
hist. Mr. Thurton’s Model and Mr. Whiteman’s Skip-
per divided first and second .prizes in the big stake.
Mr. Mosely acted as judge.
Thomas Boyd, the well-known swimmer, in the
presence of about 1000 persons, at Mulfordsville, Ky.
jumped from the railroad bridge over Green River a
distance of 120 feet, to the water below for a wa°-er
He was not injured in the least.
The conditions of the Wollongong Handicap of
100 sovs. and Maiden Plate of 30 are now before the
gaze of owners, to come off on the 7th and Bth of
October; and as Wollongong is so conveniently situated
no doubt the fixture will be as liberally supported as
usual.
On Saturday next will take place the Geelono-
winter meeting. The entries only require careful handf-
capping to provide a good day’s sport. There are 16 in
the Trot 20 in the Hurdle, 18 in the Winter Handicap.
19 in tne Steeple, 7 in the Selling Hurdle, and 21 in the
Railway Stakes.
It is understood that Power and Solomon will
try conclusions over the chamjiion course at an early
date. On the last occasion on which these two scullers
met, Solomon, who reached the winning post first, was
disqualified in conssquence of his having rowed inside
the Mile Point Beacon.
At a recent football match a larrikin was heard
to observe of one of our best players who boasts of
auburn hair, “Copper Top is down again; he’s a
duffer. *ls he, sneered a comrade, “ that’s all you
know; why ginger’s the champion kicker of tile crowd.”
Save us from the critics.
A match among tne members of the N.S.W.
Football Association under the new rules was played on
the Waratah ground on Saturday, and a side chosen by
Campbell beat one chosen by Newing. The spectators
evinced great interest in the new game, which will
doubtless become very popular.
The Australasian says that Mr. W. C. Yuille
has leased on account of Messrs. T. and A. Chirnside to
Mr. H. Phillips, of Warmambool, twelve imported
thoroughbred mares and sires by Lady Kirk and Kin"
Alfred, from imported mares. The well-known stud
horse, Newminster, has also been leased by Mr.
Phillips. Newminster takes the place of the departed
Panic.
On Friday last, the day following the meeting,
the Clarence River winners received their prizes, and a
total of £991105. was paid over. As the following list
will show, the money was well distributed: Mr.
Browne, £220; Mr. Rush, £189; Mr. Hawthorne," £lB2 ■
Mr. Barnes, £128; Mr. Page, 83; Mr. M’Kenzie, a cap-
Mr. Lee, £52; Mr. Thompson, £5O; and Mr. Small, £36!
Financially the meeting was a success.
Both Euclid and Adventurer —the former owned
by Mr. H. Haynes, and the latter by Mr. S. Cook—have
come greatly into favour for “ our handicaps.” The
latter scored a win in the flat race at the late Victoria
A. T. C. meeting, and doubtless is capable of something
much more brilliant. He was once the property of Mr.
F. Wentworth, and is spoken very highly of by Vic-
torians. He was fancied very much by some for the
last A. J. C. Derby.
, T h f e Committee of the Northern Jockey Club-
fVVest Maitland) have decided to hold their Spring
Meeting on the 28th and 29th of September next, hut a
ES 8 "®™ 6 “ ot >’ et be « n l>tit forward. To make
he hxture addition attractive it has been arranged to
get up a handicap pigeon shooting sweep for all comers,
the first prize to be £5O ; and as this pastime is takim-
p-eat root, as witness the sweep at Gunnedah only a
few days ago, there will doubtless be a large entry. "
The Rockhampton meeting, which came off on
Thursday and Friday, the Bth and 9th. was blessed by
nne weather, a good attendance and good racing. That
grand colt Canary won the Maiden Plate, beating a field
ot five, in 2m 471 sec. Warhawk, the Hawkesbury Han-
dicap winner, was notorious in the Port Curtis Handi-
cap; but although he was made a prodigious favourite
or tor the Rockhampton Handicap, he never was
dangerous and died away half-a-mile from home, and
Giphan won from Major, Balthazar finishing third.
At a meeting of the Southern Rugby Football
L nion, held at the Exchange Hotel, Mr. W. Tilly of
West Maitland, occupied the chair. Mr. Tilly was
elected one of the vice-presidents of the Union, vice
"• C. Beal resigned. Messrs. Eaper, E. Arnold,
ihompson, Bnrkitt, and Brodie were appointed a com-
mittee, with the president and secretary. Another
committee, consisting of Messrs. Boydell, E. Arnold
Bnrkitt, Eaper, Fletcher, Thillon, and Waldron was
"thou appointed to examine the laws and bv-laws and
report any amendments which it may be deemed ad-
visable to make.
The annual dinner in connection with the
National Cricket Club was held at the Freemasons’
Hotel, Mr. G. Richardson presiding. The following-
toasts were proposed and duly responded to ; “ The
Queen, Kindred Chibs,” “ Success to the National C.
.The Visitors,” “Mr. Ken-,” “The President,”
a-iu Host Hook.’ The prizes won during the season
were then presented as follows : H. Martin, a clock and
gold badge for the highest batting average, and a bat for-
the best score m a single innings; H. Evers, the best
average bowler, a gold badge, and for general good plav,
• Socket; R. Vial, a gold badge for bowling; and Gv
Watkins, with a pair of cricketing boots, also for bowl I
mg. The trophies were manufactured by Mr. W. Kerr
and each, recipient suitably acknowledged bis gift. *
The sporting- editor of tho Australasian in-
forms tne readers of that journal, while writing about
>T’a £L e . at b ? rse Sussex, that Leicestershire is termed
ihebhires. Now this is giving the premier hunting
county too much prominence, by rolling it out into a
plurality of shires, leaving Northamptonshire and
other little corners or so, in the cold. Leicestershire
among hunting men, is known as The Shire of the
Shires ! which the Australasian sporting authority
would have known had he over read the following four-
hues from “ The Foxhunter’s Dream,” in which the
x oxhunter tlius apostrophises bis horse.
“ Come let me know the full strength of your breedin—
Brave son of Belzoni, be true to your sires !
Sustain old traditions! x*ememher you’re leadiu o *.
The Cream of the Cream ! in The Shire of Tho
Shires!”
The Billiard Tournament for eight players
(muffs), got up by Host Adams, of Tattersall’s Hotel,
came to a conclusion on Thursday, the Bth instant. The
SW ®£P was £3 each, and the handicap was-made by Mr
A. Tighe. The following is a list of the playersMr!
W. Forrester, Mr. A. Cornwall. Mr. S. Knight, Mr
Warn, Mr. C: Ricketts, M. G. Adams, Mr. C. Smith,
and D Ingram. There was a fair amount of wagering
on each game, and after a deal of excitement, the first
prize was won by Mr. Ricketts, Me. A Cornwell beim-
second, and D. Ingram third. All preliminaries were
well managed, and though there was some little cavil-
ling at the decisions of the marker, “Jack,” each -ame
was correctly scored. Owing to the amount of interest
taken in tins contest, and tbe excitement it caused, Mr.
Adams has signified his intention, so we are informed,
of giving a handsome silver cup to be played for at an
early date.
_ Programme of the Murrumbido-ee-
lurf Club (Wagga Wagga) has been put forward
One cannot help being struck with the va*t difference-
between it and its predecessors in point of added money,
but still the various items cannot be said to be other-
wise than attractive. for upwards of HOOsovs.are given
by the Club in addition to a Gold Cup valued at a
• century The dates are altered so as to come in after-
the V.E.C. and Q.E.C. Spring Meetings; and when
entries Pare called for there ought to he a goodly
response. The alteration of dates and curtailment of’
prizes has been brought about by the heavy losses sus-
tained by the Club, and as there was no more liberal
body going than the M.T.C. when “in funds.” it is to he
hoped that owners will lend their support now that the
Club is down.” Our index points to particulars as to-
date of entry, weights, forfeits, etc., and all that need
he said further is that 200, 100, and 150 sovs. respec-
e}y are added to tbe Cup, Grand Stand and Town*
Plate Handicaps.
. Cables state that there is a deal of excitement
in English turf circles owing to Bend Or, the Derby
wmner, being accidentally changed in the Stud Book,
and the same advices say that the mistake arose from
the book named having been badly kept. The question it
appears was brought before the Jockey Club to decide,
but that body refused, and Mr. Brewer, the owner of
Robert the Devil, who was second, claims the amount
of the stake. No doubt in this case the Stud Book is
in error, but as this book is the authority by which to
decide, and also the great safeguard against fraud, there
is no wonder that the rather late discovery that Bend
Gr was not properly described is causing a deal of
excitement in interested quarters. All racing men
know that the Stud Book proved that Running Rein
w-as a four-year-old when he won the English Derby in-
stead of a three, and also that Bloodstone won a two-
year-old race when at the same time he was a year older
It is rather a ticklish point for any body to decide one
way or the other, more especially if the Stud Book was
badly kept, hut it is rather suprising that a decision of
some sort was not given by the J.C. in question. It is
not likely that Tattersall’s will alter the course of bets
so that the error, if there was one, will not affect
Bend Or’s backers.
The fact that celebrated professional oarsmen
are usually married men proves to be no exception in
this colony. Trickett, Laycock, Rush, Green and’
Hickey all have entered the bonds of matrimony, and
noti tdii after that interesting event have any of’them
really distinguished themselves or won the laurels*
which have made their names so familiar. Another
peculiarity is the uniformly little wives and large
families with which these worthies are blessed, tho pre-
ponderance of daughters being also noticeable. Now
with our amateurs the case seems to be strangely at-
tended with exactly opposite results, for if there is
anything that plays havoc with our rowing cluha it is
matrimony. An amateur has only to distinguish him.
sell with the amateur championship or win a senior gig
race at one of the regattas when he is shortly after-
heard of entering for a match of a totally different
nature. Ihe parson wields the starter’s flag,and contrary
to usual practice the public undertakes the ioiut duties
ot umpire and judge. The rowing club is taboo M and
prize pewters are soon discarded, for the trophies
now assume the shape of sturdy noisy little rascals whose
only ambition is to propel a tub across a duck pond
with the aid of a broomstick. Such are the results of
matrimony among our amateurs. There are rare ex-
eeptions, noticeably the present captain of tho SRC
and the exception of the M.R.C. These aquatic
warn ora ,s taud like isolated weatherbeaten pillars amon-
their fellows examples proof against matrimonial in-
nuences and tbe machinations of the fair sex. Why
P* professionals should stimulate rowing
and the marriage of amateurs retard it, or why one
class should be blessed with a preponderance of
and the other with one of boys we know not. It is
matter which we recommend to abler hands and to the
earnest consideration of debating clubs.
The following particulars of the weight, age,
and rowing weight of celebrated scullers which we have
gathered from various sources, and may prove interest-
ing to our readers
AnstoaliaE. Trickett, age 29, height 6 ft. 3Un.,
weight 12st 71b. E. Laycock, age 34, height 6 ft. 2 in.,
weight 12st 81b. M. Rush, age 35, height 6 ft. I’, in.,
weight 12st L3lb.
England : —R. W. Boyd, age 23, height 5 ft. 9 in.
weight list -lib. W. Elliott, age 22, height 5 It. 8 in.
weight list 41b. J, Higgins, age 36, height sft 7i. ia
weight, list,
America: —Wallace Ross, age 23, height 6 ft. 1 in.
weight I2st 4.) lb. E. Hanlan, age 25, height sft 8* in.
weight lOst 131 b. E. Courtney, age 31, height 6ft 11,I 1 , in.
weight 12st.
SCRATCHINGS.
Juno 25 Avemns ... !.. Metropolitan Stakes
June 26—7.30 p.m., Avemus ... Grand Handicap
Jnly I—9 30 a.m., Napper Tandy Metropolitan Stakes
July 1—12.30 a.m., Chester
Jnly 1 —12.30 am., Martlndale ... ”
July 2—12.15 Lohengrin . . Melbourne Cup
July 3—11.30 a.m. Napper Tandy Grand Handicap
July 7 —ll a.m., Lohenjarrin
July 7 —12.50 a.m., Tomboy
Jnly 7—12.50 a.m., Cirmnamon...
July 7 —12.50 a.m.. Freemason ... 9f
'12.50 a.m-. Cinnamon ... Grand Handicap
July 7 —12.50 a.m., Tomboy ...
July 7—12.50 a.m,. Freemason... **
1 r U ! y Ee S )ite Metopolitan Stakes
July 12—11.45 a m.. Surprise ...
July 12—12 10p.m., Foul Play ...
July 12—2.30 p.m., Eosouante ...
July 13 —10.30 a.m., Rookwood,
July 13—10.30 a.m., Croydon ...
July 13—11. a.m.. Lady Emma...
July 13—2.30 p.m.. South Hamilton ”
July 13 —2.30 p.m., Yardley
July 13—2.30 p.m.. Progress
July 13 —2 30 p.m., Western Princess
July 13—2.30 p.m., Lowlander ... ~


OMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS ‘IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALPEED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
W SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best work-
manship and material.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JOHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
SONS’
JOHN
BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
a five years guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
jgR INSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from
Mr. W. H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE
REPRESENTATIVES for New South Wales
Messrs. ROYLE and HOGG, to whom all applica-
tions for sub-agencies must be made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
OHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in ill the Prin-
cipal Towns of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents.
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPAEATUS,
Eor lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application te
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for —
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BEETKAM, Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. EITCHIE & SON, Toronto „
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, &c.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other aerated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
&c., &c.
FIEST PEIZE (International Exhibition) Soda
water Machinery, iErated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
43 GLOBE BUI LDI N G,
SUSSEX STEEET NOKTH.
JJHRST - PEIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
" The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
BINT IN G
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES.
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-stree
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.”
STAGE GOSSIP.
Annie Pixley is married.
Lance Lenton is studying Scotch.
Grattan Biggs’ hair curls naturally.
“ The Forlorn Hope ” is victorious.
What has become of Lotti Wilmott’s dog P
McLean’s Troubadours arebaek in Sydney.
Chiarini has been doing business at Newcastle.
Dampier is doing splendid business in Brisbane.
The Girards were performing in New York last
May.
Mr. John Bennett is back and everywhere
again.
One act of the “thousand pound” play is
finished.
Harris and Alexander, “Blodins,” are at
Rockhampton.
Ben Jones goes to Melbourne —manager for
Coppiu and Co.
They haven’t settled the Bright and dark side
of that whale yet.
Miss Mary Ford (of the sisters Ford) has married
and left the stage.
The Kelly Gang have now quite left the precincts
of the old Queen’s.
Bandmann threatens to return to Australia.
Don’t, Daniel, don’t!
Miss Marion Melrose will shortly reappear at
the Victoria Theatre..
Edith Pender played Hamlet at Rockhampton.
She was not a success.
Hudson’s Surprise Party at latest dates were
at Adelaide, doing well.
An American lady, by name Mary Anderson, is
the coming tragedienne.
Miss Madeline St. Clair is the youngest and
prettiest Sydney soprano.
Stephen Massett was at the diamond fields,
South Africa, last March.
Miss Adelaide Neilson, in “ Cymbelino,” was a
great success in New York.
Lewis Scott has his arm in a sling again, and yet
he’s not at all quarrelsome.
B. N. Jones at last leaves Sydney and joins the
Boyal Company (Melbourne).
If Marshall should leave what would become of
the London Comedy Company ?
Minnie Esmond, the well-known clog and jig
dancer, has returned to the stage.
Thiodon’a Crystal Palace Fortuneteller is the
most ingenious novelty of the day.
Barnum held a high levee at Brooklyn recently
when exhibiting his great show there.
The duet by Miss Kate Foley and Harry Emmet
is well sung—voices blend exquisitely.
J. K. Emmett is doing well in the States. He
is, however, more than occasionally ill.
Pomp, a negro drama, with the pick of the
Georgias, will shortly appear in Sydney.
Keogh and wife (Miss Marion Willis) are still
doing good biz. at Ballarat Academy of Music.
Mrs. Marion Stammers wears a wax neck when
acting Daphnie in “ Pygmalion and Galetea.”
George Darrell never wrote “ Pat work,” and
doesn’t know the meaning of Boucicanltising.
To take sweets after medicine is usual, and the
vestibule of the Victoria Theatre is in fashion.
Barlow, Wilson, Primrose, and West’s Min-
strels arc the attraction of the States just now.
Mr. J. H. Deorwyn has a larger stock of manu-
script plays than any other prompter in Australia.
The latest physionomical study.—J. P. West’s
face when he was told he wasn’t to play Ned Kelly.
Grattan Riggs will give us about four weeks
more of his humorous performances at the Victoria.
On May 1, Chizzola sailed from New York for
London. Mrs. Bandmann sailed for England tho same
day.
The Juvenile Troubadours and the Juvenile
Pinafores are coming, and the “old-timers” must give
way.
After concluding at Melbourne, Mr. Bland
Holt’s “ New Babylon ” Company proceed to Ade-
laide.
Garnet Walch’s “ Rainbow Revels,” played by
the Stewarts in London, is praised by the English
Press.
Fancy Lena Carey and Lazar as Galatea and
Chrysos after Miss Stammers and Marshall. Ye
Gods!
Kennedy and McCarthy, the Irish comedians,
leave for England after their engagement closes in
Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. Howett, just returned from New
Zealand, are now playing in the Western District of
Victoria.
Darrell purposes occupying the next apartment
to Dibbs, should his libel suit in New Zealand come off
“ crabs.”
Borthwick Read, the Scottish swordsman, was
performing with a strong Company at Detroit U.S., in
May last.
Batchelder’s Panorama is now doing a provin-
cial tour in New Zealand after a very good season in
Christchurch.
Some of the prettiest scenes ever painted in the
colonies are to be seen in “ The Forlorn Hope ” at the
Queen’s Theatre.
Miss Kate Foley, of the Victoria Theatre, is not
the young lady of the same name who was a member of
a travelling troupe.
James H. Rainford (the bass actor —not singer)
has tamed poet, and parodied “ Excelsior ” in a Cam-
bridge Club handbill.
Tho Loft ha Troupe will shortly be re-organised
and strengthened for a tour in tho north, and then
Adelaide and Tasmania.
Ella Carrington’s “ Stray Leaves ” Company
were at Charters Towers at the commencomont of the
month, doing fair business.
Bayless v. Williamson, a case of dog bite dog,
vrill not come off, as the American Eagle has not
found security for expenses.
Mr. Wybert Reeve and Company are and have
been doing well at Newcastle in “The Woman in
White" and “ George Geith.”
Mr. J. 8. Willis is engaged re-deoorating the
theatre Boyal, Christchurch. Geo. W. Geddes will
manage under the new regime.
. -A-bout the middle of August the Queen’s Theatre
i 8 2 . thoroughly renovated and cleansed. What a
tearful slaughter of rats and fleas
Mr. Holloway has left for Newcastle to try and
arrange to keep the local theatre going. Mr. Dampier
will very likely be his first “ star.”
Cooke, the circus proprietor and clown, recently
deceased, established a society in New York for the
benefit of members of his profession.
Adelaide Neilson recently sold her wardrobe and
a portion of her jewels in New York city, on her
announced retirement from the stage.
Mr. T. H. Rainford, the vocalist, presented a
grand bouquet, decorated with brilliant streamers, to
Miss Madeline St. Clair on her dehut.
Miss Alice Deorwyn did not refuse to play in
“ The Capture of the Kelly Gang, but objected to be
tacked to the house of Kelly as a skillion.
Fifteen pirated editions of “ The Kelly Gan" ”
have been forwarded to New Zealand. There’s a chance
for Bnrford, Clinton, and others of that ilk.
Portion of Simonson’s Froliques will arrive in
Sydney shortly. The other portion leave Auckland per
City of New York en route for their native soil.
Shepperson and Howarde are now the largest
landed preprietors in Brisbane. They have rented all
the vacant lots, in order to secure Chiarini bia.
Harry Emmett complains that Gerald Dillon
makes up like him to do the block, and overpowers the
pretty je:sey wearers. But—“ it don’t signify.”
Grattan Riggs is even more comical off than on
the stage. All true Irishmen will regret to hear that
he has forsworn whisky and taken to lager-beer.
The female impersonator attached to a certain
troupe now in Sydney is to marry a Sydney lady (not
in the profession) in about three weeks from now.
Mr. W. Hoskins, the veteran, has taken another
farewell benefit in N.Z. He proposes visiting Sydney
and Melbourne before leaving for the Old Country.
Wilson’s circus suffered heavily recently in a
cyclone at Bombay. His luck has been bad lately.
He lost two enormous elephants which had cost him
£'3ooo.
We are extremely sorry to hear that we will
soon lose the pleasant face of Mr. Greville, as the
Coppin and Co., management soon terminates in
Sydney.
Dampier will remain about another three weeks
at Brisbane, where he has proved such a success. He
will come to Newcastle, where he is sure of a warm
greeting.
There’s a swell hairdresser who won’t visit the
theatre or buy tickets for an actor’s benefit, but no
scruples arise when he takes an actor’s money for
wigs, &c.
John Bennett, in regard to his purchase of the
armour lately worn by the Kellys, assures the Govern-
ment that he really does not intend to . But we’ll
say no more.
Robinson, the renowned equestrian, was at last
accounts with Sells Brothers’ circus at Topeka, Kansar.
Pauline Lee, equestrienne and juggler, was with the
same circus.
George Darrell took =£s to £2 that he would be
blessed with a severe cold and more or less rain on his
opening night. He won the double event, and still he
is not happy.
The list of travelling dioramas has been added
to. A Signor Griscolimo arrived from England by the
Norfolk, and is exhibiting in Wellington (NZ.), a
diorama of Paris.
Haggard, editor of the Brisbane W eek, is study-
ing the part of Middlewick. He sits on the river bank
at the “ point ” every evening and addresses the timber
as Sir Champneys.
The celebrated Juvenile Pinafore Company,
which has proved such a success in Melbourne, appear
under Morris Greenwall’s management at the Queen’s
Theatre in August.
Several members of the Queen’s and other
theatre companies have taken a great fancy for bananas
and are to be seen enjoying the delicious fruit at all
horns of the day and night.
Around the clubs in the world’s metropolis it is
whispered that the wife of Henry Irving, the tragedian,
is about to institute proceedings for a divorce, and upon
the gravest plea that can be urged. ’
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson are to play at the
Theatre Boyal, Melbourne, during the first three or
four Exhibition months. G. B. W. Lewis brings out a
gigantic circus company in opposition.
Lydia Howarde returned to Sydney from Bris-
bane this week. She has been offered £35 a week and
10 per cent, over £3OO gross to join a bouffee company
to travel India. She will probably accept.
M. Granetot, a Frenchman, now playing at
Toulouse, is said to be the oldest actor on the stage.
He is a hundred years old, and made his first appear-
ance at the age of 15, during the Kevolution.
Among the sensational novelties of the Great
Hippodrome, Paris, is Mdme. Gasetta with her trained
pigeons. Her act is described as charming from its
gracefulness and its picturesque appearance.
The Duke’s Theatre, recently burnt in London,
was leased by Charley Wilmott, an old colonial actor.
Its stage door would have been opened to Australian
artistes—and more’s the pity, the catastrophe.
The late Mr. J. J. Bartlett said that Walter
Cooper had written him the best piece yet ereated by
that prolific dramatist. What has become of it ? If
better than “ Colonial Experience,” surely we ought to
see it.
We are glad to see that Liddy, the well-known
manager of the Queen’s Theatre, will have a benefit
tendered to him shortly. All the dramatic and musical
talent of Sydney have offered their assistance for the
occasion.
Mrs. Bateman recently produced “ Romeo and
Juliet” at Sadlers’ Wells. Mr. Clifford Harrison, an
amateur, played Borneo to Miss Bateman’s Juliet. It
is generally conceded that Mr. Harrison his a great
deal to learn.
From India we learn that John Wilson’s circus
tent was blown to “ smithereens” by a cyclone. The
old mau is out of luck of late; two enormous elephants,
worth £3OOO, shipped by him from Bombay to London,
died on the voyage.
A private letter to the Ltttleton Times says
“ Baker and Farron made an excellent start, but since
then business has fallen off considerably, and their sea-
son is not likely to be of such an extended term as was
originally intended.”
Dampier and the children opened in Brisbane
with “All for Gold,” on Saturday, and made a big hit.
“Never Too Late to Mend" would be mounted on
Wednesday, “Richardlll.” onFriday,and “LesMiser-
ablos ’’ on Saturday.
Another victim to the wiles of a certain
theatrical manager, Mr. Edwin Brown, was taken off the
mail boat at Auckland by the usual inducement, “ I
will play you in all New Zealand towns.” Then some-
body was “skinned.”
Madame Patti will appear during the London
season in a new work by Jules Cohen, entitled “Es-
tella.” She is said to be delighted with it, but the Paris
papers do not think much of it us yet. Nicolini will
take the part of Fabio.
It ite almost needless to say that this paragraph
has reference to Adelina Patti :—“ At a recent enter-
tainment in Paris, given by a lady of rank and wealth,
a star vocalist received 16.000 francs (£600) for singing
a song She (the vocalist) said she never charged less
than this sum per song, unless four songs were re-
i quired, in which case she would be content with one-
j third less, or £4OO a song 1
The “Pinafore” Company of third-rate ama-
teurs who went to the coal districts lately have returned
much wiser than when they left. It is now possible to
pass along York-street without being assailed by
“ Dear Little Buttercup.”
The London Comedy Company are by degrees
losing their people. Mr. and Mrs. De Belleville first ;
then Mr. and Mrs. Ward left per last Orient boat ; Mr.
and Mrs. Eoberts leave for liome after a short season
overland and at Adelaide.
“ Much Ado” was recently performed at Wilna,
Eussia. The audience called for the author. The stage
manager responded, and quieted the enthusiasts Dy
informing them that Mr. Bhakspeare had been dead
and buried for twenty years.
As the proposed Press Club miscarried, why not
start a Dramatic and ftterary Club, to which all visiting
actors (not “ variety boys”) and writers could be
welcomed ? Make some one, both actor and writer,
chairman. Now then, George.
Sam Poole v. Tavares was the 'piece de resistance
at the Brisbane police court on Monday week last. The
“ pros.” were well represented. Sam looked more
frightened than Ned Kelly. He sued for wages due in
Melbourne. The case was postponed for a week.
Mario, the once world-renowned tenor, is now
earning a paltry pittance of £4OO per annum at Borne as
an employe of the civic dignitaries. Fancy the mau
who erst reigned supreme as king of song, and had half
the beauties of Europe at his feet, now, perchance,
sniffing round the air inspecting nuisances!
4 'Won come on thar, Cully, and I slings you the
patter—see ? Then you throws a flipflap, and goes off.
I sherries the straight man around, and you takes the
slap when I gives yer the flour. Then you lambastes me
with a stuffed club, and they closes in.” And this is
the modem transatlantic drama, and the public laugh
at it.
Mr. Hiscocks, of Hiscocks and Hayman, took a
farewell benefit at the Theatre Boyal, Mel-
bourne, which proved a great success. He was also
presented with a handsome locket by his friends.
He leaves shortly for England with the Mammoth
Minstrels. It is intended to give him a dinner in
Sydney.
Three parties of American actors came out by
the same boat, and each party brought the same piece.
Baker and Bussell call it “ Salamander Edwin
Brown (just arrived here) calls it “ The Phcenixand
Maas and De Angelis produced it at the Queen’s
as “Euchre.” Thought they’d “euchre” the others
anyhow.
Two Sydney favourites —George Giddens (who
played with Nell, the Californian Diamond, in Lewis
Scott’s “Euby,”) and Lytton Sothem —are playing in
“Betsy” at the Criterion Theatre, London. This
drama has run over 300 nights, and Mr. Gamer, of the
London Comedy Company, has bought the sole right for
Australia.
The subscribing members of the Petersham
Musical Society have a treat in store. The music of
Mr. Fisher’s cantata, “The Emigrants,” is extremely
pretty, and appropriately wedded to the exquisite words
of “Australia," our l>est poetess. Mr. E. Lewis Scott,
the secretary, says the attendance at practice averages
60. Good, for Petersham !
Mr. James Cooke, who, it will be remembered,
brought with Wilson and Zoyara a first-class circus to
this colony in 1865, died in Ne w York, of pneumonia,
on April 28. He was a king among performers, and a
capable manager. He was born in Dublin, and was a
clown by profession. His son is studying to be a priest
and his daughter is in a convent.
Bennett avers —and, of course, that settles it —
that he has purchased the horses of the Kelly gang for
presentation in “ The New Babylon.” Darrell declares
that the armour, rifles, revolvers, and the general outfit
of the gang will be ceded him by the Government of
Victoria for the proper equipment of the representatives
of the gallant heroes in his (Darrell’s) great moral drama
of the luture, to be entitled “ Seven Epochs of Crime,
or The Cerberus of Justice and the Martyred Nemesis.”
“ Oh, what are we all coming to ? ” Job acting
now obtains, and stock companies are a thing of the past
in the Australias. There was a time when a recognised
artiste could pull on his night-cap in the safe security
of a twelvemonths’ engagement, but, alas! the Yankee
combinations and the English teams have settled all
that. Up sticks, and away all ye who can! Let us
forsake our native hearthstones for the benefit of the
ruthless invaders, and exclaim as we shoulder our swags,
“ There is a world elsewhere.”
Mr. Buchanan will be disgusted to learn that
the Brisbaneites havenotbeen “ Knocked” byDampier’s
Hamlet. No doubt they were not educated up to it.
The leading journal objects to his vehemence and
rapid utterance in certain passages, and to his alteration
of the text in others. Whereupon the evening paper,
as though inspired, explains that this vehemence is
allowable considering the view Mr. Dampier takes, of
Hamlet being a madman having lucid intervals. There
appears to have been a large audience.
Who did write the Kelly gang ? George Darrell
raves when taxed with it; Lewis Scott looks mysterious
and tries to make one fix it on him; Walter Cooper
winks ; Harold Stephen begins a 3-act disclaimer; old
Murray says he’d have killed the whole of the Kellys in
every act ; Dutruc shrugs his shoulders ; Fern. Murray
says he hasn’t written anything for the stage for years;
Prank Hutchinson won’t tell; Harry Emmett says he
hasn’t had the time lately; and Johnny Hall, who
wrote a tragedy for Japanese Tommy, is in Melbourne.
It must have come from Victoria after all.
A sheriff’s officer recently attempted the arrest
of an actor in America. The artist, a heavy man,
ensconced himself in the green-room, arming himself
with property daggers, pistols, and swords, and melo-
dramatically invited the bailiff to “come on.” The
myrmidon of the law declined. Not bad for the Yankee.
But Lola Montes, on her departure from Australia,
“ ont-heroded Herod.” The writs were out, and on a
departing vessel an officer sought to execute. Lola
retired to her cabin and begged the man to enter and
seize her. He did enter, and found the shadow dancer
and mistress of kings in parts naturalibus. That mau
also failed to arrest. ,
Mrs. Marcus Clarke, nee Marion Dunn, recently
made her re-appearance on the Melbourne stage after
an absence of nearly 12 years. In the good old days
she was a bright cheery little soul —a “ gleam of sun-
shine” her fellow-artistes used to call her. It is pleasing
to learn that her re-appearance has proven fairly
satisfactory. The caustic critic of the Australasian
says:—“ Her manner has that quality of refinement
which, unfortunately, is not always found even in
otherwise good actresses, and there is an artistic finish
in all she does which is refreshingly free from stereo-
typed stagiaess.” In this age of high kickers it is re-
freshing to welcome back to the boards a “ lady of
culture and undoubted intelligence.”
In a charge of sly-grog selling brought against a
fruiterer at the Wellington Court," N.Z., the presiding
magistrate stated that in no case would there be con-
victions unless the evidence of informers agreed in
every point.
The Bank of New South Wales (says a northern
correspondent who evidently has no love for our boss
financial institution) has dragged together an astound-
ing heap of coin, not far snort of £5,000,000. This
result may at first sight appear a subject for congratu-
lation, bat it is not so satisfactory when the process of
accumulation is examined. It has been squeezed out of
unhappy customers by a remorseless application of the
bank screw, in preptaration for a panic which the
authorities of the bank expected, which they did their
beet to produce, but which hasn’t come off. It is not
considered good driving to leave the reins loose on the
horse’s neck till you have got into a dangerous place,
and then to clutch at them in frantic desperation,
pulling the animal nearly on to hia haunches.” We
like to hear all aides, so we print the above, but we
must at the same time remark that in Queensland the
policy of all the banks, the Q. N. B. as well as tho
rest, is “ much of a muchness.”
Exhibition Cement.—Bailey and Kerr, late of George-
street and Exhibition, have appointed Mr. Thiodon, of
the Polytechnic, Pitt-street. agent for the above
cement. “It mends glass, china, and everything.” Is.
per bottle, by post 18 stamps,—[Adrt.]


Government Ad l
Department of Public W(
Sydney, 2
f£IO CONTRACTORS
TENDERS will be received
o’clock on TUESDAY, the Z
willing’ to contract for the const
the Extension of the South.
Narandera to Hay, a distance o
Pldns, specification, and form
and further particulars obtain
Engineer-in-Chief for Railways
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ‘ Ter
Narrandera to Hay.’
The Commissioner does not hi
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. G<
Comm
Public Com
lOMMEECTAL BANK!
SYDNEI
Established
Incorporated by Act of
Capital, £500,000. Resen
Director!
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairma;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. J
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Ei
T. A. Dibbs, Esq
Auditors
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J.
SOLICITOR!
Messrs.'Want, Johns
Messrs. Cape and W
Head Office— George
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; P. N. Bi
Gaden, Branch Inspector;
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, G
Oxford-strs
London Office—39 Lom
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., i
Esq.; P. H. Ho
Manager: Nathanie
Branches in New South W i
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, ]
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowr
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, C;
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (Norf
Cootamuudra, Dubbo, Dungo;
Glen Times, Goulburn, Graftoi
Gunning, InverelJ, Kempsey, Ki
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Mo
Mummuidi, Muswellbrook, Na:
audera. Orange, Parkes, Parrai
Queaubeyan, Quirindi, Richmo
ton, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga W
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellim
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, V
With the following
Branches in Queensland Bi
Maryborough and Rockht
Agencies in the
Victoria: The Bank of Victc
Australasia, Colonial Bant
Commercial Bank of Austra
South Australia : The Bank c
National Bank of AustraL
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bai
Tasmania : The Bank of Van D:
New Zealand : National Bank
Agencies beyond ti
London ; The Loudon and We:
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Uni
Manchester : The Manchester :
Ireland; The Belfast Banki
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bai
San Francisco: The Bank of
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale d
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Mi
India, China and Singapore ;
India, Australia, and Chint
Mercantile Bank of India, I
Ceylon : The Chartered Merc;
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and C
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bonk discounts bills, gra
advances on approved security
fixed deposits, negotiates produ
issues drafts or letters of credit
lects bills payable at any of thi
elsewhere, at current rates; colh
in public companies, and inter*
for its customers in the investm
ties in Great Britain or in the co
tn nn<l#»rfnTrO + rumuA,.
Public Com]
PHE INTERCOLONIAL
ASSOCIATION, L
Head Ofeices :—253 (late 217
(formerly the Merca
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Sha
Subscribed, £
Director;
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M
Mr. Alderman John Yonn
T. M. Slattery, Esq. I p
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. E
T. R. Smith, Eg
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No i
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fir
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH F
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY,
in the profits.
JAMES I
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAJ
Established
Capital— £loo,ooo, with power b
BONUSES
20 per cent, paid annually for
DIEECTOI
Hon. John Sutherlam
Mannel F. Josephson, Esq. Wil
John Wetherill, Esq. Wil
First Fire Society es'
Colony on the Mutual
Policy-holders back pa
miums as a Cash Bonus
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed f(
premiums.
Damage by Lightning .
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement
Fire insurance at lowest rati
T WALTER
Head Office— l 44,, late 184,
but one north Evening News).
ITIHE LIVERPOOL AN]
GLOBE INSURANCE
with unlimited liability, and
colony to enable the Company
Directors in Si
_ Edward Knox, Esq.,
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | "V
Town and country risks at lo
Life business in all it
Principal Medicat
A. Roberts, I
M. W. S. CLARKE, M.A., I
Head Office for Australasia—ffi
Australian mutu.
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHEI
HEAD OFFICE—MTT-SI
THE OLDEST MUTUAL
AUSTEALI
_ DIRECTO
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G.
John H. Goodlnt, Esq., Depot;
Robert Saddington, Esq. I
Robert J. King, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL (
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. )
Extract from Post Magazine
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quin
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a
plete statement ever issued by
affords an incontestable proof th:
success it tells is the result, not <
tical and theoretical ability, go
ment and prudence.*
The Commercial World (Loi
1880, says;—‘No British Comps
with the Australian Mutual, whii
of its existence, has received in ir
than it has been called upon to p
ACCUMULATED FUND, T
STERLINC
COLONIAL MUTUAL F
Public Comp
rjIEEBIBLE A
Are continually happ
FEIGHTFUL MUTJ
and
LOSS OP L
are recorded as the result of acci
the dailj press.
The best investment to p
ACCIDENTS OP AJ
is to take out a Polio
AUSTEALASIAN ACCIDE
ASSOCIATE
(Limited)
CAPITAL—dBI<
OVEE 300 CLAIMS ALEI
Head O-'Tices—2s6 Pitt-st., <
J
COENWALL FIEE AND
ANCE COMP.'
CAPITAL, £lO
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted I
G. A, LLOYD j
Agents,
318 GEOEGE-ST
13
14
15
Green striped rep Drawiug-r<
articles
Eep Suite, consisting of Co
Chairs
Same as above, with two Eas
A VERY HANDSOME INI
Chiifomer, with sloped Secretary
W. B. CAMPE
Royal Famishing.
438, George-str
Sydney.
w
INT E E
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Eegu
TENNIS BALLS, Eegulation Sizi
sewn.
RACKET BATS, all prices.
FEISQUETTE, or LADIES’ CE
All of Jeffries’ and Mailing
GILBERT’S MATCH FOOT BA
QUOITS, all RI7CH TTlnBo fn SalamJ
Tailors, Drape
pEA P E S A K
Have Openei
Heal Russian leather purses, cf
hags, in all sizes, the most
that ever came into this mar
The new Passementerie Trimmii
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collaret
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool m
warm, the largest and choic
city, imported direct from G
Radies’ Warm Winter Hosiery
Ladies' Warm Winter Gloves
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuff
All the above goods are only
marked off, ex S.S. Orient.
T> EAP E S AN
JACKETS AND M
Hs Cd to 5 guii
xeapes and Shaw s costumes, fro
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid e
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for s
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for <
Come and see them, comparisoi
Stout Saxony flannels—ls, Is 2d,
Real Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d
imitation)
Peai>es and Shaw’s umbrellas—la
Gd, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter
men—2os. 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 35s
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s n
GEORGE STREET. GEC
George-stree
bTa'pTs aTiT:
DEESS MATE!
T> V nr, 6Jd ’ 8 * d - 10
Proche and Pompadour, for trim
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s
4s 6d. 5s 6d
A beautiful assortment of rich co
for dinner, evening, and wedd
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHINf
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful g£
2s Gd, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto
2s 8d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto i
9d, 6s 6d
Wedding trousseaux, from £2O to
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The new “ Bon Ton ” stays, in wl
The new “Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,
Ladies’ winter merino hose, plai;
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PEA
George-street. Ge
jIASHIONABLE SCAEFS
FOR GENTLE®
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEEC
FITTING SH
PITT ST R'
Near the Victohia
THE BEST SHOP FOE NEC;
TRY IT! !
J. L. HOED
JgjXCELLENCE WITI
171 PITT STRI
ED MU N D W
NAVAL AND MILITAI
14s Gd., 16s. 6d., 21
TEOUSEES. TROUSERS
All wool and well
50s, BANNOCKBURN SUI
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit
• taste.
ALL COATS FITTED befo
IJIHE STANDARD AMI
COLLAR, AND CUFF
100 KINO STPUht


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Hoskins is not very popular, which is
another way of saying he is honest.
Dick Aspinall, son of the celebrated barrister
and wit, is now on a visit to Sydney.
The resident medical officers of the’Sydney In-
firmary have been called on to res gn.
The Honorable Bourn Bussell has gone to “ that
bourne whence no traveller returns.”
Bismarck was born on Ist April (All Fool’s Day)
and has fooled the world for a long time*
A Mackay planter, Mr. Spiller. is said to have
cleared £30,000 by last year’s crop of cane.
Miss Eoycraft has arrived from Melbourne, and
has taken np her residence in Macquarie-street.
Dr. Taylor, of Gladesville Asylum, has com-
menced a libel action against the Freeman’s Journal.
The belle—or shall we say two 'of the belles —of
Hobart Town is at present in Sydney. The Wolverene
sails on Saturday.
Father Gibney says that when he entered the
huming Glenrowau Inn not far short of one hundred
people were firing at the building.
One of Dickens’ sons is a member of the Cana-
dian Northwest Mounted Police, and has sheen sta-
tioned at Fort Walsh for four years.
Palmer, the Colonial Secretary of Queensland,
is the most courteous of men. Oaths don’t occupy more
than half his ordinary conversation.
Henderson Africanus, the Victorian “Am-
bassador,” got married last week to a live white
woman, the widow of an officer. Aged fifty-six.
Sir George Yerdon. inspector and general
manager of the English, Scottish and Australian Char-
tered Bank, is at present in Sydney on an official visit.
George Elliot made a vow
Never to have a boss.
And solemnly kept her promise
Till a fellow made her Cross.
Old sportsmen from Maitland recognise the
familiar face of Dick Snell on the Moore Park ’bus.
Dick at one time was the most successful rider on the
turf.
’ Mr. Cowlishaw, of the Melbourne firm of Cow-
lishsh'aw and Plaisted, has been drowned at Hokitika,
New Zealand, whilst transhipping from one steamer to
another.
“vEgles,” of the Australasian, is a stock-
broker. There is no more genial or better known
pressman in Melbourne, sharebroking notwith-
standing.
George Collins Levey has attained the object of
his ambition. He sports a live private secretary. He
(the secretary, not George Collins), is the son of a
judge, too.
It is rumoured that Dr. Williamson, of H.M.S.
Emerald, has accepted a medical appointment at
Mudgee, and is. to be succeeded by Dr. Marsh, of
H.M.S. Wolverene.
The Vice-regal party visited Eandwick race-
course this week to witness a parade of Messrs. Smith
■and Long’s racehorses. A powerful young colt, Bertie,
was greatly admired.
Queensland Punch says that the bow of
■Griffith (leader of the Opposition) is cool enough to
warrant hie being engaged to nod at a cargo of home-
ward bound carcases.
Gowen Evans bosses ■ the Argus. In the
office he is beloved by everyone, and outside by the
ladies. He is essentially a club man, and Standish and
he are hist friends, or were.
Mr. Milner Stephen has attempted the cure of a
young gentleman in a Government office who is deaf
and dumb, but so far has not been successful. Even
magnetic water sometimes fails.
The popular captain of the S. R. C., Mr. P. J.
Clark, is back again in Sydnev, after enjoying a well-
earned holiday in the country. He will no doubt be
the moving spirit of the regatta to-day.
John Henson, the veritable “Uncle Tom” of
Mrs. Stowe’s famous novel, is still living near Chat-
ham, Ontario. He was in a Detroit theatre last year,
and witnessed the play of which he is the hero.
A gentleman in one of the adjoining colonies
received an invitation to a bachelors’ ball. Seeing
“ K.S.V.P.” at the bottom he replied accepting the
invite, and addressed his reply, “K.S.V.P. Committee.”
Eutledge, ex-clergyman, and now a barrister, is
one of the candidates for the vacancy on the Queens-
land Insurance Board. He is the nominee of a strong
party and will draw the fee before many Mondays are
over.
At a Hebrew ball at Need’s Rooms on Wednes-
day night (7th inst.) a prominent member of the Naval
Brigade was conspicuous by wearing a gold medal (pre-
sented for regular attendance at drill, we suppose) on
the breast of his coat.
A distinguished “ globe-trotter,” who is at
present sojourning at Government House, had a dis-
pute with a cabman, a few evenings ago, which resulted
in a pitched battle, the “cabby” getting considerably
•the worst of the encounter.
Bare Occurrences.—David Buchanan neglecting
an opportunity to advertise himself. Michael Fitzpat-
rick in unagreeable humour. The Minister for Lands
looking grave. The Minister for Mines with a gay
- expression on his countenance.
There is great trouble at Manly. The cause is
the presence of a well-known “ man about town,” and
the effect has been a plentiful supply of kicked-out
trunks, and irate brothers taking to themselves mild-
lookiug articles of the genus “ six-shooter.”
Weston has retired as whip of the Queensland
Opposition. It is to be hoped that in future he will
leave off putting his hoots on the cushion in the rail-
way carriages, and cease to “ down ” on those smoking
in them. So hopes Jack Turner, of Heiledon.
Wo have at present in the Legislative Assembly
an ex-clergyman, a doctor, a tombstone manufacturer,
aud an undertaker. AVe would suggest to the free and
independent citizens of Newtown the advisability of
electing a gravedigger to make the funeral role com-
plete.
Vanity Fair hints at a coming change in the
Earl of Beaconsfleld. It says : —“ It is not often that a
man after 73 years of active life commences to turn his
thoughts to matrimony as a serious profession, yet I am
told that the evergreen Earl has almost made up his
mind.”
Sergeant Dalton sustained a “ suill ” on last
Tuesday, while charging a stray dog in the Parliament
yard. The dog escaped, and the valiant veteran fell on
that part of his person which Tennyson describes ns
being “nearest the setting snn when his face looks
eastward.”
One of the officers of the Permanent Force, who
some months ago was the hero of an extraordinary ride
from the Victoria Barracks to Government House gates,
has succeeded in laying his charger up. Some men
believe in the proverb, “A horse’s body will wear out
two sets of his legs.”
At the University Commemoration on Saturday
last His Lordship Bishop Barker, whilst proceeding up
the centre aisle of the hall, tripped over a piece of
matting and measured his extensive length on the
floor. Then the Bishop got up smiling “ with the
smile that smiles not.”
One shilling “15 puzzles” have been quite the
•rage as presents to friends in the country; but when
"the recipients have paid the deficient postage, together
with the postal fine, which in nearly every case amounts
do 25., they have “thanked” their friends with the
big, big D " prodigiously.
Mr. L. M‘Lean, the gentleman who was unfor-
tunately run over aud killed hy a train on the open line
connecting the Gippsland and Spencer-street Stations,
was formerly manager of Yanko Station, and more re-
cently a stock and station agent at Urana. The same
issue of the Pastoral Times which announced his
death also contained a report of a presentation made him
hy inhabitants of the Jerbderio district, by whom he
was much esteemed. Such is life.
A well-known oily M.P. proffered his valuable
services in the way of introducing Dr. Harman-Tarrant,
the newly-elected of Kiama, to the House. It’s said,
however, that the worthy doctor declined to recognise
his would-be political godfather, remarking that “men
were known by the company they kept.”
Charley Mein, well known in Sydney, we beg
his pardon, the Hon. Charles Stuart Mein, Postmaster-
General in the previous Ministry, and leader of the
Opposition in the Queensland Upper House, succeeds
Major Snelling as Commanding Officer of the First
Regiment of Infantry. A happy appointment, and it is
a pity (says our Brisbane correspondent), that there are
not a few more men like Mein holding commissions in
the Queensland army.
Eudeness a Parliamentary privilege.—Michael
Fitzpatrick and David Buchanan are the only members
of Parliament who appear in the presence of the Spea-
ker with covered heads. Such scandal on the part of
Ninny might be excused on the ground that he could
not be supposed to know better.
Sub-Inspector O’Connor did not catch the
Kellys, but he succeeded in catching something much
more interesting in Victoria. He married one of the
beautiful daughters of the late John Thomas Smith—
an heiress. She and her husband are now staying at
the Exchange Hotel. The Crown Prosecutor of Vic-
toria, Mr. J. T. T. Smith, the lady’s brother, is also in
Sydney.
The Chairman of Committees ought certainly to
be able to afford a latchkey. If not, in deference to
the repxjse and peace of mind of his neighbour's his
salary should bo increased. It is rough ou them to be
disturbed in the small hours by a cab rattling down the
street, by heavy raps at the Chairman’s door, and
“Parliamentary" language until the opening thereof
Often he is kept waiting in the cold whilst an animated
conversation takes pffaoe through the keyhole. It is
rumoured that his time is rigidly kept, and chocked
with that of the rising of the House in the morning
journals. _ Should he have been more than twenty
minutes in reaching his own door after this there is
trouble in the camp. The neighbours sailor.
It is generally supposed that marriages are
made in heaven, hut we think they are also effected in a
certain big hotel in George-street. It is whispered that
we are soon to have another wedding from that place.
This time the wooer hails from a well-known engineer-
ing firm not very for distant.
Lady Augustus Loftus held a reception at
Government House on Friday, 9th instant. Among the
first to arrive and the last to leave were a lady and her
two daughters, well known among those who love to call
themselvesthe “upper ten." When we remember that
under the former regime they were generally considered
amis de la maison, it is possible they are endeavouring to
make their presence felt and hope for a continuation of
vice-regal favours.
It is not a fact (as stated) that a naval officer —
a late arrival —has just wooed and won a charming
New South Wales heiress. Indeed the statement is
palpably ridiculous, as everything was arranged several
months ago, and the happy pair only await the 6th of
next month to fulfil their contract.
The throwing out of the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Marriage Bill in the House of Lords will he a great dis-
appointment to Royalty, as had it passed the Princess
Beatrice would in all probability have married her
brother-in-law. Prince Louis of Hesse. So this is what
accounts for “ the milk in the cocoa-nut,” and the fact
that still another German Prince hasn’t come to England
to get a living.
A brilliant entertainment will be given this
(Friday) evening by an amateur dramatic company, at
the School of Arts, in aid of the Children’s Home, Ash-
field. The performance commences with the two-net
comedy, “Woodcock’s Little Game.” Tho following is
the cast: —Mrs. Professor Smith, the Misses Laber-
touebe, Miss Benson, Mrs. Darley, Mrs. Labertouche,
Mr. George Forbes, Mr. Monteftore. The p>erfopnance
will include some “tableaux virants,” including Ten-
nyson’s “ Dream,” in which Mrs. Darley appeal's in the
ambitious role of Cleopatra. Nearly all the tickets
have been taken, and considering the character all tho
performers bear for first-rate acting, wa predict and
hop)e for a great success in every way.
The relationship between Sir John and Mr.
Hoskins is by no means a happy one. The latter was
conspicuous in the division on the bill introduced by
Mr. O’Connor to enable the City Council to purchase a
site for baths at Watson’s Bay as the only member of
the Government who voted against the second reading
of the bill.
Dr. Vauso, late of Sydney Infirmary, has joined
Dr. Bowker in partnership. Their stronghold is Church
Hill. Dr. Vause is of high University degree, and as
he is a close student and the best of fellows, everyone
will be glad to see that he has made so advantageous a
professional alliance. It may be mentioned that he was
a pupil of Lister’s and was the first to introduce that
celebrated surgeon’s system of antiseptic dressing to
the Infirmary.
The committee of the Sydney Infirmary require
a resident medical officer to perform the functions of a
clerk in addition to his ordinary duties. “ Resident”
doctor no longer means one who lives at the Infirmary
—it now signifies a medico who stays in Macquarie-
street long enough to be insulted by people in whose
category doctors and drunken cooks apparently are of
equal standing. At any rate every “resident” medico
who has been there for years says so—and they can’t all
be wrong.
Those who visited a photographer’s studio in
George-street onel day last week were considerably
scandalised at the spectacle of a young lady well known
in Sydney society, who appeared in a gorgeous ball dress
of white satin (very low in front) and who waited for
her turn for nearly two hours. Notwithstanding the
attention which she attracted she [preserved the utmost
equanimity and seemed rather to enjoy the criticism
which her appearance provoked. Such presence of mind
and coolness ought to photograph well.
An assembly ball was held at the Council Cham-
bers, Hunter’s Hill, on last Friday evening. About 150
were present, including a fair sprinkling of Sydneyites.
The room was very tastefully decorated with flags and
banners, the floor in good order, and the music all that
could be desired. The dancers kept it up until those
who required a morning slumber before going to Syd-
ney deemed it advisable to leave. A few mishaps oc-
curred, doubtless due to the rather long trains worn by
some of the ladies, among whom it was unanimously
acknowledged that a Sydney belle carried off the palm,
for beauty and good dancing.
Governor Weld, late of Tasmania, and now
administering the Government at the Straits Settle-
ments, has been iknighted, and is now Sir Frederick
Aloysms Weld, K.C.M.G. This distinction has been
very hardly earned, and those who have known what
Sir Frederick’s services have been, in connection with
the settlement of the New Zealand native difficulty and
subsequently as Governor of Western Australia and
Tasmania, have wondered why the recognition of her
Majesty has so long been withheld. Sir Frederick is a
scion of one of the noblest English families, and
cousin to Archbishop Vaughan.
The rich, jolly father of a lady who on 6th
pror. will be united to a gentleman who sports red
cloth, was at one time in business and looks at matters
matrimonial as they affect his family rather as one who
wishes to connect himself with blue blood (or cloth)
than as one anxious to acquire more “ dollars.” He
has offered his successor in the prosaic but necessary
business wherein he made his fortune a handsome
sum (£1,300, they say), to erase his, the seller’s name
from the gaudy signboard; but he who owns the sign-
board declines and. taking example from parallel cases,
holds out for a still more substantial douce tie.
Mr. .1. E. Calder, the stalwart sergeant-at-arms
in Tasmania, is one of the “ chattiest” writers on colo-
nial incidents. His experience in the island colony ex-
tends over half a century, and no one knows better than
he the blood-thrilling stories of the past. Mr. Calder
was Surveyor-General of the colony, and it is related
that on one occasion when accompanying Lady Frank-
lin (wif i of the unfortunate Arctic hero) upon an ex-
ploring tour the party got bushed, and in order to save
the Governor’s lady the giant surveyor carried her for
several days. No man in Tasmania is more respected
than J. E. Calder.
Among the many brilliant toilettes that adorned
the dress circle of the Theatre Royal on last Saturday
night were those of two young ladies accompanied by
a matron, who.se attire for simplicity and good taste
was worthy of notice. The elder sister wore a black
silk dress beautifully trimmed with white, and a single
flower in her dark hair; while the younger was dressed
in a remarkably pretty shade of light blue silk, with a
jacket bodice cut out square in front, and a coral neck-
let as her only ornament. If pretty ladies would only
understand that “ beauty unadorned is most adorned,”
they would eschew jewellery, ribbons, and other gew-
gaws, in favour of sweetly-artistic simplicity.
Last week, says a correspondent, a marriage
took place in Melbourne which fairly “knocked,” as
John Woods would say, the fashionable world. For
some two gentleman hnd been the suitors of a block
belle. One had seen sixty-five winters and was as
frosted on the “ pow” as John Anderson; the other
was aged twenty-two, as handsome as Apollo, a great
athlete, and much wealthier than the old lover; and
yet what did the lady do ? With the perversity which
distinguishes the sex, she chose the old fellow, who
will be in his grave ere five years, and they were mar-
ried ! Can any reader inform me what guides the femi-
nine mind ?
Last year was the first occasion on which that
influential association, the Mercantile Rowing Club,
promoted a ball on an extensive scale; and though
a few “croakers” xiropihesied a failure, the result
was a most brilliant success, financially and other-
wise. This year the management of what is now
regarded as the most enjoyable social event of the
season is in the same capable hands, and there is every
reasou to believe that the strenuous efforts which are
being made to bring about a large attendance and a
pleasaut evening will be rewarded with an even greater
measure of success than last year. The ball takes place
on Thursday next, 22nd instant, dancing to commenoee
at nine. On the decorations a large sum is being ex-
pended ; the catering is in the hands of the Compagnoni
Palace Conqiany, who have pr ovided a spilendid bill of
fare; the Young Australian band supplies the music; and
Mr. C. W. Roberts the liquors. The programme, printed
by Mr. John Sands, is a most artistic piece of work,
and will no doubt be preserved by etch dancer as a
souvenir of the occasion.
The Queensland Commissioner( Gresley Lukin),
of the late Exhibition, and the amiable Colonial
Secretary of same colony (A. H. Palmer), have had a
row over the “ expenses.” It appears Mr. Lukin drew
■Coot) on account of his personal exj>enditure while in
Sydney. The Parliamentary sub section, Morehead and
Lumley-Hill, hate Gresley with the loathing which the
Devil is affirmed to have for holy water. These two
Arcadians unearthed several extravangances of Lukin,
and intimated their intention to make it hot for the un-
fortunate Commissioner on the meeting of Parliament.
Lukin takes time by the forelock and asks Colonial
Secretary Palmer for an expression of his opinion
whether he has been economical or not. The sub-
section “get at” Palmer, who bluntly tells Lukin
“ that in the opinion of himself and colleagues he made
the money fly a— — deal too fast.” Public opinion is
entirely with Lnkin ; and condemnatory of the Govern-
ment, which evidently expected the Queensland Com-
missioner to pitch a tent in the Domain and live on
junk and damper. Mr. Lukin’s Court was the model
one of the whole International.
His Grace of Manchester, the “ real live Duke”
who is about to visit the colonies, is the head of the
noble house of Montagu, who trace their descent back
to Drogo de Monte Acuto, a warrior who came over in
the train of the Earl of Moreton at the Conquest. The
real founder of the house, however, was Sir Edward
Montagu, a Judge in the reign of the eighth Harry.
Like most prominent men of that period, this worthy
was a greedy devourer of ecclesiastical property, and
appropriated to himself the vast estates in Northamp-
tonshire which are now part and parcel of the Man-
chester dukedom. The third son of Sir Edward Montagu
obtained the office of Lord Chief Justice by promising
to James the First’s favourite, Buckingham, a very
lucrative office in the King’s Bench. Later on in the
same reign he was created Viscount Mnndeville and
'Earl of Manchester—these honours being, it is supposed,
purchased from James, who, as everyone knows, sold
many peerages during his reign. The fourth Earl
played an honourable part in the ICBB Revolution, and
at the accession of George I. was created Dvke of Man-
chester. Kia successors were none of them celebrated
men, nor does the present possessor of the title ever
appear to have done anything very remarkable.
CHRYSOS, IN “PYGMALION AND GALATEA.”
MILNER’S MIRACLES.


F
I F
BON MAEC
SEMI-ANNUAL DR.
SALE, ’
96. KING-STREI
Special Inducements offered'dm
chasing NEW, GOOD. CHEAP, 1
able. Reliable, Durable Drapery a
The Stock has been brought down
departments throughout the house
revision, and the goods REMARK
in order to clear out our Large Si
New Stock.
TEN PEE CEN
additional allowed on all purchas
SPECIAL NOTH
is directed to the following, and
Ladies to carefully peruse the qi
ments made in reference to this sal
PACT No. I.—This is a genuine
Goods, at Home Co
PACT No. 2.—A1l our Goods are
and Reliable, froi
Houses.
FACT No. 3. —We have reduced
to Home Cost.
FACT No. 4.—ln addition to the a
on all purchases !
this sale.
FACT No. s.—ls a very startling
from 4s lid to 255, i
the materials from
cent, also will be al
FACT No 6. —A very superior lot
in prices from 25s
discount of 20 per
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 7. —Beautiful Jackets, ■
cashmere, and si!
bugle, silk, velvet,
long fashionable sb
• vogue, reduced pri
A discount of 25 pe:
lings in the pound.
FACT No. B.—Ladies’ and Child«
kind of cloth and 1
commencing from
which a discount
the pound will be a
FACT No. 9.—Mothers and head
not lose this oppoi
beautifully made E
their children, all s
from 5s lid to 235.
shillings in the po
<ssr NOTE A FEW of the PRIG
departments:—
IHE STANDARD LIFE Ai
PANY.
Head Office George-
Sydney Branch ... 283 Geo:
SPECIAL NOT]
The next DIVISION OF PROF:
at 15th November, 1880, and Polici
date will participate in the BONU
►
F.
HE PACIFIC
No. X.—SATUKDAY, July 1
TOPICS OF THE
j The Work of the Session. , Victo
• Service’s Appea
The Representation of Minorities.
The Religious Question in Pi;
South America.
NOTES OP THE V
Short and Pithy Comments on
Colonial Celebrity
Sir Alfred Stephen, C.B.
CORRESPONDS]
Some Jottings by tb
THE REIGN OF MCDJX
By “ Capricomus,
LITERATURE AND
Death of Tom Taylor. Acto:
Colonial Periodicals : The Mel
CLUB GOSSIP, by “
“ Under the Changing Sky
To be had of all Booksellers and
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STEI
"jyr ADDOCK ’ S SELEC
381 GEORGE STEI
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to couta
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLOi
which are received immediately on
and fast ocean stean
Arrangements have been made vs
publishers for full supplies of eve
interest to be sent as soon as publisl
In addition to the above wi
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTER
Subscribers may join at any dat
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One month, ss. ; Three mouths, 12
255. j Twelve mouths, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families, —Those s
a larger supply of books than one se
liberally dealt with; thus—Two set
taken from the Library at once for r J
Books or Periodicals may in all c
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.— Subscri
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors «
may even join for a Fortnight, and i
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Specia
made for the benefit of Country Sub
taking a parcel of from Three to Tvs
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MAD]
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-1
parcel rates. A card of country te
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of
BOOKS now in circulation:
Plain English, by John Hollings
Doctor Digby’s Letters from
Lady r Eastlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. Lefani
Reata: What’s in a Name, by E
Memoirs of a Cynic, edited by M
. Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Moleswc
AXF-ACEE AND QUAE'
. The WOOD GREEN and STRAI
are being subdiv
FOR
ON THE GROT
SATURDAY. JUL
W THESE PROPERTIES are si
BURWOOD,
and known as the Estates of the '
JAMES E. WOODWA
The advantage in purchasing h
Ist. Boulevard frontages, 100 feet
planted with trees.
2nd. Contiguity to the Redmyre a
3rd. Character of the surround
aspect.
4th. Salubrity of climate, richnes
on the ground.
6th. Main road frontages all roi
estates.
6th. Very wide streets, and excel
TORRENS’ TIT
TERMS.—IO per cent, deposil
months, balance in 2 years at 6 pe:
THE AUCTIONEERS strongly
No Suburban Land is offering ei
THE AUCTIONEERS’ INSTB
Ist - To well and judiciously sub
LARGE BLOCKS.:
2nd. To absolutely sell the whol
make the terms of payment
3rd. To give the purchasers the
areas by taking consecutive '
LITHOGRAPHS OBTAINABLE
HARDIE and GOR
0 E T L
PARRAMATTA R
SUBDIVIDED IS
SIXTY VILLA
WATER FRONTAG
WILL BE SOLD, ON T
BT
MILLS, PILE, AND C
SATURDAY, 24th II
At half-past Tin
Conveyance by St
Lithographs now
Very Liberal Te:
SATUEDAY, 17 11
ON THE GROU
REDMYRE,
A STONE’S THROW from the R
that beautiful prc
THE MOUNT VERNO
SUBDIVIDED INTO CHOIC:
MILLS, PILE, AND
Have received instructions to i
on the ground, at half-past;
DAY, 17th instant.
The above splendid property
The VENDOR, in order to seen
buildings being built in this loci
the high reputation of REDmYE
NGLO - AUSTRALIAN
FINANCE AND LAND
(LIMITED).
CAPITAL
lu 50.000 SHAKES
With power to Inc
20,000 Shares will be Reserved f
Colonies.
The FIRST ISSUE in this color
5000 at par, of which number the
have already subscribed for 2000 s
for the remainder viz., 3000, wil
temporary offices of the Company
DEPOSIT, 10s per share; At
share ; CALLS will not exceed 20s
at shorter intervals than three mo
The PAID-UP CAPITAL wil no
the other £'s remaining, as is
security for depositors and debent
Shareholders will have the opti
shares to the full extent of £5 p
be ascertained on application to tl
Fiest Dihectoi
William Clarke, Esq., Benja
(John Wilson and Co.) Esq
Thomas Cowlishaw Esq. John
(Cowlishaw Brothers.) F.
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P., (Wi
(Hardie and Gorman.) Co.,
Solicitor :
A. H. M'Culloch, jun., ]
Architect ;
Benjamin Backbone
Bankers:
Union Bank of Australia
Bank of New Zealand.
Manager:
Fredk. Cook
(formerly Manager Union Ba
Melbourne.
It has long been felt that suffic
ties have not hitherto been withii
prising busines men and others ii
whose wants are of such a chara
within the scope of banking insl
they are therefore unable to satisf,
to very exorbitant charges.
This company proposes to meet t
and as the safest and jnost profii
large portion of its capital will,
eligible opportunities otter, purcha
land and house property for resa
business premises, residences or of
on, and will purchase real estate
sale upon a system of deferred pa;
undertake the erection of buildin
for erection of same, if preferred
manner. The directors consider
direct attention to the ever-increas
City of Sydney and Suburbs, and
which has been achieved by the
Investment Companies established
what a profitable field for monetai
to this company in similar operati
By the latest Loudon papers it
“HOUSE PROPERTY AND II
PANY, LIMITED,” established i
now issuing a portion of the secon
| amounting to half a million, aft i
(£25 shares.) The first half of it
million, was subscribed in five
£40,000 premium.
Advances wifi also be made on I
and other Shares, and staple art
which advances can, if so desired,
ments. It will also be open to ]
legitimate financial business of eve
It is in contemplation to open a
facilitate the transfer of shares
and advantage will be taken of the
always ruling in the mother count
deposit, or by issue of Debentui
with most colonial institutions.
The Company will act as Agents
sale of British, Foreign, and Col
the collection and remittance of D:
thereon.
It will also undertake the res
Debenture Bonds, Bank Shares, a
moderate commission.
The Directors consider it unnec*
length upon the profitable charac
financial institutions in the Colon
the subjoined table of the paid-u
present value of some of the institi
in our midst, together with their <
profits, will make the same patent
pany, however, intends to take
transactions—notably, iu the pm
City and Suburban Land, Erectio
before specifically referred to —it h
high remunerative returns on the
be looked for.
Shares may be transferred from
London register, and vice versa.
APPLICATIONS for SHARES c
subjoined form, either through M:
Spring-street, Sydney; or to tl
temporary office of the company,
and George-streets, from whom pn
of application either by Bank*
Cheque, or Post Office Order, dire*
the Company.
Sydney, July 6,1880.
T A HTTP TrßFl’PUrn


XTEAOEDINAEY EE D
1 DRESS MATERIi
VISIT CAMERON’S, 82 KI
REAL IRISH POPLINS, 2s 3d
Wide SERGES, 6Jd
All-wool SATIN CLOTHS, worth
FRENCH POPLINS* BJd
SATIN SERGE, BJd
Extra Wide ABERDEEN WINSEI
Pure Wool PLAIDS, 12Jd
BLACK LUSTRES, 6?d
COME and JUDGE for YO
CAME E O 1
82 King-street,
TOtr CAN BDT PEEF
KID GLOVES,
B|d per pair.
STAYS,
Is lid, extra good, in every
FOUR-BUTTON KID (
Is lid to 2s Gd per ]
BROOKES’ REEI
200 yards. Is 6d a dozen, c
HORROCKS’S CALICOS,
At the Manufacturer’s pr
At CAMERON’
every llower that
h rent I os a fnurranc
SWEET SCE
UGN-ALOE. OPOF
FRANG I P A r
AND A THOUSAND OTHi
Af 2s. iitl. each ,• or threi
K iua ca»e,7s.
Streep
M
O N E Y.
M
UNION LOAN AND DISCOI
762 George-street (Firsl
Three doors from A. Horde
Hours: 9to 5; every ever
MONEY ON EASY T
Advanced on machinery, Farms,
Freehold Properties (without exp«
MONEY ADVANCED upon PE
SECURITY': repayable by instalm
£lO by weekly instalments
15
20
25
30 ~
And in due proportion up to £lOO
SPECIAL not;
For the convenience of borrow
their business during the day, tl
opened every _ Monday, Wednes
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
ONE Y.
MONEY
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AN]
PROPRIETOR!
MONE Y L E
on Mortgage of properties in sir
upon the weekly, monthly, and o
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, w
of a mortgage, for short terras. _
Apply to the Manager, UNION L
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760
market, three doors from A. Horde
Austealian wine.—*
PORPHYRY, equal to the
Awarded First Prize at the Garder
3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts,
21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO., Age
CT. B U E
• HOUSE AND LAND SA
359, GEORGE STRI
NEAR KING STREET,
PRIVATELY OR BY i
BOBEETS. HAEETS. At
LICENSED SURVEYORS, I
ARBITRATORS, AND V.
Rescissions and reclamations sp
Run Maps compiled to latest date.
House ; Chambers, 130, Pitt-street.
PW. CEO WE. & CO., ST(
, AND GENERAL COMMIS
4 BAEEACK STE]
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders c
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
iy HIS K Y F
READ PAMPHLET and PUR*
FIVE *** YEAR OLD DUBLIN
WHISKY.
Recommended hy the F
ROBERT PHILLIPS and CC
Sole Agents fort
GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WH
WOEKS,
Haeeis-street, off Geoi
and
Adjoining the Darling Harl
S. G. would heg to draw the pari
Export Merchants to the large qi
Spokes always on hand, which w
saving in freight to purchasers ii
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock i
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S- G. begs also to notify that he is
Carts, and has supplied the Governm
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASS
Harris-street, nea:
SLATTEEY
fa
Wholesale and Reti
GEO C E
705 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
P. M A H 0
AGENT, El
S.
ALL KINDS
J.
OF COLONIAL 1
TED
WHOLESALE
MANUF ACTUEIN G CON
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE EST
420 (late 440) GEORGE £
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand,
on the shortest notice.
T
AKE
NO MOE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZEJ
Do you SUFFER from HEADA(
Then try Ra:
PODOPHYLLI
Do you Complain of Indigestion
Take a few doses of R
PODOPHYLLI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and b
RANDERSON
Do you constantly suffer from Bi
If so remember
PODOPHYLI
will soon cure, if taken as dh
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICI
Are any'of your children sick at
can safely give them one of
for the small members of t
TAKE WELI
Remember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proj
EDWARD ROW and CC
45 and 47 George-str(
B
Y ROYAL LETTER
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE .
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTI
Guaranteed to b«
Free from all poisonous qualities
of Vegetable Matter <
Being made from the Wild Plants
in the Bush of New Sout
This Ointment is not a mere cati
public, nor does it require any puffl
as it has been so well proved for th<
that it is impossible that the public
long deceived. In fact, people are n
lous regarding its efficacy (never h
article of the kind before which a
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the me
High and low, rich and poor, have
fits from its use, and scarcely any
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA]
is now the household word of the cc
The quick and instant relief from ;
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF TB
which, taken altogether, prove the A
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, €
hands and lips, bunions, soft corn
casualities attending the human fit
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA!
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy E
find immediate relief and be perfe
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External i
may be cured by using Josephson
ment?
Who would suffer from Soft Coi
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums an
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S I
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what :
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists aud store!
and Is 6d each throughout the cok
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
A
RECOMMENDATION
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, c
Deserves the highest commei
INTERNATIONAL FXHI
SWALLOW and ARTELL w«
Prizes for their celebrated Risen
agent, Wi H. ARIELL, 343 j/k 3
north King-st.
p INTERNATIONAL
BENCRAFT and Co. were award
ifor their superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’I
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRI
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and
and cwt. each. Sole agent, 1
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Po
and assorted Jams. Sx>ecial age
343, and 345, Eent-st., 3 doors n(
J>ALING’S MUSIC \
Hr
WKmmKbmgi
mm
lain
BEARD’S PARIS PE
have gained t
TWO FIRST P
in
THE FRENCH
Agent: W. H. P.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRAT
Non-competit:
BUT UNSURPi
Agent: W. H. P.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANJ
have gained t
FIRST and SPECIA
OVER ALL OT]
Sole Agent; W. H.
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAX
have
GAINED ANOTHE
for the
, FOURTH TI
at
THE INTERNATIONAL
W. H. PALI
352 GEOEGE-S1
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET
rpo
BUILDERS AI
WALTER STEWART has erect
Steam Machinery and is now pr
trade Circular, Fret, and Band !
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in
Funerals furnisl
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning
And Funeral Furnishing I
Bathurst and Pitt
JM I T C
• WHOLESALE ai
COAL AND FUEL I
HAY stre:
and
DRUITT ST:


Miscellaneous
LIE FORD, LOVE AND C 0.,.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaherry
Do. ~ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Blade
OFFICES :—3lB GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for.
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KINO MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Sold by aU Grocers and Storekeepers;
M PROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp,
the following’ words on the steel slide of every machino
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may he forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUABANTEED FOE FIVE YEABS.
Seduced Price List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANE, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog .
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common hitter crude beers are made very line,
hut no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John' Havsks and J. P. Archibald, at the Offices of;
John Woods & Go,, Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
Ma. HUGHES AND CO.,
• 580, GeoeCtE-steeet,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambs wool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts. Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 13s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
380 George-street.
TJEYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
307- George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers* Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &e.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
OF
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY"
AT
RILEY BROTHER S’
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
SAVE ss. IN THE POUND
Don’t fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
ON
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
F,
STIEFYATER, GUNMAKER,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Country orders promptly attended to.
GB. MODI
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sidney, 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guus Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
Gr
UNS,
R
IFLES,
R
EYOLVEfiS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gun maker,
*ll GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
W INTIS NECESSITIES.
VASES
For the Dining’ Room,
For the Drawing Room,
For the Breakfast Room,
&c., &e.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
m
m
Jjl IRE IRONS,
Nickel-plated,
And will not mst.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
FENDERS,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces
Of the
Latest designs.
THE SYDNEY GARDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured for the 1880 Season.)
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R
OBEET HARPER AND
MANUFACTURES.
C O.’S
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
SPICES,
OATMEAL.
MUSTARD,
COCOA,
&c.
RECEIVED TEN FIRST PRIZES AND A SPECIAL FIRST, AS THE BEST
OF THEIR CLASS IN THE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80,
s
INGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES.
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40 000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss._ Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G.
J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
nternati
ON A L
SYDNEY, 1879-80.
EXHI BITION
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
LEATHERS—
gQIg Special Ist Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c
Harness, Strap, and Bag
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing
Splits, Levants, &c • •
Patent Enamel and Japanned
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings
Morocco Roans, Levant, and 800 k...
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Paris, 1878-9 —Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, &c Special Ist
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851—80—Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
P. W E L C H,
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blinds.
BOYD’S SAN FEANCISCO PALACE OF AET,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STKEET,
. (over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
y r
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Eetail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIBBS STKEET,
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlinghnrst Eoad, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Eetail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
PEINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Haymarket.
FOE SALE, or TO LET, on the BELLINGER
RIVER,
95 ACRES of LAND, on which are about 7 acres
of bearing Vineyard, comprising a choice selection
of grape vines, together wi/h comfortable DWELL-
ING, Cellar, &c. Also, a 52-ACEE FARM, direct
opposite vineyard; all of wbich is rich alluvial
soil, and situated between the Townships of Fern-
mount and Boat Harbour, all navigable water
frontage. The above is situated in one of the
healthiest country districts on the Northern Coast.
For particulars, apply to J. P. SCHOLER, Castle-
reagh-street, or to J. MARX, Senb., Bellinger
River.
pOUNTRY - KILLED MEAT
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
COUN T R Y - KIL L E D BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see,
Amd Judge fob Yobbseitss.
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
