

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 16.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1880.
“Only a Nigger.”
By rather a curious coincidence the last periodical
meeting of the Society which “ runs ” the
mission to the aborigines was held on the
day that the Executive in its wisdom de-
cided to “ execute ” the blackfellow who a
little while ago shot one of his sable country-
men at Dubbo. The wretched aboriginal who
is now cast for death is, like all other Australian
blacks who have been so fortunate as to come into
contact with civilization, a worthless, drunken
creature. So far as can be gathered from the
published reports and from the Ministerial apology
for the projected execution which appears in the
Herald, it would seem that two blackfellows on
a station fell in love, after their dunder-
headed fashion, with the same woman. Amongst
white people it is sometimes noticed that a
lady with two or even more suitors plays her
cards diplomatically and keeps her lovers “ at the
end of a string ” for a greater or less number of
nth-'or years. Bui, In the case ot this blacA
woman it was otherwise. She manifested, or is
said to have manifested, a pronounced penchant
for the condemned blackfellow’s rival and ran
away with him, which so enraged Albert the
bad that he followed the pair with a gun and did
the deed which he is destined to expiate with his
ife. If a white man had done such a thing —if, like
Bertrand, he had first unsuccessfully tried to
poison and then shot a husband who had a pretty
wife—it might, provided he had plenty of money
and friends, have been discovered that he was
inebriated all the time, or that he was mad and
ought to be sent to Gladesville or to Parramatta
Asylum or to Darlinghurst, to live in cosy retire-
ment, or to “nap” stones, or make cocoa-nut
mats, or brew black-drughts and mutton-broth for
sick lunatics or dyspeptic convicts. But as he was
“ only a nigger,” the sage people who had par-
doned the North Shore villains and Gardiner,
and merely imprisoned Williams and Bennett,
the murderers of Constable Bowen, thought that
it didn’t matter, and that it would be just as well
to give Monsieur de Sydney and his assistant a
free pass to Dubbo, and let them interview the
blackfellow for a few minutes on one of these
cold mornings. In June last, at Mudgee, they
put a black to death for a crime which two white
youths had committed in a perhaps worse form at
Bathurst, so in order to be consistent and to keep to
the precedent they had laid down it was necessary
for them to see that the jealous, passionate
Albert should “ go down blackfellow and jump
up whitefellow.” It seems to us that the Execu-
tive Council of New South Wales is never happy
unless it be engaged in making preparations for
the execution of some one, and that Sir Henry
Parkes, who last June helped to pardon two men
whom he and his colleagues had previously three
times in succession decided to hang, and who had
the impudence to assign as his sole reason for
agreeing to a more merciful course the fact that
the two convicts had humbly apologised and “had
always maintained the honour of the girl,” has
learned nothing from his past experience. In view
of many recent decisions of the Government the
execution of the blackfellow will be a solemn
farce, only calculated to bring the law’s adminis-
tration into contempt, and in no way to redeem
the colonial reputation of the distinguished gen-
tleman who allowed his advisers to make such a
deplorable exhibition of their and his vacillation
and crooked-mindedness in connexion with the
Wantabadgery case. It is high time that all
dark men living under the British flag in New
South Wales left the colony.
Funereal.
b ndertakers at best are but men and it is
therefore only fair to suppose that were it left for
them to decide whether the average mortality
should remain as it is or be materially increased
there would be a considerable addition to the
jongth of the funeral train. Undue familiarity
breeds contempt, and it is no fault of the typical
undertaker that on the spot where he should have
a good-sized bump of veneration a depression
exists bearing the same proportion to the aforesaid
ump as do the extremest depths of ocean to the
ighest peaks of the Himalayas. No doubt under-
akers regard funerals in the light of good jokes,
ut the man above all others who lias a keen ap-
preciation of the humorous aspects of what Mr.
inian Melville would call a “ hobseguy ” is a
certain undertaker in the Old South Head Road.
This comical person, who must really be a fellow
of infinite jest, has had painted on his window a
very big picture of a sample tombstone, ticketed
as follows; —
“ W. T. Grove, native of Warwickshire, England, has
not departed this life just yet.”
Around this and another tombstone are assembled
moruners in tragic poses and some loving couples
who are “spooning” in an alarming manner.
The undertaker is said to do a large business, from
which we infer that he is not the only person in
the world whose sense of the eternal fitness of
things is very dim. Disgusting and hideous as
displays of the kind now spoken of must be to every
even moderately- sensitive mind it is comforting to
reflect that out ’■ ' exhibitions of bad
taste some good must eventually come. People
will tire of “ crape and weepers,” and dispense
with the ludicrous paraphernalia which up to the
present time have been regarded as necessary
accompaniments of every interment. Hearses
and mourning-carriages pass through the crowded
streets of our large towns without exciting any feel-
ing on the part of spectators other than one of
unutterable disgust at the hollowness of the un-
wieldly pageant. No one stands at the street-
corner hat in hand. The pedestrian abates his
pace not one jot; the fast city man, cigar in
mouth, is driven past in his hansom ; the world
laughs and passes on. There is not the slightest
impressiveness about the ugly mockery which goes
by the name of “a funeral”; and in many cases
the only solemnity which attaches to the cumber-
some procession environs him or her who attends
in the capacity of corpse. Who is responsible for
;,ut maintenance as institutions of black (dyed l
horses, flowing hatbands, nodding plumes, long-
faced-undertakers’ men, and hearses inelegant as
hired carriages or gaol vans we don’t pretend
to know. If it be the living relatives of the
deceased we can only account for it by the
supposition that grief completely unhinges
the human mind, and that the mourner’s distress
is the undertaker’s opportunity. The greatest
scoundrel, the most prosaic, hard - hearted
hypocrite, seems when in articulo mortis
suddenly to become poetic and sentimental and to
look forward with a certain amount of melancholy
satisfaction to the fast-approaching time when
roses and violets shall bloom and shed their fra-
grance over his grave. To use a Hibernicism,
the most trying part of a man’s death in modern
times is his funeral and not the least unpleasant
of the ordeals through which one has to pass on
the road to the tomb is the hearse with plate-glass
sides. The time is coming when undertakers will
receive very little for each funeral; and when
that happy era arrives all that will remain for us
to do will be to hope that interments if less
profitable will not be more numerous.
The Rev. Thomas Kemmis.
The gentleman whose portrait is printed in
to-day’s issue of The Bulletin is the Rev.
Thomas Kemmis, Incumbent of St. Mark’s
Church of England, Darling Point—a clergyman
who, by his eloquence and literary abilities,
no less than by the charm of his manner and his
broad views on matters in general, has rendered
himself a favourite with all classes and creeds,
and has gathered around himself what is certainly
the most fashionable, if not the wealthiest and
most influential congregation in Sydney. The
reverend gentleman is so widely known that we
refrain from here entering into details concerning
his useful career ; but to those who may he unac-
quainted with his powers of discourse, we would
merely recommend a Sunday evening visit to St.
Mark’s. The form of a nation’s religion is said
to beknownto bein some measure dependent on cli-
matic conditions ; and just as in older countries
the more poetic creeds are associated with
southern latitudes, warm sunsets, and dark faces,
and the less imaginative systems of theology with
the yellow hair and hard, grey skies of the north,
so perhaps the High Church tendencies of the rev.
Incumbent of St. Mark’s and of his congregation
may be slightly attributable to the lovely surround-
ings of their church.
Mr. C. A. Goodchap, Commissioner for
Railways.
Our artist furnishes (on page 4) a capital por-
trait of Mr. C. A. Goodchap, the Commissioner
for Railways. There are few departments of the
public service so efficiently managed as that of the
railways, and we are glad to be able in some way
to show our appreciation of the energy and ad-
ministrative ability which have characterised the
present commissionership. Mr. Goodchap has
found himself fully equal to the demands made
upon him by our increased railway extensions, and
he may fairly lay claim to having brought his own
particular branch to the highest standard it has
ever reached. He has all through taken a very
practical view of the working of the railways, de-
signing everything for the public benefit and con-
venience, and there can be no doubt that passenger
traffic and general trade between the metropolis
and the suburbs and the country districts have
been greatly benefitted thereby. In another way,
likewise, Mr. Goodchap has done good service.
While being guided by the principles of free trade,
the recognised policy of his Government, he has
at all times given every possible encouragement
to colonial industry, and striven to develop in a
legitimate way the resources and skill at our com-
mand in this colony. Mr. Goodchap was instru-
mental in getting railway rails first made here,
and he has introduced the principle of having old
rails re-rolled, by which an immense saving has
been effected. Recently, when the matter was
under consideration, Mr. Goodchap expressed the
opinion that iron rails made and rolled from the
ores of this country would equal the best imported
English steel .rails, and some of these iron rails
turned out from the Lithgow Iron Works
actually resist the action of the steel chisel
They are now laid down side "by side wit
the English steel rails at the tunnel near the Syd-
ney station, where the traffic is heaviest, and the
Commissioner is confident the Lithgow rail
will outlast the other. In respect of the now
locomotives Mr. Goodchap has done great
service to the highest branch of our manu-
facturing industries. Some time ago, too, he
was determined to see if the large quantity of
permanent way metal imported could not be
supplied here as cheaply and as well. Tenders
for the material were issued, and there has even-
tuated a clear saving of 20 per cent, to the
country. Mr. Goodchap’s career in this colony
has been one of hard work and steady advance-
ment. He is a native of Kent, England, and ar-
rived here in 1853. Having had ths advantage of
the best collegiate education, he received, imme-
diately upon his arrival here, a clerkship in t
THE REV. THOMAS KEMMIS.
THE TWO “DROMOIS.”
A TALE OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
BY QUIZ.
It happen el once, not very long ago, that two men
who h id been friends, who may yet be friends, but who
are not friends just now, met by chance. These two
men—both fine specimens of the genus homo —rejoiced
in a strange similarity cf name, for while one was
called Dromio of the ‘ Eoyal ’ the other was Dromio of the
‘ Opera.’ Now in a distint land not many years back
the two ‘Dromios’ were like brothers, and loved
each other and loved their wives too, as brothers
generally love their sisters. At such a time did Dromio
of the Eoyal put a cigar between his lips, Dromio of
the Opera hastened to strike a match and illuminate
his brother's face. At such a time, had Dromio of the
Opera no clothes to wear, then would Dromio of the
Eoyal urge, nay insist, that he should take some of his.
Time passed. Absence, which as the poet hath it,
‘ makes the heart grow fonder,’ failed most signally in
this particular instance —in fact when the two
‘ Dromios ’ first met in Melbourne, they were like two
ill-conditioned ours. Did you snarl at me, sir ? Did you
wink at me, sir ? roared either irate Dromio. Are you
not friends? quoth one standing near. Ah, save me
from my friends, cried Dromio of the Eoyal. ‘ Friends
be hanged,’ quoth Dromio of the Opera. After that
little encounter the two Dromios kept Collins-street
Vn tween them. Business shortly after took them both
to Y; dney. Dromio of the Opera, having a very fair
engagement and finding money in both pockets, wends
his way to a Gaorge-street ‘ Schneider ’ and begs him
to turn him out just such another swell as Dromio of
the Eoyal. Now behold sauntering up George-street
Dromio of the Eoyal—in fact he is doing the * block,’
for although married, the man is but mortal and knows
he is worth looking at. And as he saunters along,
slowly xmliiug his cigar, serenely happy in the thought
that he, and he alone is causing a sensation as the best
dressed man out, he raises his eyes and opening them a
little wider than usual, he beholds Dromio of the Opera
approaching. His slightly military swagger throws his
debonnaire style quite in the shade, and oh horror,
Dromino of the Opera is as well-dressed as he
himself. Now the two Dromios had not spoken
to or noticed each other since their last little
encounter in Melbourne. But Dromio of the Eoyal,
without so much as saying, to be, or not to be ? made
straight lines for Dromio of the Opera and did not
slacken speed until their noses nearly met. Then did
Dromio of the Eoyal draw his cigar from between his
lips and puff the smoke full in the face of poor unoffend-
ing Dromio of the Opera, who gave tongue at once.
‘ Take your smoke from off my face, sir, your cigar ash
from my coat, sir.’ ‘ Oh, oh,’ said his tormentor with a
siagey laugh, ‘you have them on, but are they paid
for ? ’ Dromio of the Opera was prevented from making
a suitable reply, for the cigar smoke was in his eyes and
while he stamped and wiped his watery peejiers, a
friend drew Dromio of the Eoyal away, crowing as he
went, but not for long. No doubt the Eoyal Dromio
felt small next morning—felt that he had perhaps
inadvertently almost forgotten he was a gentleman
when he found a vulgar summons served on him, calling
him to appear at the Police Court and show cause why
he so.publicly insulted Dromio of the Opera. And
having no good reason to give that might excuse his
conduct, he was told to contribute, under pain of incur
ceration, two pounds and a little more towards defraying
the unpaid tailor’s bill of Dromio of the Opera. The
two Dromios left the court together, but not as
‘ friends.’


Colonial Secretary’s office. In 1806 he was teans
forred to the newly-tormed Lands Department
and in 1859, when this was divided into
two, he was placed in the new llepartmont o
Public Works. In 1870 he was appointed Chief
Clerk of Railways, and in 1875 was promoted to
ho Secretary for Railways. In 1878 he received
his present appointment of Commissiono .
SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
„ April or May
Breewarma M av 20th aud 21st
Bourke ’A’Antonin' . May 22nd and 24th
Queensland T. C. Autumn Ma >
# Ta %^ok KlayMeeting JuL 2 2ad\md U 3rf th
Muswellbrook T „ qHi mid 9th
Coonamble June Bth and Jtn
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Q. T. C. General Entry v May 14th
Walgett General Entry May 22ud
Clarence J. C. and City Handicaps Ma j 22nd
Coonamble Handicaps ma > - atn
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Newcastle Shorts, J. C., and City
Newcastle ndfcor handicaps "lay Z4tn
Parramatta iS*.
Co:namble Handicaps MaJ “ th
Index to Forfeits.
Muswellbrook Handicaps accept May IStn
Newcastle Shorts, J. C. aud City Handicaps 20th
Newcastle Free, Nursery aud Flying accept May 24th
Coonamble Handicaps accept June ota
Bathurst Coursing.
FROM SIRIUS.
Bathurst, Tuesday night.
The fifth Cup Meeting was commenced to-day
(Tuesday), and much to our astonishment the
weather was very grand. In consequence of the
Messrs- Lee having to attend the funeral ot the
late Hon. George Lord to-day at Sydney, the
usual venue was changed from Loeholme to Dock-
airne; and it is a curious fact that wo had better
coursing than I ever saw at Dockairne on any pre-
vious occasion. Hares were scarce, and there was
too much galloping after the few there were,
which led to several stealing away without being
coursed. This galloping after hares is the greatest
mistake out. When the news arrived of Mr.
George Lord’s death, there [was a general idea
that Mr. Lee Lord’s greyhounds would not run
out their engagements ; but as they did face the
■judge the thing was accounted for by our being at
the antipodes. The dogs’ trials were good,the last
of all being perhaps the only flukey we had. _ I
send you just a resume of the sport, and will give
you full particulars and surroundings for next
week. The attendance was smaller than I over
saw it before. Mr. M'Culloch’s judging was very
good—not a murmur ; and Banner’s slipping could
only be equalled by himself. We began at about
10.30, the coursing was over about 4.30; and we
we were all in town before the sun went down.
The following will tell you of the sport: —
THE DERBY.
Lcelaps and Taskmaster were slipped to a good
hare, and had a good working course in sight ot
the crowd, Mr. Tooth’s dog winning with, I
thought, something to spare : Lcelaps having met
with a rather nasty fall. The loss of a piece of his
tail is no doubt some disadvantage to Mr Lord s
puppy inturning. Lelantus and Loftus had a latti-
ing course witha clipping hare; Loftus showed a lot
of pace, and put in good work, but not enough to
wipe out the score of Lelantus. The comse
between Barrister and Marksman was short and
out of sight, and the black was credited. I™l-
- made a groat exhibition of Portsmouth,
who novor gfofc in ; mid. tlio black scorns to hai o a
groat say for the stake. Lexicon in a long course
with few points in it had all the business to him-
self, and I thought Kelpie was pointless. Lottery
and Rajah had a long course with a grand hare.
The former is very clever, and after dusting his
puss about tremendously they finished with the
first kill of the day, Lottery winning easily. I
like not Rajah. Peasant Boy and Little Ned had
a course of no great length, both putting in some
work, and the balance was in favour of the local
puppy. The last course of the first Derby round
was a short one. Hop Market led up from the slip
and won pretty easily, finishing with a kill, the
second kill of the day.
OAKS.
In the first course of the Oaks Fairy had no show
with Lorna Doon, and Mr. Park s puppy was
beaten pointless. , ~ ~
When the second Oaks pair had been some time
without finding a hare an adjournment was made
for lunch. „ , , , „ ~
Afterwards, Queen of the East led from the
slips and won a short course : and then Hopbine
had an easy win from Tenacity, in a course that
was almost all out of our sight. Bell Olga led
Miss Molly from the slips ; but the latter getting
in soon wiped out previous work and won com-
fortably. Hornpipe had a good deal the best of
Wild Oats in a fair trial, the hare saivng herself in
the creek. Little Lubra, who is but ten months
old, ran as well as could be expected; but the
white bitch, who is a very close worker, stuck to
her hare in great style, finishing with a splendid
kill, and an easy win. Lady Bird did great work
in a fine course and won comfortably from Made-
moiselle. Wyndham ran a great course with Lola,
the four having all the best of it. Both ran side
by side from the slips, having a long run up to the
hare, but Lola didn’t score when once the Barmby
bitch got in. Lua Lua and Kida had a tremendous
gruelling course with a splendid hare, and Lua
Lua won all the way. The last course of the day,
and which finished the first round of the Oaks,
was. a short one and won by Sunbeam from the
Barunah bitch Katrina.
THE DERBY.
First Bound.
Mr. E. L. Tooth’s bk w Taskmaster by Domestic-
Cousin beat G. L. Lord’s bk w Loelaps by Good
Authority—Seawave.
G. L Lord’s blk w Lelantus by Good Authority—
Seawave beat J. Lee’s, junr., Loftus by Good
Authority—N ydia.
F. B. Bloomfield’s blk w Barrister by the Judge—
Caller On beat Mr, H. M’Quade’s nsbwd Marks-
man by Sportsman—Ada.
E. L. Tooth’s bl w Tolemaque by Claverhouse —
Crown Jewel beat Mr. A. L. Park’s f bk Ports-
mouth by Portland—Kilbum.
W. Lee’s, junr., bl w Lexicon by Good Authority—
Seawave beat Mr. W. Kite’s Kelpie by Barunah
-—Maid of the Mill.
W, H. and P. A. Lamb’s fJLottery'by Barmby—
Lassie beat Mr. E. F. Stephen’s bd w Eajah by
Sportsman—Eastern Princess.
J. penter’s bd w Peasant Boy by Zig Zag—-Lily
beat Mr. W. Lamb’s f Little Ned by Master
Edward—La Rapide.
, Weir’s u s Hon Market by Barmby—Brindisi beat
Mr. W. H. Lamb’s r Barrister by the Judge—
Caller On.
THE OAKS.
First Eottsd.
at... w Lamb’s bl w Lom Doon by the Judge—Caller
Ou beat Mr. A. H. Park’s w Fairy by Portland
—Kilbum. _ , , „ .
-r, V Stephen’s b d Queen of the East by Sports-
man—Eastern Princess beat Dr. C. Belisario’s
bk w Bess Blackburn by Claverhouse—Miss
Willis
T Hill’s for r w Hop Bin bylßarmby—Brindisi beat
' Mr. B. L. Tooth’s bk w Tenacity by Claverhouse
-Crown Jewel. „ „ , „
(t E Sutter’s r w Miss Molly by Sportsman
Eastern Princess beat Dr. Belisaro’s f or r w b
Belle Olga by Athol Brose-Beeswing.
ri Hi'l’s f or r w Hornpipe by Barmby—Bawena
beat Mr. J. Weir’s bk w Wild Oats by Hadding-
ton—Cutty Sark. „
-p jj Tooth s w Telescope by Domestic Cousin
' Dolly beat Mr. J. C. Lowe’s r w Lubra by Salem
Scudder —Lily.
P A Lamb’s bk u Lady Bird by the Judge Caller
' Ou beat Mr. H. M’Quade’s us be wMademoiselle
by Forest Banger-Amulet.
T Weir’s f w Wyndham by Barmby—Lassie beat O.
' W. Lord’s bk w Lola by Good Authonty-Sea-
G W. Lord’s bk w Lua Lua by Good Authority—
Seawave beat Mr. W. Kite’s r w bk Keda by
Baruua—Maid of the Mill.
W. Allerton’s, jnnr., be w Sunbeam by Barmby—
Lady of the Lake boat Mr. W . Kite s tor r w
Katrina by Barunah—Maid of the Mill.
To-morrow the meet will be at Leeholme, and
we run the first round of the Cup at Dookairne.
Hares will be more plentiful than at Dookairne
where they were scarce enough ; and I hope they
will bo as we have twenty-four courses to run My
impression is we can do that work by three o’clock.
SECOND DAY.
r» The meet was to-day at Leeholme, the weather fine,
the attendance middling:. Unfortunately the grass was
very long in the paddocks where we used to have the
host coursing ; and after trying for an hour in the big
paddock to the right of the road opposite the house,
wo went to the house and ran oti the required courses
hv three o’clock or a few minutes after. I send you the
results, but only those without much remark, having
but small time, and as on yesterday, I will give sur-
roundings at the finish. Lelex and Bracelet opened the
ball to a good hare, and after a nice course, most ot
which was out of our sight, the Waterloo winner was
put out. Honeybee and Temerity had a short course,
both doing work, and Honeybee was credited by the
iudge. Helpmate and Hawthomden never sighted their
hare, and after a consultation it was decided to shift
over the road to Leeholme House, as the grass where
we were was so long that coursing was impossible.
When the pair were again put in slips Hawtliorndeu put
in more points than the bitch wiped out before she
killed at the end of a short course. Lethe had a good
deal the best of the much-vaunted Daisy in a good
working course, the hare saving herself in the avenue.
Doctor, in a short course, beat' Seaspray, who, like
Daisy, killed too soon ; and Honeydew killed and won a
very short course against Lapidist. Hushmoney and
Fugitive were slipped to a good hare, and had a long
course, which the bitch won, the hare fretting’ home in
the Avenue. Thermidor led Lucifer from the slips, and
won a course in which few points were made.
THE CUP.
First Bound.
Mr W. Lamb’s r h Bracelet by Eoyal Water—Daisy
beat Mr. L. Lord’s hdwd Leila-Barmby by Seawave.—
Mr J Weir’s us r w b Honeybee by Barmby by Jezebel
—beat W. S. Snttor’s ns f n b p Temerity,Bashful Joe—
Bessie Burleigh.-J. Fletcher’s nsr w d Hawtliorndeu,
Barmby—Eowena beat W. K. Halls bd t Helpmate,
Sedan —Hyaciuthe. —L. Lord’s hd wb Lethe, Barmby
Seawave heat Hou. E. K. Cox’s f b Daisy. Sedan-Hai-
dee —W Kite’s|bd w d Doctor, Sportsman—Nightshade
beat W. E. Hall’s fw b Seaspray, Teuton—Kitty.—J.
Weir’s ns r w b Honeydew. Tumult—Brindisi heat E.
Lee’s us f w d Lapidist. Barmby—Seawave.—Hon. G.
Thornton’s ns w f b Hushmoney, Highflyer Dam by
Countryman heat W. Kite’s rorf w dp Fugitive Bariu-
hy—Eowena.-E. L. Tooth’s bk wd p Thenmdor.Bashfnl
Joe—Bessie Burleigh heat W. Lee’s juur., hk w Lucifer,
Guardsman —J esamine.
DOCKAIENE STAKES.
Honey Flower and Hampton had a very short course,
the bitch leading up and scoring one turn, which won
the trial. Tyrant easily beat Lilly, and then Lightning
had ano go after which the latter won. Kosebird, who
ran very well, never gave Fanny Mats a chance in a
good course. Hop Picker easily polished ott Popsy and
then the word was given for luck. After this Juliet
gave sight of Perth; and Sultan won a shorn flukey
course from Hecla by one point. Jacobite ran cleai
away from Twilight, as did Dark Idea from Bankstown.
The white flag had hereabouts all the best of the racket ,
winning nine successive courses, Bowler, Lalage, De-
light, Conway, Jarvis Lake and Harkaway all kept up
the credit of the white flag, and it was not till the last
course of the round that the spell was broken by Port-
land putting out Jealousy. The trials were not as good
as yesterday, on account of the long grass, but we
easily got through the 24 courses. Of course there is
the usual hospitality—no end of luncheon—and the
meetinghs.successful so far.
DOCKAIENE STAKES.
First Bound.
J Weir’s ns hk w h Honey Flower, Tumult—Brindisi,
beat J. S. Smith's us bd d Harpton, Happy Joe—Glacier.
—E L. Tooth’s rorf w d Tyrant. Barmby—Catadnpo,
heat J. C. Low’s f w b Lily, Buchanal—Fairy Beck.—
E. L. Tooth’s bk wb Taxation (late Thunderer), Barmby
—Eupertina, beat W. Lee’s junr., fdp Lightning, Jaco-
hite—Biot—E. Rowe’s r or bd wb Eosebud, Handsome
Jack—Catley’s Bitch, heat J. Fletcher’ bd b Fanny
Mars, Loup Garou—Nellie Miller.— J. Weir’s m bd b
Hop Picker, Seaan—Amy Eobsart, beat Hon. G. Thorn-
ton’s f b Popsy, Barmby—Magic. —L. Lord's f b Juliet,
Warfare—Jenny Lind, beat P. Higgins’ ns bd w d
Light of Perth, Morning Bay—Fair Helen.—
H P Mostyn’s hk w d Sultan, Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, beat W. E. Hall’s f or r b Hecla, Happy Joe-
Glacier.—W. C. Greville’s ns f w Jacobite, Warfare
Jenny Lind, beat E. L. Tooth’s w he b Twilight, Streak
o’ Light-Lais.—J. Weir’s us f b Dark Idea, My Idea-
Lady M’Kay, heat Hon. G. Thornton’s he w d Banks-
town, Barmby—Magic.- Hon. E. K. Cox s bd d Bowler,
Sedan—Haidee, beat J. Fletcher’s bk w b Destruction,
Besieger—Lady of Leith.—L. Lord’s rw b Lalage, La-
vender Water—Tauhanser’s Sister, beat W. Kite’s bd w
Kestrel, Baruuah—Maid of the Mill.—J. Weir’s ns wbk
d Delight, Hobbledehoy—Fly, heat W. Allerton s, ]un.,
hk w d Moonbeam, Protfe-Patty.—W. Lamb’s us w be
b Conway, Cacique ll.—Romp, beat W. Cannon s ns t d
Misplaced, Barmby—Eowena. —E. Lee’s ns t d Barcas
Lake, Barmby—Jezebel, beat G. Lee’s r d Washington,
Sandy—Miss Walker.—W. E. Hall’s forr w d Harka-
way. Happy Joe—Glacier, beat L. Lord’s hk w b Leila,
Iron Shot—Dam by Cavalier. —A. L. Park’s bk n d
Portland, Sou of Nicodemus—Zoe, heat W. Lamb s t b
Jealousy, Mariner —Queen.
THIRD DAY.
FROM “SIRIUS.”
[BY ELECTRRIC TELEGRAPH.]
Bathurst,, Thursday, 5.22 pm.
The attendance to-day was good aud the weather
fine. The sport was excellent, and a good deal of
interest was taken in the running all through.
Following are the events :
The Derby. —First ties—Lelatus heat Taskmaster.
Telemaque beat Barrister; L ottery beat Lexicon,
Hopmarket beat Peasant Boy.
The Oaks— First ties. Lorna Boon beat Queen of
the East, Miss Molly beat Hopbine, Hopbine beat
Telescope ; Wyndham beat Ladybird, Lua Lua beat
Sunbeam.
Dockaiene Stakes. —First ties —Honey Flower beat
Tyrant, Taxation beat Rosebud, Hoppieker beat
Juliet, Jacobite beat Sultan, Dark Idea beat Bowler,
Lelage beat Delight, Conway beat Laras Lake, Hark-
away beat Portland.
The Derby— Second Ties.—Telemaque beat Lelantus,
Hopmarket beat Lottery.
The Oaks.— Second Ties—Miss Molly beat Loma
Doon ; Hornpipe beat Wyndham, Lua Lua ran a bye.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The yachting season has closed.
Laycock goes to Victoria and N.Z. to row.
Norwood has beaten Port Adelaide at football, i
Two teams of Scottish footballers are about to
visit America.
The gates, &c., for the Parramatta races, have i
been sold for £177 10s.
The Victorian hunting season has opened with
a big meet and a good run.
On Wednesday next the All-Australian
cricketers play against Derby.
Ballarat, means to try and beat Geelong, the
premier Victorian club, at football.
Tiie eight-oared gig in which our eight rowed
in Melbourne bas been brought to Sydney.
Gardiner, the Bulli man, ran Toland 100
yards at Bulli on Monday for £5O, and won.
A mistake made in the working of the totali-
sator at Morpbetvillc will cost the race club £l5O.
T. Thomas and M. Ryan raced 150 yards for
£5O at Botany last Tuesday. The former won easily.
A regatta course is to be made at San Francisco
by dredging and reducing the width of Oakland Creek.
A pedestrian, and everyone else, in fact, should
know the importance of only breathing through the
nose.
The S.S.C. holds ite closing cruise to-day
(Saturday), when the annual picnic will take place at
Chowder Bay.
Mr Hyam still gets among the black bream. He
caught over three bushels last Saturday night -all as
large as small schnapper.
A match was played last Saturday between the
Chester C. C. aud Kent C.C. aud resulted in a victory
for the former hy 30 runs.
Four men who effected a swindle with the
totalisator at Christchurch have been sentenced to a
month’s imxn’isonmeut each.
The Grammar School athletic sports are to bo
held to-day (Saturday) at the Association Ground.
Many entries have been made.
Mr. R. T). Prior, of Queen’s College, Cam.,
brother of Mr. L. Y. Prior, of Hobart Town, rowed No.
7 in the late inter-University boat-race.
An aspiring amateur went out for a scull the
other dayi The fates saw him safely just to the mouth
of a certain sewer and there capsized him.
The Warwick (Queensland) races were run
last week, aud the meeting was most successful. The
Club sold the right to run the totalisator for £lO.
To-day Lynch is to race Sullivan over the
champion course, Parramatta River. There is hut
little betting, wbicb varies, but appears in favour of the
former.
Harry Moxham, the well-known Wagga boni-
face, raced Dean fifty yards, the other day, receiving 15
yards’ start. Harry having won, now says he’s the
champion.
‘ Humanitas,’ writing to the Herald, de-
nounces pigeon shooting as wanton cruelty and calls
on the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals to
show its power.
A handball match has been made for £25 aside
between W. Kelly (the Northern champion) aud M.
Car:an, to come off at Durham’s ball alley, Lambtou, on
Saturday, May 29tb inst.
A man who has a broken-down steeplechaser
and fancies he can jump says that the only obstacle he
and the horse can’t get over is the entrance money for
next cross-country event.
Cootamundra has beaten Wagga a second time
for the Cox Challenge Cup. Cootamundra, scored 80
and 117 ; Wagga, 51 and 85. On 22ud the winners play
Little Billaboug, the previous holders of the Cup.
Several races are to take place to-day (Saturday)
in connection with the Glebe Rowing Club aud are
likely to be well contested ; as all the competitors have
been closely training for some time past. The ‘scratch-
fours ’ n particular will undoubtedly he an exciting
It is swaggeringly announced in several of the
American papers that—' It Triokett visits England this
season, ns it is stated he will, Hanlan will meet him
there and row him for the championship of the world.’
Bunkum.
Vignaux, the celebrated French player, and
Glosson, the equally well-known American, were to
commence a billiard match, American game, 4,000 points
up, for 1000 dollars, at the Grand Hotel, Paris, on 3rd
April. Vignaux was the favourite when the mail left.
According to a Newcastle paper, Elliott pur-
posed visiting America in April. He intended rowing
in any regattas he could enter with advantage; hut if
nothing good turned up he thought of working at cool-
mining or seeking some other occupation in the vicinity
of Pittsburgh.
The McMahon-Dufur wrestling-match, which
took place on Wednesday evening, the 17th inst., at
Boston Music Hall, was declared a draw, neither side
having gained a fall, after wrestling six hours. The
receipts, which amounted to nearly 5,000 dollars, were
equally divided.
The porridge match, to have taken place at
Newcastle on the 24th May next, has fallen through, in
consequence of King (‘ a cullnd pussen ’) forfeiting the
money down, £5. The champion Bibby is again j nbilant,
and looks forward hopefully to the time when another
(Richmond in the field) will appear to measure spoons
with him.
Buyers of greyhounds should bear in mind the
following dog-gerelj:—
The head like a snake ;
The neck like a drake;
The back like a beam ;
The side like a bream;
The tail like a rat;
The feet like a eat.
Both the Oxford and Cambridge crews this year
rowed in Swaddle aud Winship boats, hut the crafts
built hy the firm named specially for the race were
found unsuitable. Both universities consequently had
to fall hack on old boats. Cambridge, the losers, were
the strongest in point of physique and rowed a long
stroke with plenty of power. What they lacked was
finish. Oxford rowed a sharp stroke with a smart
recovery and a clean feather. They owe their victory
to their form.
The well-known wrestler, Richard Wright,
died at Wathbrow, Eng., February 10th, of dropsy.
He was horn in 1822, and twenty-two years afterwards
first sprang into notoriety. In 1857 he won the
championship at Carlisle, where Jameson was defeated,
aud for many years he and his confrere, Jameson, re-
mained at the front in sporting affairs. In 1870, Wright
beat the gigantic Dubois, in the International Match at
the Agricultural Hall, and made his last appearance in
public five years later.
Efforts are being made in England to establish
rules of wrestling, under which matches for the
championship may be contested. In order to do this,
it will be necessary to graft together the North Coun-
try, Lancashire, Devon, and other styles of old-conutry
wrestling, so that a code of rules can be framed which
will satisfy everybody, or, at least, a majority of
wrestlers. Sir John Astley offered a £5O belt, to he
contested for on Saturday, March 27th, the belt to he the
emblem of championship.
A youngster named Fred. Erb has defeated
Captain Bogardus in a match for £5O aud 50 per cent,
gate money, recently decided in the States. The con-
ditions were 100 pigeons each,' 21 yards rise. When
each had shot at fifty birds the scores stood, Erb, 46;
Bogardus, 43. When 100 shots each had been fired Erb
had killed 93 and Bogardus 83 birds. Smarting under
his defeat the captain has challenged the victor to shoot
a match at St. Louis, 100 birds aside, 30 yards rise.
Erb, who has defeated many of the best marksmen
beside Bogardus. and is reputed to have sufficient
nerve and quickness of sight to shoot any distance for
any amount of money, will probably accept the otter.
In the match with Bogardus the boy killed Id birds
before missing.
A gun club is to be formed in Sydney. Mr.
Lee Lord has ottered members the use of a piece of
land, already fenced, at Botany (with a boundary of 100
yards from’the trap), where all matches may be con-
ducted with the strictest privacy. The provisional
committee appointed to make necessary arrangements
consists of the following gentlemen r—Messrs. K. L.
Tooth, G. Lee Lord. C. C. Skarratt, J. Hamilton, A. G.
Smythe, F. Smart, and Drs. Pe’.isario and Hodgson. A
large roll of members is anticipated.
Bell’s Life of February 21st says:—‘The
report of a match stated to have been shot on Monday
last at Mutton Butts has reached ns. The stakes are
said to have been £l2 aside, 15 shots at 590 yards, and
the names of the competitors given as Mr. Evon Wee-
Xifttn, “ Champion of Australia,’* and Mr. J. W. Oakden,
of Loudon. The size of the target or that ot bulls-eyes
and centres are not given. Mr. Oakden, however, ac-
cording to our informant, made 50 points out ot a pos-
sible 69, and Mr. Weaham 52. and £l2O to £lOO was laid
against the non-winner.’ Who’s Mr. Evon Weeham.
A little party, to celebrate a birthday, was
(says a correspondent) held in one of the colliery town-
ships recently. Amongst the visitors present on the
occasion was Mr. Bibby, ‘ the champion porridge
eater,’ whoso friends took the opportunity ot presenting
him with a handsome silver medal, which bad arrived
i from Mr. J. P. King of Maitland, also forfeiting to Mr,
i Bibby a sum of money, besides giving up to the
champion all his (Khig’s) titles, which the latter had
won in numerous contests as a champion burgoo eater.
! A pleasant evening was spent; and the champion,
wearing his medal, was noticed to he particularly
hilarious throughout the rest of the entertainment.
How interesting!
In the O’Leary belt contest, which terminated
at New York on ‘the 11th April, Hart, the negro boy
proved victorious, beat ‘Blower Brown’s’ celebrated
record by twelve miles, and scored 565 miles and 165
yards, the greatest distance ever done in a six days’
match. He walked twelve miles in the last hour and
three-quarters of the contest. From the San Francisco
Chronicle comes the interesting information that just
at the c’or e of the affair • Specter Jaybee, who departed
from the track two days ago, re-appeared in bis salmon
tights and was hissed and booted continuously as he
moved round.’ The total score was as follows Hart,
565: Pegram, 549- ; Dobler, 531 ; Howard, 534% ; Allen,
525) ; Williams, 509 j; Krobne, 516; Hanwaker, 450|.
Hart has received a challenge from an ‘ unknown ’
for the belt.
On 81st July the splendid papier-mache four-
oared outrigger gig (built by Waters and Sons, of Troy,
N Y ) which obtained first prize at Sydney Inter-
national, will be rowed for as anrize on the Parramatta
course, under N.S.W. rules. The distance is one mile—
from Hunter’s Hill to Onion’s Point, Lane Cove Eiver.
Entries —fee, 10s. 6d. per thwart—close on 3rd July.
The boat is the property of Mr. N. Lockyer, of the
M R.C., who reserves the right to return the entrance
fees should the entrances be insufficient to cover the
eztremely moderate limit of value placed on the beauti-
ful specimen of the boat builder ’ s art. Hie contest will
take place under the direction of representatives ot the
various clnhs, and should be a most interesting one.
All particulars may be learned at the M.K.C. club-
house.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
MATCH FOR £20 A-SIDE.
A match at 11 birds each, 30 yards’ rise, between
Messrs. ‘ Tyro ’ (assumed) and K. Egleton of Richmond,
for £2O a-side, came ott' at Cook's Eiver on Saturday
last. Mr. Egleton, who shot with an old-fashioned
single-barrel muzzle-loader, brought down 10 and his
opponent 9—and thus won.
CRICKET.
A team from the Public Works Department, Sydney,
play an eleven of Wagga on Queen’s Birthday on the
ground of the latter.
TO OUR READERS.
We regret that, owing to the rapid increase in
the public demand on the advertising columns of
The Bulletin, wo at the last moment find our-
selves compelled to omit from this issue not only
our esteemed dramatic critic’s lengthy _ notice on
town amusements but “ New Warrior s ex-
haustive turf budget, the customary instalment
of “ Adrienne,” •» highly amusing'Xillustrated ac-
count of the recent gastronomic contest and some
original verse, with other items of interest.
However, everything not out of date will appear
in our next, when ample amends will be made. It
will please those who have exerted themselves on
behalf of this journal in town and country to
learn that the circulation of The Bulletin is
now and has for some time past been increasing
at a rate which is not within the experience ot
any other newspaper in the colony.
Mr. Hurley’s (H.) motion—' That in future no
grants of land bo made by Government for any reli-
gions purpose whatsover,’ was opposed by Mr. Hoskins
as inopportune, but was nevertheless adopted by lb
to 14.
An ominous fact is that a third caucus room has
been opened in the Victorian House of Assembly.
Among those who have already taken up letter-boxes in
it are Sir John O’Shanassy, Messrs. Graves, Bolton,
Williams, Gauuson, and Sergeant. A veritable Cav eoi
Adullum.
Mr. Cbas. IT. Cripps, brother to the Sydney
confectioner, has taken first honors in his San Francisco
medical examination in three subjects: General Prac-
tice, Materia Medica, and Surgery. Mr. Cripps will
obtain a New York and London diploma, and return to
Australia as Dr. Cripps.
At Portland, Victoria, the other day, Bishop
Thornton celebrated a communion service at 8 a.m.
It was just ‘ by tbe skin of its teeth * that this town ot
3,000 inhabitants mustered tbe ‘ ten righteous.’ There
were only fourteen present, including the bishop the
organist and two visitors.
The heads of the Victorian Lands Department
are in daily conference, with locked doors. Their object
is to sort the tares from the wheat, the frauds from the
diligent. It is said that a hundred unclassified gentle-
men will shortly he dismissed from the occupation
branch, which at present has far too large a staff.
Says a correspondent:— ‘ The recent strange
infant murder at a place not so very far from Ballarat
will have to he numbered with the record of unpunished-/
crimes. All search to find the body of the innocent
has proved unavailing, and the culprit will be per mitten
to enjoy undisturbed his emiuinently respectable posi-
tion.’
Mrs. Jane Prior, an opulent widow living at
Yass, some time since had an illegitimate child horn to
her and buried it in her garden. The body has been
exhumed, and Mrs. Prior, with a laborer named Gordon.
who is said to be the father of the child has been
committed for trial on a charge ot murder. The doctoi
says the infant was strangled.
Butler, accused of the Dewar murders, has, as
onr readers know, already been tried for the murder o
Mr' Dewar. The Minister for Justice advises that n
he not indicted for Mrs. Dewar’s murder unless fresh evi-
dence be forthcoming. The Otago Witness under-
stands that additional evidence has been procured oj
the Crown.
At Hastings, England, recently, the health
officer, acting upon complaints, proceeded to a fashion
hie boarding-school and there found two boarders ai
parently suffering from starvation. One girl, aged i .
was in a fearful state, and was removed to the worx
house. She weighed hut 351b5., and on being washed*
was found necessary to remove all her toes, they neis
rotten. There were eight hoarder’, some supposed
1 he illegitimate.


Trickett and Hanlan.
Those who were simple enough to expect that
Hanlan would bo heard from by the last American
post were sadly disappointed when on the delivery
0 f the mail it was found that no one had re-
ceived a letter from “the phenomenon,” as his
friends style him. Last December “ the pheno-
menon ’’ wrote to Sydney saying that he was very
anxious indeed to row Trickett; but a she was
obliged to proceed to England this summer, he
would be prevented from carrying out this desire
of his heart. Thereupon Trickett wrote to “ the
phenomenon,” agreeing to meet him in England at
the time stated, and enclosing a cypher with a
request to wire intentions. The “ phenomenon ”
received this on the 2nd March, and as he
never expected Trickett would agree to row in
England, his equilibrium was so much affected
that he could not answer. Or was it that the funds
for paying the “ wire ” were not available ? As no
reply was forthcoming Trickett then sent him a
wire on the 19th March as follows : —“ I will go to
England if you will meet me there in July, lie ply
paid. The “ phenomenon ” being so *’ tree’d,”
was obliged to reply, which he did, in the shape of
the little word ‘ ‘ cannot. ’ ’ Query—‘ ‘ care not ?’ ’
Although there has been sufficient time for even a
‘"phenomenon” to acknowledge the receipt of
letters, &c., Hanlan has not condescended so to
do : and it must now be patent to all that he will
do all in his power to evade meeting Trickett.
People here have made a a mistake in opening up
negotiations with this “ phenomenon ” at all. The
English aquatic writers magnified his perform-
ances with the double view of deprecating
Trickett’s excellence and of excusing their own
scullers’ defeat, and we have fallen into the foolish
error of accepting their prejudiced expressed
opinions. Boyd’s easy victory over Elliott only
proves what a a second-rater the latter is. No one
is better acquainted with this fact than the Cana-
dian : and he, with a natural “ cutoness ” which is
be admired, is too wide awake to risk his easily-
acquired and questionable laurels. If Hanlan’s
sculling is no bettor than are his manners,
it would not be a difficult task to find more than
one Sydney sculler to show him the road over any
course. The following letter, received last mail
by Trickett from the London Sportsman, con-
tains nothing very new, but will nevertheless be
read with interest: —
“THE SPORTSMAN,”
Boy Court, Ludgate Hill,
London, March 4th, 1880.
Mr. Edward Trickett, King and Pitt-streets, Sydney.
Mr. Simmons has just handed me your letter of De-
cember 21 last, and as you desire some information as
to the present state of affairs in the English rowing
world, I have thought it better to write direct and give
you full particulars. I may, however say, in the first
place, that never before have matters appeared
so favourable for making a decided hit in aquatic
circles here as they are now. Hanlan, as you are aware,
came here last year, won the handsome Challenge Cup,
value 120 guineas, which we presented, and carried it off:
to America. Since that time none of our oarsmen
have made a match with him. One at least of the
number claims that he has made sufficient improvement
to beat Hanlan, and that is Elliott, but only a few weeks
ago he was badly beaten by R. W. Boyd. The latter at
first declined to challenge Hanlan ; but he is recovering
his spirits, and only last night he issued a challenge to
row any man in the world a three-mile race on the
Tees for £2OO a-side, and allow £25 expenses. This
would be a capital chance for you were you here. On
the other hand there is no doubt whatever if you come
to England that you can get a match with Hanlan. The
Toronto man has assured me that he is coming to Eng-
land this year; besides which, if you liked to challenge
him to row on the Thames he would be bound to come
and defend his title. Thus you would be certain to
have a match with him. Previous to rowing him, how-
ever, you would be sure to get on a match with some of
our English scullers.
In case of your arranging a match with Hanlan, I
should certainly advise you to row it on the Thames. It
would create the greatest amount of excitement, and
you would both reap a large amount of profit from the
proceeds ot the steamboats, &c., We have not had a
really great match in London for some time, and your
affair would be sure to excite an immense amount of
attention.
Looking at matters on the whole, there seems but
little doubt that you would do extremely well in Eng-
land. If yon succeeded first of all in heating our home
talent, there are plenty of Americans who fancy them-
selves invincible and would come and have a try with
you. Courtney talks of shortly visiting here. Eph.
Morriss will soon actually he on his way'.
Kindly let me know what you think of doing. We
shall be glad to advance your interests in any way, and
on hearing from you can at once -place the matter
before the public.
Hoping you are quite well, with kindest regards,
I remain, faithfully yours,
C. H. ASHLEY.
Trickett is still ready to row any man in the
world for a stake carrying the championship with
it, and his friends are prepared to accommodate
any challenger to wagers ad lib. Everything
which could possibly have been done to bring
about a match with Hanlan has been unavail-
ingly tried; and at last the Australian public
has the conclusion forced on it that Hanlan likes
nothing better than an easy life and is a
fraud. We’ll all be glad to see aspirants to the
sculling championship make their appearance on
the Parramatta ; but in future Trickett, who is
champion and should be the challenged, not the
challenger, will not throw down the gauntlet to
anyone.
The complimentary picnic tendered to his
Worship the Mayor Mr. Fowler and Mr. P. A. Jeuuings,
C.M.G. (treasurers), Messrs. Daniel O’Connor,
M.P., and J. T. Toohey (lion, secretaries) of the Irish
Famine ReliefjPuud, took place at Clontarf on Wed-
nesday, was most influentially attended, and was"a
great success.
The British army is to be posted as follows this
year Standing army at home will consist of 101,541
men, of which 83,000 are posted at regiments and 13,000
at depots. India is to be garrisoned by 62,000 British
hoops. The colonies will have 27,590 in lieu of 30,000;
Cape Colony will have a complement of 5,866; Gibraltar
and Malta will be apportioned about 5,000; Cyprus, in
addition to militia (active) 530 ; North America and W.
Indies will be furnished with 6,000 ; St. Helena will be
garrisoned by 228 and Mauritius, 423 Britishers. The
total ot all. army serving at nome, India, and the colo-
nies, will be 191,648.
' The Prince of Wales, G.M. of the English
freemasons, has fixed the 20th of May, for laying the
foundation-stone of the new cathedral at Truro. This
will be the first ceremony of the kind ever performed
b y bis Royal Highness in England, and will be the first
ecclesiastical building ever constructed under the
auspices of the Grand Lodge of England.
It is thought that if there really is a white
woman among the Carpentaria blacks she must he the
wile of the captain of the Earl of Hardwicke, which,
w hue bound from Adelaide to India, was abandoned by
her crew seven years ago in Torres Straits. On board
he ill-fated Kate Connolly, which left Cairns in 1878,
cedar laden, and has not since been heard of, there was
no white woman. Mr. Robert Mercer, sou ef the Rev.
eter Mercer of Melbourne, perished in her.
What is known as the ‘ Farrell Mystery ’ has
ompletely baffled the Victorian police. A young
living at Collingwood states that one night,
■ cout ten days after the supposed murder, she met, near
c missing woman’s house, two men, each carrying
Parcels from which there proceeded an odour so horrible
■ to ca UBe her to faint. On the night on which the
tint nan i Wils hrst missed a peculiar effluvium was
proceeding from Farrell’s house, and other
woi - * Mlve tr ‘ lu spired which leave no doubt tliatl'tie
man was murdered and her remains destroyed.
STAGE GOSSIP.
George Rignold is still at the Connaught.
M. Ketten tries pianofortes with his walking-
stick.
Eugene Dejazet, son of the celebrated actress,
is dead.
‘ New Babylon has made all the actors stiff —
and limp.
Cheevers and Kennedy, after 19 years partner-
ship, have parted.
Emily Soldene is personating the hero in a
pantomime in Glasgow.
Carrie Nelson is at the head of an English
provincial opera company.
Broadhurst was nearly drowned. He hates
water more than ever now.
The theatrical paper, the New Zealand Sun,
has 4 bust, ux>,’ and been sold.
At Dunedin the Shakespeare Club have cele-
brated the poet’s anniversary.
Catherine Lewis has been singing in opera
bouife, at Daly’s Theatre, N.Y.
~ Henry Walton has gone to Tasmania to pro-
duce Joe Brown’s ‘Agapemone.’
At Launceston the new Melbourne Comedy
Company are giving entertainments.
Miss Stephenson has accepted and gone to an
engagement iu the Auckland theatre.
Chiarini’s Royal Italian Circus, which is now in
Hobart Town, is coming on to Sydney.
Opera House, Melbourne, now depends for
success uyjon the debut of native talent.
Mr. George Lingard has bought the ‘ Zealan-
dia ’ panorama, and will travel it iu England.
Ada Ward has been playing at the Standard
Theatre, London, iu 4 Flowers of the Forest.’
Rumored that Bland Holt’s Babylon and com-
pany remove to Royal, Melbourne, after finishing here.
Rumored that F. E. Hiscoeks, of Hiscocksand
Haymau, has tumbled into money. Good luck to him i
Vernon Reid sang a superb ‘O Salutaris ’ by
Giorza at St. Mary’s pro-cathedral on Ascension Thurs-
day.
Actors and actresses in England are rebelling
against the infamous system of 4 blackmailing ’ carried
ou by the 4 gods,’ (who cheer when paid, and hiss and
hoot those who refuse to submit to the imposition. A
certain actor in Sydney used to 'decimate his salary in
purchasing public favour, but since his departure merit
alone moves hands and hearts.
Good news for theatrical managers.—Dave
Buchanan went to see ‘ Blow for Blow’ the other night
—and paid.
The rag called L’ Extracts, Melbourne, has
assumed a new face, but it won’t do. Another of
Copxnn’s dcdges.
Arthur Sullivan is writing the music for a
Canadian National Anthem. The words are by the
Marquis of Lome.
Madame Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, who
created a furore in her day and Jinny-ration, is now
sixty and satisfied.
Wybert Reeve’s piece ‘For Life’ at the Royal,
Melbourne, has not been a success. Too nnich like
certain other plays.
Ella Carrington’s ‘Stray Leaves’ company
have been at Gympie, and were to open at Mary-
borough on 10th current.
Nick la Feuillade, the well-known violinist, has
left his Golden Fiddle Hotel and is once more open for
X>rofessioual engagements.
Prof. Pepper is doing had business at St.
George’s Hall, Melbourne. Kelly and Leon oi)eu in
about a month at this hall.
Mr. Rice, the ‘mind reader,’ and his friend
Colville, the mimic, are billed to ax>pear at Bathurst on
13th, 11th, and 15th current.
Mr. E. A. Sothern (Lord Dundreary) has given
W. S. Gilbert .13000 for a new comedy. Sothern says it
actually outrages burlesque.
The Urso concerts at Auckland wound up with
a Sunday performance. Madame’ s N. Z. tour bids fair
to be an unexamx>led success.
Ole Bull, the Emperor of violinists, is still alive
and hearty, though from the character of certain beef-
steaks it was thought he had died.
Miss Annie Pixley is now starring in New
York. What a welcome the appearance of her win-
some face would have at the old Vic!
Morris Green wall,the well-known and respected
late manager for Miss Dargon, is now looking after the
interest of Williamson in Melbourne.
Riccardi is, they say, going to sue Williamson
for breach of agreement, because he was X'equired to
X>lay ‘Deadeye’ instead of Sir Josex>h.
Mr. J. C. Kitts is studying ‘ Hamlet.’ In the
delivery of the soliloquy, ‘ O ! that this too, too solid
flesh would melt,’ he is unapxiroachable.
Miss Leaf and Mr. Harding have not been
married. Several papers have therefore erred grievously
in alluding to the lady as ‘ Mrs. Harding.’
George Hammond (stage name George L.
Hillman), father of the well-known ‘Little Hillmans,’
has committed suicide by hanging himself.
“"Everybody will remember the dog that ap-
peared nightly in “ It’s never too late to Mend'’ One
night close to the end of the run of this x’iece he was
missing, so every one turned out for his lordship, and
found, as they thought, the identical dawg. But lo and
behold, they turned up with a new chum that did not
understand the xmrt. The Queen’s Company would
have been iu a terrible fix if the xn’oxier dog had not
turned up at the last moment. No outsider knows the
troubles and cares of management. Even a dawg has
his day.
• Darrell, with the ‘ Forlorn Hope,’ has held
the Queensland Theatre, Brisbane, during the week.
Madame Legraud joins him ou Monday next.
Signor Pagnotti received a photo, and autograph
from Madame Patti for the efficient manner in which
he acconqianied Madame in Lucia di Lammermoor.
Captain Jack Crawford and Dr. Ruth leave
’Frisco by the incoming mail steamer with a troupe of
American Indians, under engagement to Mr. Coppin.
Baker and Farron are engaged by Clarence
Holt at the Duke’s Theatre, London. Will Conrad
chew bread aud sxut it over a Loudon audience ? What
fun!
The Juvenile Troubadours are doing well at
Academy of Music, Adelaide. This company has been a
godsend to ;Bayliss, for he was down, very much
down.
“ Daniel Rochat,” Sardou’s new play, is very
amusing, but atheistical aud not likely to 'please an
English audience even as well as it did a French one,
who hissed it.
The last story is that Adelina Patti never
utters a word iu the morning before she has drunk a
cup of chocolate. That is not true. She had a husband
to scold for several y-ears.
A company composed of Dillon, Pender and
South left Brisbane for Rockhampton on Bth current.
They say they expect to be joined there by Fanny
Rogers aud the two Seagraves.
The Mammoth Minstrels and Loftus Troupe,
after a fair season at Melbourne, commenced an inland
Victorian tour last Saturday, beginning at Sandhurst.
They go to Adelaide afterwards.
Kate Ashton (Mrs. John Castles), eldest
daughter of James Ashton, of the British aud Ameri-
can Circus, died at Euabalong, Lachlan River, ou April
13th, at the early age of 26 years.
Maggie Oliver is spelling at Brisbane. As she
has not uronght along her wardrobe, our corresx»oudent
presumes she does not mean to show. She declines to
join the South and Dillon bompany.
Clarence Holt (Uland’s father) has made a big
success iu a new drama, 4 The Battle of the Heart;’ but
when the author was called, Mr. Holt had to announce
that the gentleman had been dead 18 years 1
Miss Kate Yinsom, the accomplished ward of
Mr. J. M. Lynch, is now 17 years of age. She played
last week in Melbourne to an assemblage of ‘Buffaloes,
or Ancient Order of Antediluvians,’ at the Temperance
Hall, taking the character of Emma in the ‘ Bachelor of
Arts,’ and gained well merited applause. She first
made her appearance on the boards of the Royal about
four years ago in the ‘ Serious Family,’ and is regularly
sought after by Amateur Dramatic Societies, who pay
her for her services. Mr. Ireland has taken her over
from Mr. Lynch, and is training her for the stage. She
will make one of the best actresses in Australia.
“ VVybert Reeve opens the transformed White's
Booms, Adelaide (in future to be known as Garner’s
Theatre), on the 17th in ‘ George Geith,’ supported by a
company from Melbourne including Harry Power - , Ada
Lister, etc.
The Pinafore Combination started in Laun-
ceston has collapsed. Professor Scott, the Ulysses of
the gang, absquatulated suddenly after his benefit, and
Miss Kate Harvey and two other satellites are ‘ star-
ring’ it in the provinces.
A very successful entertainment, tendered by
the members of the Sceptre Minstrels in behalf of the
Guild Baud Fund, took place on Tuesday evening last,
at the School of Arts, St. Leonards, under the manage-
ment of Mr. H. McMahon.
Cheap “ Pinafore ” at the Academy of Music,
Melbourne. The Prima Donna has 30s. per week; the
gallant captain is sustained by Mrs. Lewis instead of
her sou ; the admiral has 255. per week, and the chorus
10,s. per week. No wonder pros, are poor.
A Chicago theatrical company came to grief
recently owing to the leading lady having - been taken
into custody by an officer who had authority from her
pa. She was the venturesome daughter of a rich
Ohicagoiau, and had become seriously stage-struck.
The remnants of the troupe of darkies called
Georgias are at the People’s Theatre, Melbourne. They
commenced last Saturday, but are not a success. What
can you expect ? It is reported that all the white
women of the company are married to the coloured
gentlemen.
Simonsen’s Froliques are doing good business
at Dunedin. Madame Simouseu’s voice is described as
‘ being as fresh as it was a couple of decades ago.’ Miss
Marie Carandini, Miss Deakin (of Sydney), and Mr.
Gordon Gooch are also very favourably spoken of by the
daily papers.
During the first seven months of last year,
uowithstaudiug the hard times, £36,000 were received
for admission to Mr. Henry Irving’s dramatic perfor-
mances at the Lyceum Theatre, and £20,000 were re-
ceived by the Comedie Franeaise Company at the Gaiety
Theatre during their visit of three months to Loudon.
Mdlle. Olga Duboin has given three concerts at
Brisbane, and goes to BataVia. She had a great struggle
with the instrument during one entertainment. She made
the wretched thing cry, squeal, and almost buck, until
at last, as the Courier says, ‘ with the hounds of a
frightened gazelle,’ it gave Mademoiselle best. It is
said that the gifted piauiste is still well, hut the piano
has not been heard from on the subject.
Bland Holt, the other day, stood on the after
deck of a North Shore ferryboat calmly viewing the
restless waters. While thus engaged he was startled
by a scream from the forward deck, followed by a dull
splash into the seething waters. In an instant every-
body was excited. The boat rushed madly on. Now,
Bland is no coward; so he plunged headlong into the
tide after the unfortunate. He struggled manfully for
about an hour and a half, and at last, after spoiling a
ss. suit of colonial tweed and a new hat, reached the
shore. Taking one look at the object which he had so
bravely rescued, Bland fainted, but whether from tho
effects of the struggle or not it has not been ascer-
tained. It was subsequently found that the woman Re
had saved was his mother-in-law. Bland says
G. B. W. Lewis, of tlie Academy of Music,
Melbourne, is going mad on making a fortune out of a
Circus in Melbourne during the Exhibition season. He
will have a lively time of it, for the well-known blower,
John Wilson, will arrive from India iu time to oppose
him. Mrs. Lewis is greatly against her noble lord
going back to the sawdust business. He’ll find when
too late that lie’s managed to eat up the xirottts of
Juvenile Pinafore.
Gustavus V. Brooke, the day before lie last
left London, met his friend Greeves. 4 So yon are
really off to-morrow ? but not for long, I imagine.*
4 Yes, 4 said the tragedian in an unusually grave tone.
‘Yes, I’m afraid I may never return.’ ‘Nonsense.
What makes you have such a gloomy- idea as that ? *
4 I’ll tell y-ou, Greeves, I had a dream last night. It
was this: I dreamt that some fellow —an author—
came to me with a manuserixit of a xilay-, and wanted to
sell it to me. I saw iu great letters upon tho cover of
the first act the title, it was ‘The Wreck.’ I turned
over a few xiages and to a sketch iu ink of the slosing
tableau, intended to illustrate the way in which the
stage should be set. Standing alone ux>on the after
deck of the sinking vessel was a man clinging to the
rigging. The desxiairing face of the man was a repro-
duction of my own features. The sight of that agonised
face, so x>erfect a picture of myself, frightened me out
of my sleexi. Greeves I X tell you that my dream
means something serious.’ 4 Pshaw! ’ said Greeves.
4 lt means too late hours and too late dinners.’ Brpoke
went on his way, and met his fate.
CONCERT AT THE MASONIC HALL.
The approaching departure of that courteous gentle-
man and talented professor of music, Monsieur Jules
Meilhau, for a clime more congenial to the malady from
which he has been so long a sufferer was made the occa-
sion of a complimeutry concert at the Masonic Hall on
Wednesday evening; and it was gratifying to see how
many warm-hearted personal friends (for M. Meilhau
has been but little in public of late) rallied round the
musician. Under such circumstances it would bo on
error iu judgment to do aught but content ourselves
with recording one or two facts of the entertainment.
That, with the true artist spirit, Signor Giorza joined
his fellow-worker iu the cause of art by playing a solo
and, with the beuefleiaire, a duet for two pianos, and
rendered both with ringing effect: that M. Meilhau
played with his customary expression and feeling : and
that the other executants were Miss Rachel Gray, and
Messrs. Vernon Reid, Smith, and Wilkinson. Should
we have no other opportunity of again seeing or hearing
M. Meilhau iu Sydney, we wish him ou the part of the
musical public bon voyage and meilleurc sank.
PRIVATE RECITAL OF HENRI KETTEN.
It is a, matter for regret that the private recital of M.
Henri Ketteu, the wonderful European pianist, held (by
invitation) at Mr. Paling’s rooms ou Thursday 4 evening,
was altogether too late for the reception of a notice into
our article. Suffice it to say that the musical connois-
seurs, dilettanti, and virtuosi who were assembled on
the occasion expressed—with a remarkable unanimity—
the astonishment they felt at the marvellous playing of
the artist iu illustrations of every school of music, his
evident knowledge of which was excelled only execu-
tion such as has seldom previously- been known in
the annals of pianoforte music.
CRITIC.
FUN AND FANCY.
A widow —unmanned.
Before the war—Courtship.
Does your umbrella keep Lent ?
High heels—Some doctors’ charges.
The true cap of liberty.—A widow’s.
Kisses sent by telephone lack flavour.
The stamp act —Applause iu a theatre.
The road to matrimony is a bridal path.
Acorn on the tree is worth two on the t jo.
Tacts are stubborn things. Mules are facts.
‘Dead men kill no Czars,” is the Russian motto.
When a girl is twenty she feels uneasy on that score
A little learning is a dangerous thing. This applies
to violin playing.
The Czar mistrusts all his servants. Even Dinah
might, you know.
4 I’m getting fat.’ as the tramp said when he was
caught stealing lard.
“ No young man wants to fill a drunkard’s grave ” —•
or any other grave, if he can help it.
A Sydney bootblack peddles umbrellas iu wet weather
Business is business with him, rain or shine.
It seems to be a universal practice that when Bridget
comes iu to sweep, the whole family will get up and
dust.
A Miss Nannie Williams has became the wife of Mr.
Goat, of Sephensville, Texas. She is now Mrs. Nannie
Goat.
Young men who stand in front of church doors wait--
ing to see the girls come out might be used as umbrella
stands.
Marriage may be like a game of cards, but the bride-
groom is all right if he holds a good hand when the knot
is tied.
A Russian countess parades the streets of Nice
escorted by three large bloodhounds of quarrelsome
dispositions.
The biggest moustache on record is the one Michael
Angelo cut on his statue of Moses. It weighs a ton and
a half. O Moses!
When a man sits down in a barber's chair, pins the
newspaper round his neck and begins to read the towel
he must be considered absent-minded.
It is said that a Chicago man’s nightmare turned out
to be the shadow of his wife’s foot ou the bedroom wall,
instead of an unearthly monster with five horns.
When a death occurs at Fiji, it has to be registered,
and the natives scribe not uufreqneutly tills the blank
left for 4 cause of death ’ with the words, 4 medicine
supplied by missionaries.’
A Rockhampton Sairey Suds, who had attended to
the blanch Usage of two local bachelors the other day
debited her customers as follows: 4 To washing you
both together for one week, ss.’
Biddy, we shall always miss you,
Gone will be your pleasant snale;
Had the oil-can been much larger
You’d have gone about a mile.
In the report of a “swell wedding” it was written :
4 Her feet were incased iu shoes that might have been
taken for fairy boots,” but the compositor made it read,
“ shoes that might have been taken for ferry-boats-.”'
4 Oh, Indies, whom we all adore,
Take this advice from a thinking man :
As soon as love flies out at the door, I:
Go buy a cook-book as soon as you can.’
—Or attend Miss Pidler’s lectures.
Mrs. Rose named her daughter 44 Wilde.” It was-
pretty, so romantic — 44 Wilde Rose !” But when the
young lady grew up and married a young butcher with
the appropriate name of Bull, the lady was metamor-
phosed into 4 Mme. Wilde Bull.’
Whoever heard a bull sigh ?
Whoever saw a horse fly 'i
Whoever drank a ship’s ale ?
Whoever heard a fence rail ?
Whoever heard a mill d—n ?
Whoever ate a door jam r 1
A Chinese student for the ministry wrote in a lady’s
album the following version of a well-known poem ;
4 How doth the little sting-insect
Improve every sixty minutes!
All the day
Go pickee up sting-insect j nice
From flowers just got busted.’
They' were sitting together'on a Sunday evening with
an album or two between them, when she pleasantly
asked, 4 How would you like to have my mother live
with us ? ’ In just fifteen seconds he had his hat down
half way over his face, and was bolting through the
gate.
* * * And the Bailiff said, “Mr. Dibbs, you must come along.” And Mr.
Dibbs replied saying, “It is too late.” And yet the man pressed, and urged that the
giant might go with him; whereupon Mr. D. again said, “I’ll disrobe, and if I must go,
’twill be in a blanket, and you’ll have to carry 17 stone two and a-half miles to the Railway
Station.” The man of law thought awhile, and then essayed an attempt. How this
might have been done our Artist shows.


BRIEF MENTION.
Shepherd —euchred.
Dibbs —determination.
She took her bracelet with her.
Ed nihilo nihil fit, says the Czar.
A lively firm—Y'oung and Lark.
A sporting firm—Batt and Eodd.
Harry Mac Quade I7st. 18st. now.
Ginx’s baby lives at Eandwick Asylujn.
John Hurley’s'll? for an hour’s evidence is
allowed.
Shepherd says imprisoned debtors shoidd only
have burgoo.
Captain Mathieu says there’s many a slip
’twixt the shore and the ship. That’s so.
‘ Post and rail Shepherds’ we’vo all heard of.
But a stone-wall. Shepherd is a new institution.
Turnut is the home of Hymen and the locale
of the Mathiuonial Chronicle, which is going to be
enlarged. >,
‘Hough-hearted flint-bosomed ghouls’ is what
the editor of the Mcdoee Independent calls defaulting
subscribers.
In a local paragraph on Tuesday, the Twad-
dleqraph referred to the late Mr. Smart as Mi-. I W
Smart ‘P.M.*
Caesar did big things, and only said rent vkli
vict. Hanlon is still more taciturn. He only says one
word—* cannot.’
Says the Age : ‘ All taxes are undesirable
things.’ Surely the editor can’t include 50 per cent,
protective duties.
If a man parts his hair in the middle he gives
hoth his ears an equal chance to flap and keep off the
flies. We referto
‘ Charters Towers Herald, Toowoomba,
Queensland, Australia,’ is the latest and neatest thing
in addresses from America.
A certain Sydney lawyer, when a lady asks
him for a private interview, makes her sign a paper that
ehe won’t try any leap-year tricks.
Sir Henry has provided himself with a bedroom
nt the new Government offices. People suppose that he
will now give notice to his old landlady in Elizabeth-
atreet.
A few evenings ago, while the sermon was on
in a city cathedral, a well-known soloist performed a
short original sonata by sitting on the key-board of the
organ.
Melville’s unhappy. Thev won’t let him take
his coat and hoots off to dine" at the Coffee Palace,
nltho’he pleads that he’s ‘ allers been used to it; and,
-mimbihs dicta, they make him pay.
The members of a certain suburban musical
society say that their conductor doesn’t understand
music. The conductor says exactly the same thing
about the society. Outsiders say both are right.
At Bathurst-street column : ‘ He calls himself
good-looking. If ugliness was a crime he’d get fifty
years.’ ‘Yah! You, calls your-selt jiretty. You ought
to sue yer face for defamation of character,’ &c. &c.
Melville was speaking on Thursday night last
when some hon. member snored. The newly-elected
asked indignantly ‘ who brayed there ? ’ Hanley Bennett
—the Joe Miller of the House —answered, ‘ It’s only an
llcho.’
Louis Kossuth says that idiot is a word of
Greek extraction, and meant with the Greeks a man
who cared nothing for the public interest. Hard on the
eligible voters who stay away from Parliamentary and
University elections.
In Sydney everyone is satisfied that he is com-
petent to doctor himself and other people. This ac-
counts for the bunkum talked in the Assembly and else-
where about Dr. Morgan’s treatment of the now cele-
brated Infirmary girl.
The Carcoab Chronicle begs to differ with
(?) our opinion concerning the political conduct of Mr.
Andy Lynch, M.P. Says the Chronicle; ‘We have
tha occular for what ha has done for our district!
What is the ‘ oocular p’
Eight in front of the main entrance to the
Melbourne International is a big undertaker’s establish-
ment. The proprietor holds a review of horses, hearses,
and mourning coaches every day, and means in this
■way to advertise himself extensively during the Exhi-
bition season. Nice!
A distinguished foreign visitor to the Inter-
national has had some enjoyable Sunday shooting near
Copelaud. The victims were (tame) ducks, but the
shootist didn’t know them from the canard sauvago.
Fined £2. La sport is expensive.
The new Executive Chamber is a splendid room
50x30, and is magnificently furnished and decorated with
statuary and paintings. The only things, in fact, likely
to spoil the tout ensemble are the faces of some of the
people who officially visit the Chamber from time to
time.
A new cemetery, sacred to the memory of dogs
and cats, and of fowls which die from natural
causes, has been established by the Corporation. It is
at the corner of Riley and Albion streets, Surry Hills.
Mr. Piesse, the scent man, says he doesn’t care about
the locality.
A lady has made the novel suggestion that
* policewomen’ are needed at police-stations. She bases
hofl reason on the fact that many women are nightly
‘rim in,’ and that if any of these are crazy, ill,
or require any attendance, it is now men who must
attend them.
Some years ago two murderers were executed.
Tha gaol undertaker, it is said, removed the bodies,
took them to a low public-house, unscrewed the coffin-
hcLs and exhibited to the curious the corpses of the
illustrious deceased at sixpence per head. However,
tha enterprising man referred to has gone out of the
show business. Ho has come to the conclusion that
politics will pay better.
A N. A. Indian recently hanged for murder
offered to save trouble hy killing himself with a toma-
hawk, hut his proposition was rejected. A priest at-
tempted to give him spiritual consolation, but he said
that the white man’s whisky had ruined him, so he
couldn’t believe in the white man’s God. Couldn’t the
Duhho aboriginal say the same ? If he die penitent he
will never see Sir Henry Parkes again, in this world or
the next.
A lady was horror struck the other day at re-
ceiving a' telegram from her husband at Bathurst to
this effect:—‘ln hurry forgot my cow—send up by
morning train—you will find it hanging up behind the
bedroom door.’ In telegraphy the signal A is expressed
thus:. —; the T is —; and the W . The word cow
should have been coat. The transmitting operator
didn’t space sufficiently, and the consequence was the
A (,_) and T (—) looked like W (. —); hence the
mistake.
The following lines appear in an American
journal, and are attributed to ‘ a clever old gentleman
iif Australia.’ We’d like to know his name. Do any
of our readers know it ?
I’ve had my shore of trouble, and I’ve done my share of
toil,
And life is short—the longest life a span.
I care not now to tarry for the com or for the oil.
Or the wine that maketh glad the heart of man.
For good undone and gifts misspent, and resolutions
vain,
’Tis somewhat late to tarry. This I know,
I would live the same life over if I had to live again
And the chances are, I go where most men go.
The Inspector-General of Police wanted to
know for the information of an official superior—pro-
bably an unsuccessful newspaper man, who now earns
a precarious living hy politics—whether The Bulletin
had been registered aecording to law. We guess so.
Mr. Fosbery could have ascertained the fact at this
office without going to the Prothonotary. We see we
have friends all round. Will the Inspector-General
kindly oblige with particulars for his obituary!’ We
have a charming sketch on hand, and the name of Fos-
bery is written in the books of The Bulletin.
Mr. Shepherd has a writ against the Daily
Telegraph for saying in its leading article on Tuesday,
that Mr. Dibbs ‘ substantiated his case by a preponder-
ance of witnesses.’ It’s now Shepherd v. Dibbs, Shep-
herd v. Melbourne Herald, Shepherd v. Telegraph,
Dibbs v. Dibbs, Brodzky v. Shepherd—Jarudyce v-
Jarndyce, in fact.
‘ A penny saved is a penny gained.’ G. R.
Dibbs goes further. He goes to Darlinghuyst and says
that £4OOO saved is £4OOO gained, and that the only man
in N. S. W. who has a better billet than he is the Gover-
nor. £BO per week with board and lodging. Mr. Dibbs
nays for nothing but The Bulletin, and says that if he
couldn’t get this paper he’d let his rich friends take him
out of Read’s Hotel.
This is a truly wonderful age. The ‘ Zigzag
Papers in last Saturday’s Echo contained a short para-
graph about a stupid clerk who, in sending a telegram
to England, confounded the word ‘ milliners’ with ‘ Mil-
ner’s,’ thereby causing a most ludicrous blunder. The
great Zigzagger audaciously gives it out that it hap-
pened ‘ not long ago.’ ‘ Not long ago,’ indeed ! Why,
we know for a fact that this same little paragraph ap-
peared in an English journal at least three years ago!
It first came to light in a Victorian paper, was cribbed
by the home papers, and now it is Ecno-ed back to ns
through the usual medium for the communication of
stale news. But of course it is very appropriate that it
should scramble into the Zigzag column. It is zig-
zagtly what it should do.
Peter Campbell, the ‘bush missionary, has
issued a new fortnightly publication called Pleasant
Words.’ We have not seen it yet, but are looking tor-
ward with pleasure to its arrival. A mean country
editor to whom it has been forwarded remarks : it is a
neat publication, issued in the interests of the mission
with which the editor is connected.’ What we want to
know is—who is * connected with the mission beside
Peter ?’ Further on the country scribe says—‘ A little
more variety in its contents will impx - ove it. From the
foregoing we presume that Peter is still at the same old.
—game. . . ..
In the show window of a religious bookseller
in Queen-street, Brisbane, there has been lately on view
a picture that seems to ‘fetch’ the youthful population
of Queensland and is calculated to teacli them a high
moral lesson. It is entitled ‘ Hold the Fort,’ and re-
presents crusaders defending the battlements of a
castle against the assault of the enemy. Men are repre-
sented hacking, hewing, and slaying each other, and
writhing iu wounds and agony ; and above, our Saviour
is descending encouraging the slayers in the goodly
work, accompanied by a train of substantial ballet-
looking angels. ‘ The ideas ot some Christians is won-
derful.’
The offer of the Parramatta Asylum to supply
one old man per month for the tramcars to run over
has been declined by the Omnibus Company.
It was the Eev. Mr. Smoothface, but it was not
at the Glebe. Looking round and pointing to a tine and
jnst-conipleted parsonage be remarked to the wealthy
yonug beauty he was addressing—‘ There is the gilded
cage; it wants but the sweet canary to fill it.’ * That
mav be.‘ remarked the lady, ‘but canaries never mate
with blackbirds.’]
How very much the ‘ local ’ puff in every
Friday’s Herald, concerning the current number of
The Mail resembles a ‘ Mills and Pile ’ advertisement.
There is a difference, certainly, but it’s in the
auctioneers’ favour. When a fellow starts to read The
Hsrald puff he only finishes the first line, which in-
variably strikes him as having appeared before. The
‘ Mills and Pile ’ advertisement reads right on. Now
we could write a good notice for The Herald’s weakly.
Frinstance— ‘ Lovers of the beautiful are presented in
this week’s issue of The Mail with a splendid art sup-
plement, having for its subject the great prize picture,
entitled a scene from the Graphic, which charming work
created quite a sensation in the principal galleries of
the continent, just before the mail left —particularly in
Kamschatka and Ashantee. The right to reproduce
this superb work of one of the greatest masters of the
Renaissance period has been purchased hy the lively
and enterprising proprietors of The Mail, who, how-
ever, owing to tea-party pressure hadn’t the time to
consider, and may possibly have mistaken it for some-
thing else. ‘ Our Muddler ’ greatly contributes to the
general dullness, and forcibly shows how elegantly a
rhinoceros may dance on a clothes-line. Nothing cal-
culated iu any way to interest the reader —nothing, we
repeat, calculated in the slightest degree to wound the
most delicate susceptibilities of even an old woman—
nothing calculated to exercise a baneful effect on the
youthful miud or to excite frivolity or impious hilarity,
etc., etc., etc.’ But here we stop. We’re drifting into
The Hebald’s style. We really find that we can’t
write much about The Mail.
All applicants for the position of sheriff’s bailiff
are iu future to enclose certificates of their ability to
carry seventeen stones weight, exclusive of blanket, a
distance of two miles, more or less.
The funny man, who asks conundrums on our
steamer, says that the difference between the two
Smiths in the Assembly is that one wR. B. Smith and
the other Baubee Smith!
There were sixty murders in San Francisco in
the first quarter of this year and only one conviction [
They must have some Bathurst men there as jurors.
Why did the Chinese witness, when asked to
explain the mysteries of ‘fan-tan,’ say, pointing to black
Huntingdon, ‘ dis darkee man pakee all aboutee ?’
John Eoseby, after hearing ‘ New Babylon,’
says the passing of the Licensing Bill is a fog-horn
conclusion.
Angus Cameron’s oratory has worn out four-
teen vest arm-holes since he entered Parliament.
New comedy for Dowie and Pastor Allen,
* Blow for Blow.’
Northumberland is in the agonies of repentance*
Mr. Cameron to ask : Will the St. Leonard’s
Bridge and Balmain Tunxel be constructed in this
colony or in America ?
Ninian Melville, hearing that every member of
Parliament was expected to possess a dozen white shirts,
has bought eleven and a half since his election.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
George Eliot is now Mrs. Cross.
The Duchess of Edinburgh is an accomplished
skater.
The eccentric Duke of Portland leaves
£3,280,000.
The late Eev. Dr. Dare, of Melbourne, left
only £1,500.
Constable Kinny has resumed duty at the G
P.O.— Cave Canem.
Archibald Menzies, of Mcnzies’ Hotel, Mel-
bourne, died worth £40,000.
Mr. T. A. Dibbs, who has been suffering from,
typhoid, is now convalescent.
Ouida is stout, and drinks Dublin stout, and
so now her stoutness is Dublin.
John Kohler, a singer, has just been married
to the Duchess of Newcastle at Paris.
Mr. Proctor, the celebrated astronomer, is now
in Sydney and will lecture here shortly.
Halderman ’Arris says he’ll wear a cocked ’at*
Kippax says he’ll see ’em (ahem !) sober first.
Baroness Burdett-Coutts is a Conservative.
«Liberalism,’ she says, has so far meant disorganisation.
Mr. G. E. Dibbs has sumptuously furnished
his quarters at Darlinghurst. Has evidently made up
his mind.
The ‘ Sacred Ibis’ announces in a par. that for
the future he will edit the Brisbane Observer. Poor
Observer!
The gay and fashionable|Melbourne litterateur,
A. P. Martin, is in Sydney. He wears no beard and
drinks two ales.
John Walsh, M.P. for Cooktown, has bought
a business in Wagga Wagga. However, he still means,
to stick to his seat.
Frank Hewitt, the ex-champion runner, has
coitio out in a new line. He modestly says he s the best
ballad singer in Australia.
Mr. Frederick Manning (the Cardinal’s
brother), died a few weeks ago, worth £BO,OOO. He has
left large sums iu charity.
Last week it was whispered that ‘ a boy’ was
the cause of the Queensland Premier’s detention iu
England. We have it now on excellent authority that
it is a girl.
Mr. John Taylor Lingen, M.A., scholar and
prizeman of Pembroke College, Cam., bracketed
twentieth Wrangler 1870, has been admitted to the
N.S.W. Bar.
The Queensland Premier, they say, has been
presented and allowed to kiss the Queen’s hand. John
Brown’s nose has since been noticed to be considerably
out of joint.
Mr. Masters has resigned his position as Secre-
tary to the Queensland Club. Unlike the Union, the
Queensland pays its secretary, so there are any number
of applicants.
When poor Tommy Wills’ father and his party
were so cruelly massacred by Queensland blacks Tommy
was the only one who escaped. But now an equally
tragic end lias come.
Dr. Carl Fischer, the well-known homoeopathic
physician, has just returned to Sydney from the
Continent. He visits New Zealand before settling
down again in practice here.
Arthur Cubitt puts up for Alderman at Peter
sham One of his aldermauic views is to introduce the
electric light instead of gas ; another is to cut a canal
from Cook’s River to the city.
Cooktown people rejoice. Fred. Beardmore,
the loading local Freethinker, has turned from his evil
ways and now rents a pew iu the Church of England. He
says the company’s more respectable.
The Premier of Tasmania, Mr. W. E. Giblin,
is compelled to give up all descriptions of work on
account of his eye-sight. It he is not careful he will,
like Milton,; lose his sight in his country’s service.
Mr. P. A. Jennings purchased the splendid
church statuary from Munich, exhibited at the Garden
Palace, and has given those costly and artistic orna-
ments to St. Mary’s and other city R.C. churches.
Young Clements, the butcher of South Bris-
bane is dead. He bought a third in a ticket in a sweep
for the Sydney Cup for 7s. and pulled off £66 with it.
The doctor’s certificate says he died of typhoid fever.
Mick Moloney’s friends (and they are numer-
ous and seedy; but all highly intelligent, mark ye!) say
he is the best reader in Sydney. We have never heard
Mannaduke (stage name), but we will take his friends
word for it. Say no more.
Messrs. P. F. M'Donald and Donohue have
retired from the contest for the seat for the Leichhardt
(Queensland), and Mr. Albrecht Feez, in consequence,
has a walk over. He will probably take his seat on the
Government cross-benches. y
One of the funniest sights is to see Tavares,,
the actor, charging down Queen-street outside a fiery
steed Said steed mostly draws the Parcel Delivery
Co’s van. A funnier sight still is to notice the expres-
sion of Holland’s face as Tavares rides past him.
It is said that, in order to meet the conscien-
tious scruples of her wealthy father-in-law, a famous
London bill-discounter, a Sydney belle is about to
embrace Judaism, the religion of her husband. The
lady will undergo the ordeal in Europe, where she in
now sojourning.
Mr. 11. Byron Moore, who was ‘ Black -
Wednesdayed ’ from the Victorian Assistant Surveyor-
Generalship, has made a splendid success of his specula-
tion, the new Melbourne Exchange, which is die most
complete institution of its kind iu the colonies. Mr.
R. J. Jeffray owns the premises.
Fwed. Cooper, the eminent Queensland bar-
rister and M.L. A. “ for the Hodgkinson ” is very much
disgusted because the Sydney Bar have not requisitionea
him to enter their ranks. Fwed. says they’re afraid ot
him. The Sydney Bar say that Fwed. has practised too
long at Cooktown and the Hodgkinson.
Ferd. Sachs, formerly manager of the A.Jft*
Bank, Townsville, is in Sydney, casting soft glance
ME. C. A. GOODCHAP.
ONE HALF HOUR OF A SYDNEY DUST STORM MAKES THE WHOLE WORLD KIN.


round in George-street and reading up for the Queens
ind Bar- Eerd’s next move is for a northern consti-
i.oncv and then he and his friend “Onr Sam” go
straight for “Bully" Palmer, of MTI wraith Palmer &
C/0‘ •
George Collins Levey, who, whenever he’s not
absent from Victoria at an International Exhibition
acts as editor of the Age, is of Jewish extraction. His
Jlal name is Levy, but he appears to be ashamed of his
Hebraic blood, which he needn’t be. The Jews don’t
like him. The Christians doat on him, and on David
gvine, too.
During the hearing of the case M 4 Donald v.
Tnlly, a sparring match occurred between Judge
Harding and the Queensland Attorney-General. The
opinion of the Bar seems to be that the loamdd Judge
slightly over-estimated the dignity of the Bench, and it
must be remembered that the combatants were old
rivals at the Bar.
J. C. B. Van Wyck, well-known in Melbourne
mercantile and yachting circles, died in an epileptic fit
on Monday night on board the s. s. Northumberland, at
Circular Quay. Mr. Van Wyck had mode many friends
in Sydney. He was secretary to the Albert Park Yacht
Club, and has of late been the Sydney representative
of W. Siddeley and Co.
The acting Colonial Treasurer of Queensland
has obtained tor himself the title of ‘ Censor of Morals.’
X clerk in his department had been guilty of a flagrant
breach of the code. The wife complained to the Trea-
surer, and the result was that her husband lost his
appointment. If ho has any friends at Court we shalf
bear more about him through Hansard.
John Conrick, son of Mr. Patrick Conrick, of
Koroit, Victoria, has a station at Cooper’s Creek and
on it is the tree under which Burke the
explorer lay down and | died. The young squatter, who
has been very successful, has ‘ spared the tree ’ and
placed a fence around what must by all be regarded as
one of the sacred spots on Australian soil.
There is a rumour in Brisbane that Pring is
going to resign the Attorney-Generalship in favour ol
gam Griffith. There is, we believe, a soupcon of truth
in this if Sam is game to risk his re-election. Another
rumour is that King will be appointed Minister for
Lauds vice Perkins. We believe we are correct in say-
ing that King will not hold a portfolio in this Ministry;
they know him.
Mr. Buschmann, the well-known ‘ Cabaretier ’
of Bourke-street East, Melbourne, died, we regret to
bear, a few weeks ago. His wine shop was the chief
resort of the literary men and artists of Melbourne,
whose gastronomic proclivities Buschmann assiduously
developed and whom he in a few years made into per-
fect gourmands. Every continental delicacy was
procurable at his establishment and he was a most
popular landlord.
Poor Walter Smart is dead. We have often
had a joke at his expense, but now that he has gone we
must in simple justice to his memory say, that though
be was perhaps a little more officious than most of us
and though ho made a hobby of law, a subject which
most people regard with horror, he was generous to a
fault and did many a kindly action which the world will
never know of. The general opinion is a correct one—
that he always aimed at doing good.
John Shepherd’s bailiff wanted to seize
some furniture, alleged to be the property of Mr. G. R.
Dibbs, after it had been put in a railway truck en route
for Penrith. Mr. Evans, the ’cute traffic superinten-
dent, was smart enough to see that if he allowed a man
who had only authority to levy on the goods and chattels
of G. K. Dibbs to seize goods of which J. C. Dibbs was
the consignor there’d be trouble in the law courts
between the Dibbs family and the Government. So he
gave Mr. Shepherd’s friend a polite negative, and
the truck moved on.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs won’t pay Mr. Shepherd’s
verdict and costs, amounting in all to nearly £4,000, so
he has gone to Darlinghurst for twelve mouths, at the
end of which time he’ll file his schedule, come out and
angh at his defeated enemy, who in the
meantime has to pay 2s. a day to the gaol
authorities for the distinguished defen-
dant’s board and lodging. Mr. Dibbs was
arrested at Penrith. In the dead of night
the bailiff made a raid ouG.R., who objec-
ted to move till morning. The bailiff said
‘must,’ to which forcible argument Mr.
Dibbs replied by undressing and inviting
the bailiff to carry seventeen stone to
the railway station. The bailiff didn’t.
Mr. Dibbs is thoroughly comfortable in
gaol. Last Thursday, for instance, his
friends gave him the choice of oyster,
hare and beche-de-mer soups, with every-
thing else in keeping; and as there are
at present quite a number of jolly debtors
in the prison, G. R., who has a capital
stock of Murias, Henry Clays, and other
good smokables, has nothing to do but
puff the calumet, watch the refined face
of the gentle Shepherd pirouetting round
the bowl enveloped in a wreath of azure,
and read The Bulletin, which is his
favorite paper. He has a lengthy visiting
list and is ‘at home’ during the regula-
tion hours.
One of Burton’s clowns used to
tell a good story to the following effect.-
An Irishman once bought a calf’s head and
when making his purchase got from the
butcher written directions as to how the
fete deve an should be cooked. As he
went along the street a big hungry dog
snapped his prize from his hand and ran
away. The irishman followed, but the
faster he ran the farther the dog drew
ahead of him. Pat became brokeu-
windod, and at last pulled up. A happy
thought struck him. Straightening him-
self against a lamp-post he shook his fist
at the fast-retreating dog and exclaimed,
as the animal looked round to see whether
he was coming, ‘Go it, ye divil, ye can’t
cook it —I’ve got the resate in my pocket.’
If the reader will take the trouble to
substitute in his mind’s eye Mr. Shep-
herd for the Irishman, Mr. Dibbs for the
successful dog, and the calf’s head for Mr.
Shepherd’s or perhaps it may now be
more properly said Mr. Dibbs’ —verdict,
he will fully understand how much
Messrs. Shepherd and Hurley must have
enjoyed seeing Mr. G. R. Dibbs on his way
to Darlinghurst.
Many years ago two young men
who bad been friends and in the same
branch of trade in England, arrived in
Victoria in the same ship. After landing
they went to Ballarat together, but were
unsuccessful in mining. Then they settled
down in partnership as booksellers in a
western town, and after carrying on
business for some years failed. One then
became secretary to the local borough
and the other to the local shire council.
Both remained bachelors until they had
passed middle age, and each when he did
marry allied himself to a partner much
younger than himself. Both men were
highly respected and both created great
sensations in the district by disappear-
ing suddenly, leaving alleged deficiencies
la their accounts. However, they did
not run away together. One, who
his wife with him, was arrested the other
day in N. Z., after having evaded capture
for about two years; the other (the
alleged deficiency in whose accounts was
but a few shillings and evidently had
little to do with his hasty departure).
was seen in London not long since ‘on a lee shore.’
A. curious chain of coincidences, truly.
The Rev. Moses Eintel, for the last 35 years
kabbi of the Bast Melbourne Hebrew congregation, has
just died of consumption (a disease very rare among
the Jews), from which he had long suffered. He was
Universally respected. His brother-in-law, Mr. Henri
Hart, one of the leading art patrons of Melbourne, is
seriously ill from the effects of a cold caught while
waiting in a cab at Sandridge all night for the arrival of
his daughter from N.Z.
Thomas Strode, who arrived in Victoria in
I&J6, and was founder of the Port Phillip Gazette,
•“fAiTLAND Gazette, and Pastoral Times, is dead. The
old gentleman—who was as great an authority on the
early history of Victoria as Mr. W. F. A. Rucker, the
auctioneer, or Mr. Richard Osburne, of the Warrnam-
bool Examiner —was of independent means, and had
for many years been living in quiet retirement, peacefully
awaiting his end, in a Melbourne suburb.
Mr. Andrew Fairfax narrowly escaped being
killed on Saturday afternoon last. He was standing in the
space between the ‘ up’ and ‘ down’ lines at Burwood,
talking to a friend who was seated in the Sydney train,
when he was suddenly caught by the shoulder and
down by the funeral train, which he thought had
passed. He was considerably cut; but we are glad to
learn that his injuries are not so serious as might have
been expected.
The Hon. G. W. Lord died on Sunday night
at his residence, Darlinghurst Rood, Sydney. He was
bom here in 1818, and when 20 years old settled as a
grazier in the Wellington district. He entered political
life upon the introduction of responsible government,
was Treasurer in the third Martin Ministry, and was
afterwards nominated hy Sir John Robertson to a seat
in the Legislative Council. For many years he was
chairman of the Colonial Bank. He was very wealthy.
Mr. J. H. Knipe the well-known auctioneer
(‘ Factor Knipe ’ he used to style himself) is so unfor-
tunate as to have a wife who is jealous of him. The happy
pair have been in the Melbourne police court. Why Mrs.
K. should he jealous of Mr. K. we can’t imagine. J. H.
K. has been unsuccessful in politics and mining. He
has an open ingenuous face, a complexion like boiled
pork and an expression slightly like that of the late
Oliver Goldsmith, but more closely approximating
what would be produced by a cross between the full
moon and a Dutch cheese. We await further particulars
concerning the law suit.
Some time ago the Queensland Premier was a
passenger by the same steamer as Judge Blake. The
place of honor at the cabin table was filled by the latter
during the trip to the no small chagrin of the former.
The Premier remonstrated, but the captain, who was
of proper British stuff, said ‘Look here, sir, you’re
Premier on land, hut I’m Premier on this here ship, and
Judge Blake’s going to keep his place at the head of the
table.’ On arriving at Brisbane the Premier demanded
Judge Blake’s resignation, on the ground that his health
was too infirm to admit of his performing his duties.
but the Judge produced medical testimony to the con-
trary. After all, Premiers in N.S.W. and in Queensland
are ‘much-of-a-muchness.’
In Sydney, or at any rate in one of its suburbs,
there’s a man whom we will call John Brown. In old
times his father was granted a piece of land ‘ to pasture
a horse on.’ That piece of land, which is extensive and
now immensely valuable, has since remained in the pos-
session of the family who, whenever a son’s bom unto
them, call him John Brown, just to make sure that a
John Brown will always he in existence. It is needless
to say that old John Brown has long since marched on.
An athletic young fellow of eighteen, who
looks two-and-twenty, and has plenty of influential rela-
tives in Sydney, recently married a pretty Melbourne
girl, the daughter of a Victorian ex-Minister of Jus-
tice, ‘on the quiet.’ The happy couple’s parents soon
found them out, and there was great ..rouble. How-
ever, everything was soon bliss, love and forgiveness,
and the bridegroom’s parents wanted to send him back
to school. The Professor (at the C. of E. Grammar
School) objected: he said he couldn’t endure teaching
married boys.
Did you ever know a pressman who was the
owner of an impawned silver service ? There is such
a man in Brisbane. Flood, of the Courier, in recogni-
tion of his services as secretary to the Irish Relief
Fund, has been presented with a silver tea and coffee
service, and now Flood is fearful to leave his house
during the evening lest it should be burglared. The
coffee-stall man says he has lost one of his best cus-
tomers. This par., if inserted next week, might be
too late. By that time the service may be spoiled, as
Ben. Harris will possibly have his dirty digits on it.
From the North Queensland papers we notice
that one of the Woolgar reefs has been named after
‘Greasy Bill.’ ‘Greasy’s’ proper name is William
Beacomb, and he owes his soubriquet to the innocent
eccentricity which prevents him from ever washing
himself. He buys a suit of clothes, which in the Ear
North consists of a pair of moleskins and a Crimean
shirt, and never takes them off night or day till he finds
that they object to stay on him any longer. He was
never seen in the water but once, aud on that occasion
he fell in by accident, used terrible language when he
got out, and dried his clothes at the engine furnace.
He’s never ill. He says that water is weakening, and
that anybody who washes himself in the North must
expect to get fever. He is lucky, and says he can
‘smell gold’ if there’s any about. As a matter of fact
he has been on every field in the Far North, and has
always been tolerably successful.
Mr. Mason, the Victorian M.P., a rule nisi for
the sequestration of whose estate has been granted, is
a great friend of Jeremiah Dwyer, who receutly lost his
seat through insolvency. The pair were mixed up in
many land transactions and also in the affairs of the
now celebrated ‘ Victorian Cognac Distillery Co.*
Mason, who is a Berryite, was formerly a schoolmaster
and was rendered notorious a few years ago by certain
exposures made in the Assembly and Press concerning
his repudiation of a wager made with a bookmaker.
He and Dwyer are fair specimens of the * duffers ’ who
owe their political existence to the payment of
members’ system.
The Eevd. E. K. Ewing, whose controversy with
the Presbyterian Assembly of Victoria respecting his
charge at Beechworth excited so much attention a few
years back has forsaken the church of his fathers and
like his brother, is now an Anglican parson. His station
is Inverell. Mr. Ewing came oat to St. Andrews, Laun-
ceston, in 1848 and remained there until 1868, where he
shared the hard times which that reverend litigant John
Storie brought on the whole established clergy of the
colony. Mr. Ewing then became principal of the South
Yarra College and subsequently went to Beechworth.
The reverend gentleman possesses scholarly attain-
ments, and is an eloquent preacher.
Mr. T. S. Clibborn.
Mr. Thomas Strottel Clibborn, the popular sec-
retary of the Australian Jockey Club, with whose
portrait we have much pleasure in presenting our
readers to-day, is oue of the best-known members
of the Australian sporting community, he having,
prior to his appointment to his present important
and onerous position been secretary first of the
Hamilton and afterwards of the Ballarat Turf
Club. Mr. Clibborn, who arrived in Victoria from
the old country in 1860, and resided in the
Southern colony until 1873, belongs to the very
old family of Clibborn, of Moate Castle, County
Westmeath, Ireland, and was born in 1837. Ho
was married in 1868 to the daughter of Eiehard
Magan, Esq., of Eockfield, Westmeath. It must
be a source of great satisfaction to Mr. Clibborn to
know that the public attributes much of the pre-
sent condition of the A.J.C.’s affairs, and of tho
healthy state of the turf all round, to his able and
energetic management; and all who know him will
join in wishing not only that the Club’s prosperity
may long continue under his auspices, but that he
may for many years enjoy the same amount of
good fortune which has hitherto fallen to him in
his private and business relations.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
More Cafe licenses refused.
The Gilbert diggings are dull.
Mulgrave goldfield is looking up;
Yellow agony rages at Melbourne.
More diphtheria in Hamilton, Yic.
Melbourne Gas Company is short of coal.
Berry is to lead the Yictoriau “ Liberals.”
“ No factiousness ” now say the Berryites.
The Orient’s voyage is the fastest yet done.
The Manilla cable is now open to the public.
Judge Windever would make a
prood advocate. He is, moreover, cou-
sistent. He never rises after hearing an
argument without remarking, ‘ I’ll re-
serve my decision till I consult Sir Wil-
liam Manning.’
The members of the Carlton
Cricket Club are with mutual good-will
presenting one another with trophies.
Already fifteen have been distributed.
The trophy for late hours caused great
competion, but Messrs. Joel and Mick
have at present the greatest chance.
The scene of the operations in
Pitt-street is called ‘ Hordern’s Rush.’ It
would truly seem as if the Corporation
were working a reef. The street traffic is
greatly hindered, and there can’t but be a
loss to the business people all along the
thoroughfare. The Mayor ought to be
interviewed to see if the work cannot be
continued at night to facilitate its com-
pletion.
4 1 have to-day’ (writes our Brisbane
correspondent under date 7th inst.) seen
a letter from a well-known squatter to a
local gentleman. He says that ‘suffi-
cient shares have been subscribed for to
enable the Queensland Frozen Meat Com-
pany to be started at once; in fact,
great enthusiasm is everywhere shown
towards getting the meat exportation
underway. [Weight P—Ed.] Howard
Smith and Co. of the Melbourne S.S.
Company have offered to lit up steamers
to carry thq meat to Sydney for tranship-
ment.
There is war in Melbourne Israel.
Mr. Aaron Wayman, J.P., had a row with
Mr. P. Blashki, of Bourke-st., and stated
publicly that he had collected money for
Blashki when he was hard up. The fol-
lowing day an advertisement appeared in
the Argus challenging Mr. Wayman to
prove his assertion. The matter was
consequently taken up by the funny
Press, and Wayman got a slating for
throwing the affair into Blashki’s teeth.
Then down came Aaron’s brother-in-law,
Moses Goldstein, and offered to horse-
whip ‘Three Star’ in the Licensed
Victualler, and this week Moses gets it
hot.
Two men are lying in gaol at Bris-
bane awaiting death. One, a Chinaman
for killing a countryman at Clermont
with a pick; the other, an Englishman,
for shooting a mate at Aramac during
a drunken spree. For neither is there
any hope of reprieve. The Chinaman is
repulsive looking, even for a Chinaman;
the Englishman is a good-looking man
without any trace of crime in. his face,
and probably, as he himself says, com-
mitted the deed for which he must
suffer, when under the influence of drink.
Both the prisoners are in different cells,
lightly ironed. The white man is resigned
to his fate and fully aware of the hope-
lessness of his case.
The cause of McDonald versus
Tully has again dragged its weary length
through the Rockhampton courts. The
verdict has again been in McDonald’s
favour, virtually the same as that given
for him twelve month ago. But cui bono ?
The Government will not pay the money,
and we have high legal authority for
saying that he cannot levy a distress on the Treasury
until there is a surplus! When will that be, my
masters ?
The elaborate ghost story said to have been
written by Archdeacon Inncs just before his death
is clearly shown to be unauthentio. What the arch-
deacon did write was this ‘ A few nights after poor
Lissiman’s death, I was in this house, and his room
rattled so that I ran up stairs to see what it was. I
looked into the dark room and suw nothing, so I said,
with a laugh to myself, ‘lt must be old Lissiman.
What do you want ? ' Then I heard an answer, but not
audible; but such as possibly a spirit can convey,—‘ Never
mind, you’ll follow me soon.’ It was singular, I never
told any one.’—(The italics are our own.) Mr. Lissiman
MR. T. S. CLIBBORN.
The Dubbo Aboriginal: or, Black and White Sheep.
Master Botcher (loq.) : "’Say Bob, don’t kill any white ’uns. ' Work off the black un; 'is colour's agin 'im."
Judicial Official: “Eight Si’ ’Enry. But when am I to have a seat in your Cabinet? (Aside). Can I hever rope to
'work him off.’”


Kelly and leo n • d
OPERA HOUSE, 8
comer of King aud York-streets.
THIS (Friday) EVENING, May 14.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS. BRILLIANT SUCCESS
THUNDERS of APPLAUSE
THUNDERS of APPLAUSE,
TREMENDOUS OVATION
TREMENDOUS OVATION
meets each aud every performer,
KELLY and LEON'S
GIGANTIC VAUDEVILLE
and SPECIALITY COMPANY.
Appearance in Sydney of the popular Author aid
Comedian,
Mr. WALTER REYNOLDS,
assisted by a
COMPLETE DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Return of Favourites,
Mr. BEAUMONT BEAD. Mr. C. FREDERICKS,
Re-appearance of the Original Quartette.
Mr. EDWIN KELLY I Mr. BEAUMONT READ
Mr. Wm. BALL I Mr. C. FREDERICKS
FIVE COMMEDIANS. FIVE COMMEDIANS
Mr. EDWIN KELLY
Mr. EDWIN LESTER I Mr. CHAS. HOLLY
Mr. LANCE LENTON | JAPANESE TOMMY,
all appearing nightly in
A CARNIVAL OP FUN,
giving three distinct entertainments in one
MINSTREL ! VARIETY ! DRAMATIC !
Box plan now open at Niciiolson and Ascherberg’s.
LOOK OUT for SATURDAY'S SENSATION.
OF ARTS
TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 18th.
HENRY KETTEN,
the
REMARKABLE PIANIST.
The Management has the honour to announce that
A SERIES OF
BRILLIANT PIANOFORTE RECITALS
hy
THE EMINENT PIANIST,
II ENEY KE TTE N.
Will he given
at the
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
To Commence on TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 18th.
PRESS OPINIONS.
“ No description can do justice to Henry Ketteu, for
all the resources of the musical art appear to be at his
command.”— Pongolo, Naples, May 27, 1879.
“A child of inspiration. — M. Azhvado, Critic of Paris.
“ Perfect mechanism ; exquisite phrasing; marvellous
memory ; imaginative improvisation unequalled.”—M.
Committast, French critic.
“ This artist has a peculiar melancholy touch, which
is original aud fascinating.”—L 'lllustration Unxveh-
selle, July 3, 1878-
“ The powers of this artist are iu the highest degree
remarkable. He can make the instrument speak as
expressively iu the softer passages as he can make it
speak forcibly in the'louder ones.” — The Times, Lon-
don.
Plan of the Hall at Paling’s Music Warehouse,
George-street, where seats may be secured on and after
Saturday.
PRICES OP ADMISSION :
Reserved seats, ss; second seats, 3s; back seats and
gallery, 2s.
c
O M I N
By
Specially Chartered Steamer
MACEDON.
CHIARINI’S
ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS
aud
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
HAYMARKET RESERVE.
G
For a
SHORT SEASON ONLY,
commencing
FRIDAY, MAY 21.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
Matinees,
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS,
AT 2 P.M.
20 (TWENTY) FIRST-CLASS STARS.
A DEN OF PERFORMING ROYAL BENGAL TIGERS
THE PERFORMING BISON,
from the Rocky Mountains.
THE PERFORMING HUANACOS,
from the
PAMPAS OP SOOTH AMERICA.
Two
EDUCATED ZEBRAS,
from the Cape of Good Hope.
THE SCHOOL
of
PERFORMING DOGS.
Signor G. CHIARINI'S ADMIRABLY-TRAINED
HORSES (A LA HAUTE BCOLE,)
have been pronounced the acme of perfection, evincing
iu theirtperformauces the near approach of brute instinct
to human reason.
Prices of Admission:
Dress circle (chairs), 4s; stalls (carpet seats), 3s; pit,
2s. Children under 12 years of age, half-price.
Special rates for Schools when coming iu body.
FOB MORE PARTICULARS SEE HAND BILLS
AND PROGRAMMES.
G. AGRATI, General Agent.
ASONIC BALL
The Annual MASONIC BALL, iu connection with the
Robert Burns Lodge. 817 E.C., will be held at the
Masonic Hall, on the 3rd June, 1880, under the distin-
guished patronage, aud iu the presence of
John Williams, Esq., J.P., R.W.D., Grand Master E.C.,
and the Most Excellent G.S.R., A.M., E.C.
Dr. William G. Sedgwick, R.W.D., Grand Master S.C.
The Right Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney, Wor. Bro.
Fowler; and
The Imperial Commissioner for Holland, Mynheer J.
De Groot, P.Z.N.
The YOUNG AUSTRALIAN BAND will play choice
music on the occasion.
Tickets (of which there are a limited number only)
can be procured from the Committee at the following
prices Double, 25s ; Gentleman’s, 15s; Lady’s, 12s
6d.
Address, G.P.0., Sydney.
Committee.
C. Hellmrich, Esq.
G. H. Lovett, Esq.
C. Artlett, Esq.
Thos. Read, Esq.
H. Passmore, Esq.
T. Fairweather, Esq.
T. Nurthun, Esq.
W. H. Vosper, Esq.
E. G. Grace, Esq.
J. W. Nixon, Esq.
W. Marshall, Esq,
W. Ellis, Esq.
J. G. Carter, Es q.
T. Rickett, Esq.
R. S. Randall, Esq.
F. Armstrong, Esq.
J. Spencer, Esq.
Edward Richards, Esq.
F. Kirby, Esq.
A. Smith, Esq.
W. Ness, Esq.
C. Peters, Esq.
T. Nicholson. Esq.
John Hurst, Esq.
W. H. Needham, Esq.
E. Moon, Esq.
HAMILTON JACOB, ) Hon.
WILLIAM COLLINS, i Secs.
EVAN JONES, Hon. Treasurer,
11 Hunter-street.
fj] HEA T E E EOYAL.
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar.
Business Manager & Treasurer ... Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Stage Manager Mr. Geo. Warde.
NINTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LYSTEE and GAENEE’S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST NIGHT
of
BLOW POE BLOW.
THIS EVENING, FEIDAY,
Will be given BYEON’S favourite Comedy-drama,
BLOW FOE BLOW.
Characters by
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
Scenery by Mr. George Gordon.
SATUEDAY EVENING,
May 15,
NEW MEN AND OLD ACEES-
Doors open at 7 ; commence at 7.45.
Prices as usual.
I C TO E I A T HEAT EE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Eainford.
“ NO FAETHEE GO,” the old man cried.
Bat still the youth rushed on.
“ NO FAETHEE COME,” the maiden said.
But still the youth rushed on.
WHITHEE ?
TO SEE HOLT'S “NEW BABYLON.”
NEW BABYLON.
NEW BABYLON.
WAFTED by the balmy and joyous WINDS of
SUCCESS, we glide into our THIED WEEK OF
TEIUMPH and PEOSPEEITY.
Our Free and Flowing Sails are filled by the praises
from
PULPIT SENATE
PEESS and PEOPLE.
Our tide is flushed and quickened by the warm enco-
miums profusely springing up everywhere.
NOTHING to CAUSE a BLUSH on the most unsul-
lied cheek.
NOTHING to STING or PAIN the PUEEST SOUL.
Nothing that would POLLU TE the sweet and new-
born BABE.
Patronised and approved by CLEEGY, SENATE,
and all classes of society.
ENTHUSIASM BUT IN ITS INFANCY.
OVEE 33,400 persons have witnesssed
HOLT’S NEW BABYLON.
UEEN’S THEATEE
Lessee Mr. M. Hegarty.
STILL ENTHUSIASTIC EECEPTION
of
ME. DAMPIEE,
LILY and EOSE.
SECOND WEEK
of Charles Eoade’s Temperance and Moral Drama,
DEINK DEINK DEINK
Drink
Drink Drink
THE DEMON DEINK.
COUPEAU Mr. DAMPEIE
The Beautiful Scenic and Mechanical Effects the Theme
of General Admiration.
The Washhouse
The L’Assommoir.
“The Temperance man’s heart-rending appeal,
“ Brandy, to you means not exhilaration —but madness
and death.” ’
The indescribable delirium scene,
“ Supremely awful, unsparing, repulsive; but true as
sin and punishment.’
NANA, LITTLE EOSE DAMPIEE.
‘ Petite Eose, who possesses some notes some of our
older vocalists may envy.’
THE GEEAT SNOW SCENE
is perfect. It is a picture to be looked at again and
again.
Dress Circle, 3s; Stalls, 2s ; Pit, Is. Eeserved Seats
at Nicholson and Anchor bore’s.
LIDDY, Business Manager.
died a month before the archdeacon, and the latter
expired less than twenty-four hours after writing the
foregoing singular memo.
Licensed Victuallers arc waking up.
Iron and steel have fallen nearly 30 per cent.
Victorian Parliament was opened on Tuesday.
“Yellow agony” has extended to Hobart Town.
A brewery is to be established at Rockhampton.
Sydney Bethel Union owes £llOO, and wants
help.
Dorrington’s solicitors decline to apologise to
Ward.
Mr. Combes has been lecturing on ‘ Iron and
Steel.’
At Newcastle-owing to the strike there is a coal
famine.
A Clarence sugar-mill owner cleared £1,500 last
season.
A Children’s Hospital is to be established in
Sydney.
N.S.W. and Victoria play chess by telegraph on
the 24th.
Charters Towers municipal accounts are
muddled.
The Chinese gaming-house keepers were each
fined £25.
Gold has been found at Mount Larcombe, near
Gladstone.
A ’Change hour will shortly be established in
Melbourne.
The Conglomerate, Cooktown district, is to be
prospected.
A German smoking club has been formed at 196
Pitt-street.
Luther’s wedding ring is on exhibition at
Dusseldorf.
Grafton wants a new gaol. Three men to one
cell at present.
Gaunson says the Victorian Ministers were not
legally elected.
Brisbane bench refuses licenses or renewals to
wooden hotels.
The excise duty in Tasmania is more than realis-
ing expectations.
A 300 oz. and a 50oz. nugget have been found at
Yandoit, Victoria.
Peter Asporas, who had his leg crushed at
Kempsey, is dead.
The Colonial Secretary’s office has been removed
to the new building.
The fate of the Victorian parties is in the hands
of the ‘ two corners.’
Queen’s Birthday claim, Dunolly, is turning out
most magnificent stone.
When Berry formed his notorious Ministry he
asked Service to join him.
Mr. E. Johnson has been appointed Chief In.
spector of Public Schools.
In New Zealand a warder, not the executioner,
wiefds the cat-’o-uiue tails.
The eucalypti in Rome are all withered through
the severity of the last winter.
Henri Rochefort has written a book recounting
his Now Caledonian experiences.
Pleuro-pneumonia is spreading in the Waikato
district. Two farms are infected.
In the 24th Regiment there are more Victoria
Cross men than in any other corps.
An old man has been burnt to cinders in his
room at a Lithgow slaughterhouse.
Gladstone apologises to Francis Joseph, who
says he really doesn’t want Turkey.
Mr. Johnston, of Johnston and Chaffin, Lovuka,
has been murdered by Aoha natives.
Murrumbidgeo whalers’ are for the most part
safely housed in gaol for the winter.
An old gaol-bird tried burglary at the Bank of
N. S. W., Newcastle, but was canght.
There over 2,500 Chinamen scattered over the
area of the tin mines of N. Tasmania.
Zulus in London are performing the feat of
producing fire by the friction of wood.
Smith, who shot Miles at Yathong, Station has
been captured by the Jerilderie police.
At Peak Downs, the Mary Agnes lower has
crushed 15 tons yielding 161 oz. per ton.
In Victoria the compulsory education clause is
henceforth to he unrelentingly enforced.
Professor Smith has been ‘ tostimonialed’ by
the officers of the Education Department.
Bishop Short, of Adelaide, says he holds a much
higher position than the Queen of England.
Hugh M'Caulay, for forty years a Muswellbrook
resident, has committed suicide by shooting.
At Melbourne Industrial Exhibition 175,000
persons in all attended, and £8,600 was taken.
The new Glebe Town Hall will be completed
next week, and will he a credit to the borough.
A bill to abolish what in Australia is known as
‘ shouting ’ is now before the lowa Legislature.
A Castlemaine Berryite J.P. voted at three
places in one day at the recent general election.
A concert is to be be given the new Town Hall,
Glebe, in aid of the Glebe Rowing Club, shortly.
The remains of an old man, name unknown,
have been found in the bush near Denison Town.
Albury people have given a farewell address and
a diamond ring (ye gods!) to a retiring constable.
MTlwraith and M'Eacharn are to manage the
meat preserving company just formed in London.
Eleven men, varying from 6 to 16 stone each,
recently managed to kill a sft. snake at Cooktown.
Skating is the rage at Rockhampton. It’s need-
less to say that there’s no ice in that sultry place.
Queensland Punch, witty, genial, spark-
ling, and splendidly printed, is once more to hand.
“The two children recently lost at Picola, near
Wagga, have been found in a hollow tree quite well.
M. Julius Bluthuer, Court pianoforte maker, of
Leipzig, has just completed his 15,000 th instrument.
A crowd witnessed the arrival at the Cape of
the ex-Empress Eugenie, but there was no ceremony.
Mr. Derrington, whom Mr. Ebenezer Ward
prosecuted for libel at Adelaide is to he ‘ testimonialed.’
In Victoria the Irish Relief Fund has been
closed at £31,674 9s. The Adelaide fund totals £8,500.
Mr. Lament Young says that the antimony and
tin lodes at the Macleay should he prospected at a
depth.
James Boyle, a carrier, was, while drunk, run
over hy his own waggon at South Apsley last week and
killed.
Mr. S. G. Barton, solicitor, has been struck off
the rolls in New Zealand for misappropriating clients’
money.
Hon. W. Macleay is interesting himself in the
establishment of slaughtering and freezing works at
Wagga.
We are requested to announce that Lady Au-
gustus Loftus holds a reception to-day (Friday), from 3
to 5 p.m.
The pasteboards issued to those invited to the
opening of the Melbourne Exchange were simply
gorgeous.
The Good Templars of H.M.S. Emerald have
been entertained by the Nil Desperandum Lodge, North
Willoughby.
Mr. Joshua Peter 8011, the Acting Governor of
Queensland, (gave a most enjoyable dance on Friday.
Nothing formal, merely ‘ Mrs. Bell at home ’ —and the
only complaint heard was to the effect that it was too
soon over.
Sir Charles M'Mahon is once more Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly. The voting was: M'Mahon,
44 ; Lalor, 39.
Sir Hercules Robinson has expressed himself
in N.Z. in favor of religious instruction being imparted
in State schools.
Towards the erection of the new Sydney In-
firmary Government contributes £25,000 and the In-
stitution £20,000.
A resident is willing to back the Barcoo against
the world for flies. The Lower Palmer, he says, ‘ is a
fool to this place.’
The Government astronomer is going to give to
the members of the Teachers’ Institute a little tech-
nical instruction.
The remains of an old man named Gallagher,
who had been missing twelve mouths, have been found
near East Maitland.
On the 10th the blacks attacked the whites on
the Mulgvave, and tried to get the mining tools. One
miner was wounded.
100,000 needles are stamped and bored in a day
of ten hours by a new machine just perfected in West-
phalia, Connecticut.
The Mining Association of N. Tasmania is deal-
ing with the Chinese question as far as it concerns the
mines of the North.
Constable Fitzgerald, of Parramatta, has lost
three children by typhoid in 8 days. Three others of
his children are now ill.
Mr. R. Brough Smyth, late Victorian Secretary
for Mines, is now quite confident that gold-mining in
India will pay splendidly.
Mr. Angus Cameron is to move that a bill for
the restriction of Chinese immigration be promptly
submitted by Government.
An appeal as to whether it was lawful to sen-
tence the Claimant to two cumulative sentences has
been heard and adjourned.
A white man accused of stealing from the
person of a kanaka at Maryborough has been discharged
for want of an interpreter.
Mr. Zox’s motion to prevent the exclusion of
strangers on the voice of a single member is supported
by the Service Government.
Mr. S. Major, late a storekeeper at Kiama, is
putting on a steamer between that port and Sydney in
opposition to the I.S.N. Co.
One and fourpence was found in the Chinese
gambling den. However, the celestials had a good
deal of money on their persons.
Maryborough larrikins amuse themselves at
night by tying telegraph wires across the lovers’ walk
in the local Botanical Gardens.
Mr. Hector Munro, who successfully resisted
the Moe bushrangers, has been handsomely ‘testi-
monialed’ by the associated hanks.
Emily Thompson, sen., and Emily Thompson,
juu., charged with child murder, have been acquitted.
The medical evidence broke down.
A new novel, entiled ‘ Nana,’ by M. Zola, the
author of ‘ L’Assommoir,’ has been issued. 40,000 copies
were sold in advance of publication.
The Bth anniversary of No. 86 Loyal Orange
Lodge, Sydney, was celebrated on Monday evening. Mr.
N. J. Mackenzie, the W.M., presided.
A certain Towers’ miner has good stuff in his
skull. He fell 30 feet on to the solid rock, and came off
with nothing worse than an ‘ ugly cut.’
Two drunken aboriginals recently had a fight at
Maryborough. They carved each other most artisti-
cally with sheath-knives and tomahawks.
John Combes, charged with arson, has been
acquitted, and left the Court, in the ojunion of judge
and jury, without a stain on his character.
Some charges have been made against Dr.
Patrick Smith. Sux>eriutendent of Woogaroo Lunatic
Asylum, Brisbane, by a discharged clerk.
The Orient has arrived at Adelaide from Ply-
mouth, after a passage of 34 days 1 hour, and is likely
to complete her passage to Sydney in 38 days.
On Sunday evening the Sydney police made a
raid on a Chinese gambling house, fii Goulburns-treet,
and arrested 35 fan-ton players, all Mongolians.
There was a [stowaway on board the Rocket,
which foundered a week or two since off the east coast,
so that there were seven lives lost with the ketch.
James Taylor, a Hodgkinson miner, has been
burnt to death while drunk. His mate was drunk too,
and was palled out of the burning tent by the legs.
A Staffordshire firm, represented at the Sydney
International, lost £lO,OOO owing to its representative
having booked heavy orders for iron before consulting
the cable.
New South Wales contributes .£29,000 to the
Irish Relief Fund—more in proportion to her popula-
tion than any other colony. The expenses are only
about £459.
Michael Clancy, late of H.M. 18th Regiment, an
old Crime in soldier, was found dying in a Circular
Quay waiting room, and expired before reaching the
Infirmary.
In S.A., during 1879, there were 449 post-offices.
The number of miles travelled by mails was 1,907,003,
and there were 10,088,414 letters and 5,141,956 news-
papers sent.
The Bank of N.S.W., who lost £5OOO by the
frauds of Dale, the magistrate, has determined.to push
matters to the bitter end against the drawers of the
promissory notes.
A horse fell dead while in a parcel delivery van
in the Exhibition Grounds the other day—the driver
said from gripes. Others positively asserted it was
simply starvation.
A new instrument, the “ Telemeter,” has just
been invented at Belgrade by a professor of mechanics.
It will show with unvarying precision the exact dis-
tance of an enemy.
Obituary. — The Poet Douglas Gazette,
which will, however, he issued at Cairns as The Cairns
Chronicle and Mulgrave Miner. ‘ A rose under
any other name,’ etc.
‘ Outside country, unstockod or lightly stocked,
will soon be in request, and we shall probably before
long see something like real value put on it,’ writes our
Brisbane correspondent.
At the Copeland, No. 1 South Centennial (Scott,
Reynolds, and Driscoll) have crushed two tons of quartz
from their rich vein and four and a half tons of seconds
for a total of 191 oz. gold.
Some mean person has been hoaxing the children
of Wagga by inviting them to a ‘free concert.’ A large
number of children assembled, waited, shivered, and
then sorrowfully went home.
It should have been stated that the portrait of
the Hon. Mr. Darley, Q.C., published in our issue of
Ist May, was engraved from an excellent photo, by
Mr. Freeman, of George-street.
Queensland had, on 31st December last, a popu-
lation of 217,927 —-130,932 males and 86,995 females, —
showing an increase for the year of 7417. These numbers
include Chinese and Polynesians.
G. A. Hill and Travers, two first class passen-
gers hy the Orient, committed suicide on the trip. A
third-class passenger named Scott, who is missing, is
believed to have jumped overboard.
Rockhampton is hard up for amusements. The
recent Supreme Court sittings extended into the night
and the inhabitants cheerfully patronised that interest-
ing novelty, a judicial enquiry by gaslight.
During a recent gale an immense tree fell at
Thomas Plains, Tasmania, across a miner’s hut, killigg
his son, aged 12. The man and his wife were in bed at
the other end of the building, and escaped unhurt.
A powerful syndicate has offered to construct a
railway connecting the Queensland lines with Port
Parker (lat. 17.25, long. 139.25), Gulf of Carpentaria, on
condition that it is subsidised to the extent of 8,000
acres of land per mile. The Great Eastern could enter
Port Parker at spring tide, and the port is fitted to
become the entrepot for the Diamautina, Flinders,
Burke, Herbert, and other pretty well settled rivers.
On Tuesday night John Hurley lambed down
John Davies in such a fashion that the latter had to
sneak out of the House without recording his vote in
favor of the Ministry, with a view to the Postmaster-
Generalship.
At St. Helena prison, Brisbane, considerable
extensions are being made to the stockade, in anticipa-
tion of the larger number of prisoners to be sent down
there consequent upon the changes to be made in the
Brisbane Gaol.
Although St. Helena, the site of the big Queens-
land gaol, is a pretty island, well situated, and great
liberty is allowed to the prisoners there, most of them
have a hankering to get hack to Brisbane—and long
beers. Strange!
An erratic Gorman found in a ’bus at Glebe
Point terminus, on being asked for his fare, enquired
whether he had reached the Redferu station. The re-
reply was. ‘Why, you got in there!’ ‘Did I? Mein
Gott in Himmel!’
D. M'Eachran, of the well-known shipping
firm, has bought country on’the Lower Fliudei’S, viz.,
the two runs of Milluugera and Taldora, and is going to
stock with sheen. Meredith, the manager, has bought
40,000 sheep in Kivcriua.
A Belfast (Vic.) jury has acquitted a man who
was charged with stealing money, in face of the fact
that he was shown to have confessed his guilt to
several persons. The judge said the verdict was a dis-
grace to the community.
Mr. John Hutchinson, of Saumarez Station,
New England, says that ordinary nicotine from the
stem of a tobacco pipe instantaneously cures venomous
bites ofjspiders, scorpions, and and even of the deadliest
snakes, if a ligature also be applied.
The Postmaster-General of Queensland, amongst
other - reforms which he is making in his department,
proposes shortly to introduce the post-card system.
As a short act will he necessary for the purpose, people
must wait till the assembling of Parliament.
The Adelaide Steamship Company are going to
caiTy saloon passengers from Melbourne to Sydney for
355. The South Australian is the fastest intercolonial
steamer, with the exceptions of the Union Company's
Rotomahaua and the Tasmanian boat Fliudei’s.
Mr. James Allen, the Sunday school teacher,
who was unjustly prosecuted some time ago for alleged
cruelty to'a scholar, has been presented by his fellow-
teaoners with a purse of 77 sovereigns and a testimonial
in the presence of a large and influential gathering.
A paragraph not .at all in our style slipped into
The Bulletin a few issues hack. We have since
learned that it applied to Mr. St. Paul Seitz, and
was the outcome of a petty hit of malice. The writer
will blodm no more in the columns of the Bulletin.
Our lines are these; —Amusing and sometimes satirical
but never malicious or untruthful.
Butler, who has been sentenced to 18 years for
1 mrglary at Dunedin, commenced his criminal career in
Victoria at the age of 12, when he was sentenced as a
vagrant. Four years later he was, as one of a gang of
four, convicted of robbery under arms; and since then
so many convictions have been recorded against him
that all but a small portion of his life has been spent
inside gaol walls. -


BENEDICT’S HALL,
STREET.
ABERCROMBIE
Bvrou Amateur Dramatic Cluli will give a per-
T' lo nc g j u the above Hull ou Queen's Birthday,
fornw L i i s Bo had from any of the members.
Tickets, m. p. j. piNEGAN,
Hon. Secretary.
T
HB GREAT WAXWORKS’ EXHIBITION.
J-rrr OPEN, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-
lust ARRIVED, from New York, THE
rmHTH WONDER OF THE WORLD—Miss Millie
Pristine, the two-headed Nightingale, a Lady with two
Pals four arms, four legs, and one body.
Admission Is, children half price.
Open from 10 a. m. to 10 p.m.
i-
rSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB, SPRING
MEETING, 1880.
The Great Metropolitan Stakes.
A Handicap Sweepstakes of 20 sovs. each, 5 ft., or 1
* if declared by Wednesday, 14th July, with 350 sovs.
led. Second horse 50, and third horse 20 sovs. from
V prize. A winner of any handicap race after the
declaration of the weights (A.J.C. Epsom and Shorts
Hiuidicaps excepted) of the value of 200 sovs. to carry
fr. s ex tra; of two or more such races, 81bs. extra ;of
nv such race of the value of 100 sovs., 31bs. extra; of
two or more such races, 51bs. extra. Two miles.
Nominations, accompanied by first forfeit of 1 sov. to
be made to the A.J.C. or the V.R.C. Secretary before 4
o’clock p.m. on Tuesday, Ist June. Weights to be
declared on or before Wednesday, the 23rd June.
The balance of forfeit to be paid to the A.J.C. Secre-
tary before 4 o’clock p.m. ou the Friday preceding the
race, or the nominator will be liable for the whole stake.
' The Spring Maiden Stakes.
A Sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each, 1 ft., with 100 sovs.
added. For maiden horses at time of entrance. Penal-
ties for winning after entrance —once, 71b.; twice or
more, 101 b. Second horse 20 sovs. from the prize. One
mile and a half. Entries may be mode with the A.J.C.
or v.E.C. Secretary, any time previous to 4 p.m. on the
dav of general entry ; and the time of entrance will be
that at which it may reach the oliice of the Secretary
with whom the entry is made.
T. S. CLIBBORN,
165 King-st., Sydney. Sec. A.J.C.
M
R S.
S P E
of the
N C E E,
VICTORIA LUNCHEON & SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre) ,|
Knowing the aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining in town after the theatres are
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in the evening or day can
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW!
N.B. This is not restricted to suppers, but cooked
meats, etc. can he served and obtained at ant time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as usual.
Cleanliuess, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling the possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for Five Shillings, may
be had at the cash counter.
Note the Address-
-201 PITT STREET.
|IHE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT,
COLLAR, AND CUFF FACTORY,
100 KING STREET, UPSTAIRS
(entrance in right-of-way).
A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
ORDERS EXECUTED
with.
NEATNESS AND DISPATCH.
GENT.’S WHITE SHIRTS
in three qualities.
CRIMEAN SHIRTS,
excelling all other makes.
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALLY GIVEN TO
THE TRADE. ,
All work done at the above Factory is under
the superintendence of a gentleman of
20 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
in
AMERICA.
15 THE 15
GREAT PUZZLE
15
BUY AT THE HEAD-QUARTERS,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.’S
DEPOT,
(OPPOSITE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK
BANK)
AND
MARKET-STREET,
15 SYDNEY. 15
rpHE BEST SHILLING LUNCH IN TOWN
-A- (including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea)
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m.
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
R
OBEET BUTCHEE &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MEEC HANTS,
533 GEOEGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
C 0.,
Country Orders Eeceive Prompt Attention.
lIRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VEEDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIEST PEIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VEETICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
BEAD THE AWAED.
“The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”.
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEEE MEEIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WOELD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full'instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTEEMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
CJ. E O B E E T S’
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEPAETMENT.
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Eum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
Nathaniel cohen
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that he has taken the
EOYAL ALBEET HOTEL,
at the comer of
GIPPS & MACQUAEIE STEEETS, SOUTH,
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liqnor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Girl in the Eum-keg.
The geeat noetheen hotel.
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHAELOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Booms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
£jOACH AND HOESES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Eailway Station.
Mb. P. STANTON, PEOPEIETOE.
*»* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
jpi O E ALL DESCEIPTIONS OF
. MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFOED STEEET.
ATLAS FOUNDEY and engineeeing com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashiug, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
s
YDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
FIEST PEIZE.
Miimh
2SA '•
KEEE’S
Patent
Safety Lamps,
for in and out-
door use, burns
kerosene without
glass chimneys
eighteen hours
for one penny.
Light equal to
Nine Candies.
Size of lamp, 18
inches high.
Price (ready for
use) —10s. 6d.
Packed free for
steamer or rail
on receipt of
stamps or money
order.
The
EXHIBITION
TOP
spins on a piece
of thread in) any
position.
Is. each.
Bs. 6d. dozen.
The
EXHIBITION
CEMENT
mends every-
thing. Price—
Is. per bottle; by
post Is. 6d.
That extraordinary and amusing trick “ The Finger
through the Hat,” as performed at the Exhibition —
a capital joke. Price, 3s. 6d., with instructions how to
do it. Post free, 4s.
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and amusing games and
tricks at
BAILEY & KERR’S NOVELTY EXHIBITION,
503 GEOEGE STEEET,
SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Police Court),
For ONE MONTH ONLY, prior to B. & K.’s visit to
Melbourne.
K
EAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEWMAN.
• PORTRAITIST,
Photographer hy appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARE. SYDNEY.
T F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
** • CONFECTIONER.
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pio-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
HAS. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
/~hCUL IST. —Professor HARRISON
' Oculist, (late of the Manchester
Eye Hospital) 129 WILLIAM STREET,
may be consulted daily—lo to 12 a.m. ;
2 to 4 p.m.
~T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
DOLPHE GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors feom pfahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m'Call,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
F
ASHION ABLE SCARFS AND
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
NECKTIES
HORDERN’S NEW MEECEEY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near. the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! I
J. L. HORDERN.
R
OBERT CASS
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
I N,
BRANCH AT NAEANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
574 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MONIE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GUEWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
CITY HAIRDRESSING AND BATH ROOMS,
220 PITT STREET
(Opposite TattersalTs Hotel).
Mr. JAMES CLARKE, Proprietor.
%* The BATHS of this establishment are unsur-
passed in Sydney, being fitted up and supplied on
absolutely new principles, which cannot but win for
them an extensive public patronage.
N.B. —The best brands of Tobaccos, Cigars, &c.
Novelties in Pipes, Walking-sticks, and other articles.
V
ICTORIA
PHOTOGRAPHIC
PRICES.
STUDIO
PORTRAITS:—
Carte de Visite 10/- per dozen
~ ~ 7/6 per half-dozen
Cabinets 25/- per dozen
~ 17/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA:—
6 Bon Tons 2/6
16 Double Gems 2/6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance—VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET.
Australian mutual provident
society.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIREC TORS-
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlrvt, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddiugtou, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. I S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER :
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.E.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magzzinb (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Loudon) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any ago can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND. THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
rjIHE FIRST NUMBER
OF
“THE PACIFIC WEEKLY,”
Published THIS DAY,
May 15.
CONTAINS
Articles on the Political Situation—The Troubles in
Victoria —Forster and Fact—The Licensing Bill —The
Mutual Provident Question —Pauperism and Protec-
tion—Gentlemen Thieves — Australian Celebrities ;
No. 1,, Sir Henry Parkes —Poetry; “The Pacific
Weekly” to the Reader; I Know I Must be Dreaming—
Literature; “ L' Assommoir” ; Books and Authors;
Colonial Periodicals; Art Gossip.
Also, two Chapters of an interesting story, written
expressly for the “ Pacific Weekly,”
entitled
“UNDER THE CHANGING SKY.”
Price—SIXPENCE.
Office —2. BRIDGE STREET,
And to be had of all Agents.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P O W L E E'S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
rg lONS, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS.
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate, viz. :
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 65s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 81s, worth £6 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT P
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 25s ; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS. Men’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, Pis 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s 4d, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the promises—
WARSAW HOUSE,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY,
E. L A E K I N,
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spibit Meechant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
■Jg UY YOUR BLANKETS IN TIME,
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL TO-MORROW
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-DAY.
EDWARD HORDERN
(the original firm of the name),
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of the LADIES of NEW
SOUTH WALES
to
THIS SEASON’S SHIPMENT,
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by him
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
SNOW WHITE, PURE WOOL, EXTRA WIDE,
“ PLENTY to TUCK IN.”
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the COMFORT, LUXURY,
and
SWEET REPOSE PRODUCED
by a pair of
“EDWARD HORDERN’S”
BEAUTIFUL SNOW-WHITE WHITNEY
BLANKETS,
Prices from 4s 6d to 35s per PAIR.
ORDERS from the COUNTRY promptly and faith,
fully executed. All goods packed in EDWARD
HORDERN’S well-known style, SECURELY IN CAN-
VAS.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
No Branch Houses anywhere.


Deportment of Public Work
Sydney, A]
TO QUARRYMEN AN!
TENDERS will be received ai
o’clock a.in. on TUESDAY,
from persons willing to contract fo
tons of Cube Sets for the Governm
The Sets must be of approve
durable stone, hammer-dressed
dimensions, viz., 9iu x 4iu x 5,
wherever required at any place w
be constructed within a radius o.
Circular Quay.
The supply will be required a
within four weeks from date of a
4000 tons every subsequent four wi
contract has been completed. Cot
for the whole quantity in one
quantities of not less than 2000 ti
case special arrangements will be i
supply.
Contractors must
state in their t
they are prepared to supply, and th
Samples of the stone, with the
where they have been obtained tun
be deposited in the office of theS
neer, Elizaboth-street, and from ’
culars may be obtained.
Contractors will bo required t(
Colonial Treasurer a sum equal to
total amount of their tender as s
performance of their contract.
Payments will be made monthly
cent, of the value of all materia
satisfaction of the Superintending
remaining 10 per cent, will be p
completion of the contract.
Tenders must be endorsed, * Ten
of the Cube Sets for the Gov
Sydney.”
The Commissioner does not bin
the lowest or any tender.
Cr
CHAS. A. GOODCI
Commissi
O U N D
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
is very much stronger than the sau
The reason is very simple. The gre
to bear on the leaf crushes the su
tain the essential strength and rea
and which is to a great extent lo
loose tea is used.
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T!
cannot be adulterated.
An immense saving is mode by ns
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
As much strength is drawn out
minutes as can be drawn out of
Compressed in five hours. The tab
the consumer cau calculate to an our
he used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of
opinion that the English Goverume
adopt this method of solidifying its
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his spei
given in his honour after his retun.
was one of the most valuable impro
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it af
specially to England for a fresh .snip
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Bri
hrated Tea at Winchester, and when
four years ago discarded the ordh
continued to use
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED 1
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir
the Tea, and acknowledged the adva
so easily stored, whilst still retain!
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families wi
A trial is respectfully si
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLOR a
Wholesale
175, Pi
Sole Agents for the Australian Cc
O E AND A <
“FEEETHOUGE
A Monthly Illustrate
Devoted to Argumeu
WINTER NECESSITIES.
VASES
For the Dining Eoom,
For the Drawing Eoom,
For the Breakfast Eoom,
&c., &c.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
g
THE SYDNEY GAEDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured for the 1839 Season.)
IE E lEONS,
Nickel-plated,
And will not rust.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
FENDERS,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces,
Of the
Latest designs.
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIIIE AUSTRALIAN
(Now in its Fourth Volume),
PUBLISHED Ist OP EACH MONTH,
PEICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE OF THE DAT.
ILLUSTEATED WITH PHOTOTYPES.
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clippings, Reviews,
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertisements,
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS, TRAMWAY, AND
’BUSES.
Almanac, Phases of the Moon, New Lectionart, &c.
Send 12 Stamps for Specimen Copy, and then Subscribe, if approved.
THE THIED VOLUME JUST COMPLETED.
E. CYRIL HAVILAND, Publisher and Proprietor,
No. 1, LITTLE GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FIREWORKS! FIREWORKS!! FIREWORKS!!!
£JHINESE GUNS, Chinese Crackers, best Canton Fire Crackers, Rockets, Maroons, Mines,
Wheels, Roman Candles, Squibs, Devils, and a host of other kinds too numerous to particu-
larise, just opened, and now on view at 710 George-street.
PURCHASERS are invited to inspect our large and well-assorted stock of genuine ENGLISH
and best COLONIAL MADE FIREWORKS, of the first quality obtainable, which are being sold
at prices to defy competition.
MULHOLLAND AND COMPANY,
IMPORTERS,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RTH U R
CUB
157 (late 203) PITT STREET, SYDNEY
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OP KIN
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OP BIRTHS
aud MARRIAGES. ’ Ea TBs
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
20 were withdrawn for various reasons
21 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATE
most intricate cases have met with marked snceao
AGENCIES in Great Britain aud Ireland [re-
states, Continent of Europe, Australia ar/iV-M
Zealand. u «e*
B
OYD’S SAN
SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP
260 aud 202 GEORGE-STREET, AfiT .
(over Peate aud Haroourt’s),
Now open to the Public.
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured
Crayon Water Colours, aud Indian Ink
will be produced.
The highest order (onlvi .
1“* Bl^
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures mil
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited
«32
G
UNS,
R
IFLES,
3 revolvers
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED
C. COWLES,
Practical Qunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL )
RMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY~BALSAM
An elegant preparation for all affections of the p n i
mouary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRn\
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in thl
THROAT, aud ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S..’
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION)
Registered. *
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &e., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, aud the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you hy
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. 1.-—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia aud New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYAKD-LANE, SYDNEY.
1
SS<
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull D og
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous chaime*
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there*
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY Printed and Published by John Hayn® s
and J. F. Archirald, Sole Proprietors, at The
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-streot.
Metropolitan stakes consultation,
1880.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows ;
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse 200
Starters (divided among) .., 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usual
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES.
'iattersali’s Club, Sydney.
Licensed victualed bis 1
ASSOCIATION!
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSEEVATIONJ
OP THE)
INTEEESTSj
OP THB'i
LICENSED VICTUALLEES]
Throughout the Colony. “
Communications may be addressed to the
SECEETAEY or the PRESIDENT.]! “ 3U
