

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 40.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY OCTOBER 30, 1880.
Ways that are Dark.
It has been stated, with a flavour of authority,
that not only are the Government pushing on
preparations for the general election, but that
they are maturing plans for compressing the
proceedings into a much more limited period than
has heretofore been customary. Accepting both
statements as correct, it will be worth consider-
ing what such arrangements would point to. A
great deal depends upon one thing. Either the
members of the Government, and especially its
head, intend to play their present game of taci-
turnity, tempered by inconsequence, right through
to the end, or they contemplate a sensational and
simultaneous outburst, constituting a declaration
of policy. Either alternative is possible. The
country has been wonderfully patient, and
wonderfully indifferent thus far. Although about
to be called upon to elect a new Parliament, it
has submitted with languid docility to know
nothing of what that new Parliament will
be asked by Ministers to effect. It has uncom-
plainingly endured preliminary canvassing by
candidates who have, as a rule, attuned their
voices to the monotony of the hour, and
emulated the unmeaningness of recent Ministerial
deliverances. The electors have borne without
objection a drenching of the smallest beer, and
no appreciable demand has proceeded from them
for an infusion of spirit. It is therefore quite a
reasonable speculation that the Government may
be calculating upon this contented disposition
enduring to the end ; and may design to allow
the elections to proceed on a basis of humdrum.
Such a course would, if successfully carried
through, offer obvious advantages to a Ministry
of All the Talents. Candidates presenting them-
selves under such conditions, and members elected
during such a period of commonplace, would be
likely to prove convenient and docile instruments
for a Government which has evinced strong incli-
nations towards arbitrary rule. The hour and the
man are, proverbially, closely related. The day of
small-beer almost inevitably produces small-beer
chroniclers. Evidence of the fact has been, and
is still being, thrust under the very noses of the
constituencies. One seeks without avail, among
all the addresses and speeches which have already
been issued by candidates for election to the new
Parliament, for one utterance bearing the impress
of strong purpose or powerful thought. On
every hand the country is afflicted with a plague
of platitude. Beyond all doubt such a situation
is extremely comfortable for the men in posses-
sion of seats and of office. There is no troubling
of the waters ; no reason for displacing the old
in favour of the new; no particular reason for
anything at all. Old members must feel as safe
as it would be possible to feel with a general
election to face ; and new seats invite the aspira-
tions of mediocrity and money-bags. Three
years’ further tenure of office on such terms
presents some inducements. Legislation could
continue to proceed by easy stages. Questions
likely to occasion differences of opinion or to
create cries could be neglected altogether, or
merely trifled with and dropped at a convenient
moment. The continued prosperity of the
Ministry would be ensured, while the prosperity
of the colony—well, that can never appear to
Ministers endangered so long as they preside over
its affairs, on any terms. But, to take the other
alternative, it may be that the Government is
merely silent now in order that when it does
declare its intentions it may make the deeper
impression. The Premier may be big with bottled
thunder and ripe for fresh fulminations on the
Education question, and Sir John Robertson
charged with electricity with respect to the land
policy of the Ministry. The formal dissolution
of the present moribund Assembly may be the
signal waited for, when Ministers will blaze out
in a corruscation of disclosures and declarations.
This would be another way of attaining the same
end. The country would be stunned by an ex-
plosion of brave words; sectarian animosities
would be refanned into red heat; the constitu-
encies would be stupified by complicated
proposals for readjusting the land question;
Even Mr. Watson, emerging from his de-
pressed retirement, might essay to dazzle
with a new effort in financial juggling.
And while yet the constituencies were seething
in the artificial excitement thus created, and
making shots at the meaning of it all, the elections
would be hurried through on the new plan, and
the electors precipitated into making their choice
before they could rightly comprehend what they
had on hand. The result by this plan, so far as
the constitution of the new Parliament is con-
cerned, would be about the same as by the other.
It would be carried by surprise, and men would
be chosen according as they accepted or rejected
a political shibboleth of which neither they
themselves nor those who chose them clearly
comprehended the drift. The advantage would
still remain with the Government. Could con-
stitutencies thus be carried by storm, the victors
would be able to place their own interpretation
upon the terms to be afterwards observed.
Either plan would be the sheerist mockery of
representative institutions. By permitting the
elections to proceed in the absence of any difinite
pledges with regard to future legislation, the
Government would disgracefully abnegate their
legitimate functions and subordinate duty to
convenience. By rushing the elections through
by a trick of surprise, without affording ample
opportunity for deliberation on, and investigation
of, any proposals which might be flung at the
heads of the electors, a serious dishonesty would
be perpetrated. The constituencies would be
saddled with the responsibility of having
endorsed or rejected projects and principals which
they had not been afforded reasonable
opportunity for considering and weighing.
They would be held to have given their voices
in favor of a whole tangle of conceptions when
they had never a chance of distinguishing and
separating one item from another. They would
in fact be trepanned into endorsing the
Ministerial bills without really knowing the
extent of the responsibilities they thus undertook
—a trick as dcscreditable in public as in private
affairs.
The Coming Elections.
As it now appears to be an accepted fact that we
are on the eve of a general election, it behoves
electors to begin the portentous operation known
as “making up their minds” as to the course
they desire to see legislation take during the next
session of Parliament, and to weigh carefully the
merits of the various candidates for their suffrages
with regard to the desired issues. It is a sad
but indisputable fact that, as a rule, the colonists
of New South Wales are too much given to allow-
ing local matters to override considerations for
the public good —too much given to scrambling
for the contents of the public purse; and it is
to this cause that is to be ascribed the decadence
in the stamp of those into whose hands the
privilege of controlling it was surrendered at the
last election. Eor there can be no question that,
in spite of the absurd heroics and emaciated
humour of the remarkable genius who writes the
“leaders” in the Daily Telegraph, Mr. David
Buchanan was perfectly justified in making
unfavourable comments on the collective ability
of our present Legislative Assembly. The writer
has listened to the debates in six or seven different
colonies, and has no hesitation in placing the
Legislative Assembly of New South Whies at the
bottom of the list, both with regard to construc-
tive and oratorical capabilities. So long as electors
choose to return those who arj most profuse in
their promises of assaulting the public funds for
local expenditure, no other result can ensue than
an assembly of second-rate, unprincipled, needy
office-seekers. For it is manifest that those of
high principle, and ability to see what the colony
as a whole really requires, will altogether refuse
to make promises which they conscientiously con-
sider detrimental to the great good of all. Of
course it will be understood that high principle
and ability do not in the least signify high position
and wealth, or even education ; for, on the con-
trary, the two former probably militate against
the exercise of that sound, penetrating common-
sense that is needed, —while what is popularly,
but fallaciously, called “ education ” is but a very
weak stimulant to native talent. The men that
are wanted are those of strict integrity, natural
capacity, well read in modern literature, and with
broad views of human progress —not confined to
their own friends, or parish, or county, or even
colony. It is altogether a mistake to suppose
that this stamp of men are not to be had. They
are; but they want hunting up, for they are
usually modest men, not given to trumpeting
their own virtues. But so long as electors allow
themselves to be befooled by every windbag who
poses himself with all the self-satisfied dignity of
a half-drunk Christy Minstrel, and winds off
astounding and boundless strings of meaningless
balderdash, thinking himself the while a second
Cicero —so long will these desirable men be kept
in the background, and so long will the House
be mainly composed of blatant, self-asserting,
empty-headed money-grubbers. Electors should
never wait for someone to solicit their suffrages,
They should put their heads together, by
forming committees, and try and arrive at
some conclusion as to who is most likely to
benefit both themselves and the colony at
large, and reflect credit on their judgment;
and then, having settled this point, they should
take active measures to ensure his election. But
it cannot 100 strongly be enforced that local
considerations should give way to those for the
general good. The good of each, and the good of
all, is the only principle on which prosperity can
be securely based; and there is no error greater
that that of supposing that local aggrandisement,
at the expense of other portions of the social
organism, can ever be attended with permanent
stability.
Another Cry from Victoria.
Evert utterance of the Melbourne protectionist
organ on the wool trade of the two colonies in-
dicates that Victoria is beginning to feel the lash.
The Age, in a recent issue, in speaking of the way
in which their wool trade is hampered by the
border duties and the stock tax, says —“ it is to be
hoped that the restrictions which prevent free
intercourse may soon be removed. Already the
Commissioner for Customs has shown his desire to
foster amicable relations by introducing a bill to
remove the wharfage rate of 3s. per ton on
produce imported into this colony overland or by
river.” Was there ever such a hollow, piteous
cry as this ? Fancy Victoria “ fostering amicable
relations.” Selfishness is the very soul of Pro-
tection, and there’s no doubt that if the Victorians
were in our place, and we in theirs, we d find
ourselves “squelched” with a coal and wool tax.
But we are not “ squelching ” Victoria. She asks
for rope, and we merely give it her. By-and-bye
we’ll see the gaunt figure of Protection hung up
all over Victoria. Nowhere will it be found so
prominent as along the border line of the two
colonies.
Our Civic Affairs.
The letter of Mr. M‘Elhone in the daily press,
following so closely on the revelations respecting
the laxity of the Council’s officials, as exemplified
in the defective masonry of the basement of the
Town Hall, and considered in.the light of further
exposes which are promised, touching the alder-
manic finances, is surely deserving of some little
attention at the hands of those most compromised
by the state of things thus disclosed. The
citizens never have been fully satisfied with the
condition of affairs regnant at the Town Hall.
From the date of the exposure of the famous
£lO,OOO business, through the details of the
interminable maze into which the city accounts
had entered, and up even to the present time,
people have been more and more impressed with
the necessity for a radical reform. Many ex-
planations have been given and accepted as
reasons for the evils so widely complained of, and
among these perhaps the one most frequently
quoted and most generally received as correct is
that summed up in the term—now so familiar in
this particular conjuncture—'“ cliquism.” It is
currently believed, rightly or wrongly, that the
prevalence of this spirit has much to do with the
fact that so many irregularities in the working of
our civic affairs have for so long a time remained
in camera. Some go so far, indeed, as to say this
speculation actually lies at the bottom of the
occurrence —that the irregularities referred to were
caused originally, and afterwards nursed secretly
THE HON. ROBERT WISDOM, ATTOENEY GENERAL.


during the period of their development, by the
parties now charged with what is technically
known as “concomitance.” Without going this
far, we may safely say that the condition of
affairs forming the subject of complaint is to a
certain extent identified in many minds with
certain names, and that the Council itself has
come to develop within itself two classes ot
members—one to a certain extent conservative,
which seems at least tacitly to uphold the old
state of things, and another which appears to be
desirous of infusing a new life, with a system of
rigid inspection over all its operations, into the
body of which it forms a part. This is as it
should be. While a healthy competition exists
between the two parties particularised, people
generally may rely on their interests being looked
after in a way calculated to prevent the further
growth of abuses of the nature of those now
attracting, and as we are told, about to attract,
attention. While the younger party enlivens the
proceedings with the infusion of its peculiar pro-
gramme, the solemn prudence of the old members
will afford a suitable ballast for the enthusiasm
of their more modern brethren. At the same
time, in view of the number of aldermanic can-
didates for seats in the new House, the citizens
may safely exercise their right of discrimination
between the individual members of these two
parties, remembering the effects of their diverse
action and the different characteristics whence
these effects proceed.
State Religious Education.
The Herald is commonly regarded as opposed
to the establishment of a State religion. It may
object to the name, but, in common with the
great mass of Nonconformists in this colony, it
appears to approve of the thing. In a brief article
on Monday last, it expresses its satisfaction at
the prospect of a coalition between the Church
of England and the Roman Catholics in Victoria,
with the view of demanding a system of religious
teaching in the State schools satisfactory to both
these influential sects. The Herald points to
the educational system of this colony as affording
the model for imitation, since “it practically
meets the wants and wishes of a large majority
of the population.” We do not think the Vic-
torians are likely to surrender their existing
secular scheme for one of a religious character,
but were they to do so it would not be the less
unjust, btalc religions are only possible —(ex-
cepting when, as was until lately the case in
Ireland, they are maintained by a foreign domi-
nant power)—where they “meet the wants and
wishes of a large majority of the population.”
When a majority is opposed to a State-supported
religion in a free community, it is speedily dis-
established. The evil continues just as long as
the majority exists, unless it be converted to
principles of justice. The Herald appears to
forget that a .State religion is none the less an
injustice because the State churches are termed
schools, and the State hierarchy schoolmasters.
All who disbelieve in the religion taught, and arc
yet compelled to c mtribute to the cost of its dis-
semination, are undergoing persecution quite as
galling as that against which the Dissenters
of England have so long protested. Thus
has it ever been, however, in the dreary page
of history 1 , persecuted sects, arrived at their
epoch of power; become persecutors, while all the
time continuing vehemently to protest against
persecution. The Chairman of the Congregational
Union, the Rev. S. Savage, manifested this in-
consistency most glaringly in the address delivered
by him last week. At one and the same moment
he figured as the reprover of a certain church for
“clinging so tenaciously to the public purse,”
while on behalf of his own community he
expressed his entire assent to the State supported
religious education, which is necessarily most
obnoxious to Jews, Uuitariana, Freethinkers &c.
And so oblivious is this worthy gentleman of his
own mental condition, that he can upbraid others,
and inform them that “ it indicates a lack of that
manly independence which should characterise
Christian men for them to be ever clinging
with a death-like grip to the coffers of
the State, begging help from the public
funds to enable them to sustain their religious
institutions.” The schools of this colony are, in
their present condition, religious institutions,
sustained by the coffers of the State, and yet,
bedfuse Mr. Savage approves of the dogmas
therein taught, he can absolutely deem he is
speaking the truth when he declares “ we are in
a position to congratulate ourselves now that the
State-aid to religion in every shape, of which I
and others like me disapprove, is at an end in the
colony ; ” and that is an affirmation which all
past advocates of State Religion could have
promulgated with equal propriety.
The Hon. Robert Wisdom, Attorney-
General.
Few public men nowadays make their way to the high
political distinction without noise. They ordinarily live
in an atmosphere of excitement; the music dearest to
their souls is the approving cheers of enthusiastic
admirers or dupes; and their supreme ecstasy arises
from the defeat of their foes—the more ignominious
that it is, the more delectable it will be. To them the
brutum fulmen of the old satirist is not the phrase of a
“ wild democracy,” but a tangible weapon of attack.
The grand serenity that pervaded the respective careers
of a Peel, a Cobden, and (to some extent) of a Thiers,
never “ gilds their days,” or indicates their strength in
tranquility. They rely more on the sensation they create
than on the principles they avow, and prefer to deal in
platitudes rather than justify the logic of their conclu-
sions. A “swell”once said in a witness-hox,on his respecta-
bility being doubted —including the trifling consideration
of how he managed to make an honest living—that he
was rich indeed, because he was
“ The heir of all the ages
In the foremost files of time!”
The grandeur of his inheritance did not, however, save
him from bankruptcy; and he was sent to a debtors’
prison to study social ethics. His claptrap, though more
apparent, is not a whit more ridiculous than that of
nine-tenths of those who sacrifice themselves for the
good of their country and—their own vulgar aggrandize-
ment. We are not referring to the lowest class of
political bravos, or to the champion blower of that class.
Professional stumpists and grievance-mongers, vapourers
and braggadocios, Oily Gammons and Jeremy Sneaks,
are entirely left out of consideration. That gruesome
genus oiiine deserves to be noticed only to he spumed.
Taking a wider view, and looking over the whole body of
those "who have been engaged in the responsibilities of
legislation and government for the last twenty years, we
cannot remember a round half-dozen who did not depend
for their i>olitio.i.l vitality on the furore they excited
when occasion offered—who did not rush on the Par-
liamentary arena for its loot and its excitement. The
late Sir Charles Cowper attempted in the days of bis
supremacy to lacquer the vulgarity of his “ following ”
with a gloss of good manners, and tried to make them
cultivate, if not amenities, at least the decencies of
public life; but he was personally too fastidious to
become a good teacher of decorum ; and he took good
care never to receive as his guests at Wy venhoe the main
body of his supporters, or to meet them in the gilded
and draped salons of the Campbells. Sir Henry Parkes
can very emphatically vouch for, or testify to, the
truth of this statement. To give a direct application to
this preamble, we at once assert that no public man in
New South Wales—not even Mr. Lackey—ever reached
Ministerial prominence more quietly, or with less fuss,
than the present Attorney-General. It is his dis-
tinguishing privilege to claim that he has kept the
“even tenor of his way” for more than twenty years
without clamour or violence. He has never attempted
to dazzle in order to daze ; to excite popular passions
that he might ride buoyantly over the disturbed tide;
to act either “ childlike and bland ” for the purpose of
cheating, or play the bully to intimidate. The worth—
the flavour—contained in this complaint is, that the
simple truth it expresses is not our opinion only but
that of three or four Parliaments, and a largh majority
of the community. The equable temperament and
well-governed temper of such a man should be a study
to young legislators. If they aspire to his honors, they
should imitate his example, and grow to greatness
without causing enmities and heartburnings. The
biographical outline that follows conveys an obvious
moral—one that needs no critical interpreter to expound
it. Robert Wisdom, now Attorney-General of New
South Wales, was bom at Blackburn, in Lancashire,
England, on the last day of January, 1830. Like others
whose intellectual and social triumphs we have recorded
in these columns, Mr. Wisdom was removed from his
smoke - wreathed, industrious native town before he
could do much more than dimly ken its dusky outlines.
His parents emigrated in 1834, and settled in the Hunter
district. At Maitland, their son Robert acquired the
rudiments of his education, and at a suitable age was
sent to Sydney College, where, under the ever-vigilant
eye of that Orbilius of Australia, the late Timothy
Cape, and other masters, he made satisfactory progress.
On leaving school, his first intentions seem to have been
directed towards literature, and before he was out of
his teens he had composed a considerable quantity of
verse—poor stuff, probably, if founded on the model of
“Murmurs of the Stream.” But although he had the
impulse to write, he had not the vanity to publish, a
circumstance that must give Shim great satisfaction
now. If his eye never rolled in a “ fine phrenzy,” his
mind put forth its best powers in the acquisition of
varied knowledge, including political history. In 1858
he received the appointment of Gold Commissioner, but
resigned it a few months later in practical response to
the requisition of numbers of the electors in the
Western goldfields, then (under the new Act) formed
into a constituency. For two successive Parliaments he
served the miners west, and then did similar service for
the “ independents ”of the Lower Hinder. He secured
the confidence of the Northern goldfields for a term.
Having accepted the Crown Prosecutorship he retired
'for awhile from the Assembly, but re-entered it again as
the representative of Morpeth in 1874. The confidence
of the House in his ability, impartiality, and urbanity
is evidenced by the fact that he was elected Chairman
of Committees four times, and only lost the Speakership
of the now moribund Parliament by a single vote,
although pitted against a member so influential and
potentially hospitable as Sir George Wigram Allen. The
present position of the Hon. Robert Wisdom cannot be
looked upon as the nature of a reward for political
services or forensic success. Called to the bar in 1861,
he pursued his legal career with zeal, tempered by
industry and patience, and never lost a step in the ascent
to the height of his ambition, unless he aspires to a seat
on the Bench of the Supreme Court as fourth per-
manent judge. As a Parliamentary debater his
style is more argumentative than rhetorically ornate;
but his reasoning is always sound, and is never
strained after the manner of partisan orators. He is
not a brilliant man, and some think him slow;
but none deny his strength, tact, and acumen.
When he puts forth his best powers, he always elicits
admiration. A better forensic display has been rarely
made in the country than when he prosecuted the
Wantabadgery bushrangers, Scott and Rogan. The
Crown had requested Mr. R. B. Smith to take up the
defence of the prisoners; and that gentleman threw all
his energy and ability into the case. He certainly
made the prosecution troublesome to the Crown, and
worked up the only possible defence thqj; could be
submitted to a Court with consummate skill. Mr.
Wisdom rose to the requirements of the occasion, and
delivered (after a tedious attention of several days to
the case) a speech very rarely excelled. He massed his
facts, drew his inferences, disposed of objections, and
dwelt on the evils of lawlessness in so able a manner as
to be complimented by many who heard him. With
such a man —so firm, so experienced, and so reliable —
at the head of the legal profession, we need not fear its
deterioration. Our portrait is from an excellent
photograph.
Trickett and Hanlan.
The following letter appeared in the London
Referee ;— Sir, — Now that Trickett has arrived in your
midst to awaken you from the apathy which aquatic
affairs seem to have fallen into in old England, a few
words regarding our little man (Hanlan) may be of in-
terest to your readers. First, I would like to say a few
words regarding Hanlan’s defeat at Providence. I have
read all your remarks regarding it, and I am sure you
wrote it all in good faith, believing your authority to be
reliable. Yet, when I give you what I know to be the
real cause of his breakdown you will, I am sure, be will-
ing to do our plucky representative justice. Hanlan, in
the latter end of August, 1879, put himself into strict
training to meet C. E. Courtney, and row him five miles
on Chautauqua Lake. You know the result of that;
but Hanlan, lest Courtney should propose to row him
somewhere south, kept himself in training (that winter
being exceptionally mild) until pretty well on in Janu-
ary, when he rested to about the Ist March, and then
went into strict training again. When he left here for
Washington he was within 21b of his rowing weight,
but, owing to the change from our bracing northern
climate to the excessively warm weather which seemed
to have struck Washington about that time, he lost in
flesh considerably, and rowed both races (with Courtney
and Riley) 31b below his rowing weight. I might here
mention that while walking round Washington one
evening he slipped off the edge of the kerbstone and
gave his side a severe wrench. He got a plaster put on
it, which he wore until a short time previous to the race
at Providence. I do not blame this for what occurred in
the race at Providence. When I arrived at the course
that morning and saw Hanlan, I said to his most inti-
mate friend, “ I never saw Ed. loot worse in my life.”
He said, “ Neither did I; but I think he can win.” He
had that shrivelled, dried-up appearance, the result of
overtraining. To that alone, and nothing else, do I at-
tribute his defeat. I have seen him every day for the
past month at his hotel on the island —a splendid build-
ing—and I can tell you he is piling on the flesh per-
ceptibly every day. Ho looks the picture of health, and
talks confidently (but he never brags) of his match with
Trickett; and, I can assure you, not only the confidence
of Canada and America, but their money also, will be
with him on the day of the great race.—Yours, &c.,
W. T. Finlay.
44, Church-street, Toronto, August 20.
*’Pendragon,” of the London Referee, has
greatly exposed his ignorance of aquatic matters,
but has already been compelled to hide his diminished
head. From the first he predicted an easy defeat for
Laycock. He said in a recent issue : “ I think it will be
pretty safely discovered beforehand what Laycock’s
place is to be in the race with Tom Blackman. If Black-
man should resume his old shape, he will repay his
backers some of the money they were so anxious to
squander over him three or four years back, that is,
provided there is anything like the amount of coin in
London that is talked about for the purpose of backing
the Australians. This I very much doubt. On the pre-
sence of Australian gold the whole tissue of probabilities
depends. Should the Colonists send over the heavy
purses so much talked about for the purpose of backing
Trickett, then we may rest assured Hanlan will return
to Canada “ champion of the world” as well as cham-
pion of England. Perhaps the real state i of things is
best shown in a suicidal slip in a contemporary, which
describes both the ‘ champion of the world' and his
colleague as Harry Kelley’s ‘ pupils.’ There is no
phrase in the English language better fitted to describe
Trickett and Laycock than that of Harry Kelley’s
‘pupils.’ * * * * Unless Hanlan slips off the kerb
again, or falls out of his boat during the progress of the
race, it is difficult to understand how the champion of
England can manage to row second to the ‘ champion
of the world.’ * * * * Now and again one hears a
word about the Australians’ prospects; but these, un-
less the affair is all a grim joke, are so small that a word
at once disposes of them, and the thing is done with.
The race between Canon and Thomas attracts most at-
tention just now. It may seem strange that Canon and
Thomas should usurp pride of place in the minds o
Tong-shore folk, while such wonders as Trickett and
haycock are preparing for their respective struggles.
The reason is not so far to seek if you only keep your
perceptive faculties in readiness. I am betraying no
confidence when I say that if Trickett and Laycock were
going to throw in their lot with Thomas and Canon,
there are men to be found who would take odds—and
not such very long odds either —that ‘ the champion of
the world ’ did not turn out the winner. Where Lay-
cock would finish in this company Providence only
knows.” We wonder how Pendragon apologised to the
Tong-shore folk of England for the shameful defeat of
Blackman that has since taken place. Doubtless he
found some excuse. It is very clear this celebrated
aquatic judge is in for more surprises unless he concedes
at once that not a man is to be found in all England to
stand to our second best oarsman. The fact is he is
either gulling the English people, or himself and his
paper are being gulled. It is more likely the latter. It
is quite possible that the deterioration in the old Eng-
lish stock is not confined to cricket and aquatics, but
extends likewise to the Press.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Bermagui a failure.
More Temora nuggets.
Grand banquet to the Duke on Friday.
Sunday steamers to the fortifications now.
The Glebe heads the list in the death-rate.
Increased supporters for the Kenny Hill water
scheme.
The affair of the season.—The Bowling Club
banquet.
Victoria invested .£70,000 in Queensland sugar
last year.
Divorce is on the increase in England. 613 cases
last year.
More jewellery has been seized at Melbourne
post office.
The Duke of Manchester pays another visit to
Newcastle.
The Victorian Farmers’ Union has decided
against Protection.
A soft goods firm in Melbourne in difficulties.
Liabilities, £lOO,OOO.
Compulsory provisions of the Public Schools Act
about to be enforced.
Splendid farewell banquet to Dr. Knaggs at
Newcastle on the 20tb.
Twenty-six pence for washed wool. Good for
Harrison, Jones and Devlin.
The Melbourne Masonic Ball, last Wednesday
night, was a brilliant success.
Soon there will be a continuous series of plat-
forms from Sydney to Parramatta.
There is a general demand for tickets for the
second trip of “ The Emigrants.”
Evidence in the Dibbs divorce case is being
taken on commission in Melbourne.
Night schools, judging by the past, will be the
“ dead letter ” of the Education Act.
Twenty-three officers dismissed from an Asso-
ciated Melbourne Bank. No business again.
It is now proposed to abolish the fees for tuition
in extra subjects in the Victorian State Schools.
John de Silva, once a leading merchant of Mel-
bourne, has been prosecuted for a jewellery fraud.
The case evolved from the Rockhampton Hos-
pital fracas is postponed until the January sittings.
“ Homes for lost dogs,” and “ Homes for aged
animals," are being established in Europe and America.
Mr. W. J. Harris, mesmerist, deals trenchantly
in Feeethought with Milner Stephen and his miracles.
The Crocodile diggings are reported to be turn-
ing out 30oz. to the ton. Don't believe it. Pyrites, not
gold.
The Tichborne claimant is now employed with
other convicts stacking timber in Portsmouth Dock-
yard.
Several Victorian journals say Milner Stephen
has apparently effected, some remarkable cures at Mel-
bourne.
About one thousand head of cattle has been lost
on the Richmond River this year—bogged while getting
drink.
It was not Mr. H. Came, of the Lands Depart-
ment, but his cousin, who met with the fatal accident
recently.
Grandmamma says, “ There was a fine collec-
tion of organs at the production of ‘ The Emigrants,’
last week.”
A technological conference, Sir Henry Parkes
presiding, is to be held at the School of Arts on the
28th October.
Ten tons of imitation gold ingots represent the
gold obtained from the Pleasant Greet Cross Company’s
mine, Stawell.
Mr. Stephen, Under-Secretary for Lands, is
removed to another part of the service. Mr. Croft has
been disrated.
Carthona v. Alexandria: Former winners by 55
runs. Good bowling was exhibited by Paus, Wahlberg,
and Prescott.
Mr. District Court Judge Meymott has been
caped upon to show cause why he should not be removed
from his present position.
A £lO poll-tax on the Chinese, intended for
operation in the Northern Territory, has been passed
by the Adelaide Assembly.
Miss Emma Fisher deserves great praise for the
effectiveness of her accompaniment at the first perform-
ance of ‘‘The Emigrants.”
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton means to make the
Young contest a big affair. He levels some serious
shafts against the Government.
The League for the Encouragement of Colonial
Industries has decided to stir up Sydney, keeping up
the agitation till after the elections.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club is an accom-
plished fact. Good officers, secretary, &c. First car-
nival at Foley’s Baths on 27th instant.
Mr. Kingston’s 2nd vol. of the “ Australian
Abroad; or Branches from the Mail Routes,"
reached Australia by the Orient last week.
The Millie, a new ferry boat built for the North
Shore Company, ran her trial trip on Tuesday, doing the
mile in 61 minutes. She is much required.
There are 2623 different dialects and languages
spoken in the world, of which 587 belong to Europe, 396
to Asia, 376 to Africa, and 1264 to America.
In the Hurdsfield “salting” case, tried at
Ballarat last week, the jury could not agree, and were
discharged. The accused will again be tried.
The Jolly Dog Club is all but defunct. Most
of the leading spirits have gone to Melbourne. A few
remain to keep the affair alive till their return.
The London Home Hospitals Association for
paying patients has opened its first establishment.
Every patient will be attended by his own doctor.
A Chinaman who fell off a train at Oamaru
(N.Z.) bounded up like a ball, and called out to the
guard in pigeon English to stop. The guard was deaf.
It is a noteworthy fact, as indicating a change
in the spirit of the times, that the Irish land agitation
is more vigorously supported by the English than the
Irish press.
Twenty-three companies at Sandhurst called up
last week £5190, the heaviest call circular issued for
years. The current gold returns were 31000 z., with a
dividend of £5225.
On the 21st, the wife of the Rev. Mr. Howden
of Burwood, fell between the platform at Newtown and
a railway carriage while it was in motion. Narrow
escape from death.
A leading English economist says the money
value to a country of every emigrant is £l5O. The
European stream flowing to America is estimated at
£30,000,000 annually.
The Amos Brothers are vigorously carrying on
the Tamworth-Uralla Railway extension. The cost of
the line will be greater than the estimate, and near
upon a million sterling.
The tin mines are turning out splendidly. The
Ruby Hill mine, near Ashford, promises great things.
It is suggested that a public company be formed to
work it on a large scale.
The Rev. Peter Campbell informs us that it
was not he who inquired in our last issue for the
whereabouts of Westwood. This correction is made in
fairness to Mr. Campbell.
Mr. Edward Oram, Superintendent-General of
Volunteer Fire Companies, was promptly on the scene
of the recent Oxford-street fire, and got good work out
of both engines and firemen.
A fine piece of printing has just been executed
at John Woods and Go’s offices, Bridge-street, in the
shape of an address printed in colours on satin.
It is very well done indeed.
There were five persons admitted into the Infir-
mary on Monday. Four accidents and one prolonged
glucose. All the patients were Hastiely, though skil-
fully treated by the house-surgeon.
Imitating the Kellys, three boys, ages from 12
to 14, left their homes recently at Wellington (N.Z.),
taking with them a horse, arms, and ammunition.
Nothing has been heard of them since.
Not a bad sort of a landlord. The American
papers give an instance of one Irish landlord, drawing
£190,000 per annum, who is 92 years old, and has
never set his foot on Irish soil—not once.
George Darrell opens at the People’s, Melbourne,
on the Derby night, 30th Oct., in his new local drama,
“ The Trump Card,” for the successful production of
which great preparations have been made.
Manson, of the Waltham Watch Company, sold
his exhibit of watches at the Melbourne Exhibition,
valued at £15,000, to Messrs. Rosenthal, Aronson, & Co.,
P. Falk & Co., and Leopold Saunders, jointly.
It is estimated that in a single decade 500,000
persons engaged in industrial pursuits in Great Britain
sustain personal injury or are killed; in mines,
300,000; on railways, 70,000; and in factories, 180,000.
The Week comments on Boucicault and Beer.
“Old Types" wishes to know why the deuce those
newspaper men won’t leave him alone now he has be-
come a respectable member of society by quitting the
fourth estate.
The S. M. Herald’s reporter eriticised a two-
hours’ performance of an original colonial musical work
in three inches space. A Sankey and Moody “ Service
of Song” or a “tea-fight” would probably have received
half a column.
One of the Rockhampton butchers has evidently
a down on the medical profession. He has succeeded
in getting one hospital surgeon dismissed, and is now
wiring into the new man. They nearly had a free fight
in the street recently.
Dynamite and lithof racteur have been exploded
in the water at places where the bodies of Mr. Lament
Young and his companions might be expected to be
lying. No result whatever. Same report from the
search parties on shore.
A telegram states that Miss Ada Williamson, a
young lady residing at Belmont, Lake Macquarie, was
found dead on Saturday, kneeling alongside the bed on
which her late father had recently died. She had been
ailing for some time past.
The Rev. Peter Campbell has issued a writ
against the Sydney Punch, claiming £2OO damages for
an article and a cartoon which recently appeared in that
paper. We would like to tell Peter that a change is
coming over jurymen just now.
During the September quarter 60,468 tons of
stone were crushed at Ballarat for a yield of 28,2360 z.,
the average being 9dwt. 13’96grs. per ton. The alluvial
gold raised during the same period was 13,8890 z. The
dividends amounted to £60,907.
A note for commercial travellers and sportsmen.
Mr. P. Stanton, well known in Sydney, has taken Tat-
tersall’s Hotel, Terrara, Shoalhaven. First-class ac-
commodation, good centre for business, and capital
neighbourhood for sport with the gun.
Well done the Naval Brigade Band ! Fulton,
who got up the bands’ contest and lost by it is to be ten-
dered a benefit at the School of Arts next Wednesday
night. The Naval and the Cumberland bands will
perform. There ought to be a bumper house.
The daily allowance of oats to the horses of the
Victorian police is to be reduced 50 per cent. There are
some people of opinion that it would be better to reduce
the forage allowance of the prisoners in Pentridge than
put poor Bucephalus and Eosinante on short commons.
How comes it that while we are all endeavouring
to bring on the wool trade to Sydney, a bilious reporter
on the Heeald can upset the whole work, and send forth
to the world in the commercial column most damaging
statements. Commercial men all oyer the city are
disgusted.
Messrs. Mort and Co. held their second sale
for the season on Wednesday. Competition was very
brisk, and the values realized were almost, if not quite,
equal to latest London value. Fleece realized up to
211 d, and greasy up to 13 id, for the well-known BUN
wool, a number of clips in grease having brought from
12d to 13d.
At the Departmental Picnic the Telegraph
carried nearly all before them, winning eleven out of
thirteen prizes. Harry Williams, Mick Howard, and
Tom Ferris were the principal winners for the Tele-
graph : while Pat Simpson won the quarter for the
Money Order Office.
The Melbourne Licensed Victuallers are strongly
insisting upon the prosecution of a number of the
Wolverine’s crew, who recently wrecked a public house.
The commodore sat on the solicitors; hence the
existing bitterness. They would have the men-of-war
at the Melbourne International!
At the annual festival held in connection with
St. James’ Schools, on the 23rd, the school drum and
fife band made its first appearance, and played several
nice selections during the day, under the able conduo-
torship of their bandmaster, Mr. B. Kearns. The
uniform of the band is very attractive.
Corrie M. Williams, arrested in Sydney for
forging a bill in the name of Mr. William Gumming,
has been tried at Geelong. He pleaded guilty, and was
sentenced to six months’ imprisonment. He said that
when arrested he was on his way to Queensland to get
the money to repay the promissory note.
The Victorian Minister of Railways has intro-
duced a bill for the construction of 472 miles of addi-
tional lines. This is distributed over seventeen country
and seven suburban and special lines. An extension from
Hawthorne to Lilydale is included. The latter price,
situated in the midst of beautiful ranges, will, on the
completion of the line, become the Mount Victoria of
Melbourne.
Last Wednesday a concert was to have been
held at St. Leonards, in aid of the North Shore Rowing
Club, but in consequence of the wet weather there were
only about fifty persons present, though 300 tickets
were sold. The concert is now to take place next
Wednesday, when a programme such as is rarely heard
at a suburban concert will be given by the leading
amateur vocalists of Sydney.
The Meat Preserving Company of Lang and
Travers (Rockhampton), is likely to fall through. Three
of the largest shareholders left the meeting in a huff,
withdrawing their names from the shareholders’ list.
Two of these gentlemen intend starting on their own
hook, having bought the Lakes Creek works, and it is
to their interest to keep opposition companies out of
the field who say Rockhampton has no business men.
How is that, umpire.
A Grafton correspondent telegraphs that Michael
Rush has offered £5O for a grand champion race proposed
to be pulled at Grafton early next year, after the return
of Laycock and Trickett from England, on condition
that the first prize will be £2OO, the second £5l), and the


third £25, the fourth man to save his entrance-fee. He
suggests that a Sydney man should act as referee, and
if moreithan five men enter, the race should be pu lied
in heats.
The discussion of the question as to whether the
Melbourne Exhibition should be opened at night,resolved
itself into a struggle between the Victorian manufac-
turers and the British and foreign exhibitors. The latter
prevailed, the voting being 43 to 29. The colonials,
headed by Vale, Munro, Miriams, and others, are very
wroth, and have given notice of a special meeting for
the 28th instant, to consider whether the decision arrived
at shall not be altered.
.£150,000 in question! A commission has been
issued from the Supreme Court of Victoria, in equity,
to take evidence in Sydney, in the case Stanbridge and
another v. Jenkins and others, a trial as to the purchase
of certain stations in the Murrumbidgee district.
Evidence is now being taken in Sydney. Mr. Gordon,
instructed by P. J. Hourigan, as agent for Mr. Duffett,
of Melbourne, appears for the plaintiffs; and Mr. Knox,
instructed by Mr. Attenborough, of Melbourne, for the
defendants.
As the mind makes the body it inhabits, using
for that purpose the materials it collects from the outer
world, so its influence over the tenements it constructs
is potent in the extreme. Every emotion it experiences
exerts a direct influence upon some one or more of its
corporeal organs. Fear injuriously affects the heart
and the skin; anger, the liver; sorrow and anxiety, the
digestive organs and the alimentary canal; and passion,
the blood-vessels; extreme depression will induce
dysentery and scurvy; and Bichat, the great French
anatomist, maintains that cancer of the stomach fre-
quently owes its origin to powerful emotions.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher some time since
received a letter from a young man who recommended
himself very highly as being honest, and closed with
the request, “Get me an easy situation, that honesty
may be rewarded.” To which Mr. Beecher replied,
“Don’t be an editor if you would be easy. Do not try
the law. Avoid school keeping. Keep out of the
pulpit. Let alone all ships, stores, shops, and mer-
chandise. Abhor politics. Keep away from lawyers.
Don’t practise medicine. Be not a farmer nor a
mechanic—neither a soldier nor a sailor. Don’t study.
Don’t think. Don’t work. None of them are easy.
Oh, my honest friend, you are in a very hard world! I
knew of but one real easy place in it —that is the
grave!”
The Bands’ Contest resulted as follows ;
Naval Brigade, first prize ; Head-quarters’ Band, second
prize; Parramatta Band, third prize. The final per-
formance at the Royal last Saturday afternoon was
quite a treat, the selections being excellent and the
execution above the average. Fulton, who got the
contest up, was very unfortunate, losing heavily by the
affair, but conducting it to the last in an honest straight-
forward way. The prizes were of good solid value.
The judges were Signor Giorza, Mr. Packer and Mr.
M’Lean, three very competent gentleman. Their award
did not give satisfaction to a boisterous gathering of
juveniles in the upper circles of the theatre, the
leader of the Head-quarters’ Band would not accept
second prize, which is to be regretted. It is a good
thing to see the baud so tenacious of its honours; but
once entering a contest it shouldn’t bolt from the
award. The Bulletin— how the magic word fetches
down the house in these paiis whenever it is mentioned!
—can’t help finally giving Ae or two kind hints to the
performers. Here they are. Don’t think band contests
are likely to become popular; but do think practice
makes perfect.
Some splendid dresses for several Sydney ladies
attending the Melbourne carnival were made at the
establishment of Messrs. Peapes and Shaw, in George-
street. They will undoubtedly compare favorably with
any in the colonies or imported from Europe. One,
to the order of a lady living at Ryde, was of fawn color,
silk and brocade mixed, handsomely trimmed with
fringe, mode “ala Princess,” with a long court train.
Another, for a lady in Hunter-street, was an effective
combination of cream-colored silk and a very rich shade
of old gold, with trimmings of real Torchon lace, finished
with a handsome gold cord and tassel. Darling Point
will be represented by two ladies, one wearing a dress
made in a polonaise of cream brocade, with an under-
skirt of helitrope satin, the overshirt being most ar-
tistically draped. The other is a white china silk, over
a deep prune colored satin skirt; this dress is most
effective, and suits the lady admirably. A lady living
at Surry Hills is to wear a magnificent dress of black
gros-grain silk and brocade, trimmed with a rick thick
jet fringe. A dress of ruby velvet and pale blue dam-
mosse, trimmed with silver fringe and Languedoc lace,
is startlingly beautiful. But one of the richest dresses is
to be worn by a lady from Enmore —it is a combination
of black silk grenadine and grosde Lyons, magnificently
draped with black Pusha lace, fully quarter of a yard
wide; we consider that this dress, though black, will
outshine 'many others which are of light, not to say
gaudy styles, which are sure to be seen on the “ Lawn.”
Most all of these costumes have bonnets or hats, also
sunshades to match. In our next we shall give a de-
scription of some of the other dresses.
Anent the Bradlaugh difficulty, the following
will be of interest. 44 Since the abolition of the Empire,
no oath or affirmation is administered in any form to
members of the legislature of the French Republic.
Under the Empire new members took oath to the effect,
‘ I swear fidelity to the Emperor and the Constitution.'
The name of the Deity was not included. The members
of the German Parliament take no oath, nor do they
make any affirmation whatever. The members of the
Prussian and other State Parliaments take an oath of
loyalty beginning with the words : * I swear by God the
Omnipotent and Omniscient,' and concluding with the
words, *So may God help me.’ Refusal to take oath
means exclusion. In Austria members are required
merely to make an affirmation of loyalty. In the
Spanish Congress deputies are required to take the
following oath: *Do you swear to observe, and make
others observe, the Constitution of the Spanish
Monarchy ? Do you swear fidelity and obedience to the
legitimate King of Spain, Alfonso XII ? Do you swear
well and truly to behave in the mission confided to
you by the nation, always in everything seeking the
welfare of ther nation ?’ The Deputies then, two at a
time, approach the table of the President, and, kneeling
ou his right hand, he remaining sitting, they place their
hands on the Gospels lying open before them, and say,
i es, Ido swear;’ and the President then answers, *lf
you do so, may God reword you; and it not, may He call
you to account.’ Senators Castelar and Martos always
protested against this oath, but have taken it after
publicly stating their objections. No deputy has
ever declined to take the oath. The President of the
Italian Chamber of Deputies, seeing a new Deputy in his
place, says: 4 1 invite the honorable gentleman to take
the oath in the form following: 44 1 swear to be faithful
to the King, and to observe loyally the fundamental
statute and the other laws of the State, with a single
to the inseparable welfare of the King and the
country.” ’ The new Deputy then, in his place, stretch es
out his right hand and pronounces the one word, 4 Giur o’
(‘ I swear.’)"
The “Pirates of Penzance” are coming.
Theatrical business in Melbourne is picking up.
. The Opera Company is not a gigantic success
in Adelaide.
Mr. Barney Levy, the violinist and dramatic
leader, is dead.
‘_Eagt Lynne” — Pomeroy’s triumph ! Farewell
A grand house, we hope, for the charming
‘ Two Roses,” the Royal bouquet for the week,
fne 44 Lancashire Lass” is Mr. Garner’s next at-
traction.
Edwin Browne, in “ Good as Gold,” at the
Dpera House, has struck the metal at last. Excellent
Press commendations.
Jeanne Andree’s French Comedy Company
hen at the New Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, ou the
' When will they close ?
Alphabetical Lewis’ juvenile unfortunates re-
I pear at the Academy, Melbourne, on October 30.
“® ro is an earnest prayer amongst the pros, for their
ai, y disappearance.
_ ‘ < % nor Giorza, Mr. Packer, and Mr. M‘Lean
rece lve each from Mr. J. E. Fulton, at the School of
res, next Wednesday night, a silver goblet, as a
*>Wemr of the Bauds’ Contest.
Parf r * V '(: Eeakc opens at the Queen’s, in “My
bv p on Saturday night. This drama is written
inti Campbell, one of the best dramatic authors
iue estates at the present time.
FACTS FOCUSSED.
Burglaries common in N.Z. The Civil Service re-
ductions in N.Z. are naturally causing a large amount
of grumbling. The New Hebrides native, “ Joe,”
or murdering a man at Auckland, N.Z., is to be
executed. Grand reviews are to be held in two or
three large N.Z. towns, on the 9th of November.
John Frederick Eockstrow, for practising without a
diploma at Foxton, N.Z., was fined £25 and costs.
Ah Lee (the Chinaman), has been found guilty and
sentenced to death for the murder of Mrs. Young at
Kyeburn, N.Z. Two horses belonging to a farmer at
Riverton, N.Z., died from an overdose of wheat (foul
feed) left by a neighbour in an unfenced section.
Proctor’s lectures are a big success in Dunedin, N.Z.
David Hutcheson has been committed for trial at Hoki-
tika, N.Z., for the murder of his wife and infant.
The friendly societies of Inverell are arranging for a
grand carnival on 9th November. Procession, Richard-
son’s show, athletic sports, and ball in the evening.
Mr. W. C. Rogers, of Central Kempsev, has been killed
by the upsetting of a spring van. Nolan, accused of
the Bundarra road murder, was acquitted. The
Warrnambool Examiner is compelled from the dull-
ness of the times to issue once weekly instead of twice
as heretofore. -The administration alone of the pre-
sent Education Act of Victoria costs £400,000 more than
that of the former Acts. Only about a million and a
half acres of the sixteen millions “occupied ” are
under tillage. The tender of Messrs. Melhado and
Curtis, of Sydney, for the Victorian £500,000 loan, has
been accepted. Fifty-five thousand acres of good
agricultural land near Forbes, formerly a proclaimed
goldfield, will be thrown open for selection shortly.
Mr. Nash, son of Dr. Nash, of Wallsend, has won high
honours at the Edinburgh University: as also has Mr.
Stapleton, a native of Kilmore, Victoria. No jewel.
lery sales permitted at the Melbourne Exhibition.
The Austrian Band is not well patronised at Melbourne.
The Victorianjgold returns for the first nine months
are 60,0000 z. over the returns for the same period of last
year. A block of land in Market-street, with corners
to George and York streets, fetched£3s,2oo last Friday;
Mr. Kidman purchaser. A hopper barge attend-
ing the Sorata, and insured for £6OOO, has sunk.
Emigration from Ireland to America is proceeding on
an enormous scale. A granddaughter of the N.Z.
Native Minister, named Isabella Gnthridge, died from
eating matches at Palmerston North. It is rumoured
that Sir Julius Vogel will return to N.Z. and re-enter
the political arena; a great many hope so. Judge
Mansford recently died at Danedin, N.Z. A large
number of New Zealanders have gone to the Melbourne
Exhibition. Yankee Bible-sellers are a nuisance in
N.Z.—A new Oddfellows' Hall has just been opened at
Christchurch, N.Z. Mr. Almac, of Danedin, N.Z.,
sent a large shipment of rabbit-skins to a New York
firm, and recently received back a consignment of felt
hats made from the skins. As a result of the Sydney
Exhibition, Messrs. Reid and Gray, of Dunedin, N.Z.,
have received a large order from New South Wales for
some of their manufactures, comprising three furrow
doughs, and double furrow and subsoil, for which
• atter they received the first prize at the Exhibition.
At a meeting of creditors in Robinson, the Auck-
land (N.Z.) clothier’s estate, Mr. Fisher’s claim on be-
half of Messrs. Hoyle and Co., of Sydney, was brought
forward, but it was carried that it would not be ad-
visable to consider the claim until some proxies were
received from large creditors in Sydney and Melbourne.
A warrant is to be issued for Robinson’s arrest, who is
supposed to be in Australia.
Mr. Alderman John Taylor.
Wk give, this week, the portrait of Alderman John
Taylor, one of the candidates for Balmain. This gentle-
man can conscientiously be catalogued amongst the
“solid men” of New South Wales. Prior to his arrival
n this colony, Mr. Taylor followed the occupation of a
builder in the north of Scotland. Soon after serving his
apprenticeship, he was promoted, owing to his industry
and intelligence, to the important position of foreman of
works, and in this capacity he superintended the erection
of several prominent buildings. Mr. Taylor arrived in
this country in 1857, and immediately commenced the
exercise of his profession at the North Shore. He was
not long in the colony before he rapidly commenced to
make his way on the high road to fortune. By shea r
ability, and indomitable energy and perseverance, he
has raised himself to the important position he now
occupies in the community. Mr. Taylor has, it is well
known, constructed several important buildings under
various architects in 1856-58-59, when he was the suc-
cessful tenderer for Government contracts—executing,
with satisfaction to the country, the Berrima Bridge,
Tarban Creek Asylum, the Custom Houses (Sydney and
Broken Bay) in 1860-61; also, various railway contracts
on the Westem and Eichmond railway lines. In addition
to these noteworthy structures, the subject of our por-
trait erected the model gaol at Berrima, together with
the new railway station and biiildings at Goulbum, and
the railway goods shed in Sydney in 1869. At this period,
the Government exchequer being at a low ebb, there were
very few public works erected for some time, and during
this interval of “ stagnation” Mr. Taylor took over the
business of Mr. John Booth, a large timber-merchant at
Balmain, and at once commenced to personally carry on
the concern, which he has since made the prosperous
and important industry which is, at present so well-
known in the Colony. In 1858, Mr. Taylor commenced
his career as a public man, in furthering the in-
terests of Mr. Parnell, and endeavouring to secure his
return for St. Leonards. As one of Mr. Parnell's
secretaries, Mr. Taylor was successful in getting
his candidate in, and, it may be remarked
that whenever he has interested himself in the
fortunes of a candidate, his protsgs has always
been returned by a triumphant majority. In 1872 Mr,
Alderman Taylor entered Balmain, and became amember
of the Balmain Council, in which useful capacity he has
remained ever since. He has since been elected Mayor
of Balmain, laud has daring the dual periods of his
mayoralty given the greatest satisfaction to the resi-
dents of that borough. In 1877 Mr. Taylor was elected
an alderman of Sydney (for Brisbane Ward), and has
taken a leading part in many of the most important
affairs of the day. In conclusion, we may state that
Mr. Taylor is one of those men who are really required
in Parliament.
The City Ice Company’s Works.
% give herewith a sketch of the interior
-p ~r
°* .? Ice Company s Works, which
situate in Lachlan-street, Waterloo. These
works were established last year by Mr. Kirchner,
and his effort has been to get into operation here
the most improved description of machinery.
For this purpose, he imported machinery of the
hind invented and manufactured by Oscar Kropff
Nordhausen in Germany, whose ice and aerated
w*tm machinery is considered the best on the
continent of Europe. Artificially-made ice is
rapidly becoming a necessity in all warm climates,
but hitherto the price has greatly interfered with
its consumption in these colonies. However the
imported machinery at the disposal of this com-
pany enables them to bring this luxury within
the reach of all, and the approaching summer
season should find no household without it. The
appliances now in operation are capable of pro-
ducing three tons of pure ice per day in the hottest
weather. It is proposed next year to doable this
by the erection of a duplicate machine, space and
power of boiler and steam engine being ample. It
ig a i so proposed to shortly add storage accommo-
dation (to be cooled within one or two degrees of
freezing by the waste cold generated), and let
it to butchers, produce dealers, or others
requiring cold storage. Machinery’for this pur-
g !! £!”&
JJf, d
filtered through a recently-invented powerful self-
cleansing filter, without which process the ice
™ uld , have a yellowish hue. It is frozen in long
closed tins, the cold being carried round these tins
hi pipes so that no chemical substance can in any
way come in contact with the water. The ice can
be therefore guaranteed in every way pure and
wholesome. Mr. Kirchner is the sole agent for
Mr. Oscar Kropff in Australia, and is prepared at
any time to give every information regarding all
kinds of machinery manufactured at Mr. Kropff’s
works. We are informed an ice machine of
similar size and capabilities as the one erected by
the City Ice Co. was sold by Mr. Kirchner to the
New South Wales Fish Co., and is now being put
up for them at Port Stephens. In the Melbourne
Exhibition the same firm are exhibiting a machine
of twice the size and power, besides smaller ice
making machinery suitable for passenger steamers,
up-country hotels, &c. The works of the Sydney
company are situated, as above stated, at
Waterloo, and are well worth a visit.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Y. Y. : A little too severe; write again.—•
G.B. L. writes, condemning the Victorian police, and
ascribing to them the responsibility of the death of
Mr. Metcalfe, who died recently from wounds received
at Glenrowan.—Mr. E. Bradden, of Hobart Town,
denies that he had anything to do with the collection
of the Indian Salt Tax. He says: “I never had any-
thing to do with the collection of that tax, or any con-
cern whatever with the tax beyond condemning it most
emphatically in an official report upon its operation in
the N.W.P. and Oude." “ Xantippe”: Very accept-
able; no room this week.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Hugh Taylor successful at Parramatta.
Mr. John Young’s first meeting in the Newtown
constituency was a great success.
The Grafton people are surprised at seeing an
1.0.Q.T. candidate out for their electorate.
The Lithgow Mebcitkt says John Hurley
will meet with a surprise when he stumps Hartley.
There is an inclination in the Camden electorate
to separate the twins —Messrs. Garrett and Onslow.
A warm contest for New England is expected.
The candidates are Mr, Proctor, Mr. Copeland, and Mr.
O’Connell.
Mr. J. Mitchell is announced as a candidate for
Newtown. The electors shouldn’t give him a coal
shoulder.
Mr. Bennett,'candidate for Glen Innes, contends
that the Grafton New England railway must come—
even if at the cost of two millions.
Seven candidates are in the field for South
Sydney—Messrs. Carter, Davies (C.M.G.), OUiife, Steel,
Bogie, Shepherd, and Edward Hordern.
William Forster, now in England, has been
nominated for Gundagai. That constituency will do
honor to itself and a service to the country if it returns
him.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton has hold enthusiastic
committee meetings at Murrumbnrrah. Wombat, Young,
and Marengo, during the past week. His return is now
certain—all but the shouting—and he will do that. Our
tip is, the Hon. James Watson and Mr. Heaton.
TICS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Anarchy at Cabal.
Snowstorms in England.
Another rising at the Cape.
Lord Justice Thesiger dead.
Disastrous floods in France.
Cession of Dulcigno delayed.
Bradlaugh mobbed at Exeter.
Healy, Irish agitator, arrested.
Greece arming. Ministry resigned.
Earthquakes in Spain and Portugal.
Exhibition Australian fresh food in England
next year.
Tempest on Lake Michigan. Nine vessels and
100 lives lost.
Gross bribery in the English elections, notwith-
standing the ballot.
Blackman skirmishing with Trickett and Lay-
cock for £5OO. We’re ready.
The Duke of Argylo retires from the Gladstone
Ministry, presumably through disagreements on the
Irish land question.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(FROM THE POET.)
When Jemmy South and Edith Pender got
married,(Dillon said it was a sus-pender for Jemmy.
Billy Rea, has returned to the Northern
metropolis. He affects trousers that “baggy” that
he can jump through the legs.
Lilley and Addie Thynne took a benefit at
Brisbane the other day. The Courier says the children
“played their little parts very nicely.”
Sam Griffith leads the Queensland Opposition,
but they have such a wretched “ whip ” that Sam has
more than once occupied his benches alone.
The most hard-worked of Queensland Civil
Servants is about to take a six weeks’ trip to Melbourne.
Joe has so much to do he often wishes he had never
been bom.
Bobby Byrne has gone in for bill-posting, and
Queensland Punch now figures in large letters on
Bobby’s stand — the old Supreme Court, in course of
being pnlled down.
The Queensland Government are doing great
things for the Catholics at the next elections. N'me
of the Oppositionists are E.C.’s, but there are two holy
Romans in the Ministry—and very rank men at that.
Winnyßartley, who can have the last word with
anybody in Brisbane, has been walking into the Govern-
ment lately with advertisements. And yet a hard-
hearted Ministry won’t let him have his little eleven
acres.
When Lnmley Hill, M.L.A., is very excited, and
is not on his legs, he rubs invisible tobacco between
the palms of his hands at a frightful rate. It is calcu-
lated that he has done some two tons this session
already.
Among the relics of a bye-gone age, the pur-
chaser of the old Supreme Court buildings, Brisbane,
found a pair of leg irons, and went about the city all
day looking for a relative of the last wearer, who might,
perhaps, desire to purchase them as a memento.
The Brisbane diocese wanted a travelling secre-
tary, the other day, at £3OO a year and ex’s —parson
preferred—of course. But when they came to open the
applications there was such a smell of sulphur that
the reverend gentlemen did not see their way to appoint
anyone.
An advertisement in the Brisbane Telegraph,
recently, announced that a “Lecture on Hell," at the
New Church, was postponed till next month, “on ac-
count of the weather” Naturally; it’s a sultry sub-
ject. But in addition to that George ;SI a ter runs the
church, and he does send the shingles flying.
William Henry Walsh and Gresley Lukin are at
it tooth and (nail in Queensland, and all because the
latter said W. H. would “ lash his tail and rage around”
in the Legislative Council for a few weeks, and then
subside under the repressive atmosphere of the place.
If Lukin had only given W. H. credit for lashing his
tail for ever, things would have gone on smoothly.
There is likely to be great ructions in Queens-
land if the Supreme Court sums up against MTlwraith
in the ship-owning business. Palmer has already dared
the Court to givean adverse opinion ; but Charley Lilley
is not the bit of stuff to be bounced by Arthur Hunter
or anybody else. His return to the political arena
would be hailed with delight by the populous and agri-
cultural constituencies, and would do more to consoli-
date the Liberal party than anything.
Henry Lind Hath, who contributed a paper to
the last Victorian Review, is the son of a Hungarian
refugee, who resided in London. Henry was in a mer-
chant’s office in London, which he left to go to the
West Indies. Here he was swindled and returned
home. Thence he was sent to Spain, Italy, and France
to report on the practical working of irrigation. Ho
matriculated at the University of Halle, Germany.
He was head overseer on an estate in Russia, became
embroiled with the Nihilists, and received 21 hours’
notice to quit, which he did. Now he is in Queensland,
and the banks talk of sueing him for libel. He is 26
years of age, and a member of the Johnsonian Club.
BRIEF MENTION.
First prize—North Shore vehicles.
Gulgong aldermen clean their own windows.
Dissolution about the 10th November. Straight.
Men who often help a lending hand. Policemen.
Some people would rather be insulted than
unperceived.
After man came woman. And she has been
after Mm ever since.
They are hushing up the £3 fine over the
Bnrwood railway accident.
Melbourne had us over the stock tax—now we
have them by the “ wool.”
Milson’s Point is the residence of one of the hand-
somest ladies in N.S. Wales.
So the Town Hall is rotten to the very founda-
tion. Where is Michael Angela P
M‘Elhone wants to suspend the City Architect.
But he was always a ropeable man ?
I am too heavily handicapped to run in this race,
as the gold said to the sluice head of water.
The Church of England Schoolroom at Padding-
ton is to be converted into a tram station.
The young party who “ Stood on the Bridge at
midnight,” has since moved to the Necropolis.
Those were very small civil servants that Mr.
Bogie, the South Sydney candidate, saw in kid gloves.
Melbourne visitors give our Colonial Architect
the palm re the architecture of the two Exhibition
buildings.
The tuneful Evening Lt re, describing a late
duel, says that one of the combatants \yas shot through
the fleshy part of the thigh bone.
Out of place.—A Barney here at St Barnabas’;
a Gun there at St. John’s; a Savage at Petersham ; and a
Barker at Waverley Church; but the Bed is at St.
Andrews’.
Young man in the Bank of New South Wales,
don’t waste your energies in attempting to wear too
delicate shades of tweed: the girls don’t core for them.
Their own finery occupies their attention.
The following is Marcus Clarke’s epigram on
Defries’s Hamlet:—
“Was Hamlet mad ?—I shouldn’t like to say it;
But surely Defries is, to try and play it.”
Yictorien Sardou has bought the door
Charlotte Corday opened when she entered Marat’ 8
bath-room in order to slay him. Let us hope he will
find the inspiration he no doubt anticipated from gazing
on the relic.
At the School of Arts, North Shore, is a manu-
script placard, announcing that ‘‘E. E. W is to
lecture on England 50 years ago.” It is headed “ St.
Leonards’ Literarary Institute.” We would suggest
that the next lecture at the Institute be on the spelling
of the present day.
The Herald people again! The latest idea
(not from Yonkeeland) is this:—lf you lose a friend
affecting the sea-side, fish for sharks. The guilty ones
(devouringly speaking) are bound to take the bait.—
Vide the Herald's correspondent from Bermagui.
The.idea has not been patented yet.
A marriage is arranged, and will shortly take
place, between a broker and commission agent of George-
street, who rejoices in a historic Scotch name, and the
daughter of a prominent resident of Braidwood. The
lady not only possesses an amiable disposition, but is
said also to have a large fortune. The “ parient ” is
making inquiries.
It is rumoured that when Sirenree parted with
the Duke of Manchester he said, “ Ta, ta, Duke. When
you come to Sydney, I’ll put you through. I’m the
Government thera. Talk of Qambetta—pooh ! —never
half the Dictator that I am. Adoo! Send my compli-
ments to the Duchess and the dear old Lady at Wind-
sor." We accept this intelligence cum gram.
It must have been tremendously embarrassing
to that nice young man at Darlinghurst who escorted
the preacher’s lair daughter to church on Sunday
morning, and arrived late, to hear the rev. gentleman
read from the Bible, as the couple marched up the aisle,
“My daughter is grievously vexed with a devil." It
would be hard to tell who felt the worst, the preacher,
Ms daughter, or her escort.
The Southern mail, on Wednesday night, took
away for the Victorian Carnival as jolly a crew as ever
left this city. Among the number were Jamieson,
Munro, Woods, Taylor, Swift, Moses, Skarratt, Hall,
and Gannon. They left the Sydney station all right,
and it is to be hoped they’ll arrive in the same condition.
What we most objected to were several suspicious-look-
ing cases beneath the seats.
Old associations do hang around one. Ta wit,
Mr. George Robertson recently entertained Sir Henry
Parkes at his residence in Melbourne, because Sir
Henry was once a bookseller. We know who was the
best at that line. Book lore doesn’t always go with
loquacity. The evemng wound up with—
“ Should auld acquaintance be forgot.
In the days o’ auld lang syne."
There was no h—itch in this.
Spriggins attended a private party at Darling-
hurst tne other mght—sauntered into the supper room
whilst the remaining guests were engaged in the “ first
set ” —collared a spoon—and with that spoon deliberately
tasted the tripe, the lobster salad, a custard, a jelly,
and a few other ef ceteras —and then pocketing some
unoonsidered “menavolins " in the shape of bon bous,
nuts, kisses, crackers, raisins and other sweets —
sauntered back to the ball-room with “ Ah, I think—
ah it is—ah, my waltz—ah! ” happily ignorant of the
fact that “ Mary, the maid” had been “ a watchin’ ov
'im.” And yet Spriggins, although shortsighted, is a
scion of a good family, and is well received in most private
parties.
In the last issue of The Bulletin we, with
our usual good nature, instructed a contemporary
(a country one, this time) in musical intelligence. Our
“ Brief Mention ” par. was as under The Walobtt
Mail, in a brevity (they've all got brevities now) is
delivered of the appended blast of intelligence
‘ Neilson’s voice, it is said, has deteriorated.' We
should think it had, considering she has been dead
over a month.” An ingenuous correspondent, luxuriat-
ing at Parramatta, signing himself “ P.G.D.," blandly
writes us that “ the above paragraph may possibly refer
to Signora (sic) Christine Neilson." We are always, of
course, charmed to be instructed; at the same time,
we courteously inform “F.G.D." that there is not,
never has been, and possibly never will be, a singer,
called Signora Christine Neilson. There might be,
however, and possibly there is, a diva called Madame
Christine Nillsson.
Mr. W. Tarleton, the barrister, was Crown
Prosecutor at Grafton the ether day. Well, having
occasion to cross-examine a witness for the defence, he
said, sharply—“ Well, sir, and where did you live before
you came here ?" “You ought to remember me, Mr.
Tarleton,” was the answer, “ for I was one of your
pansMoners." Then there was just a moment's dead
silence, and the learned C.P. rapped out—“ Next wit


ness." That night, when the Bench and Bar dined
together, before helping the first ladleful of soup, Mr.
Jack Want said, solemnly, “ Let us pray 1”
Three pints of whiskey and a-half pint of water
will at any time make the “ Murrnrundi ” bill posters
sober!
The stage was the school for good English ; now
its place is usurped by the Petersham Municipal
Council.
Even the Presbyterian uses the word
“ squelched.” Now the Herald sees the result of bad
example.
Isaacs, of Castlereagh-street, announces “Pawn-
broker to his Excellency the Governor.” Which
Governor ?
Only youth can have patience, because it has
the Ifuture before it. This explains Lottie Wilmot’s
impatience.
Every bad has a worse below it. That’s what a
man said when he saw John Alexander Dowie standing
near Frank Warden.
No man can tell exactly the real amount of venom
there is in the human body till he takes up a newspaper
edited by a clergyman.
A Townsville solicitor can fill any of the local
churches that he may attend. So handsome, you know,
and so free from guile.
The Northern Argus has a par. headed,
“ Burdett Coutts Coy.” There is nothing about
Ashmead-Bartlett in it.
One of the “ over religious ” journals of this
city remarks that it is quite disgraceful to see women
going dressed to church.
T. C. Just, late proprietor of the defunct Corn-
wall Chronicle, of Launceston, is about to start in
that city as an auctioneer.
When a young man speaks of a very pretty girl
he says she is a [duck; but a woman is apt to say of a
very pretty girl, she is no chicken.
The “observed of all observers” upon the
Melbourne Racecourse on the Cup Day, will be the
horse Chester and the Mau-Chester.
Milner Stephen, nowin Melbourne, is announced
as the “ miraculous healer.” Even in Melbourne,
however, “ blowing ” is out of date.
A Balmain resident had a double row of “ Dead
Marines ” opposite him after the dinner of the Amateur
Sailing Club, at Athol, on Saturday.
There are two Beaumonts in Victoria : the
singer and the photographer. The one is known as
“ Acmes " and the other as “ Legs.”
The 28th instant, the date fixed for Ned Kelly’s
trial, is the second anniversary of the shooting of the
three policemen at Stringybark Creek.
A well-known J.P. remarked the other day to a
brother magistrate that at his new house he'd an aviary
of fishes and a conservatory of birds.
Dave Gaunson lent Ned Kelly his overcoat.
When he gets it back the Gaunsons will hand it down
to posterity (or further) ns an heir-loom.
The trial of Ned Kelly affects the attendance
at the Melbourne International. Bad arrangement
somewhere. Two shows at the one time.
What is the real meaning of chrysolite in the
Victorian Exhibition cantata ? Is it meant for chrysa-
lis ? Are there no Websters in Victoria ?
They beat us in Melbourne. An execution for
the International period. Not that “ executions” have
been very rare all down the Berry period.
The Instruction Office often enjoys some pleasant
fun without much noise. The joke is now, why won’t
Jack let some names appear in the Gazette ?
The Temora Star, in a S-inch leader, makes
this statement“ An efficient police officer is always
remarkable for an obscene of over-offlciousness."
Miller held ,£20,000 in sweeps on Melbourne
Cup last year. He has more this (year. And yet the
pawnbrokers of the big city say business is dull.
Not long ago it was proved that the death rate
of Townsville was lower than that of any other town in
Queensland, Lots of insurance agents since then.
Captain Audley Coote, M.H.A., Tasmania,
opposes tooth and nail the construction of a rifle range
near his house. The gallant captain can’t stand fire.
Editor of the S. M. Herald, gazing admiringly
at last issue, remarks— ■“ What perfection of Mind and
Art! Once, probably, you were a worthless Old Rag."
Mr. T. M. Slattery writes a whole column of
nonpareil in the Hevernin’ Hogue on the subject of
“ Repudiation.” Lucky for him he is safe for Burrowa!
The first snake of the season. Camden claims the
honor. It was black and three feet long, enormous fangs,
deadly expression of its eyes (especially after death) &c.
The right kind of immigrants. Within five
days after landing there were thirteen marriages among
the immigrants who arrived recently in Cleveland Bay.
Mr. Carpenter, the eminent lecturer, will evi-
dently be much edified by this, which is from an incor-
rigible evening contemporary:—“ After announcing that
the second lecture would be given on Thursday, th
instant, Mr. Carpenter resumed his seat amid 281anse.”
Can rum have gone down to 3d. a gill ?
In writing to Thursday’s Alfred, anent the
Hill-Fremlin dispute at an election meeting, Mr. Goldie
says, “ Mr. Hill said he was there as an elector to
move an amendment, and to unmask this imposter and
villain.” It this is the way Mr. Goldie spells, he ought
to put up for the Municipal Council without delay.
A recent Gazette notifies the appointment to
a commission in the New South Wales Regiment of
Volunteer Artillery of a person who was only a short time
since discharged from another branch of the Volunteer
Force for being non-efficient. The men of the regiment
will doubtless feel highly flattered by the appointment.
The Stanmore “ Blue Bell ” grows, but does
not flourish. How is this ? She can be seen daily run-
ning round the lake near the palings, and displaying her
fragile form in the garden, her rich colour contrasting
exquisitely with the other flowers—anon creeping up
even to the bed-rooms and verandahs, when she is seen
to even better advantage.
Mr. Arthur Leslie Boucicault, brother of the
great “adapter,” since he has sold the Rockhampton
Argus, of which he was editor and proprietor for many
years, now does nothing but sentence drunkards in the
morning, and “moon” about in a brown velvet coat in
the afternoon. Some ill-natured people say he is
engaged on an epic—others on a recipe for hair-dye.
The breach of privilege mania has spread to
Tasmania. Mr. James Simpson, editor of the Mercury.
has had to appear at the Bar of the House of Assembly
on a charge of menacing Captain Coote, M.H.A. The
House, after hearing the parties concerned and a
looker-on, decided against the captain, who proved him-
self a striking illustration of modem Munchausenism.
We published Sir John Eobertson’s portrait
some weeks back. “Ah! Sir John,” exclaimed a
sprightly young lady, “ I saw your portrait in The
Bulletin the other day, and kissed it." Indeed,” re-
marked Sir John, “ and did it kiss you in return ?
“ Why, no!” replied the young lady. “ Then it wasn t
like me,” was the gallant remark.
At the Queensland Ministerial trip to Eoma,
there was a “ bit of a barney.” Our old friend Carr-
Boyd insisted upon entering the Ministers* compart-
ment, and was put out by the warlike Perkins. Sub-
sequently, when the banquet was at an end, an irate
and somewhat inebriated Ipswich Irishman wanted to
punch Perkins’ hood and avenge the doctor, but was
pacified.
George Milner Stephen is now on the warpath
in Melbourne. However, the Southerners don’t be-
lieve in him, though there did the other day appear in
the Melbourne evening paper an account of how the*
miracle-man, by means of an application of double
three-star magnetised water, causedanew nose to grow
on the face of a man who had lost his olfactory organ
in the Balaclava charge.
It may not be generally known that the editor
of a Bendigo paper offered to join the Kelly gang when
they were in the Strathbogies. It is, nevertheless, a
fact. Kellv, however, declined. “What we want,"
said Ned, “is men of honour. Besides,” added the
outlaw, “you ought to have made the proposal before
we robbed the Jerilderie bank." That man still edits a
Bendigo paper.
Man’s-laughter and manslaughter “run neck and
neck” for letters, bnt an enlightened jury will tell you
that there is a wide difference in the meaning of the
words.
A great writer says “ remorse is the shadow
cast by sin.” Now we know what a recent preacher
meant when he said Wazir Beg was seized with
remorse.
The Camden paper says two boys “ were arrested
sleeping on a stack of hay, ragged, hungry, and without
money.” At this rate of going, even political aspirants
are not safe.
“ Out of the world —out of the fashion,” said
Governor Castieu of the Melbourne gaol when he re-
fused the female confinees permission to wear their hair
with a fringe.
A great statesman would deny, if asked, that it
was Sir Hercules Robinson who got together the
statistics of the relative wealth of Victoria and New
South Wales. .
Poor “ Voltaire,” the ventriloquist, who some
time since went to the Cape, is now in the Scone
hospital in a very bad state; no one could possibly
recognise him.
The Rev. Mr. Edwards, in a recent address,
said he saw more drunkenness in Flinders-street, Towns-
ville, than in the lowest London streets, and he begged
the ladies to give up their “little drop,” Hard on the
ladies.
A monster bazaar is projected in February on
and off the new cricket ground in Hobart Town. So
many and such piteous appeals in its aid have been
made lately that it is now called “ The Cricketers’ Dis-
tress Fund.”
The Age people are endeavouring to imbue the
people of this colony with protectionist principles.
With a view of securing for the Age a large circulation
in New South Wales, they are, it is said, selling copies
of that journal to agents at Deniliquin for sixpence (6d)
per dozen. “ Cheap but nasty! ’ ’
The other day, as Sir Henry Parkes alighted
from the train at Wodonga station, a stranger
approached him and asked “Do you speak French,
sir.” "No, I do not,” replied Sir Henry; "but I’ve
just bought two German vases.”
An enthusiastic female, aged about 54, clasped
Frank Warden to her bosom just as he was stepping
aboard the Melbourne boat. A satirical bystander
immediately explained, " Ah, well, the old toper has
embraced Christianity at last.”
Macnamara has been down to one of the Orient
boats to engage berths for his football eleven. The
captain didn’t know him, and he said, “Young man!
you want to * blow ’my ship up.” Mac replied (to him-
self) “ Why, the cuss knows me.”
This is good—
Of all the griefs that harass the distrest.
Sure the most bitter is the scornful jest.
But this is better —
Nothing in poverty so ill is home
As its exposing men to grinning scorn.
If the posse of police who for the past few
days has been on the track of infantile newsvendors,
would tackle the larrikin gathering at the comer of
George-street and Charlotte-place, some good would be
done. Besides, pay would be honestly earned, even
though the Inspector-General might not be so well
pleased.
The Camden paper says the electorate has been
virtually disfranchised in having Messrs. Garrett and
Onslow as its representatives. On every important
division one is sure to be found with the “ayes” and
another with the “ noes.” Bat will the paper dare say
Tom Garrett didn’t enrich the county while Minister
for Lands.
The following is an extract from the fly-leaf of
a hymn book in St. Stephen’s Church, Philip-street
“ Some go to church for observation.
Some go there for speculation.
Some go there to see and to be seen.
Some go there to say they’ve been.
Some go there to set the fashion.
Some go to create a passion.
Some go there to doze and nod.
But very few to servo their ‘ God.’ ”
The Armidale people have given a return fancy
dress ball to the Mayor. The editor of the Üballa and
Walcha Times devotes two and a-half columns to a
report of it (in place of the leader), and we hope he
won’t be offended if we state that his report irresistibly
reminds us of the literary lucubrations of Mr. Potts, of
the Eatansvili.e Gazette. “Butter” is evidently
cheap at Armidale! Mind, we don’t say the leading
article ought not to be left out.
“As Pants the Hart,” as rendered in a certain
aristocratic suburban church last Sunday evening, made
many hearts pant lest they should hear it so rendered
again.
The Police of Woollahra have made a raid on
the unregistered dogs,but they have left two well dressed
puppies to roam about Queen-street after 8 o'clock at
night.
Curly hair is much worn among the gentlemen
of Townsville. A doctor, an editor, and the mayor in-
troduced the fashion and won “ prizes.” Now the
police are taking to it.
When John Bryan visited an American city, he
carried off with him the measles, leaving the town free.
We want him here. It’s useless for any kind of epi-
demic to try to carry John off.
Who were the Goulburn magistrates who sent
two children, eleven and thirteen years of age, to gaol
for a month for firing off a gun within the municipality ?
They well deserve the title “ J.P.”
The housemaid of a wealthy squatter residing
at Toorak, received an invitation for the opening of the
Melbourne Exhibition. The squatter didn’t. Nothing
like having relations Commissioners.
Some time ago the sky at night was lighted up
bv a number of flashing meteors. Next day, at the
Municipal Council, one alderman remarked to another
that “arter all it warn’t a conflaggeration, but only
the augerborrallis!’’
All printers ought to go on strike now. A great
writer now says the printer “ is the adjutant of thought,
and there at his ‘ case ’ he stands, and marshals into
line the forces armed for truth and clothed in immor-
tality and English.”
It’s aB very well for the missionary gentlemen
of Sydney to show round at meetings an “ interesting”
letter from King George,of the South Seas; but have those
“ flreshooters ” and bowie knives he asked for been sent
over. These are the interesting points in the letter,
especially for missionaries.
Victoria is a democratic country. And yet on
Saturday afternoon, the only half-day of the week on
which the “ working-man ” is at liberty, an extra charge
was made for admission to the International. At any
rate, this was the case last Saturday.
Mac was blowing fearfully the other day about
the projected trip of the footballers to England, and he
said, “Ha! ha! It’ll be a great day for Europe.” A
Bulletin man standing near by remarked, “ Ah! Mac,
the day for Europe has not yet arrived."
Peter Campbell, discoursing in the Domain the
other day, was majestic on the intelligence of man, and
said his brain was fit for anything. “ Now, there’s the
mule,” he said, “ his brain is not capable of culture—it
can’t be reared.” “No,” remarked a bystander, “it’s
the other end of him that can be reared.”
Wazir Beg does not send us the following :
The truest characters of ignorance
Are vanity, and pride, and arrogance;
As blind men try to bear their noses higher
Than those who have their eyes and sight entire.
The proposed Insurance picnic was blocked by
two of the leading local Offices, who refused to make a
holiday of the day appointed. One Director is reported
to have said that E-wan would not close, and a well-
known Life Secretary remarked that he had no desire
to follow the undertakers.
It is unique in the history of nations that a
people holding an international exhibition, at which the
world is called to witness its happiness and prosperity,
should at the same time be proceeding to measures
necessaiy only in cases of threatening collapse.
Victoria! how thy glory’s going!
The Campbelltown Herald thus bursts into
poetry—singing the song of the “ candidate ” :
“ Howdy, dowdy, howdy-do !
How is your wife, and how are you ?
Ah ! it fits my fist as no other can.
The homy hand of the working man.”
From the manner in which trochees, iambics, anapcests
and amphibrachs are jumbled together, we should not
be surprised if an ill-natured contemporary styled the
poem “Parnassian salad.” We don’t: for we are not
ill-natured.
At Melbourne International almost every fourth
man you meet is an official. It takes two men to look
after yonr ticket as you enter the gate, one to snip it
and the other, located in the box next to him, to place
it in a receptacle. Some people may of course regard
these little facts as indicating that an unnecessary
amount of labour is employed ; but all sensible persons
will instantly recognise the sagacity of the com-
missioners in thus affording at the outset to_ every
visitor so strong a proof of what a fine country Victoria
is for the working man.
Several of the Melbourne Exhibition flags have
gone to the wash. They were exposed to a shower and
the colours ran. “We even make our own flags,” said
the protectionist organ the other day.
Two editors of rival newspapers, somewhere
northward, always scowled at one another in the day
time and snubbed in the evenings until recently, when
one discovered that the other got his wit, for which he
was noted, from The Bulletin. They are friends now.
“ Professor” Ainsley Scott is at present sojourn-
ing at Hamilton (Vic). He is not a negro interlocutor
now, neither is he a hair-dye man, nor a lightning cal-
culator, nor the “ King of Painbut he has a “ Magic
Balm,” which he says is making the Hamiltonians
hum.
All the New South Wales towns have their
celebrities. For instance, a solicitor of pretentious
opinions at Armidale is known as “Holy Joe,” and his
particular friend has his title “ God-be,” and when they
are seen together they are hailed as “ Holy Joe and
God-be with him.”
Scone in a Railway Carriage on the Mountains.
—Fair Australian: “You English people, Edgar, no
doubt, think it strange that these native tulips, er
waratahs, though so beautiful, are totally devoid of
fragrance?” Edgar: “Yes, 'tis indeed strange; but
I know other native ‘two-lips’ strangely beautiful,
whose breath is simply honey itself.” Here the train
entered the Clarence tunnel.
The other day, on the Hodgkinson, the landlady
of an hotel scolded her Chinese cook. John, at first
sulky, in a little while became furious. He got a knife
and fork, ran up tolhis mistress, and, holding out the
implements of the table, exclaimed : “ You takee knife,
me takee fork —me fightee you! “The duel was de-
dined with thanks,and John was ignominiously ejected
from the establishment by a gentle application of hoot.
The Presbyterian complains that while there
are cables announcing that “ Trickett has the influenza,”
there’s no wire about “the Presbyterian Council at
Philadelphia.” The reason is very clear. Trickett’s
denomination is a very large one, and his visit home is
likely to do the colony some good. Then again, there’s
no betting on the Presbyterian Council, and people,
when told about the Council, would be sure to remark
“ What’s the odds ? ”
Things are managed admirably in the Tasmanian
Parliament. For six weeks the House of Assembly
talked and talked, but sent nothing to the Legislative
Council, where the members sat expectant grumbling.
Then all of a sudden up went thirty Bills to the
Council, where there is now a plethoric order paper.
The members of the Assembly |haye_ nothing to do in
their turn, and sit glowering at Ministers who placed
them in such a fix.
The Palmer Chronicle is resuscitated. The
editor is Mr. Frank Hodel, and having already secured
the Holloway’s Pills and L. L. Smith’s ads., we see no
reason why they should not enter at once upon a career
of golden prosperity. On the first re-appearance of the
Chronicle all Maytown got drunk. We do not wish,
however, that this should be regarded by any means as
an extraordinary circumstance. All we wish to point
out is, that for one day there was at least some excuse!
Intense excitement prevailed at the Newtown
railway station yesterday afternoon, when two trains
both crowded with passengers were observed approach-
ing one another from opposite directions at nearly full
speed. The platform was the scene of the utmost con-
fusion, ladies ran to and fro distractedly, men yelled
frantically, but above all was heard the screeching of
the engines’ whistles ; however, by the time the trains,
which were on different lines, had passed, it was all over.
The Temora Star remarks that “ night con-
tinues to be made hideous at a certain well-known
hostelry in the Central Township by the yells and cries
of a local newspaper man.” It is, of course, generally
understood to whom the Star alludes, but the point of
the personality is rather blunted by the fact that the
gentleman alluded to is the owner of a howling good
paper, whereas the Stab, from its appearance, would
only seem to be a qualified success. It is called on the
diggings, “ The Bi-weekxt Curl-paper.”
Trilobite, Graptobite, Nautilus pie.
Seas were calcareous, oceans were dry.
Eocene, miocene, pliocene, tuff.
Lias and trias, and that is enough.
Oh, sing a song of phosphates, flbrine in a line,
Four-and-twenty follicles in the van of time.
When the phosphorescence evoluted brain,
Superstition ended, man began to reign.
The other day we read in a Melbourne paper a
paragraph commenting as follows : —“ Rather tardy
news comes from New Zealand of the death of Mr.
John Davies, one of the .” Here we stopped and
wept. But when we read on a little further and found
out that the lamented deceased was not our John, hut
only a struggling pressman, we dried our tears, and were
happy at the thought that another of the craft had gone
aloft to sit on a pink cloud and blow a little tin trumpet
all day. At any rate that’s what Frank Warden says
people do when they leave this wicked world.
A man named Russell, residing in New Zealand,
recently shot himself in order that the Volunteer com-
pany to which he belonged might have the opportunity to
attend a military funeral.
Whilst living, thus it did befall
He thought himself accursed;
He’d ne’er heard the “ Dead March in Saul,”
Or muskets seen reversed.
Quoth he —“ lam a lowly scamp.
I’ll fire the volley dread;
For they must do the fun’ral tramp
For soldiers dead ’tis said; —
The band, that stately march must vamp.
And black will drape the red —
Won’t I enjoy that funeral tramp,
My eye! when lam dead! ”
So saying he, with dismal glee,
A hole made thro’ his head.
Mr. Younghusband, a squatter who annually
shears 150,000 sheep, was sued in the Melbourne
County Court by his cook for wages. Mr. Duigan, who
appeared for the defence, made a calculation to show
that the wages of the woman were 9d. per day. obe
did not suit in her capacity of cook, and was discharged.
The counsel for the defence asked Mr. Younghusbana
if that was the way that squatters who shear 150,WU
sheep ‘ annually ’ treated their servants ? “ Yes, re-
plied the defendant, “it is." If Mr. Younghusbana,
who shears 150,000 sheep, considers 9d. per diem (or
£l3 13s. per year) ample wages for his cook, it would oe
interesting to know what a Victorian squatter who only
shears, say 50,000, would say to be a fitting annual
remuneration for his cu isiniere.
At it again. Prom “An Indian chant ”in the
Evening Handbill:—
A Black-Hills miner, scalped and dead.
Upon the ground is found;
Grim speaks the chief, there’s been, I’m afraid,
An Indian summer’s around.”
Well, now—but let us, too, dash into poetry. Houp-la ■
Twang the lyre! Hail, sweet Muse, &c.: —
If thus did speak that Indian chief,
Auent that slaughtered “ white,”
Why, then, ’tis our most true belief
That chief must have been tight.
But if the chief was sober, then
The case is just as bad;
(It grieves us thus the truth to pen)—
The bard must have been mad!
We hear, on reliable authority, that it is
seriously proposed to turn Archbishop Vaugna
organ into a daily paper at the end of the current y •
However, it is to be hoped that, for their own sa• »
the rev. gentlemen who act as conductors of a P 1 ,
which so far has had nothing whatever to recoin
it but its leading articles, will, before taking a leap
the dark, seriously consider the following anecdo •
“ A man once sold his soul to the Evil One on conai
that the latter should occupy for a year any two n
dane positions which he might be called upon t ‘ a
The first thing the devil had to do was to man g
theatre, and after a week he grew rather uue . 1 T y p»ner
being then put into the management of a daily i i _
he gave the man back his soul and cried ott ", _ gß
gain.” Now we don’t know whether Lives
people mean in the first place to manage for the g
or get the old gentleman to manage for the “ "--mise
similar to those mentioned above; but we ° a “ P - 0
that if they do go in for a news-paper it wo g 0
write so much with the shears, or to keep t a„y-
much out of the paper—that’s to say, if they wa
body to read the new Thunderer.
MR. ALDERMAN JOHN TATLOR, CANDIDATE FOR BALMAIN.


SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Alf- Geary, out leg before once more.
That once fast horse Papapa was lately sold in
N.Z. for £l3O.
A race meeting for hacks is held mostly every
Saturday afternoon at Dunedin, N.Z. It affords great
amusement.
Nominations of no less than five horses for the
Dunedin Cup arrived after the advertised time for re-
ceiving entries.
The Waitaki Cup, run at Duntroon (N.Z.), was
won by Adamant, 7st 101 b, Rand wick, 7st 51b second,
Tera, 6st 101 b third.
King of the Ring, a black entire cart horse,
recently imported from Adelaide to Tasmania, took the
principal challenge enp at the Campbelltown show last
week.
At the Christ’s College athletic sports, Christ-
< hurch (N.Z.), H. M. Mathais ran the mile in 5 min. 4
and four-fifth secs. Onr Sydney hoys can beat that,
anyhow.
Two thousand gymnasts were present recently
at the Brussels International Gymnastic Fete. The
jirst principal prize was won by a squad of sixteen
Englishmen from the German Gymnastic School,
London.
Wallace Ross authorised Christopher Barrass to
make a match with the winner of the Blackman-
Laycock race, over the Tyne championship course, for
£lOO aside. The New Brunswicker is also willing to
row Elliott.
At Edinburgh, Scotland, recently, Dave Stanton,
tlie English bicycle rider, won a 25-mile bicycle race,
, overing 15 miles 1420 yards in the first hour, and rode
the full distance in Ih. 33m. 58Js. Stanton has made
better time in New York.
Trickett’s physique when stripped in his dress-
ing-room the other day (says a London correspondent),
rather disappointed me, but I was thunderstruck to hear
what he can accomplish with 71b dumb-bells, and where
he stores such strength is, to those who look at him, a
puzzle.
William Gale, of Cardiff, before leaving England
f ov America, wanted to walk any man in thelworld 1000
or 2000 miles for any reasonable sum, or he would walk
4000 half-miles in 4000 consecutive periods of fifteen
minutes, starting at the commencement of each quarter
of an hour.
“ Augur’s ” tips for the Flemington events are: —
The Maribymong: Monmonth, 1; Somerset, 2; Henri-
etta, or Spite, 3. The Derby : Progress, 1; Grand
Flaneur, 2; Sapphire or Trevallyn, 3. For the Cup:
Progress or Mata, with Pawnbroker, Darriwell, Lord
Barghley, Richmond, and Chester as the best of the
others.
Christie is teaching boxing
at Adelaide.
Tom Garrett grnelled the
Carltons on Saturday last.
The Duke of Manchester
will be at the Cup running.
Nolan, the well - known
“jock,” goes to New Zealand
again.
The Clarence has three good
iires this season, Booyung, Ko-
hi-neor, and Leviticus.
Betrayer is first favourite
for the Christchurch, (N.Z.)
Handicap at 100 to 20.
£2OO has been subscribed
for the Barwon Rowing Club, who
lost their sheds and boats in the
last flood.
Eighteen of the Melbourne
Cup horses are entered for the
Champion Stakes, and seven for
the Derby.
Jim Perry, “Tattersall’s,”
and Jack Humphries, “ Tich-
borne,” have gone to Melbourne
Exhibition.
Mr. Grant’s costume a la
Captain Boynton was immense at
the opening of the Sydney Ama-
teur Sailing Club.
Dr. Webb, of East Mel-
bourne, knows the pedigree of any
racehorse in Australia, and the
genealogy of every peer in Eng-
land.
The greyhound Gill Gill,
recentlyiimported from Australia,
bas been accidentally poisoned
at “Taldhnrst," Christchurch
(N.Z.)
A Sydney clerk, who drew
Progress in Goyder’s £2OOO sweep
on the Melbourne Cup, has taken
£;!5o from a Sydney bookmaker
for his chance.
Pedestrianism is fashionable
in Townsville. A well-known
doctor gives the sport great en-
couragement. In a recent son-
ic, t Willmett defeated Schilling.
It is not often a dead heat is witnessed between
three horses, but such occurred at the Lewes races in
August, when the two-year-olds Mazurka, Wandering
h nu, and Scobill, ridden by three veterans —Fordham,
• muon, and Goater—made a tie of it for the Astley
Rilkes. As all three were heavily engaged, Scobill was
allowed to walk over.
The Melbourne man who controls the sweep
business has already drawn fourteen sweeps of £2OOO
each on the Melbourne Cup, and has opened a fifteenth,
so that he has now about £30,000 of public money in his
re ? e k. as an o: ® c e in a leading hotel, and in that
office, which is open to the public, is a receptacle
marked “Mr. 's letter-box." “ Men and women,"
fpour correspondent, may at all times bo seen there
O’ the dozen, dropping letters into the box, taking
•way printed slips announcing the result of the precious
and folding up £1 notes in envelopes,
•and it is a somewhat suggestive fact that as many
women as men are to be seen hovering round Mr. —-’s
letter-box.
The preliminary programme for the Intercolonial
regatta, to be held at Auckland on January 29, 1881, has
Jieen issued. The prize for the Champion Race for
wigantinea, schooners, and ketches, from 50 tons up-
wards, is fixed at not less than £lOO. A specialty in
connection with the regatta will be the Champion Four-
cared Outrigger Race, with or without coxswains: first
I'nze, £ioo and trophies, valued [at £5 each (presented
course Gallagher). Distance, three miles —straight
An English correspondent writes: — “ I hear
nuke, the jockey—the third or fourth best in England
t “lends paying you a visit, or rather settling in Aus-
fonu’ 5? is . a grand finisher, but often rides very
He will not be allowed to ride in England this
win , agam * hence, I suppose, his idea of depart iug. It
mud )e remem bered that last year the Jockey Club
win, 8 a . ru ' e t° license jockeys, and allow none to ride
i°ne. Luke’s has been taken from him for
struck Greaves with his whip after the race for
9 Fiel Handicap, at Huntingdon.
tii <T J ea t interest was felt in the first appearance of
e Australians on the Tyne. Quite a concourse seems
turned out to see the colonials perform, which
uid, Trickett in a boat of Hawdon’s, and Laycock
tho l Uew twaddle and Winship. Of this performance
for oets man says;—“ After making all allowances
thp stran ge boats and sculls, tbe display on the part of
snoAti l was disappointing to the general body of
irtll Ij®, au 'l if Trickett exhibited his true form, he
““Ot carry much Tyneside money in his forthcoming
cn with Hanlan. To show the feeling of the people
m SW9O| l yesterday we may mention that we heard
Tri f .i u 100 to 50 that Hnulau takes the lead of
lr »ckett in the first 100 yards.”
The big Christchurch (N.Z.) meeting takes place
on November ’9,11, and 12.
The Auckland Rowing Clubs inaugurated the
season by a procession of boats.
Tbe thoroughbred mare Sylvia was about to
drop a foal to Musket when the last mail left Auckland.
It should be a good one.
In the Kent and Derbyshire match the “ hop ”
county 'won by ten wickets. Scores: — Derbyshire, 55
and 103 ; Kent, 122 and 37.
Large scoring caused the Kent and Surrey match
to end in a draw. Score —Surrey, 257 and 209; Kent,
343 and 53 for two wickets.
Notts, is the winning county in the last English
cricket season. Of ten matches, there were six wins,
three draws, and one defeat.
“ If breeding is to be relied upon,” says Augur
in the Australasian, “the Hon. James White’s best
horse will be there, or thereabouts, in the Mari-
byrnong.”
Jiipp is now travelling a team in tbe English
provinces, and recently a match was played against a
twenty-two for the benefit of Charles Parr, the Surry
professional.
The Victorian intercolonial eleven consists of
Horan, Allee, Elliott, Mackay, Campbell, Pakman,
Maisson, Ferrnant, Trenwick, Terry, Coulthard, and
Gaggin emergency.
The Glebe Rowing Club Regatta is fixed for
Saturday, 3rd December next, in front of tbe club house,
with a programme of five races, one (fonr-oar string-test
gigs) being open to all clubs.
It is said that Vanderbilt, owner of the cele-
brated trotter, Maud S., has purchased the no less
celebrated St. Julien for £lO,OOO. It is also stated that
Vanderbilt gave the driver of Maud S. in the recent
great trotting match £2OOO.
Those old opponents, Notts, and Yorkshire, met
recently at Trent Bridge Ground, Nottingham. This
was the return match, and Yorkshire reversed the
former result, winning by five wickets. Score: —Notts,
102 and 92; Yorkshire, 77 and 148.
Myers, the American champion amateur runner,
can run, it is said, fast enough to beat any man in the
world from 75 yards to 1760. If this wonderful pedes-
trian continues to heat the records he will have to tackle
a locomotive or a racehorse, for all competitors will
fight shy of him.
Wo published last week the result of the great
American trotting match. The Toronto Mail thus
speaks of the affair : —The wildest enthusiasm prevailed.
Everybody knew the best time on record that had been
made before the timekeepers had made their announce-
meu. . . . Handsome testimonials wore presented
to the drivers of both the king and queen of the turf,
and this terminated the greatest trotting event the
world ever knew.
The principal items in the Intercolonial Yachting
Regatta, to be held in Hobson’s Bay, 15th January, are
—l, A challenge race for all yachts exceeding 15 tons
(or if less than 15 to he classed as 15 tons), belonging
to any recognised Australasian yacht or sailing eluh.
First prize £2OO, second prize £5O, third prize £10 —
£260. Entrance fee, £7 7s. 2, A race for yachts exceed-
ing 7 tons, bat not exceeding 15 tons, as above. First
prize £lOO, second prize £4O, third prize £lo—£lso.
Entrance fee, £5 ss. 3, A race for yachts not exceed-
ing 7 tons, as above. First prize £lOO, second prize
£4O, third prize £lo—£lso. Entrance fee, £5 ss. 4, A
race for all centre-board yachts, not exceeding 25 feet
over all, os above. First prize £5O, second prize £2O,
third prize £s—£7s. Entrance fee, £2 2s. Total prizes,
at present, £635. Mr. Angus Mackay, of Sydney, who
was present at the last committee meeting, said the
prizes were rather too small to induce Sydney to be
well represented, aud be thought the 15th January
inconvenient, in view of the Anniversary Regatta ou
the 28th January. Nothing, it was found, could now,
however, be done iu these matters by the committee.
It was notified that several yachts, including a 35-toner
at Auckland, were being built for the regatta.
Murdoch’s batting in the match against the All
England Eleven was a grand display of talent. An Eng-
lish correspondent writes as follows; —“ With four
wickets to full the Australians wanted 101 runs to save a
single-innings defeat. So marvellous a change, however,
came over the game that in the end the Englishmen
found it difficult to win by live wickets. The last two
wickets iu the Australians' innings put on no fewer than
140 runs, and this against capital bowling and flue field-
ing. The great up-hill fight made by the Australians
show of what stuff they are made. The credit is no
doubt mainly due to Murdoch, the Australian captain,
who went in when eight runs had only been scored, and
carried bis bat through after playing such an innings
that has hardly ever been surpassed, and one that will
never be forgotten. For five hours he defied the efforts
of England’s best bowling talent, and from the first ball
to the last he played iu perfect form, his hitting being
as clean and brilliant as his defence was sound and stub-
born. Of Murdoch’s 153, not out, it would he impossible
to speak too highly. He went iu first wicket down, and
occupied the wickets for five hours, and was in whil-t
319 runs were compiled. He did not give anything ap-
proaching a chance, and never made a had hit. Tiic
magnificent innings consisted of one five, eighteen fours,
three threes, thirteen twos, and forty-one singles.
Directly the last wicket fell the people rushed the
ground and formed a line, which Murdoch had to walk
through, and he received such a lusty and forcible
outburst of well wishes and praise as seldom falls to tbe
lot of a cricketer. There were seven bowlers tried, all
of whom got pretty severely handled. The fielding was
very fine indeed, and the wicket-keeping of Lyttelton
was beyond alt praise.”
The late race meeting at Napier, N.Z., resulted
in a considerable profit to the club.
Walters’ Auckland horse Piscatorins is reckoned
a good thing for the Christchurch Handicap.
A Waimate (N.Z.) hotelkeeper took ten tickets
in the £5OOO Melbourne Cup sweep, and drew three
horses, one of which is Mata.
A “ lady prophet ” in Dunedin, N.Z., advertises
that she will divulge the winner of the Melbourne Cup
for 2s. 6d. in stamps and one for reply.
The Pakuranga Hunt Club (Auckland, N.Z.)
closed the season with a successful steeplechase meet-
ing. Don Juan won the principal event.
William Pegram, of Boston, Massachusetts, is
the Yankee who challenges Rowell for the “long-
distance championship of the world” belt.
Our old friend Lone Hand, under the patronage
of Fred. Hedges, is going “ straight and well ” in N.Z.
just now. He bas placed several races to bis present
owner’s name already this season.
Mr. J. E. M‘Lean has prepared and got printed
at his own expense a neat little card in which all the
engagements of the St. Leonard’s Club for the coming
season are stated. Well done M’Lean.
Fan Bias, who fell while galloping at Ballarat,
is dead. Auckland also met with an accident, but not
a very serious one, at Flemington. He reared and fell
over, and got a rather severe shaking.
Lancashire played Kent at Canterbury. The
north countrymen proved too strong for the home team,
and won by eight wickets. Score Kent, 108 and 150;
Lancashire, 173 and 80 for two wickets.
The brood mares Lady Exeter and Missie, owned
by Mr. H. Phillips, of Victoria, have both died; and in
addition to these valuable animals he has lost no less
than eight foals, those by Stockham from Myth and
Victoria especially being valuable.
In the great wrestling tournament at Carlisle,
England, for the championship of Great Britain, John
Steadman again won the championship. One hundred
and eighty competed for the prizes. Steadman has
now won the championship seven times.
At Flemington, last Thursday, Grand Flaneur
and Avemus cantered a mile and then galloped the
Derby distance, the threo-year-old drawing away at the
finish and running the distance in 2m. 46Js. It was a
really good gallop, and impressed most of tbe onlookers
very favourably.
Mr. W. G. George has beaten record time for
four miles. “ Record” was, as you well know, W.
Slade’s 20m. 225., on April 26, 1875. On September 6,
Mr. George, at the L.A.C. ground, Stamford-bridge,
London, set himself to beat this, and he did so in the
following manner:—l mile, 4ra. 425.; 2 miles, 9m. 4Ss. ;
3 miles, 14m. 5045.; 4 miles, 19m. 49 3-ss. This is a
wonderful performance, and no mistake, and will take
a lot of rubbing-out.
Before the Australians left England, Mr. Joshua
Thomas, of Bradford, issued a challenge in which ho
undertook to back eighteen of Lascelles’ Hall to play
eleven of Australians for £lOO aside, on the Bradford
Cricket Ground, on any date they had open ; or this
failing to suit them, he would give £lOO for the use of
the ground and £lOO to each side.
A match, played between the Croydon and
Cambridge clubs, on the 16th, resulted in a dra w. The
following were the scores :—Cambridge, 55; Croydon,
33, with 4 wicketa[dowu. The hatting of Quill for the
Cambridge, the batting and bowling of Dennis, and the
wicket keeping of M‘Carthy for the Croydon, were most
commendable.
A well-known Sydney man, who has just re-
turned from a trip to England, was waiting at a crossing
in London on a cold, dreary and miserable morning.
He asked directions from a policeman, when the latter
observed, “ Yon look as if the weather is too cold for
you, sir.” On the gentleman replying that it was, and
that he came from Australia, the guardian of the law
exclaimed, “ Oh, then you came from the same country
as Trickett. I hope he will win, as I have put a trifle
on him myself.”
Says “ Asmodeus ” in the N. Z. Mail :
“Cricketers had better abstain from making 'ducks’
eggs ’if they do not wish to shorten their lives. At
least such was the warning given by the local emblem
of stubbornness, when the cable brought the news that
G. F. Grace was dead. Let me quote the exact words ;
* The deceased gentleman played in the All-England
match against the Australians on the 7th, Bth. and 9th
instant, but did not score in either innings. His death
must, therefore, have been rather sudden.’ Given at the
opening of the cricket season, the warning comes most
opportunely.”
“Larry” Foley, champion of the Australian
P.R., was presented with a bolt last night (Friday) at the
Queen’s Theatre. The belt cost £l2O. Evening News.
The golden cincture bravely gleamed
Around the Athlete’s stalwart frame,
Until, 'midst all the lights, it seemed
A brilliant zone of burning flame.
Embedded in the precious gold,
Many a sparkling gem was seen;
And on that costly belt were told
The victories in many a scene.
He stood before th ’ assembly vast.
And spoke to them in a modest strain.
He said the Ring’s grand days were passed
And he’d do battle no ’er again !
Then plaudits loud did read the air ;
Five hundred voices spoke his name :
It told the Champion that all there
Knew he had done enough for fame!
Greysteel, a grey gelding, recently from Victoria,
jumped well at the CampbeUtowu (Tasmania) show.
The tour of the Canadian cricketers in England
was a complete failure, financially and professionally.
Sam Cosstick has forsaken the Melbourne Club,
with which he has been identified for the last twenty
years, and gone over to the East Melbourne.
F. Morley took 85 wickets in the English county
matches this season, averaging 10 46 runs per wicket.
Alfred Shaw secured 63 wickets, averaging 8 32.
Keane ia training Lady Emma, Gitana, and her
companions at Wellington, N Z., for the Christchurch
meeting in November. They are all in good fettle.
E. Peate, the now great Yorkshire bowler, has
obtained 100 wickets in county matches this season, but
his average, IP6O, is behind both Shaw’s and Morley’s.
Yorkshire v. Derbyshire met at Huddersfield
recently, when the match ended in a victory for “the
Tykes ”by an innings and tbirty-seven runs. Score: —
Yorkshire, 226; Derbyshire, 127 and 62.
“Choppy” Warburton, now in America, [is so
anxious to get on a match before returning to England
that he has published a challenge to any man in the
world for any distance from one to fifty miles.
L. L. Smith has managed to get his Totalisator
Bill through the Victorian Assembly by a majority of
29 to 22. A petition signed by many clergymen and
church ofißcers was presented against the measure.
Greystanes, a Victorian steeplechaser, imported
into Tasmania by Mr. E. Ferrers, the Squire of Zell-
wood, and hunted there all that season, has won the
Southern Hunt Club Cup, beating all the local horses.
A race between two amateurs, A. Cansdell and
James Little (both of Petersham) came off in Went-
worth Paddock a few days ago. The latter got a start
of 34 yards. Little won by about 4 yards. The stake
was £5 aside; betting 3t02 en Cansdell.
The Australian horses King Quail, Ratcatcher,
Vampire, Tim Whiffler, and Maid of Honour, have
wintered well in Auckland, N.Z., and have just gone
into work for the big meeting to be held there an
Boxing-day and Ist and 2nd January, 1881.
Dr. W. G. Grace scored 89 and 57 not out in the
Gloucester v. Yorkshire match at Clifton, played on
Monday and following days. The contest ended in
favour of Gloucestershire by six wickets. Score:—
Yorkshire, 195 and 110; Gloucestershire, 302 and 84 for
four wickets.
An English paper remarks“ Bendigo’s death
snaps about the last link left between now and what it
is tbe custom to call pugilism’s palmy days. True,
Jem Ward is still alive; but he belongs to an even
remoter period, of which we know next to nothing."
Bendigo, according to some of the English journals,
fought most unfairly and cowardly at times, more
especially in his combat with Cauut in 1845, for the
championship of England.
Trnmp Card is serving mares
at Geraldine, N. Z.
Jim Swift has a great herror
of professional pedestrians.
The cricket and racing sea-
son have commenced in N.Z.
All the religious papers
quote Trickett’s price in tbe
betting market.
Any amount of speculation
and consultations on tbe Mel-
bourne Cup in N.Z.
The North Shore Rowing
Club (Auckland, N.Z.) propose to
purchase a new string-test gig in
Sydney.
The Dunedin Jockey Club
were greatly disappointed at no
nominations being received from
Australia.
The Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey
Club have decided to recognise
the newly-formed Tattersall’s
Association.
A Melbourne paper says
Murdoch is goiug to settle in
Sandhurst, and rumour says he
intends to get married.
Hanlan brings a boat for
his match with Trickett 30ft 6in
long, s£in deep, and weighing
only, it is said, 2411 b.
The Sydney - bred horse
Eandwick won the Waitaki (N.Z.)
Jockey Club Handicap with 7st
71b up, beating a good field.
G. Garrard, who won the
tricycle ra.ee at Lilly Bridge,
London, did the distance, ten
miles, in 44m. 48s., —wonderfully
fast tune.
All English rowing men
think that both Trickett and
Laycock row short, and do not
like the cross-handed style of Lay-
cock. It wins however.
They say Trickett is send-
ing out by the Cotopaxi, 100
colours (hankerchiefs) for his
match with Hanlan. They will
be a guinea each.
A match between the Oriental and North Shore
Belmore was played on the 16th, and resulted in a win
for the Oriental by 18 rurs, the score being—Oriental,
66; N.S. Belmore, 48. The batting of M'Cann (32) for
the former, aud Dawson (13) for the latter was very
good, as was also the bowling of M’Cann and Thomas
for the Oriental and of Huntington for the Belmore.
The clipper yacht Magic was built in 1864 by
Mr. W. Langford to the order of Mr. Alfred Fairfax,
who has sailed her in about fifteen races, winning all
but three, and has gained, ia trophies, to the value of
about £7OO during the five years. Mr. Fairfax having
taken charge of the Star of Peace gold mine, at Hill
End, has disposed of the Magic to Mr. James K. Fair-
fax, of the Sydney Morning Herald for the sum of
£2OOO, and tbe new owner has had this favourite yacht
placed in dock, where she is being fitted with new spars,
sails, &c.. prior to being brought out again to contest
for the National Regatta in January, and other events
in Port Jackson. The yacht originally cost £4OOO.
This ia how the London Sportsman describes
the movements of Trickett and Laycock :—•“ The Aus-
tralians have adopted a mode of training which is
certainly somewhat unique. They are about as ardent
pedestrians as could well be encountered. . . . The
pair, as a rule, rise about balf-pasts a.m., and indulge in
a ‘ short stroll ’ of four or five miles before breakfast.
This over, they are in a suitable frame of mind and body
to do justice to the cuisine of ‘ The Bells.’ Another
short excursion, and they embark for a pull. Their
modiie operandi is characterised by supreme leisureliness.
No one ever saw them in a hurry yet—very few are
found to avow that they have done more than a
paddle. ... If they dawdle over their rowing, how-
ever, the same cannot be said of their pedestrian
achievements. Having taken dinner, they are ready for
another of their ‘insignificant’ walks. . . . Nobody
exactly knows the distance they traverse, and we should
not like to depute any man under the calibre of a Rowell
or Blower Brown to accompany them. . . . They
come back apparently never having turned a hair, and
pine if they are not again on the war-path after tea. At
half-post ten they retire to rest, and, according to
report, sleep as much in one hour os some people do in
five. Trickett looks as hard as a nail. . . . Laycock
is not particularly corpulent, and the few pounds he has
to dispose of require a deal of pulling away. In a Sports-
man of a more recent date Laycock’s style is pulled to
pieces: “he dips his sculls deep, and his recovery is
far from smart.” He has, of course, since this Wiis
written defeated Blackman in the easiest possible
fashion. The same critic says "Trickett continues to
slide short, and his mode of going about business is pro-
nounced altogether unsatisfactory. Time may work an
alteration in these respects, hut the general public are a
disbelieving and incredulous set, and do not hesitate to
express grave forebodings as to the prospects of the
couple." __
THE [?] [?]CE COMPANY’S WORKS, LACHLAN STREET, WATERLOO—(SEE PAGE 3).


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Thompson and
DENISON HOUSE.
GILES,
358, 3607 362,~ GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPAETMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABEICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PAKASOLS
and
UMBEELLAS,
fTHOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Eooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
’ comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
_ ments, &c.
('THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
j lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from ICs to 30s.
I Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
every size.
('THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other iabrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABEICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is moat extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
-i meut of choice Washing Materials*
has never been imported to the*
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to BJd; French Percales, from 9|d,
to ltd; French Sateen, from 9fd-
to 18d ; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d ; Eoyal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to lid ; French Cambrics, printed
„ and plain ; British Cambrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ PAEA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Pai’asols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, Os 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Vmbrellas at
_ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66 li A C E CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HOEDEEN
(tbe “HOEDEEN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
g "EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
§ 171 PITT STREET.
| EDMUND WEBB,
w NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
►jj
14s 6d., 16s. 6d„ 215., 255.
£ TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
« All wool and well shrunk
>5 50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
P Sac pattern.
H well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
Q taste.
H all COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
W
H
e *
O o
O oa
fl
P? S
l-H 0 S
»« >
o S pu
CiOl)
■ O' o P
A
g H
O
° S
oAAtti
t H
A 00
W H
O
« a pH
M m «
0 £ d'O
1 I
CQ W
B
I Sfi
|oP o-
» > o
tB
a . C 5
< I
A
T ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
JLi WITH THE BARGAINS aud NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the citvl. LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
NOTICE! NOTICE;
M. GUTHEIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., { or
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith.
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
„ Baby Linen
~ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
-pi D W I N RICE.
On view this day
REAL NOVELTIES IN MILLINERY.
Very Handsome Dress Bonnets,
The Prettiest trimmed Hats iu Town,
Stylish Washing Hats for Children.
Ladies will do well to call at the
LADIES’ DEPOT,
And see the SHOW IN WINDOW before making their
purchases in MILLINERY.
THE FASHIONABLE FLOP HAT, from Is lid.
ED AY IN RICE,
SOO George-street.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRING
MATERIALS,
Ready made for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK aud SATIN POMPADOUR,
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVERY
FIGURE.
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from Is 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is iu thorough working order, and is highly appre-
ciated, as shown by the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY.
A PRETTY. SCARP, Embroidered Ends, only 61(1.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality, Is 9d per
4-BUTTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
3a lid.
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
Prachntes, Sunshades, and Ladie’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices
EDWIN RIC
5(0 George-street,
E,
[JOALCLIFF COAL-
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months^ ago'the
west payable price was fixed FOR THE TON ’
et, not onl> in view of the foreseen reduction in pnc
lowcaslle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a j l ,
oal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fosterci j
rade rivals. However, honesl and punctual (IeHU
ave gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing
land; and now I have received from numerous ■ •
uners, who have fairly tried it, numerous written cert
ates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PUr.I’OSKS. STEAM ENGINES. BRIO*
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIK>,
; not only saves, compared with any other kind ot , ' n( j
tel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, mPy ~
urahilitv, hut also produces a fire unequalled ror u
NO, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer or so
ulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, a-s
-ell know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, *c., will !*• tl)eT
mger by using it; and all classes declare that v tber
ot used'to its management they prefer it to eve
ind of coal, wood, or coke; and ACTUALi-» , N .£
lAN a IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL ton
iEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—deliver-d in town: —
18s. Best double screened ')
17s. Ditto single ditto f Coalch ■
16s. Ditto heap ditto, fer engines J
235. Ditto double-screened ( Newcastle.
225. Ditto single ditto
nail coal by special agreement.
'ood and Charcoal, &c.. at current price.
A. B. BLACK, ,
247 George-street-
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J^AVID
JONES AND
OEIENT CLOTHING
COMPANY’S
For Gentlemen's Spring and Summer ■wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, w ell made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s fid
per suit.
JQAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
/'The latest shape; ause-\
1 ful and durable suit ( 35s per
1 for business and ordi- f suit.
(, nary wear. j
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban-1 43s per
nockburns.’ for Spring j suit,
and Summer wear. )
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for [ 48s fid
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures, j
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
('Specially Light and')
| Durable, the materials |
having been well )■
I shrunk before being
I, made up. J
63 s per
suit.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking suits,
rin Superior Oriental'!
j Tweeds, cut in the |
• latest style, and J-
finished the same as
t ordered clothing. J
68s fid
per suit.
JJAYID
Orient
Serg Suits.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Beautifully light in')
Texture, permanent in (_ 38s fid
colour and very dur- ( per suit
aide in wear. j
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
fSpecial attention is in-'i
I vited to our Orient I
Gentlemen’s | Clothing, as being | Genlemens
Orient -j the best value, and [- Orient
Clothing. most perfect in stUe I Clothing.
| and Hush procurable |
L in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
('ln Superior Tasmanian')
\ Flannel, thoroughly (
) shrunk.
ISs fid
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
rChina Silk Coats Ifis fid each.
| Military Duck Coats, 14s fid each.
I Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s fid each.
I Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
1 Black and Blue Sergcrette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
('ln fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
1 In Super Black Merino, 255.
) In BlueSevgerette, 455.
C.ln Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s ("In fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
D.B. Frock -] In Black Merino. 30s.
Coats. Cln Super sergerette, 555.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Bummer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
('Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s fid.
1 ~ „ in Self Colours, 8s fid.
t , „ iu Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
| Super White and Fancy Mamlla, 8s fid.
LBlack Alpaca and Merino, 7s fid.
("In Superior, all Wool')
■I Tatnhary Tweed, well > 30s eacli
(. finished. )
{A Special Dress Over-'i
coat, silk trimmings, j
and facings, beauti- j> 55s
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
JONES AND COMPANY.
OY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOE BPEING AND SUMMEE WEAE.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theu EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’!
Blue Serge
Kulcker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
"1 7s fid, 8s
f. 1 Si
In neat fashionable Bd, I3s fid,
Tweeds, neatly cut ( 13s fid, 15s
and well made, and ( fid, 17s fid,
finished. ( it's fid per
J suit.
In new shapes, very") 12s fid to
prettily trimmed, and tins fid per
thoroughly well-made. J suit.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
20s to 27s
fid per
suit.
In superior Navy Serges’! ~4 s C(J .
complete with lan-1 ' 0(J .
yard, whistle, badge, |
collar and undershirt. J
suit.
fin light and dark mix-'|
| tures, cut in fashion- | 21s fid to
-J able styles, well tto 23s fid
| trimmed ana strongly | per suit,
made. J
/In fine durable Esta-i
J mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
j adapted for school and I fid.
\ general wear, )
Youths's Dia- (For dress wear ) 28s to 40s
gonal and Ser- trimmed and made in r
gerette Suits. i a superior manner. > 1
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J B. TOUDALE,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
656 GEORGE STEEET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Spring Millinery, now’s the time
„ Dresses, ready-made and made to order
„ Parasols, Satin, Silk, Pompadour
~ Hosiery, Lisle Cotton, Silk
~ Dress Materials, all kinds
Gloves, Frillings, Laces, Fancy Goods.
J. B. YOU D A L E.
"pIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEECEET AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 1 1
J. L. HORDERN.
rjr H E
CITY TAILOEING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDFR
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 634 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
T
HE
BEST AND LAEGEST
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
STOCK
J.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO OEDER
at
TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE. 37s 6d
ear All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
V ICAKS <& CO.,
' WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS.
!J l W
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. Gd.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
~ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
ECONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
WYNYAKD-STEEET,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter he known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See —then judge for Yourselves.


Chemists and Dru
EMSTRONG’S (CAMOM
l. AND LIVER PILLS Stai
General FAMILY APEBIE
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick
the head and chest, hal
heartburn, giddiness, wind
ness of the eyes. They pro it
of the stomach and boi
neither griping nor sickness
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL Cl
An elegant preparation, fc
the pulmonary organs. Thi
preventive for that fatal (
well as the most successful
colds, bronchitis, whoopinj
ing cough of consumption,
in the throat, and asthma.
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR I
“ Is recognised by medical
in Empirical Medicine,” be
CURE “ for this hitherto
relief from PAIN, and ar
HAQE.” Can always be
from TWENTY-FOUR t
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use
PARAGON PILE OINTM3
bined with the remedy. Pi
R. B. A R M S T
Chemist and Apothei
466, George Street,
(Opposite Marke
AKE NO MO]
but try
RANDERSON’
PODOPHYLIN LOZI
Do you SUFFER from HEAD
Then try 1
podophyl:
Do you Complain of Indigestic
Take a few doses of
podophyl:
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, and
BANDERSO
Do you constantly suffer from
If so remem b«
PODOPHYI
will soon cure, if taken as <
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any'of your children sick
can safely give them one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
*S3C Remember this, and always
Valuablo Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and (
45 and 47 George-sl
T ROYAL LETTE
The Grcates
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’f
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qnaliti
of Vegetable Mattox
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere oa
public, nor does it require any pu!
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publi
long deceived. In fact, people are:
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the u
High and low, rich and poor, ha\
fits from its use, and scarcely ar
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the <
The quick and instant relief fron
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF T
which, taken altogether, prove the
x- -l _ xi •cu—t.xv itr —a ~e xi.- i
Chemists and Dru
ÜBL I C
N
THE following Lis
WATSON’S RENOWNED P
MEDICINES,
bo well and favourably known to thi
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wor
Watson’s Gingerbread Woi
Watson’s Compound Chlor
Watson’s Strengthening E;
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s Excelsior Tooths
Watson’s Concentrated Go
Elixir (a most valuabh
can be obtained, wholesale and rt
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STEI
14 OXFORD STEI
Neae Htde Park C
(N.B. —The Tram-car stop;
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
Hotels, &c.
OCCIDENTAL
WYNYAED SQUA
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH
WM. TANNER, Prop
(Late Club House Hon
Situation Central. Terms
c.
w. E 0 B
MARKET STEEE
POE FIEST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
c
OAC H AND HOES:
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Its
Mb. C. SHEATHEE, PEO]
• * Buggv always in attendance al
Visitors from the metropolis i
finding the very best accomodation i
h °rirsLclass sport with the gun ■
immediate neighbourhood.
iThePurestStihi
\ V. IN
woe
UNIPEE TE
P. MELCHEES
O
T'
tfi
cs
rd
rd
rd
<n
&
mm
m
i
CHAS. BAT I
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STE;
4
Hotels, &c.
THE COMPAGNOI
CAFE AND CATERING CG
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTf
IS NOW OPEN
The Company have secured th«
Marriette, late clffif de cuisins (
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinner!
Three hours notice required for prr
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decora
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL 1
June 30,1850.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE C
serve up in their bes
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLO
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURJ
Patrons of our Theatres and Con
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite
K
RTIS’S CLUB
Corner William and Dow
This new and splendid HOTEL hs
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirte
will bo a sufficient guarantee that l
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has or
Tables, and is replete with every re
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c.,
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every
J. E.
rjiHE
SYDNEY COFFEE
138 George-street, and 13 Ne
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEI
The Premises are Three-Storiei
frontages to both George-street and
Quay, with a through depth of
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with conve:
tiring room, &C-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Roi
(all leading papers). Parlour,
Rooms, ppc., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Op
Roof, with View of Sydney Ha
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bal
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lan
and spacious Shop Accommodatioi
a most complete manner, and quit
the demands of thousands of pers(
Family and Picnic Parties sup
to order en the shortest notice anc
terms.
ATT EES A LL’S
TERRARA, SHOALI
Proprietor, P. ST A
(Formerly of William-street, Sydne
First-class accommodation for co
Good liquors, good ta
Good change for Sydney Sports
sport in the neighbor
Australian wine.-
PORPHYRY, equal to the
Awarded First Prize at 1
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. Gc
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H.
Agents, Circular Quay.
JOHN A. W I
WINE GROWER & ME
COOLALTA WINE
A. S. N, Co.’s Wharf, Cn
Sydney.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
Opera in Sydney, 27th November.
Signora Link returns to Melbourne.
Salvini visits America with John Stelson.
Amy Sherwin at latest was in New York.
Miss Dargon is now on a visit to Melbourne.
Pierce Egan’s will has been sworn under .£2OOO.
Ashton’s Circus is advertised for Inverell shortly.
Theatrical affairs in San Francisco are in a bad
state.
LeavilTs Burlesque Company is a failure in Now
York.
At latest, John Wilson and his show were at
Ceylon.
Tom Taylor’s will has been sworn under
£16,000.
Miss Marion Melrose as “ Smike ” is deliciously
impudent.
Lena Edwin is engaged for the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne.
The Aymidale amateurs are now rehearsing
“Pinafore."
The Geo. Simms Troupe performed at Tingha
on the 16th.
Edwin Booth wears boots with heels just four
inches high. * <
Herr Beno Scherek is doing well at Dunedin,
New Zealand. ■
Miss Beaudet says that her BandmaSVh is better
than his Borneo.
Miss Louise Beaudet made a very favourable
impression as Joliet.
“ Hamlet” is being worried in Dunedin by
amateurs and others.
Croswick thinks of returning to the colonies.
* No place like them."
W. H. Leake is pronounced the best elocutionist
on the American stage.
The Byronic Comedy and Burlesque Company
are at Invercargill, N.Z.
Al. Hayman remains permanently in Sydney to
look after his attractions.
Madame Cecilia Summerhays is travelling North,
giving pianoforte recitals.
A “ Galley Slave ’’‘company was to'leave ’Frisco
for Australia id November.
Miss Pomeroy, on leaving Australia, proceeds
to England on a starring tour.
Miss Leaf is due in Melbourne on the 30th,
under engagement to Lyster.
Lawrence Foley was presented with the cham-
pion belt last Friday evening.
Go»d light shows wanted in New Zealand. The
“ legitimate" is a drug there.
Harry Power joins Lydia Howardo’s company in
l?ew Zealand as stage manager.
Miss Pomeroy appears as Juliet to-night (Thurs-
day), for the last time in Sydney.
The advance corps of Cole’s great circus arrived
at Auckland, with the ZealandiaV
Richard Stewart and daughters will be on the
next San Francisco mail steamer.
Thornton, the scenic artist, has been fighting
with the amateurs at Napien, N.Z.
“ My Partner ” mode last season .£12,000 for
Bartley Campbell and Loras Aldrich.
Messrs. Love and Wilkinson had a benefit at the
Princess Theatre, Dunedin, recently.
The Auckland amateurs are having it all their
own way since Lingard’s company left.
Some of the Georgia Minstrels were at Mary-
borough (Vic.) recently for five nights.
Benhamo’s Circus is playing around Ballarat
prior to starting overland for Adelaide.
Several hard up “ pros.” in Auckland praying
or somsthing to turn up. So they say..
The Kelly Comedy Company are doing a very
successful tour overland to Queensland.
Val. Vose visited Scotland not long since. At
latest, he was about to start for. America.
A young English actor named Strathmore
recently dropped into a fortune of £BO,OOO.
The violin prize at the French conservatoire has
been won by Mdlle. Tua, thirteen years old.
De Lias and J. B. Steele went with the Lingards
and company to the southern towns in N.Z.
Al. Hayman has three trained carrier pigeons to
be used in the production of “ Kerry Gow.”
Nellie Mansell broke many hearts while in
Townsville. There isn’t a recovery even yet.
Keenan and Gilmore are dancing with Alice
Johns’ Burlesque Company in Hobart Towu.
Do.lge is a good mathematician. He says an
order for two will “ hardly ever” admit three.
The privilege of playing “Our Boys” in the
English provinces proved to be worth £20,000.
Greville is going to bring out his sons. They
will make their Mint before a Sydney audience.
Signor Giovanni Pompei is still residing as a
guc>t on a farm at Macquarie Plains, Tasmania.
Miss Marion Medway had quite a triumph at
the Hobart Town Theatre Koyal in “ East Lynne."
The Pinafore case, Williamson v. Lingard, was
to commence at the Melbourne sittings on the 20th.
The Loftus Troupe could not play at Towns-
ville, as the hall was engaged by the Dillon Company.
Sara Bernhardt commences her American engage-
ment at Booth’s Theatre the first week in November.
It is rumoured that Rose Hersee and Armes Beau-
mont join Emilia Melville’s opera company at ’Frisco.
Camilla Urso shortly tours the United States
under the. auspices of the Boston and Lyceum Bureau.
Charles Burford played Geoffrey Landfem in
Walter Eeyuolds’ "Tried and True," at Dunedin, N.Z.
In New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and Boston,
the theatres are doing a splendid business this season.
Barlow’s Circus is doing the South Coast dis-
tricts. Good business. Clever troupe, and a fine
band.
Liddy, the well-known manager, is in the 1 New
England districts, piloting the Kelly Comedy Com-
pany.
Jarrett and Rice’s “ Fun on the Bristol” is
drawing crowded houses at Haverly’s Theatre, Now
York.
A dramatic club has been started at Towns-
ville by several amateurs. They inteud playing onoe a
month.
J. K. Emmet was again arrested on the 9th
Sepß'mher, for being drunk, and was temporarily com-
mitted.
Gilbert and Sullivan cleared .£B5OO as the profits
of their American season with the “ Pirates of Pen-
zance.”
An English writer who knew Miss Neilson says
she was a native of Yorkshire, and the child of gipsy
parents.
Burton’s (or Woodyear’s) Circus has had a big
season up North. They ora now in the New England
country.
Ketten and Kowalski drove from Melbourne to
St. Kilda together, in the carriage of the former, on
Monday.
Mr. W. H. Newton, an excellent actor and
ellocutionist, but who has not played for several years,
is lecturing for the Franco-Prussian War Panorama at
tho School of Arts.
Dan Briggs, the genial showman Boniface of
Rockhampton, is the surest draw for a benefit in
Australia.
At the Royal the Williamsons are doing a fair
business. “Eureka” was to be produced on Saturday,
October 23.
C. A. Tyrell, of the South and Dillon Com-
pany, made himself a favourite among the ladies of
Townsville.
Miss Frederika Mitchell, of Sandhurst, is des-
tined, it is said, to win great laurels in the musical
profession.
The Empson Family were very successful in
Inverell last week. They intend playing there again
in December.
Edwin Browne was the original Gudger in
Louise Pomeroy’s “ Retribution,” once called, “ Had a
Round Axe."
The Confederate Diorama, with “gifts,” is the
present attraction at the Theatre Royal, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
At Haverley’s Niblo’s Garden Theatre, New
York, the Keral’fys are playing “ The Black Venus ” to
crowded houses.
Dick Stewart and his daughters purpose remain-
ing in America for a time, and are to have new pieces
written for them.
Miss Annie Mayor and Mr. Stirling Whyte, now
playing at the People’s, Melbourne, have won the praise
of the local press.
The Royal Marionettes have been performing
during the last few days in the vestibule of the old
Victoria Theatre.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers always secure
largo houses by the “papering” process. They still
haunt New Zealand.
Miss Flora Anstead is said to be the best eccentric
comedienne on the colonial stage; and in high comedy
she is remarkably good.
E. D. Davies has started northward. He in-
tends doing the colonies previous to his contemplated
tour “ round the world.”
The Theatre Royal, Melbourne, seats 3750 per-
sons. Dress circle, 550; upper circle, 650; pit, 1000V'
gallery, 1200; stalls, 550.
Le Clair has parted company with the Loftus'
Troupe, and takes a benefit at Rockhampton prior to
his departure for the South.
The Glen Innes Music Hall is amongst the best
in the colonies, and all professionals travelling, will find
every requisite attended to.
A variety company called “ The Star Combina-
tion Troupe ” has lately occupied the board’s of the
Princess Theatre, Dunedin.
Mr. John T. Raymond, the American, is being
well received in England. Several critics can’t stand
the play, “ Colonel Sellers/’
An Au3kland print is responsible for the state-
ment that Nick Roberts’ Humpty Dumpty troupe will
not visit Australia at present.
Mrs. Empson, of the Empson troupe, met with
a very nasty accident lately, at Uralla, near Armidale.
She was thrown from her horse.
Charley Hicks intends to keep his promise. He
is forming a new company of Georgias in New York,and
will give Australia another turn,
“ Les Cloches de Corneville” has been with-
drawn from the London Olympic, where it has been
performed 797 consecutive times.
Salsbury’s Troubadours now comprise Miss
Nellie M‘Henry, Messrs. N. Salsbury, Ray Samuels,
John Webster, and A. C. Steadman.
The Kelly Comedy Company had a break down
on Cobb coach on Friday morning, 22nd October. The
weight was too much for the coach.
Clara Stephenson has been visiting several
small towns in N.Z. lately. She appears at the Theatre
Royal, Christchurch, on October 26.
The author of “ Trapped,” the probable winner
of the £250 prize—like the writer of the Exhibition
Cantata —has modestly concealed his name.
The most popular friend to the “ pros.” in the
New England district is Mr. Frank Marshall, stationer,
at Glen Innes, who is also agent for the Music Hall.
The Empsons—Tommy, his wife, and child —have
travelled over 4000 miles in the Queensland and New
England country, and everywhere met with success.
Haworth’s Hibernicon, which visited Australia
some time ago under “ Alphabetical” Williams’ man-
agement, seems to always do a big business in America.
Frederika Mitchell, soprano amateur vocalist of
St. Kilda (Y.), has returned to that lively suburb from
Dunedin (N.Z.), where she has lately been staying and
singing.
“ Close the shutters, Willie’s dead,” was never
a favourite song in Townsville till Ella Carrington, of
the “ Stray Leaves,” sang it. Now it is the reigning
favourite.
Mr. Henry R. Harwood, the w’ell-known Aus-
tralian manager (says the Era) is in London, on the
look out for talent, to intnoduce to his patrons at the
Antipodes.
Bland Holt left for the Theatre Royal„ Mel-
bourne, on Tuesday, and will remain over Christmas,
bringing out the pantomime. How blind Sydney
managers are.
All the towns on the Great Northern Railway
swear vengeance against all “shoddy” theatrical ar-
tists. What a pity it is we can’t publish the names of
those impostors.
Lottie Wilmot recently gave a Sunday evening
lecture at the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, New Zealand,
“Melbourne by Day and Melbourne by Night." How
shocking, Lottie!
A country visitor, who had not seen Sydney for
years, at the end of Greville’s performance of “ Toby,”
in “Retribution,” called lustily for Billy Andrews—
“ Were they alike ?”
Grainger, of the Star, says “ Hollsway’s gone,
thank Heaven !” There is cause for this devoutness,
for no one remains behind who would venture to kick
Allerdale down stairs.
A full comedy company, including the celebrated
mimic Mr. Fred, Dark, of the London and provincial
theatres, will, it is announced, arrive in Melbourne about
the middle of December.
Mr. Frederick Marshall undertakes the manage-
ment of the Gaiety Theatre, Castlereogh-street, under
Mr. W. Bayless. Mr. E. Marshall and Mr. G. R. Ire-
land will be in the company.
Stuart Bolton, of dramatic fame in Queensland,
has adopted the Buffalo Bill costume. He is now to be
seen wearing a very large-brimmed hat, and lets his hair
grow down over his shoulders.
At the People’s, the Danites has ceased to draw,
although well put on the stage and capitally acted.
Miss Annie Mayor gives promise to become an excellent
actress; her soul is in her business.
This is what a ’Merican paper says : —“ Edwin
Kelly, of Kelly and Leon’s, is playing the Admiral in
Australia with J. C. Williamson and Maggie Moore, in
a novelty called ‘ H.M.S. Pinafore.’ ”
At the Bijon (Melbourne) “ Stolen Kisses ” gives
way to a now piece written by Wyhert Reeve, entitled
“The Better Angel," a drama of the Orange William
period, with Mrs. Lewis as the heroine.
In certain provincial towns theatrical managers
have only to say what they want in the paper and they
get it. In the Bulletin (when deserved) they “ get
it ” without saying what they want at all.
The production of “ Pinafore ” by Miss Leaf,
R. W. Carey, and Wellington amateurs, was a financial,
—if not an artistic —success. The former appeared as
Josephine, and Carey as Captain Corcoran.
The amateurs all up the Northerly districts are
under the impression that they are kings. “ Our Boys ”
Minstrels carry their spite so far against professionals
as to go out after dork and destroy their bills.
A London paper says that “ The Mighty Dollar”
is an improvement on “ Colonel Sellers" there is no
denying; and as there are two stars instead of one, its
chances of a prosperous run ore about doubled.
Charters Towers did not suffer less than Towns-
ville by Miss Nellie Mansell’s visit. One gentleman,
who never told his love, hut let concealment, &c., has
followed her south, to ask her to become his own.
Louise Pomeroy takes her benefit on Friday
night, at the Queen’s Theatre, when she will bid us
adieu. “ Heartsease,” now attracting so much atten-
tion in London, will be presented for this occasion.
Miss Fanny Wiseman is the leading attraction
with the Marion Willis troupe at the Academy, lial-
larat. At latest, “ Poor Jo” was being performed, with
Miss Wiseman in the title role. Business only fair.
When the mail left, Miss Leaf was about to have
a benefit at Wellington, N.Z. “ Pinafore” was the piece
selected, and the performance was to take place on the
quarter-deck of an English ship lying in the harbour.
Kelly’s Comedy Company (Liddy, manager) had
two good houses at Gunnedah, and they made so many
friends in that splendid little town that some of the
leading citizens escorted them down the line for fifty
miles.
The Kelly Comedy Company had to wait four-
and-a-half hours on Sunday week at the Weriss Creek
station for the train to Tamworth, and not a pub. or a
refreshment-room within miles. And still we’re going
ahead.
Harry Jerdan and Stirling Whyte have been
photographed as the “ Dauites,” or ‘‘destroying
angels." They bear a strong resemblance to the troupe
wh6 recently concluded a lengthy season in the Strath-
bogies.
The Carandini Opera Company did wretched
at the Hobart Town Hall last week. It com-
prises Madame and Marie, Sherwin, Huxtable, and
Josephine Deakin. They tour the country districts
this week.
W. H. Leake, a celebrated American actor,
arrived by the Zealandia, under engagement to At.
Hayman. He opens at the Queen’s Theatre, next
Saturday, in Bartley Campbell’s great success “My
Partner.”
Mrs. Lingard is a very fair artist. Landscape
is her forte. There is a number of other theatrical artists
whose forte also is.land-’scape. Unfortunately, it is not
the same style as that of the charming lady above-
. mentioned.
The children of the Townsville State School
gave a concert a week ago, which’pro ved a great success.
. Two recitations, “ Coals. Half a Hundred ” and “ My
Dead Molly,” by two little girls, were the favourites oi
the evening.
An exception to the general rnn of amateurs in
country districts is the Tamworth Amateur Dramatic
Club. They are all excellent fellows, and Mr. J. H,
Prince, the popular Cobb agent, is a principal member
of the company.
The performance of Mr. Fisher’s cantata has
resulted in a large number of subscribing members for
the Petersham Musical Union. The cantata, of which
everybody speaks well, is to be repeated to-morrow
(Friday) evening.
In London a right to hiss during a theatrical
performance has been legally conceded. It was held
that as no objections had been made to manifestations
of approval, similar demonstrations of disapproval were
perfectly legitimate.
Our N.Z. correspondent writes us that the
Lihgards and their capable comedy company are doing
a big business at the Theatre Royal, Wellington, in new
pieces. They opened in “ Stolen Kisses.” De Lias is
at the head of affairs.
The latest novelty at Drury Lane is a play called
“The World,” by three authors (Mr. Paul Merrit,
Mr. Pettit, and Mr. Augustus Harris). It promises to
be as big a success as “ The New Babylon,” but is stated
to be an improvement on that play.
A certain travelling company, up North, who
have their own travelling trap, amuse themselves
occasionally by throwing the breakfast ware at one
another. The wife is big and the husband is little, and
we all know which has the worst of it.
Our correspondent at Auckland', writing by the
last mail, informs ns that the Theatre Royal has been
closed since the Lingards left, hut was to be re-opened
for a few nights on the 20th, by Mr. and Mrs. Hart, in
their “ Happy Hours Entertainment."
Messrs. Lynch and M‘Donald telegraph to us
from Melbourne to the effect that Williamson’s rights
in Pinafore for the colonies exist till November 1881,
and that they have cabled their Dunedin agents to sue
Lingard for unlawfully performing it there.
Harry Leston made a great success as the
“ Artful Dodger ”in Oliver Twist, at the Queen’s. We
have not seen enough of this clever gentleman lately.
He is equally good in-almost any low comedy part, aiid
we are glad to chronicle for him a genuine success.
William B. Forrest, a native of Scotland, and
now a merchant in Boston (Mass.), has begun a suit in
the New York Supreme Court to recover the estate of
his second cousin, Edwin Forrest, the great tragedian,
whose fortune went to establish the Home for Actors.
The remains of Mrs. Charles Kean were bnried
'at Catherington Church, Homdean, Hants, in the
.grave where rests the body of her husband, Charles
'Kean, who “ went before ” her twelve years ago. In
the same tomb lie the remains of the widow of Edmund
Kean.
The Gunnedah “ talent,” when a show is in
their town, subscribe amongst them sufficient money
for the admission of one, and draw lots who is to go in'
The winner has his duty to perform inside. It is to
scratch the paint off the inside of the windows for the
outside audience.
Nat Douglass, and his charming wife, Miss Docy
Mainwaring, are leaving Sydney. They open with
Johnny Hall, in “Sour Grapes,” on November 22, at
the Theatre Royal, Adelaide. They will probably leave
here early in November, in order to have a peep at the
Melbourne Exhibition en route.
Neilson had far more gratitude than falls to the
lot of most folk who tread the boards. Her thankful-
ness to the first critic who helped her on with a kindly
□otioe goes beyond the grave. Most actors and ac-
tresses spurn the hand that gave them fame. Neilson,
superior to these, left big Joe K. £lOOO.
This notice recently appeared in a Parisian
journal:—“The dramatic critics on this paper are in-
structed to at least sit out one act of a new piece which
they are to notice. Can our contemporaries claim to
be equally conscientious ?” If that paper goes
“bung ” it will not be from want of frankness I
Walter Eeynolds, after drawing good houses at
Timam (N.Z.), went on to Dunedin, where at the
present time be is a big success. He opened at the
Queen’s Theatre in “Tried and True," and was sup-
ported by Burford, Hooper, Tyrell, E. J. Kennedy,
Mrs, Walter Hill, Bessie Vivian, Arethusa May, and
others.
Mr. J. C. Fisher’s cantata “ The Emigrants ”
(words by “ Austrolie ”) met with a most flattering
reception at Petersham on the 21st inst. One or two of
the numbers suggests reminiscences of popular airs, hut
nevertheless the work displays constructive and
dramatic power, and is full of melody. It is certain to
be popular.
The “ understandings ” displayed by Miss
Annie Montague in “ The Royal Middy ” for some
time past on the boards of the Melbourne Opera House,
are something to dream of. Add to the grotesque ap-
pearance the stoat lady presents the fact that she is a
thorough “Yank," audit will be understood why people
laugh at her so heartily.
The Stray Leaves Combination are doing well on
their overland trip to Adelaide. The Daylesford paper
gives them great praise. The company, which has now
been organised for twelve months, includes Miss Car-
rington, C. H. Taylor, and J. F. Forde (the old members).
Miss Lillie Reid, pianiste, and Bertie Willison, business
agent,—Charlie Fuller going ahead.
Sara Bernhardt’s style excels that of any Eng-
lish or American actress. It is simply that she under-
stands true negligd. In this alone does Bernhardt’s
stage attire surpass that of the majority of her com-
petitors. Style, exceeding elegance, she certainly
attains. Others can attain the same by carefully
studying these points of superiority; but in the art of
wearing with careless negligence what is strictly the
habiliment of the boudoir she is absolutely unsurpassed,
as she is in the exquisite taste with which she orders
these special garments.
An extraordinary robbery was committed at St
James’s Hall, Brighton. The Uoyal Hand-bell Ein e „ r ,
left the hall, and on returning, discovered that their
bells, 53 in number, and their music, in all valued at
£5O, had been stolen. Consequently, no performano.
could take place, as a fresh set of bells, although tele
graphed for from Loudon, could not be obtained
time.
Miss Horan, a young Sydney professional now
with the Lingard troupe, appears to be gaining fresb
laurels in New Zealand. The Post speaks of her as tb«
life of the drama, “ The Banker’s Daughter.” I n the
character of Florence Vincent Brown, as maid, wife 6
and widow, she created many agreeable diversions’
In the piece entitled “ Baby Betsy,” Miss Horan whs
no less successful.
At Haverhill, Mass., at an afternoon exhibition
of Cooper, Bailey and Co.’s London Circus, William H
Batchellor turned a double somersault over elevea
elephants which were placed side by side, save the last
two in the line, which were head to head. The third
elephant, the largest of the herd, was elevated on two
four-feet pedestals. All of the company were assembled
in the ring to witness the feat.
The South and Dillon Company played thirty
nights at Charters Towers. Lytton’s “ Richelieu ” and
the first night of “ Pinafore ” drew £BO houses. They
cleared £4O every other night during their stay. They
drew crowded houses at Ravenswood, where they
played for a week. They returned to Townsville, and
South thought it time to get married, and the event
came off, Miss Edith Pender being the “weaker
vessel.”
Fairclongh lately played Petrnchio to Miss Watt-
Tanneris .Ratharjpa, Physical difficulties proved in-
superable when they rehearsed the carrying of the ladr
off the stage. It was suggested that the melancholy
actor had better reverse matters and let the actress
carry him off! Such an arrangement would have been
unique and piquant. Miss Watt-Tanner was willing and
capable, but Boothroyd didn’t see it! Here was a chance
for making dramatic history recklessly thrown away
George Collier played Claude Melnotte for liis
benefit at the Hobart Town Theatre on Friday week
He was billed thus:—“Clipping from the London
Dailt Telegraph, May 1869: ‘ Claude Melnotte has
been played in this city by James Anderson and
others. We all know Anderson stood pre-eminent
but this we must assert—G. W. Collieris Claude is
original and effective in the extreme.’ ” Somebody
asked to see the cutting, but George had lost it
Still, his Claude is original, if not effective.
This is how a piously pretentions Sandhurst
deacon eujoyed the circus:
The circus came and the deacon went
To show the children the great big tent.
And the steam piano, and coach of gold,
And the gorgeous lion-tamer bold.
The children looked with mute surprise
Ou the beast, but the deacon’s eyes
Fell mostly ou the damsels fair,
Who flew in spangled tights through air.
Deacons are very good men no doubt,
But the circus season draws them out.
Miss Neilson’s English medical adviser in Paris
has been writing to suggest that her death came of the
stupidity of the French doctors, he unfortunately bein°-
from home when she beca'me ill. All sorts of stories
are about touching the early days of the beautiful
actress. One has it that she was a “filler” in a mill;
another that she was a nursemaid with a partialty for
putting baby to sleep by reciting Shakespeare; another
that she tramped to London, and for one night at least
slept under the trees in Hyde Park, as tramps db:
another that she was first on the stage as a common
ballet-girl.
It may not, perhaps, be generally known that
George Simms, the veteran cosmopolitan comedian,
now in Inverell, gave the initiative to Alfred Gianville
Vance (the great Vance) to His knowledge of the stage
in the years 1848-55; in fact; first moulded him to the
business ; as also the popular Albert Steele, another apt
pupil in the comique line, getting him his first engage,
meut, as “ utility,” at the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh,
under Mr.R. H. Wyndham. Steele, Simms, and Vance
were boys together. Many others have “ fretted and
strutted their hour” since, both in the old and tins
country, from the experience of the before-named
-“old stager.”
Sketch of the Loftus Troupe.—The company
played at Brisbane to a big business; thence to Gympie,
where there was a run of nine nights to good houses.
At Maryborough, four nights of dulness, and at Rock-
hampton for a week to only fair houses. Here Le Clair
left the company, and then they started on to Mucker
and Townsville. Le Clair took a benefit at Rock-
hampton on the Bth, and the affair being under the
patronage of the leading citizens and the military com-
panies, It was a success. Le Clair comes on to Sydney,
and leaves for the States by the San Francisco mail.
Mr. W. J. Russell, of Omker and Russell, has likewise
left the troupe, and intends returning to America
shortly.
Mr. Godwin, of Herr Strauss’ band, and Mr. W.
S. Lyster, are at loggerheads. The first-named gentle-
man asserts, and the latter denies, that an agreement
was made between them whereby Mr. Lyster was to
have the services of the band for five nights in exchange
for a stated consideration. There is going to be legal
trouble about the matter. A good deal of strong com-
ment has been evoked by the fact that Mr. Godwin
obtained the exclusive use of the Melbourne Botanic
Gardens, a place of public recreation, last Saturday, for
the Austrian band, and those who were willing to pay
for hearing them. The Minister for Lands declines to
accept any responsibility in the matter of this arrange-
ment, and blames his subordinates, who, of course, have
to shut their months under pain of dismissal.
Miss Neilson's fortune, it is said, amounts to
the nice little snm of £25,000, without reckoning cer-
tain property in Chicago. J, K. is not the only lucky
man, for young Compton, who went her last'tour with
her, is to have another “ thou.” Compton, by-the-way,
has given to the world some interesting particulars
respecting the tour referred to, and also touching the
circumstances of the poor actress’s death. The story
of the indignity to which her body was subjected turns
out to be all moonshine. The corpse was taken to the
Morgue in a proper conveyance, and the Morgue that
received it was not that ghastly room where people
stare through a glass partition at the bodies of sui-
cides, the “found drowned,” and le * nusilrahlea who in a
big city have come to a violent death. No -Miss Neil-
son’s remains were taken to that part of the building
set aside for post-mortem examinations, which, ac-
cording to Mi - . Compton, is as clean ns any English
hospital.
Our X.Z. correspondent sends us the following
interesting letter from Mr. P. F. Baker (Baker and
Purron), which was received by a gentleman in Main-
land a short time ago:—" We played 50 nights in
London, and then started on our provincial tour with
our own company. We opened in Dublin, Ireland, and
we are the only stars in our line that made any money
there. We have since played at Birmingham, Nor-
thampton, Leicester, and Liverpool, and we have l«en
a success, financially and artistically, in all the above-
named places, and should we pay them a second visit,
we will very likely do great things. Prom here we go
to Manchester, and our time is all filled up to the day of
sailing for America, Doc. 6. We open in America on
Christmas Day, and play four months —time all filled.
We then return to England. I met last week, in Liver-
pool, Dick Thatcher, who is ahead of Hiscocks und
Hnymau’s Australian Minstrel Troupe. They open in
Manchester for two weeks on Oct. 9. They pay £TW
per week for the Hall, which is too much, and I doubt if
they will make auy money. I saw Emmet last week-
after being in the Inebriate Asylum in New York —look-
ing splendid. He sailed for America two days ago- 1
also saw Val. Vose, who has arrived from America* jnst
for a trip; he returns shortly. Charles E. Verner, from
Australia, aud who has beeu playing Fritz at the Cape,
lately a rived from America, aud is at present playing at
the Que >n‘s Theatre, Liverpool, in an American comedy
culled “ Dr. Clyde.” He was well recieved by the Press,
hut is d dug no business. He told me he would put on
“Fritz ” after Emmet hud left for America. We often
think of dear old New Zealand and Australia, and wish
ourselves back there, just for old acquaintance sake, and
to let the sun shine onus once more; we preferit to tins
country, I can assnre yon. The climate here is beastly’■
Nothing but ruin, rain, and still some more rain. Well,
if all goes well, we shall return to New Zealand and
Australia within three years, anv how. Salsbury s
Troubadours played against us in Liverpool, and they
were a failure. They were in Dublin last week, and at
present are in Glasgow, which city we play in later on.
They are disgusted with England.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
Water on the brain is what’s the matter with a
a many un-civil engineers just now. The Prospect
Tveimv Hill schemes should be pretty well played
, hv this time; and the proper thing for the Govem-
°Ut + to do would be to offer a swinging reward, of say
Mori 000 to the first man who would supply us with the
• 'rl boiled. It would then come in handy for a great
important domestic purposes beside# the brewing
“flinch under the influence of which so many advo-
win thousands of common people over to the
i Sous cause of intemperate total abstinence. Besides,
gl ° the reception we could give the street organists and
Jlitical canvassers.
At the Post Office sports last week the lightning
won ten races to the postal clerks’ two. This
oves that “putting a girdle round the earth” in 2
£ m-s and 50 minutes is a far more healthy style of work
itou dabbing letters or licking the frost off penny
tarons Bussell won the sack race, the other Deer-
fT/Uvin- lain down to think over the Chinese ques-
tion! tods of sack iu genera1 ’
Dr. Faustus’ first visit (so people say)
Was to see the fair Helen of Troy ;
Had this nice young man but liv’d incur day.
He’d have asked for Louise Pom’roy.
The above is a revised translation of Goethe, by Dr.
Beg.
The conspicuous success achieved by Mr. T. M.
THlveen in his contest with Dr. Renwick, for a seat in
tie Assembly for East Sydney, has proved to him that
Tf wou i(j p e ungenerous to annoy the doctor any more.
In fact he looks upon him as a white man, who should
riot be ’interfered with ; and he has consequently gone
to men of another hue (and cry) at Newcastle, On
Saturday night Mr. Dalveen met the voters there. He
is reported as having told them that he liked miners,
and that “ gold, copper, and coal had made the colony
Shat it was—one of the greatest in the world. ’ ’ Though
no mention was made of wool, there were cries—appar-
ently in favour of the candidate, who went on to say
that his interests and those of his hearers were iden-
tical This should not be very surprising, considering
that Mr. Dalveen is a publican, who would just as soon
dispose of his grog to a miner with money in his pocket
as to any stove-pipe swell without it. The Dalveen has
long been liberal in this respect, and will doubtless
continue so for some time to come.
There has just occurred another instance of the
fact that, without being plagiarists iu the slightest de-
cree two very great men may happen to express them-
selves in precisely similar terms. When the great
Lord Macaulay was only four years of age, that rising :
historian had already gone in for tea-meetings and
effervescent dissipation. At one of the former a large
can of Bohea, at a temperature of 211“ Fah., was acci-
dentally spilled into his lap, and he actually gave vent
to his annoyance. About half an hour afterwards a
kindly matron asked himhow he felt, and the writer of
the “Lays” said “The agony has slightly abated !”
The very same words were used by our new C.M.G.
when to his latest baptism was added confirmation.
These verses need neither introduction nor dedi-
cation. Suffice it to say that they were suggested by
the great utterances of a very little man. En route,
then:—
He stood upon the stage—a dusky wight—
A little podgy figure—oh, so rum ! _
The air that he assumed was learned, quite ;
And frequently he tapped his little “ turn.”
The shiv’ring audience numbered quite three-score;
The “ dead-head ’ ’ element was in great force;
The doctor’s sexton nodded near the door;
While bellowed little Beg till he was hoarse.
On Hell’s existence he would stake his soul';
The Rabbi’s theory he laughed to scorn;
He knew that somewhere yawned that big black hole,
. Or where had all his youthful playmates gone ?
He told them how to go there—whatit cost
To reach th’ abode of brimstone and all evil;
He told them—so there should be nothing lost—
How they could best propitiate the devil.
He spoke for two long hours—or even more-
in tones that were now hoarse, now loud, m w deep;
He talked about the devil till he saw
He’d talked his little audience all to sleep
But when his voice had ceased they all awoke.
And “ idioms ” used quite terrible to tell;
Then talked about a rusty raven’s croak.
And wished that raven fluttering in
When Dr. Slade was here he had a pretty sister.
Well, of this pretty sister a certain mesmeric spiritu-
alist became madly enamoured. The young lady, who,
like her brother, was “ about as fly as they make ’em,”
appeared to return his passion; and, lo and behold, it
came to pass that Dr. S. and his sister took up their
abode at the house of the lover Shrill Happilando, and
they did tarry there, and did fast and make merry for
a long month. It was arranged, at length, that
they should depart for America, and that Shrill Happi-
lando should set his affairs in order and follow to New
York, where the nuptials were to take place. So they
departed, and Shrill immediately commenced making
frantic arrangements for taking up his abode in the
Slates. His house was sold, the last paper at his law-
yer’s signed, his outfit ordered; when just as he was
about to book his passage by the ’Frisco mail he
received a packet from his inamorata. It merely con-
tained a piece of weddi»g cake, and a scrap of rather
greasy paper bearing these words, “Dear Shrill, —We are
living at 16 East 'Twenty-seventh-street, New York.
Come and see us. At home every Wednesday after-
noon from 3 till 5. John desires to be remembered.
—Tours in the spirit—lrene Matilda.” Goaded thus
to desperation what could Shrill Happilando do to
revenge himself upon humanity. Only one thing.
Start a “ comic ” paper. And he did it!
“ The dress circle of one of the city theatres was
honoured last night by the presence of a well-known
politician, in a delightful state of obfuscation. He’d
been ‘ in the sun.’ ” Evening News.
So, a n well-known politician,”
In a very drunk condition.
Can just make an exhibition
(Without any prohibition
In the theatre) of himself—
Just because he has some pelf,
Altho’ f the inpatrician.
Made a sim’lar “ exhibition,”
It would be the bobby’s mission,
For that very grievous sin.
Just at once to run him in !
But a “ well-known politician”
Is a very nice position!
You can bluster as you please,
You can hiccup at your ease,
In the theatre or saloon,
Like a navvy or a loon.
You can curse and you can swear,
Flay the antics of a bear.
Just because of your position
As a “ well-known politician
A sweet blessing, don’t you see,
Of a country that is “free.”
Sergeant, a refreshment caterer at the Melbourne
Exhibition, was knocked down by Mr. Munro, one of
the Commissioners, upon whom he was attempting to
serve a Supreme Court writ for £2OOO damages.
“ A writ! ” Mnnro cried, with a frown, —
And then he knocked poor Sergeant down.
But soon as he the thing had read —
“ Just please pick up that man,” he said —
"So sorry Sergeant—ha t—l say
I really thought ’twas a ca set.”
There is no success yet with the inventions for
establishing communication between the preacher and
his sexton. Up north a Wesleyan clergyman invented
a code of handkerchief signals. One wave meant he
wanted water; holding one end in his teeth and the
other in his right hand meant “ shake a boy on the
side of the churchand waving the handkerchief three
times around his head was an order to the sexton to
Poke the fire. The system was ingenious, but it did not
w ork, the congregation assumed that the minister was
engaged in a flirtation with the soprano of the choir,
End that his signals were made for herbeneflt. The
result was a scandal and an ecclesiastical trial. Then
the Rev. Mr. of agreed with his sexton
.that whenever he exclaimed, “ Oh, my bretheren! ”
a glass of water should be brought to him. This was
for a time quite successful; but one day the minister
exchanged pulpits with a Baptist friend. It so happened
that the Baptist preacher began seventy-three sentences
by actual count with the exclamation, “ Oh, my
bretheren!” and every time the sexton brought him a
glass of water. Of course, this attracted attention, and
excited the minister’s indignation, who regarded it as a
sarcasm on his denominational fondness for water.
Still, it is doubtful if he was excusable for throwing the
seventy-third glass with its contents at the head of the
sexton, and certainly his conduct in kicking the latter
down the pulpit stairs admits of no Justification.
What might have been! —See Report of Messrs.
Edmund T. Blackett, G. Allen Mansfield, and C. H. E.
Blackmann on the “scamped” foundations of the new
“ great hall ” now in course of erection behind the Town
Hall.
The feast was spread, the grace was said.
The band l>egan to play;
The fur-robed Mayor was in the chair,
Amidst a grand array.
Great Sirenree, the C.M.G.,
The Ministree were guests;
And waiters there in linen fair
Attended their behests.
And merrilee the cutleree
Incessantly did clash:
And oft the tone of M’Elhone
Cried gruffly for “ more hash! ”
So circumspect, the Architect
Of Sydney there reclined.
On him, in vain, they pressed champagne—
For David never “ wined.”
“ Come, drink a toast —the country’s boast! ”
The jovial Mayor does cry.
“Tap, tap, tap, tap.”—“Bap, rap, rap, rap”—
The guests do all reply.
“Sol Drink with me great Sirenree! ”
(With cheers the air resounds),
When from the wall of that great hall
There come the strangest sounds.
Crack, bang 1 the floor breaks with a roar
And all are swallowed up;
And on the feast, that night at least
The Town Hall fats do sup.
If anyone thinks the Government printers are
asleep so far as sporting matters are concerned, they
are making a big mistake. These type jostlers are quite
sTpushing lot, and not content with having a boat club,
a glee club, a gospel club, and a euchre club, they now
propose to start a sort of brass band, and a cricket club.
Several instruments for the band—such as eighteen
drums, one fife, one German concertina, one Jew’s-harp,
and a triangle—have already been purchased and as soon
as a hall can be engaged to practice in, the Government
will build a lunatic asylum and a shooting alley imme-
diately opposite, so as to have every accommodation
within easy distance.
Trade seems to have improved over here since
the Melbourne people opened their big show, and money
is decidedly easier, —especially if you want to spend it.
There’s a grocer in George-street, however, who says
he has one line in the Oilmen’s Stores department that
he will never make his own money out of. He probably
alludes to his dam-sons.
Canon Smith, in a recent lecture which he
delivered in a small town called England, observed that
Australia was a perfect Paradise. Good. 11,253 persons
committed suicide in Australia during the past year,
and half of these probably went to the silent land
through pressure of their creditors. How’s that for
Paradise ?
The man with the mission was in good trim on
Sunday last. His camp was pitched in Moore Park,
and for three hours he howled, and prayed, and
expounded Scripture to 7 girls (whose total ages would
amount to about 15); a perambulator, two kangaroo
dogs, and the Park pump. Every one present seemed
deeply affected, especially the pump, which shed floods
of tears every time the preacher or some one else
touched a responsive chord.
By the way waiter, a word in your ear. I have
frequently been pained at noticing the fiendish manner-
in which you serve your good templar customers.
When an honest but thirsty son of temperance calls on
you for a drink, he walks cautiously and unostentatiously
up to the bar, leans over, shades his mouth with one
hand, and confidentially tells you, just between man
and man, the particular sort of fluid he feels he’d like
to wrestle with. Pou however, immediately violate
this confidence. First.you dive at the pumps as if you
were working on board a leaky ship off Nobby s;
after this you smack the glass down in the most con-
spicuous part of the counter, just ns if the counter had
done you a mortal injury, and finally you reach the acme
of base ingratude by yelling out “ long beer, wan,” tea
tone that is probably heard in the New Jerusalem. This
(His the good templar’s soul with sorrow ; and I believe
it also costs him a crown for a fine at his next teetotal
meeting.
The inhabitants of Parramatta are in a state of
the wildest excitement and delight simply because they
have had one old dam bestowed upon them. What’s a
solitary dam to make a fuss like this about. Why The
Bulletin receives about a thousand a week from every
“ geebung ” from here to Melbourne. Our cellar is full;
our back garden is full; in fact, we have dams enough on
hand to supply half Australia. And yet Parramatta
puts on frills, and has bonfires and tea meetings and dog
fights over one paltry little dam. If there’s a heavy
rainfall, the next we’ll possibly hear of is the local clergy
manoeuvring to “ stop that dam roaring.”
The young Evangelists have at last hit upon a
new plan for spreading the gospel teachings. The
apostles now sally forth at dawn with goodwill to men
in their hearts, and a bucket of tar and a. brush in their
hands. Presently they rein up in front of a newly white-
washed fence, and tar out “ The wages ov sin is Death—
and 7 days,” after which they glide softly away, and
speculate' to themselves how pleased the owner ot that
fence will be when he thinks that by its aid he may per-
haps gain one poor, erring soul. Some of these days,
however, the fence proprietor will borrow a gun, and
then there will be buck-shot and trouble about that part
of the apostles’ anatomy which, as Milton says, “is
farthest from the east when they gaze on the rising sun
at early mom.”
Everybody knows that the miracle-worker was
our best exhibit at the Melbourne International, yet
he’s not been well received. Algles thus sums him up
“The Revelation of Red Flannel is the latest develop-
ment of credulous superstition. Imagination doubtless
exercises a powerful influence, and many of us know
how efficient a cure for toothache is the dentist’s door-
step. To imagine persistently a pain in your little fin-
ger will sometimes produce it. And thus it is that Pro-
fessor Perfect Cure may have been successful in in-
fluencing some nialade imaginaire to forget his ailment.
The fashionable doctor’s' bread pill to the healthy
patient who wants a prescription is much the same
kind of thing. What makes one suspect the game is
the mark of the beast—the taking of money for the
working of miracles. The occasional free dispensation
is only part of the business, like the theatrical dead-
head.
Westwood Ho! Many of your subscribers being
anxious to hear of this reverend gentleman’s where-
abouts I hasten with tidings. Just after shearing time
1 met him at a station on the Castlereagh. A long
claw-hammer coat, that looked like the leaves of the
forest when summer is green, adorned his back, and his
nether extremities modestly retired into the recesses
of a huge pair of Wellingtons. In sooth, so metamor-
phosed was the gentle apostle, that when he entered the
yard the hands of all of us (ten in number) ascended
quite mechanically, and our pockets turned inside out
involuntarily. In dread consternation we stood,
grouped together awaiting our fate; but when he brought
us within range of his voice, and launched out a cheery
“good morning’’—well, I’d a denied side sooner he
had shot some of the other chaps. However, we
revived, and one of the boys showed the pastor to the
station, whilst another went for a bucket of water, and
the remainder of us held his steed together. The poor
old arab seemed a good sort, too, but rather careworn
about the knees, as though it indulged very much in
genuflexion, perhaps with the view of removing by con-
stant prayer whatever weight of sin it carried on its
back. During the evening, the ladies titivated np one
of the sheds, and at night we had service therein. After
preaching a neat tlittle sermon, the missionary com-
menced “ Hold the fort for He is coming,” and was
letting us have it in slap-up style, when Big Jim
popped in from Carinda, with a mirth-provoker
under his arm, and upset the whole of the proceedings
bv irrevently exclaiming, “What a illumina-
tion.” Three years have Sown since Jim made that
remark. What has become of the apostle in the
meantime I don’t know, but if Proctor is anywhere
near the mark, I should imagine that a trifle over
2500 millions of miles separates him from Heaven.
There has been rejoicing in Melbourne over the
obtaining of a half-million from Sydney. A well-known
writer thus refers to the matter; —There have been
several capable artists at work in the Melbourne money
market this week. Mr. Goyder drew a £lO,OOO Cup
sweep. Mr. J. J. Miller completed his fifteenth £2OOO
sweep, milking up £30,000, but Mr. Berry has distanced
them both. Some of the despondents were much cast
down at our Sydney friends carrying off nearly the
whole of our half-million Treasury Bonds. But after
all, you know there are compensations. Little Kitefly
says, "If they’ve got our paper, haven’t we got their
money P What is there to cry about ? ”
V.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Babylon is defunct. Perhaps very few Syd-
ney people have had the felicity of reading Babylon.
If so —tant mie ax.
The Exhibition will not be an even moderate
financial success unless it be opened at night. Mel-
bourne people like going out at night.
Soudry as a show is played out. This much-
persecuted individual is now found to be a quiet indus-
trious fellow, who works hard in the French court.
The St. Kilda Esplanade is being carried right
round the beach to Sandridge. When the work is
finished, the drive between the fashionable suburb and
the busy port will be a charming one.
The prettiest child yet seen in Melbourne is the
two-year-old daughter of Horace Stubley, the Charters
Towers mundic-kiug. A new lanthe, with “ eyes like the
gazelle’s, now brightly bold, now beautifully shy.”
J. J. Casey’s French is execrable. It sounds as
if it had been acquired at New Orleans. A commission
has been appointed by the French exhibitors to enquire
into the circumstances under which Jay Jay first began
to lisp in Gallic.
Another big hotel is being erected on St. Kilda
beach by an enterprising tailor whom nobody thought
was rich. At present, The George, a most agreeable and
splendidly-appointed hostelry, presided over by Host
Wimple, holds sway.
Money-getting is a mania here. Two big capi-
talists recently died insane. Avarice, it is said, brought
on madness, and the rich men started for the better
land under the delusion that they didn’t leave enough
money to pay for their funerals.
Before Ned Kelly was allowed to don William
Gaunson’s overcoat, the pockets of that garment were
searched. However, nothing was found beyond a hand-
mirror, a penny with a hole in it, and the rough draft
of William’s next election speech, to be delivered a
couple of years hence, probably.
Ofliterature. The Australasian announces
the publication, on the 6th of November, of the first
instalment of Sir Charles Qavan Duffy’s “Young
Ireland: a Fragment of History.” This will be found to
be extremely interesting to all who take an active
interest in the Irish Troubles in ’4B, and the history
thereof. Mullen advertises the second series of Jas.
Hingston’s (J.H.) “Branches from the Mail Routes ”
in the following style .-—“Australian Abroad: Palestine,
Ceylon, India. Have you seen the New Volume P” This
puffing advertisement is scarcely consistent with the
tone of the excellently-bound, well-writtcn volume, the
charm of thousands of intellectual readers.
The Young Men’s Christian Association, de-
termined to abolish horse-racing, announces a steam-
boat excursion down the bay for the Cup day. No doubt
there will be a heavy boat-load of good young men and
women; but if they all get drowned—which I hope they
won’t—we’ll have at least the melancholy satisfaction
of knowing that not much Norman blood will mingle
with the limpid waters of the bay and the Melbourne
Tiber.
Mr. Hickman Molesworth, who is to defend
Ned Kelly, is the clever son of Mr. Justice Molesworth,
Australia’s foremost lawyer. Mr. Molesworth is famed
for his wide knowledge of legal technicalities and his
quibbling abilities. He it was, I believe, who found the
legal Haw which led to the conviction of Mount and
Morris, of Carl notoriety, being quashed. Hut Mr.
Molesworth is far more than a mere lawyer. He is a
most eloquent man, and our second best criminal
advocate.
A very strong national feeling is growing up in
Victoria. Almost every native—at any rate, every boy
born of working parents—is educated in Protectionist
“ principles,” and the natives appear to have made up
their minds to vote at the elections for none but native-
born candidates. “ In ten years," says old John Storia,
M.L. A. for North Melbourne, “ there will not be a single
Britisher in the Victorian Parliament.” From this it
is quite evident that every parent looks upon himself
as a manufacturer —of caudicfktes for Parliament.
A suburban lady, well known in society, the
wife of a Melbourne hospital surgeon, had a pet
kangaroo, which fell sick. She thought she knew a little
about medicine, so she gave to the animal a “ nobbier ’
of whiskey. It got worse. A little while after it might
have been seen carefully covered up in blankets, and
with hot flat irons applied to the soles of its feet. But
the once wild and free marsupial has gone to that land
which by the blackfellow is called Pundyil, despite the
internal application of the “ real ould shtuff ” and the
outward plaster of flat-iron.
Puffing agsin. Boss Levey advertises his
Exhibition in true Bamum style. Next Saturday the
cantata “Victoria” is to be given, and the “Boss
advertises this attraction by repeating the word
“ Victoria,” A VA merique, half a dozen times, and hunts
up an audience by holding out the splendid inducement
that on the payment of an extra charge of one shilling
a chair may be reserved. Dear Levey, we come not to
hear your cantata nor to admire the personal attrac-
tions of your army of Vales, but to examine, app»eciate,
and admire that for which all exhibitions are conceived
and erected, namely, the exhibits.
Cole, of Book Arcade notoriety, has bought
Wright’s Colosseum, an cstablishmentat which foryears
past have been provided entertainments the reverse
of edifying, and liquor which the gods would not have
drunk. However, Cole is going to change all this, and
to °ive to Apollo what was formerly owned jointly by
Bacchus and the Muses. Cole has made his fortune,
and has acquired for himself so excellent a personal
reputation, that when, a little while ago, he advertised
for a wife, he had many to choose from, and was able to
select a lady worthy of himself. The man who starts
a Book Arcade in Sydney will make a fortune.
Mons. Kowalski is a musical marvel. He can
play the piano like an angel and like a hoodlum; in the
first, style his fingers gliding over the instrument pro-
duce sounds like uuto the softly sighing zephyrs ot a
summer afternoon, whilst in the latter his harmonious
banging must be seen to be appreciated. To playthe
piano with an ordinary hat and to give effect to martial
strains and fimeral marches, by sitting on the pianofor
effect, is only the work of a true musical genius. Tra-
vers rAm«srique” is the title of an amusing little book
by the great musician. It is charmingly written, and
contains notes of a professional trip across America.
The concerts of the Metropolitan Liedertafel
are usually very dull affairs, but on last Monday night
there was an exception to the general rule, for on that
occasion Miss Kate Slattery, the Sydney nightingale,
and Mens. Henri Kowalski, the pianist, made their first
appearance before a Liedertafel audience of over seven
thousand. Of the lady, it may bo said that her voice
was clear and resonant, exceeding all expectation. (But
why are the songs rendered in “ a language we do not
understand ? ”) Of Mons. Kowalski, the enthusiasm
was so great that it moved Henri Ketten, who was
present, to tears. At the conclusion, and in the ante
room, the rival pianists embraced. This is true har-
mony.
Off from the elegantly furnished German Art
Gallery, at the Melbourne Exhibition, there is what is
known as the Catholic Chapel, this being a collection
of exhibits from Munich manufacturers of alter pieces
and religious statues. At the recent meeting of the
foreign e xhibitors to discuss the opening of the
Exhibition by night. Dr. Reuleaux pointed out the
great difficulties that would arise in keeping burglars
from the jeweller cases, and vandals from mutilating
the statues, for he said “ in open daylight a man was
caught in the act of taking a wax impression of the lock
of the Hanan jewellery exhibit, and another was found
in the Catholic Chapel actually scratching the paint off
a Christ’s knee.”
Victoria and New South Wales are neighbours
at the Exhibition, divided only by a narrow wine alley
which is typical of the Eiver Murray, since most of the
wines therein come from the Border district. Victoria's
facade is an embodiment of the outcome of Protection,
whilst New South Wales, with its natural resources well
in the foreground, shows us a country willing to
exchange her riches for the good things of the world,
without any restrictions and aggravating protection
duties. The finest show in the Victorian Court front
is Messrs. Eocke’s bedroom, the carpets of which come
from Brussels, the lace curtains from France, the
bronze statues from Germany, the bedstead and furnish-
ings from England, and the furniture (Oh! glorious
protectionist Victoria) is put together in Melbourne.
An American photographer makes an ugly
woman pretty; an English photographer makes a
pretty woman ugly. The other day a friend showed the
picture of Mrs. Langtry side by side with one of Eose
, an American actress. Judging from the photo.
the charm of the “ Jersey Lily ” must lie rather in her
complexion than in the lines of her face. Outhe other
hand, Eose in some regards appeared almost beau-
tiful.” “And yet,” remarked my friend, “ she wasn’t
a bit pretty. She was an American woman who talked
through her nose, had a rather coarse face, lived on the
flat above me, and used to eat pork and beans and
drink beer every night for supper. However, we now
have an American photo, artist of the Boyd school
here.
Ned Kelly, prior to being brought up at the
Supreme Court, expressed a desire to appear before
Judge Barry in a decent coat, his own having become
very shabby. Now, his Honor Sir Eodmond Barry is
the Bean Brummel of the antipodes. He wears the most
wonderful hats that were ever seen, collars like sheep-
hurdles, and coats as devoid of wrinkles as Jem Punch’s
face, and so Mr. Kelly thought that appearances were
not to be disregarded. It is stated that the outlaw
tried in vain to get credit for a suit from Milton, Haigh
Bros., Elms and Gissing. At last, Mr. William Qaun-
son kindly offered to lend Ned his overcoat. The offer
was gratefully accepted, and Ned appeared in the dock
habited in William’s twenty-five shilling chesterfield.
Mr. Charles CoWper is responsible for the observation
that the outlaw was on the occasion “a wolf in sheep’s
clothing.”
The French Government have granted <£6ooo to
Mr. Belcour, Consul-General for Prance in Australia,
for official and other dinners. One of the “ other ” din-
ners took place the other evening at the Oriental.
Amongst the fifteen distinguished guests present were
M. Kowalski, of pianistic renown, and Baron Wildener,
the conductor of the Strauss Band. The chairman was
neighboured by two Germans of distinction. The menu
was unique in its way, being purely Australian (alo
Franjais), and was concocted by M. Kowalski. The fol-
lowing were the “numbers”: —Huitres de New South
Wales, Potage de Galapagos, Soles d’Adelaide, Eiz d’ours
de Victoria, Croquettes d’omythorinx, Cuissot de Kan-
garoo a I’Australienno, Emu de lait aux tubercules de
Tasmania, Baies de St. Kilda, Asperges de Melbourne,
Salade d’Eucalyptosis, Eiz do Brisbane en creme, Glase
de croix de Sud, Dessert, Vins, &c. The “ evening ” was
brought to a close by a male dance, which lasted until
the wee hours of Sunday, much to the disgust of an
honest old couple of boarders, with Sabbatarian pre-
dilections, who left hastily on Monday morning.
I went to the Criminal Court to see Ned Kelly,
and, being fortunate enough to have a friend among the
powers that be, I got in. There is nothing especially
villainous about the outlaw’s appearance. He is a
rather handsome and essentially manly-leoking fellow
—justlike many another young colonial Irishman who
has taken to ‘hard work instead of bushranging. His
principal characteristics are his height, which is above
the average, and the largeness of his eyes, which are of
a pale blue or steel grey hue, and are guarded by remark-
ably long eyelashes. His eyebrows are heavy and almost
straight, and his lips, so for as one could see, are so thin
and determined-looking as to seem in some regards out
of keeping w*h his Celtic cheek-bones. No one could
see in his face evidence of the ferocity with which he is
credited, and after looking at him for a moment I could
not, in view of all the sensational descriptions of his
appearance, help thinking of what Mr. Dailey said on a
memorable occasion :—“ Place tHe most honest and
pleasing face behind these rails, and it at once becomes
a face that expresses every passion." Perhaps the face
won’t take it os a compliment when I say Ned Kelly
looks suspiciously like a tall policeman in plain
olothea.
J. Kingston, the clever descriptive writer, and
brother of the world-renowned E. P. Kingston, of Ar-
temus Ward notoriety, defines matrimony as a condi-
tion of existence in which the wife holds her husband’s
coat while he fights. J. H. is a bachelor, and fifty at
least, bukhis nature is as yet unsonred. He is fond of
quoting Socrates, who, when asked by a young man
whether it was good to have a wife, replied
“ Whether you marry or do not marry, you will equally
regret it.” Kingston has long abandoned the idea of
cultivating for either sex .aught but merely platonic
affection, and he has now taken preliminary steps for the
abolition of women, washing and woe. He uses studs
instead of buttons, wears celluloid cuffs, collars and
cravats, and, as hotel washing comes to sixpence an ar-
ticle all round, he buys sixpenny handkerchiefs, which
he uses for two days and then throws away —acting, in
this instance, on a sound commercial principle, which
he also applies to socks. It is said that, with a view to
preserving tlie latter, lie lias tael his feet tanned, but
this statement so far lacks confirmation. J. H. does
not now go into society. He once went to a “bar ty,’ and
says he regretted for six months his folly in having
done so, for the next day the “ old woman ’’ waltzed up
to his office with a church subscription-list in one hand
and a Sunday-school collection-book in the other. Sub-
sequently the “ old man ” wanted him to back a bill for
a “pony;” then the daughter applied to him for a
loan so that she might liquidate her milliner’s bill,
offering as security for the advance the pocket-money
allowed her by “papa;” and that then the son
came along with a polite application for ten pounds, so
that he might be able to anticipate “ the first.” _ You
can’t batter down J. H.’s reasoning. He doesn’t say
that women are heartless or that matrimony is mad-
ness —he merely alleges that it is he, and not the
glorious wedded state, that is bad. In fact, he says
that he cheerfully foregoes the right which society has
given him to make one woman miserable. If you ask
J. H. for a loan, he doesn’t look at you savagely, and
lot you see he thinks you a rogue. He merely says, “ I
wish to respect you and act towards you the part of an
older friend. I could not take upon myself the re-
sponsibility of imposing upon yon an obligation not
warranted by the length of our acquaintanceship.”
J. H. is going to visit Sydney soon, and this is written
to let people know what kind of a man he is.
A lady recently wrote no less than eight letters
requesting an invitation to a ball for herself and two
daughters. The first letter was honeyed with sweet-
ness and confidence, the second was a reminder, the
third was plaintive, the fourth dignified, the fifth press-
ing, the sixth touching, the seventh remonstrating, and
the eighth imploring. On the reoept of the eighth letter
an invitation was good-naturedly sent. It had scarcely
been dispatched when a ninth letter was received,
abusive. An attempt was made to stop the invitation,
but it was too late.
The “ fringe ” is in the height of its popularity
in Townsville. The pinafores have become fashionable;
they wore first worn by four young lady friends, who
created quite a sensation in Flinders-street. Poke
bonnets do not take in Townsville ; none of the ladies
can find courage to parade the street in one, so they lie
in the shop unsold. Sealskin caps and broad-brimmed
hats are greatly worn, tight pompadour prints are par-
ticularly liked, and look very well on a warm day. A
fashionable lady lately walked down Flinders-street in a
light green dress trimmed with a darker shade of pom-
padour ; it was much admire.


Public Compa
lOMMEECIAL BANKINi
' SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £550,000. Reserve !
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Joh
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., 1
AUDITORS :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R.
Solicitous :
Messrs. Want, Johnsoi
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head OrriCE—George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office—39 Lombi
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.!
Esq.; F. H. Hogp
Manager: Nathaniel C
Branches in New South Wal:
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral
Campbelltown.Cannonbar, Carcoa:
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, C(
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Duugog. Forb
Innes, Goulburn, Graftou, Gunda
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murruruudi, Murwillumbah (Tm
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Naran
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qi
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single t»
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wi
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, W
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brie
Maryborough, and Rockhaii
Agencies in the C(
Victoria : The Bank of Victori
Australasia, Colonial Bank i
Commercial Bank of Austrslii
South Australia : The Bank of
National Bank of Australasi
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diei
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and Westi
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester an
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking
National Bank,
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of B
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale de
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Mor,
India, China and Singapore : T
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lot
Ceylon ; The Chartered Mercan
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co
Honolulu ; Messrs. Bishop and C
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security, i
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
Issues drafts or letters of credit, £
leots bills payable at any of the t
elsewhere, at current rates; collec
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investmen
ties in Great Britain or in the cole
to undertake the agency of Banks
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURAN
VICTORIA (LIMI
Established a.d.
NEW SOUTH WALE
9 Wynyord-street, i
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Ch
Ebenezer Vickery, E
Andrew Drysdale, Ei
This Society is established for L
granting of Annuities and Endowr
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the enti
Society at every distribution ther
LOANS granted on Mortgage or
TO LADIES.
YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO-BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JQO YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME P
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OR FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JQO YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
, Prom best Makers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TTJO YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PARASOLS?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JJO YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T\o YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PRESENT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
Public Comp;
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOH
Incorporated by Act of (
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £ll
Directors
Edward Lord, Esq., C
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jen
William B. Walford, Esq. | Wil
Moses Moss, I
General Mana
Vincent Wanostroch
Head Office, Si
City and Suburban I
Haymarket | Eedfen
London Office—lB Kino Wil
Branches throughout the Co
Wales and Queensland, and Agi
Colonies, Great Britain, Americ
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL <
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE BAI
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsi
SECRETARY
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Gi
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha}
Agent—G. H. Alexanc
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most favoi
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other produce shipped to England
USTRALIAN MUTUAI
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED ]
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STR]
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LI
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTOR
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., DM
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Depnty-C
Robert Saddington, Esq. j Isa
Robert J. King, Esq. S.
CHIEF MEDICAL OF
Dr. W. F, Mackenzie, L.R.C.P.
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | A
Extract from Post Magazine (1
cexnber, 1379, on the sixth Quinqui
Society:— . . ; 4 lt is, as a wl
plete statement ever issued by a
affords an incontestable proof that
success it tells is the result, not of i
tical and theoretical ability, gover
ment and prudence.'
The Commercial World (Londo
1880, says:— 4 No British Company
with the Australian Mutual, which,
of its existence, has received inintei
than it has been called upon to pay
ACCUMULATED FUND, THI
STERLING.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL L]
ASSOCIATION, Ll]
TO GENTLER
T)0 YOU WANT SHIRTS
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty
Try P
Ti 0 YOU WANT FA
LINEN COLLARS ?
Try P
T\o YOU WANT a Stylii
or BOW ?
Try P
JJO YOU WANT a Reliable
Try P
JJO YOU WANT Good Suim
Try P
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, SI
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Be<
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IBEIGATII
Engines and Boilers of all i
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, E
IN STOCK.
7m
K
4
m
u
UNADULTERAT
BAK/JVCPO
I ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN T
MANUFACTURED BY W. DAVIES & C? CO
o
1-1
a
C 5
GEORGE B
Ph


Tobacconists
The gen
VIRGINIAN TOB.A
Comprising Every Desc
Manufactured by the renowned fli
Richmond, Virgin
To be had at the Wholes*
639 GEORGE SI
Haymarket.
c. LO U GH N
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBAO
is inducing other manufacturers tc
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the BO
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE
DIXSON & SON
155 YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & I
m
%
Manufactured bj
T. SAY W E ]
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACGt
Clarence-street, Sy
JAMES I
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
ut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf,
Best Imported Brar
Havana and Manilla (
Pipes Mounted and Re
159 PITT STR
Next Port Office
HO S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSEII
Importers of
FITTINGS, GLOBES, SA
HOSE, &c.
Business Announ<
EALING’S MUSIC Y
sarSTOiiß
ERARD’S PARIS PIA
have gained tl
TWO FIRST PI
in
THE FRENCH <
Agent : W. H. Pi
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATI
N on-competiti
BUT UNSURPA
Agent: W. H. Pi
W. BELL and CO.’S CANA
have gained tt
FIRST and SPECIAI
OYER ALL OTI
Sole Agent: W. H.
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAN
have
GAINED ANOTHE;
for the
FOURTH Til
at
THE INTERNATIONAL :
W. H. PALE
352 GEORGE-ST
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET,
GB. M O I
• G UNMAKER AND (
602 George Street, St
Awarded 2 special prizes for cd
Cutlery. Importer of every
Firearms, Cutlery
Every description of Firearms rt
stocked on the shortest notice,
made to order on the premises.
Provisions, Oilmen’s I
INTERNATIONAL EXHII
SWALLOW and AEIELL wer
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuit
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 34-'
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITI
BENCEAFT and Co. were awarde
tor their superior Oatmeal and o
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-s
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYBIL
in tins, 2, 7,14, and 231bs each, and i
and 6J cwt. each. Sole agent, W
md 346, Rent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Pom
and assorted Jams. Special agen
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors nor
QHEAPEST AND EES’]
AT
MARK ISAACS’ COEPOEAT
HAY STREET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally che£
Goods packed and delivered free ■
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LE
WITH.
AG. C H U R C
• 147 YORK ST R
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUFi
Cotfee, Peppers, Spii
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU]
CHEAPEST HOUSEE
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
630.000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sai
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins. 9d per 11
Canterbury.
IF YOU W.
A Cup of
REALLY GO(
Try the
TAEPII
lIXTIJ
PACKED INTO 1-ft ANI
IN THE CHINA TEA
Provisions, Oilmen’s S
02
ft
8
H
02
H
O
◄
H
02
O
ft
~pi CLAEKE A:
Wholesale and Beta
GROCE
Are acknowledged to
THE BEST TEA IN
THE CHEAPEST H
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES anc
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly a
193 OXFORD {
(Opposite Conrt-hoi
DARLINGHU
w.
H. A E
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Kent-street, nea
SOLE AGENT for the undermenth
R. Whittingham & Co.’s Londo
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria (
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Bi
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toil
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Cor
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum I
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, nea
LOUE S U P I
Fine Household and Seconds, W'
quality, at the lowest prices. 1
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZ E N A
WHITE and YELLOW made
grain, suitable for all constitutioi
yet offered to the public, in 71b ba;
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour
manufactory, COMME RCIAL FL
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEAR
J
AMES PEMELL
VICTORIA FLOUR I
ft
£
<
SUSSEX-STREE'
NEAR THE HAYMAR
OFFICES AND ST(
797 GEORGE-STREET SOU!
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, a
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Me
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked C(
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Luccru
Potatoes, &c.
SYDNEY MEAT-PEESEEV
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES-
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD M.
The Company’s ME ATS, EXTRA
SOUPS can be bought at the establ
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circula
Samuel Bennett and Co., gn
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocer
Slocum, Brothers, grocers,
Sargent and Collie, Maequo
Mr. James Kidman, grocer. George
Civil Service Co-operative Society,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Chnreh-stree
JOHN B. C. M
No. 58, Margaret-street.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO P
260 and 262 GEORGE-S’
(over Peato and Harcc
Now open to the Public. The high
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Co
Crayon Water Colours, and
will be produced
TLn AYilnrmncp nf Hid QBfl Pfl.Bf.-fa/


QNCE USED AL 1
lillliHilMlil
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” c
out which none is genuine. Bi
m
ALW
0^
TRADE
The GRAND GOLD M]
HIGHEST MEDAL,
HIGHEST AWARD. !
LATHEES FREELY, SOI
AND SHOULD ALWAYS
For Washing Clothes, Linen,
For Scouring Floors, Greasy
For Washing Glasses, Plates
For Cleaning Paint, Marble 1
And for every purpose of was!
Sold retail in |lb packets by a
storekeepers throughout Austral:
T. VIVIAN RA
16 CHARLOTTE
Sydney, N.S.'
E. KEEP & C
37 ELIZABETH
Melbourne, Vic'
E. D. NEILS*
BRISBANE, QUEEI
N EVER JUDGE B
APPEARANC
VISITORS TO SYDNEY who
so much about the
ROYAL FURNISHIN
generally look for a grand extori
they enter that disappointed ft
begin to wonder where they are
ticularly since the opening of
s
[Legal.]
HORTER, FITZGERAL
SOLICITO
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEI
and
MACQUAEIE STEEE'
Mr. Shorter, Notar;
T EGAL.—Mr. T, M.
SOLICITOE, has c
practice of his profession, i
PITT-STEEET, opposite
w
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PA
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WO
Q AND S. P
SAW MILLS AND Til
16 Erskine Sti
Every description of Foreign
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., (
ESTABLISHED
JJIOWLER’S P
AND
BRICK WOI
CAMPERDOWN, NE
Price List on appl:
C WOODFORD
• (From Lond
SANITAEY AND PEACTIC
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Come
Baths and Water-closets fitted
principle. Galvanized Iron Wort
and Qasfitters.
Robert butc
(Late William 3
WINE AND SPIEIT M
534 GEOEGE ST:
OPPOSITE TOWN HAT
Country Orders Eeceive P:
E. M A
DEAUGHTS]
AND
Engraver on
LAND, ASSUEANCE, AND <
All matters carried out prompt!
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STB
MR. AND MRi
Experienced and thorougl
PATHIC PEACTITIONI
MENT DAILY, at 107 LI
Pamphlets gratis.
IVTOTICE. — I beg 1 to info
friends that I have EESIJ
a WINE and SPIEIT I
undermentioned address, i
continuance of the confld
corded me during my la
“ARC ADI
NO MOSQUn
NO HOT NIG
MOUNT VICT
_ VILLA SIT
The only opportunity of seen
on the “ PINNACULAR ” ELY
Excursion train leaves Sydney a
STUBBS and CO. will se]
Imperial Hotel, on SATU
at 13 noon.
That small hut select porti
building plots, upon
FOREST TREES have
taste, carefully preserved
It is the most central spot
VILLAGE, now becoming mo
tourists; and since the accession
the chief hotel stands pre-eminc
distinguished travellers.
An advertisement precludes f
justice to this FAVOURED El
known to many “ gaspers ” of thes
warm season, who attest the be
brief sojourn on this “ ALPINE
3500 FEET ABOVE
Lithographs at 1
Torrens’ titl
QADSH I L L. (
CROYDON RAILWAY
ORCHARD SITES.
V
MAIN ROAD FRO]
HARDIE and GO!
LAND within Two Hundred
Railway Station, with FRONTS
ROADS leading to the Station.
RUPLE in VALUE.
®sr Before purchasing elsewh
look at
GADS HILL, GADSHILL
close to
Croydon Railway S
where the English hawthorn can
growth.
LITHOGRAPHS OBTAINA]
T
HE GREAT PROMENA]
is
KING-STREE'
See the
BON MARCHE POMP ADI
at 4Jd per yard
See the
BON MARGHB Bi
at 3Jd per yard
See samples of all
NEWEST, MOST FASHIONABL
GOODS IN OUR WE
LEADER AND S'J
ING - S T
LADIES, WHEN OUT SHOPPIb
IN AT THE
BON MARC
And see the Splendidly Asst
NEW, FASHIONABLE, C
Imported this season direc
Manufacturers.
All of thoroughly reliable, dnrabl
marked at reasonable moderate pri<
LEADER AND SI
IDLE LARGE AND WEEK!
BUSINESS
of the
BON MARCHE, 69, KIN
is due to the following stai
First.—All our Goods are of the y
makes.
Secondly.—The Prices are Lowe
Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Politeness, civility, and
all customers.
Fourthly.—Our Stock is always
new Beautiful Goods.
Every Steamer brings us PRES]
LEADER AND STj
are determined to keep up the dese
Gr ° w IWG BROTHERS’ TE
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers F;
quotations.
GOWING BROTH
MEN'S MERCERS, 0U T El'
Trading under the names of
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George Street (oppi
AND
J. E. GOWTNG, 332 George Street (half way between
GOWING BROTHERS’ SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivall
FUN AND FANCY.
Low spirits—bad whiskey.
A case of suspended animation— Swinging in a
hammock.
A smoker in an open horse-car takes a rear seat
for his money.
It does not follow that a woman who hugs her
preacher embraces Christianity.
The roads in Turkey are bad; ih war the Ruts-
chvx the soldiers off the carriages.
A little girl when asked how she got the measles,
replied, “ Oh I got them (m)easily.”
There is indeed no flower so pure and sweet but
certain reptiles will extract poison from it.
Lovers believe in Natural Selection; widows
and widowers in the Survival of the Fittest.
Late to bed and fresh when he goes.
Makes a man nervous, and reddens his nose.
Emerson says love is only the highest symbol of
tiendship, as all other things seem symbols of love.
We want an impetus ! ” shouts a contemporary.
Somebody should place an inverted tack on his chair.
Maud (an aristocratic child) —“ How pretty you
are, mother; I’m so glad you married into our family.”
The blind man should be the most contented
sees m because he can have everything he
The “ mother country ’’—England ; the “ pah ”
®°™try—New Zealand; the “farther" country—The
worth Pole.
b °y U P North tamed an alligator, and
the ugly reptile began to like the little fellow-not,
however, until the little fellow was all gone.
A temperance newspaper is struggling with the
question: “ When a man is put in the station-house for
being drunk, does it make him sober to bail him out ? ”
. j bottles that have been thrown over-
board from imperilled ships, no despairing man gave up
M t 0 flinfr into the sea a bottle of
“My umbrella is getting decidedly shabbv,”
said a young man about town one night last week. “ I
believe I will have to strike another prayer-meeting the
first rainy night.”
A tom-cat sat on the garden wall.
Running oyer the scale for a midnight squall;
But a bootjack sailed through the ambient air
And settled that t. c’s. squall right there.
As they were about to hang an Irishman in
London recently, one of his friends, who had come to
witness the ceremony, cried: “ I always told you that
Sou would come to this!" “ And you always lied ! I
ave not come—l was brought! ”
An np-town lawyer and a doctor were disputing
«wu a t a fellow was only able to pay one of them.
Why, I ought to have the money, of course,” said the
lawyer; I saved the fellow from going to the peniten-
tia.ry. Well, said the doctor, ° I have saved him
from going to hell! ” It is needless to add who got the
money.
A tom-cat sits upon a shed
And warbles wildly to his mate:
* Ok when the world has gone to bed,
I love to sit and mew till late.”
But while this tom-cat sits and sings.
Up springs a boarder, mod with hate.
Who shoots that cat to fiddle-,strings.
He also loves to mutilate.
i P eo Pl e want is confidence. It doesn’t
look well for a deacon to take an umbrella to church,
aad carry .it into his pew, and hang to it. What he
18 to leave tbe umbrella out in the vestibule,
with that supreme confidence that a man has when he
bets on four aces. To see the prominent men of a
church carry their umbrellas into their pews makes the
ordinary sinner feel as though he was suspected.
A sculptor s wife had her husband arrested for
assault and battery, because, as she testified, on the
occasion of her going to his studio to inform him that a
woman across the street had eloped, he struck her in
the face with a huge mass of mud. The sculptor
explained that the occasion referred to was the first
time for years that ho had seen a pleasant look on his
wife s face, and therefore he hastened to take a cast of
her features, in order to catch the expression for use on
a bust he intended to model. The case was dismisssed.
A Few Snake Stories.
As the season s approaching we’d like to announce that
we are prepared to snpx>ly snake stories to all the news-
papers. We will warrant them to eclipse anything yet
published in the morning and evening papers of this
city. We append a few.
"0“ writes:—“l have a farm, and
there s lots of snakes on to it. Near the house is a
pond about six feet deep. A week ago my little girl
lumped mto the pond, and weuld have drowned if it
naan t been tor a snake. The snake seen her, and went
for her, and brought her ashore. The particular point
about this item Is the way he did it. It was a black-
a « thirty feet long, and he Just coiled the
middle of himself around her neck so she couldn’t
swaUow any water, and swam ashore with his head and
tail After they got ashore the girl patted the snake on
the head, and it went off pleased. Ever since then he
comes to the house at meal-times, and she feeds him on
pie.
"Anxious Parent” sends us the followingl’ve
got a baby six months old; he’s a boy. We generally
set him out on the grass of a morning, and he hollers
like a bull all day—at least he used to, but he don’t any
more. One morning we noticed he wasn’t hollering,
and wondered what was up. When we looked, there
was a rattlesnake coiled up in front of him, scanning his
features. The boy was grinning, and the snake was
grinning. Bimeby the snake turned his tail to the
baby, and backed his rattle right into the baby’s fist,”
Free Selector” sends us the following One
Sunday me and my wife was going to church, and she
dropped her garter somewhere. She told me about it,
a j .. noticed a little striped snake running alongside
and listening to her By-and-byo he made a spring! and
W®* .wound around her stocking, or tried to, but he
didnt fetch it. He wasn’t quite long enough. He
jumped down and shook his head, and started off. We
hadn t gone more’n a quarter of a mile when we see him
coming out of the woods Just ahead of us. He was
awful hot and tired, and he had another snake with
him, twice as big as he was. They looked at my wife
tor a minute, and said something to each other, and
then the big snake went right to tho place where the
garter belonged. Ho wrapped right around it, put his
tail in his mouth, and went to sleep. We got him yet ”
Glorious Summer.
The summer is coming, when millions of flies
Will buzz in your ears, and get into your eyes.
Get bogged in your butter, and drowned in your tea.
UU! when we get summer how nice it will be.”
The Summer is near, when the blithe mosquito
religiously follows wherever you go;
Indoors and outdoors by day or by night
He never stops singing—excepting to bite.
The Summer is coming, when blood-thirsty fleas
CTo say nothing at all of the big big B’s),
the theatres haunt by the thousand or more.
And worry your life out to get at your gore.
rhe Summer is near, when the languishing maid,
New novel in hand, seeks the cool woodland shade:
Her seat on the old log she pensively takes.
And out from beneath glide a couple of snakes.
The Summer is coming, hot winds coming too.
That well outside and parch you right
And the “ Buster ” that all competition defies,
t or cramming the dust in your nose, ears, and eyes.
Che Summer! The “ thermo’s ” a hundred and twenty.
And vermin of all kinds around you in plenty,
t or myself I can’t see what there is to be glad about
Jtet this is what poets would have us go mad about.
S. S.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir John’s atrimming.
Sir Henry’s on the stump.
Sir James is on the qui vive.
Sir Bedmond has got a new hat.
Sir Patrick and the Duke are here.
Sir George sues again his darling Mudgee.
Sir Wigram condemns the silence of Sironree.
Sir Henry:“That’s me, tweedledumtweedledee. ’ ’
Hon. John Lucas, M.L.C., is the very latest!!!
jlrs. Bladen Neill is now on a visit to Melbourne.
Atkinson capers as the editor of the Twaddlb-
geaph.
The Hon. J. Fisher, of Adelaide, retires from
public life.
The Marquis of Normanby handles the ribbons
like a master.
Mr. J- M. Grant is expected to be the new Vic-
torian Agent-General.
There are few more promising men on the Bench
than Judge Wilkinson.
The Chief Justice of Victoria may sometimes be
seen on top of an omnibus.
It is now authoritatively stated that the Service
leaves Melbourne in January.
Bulwer says all animosities may yield, save
those which a woman’s eye can kindle.
M. Simonsen’s daughter got her divorce. Martin
is now advertising for an opera company.
Mr. Henry Kent Hughes, formerly Treasurer
of South Australia, died recently at Kew, England.
Mr. David Elder gets .£l2OO a year for managing
the New Zealand Loan and Discount Company’s business
in Melbourne.
Another marriage on the tapis. —A fashsonable
„oung broker to the eldest daughter of a leading Eand-
wick resident.
A grand wedding took place at Dunedin, N.Z.,
a few weeks ago. The bridegroom was Mr. E. Maxwell,
secretary to the South British Insurance Company,
and the bride Miss Nelly Jones, second daughter of
Mr. John Jones, a very old resident.
On dit that the authorities in Bourke-street
will not sanction the match between the young belle
of their household and the Potts’ Point widower.
Though he pleaded most pathetically “We are seven,”
they declared that he was verily a wolf in sheep’s
clothing, though in name a young one.
The estate of Mr. Thomas Higinbotham, civil
engineer, Brighton: Victoria, has been sworn under
£21,033, and probate has been granted to his brother,
Mr. Justice Higinbotham. The will expressed a desire
that the family would assume the surname of Verner,
instead of Higinbotham, the former being the ancestral
surname.
Gowen Evans, “boss” of the Aegus, and Sir
Samuel Wilson, K.C.M.G., wool grower and salmon
breeder, are inseparable—about dinner time. Sir Sam
always has such good tucker and au fait company. It’s
pleasant to feel that though one may be of democratic
origin he can mix with nobility, colonial and other-
wise, as an authority.
Our friend of the Paebamatta Meecuey in
his last issue deplores very deeply the fact of the
ensuing election for that borough resolving itself into
8 trial of strength between two private factions, the
Montagues and Capulets at the “ City of Oranges.” In
face of this he very properly complains that the higher
considerations of essential legislative qualifications in
the two candidates will he lost sight of, and winds up
with the following lines; “we are quite confident that
Parramatta electors at the present juncture can do no
better thing than look out for ‘ new blood ’ in the way
cf a solicitor for their sufferings.” Surely there should
he no dearth of candidates. How many Solicitors are
m the field already, it would be hard to say. As a body
from R. B. Smith and W. M’Laughlin downards, they
burning to sacrifice themselves on the altar of
Patriotism. It may perhaps be harder to search one of
the more eligible, than to find one at all. We have
alone the “ impregnable Joseph” —him of the Water
Police Court. Joseph might be induced to come for-
ward on a requisition, but it is not unlikely that his
services would extend beyond the time when Miller’s
Pomt, his native heath, returns a member.
Lieut. Baynes won the Permanent Artillery
Captaincy at the recent examination. There were
several contestants.
The Prince of Wales’ life is insured in the Pru-
dential Assurance Company for £40,000, and pays a
premium of £BOO a year.
Mr. !James Blackwood drives the handsomest
carriage in Melbourne; Mr. Highett the most expensive
—the latter’s cost £4OO.
The united ages of three Victorian judges —the
Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Barry, and Mr. Justice
Molesworth —are 207 years. May they live as long
again.
Mr. Polingsby, the artist, is making great pro-
gress with the full-length portrait of Sir Hercules
Robinson. The best portrait of the best Governor
Australia has ever seen.
The Marquis of Eipon has decided, on evidence
placed before him, that “Redan” Massey’s conduct
before Cabul really ensured instead of jeopardising its
capture. The Order of the Bath will folj^w.
Legitimate banking business is so bad in Mel-
bourne that the banks are commencing to act as brokers
and commission agents. The next move on the boards
is—pawnbroking. What will Messrs. Warman, Moss,
Rolls, and Co. do ? It’s all up with usury too, for Civil
servants and bank clerks are no security now.
Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G., Premier, and
Cobden, medalist, has been entertaining heavily in
Melbourne at Menzies’ Hotel. He and Berry (Embryo,
K.C.M.G.) were quite “at home ’’ over the aspirate.
This is not astonishing.
The late Lord George Paget put up his billiard
cue in his club at London, and bade his friends good-
night, saying he wouldn’t see them again. When asked
if he was going away, he answered: “ Not exactly; I’m
going to die.” The next day he was a corpse. His
death was natural.
Sir Hercules Eobinson is popular even to New
York. A paper there, speaking of him, concludes thus:
—“ Sir Hercules is one of the numtrous sons of an Irish
clergyman by the daughter of Sir Hercules Langnsh.
He has an Irishman’s love of horseflesh, and never
missed an Australian race of any importance. Of con-
ciliatory disposition, he always got along very well
when Governor, and is deemed a safe man by the
Colonial Office."
A London writer declares that Adelaide Neilson
was to have been married to Admiral Glyn. The actress
said so herself, and explained that the delay was because
she desired to wait until the Admiral’s daughter was
wedded. The Prince of Wales had remidded Glyn that
Neilson could never be presented at Court.
The smartest but the most conscientious leader
writer in Melbourne is Mr. Windsor, editor of the Age.
He is a freetrader in principle, and yet one of the
ablest advocates, as regards writing, of protection. He
is a walkist also, and somewhat of a lonely brooder.
He originally came out to the Argus, but they lost him
as they did Watts, Higinbotham, Aspinal, &c., &e.
It is a curious example of the irony of fate, says
London Truth, that the new editor of Punch is a
Roman Catholic. There was a time when Punch was
so conspicuous for its attacks upon Roman Catholics
that Doyle severed his connection with it. At one
period these attacks grew so virulent that the Tablet
announced that if they were continued it would publish
a series of accurate biographies of the Punch staff,
beginning with the editor. The attacks stopped, and
the biographies did not appear.
At last, the Macleay-street widower has found a
mate —or, rather, should say, a protectress for his
motherless ones. His heart must have been heavy at
the anticipation of another refusal—after having tried
North Shore, Palmer-street, Alberto-terrace, Elizabeth
Bay, Micalago, and Upper William-street. Bourke-
street has proved the right direction, at least so far as
the young lady is concerned. We wish her joy, as she
has been a bright spot in the household of one of our
oldest and most respected families, and will make a fair
head to the home she has chosen.
Sir Henry’s versatility is great. It’s well-known
that he edited the Empire, and there’s no mistake he
worked hard. Want of time —not want of cash, they
say—compelled him to dine in his office. Sometimes
he cooked his own bacon. It was at an end with the
Bulletin in the early days, but it never came to cook-
ing bacon between the paragraphs. Well, Sir Henry
was cooking his bacon. He had no fork, and was turning
the rashers over with a knife, which soon became very
hot. Turning round to hunt a cat away from a choice
mors’el left for next day’s dinner, he placed the knife on
a chair and the next moment forgetfully sat down on it.
It was then that the word Jee-hoso-phat was originated.
These were hard times indeed, and Sir Henry bears the
marks of them to this day.
George Browne could not accompany the Tas-
manian Chief Justice to Victoria. He was afraid of
seeing the newest fashions.
There is no truth in the rumour that the pro-
prietors of the Eusso-Turkish War Diorama intend
giving Hanley Bennett away.
The Rev. Mr. Stobbs, of Melbourne, plays a
splendid game at whist. Nothing beyond sixpenny
points and a shilling on the mb.
A marriage is arranged between the handsome
daughter of one of our most respected Sydney mer-
chants and a young gentleman of good position in a
leading mercantile house.
The foreign officers say Mr. T. P. Fallon is the
best linguist in Melbourne. T. P. F. speaks French,
Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese fluently—also a little
English. Well done, Chevalier.
When a distinguished Melbourne author strolls
under the dome of the Melbourne International,
and people turn and say, “There, that’s the author of
His Unnatural Life,” he feels that he has not lived in
vain.
Mr. Archibald Forbes will come in for the new
South African medal and clasp, or can at any rate claim
it, on account of his having conveyed the news of the
victory at Uluudi to Sir Garnet Wolseley and Sirßartle
Frere.
Thomas Monohan is reputed to be one of the
wealthiest men in Melbourne. He is over 60 years of
age. He walks every morning a mile and a half to the
beach to bathe. He has done this for the last 25 years.
On one occasion he lost his clothes.
Sir Hercules Robinson, who always makes nice
speeches and clever points, said recently : “ The world
has not as yet been universally attracted to well-doing
by the simple Confucian precept, ‘ Be virtuous and you
will be happy.’ ” And yet we know several members of
Parliament who are happy.
Probably few persons have had so many pro-
posals of marriage as the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
An eminent English widower lately said, “ I mvself
have proposed to her, for I regard this as a duty that
every man owes to his family.” The lady is described
as being rather tall, and having light hair and a
slightly florid complexion. The extensive gardens sur-
rounding her residence at High gate are always open to
the children of the charity schools.
More good speeches from the Duke of Man-
chester. At Newcastle he said that his attention was
first drawn by the gold discoveries to this great conti-
nent, but he found now that it was of far more importance
to its permanent benefit that it possessed such great
pastoral and mineral resources.
Everybody who was at the Theatre Royal on a
certain night last week wants to know who the two
young ladies were who mode themselves conspicuous
by wearing—one a row of white and the other a row of
red roses ? Some say they come from Ocean-street,
Woolahra, but others report having seen them con-
stantly about William-street.
The following extract from Sir Henry Parkes’
speech in 1872, on the Martin-Robertson combination,
has been forwarded us :—“ This sudden and unexpected
combination created the greatest political scandal m
the hhtory of New Sonth Wales, the effects of which
are still visible in the state of parties. I challenge any
person to point to any instance in the history of
England since the begining of this century which is in
any way analagous; and it is in this the infamy of the
combination exists. The consequence was that the
Government gathered round itself the worst men on
both sides—the most dangerous men that have entered
Parliament, and the Government party is made up of
the waifs and strays of all parties, the shifting, disap-
pointed, and self-seeking men of all sides.” How now.
Sir Henry ?
It never raina but it pours. The salary of the
Victorian Governor of the future is to be reduced, and
now the Age points out that though the Act of 1864
expressly provided that the Governor should not in any
one year receive for the salaries of his staff, travelling
expenses, or for any other allowances or contingencies
whatsoever, a greater sum than £lO,OOO, a series of com-
placent Ministers have raised the amount to £15,000 per
annum. It draws attention to the fact that a special
train, costing £6O, was the other day provided in order
that the Governor might shoot six snipe. Such waste,
says King David, must cease. The saucepan that cooks
the Governor’s cauliflower—even the cauliflower itself—
is State property. If he breaks a tumbler the State
replaces it; if his cook cracks a kettle it is mended at
the expense of the general revenue. The Governor’s
private flower-beds and kitchen garden have confessedly
absorbed more than £2OOO a year, which is rather a high
sum to pay for watering his flower-pots and raising peas
and passion-fruit for his table.
Lord Justice Thesiger, whose death is announced
by cable, was brother to Lord Chelmsford, who led the
British forces in the Zulu campaign.
Mr. Edward Fairfax, of the Herald proprie-
tory, returns to Sydney in February, after a three years’
tour in England and on the Continent.
Report says Mr. George Cowie, general manager
Colonial Bank, Dunedin, N.Z., has lately purchased
11 Caijore,” the property of Mrs. Muir, for £5OOO,
The reputedly richest man in Victoria is Mr.
Joseph Clarke, of Toorak, owing to the unexpected
extraordinary increase in the value of New Zealand
property bequeathed to him by his father.
Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett, who is reported to have
married the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, intends to move
in the House of Commons for a confederation and com-
mercial union of the whole British Empire.
An accountant of a certain bank in the South
Island, N.Z., is said to be in trouble. An officer has
taken over his books —no defalcations —but outside
debts said to be £lOOO. How they do go it is a
mystery.
The Victorian Chief Justice and Sir Redmond
Barry were boys at school together near Cork. Sir
Bedmond, who is the chief’s senior by a few years, was
called Dandy Barry. History is silent as to the build
of his roof then.
The editor of the Argus is F. W. Haddon.
He came out to Victoria as amanuensis to the late Mr.
Edward Wilson, who was nearly blind. Since then Mr.
Haddon has risen by degrees, all through holding his
tongue, to his present position. His attainments, both
mentally and physically, are very solid. His weight
keeps him in his place. He is an authority on dinners.
The uncertainty of life is exemplified in the
following Two years ago, Mr. Justice Chapman, of
Dunedin (N.Z.), was very ill suffering from tumor in
the eye, an operation being necessary through which
death might ensue owing to the old gentleman’s
advanced age, some 76 years. Mr. Macassay, New
Zealand’s most able barrister, was requested by the
friends of Mr. Chapman to prepare a memoir of his life
for publication in the event of his death. Judge
Chapman is now well and hearty, and apparently may
enjoy life for years to come, whilst poor Macassay, at
the early age of 35 years, died at Adelaide some months
ago.
David Syme, of the Age, goes home shortly on
a visit. Mr. Windsor, his editor (formerly, by the way,
editor of the Argus), “ looks after things ” in David’s
absence —sees that Civil servants are not allowed to
become “ cocky”—that the Age is properlyrepresented
in Parliament, and so on.
A hostess belonging to the * ‘ upper ten thousand’ ’
in Sydney, was lately surprised at the early hour her
house was cleared, and .the suddenness of her guests’
departure. It was afterwards discovered, quite by ac-
cident, that the servants had mixed the claret cup, not
with soda or lemonade, but with some mineral water
of very effective properties. Hence the extraordinary
sensations with which everyone was seized. Indeed
several of the ladies were laid up for days.
J. J. Casey, C M.G., is working assiduously for
the title of Casey-M.G. He opposed to open Melbourne
International at night, and was thereupon twitted by
Mr. Yale, who said he “ could only attribute the change
in the opinion of Mr. Casey to the fact that he now had
certain aspirations which prompted him to pursue a
course different from that which he followed six months
previously.” Casey used to pose as “the friend of the
working-man; ” but as he now considers himself one of
the aristocracy he has forgotten his old friends. How-
ever, as it is now-a-days the greater distinction to be
untitled, the fondest hopes of J.J.’s. Great head may
one day be realised.
An item for the ladies. A fashionable wedding
took place at the Great Synagogue on Tuesday last,
the bride being the daughter of Mr. M. Brodziak, of
Darlinghurst Road, and the bridegroom a gentleman
from Queensland. The bride was elegantly attired in
a dress of white silk, richly trimmed with satin and
laoe. The bridesmaids —five in number, four of whom
were sisters of the bride and one a sister of the bride-
groom—wore neat and becoming toßcte of white cash-
mere and satin, a pretty spray of snowdrops and daisies
round the neck, with very stylish hats of white lace
and feathers. The mother of the bride wasjtastefully
arrayed in a dark and handsome silk, as likewise was
Mrs. Montague Levey, who acted the part of parent to
the bridegroom. The bridal party, which consisted of
members of the family only, were richly dressed. 'The
ceremony was, as usual, a very imposing affair; after
which the bridal party adjourned to the private resid-
ence of the bride’s parents, Goldah House, where a
1 dejeuner was awaiting them,
SQUELCHED!


ÜBLIC BANQUET TO HIS GRACE
the DUKE ot MANCHESTER,
at the
Friday, October 29, 1880,
at 7.30 p.m.
Chairmafti:
The Right Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney,
ROBERT FOWLER, Esq., J.P.
Hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G.
Sir G. Wig-ram Allen, M.P.
Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G.
Sir John Robertson, S.C.M.G.
The Hon. James Norton, M.L.C.
The Hon. James Watson, M.P.
W. A. Brodribb, Esq,
The Hon. F. B. Snttor, M.P.
Sir Patrick Jennings, K.C.M.G.
Colonel Richardson
John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., M.P.
The Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.L.C.
The Hon. Joseph Docker, M.L.C.
Charles Smith, Esq.
Alexander M'Donald, Esq.
The Hon. John Fraser, M.L.C.
Henry Prince, Esq.
S. C. Brown, Esq., M.P.
Alexander Campbell, Esq., M.L.C.
The Hon. W. Busby, M.L.C.
The Hon. Wm. Macleay, M.L.C.
C. A. Goodchap, Esq.
Patrick Higgins, Esq.
R. A. Cantor, Esq.
The Hon. M. Fitzpatrick, M.P.
The Hon. J. F. Bums, M.P.
Dr. Renwick, M.P.
A. Bowman, Esq., M.P.
W. Neill, Esq., J.P.
G. A. Lloyd, Esq., J.P.
R. Burdett Smith, Esq., M.P.
The Hon. George Thoniton, M.L.C.
Alderman C. J. Roberts, J.P.
W. W. Billyard, Esq.
C. A. M. Billyard, Esq.
G. F. Want, Esq.
Walter Bradley, Esq., J. P.
John Rae, Esq.
John Lucas, Esq., M. P.
William Speer, Esq., J.P,
Robert Chadwick, Esq.
Hon. W. R. Piddington, M.L.C.
Sydney Burdekin, Esq. J. P.
James Jones, Esq. J.P.
Alderman John Hardie, J.P.
Alderman John Young, J.P.
W. M. Alderson, Esq., J.P.
C. E. Jeannerett, Esq., J.P.
R. C. Want, Esq.
Major Cracknell
P. B. Walker, Esq., J.P.
G. M. Pitt, Esq., J.P.
J. Qardyne, Esq.
George Curtis, Esq.
Alderman Q. Withers, J.P.
Dr. Fortescue
R. Holdsworth, Esq.
Dr. Tarrant, M.P.
J. Henniker Heaton, Esq.
W. W. Wilkins, Esq.
W. E. Kemp, Esq.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
C. H. Hayes, Esq.
S. Lyons, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq.
John Bennett, Esq.
L. E. Threlkeld, Esq.
Dr. Garran
Henry Beit, Esq.
W. C. Browne, Esq,, M. P.
V. W. Giblin, Esq.
With power to add to their number.
Gentlemen desirous of attending the Banquet can
obtain tickets from any member of the committee, or
the undersigned.
R. BURDETT SMITH 1 H Secg
CHARLES J. ROBERTS S
EEETHOUGHT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL,
SUNDAY EVENING, OCT. 31, 1880.
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a LECTURE
entitled:
“ THE MYSTERY OF SIN
UNVEILED BY EVOLUTION.”
Being a sequel to his lecture of last Sunday.
Musical Selections by a Stringed Quartette.
Doors open at 7. Commence at 7.30. Sittings as
usual.
TOILET REQUISITES of every description
Babies’ Nursery Toilet|Sets, Improved China and
Glass Puff Boxes, Folding Mirrors, Ivory Whisker
Brushes, the Electric Tooth Brush, Ivory Puff Boxes,
Silver and Silver-gilt Smelling Bottles, Celluloid Combs,
Pierreponts, Coffins, Fay’s Tooth Brushes, Odorators
for ball rooms; Toilet, Brush and Soap Racks ; Salicylic
Soap, Myxodine or Carragheen Soap; Kaolin Soap, for
softening the skin ; Nevada Lily Complexion Powder,
Oriental Cream Tablets, Oriental Balm, for preserving
and beautifying the teeth ; Hagan’s Magnolia Balm, for
removing freckles; Sargent’s Secret of Beauty; Lloo-
phah, or Egyptian Flesh Rubber; American Wire Hair
Brushes; Botanic Cream, for nourishing and beautify-
ing the hair.
A. J. WATT and CO., Pharmacists, 528 George-street,
Sydney.
SYDNEY EXCHANGE,
on
General Committee:
M
UDGrEE ELECTOEATE EEQUISITION.
TO JOHN HENRY MULHOLLAND, Esq., of Sydney.
Dear Sir, —"We, the undersigned Miners and Electors
of the Mudgee Electorate, do earnestly request you to
allow yourself to he placed in nomination as a CANDI-
DATE for the forthcoming ELECTION of Members to
the Parliament of New South Wales, believing, from
your great general ability, and also from your know-
ledge of miners requirements, that yon will efficiently
represent us. By consenting to do so you will oblige us
and enlist onr warmest support.
The following Electors are willing to form themselves.
into a committee to secure your return: —
Joseph Longton
James Mullis
John Rogers
J. E. Major
George Vere
Harry Bartle
Peter Trefonie
Reuben Denman
James Rogers
James Daniels
John M. Blair
James Hegan
John Lonsdale
Henry Graham
W. S. Brown
J. Osborne
John Burgess
Thomas' Thomas
Henry M‘Carey
John Roberts
William Weaver
Henry Grobefont
John Flynn
James Rogers
G. H. Bryant
James M‘Qrath
Thomas Auckland
J. Holman
William Keudell
Robert Cross
William Flynn
Richard Hodgson
Jacob Veil
T. Werner
William Lawson
William Thomas
Angus Fraser
F. Thimshell
Robert Hodgson
Joseph James
Ralph Nattrass
B. O’Neill
Hill End, October 18.
J acob Tallentire
John Watson
J. W. Marshall
Mark Nattrass
Uriah Wright
J. H. Pattison
Benjamin Carver
L. Hodgson
James Martin
Oswald Kerr
George Bums
Joseph Walpole
David Tippett
Enoch Goodwin
George Fletcher
A. M'Eachem
J. J. Goddard
James Paxton
Fred. Chappell
John Johnston
Wm. Jenkins
Thomas Hardy
Henry King
James Conion
Matthew Hancock
Lewis Clark
Henry Ellis
John Golding
John Renshall
James Barlow
Robert Anderson
Thomas James
Francis German
William English
Thomas Craig
WOOD VI LI E. ESTATE,
, GRANVILLE
(late Parramatta Junction).
DAY OF SALE,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30.
ON THE GROUND, at 3 p.m.
i ssr Special train provided.
1. a®" THE WOODVILLE ESTATE consists of very
high, well-elevated land (and must not be confounded
with low swampy ground with tea tree scrub). It has
easterly, northerly,.and westerly aspects. The soil is
rich, and generally admitted to be first-class for the
production of oranges and vines.
2. THE WOODVILLE ESTATE commands most
extensive views of the whole country around, some of
which are indeed very fine, equal, if not superior, to any
other views out of Sydney.
3. <S3T THE WOODVILLE ESTATE is surrounded by
first-class private houses, and is near to the Public
school, and other buildings.
4. esS~ THE WOODVILLE ESTATE has a large fron-
tage to Woodville Road, which is a good metalled road,
one chain wide (late Dog-trap Road), and also equally
large frontage to High-street, leading to Granville
station (late Parramatta Junction), passing the Public
school, from which it is distant only 4 minutes’ walk-
5. ser THE WOODVILLE ESTATE, owing to the
fine position of the land, is close to two RAILWAY
STATIONS (as will lie seen by referring to the local
sketch in the litbo.), vizi—Granville and Merrylands,
being 7 minutes’ walk from the former, and only *
minutes from the latter.
6. ffiT THE WOODVILLE ESTATE occupies a
msitiou at once COMMANDING. ELEVATED,
TEAT,THY, ACCESSIBLE, and EXTREMELY \ ALb-
iBLE, there being NO HEAVY CLAY SOIL on the
iroperty ; but on the contrary, BLACK LOAM, wit a a
-ravel subsoil—the very best for residential, cultivation,
aid healthful purposes. ,
tsar Send or call for a litho.
Inspect the land. .
S3* Special train to select land prior to sale, and also
m day of sale.
HARDIE and GORMAN, AUCTIONEERS,
PITT STREET.
EJjBOURNE exhibition.
A good opportunity now presents itself to purchase
le of the oldest-established Book and Stationery busi-
3sses in the best and most central position in Mti-
jurue, well-known in Victoria and adjacent colonies
i MUSKETT’S, 78 BOURKE ST., EAST, nearly oppo-
te Theatre Royal. The proprietor being desirous o
■tiring from business as early as possible, will tie.i
ith any intending purchaser on favorable terms
ddress, as above.
HEATRE ROYAL.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 30,
Last Grand Production
by the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
Byron’s Romantic Drama,
THE LANCASHIRE LASS.
Great Cast of Characters.
Entirely New Scenery.
Realistic Effects.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Box plan now open.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings, and Greville.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
LAST NIGHTS AND FAREWELL PROGRAMME
of the popular and accomplished Tragedienne,
LOUISE POMEROY.
This Thursday Evening,
ROMEO AND JULIET,
FRIDAY, 29th October,
FAREWELL BENEFIT
and positively last appearance of
LOUISE POMEROY,
for which occasion will be produced the English adap-
tion of “La Dame aux Camellias,” written for the
Countess Modjeska, and played with great success in
London, entitled
HEARTSEASE,
SATURDAY, 30th October,
Mr. W. H. LEAKE,
In Bartley Campbell’s great success
MY PARTNER.
Prices, 3s, 2s. Is. Box office at Paling's.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Great preparations will be made in Sydney for
the expected visit of Moody and Sankey.
The Wesleyans in England are continuing to do
valiant service in the cause of temperance.
The Rev. A. B. Davis, the Jewish Rabbi, in-
tends paying Melbourne a visit in a few days.
A suburban cleric reads the “ Prayer of St. Chry-
sostom” in 18J seconds —the quickest time yet made.
Mr. Edward Pease, of Greencroft, England, has
bequeathed £7OOO towards religious and missionary
undertakings.
The art union drawing in connection with St.
Mary’s Cathedral for prizes valued in the total at £2OOO
takes place in May.
The Rev. Andrew Gardiner contributes to
the Presbyterian an interesting account of his trip to
the Western districts.
2350 copies of the Testament, in certain New
Hebrides dialects, are to be printed in London, and sent
for distribution shortly.
The English Christian Women’s Union is pre-
paring to do something practical for the 300,000,000
women in China and India.
The Rev. Messrs. Paton, Milne, M'Konzie, and
Michelson, Presbyterian ministers at the New Hebrides,
return to Sydney about December.
A missionary teacher is to be located at Api,
New Hebrides —the cost being borne by the Sabbath
School of Chalmers’ Church, Melbourne.
Five boxes containing antiquities from Babylon
have been received at the British Museum. The chroni-
cles strengthen the legend of the creation.
Workmen are now busily engaged on the foun-
dations of the new Anglican Cathedral at the corner of
Swanston and Flinders streets, Melbourne.
The Christian Weekly announces that
"several priests in America have left Rome, and
embraced Christianity.” They were pagans before !
The Petersham pew-rent question still smoulders.
A writer in the Australian Churchman says :—“ Pew
rent is selling the Gospel by the foot, as if it were gas.”
The “ Imitation of Christ,” a book acknowledged
by writers of all denominations to be second only to
the Bible, has been translated into ferty-six different
languages.
The “ children of light ” are sometimes “ wise in
their generation." The St. John’s (C.E.) School Board
desire to sell their school to the Government, but want
a long price.
The Pope and the Irish Catholic dignitaries
condemn the programme of the Irish Land Leaguers,
Its strongest supporter is the Rev. Isaac Nelson, a
Presbyterian.
Dr. Cuyler says that for twenty years he has
never missed the opportunity of visiting every day a
house and conversing with the family on the subject of
personal religion.
Charles Bradlaugh, the English Atheist, has
sent sceptical books from England to India, and had
them translated into Hindostanee, in order to defeat
the efforts of missionaries.
The Presbyterian says:—“ No one who reads
the signs of the times can deny that the religious Press
is comparatively feeble.” Very true. Less venom, less
abuse of other denominations, might effect a change.
The Mulgoa Aboriginal Mission, Murray River,
is making fair progress. Twenty-eight boys and girls,
and a few adults, attend pretty regularly. There have
been eight marriages since the mission was established.
The Rev. Colin M'Culloch, whilst engaged in the
ceremony of laying the foundation stone of a new Pres-
byterian church at Maryborough, said Roman Catho-
lics had proved themselves the best workers in a new
country.
In France, with a Roman Catholic population of
36,000,000, half the Ministry are Protestants. This
shows the superior intelligence of the Protestants, says
one journal; and the liberality of the Catholics, replies
another.
The Church of England and Presbyterian Pas-
toral Aid Society, of Melbourne, are not altogether a
happy family. The Bishop of Melbourne declines to
meet the Rev. C. Strong, the fashionable minister of
the Presbyterian Church. The world wants to know
why.
A manuscript of the Gospels of Matthew and
Mark, dated A.D, 500, has been discovered by two
German scholars in the palace of the Archbishop of
Rossano, Italy. The gospels are on purple parchment,
and are written in silver. Miniature pictures illustrate
the life of Christ.
Bishop Neville and Bishop Moran were present
at one of Mr. Proctor’s lectures in Dunedin (N.Z.), and
at its conclusion Father O’Malley, S.J., interviewed
Mr. Proctor, and asked him if he had a spare evening
to lecture at the Convent, as the sisters could not
attend a public lecture.
The Melbourne Herald says that “ Dr. Moor-
house, in his speech at the Social Science Congress,
unmasked a battery from which he poured all along the
line a continuous fire into the Education Act. A more
complete, scholarly, and logical condemnation of our
costly and faulty Act has never been issued.”
St. Patrick’s (R.C.) Cathedral, Melbourne, has
been greatly advanced towards completion during the
last two years, and subscriptions are rapidly coming
in. This magnificent edifice, when complete, will have
cost at least £300,000 to build and thoroughly decorate,
and will be surmounted by a tower and spire rising 360
feet from the ground. The cathedral is situated on the
highest point of Melbourne. Mr. W. W. Wardell, late
Victorian Inspector-General of Works, and now of Syd-
ney, is the architect. Mr. Wardell, who is a pupil of
the great Welby Pugin, also designed St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral, Sydney.
The shipping of wheat from America to Liver-
pool costs 225. old. per quarter of 4801b5., and from Aus-
tralia to London 19s. 2d. The profit to the Australian
farmer is 255. 10d., as the selling price in the homo mar-
ket is about 455.
THE COMING ELECTIONS.
Some revelations of big Government jobs are
contained in the following series of letters which
appeared in the Bttrrangong Argus (Young).
The statements are of such wide importance that
they concern not only the Constituency which Mr.
Heaton is contesting, but the whole colony
generally, hence their publication in these columns.
STARTLING METHOD OF ENCOURAGING
COLONIAL INDUSTRIES.
Dear Sir, —Those who swear by Free Trade and those
who swear by Protection will alike be startled by the
following revelation, which I have been at some pains
to get at the truth of.
It will be recollected that Mr. James Watson —one of
the best and most successful private business men in
this colony, yet one of the most pitiable politicians and
weak-minded of Treasurers, found that the public ex-
penses exceeded the receipts by many* thousands of
pounds. He was allowed by his colleagues to resort to
all kinds of expedients to meet the difficulty, and among
other things placed a heavy tax on the raw products of
our land, which created such a storm of indignation
that he was glad to blandly smile and withdraw his pro-
posed impost. Other expedients were tried and failed,
and still the public debt increased, still the expenditure
went on. It was at this period that Mr. James Watson
lent himself (politically of course) to a job of the very
worst description. At the instance of some designing
persons tenders were called by the Government for 38
locomotive railway engines, “ to bo manufactured in the
colony.” Now the sentence, “to be manufactured in
the colony,” sounds very nicely, but when I came to
investigate it, I found that for these 38 locomotive
engines we would have to pay £38,000 more than if they
were imported from the most celebrated makers of
England and the world. A responsible agent of approved
railway engine manufacturers offers to import these
engines for £5OO less each, subject to all conditions the
Government may impose as to giving satisfaction after
trial—but in vain, and this agent in question tells me
he would make £5OO intermediate profit! With this
startling fact staring the Government in the face, they
continue to advertise for tenders with one hand ; and
with the other they attempt to issue an edict to raise
money by a tax on wool. The £38,000 wasted is far
more than could be raised from the poor and the rich,
on the products of their land, in the Young and other
electorates.
They may talk about bolstering up colonial industries,
but I have not yet revealed the full extent of this
crime—for no other word will properly describe it. If
I fail to prove what I say, I now solemnly promise to
retire from the contest, and leave the politics of this
country in the hands of the Watson Brothers —for
whose social qualities, by the way, I entertain some
respect—a respect only equalled by my contempt for
their desire to be considered Heaven-bom politicians.
Let us see in what way these colonial manufactured
engines will encourage native industry.
The plans and specifications before me show that they
are not unlike the repairs to the Milesian's gun, which
had put to it a new lock, stock and barrel —and behold,
it was all new ! In like manner “ the colonial ” engines
are to be all English, by the Government scheme, and
merely put together in this country. One of the most
celebrated private engineers in Sydney (to whom I sub-
mitted this case) more than confirms the revelation I
am making.
The specifications for the “colonial manufactured”
engines state that the following portions or parts of
the engines are allowed to be imported:—
(1) Wheels and axles, including tires and crank pins,
but without eccentrics.
(2) Buffer springs and buffers.
(3) Dome and dome seat, welded upon flanged copper
plates, for fire boxes.
(4) Boiler plates as plates, not flanged, bent, drilled or
planed.
(5) Injectors for boilers, finished.
(6) Lubricators for cylinders,
(7) Steam pressure guages, furnishing ready for fixing.
(8) Safety valves, springs and spring balances.
(9) Steel side bars for forgings, and not planed, except
roughly to ascertain soundness.
!I0) Brass boiler tubes, copper pipes without flanges.
11) Steel piston rods as forgings, not turned (except in
the rough to ascertain soundness).
(12) Furnace plates, slotted but not drilled, and without
fixings of any kind.
(13) All steel and steel castings, unfinished.
(14) Engine and tender springs, with buckles complete
ready for fixing. &c., &c., &fc.
It does not require much engineering knowledge to
see from the above list that “the Colonial manu-
facture ” is a farce.
But I charge the Government with actually allowing
men to import these engines, putting them together
here, and calling them Colonial manufactured. And
with this result:—While a few score men get employ-
ment at only a moderate rate of wages, two or three
speculators obtain possession of the public funds, which,
if Mr. James Watson had his will, would he raised by a
grinding tax on the farmers’ sheep and cattle.
I shudder when I think that these politicians should,
in order to obtain the votes of the working classes,
adopt this policy, which, if they were guiding the affairs
of a private individual in place of the affairs of the
public, would render them liable to imprisonment. I
know this is strong language, but I claim forbearance,
because it is the language of one who is not bidding for
votes, who has no earthly object to serve of a selfish
nature, but is firmly persuaded that a grievous wrong
is being perpetrated—a wrong which would, if fairly
investigated, render the Ministry liable to impeach-
ment. At the proper time I will bring forward the
technical evidence necessary to support my allegations.
Free Traders and Protectionists alike disown this
astounding system of Fostering Colonial Industries.
At the proper time I shall also speak on the latter
question, but now no time should be lost in exposing
the above. But I have not done—yet another dis-
graceful swindle or “job.” We have a tramway—
which, in order to avoid the unjust libel laws, we will
say is in the City of Political Dodgers and Wire Pullers
not 1000 miles from Sydney. The rails for this tram-
way were—to save time and foster Colonial Industries
—ordered to be manufactured in the colony, in the
capital of which, called the City of Political Dodgers,
resided the Wire Pullers. These Wire Pullers obtained
the contract for the tramway lines from the “ All things
to all men Government." Twelve months have elapsed
and the rails, which cost £ll per ton, are now worn out.
If such rubbish as these “ colonial rails” (made.lthink,
from scrap iron) were imported from England, there
would have been a perfect howl throughout the whole
colony. And now I am credibly informed that steel
rails, which would last 20 years, could have been ob-
tained for this money, viz: £ll per ton. And thus
thousands are wasted, the expenditure exceeds the in-
come, and we wearily drag along, in this beautiful fer-
tile country, misgoverned by men whose mental inca-
pacity is readily acknowledged by their warmest
friends.
No matter who goes into Parliament for the Young
electorate, these things should be borne in mind, —that
with ordinary economy our present magnificent revenue
is ample for our needs—that blundering and plunder-
ing such as I have described should be put a stop to,
that 20,000 civil servants is too great a burden for this
young colony, that a better and more experienced class
should take the place of those rapidly retiring, and that
if more revenue be required for public works, it can be
obtained by increasing the rental of the leased lands of
the Crown in the unsettled districts.
Yours very faithfully,
J. HENNIKER HEATON.
A MODEL COLONIAL TREASURER.
Dear Sir,—Eeferring to my letter to you, posted last
week, it has since struck me that exception will be
taken to my estimate of the cost of ‘ * the colonial specu-
lators” engine and Beyers and Peacock’s, or Dubbs
and Co.’s celebrated engine.
The best guide as to cost, will be the latest prices
paid by Mr. Watson out of the Colonial Treasury, at
the same time as he was trying to put a tax on wool, viz ;
(1). For the so-called Colonial Engines, £3500. (2).
For the best English firm’s engines, £2lOO each.
This is neither Free Trade, Protection, nor Foster-
tering Colonial Industry, and my friends in the Young
electorate will not be satisfied until they perform their
part in an unmistakeable protest.
J. HENNIKER HEATON.
October 11, 1880.
Mr. Heaton also addressed the following sensi-
ble letter to the local paper on the education
question; —
THE EDUCATION OF OUR CHILDREN.
Dear Sir, —The speech I made last night before the
Social Science Congress, now being held in Melbourne,
is liable to misconstruction because the Argus’ report
is necessarily condensed.
Touching New South Wales I told thehighiy intellec-
tual audience, amidst their cheers, that New South
Wales now expended £500,000 annually on the
education of 200,000 children, and that though in the
opinion of some high authorities we were drifting
these children into atheism, yet I was proud to say that
the standard of secular education is higher in our
colony than in any other of the Australias.
I urged the questions—ls there a God ? Is Chris-
tianity worth preserving P And presuming that these
questions were answered in the affirmative, I gave my
deliberate opinion that the knowledge of God and God’s
laws should not be excluded from our schools.
I have only now to add once more my regret that for
various reasons the country has seen fit to alter the
views held when Sir Henry Parkes delivered his famous
speech in favour of Denominational schools at Young
some years ago, in the presence and amid the cheers of
thousands, including Mr. James Watson.
I have already said that I bow to the expressed will
of the great majority of the people, and it is only fair
to admit that the mass of the people were honestly
actuated by the hatred of tyranny, a strong desire for
an uniform system of State education, and a stronger
determination to abolish every form of State aid to re-
ligion.
Turning to more practical subjects, the conviction is
growing upon me that all right-minded persons should
direct their attention to improving the secular educa-
tion by improving our great estate, the land. Let us
throw open some of our 20,000-acre grand reserves to cer-
tain children whose parents desire them to acquire a
knowledge of pastoral and agricultural pursuits. These
model pastoral and agricultural farms (in the midst of
which might be erected agricultural colleges like those
excellent institutions in America) would be gladly
availed of.
Farming is the noblest pursuit on earth, and I pray
for the day when fathers and mothers will learn to
place their sons on the land in place of earning their
living by their wits, as tens of thousands will do if they
are not given something more than the present high
intellectual training in the great schools of Sydney.
Yours very faithfully.
J. HENNIKER HEATON.
St. Canice, Darling Point.
October 13, 1880.
TO THE ELECTORS OF NEWTOWN.
“ Gentlemen, —I have been requested by several in
fluential residents of the electorate of Newtown to offei-
myself as a candidate for the representation of voar
Borough in the forthcoming Parliament, and to th!t
request I have assented. Having determined to enter
the arena of politics, it is necessary I should state for
Sour acceptance or rejection a synoposis of the views r
old upon the great questions that are likely to demand
the particular attention of the new Legislature. I a Jn a
staunch supporter of the Education Act, and will not
consent to any change of the principal laid down in the
the measure passed by the last Parliament . I oppose
the remission of interest on the balances due by the
free selector, because I consider it to be a direct act of
repudiation of a just debt on the part of those who have
raised the cry. But lam in favour of such an alteration
in the land laws as will prevent the unfortunate antagon-
ism between squatters and selectors which experience
has proved is more disastrous than beneficial to the pro.
gxess and welfare of the colony. I would have areas
defined, subject to alteration as necessity might arise
within which I would confine Free Selectors, and beyond
those boundaries I would give as far as possible fixity of
tenure to the squatters and demand from them a higher
rental as a quid pro quo for the security they would en.
joy. lam a Free-trader but am in favour of fostering
such native industries as it is possible to establish amongst
ns. This can only be done by an admitted self-sacrifice
which, for the sake of the rising generation and the
future of the colony, the whole body of the colonists
should submit to. The principle adopted by the present
Government is one in which I heartily concur—that of
calling for tenders for railway plant to be manufactured
in the colony—and which I think might be wisely ex-
tended to other branches of industry. In theory all the
arguments is in favour of Free Trade, but I cannot dig.
guise from myself the fact that without an effort, with-
out some self-sacrifice to be borne equally by all classes,
we can never hope to establish manufacturing indus-
tries amongst us. With regard to the Chinese Question.
I am in favour of restricting their influx to the colony
by a capitation charge. These are the topics which
principally occupy the public mind at the present time,
and I deem it unnecessary, as I shall have frequent op-
potunities of meeting you, to specify my views upon
minor matters, in this announcement. This I may say:
I have nothing to disguise or evade, I make no preten.
sions to oratorical power or extraordinary talent. lam
known to most of you, and if you think 1 am fit to be
entrusted with your representation in Parliament I am
willing to serve you to the best of my ability.—l am,
gentlemen, yours faithfully.
JOSEPH MITCHELL.


Business Announce
EEM 0 V A
r|IHE undersigned have remo
J- business to those centrally-sil
CLARENCE STR
nearly facing Barrack-street and
Office (now in course of completion)
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL
Wholesale Gro
And
WINE AND S P
MERCHANTS.
-r x IS NOW THE
-*■ That the Exhibition
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVEL!
You are not expected to buy what,
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTIC]
INVENTION, FANCY G
TOTS a speciality—every desc:
Manufacturers and Im
Headquarters for PEARL CEM!
China, Glass, Crockery, Wooc
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE—insts
worst cases.
Ko trouble to show Goods and fullj
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY
408 GEORGE STR]
(Nearly opposite Australian Jor
AND AT 70 MARKET S
SYDNEY.
R. LAI
Wholesale and Ret
PRODUCE MERC
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS J
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STOREI
48 George-street West (late Pan
And.
Darlinghnrst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and
p. r. lark;
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRI
. SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wh
hy post punctually t
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayn
. NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-M.
OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and i
” Gold mining Leases within thirty days from this date, thej
No.
Name.
Hunter and Macleat Mining D
Portion
No.
Locality,
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
215
217
220
223
225
227
228
229
251
252
253
254
William Mortimer
G. R. Brackenreg and others
James M’Neilly
Charles Doust
A. Willis and others
T. Hogarth and another
W, Mitchell and others
T. O’Brien and others
E. Abbott and another
G. Penman
G. Pullin and others
J. Mitchell and others
W. Round and others
Oliver Wilson and others
J. C. Scott and others
J. H. White
T. Hutchinson and another...
E. Lambe and others
Arthur Bleakley
William Fogwell
P. Walton
H. Campbell and another
Paul Bagley and others
J. A. Nelson
James Thomas and others ...
E. S. Stokes another and ...
Germania Reef, parish of Bi:
Star of the South Reef, pari;
Nil Desperandum Reef, pari
Back Creek, parish of Bindei
Star of the South Reef, pant
Melbourne Reef, parish of B
Eclipse line of Reef, parish (
do do
Eight-hand Branch Back Cre
Melbourne Reef, parish of B
County of Gloucester, parisl
do do
do do
Eight-hand Branch Back Cr
Mechanics’ Reef, parish of B
Right-hand Branch, Back Ci
Dan. O’Connell Reef, parish
County of Gloucester, paris
No. 1 N.W. Rise and Shine B
Right-hand Branch, Back Ci
Germania Reef, parish of Bii
Bowman Falls, parish of Bin
Cornish Reef, parish of Bind
County of Gloucester, parisl
Prince Charlie Reef, parish <
County of Gloucester, parisl
Business Annonn
ILLI A M M
IMPORTER OP BOOKS ANI
381 GEORGE-STREET,
JUST RECEIVED, ex “ ORIENT
supply of
BIRTHDAY CAE
CHRISTMAS AND NEW Y.
COVENTRY BOOK-5
SATCHETS, &
NEW 800
A Woman’s Patience, by E. J. Woi
Joan Carisbroke, by E. J. Worboisc
A Red Rose Chain, by Maggie Syxnii
Pictures from English Literaturt
55.; post, 6s.
Roberts’ Manual of Fashionable
post, 3s.
Wood’s The Tree Planter and Plai
trated—2s.; post, 2s. 6d.
Wood’s The Tree Pruner, illustrate
Locker’s Patchwork—ss. ; post, ss.
Pitman’s Phonetic Short-hand an'
tionary—-4s. 6d. ; post, ss.
Probation, a novel, by author of “
post, 7s.
Stephens’s (J. Brunton) Miscelh
post, 6s. 9d.
Eibeaucourt’s Manual of Rational
trated —35.; post, 3s. 6d.
Hayward’s Taking Cold th,e Cause t
—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
Zerffi’s Spiritualism and Animal ]
post. Is. 6d.
Davies’s Other Men’s Minds, or 700
History, Science, Philosophy,
plates—9s.; post, 11s. 6d.
Flora Symbolica, or the Languag
Flowers, coloured illustrations
—6s.; post, 7s. 6d.
Jones’s The Broad, Broad Ocean ant
tants, illustrated—ss.; post, 6s
Jones’s The Animal Creation, a P
to Zoology, 500 illustrations —5i
Valentine’s The Girl’s Home 800
and How to Work, illustrated-
James’s (G.P.R.) HenryMasterton,
The Gipsy, 3 vols. in 1, cloth —2
Davies’s Wildcat Tower, or Adven
in pursuit of Sport and Nat
North Countrie, illustrated, gill
Grant’s The Lord Hermitage, a not
Spurgeon’s (Rev. C. H.) John Ploi
More of his Talk —Is. 3d.; pos
Cassell’s Sixpenny Lessons in Fren
Cassell’s Lessons in French—2s. 6c
Manners of Modern Society—2s.; j
Davidson’s Elements of Building
post, 2s. 6d.
Men of the Time, a Dictionary of Co
edition, by T. Cooper—lss.; po
Womankind, by C. M. Yonge—Bs. 6
The Family Novelette Library, 12 ■
novels —25.; post, 2s. Bd.
“JUDY” SHILLING BOOKS, es
dreds of comic pictures—each,
A Book of Comicalities—Jut
Shilling*sworth of Phiz—Es
turn —Sugar Plums —There i
and Kisses—All the Way
Beauty—The Twopenny- Tw
to Paris —Sand and Shin(
shine —The Penny Weddin
Sloper, a moral lesson —J
mental Journey—Fun on
Maidens.
MADDOCK’S GUIDE TO SYDNI
HANDBOOK, comprising a des
and its institutions, with whi
The Tourists’ Handbook and
Resources of New South Wale
Price, Is.; post. Is. 4d.
JUST PUBLIS
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS (
WALES, and the Regulation
Index, by John L. Watkins, Es
Sydn., and of the Inner Tempb
Price, 10s. 6d.; post, 11s.
LETTS’S DIARIES for 1881, all i
MAGAZINES and PEEIODICAI
scribers’ names can now be reoe
THE FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDI
tions for the treatment of ever
medicines required for any hou
Fullerton, C.M. & M.D., forr
the Sydney Infirmary and Be
Third Edition, revised and im;
also the newly-discovered Eeme
matism, and Neuralgia. 548pj
photographic portrait of the aut
free by post, 14s.
WILLIAM MADDI
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND
381 GEORGE-STRE
SYDNEY.
REA
AUCTIONEERS AND GEN]
CENTRAL TEM(
Will be glad to receive Suitable A
Firms.
Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICB
K
street, are their Sydney Re
EARE T B R
COACH AND BUGGY
290 PITT STREET, S
Near Park-strec
T. B U I
HOUSE AND LANI
353, GEORGE !
NEAR KING STRI
PRIVATELY OR I
S. HAND
(Late Grant, Manders, a
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, AD\
COMMISSION A
91 Little Collins-stre
Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SI
JOHN McMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE M
GENERAL COMMISSIO]
Special attention given to Consign:
Sales promptly rendered. Int
and Country Orders executed v
STOCK
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK RE(
322 George-street, Sj
All Stock for private sale thror
Registered here, free of charge, unt
mission on sales effected 1 per c«
lot of stock being registered here
sufficient advertisement for that
under offer may be withdrawn fn
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON,
and Station Land, and General Coi
T H A R
** * WHEELWRIGHT ANE
BUILDER. &c
Hat and Engine Si
Established 185
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOI
fjJREAT CENTRAL BO
WHOLESALE AND ;
IMPORTERS AND MANU
of
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF B
510 GEORGE STREET,
(Directly opposite the Centra
All Goods marked in PLAIN FI
there is NO ABATEMENT.
Our establishment is the larges
prices is lower than that of any
Southern Hemisphere.
math
IMPORTERS AND IN
FRENCH BOOTS A;
AND
GENERAL MERCHA
313 GEORGE ST., AND 24 W 1
SYDNEY.
ALSO,
51 QUEEN STREET, ME
INNOCENTS IN SYDNEY.-
liant Sketches and delirious Hu
just published. 6d. First and secoi
4s each. “Mabel Escott” (fourt
sketches. Is, postage extra. Send
H. J. Franklin, 40 Hunter-st., or c
place, or at Wallace’s, King-st.
PITT, SON, AND
STOCK! AND STATION
SYDNEY.
N.B.—All Fat Stock received and
Large Store Stock coni
Proceeds and Account Sales punc
PITT, SON,
ALLEN PARK
DARLING ROAD, BA
c
W. DEEMER begs to inform trav
generally that The Bulletin, S. M
News, &c., &c., will be found in tl
of the above Hotel.
IRON AND BRASS :
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsl
Sheets, Blankets, Count
Bolsters and Pillow I
Mosquito Curtail
J. L AWL El
i xtttti a nmirnr


Miscellaneov
D
EYSDALE AND
397 George Stb
76, 78, 145, 147 York
33 Pitt Strei
IRONMONGERS, IRONMEI
IMPORTERS
Invite attention to their extensi
which besides being 1 the largest in
varied; and comprises all the lates
Engines Engineers’ Material .a
Agricnltnral Implements, Th]
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Ei
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lampi
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron,
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chaud
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hii
Squatters’ Kequisites, Wire, Gi
&c., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Eolled Jo
And
GENERAL IRONMO
W 1
HLLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S.
QIHE
HEB B L E
416 GEORGE STB
BEST PAINT IN
’Ji H' 1
3
Of muMßi
22”H8 69^
C 2
THE PACIFIC EUBBI
is mixed ready for
supplied in cans containing 1 ga
These cans form a convenient P
f^mplete.
Similar testimony to the followh
■s: —“Woollahra, August 20th, 18f
KUBBEE PAINT to be all that
ind Bright, and owing to its largi
I am inclined to think it is cheape)
My own house was painted with it
and appears as fresh, clean and glo
last week—the some with the fenc
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC
will cover 35 Square Yards —one
coats ; 18 sq. yards, tin
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge tc
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEM
Sole Agents,
foot of MAEKET STEEET, net
MACHO
H. P. GRIGORY A
n«. ii, pitt-ste;
EME D Y
IMlil
Hhl »««
Hvi
:v " a "«ter filter ).
80S
FOR
IMPURE
WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the elite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Ei Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEYER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
C HEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
BUY
o
"O
CD
CO
oS
DC
PRIZE
CL-
DC
<C
I
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney-
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
BTA*
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Eeport says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CD
c*
DC
CO
z
T A n
s
ING £ R
GENUINE
EWING MACHINES
ALL FOEMEE YEAES OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it P It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EYES
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OP THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OP THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey; Jayes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield .-—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for 2| years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Lawrence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Miscellaneoi
QLIFFORD, LOYI
TEA IMPORT]
EASTERN AND CC
MERCHANT
Receive regular consignmei
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualil
Do. Indian Prize M<
CHUTNIES—Indian Pi
PRESERVES—Indian!
COFFEE—Plantation ]S
Do. „ P
Do. „ K
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and:
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B
OFFICES34B GEOR(
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, 3
REDGAI
And FOOD OF
The most wholesome i
children or persons in
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO
■old by all Grocers am
O
2XS
PITT STREEI
BEAUTIFUL,. tS
diagoiu.^
OR 'L
ALLWOOL
T R TW E ED
TO
R. HORNSBY & SONS’
&
THE SIMPLEST,
THE STRONGEST,
And THE REST.
Campbelltown, Sept. 30, 1880.
Messrs. Martin & Pain,
Please book my order for another Paragon Ma-
chine, 4 ft. 6 in. cut. The last I had of you, three
years since worked perfectly, and all my neighbors
say it is the best Combined Mower and Reaper they
ever saw. The first year I cut 160 acres, the second
year 200 acres, the third year 220 acres, and during
the whole time it has not cost me ss. for extras.
The Machine I now order you will please fit with
all your latest improvements, and oblige yours,
A. VICARY
We challenge competition, & guarantee
all our Paragon Mowers and Reapers.
Martin & Pain,
389 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the Koval Hotel.
TT"' —
MARTIN
AND
We have
Two Sizes
of
String Binders
I»rices
£65 & £75,
but recommend our
customers to secure the
Largest Size, as they vvi
Harvest any Crops grown
up to 7 feet high.
Write us for full particulars.
We post Illustrated Catalogues,
Free.
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
OUR “WOODS”
String Binder
Has worked through
POUR HARVESTS.
And we now offer them to the
Farmers of N. S. Wales, as
Complete and Perfect
SELF BINDERS.
X. our Fiel<l Tria,s
FRON J- X, last season proved
to the
to
Practical Farmers
that our
String Binder
is
Perfect.
binder'
