

THE BULLETIN
No. 11.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIU 10, 1880.
Price—3d.
%\t §wlktin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 10, 1880.
Our Pawnbroking System.
It would indeed be difficult to lay down a bard,
inflexible rule defining the businesses which may
properly be undertaken by the State and those
which may more profitably be left to private enter-
prise. It may however be safely asserted that
one of the not least important duties of the Legis-
lature is to encourage thrift and diminish the
fiscal burdens of the community by every means
compatible with the moral and material progress
of the nation. It is better that our telegraphs
and railways should be in the hands of the State
than in those of private individuals who after all
would not construct, or having constructed, would
not maintain lines of wire or rail except on condi-
tions differing widely from those under which the
State carries on those departments of its business.
In deciding whether or not it will interfere with
the business operations of private individuals, the
State, we take it, is only bound to act on the well-
worn political proverb of “ the greatest good for
the greatest number.” It is r b deterred from
laying down a street t-unway by reason of the
fact that it finds the pa * .'He in the Hands
ot a private company w nose easiness the tramway
eannot but curtail; nor does it refrain from work-
ing the new city line by steam instead of by horse
power because of the objections naturally raised
by vendors of horse-feed.
Theoretically, sovereigns have the same com-
mercial rights as potatoes—that is to say: the
owner of money, like the owner of tubers, is per-
fectly justified in buying in the cheapest market
and selling in the dearest. Yet from all time there
have been among many nations laws against usury ;
and our own system of licensing pawnbrokers is
designed not only as a safeguard against the too
easy disposal of stolen valuables, but as a check
■on the usurious operations of those who lend
money on personal property. As the subject of a
usury law is now before the Assembly, and as the
pawnbrokers of New South Wales, like those of
every other country in which they have been allowed
a liberty amounting to license, have as a class
shamefully abused the privileges granted them,
it may be well to see whether an equitable pawn-
office system cannot be substituted by the State
for that at present obtaining, and whether there
are not good grounds why the Government
should take into its own hands a trade the followers
of which are all-powerful, and which in the most
prosperous of modern commonwealths —France—
■could not be made to yield a maximum of good
and a minimum of evil until monopolised by the
Government. We have not room in this column
for even a rough statement of the facts bearing on
the case; but we print elsewhere in this issue a
short article founded on the report of the Victorian
Commission to the last Paris Exhibition —showing
the operations of the Government ‘ Mont de
Piete ’ system in France. Any alteration in the
law as applied to pawnbrokers should, in our
opinion, be based on the experience of a nation
which for a century has tried, with the happiest
results, the effects of placing substantial restric-
tions on money-lenders. The English system, or
rather want of system, has been tried in these
colonies, and proved to be here, as it is at home,
a failure.
It may be urged that the task of lending
small sums of money on valuable security at
reasonable rates of interest is one which might
properly be taken in hand by a limited company.
But the experience of Prance incontrovertibly
shows that the operations of private money-
lenders, whether single individuals or companies
has, whatever the pretensions of th epreteurs, ever
been associated with greed; and that it is only
the State which can combine business with bene-
volence.
In Prance, the State is the sole proprietor of the
“Mont de Piete.” It lends money on valuables
at per cent., and by allowing a commission of
one-half per cent, to the appraiser, makes the
latter responsible for the institution obtaining, in
the event of its being compelled to exercise its
powers of sale, as much for the article as was
advanced upon it, plus interest and expenses.
Should a borrower fail to pay interest within
twelve months of the time he obtains a loan, the
security is sold by auction and the balance (if any)
remaining after the realisation of the sum lent, the
interest thereon and the cost of valuation, is passed
to his credit in the books of the institution. If not
claimed within three years, it is handed over to ..he
charities.
Contrast this truly philanthropic and easily
managed system with that which prevails in
New South Wales. Here a person in want of
money, and who has only personal property to
offer as security, is bound by law to go to a man
■who charges him at least 60 per cent. We say
at least, for it is well known that the pawnbroker’s
exaction, all told, is frequently at the rate of 100 per
cent. In two—or, at the outside, three —months,
the security is sold by mock auctio n and the whole
proceeds go into the pockets of the insatiable
lender.
We hail with satisfaction the prospect of legis-
lative action such as will to an extent, however
uncertain, regulate the actions of pawnbrokers
and the holders of bills of sale. We hope that
Parliament, when touching on the subject, will
deal with it effectually, and that by following the
example set by older and wiser legislatures, it will
show that the expenditure incurred by the colonies
in connexion with their representation at the Paris
Exhibition has not been altogether in vain.
Mr. W. W. Stephen, Under Secretary for
Lands.
We this day present to our readers the portrait
of Mr. William Wilberforce Stephen, the Under
Secretary for the Department of Lands of this
colony. It is our intention at some future date to
lay before the public engravings and short bio-
graphical sketches of the Under Secretaries in the
several departments of the Government service,
and we feel that we could not do better chan com-
menced the proposed course of such sketches with
a slight outline, necessarily short from t ie limited
space at our disposal, of the gentleman above
named.
Mr. Stephen is too well known to the • ■■onerallty
of the Sydney public to need any person dor ip-
ticm oth c than that offered by tbo c\c.' cut
likeness produced below. He is tue filth son of
Sir Alfred Stephen by his first wife and is therefore
the brother of Mr. M. H. Stephen, Q.C., the
present actual leader of the bar of New South
Wales and also a half brother of Mr. C. B.
Stephen, barrister-at-law. He was born in Tas-
mania, in September, 1835, and came to this
colony in 1837 with his father, Sir Alfred Stephen.
Mr. Stephen was educated at Sydney College and
the Rev. Mr. Williams’ school at Ashfield in
company with his half brother, Mr. Randolph
Want the well-known solicitor, Mr. A. Norton,
now member of the Queensland Legislative
Assembly, and many other men who have made a
name and position for themselves in life. He
entered the public service of the colony on the Ist
of July, 1852, at the early age of 17 and rapidly
rose in that particular branch to which he was
attached. His first essay, whether of his own
choice or enforced we do not pretend to know, was
in the then Colonial Secretary’s office. At that
date, before the institution of responsible govern-
ment, the Imperial regime still obtained, and the
late Sir E. Deas Thompson combined the offices of
Colonial Secretary and Minister for Lands. One
year later, however, people in the antipodean wilds
began to have a glimmering of light and to see
the error of their ways, and, upon the Lands
Office being formed, Mr. Stephen transferred both
himself and his energies to that important branch
of the Government service.
Gradually, step by step, with a perseverance
most certainly worthy of a better cause, Mr.
Stephen, after having early made himself ac-
quainted with those minutes of detail which are
essential to a thorough knowledge of the working
of any department, rose with that steadfast firm-
ness which showed his determination to achieve
the goal he had marked out for himself and which
was the surest guarantee of his reaching it.
On the Ist of October, 1870, he was made Under
Secretary for Lands and has held that post ever
since. The duties of Mr. Stephen’s position are,
whatever may be the opinion of the outsidp public
on such matters, the reverse of light. Much has
lately been said and written concerning the De-
partment of Lands and the laxity of its
management, but it is certain that the genial
manner and businesslike attention to the perfor-
mance of the duties of his really diplomatic office
which characterise the present Under Secretary go
far to neutralize any such laxity, if it exists.
Mr. Stephen is highly and most justly respected
by all his subordinates, and in concluding this
notice we can wish him no better fortune than
that he may live long and enjoy all the success
which he deserves.
A HOLIDAY LETTER,
PICKED UP IN THE NORTH SHORE PERRY.
My Darling Totty,—
Although I am so tired that my fingers will
scarcely hold the pen, I must make an effort to tell you
of our delightful pic-nic to Middle Head, where the
volunteers were camping. There were Lotty and Kitty
Clover and myself. We took our little brothers with
us, put all our pocket money together, and with our
joint savings engaged, a man with a waggonette to drive
ns there and return for us in the afternoon. a The man
said he was taking us for next to nothing. I'only know
he left us with next to nothing in our purse. Kitty
called him a dear man, so sarcastically yon know
Kitty’s style. As soon as we started it began to rain
and didn’t' stop until we reached the ‘ camp.’ We per-
suaded the driver to remain until the shower was over,
opened our parcel of sandwiches and had one all round
with two for the driver—Lotty says you must always
stuff a man to keep him good-tempered. . Whilst we sat
eating and talking the officer of the guard’came near
and;asked if we had any friends in,‘ camp?. At thejrisk
of choking myself I swallowed my'sandwich .andfsaid
no—a .spare tent would .be more in our line?fHe laugh-
iugly assured us they were not water-proof. Just then
thejrain ceased and the sun camejout" bright ahcf hot!
Those dreadful boys—we had only brought them
useful—all decamped, and we were leftlstanding in the
midst of our baggage. I suppose we looked;,a little dis-
consolate, for a volunteer came up and offered to carry
our baskets to a nice cave he knew of. We smiled on
him Totty, every one of us, and followed him as if he
was our brother. Oh, he was kind. He made a fire for
us, took our ‘ can ’ and'brought us nice sparkling water,
and asked us so kindly if we had everything.we wanted.
I said yes—all but one thing—a cork screw. * Ye-es,’ I
said, looking at the girls— ‘ a bottle of Imilk.’ jj He went
to look for a tire-bouchon. Just as we began’our
luncheon—the boys had returned—we saw our
volunteer making his way down to us, and
what do yon think the kind fellow had
brought us ? A can of hot soup: just, he said, to
shew us how they made it in camp. I assure you it
beat the soup at the restaurants, or else we were
hungry. ‘ Now,’ he said, *if you will give me the bottle
of milk I’ll try and knock the head off carefully.’ ‘Oh,
yes,’ I said, ‘ of course the bottle of milk,' and I gave
him a hottle of Bavarian ale —we had brought a bottle
between us all, dear. He never moved a muscle but set
about opening it. Kitty Clover pushed a glass into my
handand whispered, ‘give the dear fellow the first glass.'
So when he handed me the decapitated bottle, I poured
him out a glass. He made a grave salute, drank to our
very good healths, and added that he seldom tasted
such good milk. Then we all laughed and got quite
friendly. At last he said he must go and dress for parade,
but if we liked he would shew us over the camp in the
afternoon. So we packed up, took all our baggage to
the waggonette, told the man to mind it, and did not
wait long before our soldier friend joined us and took us
over the camp. When we reached the sergeant-major’s
tent he introduced us to him, and after a little talking
and laughing the latter joined our party, and we all
went to see a torpedo explode. Such a grand sight !
the water was thrown up in a long white column. By
this time it was getting late, so I asked the major—
does’nt that read nice—to call ‘ our boys.’ Then, dear,
we started for the waggonette. They saw us all comfort-
ably seated; and when we thanked them for all their
kindness they laughed and said what pleasure we had
given them, and squeezed our hands at parting—Kitty
says it’s a way they’ve got in the army. The last I saw
of them they were waving their haukerchiefs to us, and
we did the same. So ended our most delightful day in
‘ camp.’
Your loving cousin,
QUIZ.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
IX.—"GARDEN PALACE FLIRTATIONS."
Mt drab Bean-Blossom, —
The .weather is lovely and the ‘ Palace ’ is
crowded. There is plenty of music of its kind.
Madame Lamal has her usual crowd packed inside and
outside her husband’s attractive little court, where the
centre of attraction is the bronze. A life-size subject
of a man training a poodle to jump over his clasped
hands is about the best ‘ bronze ’ in the whole Exhibi-
tion and is faultless as ‘ Arianna ’ in the Italian court—
both being gems of art. I linger near the fountain.
Mark the word near, for it is impossible to be very near,
as the people stand and sit more than five-deep round
the fountain. How many secrets its noisy waters have
listened to and in a measure drowned; how many
lovers’ vows and sweet flirtations have been swallowed
by the gaping, wide-mouthed—l had almost said
waddling frog—but quotations even from the author
of such well-known lines as the above are odious.
There is a charming amount of trust and child-like
confidence in each other among all the happy couples
that gather round the ‘ fountain’ and tell their little
love tales, not only to the waters but to their neigh-
bours. The question naturally follows what will all these
Jemmy Tessamys do when the fountain is no more ?
Flirtatious and love making will be voted flat, stole and
unprofitable when not carried on in the ears and under
the full battery of at least a hundred eyes. Jeames,
the footman, and his master. Lord Long-Acres, both
meet their young women under the ‘ dome,’ where the
prevailing scent is orange and peppermint, where pom-
padour print and pompadour silk are both told
the same tale by a variety of well-dressed men
of various grades in society. Here I see the
full grown son of a ‘ lord ’ doing the con amorg
business as though he was no novice in the ar
Neither is the well-dressed—perhaps one of the fe
well-dressed women who daily haunt our Palace. Sh
affects a dark and rather uncommon shade of green
perhaps as a contrast to her own guileless character
where the simplicity of girlhood might appear to ad-
vantage, but does not, to speak the plain unvarnished
truth. Such attributes have not been known in her
family for many generations. How her people came to the
surface of society and once there kept firm hold of their
borrowed gentility is not for me to unriddle; but society
of the present day is not very particular. Eeport even
hints that within the walls of the mightiest it is more
than a little mixed. Then why grow egotistical ? Some
must get the loaves, others the fishes ; and if the hook
is well baited or the net well weighted the fisher is sure
of his or her prize. My dear Bean-blossom, I fear I
have allowed my fancy to carry my pen into waters
considerably out of your depth. Take my letter for
what it is worth, eschew the evil and digest the good
thereof.
Yours,
PEA-BLOSSOM.
MR. W. W. STEPHEN, UNDER SECREPARY FOR LANDS.


DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“For I am nothing if not critical.”-
"Othello."
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
anagers desirous of having: their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
_ We shall at all times he glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies-aato their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
he of personal as well as general interest.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
The attraction of the week in the theatrical world has
been the production of Gilbert’s satirical comedy of
•Engaged’ at this theatre; and the good attendance
has proved that the public prefer the Lingard Company
in comedy, which is their forte, to opera houffe, which
is not. ‘Engaged’ was produced at the Eoyal about
a year ago, with Mr. Chaplin and Miss Bose Osborne in
the leading parts, and the performance of all the charac-
ters being remarkably good the piece was received with
great favour, an impression that no doubt tended to
contribute towards its present success. Like * Pina-
fore,' ‘Sweethearts,’ and other pieces by the same
author, it is a satire on men, manners, and customs of
the day. It shows off in strong colours the utter
worldliness and selfishness of people whilst professing
the purest sentiments and most noble motives. None
of the characters are burlesqued: the humour or bur-
lesque lies in people expressing out-of-the-way and most
extravagant ideas in a commonplace, every-day manner.
Listen to the rich Cheviot Hills-one of the hills of
that part of Scotland—who has a fatal facility for be-
coming engaged to every pretty woman he meets—pro-
pounding the most sordid principles of economy to his
intended young bride, or giving evidence of utter mean-
ness in a lofty grandiloquent strain; to Belinda Treheme,
the romantic and even dramatic heroine, proclaiming
her passionate devotion to one lover, whilst in the same
breath she can cast him olf for another because his
prospects are not satisfactory;—to Simperson, who —
finding that Cheviot will not or cannot marry—advises
him with tears to commit suicide as the only means out
of his difficulties, and his (Simpersons’) only chance of
obtaining an inheritance, and then upbraids him as a
delinquent for not having done it; to Belvewamey—the
demoniacally tragic Mephisto to Cheviot—urging on
friend or beloved to any course that shall ensure him
his income;—to Maggie, the unsophisticated Scotch
lassie, who advises her lover to give her up to the Eng-
lish laird for the consideration, who afterwards refuses
a second offer from Cheviot because she thinks she can
make more by a breach of promise case ;—to her lover,
Angus, who relinquishes her with much boohooing on
the ground that ‘ twa pun is twa pun,’ but is ready to
call off the bargain on finding the money saxpenee
short; to Parker, who is disgusted at not being able to
squeeze a shilling out of Cheviot in return for her
kisses and amatory glances; to Mrs. McFarlane, ready
to take advantage of any change of affairs by which she
may pocket the bawbees;—and even to little Minnie
Simperson, who, imbued with her father’s spirit of sel-
fishnesss, looks with disgust at her friend eating all the
wedding tarts ;—listen to all these, and then say if the
characters represented are not personages from real
everyday life.
We liked the former representation and we like the
present one: the comedy is one that cannot be badly
acted if the representatives have the slightest idea of
their professional requirements. First impressions go
a long way, and our first impression of ‘ Engaged ’ was
very favourable. Mrs. Lingard (Belinda) was admirably
tragic and contrasting; she looked comme iI faut ; her
desire to have all the questions respecting herself and
her position answered immediately; her address to the I
imaginary butler; her joy on again finding the hidden
tarts ;—were supremely good. Miss Melrose (Minnie)
very neat, pretty, and natural; rather ‘ tart ’ with her
friend when she finds the latterlay claim to her intended.
Miss Melrose spoilt a point; after the consumption of
all the arts, Belinda says she is so artless; Miss Mel-
rose replies, * Yes, very artless,' which is nonsense.
Minnie’s answer (in the text), ‘Quite artless’—the
stress on the t in the first word making the pointed
allusion to ‘hartless - ’ Maggie Oliver, the Maggie of
the former cast, was Maggie again—inimitable, though
now and then forgetting the Scotch tongue for the Irish
brogue. But comely Maggie, with a look of eighteen
about her, is an institution of the Sydney stage.
Parker was about the best thing we have seen from
Miss Harrington ; there is certainly (only a very little
in the part); Mrs. Fitzwilliam, a trifle too noisy as the
raw-boned Scotchwoman. Mr. Lingard was the very
picture of a * screw’ in money matters, and a ‘ softy’ in
affairs of the heart; a trifle too quick in utterance for
the solemnity of some of his sayings. Will Mr. Lingard
kindly correct a tendency to use the word owulou ?
Mr. De Belleville gave Simperson to the life, in every
look, every attitude. Mr. Craig made a goodTßelve-
wamey, but occasionally forgot his assumed demoniacal
character of a blighted being. Mr. Overton is not
equal to the requirements of Angus—not attentive
eoough to the bawbees, which he should count care-
fully. The audience was in a state of uncontrolled hi-
larity from beginning to end. The scenery is the same
as in ‘ Our Boys.’
THEATRE ROYAL.
* Friends ’ continue to be on the most amiable terms
with all who go to see them. But as we must see what
rise the Company can do before the season closes, there
will perhaps be a change next week. In the meantime
* Friends’ is so bright and sparkling, and the construc-
tion so easy, flowing, and pointed, that even the loss of
the wit and repartee in the translation is not felt in the
really elegant language. The management has cer-
tainly made a lucky hit with the English Comedy
Company.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Professor Haselmayer’s ‘Garden of Roses’ is an
instance of legerdemain that is a pretty ‘ trifle’ for the
ladies, well introduced by the Professor’s facile * tongue,’
two very necessary concomitants of our evening meals.
The ‘ Electric Spark Illuminators’ are beautiful in-
stances of modem scientific application. ‘ Psycho,’ the
whist player, is a remarkable personage; and the enter-
tainment throughout is really an illustration of science
in so pleasant a garb that, under the idea of amusement,
we are insensibly beguiled into obtaining knowledge.
CONCERT AT BURWOOD.
A very agreeable musical entertainment took place
last week at the Burwood School of Arts-one of the
best buildings of the kind round about Sydney, very
suitable for music, with good acoustic properties, and
weil veutiiated. It was in aid of .the Organ Fund at St.
Paul s Church. The hall was filled to the doors. Dr.
Beattie and Mr. H. Teece gave some good readings,
well mam taming their reputation. Songs and duets
were rendered with efficiency by various amateurs, in.
eluding Mr. A. Fairliix tud Mr. H. Wilkinson The
pieces best rendered wnr >. ‘lt is I,’ ‘True to the last ’
(sung with taste by Mr. J ohnson), ‘ Simon the Cellarer *
by Mr. Wilkinson, and ‘Vanity,’ by a gentleman who
possesses an excellent voice that requires cultivation
The audience was very good-humoured and demon-
strative, and the encores were numerous. Herr Hugo
Alpen was the accompanyist, and played also two solos
m excellent style, giving very general satisfaction.
CRITIC.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
A mushroom weighing li lb. has been shown
to the Melbourne Aegus.
The British Conservatives appear to have been
thoroughly worsted in the general election.
The Disraeli Ministry are about to resign.
They will probably do so before Parliament meets.
Candahar is to be severed from Afghanistan
and given a separate Government under British pro-
tion.
Braidwood people are signing a petition in
favour of a meat-freezing ship at Glebe-Island.
At Wednesday’s meeting of the Eandwick
Asylum Directors there was a big row.
It seems pretty certain that payment of
members will be re-voted by the Victorian Parliament.
The Hon. W. B. Dailey has tendered his
resignation of his seat in the Legislative Council.
A general emigration from Natal to Mexico is
contemplated by the Mormons.
A steam flour mill has just been set up at
Jerusalem, Palestine.
The Leura and others of Howard Smith’s boats
are expected to play havoc with the Adelaide trade.
Private telegrams from Georgetown state that
the deep sinking on the Woolgar is a duffer.
The Imperial Parliament assembles on 29th
current.
The Orient has sailed from Plymouth on her
return voyage.
The British Liberals have been less successful
in the counties than in the boroughs.
In Dunedin the early-closing movement is
making great progress.
An English soldier at Woolwich has named his
infant son Cetewayo.
N.S.W. riflemen are invited to attend the
Jiueensland National Rifle Association’s matches in
uly, at Brisbane.
Mr. R. Le Poer Trench—Attorney-General of
the Black Wednesday Ministry!—has been appointed
to the vacant Victorian County Court judgeship.
It has been decided by the Ministry to dismiss
Mr. T. M. Slattery, the prothonotary. Mr. Slattery is
bringing an action for £20,000 against Government
The Right Hons. Robert Lowe and Hugh
C. E. Childers, both formerly Australian colonists,
have been returned in the British general election.
Bertrand, who murdered Kinder, will, it is
said, be released as soon as he has completed fifteen
years’ servitude.
At the date of the latest cable on the subject,
the Liberal majority in the British elections was 156,
exclusive of the Home Rule vote.
“Messrs. Lassetter and Co. still purchase exten-
sively of the household art-treasures of the Garden
Palace, which will be open for selection in a ,few days.
The Tichborne claimant will shortly be released.
He intends applying for a divorce from his wife. Show-
men, here’s an opportunity.
Preparations are being made for placing on the
market two-thirds of the new Queensland 4 per cent,
loan of £3,000,000.
At Trinity College (Church of England)
bazaar, which closed on Saturday night in Melbourne,
£2,250 was taken.
It has been requested by the Sydney Govern-
ment of the Victorian authorities that some limit be
placed upon the time of rewards for the capture of the
Kellys.
We hear that the Melbourne Review people
have made peace with Mr. George Robertson and that
the new number will be published in a few days.
A “ New South Wales anti-Air and Water
Pollution League ” has been formed. This title is
shaky, gigantic, ambiguous, and inelegant. The pro-
moters ‘ mean well, but they don’t know.’
The revenue of Queeensland for the quarter is
£359,797. The expenditure is £278,991, showing a de-
crease on the corresponding quarter of last year of
£29,409.
Melbourne International will be kept open at
night. It is estimated that the total cost of the affair
up to the time of opening will be £250,000.
War between Russia and China appears immi-
nent. The Chiuese have sent an army across the
A moor.
At Faulconbridge, Blue Mountains, two acres
of Sir Henry Parkes’ estate have been consecrated for
the purposes of a burial ground and a site for a church.
A box of boys’ clothing (invoice value at home
345.) cost £ll9s. 6d. additional to deliver in Melbourne,
owing to the tariff impost and exorbitant charges.
It is stated that the population of the Northern
Territory, white and yellow alike, is fast decreasing.
Over 100 Chinese die there annually of fever.
K<r On 31st March last the amount of outstanding
debentures and funded stock of New South Wales was
£14,917,419 19s. 2d., on which was payable an annual
total interest of £687,481 15s. Bd.
Owing to the recent horrible murder at Dune-
din, and to the many burglaries committed in that city
of late, people ore furnishing themselves with revolvers
freely.
Mr. Berry attributes the defeat of his party to
the superiority of Conservative organisation and to the
system of plural voting. He says he does not feel de-
pressed, as he believes he has not lost the confidence of
the people.
All Peruvians between 13 and 30 hav* been
summoned to active service, and all between 31 and 50
to the army reserve. Individual exemption may,
however, be purchased by a monthly contribution of 50
soles towards war expenses.
The Seamen’s Union is gradually increasing
in strength, and has now an assistant secretary, the
work being rather heavy for one person. The society
has received many valuable gifts lately and additions to
its library.
A resolution has been carried at a public
meeting in Sydney to the effect that no anti-Chinese
bill will be acceptable to the working men of N.S.W.
which does not embody an annual tax ,on Mon-
goliaus of £lO per head.
A large deputation of the unemployed have
waited on the Victorian Premier, who, while intimating
that sundry small works would shortly be commenced,
said that the Government could not possibly find work
for everybody.
Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. William Forster
have been nominated for the vacant fellowship at the
University. At the convocation on Wednesday the
show of hands was in favour of Sir Henry Parkes. A
poll takes place next Friday.
Scott, Reynolds and Driscoll, of No. 1 South
Centennial reef, Copeland, have crushed 37 tons of
seconds for 16 oz. and 1 ton 4 cwt for 110 oz. The reef
from which the latter stone was taken is ten inches
thick.
It appears that the galena, or rather silver and
lead lodes about Ravenswood are likely to prove a
lasting industry. 23 tons of ore have assayed, in
England and elsewhere, about 128 ozs. silver and 62 ozs
lead per ton.
The late Governor of Tasmania, F. A. Weld,
Esq., arrived in Sydney on Thursday with eleven young
Welds, six girls and five bojs, and a large household
Ihe family appears to be well welded together.
In 1870 the incomes liable to taxation in the
H,“ ite, - 1 ,, Kin o d om were 445 millions; in 1877 they were
570 millions. In 1870 the sums deposited in savings
banks were 53 millions ; in 1878 they were 74 millions ;
In 1870 tbe quantity of tea imported for use at home
was 117,000,000 lbs; in 1878 it was 157,000,000 lbs.
The death claims duringthe 30 rears’ existence
of the A. M. P. Society, amounting W£923,232, were
more than covered by the interest on the funds, which
amounted to £946,226, so that no portion of the pre-
miums paid has been required to meet the claims.
Pork packers in the Western States of Ameriea
have in seven years cut up an average of 1,430,000,000 lb
per annum, or 7,000,000 hogs, and the East and Pacific
slopes have added 3,000,000 more, making 10,000,000
animals, weighing about 2,000,000,000 lb.
The Evening News proprietary hare been
served with a writ for £20,000 damages for alleged libel,
at the instance of a certain aspiring Esculapius. Either
money’s getting cheap or characters are rising. We I
incline to the latter conclusion.
Teachers of all schools—Public, Denomina- |
tional, and Sabbath —may obtain free passes to the
International Exhibition for their pupils on communi-
cating with the Executive Commissioner. It will be
necessary for the children to be accompanied by men
teachers.
At Dunedin a coroner’s jury has returned a
verdict of wilful murder against Robert Butler, the
supposed assassin of the Dewar family of three
persons. Butler, who had been arrested, was not
present at the inquest and the fact was severely com-
mented upon by the jury.
It would appear that there is trouble among
the Good Templars in consequence of an alleged de-
termination on the part of the whites to exclude
coloured people from the lodges. A long letter on the
subject from G.W.V.T. John S, Shefston is printed in
Monday’s Herald.
Mr. Fawcett has been elected for the Clarence.
The numbers were—Fawcett, 1345; Pnrves, 1193;
Dawson, 572. There are a few other small returns to
come in, but they cannot alter the result. The victory
of the Richmond candidate clearly demonstrates the
necessity for a division of the Clarence River electorate.
Sir Henry Parkes, speaking on the Legislative
Council Declaratory bill, said he had * a small circle of
friends.’ Mr. Fitzpatrick in reply said there was a very
good reason for that! Do any of the members of the
Legislative Council feel where the shoe pinches ? Has
Sir Henry ever ‘ squared the circle ?’ in question
Dr. Badham loves a joke. His former con-
nection with Punch makes him one of the keenest
satirists of the day. In proposing Sir Henry Parkes as
a fellow of the University he spoke of him as a gentle-
man and a scholar. Such a man must of course be a
jolly good fellow.
Some years ago Cetewayo, when invited by Sir
Garnet Wolseley to attend a meeting of chiefs, did not
come but sent Sir Garnet a bag of wheat, saying that
the Zulu warriors were as numerous as the ears of com.
Sir Garnet caused ,the com to be ground and returned
to the King with a message to the effect that Cetewayo’s
people, if not careful, might be pounded too.
The lecture given by Mr. Clarke, of Lassetter
and Co., at the School of Arts recently, on the illumi-
nating power of lamps, &c., has turned attention a good
deal to the most improved description of lamp burners
recently imported. Mr. Clarke showed that not only
did the most approved burners render accident almost
impossible, but that they effected a considerable saving
while giving increased candle power.
In Victoria during 1870 there were 27,151
births and 4732 marriages, In 1878 the respective num-
bers of births and marriages were 26,581 and 5092
showing a decrease of 570 in the births and an increase
of 260 in the marriages. In N.S. W. in 1870, there were
19,648 births; in 1878 there were 25,328. In 1870 there
were 3848 marriages; in 1878 there were 5317. In other
words there has been in this colony in 1870 —8 an
increase of 21 per cent, in the births and 38 per cent, in
the marriages. In Victoria the births have absolutely
decreased, while the marriages have only increased 8
per cent. There were actually 225 marriages less in
Victoria than in this colony.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art attained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we are in
no sense behind any other city. Visitors to Sydney
might to test this visit the establishment of Messrs.
Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wynyard Square, two
doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel. Here the manufacture
of every essential in the profession is carried on. At
the rear of the surgery is a compact little factory where
all the requisites for supplying every dental defect of
the human mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co.
(whose only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested.
New businesses are springing up everywhere.
Directly opposite Tattersall’s, in Pitt-street, Mr. J.
Clarke has opened a promising tobacconist’s shop and
hair dressing saloon, etc. The shop has all the requisites
of a first-class business. The special feature of the
saloon is the necessary adjuncts, the bath rooms.
These are designed on a new plan and are filled up on
quite a new principle. First of all they are supplied
with hot and cold water on the circulating medium. At
the base of the building is a boiler, specially made and
set for the purpose, and here the hot water after being
heated is forced to the tanks at the roof. The baths are
furnished with cane lounges, and in other respects there
are many improvements which are not elsewhere to be
found.
Archbishop Vaughan’s organ, the Express,
says that ‘ Mr. Charles Campbell’s speech upon the
reading of the Public Instruction Bill in the Upper
House was one which entitles him (Mr. Campbell) to the
lasting gratitude of Catholics, and with them of every
lover of religious freedom, and, we may add, of fair
play in the land. It was outspoken and manly in an
atmosphere and at a season when men of mediocrity
and servile spirit hid their principles through fear, and
sought for selfish ends to appease by concession, or
explanation, or complete surrender, the spirit of in-
tolerance dominant for the time. It was scholarly, just,
and wise, and such on the whole as would lead us to
wish that the colony had many such another citizen as
patriotic and able as Mr. Charles Campbell.’ The Ex-
press further speaks of the Revs. Messrs. Kemmis,
Saliniere, Gamsey, and others, and Messrs. Alexander
Gordon, Buckland, and Tooth and others as ‘high-
minded and public-spirited men who have shown them-
selves superior to the senseless outcry of the hour.’
At Singleton, one Tucker and his wife, who
are very religious people, have been charged with
cruelty to an orphan lad in their charge. The evidence
of Senior Sergeant Webb showed that the boy when
brought to the hospital was like a skeleton. He was a
mass of bruises, had deep indentations on his arms and
dried blood on his back. When examined at the hos-
pital it was found that the skin all over his body was
very dirty and very dark ; there were white cicatrices
round his neck and all over the body, arms, and legs ;
the finger joints were contracted, and the nails ulce-
rated ; there were sores on the feet and all over the body,
including bed sores on the shoulder-blade, elbows, hip
and back, caused by being compelled to lie on a hard
bed; his pulse 120 per minute; the thigh was only seven
inches in circumference; the wounds were the result of
beating, and the lad was in an almost dying state. The
unfortunate boy said that the defendants used to keep
him in an outhouse and feed him on bread and dripping
and pumx)kins. He was beaten by them daily with a
buckle-strap, a whip, a rope, or a crupper. On Boxing
Day he lost some turkeys and Tucker tied a green-hide
rope round his neck, hung him up and flogged him with
a hide whip across the breast and body. The Tuckers
are well-to-do. If all this is true they should have been
lynched. A more hideous case of brutality is not on
record.
There are Italians and Italians. Italian organ-
grinders who grin at you as they grind machines
and coax three-penny pieces from your pockets : Italian
artists who charm you with the display of their vocal,
instrumental, and dramatic art more exquisite than any
of the rest of the world: Italian fantoccini and
lazzaroui, often scowling dogs but not dangerous:
Italian gentlemen, polished and courteous, who call
to mind the days of ancient Rome that we read of.
But there are also Italian bravos to whose actions one
cannot cry ‘ bravo,’ who, if they do not belong to the
order of bravos and banditti that sprang from the time
of the Condattieri of Sforza, have still all the inclina-
tions of their predecessors of old, and if they cannot
cut a throat in safety will cut a character to ribbons by
a slashing thrust in the dark. From information re-
ceived from Italy by last mail we were surprised to learn
that some evil-disposed fellow-countrymen had been
trying most evilly to dispose of Signor Oscar Meyer,
the courteous Commissioner of the Court of Italy at
our Exhibition, by representing to his Government that
he had been neglecting the interests of his court, from
which he was constantly absent, that he was going
about playing all sorts of tricks, that, in fact, his mind
was wandering towards forbidden fruit, and was in a
fair way to say good-by to his body. The thousands
who weekly visit the famous court know how the reverse
of fact all this is, what Signor Meyer made of his court
at the beginning bg his zeal and his personal labours;
how he has kept up its prestige by his presence at
all meetings and gatherings where Italy was to be
represented, and how courteous and agreeable he has
been to everybody. It is the old story of the dog in
the manger; but such dogs should be curtailed of their
venomous belongings.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Professor Pepper is at St. George’s Hall, Mel-
bourne, doing a bad business.
Patti has opened at Melbourne to splendid
houses.
Financially the Mammoth Minstrels and
Victoria Loftns combination are a failure in Melbourne.
‘Arthur Sketchley’ is sojourning in Christ-
church.
Gounod ig engaged in completing ‘ Heloise e t
Abelard.’
Johnson and Dry den are all the same to the
Hebaxd’s critic.
Rainer’s Diorama is at Maryborough, Queens-
land.
Miss Kate Foley has made a great hit in Mel-
bourne as the peasant girl in ‘ Shin Fane.’
Mr. Grattan Riggs is the best raconteur that
has come along to Melbourne as yet.
The Carandinis haye been giving concerts at
Timaru, and were in Christchurch during Easter week.
Simonsen’s Froliques are expected to visit
New Zealand this month.
Mr. Creswick seems to have taken a fresh lease
of popularity at the Bijou Theatre, Melbourne.
Mrs. Bates is going to Hobart Town. Reports
say that she will ‘ matrimoniate ’ again shortly.
Wo are glad to hear of the success in Adelaide
of the Williamsons. They have just played to the
biggest week’s business ever done in S. A.
Stuart O’Brien looks like Deacon Skinner off
the stage. He is prosperous, having married a Mel-
bourne widow with a “pub.”
Henry Ketten, the pianist, and Wilhelm, the
celebrated violinist, have been coucertising in San
Francisco.
Theo. Hamilton can lean against a building
better than any other man alive. He is fond of little
children.
Madame Haselmayer takes her benefit at the
School of Arts this (Friday) evening. The patronage
ought to be liberal. The Professor promises some of
his most astounding feats.
The ever-verdant Lynch family of Bellringera
are in Dunedin. They are accompanied by Mr. Santley,
baritone, and Mr. Lyndhurst, ventriloquist. They
opened to a small house.
Boucicault’s new Irish play of ‘ Fag-a-beallac *
(literally ‘Clear the way’), which is shortly to be pro-
duced in London, resembles the ‘Colleen Bawn’ in
sentiment and the ‘ Shaughrauu ’ in action.
Mr. J. B. Steele has been playing at Napier
with a company comprising Miss Marie Wilton, Miss
Jessie Raymond, Miss Duke, and Messrs. E. D. Hay-’
garth, C. Weightman, aiid J. O’Brien.
Tabitha has, within less than a month, mistaken,
Ame for Bishop, Beethoven for Servais, one tune in
‘ Faust’ for another. Dr. Johnson for Dryden, and the
public for fools.
Mr. and Mrs. Fairclough have returned to
Sydney after a lengthened tour through South Africa
and the East. Mr. Fairclough is trying to arrange for
a season at the Victoria.
Signora Gabriella Boema, of Lyster’s Opera
Company, now performing in Melbourne, is said to have
a certain pure quality of voice which lends an inex-
pressible charm to her singing.
Mr. Gordon, ‘the scenic artist of the London
Comedy Company, says that the view to be ob-
tained from the towers of the Garden Palace is ‘ the
finest in the world.’ What do you think of our harbour
now ?
Miss Augusta Dargon’s agent wires us from
Brisbane that Miss Dargon will give farewell readings
at the School of Arts, Sydney, on 12th and 13th current'
Miss Dargon arrives here per Elamang, and will no doubt
meet with a capital reception.
At Wellington, N.Z., Mr. R. W. Cary has.
produced an adaptation, by a local author, of ‘ The
Happy Land.’ One of the songs introduced—‘ Isaac
and Aaron’—was highly objectionable, but otherwise
the piece went well.
John Hennings’ ruin scene in ‘ Shin Fane ’ is.
one of the finest things ever put on the Melbourne
boards, and compares favourably with Gordon’s (the
London Comedy Company’s artist) now famous scene-
in ‘ New men and old Acres.*
In Melbourne fights occur nightly in musical*
circles—not prize rings, of course—about the cantata
music, but as there’s not a fiddler in the city who can
make a dent in a pound of butter the combats are harm*,
less.
Alfred Plumpton and a bold young man named
Moul —both sons of harmony—retired to Jim Mace’s
boxing.saloon, Bourke-st, Melbourne, on a recent even-
ing, to settle a musical dispute. Jim watchedfor a couple
of rounds and then retired, feeling very unwell.
Alfred J. Taylor, Librarian of the Public
Library, Hobart Town, has published a drama, ‘Clouds-,
and Sunshine.’ There are twenty-one speaking charac- .
ters and ten changes of scene, while the time of acting
is about three-quarters of an hour.
Antonio Angeleri, the illustrious founder of
the pianoforte school of the Royal Conservatory of
Music at Milan, died in that city on 9th February
last. Bazzani, the great violinist, Cavallini, and other-
illustrious citizens of all ranks, attended the funeral,
Angeleri was the preceptor of Signora Giorza.
Mr. William Evans (‘ The Irish King,’) singer,
actor, and manager, and one of the oldest identities of
the theatrical world, has just died, after a lingering ill-
ness in Melbourne Hospital. His last engagement was
with Miss Ella Carrington and C. H. Taylor’s ‘Stray
Leaves’ combination, recently en tour in New Zealand.
Poor Evans was very unfortunate in his latest days.
Emilie Melville and company were, at latest
dates, doing well in California. A private letter received
in Sydney from Miss Melville leads to the conclusion
that the charming little lady meditates another trip to
Australia ere long. ‘ Pinafore ’ is her present business.
She, Collins, and Montague play Josephine on alternate
nights, and Mr. Toedt is Ralph.
Madai, head of the Berlin police, interdicted
the production by Ristori of ‘ Marie Antoinette,’ on the
ground that the piece was calculated to familiarise the
public with the loathsome and unnatural idea of regicide.
However, the Emperor, to whom the matter jwas repre-
sented, ordered Madai to recall his letter, and the
Marquise del Grille played the same evening to a closely-
packed house.
On a recent evening, says a private letter to
one of Miss Alice May’s (Mr. G. B. Allen) Melbourne
friends, the lady named and Miss Kate Lawler were the
only occupants of the stage at the Theatre Royal, Man-.
Chester. One or two snobs in the omnibus boxes
ejaculated to Miss Lawler, ‘Have a drink, Kitty?’
Miss Lawler, cleverly altering the words of her part to
suit the occasion, replied, ‘ Ask those fellows in the box.’
The management ignominiously ejected the snobs, and
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Charles Reade’s ‘ Never too late to Mend* continues
its successful career at this theatre, and Manager
Hegarty thanks his good stars no doubt that the star
of Mr. Dampier is still so highly ascendant. The title
of the piece is inappropriate for the theatre where there
really is nothing to mend except the ventilation.
Charles Reade is one of our best authors, and this piece
is one of his best plays; though melodramatic, it is not
ultra-sensational; and, as we mentioned last week,
acting, scenery, and effects all speak in favour of the
attentive care and supervision of Mr. Dampier.
Shakesperian revivals • according to the text’ are
intended, and for these the liberality of the management
will be required to give them full scope.


returned them their money, and the audience hissed the
fellows as they disappeared.
William Belford, late of the Lyceum, has been
<riven a benefit, which realised £1022 nett. The piece
chosen was ‘ The Two Roses.’ Henry Irving played
Dtebv Grant —a character of his own creation —and was
assisted by Misses Roselle, Kate Bishop, Sophie Larkin,
and Cicely Richards, Messrs. Gathome, Charles Warner,
B. Bighton, W. Elton, and R. Markey. Then Miss Ellen
Terry spoke a few lines apropos of the meeting, and the
following assisted in the Trial Scene from ‘ Pickwick:’
Mrs. Bancroft, Mrs. Leigh, Miss Everard, Messrs.
Fernandez, Macklin, Horace Wigan, Arthur Cecil,
Clifford Cooper, Grossmith, jun., G. W. Anson, Kendal,
j G. Taylor, Pinero, whilst Messrs. Bancroft, H. J.
Byron, Herman Vezin, G. Honey, H. B. Conway, J. H.
games, C. Harcourt, Wilson Barrett, Barrington, J.
Billington, and our old friend, Lytton Sothem, acted as
the jury. This was a galaxy of talent!
VICTORIA THEATRE.
A new comedy, bearing the title of Fuss,’ has been on
the boards at the Victoria Theatre during the week.
The play is one written by Mr. Walter H. Cooper, bar-
rister-at-law, author of ‘ Foiled,’ ‘ Hazard,’ ‘ Sun and
Shadow,’ Ac. The scene is laid at the Astericks Club
Hotel, Exhibition Grounds, Sydney—time, 1879-80. The
incidents of the comedy are taken from the illusions,
delusions, and experiences of a Mr. George Toddy, a
very typical Englishman, who, overflowing with news-
paper history and pamphlet guide information, visits our
Exhibition, accompanied by his wife and sister-in-law,
with the dual purpose of embracing a brother whom
he had not seen for thirty years, and of astonishing the
‘ natives ’ with his knowledge of Australia—historical,
geographical &c.
Desirous of playing off a joke upon his brother, Mr.
John Shoddy, he assumes the name of Smith, while his
brother, with a like intent, takes the name of Jones.
But prior to the arrival of Shoddy Smith, an Irishman
—one Terence O'Tangle—has borrowed his rooms and
likewise his name, and a German, Schwillensaufen, deals
in the same way with the name and apartments of Mr.
John Shoddy—the complications and explication being
brought about by young Jack Corncob, a native. A
love-making, polite young Frenchman, and O’Tangle,
are rivals for the hand of Mr. George Shoddy’s sister,
but owing the likeness of the sisters the rival lovers are
ound alternately making love to both and quarrelling
with each other, while Mr. George Shoddy is naturally
enough jealous of both aud indignant to very madness
with the wife of his bosom. An American, rejoicing in
the cognomen of Phineas B. Stumker, makes up the role,
and appears to be created for the purpose of being de-
molished by Jack Corncob, who out-matches him in wit
and repartee.
The mistakes, situations, &c., are frequent, and these
supported by ready dialogue and smart hits from the
colonials, to which the absurd notions of Australia and
Australians generally held by outsiders offer a
broad target, make up a very amusing and pleasing
comedy; and the author has, without intimating it,
shown that it is not alone in sports that we are pro-
ficient, but that we have some merit as authors. Last
night there was more go in the action than on previous
occasions, and the caste appeared to be better up in the
parts. Mr. J. L. Hall, who represents O’Tangle, ap-
pears hardly to have grasped the author’s idea, but
still he makes a great deal of the character. Mr. Rain-
ford as Corncob does justice to his difficult part, and is
a thorough colonial. Mr. St. Lawrence is a good
Deuxsons, and Mr. H. N. Douglass is a magnificent
Schwillensaufen. The Down-’easter of Mr. Hodgson,
although well rendered, is not a pleasing part. The
Mrs. Shoddy, by Miss Merton, and her sister-in-law,
by Miss Lena, is very carefully rendered, and had some
of the other parts been as well acted, Mr. Cooper might
look forward to that long run which his play undoubtedly
deserves, if one is to judge by the manner in which it is
received by the audience, whose applause is generous
and frequent.
The Indutriess, Businesses, &c., of New
South Wales.
MR. R. BUTCHER’S WINE AND SPIRIT STORE,
GEORGE STREET.
In writing of this place of business we
have to speak of one of the oldest and probably
the best known houses in the spirit trade of this
colony. It was established in 1844, by the late
Mr. William Long, and at his death it came into
the’hands of his son, who, however, gave it over
to Mr. Robert Butcher. This gentleman bad had
the sole management of the business for the greater
part of the previous twenty-one years, and it was
doubtless in consideration of his able services that
he became proprietor of a business that his energy
and good judgment had served to build up. The
splendid connection right through the colony
which Mr. Long left after him has been maintained
by Mr. Butcher. The feature of the business of
the house has at all times been the unquestionable
excellence of the article imported for the require-
ments of the colonial trade, and in this respect
there is no likelihood of a change under the present
proprietary. The house has been noted for the
importation of the very best brands of rum sold
for Australian consumption, and just now there
has been received from bond some splendid samples
of Lowndes’ &c. No less widely known has been
the house for its fine sherries, and at the time of
our visit a quantity of the best we have tasted
was just being despatched westward. Likewise
there were being made up some Hennessey s
brandies of 1875, probably equal to anything yet
provided in the licensed trade of this colony.
The feature of the stock just now is a number
of old Spanish wines of really superb quality®
which are disposed of at exceedingly low
rates. If the writer knows anything of the public
taste, a very large retail business could be
done’at any hotel with this description of wine.
It is light, palatable, pure, and strengthening.
The oldest port wines are also here stored, and in
this line alone a splendid business is done with the
leading metropolitan and provincial hotels. Mr.
Butcher makes a point of importing the best
brands of Irish whiskeys, and he likewise does the
principal business of Sydney in the famous Pig
brand stout. Every ship brings a consignment of
this splendid bottled artilce, and a steady trade is
done in it with nearly every hotel in the colony.
The stores are suited to the requirements of the
business, there being ample facilities for the
receipt of supplies as required from the bond and
their dispatch afterwards to any part of the city
or the country. The lower portion of the stores
is occupied by the heavy bulk stock, and to give
the extra room required hanging stillages are pro-
vided. The floors overhead are each stored with
bottled ales and stout, genevas (largest sizes),
brandies, &c. Judging from the bond slips shown
us, an enormous amount of stock must be taken
through the Custom House every month. The
business is in fact one of the most extensive and
substantial in Sydney, and increases with the
general development of the trade of the colony.
MR. GEORGE BARR’S ESTABLISHMENT,
HAYMARKET.
F In an unpretentious-looking building in George-
street, Haymarket, decidedly one of the most
extensive businesses in the crockery and tinware
trade of Sydney is done by Mr. George Barr. The
premises have a wide frontage to the street, and
in the large open windows is stored a varied
stock of glass and crockery ware, certainly
the most varied to be found in any single retail
house in Sydney. In the rear of the establishment,
however, the principal business of the place is
done, and here there is a scene of the busiest
activity all the year round. Mr. Barr carries on
the principal tinware manufacturing business
of Sydney. At a great expenditure he has intro-
duced all the most approved appliances for the
work; and here every article in the trade
is manufactured as expeditiously and as cheaply as
in any other quarter we know of. Every-
thing needed for effective and labour-saving
work is to be found on the spot, and
the fifteen or twenty men employed turn out ten
times the work that could formerly be done by the
same number of hands. There is the usual
adjunct of a drying stove, provided with gas jets
for the rapid and effective drying of the painted
and japanned goods. Every article in the business,
as already stated, is made here, and the best work-
men being employed, the class of goods turned out
cannot be surpassed. The establishment, if for
nothing more than to inspect the appliances, is well
worth a visit. There may also be inspected on the
premises the splendid new stoneware filters, manu-
factured by Mr. Barr at his pottery on the
Parramatta Road. Mr. Barr has got the Govern-
ment contract for the supply of these filters, and
it is likely they will shortly be supplied to all the
public schools of the colony. Wo have, however,
to leave for our next issue a special article on this
important industry. We may conclude now with
a recommendation to any of our readers to take a
look through Mr. Barr’s establishment. They are
likely, we think, to be surprised no less at the
variety, than at the extent of the business of the
enterprising proprietor.
Miss Fidler.
On the fourth page of to-day’s issue we print a
portrait of Miss Fidler, the comely and agreeable
lady who for some time past has been giving in
Sydney “cookery demonstrations” of so attractive
a nature as to secure for cuisinerie, for the time
being, at any rate, a place among the fine arts. We
don’t know whether Miss Fidler chose the Tem-
perance Hall as her locale on account of the fact
that the place is sacred to the god of moderation ;
but we should say, judging from the appearance
of the hall yesterday afternoon, that every god
in the list, from Apicius to Cupid, would have
been delighted to have had the entree to the lady’s
lecture. The manner in which Miss Fidler imparts
to her pupils—among whom are to be found both
portly matrons and blushing creatures who aspire
to proficiency in culinary affairs in view of the
dark matrimonial future —instruction in the art of
which she is so accomplished a mistress, cannot
well be described here, though such could be done
without trenching on the lady’s stock-in-trade. It
will be sufficient to say that Miss Fidler performs
in view of her audience what a medico would call
the “major and minor operations of cookery;”
that her explanations are as lucid as her move-
ments are deft; that the “ manufactured articles ”
are evolved from the raw material in so neat a
manner that even lords of creation who go to
laugh remain to admire ; and that Miss Fidler
dresses so charmingly as to suggest the idea that if
all those who prepare dinners were like her, men
would not necessarily confer any obligation on
their cooks by marrying them. But, fortunately for
Miss Fidler, and unfortunately for the general
public, there are few cooks like the lady named,
either as regards appearance or accomplishments.
For instance, Miss Fidler speaks of a(“ Shwiss”)
cook in New Zealand, who having been asked by
her mistress to “ cook the sausages at the same
time as she made the tea,” with charming inno-
cence put what Professor Pepper would term the
“ bags of mystery ” into the tea-urn. Then there
was the young lady from Tipperary who weighed
fourteen stone and called herself a cook, but who
was about as well qualified to cook for a white
man as is a Queensland aboriginal. “ Bridget,”
said her mistress, “ you may attend the cookery-
class if you wish.” “An’ plase mam,” was the
humble reply, “ if it’s all the one thing to your-
self I’d rather go to the gymnasium.” Our
reporter admits that it was with mixed feelings
that he saw Miss Fidler’s dainty dishes carried
round the room for the inspection of the audience.
It brought to his mind a time when, after existing
without vegetables for several weeks in a certain
very outlandish part of this continent, he managed
to procure two cabbages for half-a-sovereign and
proceeded to cook them. He boiled them for
half-an-hour, and they were hard. Half-an-hour
more and they were still hard. An hour more
and they were adamant. And why? Because
(and he didn’t learn this for a month afterwards)
he had put them into a billy of cold water instead
of into boiling water. It occurred to him —and the
thought was a paisful one—that if he’d only mot
Miss Fidler before he might in the wilds have had
Charlotte IRusse instead of “water dogs;” and
the only crumb of comfort he was at first able to
pick up was the lady’s admission that she had
never seen that divine institution, a damper. Then
he thought it was about time that the teacher were
taught and he accordingly laid before her his mental
cookery-book which is brief and to the point and
is as follows .-—
1. “Always boil cabbage in hot water.” This
is the fundamental rule of all artistic cookery.
2. To cook fresh beet, lay it flat on the coals.
When you see the juice exuding from the sur-
face it’s time to turn the meat.
3. To cook salt junk—cut it into little bits with
the same knife that you use in fossicking and
cutting up your tobacco. Put it into a billy of
cold water and when the billy boils the junk is
done.
4. If, when ’ you wallop a damper with your
knuckles, it sounds hollow, it’s done. If it doesn’t
under the circumstances sound hollow, it’s not
done.
5. Fritters are made with flour, water, salt, fat,
and a frying-pan. Sugar is an improvement; so
is jam of any kind, but it’s not safe to eat fritters
before going to bed.
Miss Fidler has promised to investigate the
damper question for the benefit of the male sex.
Meanwhile we want all the ladies of Sydney to
interview her at the Temperance Hall.
Presentation to Mr. John Davies, M.P.
For once the gods frown on John Davies, M.P.
A sketch illustrative of the forthcoming testimo-
nial affair has, we find, at the last moment, to be
held over. It will keep, however, and will please
Mr. Davies and the public when it does come out.
Meanwhile Mr. Davies will, as hitherto, look after
the subscriptions. Anyone who doesn’t care
about sending his money to Mr. Davies personally
may send it to the office of this journal. It will
keep, too.
The New Babylon.
We give in page 5 a sketch of one of the many
thrilling scenes from 1 New Babylon,’ which grand
sensation we are promised for the close of this
month at the Victoria Theatre. This new play
has had a tremendous run in London, and the
public will doubtless look forward with great
interest to its production here. Mr. Bland Holt
will make his re-appearance, and we hear Mr.
Bennett is determined to produce the piece in
point of detail on a scale beyond anything yet
seen in this city. In our next issue we will give
another sketch with full particulars of the big
event.
The Marriage of the Future.
Minister: ‘ Hello, Exchange.’
Telephone Exchange : ‘Well?’
Minister: .‘Put me on the residence of Mr». Jum-
buck.’
Exchange; ‘ All right; fire away.’
Minister: ‘ Hello, Mrs. Jumbuck.’
Mrs. J. ‘Well?’
Minister: ‘ Ask your daughter Malinda to step to the
instrument.
Malinda: ‘What’s wanted?’
Minister: * Your affianced, Mr. Algernon Backblocks
is here and wishes to speak to you.’
Malinda; ‘ Tell him, for goodness’ sake, to hurry.’
Algernon : ‘ Malinda, dear, I find it won’t be conven-
ient for me to come"round this evening. Can’t we have
the ceremony performed now ?’
Malinda: ‘ I suppose so.’
Minister (taking off his hat): * DoyouAlgemon
BackblockstakeMalindaJumbucktobeyourweddedw i f e
forbetterorforworsetilldeathdoyoupart ?’
Algernon : ‘ I do.’
Minister: ‘ DoyonMoliudoJumbucktakeA 1 g e r n o n
Backblockstobeyourweddedhusbandforbetterorforworse
tilldeathdoyoupart ?’
Malinda: ‘ I do.’
Minister: ‘ Thenlpronounceyoumanandwifeandwhom
whomGodhathjoinedtogetherletnomanputa sunder.
Makethemostofit. Aflver. Goodday.
Mr. Christopher Bennett, of T. and C. Jotknal
and Evenino News, was on Wednesday married to Miss
Llewellyan of Balmain. The happy pair sojourn in the
mountains until the departure of the Sorata, which
takes them to London ‘ to see life.’
FUN AND FANCY.
Widows and widowers ought to be repaired.
Writs of error —Love-letters to another man’s wife.
Noah made the great mistake of his life when he had
the flies reduced to a single pair and forbade Shem to
scrunch ’em.
A mule’s head does not contain a brain capable o*
culture and refined rearing, but the other end of his form
can be reared.
*My darling,* said he, ‘what a delicious taste your
lips have!’ Then she sprang up and yelled, ‘Good-
ness, John! have you been eating my lip-salve ?’
After a Texas jury had stood out for ninety-six hours,
the judge got a verdict out of them in two minutes by
sending them word that a circus had come to town.
Trying to do business without advertising is like
winking at a girl in the dark. You may know what you
are doing, but nobody else does.
The congregation sang: ‘We are going home to die
no more,’ in a Westfield (Mass.) church, and an
irreverent fellow, leaning over to a dyed deacon, said, in
a loud tone, ‘ Then you’ll be gray in a week.’
Mabel’s sitting in the firelight.
Waiting for her lover true;
All the room is filled with darkness —
’Tis the shadow of her shoe.
One of the most amusing spectacles of the age is to
watch the motions of a woman with a boil on the back
of her neck trying to turn to see who it is that has come
into church late.
A little girl the other day referred to the moustache
of a young man as a ‘ bang ’ on his lip. If she doesn’t
look out, one of these tine days she’ll get a bang right
under the nose.
I think of thee, sweet William,
And I long to hear from you.
Send me a missive—won’t you, please ?
Oh, come, now, hillet-doux.
Cabby (to Sublime shopman): “ Pair o’ wash-leather
gloves, please.” Shopman: “What’s your number ?”
Cabby (slightly taken aback): “193.” Shopman:
“ Come, I don’t want none of your sauce here, &c. &c.”
‘ Doctor, I wonder you don’t marry. What reason
can you have for remaining single ?’ ‘ Because I don't
care to spend all my time in the billiard-room, like most
married men of my acquaintance.’
The recital of the following is given as an infallible
cure for lisping:—Hobbs meets Suobbs and Nobbs;
Hobbs bobs to Snobbs and Nobbs; Hobbs nobs with
Snobbs and robs Nobb’s fobs. ‘ This is,’ says Nobbs,
‘ the worst of Hobbs’ jobs.’ And Snobbs sobs.
A lady named Mary Maguire
Had trouble in lighting her fire;
The wood being green,
She used kerosine —
She has gone where the fuel is dryer.
She should have used Comet oil.
Sunday school teacher (who has been expounding the
story of Abraham’s trial): “ And what was it that hin-
dered Abraham, after all, from slaughtering his son
Isaac?” (Noreply. Next—next—next —Johnny Cleaver
holds up both fists.) “ Well, Johnny, you may answer.”
Johnny: “Because Isaac was only in ‘store condi-
tion.’ **
A street preacher held forth recently as follows:
‘You girls call your sweethearts “darlings,” and you
men call yours “daises,” and you girls are afraid to
come up here for fear some other girls will get off with
your “ darlings,” and you men for fear some other mea
will get away with your “ daisies,” and,’ said he,
‘between this “darling” and “daisy” business, lots of
you people are going straight to —Paradise.’
2 lovers sat beneath the shade.
And 1 un2 the other said:
‘ How It 8 that you be 9
Have smiled upon this suit of mine.
If 5 a heart, it palps for you—
Thy voice is mu 6 melody—
’Tis 7 to be thy loved 1, 2
Say, Oy nymph, wilt marry me ? ’
Then lisped she soft; ‘ Why, 131 y ! ’
WOMAN ITEMS.
A woman recently wanted to send a tin wash-boiler
by post.
No lady can wipe her nose too often on a £3 laoe
handkerchief.
A Newcastle woman has given birth to six children.
Not all at once, you know.
Baroness Burdett-Coutts has spent.almost £3,000,000
for philanthropic objects.
Miss Mulock says bear and forbear are the two great
bears of matrimony. Which does the hugging ?
When you say that a girl’s hair is like a coal, it is
just as well to specify that you do not mean a red-hot
coal.
*At what age were you married ? ’ asked she inquisi-
tively. But the other woman was equal to the emergency,
and quietly responded ‘ at the parsonage.’
Amongst the 112 ladies who applied for admission into
the Medical Institute of St. Petersburg were 40 Jewesses.
Of the 77 accepted after undergoing the necessary
examinations, 26 were J ewesses.
The two most popular drawing-room songs of the
hour are ‘Good Company’ by Charles Mackay and
‘Dolly Yarden,’ by Cotsford Dick. They have been
sung with great success at the London ballad concerts
and were at late dates the rage in several N. Z. towns.
A fat Sydney girl asks for a receipt for thinning, and
says, ‘ I am so fat that I pray for a disappointment to
make me thin. No sooner does the disappointment
come, than the mere expectation of growing thinner
gives me such joy, that I become fatter than ever.
There are two American ladies in Europe who have
obtained the title of jirincess—the Princess Lynar,
formerly Miss Mary Parsons, and the Princess of Noer,
formerly Mary Esther Lee, of New York, who was mar-
ried in 1861 to Prince Frederick, brother of the Queen of
Denmark. She is addressed, ‘Your Highness.’
A Dunedin publican who has a wife and four
children recently eloped with £7OO and a barmaid. The
s.s. Te Anau, in which he left Port Chalmers, broke
down and put back and the runaway’s creditors made
him disgorge what he owed them. His wife didn’t
interfere. She’s satisfied with an unencumbered hotel
and a good business. The frail pair are now in
Sydney.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
Settling Day!
Of all the places on the earth
For joy and sorrow —grief and mirth.
None can compare in any way
With Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
The crowd is mixed—but then the place
To Pandemonium’s no disgrace;
For everyone must have his say
At Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
The liquor flies in many ‘ shouts,’
And endless are the drinking bouts!
For all must drink—you dare’nt say nay
At Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
Some come their coin to receive.
Others but come their coin to leave.
Some take the odds while others ‘ lay ’
At Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
The rooms are crowded—dust and smoke—
Each try their best one’s throat to choke!
Sol trys in vain to send a ray
Through Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
Books are compared and wagers laid
And Terry’s Act put in the shade—
The air resounds with one word, ‘ Pay ! ’
At TattersalTs on Settling Day!
Curses both loud and deep are toss’d
Broadcast around by those who’ve lost;
But bookmakers are making hay
At Tattersall’s on Settling Day !
The needy swell who cannot ‘ stay ’ —
The hardy Welchtr turned to bay—
• »»**•»•
God help the man who’s not O. K.
At Tattersall’s on Settling Day!
GUANDE.
A Newsboy’s Answer.
(See BULLETIN of 3rd April.)
E. B.
April sth 1880.
An Interrupted Tramway Romance.
Scene — The Car. Enter from opposite sides a
young lady and a young gentleman. The Car
STARTS.
He: —Please excuse my rudeness, Miss, in making a
remark;
But surely I have met you once before at
Conductor ; —Belmore'Park.
She; —I’ve seen you in the theatre, Sir, I think in the
parquette.
He; —Oh! rapture then, we’ve met before; ’twas in the—
Conductor : —Haymarket.
He: —Oh, maiden, whenever I see you then my heart
does cease to beat!
She : —A circumstance most curious. That comes of
Conductor : —Goulbhrn Street.
He :—Oh, do not cast me from you ! Say, where shall
we next meet ?
She :—I really cannot tell you, Sir: perhaps in
Conductor : —Liverpool Street.
He :—Say when shall be the happy day I next thy face
may greet ?
She :—I can’t make any promise, but most likely
Conductor ;—Bathurst Street.
He: —Until that blissful day shall come, time moves
with heavy feet!
Come, give me just one kiss, love! there’s none to see—
Conductor : —Park Street.
She: —’Tis shameful. Sir, it really is, a lady thus to
treat!
He: —Oh, nonsense! I’ll another take, unless you
Conductor : —Market Street.
She; —It’s scandalous! You ought to be arrested; so
you ought!
He :—Most likely, love; but here we are arrived at
Conductor:— Temple Court.
She .—Take warning and be careful. Sir, next time you
want a ’bus.
He; —Yes, so I will! Good-bye, sweet-heart, for here’s —
Conductor: —THE TERMINUS.
Only a little newsboy sir,
But I reads the Bulletin
And I thinks you wery kind, sir.
For a putting of us in.
But if we are in tatters
That does’nt make us fret.
We couldn’t name our hatters
And we gets so jolly wet,
That if we wore our Sunday togs
We should’nt be such jolly dogs.
But the man you know was wrong
Who wrote that little song
About our sleeping anywhere
And dining on cold air.
We all have mothers got
And they give us dinners hot
And beds of good sweet straw
Or a sack upon the floor
And we don’t want nothing more.
Together at night we keep,
And out in the clear moonshine
We puts our papers all of a heap
And goes in for tumbling fine.
We are hacrobats one and all
And thinks nothing of a fall—
But bless ye we ain’t found dead
As the Bulletin’s ‘thingamy’ said;
We catches a cold of course
And that makes our voices hoarse.
At the houses where we go—
To sell the paper you know.
The people are very good
And give us lots of food.
Such tarts, with plenty jam.
None of your pie shop sham ;
And clothes they give us too
With kind words, not a few.
And, sir, if you puts me in
Just send us a Bulletin.
A Romance of the Abbatoirs.
A butcher loved a tender maid,
To woo her were his designs,
And he sent her copies of gushing verse.
In fact real tenderloins.
The girl, alas ! he could not suet.
She would love him as a brother.
But when implored to marry, said :
“ Tripe, please, and find another.’*
The butcher still pursued the girl.
His pleas became much bolder;
The girl at last, to find relief.
Gave to him a cold shoulder.
He knew then that his hopes were vain,
«ut as he left her, said:
nee you have caused me such distress
11 haunch you when I’m dead.”
Hepined and grew so thin and pale,
He felt his end was nigh,
But his woe was such he did not know
Wether to live or die.
H« tried in drink to drown his cares
And there found no relief.
But daily grew more woe-begone,
You never sausage grief.
At last his weary soul found rest.
His sorrows now are o’er;
No fickle maid now troubles him.
Pork reacher he’s no more.


The Bulletin.
The one universal opinion about The Bulletin is,
“ You can’t surpass it.” The fact is that the fellows
who get out The Bulletin aim at overshadowing all
other newspapers.
Nothing but excellence. That is what the people
want. That is what they get in The Bulletin.
It is a grand thing to be able to say that every literary
lady in Sydney insists on having The Bulletin brought
home.
It is still grander-to find that The Bulletin, having
gone once to a home, goes there always.
Newspaper men are the severest typographical critics.
The Bulletin is the only paper that the compositors
Ot the Herald, Evening News, Telegraph, and Gov-
ernment Printing Office pay for.
The proprietors of the three papers and their
reporters also religiously pay every week for copies.
The Bulletin is the only paper they do pay for, and the
only one they read. We don’t like saying it, but we
believe it’s the only one that can do them any good.
At any rate they might announce in their own columns
that The Bulletin is the only paper they read. There
is nothing like example.
The Bulletin is a paper that, after being read, should
be posted to a friend, with the words “ Get this paper
yourself.”
No paper has had the success of The Bulletin. It
commenced with 3000 copies, and rose in three issues
to 5000.
The subscribers’ book contains the names of the best
men in city and country.
Every copy of The Bulletin sells a dozen. That
is how The Bulletin has got itself ahold on this world.
The Bulletin is devoted to the entertainment and
social improvement of the people. It also aims at the
development of good men and the withering up of
political and other impostors.
It is a high compliment to The Bulletin’s style to
find papers in the three colonies attempting to imitate
it. It’s the old case of imitation, however.
BRIEF MENTION.
Glebe ’buses are abominable.
The Liberal majority in the new English Par-
liament is a disgrace to the Tories. ’Tis-really.
The Town Hall clock returns thanks for kind
inquiries and will he convalescent soon.
Neither the editor of the (Bulletin nor any
of his numerous friends drew a prize in the 'Bus-ticket
Lottery. Something wrong here.
* Correct person may share a cottage, or lady at
business; low terms.’— S. M. Hbeald advertisement.
We object to this.
Our vulgar contributor writes as follows:
The applause which greeted Madame Urso on Saturday
night was something violint.
David Buchanan has (become too big for his
boots. He says a thief took them at Wagga, but this
excuse is mean and transparent.
Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never to his family hath said—
' Let’s have the Bulletin ?’
W® should say not. We guess not.
Last week a man went into a Hunter-street
pawnshop, picked up the proprietor’s new hat, which
was lying on the counter, and got a loan of eighteen
pence on it from the assistant.
Mr. Menden, who took the prize for the Mel-
bourne Exhibition cantata, is a draper and a rhymster,
but certainly not a poet. In Victoria cloth is sold by
the yard, and poetry apparently at per metre.
In boots, David Buchanan takes forty-eights,
exactly coffin size. At the opera he wears a smoking
cap with a tassel exactly as long as his nose. Which is
saying a great deal for the tassel.
Tenders will be received up to 31st December
next for the supply and erection of the leather re-
quired for David Buchanan’s new boots. No free-
traders need apply. Tom White.
“Beauty,” says Mr. Joseph Rubie, in this
month s Australian, * is never more pleasing than when
Well dressed.’ We thoroughly concur. We have had a
back view of Joseph’s portly form, while Joseph was in
bis shirt sleeves.
The proprietors of the Express and a cord-
waiuer carry on business under the same roof. A man
can thus look after his soul and his sole at the one
establishment.
Mr. Victor Schonberger, agent for Schreiber
Brothers, when asked how long he had been away from
Vienna, said, “ Yell, dat is a ting vat I seldom don’t
likes to talk apout, put ven I does, it seems to be so
long as never vas.”
The waters of W oolloomooloo Bay are even more
limpid and odoriferous than usual. For saving the life
of any larrikin who may fall therein the reward is
now a leather medal from Mr. Burton Bradley, in ad-
dition to the Humane Society’s usual premium.”
Last week a swell Exhibition clerk went to
Manly Beach, got inebriated, and was put by some
malicious persons on the top of another donkey This
reminds us of Dr. M’Gibbon and the billy-goat.
In Mr. J. G. O’Connor’s graphic account of
his trip to Mudgee appears the following —• A
numerous population began to settle down, and the
sound of the first church bell called the echoes from
their long sleep.’ This is a mistake. The first bell
was a bullock bell, the second was the liquor bell at
Brooke’s.
At Bowen, Queensland, there are ten houses,
nine aldermen, one inspector of nuisances, and ten
thousand goats. The inspector of nuisances couldn’t
kill the goats, so the nine aldermen went out and slew
them with their own fair hands to the number of 150
in one afternoon. In Sydney aldermen don’t kill goats
They only encourage typhoid, and kill citizens.
At the Water Police Court. His (honorary)
Worship— ‘ Prisoner, you say you are homeless ?’ * Yes,
yer Worchip.’ ‘You have no means of existence wliat-
<N °. yer Worchip.’ ‘Very well.’ After apause:
‘TheCourt orders you to pay a fine of 40s.—no—ah—
not to pay a fine—but—ah—to go to gaol for ah—two
mouths.
Mr. J. G. O’Connor has been to Mudgee. He
deplores the fate of the unfortunate blackfellow and
depicts him, in glowing language, as ‘ looking up
through the network of the branches of the great
eucalypti to the blue heavens, and in his contemplative
moments vaguely wondering what was beyond.’ Mr
O Connor is labouring under a delusion. That nigger
was looking for ’possums. 6S
How they do things at Bourke! Mr Can-
late bank manager, has been given a farewell banquet
by me Bourkeites. As an inducement to tbe purchase
ot guinea tickets and indigestion, a bill of fare in all its
crudeness was sent round town in advance. There was
no French a la Cripps. It was all rough Saxon. ‘ Clear
ox-taii soup, sucking pig, plover liver and parsley
sauce, &c., &c. We were there—in spirit. The spread
wasn’t bad. 1
It is intimated by the Express that Professor
Smith was led to vote for the Public Instruction Billbv
the prospect of a knightbo daud a Minister’s portfolio.
” e hke tbe idea of the 1 ofessor being knighted It
would be so nice to have tm- • John Smith.’ However
Jack ’ mightn’t elect to call himself Sir John. He’
mightn t like to he ‘ Sir Jack,’ or use his second name
—it he has one—to adorn his title. There’s the
example of the Fijian knight. His name is Joseph
George Long Innes, but then we have ho * Sir Joe.’ How
is this ?’
To this month’s Austealian Mr. A. P, Mar-
tin contributes some pleasant verses entitled ‘ Old Com-
rades.’ This is one of them: —
Maidens then smiled sweetly on us.
Kissed us—what divinest bliss!
Is there aught in wealth aud honours
Equal to a woman’s kiss ?
We don’t know. We’ve never had any wealth and
honours, and no girl will let us kiss her. However, we
can quite believe that affairs are otherwise with A. P.,
who’s a good-looking fellow.
* As they feel the breath of the hot winds that
wander over from the parched western plains, whisper-
ing mysteriously to the old primeval forest kings—the
grand eucalypti,’ &c.. This is a good gush. It is Mr.
J. G. O’Connor’s latest gush. To look at the author,
one unaware of the brilliancy of his genius wouldn’t
have thought him capable of the above. We can
imagine the summer wind gently agitating the dark
Cupressus Lambertiana or the weird-looking Quercus Rob it r ,
or the balmy breezes of the Orient bearing away on
their wings the soft murmurs of the cedar. But we
really can’t bring ourselves to contemplate a zephyr
prowling round a gum-tree, or Polyhymnia, the lyric
goddess, in a Pinafore costume, strolling round Cox’s
paddocks arm-in-arm with the sylph-like, romantic-
looking J. G. O’C,
The ‘ Melbourne Personals ’ in the Bulletin
have created the wildest excitement in the city named :
‘ ’Twas just about dark in the hostel of Garton,
There came Hennings and Clarke and Arthur P. Martin,
And each loudly did sing, and cut a wild caper,
‘ Why here’s a nice thing—this d d Sydney paper.’
The two Melbourne magazines— Victorian and Mel-
bourne Reviews —are just out. Franklyn, the editor of
the former, is a snug-looking, elegantly-dressed impor-
tation from Yankeeland. A. P. Martin has all along
steered the Melbourne. Rumour says each has lost a
stone in weight by his exertions.
Among other good things sent to the Interna-
tional ore some specimens of English from ‘ J. Schreiber
and Nephews, Vienna.’ This enterprising firm adver-
tise in a pamphlet as follows: —‘ Moulded glass, designs
stylefull, so well in quality as english and american
production.’ They further state that ‘ all our produc-
tions are prima quality and best repntated,’ and that
‘with all the necessarys from the nations known we
sent glass in great quantities to the Orient and to the
over-sea coimtrys.’ All this is very like the story told
of three toping Germans: —‘ She vas the finest whisky
I did trink for evermore.’ ‘So tid I neither.’ ‘Neither
did I too.’
Rev. John Alexander Dowie contributes to the
current number of the Protestant Standard a most
interesting letter. Leaving out everything which borders
on the blasphemous and all other objectionable matter
the epistle (which in the original text measures a
‘ column and a stick ’ long) reads thus :— ‘ To the
editors of the Standard.— 1 Dear Sirs Freeman’s
Journal falsehood, insult contemptive trash
crushing exposure—infamous conduct—base beyond ex-
pression—literary villainy—literary liars and assassins—
fresh set of lies —literary burglar and scavenger—repu-
diate lies—offspring of his own miserable soul—wretched
tool—glacility—low abusive falsehoods—ignorant and
credulous dupes scurrility and untruth Evening
News— vile print—dirty mud-slinger—rotten to the core
—Jesuit arsonists —nunneries must be opened—mire of
Rome—Rock of Ages—Jesus only—Dr. Vaughan-priestly
slaves —feet of the Pope. In this good work, believe
me to he, most heartily yours, John Alex. Dowie.’ We
don’t fully gather from the above what ‘ good work ’ is
alluded to, but as Mr. Dowie is connected with it we
are quite ready to believe it’s all right.;
The Egerton Bank Robbery.
Mr. Richmond Thatcher writes us as follows; —
“ I see some very apposite remarks in your last
issue respecting the Egerton Bank robbery and
the case of young Bruun. If Canon Rich is rightly
understood to say that Scott, while denying any
participation in the robbery, did not exculpate
Bruun, then he (Scott) is a bigger scoundrel than
I took him for, and I had a pretty good estimate of
his character. In my office, when he had no reason
to lie, and when, I am sure, he was as near speaking
the truth as ever he was in his life, he described to
me, graphically, Bruun’s ‘ funk ’ when he took him
into the bank and subjected him to the process of
giving over the plunder and writing the statement.
He told me of the burning of the matches and other
incidents of the affair, which clearly showed that
Bruun was a victim. Not having been in the
country at the time of the trial, I knew nothing of
the facts of the case, and I stumbled into the error
that Bruun afterwards was particeps criminis, for
Scott solemnly said that the notes came into his
possession after the time that witnesses swore he
was spending them and that the gold was given
to him. I asked, ‘by Bruun ?’ He looked at me
searchingly, and replied, ‘Are you so simple?’
It may interest the expert whom he subjected to
such a lengthy examination to know that he relied
upon shaking'his evidence as to the quality of the
amalgam which he sold to the bank through a
knowledge of the fact of its having been washed in
salt water after the robbery. Subsequent events
led me to the positive conviction that Bruun is an
innocent man, and when I saw Scott in Darling-
hurst I said ‘ whatever yon do, exculpate Brunn ’
—to which he answered ‘ I’ll make that all right.’
But for the silly, puerile conduct of the prison
authorities of your colony, I would have placed
the matter beyond doubt so far as Scott’s testi-
mony was concerned. The chief objection to my
seeing him was that I might make something out
of his confession; but to prove that I wanted
nothing from bis death, I may remark that I stood
his friend and tried to enable him to earn an honest
living, and thereby subjected myself to the scorn
of people who cannot comprehend a disinterested
action. My offer to hand over the proceeds of
anything the newspapers liked to give for his
memoirs, was published in one of the Sydney
papers. The conduct of your authorities in this
respect was in keeping with their reprieving
the actual murderer of Constable Bowen and
hanging Hogan because he had committed a
burglary in Victoria. I may add that Scott
always foamed with rage when he talked of
anybody charging him with inculpating Bruun.
The night of his lecture at the Temperance Hall
he produced a copy of the Argus containing a
paragraph accusing him of it, and pulling out a
revolver he swore by a mighty oath that he would
shoot the who wrote that, if he knew
who it was. —I am, Sir, yours very truly, Rich-
mond Thatcher. Garton’s Hotel, Melbourne.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Richard Driver has returned from' Tas-
mania. He is still, we are sorry to find, in ill-health.
Mr. H. J. Cox, for forty years connected with
the Tasmanian Press, retired on Ist April.
Mr. Ebenezer Ward has resigned his seat in
Parliament and his Exhibition Commissionerships. rtKJ
The highest legal luminary in Tasmania has
taken to beating his wife.
Mr. Coppin is laid up with the gout again
in spite of the lemons.
Captain Clark, of the Rodondo, lives in a
splendid villa at Moonee Ponds, near Melbourne.
‘ Bandbox ’ Browne and ‘ Bokay’ Smith are the
leaders of Civil Service ton in Hobart Town.
Lord Rayleigh, Professor of Experimental
Physics at Cambridge, is an ardent spiritualist.
Rheumatic gout is Mr. C. H. Spurgeon’s con-
stitutional enemy.
‘Bully’ Benson is the best looking man in
Hobart Town.
Robert Watson, the champion sprint runner,
has settled down in business in Sydney.
Lieutenant Kitchen, Royal Marine Artillery
and H.M.S. Wolverene, will probably succeed Colonel
St. Hill in command of the Tasmanian forces. fW •*
Mr. White, of the Reedbeds, Adelaide, has
gone for a two years’ cruise to New Guinea in his new
schooner, the Elsea.
Mr. Lambton, secretary of the General Post-
office, is away for three months’ leave of absence. Mr.
Dalgamo is acting secretary. S&? 5 !
The Attorney-General of Tasmania has been
playing a double game in the St. Hill business, follow-
ing with the hounds, and sub rosa running with the hare.
‘ Ructions will ensue.’ am
Richmond Thatcher has been describing the
Chinese fan-tan and lottery shops for the Melbouenb
Herald.
Mr. Weld wanted George Browne, the Judge’s
Associate, to go to a very warm place—Singapore— as
his secretary George, said he would see Fred in a
warmer one first.
Capt. Le Patourel, aide-de-camp to LordlNor-
manby, is now the best-dressed and handsomest man in
Melbourne. Some ladies prefer Gratran Riggs, but not
many.
Jos. Pickersgill, the funny man of Melbouenb
Punch, is a 'Yorkshireman and a wine and spirit mer-
chant, in- a small way. He is good—very proper people
would say bad —company.
Governor Weld thought Lieut.-Colonel St.
Hill unfit to be his private secretary, but at the same
time fit to remain in command of the Tasmanian forces.
What casuistry can reconcile the two ?
The Bishop of Melbourne is defending Scrip-
tural history, in the Melbourne Age, against a writer
who adopts the nom de plume of ‘ Sceptic.’ If the right
reverend gentleman has a fault, it consists of taking too
much notice of inconsiderable writers.
An alderman of Hobart Town keeps a car-
driver outside a low public-house from early one even-
ing till three the next morning and then wont pay the
fare till he is sued for it. Cabbie got the verdict, the
alderman the notoriety. Both more than satisfied.
Mr.R. Clark, thenew Yietorian Minister of Mines,
was not very long since a digger. He is a staunch advocate
of temperance principles. He is a great favourite with
the miners and looks after their interests well. He is
40 years old, is fearless and determined, and is fairly
educated, but not a brilliant speaker.
Dr. Moloney, the most fashionable medico of
Melbourne, is away in the Gippsland Bakes, spending
his holiday. He is a colonial, is married to a rich
heiress, writes good verse, is a very handsome, good-
tempered man, and is brother to Matt. Moloney, of the
E. T. Office, Sydney.
Mr. Archibald Menzies, proprietor of Menzies’
Hotel, Melbourne, died on Wednesday morning from
blood-poisoning. He was the father of Miss Maggie
Menzies, the brilliant pianist (now wife of Herr Johan-
nes Elmblad, the great Swedish basso), and was pro-
prietor of the most fashionable hotel in Melbourne.
Solomon Blay, the Tasmanian executioner, is
nearly 70 years of -age, and has put to death more
criminals than perhaps any other man in the world.
He has occupied his present position for forty-five years
and is still fit for duty. In the old times, he had
frequently to string up seven or eight men in a morning.
He is a man of some little property.
Commander Bridges, of the Wolverene, has
been married to the wealthy Miss Wilson, of Woodlands,
Wimmera district, Victoria, sister of the well-known
Messrs. Hector and Norman Wilson. ‘The lass that
loves a sailor’ is now an actuality, and it must be con-
fessed that the gallant tars on this station are doing
very well indeed. Capt. Banter, of the Victorian ship
Cerberus, was married some years ago to Miss Manifold,
perhaps the wealthiest of southern heiresses.
Marcus Clai’ke, of the Age, describes his brother
of the quill James Smith, the witheringly-sarcastio
editor of Punch and Argus leader-writer, as being a
pleasantly insane genius and a twaddler. However, this
doesn’t alter the fact that the same James Smith can
write smarter things, do his work more quickly and earn
more money than any other newspaper man in this
island. He was over in Sydney recently and described
the Garden Palace pictures for the Argus.
The Hon. John Dodds, the present Attorney-
General of Tasmania, is a young man of considerable
promise, and represents East Hobart. A week after his
election to Parliament he entered the House as
Attorney-General, and when the coalition Ministry was
formed he, with Mr. O’Reilly, the Minister of Bands,
were the only two members of the Reibey Government
who retained their portfolios. Mr. Dodds is an enthu-
siastic rowing man, and was one of the crew which
visited New South Wales to row in the intercolonial
match a few years since.
Lieut.-Colonel Win die Hill St. Hill, private
secretary to the Governor of Tasmania and commandant
of the local forces, has been dismissed from all his
public offices in consequence of its having been found
that the Governor’s household account, of which he
was in charge, and which should have been in credit,
was overdrawn to the extent of some £l4OO. The Colonel
has held a series of snug billets, his income from which
was some £l5OO per annum. He is about 36 years of
age and obtained his brevet rank for bravery and good
service in the last New Zealand campaign—
The soul of honour he should be,
Whose office is to maim and kill;
When once the Rubicon is crossed,
The motto’s alway ‘ s Windle St (H) ill,’
Many years ago Mr. W. J. Clarke — (‘Big
Clarke’), father of the Hon. W. J. Clarke, of Melbourne
—was passing through Baunceston on his way to
Hobart Town. He asked for the box seat of the coach,
but as this had been engaged the driver told him he
could not have it. ‘Then I’ll ride,’ said the millionaire,
‘ and be in before the coach.’ On his expressing his de-
termination to travel the whole distance, 121 miles, on
the back of the same animal, a fine blood horse, the
passenger who had taken the box-seat bet him £5O that
he would not arrive as soon as the mail, which used to
change horses a dozen times on the way. The wager
was accepted, and at Campbelltowu Mr. Clarke rode out
of the hotel yard, after having breakfasted, when the
coach drove up. At Oatlands, when the mail arrived,
he was seen pouring whiskey clown his steed’s throat,
and finally he rode into Hobart Town a few minutes ahead
of the coach, and won his money. He was prosecuted for
cruelty to his horse and was lined £2 and 10s. costs, but
he afterwards remarked with a chuckle that the saving
he had made by not paying coach fare balanced the fine.
The horse was none the worse for its exertions and was
ridden by its owner years afterwards. The journey
occupied 16 hours.
A Melbourne hotelkeeper has in his possession
a curious memento of that dashing, ill-fated horseman,
Adam Lindsay Gordon, a new edition of whose ‘ Bush
“ Honorable Sir PATREEA—my ’art bleeds for you.
Give the ’orse two onces of crushed stuff, and two onces of —
you know vat.”
MISS FIDLER.


Stockwell
The Baron
Birdnatcher
Echidna
Pocahontas
Glenooc
Marpessa
Irish Queen
Uarkitway
Economist
Nahocklisb tn.
Emily
Pantaloon
Elizabeth
Flying Dutch-
man.
Bay Middiet* n
Sultan
Cobweb
Barbell*
Sandbeck
Darioletta
Boarding.
Plenipotcnt’y
Emilia*
Harriett
school Miss
Miirpesoei
Muley
Clare
Toryboy
Tomboy
Jerry
Beeswing dam
Bossy Bedlam
Filho da Pnta
Lunatic
baroness
Leopold
Cawillus
Hornpipe
The Duchess
Cardinal York
Miss Nancy
Kory O' More
Birdcutehur
Sir Hercules
Guicaioli
NoraCreinasd
Drone
Mary Anne
D. of
Peter Finn
Whalebone
Scotina
Tasmanian m.
1
*
r
r-
•—
«
W
£
D*
o
£
s
a
t2
I
a
t
Q
5
w
1
w
$
J
0.
I
.«
W
1
cc
&
a
Maid of .tie Mil]
*3
JS
o
P.
.y
CO
B
M
a
a
g
w
1
N
3
w
3
p*
n
o
«
o
1
>5
P
8
1
g.
o
Thu above tabular pedigrw shows that tlie Cham-
Kelpie (imp.)
Weathorbit
Shoot Anchor
Miss Letty
Child 0 1 Mist
St. Francis
Tauriau
Gum light
Sir Hercules
Whalebone
Peri
Factory Girl
Lamplighter
Spinning Jenny
Fis'man (im.)
Heron
Bustard
Orville mare
Main brace
Sheet Anchor
B. Middleton m.
Juliet (imp.)
Touchstone
Camel
Banter
L'Hliirc Witch
Tom boy
Kite
Wealhergage
Weathorbit
Shoot. Anchor
Miss Lotty
Taorina
Taurus
Esmeralda
Aloxinn
Hetman Platf.
Brut-audorf
Don J ohu’s dam
Yo’ng Medom
Prince
Fib
Chat'box (im)
Magpie
Albany
Agnes
Clari
Smolonsko
Pr’oipitate mare
Georgisma
.Ether (imp.)
St. Patrick
Pastille
Georgiaua
Cap-a-pie (imp.)
K.Oeorgmna „
Ca.p-u.-pie (im)
The Colonel
Whisker
My Lolly’s data
Sister, Cactus
Sultan
Duchess of Y’rk
Paraguay (im)
Sir Hercules
Whalebone
Peri
Paradigm
Partisan
Bizarre
Tros (imp.)
Prium
Emilios
Cressida
Ally
Partisan
Jest
Alice Grey
Kouns’ Emi-
grant (imp.)
Pioneer
Ring Tail
Goinare (im.)
Y. Gohanna
Ultima
Stockwel]
The Baron
I. Birdoatcher
Echidna
Pocahontas
Glencoe
Marpessa
Blink Bonny
Melbourne
Humph.Cliuker
Cervantes mare
Queen Mary
Gladiator
Pleuipoty. mare
T. Birdoatcher
Sir Hercules
Whalebone
Peri
Guiccioli
Bob Booty
Plight
Bridle
The Saddler
Wave-rley
Castrelliim.
Monoeda
Taurus
Mona
The Baron
Birdcatcher
Sir Hercules
Gulootoli
Echidna
Economist.
Miss Pratt
Pocahontas
Glencoe
Sultan
Trampoline
Marpessa
Muley
Clare
Touchstone
Camel
Whalebone
Selim mare
Banter
Master Henry
Boadiccea
Brocade
Pantaloon
Castrel
Idalia
Bombazine
Thunderbolt
Delta
Fisherman
(imp.)
Heron
Bustard
Orville mare
Mainbrace
Sheet Anchor
Bay Middl'tn m.
Bono tie Flor-
ence (imp.)
FI. Dutchman
Bay Middleton
Barbelle
Bg.-scbl. Miss
Plenipotentiary
Marpessa
Flying Dutch-
Bay Middlet’u
Snltnn
Cobweb
man.
Barbelle
Sandbeck
Darioletta
Eller dale
Lauercost
Liverpool
Otis
D. of
Tomboy
Tesone'
H
Fireworks
>-*
o
«
<1
h)
c
-
n
03
A
A
5
Sylvia
S
<
W
e
c
H
K
«
0
s
rf.
1
*
*1
£
Mag on the
CD
|
a
t-
*
2
CO
6J
I
'B
§
s
w
u
a
o
—
«
w
o
M
k
S
o
p
*<
*3
5
3
«
d
J
a
a
Ballads and Galloping Rhymes' is sadly needed. It
consists of an ace of diamonds, on the back of which are
written in the poet’s own hand the subjoined lines. In
Tiew of Gordon’s melancholy end by suicide, the verses
are painfully suggestive—
They say that poison-sprinkled flowers
Are sweeter in perfume
Than when, untouched by deadly dew,
They glowed in early bloom.
They say that men condemned to die
Have quaffed the sweetened wine
With higher relish than the juice
Of the nntampered vine.
*****
And I believe the devil’s voice
Sinks deeper in our ear
Than any whisper sent from heaven,
However sweet and clear.
Mr. Hamilton, member for G-ympie in the
Queensland Assembly, has brought an action for libel
against the Hodgkinson Mining News. The plaint
alleges that defendant, amongst other things, has stated
that plaintiff was a person of corrupt character and
motives, was of dissolute habits and had abused
the hospitality extended to him as a guest in families by
being guilty of seduction and other disgraceful actions
and had caused the death of many persons and was not
fit to be admitted into any respectable society.
Hamilton, had a most adventurous career. His
real name is John Hamilton Dinwoodie, and he is the
son of a Melbourne saddler. In the early days of
Gympie he was * best man ’ out of ten thousand. He is
known as ‘ Dr.’ Hamilton and though not a legally
qualified man did great service during the fever and
misery which prevailed at the outbreak of the Palmer
rush. If men were hard up he cheerfully gave them his
services free; but if deceived he invariably thrashed
the offender. He left the Palmer for the Hodgkinson
rush, where a serious charge—of which, however, he
was brought against him. Remember-
&n Yiis services in by-gone days the miners of Gympie
returned him to Parliament by a large majority at last
election.
A Dish, of Trifle.
V.
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Zoological. —The donkey gets the most abuse
in the Old World, but the kangaroo is the animal
most “ run down” here.
An Impossibility. —lt would be next to impos-
sible for J-p-n-se T-m-y to marry beneath him.
Musical. —People said Urso was the fiddler.
But now we have a lady who is more a fiddler than
Urso. However, as they say that Urso is likely to
he Offenbach, we will not Handel the subject
further.
A miserable specimen of humanity at Waverley
has beaten Haselmayer out and out, to use a Twain-
ism. He turns his horse into a paddock every
night.
The Dry-dens of the Volunteer Encampment
were those whose owners knew how to pitch their
tents.
Someone has sent Boyce, of the Manning Times,
as a local, the old story of the boy who said the
plural of a penny was twopence. The unsus-
Eecting Charley inserts it, well spread out, and in
.rge type, as a joke typical of the Manning
youth.
Lotta should visit Australia. There are a lotta
fellows writing with a lotta pens for Lotta.
Howard says his business is dropping off. As
this is no try-fling matter, we will not choke
about it.
Watts, the chemist, is always ready with a
retort.
Buchanan is such a rabid democrat that, doubt-
less, he will oppose the royalty of the Municipal
Council on the Moore Park works.
How many small tradesmen affect the Cos. —
Shylock, Brown and Cos.? It is said that the Cos.
consists generally of a sleeping partner. Yes, a
quilt or a blanket.
A large number of our parsons borrowed their
Lent sermons before they were lent.
The lawn-tennis players of the Association
Ground are, henceforth, to pay sixpence a game.
The secretary has evidently been reading Tenny-
son :—“ Charge for the (big) guns, he said.”
It is calculated by the Haymarket ton man that
there are enough cur-dogs in Waterloo to keep his
lion going for two years.
LANFRE.
The Mont de Piete in France.
The French national Mont de PffitA system was estab-
lished in 1777, by Louis XVI., to put an end to the
sufferings caused by usury, which, in the words of the
King, “was the ruin of so many families.” It was
shortly afterwards decreed that no pawn-office should
exist except for the benefit of the poor, and that heavy
penalties should be inflicted for contra vention of the law.
Under the great Napoleon, Louis Philippe, and Napo-
leon 111., the institution was brought as nearly as
possible to perfection. No person is charged a heavier
rate of interest than 9 per cent., plus a fee of one-half
per cent, paid to the appraiser, and the result is that
tew articles remain unredeemed. In no case is less than
one month’s interest charged. Thus, a person borrow-
ing £5 for five weeks would pay 6d. fee and 14d. interest
—in all. Is. Bd. In return for this fee, the appraiser
personally undertakes that the sum lent, plus interest
and expenses, will be recovered. There are in Paris
a head office and 22 branches, with 480 employes of all
grades, who receive in salaries and allowances a very
large sum annually. Besides the building of the chief
establishment, the institution possesses no capital what-
ever. It conducts its operations on loans obtained from
the Bank of France and other great financial institutions.
•Any capital which it may have derived from its opera-
tions during the last 10 years has been handed over to
the charitable institutions of the French metropolis.
The total amount annually advanced by the Mont de
Pffite in Paris amounts to over £2,500,000. All objects
pledged are kept for 12 months. The depositor is then
communicated with, and should he fail to pay the
interest, his property is sold. Any balance which
remains after the institution has repaid itself principal,
interest, appraiser’s fee, and auctioneer’s commission,
is placed to the credit of the borrower. Should the
pledge ticket be presented and the balance applied for
within three years, it is paid to the borrower; if un-
claimed at the end of that time, it is handed over to the
charities. However, only between 7 and 8 per cent, of
the pledges are sold by the directors. Should the
holder of a ticket decide to pay interest only, the pledge
is re-valued, another half per cent, charged by the
appraiser and the new loan made only upon the basis
of the new valuation. In the Pans offices in 1877,
3,467,598 articles were pledged for a sum of 67,783,609
francs, equivalent to £2,711,599, and the net profit
accruing from the operations of the year was 779,126
francs, which was paid to the hospitals. This yearly
statement of the money lent and paid enables Govern-
ment to form a correct notion of the condition of
the working classes, their wants, and privations.
It is related that on the 26th June, 1849, a silver watch
was sold by the administration. It had been pledged on
the Bth of January, 1817, for the sum of eight francs,
and the owner, unable to release it, paid interest to the
Bth December, 1847 —giving in thirty years the sum of
twenty-six francs fifty centimes. Death alone prevented
him from continuing to pay the interest- When a
* mont de Piete ’ is to be established in a city, a loan is
raised by the civic authorities: and Government also
makes an advance. The establishments, wherever foun-
ded, almost invariably proved a success. The only reason
why the rate of 9» per cent.—which in France is re-
garded as very high—has not been decreased is that, as
before stated, the ‘ mont de Piete ’ has no capital of
its own. Were its funds allowed to accumulate for a
certain time, it would indubitably become an institution
even more useful than it is to-day.
Australian Jockey Club Autumn Races,
1880.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
Under the management of the Committee of the A. J.C.
Judge, Mr. W. Dargiu; starter, Mr. R. Rouse;
handicapper, Mr. J. A. Scan-; clerk of the course,
Mr. Ashworth.
March 29th and 31st, and April 3rd and 6th.
The autumn meeting of 1880 of the premier jockey
club of New South Wales has joined the things of the
past, and to the readers of the Bulletin a few remarks
touching the most notable events ought not to be out
of place. All ‘ weeklies ’ must, of a necessity to keep
pace with the times, have a sporting column, and
although the space at my disposal for the present week
is very limited indeed, I shall endeavour to ‘ cram ’ as
much into that space as it is possible for me to do. I
don’t suppose that anyone will attempt to deny that
notwithstanding the very unsettled weather during the
last fortnight, weather that was as bad as could be for
out-door sport of any kind, and horse racing in particular,
the meeting just concluded has quite come up to the
expectations of the most fastidious so far as actual
racing and attendance goes compared with former years.
I don’t agree with postponements of any kind unless
they cannot be avoided, and although I quite agree with
the action of the A. J.C. Committee in putting Friday’s
racing oft’ until Saturday, I must confess to being puz-
zled at the last day’s sport being postponed until
Tuesday, when it was the general desire of horse owners
and all patrons of Rand wick (the Committee of course
excepted) to race on Monday. Then the settlement of
wagers could have been performed on Tuesday, but
owing to unnecessary delay that very (desirable to some
and undesirable to others) important ‘ concomitant ’ of
a race meeting, squaring up day, came not until Wed-
neseay, the day fixed also for a sale of grand yearlings,
as well as for the opening of the grand International
Pigeon Match. Three such important events as those
mentioned meeting together on one day, caused all
three to be less successful than they would otherwise
have been, and doubtless those who are to blame in the
matter are pretty well convinced of the fact. To return
to the meeting, there is one item that I must refer to,
notwithstanding that I have oftentimes previously pro-
tested against it, and that is the pertinacious manner
in which the A. J.C. stick to the existence in the Grand
Stand of what is now commonly known as the ‘ drifting
rail.’ I know for a fact that several of the members are
in favour of its removal, but the majority of course
‘rule the roost,’ and the ‘objectionable’ continues, for
to any one in any way connected with the successes of
a race meeting the fact must be palpable enough that
while such a rail is allowed to occupy a position on the
Randwiek Grand Stand, so long will the attendance in
that quarter be limited. Ladies whose husbands or
attendants are not members of the A. J.C. will not lead
their presence to Randwiek to be shut off from their
perhaps very intimate but fortunate friends; and were an
instance wanting to speak in support of my argument
it only needs telling that on the Melbourne Grand
Stand, where the rail is unknown, all the beauty and
fashion of the colonies meet together, not to render
thanks, but to present a spectacle not to be seen any
where else in Australia. It has been argued by a goodly
body of the A.J.C., and I have heard it said myself by
those members who ‘go in ’ tor the ‘ rail,’ that those
who wish to sit on the ‘ tall ’ side of the Grand Stand
should become members of the A. J.C. This is a very
shallow argument, for in the first place, the general
body of the visitors to Eandwiek do not desire to mix
with the so-called elite, unless it suits them, but they
do strongly object to their wives and daughters being as
it were insulted. Then again, members of the Jockey
Club have to be elected, and to none is it as plain as to the
A. J.C. that those who are proposed for election, even if
successful, undergo what might be termed a rigid
examination before becoming one of what is looked
upon as the upper ten. I should very much like to see
the rail done away with for at least one meeting, and I
feel confident the effect would be to increase and add
considerably, not only to the coffers of the Club, but to
the popularity attaching to our Isthmian games. The
race books told of His Excellency Lord Augustus
Loftus as Patron of the Club, but he didn’t, strange to
say, put in an appearance on the first day, and when he
did go to the second day’s sport there was no one to
receive him. Mr. William Dargin filled the position of
judge, previously occupied by Mr. Walford, and save
that he placed the Star third in the Flying Handicap on
the second day, when that horse was not in the first
half dozen, gave an amount of satisfaction not often
met with when close finishes result. Mr. Prince acted
as starter on the Leger and Cup days, but he despatched
his fields in such awkward (to say the least of it) style,
that Mr, Richard Rouse was appointed to fill the posi-
tion, vice Mr. Prince on Saturday and Tuesday. Of
course, Mr. Scarr made the handicaps. They
it is true, were in most eases puzzling; but as
they gave close finishes the, to my idea, most success-
ful handicapper in Australia is to be congratulated. Of
course Mr. Clibbom was all there*in his capacity as
secretary, and I have seldom, if ever; noticed the very
onerous duties attaching to such an office carried out
with such unvarying punctuality as I have to tell of on
the occasion under notice. Jemmy Ashworth, as he
is familiarly known, made up well as clerk of the course
and the position was well filled. The race books as
usual were gooff, and premising that the surroundings
were as of yore, I shall devote the remaining portion
of this epistle to the actual racing. The half dozen
that saddled out for the Hurdle Race were by no means a
pretentious lot, and Express, who won, is nothing out of
the common. He is though, a good jumper, and likely
to eclipse all he has yet done; but I don’t expect much
from Torpedo, or Esmonds as he is now called; and the
Melbourne mare, Zephyr, is much too small to carry a
fair weight and wfiu in even second class company. Odds
were laid on the Victorian wonder, Suwarrow, for the
Autumn stakes, notwithstanding that he was opposed
to such performers as Sweetmeat and Caspian, but the
‘ litttle grey,’ who was not himself by far, and was badly
ridden by Walker, let Mr. Ivory’s Sweetmeat up on his
inside at the home turn, and the latter scored a win by
a neck, after a desperate finish home. Caspian, who is a
son of the now famous King of the Ring, was third horse,
and Sunshine last of the four. This latter is a colt well
bred enough, being by Maribymong from Xarifa, a mare
bred by Mr.’ C. W. Dawson and got by Tarragon from
Fairy by Lieutenant, but he is not good enough for
first class-company. His owner, Mr. John Bales, is a
true sportsman, and one well deserving the term. There
were eleven at the post for the Champagne Stakes, and
Grand Prix was made a big favourite of owing to his
previous performances, one of which was winning the
Maribymong Plate; but although he won the ‘ Fizz,’ it
was only a fluke, having been let off lengths in front of
the others, and then he only beat the Queensland bred
colt, Waterloo, a son of Epigram, and Wheatsheaf, by
a neck. Sapphire, a daughter of the Drummer and
Amethyst, was third ; but Geraldine, Friday, and Otira
had no show owing to the position they occupied at the
fall of the flag. Ctrong Free won the Champagne Stakes,
and his owner will get the prize, but the stakes has to
be thanked for such a state of affairs.
pagne winner is by the Marquis from Art Union,
a mare that got both The Painter and Rose d’Amour, the
former being own brother to Grand Prix, while the
fitter is only a half relative, being by Fireworks, a
pedigree that I think is much preferable. Descend-
ants of the Marquis have not yet shown any pen-
chant for a distance, nor can they be said to be reliable,
and his progeny is not by any means much sought after.
Although I have given a tabular pedigree of Grand
Prix, I don’t think him the best of his years, and it is
only as the winner of an important race that he is
thus honored. The Leger saw half a dozen sporting
silk, and on the score of condition they were a grand
lot; but although most people expected to see a race,
they were disappointed, the whole thing resolving itself
into a procession after the first three-quarters of a mile.
The pace was made very slow at starting by Gipsey
Cooper, but at Cutts’s the favourite was taken in com-
mand, and never afterwards being troubled, won in a
canter as she liked by half a dozen lengths. Nellie, who
is not a stayer, was second, and the Pontiff third; but
Fau Bias disappointed me sadly by not finishing nearer
than fourth. The time was miserably slow, 3m. 21 4-10
secs., and does not speak much in favour of the quality
of those who finished behind the winner. Of course,
such an easy win made her more than ever fancied for the
Cup, and to sum that event up in a very few words, Mr.
Long’s late purchase, after a mile and three-quarters
had been travelled shot to the front, and won almost as
easily as she won the ‘ Sellinger’ in 3 m. 37* secs, thus
landing the double coup of Leger and Cup, and quite
upsetting the opinion that Leger winners could not
carry weight for age and win the double. This grand
daughter of King of the Ring and Mischief is own
sister to First King, and being the only one out of a long
list of those that have essayed the feat, to come suc-
cessfully through what might be termed an ‘ ordeal,'
Mr. Long has every reason to be congratulated on the
new acquisition to his stable ; and New South Wales as
a racing colony loses nothing by her being included in
the list. The ‘ Cup ’ field was, for a race of its descrip-
tion and importance, a ‘ duffing ’ one, for, Martindale
and Strathearn taken away, there was nothing wonderful
left, Sweetmeat not being herself; but as the latter has
contracted what I might call roguish tricks, racing
when he likes only, I don’t think he will come up to the
standard he has no doubt led Mr. Ivory to expect.
Martindale, with Bst. 71b., ran very well, and Strathearn
too, but I cannot account for the slowness of time, 3 m.
37i secs. Sunlight, who was fourth, would no doubt
have been much closer, and I think would have been
troublesome to the winner had he been ridden more
judiciously; but as it is all over, the less said the better.
Lowlander, Columbus, Secundus, Firebell, Eaveuswood,
and Euclid never once figured dangerously, and to say
the least of it, the'sorry figure cut by Hopeful surprised
those who seemed‘to notice him.
The Sires’ Produce Stakes next calls for remark, for
it distinctly exemplified the fluky win scored by Grand
Prix on the first day, as both Geraldine and Kamilaroi
beat him easily over seven furlongs, his show being
much less at the Champagne distance. The flutter
resulted in a dead heat between Kamilaroi and Geral-
dine, after a magnificent finish, with Grand Prix third,
and as both owners agreed not to run off the stake was
divided. Kamilaroi, who is by that young sire Golds-
borough, from Fleetwing, was bred by his owner, Mr.
B. Richards ; but owing to mercenary motives I think
he was not entered for all the principal races of the
year, consequently he has not won so often, or even is
he as valuable as he would otherwise have been. His
pedigree shows that from his sire he inherits all that
grand Fireworks’ Kelpie, Fisherman, Touchstone, and
Weatherbit blood, better than which it would be hard
to get, and as Weathergage on the dam’s side through
Misty Moon gives another strain of Weatherbit, there
is no need for surprise that he races so well.
Geraldine, who is by Yattendon from the imported
Allioline, who was got by the English Blair Athol from
Habena by Irish Birdcatcher, &c., claims a brother
and sister in Gainsborough and Habena, and although
both these latter gave great promise as two year olds,
they did not come on with age, and it remains to be seen
whether Geraldine will be the first of Allioline'*
progeny to maintain the opinion formed of them as two
year olds.
The last day’s sport, held on Tuesday, had a steeple
and three mile race as the most attractive of the events ;
but as often happens, the favourites were beaten in
each case. Express was backed in a field of eight at 5
to 4 for the steeplechase, a price which seems ridiculous
THE COLLISION.
A scene from “ New Babylon,” to be produced at the Victoria Theatre.


considering the nature of the race; but after travel-
ling for most of the journey he tired tremendously in
the last three-quarters of a mile, and falling in the
inmp opposite the trainer’s stand, allowed Cruiser with
2 stone to canter in a winner as he liked. The favourite
was remounted and finished second with Eainbow, who
carried 151bs. over, third. Had Express ‘ stood up,’ I
think Cruiser would have beaten bim home; but there
are not wanting those who think Express would have
won easily, had the accident not happened. The * three
mile ’ introduced the greatest bowl out of the meeting;
for Petrea, on whom the talent laid 4 to 1, slipped
slightly at the home turn, and the ‘ uncertain ’ son of
King of the King, Caspian, coming out as though im-
pelled by some unknown power from the distance, won
a grand race clevSrty from the favourite, Martindale
finishing a good third. The time was very slow, sm.
36 2-10 secs. Of course, it is only natural that excuses
should be made for the deficit of the favourite, but the
best horse over the distance won in my opinion,
and the favourite was beaten on her merits.
Tips for the Events To-day.
The Sydney Amateur Turf Club will hold a meeting
at Eandwick on this Saturday; and judging from the
really good list of entries received, there should be a
good day’s sport. Nothing looks better on paper than
Express and Zephyr in the Hurdle Eace, and —with
accidents out of the question—they should finish in the
orderinamed. Komilaroi with Bst 31bs must take a deal
of beating for the ‘ Shorts’; and with the big weights
up in the Amateur Cup, Black Swan —if she starts—is
most likely to catch the Judge’s eye first. I like
Kamilaxoi, if he be sent, for the Two-year-old Stakes;
and in his absence, Eichmond Eose and Waterloo would
appear to have the greatest show. * Nine ten’ ought
not to stop Planet in the Steeple; and although the
Open Handicap is a difficult question to solve, the
stakes are likely to go to The Pontiff or Queensland.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
There is considerable betting on the forth-
coming fight between Goss and Eyan.
A journey has been performed on a bicycle
from Ballarat to Melbourne in 6i hours.
Samuel Brooks has walked 121 miles at Oamaru,
New Zealand, in 23 hours 57 minutes.
Mr. Prendergast, the well-known Melbourne
sporting butcher, won £BOO backing Petrea and Petrea
for the Leger and Cup.
The Balmain Schnapper Fishing Club takes its
first outing on next Thursday. Visitors are permitted
to go on paying ss.
“Weight and condition defeated loafers and
long shandy-gaffs,” says the Townsville Herald, in
reporting a boat race.
The Sydney Amateur Club continues to thrive.
In its ranks are all the best sailing boats in the harbour;
consequently the races are well contested.
Latest accounts from Melbourne state that the
New South Wales eight are all well, and that the form
of the Victorian crew is not good.
The Victorian Representative Bowling Team
leave Melbourne for Sydney to-day (Saturday) per
Leura.
Two junior eights from the Sydney Rowiug
Club are in practice for an .approaching spin on the
Parramatta Eiver.
Larry Foley declines to fight Mr. Brinsmead.
He says he’s quite used to being indicted for breaches
of the peace, but he can’t face a prosecution for man-
slaughter.
The members of the New South Wales Rowing
Club are keeping very quiet. It is anticipated by some
that they will shortly come forth and astonish the
natives.
Mr. Hyam’s trophy for 18-feet boats was sailed
for on Saturday last, and won rather easily by the
Naiad, the Alert being second. The Bacchante also
started, but was out of the race from the start.
A hand-ball match has been arranged for £l5
aside, bet ween J. Pattison and Thomas Alderson. The
match will be played on Saturday next, April 17th, at
Bunn’s Northumberland Hotel, Lambton.
In a private match for £5O a-side, distance 2
miles, at Bales’ racecourse, Maitland, on Tuesday-after-
noon, Thos. Smith’s Volunteer (Bst) beat M’Carthy’s
Benevolence (6st. 71bs.) by three lengths. The latter
was the f avourite.
The annual meeting of the Glebe Rowing
Club was held last Tuesday night. Mr. W. Bull was
elected captain for the ensuing term, Mr. S. Bull
secretary, and Mr. Munce treasurer. A fine four-oared
string test gig has been added to the Club’s fleet.
A pigeon match will take place on Saturday
next, 17 inst., between W. Dummilton, and John Bell,
for £lO aside, at the cricket ground, Newcastle—the
best out of 9 birds to win. £5 each has been deposited
with Dave Dunlop, who is stakeholder and referee.
Several English race cups, of magnificent work-
manship-including the Brighton of 1866, her Majesty’s
Gold Vase given at the Ascot Meeting of 1855, and the
Chesterfield Cup (Goodwood Meeting) of 1835—were
recently sold at auction. Only moderate {prices were
realised.
At a quarterly meeting of the Sydney Mercan-
tile Rowing Club on Tuesday evening, Mr. Benson in
the chair, Mr. Lockyer’s resolution that Mr. Walker’s
offer of a plot of land at Putney, on which to build a
branch boat-house, be accepted, was, after a long discus-
sion, rejected by a majority of four.
Mr. Smith, judge in the recent porridge match
at Lambton, writes ‘ emphaticaajOoi'#noty the assertion
that Penman caught the water m ■ m the occasion.’
He says he feels bound to take, this Step by way of con-
tradiction, the more so as bets on ‘ first water ’ still
remain unjiaid, to the everlasting disgrace of those who
hold the money.
Here is the American definition of an amateur:
—“ An amateur is any person who has never competed
in an open competition, or for a stake, or for public
money, or for gate-money, or under a false name, or
with a professional for a prize, or where gate-money is
charged, nor has ever at any period of his life taught or
pursued athletic exercises as a means of livelihood.”
AVc notice that, with a view to bring the game
of billiards down to scientific principles, the abolition of
the spot stroke (which stroke has already been discarded
in America) is being agitated for in England. W. Mit-
chell, thenew‘phenomenal’ player of England, recently
made 1,029 while playing an exhibition game with Joseph
Bennett, ex-champion of England, holing the ball 243
times during the run, thereby scoring 729 off the spot.
It is also proposed to equalise the hazards so that the
scoring ot the red and white will count the same at
losing or winning hazards.
Last Saturday the Victorian eight-oar crew
rowed two scratch crews-from the Hawthorne and
Melbourne Clubs respectively—over the Saltwater
course. The Hawthorne Club took two lengths start.
i were a length behind the representatives when
at the three-mile distance the Melbourne scratch crew
joined in. The Victorian eight rowed their opponents
down alter a good race. An eight from the Pootscray
dub (the holders ot the Clarke Challenge Cup) then
gave Sydney a spin over the course. The Footscrav
men went off with a short lead, and kept it throughout
The race takes place to-day (Saturday), the crews start-
mg from moored boats. Mr. J. W. Colville, of the
Club > aets as starter, Mr. Tom Young (of
the M.R.C.) as umpire, and Dr. Morton as judge.
Great dissatisfaction exsists in and around
Newcastle and the colliery townships, at the result of
the late foot race held at Hamilton, between Rice of
Lithgow, and Wright of Lambton. The race was for
£5O aside, distance 150 yards. Wright won by half a
yard, according to the referee’s decision ; but the stake-
holder refuses to hand over the money, as Rice’s party
allege that Wright either got a flying start or did not
run the distance. A great many wagers will not be paid
over until the affair is settled, which it is thought will
be by recourse to law. Rice in the meantime has left
for his home at Lithgow Valley, and a challenge has
since been received from him offering to run Wright
100 yards level for £lOO aside. Wright’s party says
they will accept the offer on condition that the other
side pay over the stakes won on the first event.
Mr. Clibborn held a sale of thoroughbred
yearlings at Eennelly’s Bazaar on Wednesday last on
account of various owners ; but as the Grand Interna-
tional Pigeon Match was on for the same day, the num-
ber of buyers was limited, consequently bidding was
slack. Lowlander was sold to Mr. Weeks for 200 gs.,
and his destination will probably be India, to which
place he will have Queensland for a companion. A son
of Tarragon and Lady Mary was purchased Mr. J. W.
Johnstone for 85gs ; Rocket, the steeplechaser, went to
Mr. Royd for 24g5.; Lothair, a son of Epigram, to Mr.
Howie for 200 gs. ; Elastic, by Lord of the Hills
from Emeutte, to Mr Mayo for 190g5.; Pontiff to Mr.
Fennelly for lOOgs.; and Blackthorn also found a pur-
chaser at 75gs. Caspian, we hear, has been sold to go
to India.
The annual meeting of the Goulburn Jockey
Club will come off on Wednesday and Thursday in the
coming week, and we hope the fixture will prove as suc-
cessful as a neat programme entitles it to be. Mr.
Harry Payten, the secretary of the Club, spares no
pains to entice horse owners to the town of Goulburn,
hut for some reason the townspeople will not patronise
, the meetings as they come round, and what few lovers
of ‘ Isthmian games ’ the town does boast of, have every
reason to think that horse racing would die a natural
death were it not for the unceasing exertions of the
gentleman spoken of. We hope metropolitan sports-
men will rally up and do what is in their power to have
a successful re-union recorded. The two big handicaps
have not up to the present time caused any stir in
betting circles nor will they probably until after the
Amateur meeting has been decided, but if we are sup-
posed to dive into the depths of the unknown, we must
give our vote in favour of Jester and Macaroni.
The Grand International Pigeon Match, got
up by Mr. George Adams, of Tattersall’s Hotel, and
Mr. E. B. Jones, the leviathan bookmaker of New South
Wales, with Mr. James Herald as secretary, was shot
off at Rand wick on Wednesday and Thursday last, and
as the meeting hod been well taken in hand there was a
big crowd of the lovers of the ‘ trigger’ present on each
day to watch proceedings. At the finish of the first
day’s shooting Messrs. Hamilton, Sayer (Victoria), and
Harding (Wagga Wagga) had tied at four birds each,
and were supposed to have the greatest show; but when
proceedings were gone in for on the second day, Mr. 0.
Evans, brother to the greatest of Australian cricketers,
shot his birds in such grand style that he was looked
upon as the winner. At the sixth bird he had tied
those of the first day, and killing the remaining lot in
very good form he was declared the winner, having
placed hors de cohmat ten out of eleven. Messrs. H.
Payten, C. W. Jackson, Sayer, and Harding each killed
nine out of eleven shot at, and so tied, but they decided
eventually to divide second and third money. Mr.
Evans, who we might say was educated at Newington
College, where so money good pigeon shots have come
from, thus comes in for first prize, which will probably
be about £l4O, while the remaining £92 will be divided
amongst those who have tied.
The following are the winners and the prin-
cipal amounts won at the A. J.C. meeting :—Mr. W. A.
Long, £2095 14s. 6d,; Mr. De Mestre, £692 11s.; Mr.
B. Eichards, £633 14s. 6d.; Mr. E. Howie, £557; Mr.
E. M’Carty,, £310; Mr. C. Freeman, £246; Hon. J. P.
Beh, £243; Mr. W. S. Hill, £212; W. T, Jardyne;
£207; Mr. Finlay, £200; making, with a lot of other
sums under £2OO, a total of upwards of £7,000. After
the above sums had been paid, the winners were very
silent in giving orders for ‘ fizz,’ and when the orders do
not come for ‘Eoederer’s or Krug,’those who have thrown
in for big cheques are looked upon as being rather
mean. This was the case on Wednesday evening at
TattersalTs; but Mr. H. L. Eoberts, whose winnings
were something under £2OO, made the big winners
shrink almost into their boots by giving an order for a
case of champagne. This was considered liberal.
One of the most prominent of Sydney bookmakers was
missing from the ‘ rooms ’ on settling morning, but he
put in an appearance in the evening and placed his
books in the hands of the committe. He hod no doubt
been ‘plunging,’ and was ‘pulled up,’ but he has signi-
fied his intention of disposing of his property to meet
his liabilities. We sympathise with the bookmaker in
question, and as he appears to be doing all he possibly
can to meet his engagements, his creditors will no doubt
take a lenient view of things. One lesson, well given,
will no doubt act as a caution to other * Knights of the
Metallic.
Messrs. Biddell Brothers’ Confectionery
Works, Darling Harbour.
Messrs. Biddell Bros., whose town establishment is
495 George-street, have been in business in Sydney for
22 years, and own very extensive, neat, and substantial
confectionery works at the head of Darling Harbour,
where they manufacture all the goods in which they
deal, some kinds of fancy confectionery of limited
demand alone excepted. These latter they import from
Europe, and they are also heavy importers of trade
goods, such as almonds, gums, gum paste, and flavours.
They commenced, like most successful Sydney manu-
facturers, in a small way, but have kept pace with the
period in the application to their work of steam,
water, and machinery. Each of the three partners of
the house has at different times visited the chief
English and Continental factories for the purpose of
gaining a knowledge of the latest improvements, the
result being that they are now in a position to produce
goods of the highest class at prices which almost com-
pletely shut out the imported article and secure to the
establishment a large proportionof the confectionery
business of the colony. The works are always open to
the inspection of persons interested, and a visit will
suffice to show not only that the very best materials
and the cleanest processes are employed, but that the
results of the application of laboursaving machinery
to Messrs. Biddell Bros.’ business are as wonderful
as those attained by similar means in other branches of
industry. With the exception of some small lines of
the most expensive goods, the lozenges are made by
machinery throughout. This involves the employment
of machines for grinding and dressing the sugar and
melting the gum, and for mixing, rolling, cutting, and
stamping the lozenges. There are on the premises
many other labour-saving machines, worked by steam
and hand power, for sawing, cutting, mincing, and
moulding. A powerful vertical engine is employed, and
the boiler which supplies it produces steam for a multi-
tude of steam-boiling pans which are used in addition
to the numerous furnaces in the works. It also sup-
plies the steam necessary for many drying stores; and
nearly the whole of the steam generated, including that
which is exhausted by the engine, is utilised for heating
purposes, and is conducted, when condensed into water,
back to the supply tank. Side by side with steam
pipes through the factory are pipes for gas
and cold water —the former for heating and lighting,
the latter for cooling. The water gravitates all over the
building from tanks in the uppermost story supplied by
the Sydney waterworks. The comfit machinery is very
complete, and furnished with the most recent inventions,
as are also the arrangements for the production of all
other articles, such as creams, faudants, liqueurs, boiled
sweets, and gum, chocolate, and piped goods. The firm
make large quantities of marmalade and jams from the
best colonial and Tasmanian fruits, and devote a great
deal of attention to the preservation of Queensland and
South Sea Island pine-apj)les, both in crystallized forms
and in syrups; also to the manufacture of syrups for
drinking, and of bride-cake, gum paste ornaments,
and table decorations. They employ on an average
over 70 hands, besides numerous tinsmiths and case-
makers, and have just added to their plant machinery
for pills-coating, a kind of work which has until very
recently been done exclusively in America, but which
they have after many tedious and costly experiments at
last succeeded in performing satisfactorily. Their loose
goods, cakes, and sweetmeats alike, are most attractive
in appearance and quality, while the elegance of the
parcels in which many of their products are put up has
no doubt exerted a stimulating influence on the trade.
The factory is kept very steadily going, and is every
month turning out increased quantities; but were the
demand greater, or the competion less, Messrs. Biddell
Bros, could without difficulty and without enlarging
their premises, or adding to their machinery, manufac-
ture at least 50 per cent, more goods.
The Albion Tea Warehouse.
In the accompanying engraving is given a view
of the Albion Tea Warehouse, situated at the
corner of Bourke and Albion streets, Surry Hills.
The proprietor is Mr. M. Lacey, who does one of
the most promising retail businesses in any part
of the city. The building was erected specially
for the business, the plans adopted being such as
to admit of enlargement should more space be re-
quired. Mr. Lacey’s object in establishing the
business was to offer to families resident at Surry
Hills those facilities which every populous neigh-
bourhood should possess. He was determined to
make his establishment recommend itself to the
support of the residents by the excellence of every
line of goods which he supplied, and it is some
satisfaction for Mm to find that with respect to
the two important features in a business of this
kind, the tea and butter, no house in Sydney
stands Mgher. It is on these two lines that Mr.
Lacey is determined to retain his present great
support, and every day to extend his business.
All the other items, the thousand and one neces-
saries of the household, are of admitted excellence.
Mr. Lacey imports all Crosse and Blackwell’s
foods direct, and is now, owing to the increase in
usiness, arranging to enlarge his shipments.
The advantages to the families of Surry Hills, &c.,
of having a first-class establishment at hand
where orders may bo sent are great, and no
doubt this explains the large amount of support
already accorded the spirited proprietor. All
goods are delivered promptly, and patrons on
visiting the establishment are received with both
courtesy and attention. Mr. Lacey enjoys the
patronage already of most of the leading
families, all whom speak in very high terms of
commendation of the character of the goods sup-
plied them. We cordially wish the enterprising
proprietor a continuance of his success.
The Run on the Bull Dog Ale.
Our humorous artist gives on page 8 a pic-
ture suggested by the great run on the Bull
Dog Ale. Judging from the success which has
attended the importation of this celebrated brand
of British bottled beer, our artist is correct in
giving form to his ideas in the shape of new music.
Ever since Messrs. Cattell and 00. placed the ex-
hibit of Bull Dog Ale prominently before the
people of the colony at the Great International,
public attention has more and more been drawn to
the excellence of the brand named. No other
imported line of English bottled ale and stout’V’V,
ever come into such large demand. Over j.
packages are done up every month, and the trafitf
is increasing, not only in this colony, but in
Queensland and New Zealand. The Bull Dog Ale
is carefully selected from the choicest brewings of
the largest brewers in the world, Messrs. Bass and
Co., the uniform quality and rich, full, vinous
character of which cannot be equalled.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OT
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER IV.— continued.
“ For any one that has no friends ” he began
“ Like me,” she said.
“It must be rather dull. Here is your place,
I think.”
“ Yes,” said Adrienne, pausing with her hand
on the latch of the gate. “ I would ask you to
come in, only it would disturb my uncle so much.
But I shall see you again, and another evening I
hope you will come in—will you ?”
“ You are very kind,” said Myles, secretly feel-
ing immensely flattered at the invitation. “If it
wouldn’t be intruding—”
“ Not at all. I should like to know what you
think about one or two things. I know you think,
by the books I have seen you reading, and I hav«
a burning curiosity to know what yon think.”
Myles suggested that his subjects—work, wages,
politics —might not be very interesting to a young
“It depends so much upon the kind of young
lady, I think,” said she, smiling. “Well, good
night; lam obliged for your kindness.”
With a graceful inclination of the head she was
gone—had passed swiftly up the walk, opened the
door, and entered the house.
Myles stood for some time on the spot where she
had left him, staring at the house. He looked at
it well. “ Stonegate. Blake Street.” The whole
of Blake Street was part of the Mallorys’ pro-
perty—Sebastian Mallory’s property, to gain which
he had toiled not, neither had he spun ; but it had
come to him, and was his to do as he would with.
Blake Street was a long street, composed, for
about half its length, of smallish houses, in which
lived quiet, steady, proper people. Several of the
door-plates bore the indication of dressmakers ;
there were two dentists, a veterinary surgeon, and
an undertaker. The rest were quiet, dull, dingy-
looking private residences.
Beyond a certain point all this changed. Blake
Street became a mere confusion of paste-board
terraces, half-finished houses, single strips of
houses, and general disorder and chaos —a brick
and plaster abomination of desolation. And then
came a lonely stretch of street, quite without
houses, with an unfinished footpath on either side,
skirting a waste of what really had been heath,
and was now little else. Some tufts of heather
might be found growing there in their season, and
the air that blew over it was sharp and keen.
Across this one might see the lights of the town ;
dim outlines of factories and churches, and masses
of buildings—the tortuous lines of light creeping
up steep streets and lanes, and the indistinct out-
lines of the long range of the Blackrigg moors.
On the left side of the road stood one solitary
house, in a moderate sized garden—the Stone-
gate, where Adrienne lived with her uncle. It was
an old house of dark grey stone; square, solidly
built, and of moderately large proportions. It was
contemporary with the Oakonrod, and had been
built by some far-back, dead and gone Mallory
(they were lords of the manor of Thanshope) as a
dower-house In the garden the trees were shrivelled
up, the flower-beds were adorned with nothing but
a few evergreen bushes, and the grass was not
kept as was the grass in the Oakenrod garden.
Behind the house was the lonely-looking waste
of heath or common which was out of Sebastian
Mallory’s jurisdiction ; and in front a low wall,
with a wicket-gate in it, bounded the garden.
From the wicket to the door was a flagged walk,
raised a little above the grass border on either
side of it. On each side of the door two windows ;
on the second storey five windows. The shutters
of the lower windows were closed —the whole face
of the house presented a blank, staring void, till at
last Myles, looking intently upwards, saw a light
appear in one of the upper windows, and a shadow
pass the blind. That must be Adrienne’s room.
Then he glanced at the surroundings of the house.
“A lonely place enough!” he decided within
himself. “I’m glad I came home with her. If
that blackguard had been at the trouble to follow
her ! I hope he doesn’t know where she lives : it
hardly looks as if he did, or he wouldn’t have
chosen the public library to molest her in. I don’t
believe that if she called out, in this street, any
one would hear her: and if they did, they’re a poor
lot—tailors, and women, and ’pothecaries: they
wouldn’t know a woman’s screaming from a cat’s
miauling.”
“It is a nasty place!” he muttered again to
himself, lingering unaccountably reluctant to go.
“ It looks as if there were a blight or a curse, or
something upon it.”
At last he tore himself away, and took his home-
ward way.
MR. M. LACEY’S ALBION TEA WAREHOUSE, SURRY HILLS.
MESSRS. BIDDELL BROTHERS’ CONFECTIONERY WORKS, DARLING HARBOUR.


BUY YO U E BLANKETS IN TIME.
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL TO-MOEEOW
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-DAY.
EDWAED HOEDEEN
(the original firm of the name),
668 BEICKFIELD HILL,
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of the LADIES of NEW
SOUTH WALES
to
THIS SEASON’S SHIPMENT,
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by him
DIEECT FEOM THE MANUFACTUEEES.
SNOW WHITE, PUEE WOOL, EXTEA WIDE,
“ PLENTY to TUCK IN.”
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the COMFOET, LUXUEY,
and
SWEET EEPOSE PEODUCED
by a pair of
‘EDWAED HOEDEEN’S”
BEAUTIFUL SNOW-WHITE WHITNEY
BLANKETS,
Prices from 4s 6d to 35s per PAIE.
OEDEES from the COUNTEY promptly and faith-
fully executed. All goods packed in EDWAED
HOEDEEN’S well-known style, SECUEELY IN CAN-
ESTABLISHED 1823.
No Branch Houses anywhere.
DOLPHE GABEIEL & CO.
SUEGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYAED SQUAEE,
(TWO DOORS FROM PFAHLBRT’S HOTEL),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIE ONLY ADDEESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m*call,
14 HUNTEE STEEET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLES AND HAENESS MAKES
to His Eoyal Highness the DUKE OP EDINBUEGH,
His Excellency the Eight Honorable the EAEL OP
BELMOEE, His Excellency Sir Hercules EOBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LOED AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
SYDNEY PIANOFOETE WAEEHOUSE
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. HUENEEBEIN,
Cheapest and best House in Sydney for
PIANOS OEGANS HAEMONIUMS
&c.
A. and C. HUENEEBEIN have again been awarded the
N FIEST PETZE g
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
►6
W
M , N
pq at the a
SYDNEY INTEENATIONALI|EXHIBITION,
for the
WOELD-EENOWNED BLUTHNEE GEANDS
WOELD-EENOWNED BLUTHNEE [GEANDS
In addition to this A. and C. HUENEEBEIN have
again been awarded the
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
FIEST PEIZE
H
fn for the
FAMOUS BLUTHNEE COTTAGE PIANOFOETES
FAMOUS BLUTHNEE COTTAGE PIANOFOETES
SOLE AGENTS—A. and C. HUENEEBEIN,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. H. have just unpacked a superb lot of
PIANOFOETES
Bluthner, Kaps, Eonisch, Mannsfeldt,
Erhardt, Biese, Neumeyer, Kriebel
Wittig, Winklemann, Ac., Ac.,
All iron-braced and bound. Guaranteed to withstand
the effects of this changeable climate.
PIANOFOETES by
Aucher Bord, Aucher Prere, Erard.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
for any Instruments.
HAEMONIUMS by
TEAYSEE, ALEXANDEE, KEAUBS.
OEGANS by
GEO. WOODS. PEINCE, PELOUBET, Ac.
A. and C. H. have also for sale, cheap,
TWO CATHEDEAL HAEMONIUMS,
two manuals, 16 stops, foot pedals.
Letters promptly attended to.
Old Pianos taken in exchange.
PIANOS TUNED, EEPAIEED, AND EEGULATED.
A. and C. HUENEEBEIN,
187 Pitt-street (opposite Victoria Theatre), 178.
INSPECTION EESPECTFULLY INVITED.
THE POEEIDGE EATING MATCH.
I WAS considerably astonished when I perused my
Bulletin of Saturday last, at seeing therein a
challenge emanating from GEO. PENMAN,in which he
challenges all comers (myself included), for £5O aside
or under. Now, Sir, Mr. PENMAN has a perfect right
to issue challenges to the whole world for any amount
be chooses; but I must strongly protest against him
dubbing himself Champion of the three Kingdoms
(wherever that may be), when I won the championship
from him at the late match at Lambton, by six to one.
Therefore, I now consider that I am entitled to the
championship ‘at porridge eating,’ until the title is
wrested from me. With regard to his challenge in your
paper, I may say that I will accept it for £5O or over,
conditionally that both men eat out of one boiler, one
person to make the porridge for both men.
I remain, yours truly,
JAMES BIBBY,
Champion of the world.
[N.B. —Should another match be made, it is to be
hoped the metropolis will, this time, be favoured. The
Exhibition building.will be to let shortly.]
EACES. GOULBUEN EACES.
To come off on the
GOULBUEN EACE COUESE,
on
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY,
(13th and 14th of April).
Eetum tickets may be had at single fares for the
double journey.
HAEEY PAYTEN,
Secretary.
fJIHEATEE EOT AL,
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar.
Business Manager & Treasurer ... Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Stage Manager Mr. Geo. Warde.
EOUETH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LTSTEE and GAENEE'S LONDON COMEDT
COMPANY
THIS EVENING, and UNTIL FUETHEE NOTICE.
F E I E N D S.
PEICES OP ADMISSION.—Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls,
35.; Family Circle, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and Co.’s, 321 George-
street, where seats may be secured for the Dress Circle six
days in advance.
Doors open at 7.30; overture at 8. Carriages can be
ordered at 10.30.
Y 10
TOE I A
Stage Manager ...
T H E A T E E.
Mr. James H. Eainford.
GLOEIOUS SUCCESS. GLOEIOUS SUCCESS
of
WALTEE H. COOPEE’S
NEW AUSTEALIAN COMEDY.
Greatest Triumph of the Season.
AUSTEALIAN. AUSTEALIAN, AUSTEALIAN,
COMEDY, COMEDY, COMEDY.
PUSS
TO-NIGHT, FEIDAY,
fourth representatio of the
NEW AUSTEALIAN COMEDY,
FUSS FUSS
Fuss
Fuss
Fuss
To conclude with the nautical sketch of
H.MS.
SPITFIRE.
H.M.S H.M.S. H.M.S.
SPITFIRE. SPITFIRE. SPITFIRE.
H.M.S.
J. L. HALL. SPITFIRE. J. L. HALL.
TOBIAS SHORTCUT (his inimitable character)
Mr. J. L. HALL.
Prices as usual.
Box plan at Elvy’s. Free list suspended, Press alone
excepted.
ICTOEIA THEATRE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Eainford.
GRAND SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT
FOR 12 NIGHTS.
The Management have much pleasure in announcing
that they have succeeded in engaging, for 12 consecutive
nights, commencing on
SATURDAY, April .10,
THE GREATEST TRAGEDIAN OF THE AGE.
Mr. B. FAIRCLOUGH
Mr. B. Pairclough
' Mr. B. Pairclough.
HAMLET. HAMLET.
LONDON PRESS..
" Times, London, 11th September, 1868. Lyceum
Theatre. Mr. Pairclough is endowed with striking
features, a good figure, and physical grace. He is
earnest, natural, and not conventional. His ‘ Hamlet*
is in every respect a finished picture, AND WE HAVE
SEEN NO GREATER IMPERSONATION ON THE
MODERN STAGE. His last return, where he wrings
and kisses the hand of Ophelia, was a fine touch, and
told upon the House."
THE GREATEST TRAGEDIAN OF THE AGE,
And pronounced by the most competent
London Critics
TO BE WITHOUT A EIVAL.
Mr. B. PAIRCLOUGH
Mr. B. Fairclough
Mr. B. Fairclough
Will be supported by the
MOST EFFICIENT CORPS
OF SHAKESPEARIAN ARTISTES
IN AUSTRALIA.
Kelly and leon'S
ijjjodis OPERA HOUSE,
comer of King and York-streets,
This (FRIDAY) Evening, April 9th,
Positively Last Night but One
Positively Last Night but One
the original version word for word as the author wrote,
of W. S. Gilbert’s satirical comedy, in three acts,
ENGAGED I ENGAGED I ENGAGED
ENGAGED | ENGAGED 1 ENGAGED
Fifth Week and Continued Success of
THE XING ARDS’ COMEDY OPERA COMPANY.
Continued Success
of the Beautiful and Highly Gifted
Miss ALICE DUNNING LINGARD,
and the world-famed Comedian,
Mr.'W. HORACE LINGARD.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
ENGAGED,
BELINDA TREHERNE Miss ALICE LINGARD.
CHEVIOT HILL Mr. WM. HORACE LINGARD.
Other Characters by Company.
Box Plan now open at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
SATURDAY EVENING, April 10,
Change of Programme. Grand Double Bill.
In active preparation,
PLUTO.
UEEN’S THEATRE,
lessee Mr. M. Hegarty.
17th NIGHT 17th
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION and GREAT SUC-
CESS OF
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER,
and his daughter, LILY DAMPIER.
12th NIGHT, and UNABATED SUCCESS of
Charles Reade’s world-famed Sensational Drama and
great moral lesson, entitled
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
It’s Never Too Late To Mend.
MR. ALFRED DAMPIER,
as TOM ROBINSON,
and
LILY DAMPIER,
as the BOY JOSEPHS.
The New and Realistic SCENERY, the theme of
universal admiration, embracing
The FARMYARD I The MODEL PRISON
The HOME OF GOLD | THE WATERFALL
LOOK OUT FOR M. HEGARTY’S BENEFIT.
In preparation—DßlNK. In rehearsal—HAMLET.
Dress circle, 3s; stalls, 2s; pit. Is. Box plan at
Nicholson and Ascherberg’s. Carriages at 10.45.
CHAPTER Y.
Philosophy and Fascination.
< a tenderness shows through her face.
And, like the morning’s glow,
Hints a full day below.’
Myles walked home, notin the “ kind of dream ”
nroper for a hero under the circumstances, but
thinking very lucidly and very connectedly during
his pretty long walk, from the end of Blake Street
to his house on the Townfield, chiefly for what had
happened that evening. He thought of Adrienne
_-of all those summer months of silence, and then
r fjhe sudden, quick acquaintance.
01 “ She’s certainly different from other people,”
he said to himself: and in that matter he was right,
■f be meant that she was not like the ordinary
Thanshope lady. But the Ordinary Thanshope
udy had not been brought up as Adrienne Blisset
had been, and Myles did not know then what
patient struggles with sorrow and poverty and
adverse circumstance had made her what she was.
At one-and-twenty she had lived in many lands,
and her mind had come in contact with many other
minds, often minds of a far from common order.
Very few English girls in her class have had that
experience at that age—nor would those who wish
a oirl to be innocent and happy desire such exper-
ience for her, if it had to be paid for with such a
heavy guerdon of sorrow and suffering as Adrienne
had paid for hers.
Myles knew nothing of that, he only saw the
difference. He felt a curiosity about her, blended
with some admiration. He admired her grace,
her spirit, her sweet voice, her quick intelligence ;
and he thought a great deal about her as he walked
borne and wondered if he should see her again to-
she would be as gracious as she had
been to-night; he thought of Frederick Spenceley,
and classed him in his mind with “ Mallory and
that lot,” and was glad, quite revengefully glad,
that he ho had been able to treat him as he had
and that was all.
Perfectly expectant, unconscious, aware of the
web which circumstances, past, present, and to
oome, were weaving about his head, he paced the
well-known streets —a son of toil, the descendant
of generations of sons of toil, but with a whole
world dormant in him, or rather nascent —a whole
realm of suffering: love, hope, grandeur, baseness
which this night had first stirred into a premoni-
tory natal activity.
Saturday morning came, and work, and the
business of life ; Saturday afternoon, and holiday.
Myles and Mary walked home together about
two o’clock; and his sister looked at him more
than once, as his head and eyes turned quickly from
one side to the other, so often that at last she
said:
“ Why, Myles, dost expect to see some one thou
knows ?”
“ Me —no !” said he, hastily, and with a forced
laugh. He had been half unconsciously looking for
Adrienne, but in vain.
In the evening he repaired to the reading-room
as usual. He went straight to his seat in the win-
dow; but she was not there, so he picked up the
Westminster, which no one had disturbed since
last night, and resumed the article on the govern-
ing classes.
But he could not, to use his own expression,
“ fasten to it,” until he heard the soft opening and
closing of the swing-door in the back-ground, and
the faint sound, almost imperceptible, of a girl’s
light footfall and undulating dress, came nearer
and nearer. Then, when he looked up, she was
there, looking just the same as usual —which was
surprising, after all his dreamy thoughts about
She bowed to him, with a smile which lent such
a charm to her fair face. For she was fair, Myles
decided, as he saw that look of recognition ; and
he was right. She was one of those woman who
are not anything, neither ugly nor beautiful, until
one knows them, and then they are lovely for ever.
With the “ Good evening ” and the smile they
exchanged, he felt at rest, and could turn to his
book again, and read, and understand. For not
yet did he know that he had met his fate —good or
evil as the case might be; there was a sweet,
momentary pause before there came that fever of
unrest which love must be to such men as he.
Miss Blisset made her notes and studied her
music with diligence, until nine o’clock came chim-
ing from the steeple above their headff, and then
rang out after the chimes the music of the tune
‘ Life let us cherish ! ’
Adrienne put her books together, and rose.
“ Mr. Heywood, I told my uncle about what
happened last night, and he told me to you to
oome and see him this evening. Will you ?”
“I shall be very glad to do so,” said Myles,
looking up, pleased and somewhat surprised. He
had thought Miss Blisset’s gratitute to him
natural, under the circumstances, and had quite
supposed she would treat him with friendliness
afterwards ; but he had smiled at the idea of the
uncle of whom she spoke troubling himself about
him If he let the girl take that disagreeable walk
to the town-hall every evening, he was not likely to
care much whether she were annoyed or not, so
that his work was done. That was the conclusion
Myles had come to, and it was a conclusion quite
in harmony with his character.
They left the hall together : it was Saturday
night, and the streets were thronged with a rough-
spoken, roughly-mannered Lancashire crowd,
pushing and talking, and, too, many of them reel-
ing about, with the absence of ceremony peculiar
to them. They soon left the thoroughfare, and
found themselves first in the narrow cross-line, and
then in Blake Street. _
“ Only one more evening,” said Adrienne, and
then my work will be done ; and I shall not need
to come any more.”
“ I’m glad to hear it,” said Myles, abruptly.
“ You like reading,” said Adrienne. ‘ Have
you read much ?”
“ I don’t think I have,” he owned frankly.
“ The Thanshope library is not a bad one in its
way,” she remarked. 11 Rather behind the time
gh in the matter of science and philosophy.”
you see, it’s like the gentlemen who have
the managing of it, I suppose,” said Myles apolo-
getically. “ They are a little behind time too.”
“ Fortunately they have been allowed to exer-
cise no control over my department, the music,
since it was all bequeathed by a good and enlight-
ened man to the town ; and all those worthy com-
mittee people had to do, was to accept it gratefully,
and find a room to put it in. then, too, I
don’t think they would know anything about the
orthodox and heterodox in such matters. >
* 1 Is there orthodox and heterodox in music ?
asked Myles.
“ I should think so ! The adherents of different
musical creeds are given to a ‘ bear and forbear-
ance ’ equal to that of adherents of different re-
ligious creeds.”
Myles laughed a little at this > and said :
u Then I’m sure ignorance is bliss in this case.
We’re somewhat overrun with parsons in these
parts. The women make so much of them that
they seem quite to lose their understanding what
they have of it. But the vicar—Canon Ponsonby
■ —he is quite different; and he keeps a pretty tight
hand over his parsons. I’ve heard that he shows
them their place sometimes as if they were school-1
boys. He ought to have been a prime minister,
ought Canon Ponsonby.
“ Yes, I know him,” said Adrienne. He and my
uncle are great friends. He’s a grand old gentle-
man.
Here they turned in at the wicket of Stonegate ;
Adrienne opened the door, and Myles for the first
time —not for the last by any means—stood within
that sad-looking, lonesome old house.
It was a square, matted hall in which they stood ;
dimly lighted by a Japanese lantern, also square,
hanging from the roof. On a great oaken table in
the centre, stood a large, beautiful vase of grey-
green Yallouris ware. Over the carved mantel-
piece hung an oil-painting—a fine copy of that
beautiful likeness of Goethe —the one with the dark
rings of curling black hair, and the magnificent
face ; that likeness which always reminds one of
the herrlichen Jungling described by Bettina as
the hero of a certain skating scene, when he stole
mother’s cloak — der Kalte wegen. Opposite to
this picture stood, on a pedestal, a bust of Orfila.
These were the only ornaments in the place : every
other available corner was filled with book-shelves
loaded with books. A dome-light gave light by
day to this hall.
‘ This way,” said Adrienne, opening a door to
the left, and Myles followed her into the room.
This room too was lighted with lamps and candles.
There was a table in the centre —a writing-table in
one of the windows, piled with books, and papers,
and manuscripts. In an easy-chair, beside this
writing-table reading, was a man—presumably the
“ uncle ” —of whom Adrienne had so often spoken.
“ Uncle,” said she, going up to him, and touch-
ing his arm, ” here is Mr. Heywood, of whom I
spoke to you.”
He looked up, and Myles beheld a strange, long,
pale face, with hollow eyes, and a large and, as it
seemed to him, an expressionless month. It was
a death-like face ; its expression neutral to impas-
siveness.
“ Mr.|Heywood—oh, lam glad to see you. Take
a seat.”
Somewhat chilled by this unenthusiastic greeting
Myles complied without a word, feeling remark-
ably small and insignificant, while Adrienne pro-
duced her papers, sat down at the desk, and began
to arrange them. Mr. Blissit turned towards her,
but did his chair. He merely observed
to Myles:
“ You will excuse me a moment, Mr. Heywood,”
and then gave his attention to the remarks which
his niece, in a low tone, made to him. It was
with a kind of.' shock that Myles soon perceived
the man’s lower limbs must be paralysed. That
was what Adrienne meant when she spoke of his
being unable to come to the library. That was
why he was so shy and reserved, that he must be
prepared for the visit of a stranger. Myles under-
stood it all now, and, from his experience of
Edmund, knew what it meant, only that this was
far worse, far more of a living death than that in
which Edmund lived.
The writing and reporting over, Adrienne left
the room. Myles and the strange-looking, corpse-
like man were left alone : and now Mr. Blisset
turned to him and said, still in the same cold,
measured voice:
‘‘You rendered a very kind service to my niece
last night, and I am much obliged to you. ’ ’
“ Pray don’t mention it. No one could have
sat still and seen a young lady annoyed by a fellow
like Frederick Spenceley.”
“ Spenceley—surely I have heard the name !”
“ Very likely. His father is the richest man in
Thanshope.”
“ Oh—ah ! Naturally I have heard of him then.
So that was the name of the individual who in-
sulted herp”
“ That’s his name,” said Myles concisely, “ and
it’s another name for a cad and a blackguard.”
“ Oh, is it ? You know something about him ?”
“ There are few people in Thanshope who don’t.
He is a born ruffian—Spenceley. Some day the
ruffianism will come out through the veneering,
and, once out, it will never be polished over
again.”
(to be continued.)
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street Clarke, Pitt-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-st. Schneberger, Oxford-st.
George Hill, George-street Spragg & Adams „
Nash „ Lapham „
J. W. Clarke „ G. Barker, Sussex-street
E. E. Cole ~ Thorsby, Erskine-street
Gordon &Gotch „ J. Walton, Eailway Station
Sandon „ J- Cooper, Eailway Bridge
Colliss, George-st. west Pierce, William-street
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
SUBUEBAN AND COUNTEY:
Armidale— Nareabri —
H. Mallam 0. Haussman
A Newcastle—
W T Banks Hale Williams
W. J. Banks E. Alcock
Bathurst— North Shore —
H. Bridges Deacon & Son
Bega — Nicholson Bros.
0. Welby Orange—
Bodalla — E. Lessells
W. Brock Parramatta—
Cootamundra — G. W. Green
J. Percival J- Eeeve
Echucha— Petersham—
G. Fosdyke Thompson
Forbes— Port Macquarie—
E. Chapman J. J. Penn
Germanton— Eyde—
T. Brown E. Young
Glen Innes — Scone —
F. Marshall M. F. Asser
Goulburn — Shoalhaven —
J. Walsh Wicks
Gdnnedah — Singleton—
— Fitzgerald J- P. Quinn
Lambton — Wagga Wagga—
J. Firth E. Daniels
Lismore— Wattle Flat—
— Jones L. Grim wood
Maitland (West)— Wellington (n.s.w.)—
C. W. Clarke W. Booth
Mudgee— Young—
W. Hall G. F. Oil
INTEECOLONIAL:
Melbourne — Brisbane —
Manders & Co. 0 Gordon *,£? tch
, ~ , Stanthorpe (Q.)—
W. Yard J. F. Williams
Mr. Gresley Lukin, of the Queenslander, who
has been on a business visit to Sydney, returns to Bris-
bane to-day (Friday), notwithstanding inducements
offered him to remain here.
Here is a conundrum which appeared in
Saturday’s Herald: —“Wanted, a man and wife; no
encumbrance. Wife as good plain cook and laundress ;
man as general servant, milk, and city ; no others need
apply; references must be genuine.” We understand
the desire on the part of an employer to possess a ser-
vant who is ‘as milk’— i.e., mild, not to say watery.
Why he should insist upon the same individual being
•as city ’ passes our comprehension. If the city is
marked by any especial characteristic it is ‘ dirt.’ To
ask for genuine references to prove that the husband is
mild and dirty implies a taste in the choice of domes-
tics which may well puzzle a general servant, or, indeed,
servants generally. We give it up. No others need
apply.
7
April 10. 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


nriONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENT
Whose success is attributed to his P
in catering for the million at su'
PRICES as to enable every working
and fashionably, while those with i
disposal can wear so many extra
reasonable rate, viz. :
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS. 635, w(
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measur
Who will not avail themselves (
GETTING MEASURED at ZIC
ESTABLISHMEN
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fam
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, al
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUS
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready f(
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WI
A TRIAL WILL CON
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HO
409 GEORGE STR]
THE ONLY ZIONS IN
The great north
(Late “ La Flore Austin
12 CHARLOTTE PLAC
THOMAS M. DALVEEN, Propr
the public generally that he has en
above 'premises as a first-class H
Rooms, which cannot be excelled
city.
Terms Strictly Modi
CW. R O I
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEP
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for it
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial
THISTLE BLEIS
and other
Choice Whiskiei
JNTERNATIONAL I
The Undersigned wish to annoi
visitors that they are SOLE LESS
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALA(
The Drinks are of the best qm
picturesque apartments, are delicio
YOUNGi
UNION CLUB
Baylis and Forsyth
NEWTOWN, WAGGA
(Close to the Railway S
Under the patronage of His Exce
Robinson, K.G.C.M
T. J. BYRNES, Pro]
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the v«
RTH U R C
157 (late 203) PITT STREE
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIO
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF
and MARRIAGI
COPIES OP WILLS PI
DURING THE YEA
253 INQUIRIES WERE 1
Of these 172 were satisfactorily co
26 were withdrawn for v
24 were unsuccessful or
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE 1
most intricate cases have met with
AGENCIES in Great Britain i
States, Continent of Europe, J
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO 1
260 and 262 GEORGE-S
(over Peate and Hare
Now open to the Public. The hig
Photographs, Oil Paintings, C
Crayon Water Colours, am
will be produce
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fa
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respe
Gr UNS ’
JJIFLES,
PRICE MODERATE. QUALIT
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunma
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSIT
PECTORAL (
An elegant preparation for all £
monary Organs. This is the best ki
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE. Cl
most successful remedy for Coir
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness,
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Family Chemist and
Wholesale & Retail D
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILL!
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER I
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., P
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in p
strengthening the stomach, corred
ing or remotlng headache, giddim
costive habit, debilitated stomach, c
require no change of diet, and thi
stitution may take them with safet
Invented only b
J. S. ABE AH
At the Laboratory, 434 George
Be careful not to get in
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAC
To prevent fraud and deceptioi
the following words on the steel sli
they ship their sole agents in Aust:
All Genuine Mad
stamped
M. MOSS and C
Sole Agents,
XT Q T
OTAMP ALBUM WANTED, <
unused stamps for reply. I
Newtown Road.
WANTED to purchase HOI
within about 10 minutes (
about £6O per annum each. Appl;
Bulletin office.
Kearey brothers, coa
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, S’
Near Park-streei
JH ÜBE R T N
• PORTRAIT
Photographer by appointment to
Governor.
Sole Place of Busin
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE 1
T F. CRIPPS, PASTR
' • CONFECTIONE
267 (late 255) George St]
Bells, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., ci
best style.
TO BRAY FOR YOU
It is the cheapest shop in t
Note the address:—
c.
E. BRAY.
Stationer and Books
Newtown Road,
KOHLER. FISHMONG
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER STRE
K
FRESH FISH EVERT
LUNCH and SUPPER
OBE R T C
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGG
BRANCH AT NARAN
Gentlemen residing at a distance
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’a
can always obtain them by writi
establishment.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTUR
Watch and Cloci
574 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s Ci
Medals of every description, Mi
Presentation Trowels designo<
the premises.
DIAMOND SETT!
CHAS. MONIE, SADDLES
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WAG
jgiASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Neab the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! !
J, L. HORDERN.
Nicholson and ascherberg,
325 GEORGE STREET.
LILY QUEEN WALTZ. —By A. Moul. One of the
most popular waltzes ever published. Second
Thousand already sold out. See Press notices.
Superbly illustrated in colours. Price 2s 6d, by
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH.— By A. Moul. Comically il-
lustrated in colours. Very bright and effective;
its popularity is assured. Vide Telegraph, Decem-
ber 6th. Price 2s, by post 2s 2d.
THE FARMER AND HIS PIGEONS.—Song, by
Taubert. Second Edition. Charmingly bright
and effective. Sung by Miss Jeannie Sargent at
the Urso concerts. Always encored. Price Is
6d, by post Is Bd.
Fourth Edition !!! Fourth Edition !!!
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE No 13.
A Wonderful Success. No less than 15,000 sold in Six
Weeks. Everybody is talking about it. Contains fif-
teen Popular Songs and Pieces, including the songs
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on our Block, Old Log
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me Home, &c., &c.
The sale of this book is so great that worthless imita-
tions are being offered to the public. Ask for No. 13
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE,” and see
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCHERBERG,
325 George Street.
11
UMBLE AND NICHOLSON’S PATENT
WASHING MACHINE.
Is the Best Invention before the Public.
Its Action is Entirely Different from Any Other.
It is Self-acting and Does not Destroy the Clothes.
It Saves Money and Labour, and Produces no
Noise or Dirt.
It is Impossible for It to Get out of Order.
It is the Quickest in Its Action.
It Cleanses Equally well Partially Soiled or
Very Dirty Clothes.
Its Superiority is Established beyond a Doubt.
See Opinions of the Press and Other Testimonials.
CAUTION.
Several persons having made imitations of this Patent
Washing Machine, we beg to give notice that we will
take legal proceedings against any one making, using, or
exercising, or vending copies of their invention.
On SALE by the Agents,
DRYSDALE and ROBERTS,
397 GEORGE STREET, opposite Royal Hotel.
IMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
THE UNDERSIGNED, having purchased all the LATEST IMPROVEMENTS in KEROSENE LAMPS
exhibited at THE GARDEN PALACE, have pleasure in informing customers that they may select any
of the Lamps on show, which will be reserved for them till the close of the Exhibition.
TABLE LAMPS in—
DOVETON WARE
WEDGEWOOD WARE
CERAMIC CHINA
CRYSTAL GLASS
PATE SUR PATE
BOHEMIAN WARE
MAJOLICA
JAPANESE CHINA
CHANDELIERS for—
CHURCHES
SCHOOLS OF ART
PUBLIC ROOMS
MANSIONS
THE DRAWING ROOM
THE DINING ROOM
THE STUDY
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW MUSIC : THE RUN ON THE BULL DOG ALE — (See page 6.)
