

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 41.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOYEMBER 6. 1880.
Price—3d.
§wlktin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1880.
A Barren Stock.
The natural results of the coalition dodge
commence to become apparent. The Parkes-
Kobertson Administration promises to resemble
an algebraic equation, in which the sides are
equal, and x equals o. The, Premier’s Orange
speech has been accepted throughout the colony
as —and was evidently intended to be —a formal
declaration of the policy of his Cabinet, pro-
mulgated for the bewilderment of the con-
stituencies at the coming general election. It
is clear from the vagueness of the forecast that
the fusion of old opponents into a single Cabinet
has only been effected in one respect—a division of
the spoils of office. There has been no assimilation
of views, no concession of essentials. The jarring
parts of the Ministry are plainly as much at vari-
ance, although assembled in one group, as ever
they have been when ranged in open opposition.
Whatever of energy or of conviction may be pos-
sessed by one individual member of the Ministry
is cancelled by the energy or the convictions,
exercised in an opposite direction, of some other;
and the result is equipoise. The operation of
opposing forces, when of equal power, is to
produce a state of rest. And this seems to be
exactly the condition of affairs in the coalition
Cabinet. The country has benefitted a little, but
not much, by the little private arrangement
effected between party-leaders. The balance of
influence has taken a somewhat less aggravating
or expensive form. Instead of two equal parties
existing in Parliament, mutually preventing each
other from effecting useful legislation, and keeping
the colony in constant hot water with changes of
Ministry, dissolutions, and crises, the dead-lock
has been shifted into the Cabinet itself. This is
just so much an advantage that the differences of
a few men are more easily adjusted than the differ-
ences of many. It is a simpler affair for half a
dozen Ministers to settle among themselves what
they will not agree about, or what they can
manage to bring to a basis of common consent,
than for a whole Assembly to do so. But, on
the other hand, the stimulus of competition for
public acceptance, which is so sharp a spur to
parties, is lost when a coalition Cabinet is formed,
and responsibility to Parliament and to the country
is reduced to mere shadow. There is now really no
means of calling the Government to account. The
country is lulled into an unhealthy indifference by
ministerial speeches which read as if compounded
of narcoticis. The public appear to have drifted
into the belief that because the Ministry have
adapted do-nothing for their motto, there is
nothing which requires doing. Take land legis-
lation as a single example. There is probably not
a single individual in the colony who believes the
present state of the land laws to be anything else
than an organized failure. The prime objects of
all land legislation in the colony should be, the
attraction of an industrious population by facilities
for settlement on suitable lands, and the utmost
encouragement of production. Can it be pretended
that the land laws as they stand have been
effectual to any of these ends ? Are people pouring
in from the old country to hive themselves like a
swarm of bees on the rich and ample territory of
New South Wales ? Could they obtain homesteads
with reasonable ease were they to come P Do the
laws of the colony tempt them by simplicity and
directness ? Do we offer facilities for intending
settlers, or do we not rather, by a tangle of con-
fused and harrassing enactments, trip them up at
every step ? It is notorious, it is a crying scandal,
that the latter is the case. Yet we are to rest and
be thankful; to rub our hands and scratch our
beads, and thank Providence that we have Sir
Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertson to do
nothing for us, only not clawing at each others
wigs. It would be as well were one of these gifted
statesmen to announce where the blessing to the
colony comes in. The two knights appear to have
agreed to resist the demand for abolition of interest
on selectors, balances. This is probably a resolution
for which the country should be thankful. The
naked demand amunoted to little less than re-
pudiation. But surely this blank refusal, honest
though we are willing to account it, is a very cheap
way of dealing with the matter. There might
have been statesmanship enough to devise a fresh
adjustment or distribution of burdens in connection
With a radical reform of the whole system of land
legislation, which would have afforded relief to the
deserving—the lona fide struggling selector, —with-
al' conferring a bonus upon the land shark. The
Ministers evidently are not able to agree upon any
land legislation, and the colony must wait and
suffer, in order that the Parkes—Robertson
entente cordiale may not be disarranged. This is
Personal government with a vengeance. It can
■l® shown that it is not for any lack of knowledge
nat land reform is required- The amending bill
I last session was by the confession of its intro-
®cers, to be merely a temporary measure —a
stop-gap till the massive minds, united for the
first time in one Cabinet, should produce a com-
prehensive and exhaustive measure worthy of the
gigantic organization. Now that we are on the
brink of a general election, not a whisper is
vouchsafed about the magnificent design. It
cannot be said that the paltry patchwork of last
session fills the cup of Ministerial expectations
and ideals. There have been, even in connection
with the burning question of remission of interest,
evidences that neither Sir Henry Pabkbs nor
Sir John Robertson regarded the existing plan
as perfect. Or perhaps it would be more correct
to say that each has ere now made a bid for popu-
larity by favouring a relaxation of present obliga-
tions. In the year 1861, when “ Free-Selection
Jack ” was pushing the staple of the present law
through the Assembly, Mr. Henry Parke s
moved an amendment to the effect that any
conditional purchaser who had performed the
conditions of residence and improvements should
be entitled to a grant in fee. Had this amend-
ment been passed, the price of land to a selector
would have been five shillings per acre, without
interest. If that rate was desirable then, what
should be said now that the eyes of the country
have been picked ? Again, in the Bill introduced
by Sir James Martin in 1867, there were provi-
sions for reducing the balance of purchase money
by five shillings per acre, prospective and retro-
spective ; and there was also a provison for
alienation of land for settlement at fifteen shil-
lings per acre. In 1871, a Bill was introduced by
the Government, of which Mr. John Robertson
was a member, providing for the payment of pur-
chase money in all future selections by ten annual
instalments, without interest. The 46th clause
of this Bill was retrospective, and contained the
following provision:—“That any payment that
may have been made as interest money
shall be considered as principal money paid
in redemption of the balance of the pur-
chase money on any conditional purchase.”
In the 43rd clause of this Bill, provision was made
for the sale of land at the back of a selection, at
five shillings per acre, one shilling and three pence
to be paid on lodging the application and the
balance by ten annual instalments without interest.
Several clauses of this Bill dealt with the sale of
pastoral homesteads. A pastoral homestead was
not to exeeed 16000 acres the average price per
acre was eight shillings. A deposit of one fourth the
purchase money was required on lodging the
application. Three years residence was required,
and improvements to the value of seven shillings
per acre. The balance of purchase money had to
be paid after the expiration of three years
by ten annual instalments without interest.
A notice of motion was given in the Assembly by
Mr. Thomas Robertson, the then member for
Hume, which was substantially what the Free-
selectors’ Association are now agitating. That
motion, after discussion, was negatived. In the
Land Bill introduced by Mr. Fabnell, in the
year 1878, it was proposed that all future con-
ditional purchasers should pay the balance of
purchase-money by fifteen annual instalments of
one shilling per acre, and it left the question of
selections in the past untouched. We have traced
this question of interest and deferred payments
frojn its origin, and we have done so with the
object of putting our readers in possession of facts
that will enable them more intelligently to think
out and discuss the subject in all its bearings.
The inferences are plain. It is not settled convic-
tion which now influences the two leaders to burke
bhe subject of land reform. Personal convenience
is preferred to public necessities. No one imagines
that of the 132,476 selections already made more
than a fraction are hand fide. The colony is suffer-
ing from a species of apoplexy. Its life-blood, the
population, is concentrating in its head, the
metropolis. Settlement and production are almost
paralyzed in comparison with the quickening
which would result could the vital fluid be induced
to circulate freely to every extremity. The un-
employed are like the poor of ancient Judoea.
They are with us always. And this, too, while a
whole territory of unexampled fertility invites the
hand of labor to stimulate it into yielding its
increase. The coalition Ministry boasts of its
strength. What a miserable boast is this when it
is content to do nothing. Hercules is remembered,
not for his strength, but for what that strength
enabled him to accomplish. What a pitiful
memory would have been left by a Hercules who
passed his existence in lolling on his back
announcing what ho would not do, and bragging
about his muscle. Have wo no Augrean stables ?
Is the Hydra of dummyism, with its hundred
heads, extinct?
The Hon. Sir J. G. Long Innes, K.C.M.G.,
Minister of Justice.
Australians have won a distinguished position
amongst the athletes and gymnasts—the men of
pluck and muscle—of both Europe and America.
This is fortunately not the only red-letter note to
their credit in the records of contemporary history.
They have aimed at a higher kind of excellence,
and have most creditably succeeded in winning
honor and emolument. Hundreds of native-born
colonists have tried their mental strength—their
intellectual fibre —in celebrated old-world medical
schools, and their efforts have been crowned with
success. Many have also gained laurels in
, theology and jurisprudence, and a few deserve
distinction as literary critics. Probably the gift
of seeing types of “the Beauty that is ever
ancient and always new ” was more perfectly
developed in the brothers Harpur—Charles and
Joseph—than in any two of their contemporaries,
whether English or Australian. We have hereto-
fore alluded to the subtle and discriminating
genius of Daniel Henry Deniehy, and have en
passant referred to the vigorous intellect of the
present Chief Justice. We might enrich these
remarks with other illustrations ; but as we shall
have presently to notice the career of a worthy
son of the soil—a learned and able gentle-
man—it will be needless to dwell more at length
on the honors gained on the intellectual arena by
worthy Australians. Amongst the many dis-
tiguished men now in the foreground of public
life, or who have reached the summit of their
ambition, there is not one that has a mind more
finely toned, or attuned to loftier aspirations, than
Sir Joseph George Long Innes, the present
Minister of Justice. His career has been a
uniform success, never marred by any of those
contingencies which too often affect the lives of
men of genius or ability. Born in Sydney, on the
16th October, 1834, he is now in the 47th year of
his ago, in the prime of intellectual life, and in the
first ranks of his profession. He is the eldest sou of
of a veteran British soldier, the late Captain
Innes, formerly of the 39th Regiment, and for
many years principal Superintendent of Police in
New South Wales. The subject of this notice
received the rudiments of his education at Mr. T.
Cape’s famous school, and afterwards read a full
classical and mathematical course at King’s Col-
lege, Parramatta, under the Rev. Robert Forrest,
a good scholar and acute critic. When Mr. Innes
left school, which he did with distinction at the
age of seventeen, he entered the Government ser-
vice as clerk in the Survey Department, under the
large-hearted Sir Thomas Mitchell, who frequently
and confidently predicted Mr. Innes’ success.
Indications of that success soon followed. In
January, 1852, he was promoted to the office of
C.P.S. and Gold Commissioner's Secretary ai
Sofala, which offices he held for three years—re-
tiring in order to read for the Bar, having been
fortunate enough to become the associate of Sir
Alfred Stephen, C. J. In January, 1856, he went to
England to regularly study his future profession.
He read in the chambers of a special pleader,
equity draughtsman and conveyancer, and in
Trinity Term, 1859, ho obtained, in competitive
examination, the first certificate of honour, and
in Michaelmas Term of the same year was called
to the Bar at Lincoln’s Inn. He next devoted a
few years to study and travel, and ultimately re-
turned, in February, 1863, to Sydney, where, from
the first day of his arrival, he secured a good
practice. He entered the political arena in 1864,
by contesting the representation of Mudgee with
Mr. Terry ; and, although unsuccessful, he polled
within sixty votes of that well-known and popular
candidate —a gentleman who had previously repre-
sented the electorate. In November, 1865, Mr.
Innes was offered, and accepted, the Judgeship of
the Northern District Court of Queensland,
which appointment he held with credit to himself
for the benefit of the colony till July 1869, when
he resigned and returned to practice at the Bar
of New South Wales. On leaving Queensland, he
was the recipient of very complimentary addresses
as to his ability, integrity, and affability in the
discharge of his judicial duties, and from the then
Attorney-General (now Chief Justice) of that
colony, he received assurances of speedy pro-
motion to the Supreme Court Bench of Queensland
if he cared to make that colony his home. A
brilliant Parliamentary career soon opened before
THE HON. SIR J. G. LONG INNES, K.C.M.G., MINISTER OF JUSTICE.


him in his native land. He entered Parliament as
Member for Mudgee, in March 1872, and became
Solicitor-General for the Parkes’ Administration
in May 1872, and Attorney-General in November
1873. In September of the latter year, in con-
sequence of the absence in England on postal
affairs of the Hon. Saul Samuel, Mr. Innes was
obliged to resign his seat in the Assembly. He
was nominated to the Legislative Council, where
he represented the Government, and subsequently
(in 1875) was elected Chairman of Committees, to
which office until the other day, when he accepted
the portfolio of Justice, he has twice been success-
ively and unanimously elected. He served as Presi-
dent of two Royal Commissions in the colony, name-
ly, the Gold fields Commission of 1871 and theßer rima
Gaol Commission of 1879. When to those varied
and important duties, we add the tact and ability
with which he managed the cession of Fiji to the
British Government, we shall have given sufficient
indicia of an active and meritorious life. No one
better deserved the distinction of knighthood than
he, because no one performed a difficult public
duty with greater intelligence and zeal. Sir Geo.
Innes is, and always has been, devotedly attached
to field-sports, and in his younger days was one
of the crack steeple-chase riders of the colony.
He can still wield the willow with skill, and has
more than once chaunted with Horace non omnis
moriar, while the records of his cricketing prowes’s
remain in the possession of several clubs. He was
married in 1865 to the eldest daughter of Mr. John
Smith, of Gamboold, Molong, and has a numerous
family. Our engraving is from a fine photograph,
and gives a good idea of the mental and spiritual
characteristics of a worthy public servant and a
refined gentleman.
The Doable Bay Regatta.
It was an afternoon of sunshine and of sparkle,
of shivering sails and fluttering dresses ; of whis-
pering winds and innocent laughter. It was an
afternoon which must be described with the
lightest of hands and the most delicate of crow-
quills. The periods which chronicle it must be
soft and rhythmic, and there must not be, in our
fairy story, even a soupqon of the prosaic. Terse
—melting pentameters, would be the most fitting
manner in which to depict the ethereal jaunt.
But, alas ! the genius of “ Liryc” is denied us,
and though we have darkened the apartment,.,
covered the fire-irons, and borrowed a planchette,
the form of “ Philip Dale” appeareth not at our
elbow. In peace, then, are we fain to proceed;
though, with a sigh, we admit that nothing but
“liquid lines mellifluously bland” would do
justice to this most glorious theme. It was an
hour since Sol had quivered on the meridian.
The Circular Quay displayed an unwonted life.
Diaphanonsly attired fays fluttered past the
horny-handed, as, seated on a boiler, he
“thumbed” the mid-day meal. The patter of
fairy footsteps and the echoes of musical laughter
resounded above the splutter of the Emu’s safety
valve. Diminutive sailors hitched up Liliputian
inexpressibles ; lovely visions agitated in a be-
wildering manner the most coquettish of fans ;
men, with heavy moustaches, murmured soft
nothings in shady corners; and the band dis-
coursed heavenly music the while. A shriek !
and the Argosy glides from the harbor of para-
dise. Let us look round. The picture is worth
contemplating. A gathering of some 300 denizens
of a roseate sphere. We might have said 302
but we decline, on conscientious grounds, to in-
clude either the fairy who retailed the sandwiches
or the “immortal” who uncorked the Walker’s
whisky. Beneath the awning, on the upper deck,
recline a bevy of our fairest sisters. There is a
dress of Indian muslin, artistically relieved with
the palest of blue, which has sealed the fate of a
tall gentleman, armed with a Brobdignagian
binocular. Useless burden those glasses ! The
prowess of the athletes will have no charms that
day for him. His colours are blue and white—
and he has nailed them to the mast! Soft! whom
have we here, surrounded by a score of heart-
broken admirers? Two nymphs in white, the em-
blem of all that is innocent and good! Their
dresses —we must use a grain of bathos —are of
bath-towel, and their toques fashioned out of the
same bizarre material. The bodies of their cos-
tumes are made “ guernsey fashion,” and the
skirts are houffees in manner that would do credit
to Worth. No speck of colour relieves the
dazzling whiteness of these dresses, but they are
lit up now and anon by the sparkle of the wearers’
eyes, and by the flash of diamonds and the glitter
of gold ornaments. A bewitching figure in silvery
silk is backing Mr. Benbow’s Harpy, for gloves,
with a gentleman in blue, who looks as though he
would like to make a wager of himself with his fair
interlocutor —and lose it. Below, also, all is life
and animation. Messrs. Startin and Evans, two
of the most active members of the executive com-
mittee, are flying hither and thither, glowing with
hospitality. They are positively übiquitous! Now
they are refreshing thirsty fairies with Starkey’s
nectar, now dandling somebody’s else children.
Never still a moment, they are sacrificing their
own comfort to enhance that of their guests. The
popping of corks is incessant, and scores of the
more unromantic of the company are busy taking
large semi-circular bites out of huge sandwiches,
washing down the same with pints of “ Blood.” *
Loud are the cries for “ pale brandyhoarse are
the roars for “ whisky and soda.” Suddenly a
delicious whisper is wafted through the vessel.
Furrows are cleared, as if by magic, from lofty
brows. The thunder of descending footsteps is
hoard on the “ companion.” The committee have
performed the crowning act of glory: they have
put all members of the Press on the free list
for the commissariat! ! Shriek ! “ Ease-ar ! ”
“’Starn!” Double Bay Pier. Out goes the
gangway, and there is immediately an influx of
more beauty, adorned and unadorned ; more blue-
serge-suited dandies, armed to the teeth with
binoculars and telescopes. But once fairly an-
chored off the buoy, in close proximity to the
starting boat, wbat a time it was ! There was the
Commodore, with his gold lace, and attendant
crew. In the bow was the fearsome piece of
ordnance that was to start the races and proclaim
the winners Bang! What’s that ? A start from
the ladies, and 400 pink-tipped fingers stopping
the same number of delicately-chiselled ears.
“Is there any danger?” cry three-score of
anxious mammas. Sixty paterfamilias, pale, but
composed, first reassure their better-halves, and
then reassure themselves by means of a “nip”
downstairs. Thus the four stately yachts start
on their voyage. All the crews look lovely : each
man smiles sweetly upon the flagship. Gallant
Jack Want, in a blue jersey, with a cardinal and
blue cap, stands up, displaying his manly form
aio fall advantage, and waves—intrepid man!—
.actually waves a pocket-handkerchief. It is a
Sarge one, and rumour goes abroad that it is the
'Guinevere’s spare mainsail. Mr. Benbow, on
board the Harpy, is also in great feather. He
laughs as though to him the fearful forceps were
“ a thing unknown.” A puff of wind springs up
—the frail crafts bend to the breeze —and they
are “gone like a beautiful dream.” Hardly are
they well away, than puff! —bang, again—and
more yachts depart. After this, the afternoon is
one continued banging, departing and coming back.
Some boats go out and never return; others cannon
against the craft of the spectators, and “ get out
of the hunt” without ever being in it. Scullers
strain, and oarsmen perspire; the people shout,
and the cannon fires. No one seems to know who
has won, and few seem to care. Every vexed
question as to who is a winner is settled by an
adjournment to the refreshment bower. Finally,
however, the Guinevere returns a winner, and
reports that all the other boats are becalmed
somewhere about New Caledonia, on which steam
is got up, the cannon is fired for the last time,
everybody’s health is drunk, and the band plays
“ God Save the Queen,” with a big drum obli-
gato ; and the Emu, considerably lightened by the
contents of the bottles having been absorbed,
makes for the gas-lit shore. To be serious, in
conclusion (always a difficult matter with us), the
whole affair reflects the greatest credit on the
executive committee —Messrs. W. G. Anslow, E.
Ashdown, A. Beckett, P. Bremer, D. G. Cummins,
H. L. Evans, J. H. Heaton, F. J. Jackson, T. Mar
shall, C. Newton, jr., J. Newton, F. Prendergast,
F. Rae, G. Startin, and J. H. Want. Messrs.
Heaton, W. Laidley, Gardyne, W. J. Trickett,
and Want are especially deserving of the thanks
of the rowing public for their generosity in giving
prizes ; and Messrs. Startin and Evans earned the
encomiums of all by their unwearying attention
to the general comfort of passengers. The re-
sults of the various events are already known.
• Repress a aha dd er, gentle read er. We merely allude
to the porter of that brand.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Miss Pomeroy’s diamonds are a sight worth
seeing.
A grand wedding is to take place at Ashfield
next Thursday, Xlth inst.
A well-known Randwick young lady, Miss L ,
is to be married very shortly.
The Burwood Dramatic Club intend giving
another of their pleasant entertainments soon.
Mr. Richard Jones, of Burwood, entertained a
number of friends at a “ Social” on Friday night.
A well-known young doctor, living in Devon-
shire-street, was married this week to a lady from Bris-
bane. Strictly private.
A reigning belle, living at Rose Bay, is to be
married on Nov. 9, to a wealthy gentleman hailing
from Shoalhaven.
It is to be hoped that the ladies of Sydney do not
intend to let 1880 close without giving a leap year ball
to their bachelor friends.
Light sateen pompadours are the fashion. Helio-
trope and pale pink are the favourite shades. Small
black and white checks are to be much worn.
At a recent wedding in Auckland, N.Z., the
bride,|Miss Buchanan, wore a beautiful, cream-colored
silk, trimmed with Duchesse lace, and a veil to match.
At a fashionable wedding last week the bride
wore ivory silk and brocade, trimmed with magnificent
point lace and real orange blossoms. Her wreath was
also made of the natural blossom.
The latest fashions in New York and London
are the old-fashioned plain round skirts, only the
gathers are at the back. The sides of the round
body are shirred. This won’t suit Sydney belles.
A well-known and handsome young lady of
Goulbum was married last week. Her wedding dress
was white satin and brocade, trimmed with fringe.
Her trouseau was supplied by Farmer and Co. Some
very handsome silks and fabrics were noticed amongst
the items.
Say the Herald special reporters,in their wire
about the Flemington lawn on Cup Day:—“ Pre-
eminent for artistic combination was the costume worn
by a Sydney lady, whose dress last year was awarded
premier rank." The lady referred to is Miss Myra
Kemble (Mrs. White).
I hear that the reason Mr. Coates’ name is
not included in the list of candidates for practice for
next Intercolonial Cricket Match is that he is to be
married to the daughter of a well-known Wellington
gentleman, about the time the match aforesaid comes
off. A man cannot attend to two matches at one time.
At the Queen’s, on Friday night, Miss Pomeroy
wore, first, a pale blue satin skirt, with an overskirt of
gauze, embroidered with gold, then an amber satin
trimmed with cardinal, prettily draped and looped up
with sprays of fuchias, and a white morning robe made
completely of insertion and embroidery over pale pink.
This dress was the perfection of simple elegance.
Farmer and Co. supplied several magnificent
dresses for the Melbourne Cup:—For Mrs. W., of
Mudgee, a. rich heliotrope brocade and satin de Lyons,
made Princesse robe, trimmed with a handsome
fringe. For a Darling Point lady—Satin de merveil-
leux, trimmed with pale pink brocade, point d’Alenijou,
and fringe. A dress of ivory satin de Lyons, made
jacket body and Court train, trimmed with crystal and
gold satin, was for a lady at Potts’ Point. A handsome
drees of soft grey satin de Lyons, beautifully em-
broidered with ruby chenille, made jacket body: a lady
in Macleay-street is the happy possessor. For a Braid-
wood lady, black satin de Lyons* trimmed with jet
fringe and pessementrie bows of Oriental colours.
Several Melbourne ladies sent up to Sydney for their
dresses. One of the handsomest sent to Melbourne
was composed of ivory satin and brocatelle, made jacket
body, and Court train, the front being a network of
ivory, crystal and gold. A handsome brunette from
N.Z. had a rich dress of brown satin trimmed with
sulphur-coloured brocatelle and thick fringe. A very
striking-looking dress, for a lady residing at Elizabeth
Bay, Wits composed of pule blue brocatelle and satin,
trimmed with handsome Duchesse lace and crystal. A
robe of black satin, trimmed with drapings of lace,
embroidered jet front, and jet fringe. Each of these
costumes hud bonnets and parasols to match.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Forced surrender of Dulcigno probable.
Davis, Irish agitator, stumps America.
Intercolonial conference November 25.
Temora proves to be a grand gold-field.
Bridge-street—brush ware—and beauty.
A probability of the Sorata being saved.
Tin smelting has been resumed at Hobart.
The Gunga is at Levuka, with her shaft
broken.
Salisbury made a trenchant attack on Glad-
stone’s policy.
Six months’ pay due to the Permanent Artillery
at the Heads.
Sinking for coal at the Clarence temporarily
suspended.
Sunday attendance at the Museum increasing.
The Art Gallery next.
This season the Warwick wheat crop is the best
that has been grown for years.
The Balmain Regatta Committee’s action re-
specting Pearce is popular at the Clarence.
St. Patrick’s choir is rehearsing a fine oratorio,
“ Stabat Mater," composed by Signor Giorza.
Josiah Boothby, principal Under-Secretary at
Adelaide, has been removed from the Public Service.
The land sale of the season is announced for
the 1 6th November —sites for homes on the highest
plateau of the Blue Mountains. Por the last four or
five years the press has been chronicling investments
in lands and residences on the Mountains, which are
now the resort of the wealthy business men of the me*,
tropolis. The locality is but four hours’ journey from
Sydney, and ,what a change from the busy ham of
city life to the quietude of mountain heights ! Train
tickets are issued by Messrs. Stubbs and Co. to view
tbe land announced for sale.
The Wellington (N.Z.) footballers may visit
Sydney next year, flushed with their recent victories in
Maoriland.
Reported massacre at the Solomon group of the
crew, eight in number, of trading schooner Borealis.
The bodies eaten.
A Sydney clergyman, who planted his better-
half lately, re-married and paid his undertaker’s bill
simultaneously.
TheJCambridge Club defeated the Glebe Albert
last Saturday. Scores: Albert, 59; Cambridge, 76
for four wickets, of which Sweeny made 46, and Bren-
nan 12.
Miss Nelly Montague (Mrs. William Andrews,
widow of the late well-known comedian of that name),
has returned to the stage, and is now playing at the
Opera House.
Yet another massace. The crew of the Auck-
land brigantine, six in number, have been murdered
at Ura Island, Solomon Group. Mr. Crewer, the first
mate, was well known in Sydney.
The English Church Union held a meeting on
Tuesday night, and there was a very influential at-
tendance. Mr. Clarendon Stuart delivered an excellent
address. The Union decided unanimously in favor of
free and unappropriated sittings in all new churches.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Henry Cary Dargar for East Sydney.
J. C. Browne and John Young for Newtown.
Mr. Fretnlin has not met with an excellent re-
ception at Eedfem.
Mr. J. Mitchell has delivered some sensible
speeches at Newtown.
Mr. Thomas Courtenay, a very able young
fellow, is announced for Canterbury.
The working men of West Sydney are actively
supporting Mr. Hoy lance’s candidature.
Mr. William Clarke, of Wilson and Co., York-
street, has been requisitioned for Orange.
Sir Henry Parkes announces that he will not
stand for Canterbury, but for East Sydney.
Mr. John Young has met with a good reception
at Newtown, and has dealt ably with the questions
of the day,
A meeting of the friends of Mr. George Reid,
the well-known free trade advocate, is to be held
to-night (Thursday) to arrange for the East Sydney
campaign.
Just before the elections, The Bulletin will
publish in two columns, side by side, the names of the
men who should go into Parliament, and of those who
should not. There will be no mistake about the list.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton is making headway
with his campaign at Young. His address is one of the
most outspoken yet published, and is of value to every
constituency in the country. With Mr. James Wat-
son and Mr. Heaton, the Young electorate is in a fair way
of getting proper representation.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Ich Glaube” : Only three libels. “ J. 8.” :
Try again. “F.JG.”: Nothing in it. “Nicho-
las " : The doctor is on the road; leave him alone.
“ Marriage” : We do not insert spiteful paragraphs ;
payment does not alter the rule. However, you can
pay without going in. “ T.P.; Much obliged for the
matter, which we regret has this week been crowded
out. “ S.A.R., NewtownThe Rocky Mouth regatta
committee’s verdict is substantially Not proven.”
They don’t sr.y that Pearce is “ not guilty.” Wo agree
with you, that the decision is an altogether unsatisfac-
tory one.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Ned Kelly is to be executed on the lit h inst.
Judge Faucett is very ill, of erysipelas in the
head.
The American Presidential election took place
on Tuesday.
Mr. Hugh Dixon, J.P., the well-known tobacco
manufacturer, died suddenly on Wednesday, aged 7o
He leaves four sons and a daughter, and came to thd
colony in 1839.
A certain Victorian Government official has gone
to Fiji in search of his wife. He and she were in the
theatre on the night of the Greer-Sondry affair, and
next day she, feeling romantic, bolted with an English
Soudry.
It was widely rumoured in town yesterday that
Mr. Joseph Thompson, the “ Leviathan ” bookmaker
had “suicided," in consequence of heavy losses on the
Melbourne Cup. The report proved, as might have
been expected by all who knew the big metallician, a
malicious canard. Joe has had many a hard knock, but
has always paid twenty shillings in the pound on
settling day; and has, too, always followed poor A. 1,.
Gordon’s advice to “Hit out when you’re knocked
against the ropes."
Yesterday, the police summoned Mr. Clarke
the Pitt-street printseller, for having exhibited in his
window a picture of Chloe, alleged to be indecent.
Mr. Clark Irving appeared for Mr. Clarke, and defended
Chloe with such success that the Bench came to the
conclusion that her character was unimpeachable, and
dismissed the case. The Stigginses who instituted
the proceedings have widely advertised Chloe, and
introduced her to people heretofore unaware of her
existence. Honi soit qui mal y pease.
Our wily friend Elias Layoock beat Hosmer, the
Yankee blowhard, on the Thames, on Tuesday last, by
three lengths. This is Elia’s second English victory.
He rows Riley on]Saturday, 6th November, for £2OU
aside, and it may confidently be predicted that when he
rows Hawdon he will, to use his own words, have little
difficulty in “doing him comfortably at the finish."
Hawdon was the first Englishman who sculled Hanlan,
and he rows our representative just before the Trickett
Haulan race. Hosmer is the man who, according to the
Spirit op the Times (N.Y.), was going to “ lick all
creation,” not even barring Hanlan. Interesting ex-
tracts from a letter written by Laycock to a Sydney
friend will appear in onr next.
Mr. W. H. M'Culloch, M.P.
The past session of Parliament proved that the
electors of Central Cumberland made a good
selection when they returned Mr. W. H. M‘Culloeh
as their representative. This gentleman, it is true,
took no very prominent position on either side of
the House, but he brought to the discussion of all
important measures a large and sound experience,
and manifested in this respect unusual talent for
progressive and liberal legislation. Mr. M'Culloch
is a native of the colony (born in Sydney in 1844),
and is intensely patriotic. He comes of the right
stock to have this love of country. His grand-
father, it may not be generally known, risked not
only his liberty but his life, with Hardie, Baird,
and _ others at Bonnymnir in 1819-20, in the
patriotic demonstration of the time. Hardie and
Baird, the leaders, were executed for their share in
the insurrection, but a handsome monument
erected to their memory in Glasgow, atones for
the wrong and recognizes their noble services.
Quite naturally a man who was courageous enough
to be among the foremost men of those times, may
have left to his successors the rich inheritance of
a soul for freedom and progress. Mr. M'Culloch
has manifested no inclination to be behind the
times, and we may expect to find him identifying
himself with useful measures in the next Parlia-
ment. Mr. M'Culloch was educated at the Sydney
Grammar School, and in 1860 entered his father’s
office. He was admitted as a solicitor in 1566,
and has since achieved much professional success.
Some time back he speculated in pastoral and other
properties with favourable results. His experience
in pastoral matters enables him to deal with the
land question, and it may here be stated that with
respect to the rents paid by the squatters, he
considers the amounts wholly inadequate, even
under the present uncertain holding. Mr.
M'Culloch was elected for Central Cumberland
in 1877, after two unsuccessful contests at previous
elections. _ In the last Parliament he opposed the
stamp duties and the proposed duties on wool and
coal. Mr. M'Culloch is again announced for
Central Cumberland.
Mr. W. Roylance, Candidate for West
Sydney.
The industrial classes of this city-—and no doubt
it will be generally agreed that they have every
right to be represented .in Parliament —have never
brought out as their champion for an election con-
test a man- more allied to their interest or more
likely to be consistent in his political conduct
than William Roylance, who is now announced for
West Sydney. Mr. Roylance has been a fellow
worker in English political contests with Samuel
Plimsoll and H. Broadhurst, now in the House of
Commons, and with Joseph Arch, the friend of
the agricultural labourers. Soon after his arrival
in Sydney Mr. Roylance became connected with
the Trades and Labor Council, and he has ever
since been identified with every movement for the
improvement of the condition of the artizan
classes of this colony, but particularly of Sydney.
Besides being secretary to the Trades and Labor
Counncil, he is President of the Seamen’s Union,
and in each capacity has exhibited ceaseless
activity and industry. Mr. Roylance is an effec-
tive speaker, and the working men of West
Sydney are determined to enlarge if possible his
sphere of action by returning him to Parliament
at the approaching election.
Stedman's Confectionery Works.
These works, about the oldest and beat known in
the colony, are situated at 420 George-street, in
this city. They have been established about
twenty years, and have won a foremost place
among industries of the kind for the variety and
excellence of their manufactures. The present
proprietor, Mr. James Stedman, has been con-
nected with the house since its formation, and six
years ago he became proprietor, having purchased
the business from Mr. J. M. Wright. The trade
has very much increased since then, and a connec-
tion has been established throughout this and the
adjoining colonies. Steady employment is given
to twenty-five hands, among whom are some of the
best working confectioners to be found in those
colonies. Mr. Stedman personally superintends
the business, and orders are executed with very
great despatch. The premises are well stored
with the best material required at the works, and
there are, of course, the usual appliances for first-
class establishments. Recently, additional factory
rooms have been erected, and articles that could
not previously be made are now turned out in the
first style. Oases of goods, in various sizes, are
always kept to suit orders. Wedding cakes are
one of the features of the establishment, an
artist for the production of these articles being
specially engaged on the premises. The styles
are without a model, and equal anything seen in
Paris or London. They are packed with great
care and sent to all parts of the colony.
The V.R.C. Spring Meet.
First Day—Saturday.
Tice meet this spring has in no way suffered in
comparison with others, either in point of attend-
ance or quality of racing. Following are the
results :
Melbourne Stakes.—
Mr. J. White’s Chester l
J. Wilson’s Respite 2
Leng’s Monarqne 3
Time, 2m. 12.js.
Hotham Handicap.—
Mr. J. Morrison’s Wellington 1
J. Wittingham’s Prattle .. 2
Hon. J. White's The Pontiff ... 3
Maribyrnong Plate.—
Mr. J. Wagner’s Welcome Jack *
J. Hart’s Lavinia ... ~ *
T. Chirnsine’s Spinningdale... 3
* Dejid Heat
Time, Im. 545.
Maiden Steeplechase.—
Mr. R. Howie’s Gippslander ... .. ... 1
P. Glenister’s Verdi 2
W. Bailey's Helmet ... ... ... 3
Time, sm. 51s.
Victoria Derby.—
Mr. J. S. Smith's Grand Flaneur 1
W. Branch's Progress ... 2
J. Bran’s Mulatto 3
Time, 2m. 445.
Bssendon Stakes.—
Mr. A. K. Finlay’s Western Princess ... ... 1
R. Howie’s Lothair (bolted) was the only
other starter.
Second Day.—Tuesday.
There was an immense attendance —nearly 120,000
—to witness the running for the Cup. The weather
was fine, though warm; and the racing on the
whole was good. There was no band. Following
are the results: —
Maiden Plate.—l.V mile. —Six started.
Mr. E. De Mestre’s b o Orient ... ... 1
J. Fitzroy’s b or br c Exeter .2
S. Mahon’s brc Heron ... ... ... 3
Time, 2m. 44)5.
Railway Stakes.—l.V mile. Seven started.
Mr. F. Leug sb h Monarque ... ... ... *
C. Tat tars all’a b c Dougalston ... ... *
J. W. Whittingham’s br c Chatterer ... 3
* Dead Heat.
Time, 2m. 14s.
Kensington Stakes. —Five furlongs. Twelve
started.
Mr. R. Howie’s b c The Duke ... ... 1
W. Branch’s b c Baltic ... , ... 2
J. Whittingbam’s bc My Lord . .. 3
Time, Im. 4.yS.
Melbourne Cup. —Two miles. Twenty started.
M. W. A. Long’s b c Grand Flaneur . 1
W. Branch’s b c Progress ... ... 2
F. R. L. Rossi’s br Lord Burghley 3
Time, 3m 34Js.
The D iriing Stakes.— li mile. Six started.
Mr. F. Dakin’s b c Latrobe ... ... ...
D. Sullivan’s bl g Supple Jack *
W. A. Long’s br c Hildebrandt 3
Time, 2m. 41s.
* Dead heat.
The Yan Yean Stakes.—l mile. Twenty-one
started.
Mr. J. Whittingham’s b m Prattle 1
T. Ivory’s hr h Master Avonal 2
Hon. James White’s br c The Pontiff ... ... 3
Time, Im. 455.


N
EXT SAT
TO INVESTORS IN SUB UR
REGENT'S PARK! REGE
tVe be? to call Special Attentio
auction.
ON THE GEOU;
SATURDAY, NOVEA
of the
REGENT’S PARK
(Between either Auburn orEoi
by
BATT, RODD, AND
109 ACRES INiHALF-ACRE BL
ORDINARILY EASY TEEI
POSIT ON EACH BLOCK.
TITLE, TORRENS'
%• This Estate is situate withii
the Rook wood or Auburn Stations
*,* It consists of a very magnif
iu area 109 Acres, and has bee:
Surveyor Binsted with every car(
SANITARY CONDI
%• One inspection of this fine
to convince any one of its Present!
Value.
»„• Situate on a splendid Box 1
all underscrub, this land, the high
many miles of Sydney, must cornu
all good judges of property.
*** Inspect and see for
*»* ROOKWOOD, about to I
Leading Stations on our Subui
the most favourable opportu
and others for an investment CE
PROFITABLE.
**• EVERY ALLOTMENT i
ESTATE has a frontage to a ro
the depths are upwards of 600 fee
%• THE ESTATE has been li
laid out by Mr. Licensed Snrve,
Roads 66 feet wide.
Solicitors to the Estate—Me
FAITHFULL.
%• TERMS OFFERED are th
—Only £3 Deposit on each Bio
months, and the balance by 4 ec
12, 18, and 24 months, bearing i:
cent. ; or an Allowance of 3 per
Cash Purchasers.
v LITHOS. AND CARD PLI
V LUNCHEON ON THE (
Free Railway Tickets.
*«* Section 1 contains block w
feet each to
YORK EOAI
16 blocks, with frontages of 66 feet
EEGENT-STEEE
16 blocks, with frontages of 66 feet
KINQSLAND
%• Section 2 contains 8 blocks,
feet each to
YORK ROAD
16 blocks, with frontages of 66 fi
PARK ROAD;
16 blocks with frontages of 66 fe
REGENT STEE,
•»* Section 3 contains 9 blocks,
feet each to
PARK ROAD
9 blocks, with frontages of 66 fe
REGENT STEE
1 block of 4 acres under cnltivat
full tearing, together with good i
Residence, with frontages to
REGENT STREET and P
%* Section 4 contains 18 block
66 feet each to
KINGSLAND EC
13 blocks, with frontages of 66 f
REGENT STEE
*»* Section 5 contains 16 blocks
feet each to
REGENT STRE
16 block s, with frontages of 66 f
KINGSLAND EC
and
8 blocks, with frontages of fro
each to
IJIEN POUNDS
For information that will provt
paper marked “ SOLD,” on the
REGENT'S PARK ESTATE, t
representation.
BATT,
JJE6E N T ’ S
GREAT LAND £
IS
See Auction Aclv.—BATT, RO
QUEEN’S T
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, He
Stage Manager
THIS EVENII
NOVELTY upon NOVELTY.
SUCCEf
Enthusiastic reception and dram
the greatest artists who has evi
W, H. LEAKE
W. H. LEAK
who will repeat his marvello
Bartley Campb
MY PARTNER
MY PARTNI
Entirely New Scenery by 1
Wonderfully complete casl
Box office at Paling’s. Children:
Special Notice.—Free list entiri
excepted.
Theatre
Lessee 1
25th WEEK IN ST
and
72nd WEEK IN THE ATTSTR
Last Grand Prodt
by the
LONDON COMEDY
THIS EVEN Ii
and during the ■
Byron’s Romantic
the lancashir:
Prices of Admission: Dress i
family circle, 2s; pit, 1.
Seats in the dress circle can
tickets obtained, at Elvy’s, Georg
Tickets for all parts of the horn
during the day at Lloyd’s Hot«
next Theatre.
HE NEW MEMBER
REQUISITION TO MR.
HEATON.
Young, 1J
To JOHN HENNIKER HEAT
Dear Sir, —We, the nndersigi
Young District, respectfully r
allow yourself to be Nominated a,
! Representation of this Electorate
General Election.
Should you be pleased to concu
to do our utmost to ensure your i
Faithfully
(Here follow the signatures of upt
REPLY
To the Free and the Independen
Gentlemen and Fellow-Coloni
[ deputation waited upon me askini
in Parliament, I declined, becai
whether to devote my life to
another few years in Europe. Po
require one’s whole time, not onl
just and honest conclusion on
affecting our welfare, but also t
wants of the District, and the ind
the Settlers. It was represented
health, a clear and vigorous int
consiant work, and a private in
from newspapers circulating in 3
also urged that I had had twelve ;
int: in the Reporters’ Gallery o
■embly, and on the editorial staff
these qualities, it was said, emine
the political arena of the colony,
good in the advance of public affa
I now comply with your request
ordinary appreciation of the greai
undertake. Those who know m
that I shall not be a drone in the
vidually I shall have in public life
stituency, but I shall also have t<
what I hope will be wise and just
a spirit of toleration, in a spirit o
of uatriotiam. and in a snirit wort
acquiring knowledge in those
Colleges and on the Model Parmi
THEJLAND QUEI
The Land question demands our
The Land Acts have hitherto prc
and only a few followers of Sir Joi
temerity to defend them. Our (
improve the administration and
and our next duty is to create med
the magnificent squatter, with his
and the Lilliputian settler with hi
a mean of, say, holders of 1000 up
yeoman class will, with their fa:
agriculture, horse and cattle bree
ing. This requires immediate att(
districts.
Land Sales by Auction up to
been little more than a farce. Tb
compelled to have huge tracts of 1
and put up to auction, for which
money from the Banks to pay;
only injured themselves, but sh
selectors also. It is now impossi
our land to purchase a farm from
illustrate what I mean, I might p
of mine one day landed in Sydnei
of £5OO. He desired to obtain
Government. I accompanied hi
There were 60,000 acres that day
auction in the Gazette. In that
Office in Sydney, with its army o
not a scrap of useful information <
the land. Where was it; the n«
route from Sydney; then the chi
and quality of the land; its suits
or pastoral purposes; whethei
timbered; the nearest water, &c.
in vain. And I found that mill
disposed of in this manner at,
preceding few years. It will b
immediately organised a deputat
of Parliament accompanied me
Lands, Mr. Hoskins. 1 presente(
praying that no more lands be sol
scandalous manner, without des
ticulars of any kind. I warned tl
criminal to waste the people’s est
asked him this question—if the la
he dispose of it by secretly adverl
in the most meagre fashion, quar
given ? I appealed in vain. The
—the same Minister renmins in
Italiat that desires to purchase Go
put up to auction will be refusi
“ ring ” has years ago been formet
any person bidding against the sq
purchase their runs. No blame i,
squatters for following uatura
Government is to blame for forch
-R egarding Abolition of Interest
the following reasons:—
(1.) Because land is abundant, i
20,000,000 acres out of 200,000,
(2.) Because those who took up In
compelled to spend £1 per n
and now 16s. per acre is only i
(3.) Because Crown land bought
acre need not be improved.
(1.) Because Interest has never b
tions in the neighbouring col
Queensland. In Victoria I fir
down; here the selector has t<
Victoria the laud becomes thi
years, and here 28 years mu
our farmers compete with Vi
they are thus handicapped ?)
(5.) Because there would be no <3
for the next fifteen years, ai
now paid annually, interest oi
(6) Because, while the selector ]
acre, the auction purchaser ]
lector has residence conditioi
| cash buyer has none,
i (7.) Because the selectors have n
vantages given to the multitu
which the selector contribu
public revenue to build up; fc
for a water supply, &c., to Sy
endowment of £25,000 a yeai
poration; tens of thousands
gardens, public libraries, m
galleries.
(8.) Because the present Qoverui
of upwards of £700,000 due bj
to the State. (Where was tl
then ?)
(9.) Because it is good policy that
title deeds of land should j
within a reasonable time.
(10.) Because the bargain made b
selectors was not a bargain in
had the choice of taking this
colony for places where land 1
THE CHINESE QU
I am in favour of an agreement
all the Australian Governments
law to prohibit Chinese immigrai
because I believe these people to
nists, and, being aliens in blood a
class of people to introduce to thi
FEDERATION OR INTERC
TRADE.
Federation, or at least luten
should be brought about without
of the Colonies is indeed a grand ]
most narrow-minded will object;
lessor Heame has introduced a m
Parliament called the Duties of
a simple and beautiful definition
one to another socially, political
who runs may read wherein his <
he offends, and the punishmen
“boiled down” and clearly del
is that an Australian Parliaraei
pass the Australian People’s Dnt
FREE TRADE AND P
Reared in the bosom of the M
England—l naturally inbibed s
value of that principle. But rec«
in this country a craving to find
for our rising generation, and a n
to Encoxjraok Colonial Indui
cannot all be Farmers, though I
a very large number to settle on
agricultural with pastoral pursui
to encourage Colonial Industry ?
bonus has proved utterly futile, at
occasion to expose the attem
Treasurer to pay £123,000 for
Engines when better engines cot
England for £95,000. The tend
withdrawn (but only temporarily,
tions in the specifications we are
engines at a loss of £lOO,OOO havi
made. It has been pointed out tl
the Victorian gold fields, 60,000 n
found themselves out of employs
the shops full of imported boots at
generally. They asked, Can we no
The reply was, Yes, by imposing
10 per cent., and they did it. Nov
can be manufactured in Victorii
railway locomotives, and almost
requires in clothing, and it is adde
proclaimed to-morrow—so substai
tries established—no more impoi
sent than now obtained. The
botham, one of the wisest and hon
this reason, it is said, advocated Ii
It only remains to argue this poir
encourage Colonial Industry by
direct to the manufacturers, and i
that we can make, or putting 10 pe
at the Custom House. This 10
recouped by the giving of work to
tion of thousands; the money woi
country, although the owners of
wharves in Sydney would suffer,
Trade will answer neither of thes
that our Government are encoura
plan.
CONCLUSION
I have now fully stated my views
expect you to agree with me in ev<
the mtdn I think we are at one.
expect me to agree with him in e
no honest man will pvit a false
opinions. The fulfilled ambition <
serving our country with distinctio
to me be a sufficient reward for my
money, and my time to its interest]
You, gentlemen, of Murrumbum
I Marengo, and Temora, have pledged,
j utmost to secure my return. That ]
the names attached to my requsi
and I enter the contest with confldt
and an earnest hope that the allia
the Young electorate may last for i
I now leave the issue in your ha
men.
Your very Obedient
J. HENN
St. Canice, Darling Point, Sydn
jgLECTOES OF K
VOTE FOR
JOHN YOU
A PRACTICAL M J
Who has supported the EIGHT HC
years; who is in favour of FREE
TION EARLY CLOSING and PRO(
EXTENSION and a good WATER
system of IMMIGRATION and NO
OFI
After having heard the politic
Mr. JOHN YOUN
the following gentlemen have form
Committees to secure his return 1
CAMPERDOWN COMM
Blissard, James M'Bride,
Burns, William Mayes, C
Burrere, Joseph Mainer,
Cahill, John Nicholls,
Cruickshonk, Aldma. Alex. Pritchar
Evans, Thomas Sanbrool
Fowler, Richard Sanbrool
Hughes, Henry Smith, T
Kilgannon, James Tatham,
Larkin, Alderman James Thomsot
Larkin, James Walsh, I
Larkin, Thomas
DARLINGTON COMM!
Barber, Alfred Matthew
Beer, Joseph Maze, A 1


BRIEF MENTION.
A song for All Saints —“ Ah chi la Mort-e
Milner is drawing largely—onhis Sydney takings.
It does not always follow that a ruhy must be
" a gem.”
There are five policemen and seven shanties at
Montreal.
The Melbourne spiritualists claim Ned Kelly as
a medium.
Berryism—discharging old servants and ap-
pointing your sons.
Another narrow escape at Burwood. Walton
nearly fell into his carpet-bag.
Now that Sir Henry has a bedroom in the new
public offices, be is about to sell Falconbridge.
Plenty of eau de vie at Montreal diggings
disappears beneath blue coats with brass buttons.
Bakehouse “ robberies ” are very prevalent in
London. They call them “ perquisites ”in Sydney.
When a sailor was asked at the Temperance
Hall the other night whether he had kept to water on
his last trip, he replied “ Oh, we'll waive that question.”
When Mr. John Want’s yacht, Guinevere glided
in first at the regatta last Saturday, an excited Double
Bay magnate shouted out, “ Geneva fust—lknowed it!”
When passing through Balranald, and there is
a storm threatening, travellers invariably endeavour to
make Hay while the sun shines. Author, please send
name.
The Northern Standard, of Townsville
deprecates the growing tendency it notices among the
townsfolk to take The Bulletin. Awful, is’ut it. The
Bulletin is lively—the Standard is dull as ditch-
water.
A drunken man, says the Forbes Times, got
into the grounds of the Forbes hospital the other night
and, on being aroused by the waiter, said he wanted a
bed. On being told he could have one in the dead-house,
he decamped.
The Campbelltown Herald (which, by the
way, is quite a humorous journal) thus gives the ad-
dress of an advertiser“ Hunter-street, East, oppo-
site Yurong-street. Sydney.” Well might the adver-
tiser ask, “ Don’t Yurong me thus !**
The clergyman of a fashionable church at Dar-
linghurst, a few evenings ago, asked a most absurd
question as he gave out the hymn, “Who|are these
arrayed in white ? ” When the people looked around
they saw the pretty and fashionable daughters of a
well-known official attired in spotless white.
• ex-manager of one of ye pawnbroking
institutions down in New Zealand has lately paid our
parts a visit. After doing the N.Z. tradesmen for a
considerable sum, he comes to try his little games on
here, representing himself as a “ gentleman ” and a
‘‘man of means.” What can he mean!' Surely he
doesn’t imagine he is on the West Coast again!
A Sydney citizen, with a painful disregard for
truth, told a Melbourne man the other day that the
Express was a “comic” paper. So, with his face
beaming in anticipation of the sido-splitters, he went
in and bought it. He has since loaded his gun with
slugs.
The Herald, which is one of the few
N.S.W. journals that does acknowledge the jokes
it takes from our columns, thus speaks of the Bul-
letin:—“By buying 3d. of Bulletin you can get
something to laugh at for a week. The paper is a credit
to the management.** We have wired the editor to ask
what he likes.
This is what an American paper says a girl did
who received a copy of love verses from her sweetheart .-
“ She read it over, kept it clean.
Put on her finest raiment.
And took it to a magazine.
And got ten dollars payment.”
Sensible young damsel.
A general manager of a certain banking institu-
tion in New Zealand, has, according to report, purchased
a private residence for several thousands. A gentleman
knowing a little about banking matters, hailing from
those icy climes, and now on a visit to New South
Wales, cannot make out how he managed the financing
as he was always reputed ‘ a bad financier.’ ”
The Government Inspector of Public Charities is
not satisfied with the manner in which our institutions are
earned on. He says that practically he has no power
Josephson laughs at him at the Benevolent; the Rev!
King pooh-poohs him at the Deaf and Dumb: Mrs!
Walker coughs at his suggestions at Biloela, and Mr
Thomas ignores him at Randwick. Mr. Robison says he
ought to be made Comptroller. He has said this now for
six years, and will possibly chant it for 10 more with
exactly the same result. ■—
A grave-digger was on the jury at Ned
Kelly’s trial.
Joe Gorrick’s country seat at the Wol-
lombi—a stump.
The Herald says theN.S.W. Artillery
were wanted at the fire. They worked in
Elizabeth-street two hours under Lieutenant
Nathan.
Spencer Brown, of Townsville, was once
rival to little Bailey, of Cooktown, and he has
travelled on the idea ever since. Spencer
thinks the editorship of the Brisbane Courier
too low a post for him. He soars higher.
The Cooktown Herald thus chroni-
cles a little hospital difference at Maytown :
“ The principal event of last week was the
dismissal of our surgeon from his duties in
connection with our hospital. Our old friend
Henessey being again to blame." Volumes
couldn’t say more!
A large snake was killed at Mr. John
Taylor’s sale yards, Parramatta, on Thursday.
It was suggested by some one present to put
up the reptile, and with the proceeds purchase
real estate for the editor of the Parramatta
Popoun, but as no one would handle the snake
the affair lapsed, and John’s estate still re-
mains unpurchased.
At a well-known church, which rejoiced
in the possession of a surpliced choir, it is a
matterof conjecture amongst the congregation
whence proceed those braying sounds, long
drawn out, so often heard at the end of each
response during the singing of choral service.
Some say, horribile dictu! that the great high
Eriest himself, being fond of distinguishing
imself in a solo, takes this novel and peculiar
way of gratifying his desire.
A Mr. Martin, of Brewarrina, writes to
the Barwon Argus a letter, of which the follow-
ing is the commencement:—“lf a man free-
sclects 320_ acors of land and sowes it with
reap and Employes chinee labour with ten
men to every eacor and two wives to every
three men and one wife to cost £l5O pound
what will the 320 eacors cost i think Mr.
Russell Barton will not find it a paving specu-
lation without he deprives them of educa-
tion.” _ - . . Fancy, a man who can write
like this, and who has not, so for as we can
learn, yet “ consented to allow himself to be
nominated" for any constituency.
At the Presbyterian Assembly, Dr. Eenwick
said that ‘‘during his visit to Melbourne he had
attended the Presbyterian Church, as he always did
when abroad. (Laughter.) When in foreign parts he
always clung to the old faith." At this the Moderator
laughed immoderatorly, and a jocular reverend observed
that the worthy doctor’s Faith should begin where
Chanty was supposed to—at home.
A laugh was caused in a Queensland District
Court by the Crown Prosecutor asking a witness of
what particular liquor the prisoner smelled when he
assaulted her. Witness declined to criminate herself,
a i thought it was a delicate question to
ask her. Mr. Power insisted, however, that as it was
schnapps the prisoner had been drinking, the “witness
could smell it a mile off." The laugh came in when his
Honor insinuatingly remarked, “ You might."
After Prank Warden had done Susaex-street, he
asked a friend “Where shall I go now?” And the
friend replied “Go where there’s the most sin.” Frank
is now in Melbourne.
“ The Lord be with yon,” said a certain atheis-
tical spiritualist, by way of a joke, on meeting a well,
known Sydney divine. “And with thy spirit promptly
replied the clergyman.
There is no appreciation in Victoria of modern
patriotism. Even Mr. Berry’s sacrifice of his two sons
to the Civil Service is unappreciated. Here, however,
Lucas goes to the Council.
Sir Henry says we will live under a new Parlia-
ment in five weeks. But what’s a new body with a new
head?
The Noos says Sir Henry “ was absent at the
luncheon.” “ Present from ’’ would have been a much
better phrase.
If Sir Henry compares abolition of interest to
burglary, we’d like to know what he thinks of the non-
payment of principal.
The Melbourne correspondent of Chorus signs
himself “The Owl." Surprising instance of the
“eternal fitness of things.”
A Sydney visitor to Melbourne was an outside
passenger on a ’bus the other day, and as he was going
to the Exhibition he bought a ticket from the driver.
Observing the letters M.I.E. on the back of the ticket,
he said to the driver, “ Oh, I suppose that stands for
Melbourne International Exhibition." “ Yes," said
the driver, “or Money Idiotically Expended. It’s all
the same."
Scene—Coffee Palace. Smith to friend (who
has just left a table at the other end of the room, at
which several clergymen have sat down) : Say, Brown,
what did you clear out so quickly for? Brown:
Couldn’t suffer it old man. It's quite funereal enough to
walk between hospital pillars and dine off polished
tombstones, without having a synod of missionaries
glaring at you to call up ideas of “ I am the resurrec-
tion, &c.” Tableau.
We are getting known. The following is from a
San Francisco paper. “ Advt. Edwin Bobbins, the Aus-
tralian Magnetic Healer and Medium, 216 Fowell-street
near Geary. Consultation before 10 a.m. till 5 p.m."
“ Mr. Riley, newspaper proprietor at Goulburn,
is about to start a third paper at Parramatta.” So
saith an exchange. We wonder if this will affect the
250,000 weekly circulation of the Cumberland Crimes.
A bilious man at Cairns the other day killed all
the fowls of his neighbour because they laid eggs on a
Sunday, and then asked God to bless him. The P.M.,
however, has the matter in hand.
A number of gentlemen who had promised to at-
tend the Presbyterian Conference dinner, succumbed to
the attractions of the Melbourne Cup.
Since The Bulletin’s exposure of him, a Hay-
market postal official goes into convulsions at the mere
sight of a lady’s hand. He is married.
For our Hebrew friends. The two Davids are
in possession. The third David has at last got a seat,
and David C says they can carry everything.
The Penny Bennett has a poem on “ Her
Health,” the first line being—
“ I fill this cup to one made up.”
When Dr. M'Guven and the editor of the Wi
ness meet, they eye each other with as much male-
volence as can be called up upon the Christian faces of
two such holy men. These rev. gentlemen love each
other fondly in theory, but in practice they experience
towards one another the hate which is
“ Pound only on the stage ”
A-hem! —and in the pulpit.
A learned and sporting friend on a visit to a
country district—where some of the officials are not
celebrated for their acumen in questions of law —was
asked by the stipendiary magistrate if he did not think
the Game Act ceased to have effect on the Ist August
last. “ Certainly,” said our friend, “ the Act is now a
dead letter—as dead as Moonlight, and I want-a*budgery
day 1 s shooting. Come on, old man j ” and they went, the
ducks suffering accordingly.
Mr. M. Walker, who took the chair at Tvr
Pinkstone’s meeting, at Gundagai, said. next dav f,
reunion of the hon. Mr. Forster’s partizans that «\ a
was a staunch supporter of the ex-Agent’ Gener-i o
The fact that Mr. Forster’s meeting was the nf '
enthusiastic .of the two inclines us to the supposing
that the affair was
A “ strange coincidence" to use a phrase
By which such things are settled now-a-days.
A young lady residing in a certain terrace
Lower Fort-street stands on her balcony in the even!
dressed in snowy white, and innocently amuses
by whistling “Pretty Joey” to every gentleman who
passes. She whistles splendidly, just like a mehth,
gaie. If the passer-by carries a bouquet, “ p rp A n '
) Joey does not mind asking for it, and it is impossible
to refuse her, she smiles so sweetly. “ By Geonre £
writes an admirer, “ I never before heard such r»S,
tion in warbling.” p«nec-
“Two young ladies in a railway carriage the
other afternoon were somewhat embarrassed by the
, tinned ogling they were subjected to from a well-knnJ!,
| holder of a season ticket, who travels to and from
i Petersham daily.”—Ltre, roni
If puppies travel by the train,
The chiefs of the department
Should see the animals are ta’en
Eight in the dogs’ compartment!
E’en though they walk upon their paws.
Apparently are tame.
Are sprucely dressed, and full of “ haws ! ”
They're puppies all the same !
1 Sir Redmond Barry, in hia'conversation with
Edward Kelly before sentencing him, remarked —“w“
have samples of felons such as Bradley and O’Connor
Clarke, Gardiner, Melville, Morgan, Scott, and Smith
all of whom have come to ignominious deaths.” u>
have not, up to the time of going to press, seen
chronicled in the mortuary column of the Herald the
decease of Frank Gardiner, Esq., however much we
mayhave longed for the announcement. Here’s achanno
for Frank to bring a libel action.
At Campbelltown, recently, two unfortunate
Chinamen were on the platform in waiting for the
train, and had provided themselves with tickets
As they attempted to put their swags into the van
they were prevented from doing so by the guard who’
told them that the luggage must have labels affixed
The Celestials did not know the meaning of what was
said to them, and although there were a number of
empty carriages, the train went on, leaving the poor
wretches standing on the platform. The country could
spare this guard. He is evidently a cut above his
position, and should immediately resign, place himself
under G. E. Maclean’s tuition, and “ allow himself to be
nominated” for a country constituency.
Who are they? An “Eye Witness” in the
Evening Windeter, writing under the heading of
“ Park Preaching," concludes a sensible letter as fol-
lows " Now, sir, if the proceedings of this buffoon
and his compeers are not stopped very soon, respect-
able people will have to take their walks elsewhere, as
this beautiful place of recreation is fast being converted
into a bear garden.”
Lord Beaconsfield is said by a London
portrait painter to have been one of his best
sitters. “ He satmotionless—didn’t move once,
didn’t speak once.” The portrait is now in
the Junior Carlton Club’s dining-room.
Judge Hargrave said in the South the
other day, “that the Press had no duties
to perform.' He knew men on the Press who
. would write any way Ifor a glass of whisky."
Up to the present time we didn’t think his
Honor knew any people of this class. To re-
turn the compliment would mean £250.
A much-respected gentleman on the
Herald is a bit of a dog fancier. The other
day he was dragging along a rather emaciated
greyhound when he met a brother journalist.
“ What do yon think of him P” cried the re-
presentative of the Morning Muffin ; “ isn’t
he a picture ?” The other gazed at the dog
for a minute, then he said, “ Well, I think
there is a good deal more frame than picture
about him at present." And a twenty-five
years’ friendship was shattered.
The appended tempting announcement,
embodied in the advertisement of the Great
Northern Hotel (the crack caravanserai of the
coaly city), appeared in the Newcastle
Morning Herald:— “A Table d’ Hote every
day at 1 o’clock, when dinner will be served
from 6d." This happening to catch the
blackened orb of a Lambton miner (recently
from Cornwall) he entered the hotel, stamped
into the coffee-room with his iron-clamped
boots, took off his coat, loosened his necktie,
spat upon his hands, and roared for dinner. A
white-tied waiter was in immediate attend-
ance, and imagining, from the appearance of
the visitor, that he was a candidate for Tam-
worth, ministered sumptuously to his wants.
When the soup, fish, joint, bird, and pie had
been disposed of, the guest arose, and leaving
the impression of his ten fingers on the damask
table-cloth, flung down sixpence. An expla-
nation on part of the waiter followed, which
was incredulously received by the visitor, and
finally sounds came from that coffee-room as
though a “ big 4” were doing a champion
“break-down." It was late in
the afternoon before the debris of glass and
china could be gathered together, and the set-
ting sun was illuminating the heavenly canopy
with bars of crimson and of gold, as a black-
coated form with a swollen proboscis and its
arm in a sling, limped round to the Herald
office to alter the advertisement.
Habit is second nature. This may explain how
a Melbourne sporting critic chronicles, in the one
paragraph,.the death of a man’s wife and the untimely
demise of three of his mares and eight of his foals. We
don’t, however, find much fault with the paragraph as
respects the horses. Looking at the condition of Mel-
bourne for some weeks past we wonder that there was
any reference whatever to the wife.
At the meeting of the Presbyterian divines, Dr
Barry, on being introduced by the Eev. H. Macready»
stood up to make an oration. He began by saying n«
would “ congratulate the Assembly on its efforts, ana
the state at which it had arrived. Looking back w
the time of Henry VIII., and " At this omi-
nous commencement gloom was upon every counte-
nance, and several gentlemen, remembering appoint-
ments at the Coffee Palace, fled precipitately.
MB. W. H. M'CULLOCH, M.[?].
BARMAID : “Beg pardon, sir, but you have forgotten to pay.”
AMERICAN VISITOR: “Wall, no matter. I’ll be bout these parts again next week. Factis, gal,
I’ve no cash.”
BARMAID : “ You should have told me that first.”
AMERICAN VISITOR : Couldn 't stand that, Miss. I’ve been had twice that way already this
morning.”
A “ pastoral ” friend sends me the following : —
By the blue Australian Mountains,
’Mid bright scenes most wondrous fair
A man wandered by the fountains.
And took a selection there.
And he “duffed)” the squatter’s cattle.
And he “pounded" all his sheep.
And he gave his shepherds battle,
And made the poor “ squat. " to weep.
Chorus:—
O! Hooray! hooray!! hooray! !!
I shall soon get rich this way:
So the mountain free selector
Used to “ duff ” and “ pound ” all day.
Who are these poor benighted howlers
Who read the “gospel ’’ to park prowlers—'
Those church-less prophets who are fain i *
To “ stump” the sward in the Domain P
What men are these who ne’er can see
The evils of buffoonery—
Lank grotesque clowns, whose noisy bawl
Upon the wounded ear does fall)?
Who are these men, whose words]of chaff
Can only raise a scornful laugh—
Whose ranting ’neath the sky so clear
Adulterates the atmosphere ?
Who are these ravens, who will croak
All heedless of the urchin’s joke—
Oblivious of the loud “boohoo,"
Oblivious of hurled garbage too.
Oblivions of oft shaken fists—
Who are these dread “ evangelists” ?
Who are these crows in coats “ claw-hammer,”
Who will their so-called “gospel” stammer:
Who roar and shriek and yell and rave.
And vow they’ll try our sools to save—
By “ pitching ” in a nasal tone—
Neglecting all the while their ov:n ?
Come, sweetest fairies, tell us then—
Now, who in thunder! are these men ?


SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Bob Clark ia fatter than ever.
Trickett’s new boat weighs 291 b.
Ensh ia in Sydney, and in capital form.
Thirty thousand at the Victorian Derby.
Le Lanp is in great form in New Zealand.
The Echnca Eowing Club ia flourishing again.
The Ballarat yachting prizes for the 24th Nov.
are pretty liberal.
The Doctor’s boat is known among his friends
as the “long” boat.
As was expected, the South Melbourne fifteen
beat the Victorian eleven.
Albert beat Dovey in a hundred yards spin for
£lO aside at Botany on Saturday.
The Albions had the best of a drawn game with
the Cambridge Club at Maitland.
First King has gone to the stud, but may still
come out for the Champion Eace.
Jack Thompson has taken 600 to 400 about
Trickett in his match with Hanlan.
The Bourke Jockey Club offer big prizes for
their meet on April 28 and 29, 1881.
A. P. Lucas, the English cricketer, has made big
scores the post season—for instance, 85, 97, and 103.
Hailes and Pigott rode the first and second
horses in the Criterion Stakes, M.A.T.C., on the 23rd.
The Carlton team, so far, have a long way the
best of the contest with the East Melbourne team.
In the chess match at Melbourne between Mr.
Esling and Mr. Wisker, the former won the 9th and
10th games.
Welcome Jack, who ran a deadbeat with Hart’s
Lavinia, for the Maribyrnong Plate, ran eighth in the
Criterion Stakes on the previous day. It was, how-
ever, no criterion.
The second elevens of the Stanmore and Car-
lingford C.C. played a match on Saturday last, the issue
being another win for the 2nd Stanmore. Score: Stan-
more 97, Carlingford 76.
Conlthard, of the Victorian Eleven, has been
showinglsome good bowling; 5 wickets for 240 balls, 73
runs, and 18 maidens. It is, however, as an umpire
that Conlthard can make his mark.
“Angnr” went straight at Chester for the
Melbourne Stakes, and mentioned Progress and Grand
Flaneur for the Derby, but this order was reversed.
As to the Maribyrnong, all the ’cute ’uns were out.
Mr. Charles Golding Eady, late of the Albion
Stables, Hobart Town, who has given up racing, being
unable to find a purchaser for his stud in Tasmania, has
taken the horses, Albion, Calstock, Qnamby, and a St.
Alban’s colt to New Zealand in hopes of selling them
to sportsmen there.
The following gentlemen represent New South
Wales in the Intercolonial Pigeon-shooting Handicap
at Melbourne, on the sth Nov., viz.—Messrs. J. R.
Smith, F. Weston, F. Gannon, H. E. Lord, G. Lee
Lord, C. C. Skarratt, H. Peyton, R. H. White, P. W.
Jackson, and J. Hamilton.
The Glebe Lavra Tennis Club is
struggling.
The Glebe Bowing Club sur-
vives the recent resignations.
The Victorian Council declined
to pass the Totalisator Bill before the
Cup Meeting.
The Adelaide people think of
having a shot tt the Melbourne Re-
gatta in February.
A second attempt to get the
Tasmanian Parliament to legalise the
Totalisator has failed.
The Mayor gives <£lo and Mr.
B. D. Towns five guineas as prizes to
che Nimrod Fishing Club.
The Nimrod Fishing Chib had a
grand gathering at Botany on the
27th. Three hundred present.
Edwards, of Melbourne, is build-
ing a clinker eight for the Victorian
Club, and she is expected to be a rare
goer.
Mr. Fawcett’s Ariel won the
Birt Presentation Trophy at the
Albert Park Yacht Club, Melbourne,
on the 23rd.
The Hobart Town Summer Eace
Meeting will take place in February
next. The Launceston folk intend to
have theirs in March.
They were expecting in England
that Jem Mace was going to enter the
Victorian Parliament. Alas for the
degeneracy of the ring!
Courtenay and Eiley were
matched to row in September for £3OO
aside, and Eiley and Weisgerber for
£4OO about the same time.
Bendigo, the pugilist, whose
death was recently announced, could
always draw a great crowd in any part
of London when he preached.
Professor Cavill and his family
migrate for the summer to Tasmania.
He is going to test the Derwent and
its hanks.'especially the former.
Mr. H. L. Cortis, the champion
amateur bicyclist, beat record time in
London recently, by accomplishing
ten miles in 29min. 54 l-sth secs.
Hanlan’s boat is made of Cana-
dian cedar, and weighs exactly 241hs.
Hozs., though 30ft. 6in. long. Ban-
ian's rowing weight will be lOst. 51b.
The match between Anlazarc of
Sydney, and Cricks of Homebush,
135 yards, £25 aside, resulted in a win
for the former by se ven yards. Time,
14 secs.
Some of the best judges on the
Yarra consider Mr. Robert Booth one
of the best Victorian scullers. He is
rather slow, however, when rowing
stroke, but has plenty of staying
power.
No American pedestrian has
accepted the challenge of Warburton,
the English pedestrian, for a tussle
tor £2OO, and the deposit has been
withdrawn.
A Mr. Loffler, in Paris, has set
up as a horse dentist. He maintains
that much of the bad temper of horses
m due to the neglect of their jaws.
He has begun With racehorses which
show viciousness.
The winning figures at the New
iork Caledonian Athletic Sports
uiti 6: —Throwing the heavy hammer,
"Htj standing long jump, Oft Oiu ;
tossing the caber, 38ft 7in; standing
high jump, 4ft Sin; hop-atep-and-
j®yPi 41ft sjin; running long jump,
,lt 3in ; pole vaulting, 10ft Sin; run-
ning high jump, sft Sin.
A gentleman, writing from England, after wit-
nessing the great match on the Oval, says that England
i J* no such fielder as M’Donald, aud that he is pro-
bably without an equal, if Bauuerman aud Boyle he
excepted.
Mr. Eoberts, formerly of Drysdaleand Eoberts,
Sydney, has given a handsome silver cup for competition
among the Victorian batsmen.
£2600 was taken at the great cricket match,
Australians v. All-England, exclusive of the very large
amount paid for reserved seats.
Corrigan showed a fine bit of horsemanship on
P.G., winner of the Hurdle Race at the Melbonrne
Amateur Club.
The members of the Reform Club, the political
club of Sydney, are said to have won £50,000 on the
Melbourne Derby.
Petersham v. WarwickC.C.—The second elevens
of those clubs met ou the Petersham ground, last Satur-
day, and, after a closely contested game, the 1000 l team
won by a single run, the scores being—Petersham 36,
Warwick 35.
The weights for the Parramatta events on tho
9th November are out, and are apparently well made. A
first-class day’s sport is certain.
Mr. W. H. Tnckett, father of the amateur
champion sculler of Victoria, is at present in Sydney,
and looks as young and jovial as Billy.
Thornton v. Elswick C.C. —Those two clubs met
last Saturday afternoon, and the play resulted iu a win
for the former by 22 runs.
Sixty-six entrances for the Randwick Cup, and
sixty-three for Tattersall’s. The only two Victorian
horses nominated are Richmond and Bosworth.
Tho Waddy Challenge Cup produced a good
display of cricket at Singleton on Saturday, when the
local team met the Newcastle men. Scores: —Singleton,
first innings, 102; second, 137. Newcastle, first, 00;
second, four wickets for 66.
(Pawnbroker (the S.A. horse) would have been
“Augur’s” best outsider, but for his having gone wrong
in the feet.
The Newcastle artillery team defeated the
Sydney Volunteer Artillery men by one solitary point
in a rifle contest on Saturday. Scores Newcastle,
549; Sydney, 548.
The handicaps published on Tuesday for the
Hunter River Amateur Races were severely criticised.
The neglected state of the running ground causes
dissatisfaction.
The largest field that has started for the Mel-
bourne Cup is 33, in Briseis and Chester’s years, and
the smallest 7, in Banker’s. Archer and Lantern both
took 3m. 525. to do tho two miles in, which is the
longest, and Barnwell's time last year is the shortest,
3m. 30Js. Mr. De Mestre has won the cup four times
—twice with Archer and with Tim Whiffler and Ca-
lamia, and trained Chester when lie won. Mr. John
Tait also won four times, with The Barb, Glencoe, The
Pearl, and The Quack.
The following are the contestants in the 48-honr
go-as-you-please tournament at Melbourne, which came
off this week. G. Williams, of Sydney, Now South
Wales; T. Nimmo, of Camperdown, Victoria; H. E.
Bird, of Tasmania; T. Seymour, of Sydney, New South
Wales; T. E. Campbell, of Sydney, New South Wales;
J. Williams, ex-champion of New South Wales; J. F.
Kirby, of Melbourne; Donald M'Eoe. of Meredith: W.
Edwards, champion of the colonies; C. Swan, of Carlson,
champion of New Zealand; F. M. O’Connor, of New
Zealand; John Raynor, of Narracoorte,South Australia;
M. Gann, of Tallarook, Victoria.
This looks like another win for Sydney. In
dealing with the first day’s play between the South
Melbourne fifteen and the Victorian eleven, “Felix,”
in the Australasian, says, “ I had to comment on the
inferior bowling and fielding of tho eleven, and now I
have to say that their batting on Saturday, save in two
or three instances, was feeble in the extreme. It is
true that the light was bod and the wicket slow, but
these drawbacks cannot be put forward as sufficient
excuse for the miserable display. The fact is, the
majority of the eleven are altogether out of form, and
want a lot of bustling up before they will be fit to face
either Adelaide or Sydney. To the lookers-on it
appeared as if the fifteen were the cracks and the eleven
a team of tyros sent out to sec what they could do at a
first attempt.” W. H. Cooper was in fine form with the
boll, and took five wickets for 29.
There is a great want of interest in rowing
in Melbourne at present, members of the different clubs
being very slow at making a start. The Melbourne
Club had some trial fours coming on, but the crews did
not turn out as was expected, so their events have been
postponed for a time; the intention, I hear, is to have
a proper coach, a very necessary requirement. The
Umphelby pairs have been rowed for this week. Three
crews entered—Messrs. Jenvey (stroke) and Jobson
(present holders), E. Booth (stroke) and Hughes, and
I Hartley Williams (stroke) and Hyalop. In the first
j heat Booth and Williams came together, the former
j winning after a very close race. In the se :ond heat
; Booth proved too much for Jenvey, ai d won easily,
although Jenvey showed a great want of stay at the
last. The Melbourne Club expect to have a very good
eight for the Clarke cup this year, and, I think, with
the assistance of the senior members of the Banka’
Club, they should have a good crew. It is a great pity
the senior members of the Banks do not row for their
own club, as they could jjet a better crew than tho
Melbourne. The Banks intend to confine themselves
principally to maiden and junior races this year, and
they will have a very hot maiden eight stroked by E.
Booth. The Civil Service and University are doing
very little at present. Tackett, the amateur champion
I of Victoria, has not taken kindly to his sculling since
! his late indisposition.
The cricket season in Tasmania
was opened by a match between an
Association eleven and eleven colts,
with Mr. J. G. Davies, wicket-keeper,
and Tom Kendall (professional). The
colts won easily in one innings.
An American sporting paper
says ; —“ It is intimated that quack
medicine is to be made a feature of the
coming International boat-races in
England.” That means that some of
the scullers are to be “dosed,” and
the public “ thrown.” Beware of tho
great “ medicine men."
Jim Punch, writing from Mel-
bourne to his elder brother Ned, des-
cribes the race for the Derby thus r
“ Flaneur went away with a long
sweeping stroke about 28, which he
increased to 32 at the finish, passing
the Flagship first with Progress's nose
an his gunwale.”
The Aatley Belt contest was
fixed for the Ist November, continu-
ing to the 6th, at the Agricultural
Hall. Rowell (the holder). Blower
Brown, and other Englishmen com-
pete against the Americans, Pegrim,
Howard, Dobler, and Krohno. The
entrance fee was £lOO.
A New York paper soliloquises
thus “ Should Hanlan win against
the other colonist (Trickett) he will
be entitled to all the honours of a
full-fledged American, and as such we
shall thereafter regard him." The
point of the thing is, we suppose, that
if he loses he is a Canadian, and “as
such we shall thereafter regard him.”
Our team for the intercolonial
will be chosen from the following
players:—C. Bannerman, D, Gregory,
A. Gregory, A. H. Gregory, Allen,
Evans, Garrett, Geary, E. Hall, Hud-
dleston, Jones, Massie, Moses, E.
Seale, N. Sheridan, Tindall, and W.
Webster. Practice, Monday and
Friday afternoons.
“ Pendragon,” of the London
Referee —hut ho is such aprejndiced
rascal, there’s no relyiag on him—
says that Soule, of the Hop Bitters
Company, who offers £lOOO for an
aquatic contest on the Thames, will
have something to do with the result
if Hanlan, Trickett, Laycockaud Ross
compete. Tho Hop Bitters since the
announcement has had a very large
sale in England.
What is the football team for
England thinking about ? That they
are going to make a financial success
like the cricketers. If so, they will
be wofully mistaken. At cricket
matches charges are made for ad-
mission to the ground, whereas there
is not one foot-ball match in ten ever
played with a “clyato.” Most of the
best matches are played on Black-
heath and the London parks, an I are
witnessed by few people. Standing
about in the cold and wet grass
is not conducive to comfort. We
suppose, however, Macnamara will see
the team through.
A late telegram states that at
Hartford, U.S., Aug. 27, St. Julian de-
feated the time made by himself and
Maud S. in a mile trot. The judges
backed the record for £5OO. St.
Julien, however, did the mile in 2m.
Ills., and the judges were so satisfied
with the performance that they added
£lOO to the purse. St. Julien is,
within a year, double the age of the
celebrated trotter, Maud S. Tho
owner of St. Julien, Morrow, refused
£20,000 for the horse, which sum was
offered immediately after the race.
St. Julien, by latest accounts, was
backed for £lOOO to beat his record,
2m. Ills. Final—A cable states that
Maud S. has since done the distance
in 2m. 10^8.
What a pity it is that our yachting friends lose
their temper when not leading in a race. On Saturday
the Scotchman was rather rough on one of the most
energetic and popular yacht-owners because he hap-
pened to be passing the new boat.
MR. W. ROYLANCE, CANDIDATE FOR WEST SYDNEY.
MR. JAMES STBDMAN’S WHOLESALE CONFFCTIONERY ESTABLISHMENT, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. (Seepage3.)


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JQAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s I'romenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JQAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JQAYID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
The latest shape; a use-]
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- ’ suit,
nary wear.
32s fid
per suit.
JJAYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
(In light Homespuns and]
thin Cheviots and Ban- I 42s per
nockburns. for Spring [ Suit,
and Summer wear. j
JJAYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac suits,
(In Choice Oriental ]
Tweeds, excellent for I 49a 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures, j
J)AVID
Orient-
Sac Suits
JJAVID
Orient
Walking Suits,
JQAYID
Orient
Berg Suits.
D
AYID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Bummer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Bummer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
f Specially Light andT
| Durable, the materials |
-( having been well y
| shrunk before being I
I. made up. J
63s per
suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In Superior Oriental - '!
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and >
finished the same as
ordered clothing. J
68s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Beautifully light in')
Texture, permanent in £ 38s 6d
colour and very dur- ( per suit
able in wear. )
JONES AND COMPANY’S
("Special attention is in- - ')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and y Orient
most perfect in stvlo 1 Clothing,
and flush procurable |
in the colony. J
r"ln Superior Tasmanian')
| SSS: «■«
{
I
I
China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Block Sergerette, 455.
In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
In Black Merino 30s.
In Super Sergerette, 555.
{
Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
("In Superior, all Wool - )
J. Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(. finished. j
{A Special Dress Over-T
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- S-
fully tig ht, and agree-
able to wear. J
65s
JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OY’S AND- YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
—•
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR,
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theU EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’;
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
1
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatly cut I
) and well made, and f
finished. J
(In new shapes, very - )
-3 prettily trimmed, and >
(. thoroughly well-made. )
7s 6d, 8s
Bd, 12s 6d,
13s fid, 15s
6d, 17s 6ri,
19s fid per
suit.
12s 6d to
Ills 6d per
suit.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
In fancy and plain
Drills, trimmed in
new and effective
styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
In superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
5g lid, 7s
6d, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24a fid to
27s 6d per
suit.
\Pn light and dark mix- - ]
tures, cut in fashion- | 21s fid to
able stylos, well j-to 23s fid
trimmed and strongly j per suit,
made. J
Youths’
Blue 8 ergo
Suits.
(In fine durable Esta-]
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and j fid,
general wear. J
Youths’s Dia- (For dress wear] 2 g s to 40s
gonal and Ber- ] trimmed and made in r Hult
gorette Suits. I a superior manner. > v
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations 1 his season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the sea,son’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they ore now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
’ comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
Loudon and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
L ments, <fcc.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
. other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
- ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4Jd
to 8-Jd; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d ; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
4 of 6000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6a
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
_ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
A C E CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “ HORDERN ” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to hie Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in PERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
E
XCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
AH wool and well shrank
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
H
Ed o)
O o
O w
Sr 4 c\
fc-
« .§ .
PdH g-y
o >
2
cctd g
Ho
.O'C
o a pm
gw
'A
g H
° H
® H H tt
(ziWSK
e H
A m
W W
O
srt d,
o P §' , s
s w
I S”
I
i ofi O-
® 5 o
to
s . o
~ &
< w
A
ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
I WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
fIMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
i “ Hordern ”of the citvl. LADIES’ HOSE, which
a ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
’R; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
B. Y 0 U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
656 GEOEGE STEE E T, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Spring Millinery, now’s the time
~ Dresses, ready-made and mode to order
„ Parasols, Satin, Silk, Pompadour
„ Hosiery, Lisle Cotton, Silk
~ Dress Materials, all kinds
Gloves, Frillings, Laces, Fancy Goods.
J. B. YOUDALE.
r
ASHIONABLE SCAEFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEECEEY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Nkak the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I ! 1
J. L. HORDERN.
fJTHE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLAEK
LATE 681 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
rjuiE
BEST AND LAEGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GAEMENTS TO OEDEE
at
J. TURNEE EOBINSON, & CO.’e
MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482 (late 484) gkorge btbebt,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1861.
EEDUCED PEICEB!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s Od
All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
VICAKb <fe CO.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS.
iftm
...
■1
£3
JQONDON TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
„ Suite 63e.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES ATvD LINDSAY.
E CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
promises on
WYNYAE D-S T R E E T,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known os
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Beet Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds mode to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then Judge for Yourselves.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool,
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFOED-ST., f or
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith.
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
»» >, » ~ Baby Linen
»» ~ •• Ladies’ Underclothing.
i> it t, ,t Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
Jgj D W I N RICE.
On view this day
REAL NOVELTIES IN MILLINERY.
Very Handsome Dress Bonnets,
The Prettiest trimmed Hats in Town,
Stylish Washing Hats for Children.
Ladies will do well to call at the
LADIES’ DEPOT,
And see the SHOW IN WINDOW before making their
purchases in MILLINERY.
THE FASHIONABLE FLOP HAT, from Is lid.
EDWIN RICE,
500 George-street.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRING
MATERIALS,
Ready made for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK and SATIN POMPADOUR,
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVERY
FIGURE.
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crax>e.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is in thorough working order, and is highly appre-
ciated, as shown by the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extrelnely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS. A NOVELTY.
A PRETTY SCARF, Embroidered Ends, only 6Jd.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality. Is 9d per
pair.
4-BUTTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
3s lid.
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
Prachutes, Sunshades, and Ladie’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices
EDWIN RICE,
500 George-street.
10ALCLIFF COAL.
Hien first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
rest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON 22401b*
~ not oulv in view of the foreseen reduction in price or
svcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
,1, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
do rivals. However, houeel and punctual dealings
re gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
nd; and now I have received from numerous cus-
lers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
es stating that for either Tnir
DOMESTIC) PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS. LIME-BURMNG and SMITHIES,
ot only saves, compared with any other kind o f .°oai o
I commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price
•ability, but also produces a Are unequalled for Liuim-
}, BOASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot,
phur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
II know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c„ will last nmc“
gerby using it; and all classes declare that when tn y
used to its management they prefer it to every
dof coal, wood, or coke : and ACTUALLY_ a
.ND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL OOALtoBAN
COAL FIRES.
ton —32401 b. net—delivered in town; —
18s. Best double screened Y ~f f
17s. Ditto single ditto \ Coalchff.
16s. Bitto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened I Newcastle.
225. Ditto single ditto >
ImaU coal by special agreement.
Vood and Charcoal, 4c., at current price.
A ' B ‘ 24V'o«)’re<Hitre<*-


Chemists and Druggists
EMSTEONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
l. AND LIVER PILLS Stand miriTalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspejjsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended, Boxes, Is, 2s, and Is 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4s
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAQE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-POUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E. B. AEMSTEONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE NO MOEE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion 1
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and he cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do yon constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
OST Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-strect.
jgY EOYAL LETTEES PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to ho
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the W ild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any pufflug advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot uelieve in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it: and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ami miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
O, V S TEAI,IiN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephaon’s Australian Oint-
mout ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’a
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephsou’s Australian
Ointment can ho obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, aud who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is gunranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTEAL PHAEMAC
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
r.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT,
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
H Y SIC.
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties— Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malign mt Diarrhoea, Plies,
Ulcers, Scalds, &o. Hours of Consultation—lo to 12,
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, tear Market-street.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu.
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’
14 OXFORD STREET,
HALL,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
urTflwTijLJiAfe;
1i
sw»a
W. D. E. tharks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, ho
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
O IMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies onreoeipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address —
SIMS AND PARKES,
340 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
rjni o BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular. Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stkwabx’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funbeal Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNEE, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
FOE EIE3T-CLASS WINES, SPIEITS, AND
BEERS.
Coach and hoeses hotel,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mb. C. SHEATH EE, PEOPEIETOE.
%* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain oi
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry. .
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
SCHNAPPS
i Th e Pur est Stimulant |
uNI P E E
P. MELCHEES.
TREE O I N.
7
cs
&
C*2
o
v.
1
CHAS. BATH,
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STEEET
FT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
L Ale that preserves this brand firr.'t in public equ-
ation. Common bitter crude beers are made very line,
it no other brand has mo same mellow vinous charac-
r, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
lalities of the Bull Dog Alo. Consumers are there-
to cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
dra profit represent the common beers refereed to as
mal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CAT TELL and
[)., Sole Agents.
m
Vj
HA
MAR
H E
R ’ S
OUT.
This favourite brand of
stout
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
f/S. CATTELL and CO.,
Solo Agents
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY. (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late ch4f de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1830.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTEKS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
A
E T I S ’ S CLUB HOTEL,
Corner William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
fJIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and havef'27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) ... ... ... 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers), Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, gfC., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen. Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled ui in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
JIATT EES ALL’S HOTEL,
TERRAEA, SHOALHAVEN.
Proprietor, P. STANTON
Formerly of William-street, Sydney, and of Mittagong).
First-class accommodation for commercial travellers.
Good liquors, good table, &c.
Good change for Sydney Sportsmen. First-class
sport in the neighbourhood.
S T E A L I A N WIN E.
CARMICHAEL'S
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21a. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf. Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolaita, Branxton, New South W ales.
PRICE LIST OP
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
RED WINES
Bungundy 30 0
No. 1 Coolaita Red 21 0
No. 2 „ ~
Vin Ordinaire 12 0
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30 0
No. 1 Coolaita <A 0
No. 2 13 0
Vin Ordinaire 12 0
Money
O N £ Y.
MONEY,
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Hordon surd Sons.
Honrs : 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
dvanced on machinery. Farms, &c., Leasehold and
reehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
ECUBITY: repayable by instalments as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ » " "
20
25
30
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable co leave
leir business during the day, these offices will he
■jeued every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
renings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
ONEY.
MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY L E N T
Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £ooo,
on the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
stem.
3d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
a mortgage, for short terms. , „„
Applvtothe Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
d DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
irket, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
• CANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
J moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Ropay-
mts to suit convenience of borrowers OEN IRAK
)AN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
ng-street. Established 1859.


"THE POOR PLAYER."
Blondin has been walking the rope at Pragne.
“ Madame Favart” ran 502 nights in London.
Miss Pomeroy opens at Melbourne on the 13th
Nov.
The Juvenile Pinafores are again playing—at the
Bijou.
Wheeler’s “ Panorama of the Zulu War ” is at
Gympie.
The circus license in most American towns is
£5 per day.
Marshall opens at the new Gaiety at Christmas,
under Bay leas.
Toole has made another big hit in London, in
* Upper Croat.”
Mr and Mrs. E. Holloway are in Sydney await-
ing engagements.
“ Mighty Dollar,” now playing in London, is
booked for a year.
Sir Julius Benedict’s “ Life of Weber” is nearly
ready for the press.
The Misses St. Clair have been giving successful
concerts at Goulbum.
Haverley’s gigantic negro band are drawing
immensely in Loudon. ,
Sara Bernhardt got .£'2ooo for her twenty nights’
French provincial tour.
The coming Maoready is the new actor, Leake,
at the Queen’s Theatre.
Val Yose, ventriloquist, arrived in New York,
from London, August 30.
Henry Eochefort, the communist, is writing a
gay piece for the Paris stage.
Cooper and Bailey’s Circus was at Philadelphia
late in September. Great houses.
“ Good as Gold,” at the Opera House, has given
way to “ The Ticket-of-leave Man.”
Mrs. Scott-Siddons has engaged Luigi Lablache
to support her in her American tour.
The twin sisters Vaidis are among the great
attractions of the Paris Hippodrome.
Miss Martina Simonson has made a successful
dehtit as Amina in “La Somnambula.
Martin Simonsen will visit Tasmania, after New
Zealand, with his new opera company.
Mr. and Mrs. Williamson have been making
another hit at Melbourne, in “Eureka.”
“ Les Cloches de Comeville” was to be re-pro-
duced for a season at the Globe, London.
Robert Wilson, of Boston, has challenged the
world to a clog dancing tournament for £2OO.
Sims Reeves is taking a farewell tour of the
English provinces which is to last 18 months.
Mr. Carey and Miss Flora Anstead have been
winning more praise from the Melbourne critics.
Maggie Oliver is disengaged until February.
Her address is “ Crown Hotel, EUzabeth-street.”
Mr. Ashmead-Bartlott, who was to have mar-
ried the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, is an American.
The Lucion Girards have been performing at
Milan, Italy, and Emile Girard is playing in Paris.
There are but faint prospects of E. A. Sothern
ever returning to professional duty. Failing health.
Eugenie Debaes, another of Madame Simonsen’s
daughters, is developing a remarkable talent for acting.
Ketten “ vibrated ” to a good house at the Me-
chanics’ Institute, at Ballarat, on the 21st. Weather
bad.
Mr. F. Thorne, who returned to Melbourne
recently and made his re-appearance in “ Eureka,” was
well received.
Another theatrical marriage took place at
Townsville the other day — that of Miss H. Tullooh to
Mr. C. Seagrave.
The Loftus Troupe are playing in Townsville.
They followed too close on the heels of the Dillon Com-
pany to do much.
Charley Reed (of the Froliqnes), after his trip
to Australia, met with a good reception, at the Adelphi
Theatre, 'Frisco.
Madame Janauschek and company were to open,
late in September, a splendid new opera house erected
at Greensburg, U.B.
Professor Pepper has been making it 'ot for
opera at Adelaide. In other words. Pepper is a success
and the opera a failure.
The Melbourne critics were determined at last
accounts to give the beat possible support to the French
Theatre experiment.
The Only Leon and Billy Bent have been a great
draw for the “Kelly and Leon" Minstrels at St.
George’s Hall, Melbourne.
Madame Carandini had no less than four benefit
concerts in Hobart Town in course of last week—
tendered by admirers, of course.
Mr. Leake’s performance at the Queen’s, in that
sterling American drama, “ My Partner,” stamped him
as a man of great powers and a true artist.
Harry Simmonds made very little profit out of
his first managerial trip to Tasmania. As of old, the
prophet has no honour in his own country.
Maggie Oliver plays Cousin Joe in “ Rough
Diamond,” and Martha Bunn in “ Checkmate,” with
an amateur company in Windsor next week.
Cetewayo, the Zulu chief, who was being exhi-
bited at Nottingham, had to leave the town because of
his inclination for promenading the streets.
Townsville is remarkably fatal for theatrical
companies. There is either a dissolution of mar-
riage between one ot the parties, or a blow-up.
An engagement for the States has been offered
to Marinni, the great Italian dramatic primn donna, and
also to Novara, one of the best European bassi.
If it is really true that Ed. Righton, one of the
funniest comedians on the London stage, is coming to
the colonies, Marshall must look to his laurels.
“ Herr Steinbach,” formerly of Simonsen’s
opera company, and now a teacher of dancing in Hobart
Town, is engaged to a rich heiress in that lovely city.
Wo understand that Mr. Leake, the new
American actor, is a performer who frequently moves
his audience to tears. This is when he appeals to their
feelings.
Signor Branchi, Signor Paladini, and Signor
Riccordi, now of the Simonsen troupe, have been “ giv-
ing grand vocal treats, &c.,” to the Echuca and Sand-
hurst people.
Madame Carandini was assisted at her benefit in
Hobart Town by Mr. Fred Jolley, a young basso of great
merit, who fairly took the palm from the company’s
own profundo.
Madame Dufaur, of Belgium, has made a most
successful lUbut in “La Jnive” at Paris. Her perform-
ance gave promise of her reaching the highest pinnacle
of the lyric stage.
Miss Marian Willis is doing fair business at the
Academy of Music, Ballarat. Barry O’Neill, the
comique, appears during next week in “ the great moral
drama” of “ The Bottle.”
The Company, with Edwin Browne as star,
played as a Commonwealth in Newcastle. They are
coming back to Sydney the same way as the ii.iiimn.ln
went into the ark—two by two.
Harry Jackson, once so favourably known to
colonial playgoers in conjunction with Clias. Wilmott,
the late Jus. Bartlett, Rogers, &c., is one of the most
popular stage managers in London.
A grand singing contest took place recently in
Cologne, and was attended by a number of the vocalists
now competing in Dusseldorf, and who, in fact, were
easily spared, as not less than 237 sopranos, 253 altos,
123 tenors, and 190 basses, to say uothingof 88 juveniles,
were singiugaway. might and main, in the latter Rhenish
city—fortunately, at intervals.
The complimentary benefit to Fulton, who
arranged the bands’ contest, takes place at the School
of Arts on Friday. A good programme is prepared,
and there ought to be a good house.
We note from our Newcastle contemporary that
Miss Nellie Vivian was very popular in the Coally City,
and we trust to see her soon fulfilling an engagement on
the boards of a metropolitan theatre.
In Hobart Town dramatic criticism is combined
with stage furnishing. The same person fulfils both
duties in connection with the theatre in that city, and
the one is fulfilled about as well as the other.
An American critic says it is not a compliment
to the French national taste to reflect that the majority
of Parisian successes are the reverse of elevating in
their tone, if they are not decidedly immoral.
Wagner was recently compelled to quit Naples
for Pistoja, in consequence of the heat.* He has just
finished his new opera, “ Parsifal,” the story of which
is taken from the “ Decameron” of Bocaccio.
Mr. Daniel Bandmann lately informed Mr.
Alexander Thompson that he was the greatest actor in
the world. Alick adroitly changed the subject by
remarking that he’d take a bit of lemon in his.
The Hobart Town Herald spoke of an ac-
tress last week as “Miss Nellie Greenless, nde Mrs.
Russell.” Nellie laughed when she read it, and said it
occurred some years later, but she didn’t forget-it.
Lottie Wilmot continues to draw large audiences
to her Sunday evening lectures in Dunedin. The Free-
thought Association have, through their president, Mr.
Stout, denied that they have anything to do with her.
The best part of the late pecuniarily disastrous
engagement in London of John T. Raymond, “ America’s
greatest comedian,” was the farewell dinner given him
by the “pros.” with the genial J. L. Toole in the chair.
Creswick talks of coming to the colonies again.
No wonder when he can’t get on better London boards
than the Surrey. When art becomes toothless and
mumbles Strand managers say, “ Make room for new
blood.”
Only those who saw lovely Adelaide Neilaon in
her prime at Drury Lane about eight years ago, when
“Amy Robsart," “Rebecca," &c., were first produced
on a scale of magnificence never surpassed, can do her
memory justice.
One of the prettiest things in Offenbach’s “Pille
du Tambour Major ” is a march were the soldiers com-
ing down the different boulevards meet to sing it in
unison, while the strains of the “ Marsellaise" are heard
rising and falling at a distance.
Speaking of Bartley Campbell’s American drama,
“ My Partner,” as played by Mr. W. H. Leake on Satur-
day last, the S. M. Herald critic gays : “ Its author is
destined to fill a gaping void in the ranks of modern
dramatists.” A neat little eulogium.
The London Comedy Company have now played
at the Royal 210 nights, and have produced about a
dozen dramas. This is the tiptop dramatic success of
the colonies. The season ends with “ The Lancashire
Lass," and Opera commences on the 29th.
“Robert Macaire,” condensed to the limits of
a farce, and played at the People’s, Melbourne, last
week, was not a success, though Mr. Hall’s eccentrici-
ties were well received. Mr. Hall was to have a benefit
during the week, prior to leaving for Adelaide.
Lazar, Garner, and Goodman have had their
photos, taken in a group, in case the Duke of Man-
chester should get hungry to own a copy. If they had
been taken when they wore in the boat, fishing, “ what
a sight would then be there, my countrymen! ”
Senor Gayarre, the Spanish tenor so popular in
London, was in his youth a blacksmith at Pampeluna.
He is a homely man with a beautiful voice. For the
season at Covent Garden he gets £2500. There are no
great men who were not originally blacksmiths.
The wonderful boy-violinist D’Albert, who is
becoming so popular in England, is said to be, in spite
of his genius, a “ thorough boy, laughing, joking, up to
any fun.” But the moment he comes to the piano he
is like an Arab horse, with thrilling nerves and eyes
dilated.
The London police were recently greatly agitated
over the discovery of portions of a human skull in an
ash-pit attached to a well-known boarding house. The
house had long been popular with the leading theatricals.
Is it necessary to say whose skull it was ? “ Alas, poor
Yorick 1 "
“Our Boys,” translated into German, was
played in Adelaide recently by a German amateur com-
pany, and was an immense success. The points of the
play were preserved all through, and in many respects
the Gorman representation was a decided improvement
on the English.
One of the most charming evenings ever spent
at a theatre was in company with a dear old lady who
had never before seen a ballet. When the girls came on,
attired as usual in airy nothing, the old lady blushed,
and said in a loud whisper, “ Nasty things, they should
be whipped and sent to bed.”
Adelaide Neilson left most of her fortune to
Ad miral Glyn, to whom she was engaged to be married.
It is now said that the will is to be tested by Mr. Philip
Lee, who was divorced from Miss Neilson while in
America. The point is whether the English courts will
recognise the American divorce.
It is stated quite positively in a Leeds paper
that the real name of Lilian Adelaide Neilsen was
Elizabeth Ann Brown, and that her having been bom
at Saragossa, in Spain, of a Spanish father and an
English mother, is simply a fable. She was born in St.
Poter’s-square, Leeds, March 3, 1839.
Le Clair leaves for San Francisco to-day (Nov. 4),
and takes with him a new Australian drama, written
for him by an English author who is well acquainted
with the colonies. After a short tour in the States, Le
Clair intends paying a second visit to Germany, France
and England, and back again to Sydney.
Mrs. Fredericks, the charming wife of the
charming tenor, has. in the temporary absence of her
lord, taken the Carlisle Castle Hotel, in Newtown. There
is a rumour current in Newtown that when a lucky
mortal partakes of a “ long ’tin ” of her drawing, he goes
about all day with a halo round his head.
The London Musical World speaks of the
advantage of the use of gold in the construction of
musical instruments. Nothing equals it, if combined
with copper or silver, for ductility and power of vibra-
tion. An experiment was made in the use of gold wire
for the strings of the piano, with marked results.
Signorina Madolina Bartolomeotti’s performance
of little Emily in “ Good as Gold," at the Opera House,
lately, was a great success ; and we can safely predict
a brilliant career in the artistic profession she has
adopted. She would be, from her comeliness and in-
telligence, a valuable acquisition to any company.
The Alice Johns Dramatic Company have
finished their Hobart Town season quietly, and gone to
Launceston. Harry Power did not go with them, but
joined Lydia Howarde, who went through to New
Zealand by the Kingarooma, and caught up little Harry.
More power to them, and good success in Maori-laud.
Wagner is going to immolate himself. For the
breezy sum of £200.000 he will expatriate himself,
dwell in America for life —he is now 62—and devote all
his operatic talent to that country. The speculators
are doubtful. They think it will pay just as well to
get his body after death —besides, the cost will be much
less.
Miss Josephine Deakin, the charming songstress,
now with the Carandinis in Tasmania, returns to Syd-
ney in the course of a few weeks. Miss Deakin has
bouquets of compliments from all the press critics of
New Zealand, and it is to bo hoped the Sydney public will
have an opportunity of hearing her in concert or opera
here.
“ The Better Angel,” produced at the Bijou,
Melbourne, proved to be a very dull affair. Mr. Reeve,
Mrs. Lewis, Mr. Hans Phillips, Miss Constance and
Miss Alice Deorwyn, Mr. Daniels, and Mr. Joyce sus-
tained the principal parts in the drama, and played
excellently, but “The Better Angel" could not be pulled
through.
At the funeral of Adelaide Neilson a man, rough-
looking and dressed like a mechanic, was seen towards
the end forcing his way to the grave. No one could
seemingly stop him, and he finally burst his way right
to the inner circle; then he threw one rose on the coffin
and quietly, and determinedly as he had come, made his
way back. No one knew him.
Under the heading, “ The Great Event of 1880,”
“ M’Lean’s Grand Australian Juvenile English Comedy
and Comic-Opera Company, from the leading theatres
of Australia,” was announced in the American papers to
arrive from Sydney at San Francisco, 7th Oct. It was
described as “ the most wonderful organization of the
kind on earth.” We presume it is this earth that is
meant.
Mr. Joseph Knight, one of the ablest critics
connected with the London press, and who enjovs in a
remarkable degree the regard of all literary folk in
London, is the gentleman to whom Miss Neilson has
left £lOOO. Mr. Knight was the first to discern the
latent talents of the great actress. The next affair of
the kind will probably be a legacy for some of the
Bulletin people.
During the recent voyage of the steamer which
brought Grau’s French Opera Company from France to
America, a child was born to an emigrant. The event
was celebrated by a concert, at which Mdlle. Marie
Albert sang, and about £2O was realized for the benefit
of the mother. The artists of the Gran Troupe also gave
a concert for the benefit of the seamen of the vessel, and
this brought in about £l5.
Before Cole left ’Frisco with his circus, per Aus-
tralia, he was advertising in the American papers for
“ living human curiosities for the side show.” He was
also advertising for the best talent for his show, and
engaged to take and return performers to and from
Australia with first-class passages. The Australian
season was to last five mouths. We announced last
week the arrival of the circus in Australia.
Since the arrival of the shining Spurgeon and
the converting Campbell, it is the fashion to intermix
a certain amount of religious matter with everything
we say, or do, or think. A chosen disciple polka’d
gracefully into Coffee Palace No. 1, last week, and said
he’d take a grilled steak according to Matthew chap,
xxv. v. 21. Captain Hughes immediately ordered him
off to the “ dungin” cell, but the fiend explained he
wanted it “Well done, thou good and faithful ser-
vant.”
Kelly and Leon’s Minstrels opened at St.
George’s Hall, Melbourne, on 18th nit., and presented
an excellent programme to a crowded and enthusiastic
audience. The new end man, Sweatnam, is well liked;
his quaint fun grows upon the audience, and he is a
well-established favourite. Billy Bent, the prince of
comer men, is in excellent form, and his witticisms
catch the boys as of old. Leon’s make-up and acting
in the afterpiece has been the theme of universal
praise; and altogether the show is up to expectation.
Good houses all through.
A remarkable dramatic feat was recently accom-
plished in Munich,—not less than seven “ sample plays"
having been performed complete, and with splendid
scenery, at the principal theatre in the above capital,
within the period comprised between the 12th and the
21st of last month. Those “ samples ” included two of
Shakspeare’s (“ Macbeth ” and “ The Winter’s Tale "),
two of Goethe’s, and two of Schiller’s. The seventh was
the well-known German play, “ The Broken Pitcher.”
The house was each night crowded in all parts, and the
various roles were filled by eminent artistes.
Haidee Heller is assisting the celebrated con-
juror, Dr. Lynn, at the Piccadilly Hall, in London.
“ Sketch,” in a local, says :—“ This lady possesses the
gift of a second sight to a remarkable degree. Close
blind-folded she can describe every article that the
audience chooses to hand to Dr. Lynn. Not long ago,
when she was entertaining at the Aquarium, I endea-
voured to mystify her on three successive days with a
pocket aneroid, a copy of the ‘San Francisco News
Letter,’ and a photograph of a professional beauty, but
it was of no use. Each was accurately described to me,
and I gave it up in despair.
In a new piece in preparation at the Theatre des
Nations, Paris, called “ Les Nuits du Boulevard," is a
scene laid in a cabinet particulier at Brebant’s famous
restaurant, during which supper is served. The pro-
prietor of the house, which is so largely patronised by
artists and literary men, has written to M. Bollande,
the director, to tell him that he cannot allow anv paste-
board fowls or other mock eatables or potables to
appear on the table during the meal. “ When one sups
at Brebant’s, even on the stage, one must sup well,”
he says, and thereupon promises to send every night
during the performance of the new play “ a genuine
restaurant supper, which will be Served by his genuine
waiters with their genuine whiskers.”
At the People’s Theatre, Melbourne, “ The
Danites ” gave place to “ Ingomar ” and “ Robert
Macaire.” The house was crowded, and the perform-
ances were very successful. Miss Mayor played
Parthenia with sympathetic power, albeit a somewhat
overmarked fervidity of expression. This young lady
is brimful of dramatic talent, with an almost super-
abundance of dramatic energy. She must learn to
avoid that bugbear of the art—rant. Should she do so,
i she may achieve a distinctive place amongst her com-
peers. Hamilton gave a manly and not unpoetic pic-
ture of the barbarian, and the cast was otherwise
effective. As Jacques Strop and Robert Macaire re-
: spectively, J. L. Hall and J. J. Wallace were neces-
sarily in their element.
“Eureka,” an American drama by Fred.
Marsdcn, was produced by the Williamsons at the
! Melbourne Royal on 25th ult. The plot consists of a
string of wild absurdities, and the morale is decidedly
of color. The language is mediocre, and the witti-
cisms laboured and far-fetched. Stil the play contains
some effective situations, and being fairly acted all
round, it achieved a good Saturday night’s success.
Mrs. Williamson played a very negative character
with a charming abandon, whilst her husband enacted
a part somewhat resembling John Stoefel with finish
and marked characterisation. Little Edith Appleton
played a long and important part with a precocity
that bids fair for her future; and the remaining cha-
racters were well sustained. The author owes a great
deal of the success of the drama to the artistes en-
gaged, for rarely has the present company at the Royal
been seen to better advantage.
“Carmen ” has been produced in a very amusing
style in Hobart Town by semi-professionals. Kate
Harvey, a Launceston music teacher, played the heroine,
very much diluted from the real thing, singing the
music fairly with her light flexible soprano, but utterly
unable to cope with the dramatic demands of the part.
Harding, very hoarse, was the Don Josd, and Drayton
(late Donnithorne), who was still hoarser, the Escamillo,
this being understood as his natural condition now across
the straits. Eva Davenport was recognised best as
Michaela; and the cast, scenery, orchestra and chorus
—was chaos. H. E. Walton was the stage manager, and
the way he managed the lights was a caution to snakes.
Tou never knew when the darkness was coming on or
when day would break again. Carl Schmitt, late
musicicn extraordinaire to his Excellency Governor
Weld, was conductor, and rapped out his time loudly,
apparently to show how little his men would notice him.
The local cabbies were present in great force the first
night, and an extra supply of police had also been put
on by the superintendent, both sides thinking the opera
had something to do with the Jehus. They all left after
the first act, leaving their compliments “ and it was a
d .” “Carmen” soon collapsed under such
j conditions.
There is no hope for J. K. Emmet. His return
to professional duty was thus announced: —“J. K. Emmet
and company in “Fritz in Ireland,” were the attraction
with which Poole and Donnelly began the season in the
■ Grand Opera-house, New York, Aug. 23, and it proved
potent enough to crowd the auditorium throughout the
we. k. Mr. Emmet received a cordial greeting, and his
numerous songs were so frequently redemanded that it
seemed as if the spectators would never tiro of hearing
him sing.” Then a few days later came the following
significant lines;—“J. K Emmet lost his watch last
week. It cost about £lO, and bore this inscription:
‘Presented to J. K. Emmet. Feb. 11, 1870, by his
friends and admirers of St. Louis.” It is not likely
that some friend took it for safe keeping, as the gold
chain belonging to it was left.” Then came this item :
—“Again has J. K. Emmet fallen a victim to his love
of the bottle, and caused the temporary closure of the
Grand Opera-house, considerable loss to the manage-
ment, and serious disappointment to the public. Mr.
Emmet’s engagement has been cancelled i by the
management.” Following was the latest“ One
evening last week an assemblage of some two thousand
persons were dismissed from the Grand Opera house
because the star of the evening—who had frequently
disappointed the public—failed to keep his engagement,
not through sickness or accident, or failure of trains
to connect, but owing toj“eccentricities” which are fast
undermining his constitution and imperilling a profes-
sional reputation which, once lost, can never be
regained. Mr. J. K. Emmet is the party referred to.
We have counselled him in private against his erratic
course, and now publicly we inform him that he cannot
much longer he tolerated if he persists in his un
generous conduct to a people who have so long and so"
zealously given him their support. Managers must
protect their patrons, and guard them against
annoyances and disappointments.
When the trombone of the Petersham band
begins to get rusty the bandmaster rounds up the boys,
and they give someone a serenade. Frequently, how-
ever, this mark of their courtesy is, it would seem, but
indifferently appreciated. Not long ago they walked,
when the stars were gleaming above, to the house of an
influential resident, and commenced to bang away at a
“ selection ” which, in addition to being out of II
Trovatore,' was also out of tune. The clarionet was in
fine form, his high tones gaining an answer from every
cockatoo in the Blue Mountains, while the big drum,
who had recently had his waddy re-wash-leathered,fairly
surprised himself iu the thunder he sent booming over
the earth. They had played for about ten minutes
when a window above was opened and a night-capped
form made its appearance with great suddenness.
“ Good heavens ! what is the matter ?’’ called out the
object of the serenade. Then ho saw the band. “ Oh,
it’s you, is it,” he cried, “ I thought from the noise the
train had run off the line.” Then that band girded up
its instruments and slowly and sorrowfully departed.
This is not from the French. There is, in Par-
ramatta, a house in which dwell a good many choice
“ spirits.” Seances are held there every night, and
the occupants of the mansion consult the table upon
every action of their daily lives. Whatever the table
raps out (assisted by the foot of one of the family) they
do it; and it is our belief that even if that deal slab told
them to start a “comic” weekly placard that cost them
3d. each to produce, and sell them wholesale for a
farthing a copy, that they’d do it. What these people
howl for most, however, is “phenomena.” They are
always going into trances and tumbling down with
their heads on the fenders; and not unfrequently when
this amusement gets stale they sit down and write
“ poetry" under “ spiritualistic control.” This verse
has hot, up to the time of >going to press, made the
universe bark much, but it is awfully popular amongst
themselves. Thus, when “ Philip Da'e” uncoils her-
self to the tune of a couple of hundred couplets, “Bam"
is in ecstacies; and when “ Primmy Priman" roots up
the foundations of Parnassus, “Liryc” becomes hys-
terical with joy. “Liryc” himself has only to glue 16
lines together, with plenty of “ night" and “ light” and
“ love” and “ above" in it, and call it a “ Love Song,”
than “ More Leigh” immediately swoons upon his
“ weskit.” All this, however, palls in time, and, as I
have before remarked, these geniuses positively
shriek for new phenomena. Now it came to pass,
not long ago, that a parlor-maid having worn through
the tops of her knuckles by rapping out any grotesque
answers her imagination had for many months sug-
gested, left the spirit world and retired into the bosom
of her family, where she found unbounded sympathy
and arnica. A new girl took her place in due course,
and when she had been there a week or two her soul
hungered for a holiday. She asked for it —for that day
week—and was refused. Descending into the kitchen
she fell upon the cook’s nankeen breast, and sobbed as
though her heart would break; —for she was to have
gone with her “ young man" to a Baptist picnic at
Chowder—a gathering celebrated for the number and
delightful character of its festivities. But the cook
consoled her, and moreover whispered something
which had the effect of raising Jane Ann’s spirits to
that extent that her mirth soon bordered on the up-
roarious Next morning, when the
family were seated at breakfast, Jane entered with a
very pale face. “What’s the matter child?” cried
Bam. “ Oh, ma’am,” sobbed the girl, “such a strange
thing has happened ! As I came out of my room this
morning I met the coffee-pot walking upstairs." Then
a shriek of delight rent the air; everybody embraced.
Jane was declared a wonderful medium, and permission
for the holiday joyfully given A little later
in the kitchen the following conversation took place :
—Cook .- “So you got it, did 3-0 u?” Jane : “Yes, cook,
and thank you." Cook: “ Oh, it never fails. Last
time I wanted two days I shut master’s boots in the
warming-pan, and hid it in his 'lhe.v
were that pleased when I found the ‘ fenomena’ that 1
could have got a month if I’d wanted it 1” Wondrous
are the ways of the spirits!
At No. ‘I Coffee Palace there is a trim little
waitress who sports a white muslin bib, and a wery
large extent of silver-plated negligee and locket. _1 " e
latter appendage is a very costly ornament indeed,
being rather larger than a house-insurance plate, and
of very much the same design. Well, about half-past
seven the other evening, things being slack, she t rippf“
out to the kitchen and brought in some stewed eels,
fried potatoes, pickled walnuts, jam, custard pie, snliid,
butter, coffee and muffins, and having arranged. tnes«
choice viands on one of the little tables, and
all her favorite sauces in a crescent around her. sn
gave her lips an anticipatory smack, did the PJ’® 11 '?,'
nary clash with the knife and fork, and began. Harm
had she commenced to “wolf" the first square men •_
eels, when lo! the grey boy in buttons came stumping
iu, bearing his tea, which he set out on the same IIU ,
as the young lady. On this, a stony dumbness
to come over the bejewelled waitress, and sheffi o3 } „
gasped for breath. Then, directing a look at her .elio -
servant which, had he possessed ordinary sensxnuno,
must have pierced his brain, she gathered up her ee ,
and pickled walnuts, and custard pie, coffee, a
muffins, and carried them to the other end 01
Adieu, sweet Juliet, oh ! a fond adieu !
This mortal life is short, and we must part •
When gone from ns, thine absence all will rue’-
Thy voice will linger long in many a heart. ’
In many a heart thy voice will linger, and
Dark thoughts of hatred, too, Ofair Louise,
For Romeo, who so oft on thy white hand
Inflicted—lucky man!—a tender squeeze.
The goblet which thy ruby lips have drained
Historic shall remain, a sacred cup ;
And on the banquet o’er which thou hast reigned
No beery “super ” shall pretend to sup.
For these shall relics be—for e’er a joy
To other “ stars ” who strut upon the stage;
A mem’ry sweet of thee, dear Pomeroy—
A picture sweet upon the drama’s page!
And so, once more, adieu !—we wipe the tear—
The scalding tear—from off our cheek, and sigh ;
And as we sadly quaff a modest beer,
We wish thee, sweet Louise, a last good-bye!
PEPPER AND SALT.
Kelly, the murderer.—The Crown Prosecutor at
the trial of Kelly, iu his address to the jury, said the
notorious bushranger was not a hero, but a mean thief
who picked the pockets of men whom he had murdered’
He is shorn now, the thief, of his spurious glory.
And, fetter’d, the murderer lies in his cell;
While so surely approaches the end of the story—
The herald of vengeance—the funeral bell!
Aye ! the funeral bell, and the rope to come after.
And then the rough clutch of the hangman so dread
The unbreakable rope from the stout oaken rafter— '
A fall and a thud —and the ruffian is dead!
He has lived the vile life of the rogue and the liar;
His hands are imbrued with the blood of the brave ■
E’en from childhood an outcast,[a thief, and pariah— ’
His life has been ever the life of a knave I
The high heavens cry out on the crimes he’s committed;
The curses of widows are heaped on his head
And is this dire assassin a man to be pitied —
Forgiven the innocent blood that he’s shed ?
Oh, out on such “ sympathy ” ! Can we discover
One reason this brigand’s existence to save ?
Ho, indeed! for, in sooth, we should rather mourn over
Each poor murdered man who lies stork in his grave!
As he’s lived, let him die: a base wretch without feeling •
A bushel of quicklime is all that he’s worth !
Let the grave of a felon his corpse be concealing,—
And blot his name off from the face of the earth !
For he’s shorn now, the thief, of his spurious glory.
And, fetter’d, the murderer lies in his cell;
While so surely approaches the end of the story—
The herald of vengeance—the funeral bell!
Aye ! the funeral bell, and the rope to come after,
And then the rough clutch of the hangman so dread,
The unbreakable rope from the stout oaken rafter—
A fall and a thud—and the ruffian is dead I


room, her little muslin bib heaving with indignation.
And as she chasseed away, the unconscious boy added
insult to injury by innocently calling after her, “Don’t
move, Sarah Ann, you ain’t crowding me.” That boy’s
days in the Coffee Palace arc numbered, aud his dis-
missal will be a pleasing page in the history of “ stout-
hearted philanthropy.”
There was a rumpus the other uight in a sub-
urban hotel. The hostelrie iu question is kept by a
geutlemau inthe theatrical line and his wife—both very
popular and highly respected. Well, there was a gentle-
man hoarder in that house—a sporting person, whose
small ideas were, when not concentrated upon some-
body else’s horses, fixed upon somebody else’s dogs.
This sporting star, mistaking bonhommie for levity and
kindness for abandon, allowed his tongue to wag too
freely in regard to his hostess—a lady, be it said, of
lofty stature and muscular proportions. No sooner did
-the horsey hoarder’s words reach the ears of the lady
than she quietly awaited the return of the delinquent.
He came back about 12 at night, softly humming the
serenade from “Pinafore," and then the tribulation
began. When the bit of trouble was over, the sporting
party looked as though he had been doing a little
amateur wild-beast training, and had had a difference
with the tiger, while the castigatrix had not even
soiled the snow-white ruffling about her alabaster throat.
On the followingday the lady’s husband, havingheardof
the affair, sought out the libeller with the purpose of
also remonstrating, with a club accompaniment; but as
he found him—like Mr. Squeers—"a brown paper
parcel, chock full of nothing but groans,” ho left him
alone. There is a moral attached to this little story
which amateur slanderers will do well to lay to heart.
We have, however, no time this week to point it.
Garner and Goodman were drinking bottled
porter the other day, when Garner observed: “ Pass
the bottle, Goodman.” “Oh, no,” says Goodman,
■" look what a dead head it has.”
The Kurds have lately risen ; skimmed along to
few unprotected towns; churned the inhabitants into
pulp, and then appointed themselves sole proprietors.
That’s the whey the Kurds do business. They had better
cheese it.
At present the Young Men’s Evangelical troupe
are iu a fearful state to discover the quickest mode to
make the publicans close on Sunday. I have a certain
cure. Let the young men connected with the above
company patronise these pubs, iu such a style on
Saturday nights that the offending whisky dispensers
can afford to close on Sundays. Never thought of
that before, I suppose young men. Eh ?
The Congregational Union and Total Abstinence
'Society says : " The Union delegates ought to return
the cards to a dinner giver who places intoxicating
drinks right under their very noses." So they should.
It’s right down their throats the drink should go.
Anent Judge Hargrave’s remarks about the
"Press, the following may be interesting:—A fellow
was once brought up for “ cattle duffing,” and on being
asked ib he was ever in a court of justice
promptly replied, “ No, hit he’d often been before the
judges /” This was a masterpiece of policy on his part,
because, instead of getting a paltry three years he was
ladled out seven.
The mystic Sphinx looks regally down on the
■land where Harnesses built his temples and Cheops
raised up the marvellous Pyramid heights; whore
Cleopatra fought and Antony fled; hut who cares
for that. Our Captain Cook now looks proudly down
on a great big skittle-alley. Hecan watch all the games
and it never costs a cent. Surely this is fame.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. Mr. Spurgeon has bought for himself
a nice house near London, surrounded by extensive
grounds.
The Buddhists think their religion is much like
Christianity, and they believe both came from a simple
"faith ages ago.
The Pope has appropriated <£12,000 for a com-
plete and splendid edition of the works of St. Thomas
Aquinas, his favorite philosopher.
Buddhism in America ! Fifteen thousand copies
•of Pd win Arnold’s "Light of Asia” have been sold in
the States, a fact that indicates a longing on the part of
the people for a change from Christianity to Buddhism.
The creditors of Archbishop Purcell in America
'have Ciilled a meeting to prepare a statement of their
grievances to send to Romo, with the hope of interest-
ing the Pope in behalf of the diocesan debt of £700,000.
Revival madness ! At a late Ohio camp-meeting
‘the Rev. Mr. Harrison, the “ boy revivalist ” who made
such a. sensation in Talmage’s tabernacle recently,
prayed that “ the closing hours of the meeting might
put hell in consternation.”
A very excellent Urban cleric (not a champion
light weight), recently denounced from the pulpit—
apropos of Nebuchadnezzar’s pride—the selfishness of
closed pow doors; and the immodesty of tight skirts.
Let his motto be “pro pudor.”
Professor Coneba, the celebrated Waldensian
pastor from Florence, was to attend the Pau-Presby-
terian council at Philadelphia. The Professor is the
editor of La llivista Crisiiana, author of a history of the
Italian martyrs, about to be published, and is regarded
as the ablest man and leader in the Waldensian Church
in Italy.
Mr. Wishington Rivers, who made a stirring
.appeal to the Victorian people to form a Free Church of
Melbourne, has failed to get the necessary £16,000. He
has since projected a financial association, a purely
commercial affair, which is to have a capital and deben-
ture issue of .£2,000,000. The evangelist is no more
•successful in the second than in the first venture.
Presbyterians in Tasmania are once more at
loggerheads with respect to St. Andrew’s Church,
Hobart Town. The Synod propose to amalgamate it
with St. John’s Church, hut the St. Andrew’s congrega-
tion don’t like the pastor of St. John’s, the Rev. J.
Scott, who was on about the same terms with their late
pastor, Rev. John Storie, as a certain mythological
personage is supposed to be with holy water.
The Independent Catholic Church of New York,
of which encouraging reports have from time to time
been published iu some of the religions papers of Sydney,
has come to grief. Father Burke was arrested for
drunkenness while iu the company of Mrs. O’Connor,
wife of Father O’Connor, and was sent to prison. The
Independent Church declined to pay the fine of £l.
Father Burke told a reporter of the New Yore Mercury
that there was no encouragement for reformers, and he
would look out for a position as waiter.
The new translation of the Bible is a puzzler.
It is claimed that it follows the original Greek with
great literalness. The alterations in grammar and dic-
tion, and the excisions, are numerous. The severe
Saxon of the King James translation will be generally
preferred to the Victorian revision. In the new version
the whole of the exquisite and telling story of the
woman caught iu impropriety, and the admonition of
the Master, “ Go, and sin no more,” is cut out. Well, a
diamond has been thrown away by the revisionary com-
mittee.
The Australasian gives expression in its last
issue to similar ideas as The Bulletin did on the same
day, with regard to clerical journalists of a certain type.
Our contemporary says : “We think we are only stating
a fact when we say that the estimate in which religious
newspapers are held by men of the world is, as a rule, an
exceedingly low one, and a close acquaintance with the
standards of taste and morality exhibited by those
remarkable products of journalism does not at all tend
to raise this estimate.” The Australasian then pro-
ceeds to deal with an article in the Catholic Presby-
terian, on “ The Perils and Difficulties of Colonial
Christianity,” in which the Melbourne Press is con-
demned as exhibiting a spirit bitterly hostile to
Christianity. This is written by the Rev. A. F. Douglas,
in the face of the fact —recognised and specially referred
to by the Bishop of Melbourne —that the Melbourne
papers have given longer and abler reports of religious
addresses than any other secular journals in Australia or
in England. The whole affair is another instance of the
wretched feeling that usually guides the clerical pen.
Religious prints—nowhere more so than in Sydney—
instead of breathing the spirit of charity, have for years
been the vehicles of hate. What secular journalists
have rejected as pernicious or spiteful has always been
welcome to Christian columns. The clerical gentlemen
thus loosen the ground on which they stand. What
wonder is it that it should he slipping from beneath
their feet!
MELBOURNE SOCIETY & FASHION.
The city is very gay in anticipation of the races,
the innumerable halls and parties, and the fashion-
able weddings that are to take place next month.
The first excitement about the Exhibition has
cooled down, and we are becoming resigned to the final
decree in the matter of not opening the building at
night.
I believe there is some idea of forming a
registry where the fashionable world can register their
entertainments, and thus avoid the unpleasantness of
issuing cards for the same evening.
The shop windows just now are the admiration
of everyone. Messrs. Mowbray, Rowan and Hicks, of
Collins-street, bear the palm for their magnificent dis-
play of silk and brocade. All the softest imaginable
shades of colour are here assembled, and it would cost
the strongest-minded of our sex a pang to withstand
their fascination.
The first performance of the Austrian band
drew a fashionable gathering to Flemington. Most
of the ladies wore light gay colours, rivalling the
costumes usually seen on Cup day. There seemed to
be a great prevalence of the colors known as “old
gold,” and heliotrope of different shades, which are
worn alike by blonde and brunette.
The return ball to the Mayor was held in the
Town Hall on the 25th instant, and was a brilliant
success. Mrs. Mowbray danced with Mr. Berry in the
opening quadrille, and we all thought this somewhat
infra dig. after the snubbing her husband had so lately
received at his hands; and the wonder grows that Mr.
Mowbray countenanced the affair and danced with Mrs.
Berry.
On the same date Mrs. W. B. Jones, of Mal-
vern, gave a garden party, at which the officers of the
warships were present. The weather was cold and
showery, but nevertheless the guests engaged in lawn
tennis and other outdoor games. The company re-
mained to t ea, and a band being provided dancing
then ensued, followed by a sumptuous champagne
supper.
I wonder if there will be many aspirants for
Civil Service and matriculation distinction now that it
is publicly asserted that our Premier’s son is a young
person of “ known ability,” in spite of his having been
plucked at the examinations which legally precede
Civil Service promotion. “ Known ability ” in the
dunce of the family has had very odd development
even in my experience.
Last week Messrs. Alston and Brown, also of
Collins-street, issued elegantly-printed cards to their
customers, intimating that, in anticipation of the
V.E.C. Meeting, their summer stock would be opened
for inspection on Tuesday, October 26, inviting their
patronage. A visit quite repaid one’s curiosity. The
show-room was prettily decorated with pot plants and
ferns, and the display of feathers, flowers, bonnets,
mantles and costumes, was profuse.
Just now all the men aie mad about horse-
racing. It is astonishing how everything now-a-days
savours of gambling. T on would hardly credit a hard-
worked music-teacher with the following conundrum,
which he assured me was the correct tip for the Cup.
I leave you to pass judgment. “ Domestic strife and
poverty constitute Jones’ surroundings—how does he
manage during Cup week to establish harmony ? —He
has to B sharp and get on to A fiat in order to see D—
the winner or the Melbourne Cup.
An amateur theatrical entertainment was given
on the 22nd October, at Dr. Blair’s, in Collins-street.
The pieces selected were “ The Serious Family ”
and "Popping the Question,” iu which a number
of ladies and gentlemen well-known in Melbourne
took part, and displayed great ability. The gentle-
man who took the part of Aminadab Sleek in
"The Serious Family" is a well-known amateur actor.
He is unusually handsome, and it is much to his credit
to say that no one would have recognised him in his
"make up" as Sleek. Lady Sowerby Creamly found
an excellent representative in a young lady known iu
musical circles, and the reigning belle of Melbourne
looked charmingly demure as Mrs. Charles Torrens.
In the afterpiece, the daughters of a well-known police
magistrate appeared to great advantage, and caused
much amusement by their clever rendering of the
characters of two maiden ladies. Private theatricals
have become quite an “ institution” in this city, and I
think they are productive of much good, provided the
plays selected give some scope for the education of
intelligent understanding.
Mrs. Joseph Clarke’s ball was also held in the
Town Hall, on the 27th instant. There were over 500
invitations issued, and the guests were requested to
present their cards of invite on entering. It has been
found necessary to adopt this plan to x>revent the hor-
ribly mean practice of uninvited attendance at our
private assemblies. Mrs. Clarke also makes it a rule,
understand, only to invite people with whom she is
personally acquainted, an example which might be
imitated with advantage by many of the Melbourne
ladies, for it is so frequently remarked that the hostess
has to be presented to her guests. This is a usual
occurrence in the salons at home and abroad, but iu the
colonies, I think, restriction is advisable. The dress
of the evening was worn by Mrs. England. It con-
sisted of a vest and petticoat of white satin, most
elaborately embroidered in steel, a red silk bodice
edged with a deep fringe of steel, and a train of red
silk let in from the back of the bodice, and trimmed
with'red roses. A wreath of rod flowers was worn
round the head. Another remarkable and costly dress
was worn by Mrs. Greenland, composed of white
satis, heavily and beautifully trimmed with white
jet. Mrs. Clarke wore green satin trimmed with
damassc, and Mrs Malleson appeared iu a pale shade of
amber satin, most beautifully made, whilst the belle of
the evening wore salmon-colored silk and a most be-
coming wreath round her dark-brown hair, which made
her look charming enough to captivate the most im-
pervious heart.
There was an immense audience at the Lieder-
tafel concert. A space in front of the hall, and imme-
diately in the centre, was reserved for the Governor and
Lady Normanhy, and for the guests of the society,
among whom 1 noticed Sir J. H. Lefrov, the new
Governor of Tasmania, Lady Lefroy, and Miss Lefroy.
His Excellency is an elderly man, somewhat thin and
weather-beaten. Lady Lefroy wore a very handsome
black satin dress, trimmed profusely with white lace,
and a white mob cap, with red poppies in it. Miss
Lefroy wore black silk, with a black lace body, cut
square, back and front, and long lace sleeves. In her
light-brown hair some natural flowers were prettily ar-
ranged. The Lefroys left Melbourne for Tasmania next
morning, in the Rotomahana. Amongst the rest of the
guests, I noticed the Commodore and the officers of the
different war-vessels, the Foreign Commissioners to
the Exhibition, the worthy Secretary to the Commis-
sion and his charming wife, Lady Stawell and her
daughter. Sir George and Lady Verdoh, and Sir John
O’Shanassy and his daughter. The programme was a
long one, the principal interest of the evening centre-
ing in Miss Kate Slattery, a young lady from your
quarter of the world, whose manner and appearance are
prepossessing, and her voice exquisite. Her dress was
the subject of much admiration, being made of pale-
blue satin d la Prineesse, the skirt gracefully draped
with white lace pulling and quilting, and a long puffed
train.
"VICTORIA."
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[By THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Garnet Walch has gone the way of all literary
flesh, and has filed his schedule. This time Garnet is
in earnest, and there will be no libel action against the
Evening News. It is stated that "Victoria in 1880 "
will be dedicated to the Honorable the Commissioner
for Insolvency. The work will be out at Christmas,
and is to be published as a Souvenir de Noel.
Some ladies affect very striking colours when
on the Exhibition promenade. Is this a leap-year at-
traction ? Two ladies of the Oriental school of beauty
passed a " Child of the Sun ” the other day. They
were dressed in extremely bright amber-yellow dresses,
and flitted abont like fire-flies in now harness. The co-
terie of foreign pianists, entrepeneurs and agents who
take up a stand every afternoon under the dome, seems
to form the rallying-point for yonng ladies in quest of a
cavalier to do the Exhibition with.
The wealth and beauty of the Australias is
pouring into Melbourne, the pivot without doubt being
the Corltou Gardens. Strange people throng the
streets and fill the show places—the greenhorn, the
“ old colonist,” the boulevardier, and the “furriner"
pass on with the busy crowd. The Exhibition lounger
who takes up a position under the c ome cannot
grumble for lack of novelty. Note : Every second man
you meet is either a lounger or a “ special correspon-
dent ” ; the man who comes to “ see the Exhibition " is
a phenomenon.
The “Hell and the Devil” controversy has
reached Melbourne. OnthoSlth inst. (Hospital Sunday)
the Rev. Dr. Jacobson, the chief Rabbi of Victoria, took
the opportunity of informing his congregation that there
“ is no such person ” as the Devil (what will Mrs. Gamp-
Begg say to this ?). The learned Doctor also said, that
“hell will be the hell sinners take with them on
departing from this earth.” These words should bring
relief to many of our readers ; for it is clear if the Devil
can’t get his Jew, it is not likely he will satisfy himself
with a melancholy Christian.
What is the Melbourne Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals doing ? For we axe threat-
ened once more with the ** Juvenile Pinafore ” at the
Bijou. The owner of the over-strained horse is severely
punished, but the speculator who deals in the lives and
souls of little children is allowed to pursue his ques-
tionable trade unheeded. Q. B. W. and his dark-eyed
wife may no doubt be the kindest of people, and may
no doubt treat their little charges to ratafia cakes and
wine behind the scenes; but human nature revolts at
the misapplication of talents, as evidenced in the muti-
lated career of those bijou beings, “Tiny Amy” and
“ Baby Flora.”
Under the cumbrous title of the New Novelty
Theatre, the old Polytechnic is to be re-opened on
Saturday uight. The first novelty will be the introduc-
tion of a French Comedy Company. Rumour speaks
well of the artistes of the troupe; but who in Mel-
bourne, excepting, perhaps, Mr. Catey and a few French
Commissioners, is there to appreciate the elegance of
the French school of acting P Sara Bernhardt, who
has given the tone to the modem French stage, has
many admirers amongst the French Commission at the
Exhibition. Every other Monsieur one meets bears
her carte-de-visite and autograph in a cherished comer
of his pocket-book.
Some of the paintings in the Exhibition Picture
Galleries have been localised. The portrait of Othello
in the Italian court bears a striking resemblance to
Henderson Africanus. A head in the German collec-
tion, having a sotted, woe-begoue, dissipated appearance,
is said to resemble the great Munro, who banged the
Sergeant of the Temperance bar about with Miram’s
umbrella. Another picture, the subject of which is a
child scratched by a cat, is typical of the early life of
our Graham, who, like those other great men, Galileo
and the lamp, and Newtou and the apple, observes in
the scratch on his arm the germs of the great prin-
ciples of Protection.
Monsieur Jules Joubert thinks of letting out the
New South Wales sleeping cars to those strangers who
can't get a bed in the city, the proceeds to be devoted
to a fund called “ The Berry Sustainer Fund,” formed
for the purpose of upholding the Berry power in the
colony of Victoria, and thereby, indirectly, promoting
the welfare of the other Australian colonies. Monsieur
Jules reports that the cars have already become a
fashionable resort. The other day, on entering the
Pullman with some ladies, the worthy Franco-Australian
came across two yonng Melbourne worthies of varied
sexes whispering some words of love. He informed
them politely that “ rummance was out ov place in zee
mayshinnery hall," and " zat zey can get zumrummance
somesing else at Pickersgill’s counter.”
A gay adventurer from Victoria has just been
bowled out. He was great iu the athletic line, and those
amateur athletes do get such grand introductions.
“By-and-hye” he engaged himself to the eldest of
three daughters in a wealthy Sydney family. The
mater went on the track to ascertain his prospects.
“No funds” was the reply. “No marriage at Christ-
mas, then,” said mamma. “ Mv dear girl, you must fall
back on pudding.” Still the adventurer is around.
A Friend writes : “ While in America recently,
I visited a popular watering place. I can recall the ap-
pearance of a young married lady—a lady admitted to
society in Philadelphia—as she came from her bath-
room, one noon, at Cape May. She had on the regula-
tion stage tights, from her waist down, and the body of
her dress fitted her as closely as the legs, while her
head was adorned with a skull cap of loud color and
trimmings, making her altogether an object to startle
the most experienced roue. She left nothing whatever
to the imagination. She was less clothed than was ever
the Menken as “ Mazeppa;” yet there was no blush on
her cheek as she gave her naked arm to the man—not
her husband —who went with her into the intimacy of
the surf. This lady would have shuddered at the more
thought of raising her dress above her knee to cross
the street, but she had no shame in going almost nude
into the presence of hundreds of men, women, and chil-
dren, doing her \itmost, by her manner and the ar-
rangement of the little she had on, to advertise her
boldness.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Breakfast caps grow in favour.
All outdoor dresses are made short.
The Pilgrim suit originated in England.
Jersey costumes will be worn next month.
Pompadour silks are growing in popular favor.
With women friendship ends when rivalry
begins.
A lover is loved most, a wife best, a mother
always.
The Jersey corsage has never found favor in
Paris.
White evening bonnets will be as fashionable as
ever.
It is admissible to go anywhere now with a short
dress.
Beaded silk jerseys will be worn in the early
autumn.
A room hung with pictures is a room hung with
thoughts.
Side combs of shell, jet, coral, and ivory are
used again.
The daughter of a Port Jackson pilot is spoken
of as a rare beauty.
Very small bonnets worn on the back of the head
are again iu vogue.
Buttons on boots worn with fancy costumes
match those on the suit.
Petticoats are made wider, to fill the fuller skirts
of the dresses now worn.
Public taste in Paris runs to the revival of
directory styles of dress.
The fashions of England and France have little
in common at the present time.
Evening dresses are worn at the moment in Paris
with high necks and short sleeves.
She sang, “ Give me my tuneful lyre,” and
some one handed her the evening paper.
Natural or very fine artificial flowers are worn in
the hair to match those worn in the corsage.
The fashionable evening color takes the name
of Ophelia ; it is a dark shade of heliotrope.
The naval officers attended parties at Melbourne
in uniform; but in Sydney they wore plain clothes.
An old maid, speaking of marriage, says it’s
like any other disease —while there is life there is hope.
When Ashmead-Bartlett married the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, people said he was well off. No
mother-in-law.
The bridal veil worn by the Princess Stephanie
at her marriage with the Archduke Rodolph was 13ft long
and 10ft wide, and cost £lOOO.
“ How shall we get the young men to church r”
is the title of an article in a religions weekly. Get the
girls to go, sainted brother, gets the girls to go.
The pull-back is not perfection unless it pre-
vents your tieing your shoe, as was the case with a
lady in a fashionable shop in Qeorge-street last week.
Although the Queen has forbidden the fringe to
he worn in her drawing-room, Townsville girls mind her
not, and the fluffy hair on the forehead is more worn
than ever.
It is becoming fashionable in the Protestant
church of Townsville for ladies to faint during the
morning and evening services. There is a handsome
verger there.
In Melbourne now —at least it would so appear
from the photographers’ show-cases—whenever a very
ugly woman goes to have her portrait taken, she sits
with a cockatoo perched on her finger.
A gentleman connected with the Bank of
Victoria, who for many years resided in Castlomaine,
and left on being appointed manager, is said to have
come into a fortune of £lOO,OOO by his wife.
“ How can I tell the sort of parasol you re-
quire ?” the tradesman was heard remarking to Miss
Wa , “when you do not give the shade.” “ Silly
man! I expect the parasol to do that,” was the reply.
At a social reunion a few evenings ago, the
question was asked: "Of what sort of fruit does n.
quarrelsome man and wife remind you ?" The young
lady who promptly answered “ A prickly pear ” got the
medal.
The Townsville Hospital committee remarked
the other day that there were three times as many single
women engaged in the institution as there were married
ones. And can’t a secretary wear curly hair without
being called to account for it ?
A Sydney dentist has much to answer for. He
told a patient his tooth was affected with “ nodular cal-
cification of the pulp.” 'The patient committed sui-
cide. He left a note to his wife saying he didn’t want
to live on aud give it to her and the children.
Queen Isabella is, in many respects, a remark-
able woman, and not nearly as ignorant as she is often
said to be. She is also "a jolly good fellow," and does
not allow her exile and other troubles to weigh upon
her mind. A good joke tickles the royal lady im-
mensely. She laughs herself into breathlessness, and
jolly tears roll down her cheeks.
Madame S. having just buried her husband is
inconsolable, and passes from one hysterical fit to
another. “ Come, come, my dear," says a sympathiz-
ing friend; “ cheer up—don’t give way to your grief
—make an effort.” “I shall not sink,” replies the
tearful widow; “ but you know what my poor nerves are
—the least little thing upsets them!”
Newly-married husband (jocularly): “ Well,
dear, if there is a smash ®n the line, you’re well pro-
vided for. I’ve made my will, you know.” Newly-
married wife (playfully); “Yes, love; but don’t you
think you’d better run and get an insurance ticket for
the largest amount you can ? It would be so handy to
buy the mourning; black always did become me so.
He softly kissed his sleeping wife.
Then with a lingering look
Of fond affection, straightway wont
And kissed her pretty cook.
Alas for him, the gentle wife
He thought asleep was not:
And for her cook and hubby, too.
She made it ifiighty hot.
. Female block-walkers are a feature of Mel-
bourne They illustrate Shakespeare admirably—to
wit—“ God gave you one face aud you make yourselves
another,” &c., &c. And the most pronounced and most
regular* are two young ladies recognisable as being
auburn as to their hair, aquiline as to their features,
demure as to their looks, and tightly-fitting as to their
dresses —they are simply “fetching,” and have
“sugar”—for they are allied to that fraternity which
revels in interest.
We have got a cradle in the house,
And we have something in it,
A freokish, wayward, winsome bairn,
Not bigger than a minute.
We have got n despot on a throne.
Reclining like a kinglet.
For wo have a cradle in our house,
Aud we have something in it.
Guizot, in a letter, lately published, to one of
his children, tells how, on his first visit to Windsor
Castle, he lost his way, and opened a wrongdoer, and
beheld for a moment a lady having her hair brushed.
The next day the queen (for it was she) joked him
about it, and he says : “ I ended by asking her leave, if
ever I write my memoirs, like Sully or St. Simon, to
mention how at midnigh: I opened the door of the
Queen of England! She gave permission, laughing
merrily.”
Numerous are the coquetries in American cities
by means of which shapely feet are displayed with pro-
priety. It is a sentimental custom just now for young
men to right their uanies—and something soft —on t he
soles of the girls’ shoes—novel autograph albums. The
girl grasps something—sometimes the young man’s
shoulder—to steady herself, and coyly holds her foot
bottom upward, while he squats and tickles her sole
with the point of his pencil. The writing wears off in
an evening, aud the shoe is than ready for the next fel-
low.
Miss Ada Williamson, a young lady residing at
Belmont, was discovered by her friends in a kneeling
posture, dead, beside the bed on which her father hod
lately died.
The rippling waters of the moon-lit lake
Reflected every star that gleamed on high;
The whispering night winds gentle echoes wake,
And feathery clouds sail o’er the gleaming sky.
Soft glinting in upon a lofty room
The moonbeams cast around their silver sheen.
And throw a ghostly radiance ’midst the gloom
That should enshroud a sad and harrowing scene!
There stands a couch that is unoccupied,
Aud one that weirdly looms out iu the night,
And kneeling down that empt-y couch beside,
The light reveals a figure clothed in white.
The long hours pass, aud still that form is there;
The night winds sigh, aud still it moveth not;
Recumbent in the attitude of prayer,
It seemeth all the world to have forgot.
At length the orb of night has sailed on high,
Aud gleams down full upon that face so pale.
Whose features, set so calm and fixedly,
Tell of themselves the melancholy tale !
For by the bed on which her father died
The sweet maid’s spirit up aloft doth soar;
Aud in bright heaven there shall she abide
With kindred augels e’en for evermore!
George Milner Stephen doesn’t take in Mel-
bourne. Miracles, Spiritualism, and such like bunkum,
are played out iu the Queen City. However, we have had
handed to us the following effusion concerning George
Milner written by an admirer, signing himself Mercy
Zoftzope, who swears by the “ miraclist; ” it swings as
follows:
Manners calm and temper even,
Friendships bring to Milner Stephen.
No thunder-dint or flashing levin.
But small still voice hath Milner Stephen.
Sunset pure on still Loch Leveu,
Types the soul of Milner Stephen.
Love with strength his world to weave in,
God created Milner Stephen.
Jew ! that Christ cannot believe in,
Hail Messiah iu Milner Stephen.
Buddhist! glad to make earth Heaven,
Link thy soul with Milner Stephen.
Angel-face had Martyr Stephen,
Sernph-power hath Milner Stephen.
Milo, caught in oak just riven,
Loos’d had sprung, if touch’d by Stephen.
Sage and Saint, to whom is given.
Wisdom’s torch, bow down to Stephen.
One of the Children of the Sun thinks that George
Milner must have made Mercy a “ perfect cure.”


Public Companies
C
OMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
SYDNEY.
OP
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T, A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales. —Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba* Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannon bar, Carcoar, Casino, Chats worth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamuu-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kinma, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Qnirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tiunbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wiloannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ot South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand,
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool ; The Liverpool Union Bank,
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland : The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : 1 The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LL O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
318 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accept FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
TO LADIES.
JJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO - BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6 ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW'S
JQO YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
X\o YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OR FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
D
D
O YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From beat Makers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
0 YOU WANT Charming 1 REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
O YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PARASOLS ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
|0 YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PRESENT ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
D
0 YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TYO YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLAES ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT a Stylish SCARF, TIE,
or BOW ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY P
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OYEECOAT ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TkO YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TEA YELLING BAG?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILOES and HABIT MAKEES in
the CITY?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW.
George-street.
Public Companies
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, Eso
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
< Vincent Wauostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Redfern | Glebe.
London Office — 18 King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
IHE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS ;
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A, Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England l ,
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIREC TO E S*
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddingtou, Esq. ] Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: j SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, uot of chance, hut of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.'
The Commercial World (Loudon) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
YHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. ( E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
lON FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Limited.
Chief Office—o, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in-
to wn and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager,
REMOVED TO 8S ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-atreet),
B.
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
B,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street)
BLAC K E T AND DAYY,
119 BATHURST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangye Beos., Birmingham.
tzj fc
O OJ
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
/M
N
m
*
$
m
unadulterated
BAK/NC POWDER
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MANUFACTURED BY W. DAVHS& C? COULBURN.N.S W
CL
Mm
GEORGE BARR,
I
■
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANTJFACTORi’ —bill ujoxaeET.
yyr P. WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian,
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blind,


Business Announcements
EALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
m
&
%
as
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
hare gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
B. M O D I N I,
• GUNMAKER AMD CUTLER,
602 Gkoboe Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
c
RICKET SEASON 1 8 80-8 1.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
9
■o
a
£
ft
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, Gaorge-street.
R
A T
I N T I If
Of Every Description
REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax),
Also,
i*Relishing office of *• the bulletin.'
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and AEIELL were awarded two First
Frizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
m tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of I|, 2,3,
and 6$ cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
843, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
QHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. churchwood.
• 147 YORK STREET.
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins. 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
IF YOU WANT
A Cup of
REALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TAEPING
MIXTURE.
;
PACKED INTO 1-ib AND -i-lb PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William-street.
R. S, TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
GO U N D R Y * S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry's Consolidated ,or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabal, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2ind Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To bo obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
CLAEKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
(Opposite Cpnrt-honse),
DAEIIN6HUEST,
WH. A R I E
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
313 and 345 Kent-stkekt, neah King-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingbam & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Tciletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
F
LOUR
SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
qnality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZENA FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
f AMES PE M ELL AND CO.
} VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS.
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAR THE HAT MARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH. SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds <<
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard, W
Cow Meal, Whole aud Cracked Corn, Barley, Oats, 2
, Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff, S
*■sl Potatoes, &c. 1 •
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRlZES—Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS cau be bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blaef
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
left
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, aud Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOR GAS OR
KEROSENE,
o*o
W\\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS. Ac.,
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
Tobacconists
The genuine
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising’ Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co,,
Richmond. Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
m
Sf
Manufactured by
T. SAY W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
JAMES EVE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
rjp HO S. J. SOWN &
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
C 0.,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
I
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
v ■-
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price Listi-
ng. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6,
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTABD-LANB, BTDNET.


“ ARCADIA.”
NO MOSQUITOES!
NO HOT NIGHTS I!
MOUNT VICTORIA.
VILLA SITES.
The only opportunity of securing a “small morsel”
on the “ PINNACULAR ” ELYSIUM of Australia.
Excursion train leaves Sydney at 7 a.m. on day of sale.
STUBBS and CO. will sell by auction, at the
Imperial Hotel, on SATURDAY, 6th November,
at 12 noon,
That small hut select portion, divided into a few
building plots, upon which the primeval'
FOREST TREES have been, with judicious,
taste, carefully preserved.
It is the most central spot in this MOUNTAIN
VILLAGE, now becoming more generally known to
tourists; and since the accession of a NEW HOST to.
the chief hotel stands pre-eminent ns a resort even to-
distinguished travellers.
An advertisement precludes the possibility of doing
justice to this EAVOURED ELEVATION, which is
known to many “ gaspers ’ ’ of these low lauds through the
warm season,' who attest the benefit experienced by
brief sojourn on this “ ALPINE PEAK.”
6500 FEET ABOVE SYDNEY.
Lithographs at Rooms.
Torrens’ title.
|HE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 6;d per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at Is lid
each.
See the Bon Marche Wool Beiges at s£d, 7j'd, OJdper
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, and
seasonable goods in our windows—
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to.
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
06 KING STREET.
ON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of tli*.
Bon Marche is due to the following statements
First. —All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on Loudon prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marchd of the Southern Hemisphere.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beau-
tiful MILLINERY BONNETS from 12a 6d, MIL-
LINERY HATS from is lid, CHILDREN’S COS-
TUMES from 6s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d,
Ladies’ Corsets from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from 41d per pair, Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves,
Fischus, Baby-linen, Underclothing &c., cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to-
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
66 KING STREET.
TCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT.
Importer of Paperhanginge,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Orates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STKEET, SYDNEY.
M
URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
lf»w and Boiled Oils
lirushware
Kerosene Oil ,
Colours for House a® 1
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled) ,
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil •
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City ° r
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
jyj’ ELBOURNE EXHIBITI 0 N
A good opportunity now presents itself to
one of the oldest -established Book and Stationery msj
nesses in the best and most central position m
bourne, well-known in Victoria and adjacent co o
as MUSKETT’S, 78 BOURKE ST., BAST, nearlj
site Theatre Royal. The proprietor being
retiring from business as early as possible, wm
with any intending purchaser on favorable
Address, as above.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
————^P—
m
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
Up
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1870.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN EAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A 00.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
T THE EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
THE FAMOUS AUSTRIAN BENT-WOOD FURNI-
TURE.
Dining Chairs, Children’s Chairs, Folding Chairs,
Lounges, Office Stools, Extending Leg-rest Chairs,
Carving Chairs, Shop Chairs, Couches, Rocking
Chairs, Music Stools, Arm-chairs, Footstools, and
Library Chairs.
COMPLETE SUITES, from £6 14s 6d.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, OUR OWN MAKE,
£G 10s, £7 10s, £ll 10s, £l4 10s, £l6 10s, £l9, £2O,
£22, £23, £25, £3O, and £47 10s, samples of which
are now on view.
Haircloth Suites, 9 articles, from £lllos.
Japanese Blinds all Sizes and Prices.
VISIT THE SHOWROOMS.
VISIT THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
Fresh Goods every week. New Arrivals. Constant
Alterations. Houses furnished throughout from £l5.
Any single article may be had at list prices. Goods for
the country packed with the greatest care.
When yon come, do not fail to ask for one of the
HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDES. They contain full
information, and may be had free of charge.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
420 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
S T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
[Legal.]
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHEE,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t, m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
MACLEOD,
POETEAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURSE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
G.
AND S. PEEDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Steeet.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
TCTOWLEE’S POTTEEY
AND
BRICK WOEKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
CWOODFOED AND CO.,
• (Feom London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gas fitters.
R
OBEET BUTCHEE &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
COUNTKT OEDBES RECEIVE PEOMPT ATTENTION.
O
N,
Em a s
• DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STEEET (near Kiug-st.)
M
E. AND MES. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
NOTICE.— I beg to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
SONS’
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, BOYLE and HOGG.
B
BINS MEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
"OHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
SONS’
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
ROWING BROTHERS’ TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MASKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
COWING BROTHERS,
MEN’S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, See.,
Trading under the names of
GOWING BEOTHEES, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court;,
AND
J. E. GOWING, 332 George Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BEOTHEES’ SILK UMBEELLAS are unrivalled FOE PEICE AND QUALITY.
GOWING BEOTHEES’ 3s. lid. Military Front SHIETS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very best value in the Sydney market.
FUN AND FANCY.
Is a nightgown a napsac ?
Suited to a tea—A good appetite.
The sun is the oldest settlor in the west.
A broken tumbler —An insolvent acrobat.
Even burglars think a safe robbery a danger.
Never snore in church, you make wake some
person.
A burden the hand is worth two on the con-
science.
Large much-room garden hats are all the rage
at Stanmore!
Better to have loved a short girl than never to
have loved a tall.
Can a thing that is baleful be a blessing P Yes,
a baleful of wool.
Of all the birds that please us with their lays
the hen is the most popular.
The young lady’s dress will prove to be a miss-
fit in spite of the dressmaker.
Look not upon the wine when it is red, lest it
cast a reflection upon yonr nose.
“ I go through my work,” said the needle.
“ Not till you’re pushed,” said the boy.
He left .£5OO to the friend who ran away with
his wife. He said he never did forget a favour.
After all it was a girl, not a boy, who “ stood
on the burning deck.” . Wasn’t her name Cassie B.
Ancia ?
A lady who presented her husband with twins
insisted on the census-taker calling again to make a
correction.
“ You’re drunk ; now move on,” said the police-
man. “ No, no; you’re sober,” replied the inebriate,
“You go first.”
They have been buried for thousands of years
in the Egyptian catacombs, and yet every baby knows
its own mummy.
There are two distinct kinds of boys in the
world—the human boy and the boy that exists in Sun-
day School hooks.
Church choirs are put at the back ends of
churches to accommodate the timid worshippers who
cannot face the music.
Scene at the Baths :—Bather —“ Mr. Levi, I feel
awfully cold.’ ’ Mr. Levi—“ Cold ? Can’t I shell you a
beautiful vinter overcoat ?”
It was a Hyde Park lecturer who solemnly said
one evening, “ Parents, yon may have children : or, if
not, yonr daughters may have.”
The other day Lottie Wilmot, hearing it said
t hat matches were made in heaven, remarked that she
didn’t care a fig how soon she went there.
There is one Melbourne man whose cook is very
pretty and nice, and yet he never makes love to her.
That’s the sort of men Melbourne has. She is his wife.
What need is there to worry and fret,
And vainly try more trouble to borrow.
When we know that after the sun is set
To-day will be yesterday to-morrow.
“It’s not the whiskey a man drinks that makes
him dizzy,” said Flaherty, “hut it’s Inkin’ at the
bartender’s diamond through the bottom iv the tumblers,
begorra 1”
“Mr. Smith,” said a lady at a fair, “won’t
you please buy this bouquet to present to the lady yon
love p” “ wouldn’t be right,” said Mr. Smith, “ I’m a
married man.”
A young lady wrote some versos for a paper
about her birthday, and headed them “May 30th.” It
almost made her hair turn gray when it appeared in
print “My3oth.”
Sir Henry’s first effort —
On a seaside waste of silver sand,
Through the sheen of the shining moon,
I danced one night with the fairy band.
And glode the glide of tbc moon.
A political stone-cutter received the following
epitaph from a German, to be cut upon the tombstone of
his wife: “ Mine wife Susan is dead; if she had lived
till nex’ Friday she’d been dead shust two weeks. As a
tree falls so must it stau’.”
A gentleman told a friend that for an eternity
his wife had denied to be more than 29 years of age.
“ My wife is more reasonable,” said the friend; “ I have
at hist persuaded her to he 32, hut I have never been
able to coax her along any further.”
Newsboy (discussing a penny pie) to his mates:
—“ When I’m through I’ll make it go as fur as I kin,”
Chorus—“ Where did ye get de greed, Barney P” News-
boy—“ Can’t you fellers shut up and not guv me away ?
Don’t you tumble I’m getting dis ‘porker’ on ‘tick.’”
First lady —“ Oh, my dear, they say the countbss
lost i‘2ooo cards last night.” Second lady—“So I
hear." First lady “ And I’m sure she can’t
afford to pay, and she won’t ask her husband.
Whatever will she do ?” Second lady—“ Have her
jewels stolen, of course.
“In closin’ dis meetin’,” said the old man, as
the usual hour was marked by the clock, “ let ebery one
o’ your b’ar in mind dat blowin’ up a bladder doan’ make
a bar’l. Git it as full of wind as you may an’ its nufflu’
hut a bladder. De Lawd made each one fur a speshul
purpose, an’ do chap who was created to use a shovel
will git busted eherv time he lielieves dat he was cut out
fur a statesman. We will now he scattered.”
He was saying, as he scratched a lucifer match
on the side of a house, “ I like these houses with sanded
paint; nice when you want to strike a match, yon
know.” “Is that so P” she asked demurely. “I wish I
lived in a house with sanded paint—" and then she
looked things unutterable. If he had asked “What
forP” she would have hated him. But he didn’t; he
took the hint, and the match was struck then and
there.
A flock of girls is called a bevy ; a bevy of
wolves a pack; a pack of thieves a gang; a gang of
angels a host; a host of porpoises a shoal; a shoal of
buffaloes a herd; a herd of children a troop; a troop of
partridges a covey; a covey of beauties a galaxy; a
galaxy of ruffians a horde ; a horde of rubbish a heap ; a
heap of oxen a drove; a drove of larrikins a mob; a mob
of whales a school; a school of worshippers a congrega-
tion ; a congregation of engineers a corps ; a corps of
robbers a band; a band of locusts a swarm, and a swarm
«f people is called a crowd.
RULES FOR THE RESTAURANT.
The following rules have been “ officially ” posted
np at the coffee palaces
1. Eat only with your fork. Never place your knife
in your mouth. We knew a man who once cat his
mouth round to where he parted his hair by violating
this rule.
2. If you get a piece of hot meat in your mouth, do
not spit it in your plate. Take it in your hand and
slide it down your neighbour’s back. If he objects, ask
him his opinion of the political situation.
3. If anybody gets off a joke, say : “That’s as old as
the butter.”
4. When yon pass a plate filled with meat, gravy and
potatoes, drop it just as the other party reaches for it.
Then apologise by saying you thought they “ had their
grip on it.” Very funny effect.
5. Never pour your tea into the saucer. It spoils it.
and, besides, somebody may steal it when you’re not
looking.
6. Readers who carefully follow these rules will gam
the respect of their fellow-men, and die happy—though
perhaps very young.
TEARS, IDLE TEARS.
She wept, and she wept, and she wex>t.
As she sat with her head in a wimple.
“ Why this grief ?” I exclaimed, as I stept
To her aid ; and her answer was simple:
“They said I could make either side
In my cheek a most beautiful dimple
If I cut out a piece; and I tried ;
And it isn’t a dim —it’s a pirn- pie I”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Garnet Waloh comes to Sydney.
■Colonel Roberts has gone to Melbourne.
Lord Loftus has purchased extensive property
■at Waverley.
Sergeant Sleigh is incapacitated for work through
severe illness.
M. Rush’s friends are arranging for a demon-
stration at the Clarence on his arrival.
Sir George Kingston. Speaker of the Adelaide
Assembly, retires, owing to failing health.
Archbishop Vaughan is, we understand, actively
engaged upon a great literary work—“ The Life of St.
Benedict.”
Mr. Farnell has gone to the Clarence, on invita-
tion, to open a Masonic Lodge under the N.B.W. Con-
stitution.
They recently had a row in Townsville.
gj s Worship the Mayor. Mr. T. Willmett was too
much for them.
Mr. John Swan, Inspector of Police in Tas-
mania" was dying to be called a “ Commissioner,” like
his bigger brethren over the Straits. The Government,
to please his vanity, introduced a bill to effect the
alteration— a whole bill, all to himself. An appreciative
House of Assembly, where Swan once had a seat,
which he resigned to take his present billet, laughed
the little measure off the order paper very uncere-
moniously.
Timothy Fogarty, the
the well - known news-
paper letter - writer and
E. C. champion, is a Pres-
byterian.
Mr. James Lord, one
of Tasmania’s most ardent
sportsmen, is lying dan-
gerously ill at his Hobart
Town residence.
Mr. J. C. Williamson
has obtained a verdict
against W.H.Lingard, now
in N.Z., for playing “ Pin-
afore.” Damages, £582.
A captain in a volun-
teer rifle regiment in an
adjoining colony has been
court-martialled and al-
lowed to resign his com-
mission, a result which
followed close upon his
expulsion from club life.
Cause *‘ Inebriated lar-
rikinism.”
In Hobart Town,
litterateurs live in cot-
tages far from the busy
haunts of men, embowered
in white and yellow roses,
and with pretty house-
keepers. Society knows all
about it, and smiles at
the men —not the house-
keepers.
There is very little
doubt that Sir George
Strachan will be in Tas-
manie early in 1881, re-
lieving his locum tenens,
Sir Henry Lefroy, of the
administration of the Gov-
ernment. Tasmanians are
pulling themselves to-
gether for another demon-
stration.
The new Governor of
Tasmania is so tall and
thin that he has out-
stripped his hair and got
several inches above it. In
speaking he jerks his words
out like shots from a pis-
tol. He seems to enjoy
everything wonderfully,
and is becoming very popu-
lar already.
M. Soudry is a great
draw for the French Court
at the Melbourne Inter-
national. About 2500
people daily accost him
with the entreaty—” Could
you please show us Mr.
Soudry ?” And when that
“hero” replies, “ C’est
woi," 2499 out of the 2500
walk away disappointed.
Mr. Long, the owner
of Grand Flaneur, casually
remarked a few years ago,
to a gentleman at Kiss’s,
that he might yet break
the betting ring of the
colonies. It is said that
Mr. Long’s total winnings
•over the Sydney and Mel-
bourne Derbies and the
Melbourne Cup amount to
at least £35,000.
The other day the
A. J. S. Bank was sued for
the dishonour of a cheque.
The plaintiff some time
previously drew two
cheques, one for £3O,
which was post dated, and
another for £5O, which was
not. When the case came
on for hearing, Mr. Adams,
the manager, walked into
the Court, looked at the
jury, and—consented to a
verdict because he had
looked at the jury.
Before the mail left,
His Excellency had adver-
tised his intention to meet
the people of Fiji on No-
vember 1; and no sooner
had the official invita-
tion gone forth than a
counter one appeared in
the Fjji Times advising
the public “to be true to
themselves, and not to
go.” We shall see the re-
sult by the next mail.
What a nice billet it must
he to be an unpopular
Governor!
A divorce case is now pending in Brisbane ; all
concerned therein are well-known and well-to-do
people. The co-respondent and the petitioner’s wife
have eloped.
Mr. William Blanchard, whose death at Auck-
land, N.Z., was announced in one of our past issues,
joined the service of the Colonial Bank of New Zealand
during its infancy, some six years ago, bringing with
him to that service very high testimonials from other
banking institutions. For several years be was en-
gaged in opening up branches in different parts of New
Zealand. After the business of the bank had been
Placed on a good footing through his untiring efforts,
he was appointed to the post of “ Inspector of
Branches,” which position he held faithfully up to a
few weeks ago, when death suddenly put an end to his
labours. Mr. ffm. Milne, of the Colonial Bank of New
Zealand, has succeeded to the post of inspector.
After the Tucker horse-stealing case at Bathurst,
which resulted in the accused being found guilty and
sentenced to three years’ hard labour, the prosecutor
applied to have a witness named Yeo committed for
Par jury. His Honor, however, declined to move in the
matter, stating that it would involve difficulty, and he
wuuld leave it to those who were particularly interested.
Mr. Buchanan defended the prisoner; but, though he
treated the jury to a discourse in which were embodied
a dissertation on the provisions of the Magna Chorta,
some remarks on the rights of man, the abstract theory
Protection, and the general principles of justice as
laid down by Confucius, it was of no avail; but David
retrieved his laurels immediately after by pulling an
Amazonian female through, who was charged with
stealing a four-horse waggon.
Mr. Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”) has
returned to Sydney from Fiji. We presume he goes for
the Wollombi, though he says “ How can I ask a man
for a vote, after hobnobbing with the princesses of the
Cannibal Islands ? ”
Bret Harte is well satisfied with his new consu-
late at Glasgow. He will pass some weeks with Mr.
Froude at his residence in Devonshire, and is engaged
upon a novel of country life in England, whose scene is
laid in Devonshire.
Mr. John Brannigan, eldest son of the late well-
known and respected New Zealand inspector of police,
St. John Brannigan, has lately been travelling through
the two Islands in search of “curios” prior to his
departure for England. He was regularly feted at
Auckland.
Mr. Arthur Money, a gentleman whose name
was mentioned in a late issue in connection with a
fortune of £20,000 having|reverted to him through the
marriage of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, is to be mar-
ried to thesecond daughter of a well-known oculist, of
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Mr. William Aplin, of Townsville, has been
gazetted a member of the Legislative Council of
Queensland. The recipient of the honour is an aider-
man in Townsville; also a big gun in the town, and
an honorable merchant.
Mr. Joseph Solomon, who was declared elected
for the Huon district in the Tasmanian Legislative
Council by the casting vote of the returning-ofitcer, has
been ousted for bribery (by his agents). The seat,
however, was not given to the petitioner, andjthe dis-
trict will probably be disfranchised.
The new administrator of the Government o
Tasmania attends the Church of England services at
St. David’s Cathedral, Hobart Town.
The administrator of the Government of Tas-
mania, Lieutenant-General Sir J. Henry Lefroy, had a
right royal welcome to that colony. The citizens of
Hobart turned out enmasse to welcome him, and he was
sworn in at the Supreme Court-house by the retiring
administrator, Sir Francis Smith, in the presence of
an immense assemblage. Both Volunteer corps, with
their bands, took part in the inaugural ceremonies.
We are always glad to receive contributions
from authors —even from those who write (crossed) on
every side of the paper. Some of the copy that is
brought by a groaning waggon four times daily appears
to have been written with a crutch on the obverse side
of a three-sheet poster, while some tons of it contain
more venom in one slip than would poison a brigade of
artillery. Of poetry—delicious verse—we get several
miles every morning, and we employ something under
half a century of sub-editors to wade through it. The
kind of poetry, however, that we especially yearn for is
of the kind generously forwarded by a budding Byron
signing himself ‘ jViator." He calls his lucubration a
“ Description of Sydney,” and he blithely sings of—
“ Mansions, prisons con-ti-gu-ous.
Bays, points, harbour be-a-tu-ons ;
Gaudy things enough to temp you.
Showy outsides, insides empty too (!)
Many a bargain if you strike it.
Such is Sydney, how do you like it ? ”
Longfellow could not have written this, which is almost
up to “ The Murmurs of the Stream.”
The late Mr. Tom Taylor had .£l5OO a year for
editing Punch—a fact which leads the St. Jambs
Gazette to remark that this was “very good pay for
editing a small weekly paper which depends more upon
its artistic than its literary merits.”
H. M. Hull, secretary to the Tasmanian Royal
Commission for the Melbourne Exhibition, is a clever
man. He has outwitted the devil himself—the Tas-
manian Devil—and has this week sent some fine speci-
mens ofthe animal over to the Tasmanian Court.
E. N. C. Braddon, M.H.A., Tasmania, has been
trying, unsuccessfully, to start a second paper in
Hobart. Like his sister, the celebrated novelist, Mr.
Braddon deals better with fiction than fact, and is a
better actor on the mimic stage than in the Legislative
arena.
Madame Gleichen, a nurse at the Hobart Town
Hospital, who was recently dismissed from that insti-
tution, used to have her home letters addressed to the
“ Dowager Duchess of Gleichen,” and it was rumoured
that she was related to Queen Victoria. The Lady
Superintendent could not stand this, so she put the
Dowager Duehess to scrub floors. Hence the sepa-
ration.
The famous African explorer may now be
addressed as “ Dr.” Henry M. Stanley. A year ago the
German Academy of Leopold and Caroline conferred
upon him the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In a
letter of thanks to the president of the academy, bearing
date “ Camp in the District of Utanda, on the Congo,
March 26,1880,” he says, “ On the borders of a beautiful
region, and filled only with the magnitude of my task, I
had entirely forgotten the civilized world behind me,
when I was greeted by you as Doctor of Philosophy.”
Concise about Parnell! The London papers
say he is but too likely to become historical. It regards
him as a cold fanatic, with the love and knowledge of
form and detail which makes him dangerous—a
“logical French fanatic” of the type of Robespierre.
This is a new kind of Irish leader. His gentle-
manly, self-possessed oratory, and a certain logical
dryness of mind, with great power of temperate state-
ment, if he chose to use it .were very different from all
the historical Irish leaders —O’Connell, Grattan, Curran,
Emmet, Fitzgerald, and the rest. There was no touch
of genius, but a clear hold of opinions, a relentless
tenacity, and a latent bitterness which might even
develop into cruelty. Should there be no trouble in
Ireland, Mr. Parnell would be conspicuous. Apparently
he does not desire merely to lead whithersoever the
passion of the Irish people may force him, but to lead
them to his own ends to make his views their policy, and
to use their force to achieve his own purposes. Whether
his power is equal to his ambition we shall see. He is
not conciliatory or persuasive in Parliament, and his
conduct during the Irish elections showed that he was
autocratic in dealing with his countrymen. If it be true,
as the Saxon alleges, that the Celt likes a master, he
wilbperhaps find him in Parnell.”
There is a strong probability of a general shuffle
of the political cards in Tasmania before long. The
measures opening the Bench of that colony to local
practitioners of a certain standing, and regulating the
retiring pensions of the J udges, have been receiving
support from very opposite parties, the end in view being
mutually agreeable. When those measures have received
the Royal assent, the Chief Justice, Sir Francis Smith,
will resign on his pension, with a view to Vice-Regal
honours. The puisne Judge, Mr. W. L. Dobson, will
take the senior position, and the present Premier, Mr.
Giblin, the puisne Judgeship. The Colonial Secretary,
Mr. Moore, will, by the advice of Mr Giblin, be sent for by
the Governor. Mr. Moore will decline the task of forming
a Ministry, and will recommend Mr. Chapman, who has
had many years’ experience with the Treasury portfolio,
and is, indeed, the only man in either House lit to take
it. Mr. Chapman’s Ministry will be as follows: Premier
and Colonial Treasurer. Mr. T. D. Chapman; Colonial
Secretary, Mr. Moore; Attorney-General, Mr. A. Dobson;
Minister of Lands and Works, Mr. Braddon, who has
lately showed aspirations and certain qualifications for
the office, and who can be useful to the Premier in regard
to his seat. As fifth member of the Cabinet, Dr. Agnew,
without portfolio, will lend a dignity to the new com-
bination. Ministers proceeding to re-election, Messrs.
Moore,Dobson, and Braddon,will be returned unopposed.
Mr. Chapman will not seek re-election for the seat in
the Council for Buckingham which he now holds, but
will secure the seat vacated by Mr. Giblin—the represen-
tation of the district of Wellington in the Lower House,
to which he will thus return —through the combined
influence of Mr. Moore, who owns a great deal of property
in that district, who formerly held the seat himself and
resigned it for political purposes, conferring it on Mr.
Giblin. The present Attorney-General, Mr. Dodds, and
Minister of Lands, Mr. O’Reilly, will return to their old
political friends, Messrs. Eeibey and Crowther, and re-
construct an Opposition, which is very much wanted.
The Council will become a haven of rest without Mr.
Chapman, whose seat in it will very probably be taken
by the present Speaker of the Lower House, Dr. Butler.
The Speaker’s Chair will be taken by Mr. Little, the
Chairman of Committees, who is a very popular man.
North and South. The only doubt is this, “Will Sir
1 Francis Smith resign ?”
Mr. Rupert Kettle, a
gentleman who has acted
as arbitrator in trade dis-
putes in England for some
years, has been knighted.
Quite right. Every kettle
should have a handle to it,
and, no doubt, his spouting
was good.
Sir A. Gordon, Go-
vernor of Fiji, got a regu-
lar dig under the fifth rib
the other day in Levuka.
He wanted to make a po-
litical address to the Agri-
cultural Society, and an-
nounced his intention to
meet them; but at the ap-
jointed hour no one was
present to meet his Excel-
lency but the non-official
members of the Legisla-
tive Council and the Secre-
tary. There was no quo-
rum. I nfel ix puer!
The Duke of Man-
chester arrived at an hotel
in one of the Border towns
the other day. The land-
lord, a German, didn’t ex-
actly know how his distin-
guished visitor should be
addressed, and appealed
on the subject to a young
English guest, who so-
lemnly, but playfully, sug-
gested “Tour Nibs,” as a
suitable title. During his
stay the nobleman was
addressed as “ Tour Royal
Duke.” and spoken of as
“ His Royal Duke.”
The “ Vagabond ”
lately complained in the
Fiji papers that he could
get nothing to eat on board
the Gunga, and generally
animadverted u pon the
cuisine of that ship. The
facts are that the cuisine is
good, the stewards are
civil, smart, and obliging,
and the “ Vag. ” on one
occasion, 4th August, 1880,
ate (and we trust digested)
the following dinner: —
Soup, turkey and ham,
roost beef, cheesecakes,
blancmange, jam tartlets,
puffs, turnovers, cheese
and butter and biscuits,
olives, preserved ginger,—
and then he pocketed two
oranges and left.
Mr. Sergeant Sleigh
turned up suddenly in the
Tasmanian House of As-
sembly last week, just
before it prorogued. He
had been absent for a
month, and came back like
a giant refreshed, enliven-
ing the other weary mem-
bers with an oration of
two hours’ duration, in
which he strove to raise
“ the Constitutional ques-
tion.” The thing fell as
flat as ditch water, for
though his motion was as
long as his arm, it was,
poor fellow, quite as weak
as it too. Any constituency
at the General Election in
New South Wales can have
the learned Sergeant very
cheap.
Touching Fiji, one of
Sir Arthur Gordon’s heads
of departments is worth
describing. The individual
referred to holds one of
the most responsible posi-
tions in the colony, and is
a perfectly uneducated
man, as the following
choice pieces of spelling
will satisfactorily show.
Zephyr he spells Sefer,
Soap, Sope ; Liquid, Lick-
wid: Until. Until!; and
talks about a prominent
instead of a permanent
home. This is hardly
credible, but it is never-
theless strictly true ; and
then his Excellency won-
ders how it is that edu-
cated colonists and English
gentlemen object to such
a person holding a high
official position.
Lady Lytton prominent again! A book entitled
“ A Blighted Life,” written by her, has just been issued
in Loudon. It is one long torrent of awful abuse of the late
and the present Lord Lytton. If it is read it will create
a sensation. The only wonder is that it ever came to be
published. Lady Lytton had great wrongs to endure,
hut when she constantly describes Sir Edward Lytton
as “a loathsome brute,” Charles Dickens as “a foul
blackguard,” and her own son, the present lord, as “ a
miserable hound” (these are mild expressions to some
in the hook), one cannot but think such indignation is
better in the private bosom than in book form. The
book teems with the most terrible charges made in the
coarsest language against persons living and dead. How-
ever much sympathy may be feltforau injured lady who
confesses to being half mad, there can be none for those
who assist her to libel the dead and pain the living in
one of the most ill-advised and veuomously-offeusive
publications of modern times. A more grossly indecent
and uncalled-for attack on the Queen than Lady Lytton
makes it is impossible to imagine. For the sake of all
concerned—family, friends, and the public—the hook
should be immediately withdrawn from circulation.
The book by its very violence has a contrary effect to
that intended. Many people will remember the painful
scandal which the domestic affairs of Lord Lytton
brought about. A vast number have considered the
lady a most injured woman. The book will make most
people think that after all there was a good deal of
justification for the lunatic asylum business. This is
much to be regretted, as it damages the cause in whose
interests it is evidently xuiblished, viz., the Reform *f
the Lunacy Laws.
NOT ANOTHER GUY FAWKES?


10 the ELECTOES of SO
Gentlemen, —
Having been requested by a largo
of this new and important consti
and guard their interests in the n
with great pleasure that I accept ai
tations so universally and so very g
towards me.
Should I be honoured with your
ing me as one of your representath
that no exertion on my part shall I
introducing and establishing wise :
latiou for the advancement and pro
of this community.
Providence has placed in our hai
of a raagniilcent country, burstin
untold value. Our pastoral and ai
unequalled in any part of the world
for you, Gentlemen, to select a
representatives—men in whose at
you can repose your confidence and
As most of you know me long anc
certain, believe me when I assure j
shall be no trimmer; and in order
some idea of my views I will now p
the topics upon which I feel sure y<
I congratulate the electors upon
unjust and un-English clause intn
Electoral Bill by the hon. membt
Thos. Garrett. There never was f
interfere with the liberty of the su
of Election than this “ garotting c
country has been spared this injusi
tion of the Upper House, not by tl
Lower Chamber.
As your representative I shall ]
the glorious privileges which in tl
our happiness to enjoy.
The Public Instruction Bill hav:
law by the expiring Parliament, I
should have a fair and impartial
the masses you elevate the social a
of the community. lam strongly
cal Education, which shall have mj
I shall advocate an immediate a
Water Supply for this important
limits of which it is scarcely po
conceive, but I think it the duty
before finally committing themselv
thoroughly investigate the advanta
Hill (Mr. Gipps’ project) is suppose
an Alderman of this City, I consic
Municipal Council to assist the
important work. I am one of thos
not shrink from the duties and res
taining to that office, and I shall
should I stand alone, in bringing
perfect system of water supply.
Although a Free trader, I am a
all railway plant and rolling stoc
character —which will tend to deve
and other resources of this count!
ment to our artisan population—
here, and as far as possible encourag
I object to the importation of huil
as doors, architraves, &c., the proc
in America, to the injury of our me
here in the American mail steam*
Government of this country, and fc
man is taxed. Ido not like to see
ing from the same quarter. I objei
and Coal exported from the colony.
You are all perhaps aware that I
the Eight-hour System, and shall
this matter the subject of future le;
The legislation on the subject of
also receive my attention, in order
made to protect these bodies from i
and others, and that they may ha
afforded to other Friendly Societiei
A subject which has been neglect
and which also deserves serious atti
the subject of action in Parliam
Inspection of Steam Boilers and Ei
of which are at present in much
supervision.
I fully believe that full and ample
be awarded to workmen who, by i
provided by employers, receive injv
With reference to the important
tion, I have been distressed to see
bodied men brought to these shore)
years, and absolutely unable to find
necessity become a burden to the St
of their friends. In cases like tl
should step in and find employmen
large public works. I strongly obj
gration; they unfairly compete
labour, and they do not pay their ft
I need hardly inform the intellig)
Sydney that I do not seek a Govern!
opposed to the Payment of Men
Our Victorian cousins have, by a
course, secured as nice a collection
as axe to be found on the face of th
I shall endeavour without delay
unsatisfactory and disgraceful m
Publicans’ Licenses are obtained, a
lately enacted in the Police Com
necessity for fresh legislation on th
I shall oppose the remission of
due by Land Selectors. I shall
sacrifice the interest of one class o:
the benefit of the other; this is a d
tracted, and should be discharged
10 THE ELECTORS OF S
Gentlemen,—Having accepted t
seated to me to contest the elect!
for the representation of that dis
Parliament, I have now the hono
with the salient points of my polit:
I accept the new Education A
wish of the majority of the people,
to attempt to subvert it. lam p
railway extension, especially that
connect the interior with the shore
approve of the Tramway system, hi
being rnn along our main thorough!
water supply to Sydney and its
accept Mr. Clarke’s decision as ii
to support a gravitation scheme, s'
to he practicable.
I am prepared to support a C
would gladly see a measure introd
the sending to sea of unseaworthi
tending a greater measure of prote
I earnestly desire an amendme
Laws and a radical alteration in t
mg licenses.
I subscribe to the doctrine of F
and would extend to it the fullest;
I am entirely opposed to the rem
due by the Free Selectors.
1 object to the indiscriminate
overcrowding our labour market
pauper element of our population.
I object to any further influx c
them to be in every sense undesira
Finally, as increased Taxation
mitted to, sooner or later, I am p
in any amendment of the Tariff tl
the removal of Customs Duties fr
series, and the imposition of other
J. B. OLLIFFE,
■ Royal Hyde Pi
10 GEORGE LORD CAL
2 Belvoir-street, Strawl
Alderman for Philip
Sir,—We, the undersigned I
SYDNEY, from our experience
CITY ALDEEMEN, and knowled
which you have taken in politics ix
for many years past, are of op;
worthily and efficiently represent
one of our members under the N 1
ACT,” and we now request that yc
to be nominated as one of the Car
torate at the ensuing General Ele
pledge ourselves to support your c
We are, Sir,
Yours r«
Eichard Shortland Aldern
Anthony Hordern Aldern
A. J. L. Bone Alderr
Andrew Wadsworth A Idem
John Eoseby, J.P. James
Hugh M‘Master Patricl
Azarias Cook Ben jan
James H. Eainford George
Charles J. Fache Jethro
Patrick Sherlock T. J. F
Samuel Hordern Eobert
Timothy M‘Kay J. B. E
David Burnett George
E. E. Gledhill Freder
James Douglas Henry
Archibald M‘Neill Stephe
Thomas Liddy Georgt
Henry Hicks J. H. 1
Hugh Patrick Daniel
H. M. Dennis Eobert
Edward J. Robinson H. Fox
F. Braidwood James
and nximerous other sigx
Gentlemen, —I have to thank yoi
ing requisition, in which you are p.
stand as one of the candidates for
stituency at the coming General E
As the wisdom of Parliament in
large increase in the number of o
think, as a native of the colony
native-born men take a fair share o
of their country, I shall not I
presumption iu stating that I c
invitation.
To many of you I am perhaps I
the Aldermen of Phillip Ward, in v
reason to believe that I have acc
and goodwill of my constituents; 1
when aiming at the higher positi
with legislation for the whole colo
before you Ithe statement of my pi
nection with the important matte:
the public mind.
With respect to education, I may
of the number who assisted to stax
forjits motto, “.National, Secula
Freeto the programme of that
While accepting the present Act
as praiseworthy means to a gren
I still maintain the right of the p<
to a free elementary education.
I am an ad vocate and supporter o
of free trade, holding them to be i
to the rapid and profitable develc
natural resources. With respect
HE MACLEAY ELECTOEATE.)
REQUISITION TO E. B. SMITH, Esq, M.P.
Bear Sir, —We, the undersigned electors, residents of
The Macleay, Bellinger, and Nambuccra, viewing with
satisfaction your career in Parliament during the past
ton years, ns a representative of the extensive Electorate
of The Hastings, and having every confidence in your
•/ eal, ability, and integrity, desire yon will allow your-
self to be nominated tor the new electorate of The
Macleay, and we the undersigned pledge ourselves as a
committee to secure your return.
[Here follow 1025 signatures.]
EEPLT.
To-
Sydnev Verge, Esq., J.P.
F. Goulbum Panton, Esq., J.P.
O. O. Bangor, Esq., J.P.
A. Crossman, Esq.. J.P.
John Lynn, Esq.. J.P.
E. A. H. Kemp, Esq., J.P.
J. B. Casey, Esq., J.P.
W. D. Scott, Esq., J.P.
Thos. Forsyth, Esq., J.P.
James Thompson, Esq., J.P.
George Henderson, Esq., J.P.
T. W. Pulsford, Esq., J.P.
Eobert Johnston. Esq,, J.P.
W. M'Lean, Esq., J.P.
W. E. Bayldon, Esq., J.P.
And the other Gentlemen signing the Eequi-
sition from The Macleay, Nambuccra, and
Bellinger Eivers, respectively.
Gentlemen, —I beg, in reply to your very flattering
Requisition, to inform you that, without further delay,
I gratefully accept your generous expressions of con-
fidence in me, and that you have my full sanction to
announce me as a Candidate for the suffrages of The
Macleay Electorate at the forthcoming general election.
Should I have the honor of being elected your repre-
sentative, the political relations (to me peculiarly
gratifying) which have existed between us for the last
ten years will be strengthened, inasmuch as the Elec-
toral District whose interest it will be an important
duty of mine to study and promote, is, under the pro-
visions of the recent Electoral Act, brought into an
area which a member of Parliament can represent
without neglecting his own affairs or the rational
requirements of his constituents, —
As I intend, soon after the dissolution of the present
Parliament, to address you agaiu on the paramount
political issues of the day, I will now content myself
with again thanking yon for your renewal of confidence.
I remain, Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. BUEDETT SMITH.
Macquarie-street, Sydney,
September 2,1880.
THE HASTINGS and MANNING ELEC-
TORATE.
REQUISITION TO E. B. SMITH, Esq.; M.P.
Sir, —We, the undersigned Electors of the Hastings,
and Manning Electorate, having the fullest confidence
in your ability and integrity us a public man, and recog-
nising your indefatigable efforts on every suitable op-
portunity to advance the interests of this district, and
being earnestly desirous of keeping tip the connection
which exists between ns, most respectfully request that
you will allow yourself to be nominated to represent
the Hastings and Manning Electorate (the new Elec-
torate) in the next Parliament of New South Wales.
“ We have great pleasure in assuring you that, if yon
comply with our request and signify your willingness
to accept one of the seats for the new Electorate which
the Manning and Hastings are to form, we will give you
our support, and use our best endeavours in every legiti-
mate way, to secure your return.”
[Here follow 1059 signatures.]
EEPLT.
To—
H. .1. Cornish, Esq., J.P.
T. F. Broad, Esq., J.P.
T. W. Diigdale, Esq., J.P.
William Cowan, Esq., J.P.
John Cleaver, Esq., J.P.
Joseph Andrews, Esq., J.P.
James Stewart, Esq., J.P.
Charles M'Donnell, Esq., J.P.
James C. Duff, Esq., J.P.
John Abbott, Esq., J.P.
John Hall, Esq., J.P.
Charles Boyce, Esq., J.P.
Joseph Laurie, Esq., J.P.
A. T. Laurie, Esq., J.P.
Andrew Laurie, Esq., J.P.
James Johnston, Esq., J.P.
James Lyon, Esq., J.P.
Joshua Cochrane, Esq., J.P.
And the other gentlemen signing the Re-
quisiti®n from the Hastings and Man-
ning Eivers
Gentlemen,—l can frankly assure you that on receipt
of your flattering Requisition, inviting me to become a
Candidate for your Electorate, I experienced a_ grate-
ful sense of your kind recognition of my services as
your representative in Parliament for several years,
and felt amply repaid for whatever services I may have
rendered you in that position. Your invitation, so for-
cibly expressed and numerously signed, to allow my-
self to be nominated for your Electorate, while ex-
tremely gratifying to me personally, necessitated very
serious consideration. I hardly know how to refuse an
offer so handsomely made by old and tried friends, al-
though I felt, after considerable thought, that it was
my duty to offer my services to the electors of the
Macleay. I have done so accordingly.
The motives that influenced me to arrive at this con-
clusion are simple enough, and will, I am sure, meet
your approval. I have for years taken a deep interest in
the establishment of a Harbour of Refuge at Trial Bay,
in the formation of which prison labour will be largely
utilized. I look upon it as a National work, and I
should like to continue a Member of the Electorate in
which it is situated, to watch over its progress and
development. I also feel myself bound to procure, if I
can, the drainage of certain portions of the Macleay
District, which suffer from periodic devastations by
floods. It has also been a particular object to me to
effect certain improvements in the navigation of the Bel-
linger and Nambuccra rivers, and this I hope to bring
about should I continue to be the representative of the
new electorate. Here again you will perceive that my
services are required in the matters to which I have
already devoted much time and thought, and the im-
portance of which I estimate highly.
Although under these circumstances I cannot
become a Candidate for your suffrages at the forthcom-
ing General Election, be assured I shall never forget
your kindness. I will co-operate, whenever I can,
with the members yon may return, and endeavour to
maintain, in future, the friendly relations that have
existed between us for the last ten years.
I am. Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
R. BUEDETT SMITH.
Macquarie-street, Sydney,
September 2, 1880.
Municipal election. phillip
ward.
To ANDREW WADSWORTH, Esq., Regent-street.
Sir.—The undersigned, ratepayersof Phillip Ward,hav-
ing full confidence in your ability to discharge the
duties appertaining to the position of Alderman, request
you to piano your services at our disposal in that capa-
city for the ensuing three years, to supply the vacancy
caused by the retirement of our late worthy representa-
tive, Eobert Maze, Esq., and we will use our utmost
efforts to secure your return should you comply with
f>ur request.
Anthony Hordern
A. Hordern and Sons
Timothy Curley
William M‘Donald
James Hume
Kearey Brothers
Andrews and Souter
P. E. Larkin
Timothy Hart
A. Arditto
John Cornwell
W. Williamson
Ben Morris
And 423 other signatures.
Patrick Kelly
John Woods
E. Calder
Thomas Fox
John D. Field
J. G. O'Connor
W. Bull
Shying and Co.
Robert Carlton
J. B. Hillier
Benjamin Rhodes
Michael Dillon
Fellow Citizens,—Being largely interested in the
Ward, and believing that I can be of service in forward-
ing the progress, municipality, of the City generally, I
have, in thanking you for your confidence, much plea-
sure in placing my time and ability at your disposal
-should you elect me.
Faithfully yours.
ANDREW WADSWORTH.
metropolis the rich, coal and past tin
and also our rich coal-fields to the n
Another important matter which
legislation are the laws affecting
Marine.
Our Factories and Workshops req
by law, I object to the mixing of s
factory workrooms, and separate <
provided leading into the factories.
I shall also advocate and sup]
object—“ Federation of the Austral
I come before you in the fullest s
Independent Candidate, with the so
ing my Native Land; and as most c
a man of my word, I need scare
should you so far honour me as 1
Representative into Parliament, 1 1
vour to elevate the character of ou
and make this laud attractive to the
happy homes for ourselves and famJ
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedieni
EDW.
668 George-street south,
30th October, 1880.
T3EQUISITION TO WIL.
JA ASHTON SHORTER, Esq.,
Dear Sir, —We, the undersign
BOGAN, respectfully request that
self to be nominated at the agproac
of the candidates for the Bogan Eb
use our best endcavoxu-s to secure j
liament.
We are, dear sir, yours f
Alderman George Fumey Georg
Alderman J. S. Brown W. G
Alderman F. Pliillips Samu
John Dunn Josey
R. J. J. Ryan T. W
John B. Stormer Mark
David Law Dona
John Hives
Here follow the signatures of oth
[Reply.]
To Alderman George Fumey, Ah
Brown, Alderman Phillips, an
J'. J. Ryan, Esquires, and the o
ing the above Requisition :
Gentlemen, —In reply to your
requisition, requesting that I will
nominated at the approaching eh
candidates for the Bogan Electorat
will place my services at your dispc
As an Australian, I am ambitiox
liament and serving my country, n
anxious to serve you, because, althc
local man (a much desired kind of
my past knowledge and experience
and my still existing business
coupled with my residence in Sy<
position, as one of its representative
sent your electorate.
I look upon it as likely to be €
should shortly declare my political
ions regarding the principal matte
Australian political world.
First, then, I deem it the duty of
whilst pulling hard for the general
this coxmtry, that he should be par
the interests of his own Elector!
paramount.
I am a believer in Free Trade;
any time there should be any Ai
which would require fostering, I s
first to aid it, and I would advoca
this colony of Railway _ Stock, Li
machinery or goods required for Go
at a somewhat greater cost than thi
could be imported.
The all-absorbing subject of Publ
which I have given much thought
other conclusion than to suppor
entirety. Anyone who thinks must
national system has the effect of
of Religionists from another, wher<
System lays the foundation of fr
upwards, without reference to di
or country, and so cements the lx>y t
the man, that the virtues of the c
observed by the other all througl
the means to the end of making
Australian Nation.
I regret to learn that a certain wi
ing section of our community doe
prove of the principles of our Pul
but I trust that time will yet pre
the best system we have ever yet h
the ends I have just mentioned.
The next and most important of a
Land Laws. I think it is well-knox
been, and still am, a warm Advoci
the Free Selectors, or as I would
conditional purchasers, the “Yeo
I look upon them as a body with re
other in the colony for honesty,
ness or otherwise. They are more
on the lands of the interior, to ad
this great country than any other c
be encouraged by all means, as
grant of much larger areas, so as t
small squattages where agriculture
easier terms of, and extended time
other improvements in the land 1
the total abolition of that ugly cl
forfeiture of conditional purchase
mATioua rlno orann wliir*n plaiiSfi


Departmei
Bailv
G
OVERNMENT
<JBBAT southern, westi
MOND LINE;
PRINCE OF WALES’ ]
TUESDAY, 9th NOYES
TICKETS at ordinary EXCUES
issued at all stations to all statioi
tioned date, available for return
miles and under, on the day of iss
Similar Tickets will also be isstr
15 miles, commencing with theMa
EVENING, the sth November, an
November, 1380, available for ret
'll miles and under for three daj
over 34 miles, one week.
CHAS. A GOOI
Commiss
. Departmei
Eailv
Sydney, 2 i
INTENDING PASSENGI
Northern Railway, leaving S
formed that Tickets both by Steal
purchased at the Central Booking
on and after Ist November next.
CHAS. A. GOO:
Commiss
T IS NOW TII;
That the Exhibition
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVEL
Ton are not expected to buy whai
0
w
>
H
w
p
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS. ARTIC
INVENTION, FANCY (
TOYS a speciality—every des
Manufacturers and Ii
■Headquarters for PEARL CES
China, Glass, Crockery, Wcx
TOOTHACHE TINCTURE—ins
worst cases.
So trouble to show Goods and ful
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTI
408 GEORGE STI
(Nearly opposite Australian Jc
AND AT 70 MARKET
SYDNEY.
P, * 1- A
AVholesale and R
PRODUCE MER
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY,
BRANCH STOR]
48 George-street West Gate Pa
r, And
Darlmghurst Road, near Y
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed ar
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine an
FACTS WORTH CONSII
ESTABLISHED OV E R PI
THE POPULAR AND WELL-KNOW
ANTHONY HORDEI
HAYIHARKET (Of
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION
Beg to inform the Public of New South Wales that the
Drapery Trade—their unlimited command of read
all the requirements of their numerous custc
their character for Fair Dei
Ha\e rendered their familiar Name a household word t
LARGEST AND MOST POPU
DRAPERY, CLOTHING, AND FANCY G 0(
IN THE WHOLE OF NEW SOUT
Facts Worthy of Consider:
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS (]
opened over a Thousand Cases of their early ship
GOODS, embracing the most complete assortment fo:
ILL I A M
IMPORTER OF BOOKS A
381 QEOEGE-STEEE
JUST RECEIVED, ex “ORIE
supply of
BIRTHDAY C,
CHEISTMAS AND NEW
COVENTRY 800 E
SATCHETS,
NEW BO
A Woman’s Patience, by E, J. V
Joan Carisbroke, by E. j. Worbo
A Red Rose Chain, by Maggie Syi
Pictures from English Literat
55.; post, 6s.
Roberts’ Manual of Fashional
post, 3s.
Wood’s The Tree Planter and P
trated—2s.; post, 2s. 6d.
Wood’s The Tree Pruner, illustr
Locker’s Patchwork—ss.; post,
Pitman s Phonetic Short-hand
tionary—4s. fid.; post, ss.
Probation, a novel, by author oi
post, 7s.
Stephens’s (J. Brunton) Misct
post, 6s. 9d.
Ribeaucourt’s Manual of Ratioi
trated—3s. ; post, 3s. 6d.
Hayward’s Taking Cold the Cans
—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
Zerffi’s Spiritualism and Anima
post. Is. 6d.
Davies’s Other Men’s Minds, or;
History, Science, Philosoph
| plates—9s.; post, 11s. 6d.
; Flora Symbolica, or the Langu
Flowers, coloured illustratioi
1 —6s.; post, 7s. 6d.
I Jones s The Broad, Broad Ocean i
I tants, illustrated—ss.; post,
Jones’s The Animal Creation, a
to Zoology, 500 illustrations-
Valentine’s The Girl’s Home E
and How to Work, illustrate
James’s (G.P.R.) Henry Mastert<
The Gipsy, 3 vols. in 1, cloth-
Daries’s Wildcat Tower, or Adv
in pursuit of Sport and N
North Countrie, illustrated, e
Grant’s The Lord Hermitage, a u
Spurgeon’s (Rev. C. H.) John P
More of his Talk—ls. 3d.; p
Cassell’s Sixpenny Lessons in Pi
Cassell’s Lessons in French—2s.
Manners of Modern Society—2s.
Davidson’s Elements of Buildii
post, 2s. 6d.
Men of the Time, a Dictionary of (
edition, by T. Cooper—lss.; ■
Womankind, by C. M. Yonge—Bs'
The Family Novelette Library, 1
novels—2s.; post, 2s. Bd.
“JUDY” SHILLING BOOKS,
dreds of comic pictures—eacl
A Book of Comicalities—J
Shilling’sworth of Phiz—
turn—Sugar Plums—Ther
and Kisses—All the Wi
Beauty—The Twopenny 3
to _ Paris—Sand and Shi
shine—The Penny Wedd
Sloper, a moral lesson-
mental Journey—Fun oi
Maidens.
MADDOCK’S GUIDE TO SYDI
HANDBOOK, comprising a <3
and its institutions, with w
The Tourists’ Handbook an
Resources of New South Wa
Price, Is.; post. Is. 4d.
JUST PUBLI
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS
WALES, and the Regnlath
Index, by John L. Watkins, ]
Sydn., and of the Inner Tern
Price, 10s. 6d.; post, Hs.
LETTS’S DIARIES for~lBBß a li
MAGAZINES and PERIODICA
scribers’ names con now be re
THE FAMILY MEDICAL GUI]
tions for the treatment of ev<
medicines required for any h
Fullerton, C.M. & M.D., fo
the Sydney Infirmary and
I bird Edition, revised and ii
also the newly-discovered Rei
matism, and Neuralgia. 548
photographic portrait of the at
free by post, 14s.
WILLIAM MAD]
IMPORTER OP BOOKS AN]
381 GEORGE-STB
SYDNEY.
MATH
IMPORTERS AND Ih
gcO T T, REA
AUCTIONEERS AND GEN;
CENTRAL TEM(
Will be glad to receive Suitable i
Firms.
Messrs, FRANK FITZPATRICI
street, are their Sydney Re
TZ" EAE E Y B R
COACH AND BUGGY
290 piXT STREET, 5
Near Park-stre<
(T
T. B U ]
HOUSE AND LANI
353, GEORGE
NEAR KING STR]
PRIVATELY OR
S. MANE
(Late Grant, Manders, i
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC. ADI
COMMISSION A
91 Little Collins-stn
Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SI
JOHN McMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE M
GENERAL COMMISSIO
Special attention given to Consign
Sales promptly rendered. In
and Country Orders executed 1
(JENTEAL STOCI
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK RE
322 Qeorge-street, S,
All Stook for private sale throi
R egistered here, free of charge, uni
mission on sales effected 1 per c
JH A K
* WHEELWRIGHT AN
BUILDER, &
Hat and Engine S
Established IS
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYi
BUSINESS CARTS, LC
• ~
Railway Contractors would find it
inspect the large stock of seasi
able for Dobbins and other
J. HAR V E
Hay and Engine f
(JAILEN PAR;
DARLING ROAD, B
W. DEEMER begs to inform tn
generally that The Bulletin, S. ;
J«kws, Ac., Ac., will be found in
of the above Hotel.
JJOOTS! BOOTS!
MAKE YOUR PUI
AT
H. HIL D E
N E W BOOT
<570 GEORGE S
BRICKFIELD H
ALL NEW GOODS, Jl
AND TO BE SO
AT TIC:


EME D Y
WWi
I
gS&ZSU
P,D **TER FILTER >
Ii^QOSTON^^I
'.''l
FOR I M P u
RAPID WA'
THE UNDERSIGNED ai
Rapid Water Filter, whii
others by the English and Fo
Medical Profession, Hospitals,
found in every establishment o
dom and the whole of Europ
most remote parts of the Glc
other Filter. Its superiority
rapidity of action, simplicity (
oiency is verified by the numei
been awarded in England, the
Australia.
* Thousands had a drink oj
were placed in the Garden P
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHO
arising from drinking impure v
CHEAYIN’S RAPI
GEORGE STREET, SYI
EYES’
PERFECT
PUR I :
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Ar
1 of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonial
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Oeo. WooVnowgh, j
for my throat I could not desire anything more eflectr
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy
equal as a disinfectant and purifier.—— From J. L. Nemo
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney My child had sore eyes for I
one week. Prom C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying apliis and all aphides that infest plants and frui
Purifier is unrivalled. __ TT c-.ttt tv-u.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, S;
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BUY
'lO
C 3
crt T*Ci'
CK
C*
DC
PRIZE
Q_
CC
•=£
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’S
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
These goods
fresh, wholes!
and genuine.
Exhibition Jud
Report says
“ Deserving
special notice,
quality is i
equal to impor
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND CO
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now ara-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet fot
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old bj all Grocer* and Storekeeper**
O
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL.,. ajjK
ALLWOOL
r RoT“
JWEED
SUITS
'MEASURE
jM-Ss
GUT lengths
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
s,ooofatterns' d choose from
H L SUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
GREER AND
PRIZE
ALB U R Y WINES.
C o.'*
Red Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines:
Reisling
Yerdeilbo
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
"DNEY : Printed and published by th ®, ° l
Fohn Hatnes and J. E. Aechibaud, at
Fohn Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
D
EYSDALE AND
397 George Stri
76, 78, 145, 147 York
33 Pitt Stree
IRONMONGERS, lEONMER
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensh
which besides being the largest in S
varied ; and comprises all the latest
Engines Engineers’ Material ai
Agricultural Implements, Thr
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rii
Axles, Buggy .bodies, Lamps
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandi
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hin
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Ga
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joi
And
GENERAL IRONMO:
W
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E 1
416 GEORGE STR!
HE BEST PAINT IN
T
£
*
ELASTIC
%
aa*
cs
THE PACIFIC RUBBI
is mixed ready for
supplied in cans containing 1 gal
These cans form a convenient P
eomplete.
Similar testimony to the followii
ms :—“Woollahra, August 20th, 188
RUBBER PAINT to be all that i
and Bright, and owing to its larg<
I am inclined to think it is cheapei
My own house was painted with it
and appears as fresh, clean and glo
last week —the same with the fenc
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC
will cover 35 Square Yards —one ■
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thi
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMI
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, net
MACHIN
H. P. GREGORY i
n®. ii. pitt-str;
R. HORNSBY & SONS’
K- 5
S
S 3
f§-
THE SIIUPEEST,
THE STRONGEST,
And THE BEST.
Campbelltown, Sept. 30, 1880.
Messrs. Martin & Pain,
Please book my order for another Paragon Ma-
chine, 4 ft. 6 in. cut. The last I had of you, three
years since worked perfectly, and all my neighbors
say it is the best Combined Mower and Reaper they
ever saw. The first year I cut 160 acres, the second
year 200 acres, the third year 220 acres, and during
the whole time it has not cost me ss. for extras.
The Machine I now order you will please fit with
all vour latest improvements, and oblige yours,
A. VICARY
We challenge competition, & guarantee
all our Paragon Mowers and Reapers.
Martin & Pain,
389 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the Royal Hotel.
J
MARTIN
AND
r
to the
Sizes
with
the
Perfect.
best
BINDER
We have
Two
of
String; Binders,
Prices
OUR “WOODS
String Binder
Has worked, through
FOUR EAR-VESTS.
And we now offer them to the
Farmers of N. S. Wales, as
Complete and Perfect
SELF BINDERS.
Our Field Trials
front \ k last season proved
to
again V Practical Farmers
that our
£65 & £75,
but recommend our
customers to secure the
Largest Size, as they '
Harvest any Crops grown
up to 7 feet high.
Write us for full particulars.
We post Illustrated Catalogues,
Free.
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE STSSIEBT,
OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
String Binder
