

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2—No. 26.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1880.
Price —3d.
%\t §nMtt
SATURDAY, JULY 24, 1880.
Ourselves.
The people of New South W ales are evidently
gifted with a very general taste for reading,
combined with an ordinarily faithful though
natural critical instinct—with a strong common
sense capable of discriminating the lasting and
o-enuine from the ephemeral and meretricious.
Under ordinary circumstances a literary venture
in this colony cannot il deserving fail to receive
at their hands a just and encouraging apprecia-
tion. In delivering ourselves of this opinion we
feel that we are laid open to a charge of having
involuntarily given way to the elation of success.
We admit the impeachment. From the issue of its
first copv six months since to that of the number
now in the reader’s hands The Bulletin, estab-
lished under difficulties such as rarely at the outset
confront the conductors of a newspaper, has
pursued a course of unvarying prosperity. The
comparative vigour and verve of its literary
matter, the excellence of its illustrations and the
originality of the plan upon which it has
been conducted have secured to this journal an
unprecedentedly rapid increase
of circulation, and with it, we
would fain hope, an ever-
enlarging measure of esteem.
It is true that prior to the
establishment of The Bulletin
others tried the experiment of
launching on the sea of journal-
ism papers distantly resembling
in some unimportant regards
the one of which it is our privi-
lege now to write ; but the in-
exorable logic of events has
shown that the conductors of
those ventures did not, in plain
words, know their business.
Some of the publications re-
ferred to were of a very mild
description and had no charac-
teristics which were not pos-
sessed in a much more clearly-
marked degree by the typical
weekly paper ; while others,
flying to the oppposite ex-
treme, appealed to none but
the lowest tastes possessed by
the vulgar and degraded.
The distrust awakened in the
public mind by such papers
was the only legacy left by them
to The Bulletin, which has
outlived the prejudices and
dispelled the suspicions that
from the force of circum-
stances, naturally attended its
inauguration. We have en-
deavoured to conduct our
venture in the full light of
a by no means inconsiderable
experience of colonial journal-
ism ; and having thus far
succeeded beyond our expecta-
tions we feel that we can fairly
lay claim to having satisfied a
long-felt and hitherto undefined
public want, —to having estab-
lished a journal which may
be read with interest and with-
out offence by all classes and
creeds, and which affords an
agreeable relief from the per-
haps unavoidable tedium of the
daily papers. We now enter
upon our second half-year and
while regarding with satisfac-
tion what we have done in the
past are confident of curability
to deserve a continuance of the
same generous support which
up to the present time has been
accorded by the community to
The Bulletin. Perhaps the
most sincere tribute which has
been offered to our success is
contained in the fact that more
than half the newspapers in
New South Wales —metropoli-
tan and provincial alike —are
attempting to imitate our style.
That our paper should have
come to be regarded as a model
one is indeed a sweet reward.
The Bigotry of Freethonght.
Yeby general reference has already been made
by the colonial Press to the omission of the sec-
tarian column from the British census-tables.
We take the fact of its omission to be
a sign of the times. There is a growing
tendency, as a liberal spirit increases its in-
fluence, to sink in social life all distinctions of
sect or creed. People of the most varied forms
of religious belief may now mingle freely to-
gether and go through the conventional forms of
existence unbiassed by any abstract doctrinal
consideration. Bigotry in its more objectionable
sense and the rabies of sectarianism have thus
almost completely died out, except in some few
rank spots where the influence of the school-
master has not yet been felt. This is as it should
be. Let a man hold what private opinion he
may, no earthly reason exists for blazoning it in
the faces of those with whom he may come in
contact. Conscientious action should take the
place of wordy discussion, and the more firmly
held are individual opinions, the more intelligent
though subdued should be the accordance there-
with. Religious cant is therefore much less fre-
quent than it has been, and when it does appear
it is always speedily snubbed. But now another
feature is introduced —the further extreme of
sectarianism and its legitimate outcome. Thisfea-
ture is accompanied by its own peculiar cant—that
of ultra-freethought. The colonial freethinker,
as he has made himself familiar to us, is a type
of a certain class. Half-educated, but not unin-
telligent, he will almost always be found untoned
bv any regular system of instruction, having ob-
tained what mental pabulum he may have ab-
sorbed, in a precarious, hand-to-mouth fashion.
His science is the gleaning of teit-books and
£ rimers, and his idea of the Christian code, if he
as any, the result of the communicated lore of
a well-meaning but perhaps not too refined Sun-
day school teacher. Perhaps the only stable
social institntion of which he has had practical
experience is that of the family, and how his
reminiscences in that direction jar with his pre-
sent inner consciousness he best can tell. His
life will be found to have been a desultory, uneven
course, unballasted by any of those guiding
principles which go so far to imbue one with
gentlemanly instincts, and which are the neces-
sary concomitants of a regular system of educa-
tion. He lives by his wits, or more properly, by
absence of wit in others. The persistent vitu-
peration of every revered tradition sanctified by
the growth of ages, the ruthless violation of
every hallowed sentiment, and the vulgar blas-
phemy of every sacred doctrine form the pre-
cepts of his evangel. He professes a lofty con-
tempt for those who differ from him, and, as ex-
perience tells us, when circumstances admit he
displays all the rancour and prejudice of ..bigotry
in its most repulsive form. Notoriety is'his life,
and hence he will be found obtruding his crude
opinions on one’s notice, irrespective of time or
place ; while he retires within the recesses of his
own overweening conceit when he can no longer
find hearers. This is the type of the colonial
freethinker. In the characteristics quoted he
presents a fearful contrast to the cultured
atheist of Europe, while he has about as much
idea of the true spirit and permeating genius of
broad Christianity as a rhinoceros might have.
To improve on an old saying, true enough in its
day, “ Of all cant, the worst and most disgusting
is the cant of colonial freethought.” We do
not speak of the leaders, but of the bulk of
their followers.
The Most Rev. Archbishop Vanghan.
Thb many-sided genius of the immortal Shaka-
peare appears nowhere more conspicuously than
in his masterful delineation of Cardinal Wolsey.
The poet has, in fact, invested the great prelate
with such natural traits —such realistic fidelity
that thousands of English-speaking people have
for years taken his portraiture of the pompous
prelate, instead of the one drawn by more accurate
chroniclers or historians. It is not only in tins
typical churchman that Shakspeare exhibits the
greatness of his creative faculty. Even when such
a dramatis persona presents him-
self incidentally in any of the
plays, he is placed in snch a
suitable light, with befitting cir-
cumstances surrounding him,
and such appropriate language
put into his mouth, as to make
one marvel at the versatility,
universality, and exactness _ of
the great dramatist. Passing
by Pandulph, in “ King John,”
let us glance at his Grace of
Canterbury and his Bight Eev.
Lordship of Ely, in “ Henry V.”
The style —the tone—the temper
—the pluck—the timidity—the
cunning of the former may, with-
out any imputation of censori-
ousness on the writer’s part, be
said to appear (faintly perhaps
in the distinguished gentleman,
the “counterfeit resemblance”
of whose handsome face adorns
the firstpage of this week's issue
of our journal. How easily one
can imagine ArchbiahopVaughan
saying to a brother dignitary : —
“ If the bill pass.
We lose the better half of our
possession;
For all the temporal lands, which
men devout
By testament have given to the
Church,
Would they strip from us.”
Supposing Dr. Lanigan, like his
Lordship of Ely, were to say,
“This would drink deep,”
can we not easily imagine his
Grace of Sydney emphasizing,
with a prone horizontal gesture
of his plump and white right
hand, the following line: —
“ ’Twould drink the cup and all.”
With what na'iveti and finesse
he would, if circumstances per-
mitted, try to wheedle a Minister
of the Crown or an influential
member of Parliament to sup-
port holy Church’s claims on
the liberality of the State. In
thus taking our cue to Dr.
Vaughan’s character from the
great English dramatist, we do
not intend to insinuate that he
is arrogant or deceitful, or reck-
less of the means he uses to
attain his ends. Wo believe
him to be thoroughly sincere ;
he has made up his conscience
to act in a certain way according
to his lights ; he probably gives
at times irrational freedom to
his fancy, and through the mere
impulsiveness of his tempera-
ment does things which he after-
wards regrets. He certainly
has not the suaviter in modo—
“ the linked sweetness long
drawn out” —of his predecessor,
of whom it was neatly said that
“ a gracious and delicate hand
played almoner to a large and
liberal heart.” Archbishop
Vaughan may be able to give a
dozen reasons perfectly satisfac-
tory to himself, for his attack on
Freemasonry and the Educa-
tional compromise of ’66, which
he has been the means of ter-
THE MOST REV. ARCHBISHOP VAUGHAN.


minating, much to the regret of many of his own
flock. Whether he deplores his vigorous policy
or not, now that the fight is over, and “ the
battle’s lost and won,” is more than we will
presume to assert. It is, however, time that we
glance at the principal biographical incidents of
his career. Roger Bede Vaughan was born at
Courtfield, in Herefordshire, amid whose orchards
and granges he passed the first fifteen years of his
life. His father, Colonel Vaughan, belonged to
a family of gentle blood, and one ever devoted
to the Roman Catholic Church. On the maternal
side Archbishop Vaughan is allied to the Welds,
and through them to nearly half the Catholic
nobility and gentry of England. Hahas a brother,
an uncle, and a cousin-german, bishops; a brother
in priest’s orders and two sisters nuns. He
was born on the 9th of January, 1834, and
received the rudiments of his education from
tutors in the parental mansion. In 1831 he was
entered at Downside College, near Bath, an estab-
lishment conducted by the English Benedictines.
After a five years’ course of studies he removed
to Rome to complete his curriculum in theology
and sacred literature, including the writings of
the early Fathers of the Church, and in 1859 was
ordained priest by Cardinal Patrick Returning to
England—his mind stored with learning “ new
and olden ’ ’ —he soon made his mark amongst the
leading circles of his co-religionists. He became
(in 1861) Professor at, and subsequently Prior of,
St ; Michael’s Benedictine Monastery in Hereford-
shire. He retained this office till his consecration
as Archbishop of Nazianzus (in partibus infide-
lium) and Coadjutor to His Grace Archbishop
Bolding in 1873. His fine personal appearance,
his polished manners, artistic leanings, and glow-
ing diction —whether as an essayist or an orator —
gained him signal popularity soon after his ar-
rival in Sydney, although some of his utterances
were pronounced to be rash and many of his as-
sumptions on primary education quite untenable.
He certainly has many of the qualities and many
of the charms of a high-class Christian preacher,
although his style is often too diffuse and his
imagery redundant. He rarely attempts any subtle
analysis of the arguments of his opponents, but
rather tries to overcome them with resonant
phrases, ridicule and humour. His wit is not
fresh and spontaneous, but it sounds well as he
utters it, or as it bubbles over his smiling lips, be-
cause he infuses some of the brightness of a
genial disposition into his jokes. His soul is evi-
dently in his work, which he looks upon as
apostolic in the highest sense, and he is not
likely, therefore, to swerve from the path of duty
that lies before him. He resembles in many re-
spects the great medioeval prelates of his church-
whose learning was only excelled by their ostenta,
tion, and whose zeal often ran to excess. Arch-
bishop Vaughan is specially engaged in one great
work —the completion of St. Mary’s Cathedral —
which enlists the sympathies of large sections of
the liberal-minded public without reference to
creed or nationality. A grand Gothic Minster
will be an ornament to the city—“a thing of
beanty ” and, therefore, “ a joy for ever” —besides
affording the means of conducting the various
services of the Roman Catholic Church in an
effective manner. We hope before very long to
hear his Grace preach from the pulpit of the new
St. Mary’s ; and perhaps we may be able to say of
him, —
“ When he speaks,
The air, a chartered libertine, is still,
And the mute wonder lurketh in men’s ears
To steal his sweet and honeyed sentences.”
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Turkey is arming.
Ned Kelly has been further remanded.
“ Coalition ” is now whispered in Victoria.
There has been a heavy snowfall at Braidwood.
A steady influx of Chinese is going on to Otago,
A Fine Arts Society has been established in
Christchurch, N.Z.
The Prince Imperial is not to have a monument
in‘Westminister Abbey.
First Mulgrave crushing—Cairns Co-operative
Reef—25 owt. stone for4Ioz. gold,
A terrible colliery explosion has occurred at
Newport, Wales. About 120 men were killed.
James Wilson, the trainer, and the Age have
settled their libel action, each paying his own costs.
Queensland consumes more sugar in proportion
to its population than any other country in the world.
The well-known clipper “ Hydaspes ” has been
sunx in a collision in the English channel. All hands
saved.
A Congregational Church at Illinois has rejected
a candidate for Its pulpit on the sole ground that he
used tobacco.
We are informed that applications are being
freely sent in for shares in the new Anglo-Australian
Investment Co.
Cobb and Co., the celebrated mail carriers, re-
ceived over £33,000 from the Government of N.S.W. for
contracts in 1879.
It’s said that a certain M.P. who recently went
to get cured by Milner Stephen gave the healing medium
“ Blow for Blow.”
Agitation against the appointment of Eoman
Catholics to vice-regal and other high official positions
continues in England.
The unemployed at Christchurch, N.Z., threaten
the Government they will agitate for a self-supporting
Immigration Society.
A requisition is in preparation asking Mr.
Pigott, ex-mayor of Petersham, to stand for the Can-
terbury electorate next election.
One of the unemployed in a New Zealand town
broke a tobacconists window in order to obtain ad-
mission to gaol. He got 14 days.
A boy named Asher was run over by a tramway
locomotive at Invercargill, and expired from injuries
received in the region of the groin.
The British and Foreign Bible Society, the first
to circulate Bibles in Mexico, has distributed no less
than 100,000 copies in that country,
A Bathurst young man wrapped himself in a
sheet the other night, and played at “ghost.” A dog
“ took to him”—not to his heels, either.
Temora rush is already a very big affair. With
comparatively deep sinking and a long, well-tried lead,
the field promises to be another Gulgong.
The City Council’s resolution to hand over a
portion of Prince Alfred Park for a meat market has,
we are glad to notice, been rescinded at the instance of
Alderman O’Connor.
Mr. William Walker, Worshipful Grand Master
of the Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of Australia,
stanos for East Sydney. It is understood that he has
large promises of support.
A Japanese edition of the book of Common Prayer is
said to be nearly completed. It is being prepared under
the supervision of a mixed committee of English and
American missionary societies.
A man named Pullbrook the other day hit Con-
stable Dyson in the eye w ith a crutch. He has been
committed for trial. When brought before the court he
said he “owed an apology ” to the constable.
The directors of the A.S.N. Co. are going in for
protection. One of their conditions for tender for coal
at Brisbane is a £2000 surety. They evidently do not
intend the tenderers to be outside the “ Gulls.”
The Queensland Government, it is whispered,
will bring in a bill to sanction the construction of a line
of railway to deep water. The “ Tammany boys ” have
offered £5000 for the straight tip as to the route it will
take.
Sir Charles M’Mahon(Speaker of the Assembly
and late Chief Commissioner of Victorian Police) and
Mr. Jas. Mac bain, M.P., act as a Board for the distri-
bution of the rewards in re the destruction of the
Kellys. Mr. Hare declines to receive any part of the
money.
The Queenslanders have backed Napper Tandy
to win £30,000 over the Melbourne Cnp. The horse was
never so well. It is understood that Sam Cook wiU
look after the owner’s interests in Melbourne. It is
time he won something. Kent, his owner, is getting
very thin.
New South Wales is more immoral than Victoria,
and Victoria than Queensland. In England there are
more illegitimate births in proportion to the population
than in these colonies, and Scotland is the most immoral
of all. So that, after all, the Byronic rule doesn’t hold
good everywhere.
At a Ministerial dinner in Brisbane, the other
evening, the usual toasts of the Upper and Lower
Houses were given. Morehead called attention to an
important omission—the toast of the “Subsection”
had not been given; he hoped that he should not again
have to complain of similar neglect.
The Melbourne news boys have not yet got over
the bushranging excitement. In vending the extra-
ordinary announcing the result of the election which
again gent the Berry party into power they, with perhaps
unconscious humour, called out “ Herald ! Full ac-
count of the Tection of the Kelly gang.”
The Government of Queensland are stretching a
telephone from the Milton Brewery to the town office of
Messrs. Quinlan, Gray, and Co. The firm are to pay the
Government on annual rent. In future, should anyone
telephone-y story at the brewery, it can be heard in the
Queen-street office—a distance of two and a half miles.
The following are entirely new electorates under
the Electoral Act recently passed :—Albury, Balmain,
Burrowa, Bourke, Durham, Forbes, Gloucester, Glen
Innes, Grafton, Grenfell, Qundagai, Qunnedah, Inve-
relll, The Macleay, Molong, The Namoi, Redfern, The
Richmond, South Sydney, Tamworth, Wentworth, and
Young.
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus in writing
to the papers a disclaimer of the sentiments attributed
to him by Vanitt Fair, says that he “has always ex-
pressed his entire satisfaction with the colony, and his
admiration of its scenery and beautiful climate,” &c.
Now, we’d believe all this to be perfectly genuine but
for the ominons fact that his lordship doesn’t say a
solitary word about our beautiful harbour. It’s too
bad.
Th 0re is to be more trouble re the fight at
Qlenrowon. Superintendent Hare’s official report is
said to contain serious charges against Assistant-
Comnnssioner Nicholson for his conduct of affairs
wliile in charge at Benalla. Mr. Hare states that many
of the police wanted to rash the hotel in which the
bushrangers were, but the officers would not sanction
risk ot life. Superintendent Hare’s own courage has
been called into question—but not by people who
know anything of him. His performances stamp him
as a brave man.
The Australasian, writing of the trouble
into which all Executive Commis loners, Ac., get on the
score of expenditure, and with special reference to the
011863 Messrs. Lukin, Casey, Combes, and
Boothby, says thatMr. Berry" (in his ambassa-
dorial capacity) “didnot care to satisfy the public, and
was quite regardless of the way iu which lus reputation
might be smirched. He got his vote from an obse-
quious majority, he spent the money as he pleased, and
he refused to say how it went. And very likely he acted
with great prudence in doing so.
Says yesterday’s Sydney Daily Telegraph :
—“ The Hon. H. E. King, Speaker of the South Aus-
tralian Assembly, delivered an address at the Adelaide
Town Hall, ou the 16th instant, on the subject of
Protection. He was warmly received, and began by
saying that the lecture he was about to deliver was
partly prepared for his constituents at Maryborough,”
Ac. Ac. The article from which the above startling
statements are taken is alleged by the Telegraph to
have been abridged from the South Australian Adver-
tiser. We always thought that the Hon. H. E. King
was a Queenslander, and that Maryborough was in
Queensland.
Campagnoni’s Catering and Coffee Palace Com-
pany have always made a grand success of their luncheon
rooms. The place is got up in quite a new and com-
fortable style and is much superior to anything we have
been accustomed to in this colony. We are glad to
learn that the public has not been slow to appreciate
this effort on the part of the company, as the rooms
each day opening have been well patronised,
the ladies' dining rooms, which are separate, being no
less successful than the gentlemen’s. Everything is
served up in a superior style at very moderate prices.
The waiting is a decided improvement. The rooms are
well lighted, cheerful and well ventilated. The Com-
pany deserves the very best possible support for their
enterprise and good judgment in meeting a long felt
want in Sydney.
“ Embarrassed by riches,” says Berry. Sir
John O’Shanassy expects to be Chief Secretary and
Premier; so does Berry. Bryan O’Loghlen and Mr.
Vale are both wonldbe Attorneys-General. Dow, who
stumped the country with big maps showing all the
land held by the squatters, wants to be Minister for
Lands; so does Longmore. Professor Pearson wants
to be Minister of Education; so does Mirams, who a
year or two ago three times endeavored to obtain his
diploma as a State-school teacher of the lowest adult
class and failed! Tar-brush Woods wants to go to the
Railways; so does Richardson. Then there are a score
of hungry legislative wolves who knock at the doors of
the Customs, Mines and Works, and who if disap-
pointed, as some of them must inevitably be for twenty
into three won’t go, will turn into lions.
FUN AND FANCY.
The gravest Beast is the Ass,
The gravest Bird is the Owl ;
The gravest Fish is the Oyster,
The gravest Man is the Fool.
A contemporary prints a poem called “ Gather
Eipe Fruits, O Death." And that would be best. It is
now that the small boy gathers the fruits before they
are ripe, and O Death gathers the small boy.
George Washington was a little boy what once
lived in Yergmny what had a nax give him by his old
man. Wen Georges old man found out what George an
the nother boy done, he called George to him, and he
ses, George Washington who cutted the bark ofen the
cherry tree ? George ses i did. The old man ses you
did George ses i did and i cennot tell a li. Why cant
you tell ali ses the old man. Coz ses George if i tell a
li this here fellarl blow on me and then I’ll be spanked
twict. That’s rite ses the old man wenever yer git in
ter trouble the esyist way out is the best.”
“ How’s your father ? ” came the whisper.
Bashful Ned the silence breaking;
“ Oh, he’s nicely,” Annie murmured.
Smiling the question taking.
Conversation flagged a moment ;
Hopeless, Ned essayed another;
“ Annie I 1 ” then a coughing.
And the question: “How’s your mother?”
“Mother! oh, she's doing finely !”
Fleeting fast was all forbearance.
When in low, despairing accents
Came the climax; “ How’s your parents ?”
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Balmain young ladies won’t wear jerseys.
The shortest joke often makes the longest rnn.
Never spoil a good story by telling it for a fact-
Heliotrope is the new colour for ladies’ dresses.
Is a clothing shop a coterie, a pantry or a ves-
try ?
A cardinal jersey was conspicuous at Proroga-
tion.
Ike two belles still look into Thompson and
Giles’ window every afternoon at 4.
It was an Arkansas man who said that “ the
Lord is usually on the side of the man who holds four
aoes,"
Honesty is the “ best policy,” but as the world
wags nowadays, it is no small matter to earn enough to
pay the premiums.
The truthful London Truth says : “ No woman
ever yet achieved a reputation for beauty without more
or less deserving it.”
An Idaho man committed suicide the other day.
He said he wished to get to heaven before all the best
claims were taken up.
A lady’s magazine, in its “ Housekeepers’ De-
partment,” informs its readers that “Indian wives
make the best of pickles.”
It is announced that the Duchess of Connaught
expects to add to the already large number of the
Queen’s grand-children before many weeks are over.
An old bachelor once fell in love with a young
lady, but he abandoned all idea of marrying her-when
he found that she and all her family were opposed to it.
A London society paper says that “American
women would be far more beautiful if thev weighed 200
pounds apiece.” So would some wasp-waisted Austra-
lians.
“ Wanted” —thus reads an Argus advertisement
—“ young lady, as Nursery Governess, from 10 till 6,
Sundays included; 30s. monthly.” A shilling a day for
eight hours’ work without board or lodging.
The principal dresses worn at the opening Flower
Show of the London sea son were dark in hue, hut
picked-out with red or yellow. Jet glinted in the sun at
every turn. The “ Langtry hood ” hung from almost
every third pair of shoulders.
A lady says that a woman, in choosing a lover,
considers a good deal more how the man will be re-
garded by other women than whether she loves him
herself. Some women may; but the men they smile
upon will be regarded by other women as very “green ”
to be taken in by them.
The Baroness Burdett-Contts has never married
—it is said because she is too homely to be attractive,
and will not be married for her money. She is rather
below the medium height, with a prominent nose, and
hair brushed tightly over the temples in the good old-
fashioned way,and has a bad complexion which makes her
look as if she drank to excess, although she is very
bstemious.
A butcher named Edward Lawlor. alias Laur-
ence, has been committed for trial on a charge of bigamy
at Auckland N.Z. His first wife, (Mrs. Lawlor) arrived
in Auckland from Australia a short time ago, and to her
surprise found the man she loved in a new home, with
another wife and an infant of two years old on his knee.
Lawlor was married to his first wife at Redruth,
on the 9th December, 1830, and hod corresponded with
her regularly.
They bus-edit together. And during the ride sweet
seventeen archly remarked, apropos of good tempered
people, “ Oh ! I can’t imagine how it is any one can be
80 as t° Set afigry, I’m sure I could agree with any
one.” “ I’m sure you would agree splendidly with me,”
he rnbicnndly retorted—“ in fact the very thing the
doctor ordered.” They have been divorced now some
weeks. She couldn’t agree with him because he wasn’t
any one, she says.
Only a woman’s hair,
Binding the now to the past.
Only a single thread.
Too frail to last.
Only a woman’s hair.
Threading a tear and a sigh,
Only a woman’s hair,
Found to-day in the pie.
An N.Z. youth named Jones committed suicide
by taking vermin powder. The cause, strange to say,
was a love affair. We don’t know why vermin powder
is coming into use in love matters. A little while ago
a Sydney reporter went to a wedding breakfast, indulged
a little too freely and fell desperately in love with one
of the bridesmaids. When asked to respond for the ladies
he stood up and remarked, “ Nishe gal-mice eat it and
die on shpot. Amen.”
Oh, skirt! beautiful skirt!
Jerked thro’ the dust and dragged thro’ the dirt!
Once thou wert white
As the mantle of snow;
As the leaves of the lily
When the spring zephyrs blow ;
Stiff to the touch and fair to the eye,
Neat to the gaze of the passer-by;
Now tattered and spattered—
Oh, piteous wrong!
Beautiful skirt—
They made you too long!
At the President’s diplomatic reception Mrs.
John J. Astor, of New York, dazzled all beholders with
her £1,000,000 worth of diamonds and black pearls. A
wide band, composed of large diamonds, fastened her
chatelaine braid, and two tiaras rested on the top and
front of her head. Her ear-rings were immense, so
were the solitaires on velvet around her throat, beneath
which were five strands of large black pearls, fastened
with an immense diamond clasp. She wore a breast-
plate of diamonds, and her square-necked corsage was
outlined with the largest-sized diamonds. Her arms
were encircled with them, and, in short, she was re
solved into a “ Kohinoor.”
A friend of mine, says a writer in London
Society, was introduced the other day to a very charm-
ing •young American lady at Geneva. With a naivete
and frankness chimicteristic of Yankee womanhood, she
soon informed him that she was spending her honey-
moon in Europe. "That must be very delightful,”
exclaimed my friend. “ Yes,” was her reply, “ I enjoy
it immensely.” Then it occurred to him that he hod
seen nothing of the lady’s husband. “ Your husband is
not here to-day, then ? ” he added. He says he shall
not easily forget the comical expression of amusement
and surprise upon her face as she answered, with a,
merry laugh : “ My husband here! Why. he is not with
me! I left him in New York.” This idea of a honey-
moon is unique. I wonder if the husband was enjoying
his honeymoon with equal zest on the other side of the
Atlantic ? Perhaps he was.
The Bulletin.
In order to fully meet the continuous and still rapidly-
increasing demand for Thu Bulletin it has been
decided to alter the day of publication from Friday to
Thursday in each week. Agents will be so good as to
make their arrangements accordingly.
Thk Bulletin will be mailed to any address in the
c jlonies for Three months for Three Shillings paid in
advance. Terms of annual subscription, Twelve
Shillings in advance; Fourteen shillings if booked.
Advertisements are inserted at the rate of 3s. 6d. per
inch. A liberal discount on quarterly, half-yearly and
annual orders. Post Office Orders and Cheques to be
made payable to Haynes and Archibald.
Country and Intercolonial agents wanted.
“ Bulletin ” office, 13 Bridge-street.
Sydney, 17th July, 1880.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
FOR
BY QUIZ.
(Written, for the Bulletin).
XV I.—“THE PARASTIE"
Is a title no one would really care to own to and yet the
world is full of them —both the old world and the new-
Even Sydney has its social blood-suckers. “ Parasites,”
as we know, are of divers species. Some are poisonous,
others are harmless; and although I devote a paper to
them they are scarcely worthy of so much attention.
However, chacuna son goCit. I cannot pretend to sketch
more than one of the chameleon-hued parasites. Take
for instance a harmless male parasite. He is, as the
term would imply, of a dependent, clinging nature,
hanging on some richer friendlwhose house he makes
almost his home, in season and out of season. As a
rule, he is not a marrying man —so many houses are
open to him as a single parasite that he finds it better
to put aside all ideas of wedded bliss. He tells the
married friend to whom he clings that he envies him
the possession of such a pretty wife and happy little
children; and then, with a resigned look on his face, he
adds that such joys are not for poor fellows like him.
He feels so happy to know they don’t mind him looking
in at any hour or staying any length of time. Then his
ready tongue flatters his pretty hostess who, woman-like,
swallows the well-seasoned bait. And the parasite is
made much of wherever he goes. There may be times
when his presence becomes de trop, but his habits are
such that he never perceives it. A parasite has no lack
of refinement towards others, especially those he clings
to. His own feelings are not blunted, but put aside.
Then he is so useful and his little bits of scandal are so
carefully filtered. He knows exactly of whom to speak
ill or whom to praise in presence of his friends. He
will amuse the children while the mother lounges over
a new novel —he is her most faithful cavalier-servante—
will fetch and carry like a poodle, ride with her until
some more favored one takes his place, when he drops
discreetly behind. Of course the parasite has many
dependent on him, whom he is always trying to make
cling to people as he does. Perhaps he has a sister
or a cousin who is a little delicate. He enrolls their
ready sympathy on her behalf. “ Poor girl, bring her.”
She comes and receives a warm invite to join them
when next they leave town for their country-house-
Once there they make much of her—teach her to ride’
give her a horse to call her own and she, being young, is
brimming over with love for her c >usin (perhaps brother
sounds safer) and gratitude to his kind friends. The
trip does her good aud it then becomes a fixed idea in
the male parasite’s mind that this little feminine para-
site may at all times, like himself, live on his rich
friends. He feels that by so doing he has lightened his
own responsibility. She may or may not have a mother
whose home would be brightened by her presence; but
what of that ? Parasites have no hearts, except the
fictitious one that beats in unison with their own
desires. They are not bad company. They can sing
and play indifferently well; they use the piano as if it
were their own; sing for their own pleasure, and let us
hope that of others, more especially their kind host and
hostess, both of whom they love almost as if they
belonged to the family and were not parasites. Noth-
ing offends them, nothing puts them down or out of
temper. They never see the brows of their pretty
hostess contract in an ominous frown when their
visit may appear to her to be a little inopportune. Are
they not her willing slaves, always ready to endorse
her opinion, praise her dress, her voice, her carriage—
in fact her tout ensemble is always perfection in their
eyes. The male parasite boasts that he never grows
old: his friends won’t let him. After all so little
satisfies him—an occasional seat at his friend’s dining*
table, a horse from his friend’s stable, a cigar from his
friend’s choice box of havannas—to be allowed to make
himself perfectly at home in his friend’s house, to
stretch full length on the trim lawn and smoke or
strum to himself on the piano and hum mon petit doigt
or mourir pour la patrie quite to his own delectation.
On such a life the harmless parasite grows fat and self
important and can well afford to drop utterly such olcL
fashioned out-of-date friends as those who first placed
him in the position that has long rendered him quite
independent of such aid. In his present character as
pour tray ed above, gratitude can have no part.
May-Day.
Bay of all the year the best,
Emblem of eternal rest.”
1 Boise the stove a little higher.
And hurry up and make the fire.]
You must wake and call me early;
Call me early, mother dear.”
I Crackers and cheese is all we’ve got.
So bring along the coffee-pot.]
“ Upon the dewy-spangled mead
The May-day sun its rays doth speed.”
i But brighter shines the frying pan
In the hands of the hired moving-man.]
“ Hail! hail! lovely May.”
[The rest we’ll give some other’day. )
Buggy Riding.
C. S.
Mary’s Cat.
BY “THE OTHER FELLOW”
Mary had a little cat.
Its coat was sleek and soft—
Whenever the poodle came in sight.
Its tale went np aloft.
This cat was a demon mouser—
In fact a regular sneezer,
And from its knack of catching rats.
She called it Julius Seizer!
It wandered in the street one day.
And sprang upon the walls.
That skirted butcher Dobbs’ place,
Who made the sausage balls.
As quick as thought the butcher’s knife
Went flashing through the air.
And striking Julius’ narrative.
Clipped clean through bone and hair.
No more in midnight’s stilly hour.
The cat unfolds a tail
And edifies the neighbours with
Selections on the rail.
The poodle’s tail now stands out straight.
The mice run rampage free—
Since Julius lost his narrative,
li&piiet catastrophe.
“ Suppose,” said he, in accents soft,
A felloe, jus like me,
Should axle little girl to wed—
What would the answer be ?”
The maiden drops her liquid eyes,
Her smiles with blushes mingle.
“ Why seek the bridal haltar, when
You may live on, sur, cingle ?"
And then he spoke: “ Oh, be my bride
I ask you once again;
You are the empress of my soul.
And there shall ever rein.
I’ll never tire of kindly deeds
To win your gentle heart,
And saddle be the shaft that rends
Our happy lives apart 1"
Upon her cheeks the maiden felt
The mantling blushes glow ;
She took him for her faithful hub,
To share his wheel or whoa.


LATE SPORTING.
Training Notes.
gT. John and Hopeful were first out on Tuestay
morning, and in a strong twice round the chestnut
was a good deal liked. Monita and Shipka were
treated°to slow work over a couple of miles, and
then came Rupert, Gladys and Oriola, and they
were sent over twice round at a good serviceable
pace, but the gallop was not a time-making one.
Next appeared Hazard, Prairie Bird and Kamala-
roi, but beyond steady work nothing of any im-
portance was done by these. The Admiral and
Strathearn were companions over a strong twice
round and they wound up with a fast half-mile,
finishing at the sheds. Koreelah and Scottish
Chief did two miles at a good working pace, and
then after Misletoe, Sardony and Moonbeam had
accomplished two and a half miles together the
youngsters dropped out and Moonbeam was
treated to another turn by himself. Sapphire did
a strong couple of miles, and Get Black with the
late arrival from Queensland, Bolwin, did long
strong work on the tan. Middlesex, after an
absence of some days, was the next to show out,
but only cantered, and then Hildebrand, Bertie,
and Geraldine put in a really good fast once round,
Geraldine running the distance in 2m. 25£s, and
together with Bertie were very much liked.
Liberator was treated to his usual _ amount of
strong work, and then Calima with Lightningfor
a companion got over twice round at a slow pace.
Lorton and Master Avenel did two and a half
miles, and as they went all the way at a strong
pace it was one of the best gallops of the morning.
Rosinante and Fisherman ran over once round in
2m. 27s., and as they both finished well were a
good deal thought of. Retrospect and Gains-
borough did twice round with a strong finish home,
and then Bathurst was treated to long strong
work by himself. The Pontiff, showing no signs
of success, had Cinnamon for a companion, and
the pair put in a fast three-quarters of a mile in
1m. 25s., a performance that was considered good.
Otira and Coxcomb also did a strong twice round,
running home from the half-mile in 56s., and then
Dover with Sweetmeat did a good working gallop
over two and a half miles. Dover goes very well.
Avernus, Friday, and Grand Flaneur, after canter-
ing once round, put in another twice at a really
strong pace ; Avernus and Grand Flaneur running
the distance in 2m. 30s.. their companions having
much the worst of it. North Star worked on the
sand, and then Auckland and Thorntopper per-
formed at three-quarter pace over two and a half
miles, both going and finishing well. The big guns,
Chester, Martindale, Democrat, and Sunlight,
worked on the tan.
Football.
The University players beat the King’s School 1st
team by 3 goals and 4 tries. ,
The Eedfern 2nd beat the Eugby 2nd by 2 touches.
The Glenheads defeated Arfoma by 4 goals and 5 tries
t0 The Oriental and Eugby 2nd fifteens met at Stanmore
and the former won by a goal and a try.
The local (Grafton) team beat the 1st fifteen ot the
Clarence Heads players.
The Parramatta Pace Club have decided not to
held a race meeting in August.
The Australian Eleven play a match against a
picked team of All England cricketers, in September.
The second Fifteen of the Newtown Football
Club defeated eleven players of the second St. Leonards
y 5 goals and 4 tries to nil.
Carver and Aplitt run 150 yards at Maitland for
£-200 aside on 21st August. A well-known Newcastle
man also wants to try conclusions with Callaghan tor
L500 aside at 150 or 200 yards.
After the first ties of the Waterloo Cup had been
run through on Tuesday, N. S. Wales had two dogs still
left in, viz., Lapidist and Lelex —one the property of
Mr. W. Lee, jnn., and the other belonging to Mr. iiee
Lord.
There was to have been a meeting of the mem-
bers of Tattersall’s Club on Monday evening last, to
consider the best means of paying a tribute to the
memory of the late Mr. Eichard Driver, but owmg to
the paucity of attendance the thing lapsed.
At a committee meeting of the N.S.W. Coursing
Club, held on Monday several new members were
elected, and after a deal of unimportant business had
been got through, Messrs. G. F. Want and Higgins were
deputed to make all necessary railway arrangements tor
the coming Autumn meeting.
Town Amusements.
THEATER ROYAL.
During the week W. S. Gilbert’s latest production
« Betsy,” has been drawing crowded houses. The play
s one of the best that has yet been put before the public
for some time by the London Comedy Company. The
moulting of. the piece, as also the acting, tends to
make the performance one of the most enjoyable
amusements of the city.
Victoria Theatre.
The pieces performed at this theatre have been
“ Josh, the Yankee.” and “ Handy Andy,” the princi-
pal characters being sustained by Mr. Grattan Riggs,
who was well supported by the rest of the company.
As Handy Andy, from Lever’s well-known novel of that
name, Mr. Kiggs was inimitable, and well deserved the
applause bestowed on him.
Queen's Theatre.
Mr. George Darrell has been performing the principal
character, Hubert Chandos, in “ Transported for Life,
at the above place, with very good success. To-night
and to-morrow (Thursday and Friday) “ The Streets ot
New York ” is to be placed on the boards. On Satur-
day night Mr. Darrell takes his farewell benefit, when
“ The Trump Card ” and “ The Corsican Brothers
will be produced. We trust that the bill will be a
trump card for Mr. Darrell.
Opera House.
A fair attendance has patronised the Loftus Troupe
in their “variety” entertainment during the week. On
Friday night Messrs. Waters and Kelly take their
benefit.
Juvenile Troubadours.
The School of Arts was crowded on last Saturday
—the opening night of this clever troupe of juve-
niles. Master Parlato came in for the lion's share of j
the applause, which he well deserved. Several of i
the songs and dances were encored.
Egyptian Hall.
At this place of entertainment, that wonderful pheno-
menon, “ The Electric Boy,” has quite taken the city
by storm; and as others are performing miraculous
cures, sr id to be inspired by , the public have flocked
to the Electric Boy to try his powers first, as they are
cheapest—admission being only sixpence.
Mr. W. J. Carr-Boyd.
We have much pleasure in presenting to our
readers in this issue a sketch of the features of
Mr. W. J. Carr-Boyd, the well-known explorer
who has made himself familiar to the public by
letters contributed to the Queenslander under
the norm de plume of “ Potjostler,” and who came
into especial prominence some time ago by finding
the bodies of the unfortunate brothers Front,
victims of thirst in the wilderness of the far west.
An interesting letter from Mr. Carr-Boyd on a
subject of public interest is unavoidably held
vor.
Giraud’s Wholesale and Retail Confec-
tionary Works.
A very pleasant hour may he spent looking over the
extensive wholesale or the retail confectionary works
of Mr L. Giraud in this city. The wholesale factory is
situated in George-street, at the rear of M’Gregors, and
next to Cattell aud Co.'s, a fine spacious and lofty
building having been secured for this branch of the
business. There are four floors, extensive of abasement,
and a steam lift, safe and simple in operation, runs from
floor to ceiling. Every branch of the confectioner s art
is carried on here, and the arrangements throughout
the building are judiciously made and calculated to
greatly facilitate business. About twenty hands, among
whom several French experts, are employed, and the
goods manufactured are altogether of very far superior
description and in many cases quite a novelty as far as
colonial experience goes. Every appliance of recent
invention may be found here, and the very best material
aud the best skill obtainable are employed. The goods,
from their high-class character,are finding their way into
the market throughout this colony, and even the
very best descriptions of French confectionery are
forced to yield to the vigorous competition of Mr.
Giraud’s works. The retail establishment is situated
inGeorge-street, next to Lassetter and Co. s warehouse,
and a sketch of the exterior is furnished beneath.
This may be described as the beginning ©f a promising
and very popular business. The proprietor expects to
build up for himself here a business in the retail way
as large and as profitable as that done by some of the
largest houses in the great French metropolis. The
highest excellence of the confectioner’s art is to bring
the custom; and, if what is already to be seen there is
a criterion of what Ittr. Giraud promises to introduce,
Sydney will not lack for novelties in this respect. The
shop has been fitted up in a nice style—French taste
having, of course, full play; and in handsome cases, etc,,
may be seen samples of the beautiful confectionery now
made up for the use of Sydney folk. In most cases, the
articles are novelties, seen here for the first time; and
as they are certified to us as in no way injurious to
health—the colouring being purely vegetable, and in
fact, wholesome—a pretty extensive patronage may be
predicted for them. Private and wedding parties are
now supplied from this quarter, and no small amount
of interest is excited by these specimens of French art.
M. Giraud carried on his business for some time on the
Newtown-rotd, but five months ago he removed into
the city, and his present incoming trade fully justifies
that step. In a few months hence M. Giraud may give
the Sydney people another delicacy in the shape of the
best French pastry- Wi.h suitable premiees at his
commahd, this branch of art will be introduced, and a
very good business is exnected.
A very large amount of matter, not the least
interesting portion of which is “ Melbourne Follies,”
is unavoidably held over.
The Photograpic Art.
There is no name more intimately associated with
the development of the photographic art in this city
than that of Mr. B. C. Boake, and his studio is now, as in
the past, adorned with photos of all the leading people
in Sydney. Mr. Boake has been fifteen years at
his profession, most of the time in Sydney, and ten
years ago the artistic character of his pictures earned
for him a very high reputation. It has never since
been dimmed by local or other kind of competition, for
he has been careful to obtain the latest and most valu-
able inventions for his studio. Mr. Boake’s es-
tablishment is situate at 357 George-street, near
King-street, and its position is central and convenient.
The reception and waiting rooms are large, well lighted,
and tastefully furnished, and are decorated with some
of the best specimens of the artist’s work in photo-
graphy, oils, crayons, &c. The galleries are large and
devised on entirely new plans. Their positions are
north and south, and with other arrangements for
light, &c., effectiveness in all pictures cannot but be
secured. The galleries have just recently been fur-
nished with a hundred guinea mammoth lens and
camera, from the celebrated American Optical Co., New
York. This portion of the business is entirely under
Mr. Boake’s personal superintendence, and the very
greatest care is devoted to providing on every point
aithful likenesses and artistic pictures.
" The Vagabond” in Parliament.
Mr. Julian Thomas (“The Vagabond”) is a candidate
for Parliament and has issued a characteristic address
to the electors of the Wollombi, now mis-represented
by Mr. Joe Eckford. Mr. Thomas who, by the way,
was on several occasions solicited to stand for Parlia- ,
ment while in Victoria, says, amongst other things: j
“ I am entirely opposed to the policy of the present
Government, its taxation schkme I consider to have
been most reprehensible, as class legislation of the
worst type, namely, that which in its incidence would
press hardest on those least able to bear it—the small
landholders and farmers—and further, taxing as it would
have done the products of the country, it was contrary
to all principles of political economy. On this ground
alone, if on no other, I think the Government, which is
so destitute of resource, so imbecile in statesmanship,
is unworthy the confidence of the people.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Longfellow is a small man physically.
The “ Gineral’s ” son wears an eye-glass.
Captain Gingah has his own phaeton and his
own yacht.
Mr. C. H. Barlee is known in the spirit world as
“ William.”
John Taylor, of Parramatta, opposes Menser at
the next general election.
Already Gladstone’s Cabinet has been named
“The Cabinet of Apologies.”
A small grocer’s shop in street is the
post-office for their billet-doux,
Gambetta lately got so excited in a speech that
he shattered his ruler on his desk.
Mr. Bright’s favorite author is Milton, a copy
of which he always carries in his pocket.
Hardinge-Britten at late dates was
lecturing to the Saints of Salt Lake City.
The trip home has considerably modified the
Queensland Premier’s views on Protection.
Gladstone is said to live chiefly on fish, drinking
very little wine, and that Bordeaux and Port.
Eocke, the great furniture man, is sending
£4000 worth of exhibits to the Melbourne Exhibition.
Thadeus O’Kane is said to have dropped more
money over the Bowen election than would suffice to
start a paper.
Proctor made £1200 in Victoria. He had
enthusiastic receptions wherever he went, except from
the Geelongese.
Mr. John Reid left his station on the Bogan
River just before shearing and travelled 900 miles to
vote against Berry.
The son of a Danish ex-Cabinet-Minister was
committed at Palmerston the other day for obtaining
money on false pretences.
Mr. William Forster, they say, is to be nomi-
nated in opposition to Sir Henry Parkes wherever the
latter gentleman is a candidate.
To next number of the Victorian Review
Sir Henry Parkes contributes an article on the “ Past
Session of the N.S.W. Parliament.
It’s said that the persons who gave Edison the
tailings out of which he got so much gold “ salted
them with very fine gold by way of a joke.
There’s a story current in Melbourne to the
effect that Joe Thompson has laid Branch 100 to 1 in
hundreds that Ned Kelly will not be hanged.
The present Lord Derby said recently of his
father that “the only thing he knew perfectly > was
Homer, and even at that Mr. Gladstone beat him.
A colonial politician lately deceased expressed
his regret for youthful indiscreet exuberances. How
many of his class are prepared to follow his example <
The best-looking man seen in Brisbane lately
was Ferguson, one of the directors of the A.S.h. Co.
His photos, sold readily during the tour of inspection.
Bismarck is mentioned as having said in the
days of his political youth that all great cities were
the hotbeds of revolution and should be swept from the
earth.
We used to think that Joan of Arc was a very
young lady, but the Professor surely ought to know.
Not that matrons are always devoid of fascina-
cination.
We think Mr. S. H. Teece is more at home as
stroke of a gig than as aspiring to play Hamlet or recit-
ing the “ Bridge of Sighs." However, he’s plucky aud
means well.
Wehlow’s hotel, Parramatta, was the scene of
a sanguinary encounter between a telegraph man jand a
banker last week. Rumour says it was about a red-
haired girl.
Morehead’s sub-section had determined to oppose
the Queensland Ministry but they they have been paci-
fied. Lukin of the Courier has been given over to them
as a victim.
And when the soi-disant eelibntaire left for La
Nouvelle Caledonie, by the mail-boat to “ join his
wife,” the girls were thunderstruck. There’s a ladies'
man for you.
Pearson, remarks the Australasian, got his
seat as the result of one of the most infamous transac-
tions in Victorian politics, and his .last days are not a
i bit better than his first.
John Davies is being 1 “ovated” at Mudgee. It’s
said that John is making a place warm for any person,
any friend, or anything like that, you know, who may
he rejected for East Sydney.
Ninny Melville tells them at TV allsend that he
possesses the same powers ns Milner Stephen, hut they
won’t let Ninny lay hands on anything, and as for
breathing, the cloves spoil that.
A story is afloat that an American newspaper
representative recently offered Prince Bismarck 130,000
dols. yearly to write a weekly article for the journal m
question, but he respectfully declined.
Sir Henry Parkes goes for Canterbury as does
also Mr. W. H. Pigott. Mr. J. M. O’Connell stands
for South Sydney. It is more than likely that Mr’ P.
A. Jennings will stand for East Sydney.
Administration has been granted to the estate o
the late Mrs. Eleanor Cameron, widow of the late
Donald Cameron, of Oakbank, Western District, k ic
toria. The estate was valued at £73,000.
It is said that the editors of at least five of the
leading provincial daily papers in England are Baptists.
At the head of the list is Mr. Henry Dunckley, the
“Verax” of the Examiner.
George Wilkie Gray, of the firm of Quinlan
Gray and Co. (Brisbane!, although a little man is getting
“big.'* Fitzgerald pere et fils together with Prender-
gast have joined the firm. So much for beer.
Gardner, the tallest man in Brisbane, ‘’ hand-
some Fred.’’ perhaps excepted, always walks with the
shortest fellow he can find. No wonder it is thought
that he has grown since he came to the colony.
Hugh M'Coll, of “ Great North-Western Canal”
notoriety, has got into the Victorian Assembly as a
Berryite. His lengthened advocacy of the ‘‘canard
has apparently given him “ water on the brain.
At the School of Arts the other night young
“Gus” seemed to think that some of those tahluaux-
vivants would have made a prettier photograph than a
stage picture. The lime-light, he considered, was too
strong.
The value of the estate of the late Hon. Neil
Black has been sworn at £250,000. The deceased de-
vised his property to his wife and childred. It is com-
puted that the probate duty will amount to at least
£10,000.
Judging from recent appearances the 1st Regi-
ment of Infantry, Queensland, have only one man com-
petent to take charge of a guard of honor —Captain
M'Farlane. Vide Mayor’s Ball and the opening of Par-
liament.
Captain Gingah seemed quite at home at the
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta last Saturday while be-
striding a big gun on Fort Macquarie. We presumed
his military ardour was invigorated by the warlike sur-
roundings of the place.
When the Countess of Derby drove through
Southport endeavoring to enlist popular favor for the
Liberal candidates, the Conservatives, “ being too gal-
lant to groan the lady,” turned their coats inside out
and followed her carriage.
The Otago Witness hears on good authority
that an individual who was formerly connected with
the Dunedin Volunteer force, and who disappeared
rather suddenly a few months ago, now holds a com-
mission in the Chilian army.
Heine said of Victor Hugo that despite the
majesty of his style his muse frequently manifested a
German helplessness. In other words, he says: “I
might say of his muse as we say of a beautiful English-
woman, she has two left hands.”
Lord Augustus Loftus denies the statement
made in Vanity Fair to the effect that he is dis-
appointed with New South Wales and wishes to return
to England. He says he never was happier in his life
than since bis sojourn in Sydney.
Gately, the ex-hangman of Victoria, is stopping
at one of the best hotels in Brisbane, but he does not
call himself Gately. He is in hopes of being able to
prove relationship with some politician or other and
thus secure a Government billet.
Prince Leopold is said to be depended on more
than any other of her sons by Queen Victoria for advice.
He is too bookish and industrious and altogether too
dutiful to be popular as an English Prince, but neverthe-
less he is winning respect every day.
Kelly sympathisers have sent threatening letters
to the Hon. W. J. Clarke, at whose house Superintendent
flare is laid up. Mrs. Hare is a sister of Mrs. Clarke. Dr.
Charles Ryan, of Plevna celebrity, goes up daily to
Sunbury to visit the Superintendent.
Mr. Lyell, the defeated Conservative candidate,
while attempting to return thanks to the large number
of ‘‘law and order” voters who had “ plumped” for him
was silenced by “ Liberal ” doses of rotten eggs. Two
eggs struck him in the mouth, iu rapid succession.
Hall, the new (Berryite) member for Moira in
the Victorian Assembly, was formerly connected with
the Mansfield Guardian, and has now one of the
Benalla journals. He is real live literary man, having
written a “ History of the Kelly Gang,” in bad English.
Mrs. Gladstone is a clever, pleasant woman, but
shs dresses badly. Mr. Gladstone wears trousers that
are baggy at the knees, his coats never lit him, his
cloves are always too long in the fingers; but Mrs.
Gladstone always “ revises ” him before he leaves on im-
portant occasions.
The “ Liguria ” took home a somewhat “ hard-
up" solicitor’s clerk, whose brother, a recently-elected
English M.P., and colleague of the Right Hon. Hugh
Chflders, Minister of War, has procured him—the
needy one—a billet in the War Office. Lucky chance
for a hungry wolf.
“Ouida” has made a great success of her
latest, “Moths,” so far as Melbourne is concerned. A
large shipment arrived by last mail, and as the goody-
goody papers roundly abused “ Moths ” there arose a
great demand for the book, which at present cau’t bo
got for love or money.
The Age has returned five members of its
staff. Professor Pearson, who writes leaders, O’Hee
who writes libels, Deakin who writes leaders for the
Leader and Age, Dow, the agricultural editor, and
John Quick, the law reporter and leader of the staff,
who, by the way, has now resigned.
The fast young man referred to a fortnight ago
as having “made a fool of himself,” is now reported to
have made a fool of the girl whom he made his wife, by
leaving her to support herself and bairn as best she
can, while he disports himself in ’Frisco. He was last
seen on board the “ City of New York.’,
Every Sunday, after evening service, and while
the rest of the congregation ore passing through the
porebway, the obliging verger of our most fashionable
fane helps a by-no-means decrepit gentleman to assume
his top-coat. More expense ! Surely valets aren’t to
Income portion of every very High Church.
The Home News states that Mr. Archibald
portres is about to visit the colonies and the United
States. He will lecture on “ Royalties I have known.”
He was to start almost immediately for America,
whence he would proceed to Canada, and he might be
expected iu Australia about the end of the year.
Aaron Waxman, the Leviathan Victorian
“ financier,” gives a grand ball at the Melbourne
Athemeum on Wednesday, 28th instant, to celebrate the
wedding of his daughter with Mr. Goldberg, another
member of the craft. In Melbourne the names of Wax-
mah and Goldberg are magic among civil servants.
Before the entrance of the vice-regal party
at the amateur dramatic performance in the
School of Arts, on Friday night, the “anointed”
seemed much disconcerted by the lively valse played by
the baud. Did he want them to play “ God Save the
Queen ” as he entered with her Ladyship on his arm ?
William Miller, who holds the champion wrest-
ling belt of the world is a passenger by the Potosi. He
is a native of Melbourne, where he formerly kept a
gy mnasium, and is the son of Mr. William Miller, the
well-known tutor and swordsman. The statue of the
“ fighting Hercules ’’ does not represent a finer man
than William Miller.
Bishop Bngnion’a project of settling a number of
his countrymen on land near Rockhampton has fallen
througlu The Mennonites had beard the place described
as the “Valley of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow" and
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
A Jewish Wedding.
(IN KOSHER MEATER.)
BY NED. BITTON.
’Tis a Jewish wedding
On a Shobbo’s night.
All the guests are fed in
Kapture and delight;
Eustle round the olives,
Fetch around the fish.
Sling around the Kosher meat.
In a Kosher dish.
Pretty Mrs. Cohen
That was a Miss Hyam,
Sees some tarts, and’s goin'
Fast as light to try ’em.
All the weary morning
Her appetite has slumbered,
Now, farewell those frimsell tarts.
All their days are numbered.
At the centre table
There occur great larks ;
There feeds ou in silent shtutch
Mrs Marks.
Mrs. Marks the 1
Nimble waiters faint —
All the chicken pie is done—
This old lady ain’t.
Now the fun grows furious;
With her usual luck,
Mrs. Abraham’s gone and khcopped
'Arf a little duck.
Also Sarah Davis,
No one could have guessed it.
Got the largest kowcumber.
Cut it up and pressed it.
Mr. Jacob Cohen,
When his throat was supple.
With some Kosher whiskey
Proposed the young couple.
Said that all as knoo him
Knoo he was no talker.
But he’d known young ‘ Arris
And the whole Mishporker—
They was both well suited.
Each also to the other.
(So said Dinah ’Arris
To Eebekah’s mother.)
All he had to say was
Talkin’ was not treatin’.
They didn’t come for talkin’.
What he liked was eatin’!
He wished them all prosperity.
Furthermore he trusted
That the company would drink the toast
(with the honours).
And eat until they busted.
Then some speeches followed.
Which I need not mention,
And then Ike, the Shauchat,
Had a round of Benschen.
Bensched the boy Meziunmer,
All without at Tephiller;
Then they danced a programme
Long as a Megiller.
First they danced the slow waltz.
Then they danced the quicker.
At the end they schlumpussed home.
Trotted out and slacker.
3


objected. The fact that the worthy Bishop, who stayed
in Sydney some time and became well known, died ox
his way home, will not mend matters.
When a certain young man was captain of
certain swell rowing club in a certain colony (no
N.S.W.) he once posted a notice in his club-shed, “ No
reporters or loafers wanted here.” In due season he
became a second-class reporter on a third-rate paper
His early training makes him equal to the task of re
porting any unimportant boat race.
Dr. Clemenceau, who is now recognised b;
Gambetta as a rival in French politics, is about fort;
years old, a man of wealth and an accomplishe<
musician. He is also an expert swordsman and pistol
shot, and the more dangerous as an antagonist from
being left-handed. He talks English as an American
having learned it while an exile in New York during th«
reign of Napoleon.
John Cameron is one of the leading auctioneers
in Brisbane. He is a man of versatile abilities
although sound in politics. One day he is seen rushini
about to promote a picnic to Qresley Bukin of th
Courier, and the next he is equally energetic in tryini
to secure fourteen promoters with £100 each to start an
opposition journal. John once wrote a play. It ran
one consecutive night.
The following announcement, pnblished in las
week’s papers, acquires a special interest by reason o
the bridegroom being a son of the great novelist
“ Dickens—Desailly.—On the 7th inst., at the residence
of the bride’s parents, by the Eev. D. D. Entledge
Edward Bnlwer Lytton, youngest son of the late Charles
Dickens, to Constance Emily Sosa, second daughter o
Alfred Desailly, of Netaillie, Wilcannia, N.S.W.”
Notwithstanding the serious (privileged) charges
of fraud mode against the Premier of Queensland his
Government is stronger than ever. Meston, Howitz
Kingsford and Simon Fraser have gone across. Thomp-
son (Ipswich) stated in the House that his price was
line to deep water (which he will get). Douglas de
dares that he is not going to give the Opposition
thick and thin support. And Sam Griffiths is evidently
weakening.
The Hon. George Higinbotham has accepted the
vacant Victorian judgeship from the Service Ministry.
Sir Bryari O’Loghlen and the Berryites are thus
“euchred,” and the fountains of Justice maintained in
their pristine purity. It may be mentioned that the
moribund Ministry would never have made the appoint-
ment at such a stage of their existence had it not been
for the fact that Berry himself more than once offered
Mr. Higinbotham the judgeship.
Staff, the hurdy-gurdy seller, the father of Mrs.
Howitz, is a well-known political agitator, and is mad
on Berryism. He was standing in front of the Argus
regaling a knot of “Liberals” by “showing up” the
“ shoddy aristocracy.” One of his remarks should be
handed down to posterity. He said “ I would vote for
Ned Kelly rather than Service.” No doubt he would.
He is a miserable twaddler and looks like a debilitated
sparrow with spectacles on. Hs is a little man with a
big mouth.
The personnel of the Melbourne Exhibition had
quite a llare-up the other day. It was the first on which
exhibits arrived, and amongst the goods to hand
was unfortunately some Lome whisky. The men fell
to it con amore and emptied a whole case. George
Collins Levey arrived on the scene at that juncture and
clenching his fist “registered” an oath in Heaven
that he would dismiss every man who tasted of that
whisky. Six men were dismissed, three of whom ap-
pealed to the Commissioners against George, but the
latter dismissed the appeals with costs.
A very accomplished artist, Miss Marianne
North, is about to visit the colonies mainly for the pur-
pose of making, at her own cost, accurate paintings of
the remarkable trees and plants of these countries, for
presentation to the Eoyal Gardens at Kew. These
paintings will complete a series which already includes
several hundreds of views of a similar character by
Miss North, in Brazil, the West and East Indies, Japan,
North America, and Canary Islands, which she has
presented to the Eoyal Gardens, together with a munifi-
cent sum of money for building a gallery for exhibiting
the whole series to the public, and which gallery is now
being erected.
The English papers report the moral collapse of
an Cambridge B.A., whose scholastic career gave pro-
mise of a bright future. Tempted by Eve, he fell. To
avoid the consequences he sinned upon sin. Exposure
was followed by arrest and committal. Then, reversin
the order of a too frequent event, he repented a ;
leisure and married in haste. The public prosecutor
nevertheless, proceeded to trial, but through Sir Har
dinge Giflard’s eloquence the jury “ hath not seen in
iqnity in Jacob,” and an acquittal ensued. Net resul
to the B.A.: wife and child, which he does not want,
and total loss of name and fame which he had acquire!
and does want. He hails from N.S.W.
The Melbourne Exchange presented a busy ant
excited appearance on the evening of the elections. No
less than a thousand ladies and gentlemen assembled in
the large auction room in the rear. About 10 o’clock
Henderson Africanus arrived with a bundle of Argus
extraordinaries, and in a business-like manner ascendec
the auctioneer’s rostrum and orated on the politics
situation. He was cheered to the echo and sold hif
papers at a shilling a copy. The affair then took
serious turn, and several well-known merchants wh >
have heavy interests in the colony made speeches iii
earnest, denouncing the treachery of the Catholics who
had sold the Conservative party—who were Catholics
first and patriots afterwards.
The Carlton footballers who returned Jaok
Gardiner (Sugar Gardiner), marched into town after the
declaration of the poll, singing
“ Oh ! Jack, Jack, Jack,
Come back, back, back.”
Arriving opposite {the Argus office, where the Conser-
vatives mustered strongly awaiting the results, a
ring was formed, and to the command of “ march close ’
unfortunate Conservatives [with glossy beavers were
surrounded and bonnetted lustily. Mr. Deakin, the
brewer, was one of the attacked but he went for some
of the footballers, and made splendid “marks” on
them. He, however, got the worst of it, as he was
literally rolled down the hill by the pack of able-bodied
curs.
They have an Austrian Count— De Luze—
staying at the Imperial Hotel, Brisbane. He is the
most polite and worst-dressed gentleman in the city.
He drinks lemonade, dines with Bishop O’Qninn and
has a free pass for the railways. The other day he was
interviewed by the [Colonial Secretary who, notwith-
standing his boasted John Bnllism, is a great toady,
“ Well, Count,” said Palmer, “ what do you think of
our railways ?" “ The railways is right enough,” said
the Count, “but there is no people to travel by them.”
“And our men,” continued Palmer, “what is your
opinion of them?” “The men," replied the Count,
“are right enough, but their noses are too red!’’ Palmer
apologised—said a pressing engagement precluded hi™
from prolonging the interview.
Napoleon I. almost invariably wore beneath his
clothes a coat of mail, which he had made to order.
When the workman brought it, the Emperor quietly
examined it, and ordered him to put it on himself.
Then he took two pistols and fired at the man’s breast.
The cuirass resisted. He then fired at his back, with a
similar result. But Bonaparte was not yet satisfied.
He took a long fowling-piece and mode the same experi-
ment upon the shoulders, back, and breast of the trem-
bling man, who, however, was unharmed. “ How much
am I to pay you,” said Napoleon, “after this noble
exploit ? " “ 18,WX) francs,” stammered out the fright-
ened artificer. “ No such thing, sir,” said Napoleon;
“ I shall give you 36,600,” —and gave him an order on
his treasurer for that amount. People are wondering
whether they’ll ever hear a full, true, and particular
aoeountjof Ned Kelly’s transactions with his armourer.
Twitting one with being pious is fashionable, but
to extend it to Civil servants seems absurd. Yet not a
few of those soon-to-be-docked individuals who travel
by the 3 55 p.m. train to Parramatta have endeavored
to earn the distinction. No sooner do they leave Eed-
fern than the most dismal bowlings commence—no tune
—no time—and far from the original words. In fact the
libretto of their Moody and Sankeyisms is one to some
extent interfered with by the Act defining “public
S laces.” “The sweet by and bye," “We are going
own the river,” “ Come where my love lies dreaming,”
and “Good old Jeff," are screeched with obscene
fervour, and these are not understrappers, but include
the nobs of the Service. The credit of the Service is
at stake —unless indeed these pampered menials of a
prosperous Government are practising for an entertain-
ment at Dr. Taylor’s institution. If so, the style of
music need create no further surprise.
Mr. Melvin, the Argus reporter who so dis-
tinguished himself at Glenrowan (and who by the way,
was the first metropolitan pressman on the ground at
\\ antabadgery), had to attend Mr. Service’s speech at
Beechworth, but he overslept himself at Seymour and
missed the train. However, he was equal to the
occasion—he at once engaged a “ special train,” but as
he had not sufficient money the station-master had to
take his 1.0.TJ. for £4O. He arrived just in time to re-
port the Premier’s great speech, and on his return to
Melbourne the Minister for Railways, Mr. Gillies, re-
duced the amount of the special-train fare to £2O, which
it s said the plucky little reporter didn’t ask his pro-
prietors to repay him. Melvin is a Scottish pocket
Hercules, who wants to be the colonial Archibald
Forbes, and will be some day if he gets the opportunity.
Mixed marriages between Jewesses and Gentiles
are all the rage. In this city alone no less than three
are arranged, besides others on the tapis. When
Earl Eosebery wooed Baron Rothschild’s daughter,
love was of course the mainspring of action, bnt there
was also understood to be a compensating balance —her
millions, his earldom. But for the abjured faith of the
unrich wives and untitled men—bankers, doctors, and
pressmen—what compensation will there be when time
in its ruthless course weakens the originating motives
of these unions ?
Neither King Solomon nor the Queen of Sheba
ever in all their lives inhabited a more gorgeous resi-
deuce than that owned and occupied by Joe Thompson,
the bookmaker, in Victoria Parade, Melbourne. Joe,
who built “ Don Juan" house out of the proceeds of
his winnings on the occasion that his celebrated brown
horse “Don Juan” carried off the Melbourne Cup
some years ago, has had his place elaborately deco-
rated by Mr. D. Norris, d’apres Mr. Joseph Clarke’s
Toorak mansion. He gave another house-warming the
other night, at which all the sporting notabilities,
latrician and plebeian, put in an appearance. He has not
itui an aesthetic training, but has as good an eye for a
picture as he has for a horse—which is saying some-
thing. When his house is en fete it’s a regular case of
“ See how it sparkles”—all champagne and chandeliers.
Nobody in Melbourne gives more sumptuous dinners
than the Leviathan, whose hospitality unites that of the
Englishman, the sporting man, and the Hebrew.
As stated in our last, one of Victoria’s most
ardent politicians has at last fallen a victim to the
snares of Cupid and taken unto himself a wife. The
gentleman in question is none other than the "Third
Ambassador,’’ Henderson Africanns, who will long he
remembered in connection with the Berry Ministry.
We subjoin the pedigree of the happy pair, obligingly
supplied by a Melbourne correspondent. Africanns is
the son of the late Thomas Henderson, master cabinet-
maker, of Harbbur-street, near the Custom House,
Kingston, Jamaica. His mother, whose maiden name
is Elizabeth Boss, is of Scotch-African origin. The
bride is Mrs. Aphra Emily Lightbourne, n(e Odell
(formerly of the Hermitage, Clifton, England) daughter
of Captain Edward Bailey Blackpool Odell and Emily
Isma Bernard Odell, and granddaughter of Colonels
William Odell and Bernard of the British army. She is
also full niece of tho widow of a late Postmaster-
General of New South Wales. Visitors to the Mel-
bourne International Exhibition will be enabled to see
the “ Third Ambassador ” in all his glory, as he intends
commencing business in Exhibition-street as news agent,
etc. Fortune favors the brave, So that we have no fear
for Africanus’ future prosperity. The marriage took
place on the 5th inst.
Charles de Young, of the San Francisco
Chronicle, who was murdered by Kalloch, junr., in
San Francisco a month or two back, was one of the
foremost of newspaper men. In the papers received by
last mail various estimates of his character are given;
but as he had in a short lifetime completely battered
down all considerable business opposition and made the
Chronicle the wealthiest and most powerful news-
paper of the Pacific slope he had many professional
enemies; what they say of him post-mortem must
therefore be considerably discounted. From the time
the Chronicle was founded his sole ambition was to
make it the leading newspaper of the Coast. How well
he succeeded the fierce envy and malice almost daily
exhibited by his journalistic rivals sufficiently attests.
The New York Herald of the early days became his
model, and what Bennett had been to journalism in the
East, he contemplated being to journalism in the West.
He had all the intellectual attributes of a great
journalist and was unsurpassed for enterprise and de-
termination. Kalloch, senr., in return for the bitter
opposition of the Chronicle, male some remarks re-
flecting on the character of De Young’s dead mother.
De Young shot and wounded him ; and then Kalloch,
junr., shot and killed De Young, who in the words of
an American paper, "died as he had lived, his face to
the foe.”
Billy Gaunson. who contested East Melbourne
in the “Liberal ’’ (i. e., his own), interest was formerly
a clerk in the Melbourne Treasury. He relinquished
the official bone for the legislative shadow—in other
words he resigned his billet in order that he might enter
Parliament, which latter thing the electors refused to
let him do. Then he tried again and again, but he
didn’t succeed, as he is a political fool and has nothing
to recommend him except the name of his brother
David, which isn’t much. And besides, people think it’s
quite enough to have one of the Gaunson family in
Parliament. However that may be, it’s quite certain
that he is in the fix wherein old Father Noah’s raven
once found himself—without a spot to rest his foot on.
He’s a kind of Japhet in search of a father, and has
spent no end of years in trying to find, in exchange for
his lost lamented billet of £200, one of £300. He has
unsuccessfully contested about eight elections, and the
only parallel to his case which can be found is that of
the man who has been “ plucked ” twice annually for
twelve years past at the first year arts’ exam, at Mel-
bourne University. After his ignominious defeat at
East Melbourne the other day he invited a few of his
most ardent admirers to “look on the wine when it
was red,” and drown their common Liberal sorrows at
the Argus hotel. A Toxite just then appeared on the
scene and consoled Billy by saying “ Never mind • you
make it all right with the Synagogue and you’ll get in
next time.” Said Billy gravely: “I’m afraid it’d be
of no use—don’t think it would be worth while ”
William Gone-coon didn’t see the joke—if he’d been
capable of seeing a joke he’d have stopped nominating
himself for Parliament a long time ago.
A singularly able biography of Sir Alfred Stephen
appears in the last number of the Pacific Weekly.
The writer tells an anecdote which may thus be sum-
marised Thirty years ago, in a highly litigated
cause tried before Sir Alfred, two eminent counsel, both
intimate friends of the judge, were retained on opposite
sides. One of them in the course of his address to the
jury made frequent reflections and comments upon the
other, culminating at length in a direct charge of false-
hood. On the instant, the gentleman so aspersed
struck the other once or twice in the face rapidly with
a brief held in bis hand, and he who received the blow
immediately sprang towards his assailant in a sparring
attitude. Sir Alfred called to the bystanders to pre-
vent further outrage, and, with extraordinary self-
command, paused for a minute or two in dead silence.
He then asked if the counsel wished to say anything
more to the jury, and receiving an answer in the nega-
tive, he ordered the two gentlemen to remain in Court.
He summed up, occupying in his charge about three-
quarters of an hour, and on the jury retiring he left
the Court. The jury returned with their verdict, and
as soon as it was recorded. Sir Alfred committed both
the counsel to gaol, one for four and the other for six
weeks, the heavier punishment being awarded to the
counsel whose intemperate expressions had occasioned
the fracas. The episode, as may be imagined, created a
great sensation. The offending gentlemen were taken
to Darlmghurst, and when the Court rose. Sir Alfred
followed and called upon them both, remonstrating
with them upon the painful nature of the position in
winch he had been placed. In a few days, with his con-
sent, both gentlemen were released.”
Incipient Aesthetics.—Hanley Bennett has been
wearing a flower in his coat. We hung lovingly on his
path for some time, cudgelling our brains in vain en-
deavour to elicit a reason for this freak, but as he
passed heedlessly by the ‘allurements of Newman and
Boyd we were fain to conclude that he was not wending
his way to his photographer’s. By-and-bye,however,
after “ sleeping on it," it struck us as a sublime piece of
impertinence thus to speculate on the great land-re-
former s motions. We sagely reproved ourselves for not
having sooner observed the deep sense of the "eternal
fitness of things” displayed by the hon. gentleman in
tms apparently trivial incident. And when next even-
ing, from the reporters’ gallery, we again surveyed that
sylph-like form, we thought how well that “ star of
earth s Armament” became its erst while wearer; how
fragile petals and delicate fragrance harmonised
with his aesthetic soul, and the almost feminine soft-
ness of his graceful genius—like the flower, too, bloom-
ing, alas, but to fade. Or, again, when we reviewed
this model senator’s many political virtues, his almost
legal acumen so often shown in dealing with passing
enactments, his influence in the Assembly, his stake in
the country, and his coming—his long-coming— great-
ness, we thought perchance he had read with ns in old
historic romance the prophetic distich—
“ Kingdoms and princely dowers
Shall be staked on flowers.
And lost and won.”
And on reflection we admit that the intelligent gleam
lighting up Hanley's sinister optic, which we observed
when fairly out of range of that erratic feature, seemed
to betray an elated consciousness of this fact on the
part of its favoured owner. Anyway, he wore a flower.
The Rev. John Storie, M.A., has had a most
remarkable career. He was born in Banff, Scotland,
about sixty years ago, and studied law and theology at
the same time. Aboutitwenty years since he was called
to St. Andrew’s, Hobart Town, the best and most
wealthy Presbyterian church in Tasmania. He very
soon shocked his congregation by preaching what they
considered to be the doctrine of transubstantiation.
An appeal to the Presbytery ended in that body dis-
robing the offender. But the lawyer-clergyman was
not to be so easily put out. Next Sunday he was in the
pulpit three hours before the service began, and he
refused to admit the clergyman appointed to preach
the church vacant. Then he took legal proceedings
against the members of the Presbytery individually,
and ended In very nearly mining them and breaking up
the Established Church of Scotland in the colony. As
he was in possession of a fine chnrch and a stipend
of £400 per annum from the Imperial State-aid,
he could afford to laugh at his foes. Very soon he was left
master of the position. In the course of time the
Presbyterian body acquired new strength and refused to
admit Mr. Storie’s elder or chnrch representative to the
session of presbytery. Then followed an action in
the Supreme Court, in which Mr. Storie was a plaintiff
as well as a defendant. _ He appeared in person and
actually argued on both sides to suit his single purpose.
Ultimately the presbyters got possession of the church
by means of a special Act of Parliament, and Mr. Storie
retired to Scotland on his pension. It was then found
that his church trustees had given him a bill of sale
over the organ to cover the costs of the law actions.
The instrument, which is one of the largest church in-
struments in Australia, is thus mortgaged for £400. The
Eev. Robert Doctor, a clergyman of the congregation’s
choice entered on duty at St. Andrew’s on Sunday
week.
We have before us a copy of a corpulent pam-
phlet by an anonymous writer, entitled “ A Faint Idea
of a Terrible Life! The Eev. I. S. Kalloch (Mayor of
San Francisco) from his expulsion from college until
now.” It is the liveliest publication we have ever read.
The title page is adorned by a biting caricature of
somebody, presumably Kalloch, in whose every feature
hypocrisy has been marked, whether by nature or art,
or both, we don’t know; and it is announced that the
brochure is for sale wholesale by J. K. Cooper, book-
seller, 746 Market-street, and retail by all newsvendors
who are not "bulldosed.” The preface is headed thus :
—“ The Eev. Isaac S. Kalloch. Mayor of San Francisco
and Pastor of the Metropolitan Baptist Church, from
his youth up until now, a life of adultery, of drunken
licentiousness, of hypocrisy, political rascality, bribery,
perjury, fraud, and all the iniquities, &c.,’’ and at the
end of the first chapter the anthor (understood to be a
man who formerly lived in Melbourne) as an excuse for
his anonymity states that " the writer refrains from
putting the stamp of his identity on a production
which, well meant and necessary now, may live to a
period when everything pertaining to Kalloch will as-
suredly be deemed an abominable eyesore." It is
only fair to state that the family of the murdered
De Young disclaim all' connection with the publi-
cation now referred to. The pamphleteer will be
remembered by not a few Sydney residents as a man
who some time ago travelled the colonies as agent for a
patent preparation warranted to remove grease from
coats and who, like Graham Berry, was equally fond of
chandlery, journalism, politics and money. When in
Sydney he tried very hard to contribute to several of
the papers, but the opinions expressed in his really
humorous sketches were of so decided a character and
showed so little regard for the libel law that he didn’t
get a very big “ show.” Then he blew off steam in the
San Francisco Chronicle. He described Australia
as being like the centre of a wheel the spokes of which
represented blasts of air, hot cold and otherwise, that
froze and burnt in turns. He said Melbourne was a
Sodomite sink of immorality, and Sydney ditto, the
latter place being, in his opinion, full of rich, indolent,
dirty loafers. He had, according to latest accounts,
been arrested for criminal libel. We’re glad to see he’s
getting on so well—we always did think he’d shine some
day as a literary man.
On Friday, 16th instant, an amateur dramatic
entertainment was given at the School of Arts, in aid
of the Infants’ Home, Ashfield. Long before eight
o’clock the hall was crowded with a gay and fashion-
able company, and the band of the Permanent Force
played an operatic selection as a prelude. The Vice-
regal party mustered strongly, and their immediate
vicinity was the rendezvous of those favoured ones
who are inseparable from Vice-royalty on these occa-
sions. The performance commenced with Morton’s
comedy, “ Woodcock’s Little Game.” In the first act
Miss E. Labertouche as Mrs. Larkins made a decided
“hit.” Her acting throughout was excellent, particu-
larly in the scene with Mr. Woodcock, where her art-
less manner and finished acting won the most hearty
encomiums. The great merit of the performance,
however, was due to Mrs. Lieutenant-Colonel Carver
(Mrs. Professor Smith), whose acting would have
done credit to many professionals. She fairly
revelled in the role of that decidedly gushing
mother-in-law. Miss Labertouche as Mrs. Woodcock
was quiet and ladylike, and with a little more
stage experience would doubtless improve greatly.
Susan (Miss Benson) made a singularly pretty and
effective servant, although a little nervous, and in the
love-making between her and David, in the last act,
showed unquestionable proficiency in a most val’-
uable and attractive feminine accomplishment. We
cannot refrain from complimenting the Misses Laber-
touche on the exquisitely good taste displayed in the
toilettes worn by them in the first act. The elder sister
wore a Turkish towelling costume, trimmed with white
fur, and a rink cap of the same material, which had a
most pleasing effect; while the younger was attired in
a jersey, with an extremely beautiful Indian shawl
draped round the skirt of her dress, and a most becom-
ing Gainsborough hat and feather. Coming now to the
masculine element, Mr. Woodcock (Mr. G. Forbes) was
played with an amoimt of self-possession and coolness
seldom met with in an amateur. David (Lieut. Corbett,
E.N.) was sustained extremely well, and the "get-up”
of the part was a notable feature fn the play. After
some recitations, during which the well-dressed andience
suffered from ennui, the entertainment concluded with
“ A Dream of Fair Women ” (Tennyson), illustrated by
tableaux mrants. Mrs. Dorley (Cleopatra) looked her
part, and was for that excellent reason by far the most
classic and imposing personage; while Fair Rosamond
(Miss E. Labertouche) was very effective, and Margaret
Eoper, daughter of Sir Thomas More (Miss Benson),
was the perfection of demureness and simplicity. In
fact, no tableau could have had a better representative.
It was nearly midnight before the entertainment, which
was in every respect successful, was brought to a close.
We hope the institution will benefit largely by the efforts
of the promoters, and that the ladies and gentlemen
who so kindly gave their services will be encouraged
by the material and moral results of this enjoyable
entertainment again to come before the public in a
similar way.
THE SPECTRE THAT HAUNTS No. 1 MAC-
QUARIE STREET.
MR. F. MARSHALL IN "BLOW FOR BLOW.”


Auctioneers and Commia
JOHN BE
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auc
LIVE STOCK AND STA'J
Flour, Grain, and Metal
JN. MEIKLEJ OHN
• Produce and Commissioi
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Coi
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Con
on hand, sold at market rates
guarantee as regards qi
All orders by post or otherwise pro
COMMEECIAL STOEES, SHI
JOHN McMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MI
GENERAL COMMISSION
Special attention given to Consignn
Sales promptly rendered, Inte
and Country Orders executed wi
CT. B U E
• HOUSE AND LAND SA
359, GEORGE STRE
NEAR KING STREET,
PRIVATELY OR BY 1
PW. CEO WE & CO., ST'
• AND GENERAL COMMIg
4 BAEEACK STE
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders (
Corn, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
WELLS AND SMITH BI
tioneers. Commission Agei
Salesmen, hold Sales by Ai
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the O
Company’s Sheds, Darling Hart
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darlin
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, 1
&c., at Darling Harbour Railwa
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Che
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 Geor
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newto
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, am
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tall
Darling Harbour —every Thursc
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-S1
Horses and Veh:
K
D
E A E E Y B E <
COACH AND BUGGY I
290 PITT STREET. SI
Near Park-street
AVID M ‘
14 HUNTER STREET, 1
By Special Appointi
SADDLER AND HARNEf
to His Royal Highness the DUKE
His Excellency the Right Honors
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir He
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency L
LOPTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentleme
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 187
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Coupling
Sheets, and other reqt
GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WI
WOEKS,
Harkis-steeet, off Geo:
and
Adjoining the Darling Har
S. G. would beg to draw the pai
Export Merchants to the large q
Spokes always on hand, which v
saving in freight to purchasers i
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is
Carts, and has supplied the Governr
Hotels, &c.
CJ. BOB
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEP.
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for in
Pure West India Bum,
6s per imperial
THISTLE BLEN
and other
Choice Whiskies
HE SYDNEY COEF
393, 395, 397 George £
The most POPULAR HOT!
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Sn
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of A1
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. 1
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class
Fare constantly varied. Fish alwa;
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week
nightly. Meals only charged whei
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. I
rjYHE SYDNEY COFFEE
158 George-street, and 13 Nc 1
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPE1
The Premises are Three-Storiec
frontages to both George-street and
Quay, with a through depth of
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convex
tiring room, &c-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Roc
(all leading papers). Parlours
Rooms, gfC., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Op<
Roof, with View of Sydney Hai
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bak
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lard
and spacious Shop Accommodation
a most complete manner, and quite
the demands of thousands of perso
Family and Picnic Parties suppl
shortest notice.
THE COMPAGNOl
CAFE AND CATERING CO]
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTJ
IS NOW OPEN
The Company have secured the
Marriette, late chdf de cuisins c
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners
Three hours notice required for prii
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decora
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL 1
June 30,1880.
T
HE GREAT NORTI
(Late “ La Flore Austrc
12 CHARLOTTE PLAC!
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Propri
the public generally that he has en
above premises as a first-class H
Rooms, which cannot be excelled
city.
Terms Strictly Modi
The best shilling li
(including a Glass of Ale
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCi
AND
LUNCHEON R
BRID6E-STRE1
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets cai
the bar in packets of eleven
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1
FREE COUNTER L
COME AND TASTE THE ODD Cl
Y 1 0
T O R I A
TTnvrin or fctlrAn f.Tio fihfwa linf.ol 'n
Hotels, See.
C
O AC H AND HOES!
MITT AGON G,
"Within three minutes of the Ea
Mr. C. SHEATHEE, PEG!
•„* Buggy always in attendance at
Visitors from the metropolis n
finding the very hest accomodation a
hostelry;
First-class sport with the gun c
immediate neighbourhood.
Austealian wine.—c
POEPHYEY, equal to the fl
Awarded First Prize at the Garden
3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts,
21s. doz. H. S. BIED and CO., Age]
w
H I S K Y
F
BEAD PAMPHLET and PUE(
EOE’S v five-yeae-ol:
UNBLENDED WEB
B
Eecommended by the Fi
EOBEET PHILLIPS and CO
Sole Agents for N
ASS’S PAL
and
GUINNESS’S EXTEA
Bottled by
IHLEES’ and BE!
LIYEEPOOL.
The undersigned have been AI
AGENTS for the above Celebrated I
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN A
Bridge Street
Yj
TRAD £ MARjj,
'Jl
HEAD
0 A E’S
This favourite brani
S T 0
Is selected with great care from th
ings of the celebrated firm of AE1
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cann
To he Procured Every
J. E. cattel:
METEOPOLITAN STAKI
TION, 1880.
2000 SUBSCEIBEES at i
Distribution as folio
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-starters (divided ami
The consultation on the above is
terms) and closes as early as possib
Constituents are requested to f<
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LEI
E. E. J0N1
Tatters
I N T E E
T A TTTAT rm?M\TTa i-r* Pormlc
Legal
Me. a. g 0 ;
SOLICIT©
(Also of the Supreme Court of
Has commenced practice i
Office— 53 Elizabeth-i
GHOETEE & F11
Solicitors,
60 CASTLEREAGH STEEE'
And
Macquarie Street,
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at.
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
Easiness Car<
W
R
ILLIAM BEDE
Licensed Sueyei
(Sur veyor under the Eeal 3?r
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sy<
OBERTS. HARRIS, A
LICENSED SURVEYORS, ]
AEB1TEATOES, AND V
Eescissions and reclamations sp
Run Maps compiled to latest date.
House ; Chambers, 130, Bitt-street.
B
EACHMANN A NI
ARCHITECTS,
2 6 7 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY.
w.
Cr.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAIN
225 Bourlce-street, Wool
AND S. P R
SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Erskine Strei
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, 1
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
ESTABLISHED 1!
F
O W L E R ’ S P (
AND
BRICK WORK
CAMPERDOWN, NEA
Price List on applica
s
M
I G N O R A L. P.
Professor of Sin<
173 VICTORIA S:
Darlinghurst.
I S S E L I S E g
(From Tasmani
TEACHER OP THE PIA1
173 Victoria-stree
SKINNER AND CO., 13
• BEASSFOITNDERS, PLI
GASEITTEES.
Beer Engine s—I
F. CRIPPS, PAST1
• confectione;
267 (late 255) Pitt Stre
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., ci
best style.
OBER T B U T C I
(Late William Lo
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
538 GEORGE STR]
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
li
Country Orders Receive Pp.(
MASON, LAND AGE1
• street, Woolloomooloo, Sy(
of LAND for Sale at Waverley,
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
TT A O XT n
5


SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Maryborough July 22 and 23
Avoca Annual J uly 29 and 30
Geelong Winter July 31
Adelaide R. C. Winter steeplechase August 6 and 7
Tattersall’s Spring August 14
Hawkesbury August 25 and 27
Parramatta August
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 4, 7, 9, 11
Sydney Turf Club September 18
Northern J.C Sep. 28 and 29
Melbourne Hunt Club Oct. 2
Narrabri October
Y.E.C. Spring Oct. 30, Nov.2,4,6
Q.T.C. Spring Nov. 6 and 7
Murrumbidgee Spring Nov. 22,23, and 24
A.J.C. Summer December 27
TattersalTs Annual January 1, 1881
V.R.C January 1, 1881
5KSX&
Hawkesbury March
Wollongong Annual October 7 and 8
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Brewarrina M.P. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
Tattersall’s Spring entries Aug. 2
Tattersall’s Mares Produce Stakes, 1883.
Nomination of Mare Aug. 2
Sydney T.C. Juvenile Stakes Aug. 2
A.J.C. Summer December Stakes Aug. 2
Hawkesbury General Entry Aug. 2
Tattersall’s M. P. Stakes, 1882—description of
foals Aug. 2
Wagga Gold Cup, Hurdle Race, G. S. Handi-
cap} Town Plate, and Steeplechase Aug. 10
A. J. C. Spring General Entry Aug. 18
Sydney Turf Club General Entry Sep. 1
Wollongong Handicap Sep. 11
Melbourne H. C. General Entry Sep, 16
A.J.C. Summer Cup Oct. 14
V.R.C. General Entry Oct. 14
TattersalTs Cup 1881 ’. Oct. 26
Wagga General Entry Nov. 16
V.R.C. New Year’s Day Meeting General Entry Dec. 10
A.J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration of Weights.
TattersalTs Spring Handicaps Aug. 6
Hawkesbury County Purse, and Flying
Handicap Aug. 17
A.J.C. (Spring) Hurdle and Steeple Aug. 24
Hawkesbury Turf Club and Members Handi-
cap Aug. 26
A.J.C. (Spring) Epsom and Welter Aug. 30
A.J.C. (Spring) Shorts and Squatter’s Sep. 6
A.J.C. (Spring) Suburban and City Sep. 8
A.J.C. (Spring) Members, Waverley, and Free Sep. 10
Sydney Turf Club Handicap Sep. 14
Wagga Cup, Hurdle, G.S. Handicap, and
Steeplechase Sep, 22
Wollongong Handicaps Sep. 25
Wagga Two Tears’ Old and Flying Handicaps Nov. 22
Wagga Mile, and Town Plate Handicaps Nov. 23
A.J.C. Summer Cup Handicap Nov.
TattersalTs Cup Dec. 1
V.R.C. New Tear’s Day Handicap Dec. 16
A.J.C. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Metropolitan Stakes last forfeit Sep. 3
Wollongong Handicap, non-acceptance Oct. 4
Wagga Cup, G. S. Handicap acceptances Oct. 20
Wagga Hurdle and Steeple acceptances Nov. 16
Wagga Town Plate acceptances Nov. 24
Tattersall’s Cup non-accept Dec. 13
Saturday Morning’s Gallops.
On Saturday morning there was a fair amount of fast
work indulged in, owners taking advantage of the soft
ground. Lady Loftus, with one of her sons was
amongst the onlookers. Ross, commenced the morn-
ing’s doings on the course proper with Black Eagle,
Koreelah, and Scottish Chief. Black Eagle was sent
at his best over two miles, Scottish Chief being his
companion for half a mile, hut Koreelah joined issue at
the corner with the “ Eagle,” and the pair strode away
over the Derby distance, but they caught the “ slows”
very quickly, and as Black Eagle occupied 4 min. 9J
secs, in completing his two miles, and also had much
the best of Koreelah, neither of them were fancied.
Black Eagle appears to have lost his pace, and is very
sore. Shipka and Moneta next rattled home at a strong
pace over three f orlongs to wind up once round, and a
similar performance was registered to Rupert, Gladys,
and Oriola. Then came Kamalaro: and Hazard, and
after a long slow canter they brushed home fast from
the Derby corner. Liberator, as fresh as a two-year-
old, had 3| miles by himself, and then the two young-
sters in charge of J. Allsopp, one by New Holland from
The Rose, another by Goldsbrongh from Sea Breeze,
were sent together, hat did nothing of any importance
beyond strong work. Fisherman put in a really good
admirable gallop over two miles, and then Prairie Bird
did a long strong canter; Bertie, Geraldine, and Hilde-
brand were companions over a mile and a quarter,
which distance was wound up hy a fast half-mile in
54£ secs., Hildebrand having much the worst of the
flutter. Both Geraldine and Bertie were much fancied.
Colima, Gipsy Cooper, and Athol did long steady work,
and North Star was content with a long steady canter
on his usual place, the sand track. Julian worked
there also. Lorton, with his clothes on, and Master
Avenel put in together a strong twice round, and not-
withstanding that it was not a time-making perform-
ance, the gallop was much liked. Lorton daily increases
his list of friends, and may yet be the “ Simon” on the
day. A steady working gallop was what Brownlock
was treated to, and then Rosinante was given
very steady work over 2J miles. Otira and Cox-
comb did three turns together, the last mile
haying run in 2m 58s, and as both finished very well
there was nothing wrong in the performance. Next
came Remembrance and Nellie over a strong once
round in 1m 40s, which of course is only slow, but both
show signs of improvement. Remembrance has grown
a good deal and gives great promise. Grand Flaneur,
Avernns and Friday next appeard, and they came home
from the half-mile post at a ding-dong pace (after going
two miles) in 56Js, Grand Flaneur and Avemus having
ranch the best of Friday. The Pontiff, Cinnamon and
Sapphire then came out from the sheds and performed
together over a strong twice round, the Pontiff moving
in a much more taking manner than we have seen him
for some time, Auckland and Thorntopper almost
caused the eyes of some of the onlookers to water when
hey made their appearance, but they gave no work for
the “dead heats,” and were content with long steady
work. Strathearn had Retrospect for a companion, and
they ran over once round in great style, the last three-
quarters of a mile being registered as 1m 255, and at
each visit the friends of Strathearn became more and
more impressed with his chances of victory. Sweetmeat
and Dover, the former with his clothes on, did twice
round at a good serviceable pace, and both pulled up
well. Creswick with Lord Orville did nothing but
gentle work, and then Rapid Bay came in for a long
sweat. Chester, Martindale, Democrat, St. John, Gains-
borough and some others were treated to long canters
on the tan, and outside this there was nothing worthy
of record.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Napper Tandy is doing well in Melbourne.
Mata and Caraballo were landed in Melbourne
on Friday last.
Christie, the well-known Victorian athlete, is
now a Boniface in Adelaide.
The racehorse Goide Olgothach has been sold
to Mr. Glasscock for 220 gs.
Both Camballo and Lion have been dis-
qualified for the Melbourne Cup.
We note that another of our amateur oarsmen
has become a pa—a boy, as usual.
The second Redfem beat the first fifteen of the
Rugby Club by two touches to nil.
The Australians defeated 18 of the Wemeth Club
in one innings and 21 runs to spare.
Professor J. L. Davies, of Dunedin, N.Z., has
challenged Abe Hicken to a boxing match.
The Norwood football team played a match
against Port Adelaide on Saturday and won.
Trickett arrived at Port Said, within a ten day’s
sail of London, on 15th July, in good health.
On the occasion of the cricket match Australia
v. Derbyshire, 12,000 all told paid for admission.
E. P. Weston has retired from pedestrianism,
“ unless English managers like to pay enough to entice
him.”
At the annual great meet of bicyclists at Hamp-
ton Court on 22nd May, there were nearly 2000 machines
on the ground.
Kincsem, the famous Austrian mare, who won
54 races (including the Goodwood Cup) without being
beaten, is dead.
The Hawkebsury Race Club have decided to
hold a meeting about ten days prior to the A.J.C.
Autumn meeting.
In the Geelong v. Carlton match played on the
ground of the latter, was one by the Carlton players by
five goals and six behinds.
In an exhibition match of 1,000 up on an
ordinary table, on 2nd June, at Manchester, Cook beat
Roberts, junr., by 693 points.
In a game of frisquette played at Moore Park on
Saturday last a side chosen by Mr. Mulholland beat one
chosen by Mr. Selfe by 32 points.
“Choppy” Warburton, the well-known long-
distance pedestrian, ran twenty miles on turf at Black-
bum, England, on May 29th, in Ih 56 min 38 sec.
Powell, on whom 5 to 4 was freely laid, beat
Stephens by three-quarters of a yard in a race of 100
yards on Saturday last at the Association ground.
One of the best known men in London society
dropped £35,000 over the Two Thousand Guineas. He
had backed Muncaster, who was beaten by a short
head.
Mr. Branch was the purchaser of South Hamil-
ton and Mr. J. Wilson became the owner of Western
Princess. The former realised 400 gs. and the latter
220 gs.
The Mercantile Rowing Club Regatta takes
place on 4th September. Two races are left open to the
local rowing clubs. The S.R.C. will be well represented
as asual.
In the great 24 days’ bicycling tournament at
Hull, which was proceeding when the mail left, Terront,
the French champion, seemed to have considerably the
best of it.
Mr. “Dashwood,” beat M. de Riviere at
Netting Hill, London, on 26th May, shooting 73 birds to
his opponent’s 69. Conditions were 100 birds each, 30
yards rise.
S. Hoskins and R. Eastway jun., were success-
ful in a boat race on Saturday last against S. Bingham
and E. T. Stokes. The course was from Cowper Wharf
round Pinchgut and back.
During the Derby week Murdoch, Bannerman,
and Boyle took a run over to Paris, and enjoyed them-
selves much; whilst the majority of the others went
to Epsom and saw Archer’s grand bit of jookeyship on
Bend Or.
The French bicycle champion, C. Terront, of
Paris, was to run Walter Philips, of Wolverhampton,
twenty-five miles, for £25 aside. The match was to
come off on Saturday, June 12, on the new Belgrave-
road Ground, Leicester.
Mr. T. Stone, junr., and Mr. “Dashwood” shot
their deciding pigeon match at Old Trafford, Manches-
ter, on 21th May. The former won, killing 75 to his
opponent’s 66. The conditions were—loo birds, 30
yards’ rise. Mr. Stone, having won two out of three
matches, took the £lOO.
The knights of the trigger are off to tickle the
Bungarribee rabbits on Saturday. Rare bits of sport
are expected, as a certain well-known sporting Govern-
ment clerk is of the party and some man’s field or other
will suffer. He will be rather reugh on the rabbits,
especially when served up.
On May 8, E. C. Holske and T. H. Armstrong
decided their match for 1000 dollars and the 25 miles’
championship of America at the Manhattan Grounds,
New York, Holske winning a punishing race in 3h.
43 min 45 sec. Holske’s style of going is described as
scrupulously fair throughout.
The Two Thousand Guineas has for the last six
years been carried off alternately by animals whose name
began with C. or P. In 1875 Camballo won it; in 1876,
Petrarch; in 1877, Chamant; in 1878, Pilgrimage; in
1870, Chambert; and of course in 1880 it was the turn of
Petronel to complete the list.
The “race” between J. LaycockandA. Pearce
came off on Saturday last on the Parramatta River, and
Laycock passed the boat first. There is a good deal
of the Courtney about Pearce. The time given was dis-
graceful. There are plenty of women in Sydney who
could beat it. Surely 36m. cannot be correct.
In replying to the toast of his health at the
farewell luncheon given him at Clement’s Gate, Mel-
bourne, prior to his departure for England by the Lusi-
tana, Mr. John Thompson, who will remain with
Trickett during his training, expressed himself as con-
fident that the N.S.W. sculler would be brought back as
champion of the world.
A game at football under Victorian rules was
played at Moore Park on Saturday, teams being selected
from the Waratah and Burwood Clubs assisted by some
old Victorians. Great interest was manifested in the
“ new game ” by a crowd of spectators, and there is no
doubt that it will take a great hold on N.S.W.
footballers and become very popular.
Teddy Lowe, the well-known wrestler, and former
lOst champion, of Stackshead (late of Whitworth) and
H. Counsel (alias “Bordy”), of Handley, wrestled at
Oldham on 210th May for £5O aside. Counsel was the
stronger man, but what Lowe lacked in strength he
atoned for in cleverness. He gained his first fall in
16m, and his second in 54m, and won the match.
Neither Bell’s Life, the Sporting Life, nor
any of the other old-established London sporting
journals have as yet said much concerning the proba-
bilities of the Trickett-Hanlan match. The Referee,
as will have been seen from an extract published by us
a fortnight ago, looks upon Trickett’s chances as nil.
“ Blow ” is the only term which can fairly be applied to
the blustering style adopted by the paper last named.
Mr. Phillips, who won the 150 yards’ handicap
at the Civil Service sports at Lillie Bridge, London, on
22nd May in 15 sec. from scratch, and who on the same
day, at Stamford Bridge, carried off the 120 yards’ hadi-
cap in 12 sec, is the gentleman who on the 25th May,
1878, at Stamford Bridge, ran 220 yards in 22sec (best on
record). At the Civil Service sports this year Mr. Lock-
ton, the celebrated jumper, walked over for the broad
jump with 20ft 6in.
The following advertisement, in which will be
noticed the name of an old friend of Trickett’s—of the
gentleman after whom the champion named the boat in
which he rowed Sadler—appears in a recent issue of
Bell’s Life:— “Mr. Charles Bush, having been in-
formed that bets are made in his name at race meetings,
begs to announce that he is never at any time repre-
sented on the racecourse, and any one transacting
business in his name is liable to prosecution.”
The Tyne championship course is three miles
713 yards. This distance was rowed by Hanlan in his
match against Elliott in 21m Is. The Parramatta course
is three miles 330 yards. Trickett did this distance in
his match with Laycock, in August last, in 22m 36Js;
but it must be remembered that while Elliott in his
race with Hanlan made a fairly respectable show.
Trickett only rowed for the first half-mile with Laycock
whom he beat with ridiculous ease, and could have
headed by half-a-mile had he so chosen.
Cook played Mitchell billiards for .£4OO at St.
James’ Hall, Regent-street, London, on 24th May. The
game was 1,000 up. Cook conceding 200 points.
Mitchell was the favourite, money being laid out on him
at 6 to 5. Perhaps the finest play in the whole game
was by Cook in compiling his run of 152. He made
twenty-eight spot strokes at the opening of the run,
while the red ball was dropped dead into the centre of
the pocket each time. Cook won after a most exciting
game, by 41 points.
The cricket match, Cambridge University v.
Gentlemen of England, was drawn in favour of Cam-
bridge, who scored 593 to their opponents’ 232. For the
Gentlemen the Hon. A. Lyttleton scored 67, and F.
Penn, 88; for Cambridge the scores were as follow :
Hon. Ivo-Bligh 90, H. Whitfield 116, C. T. Studd 23, A.
G. Steel 56, R. S. Jones 124. G. B. Studd 10, C. P. Wilson
not out 18, P. P. Exham 43, W. Foley 2, O. P. Lanca-
shire 60, P. H. Morton 2; b 15,1 b9,w 1, n-b 7. Total
593.
At Westminster Aquarium, on May 21st, Vig-
naux (the French champion) played Joseph Bennett
two exhibition matches of 1000 cannons up on a French
table, in each case conceding 500. In the afternoon
Yignaux mode game when Bennett had only scored 575,
or 75 off the balls. The winner’s best breaks were 200,
163 and 244. The second game was of quite as runaway
a description as that played in the afternoon. Yignaux
made breaks of 65, 78, 180, 174, 127, and won by 419
points. Yignaux scored very slowly indeed in the last
hundred.
At the Oxford and Cambridge University bicycle
r aces on May 25. C. A. E. Pollock, Trinity, Cambridge,
won the two mile event in 5 min 56 sec. The ten mile
race fell to W. L. Ainslie, New College. Oxford, in 31
min 42 3-5 sec. The mile amateur v. professional race
was won bv Coouer (professional), who beat the Hon.
lon G. N. Keith Falconer by two yards and a half in the
splendid time of 2 min 48 2-5 sec. The twenty-five miles
race was pulled off by G. D. Day, St. John’s, Cambridge;
D. J. S. Bariev, Jesus, Cambridge, a yard away, 2 Time,
1 h 22 m 20 3-5 sec.
Donald Dinnie, the famous Scottish athlete, was
born in Aberdeenshire, in July, 1837. so that he is
nearly 43 years of age. He stands 6ft in his stock-
ings, and weighs 15st 131 b in his clothes. He measures
47in round the chest, the muscles of his arms being
16Jin, whilst he measures round the calves 17in and the
thigh 26in. For the past twenty years he has been
champion in tossing the caber. His greatest feats have
been: —Putting 161 b weight (in private), 49ft 6in; and in
public, at Montrose, on • level ground, 48ft Sin; and
down hill, at Dumfernshire, 51ft. He threw a 161 b
hammer, standing at the mark, at Cunar Angus in 1874. in
a match against James Flemming (18ft start), 138 ft Bin,
winning by 3ft Sin.
In the great ten mile race for the English (Sir
J. D. Astley’s) championship belt on3lst May, at Lillie
Bridge Ground, the following competed:—William
Cummings, of Paisley, 7 in., Bst 71b., aged 22; David
Livingstone, of Portobello, 5 ft 7 in., Bst 541 b., aged 25 ;
T. C. Herbert, of Barrow-on-Fumess, sft 84 in., 9st 41b.,
aged 27; J. Stone, of Wandsworth, lOst 91b. Living-
stone and Cummings made all the running. After com-
pleting three miles and a half, Cummings finding the
pace too slow for him, dashed away, and completed the
fourth mile in the fast time of 20 rain 1 2-5 sec., and,
running wjth the greatest ease, and little distress, he
finished five miles in 25 min 19sec., six in 30 min 32 sec.,
seven in 35 min 51 sec., eight in 41 min 12 sec , nine in
46 min 35 sec., and the ten miles in 51 min 47 2-5 sec.,
thus failing to beat record time by 212-5 see only—a
really grand performance. Had there been anybody on
the track to coach him it is considered that he could
have beaten record time with ease.
The following appeared in Bell’s Life in
London on May S 2 : — “On Thursday morning Robert
Watson Boyd, of Middlesbro’, accompanied bv bis only
supporter, Mr. Chris. Barrass, of the Beehive Inn, Cloth
Market, and Mr. Robert Winter, of Newcastle, left the
latter town en route for Glasgow, from which city he was
to sail yesterday (Friday) morning per State Line
steamer for New York, the object of the visit to
America being to take part in the Hop Bitters Prize at
the International Regatta next month. Previous to
the departure there was a meeting of friends at the Bee-
hive, where the healths of the travellers were duly
pledged, and earnest wishes were expressed for the
success of Boyd. Mr. Barrass responded, and stated he
was quite prepared to make a match for the Middlesbro’
sculler to row Trickett on the Tyne for £2OO aside when
Boyd had returned from America. At the Central
Station a great crowd of people had assembled, and
after much hand-shaking, there was loud and lusty
cheering as the train took her departure. Boyd took
with him the new boat, Alexandra, which was launched
from Messrs. Swaddle and Winship’s yards on the
previous afternoon, and was named by Mr. Barrass after
the Middlesbro’ sculler’s hostelry. The craft is built
of Mexican cedar, and embraces a 24 inch slide, swing-
ing rowlocks, and all the latest improvements, her
dimensions being as under: —Length, 30 feet 9 inches ;
beam, 11 inches; height amidships. 54 inches: height
at the stem, 3f inches; height at the stern, 2| inches;
and her weight complete is 311 b. Afterwards Boyd
rowed four spins upon the ehb, from the Scotswood
Railway Bridge to the Suspension Bridge, and although
there was a nasty cross wind they were highly satis-
factory. He weighed on Thursday list. 81b., and no
man could possibly be in better health. We disclose no
secrets, hut we may go this far, and say that in the
forthcoming contest he will take all the beating that
even the mighty Hanlan can give him.” Immediately
beneath the above we find the following notification :
“ Mr. Chris. Barrass, of the Beehive Inn, Cloth Market,
Newcastle, will match Robert Watson Boyd of Middles-
horough to row Edward Trickett of Australia a match
over the Tyne championshin course, after Boyd's return
from America, for £2OO a side.” We have not yet heard
what place Boyd occupied in the Hop Bitters Race, but
cables have informed us that Wallace Rosa won, aud
that Hanlan, being ill, was out of the contest.
S. R. C. Regatta.
The Sydney Rowing Clnb regatta was held on Saturday
last. A large concourse of spectators assembled on
Fort Macquarie, including a good sprinkling of the fair
sex. The racing, on the whole, was tame and the row-
ing very indifferent, but these deficiencies were amply
set off by the appearance of so many colts. The Club
is to be congratulated on its new blood, and, judging
by the physique of the majority of the maiden rowers
on Saturday last, we may expect to hear a good account
of them during the coming season. The principal draw-
back to the afternoon’s amusement was the pestilential
odour rising from the water of the harbour, liberally
supplied on this and all other occasions by the Sydney
Corporation.
The following are the results of the races :
In the Senior Sculling Race, Anslow led from the start,
considerably surprising Arthur, his opponent, by a defeat
of three lengths.
Mr. Thompson’s crew won the Junior Gig Race,
defeating, among others, a crew containing three of the
late Intercolonial Eight. For the first hundred yards
the latter crew rowed a terrific stroke.
At the start for the Maiden Fours, Mr. Teece, one of
the strokes, broke his oar, but his opponents, stroked
by Gaden, in a proper sportsmanlike manner stopped
rowing and returned. A start was again effected. Gaden
took the lead, failed to keep it the whole distance, and
was finally beaten by two lengths.
Mr. Kloster won the Maiden Skiff Race, after a smart
race for half the distance, when a foul gave him a slight
advantage which inspired him with new life. He won
by half a dozen lengths.
Mr. D. Middleton, who showed very bad form, defeated
his opponents—one by a hundred yards, and the other
iby half a mile. The latter competitor was lustily
1 cheered on his return.
I It was not till after dark that a start was effected
for the eight-oar race. Messrs. Cope and Arthur stroked
j the crews. The former gentleman, notwithstanding his
unique style, kept his crew in front and won by over a
j length. Arthur rallied his crew bravely, and but for
the wash of the Fairlight would probably have changed
I the result or have made a dead heat.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Liddy’s benefit —30th July.
There is an exodus of “ pros.”
G. H. Leonard is playing in Dublin.
Andrew Fairfax sings as well as over.
“ Only an armour-bearer ” —Nod Kelly.
“ Hold the fort ” —till they burn you out.
Soldene visits California again next season.
Japanese Tommy is looking for a pretty wife.
A treat in store. The two Marshalls as the two
Dromios.
Sam Poole, comedian, is back from Rock-
hampton.
It is rumoured that Henry Irving will be
knighted.
Hegarty’s name was the highest among managers
theatrical.
Haidee Heller is doing the clairvoyantic in
Edinburgh.
Mr. Kitts says he mortally hates red heads and
dead heads.
Messrs. W. G. Carey and B. N. Jones have left
for Melbourne.
Kennedy, of the Loftus Troupe, is every bit as
clever as Ricky.
The Blondes are departing one by one. The
powers be praised!
Adelaide Neilson may possibly arrive by next
San Francisco mail.
The only Leon has quite recovered from his
recent revere illness.
Wash. Norton, according to the N.Y. Clipper,
is playing at Madras.
The sawdust is giving the legitimate fits in
Brisbane. Sic passim.
Anew pianiste, Madame Yiardot Louis, has
made a sensation in Paris.
Simonson's Froliques drew good houses at Nel-
son and New Plymouth, N.Z.
Joe Tolano’s Chinaman in “New Babylon”
smote the Melbourne people.
Miss Teresa Horan will be in demand for the
coming Christmas Pantomimes.
A theatrical critic says : “ The great interest in
“ Pinafore” is Dead-eye think.”
Harry Emmet says he thought “leading man ”
was his line until he got married!
Byron has written another burlesque, “ Trova-
tore; or. Larks with a Libretto.”
Mrs. Marshall’s new dresses for “ The Turn of
the Tide” are simply magnificent.
George Darrell says there’s no room for real
talent here. He’s off for England.
Harry Corbyn has made Kelly and Leon a big
offer for the coming Indian season.
Thompson’s Diorama and Hermann, ventrilo-
quist, did fair “ biz” at Dunedin, N.Z.
Dr. Neild has a rival in “ Max,” the theatrical
critic of the Auckland Evening Star.
Mr. Edmund Marshall is an immense acquisi-
tion to the London Comedy Company.
A company of amateurs recently murdered the
opera of “ Mari tana,” at Taranaki, N.Z.
B. N. Jones had a presentation on his departure
to manage the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
The real live “ niggers ” are coming again. When
shall we purify the air and the boards ?
There are no auctioneers in Italy. That’s why
all the big-voiced men sing in operas instead.
F. R. C. Hopkins (“only a fool” —“all for
g nothing ”) is hatching another bantling.
Carlotta Patti was, sixteen years ago, the hand-
somest woman on the concert stage in England.
Folloy and O’Neil, two Australian variety pros.,
are playing at the South London Palace, London.
Baker and Farron have sent several of their
Duke’s Theatre programmes, with smoky exteriors.
The dramatic season at the Queen’s closes at
the end of this week. More inspectors of pavements.
Theodore Cuba, a pupil of Chiarini’s, has made
his debut wiih a big circus and menagerie show in New
York.
Harry Rickards, at latest advices, was the pre-
mier comique at the Northwestern Palace of Varieties,
London.
Herbert Reeves, son of the famour warbler,
Sims Reeves, has made a successful debut as a
“ singist.”
J. S. Willis, scenic artist, is at present engaged
in renovating and decorating the Theatre Royal, Christ-
church. N.Z.
Yal Vose has been playing at Harvey’s Theatre,
New York. He goes to England, returning to America
in September.
Henry Ketten opens in Brisbane the first week
in August under engagement to Mr. Keogh for six
nights at £350.
John Carroll, Ethiopian comedian, who was with
the Loftus Troupe, arrived in ’Frisco last month, on his
way to New York.
An American Company in Joaquin Miller’s play
“The Dauite,” are a big success at Sadler’s Wells
Theatre, London.
A troupe, called “ The Gem Variety Company,”
was playing, at latest dates, at the Academy of Music,
Christchurch, N.Z.
Amateur dramatic authors are becoming as
plentiful as kerbstone politicians and generally—are as
much to be avoided.
Miss Madeline St. Clair has set the beaux crazy.
Any musical society that enrols her will double its list
of members at once.
Amy Sherwin is a great success in America.
The critics are unanimous in their praise of the “ Tas-
manian Nightingale.”
More great unknowns en route from the land of
the stars a,nd stripes. How America must suffer by the
loss of all her talent and beauty !
Actors’ wives shouldn’t throw bouquets to
actresses when sitting near critics, so as to get notices
of their unpremeditated floral tributes.
It is easy to get parts from actors ; put them
together and pirate a drama. That’s how copies of
the “ Kelly Gang” went to New Zealand.
George Darrell benefits at the Queen’s on
Saturday, 24th. “ The Trunp Card ” and “ The Cor
sican Brothers,” comprise the bill of fare.
Hiscocks and Hayman publish a card in the
N.Y. Clipper that Phil. Kirby is not authorised to
effect any engagements for them in America.
Cheevers and Kennedy have not dissolved
nership. When the last mail left they were appearing
at the London Concert Halls on the same evening.
Arthur Sketchley (Mrs. Brown) has been en-
gaged by Mr. Keogh, of Brisbane, for a tour in Queens-
land, and has opened in Brisbane very successfully.
It cost Denman Thompson’s manager, J. M. Hill,
SOOOdoIs. for one Sunday’s advertising in the New York
papers— a full-page “ad.” appearing in each journal.
Offenbach’s new opera bouffe, “ La Fille du
Tambour Major” (The Daughter of the Drum Major),
has been produced with great success at the Alhambra
In H. J. Byron’s new burlesque, “ Trovatore, or
Larks with a Libretto,” Manrico suggests that Leonora
should join him in the piano-organ business. Leonora,
like a sensible girl, hints that the business might not
6


Miscellaneous
JOHN BEINSMEAD 1
« SOSTENENTE PIA*
lowest possible price consistent '
manship and materi
Sole Agents, EOYLE and
JOHN
BEINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PLA
J
Prices from 44 gnines
Sole Agents, EOYLE and
OHN BEINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA:
a five years guarantee given with <
Sole Agents, EOYLE and
B
EINSMEAD
NOTICE.
We have WITHDEAWN our
Mr. W. H. PALING, and app
EEPEESENTATIVES for Ner
Messrs. EOYLE and HOGG, to v
tions for snb-agencies must be ma
JOHN BEINSMEA
OHN BEINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA!
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in
cipal Towns of New South Wales
EOYLE and J
Sole Agen
Bond-street S
JOHN
BEINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIA
gained first and only prize above
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, EOYLE anc
H
OMES
FOE THE
It is difficult to understand why
continue to pay rent, when for a smal
amount now going to the landlord,
years realise
THEIE OWN FEEEB
for their own profit and that of t
them.
The undersigned oilers a choi<
hundreds of well-situa
VALUABLE BUILDING ALI
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suhurt
£4t CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYME1
Giving Immediate Pos
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLH
For those having no present int<
an undeniable opportunity of imffl
dencedbythe fact of the astoundii
main during the past six years, an
that the present chance can ever reci
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKE
There are no law (costs, no comp
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDIS
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton E
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Bali
Hotel.
I N V I
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS AI
For lighting Dwellings, Churches,
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities,
For particulars see Catalogues,
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole A
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BERT
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON, Tor
Importers of all hinds of iron, le
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chai
soda fountains and machinery used i
of soda water and other aerated beve
and bottling machines, map sheet!
&c., &c.
Auction Sale
ALF-ACEE AND QUAET
The WOOD GREEN and STRATI
are being subdivic
FOR AUCTION S
ON THE GROU1
SATURDAY, JULY
«ST THESE PROPERTIES are site
BURWOOD,
and known as the Estates of the la
JAMES E. WOODWAR
%* The advantage in purchasing in i
1st. Boulevard frontages, 100 feet w
planted with trees.
2nd. Contiguity to the Redmyre an
3rd. Character of the surroundii
aspect, a
4th. Salubrity of climate, richness
on the ground.
5th. Main road frontages all roui
estates.
6th. Very wide streets, and except:
TORRENS’ T1TL
TERMS. —10 per cent, deposit,
months, balance in 2 years at 6 per
THE AUCTIONEERS 'strongly u
No Suburban Land is offering cqi
THE AUCTIONEERS’ INSTRl
1st - To well and judiciously subdi
LARGE BLOCKS.;
2nd. To absolutely sell the whole
make the terms of payment e£
3rd. To give the purchasers the r
areas by taking consecutive B!
LITHOGRAPHS OBTAINABLE .
HARDEE and GORM
O E T L
PARRAMATTA RF
SUBDIVIDED 1ST
SIXTY VILLA
WATER FRONTAGE
WILL BE SOLD, ON TH
BY
MILLS, PILE, AND G1
SATURDAY, 24th INS
At half-past Thre
Conveyance by Stea
Lithographs now re
Very Liberal Tern
Miscellaneou
Fifteen deawing - l
FOR SALE.
At the ROYAL FURNISHES
INSPECTION INVI
No.
1 Crimson Sattee Suite, 9 pieces
2 Green figured Silk Settee Suite,
stuffed
3 Leather Diningroom Suite horse
4 Settee Suite, covered in satin ci
5 Crimson figured Silk Suite horse
6 Settee Suite, covered in blue h
silk and horsehair stuffed
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BEID£ CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Stdnst.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
V)rove lucrative, and that they might run short of dinners,
f. Oh ” responds Manrico, “ if we should have to go with-
out dinner we can always rely upon a pea.iw-for.tea.
Twiggez vous?
Jenny Lind, the once famous prima donna, is a
member of the chorus of the Bach Society of London,
of which Herr Goldschmidt, her husband, is the conduc-
tor.
Barton Hill, the well-known’ Frisco entrepreneur,
had a big benefit at the California Theatre. All the
professionals in the town assisted, and it was a grand
success.
Sarah Bernhardt, the famous French actress, is
being sued by the manager of the Theatre Fraucaise
for breaking her engagement. Damages are assessed at
£15,000.
Adelaide Neilson was to appear at the Baldwin
Theatre, San Francisco, previous to retiring from
the stage. Her American tour has been a brilliant
success.
George Darrell avers that nothing short of an
earthquake and a tidal wave crammed in the same act
will now satisfy the inordinate craving for sen-
sationalism.
The Herald announces the appearance at
Mr T. H. Raiuford’s concerts of Messrs. St. Clair.
Can these be the brothers of our charming contralto
and soprano ?
The opening performance of the Passion play at
Oher-Ammergau was very nearly being pnt off in con-
sequence of the Twelve Apostles having a free fight
among themselves.
John Bennett has engaged Henry Ketten for
two nights (28th and 29th inst.) at the Masonic Hall at
£75 per night, the highest amount ever paid to any
musician in Australia.
Signor Palma, H. F. Towle, and W. Marshall
wercAunong those who assisted at the recant farewell
benefit given to Wm. Hoskins, at Christchurch, N. Z.
It was a great success.
The friends of Mr. Snpermaster — are
touting the city for subscriptions to present him with
a gold watch on his retirement from office. him-
•salf puts up half the money.
“ Blustrous prig” is what the Pacific Weekly
calls George Darrell’s impersonation of George Somer-
set, a young colonial gentleman in “ The Forlorn Hope.”
How, George, this is rough.
The Arethnsa Dramatic Company, with Mrs.
Walter Hill to the fore, played “ The Octoroon,” and
“ Ten Nights in a Bar Boom,” at the Princess Theatre,
Wanganui, N.Z. Business good.
The clever De Castro Family, who played in
Australia and New Zealand with the last variety com-
bination the late John Smith brought to the colonics,
are appearing in London with great success.
Cooper, Bailey, and Co.’s advertisement in a
recent N. Y. Clipper occupied a whole page of that
journal. This is advertising with a vengeance. The
Bulletin is open for something of the same kind.
Mrs. Frederick Marshall (wife of the great little
comedian) wears the handsomest sealskin dress ever
seen in Sydney—all splendid black skins. It may not
be envy, but all other ladies have put theirs away.
The committee of the Sydney Musical Union
deplore the apathy of amateur instrumentalists, and
afford anotherproof of the truth of the saying, “An
orchestra means ruin to a society.” Petersham, take
warning!
Lewis Scott wrote a drama for J. K. Emmett
called “Karl, or the Dutchman in Ireland." ; Joe is
now playing one entitled “ Fritz in Ireland, but it
hasn’t Lewis’ name as author. Is this a coincidence,
or is it shabby ?
How is it that to the Australian critic’s mind
there is only one animal with fur on —the opossum P
Now, the rug used in “Pygmalion and Galatea” was
made of bear skins, a bare proof that it was an animal
fur-on to the critic.
The “ Forlorn Hope ” was a decided artistic
success, hut the surplus at the treasury was not com-
mensurate. Don’t go in for poetry or patriotism, George
—the sentiments are beyond the age. Write down to
the level of realistic humanity.
The Maitland Mercury says that the lack of
talent in the company spoilt the performance of a
clever operetta, “ H. M. Singapore Guards, or the
Soldier that loved—alas!” by Lewis Scott. Miss Teresa
Horan is alone entitled to praise.
The Byronic Comedy and Burlesque Company
have been doing only fair business at the Theatre Royal,
Wellington, N.Z. Lizzie Morgan, Amy Johns, Lizzie
Lawrence, Mack D. Alexander, Wilkinson, Herbert,
and E. W. Rede comprise the company.
The Loftus Troupe dissolves shortly. Better so.
The material were incongruous. The company boasted
possession of three or four very capable artistes, as
many decidedly incapable blondes, and the champion
fox-terrier of the southern hemisphere.
‘‘The Now Babylon” crosses over from the
Royal, Melbourne, to the Princess, and afterwards it
will be presented in Adelaide. Later on the company
proceed to New Zealand, “ The New Babylon ” being
the only card. Risky ground, Bland—have a care.
During the performance of the first act of the
Pirates of Penzance', at the Bnsh-street Theatre, Frisco,
recently, a piece of plastering about three feet square
fell from the gallery, struck several persons and cut a
lady about the face. The play was not interrupted.
Miss Flora Anstead, the clever leading lady, has
returned to the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, where she
is such a great favourite. It is to be regretted that
during her stay here no opportunity was afforded to
display her abilities. But we know what she can do.
“ Do you think a man can rnn a circus and be a
Christian ?" asked the serious man. “ Well I don’t
know—yes. ” “ Do you think Chiarini for instance, can
go to heaven ?” “I think he has a good show,” was the
rather equivocal reply. Some men never can be serious.
Just over a decade ago ‘ ‘ Antony and Cleopatra
and “King John" ran into weeks at the old Royal.
What a company of artistes and what a man to lead
them—poor Walter. They would call him old-fashioned
now and the play they would vote tedious and talky.
Tempora mutanur, &c.
Mario, once the most charming of tenors, is now
a white-haired, white-bearded old man, whose nlacid
expression conveys no suggestion of regret for the lyric
triumphs left so far behind. He has fine dark eyes and
fresh complexion, with a little tinge of color on his
cheeks and a quiet and courteous manner.
The plot of Mr. Albery’snew comedy of “ Jacks
and Jills,” shortly to he produced at the Vaudeville,
London, turns upon the fate of a story told in a
certain form and sent upon its travels, told and retold
from ear to mouth, and returned to its source a totally
■ different narrative. James and Thome play the heroes.
Miss Ella Carrington’s “ Stray Leaves” Com-
pany, agented by Hauce Wilson, which has played all
'through Queensland with great success, at latest dates
were at Townsville, after finishing a good week’s busi-
ness at the Towers. They were to open at Mary-
borough on Monday last, and expect to come overland
•to Sydney.
Jays” Andante ” of Mrs. Marcus Clarke (Marion
Dumij:—“ As an actress in light comedy and domestic
drama, she comes back to the stage a valuable acquisi-
tion. As a vocalist, her effectiveness is questionable.
She plays with a charming grace, hut she sings with so
obvious an effort that she makes one wish that she
would not sing.”
A child of Mr. Otto Berliner is showing groat
talent in music. Ketten tried the genius on Tuesday,
the 13th, and predicted a brilliant career for young
Berliner. Otto, senior, who was formerly in the Vic-
torian police, is well-known as a clever detective. He
drinks, or used to drink, tea made from senna-leaves
-instead of hyson.
The heading of the Australian “ Triplets’ ” big
venture reads gushingly thus :—“ In the council cham-
bers of the nation, on the river and the field, have the
sons of Australia gallantly maintained the honour of
their country and carried the banner of victory
-triumphantly to the fore. It now remains to be tested
whether the representatives of dramatic literature and
art can or cannot gain a foothold of success in the
niclies of fame. To that end will be formed “George
Darrell’s Australasian Dramatic Company.” Good gush,
werry.
Little Ernest Hutchinson, “ the Australian
Mozart," has re-appeared at Melbourne in presence of
a large number of professional musicians. He is now
under the tuition of the Rev. Dr. Torrance, a musician
of rare endowments and true enthusiasm. Aoung
Hutchinson’s performances are described as being very
remarkable, but the Australasian adds that his pro-
gress would have been much greater had he not in the
first place been made a commercial use of by persons
whose sole object was to exhibit him as they would
have exhibited a giant or dwarf or a two-headed calf.
One would have thought the self-presentation
business was thoroughly played out—but no. In Mel-
bourne they have recently revived the nice dodge.
One partner presents another—the latter a lady—with
a diamond locket as a recognition of the untiring energy
she hod displayed in filling their joint pockets. The
same evening on the same stage the son of the mana-
geress was the recipient of a testimonial from his
schoolfellows. Of course he had not presented them
with orders to witness his amateur efforts. A crowded
house sat out the farce, and thus much for the gullibi-
lity of the playgoers of the nineteenth century.
Chevalier Ernest de Munck has formed his com-
pany for the forthcoming series of sis subscription con-
certs, or rather three matinees and three soirees,
at Glen's rooms, Melbourne, at the end of the
current month. It includes the Chevalier (violon-
cello), Mdlle Charbonnet and Mr. Julius Buddee, (pian-
ists), Mr. Martin Simonsen and Mr. Weston (first
violins), Mr. Cope (second violin), andM. Berna (viola).
Each performance will take place in the presence of his
Excellency the Marquis and the Marchioness of Nor-
raauby, who, with Sir Redmond Barry, the Hon. W. J.
Clarke, M. Beokx, the Belgian Consul, and other in-
fluential ladies and gentlemen, are the patrons.
Two American variety actors, says Figaro,
Messrs. Baker and Farron, fill the stage of the Duke’s
Theatre during the holiday season. The “drama” in
which they appear is entitled “ Conrad and Lizette;”
but it is a mere sketch, serving as an excuse for the
character songs and dances of the two principal per-
formers. Mr. Baker plays the part of an Americo-
German of the Hans Breitmann type, and his broken
English is often very funny. Mr. Farron, on the other
hand, plays first the part of a German maiden, and
secondly that of a half-starved Irishman. In these
parts the two artists sing many amusing songs, while a
burlesque sketch of military drill called “ The Muldoon
Guards ” was not the least humorous portion of the
evening’s entertainment.
The farewell benefit tendered at Melbourne to
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks, who goes to England with the
Mammoth Mir strel troupe, was very numerously atten-
ded. The performance was under the patronage of Cap-
tain Mathieu and officers of the French Warship Ehin,
and the Victorian Football Association. In addition to
the New Babylon play the Mammoth Minstrel troupe
gave a short programme of songs and a comic sketch.
At the conclusion of the race scene in New Babylon, Mr.
F. C. Appleton presented Mr. Hiscocks with a handsome
diamond locket, set with brilliants * accompanying the
presentation with a few well-chosen remarks, to wnich
Mr. Hiscocks, after considerable interruption from the
noisy gods in the gallery, suitably replied. He also
alluded to his intended return to the colonies at no very
distant date, promising the audience that whatever
novelties he then introduced would be worthy of the re>
putation he was proud to have earned as a successful
caterer for the public amusement.
An “ exciting scene ” occurred the other even-
ing at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, during the act
where Eamarez claims Belle Lorimer as his wife, and
despite her protestations proceeds to take forcible pos-
session of her. The feelings of an excited spectator were
so worked up by the sight of villany triumphant that he
rushed from his place in the stalls, and, climbing on the
stage, ordered the representative of Eamarez to “ un-
hand the lady.” The audience was raised to a fever of
excitement, two ladies fainted, and there was general
confusion until the humour of the situation was caught.
The susceptible intruder was with some difficulty per-
suaded to retire to his seat, hut with his suspicions only
haif lulled. When Bamarez again made a dart for the
lady, her protector a second time rushed on to the stage
and interfered &c., &c. These “ sensational incidents”
are well-nigh played out. Either acting has become
wonderfully realistic or individual spectators have
grown very impressionable. Perhaps the Melbourne
papers will in course of time “ drop down ” to the fact
that thej - have been giving the bland “Bland” a free
advertisement.
“Andante,” of the Australasian, speaks
thus of the two daughters of Madame Fannie Simonsen,
who have just made their debut at Melbourne in
concert; —“Their voices are different. Miss Leonora’s
is a mezzo-soprano, and that of her sister a pure
soprano, with a register extending to the higher E.
Those who like softness, gentleness, sweetness, and
tenderness will incline to Miss Leonora, while those
who declare for brilliancy will give in their adhesion to
Miss Martina. The first charms, the second astonishes.
To Miss Leonora you would delight to hear in a plea-
sant parlour looking out upon a fair garden of a
summer’s evening. It would be in harmony with a
clear primrose sky, purple hills, deep green woods, a
pebbly stream, a winding path flanked with rosebushes,
aud a moss-embroidered old stone terrace. Miss Mar-
tina’s voice, on the contrary, takes jour imagination
away to a lofty salon, ablaze with light, aud gems,
crowded with beautiful forms, and perfumed with the
odour of rare flowers floating inwards trom a loftily-
arched conservatory.”
Under date July 6th, our correspondent at
Auckland (N.Z.,) sends the following, which arrived too
late for our last issueMr. Walter Reynolds’ drama,
“Tried and True” was withdrawn after a run of ten
nights, which was exceptionally good for a town the
size of Auckland. Another of this gentleman’s literary
efforts, “ Lost and Won,” occupies the boards of the
Royal at present, and the play has been received with
great favour by the public. As the plot of “Lost and
Won” is familiar to Australian theatre-goers, it is not
necessary for me to notice it; suffice it to say that the
drama has been fairly placed on the stage, and the
various characters excellently represented by Misses
Marie Wilton, Grace Hathaway, Julia Hudson, Messrs.
J. B. Steele, W. Reynolds, A. Patterson, E. D. Hay-
garth, J. O’Brien, and others of lesser note. A scratch
company of third-rate people had the presumption to
play (?) that great teetotal drama, “Drink” at a small
Bijou Theatre (the Albert Hall), on Saturday night last
at low pricesof admission. There was a wretched house
and the less said about the performance the better.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers and company have
been a great success here, the troupe playing to crowded
houses nightly. They have been at the Thames gold-
fields, and commence a tour of the Waikato and other
country districts to-night They give three farewell
performances at the Lowe-street Hall next week, before
they finally leave Auckland.—Miss Clara Stephenson
has recovered from the effects of her severe accident
(which was greatly exaggerated), and appears to be her-
self once again. Clara and Harry Lynch may be seen
“ doing the block ’’—that is Queen-street—as often as
business will permit. Surely Harry does not intend
entering the holy bonds of wedlock. But as Wm.
Hoskins says, “ Such is life sweet child, such is life.”—
Miss Hunter, the “ Little Buttercup ” of Riccardi’s
Pinafore Company matrimoniated last week, the
happy man being Mr. E. Bradley, of Dunedin. The
agent of Simonsen’s Froliques is here making
arrangements for the appearance of the troupe next
week.
7


Public Companies
EEEIBLE ACCIDENTS
Are continually happening, and
FRIGHTFUL MUTILATIONS'
and
LOSS OF LIFE
are recorded as the result of accidents in every issue of
the dailj press.
The best investment to provide against
ACCIDENTS OF ALL KINDS
is to take out a Policy with the
AUSTEALASIAN ACCIDENT ASSUEANCE
ASSOCIATION
(Limited).
CAPITAL —.£lOO,OOO.
OVEE 300 CLAIMS ALEEADY SETTLED.
Head Offices —256 Pitt-st., comer of Park-st.
EICHD. TAYLOE,
Secretary.
T
HE STANDAED LIFE ASSUEANCE COM-
PANY.
Head Office George-street, Edinburgh,
Sydney Branch ... 283 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The next DIVISION OP PROFITS will be made as
at 15th November, 1880, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
P. T. WATKINS,
Secretary.
lOLONIAL MUTUAL FIEE INSUEANCE
1 COMPANY (Limited.)
CAPITAL ; £250,000, IN £1 SHAKES.
PIEE DEPARTMENT.—This company accepts risks
on every description of Fire Insurance in Buildings,
Merchandise, Bonded Stores, Stock-in-Trade, House-
hold Furniture, &c., &c., at the lowest current rates.
GUARANTEE DEPARTMENT. —Fidelity Bonds are
granted at minimum rates.
THE INSURED PARTICIPATE ANNUALLY IN
THE PROFITS.
ALFRED CHANDLER, Secretary.
OFFICES; 141 and 143 (late 183 and 185) Pitt-street.
lOLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSUEANCE
' SOCIETY (LIMITED).
Directors in New South Wales:
The Hon. Sir J. George Long Innes, M.L.C., Vice-
President,
The Hon J. F. Bums, M.L.A., Chairman.
Edward Lord, Esq. (Chairman of the Australian Joint
Stock Bank).
Alfred Chandler, Secretary.
NEW BUSINESS.
During the year ended 31st March, 1880,
5488 proposals for .£1,488,934 0 0
3258 were completed, and policies issued
for 810,884 0 0
The policies in force number 9940, assur-
ing 2,566,584 0 0
The present annual income exceeds £lOO,OOO 0 0
QUINQUENNIAL INVESTIGATION.
Extract from the Valuation Report by Thomas Bond
Sprague, M.A., F.1.A., Edinburgh, and George King,
F.1.A., London:—
“ The valuation balance-sheet shows a surplus of
£6844 9s lid, and from our examination of the schedules
we are satisfied that this is a genuine surplus, which
might with perfect safety be divided among the mem-
bers. Bearing in mind that the principles of valuation
acted upon are such as to effectually prevent the intro-
duction of any negative policy values, so that in no
instance has a policy been reckoned as an asset in the
valuation, we consider the above_ result to be one on
which the members of the society may be fairly con-
gratulated.
“Under these circumstances, the members may hope-
fully look forward to the result of the next investigation
into the society’s affairs. For the present, however, we
recommend that no division of surplus be made. It
will, in our opinion, be more advantageous for the
society that the present surplus be retained in hand as
an additional provision for unforeseen contingencies. If
not required for that purpose, it will, at the next valua-
tion, be available for division among the members; and
it should then, we consider, be exclusively appropriated
to those of the existing members whose policies shall
then remain in force."
OFFICES 141 and 143 Pitt-street, Svdney.
ALFRED CHANDLER, Secretary.
IHE NEW LIGHT! THE NEW LIGHT !
LIGHT IN YOUR HOUSE AT A MOMENT’S
NOTICE.
ROYLE and HOGG,
Bond-street Stores,
SOLE AGENTS for the
ALPHA GAS MACHINES,
beg to inform the public
that this
SPLENDID INVENTION
is now on view at their warehouse, in Bond-street, close
to the Exchange, and an inspection is invited.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE is
SUITABLE for all PRIVATE HOUSES and SHOPS
SUITABLE for MANSIONS and PUBLIC INSTITU-
TIONS
SUITABLE for STEAMERS and SHIPS
SUITABLE for PUBLIC HALLS and THEATRES
SUITABLE for LIGHTING TOWNS.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE is
BETTER than COAL GAS, because it is CHEAPER,
costing far less
BETTER than COAL GAS, because it gives a BETTER
LIGHT, and therefore, less gas is required to be
burned.
BETTER than COAL GAS, because it is made no
faster than it is consumed
BETTER than KEROSENE, because there is NO
DANGER of an explosion
BETTER than KEROSENE, because no trimming of
lamps is required
BETTER than KEROSENE, because there is no offen-
sive smell.
THE APLHA GAS MACHINE is
SUPERIOR to anything of the kind yet invented.
Ordinary Gasfittings are suitable
The ALPHA GAS MACHINE is used for LIGHT-
ING TOWNS : it is also used on board Her Majesty’s
TRAINING SHIPS in England.
TESTIMONIALS from RESIDENTS in ENGLAND
and the COLONY who saw the MACHINE AT WORK
can be had on application.
tar The Public are warned against
SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
This is the only economical and satisfactory light.
ROYLE and HOGG,!
Brinsmead Piano-Depot,
Bond-street Stores.
Public Companies
OMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established IS?4.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £525,000-
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs.'Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors : J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Eingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Camp bell town, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble,
Cootamundra. Dubbd, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gunclagai, Gunnedah,
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
andera. Orange, Parkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton,
Queanbeyan, Quirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
ton, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass, Young.
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough and Eockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia :. The Bank of South Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore ; The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China;' and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
Batavia ; The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
(Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutuaUy agreed upon.
HE CITY BANK, SYDNEY.
Paid up Capital, £240,000.
With power to increase to £500,000.
Reserve Fund, £50,000.
Hon. JAMES WATSON, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman
EGBERT GRAY, Esq.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, Esq., M.L.C.
JOHN ALGER, Esq.
EDWARD WRENCH, Esq.
Auditors :
H. C. D’Ardier, Esq.
Robert Wisdom, Esq., M.L.A.
Manager :
William Neill.
Secretary:
Edmund Bouse.
Accountant:
Thomas T. Orton.
Solicitor :
W. W. Billyard, Esq.
Head Office, Pitt Street, Sydney.
City Branches:
King and Sussex Streets. J 99 Oxford Street.
Country Branches:
Young
Bathurst
Kiama
Carcoar
Cootamundra
Agents:
London —The London Joint Stock Bank.
Scotland —The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
Queensland —The Queensland National Bonk.
Victoria—The National Bank of Australasia, and'the
City of Melbourne Bank.
Tasmania—The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land.
New Zealand —The Bank of New Zealand.
South Australia —National Bank of Australasia, and
the Commercial Bank of South Australia.
Western Australia—The National Bank of Australasia
India —The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
China —The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
New York —The‘Agents of the Bank of California,
Laidlaw and Co.
San Francisco —The Bank of California.
Valparaiso—Banco de Valparaiso.
Batavia—Netherlands-India Commercial Bank.
Venice —S. A. Blumenthal and Co.
This Bank adopts and transacts all usual banking
business within the colony, and with any of the
places above named.
V
ICTORIA
Carte de Visits
Cabinets
PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO
PRICES.
PORTRAITS
lO- per dozen
7/6 per half-dozen
25- per dozen
l7/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA:—
6 Bon Tons 2/6
16 Double Gems 2/6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance— VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET,
Public Companies
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with, power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £170,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esq.
William B. Walford, Esq. William A. Long, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Eedfern j .Glebe.
London Office—lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES AtL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices 263 (late 247), GEORGE-STEEET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000,
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Eubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as anv office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits,
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo, with power to incaease to £1,000,000.
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. WilliamHezlet,Esq.,M.P.
First Fire Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part op their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonus out op Propits
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums.
Damage by Lightning and Explosionsby ■
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office—l 44, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evening News).
The LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
with unlimited liability, and special Acts in each
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued.
Directors in Sydney :
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman.
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Life business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer s
A. Roberts, Esq.
M. W. S. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Hoad Office for Australasia—62 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. | Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.E.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:— * No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND. THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks' accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T. WATKINS, Manager.
Chemists and Druggists
C
ENT R A L PHARMACY,
78 (Late 81) KING-STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist,
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY
BALSAM,
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist ahd Apothecaet,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JIOE ALL DESCRIPTIONS OP
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L P E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
T S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only hy
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
HAKE NO MORE PILLS
L but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE P
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do yon Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!.
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and he cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuahle Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
JJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT!
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to he
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS,
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be-
found without it-; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to he the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore-
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same,
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can he re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
oan have immediate relief hy applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties-
of undoubted respectability, and who cau at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to he still pre-eminent over anything,
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold hy all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale hy the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
CURE YOUR CHILBLAINS by SOUL’S
matchless PAIN-KILLING CREAM (Is) if they
are not broken; or if broken, buy LUBIN’S GLYCE-
RINE and CUCUMBER, price 6d.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Pitt-street.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 117 Pitt-street, next to
Punch’s Hotel.
8


BRIEF MENTION.
Botany is the place to buy coal.
Gregory Board is fretting again.
Petersham has no School of Arts.
The Shepherd’s ruin.—Frazer’s mixture.
M. Jules Joubert is in his element again.
Savage dogs are let loose on Church Hill.
The closed tramcar is called the “ coffin.”
Andrew Lynch is our most honest politician.
We have On Lee one Chinese doctor in Sydney.
The Burwood people are all making zithers now.
All the Parramatta children love Hugh Taylor.
The Petersham Church has been getting a slat-
ing.
Sir John Robertson is beautifying Watson’s
Bay.
Prisquette matches are to be played on Norwood
Park.
The Town Hall clock is still in darkness at
night.
Is it possible to sell intoxicants in Temperance
eaiis?
Language in Petersham debates is getting
grosser.
Dr. Mackellar is the coming man for East
Sydney.
A cursory glance—the look of a man stamping a
cheque.
Dan Mayne didn’t speak at the Bathurst
banquet.
Petersham is infested with Public School
teachers.
‘‘Our Boys” are winning every match in
England.
There’s an hotel in Sussex-street that wants
watching.
Alderman Hordern is known as the Corporation
time-keeper.
Dowie’s Mission—To save Ned Kelly. Where’s
Ogilvie now ?
Mudgee is looking for a new member: one who
sits after tea.
Ninny’s put his black suit away until it’s wanted
again for the ’Ouse.
The Parramatta dandy still has that red silk
pocket-handkerchief.
If the winding staircase in the Supreme Court
gave way, what then ?
Tom Hellyer, Mayorof Bathurst, wants Morgan
back—it’s too quiet now.
Several M.L.A.’s were at the [Orange celebra-
tion. An election coming on.
The question now is: Will Cover risk .£4O at
the next East Sydney election ?
The Rev. Canon —— -- gave a party the other
evening. A cannon ball, in fact.
The new Prothonotary won’t let any of his
clerks sign their death warrants.
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, gives the best return
for your Sabbath threepenny hit.
The Greville, of Bathurst, is not to be on the
Melbourne Exhibition Commission.
The Mutual Abuse Association at Redfem has
no recognized leader of the opposition.
The tar pavement in George-street will claim all
drunkards who enjoy it in hot weather.
Mr. Pilcher says the Government is not strong
—but the Opposition is too weak for it.
Melbourne men with diamond collar-buttons
find it too warm in Sydney for neck scarfs.
Lestrange’s servant is often like an Act of Par-
liament-waiting for the Governor’s assent.
The Cathedral on the Balmain Road is now at-
tended by fully nine devotees every service.
R. B. Armstrong has invented (with the aid of
Angus Cameron) a remedy for the melon-cholic !
Collecting the actors’ parts, and joinering a piece,
and selling it, is the way they cheat authors here.
The Lands Titles office issues quantities of
certificates now-a-days—but how about the quality ?
Petersham is to have a new Post office in 1885
and a Railway station to celebrate the 19th century.
Upper Port-street is much utilized by amorous
Civil servants of the Customs and Telegraph offices.
The Infirmary people have got out the Farley
■scandal. We are now waiting for the police report.
“ Dark is the hour before the dawn,” says the
{play at the Victoria. The Gas Company see to that.
Superintendent Roberts, of the Tramways, is
imitating the: Governor, and his fowls are quite as
fine.
A certain very, very, very big Public School
official has a provincial dialect thick enough to asphalt
with.
“ The Gospel according to Mac Nevin ” is the
Sunday reading of the country clerks of Petty Ses-
sions.
Mr. Greenwood is the hardest worker in the
Assembly. Of course we don’t say anything about
results. *
They have cleared Stephen-street, Melbourne,
of the demi-monde, and re-named it “ Exhibition-
street.”
Station-master Henson, of Petersham, is the
most bashful chairman who ever presided at a public
meeting.
The Parramatta Junction Civil Servants still
•sing profane versions of Moody and Sankey going home
in the train.
Sir John Robertson says if his beard has really
grown as fine as The Bulletin depicts it, he won’t pull
it any more.
Clothes don’t make the man, but they go along
way with the tram guard when a man finds he’s left his
purse at home.
The individual who wrote “ O solitude, where
are thy charms ?” was a man who didn’t advertise in
The Bulletin.
The Honorable George T looks nearly as
young as his son. Or, is it that his son looks quite as
old as his father ?
The stairs in the new Public Offices are killing
Critchett Walker. He wants a lift. The last one he got
wasn’t good enough.
People who save life in this colony have to be
rewarded by the Victorian Humane Society. Have we
no proper pride left ?
Mr. Hemming, Stamp Duties’ Commissioner, is
up to his neck in glory again: but who left out the
Penalty Clause —eh ?
Although there were three Ministers present at
the Johnsonian Club supper at Brisbane the other even-
ing, nobody said grace.
A man in America named Miller is imitating
Mr. Milner Stephen’s miracles; in fact a great many
have copied him for vears.
A certain Evangelist is travelling a new soap.
He was persuaded to try it himself one day recently,
and the disguise was perfect.
Milner Stephen is like Job —on account of his
patients. The tram has to whistle an alarm to clear
the track in front of his chambers.
Mr. Critchett Walker doesn’t look half the man
he was before he had those stairs to climb. He wants
a state bedroom in the building now.
It is said that Mr. R. Uther left a diary con-
taining spicy memos, about the people of his time, with
directions for its publication within a year.
Milner Stephen is making a fortune: he says
he will have to go away for a time to “ save his life.”
The meaning of the latter clause is very vague.
Emerson says that everything good in man leans
on something higher. What about the man who, full
of swankey, leans against a Corporation lamp-post ?
Oily Gammon goes straight for the Mayoralty
next year. By his vote in re the City Solicitorship he
secures at least two votes in re the chief magistracy.
When the man who collects tickets in the Eliza-
beth-street tram sees a woman wildly waving her
handkerchief be knows what the wild waves are saying.
Dempster ought to see the panting civil servants
as they reach the top of their Jacob’s Ladder —or he’d
better wait till summer, and then he must summon some
one.
Some years ago, the Age said that Graham Berry
was “ a man utterly devoid of political principle—a man
of merely superficial ability.” Now but we’ll say no
more.
Sir John Robertson is the only Minister cunning
enough to have his official chambers on the ground
floor. He looks at the stairs and says “ Bless your
rise!”
Mr. Alexander Oliver, Parliamentary drafts-
man, and one of our best scholars, says female ratepayers
can vote and be elected Alder (What surely not
men?)
Monaro claims to be the birthplace of the
youngest insolvent in the colony—a resident who is but
little over 21 years of age, and has been “white-
washed.”
Lots of second-class passengers travel from
Newtown to Sydney in first-class carriages. Three girls
have played this trick from Macdonaldtown for the last
few months.
The Herald is nothing if not written in digni-
fied and classical English. “By the skin of his teeth,”
is the latest elegant phrase employed by one of its
leader-writers.
The indignation caused by the lecture-gagging
clause in the Licensing Bill will help those who are
fighting to open the School of Arts Reading-room on
Sunday afternoons.
The funniest line in Mr. Milner Stephen’s letter
is where he says that his miracle business has taken up
his time “to the utter ruin of his practice as a
barrister.” Ex nitulo, &c.
Ladies are requested not to wave their handker-
chiefs at the tram-conductor. Some tram-conductors
have a romantic, awkward habit of throwing kisses just
as the tram passes a comer.
“ Wanted, the ten laziest men in town to loaf
at this place,” is the notice that evepr corner-shop-
keeper (who objects to larrikins spitting all over his
shutters on Sunday should put up.
A man, seeking the Coffee Palace, chanced to
pass Hopkins and Alford’s mins, and asked Alford the
way to the gas tronomic establishment. He hurried
from that electrified shoe leather!
Even the Orangemen and those of them who are
most roughly dealt with, must laugh at “Pasquin’s”
comically-abusive article on “ The Orange Celebration,”
in last issue of the Freeman’s Journal.
Bob Ingersoll, whose books —Moses’ Mistakes,
Ac.—are all the rage in Sydney among the followers of
Mr. Charles Bright, has devoted a deal of attention to
the life of the poet, Robert Bums. It has been sug-
gested that a proper inscription for Bob’s tomb, throw-
ing some light on the future, would be simply—
“ Robert Bums.”
It is denied that Mr. David Buchanan was the
pattern used by Signor Simouetti for his clay models of
the third of the three sandstone statues for the exterior
of the new public offices. There’s not much in common
between the goddess Minerva and David.
We noticed a policeman sailing loftily along the
other day. He was a majestic young man, with a recent
and carefully-executed “ split shave,” and had forgot-
ten to wipe the violet powder from his classic chin.
The pay of the “ foorce” will have to be reduced.
The A.S.N. Co.’s directors have been visiting
the North. At Townsville they were mistaken for the
“ Stray Leaves ” Company—much to the latter’s dis-
gust. Mr. Ewan, the chairman, was supposed to be the
comic man working up locals for the evening’s enter-
tainment.
A certain Bathurst man says that if a testimo-
nial is got up for him for managing the Court-house
opening, he won’t give more than half the cost himself.
Once bitten, many times shy—or vice versa.
There’s a Sydney demagogue who wants four
days’ work a week, each day of four hours, and four pay-
days every week. Failing this, he will oppose all work-
ing by artificial light, and have sleep done in the day-
time.
Mr. Berry (says Melbourne Punch) does not
approve of the action of the present Government in ob-
taining the services of Queensland black-trackers for
the police force. The very mention of a black-tracker
calls up a vision of a Third Ambassador (Henderson
Africanns) dogging his footsteps on his famous mission.
With regard to the Bill for legalizing Marriage
with a Deceased Wife’s Sister, one great advantage
appears to have been overlooked, viz., that a man may
have two (or perhaps more) wives, and only one mother-
in-law.
The Age, known in Melbourne as “ Ananias,”
is the champion liar of Australasia. It's “history of
the Service Ministry,” consisting of about 1800 lines,
contained more obvious, deliberate falsehoods than the
staff of any other journal in the universe could cram
into two tons of paper.
Mr. Charles Bright, in the current number of
Freethought, writes a piece of Ingoldsbian verse, en-
titled “ The Crows and their Caws,” which, had it been
delivered as a portion of one of his increasingly-popular
Sunday evening discourses, would have strengthened
his position as the Australian Bob Ingersoll.
Nothing like pertinacity. The Queensland
Government have caved in to John Hnrley, M.P.
(Hartley) and his Burrum coal scheme. Our Govern-
ment must have wot done something for him. Vide his
recent votes.
The commercial editor of the Hejrald, who was
once a small boy with a mother who knew how to use a
slipper in cases of emergency, cannot, it is said, to this
day write about a “ movement in leather" without hitch-
ing uneasily in his chair.
“His life,” remarked a reverend • canon at
Melbourne the other day, in the course of a pulpit
obituary upon the son of a local publican, “ was as pure
as milk.” But suddenly catching the eye of a pros-
perous dairyman in the front pew, he promptly added,
* from the cow.”
Dr. Wazir Beg is “nuts” on juvenile smoking.
Some people say this is all owing to the reverend gen-
tleman having been smoked himself while he was young.
However, it’s come quite natural to humans to smoke.
If they don’t smoke in this world they’ll smoke in the
next in the bosom of—Abraham.
The bushranger Byrne, late of the lawless Kelly
gang, must at some time or other have stuck up and
despoiled a wholesale boot warehouse, for since the
Glenrowan fight there are sufficient “ identieal boots
taken from the feet of the bushranger Byrne” in exist-
ence to stock a small bootshop. So says Melbourne
Punch.
This is what a Mudgee journalist gets off about
Ninny:—
“ There was a cadaverous curse.
Proficient at driving a hearse.
Or plumed as a stump rhetorician.
But trade being slack,.
The miners in black
Have made him a grave politician.”
In Auckland lately a lady has been communing
with the spirit of her “deceased” husband, who used
to send her most loving and consolatory messages from
the unknown laud, and was believed to have died in San
Francisco a couple of years ago. The other day he ap-
peared to her in the flesh. He says that when he does
reach the next world he’ll make things very rough for
his shadowy double. He weighs 16st.
The cleverest man in Australia in his own line is
Mr. Tom Carrington. In Melbourne Punch of July 8
he represented two persons clad in “ Kelly armour ”
“ waiting for the end.” One figure was labelled “Lies,"
and everyone knew it was the Age. The other wasn’t
labelled at all: it merely had the top of its head pro-
truding from the nail-can helmet. The bump of self-
esteem was a big one, and everyone knew it belonged to
Graham Berry.
The Post Office authorities enjoy a rare practical
joke at the expense of some of the residents in the out-
skirts of the city. The pillar-boxes have certain hours
of collection labelled thereon, but they are emptied
some time earlier. Thus the pillar at the intersection
of Park-road and Botany-street has painted on it “ last
collection at 8 p.m.,” yet nightly the collection is made
at 7.30, and all letters posted after that lie there till the
next day. This is very funny, no doubt.
The high priest of a certain loan office—not in
Sydney—is said to have been so successful in sacrificing
people at “ shirty per shent” and upwards—especially
upwards—that he is enabled to retire on the dry bones
of his victims. The business has been transferred for
a considerable consideration to another member of the
order, who will continue the sacrifice as heretofore.
Recent circumstances notwithstanding, the exchange
was satisfactorily negotiated by the gentleman con-
cerned.
A learned German doctor has discovered a means
of dyeing the eyes of animals in general and of man in
particular any colour he pleases. He is accompanied on
his travels by a dog with a rose-coloured eye, a cat with
an orange-red eye, a monkey with a chrome-yellow eye,
a negro with one black and the other blue, and a negress
with one gold-coloured and the other silver white.
If he comes along here, he’ll be useful to a certain
greasy politician of our acquaintance who, after being
experimented on, could well be spared to keep company
with the cat and the negress. He always takes the
“religious” ticket, and one eye orange and the other
green would exactly suit him at the general election.
The owner of a piece of land in a favourite
suburb left the block in an agent’s hands for sale, and
departed for another colony after fixing a minimum
price per foot. The agent, a prominent member of a
certain church, was interviewed by the trustees, who
wanted the land to build a house of prey-er on. His
pious zeal made him sell at once at the minimum price
fixed some ten years before, without regard to his prin-
cipal’s interests or to the increase in value of the land.
The owner arrived too late to prevent the sacrifice. He
didn’t want to sell; and now these sanctimonious
sharks offer him his own land back at treble what they
gave, and call it honest.
This is a scrap from what Mr. C. H. Barlee
writes in Freethought about one of “ Robbins’ ”
Jamieson-street spiritualistic seances;—"Some little
time was now occupied in re-forming the circle so that
each lady should have a gentleman on either side of
her; and as there were two or three pretty girls, each
gentleman was anxious to be the medium of communi-
cation with one of these if possible, and it was at least
a quarter of an hour before the spirits signified by three
raps that the positions were satisfactory.” Nice, wasn’t
it ? In the dark, too. And again: “It was found that
two young ladies were sitting together—a state of
things against which the spirits protested loudly.
When this was rectified and the two ladies found their
hands” (and waists?) “gently pressed by two gen-
tlemen, the harmony of the circle was complete.”
Just so.
This is what they sing in the Evening Ltbb
office •• —
When a lynx-eyed Ltre reporter’s not reporting—
Not reporting.
When no burning building occupes his time —
’Pies his time.
He loves to hear colonial beer a-gurgling—
Beer a-gurgling.
And listen for a merry tale of crime—
Tale of crime.
When he’s finished fondly kissing his girl’s mother —
His girl’s mother.
He loves to catch her blessings one by one—
One by one;
What with hunting up the murders and the fires—
And the fires,
A reporter’s life is not a lazy one—
A lazy one.
Stephen W. Downey, delegate to Congress for
Wyoming territory during the last session, introduced
in the House of Representatives a Bill containing as
its preamble the Apostles’ Creed, and declaring that
the people of the United States firmly believed it to be
true. Mr. Downey proposed the appropriation of half
a million to be expended in representing upon the walls
of the Capitol in painting, scenes illustrative of the
birth, life, death and resurrection of our Saviour. He
announced that he had prepared a long speech in sup-
port of his measure, and obtained the usual permission
to print it without delivery in the official record. This
publication appeared on 22nd April, and Mr. Downey’s
speech was then discovered to be in the shape of an al-
legory entitled “The Immortals,” dedicated to Con-
gress, and containing 1,800 lines of blank verse. The
“Argument” is described as presenting upon the
framework a vision of the universe and a somewhat per-
plexing combination of moral teachings, allegorical
pictures and departed shades of mighty persons, inter-
spersed with illustrations drawn from Homer, Virgil,
Dante, Milton and the classical dictionary.
We instantly conceived an unspeakable admira-
tion for the old gentleman who, habited in a long and
tattered ulster that fitted him all over and touched him
nowhere, like a sentry-box, waited on us the other day,
with Ja well-worn (begging-letter in one hand and in the
other some moral doggerel which, though not remarkably
funny in itself, was nevertheless so thoroughly in keep-
ing with his vinous breath and brilliant nose that an
extract from it is to our mind quite worth preserving.
The old gentleman had been “ cultivating literature on
a little grog,” and here is a portion of the result:
the beer, the bear the cursed beer
, that blinds its victims to hell’s fear
with loss of strength and empty purse
it leads them on from bad to worse
» * »
However the poor wife may strive
to Keep herself and Babes alive
the Drunken husband heeds it not
while he of beer can Raise a pot.
But men must not have all the Blame
There’s Women Who are Just the same
Who also by, the Beer are Curst,
they’le Swill the Swankey, if they Burst.
* * *
Oh! What a Wretched, life this is,
no prospect here, of Heavenly Bliss
But Hurrying to, the Infernal Shore
Where Beer and Rum, theyle get no More.
One of the fellows in our office says that the old gentle-
man constructed the above on the model of some of the
verse in the hymn-books, but though not in a position
to contradict so impious an assertion we can hardly
believe it to be true. The old gentleman is still on the
war-path and has, according to his subscription list,
been getting at the hearts and purses of many well,
known Sydney citizens.
A QUEENSLAND EXPLORER — MR. W. J. CARR-
BOYD, OTHERWISE “ POTJOSTLER.”
A SHADOW OF THE PAST-THE LATE MR. J. J. BARTLETT.


Government Advertisements
General Post Office,
Ssdney, 5th July, 1880.
A POST OFFICE was established on the 1st instant,
at Ultimo, near the corner of Harris and Quarry
Streets.
A POST OFFICE will be established on the 15th in-
stant, at Erina, between Gosford and Wamberal.
POST OFFICES will be established on the 16th in-
stant at the following places, viz.: —
Broadwater, between Woodbum and East War-
dell.
German’s Hill, between Orange and Cargo.
THE POST OFFICE will be re-established on the 16th
instant at Borenore, between Orange and Cheese-
man’s Creek.
SAUL SAMUEL.
Department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 21st May, 1880.
mO CONTRACTORS AND OTHEES.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11
o’clock on TUESDAY, the 27th July, from persons
willing to contract for the construction of the Works on
the Extension of the South-western Railway, from
Narandera to Hay, a distance of about 106 miles.
Plans, specification, and form of tender may be seen,
and further particulars obtained, at the office of the
Engineer-in-Chief for Railways on and after the 21st
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ' Tender for Extension from
Narranderato Hay.’
The Commissioner does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
Public Announcements
T
HE PACIFIC WEEKLY.
No. XI.
NOW READY.
THE PACIFIC WEEKLY
FOE THIS WEEK CONTAINS:
NOTES OP THE WEEK:
Short and Pithy Paragraphs on Current Events.
TOPICS OP THE DAY:
The Functions of Government. Eatonsville Journalism.
The Political Fiasco in Victoria. The Sheep in
Australia, &c., &c., &c., &c., &c., &c., &c.
COLONIAL CELEBRITY,
No. XL
The Hon. George Higinbotham.
COEEESPONDENCE.
THE REIGN OF MUDDLE,
Mr. MILNER STEPHEN’S CURES.
His Patients Interviewed and the Pacts Ascertained
by Mr. George Ranken, and the “ Vagabond.”
LITERATURE AND ART:
J. Bnmton Stephens’ Poems. The Theatres.
“ UNDER THE CHANGING SKY”
&c., &c.‘ &c. &c., &c.
PRICE 6d.
To be had of all Booksellers and Newsagents, and at
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION
TRAVEL
BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, 5s.; Three,months, 12s. 6d. j Six mouths
25s.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families,— Those subscribers who wish
> a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from MADDOCK’S lJBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Plain English, by John Hollingshead
Doctor Digby’s Letters from France, edited by
Lady Eas’tlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. Lefanu
Reata: What’s in a Name, by E. D. Girard
Memoirs of a Cynic, edited by Wm. Gilbert
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesworth
The Duke of Albany’s Own Highlanders, by James
Grant
Mary Anerley: A Yorksh e Tale, by R. D. Black-
more
Protection and Bad Times, by G. Baden Powell
Honor Carmichael, by Miss Dull
The White Month, by the Author of “ Cartouche”
Poor Zeth, by Author of “ Grandmother’s Money”
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Prince Consort, vol. 5, by Sir Theodore Martin]
. Haworth’s, by Francis Burnett
Our Australian Cousins, by James Inglis (“Maori”)
For Her Dear Sake, by Mary Cecil flay
Moths, by Ouida
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Rice
Three Recruits, by Joseph Hatton
An Australian Heroine, by R. M. Prior
England Under Beaconsfleld, by P. W. Clay den
Roughing it Van Diemen’s Land, by Edward Howe
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C.
Crawford
On Duty: A Ride through Hostile Africa, by
Parker Gilmore
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Memoirs of Madame de Remuset
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
Story of Barbara, by Miss Braddon
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
Queen of the Meadow, by Charles Gibbon
In Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Grant
Sweet Spring Time, by Catherine M. Macquoid
Royal Windsor, vols. 3 and 4, by W. Hepworth
Dixon
A Sword of Damocles, by Theo. A. Sharp.
MADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Public Announcements
NGLO - AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT,
FINANCE, AND LAND C OMPANY
Limited.
For Forma of Application apply to
W. J. WESTON,
5, Spring-street,
Or at the Temporary Offices of the Company,
Comer of
Wynyard and George Streets.
The mercantile bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873'
Paid-np Capital .£ 300,000
Reserve Fund , £110,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.GM.G., Chairman'
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson..
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street,
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent- G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
NOTICE. —We desire to notify that Mr. J. H.
DECENT is now the only authorised
ADPERTISISNG AGENT in City and Suburbs
for The Bulletin.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
Buixetin Office, 21 July, 1880.
T
HE
NEW SOUTH WALES FISH CO.
(Limited).
Application for SHARES can be made to any
Director, or to the Secretary,
WILLIAM BRYANT,
Mears’ Chambers, near Trickett’s Hotel.
E
STABLISHED 1842.
JAMES TURNER
(Late Constable and Turner),
Licensed Plumber, Gasfitter, Beer Engine Manufacturer
and Importer of Gasfitting Materials,
Coveny’s Buildings, 71 Market-street, Sydney.
Water laid on, with Lead Pipe and Plain or Galvanized
Iron Pipe. Prize Medal Gas Cooking Stoves.
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot be
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very fine spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
thoroughly matured, and can be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and Queensland,
JAMES BURNS.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was in the service of
the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone will be a
sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all the com-
forts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J, E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
A C H I N E R
Have for Sale -
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
L. Jb ay ana lo. s r irst special rrize
Machinery—-Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality offakantee i>, Ac., &c.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
G
RATTAN & COMPANY
GENERAL PRESS AGENCY
and Advertising Office,
121 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
The want of an institution for the Distribution of
LITERARY WORK, NEWSPAPER CORRESPOND-
ENCE, and authenticated TELEGRAMS has long been
felt by Newspaper Proprietors in the different centres
of Population in Australia; hence the establishment of
the above office, with a permanent staff of Writers and
Reporters of long experience, training, and acknow-
ledged ability. The Management will always be ready
to supply to their constituents the latest news of the
day, whether by telegram or otherwise, on the most
reasonable terms, and at the same time will undertake
to secure to their constituents
ALL OBTAINABLE ADVERTISEMENTS
at ruling rates, furnishing together therewith (or as by
arrangement)
ACCOUNTS with PROMPT PAYMENTS,
Reliable and trustworthy Leiulers on the prominent
questions of the day, together with articles on general
subjects, will be furnished with the utmost promptitude
the Management being desirous of bringing the Country
Press into close and complete communication with
Sydney, and through the resources of Sydney,
WITH THE WORLD 1!
The Management are pleased to be aide to state that
they have secured great facilities for the immediate
supply of important
FOREIGN TELEGRAMS
and Local information, and therefore have confidence
in soliciting the patronage and co-operation of the
COUNTRY AND INTERCOLONIAL PRESS.
A PRESS READING ROOM will shoatly be estab-
lished in connection with the agency, where Country and
Intercolonial Papers will be provided for the use of con-
stituents, and for reference by the general public.
Newspaper proprietors are, therefore, invited to supply
files, and communicate with the undersigned at earliest
convenience, resting assured that any confidence given
will meet with attention, and bejollowed by satisfactory
results, _
0. L. GRATTAN A CO.,
General Press Agency,
124 Pitt-«treet, Sydney,
Amusements
-
Lessee ...
ROYAL
Mr. Samuel Lazar
NINETEENTH WEEK and CONTINUED
SUCCESS
of
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice,
The LONDON COMEDY COMPANY
will appear in a new Comedy, in three acts, adapted
from the French of M.M. Henneqnin and Najnc,
authors of the “ Pink Dominos,” entitled
BETSY,
By F. C. Bumand.
Mr. Alexander Birkett Mr. Edmund W. Marshall
Mr. Adolphus Birkett Mr. Arthur Gamer
Captain Redmond M'Manus Mr. G. S. Titheradge
Richard Talbot Mr. Frank Cates
Mr. Samuel Dawson Mr. Frederick Marshall
Mrs. Birkett Mrs. Marion Stammers
Mrs. M'Manus Mrs. George Gordon
Madame Polenta Miss Annie Taylor
Nellie Bassett | Miss Alma Stanton
Grace Peyton Miss Nellie Playfair
Betsy Miss Blanche Stammers
Stage Manager ... Mr. Frederick Marshall.
Doors open at 7.15.
Overture at 8.
Prices of Admission. —Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls,
3s ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co.’s, George-street,
where seats can be secured six days in advance.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Q
U E E N ’ S
THEATRE.
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Business Manager, Liddy.
LAST THREE NIGHTS
of the
Celebrated Colonial Actor and Author,
MR. GEORGE DARRELL.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JULY 22,
and following night—
STREETS OF NEW T YORK ! ! !
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 24,
Positively the
LAST APPEARANCE
and
COMPLIMENTARY FAREWELL BENEFIT
tendered to
MR. GEORGE DARRELL,
THE TRUMP CARD
and
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS.
Dress Circle, 3s. Stalls, 2s. Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
o
p
Lessee
E R
USE.
M. Hegarty. Treasurer Liddy.
TO-NIGHT, JULY 22.
LAST WEEK, LAST WEEK,
of the
VICTORIA LOFTUS TROUPE
at this Theatre.
GREAT SUCCESS GREAT SUCCESS
oj this
MONSTER PROGRAMME.
Harry Le Clair, Geo. Atkins, W. Russell and Company.
THE TWO BUZZARDS.
LITTLE ‘KATIE in her Celebrated Jig.
KENNEDY and M'CARTHY in their Irish Sketch,
“BAD WHISKY.”
MINNIE ESMOND in her Champion Clog Dance.
WATERS and KELLY in their Ethiopian Absurdity,
“THE FLOWERS OF MY AFFECTION.”
Messrs. BUTLER and RUSSELL and all the Company,
“ SI M'SWEENEY’S VISIT TO SYDNEY.”
FRIDAY NEXT, JULY 23,
BENEFIT TO WATERS AND KELLY,
Admission —Dress Girdle, 3s.; Stalls, 2s.; Pit, Is,
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
s
C H O O L
Lessee and Manager
OF ARTS.
.. Mr. S. M. Bayliss.
SEVENTY-FIFTH WEEK
of the
AUSTRALIAN TOUR
of
M’LEAN’S
JUVENILE TROUBAD O.U R S
Will appear at the above Hall
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
And until further notice.
CONRAD
CONRAD
CONRAD
LIZETTE
LIZETTE
LIZETTE
To be followed by the Musical Absurdity,
HASH ! HASH ! ! HASH ! ! !
BIT AND TUCKER.
Introducing over THIRTY of the Most Popular
SONGS AND DANCES
of the day.
Prices.—3s„ 2s., Is.
Reserved Seats at Nicholson and Acherberg’s.
E
GYPTIAN HALL,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ELECTRIC BOY,
the
Greatest Living Wonder of the Present Age,
Scenes of the Kelly Outrages,
and the
Greatest Variety Combination in Australia,
A Imission —6d.
GANG!
DH E KELLY
To be seen in the
WAXWORKS EXHIBITION
fe-size Figures of EDWARD KELLY, DANIEL
KELLY, STEPHEN HART and BYRNE.
Also, numerous other Figures,
w open, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street
Admission, Is; children, half-price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
ANNUAL BALL.
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
22nd JULY NEXT.
Che ANNUAL BALL of this CLUB will again take
ce in the EXHIBITION BUILDING. PRINCE
■FRED PARK, on the above date, under the
ronage of His Worship the Mayor (R. Fowler, Esq.),
1 the MERCHANTS of SYDNEY.
DRESS : PLAIN and FANCY.
TICKETS:
Double, 30s; Gentleman’s Single, 20s; Lady’s Single,
12s 6d, may be now had from the Stewards, Committee,
or Messrs. Holdsworth, Gardyne and Co., E. Canter,
Farmer and Co., H. W. Webb, W. H. Paling, Elvy and
Co., Peapes and Shaw, and Parrott Brothers.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CATERING Co.
THE
will provide the refreshments —Mr. C. W. ROBERTS
the liquors and the YOUNG AUSTRALIAN BAND
the music.
D. MURRAY, Hon. Secretary } M. R. C. Ball,
F, B. HALL, Hon. Treasurer > Committee.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of oar Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGffONi’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
S'
TEAM TO LONDON.—ORIENT LINE.
The following steamships belonging to the ORIENT
STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY (LIMITED), and
the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY,
will leave SYDNEY at 12 o’clock noon on the under-
mentioned dates for Melbourne, Adelaide, and London,
via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Fares to Loudon, £l6 to 60 guineas.
Suez Canal dues 8s in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line, or to the Agents in Sydney,
GILCHRIST, WATT, and CO.
Amusements
ICTOEIA THEATRE.
Lessees—Messrs. COPPIN, HENNINGS, and GRE-
VILLE.
LAST WEEK
of the
EMINENT COMEDIAN,
GRATTAN RIGGS.
Grand Production with New Scenery, Mechanism
and Powerful Auxiliaries
of
BOUCICAULT'S 5-ACT DRAMA,
THE OCTOROON.
Pete, an old negro Grattan Riggs.
This wonderful creation is universally acknowledged
to be his chef’douvre—
THE GREAT DIVORCE CASE
The Great Divorce Case
The Great Divorce Case.
Extraordinary Novelties in active preparation.
Manager—J. R. GREVILLE.
Q
UEEN’S THEATRE.
Lessee
Business Manager
Mr. Hegarty
Mr, Liddy
THE GREAT EVENT
will come off
FRIDAY, JULY 30th, 1880.
GRAND COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT
tendered to
LIDDY,
(The well-known and popular Theatrical Manager),
By the whole of the Musical and Dramatic Profession
available in Sydney.
200 PERFORMERS 200
W ill appear upon this occasion.
PLEASE REMEMBER FRIDAY. JULY 30th
Tickets to be had everywhere.
Businesses and Industries of Sydney.
MESSRS. MYERS AND SOLOMON'S WAREHOUSE.
The firm of Messrs. Myers and Solomon is pretty well
known throughout this colony from the extensive cha-
racter of the business done by them during the last 15
or 20 years. The firm occupied a leading position
among the importers of this city, and their business was
being further developed with great energy up to July,
1879, when a temporary check occurred.' Since then
the old vigour has again been imparted to the business,
audit is a testimony to the integrity and good judgment
which distinguished it in the past, that they should be
now receiving from their old constituents in town and
country a very generous support. Every ship almost
that now arrives brings lines of new goods to the ware-
house, and there are at present in port two vessels with
very extensive shipments of those goods which for years
distinguished the warehouse of Messrs. Myers and
Solomon. The interior of their establishment is a vast
emporium of the best articles of English and conti-
nental manufacture in fancy goods, Jewellery, musical
instruments, cricketing material, perfumery, oil point-
ings, engravings, &c. The firm do one of the largest
businesses in hardware, ironmongery, crockery and
glassware &c. About thirty hands are engaged in the
manufacture of saddlery and harness, which are sup-
plied to all the principal inland houses and a splendid
business in this line alone is done. The warehouse is
extensive, and well arranged throughout, each depart-
ment being under the control of a capable manager.
The firm are also specially noted for their extensive
trade with the South Sea Islands and their name is a
household word deservedly celebrated for Fireworks and
Valentines. Altogether the business is a very substantial
one, and bids fair under present circumstances to equal
that of any other house in Sydney.
THE NEW LIGHT.
Bt invitation of Messrs. JKoyle and Hogg, Bond-street
Stores, a number of gentlemen have during the week
made an inspection of their new gas-making machine,
manufactured and patented by Mr. H. L. Miller, of
Birmingham, and called the “ Alpha ” Gas Machine.
This machine is automatic, only burns the gas made,
requires but little and produces a light equal
if not superior to coal gas at less cost. The machine
seen working was a 12-light one, of a very small size,
and fully confirmed the numerous testimonials shown
with regard to its simplicity combined with the almost
total absence of risk and the good quality of the light
produced. For country places, railway stations and
private dwellings this machine will ere long be much
sought after, and, considering the first small outlay,
must fill a want greatly needed. The machine will be
found both economical and useful for cooking, besides
which, printing presses and small engines can be
worked at a low cost. As proof of its safety and use-
fulness, it may be mentioned that the training-ship
“ Shaftesbury” on the Thames is lighted and the whole
of the cooking done by these machine. The fol-
lowing railway companies in England use them, viz..
Midland, London and North-Western. Further in-
spection is desired, and any person interested should
avail themselves of this special opportunity to see and
obtain this splendid and useful invention.
If we reckon that one grain of wheat will produce
fifty grains, and that these will each produce fifty grains
more, and so on, we find that the second year from the
one-grain start we have 2500; third year, 125,000; the
sixth, 15,625,000,000; twelfth year, 244,140,625,000.000.
The third year’s crop would give 300 men one meal,
leaving enough bran to feed eight pigs one day. The
produce of the single grain the twelfth year would
suffice to supply all the inhabitants of the earth with
food during their lifetime.


Public Announcements
T
HE OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
&c. &c.
34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMFOETEE.
D.
SLATTERY AND
Wholesale and Eetail
C 0.,
GROCERS,
705 GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
Sydney;
P. M A H O N Y,
AGENT, ETC.
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL PEODUCE, &o.
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVEE PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APEEIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
AEMSTEONG’S PECTOEAL CHEEEY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CEOUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s fid, and 4s
fid.
AEMSTEONG’S EEMEDY FOE INTEENAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CUEE “for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOE-
HAGE.” Can always be EELIED upon in
from TWENTY -FOUE to FOETY-EIGHT
HOUES. 4s fid and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of AEMSTEONG’S
PAEAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. A R M S T R O N G,
Chemist and Apothecary,
4(56, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
from C/ b.>r.
& every flower that \
breathes a fragrance.
SWEET SCENTS
LIGN-ALOE. OPOPONAX.
\LOVE-AMONG-TH E-ROSES./
FRANGIPANNI.
AND A THOUSAND OTHERS.
,
if* Zs. eachor three
in cate, ~s.
Streep
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing,- Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
O N E Y. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Honrs: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY' TEEMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PEESONAL and other
SECUEITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 » „ 0 7 0
20 „ „ 0 10 6
25 „ „ 10 0
20 „ . 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M.ON E Y. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
' PEOPEIETOBS.
MONEY L E N T
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
fid in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MOETGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans geanted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Eepay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTEAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
I F T H
BON MARCHE
SEMI-ANNUAL DRAPERY
SALE,
96, KING-STREET.
Special Inducements offered during this sale of pur-
chasing NEW, GOOD, CHEAP, Fashionable, Season-
able, Reliable, Durable Drapery at unheard-of Prices.
The Stock has been brought down to Home Costs. All
departments throughout the house have had a thorough
revision, and the goods REMARKED and REDUCED,
in order to clear out our Large Surplus, Good, Clean,
New Stock.
TEN PEE CENT,
additional allowed on all purchases during this sale.
SPECIAL NOTICE
is directed to the following, and we respectfully ask
Ladies to carefully peruse the quotations and state-
ments made in reference to this sale
FACT No. 1.—This is a genuine Sale of First-class
Goods, at Home Cost.
FACT No. 2.—A1l our Goods are New, Fashionable,
and Reliable, from the best Home
Houses.
FACT No. 3.—We have reduced and re-marked all
to Home Cost.
FACT No. 4.—In addition to the above, we shall allow
on all purchases 10 per cent, during
this sale.
FACT No. s.—ls a very startling one: our Jackets,
from 4s lid to 255, represent the cost of
the materials from the looms. 15 per
cent, also will be allowed on these.
FACT No 6.—A very superior lot of Jackets, ranging
in prices from 25s to 455. On these a
discount of 20 per cent., or four shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 7.—Beautiful Jackets, of beaver, diagonal,
cashmere, and silk, trimmed fringe,
bugle, silk, velvet, and fur, of the new
long fashionable shape now so much in
vogue, reduced prices from 45s to 90s.
A discount of 25 per cent., or five shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. B.—Ladies’ and Children’s Ulsters in every
kind of cloth and latest cut and style,
commencing from 3s lid to 80s, upon
which a discount of four shillings in
the pound will be allowed.
FACT No. 9.—Mothers and heads of families should
not lose this opportunity of obtaining
beautifully made English costumes for
their children, all sizes—prices ranging
from 5s lid to 235. A discount of four
shillings in the pound will be allowed.
NOTE A FEW of the PRICES in the following
departments:—
LEADER and STARK confidently invite examination
of the abovemeutioned Goods. It will give an idea of
the value thcyare offering during this their Fifth Semi-
Annual Sale. They, of course, cannot mention every
article in their large stock in an advertisement, and
therefore solicit inspection.
LEADER AND STARK,
06 KING-STREET.
Public Announcements
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880-
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AKIELL, 343 1& 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
| fINTERNATIONAL 1880. GEO.
BENCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
<£or their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of I}, 2,3,
and cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
iALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
SSSB i
C
«-
m
a 5
sß’.tSVs;'-’,
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME n
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
O BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
■Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
'Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
FM I T GHELL.
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANT,
HAY STREET
and
DRUITT STREET,
Sydney.
Best Newcastle Screened Coal ... 225. per ton.
„ „ „ „ ... 12s. per I-ton
„ ~ ~ „ ... 20s. per ton.
„ „ ~ Nut C0a1... 20s. per ton.
„ Mountain Coal 20s. per ton.
~ „ ~ lls. per $-ton.
~ Cnt Wood, 12 and 9 in. ... 19s. per ton.
~ „ „ 6-in 20s. per ton.
Blacksmiths’ and Engine Coal, at Lowest Rates.
The above prices are Cash on Delivery within the
City boundaries.
Correct Weight in all cases guaranteed.
OUND R Y ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry's Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is mode by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
■Compressed in live hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved toGibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
aole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Tailors, Drapers, Sec.
"P E A P E S AND SHAW
Have Opened : —
Real Russian leather purses, card cases, and ladies’
bags, in all sizes, the most beautiful assortment
that ever came into this market
The new Passementerie Trimmings
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collarettes
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool mufflers, fine, fleecy, and
warm, the largest and choicest assortment m the
city, imported direct from Germany
Ladies’ Warm Winter Hosiery The most complete
Ladies’ Warm Winter Gloves and cheapest assort-
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuif ment in the City
All the above goods are only just opened out 'and
marked off, ex S.S. Orient.
T3EAPES AND SHA W’S
J JACKETS AND MANTLES,
14s 6d to 5 guineas.
Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from 30s to 5 guineas
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid gloves, “ two-button.”
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for single beds, 10s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for double beds, 21
“ Come and see them, comparison is the best test.”
Stout Saxony flannels—Is, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d
Real Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, 2s 9d (not
imitation)
Peapes and Shaw’s umbrellas—ladies’ 6s 6d, gent.’s 10
6d, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter overcoats for gentle-
men—20s, 25s, 27s 6d, 30s, 35s, 42s
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s ulsters, 27s 6d to 55s
GEORGE STREET, GEORGE STREET,
George-street.
BEAPES AND SHAW’S
DRESS MATERIALS,
61d, 7id, 8jd, 10i, ls
Broche and Pompadour, for trimming, from Is lid per
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s 6d. 3s lid
4s 6d, 5s 6d
A beantiful assortment of rich coloured silks and robes
for dinner, evening, and wedding costumes.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT,
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful garments. Is lid 2s 3d,
2s 6d, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto. Is lid, 2s 3d, 2s 6d.
2s 9d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto ditto, 4s lid, 5s 6d, 5s
9d, 6s 6d
Wedding trousseaux, from £20 to £100
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The new “ Bon Ton ” stays, in whiet and black
The new “ Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,” from 12s 6d to 30s
Ladies’ winter merino hose, plain and fancy. Is, Is 3d
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street. George-street.
JjIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN.
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! I
J. L. HORDERN.
E
XCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 21s., 25s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
fJIHE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
COLLAR, AND CUFF FACTORY,
100 KING STREET, UPSTAIRS
(entrance in right-of-way).
* A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
ORDERS EXECUTED
with
NEATNESS AND DISPATCH.
GENT.’S WHITE SHIRTS
in three qualities.
CRIMEAN SHIRTS,
excelling all other makes.
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALLY
THE TRADE.
GIVEN
All work done at the above Factory is und>
the superintendence of a gentleman of
20 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
in
AMERICA.
IONS, PRIZE MEDAL T AIL O
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKI
in catering for the million at such REASONAB:
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress w
and fashionably, while those with more money at th
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the sa
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits.
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 63s, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 84s, worth £6 6
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORI1
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS. 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and bit
cloth, 25s; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, h
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit
sizes
FANCYandWHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to meast
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s 4d, or I
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to ev<
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOUSE.
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.


Miscellaneo
f A. HUGHES
580, George-sti
respectfully invite Gentlemen;
WINTER UNDERCI
to pay them a visit before g
Special Lines ii
Crimean and Flannel Undershir
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Unc
Lambswool Undershirts and Dn
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Dra
White shirts, Military Fronts, 3
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, colla
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six fo
At M. A. HUGHES i
380 George-str<
■HEISDALE AND
397 George Sti
76, 78, 145, 147 Yore
33 Pitt Stre:
IRONMONGERS, IRONME]
IMPORTERS
Invite attention to their extens
which, besides being the largest in
varied; and comprises all the lates
Engines, Engineers’ Material a
Agricultural Implements, Th
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, R
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamp
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron,
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chanc
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hi
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Gj
&c., &c.
Oils, Faints, Rope, Rolled Jo
And
GENERAL IEONMO
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEM
OF
FIRST-CLASS DR
. AT
RILEY BfiOl
IS NOW OPE1
If you want t<
SAVE 5s. IN THE
Don’t fail to call
ONE OP THE
OK
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORI
RILEY BROTHERS.
■WINTER NECESS
pOAl VASES
For the Dining: Boom,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Boom,
Ac., Ae.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
THE SYDNEY GAEDEN PALACI
(Manufactured for the 1880 Seaso
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEOS
OBEET HARPER
MANUFACTURES.
COFFEES, OA1
PEPPEES, MU1
SPICES, COC
Ac.
EECEIVED TEN FIEST PEIZES AND A SPECIE
OF THEIE CLASS IN THE SYDNEY INTEBNATIO
gINGER’S GENUINE SEW]
ALL POEMEE YEAES OUTDOh
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,1
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NCT
The Public hare the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twe
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly 1
PRICES —.£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—5
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Bir:
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND CO..
TEA. IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET.
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
g*M by all Grocers and Storekeepers^
IMPBOVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUABANTEED FOE FIVE TEAES.
Eeduced Price List : —
No. 1.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTAKD-LANE, STDKST.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tuc same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beqrs referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
Jonjr Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices of
Johh Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
BOYD'S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Publip. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
/Mr
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
N.
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAE KIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Meechant,
PRINCE OP WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. FOOT
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarkot.
FOE SALE, or TO LET, on the BELLINGEE
EIVEE,
95 ACEES of LAND, on which are about 7 acres
of bearing Vineyard, comprising a choice selection
of grape vines, together wi£h comfortable DWELL-
ING, Cellar, &c. Also, a 52-ACEE FAEM, direct
opposite vineyard; all of which is rich alluvial
soil, and situated between the Townships of Fem-
raount and Boat Harbour, all navigable water
frontage. The above is situated in one of the
healthiest country districts on the Northern Coast.
For particulars, apply to J. F. SCHOLEE, Castle-
reagh-street, or to J. MAEX, Senr., Bellinger
Eiver.
0OUNTET - KILLED MEAT
Corner of
GEOEGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
COFNTBY - KILLED BEEP
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see.
Aid Jddsi fob Yourselves.
Comer of
GEOEGE AND ENGINE STEEETS,
HAYMARKET.
