

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 43.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1880.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1880.
A Man Wanted.
The above heading looks like an advertisement.
Well, it is one. The colony needs a man for a
situation of trust and responsibility. There are
plenty of people ready to apply for a billet. But
the colony begins to have a loathing of incom-
petents and pretenders. Its estate is capable of
immense improvement, and affords scope for the
greatest talent in management. Our present
steward. Sir Henry Parkes, cannot, or will not,
see that there is anything possible besides patching
legislative hedges,upholding existing constructions,
and extending a trifle further the roads through
the property. When he is told that there is scope
for the most masterly constructiveness and the
most self-sacrificing zeal, he asks sardonically, as
he did when first addressing the electors of East
Sydney, whether people expect him to project a rail-
way to the moon. The people of the colony are en-
titled to deduct from that retort, that Sir Henry’s
ideas of sure projects which it would advantage
the colony to enter upon are exhausted, and that
application of the spur to his flagging intelligence
can extort from him nothing better than lunatical
contortions. No one wants from him a railway to
the moon, but a very considerable time has elapsed
since the requirements of the country demanded a
railway to the Circular Quay, which, had he been
the energetic hero he would have people believe,
he might readily have procured long ago. It ill
becomes a politician to talk in an injured way of
being unreasonably called upon to enter upon
frantic railway projects, when it is still fresh in
the recollection of the people that legitimate
enterprises in railway construction so languished
for years, during which he has boasted that he
bore a large share in the direction of affairs, that
the Governor of the colony felt it his duty to
depart for once from the ordinary rule of non-
interference in matters of policy, and give voice to a
protest against the languid indifference with which
construction was permitted to drag sleepily onward.
There is work to be done which would be apparent
at a glance to the statesman —work which would
suffice to strain the energies, rack the strength
of purpose, and exercise the integrity of a greater
man than has ever yet appeared in our political
sphere. There is work to be done of a very
different cast than exerting every device to main-
tain a doubtful and uneasy predominance. A
statesman would perceive other openings for his
talents than reviving, stimulating, and perpetu-
ating religious hatreds and sectional animosities.
The genuine statesman, devoted to the best
interests of his country, and regardless of self,
would perceive before him a prodigious difficulty,
but withal a noble task, in quickening our little
community with national life, in _ peopling our
vast and illmanaged territory, in stimulating pro-
duction, and in equitably distributing burdens.
He would compare our sluggish and tardy
progress with the tremendous rapidity with which
that other new world is swelling into a
greatness which begins to overshadow the
most powerful nations of the old world. He
would trace the causes of such development to
their sources, and be smitten with astonishment
at the complaisance with which Australians view
the fertilizing flood of immigration pouring in a
deluge, vast and enriching, as the inundations of
the Nile, upon a continent which can offer no at-
tractions of nature which Australia cannot rival.
He would reflect that artificial obstructions must
exist here to account for a difference so extraor-
dinary, and he would have no difficulty in dis-
covering those obstructions in a quagmire of land
legislation which renders it next to impossible for
anyone but a bush-lawyer to procure a plot to
settle upon, and in a self-seeking shilly-shally atti-
tude of public men in relation to immigration,
induced by timid deference to the clamour of a
handful of shortsighted individuals. There is no
question with regard to which trimming has been
more general among men who profess to _ have
capacity for leading than on this subject of immi-
gration. They orate and chatter, and profess this,
that, and the other, but the paltering result belies
all thi ' ■ professions of anxiety to see the country
peopled. A few poor handsfull land from time to
time, and, except they be servant wenches, for the
most part help to make the times more hard, and
competition more severe for the artiaans and
unskilled laborers of the towns. If they wanted
to get out on the land and shift for themselves,
becoming producers and employers of labour, they
would find it a matter of ridiculous difficulty. But
our condition in that respect is well enough known
to prevent many intending settlers to come our
way. These, go where the facilities and induce-
ments are greatest. We procure the residuum.
Immigration and land reform must go together.
Neither would be of great service without the
other. Immigration without the land reform would
be a curse rather; than a blessing for a time at
least, until the pressure of a redundant and
distressed commonalty overwhelmed all resistance
and immigration brought land reform in its train.
We want people—not by scores or hundreds,
but by hundreds of thousands. But we want
them to spread over the face of the land
and convert sheep stations into populous dis-
tricts split up among hosts of settlers. Sir Henry
Parke s may feel it convenient to blink at such
widely diffused desires, such plain requirements,
but not even he would probably dare to say that
their accomplishment would work a splendid
revolution in the features of the colony. But it is
useless to talk thus speculatively about what the
Premier would or would not maintain. Has he
not spoken on immigration so recently as Tues-
day last ? We had recognised that land legislation
and immigration were indissolubly connected. Sir
Henry Parties has made a discovery most re-
markable. He has found that Immigration and
his Education Act are bound up together. This
is a notable discovery, truly. After this it will be
requisite to agree that there must be no following
in the footsteps of America in indiscriminate
reception of men of all nationalities and
opinions. Until Sir Henry can concoct a plan
for proportionate immigration we must do with-
out any lest Protestant ascendancy be destroyed.
Let us stagnate, so long as we stagnate in a Pro-
testant spirit. We had conceived that the founda-
tion upon which this community was to be built
up was equal rights without distinction of race or
creed. Wo had certainly heard a great palaver
about equal rights and no advantage to anyonexn
connection with the Education Act. But it ap-
pears we have been under a proas misconception.
The Premier of the colony has pronounced that
immigration must be regulated above all things to
preserve the fundamental spirit of New South
Wales—Protestant Ascendancy. Such are the
stratagems by which it is sought to bolster up a
waning popularity and retain place and pay !
Military Matters.
The debate which took place in the Legislative
Assembly last session on the Military Estimates
was discursive and inconsequential, and in
no way revealed the serious opinions of
honourable members on the most important
phase of the question, namely, the system
that shall be permanently adopted for pro-
viding an adequate defence against invasion.
Our danger seems at present to be so remote, that
the financial view of the question comes naturally
to be regarded as the most serious one ; but there
are few who will deny that the time has arrived
when the colony, and indeed all the Australian
colonies, should lay the foundation of an efficient
system of defence. Many still cling to the belief
that nothing would be so good as the maintenance
here of British troops ; but whatever this opinion
may be worth, it is plain that England will have
too much on her hands for many years to come to
encourage the slightest hope that she could or
would spare any portion of her land forces for the
protection of these colonies. As it is plain then
that we must be left to provide for ourselves, the
sooner some plan is adopted and settled the better.
Amongst those accustomed to discuss the subject,
the question seems to lie between a permanent
force and a citizen force. It is doubtless neces-
sary, even in times of the greatest security, that a
permanent force of moderate strength should be
maintained. On considerations of an internal and
purely domestic character, no Government should
be without one; but when its utility as something
to be relied on in case of foreign invasion is weighed,
it will be found that some grave points crop up.
In the first place, we have an extensive seaboard,
with a great number of easily accessible landing
places, and a force sufficiently largo to protect
these and our fine open harbour as well, would
need to be very large—far larger than our exchequer
would bear, and, what is of equal importance,
would draw from industrial occupation a greater
number of men than could be spared. A Militia
is out of the question, being an old-fashioned
system which could only be tolerated in an old
country, where employment for labour is spas-
modic, and where the exigencies of war are com-
paratively urgent. Our plan, unquestionably, is
by some means to encourage the citizens to
devote a portion of their time to military
training. Ample evidence has already been
given that the young men of the colony have
a liking for the service, and it only requires judici-
ous treatment on the part of the authorities to
secure at a very moderate cost an efficient as well
as a sufficient land force. Volunteering, pure and
simple, has been tried ; but, whether owing to
inappropriate management or some other cause, it
did not succeed. Probably, in this utilitarian age, it
is not reasonable to expect that people will give up
most of their leisure time, and subject them-
selves to a somewhat onerous process of drilling,
without any consideration whatever. It is better
that they should not do so, if they do it grum-
blingly. We are strongly inclined to think that
the partial payment plan, which is now being tried,
with some considerable modifications in detail,
which will be mentioned in a future article, will
turn out to be satisfactory. The present arrange-
ments for drill and training appear to be too exact-
ing, but many would say that this is a fault on the
right side. Time will tell. If, however, the military
authorities are satisfied with the results, and the
ranks keep filled, those circumstances imply suc-
cess. There is, perhaps, good ground of complaint
that the status of the officers is not sufficiently
recognised, and that there is an undue stingenoy in
according the higher grades of promotion. Whilst
the claims of gentlemen in the other branch, who
are decorated with gold lace, are strongly pressed,
those of their more modest brethren-in-arms are
as strongly ignored. It should be remembered
that if the evil day should come, gold lace and
silver lace will be on an equality in front of the
enemy. Promotion costs nothing, and when
fairly and honourably earned, should be cheer-
fully accorded.
Mr. John Young.
This gentleman has given so many specimens of
his energy and ability since his arrival in Australia,
that it may be said of him he is the best knows
man in the colonies. The sterling qualities of head
and heart he exhibits to the host of men in his
employment attach them to him as to a true friend,
and they seem to feel a peculiar satisfaction in
working for him. His professional education spe-
cially qualified him to grapple with works of great
magnitude—ecclesiastical and palatial,—and as a
contractor he has no peer on this side of the equator.
Mr. John Young was born at Footscray, in the
county of Kent, England, his mother being next
of kin to Martha Shakespeare, the niece of the
immortal dramatist. In a long Chancery suit,
tried between forty and fifty years ago, the
genealogy of Mr. Young, both on the paternal
and maternal side, was fully established, and some
property was acquired through his relationship to
the aforesaid lady. Mr. Young was always of
a studious disposition, and while receiving his
education at a private school in Kent, gave
indications of those professional aptitudes that
have rendered his name famous both in England
and Australia. A man of his mental calibre cares
little for commendation ; but it is, nevertheless,
only just to his admirers that his sterling qualities
should be duly appreciated. He gave himself
at an early age to the study of mathematics;
and before he completed his eighteenth
year he was an accomplished draughtsman,
and showed his mechanical skill by con-
structing lathes, and making other ingenious
experiments. He was fortunate in obtaining a
situation in the office of Messrs. Winsland and Co.,
contractors, of Bloomsbury, London, where for
about eighteen months he enriched his mind with
special scientific knowledge, and he then became
a pupil to Messrs. Garland and Christopher, of
Buckingham-street, Strand, distinguished engi-
neers and architects. On leaving them he attached
himself to Messrs. John and Joseph Sykes, con-
tractors, of Leeds and Goole, in Yorkshire. Here
Mr. Young was manager and principal draughts-
man, and may be said to have perfected the circle
of his scientific attainments. He superintended
the erection of the Goole Docks, and a railway in
connexion with them, besides erecting coal-shoots
and lifts, and performing other responsible duties.
He now became an expert in railway formation,
and left the impress of his ability on the Wakefield,
Pontefract, and Goole iron-road. He also erected
works for the Aire and Calder Canal Navigation
Company. While on these works, his mercurial
temperament stimulated him to new experiments,
and he obtained a premium for the best design to
illuminate the town of Snaith with gas, defeating
thirty candidates, although he was not then out of
his teens. On leaving Yorkshire, Mr. Young again
sought London as the scene of his active operations.
While there he managed a large contracting
business with a view to a partnership, but this
he declined, as he took employment on the
Sanitary Commission, Southwark, during the
MK. JOHN YOUNG, CANDIDATE FOR NEWTOWN.


cholera outbreak in 1849. He now enforced
drainage and ventilation, and was strong in his
condemnation of habitations dangerous to health.
The resoluteness with which he denounced abuses
in that direction soon found an echo in the Press
generally, and his philanthropic efforts were ex-
tensively recognised. In 1850 and 1851 he was
engaged by Sir Joseph Paxton as superintendent
and draughtsman of the Great Exhibition of 1851.
Many other works wore designed and projected by
him; for instance, the Now York Exhibition,
various sanatoriums, Baron Meyer Rothschild’s
mansion'at We.ntmore, Gothic cottages at Syden-
ham, a presbytery at Chislehurst, where the late
Emperor Napoleon 111. is buried, and many other
costly erections. On leaving Sir Joseph Paxton,
Mr. Young became a contractor on his own
account, and on a large scale, and built several
churches, Mr. W. W. Wardell being architect for
the memorial church at Chislehurst. This edifice
is built of Kentish rag-stone, with
dressings, in the fifteenth century pure Gothic
style, and is now shaded by the magnificent elm-
treos so characteristic of the county of Kent.
In 1853 and 1854, ho erected well-finished Gothic
villas at Sydenham, and a church for the Duke of
Norfolk, at Chichester. He also constructed a
mansion for Baron Lionel Rothschild in Paris, and
in 1855 came out in the ship Kent to Melbourne.
He commenced business in Melbourne in 1856,
and has since put up some of the most costly
buildings in Now South Wales and Victoria, such
as St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Victoria, the interior of
the Melbourne Synagogue, churches at Pentridge,
Prahran, Heidelberg, Malmsbury, and Sunbury.
Ballarat Gaol and Ballarat Powder-magazine were
also erected by him. In Tasmania he put up the
cathedral at Hobart Town. In New Zealand he
is to be credited with the Cargill Monument and
large business premises in Dunedin. His work in
Sydney is well known. St. John’s College is one
instance of it, and the graceful, symmetrical Gar-
den Palace another. Si qaotyris monumentum, you
have only to look at St. Mary’s Cathedral, on
which Mr. Young has exhibited zeal, skill, and
ability. He has expended about .£820,000 in New
South Wales, whore he has been a resident since
1866, about £680,000 in Victoria, £55,000 in Tas-
mania, and £15,000 in New Zealand. A man pos-
sessed of such varied and masterful powers
should certainly have a seat in the Legislature,
and if any man amongst us pre-eminently deserves
distinction it is Mr. John Young.
East Sydney Election.
After a day of the most intense.excitement, the result
of the East Sydney Election was, at 6.30 last evening,
announced to be os follows: —
Mr. Q. H. Reid 3413
Dr. Eenwick 3295
Mr. H. C. Dnngar 3102
Sir Henry Parke* 2770
Mr. C. J. Roberts 2295
Mr. 8. E. Lees 1385
Mr. Charles Moore 1216
Mr. I. J. Josephson 507
Mr. Reid, on coming forward to return thanks, was
enthusiastically received. Amongst other things, he
said he was almost ashamed to occupy a higher place on
the poll than the old statesman who had grown
grey in the service. After'Dr. Benwick and Mr. Dan-
gar had spoken briefly, Sir Henry Parkes appeared,
and was greeted with cheers and groans. In
the first place he congratulated the electors on
their choice of his colleagues, and especially on the
return of Mr. Reid, whose graceful compliment he most
heartily acknowledged. He had expected a strong.
opposition, for he had not minced matters; but
whether successful or unsuccessful he knew that any
power be might possess would in no way be
affected by the issue of that contest, as he would
have the support in the House of the other gentle-
men whom they had returned. Notwithstanding
his position on the poll he regarded his return on this
occasion as the greatest victory of his political life.
Sir Henry was attentively listened to, and was several
times heartily cheered. Mr. Reid subsequently received
a great ovation, one of which any man might have been
proud. The people took the horse out of a vehicle and
drew hitr round to the Oxford Hotel, from the balcony
of which he delivered an effective speech.
The Opera Season.
We have received from Mr. Arthur Gamer a pro-
spectus of “ Lyster’s Royal Italian and English Opera
Company’s Season of twenty-four nights.’’ The season,
which opens on the 27th November, will be a rapid
succession of the favourite works in the repertory of
the company, including, for the first time in Sydney,
the most celebrated of all comic operas, “ The Chimes
of Normandy,” and Anber’s celebrated work, “ The
Crown Diamonds.” The artistes include Madame Bose
Hersce, Miss Elsa May, prime donue; Miss E. A, Lam-
bert, Mrs. J. H. Fox, and Miss Bessie Royal; Mr. Armes
Beaumont and Mr. H. Vernon, primi tenori; Mr. E.
Farley and Mr. C. H. Templeton, primi baritoni; Mr.
G. A. Johnson, and Mr. A. Howell. The conductors
are Herr Charles Van Qhele and Mr. Harconrt Lee.
The repertory embraces the following:—“Carmen,"
“ Eigoletto,” “ Faust,” “ Lucia di Lammennnir,”
“ Mari tana," “ Satanella,” “Martha,” “Crown Dia-
monds," “ Lily of Killarney,” “ Bohemian Girl,”
“ Fra Diavolo." “ Der Freischuts,” “ Madame Angot,”
“ Giroflo-Girofla," “La Grande Duchesse,” and “ Les
Cloches de Corneville.” The subscription is—Dress
circle, twenty-four nights, £5 ss. The ordinary charges
are—Circle, 7b. (id.; stalls, 35.; upper circle, 25.; and
pit. Is.
Mr. J. Mitchell, Candidate for Newtown.
Ok the four candidates announced for Newtown, not
one has had a better reception at his meetings than Mr.
J. Mitchell, and if those demonstrations be any
criterion his position on the day of polling will be
found to be a very forward one. Mr. Mitchell, whose
portrait appears on page 5, was born in Cheshire,
England, in 18-40, and at the age of twenty-two years
came out to Australia. Soon after landing in Sydney
he got a right estimate of the nature of colonial life,
and commenced the battle for his own fortune. He
experienced the usual ups and downs, but every reverse
found him again full of enterprise and energy, and now,
having achieved a solid commercial success, he aspires
to Parliamentary honors. He desires to represent
Newtown, a= being a district which has reaped as much
as any other about the metropolis from his enterprise,
and as his programme is a liberal one, he confidently
expects a victory. Want of spaoe precludes a review of
Mr. Mitchell’s utterances, but we may state that he is
in favor of the Education Act, free-trade, comprehen-
sive water scheme, amendment of the marine and
land laws, freedom of the Prose, workmen’s trains,
recreation grounds, Ac., and he is against Chinese
immigration, payment of members, remission of interest,
jOlls, and immigration os at present carried out.
Lyons (official assignee in the estate of Hardy,
Brothers, insolvents) v. Hotfnung and Co., was a case
in which plaintiff claimed £7OOO damages by reason of
an alleged fraudulent preference accepted by defendant
from insolvents. After nearly a fortnight's hearing, a
verdict of £?S6) 19s. 9d. was, on Monday last, given for
plaintiff.
The Imps, “ Helen’s Babies,” were a great
success on the occasion of Mr. Edwin Browne’s benefit
on Friday last at the Opera House. The interesting
little comedy-drama would have been still more success-
ful had time and opportunity permitted. “ The Imps,”
Budge and Tottie (little Florence and Ida Murray),
were quite at home in their parts. It is rumoured (and
wo hope it may prove true), that Helen’s Babies will
shortly be produced under more favorable circum-
wtemoes. If so, those who missed its representation
may confidently anticipate a pleasurable treat.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Pigott will head the poll for Canterbury.
The Temora miners are going to a man for J. H.
Heaton.
Mr. J. M. Purves may be considered safe for
the Clarence.
Mr. Parnell had a very enthusiastic meeting on
Tuesday evening.
Mr. Fraser Martin has been warmly supported
for West Sydney.
Roylance is regarded as a certainty for third
place in the West Sydney contest.
The Hon. W. J. Forster was enthusiastically
received at Kingston on Monday night.
. .Mr. J. B. Oliffe and Mr. Hordern are con-
sidered out-and-out favourites for South Sydney.
■ Sir P. A. Jennings and Mr. W. T. A. Shorter
are regarded as safe from all opposition for the Bogan.
The Hon. Robert Wisdom has been returned
unopposed, us will also be Mr. Day, member for the
Hume.
Mr. Hugh Taylor is expected to get more general
support in the coming election than he ever got
before.
Several members of Parliament appear to have
forgotten that their free tickets per train and tram
expired on the 9th Nov.
According to the Newcastle paper, Mr. Joe
Eckford has been addressing “ enthusiastic meetings ”
of the Wollombi electors. .
Mr. William Teece is the first member elected to
the New Parliament. He has been returned for
Goulbum without opposition.
Mr. Hmnphery has been most favorably received
in the Shoalhaven district. Mr. Roseby, the 1.0.G.T.
effigy, is now on the war-path.
Mr. A. R. Fremlin has made several admirable
speeches at Bedfern during the week, and his return is
calculated to be beyond question. •
Mr. Sydney Burdekin met with a good reception,
and was accorded a vote of confidence, at Tamworth, on
Saturday evening, though a majority of the electors
did not vote.
The withering indictment preferred by Mr.
Dailey in 1872 against Sir Henry (then Mr.) Parkes, was
reprinted and circulated on the occasion of the East
Sydney election.
Pigott, top of the poll for Canterbury. There
will be a close run for second place among Pile, Court-
ney, Henson, and Allen. They all have had splendid
meetings, and their supporters are very confident.
Mr. G. A. Lloyd remarked, in the course of his
address at Newcastle recently, "That Sir Henry
Parkes was the most straightforward politician ia the
Australian colonies." Can this be the future Minister
for Mines ?
Courtney’s outspokenness and admitted capa-
bility have secured for him the united support of the
Lucas and Hill people for the Canterbury election.
Mr. Courtney is one of the youngest and one of the
most promissing of the Sydney pressmen.
Mr. S. C. Brown and Mr. John Young have
again been well received at Newtown. Regret is ex-
pressed that two such good men as Mr. Porster and
Mr. Mitchell should be competing with them. Each
of the four men is well worthy of a seat in the Legisla-
ture.
The Hon. E. A. Baker has met with a grand
reception in the Carooor electorate. It ought to be
made known to the electorate that Mr. Baker is con-
sidered by the officers of the Mines Department to be
one of the hardest-working and most practical gentle-
men that have yet held office as Minister for Mines,
k/ The South Sydney contest is expected to return
Jfeordorn, Oliffe, Carter, and Fitzgerald. Mr. Hordern
has put forward a good city programme, and Mr. Fitz-
gerald has sketched an able and liberal policy. Mr. G.
L. Carter made a very favourable impression at the
nomination, and is regarded as good for second er third
place.
The hottest contest of the elections is being
fought at Windsor, between Mr. M'Quade andlMr. Bow-
man. The former gentleman has made several very able
speeches, and the fact of his being strongly supported
by the Towns' family and the settlers round about,
pretty clearly indicates his value, and points almost
with certainty to his return. Mr. Bowman has lost
several friends by proving himself a regular trimmer.
He is, however, much respected in the district, and
mokes a gallant fight. What is wanted, however, for
the new Parliament, is an able speaker with well-defined
opinions.
The “ tip ” for West Sydney is Cameron, O’Con-
nor, Roylance, and Buchanan. With all his admitted
faults, the latter is n man of intelligence, and first-class
oratorical powers. He has no party to serve, and makes
himself very inconvenient to corrupt and domineering
Governments. The Bulletin has frequently castigated
Mr. Buchanan, and always ridiculed his pet theories,
hut as there is no question before the country, except
the destruction of geebungs, it goes straight for men
with a show of intelligence. The return of the three
other gentlemen mentioned with Mr. Buchanan is con-
sidered to be beyond doubt.
Victoria has one Cabinet Minister for each 100,000
inhabitants; New South Wales, one for each 81,600;
New Zealand, one for each 58,000; Queensland, one for
each 36,400 ; South Australia, one for each 43,300; and
Tasmania, one for each 28,200. Altogether, these six
constitutional colonies have 42 Cabinet Ministers for a
population numbering 2,686,951 at the close of last year,
with salaries aggregating £53,950. The present Glad-
stone Administration consists of 14 Cabinet Ministers,
with salaries aggregating, as nearly as one can ascertain,
£57,925, for a population which could not have been
much below 36,000,000 at the close of last year.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Terrible hailstorm at Merriwa.
Modification of Nihilist sentences.
A new rich reef struck at Copeland.
Nairne railway strike ended. Men succumbed.
French refugee monks stoned to death in Spain.
A second postman is much required at
Windsor.
At Cooktown bathing is made pleasant by the
presence of large sharks. .
Bad weather in Tasmania. Snow still on Mount
Wellington and all other big hills.
The “Sorata” has been successfully floated,
and is now moored to the Semaphore jetty, Adelaide.
Corrie M. Williams, recently arrested in Sydney
for forging a bill in Victoria, has been committed on a
second charge.
A man at Launceston has been fined <£loo for
smuggling tobacco, and sent to gaol till he can find the
cash. A life sentence.
The Bnrwood Dramatic Professors are working
hard and regularly for their next performance. Some-
thing good may be expected.
Special tests show that under the present rail-
way rates, Canterbury (N.Z.) coal has no chance to
compete successfully with Newcastle coal.
The Compagnoni Company has now one of the
largest and most successful businesses of the kind in
the colony-thanks to the now management.
The “Spirit of the South,” pioneer of the new
direct London to Newcastle line of clipper ships,
arrived on Tuesday, after a passage of 104 days.
The very latest from the Coen is to the effect
that the Chinese are doing well. There are only be-
tween ten and twenty Europeans working on the field.
The Evening News says that “ Victorians put
a large amount of money on Trickett; Sydneyites a
large amount of enthusiasm.” The fact is that (every
experienced local rowing man put his money on our
representative; and that the New South Wales losses
are heavy, whatever the Victorian losses may be.
A snake, over twenty feet long, which had swal-
lowed a fair-sized wallaby, was the other day killed by
Mr. Wm. Gostelow, of the Annan river, near Cooktown.
On the occasion of the Trickett-Hanlan match,
a “ girdle was put round the earth ’’ in an hour and
forty minutes, the result being known here at I'2o a.m.
on Tuesday.
A box of value .£5OOO, has been stolen
from the s.s. Tararua, on her voyage from Dunedin to
Melbourne, under circumstances similar to those of
the recent robbery from the Cooktown mail steamer.
The Annual Prize Meeting the of New South
Wales Eifle Association takes place on the Bth Decem-
ber, and three following days. There are 18 matches
and 300 prizes, varying from £3O to £1 in value, worth
about £BOO.
At church parade on Charity Sunday, at Castle-
maine (Vic ), the donations included two peppermints
and a had halfpenny. Probably the donors intended the
former for the benefit of colicky hospital patients, and
the latter to relieve the blind.
The Imperial Band played some very nice selec-
tions at Captain Cook’s statue on Monday evening.
The affair was an excellent treat. The performers and
the bandmaster deserve a good deal of praise for thus
arranging to provide an evening’s free entertainment
for the masses.
Tasmanian riflemen will not be represented at
the International Eifle Match in Melbourne, owing to
an internecine warfare. North v. South. The Nor-
therners say Vina VEgalite, only give ns the bossing of
the affair, the greater number of competitors, and always
the last word.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Qurindi bank robbers —12 years.
South Sydney electon to-day (Thursday).
The Sorata goes to Melbourne for repairs.
Pearce says he is prepared to row William
Trickett.
The Protostakes 3000 carcases of frozen mutton
to England.
Mr. Chalmers entertains his friends at a ball on
Friday at Need’s rooms.
“ Y.Y.,” whose lively cqmmunication was re-
ceived late, will have a show next week.
Mr. and Mrs. Brodribb, of Buckhurst, Double
Bay, gave a dinner party on Tuesday evening.
The performance of Handel’s “ Messiah ” by
the Sydney Musical Union will take x>lace at the Garden
Palace.
Hawkins and Co., of the Mulgrave, near Cairns
(N.Q.), have obtained llloz. of gold four feet from the
surface.
A petite brunette residing in Booirke-street,
Surry Hills, is engaged to one of our most popular
oarsmen.
Hackett’s charges of improper electioneering
practices against Dr. Madden, M.L.A. for Saudridge
(Melb.), have been dismissed.
A wealthy young lady of Macleay-street is
engaged to a well-know society man, a resident of
Double Bay.
The latest marriage on the tapis is between a
dashing widow and a well-known and prosperous
Canadian. To eventuate shortly.
The evening preacher at St. James’s Church,
Sydney dabbled in politics rather too freely in his last
Sunday’s discourse, as was evidenced by there gentle-
men “ taking tiff ’’ and walking out.
“ Fritz ”is dead. J. K. Emmett has gone over
to the majority." His two Sydney “ little Schneiders"
had a good cry—doubtless joined in by his little Schnei-
ders all over the world. Poor Emmett was loved by
the children.
By wire from our Brisbane correspondent we
leom that Mr. Gresley Lukin, of.the Courier, yesterday
got a verdict for £BOO damages against The Australian,
Bishop Quinu’s organ, in which he was a little while
since grossly libelled.
We were wrong, last week, in stating that
Turkish baths could not be had in Sydney for less than
I ss. each. The lessee of the baths informs us that at
certain hours a bath may be hod as low as 25., and that
three may be hud for 10s.
St. Jamels’s,Sydney,is no longer thecourt church.
Lord Augustus Loftus very rarely puts in an appear-
ance, while Lady Loftus is a regular attendant at St.
i Mark’s, Darling Point, where High-Priest Kemmis
comes out strong in the intonation-and-high-music-liue.
An East Sydney lady, noted for the luxuriance
of her golden chevelure, was the other day in a
Woolloomooloo ’bus. Just as she rose to leave, the
driver pulled the door strap and jammed her brilliant
tresses. She lurched forward, and left her hair hanging
up at the door.
The Eev. Mr. Rogers, C.E. chaplain to the
military at Dawes’ Point, died on Tuesday, and, accord,
iug to custom, the flag was hoisted half-mast at the bat-
tery. However, the band of the N.S.W. Artillery played
operatic airs for nearly two hours under the flag, for
the amusement of a few.
In responding for “ The Ladies” at the Produce
Agents’ Picnic, on Thursday, Mr. Prince elegantly said
that he "didn’t wonder at old Nero ‘busting up’ a
kingdom for the sake of a woman—he’d have done it
himself." What kingdom or which Nero was referred
to didn’t transpire.
A day abnormally hot for the season; a wind
“scorching other than cooling”; the dust choking;
wedged, a unit in a mass composed of three or four
thousand like unto himself ; sweating and sweltering,
the free and independent elector in front of the
hustings on Monday was not a man to be envied.
Mr. James Greenwood wrote to Mr. D. O’Con-
nor fully endorsing the charges made by that gentleman
against Sir Henry Parkes. We are pleased to see that
on the platform of common (or rather un-common)
honesty, the iS. M. Herald and St. John's College,
the conventicle and the cathedral, thus met hand in
hand.
Sir John O’Shanassy, having met a well-
known Sydney man at Flemington, on Cup Day, in the
course of conversation remarked, “Oh I there are so
many Sydney men here, one would think they came to
invade our territory.” To which the Sydneyite replied,
“ That was oar intention; but on going to the Treasury
this morning, wo found the coffers empty—consequently
we abandoned the attempt."
The mercantile community of this city held their
second moonlight excursion on Tuesday, the 16th inst.
The Prince of Wales (s.s.) conveyed the gentlemen and
their friends up the Parramatta and Lane Cove rivers,
thence to Middle Harbour and its delightful scenery.
The German Band discoursed appropriate music at
intervals, and the party reached Sydney again about
11 o’clock, after spending a most enjoyable evening.
A few months ago Mr. Ogilvie, the genial ac-
countant of the Oriental Bonk, Sydney, was promoted
to the management of the Yokohama branch of that
institution, and duly sailed to occupy his new position.
The numerous friends of Mr. Ogilvie—and he had a
groat many—will regret to hoar that, while on hie way
to Yokohama, he had a sunstroke of such a serious
nature as to necessitate his return to England for
medical advice.
Mr. P. J. Clark, the well-known amateur oars-
man, and captain of the 5.8. C., says that had he known
Trickett had been brought down to 12st. 21b. for his
race with Hanlan, he would not have thought the
Australian good enough to bet a threepenny piece on.
Trickett, under the circumstances, should have weighed
at least 12st. 12lb„ even were no allowance made
for the fact that he was rowing in the dead of winter.
To show the importance of the latter consideration, it
may be mentioned that Mr, Clark, when rowing in the
winter here, used to scale 12st. 41b.; in summer list. bib.
That Trickett, in an English winter, should have
brought himself down far below his Australian summer
weight is almost incredible.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
At Newcastle Police Court recently, a vaernnt-
Sara Coleman, upon receiving sentence attack
prosecuting constable with, her fists ~ Thl*i c 6
Company presented Captain Adams, of therS,Sl-
bara, with a cheque for £9O, on their retiree,^?°, nan '
the Hunter River trade. Mining matters from
proving in the Carcoar district. A hosnitei lni '
has been erected at Temora. Great exA> te,ir-
prevails at Temora owing to the discovery 0 [( 1
rich reefs. Human remains have been dj. ® eTeß| l
buried on the site of the late fire at the Lie-hn, Vere(l
Hotel, Newcastle. Tamworth now „ » Use
Public Library. An Artizan College for dJ&
boys is projected. 4335 acres were selected J!..’ 6
Urana Land Office last Friday. A lunatic
hanged himself at Port Augusta (S.A.) lock-up y
strap. A tug-boat is badly required at Wollnr!,„ a
Mr. John Bodel, candidate for the ForW^°i D^'
torate, has been enthusiastically received at Eusq 6l6o "
Deposits of coal, amounting to over 7o (u*\
tons, have been discovered at Kilcundra (V )’
Queensland wants only three judges. Illegal fc
billiards in South Australia after 11p.m. The H
kers’ Union demand law reform. Joseph Tollhn
18, killed in a saw-mill at Forster. New EneVwJ
lambing below the average; poor pasturage
Hogue immigrants absorbed. Fesenmeyer, Anditn
General, Adelaide, suspended re alleged irregulariti "
——Hall, a contractor at Brisbane, while temporary*’
of deranged mind, assaulted and stabbed three polio
men. 15,000 Chinese are alleged to have arrived ;
this colony since January. The pensioner force in
the eastern parts of Western Australia is being dh
bauded. Two bullocks, weighing llSOlbs.aßd 10501bs
respectively, and bred at Learmonth’s Qroorgal station
Murrumbidgee, were the other day killed at Cobbitv
Mr. J. Hotzappel, the pioneer settler on the MTvor
says that owing to the aggressions of the blacks be
and other isolated settlers will be compelled to abandon
their homesteads. James Murray, alias “Joe the
Mariner,’ ’ died at Bourke last week, of alcoholic po’isou
iug. A sawyer, named Blair, who had been drinking"
deliberately strangled himself with a strap, near Bar’
ringun, Bourke. Two burglars, Hassett and Brown"
attempted to break out of Bourke gaol the other dav’
but were caught cold chisel in hand. In Western
Australia, some classes of malefactors receive terribly
severe floggings. In the Grafton district (says the
Augcs) there is one station-owner who owns over 2U 000
head of live stock. £4 per head all round would give
£BO,OOO. Rent charged by Government for leased land
is about a farthing an acre. At Duaringa, near Rock-
hampton, the other day, Doughboy, a black, murdered
hie gin, who hod taken up with a Palmer boy. Nearly
1,000,000 bales wool will be exported from the Australian
colonies this year.——Last year the Australian colonies
produced 14,000 tons copper. The well-known and
splendid Clydesdale horse Douglas, imported two years
ago by Messrs. M'Auley and M’Leod, has died week at
Carr’s Creek, Clarence. Last Palmer escort brought
41200 z. gold——Bcche-de-mer has been sold in Cook-
town at £l6B per ton, which with commission and
wharfage at port of export and entry added, is equal to
£lB4. There are now 800 Chinese on the Coen. Some
are making £3 per week ; others barely tucker. Sink-
ing from sto 35 feet, and no regular lead. At
Charters Towers, the Eastward Ho crushed 4030z5.
from 270 tons, and the North Australian p.c. tribute
cleaned up 108ozs. 12dwts. Mr. George Knox,
barrister-at-law, will discharge Judge Meymott’s duties
during the current year.——The pearl and btche-de-mer
fisheries North are very successful this season.' Mr.
I John M’Dermid recently died at Houghton, near
Adelaide, aged 102. The dead body of a European has
been found on one of the Sir Charles Hardy islands, in
Torres Straits. Shipwreck or massacre is suspected.
—More rich crushinga at Gympieandat the Copeland.
A newspaper is again to he started at Thorn borough,
Hodgkinson.- Ferguson, a Port Darwin trooper, it
turns out, used to make a good thing by burying dead
Chinamen four or five times over, and charging the
Government £4 per trip. It is asserted that Mrs.
Greer did not go home after all, but left the ship at
Adelaide and returned to Melbourne. Poynting, a
Victorian ploughman, has just returned from England,
where he heat everybody he came into competition with.
At Montreal (Bermagui) there is a shanty kept
by a Good Templar. A case containing a lot of ‘ ‘devils,’ ’
young and old, has just come from Tasmania, aud
I will be placed in the Tasmanian Court. The London
Times devoted two and a half columns to describing the
destruction of the Kelly gang. Tuttle and Co,, the
newly-established photographers of the San Francisco
portrait parlours, Elizabeth-street, are a great success
in Melbourne, and bid fair to outvie the other photo-
graphers of the city. Some of their theatrical por-
traits are really splendid. The valuable watch
presented to Mace while in Sydney was stolen from his
hotel the other day at Melbourne. It has now been
recovered and the thief arrested. It is said that a
popular preacher has won the first prize in one of
Miller’s sweeps in Melbourne. Superintendent Hare
is fast recovering; so is Miss Edith Caldwell, injured
in the recent railway collision at Lara (Vic.). Mary
Teresa Clarence, alias Ralph, the “lady impostor,”has
been bowled over in Melbourne by Detective Lyons, of
Sydney. Her little game is to put up at the best
hotels and annex unconsidered trifles. She is from
Queensland, aged 20, and married to on old man.
Water has been struck at Temora at a depth of 167 feet.
There was a baby-show at Mndgee on Tuesday.
Last gold escort from Gulgong brought 800 oz. Some
people can make mineral conditional purchases on
Vegetable Creek land which has been reserved from
conditional purchase. How is this P There is a vast
amount of surplus labour in Rockhampton just now,
consequent on the Lakes’ Creek Meat Preserving Co.
closing for the season. Tobacc is extensively grown
on the Herbert River (Q.), and is pronounced by old
smokers to he superior in many respects to the (cut up)
imported. Tasmanians hope to get cheap advice
about their defences from General Lefroy. Hobart
Town becomes “ Hobart” simply, on the Ist January,
1881, by Special Act of Parliament. It was at first
Proposed by the Chief Commissioner of the Victorian
olice that the armour taken from the bodies of Ned
Kelly, the outlaw, and his slain companions, should be
smashed up into a sledge hammer. However, the in-
teresting relics in question have now been promised to
the Beechworth (Vic.) Museum.— —Samuel Henry, a
very old Victorian colonist, declares that it was he who
first cropped and shaved Buckley, the “ wild white
man,” after his surrender to some of the Batman
party. Ned Kelly will be the one hundred
and thirty-first criminal executed in Victoria. — —
Mr. Vibert, postmaster at Sandhurst, on old civil ser-
vant and a man of means, has been committed for trial
for stealing a few shillings from the office till. Mr.
William Hondren, member forßnndamba in the Queens-
land Assembly, has been adjudicated insolvent. Sir
John O’Shanassy has sent 20,000 sheep np to Barooo, ima
Mr. C. B. Fisk is haying an immense lot of sheep for
his Queensland property, There are three baths m
the Geelong hospital. One is used by the doctor, tee
second by the other “ officers ” of the institution, and
the third by the 170 patients. The barrister ter the
Crown got 25 guineas for prosecuting Ned Kelly, but the
Attorney-General only allowed £7 7s. to the counsel de-
fending him. Barnes, when on his trial for the bo-
vernmeut House robbery, presented a tin medal to De-
tective Brown. It bore this inscription, neatly cut,
“ Presented to Detective J. Brown from W. Barnes for
over-exertion, 25th October,” Prisoner got three years.
Ah Lee is to be hanged for the Kyeburn (N.Z.) mur-
der. He will be the third person executed m Otago-
The last was in Dunedin over twelve years ago. It has
been decided by a P.M. in N.Z. that fan-ton is not an
illegal game. At a meeting of the Wellington (N.h.j
Benevolent Institution, it was stated that oneof tne
most painful cases was that of a woman with three
children, daily expecting her confinement, and wnose
husband was in Sydney awaiting his trial for attempts
suicide. A curious wager was made at the Canter-
bury saleyords, N.Z., the other way, in relation to toe
weight of two heifers, one farmer betting another they
did not weigh 14001bs. £5OO changed hands on tne
event. 20 tons of butter, preserved by the
Coleman process, go home by the Potosi from Mel-
bourne. The blacks lire again troublesome on
Laura River. Wise’s N.Z. Directory shows that the
colony has 966 Smiths, 496 Browns, 312 Joneses, and it
Robinsons.
A paper on “ The Educational Influence of £-
lustrated Journalism,” by Mr. Jbhn Plummer, of Hyuuej' /
is to be read before the Melbourne Social Science co
gress.
Tasmanians are very proud at the Victorian*
accepting their Beer Duty Bill without <^ou ‘"‘ + v; n
“ tight” little islanders think they do know somethin
abont leer


WILLIAM FEASER MARTIN’S COMMITTEE
M
ASO N I C
HALL-
WEDNESDAY, 24th NOVEMBEE INSTANT.
MR. HECTOR B. M'LEAN’S
GEAND OECHESTEAL AND VOCAL CONCEET,
Under the Patronage of
His Excellency Lord Ahchjstds Loftus, P.C.8., G.C.B.
Sir George Wigram Allen Sir Patrick A. Jennings
The Hon. J. Campbell The Hon. J. Watson
C. J. Eoberts, Esq. J. Merriman, Esq., M.L.A.
W. Day, Esq., J.P. P. Senior, Esq., J.P.
E. C. Close, Esq. H. Linsley, Esq.
G. Alexander, Esq. A. J. Livingston, Esq.
And other Ladies and Gentlemen.
The PEOGEAMME will include the following works for
PULL OECHESTEA
f Sterndale
Overture—“ The W ood Nymphs”..
Elegy—Largo andante cantabile,
allegro moderate
Gavotte—Air “ Dauphin”
March—“ Heroique”
Fantasia, “Oberon"
Also, a selection of Vocal and Pianoforte Eenderings
by eminent artistes.
Tickets, ss. (or five for 205.), 35., and 2s. Plan at
Paling's, George-street.
(, Bennett, Mns. D.
M'Lean.
J. L. Eoeckel.
M'Lean.
Weber.
10 the ELECTORS of SOUTH SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —
Having been requested by a large number of Electors
of this new and important constituency to represent
and guard their interests in the new Parliament, it is
with great pleasure that I accept and respond to solici-
tations so universally and so very generously expressed
towards me.
Should I be honoured with your confidence by elect-
ing me as one of your representatives I can assure you
that no exertion on my part shall be spared to assist in
introducing and establishing wise and beneficial legis-
lation for the advancement and prosperity of all classes
of this community.
Providence has placed in our hands the management
of a magnificent country, bursting with minerals of
untold value. Our pastoral and agricultural lands are
unequalled in any part of the world ; and it now remains
for you, Gentlemen, to select and return —as your
representatives—men in whose ability and judgment
you can repose your confidence and trust.
As most of you know mo long and well yon will, I am
certain, believe me when I assure you that in politics I
shall be no trimmer; and in order that you may have
some idea of my views I will now proceed with a few of
the topics upon which I feel sure you will be interested.
I congratulate the electors upon escaping from the
unjust and un-English clause introduced into the late
Electoral Bill by the hon. member for Camden, Mr.
Thos. Garrett. There never was a greater attempt to
interfere with the liberty of the subject or the freedom
of Election than this “ garotting clause. Happily the
country has been spared this injustice by the interven-
tion of the Upper House, not by the “wisdom” of the
Lower Chamber.
As your representative I shall preserve and protect
the glorious privileges which in this free country it is
our happiness to enjoy.
The Public Instruction Bill having been passed into
law by the expiring Parliament, I am desirous that it
should have a fair and impartial trial. By educating
the masses you elevate the social and political standing
of the community. lam strongly in favour of Tochni-
oal Education, which shall have my earnest support.
I shall advocate an immediate and better system of
Water Supply for this important city, the probable
limits of which it is scarcely possible at present to
conceive, but I think it the duty of the Government,
before finally committing themselves to any scheme, to
thoroughly investigate the advantages which the Kenny
Hill (Mr. Gipps’ project) is supposed to possess ; and as
an Alderman of tins City, I consider it the duty of the
Municipal Council to assist the Government in this
important work. I am one of thos© Aldermen who do
not shrink from the duties and responsibilities apper-
taining to that office, and I shall do my utmost, even
should I stand alone, in bringing about a speedy and
perfect system of water supply.
Although a Free trader, I am a strong advocate for
all railway plant and rolling stock, or works of that
character—which will tend to develop the vast mineral
and other resources of this country and give employ-
ment to our artisan population—being manufactured
here, and as far as possible encourage colonial industries.
I object to the importation of building materials, such
as doors, architraves, Ac., the produce of prison labour
in America, to the injury of our mechanics, and brought
here in the American mail steamers subsidised by the
Government of this country, and for which the working
man is taxed. Ido not like to see our Omnibuses com-
ing from the same quarter. I object to the tax on Wool
and Coal exported from the colony.
You are all perhaps aware that I am a firm believer in
the Eight-hour System, and shall endeavour to make
this matter the subject of future legislation.
The legislation on the subject of Trades Unions shall
also receive my attention, in order that the law may be
made to protect these bodies from fraud by their officers
and others, and that they may have all the protection
afforded to other Friendly Societies.
A subject which has been neglected for a long period,
and which also deserves serious attention, shall be made
the subject of action in Parliament—l refer to the
Inspection of Steam Boilers and Engines on land, many
of which are at present in much need of periodical
supervision.
I fully believe that full and ample compensation should
be awarded to workmen who, by imperfect appliances
provided by employers, receive injury on their works.
With reference to the important subject of Immigra-
tion, I have been distressed to see numbers of fine able-
bodied men brought to these shores during the post two
years, and absolutely unable to find work —they either of
necessity become a burden to the State or the hospitality
of their friends. In cases like this the Government
should step in and find employment by proceeding with
large public works. I strongly object to Chinese Immi-
gration ; they unfairly compete with our Christian
labour, and they do not pay their fair share of taxation.
I need hardly inform the intelligent Electors of South
Sydney that I do not seek a Government Billet, and I am
opposed to the Payment of Members of Parliament.
Our Victorian cousins have, by adopting that unwise
course, secured as nice a collection of “ Sugar Loafers”
as ore to be found on the face of this earth. >
I shall endeavour without delay to alter the present
unsatisfactory and disgraceful manner under which
Publicans’ Licenses are obtained, and I think the scenes
lately enacted in the Police Courts show plainly the
necessity for fresh legislation on this subject.
I shall oppose the remission of interest on balances
due by Land Selectors. I shall never be a party to
sacrifice the interest of one class of the community for
the benefit of the other; this is a debt legitimately con-
tracted, and should be discharged. Wo have been so
frequently promised full, plain, and Comprehensive
1 Legislation respecting our Lauds, that I hope when the
! new and enlarged Parliament assembles, men will be
forthcoming with sufficient ability to grasp the whole
' question with at least some show of statesmanship, and
it shall be my pleasing duty to assist in bringing this
very desirable subject, and others connected with it, to
a satisfactory settlement.
The Sewage Question is another most important
matter, and shall have my most careful consideration.
Shea’s Creek, running southwards between Moore
Park and the Surry Hills, long neglected by your
representatives, shall also receive my attention, and that
foul and disgusting stream so injurious to the health of
the residents, and so great a disgrace to former
members, must no longer be allowed to mar the beauty
of the surrounding country.
This city is so intimately connected with the Civil
Service branch of our Government that I think, as no
member of the present Administration is likely to tonch
the subject, it may be considered to come within the
duty of a city member to see a Civil Service law
established; it will be better for the State and give
more confidence to the Civil servant, and I shall there-
fore endeavour to secure legislation in this line also.
At present I do not know why one or two Commissions
moved for in Piixliamont wore allowed to lapse; but I
also promise and undertake that such departments of
the Government of this colony ns may need attention
shall receive mine; and as I know something of the
constitution of the various branches of this portion of
the “ Body Politic,” I may bo of some service in this
direction also.
I am a strong advocate for the extension of Municipal
Government, and I hope to be able to do something sub-
stantial in this direction. In this matter we should not
be behind the other colonies so far as we are at present.
It shall be my duty to assist our neighbours at St.
L eonards intheir efforts to secure more perfect com-
m unication between that portion of the suburbs and the
city, and now that we are so regularly supplied with
Ocean Steamers, and the tall mast of the Merchantman
is almost a thing of the past, I see no reason why a
bridge should not be constructed so as to allow free scope
to our harbour truffle.
I feel confident, from all we heard and read on the sub-
ject of the Freedom of the Press, you wij.l probably
agree with me in thinking that the time has arrived
when legislation on this subject should receive the
attention of Parliament, in order that perfect freedom
in the expression of our opinion in the conduct of our
rulers may be secured to us by such laws as will prevent
in future the unseemly and lamentable occurrences of
the post.
I think I may with some degree of satisfaction bring
before your notice my labours in the Municipal Council.
I have strenously exerted myself to bring about a reform
in the management of that institution; and the citizens
are aware that I have in a great measure exposed many
of the abuses which have landed this Municipality in the
“small debt" of over £600,000. It is also my pleasant
duty to inform the electors of South Sydney and the
citizens generally, that I have succeeded, after repeated
attempts and mnch opposition from some aldermen, in
obtaining for the year 1881 a re-assessment and re-valua-
tion of all city properties, thereby, I hope, relieving the
ratepayers from unjust and excessive taxation, of which
they have had some experience during the current year.
I am in favour of connecting by railway with the
metropolis the rich coal and pasture lands of Illawarra,
and also our rich coal-fields to the north.
Another important matter which requires immediate
legislation axe the laws affecting Colonial Mercantile
Marine.
Our Factories and Workshops require some legislation
by law. I object to the mixing of sexes together in the
factory workrooms, and separate entrances should be
provided leading into the factories.
I shall also advocate and support that desirable
object—" Federation of the Australian Colonies.”
I come before yon in the fullest sense of the term an
Independent Candidate, with the sole object of benefit-
ing my Native Land; and as most of you know me to be
a man of my word, I need scarcely assure you that
should you so far honour me as to send me as your
Eepresentatlve into Parliament, I will in return endea-
vour to elevate the character of our country, our laws,
and moke this land attractive to the stranger, and secure
happy homes for ourselves and families.
1 am. Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
EDWARD HORDERN.
668 Qeorge-street south,
30th October, 1880.
10 THE ELECTORS OF THE KIAMA
ELECTORATE,
Qbhtbhmen,—
Parliament having been dissolved, 1 have the honour
to again offer myself as a candidate for your suffrages.
Such a short time has elapsed since I last gave you mv
views on the political questions of the day, that it will
be unnecessary for me to repeat them at length, and
more particularly as I shall soon have the pleasure to
address yon at different ports of the electorate. The
most important question which engaged the attention
of the late Parliament, during the period I had the
honour of being your representative, was the proposed
duty on wool, ooal, and cattle. I voted agamst tills
bill; and in doing so believe I had the satisfaction of
assisting in saving this country from having a measure
passed into law which would have cramped our local
manufacturers, seriously affected our export trade In
wool and ooal, and been a great injustice to the owners
of cuttle.
I am in favor of the present Public Schools Act, and
the only alteration I consider now necessary to make it,
as it applies to primary education, perfect, is the aboli-
tion of school fees. lam also, as I stated in my address
on a previous occasion, in favour of the establishment
of technical colleges, and have for some time taken an
active interest in endeavouring to have this object
accomplished. Model forms, to teach agriculture and
agricultural chemistry, should be established in certain
parts of the colony, which, if properly conducted, would
in a short time become self-supporting. I shall also
advocate the establishment of high-class schools. In
order that the more intelligent pupils at the primary
schools may hare the advantage of farther training to
qualify them for entrance to the University, or to fol-
low what ore denominated the learned professions. _ I
also consider that the clause in the present Education
Act, providing for the endowment of scholarships by
Government, should be noted upon with as little delay
as possible, in order to afford intelligent pupils, whoso
pecuniary position would otherwise render it impossible,
opportunities to complete their education at the Uni-
versity. T consider that the present Church and
School Lands Bill should remain intact, and if it should
not receive the Royal assent, I am prepared to support
another on a similar basis.
The present Laud Act is in many respects defective,
and any alteration in it to enable Government to let the
lands of the oelony upon liberal terms with secure
tenure ia pastoral and agricultural areas shall have my
support. lam opposed to the remission of interest on
Free Selectors’ balances, os 1 consider such a step on
the part of the Legislature would be an injustice to
other members of the community, and fro mm y own
observations, which have been rather extensive, I be-
lieve that the buna Jidf selector is perfectly satisfied
with his bargain. In foot, we have only to look upon
the prosperity of the free selectors in our neighbour-
hood, and the present value of their holdings, as a
proof of this. The quantity of conditionally-purchased
laud in the colony in round numbers is about 11,000,000
acres, and the balances owing to the State about
£8,000,000. To pormi ct he repudiation of such a debt, or
even the interest upon it, would be an act of dishonesty.
I am athorough advocate of the principles of free trade,
believing that the prosperity and advancement of our
country will be best promoted by snob a policy.
I am in fayor of the confederation of the Australian,
colonies, but consider it impossible to effect this object
until the Protective principles of Victoria have been
exchanged for onr Pres-trade policy.
I am in favor of the extension of railways through-
out the colony to districts where the receipts would
pay a fair interest on the capital invested, and believe
that the construction of a line of railway to connect
the metropolis with the south coast district would be
a remunerative speculation. Such a line has had, and
will continue to have, my advocacy. The construction
of the metropolitan and south coast railway would be
of considerable advantage to the residents of Sydney,
as it would give them an outlet to one of the most
picturesque and fertile tracts of country in the Southern
hemisphere, and other advantages too numerous to
mention. It would also enable the inhabitants of the
districts through which it would pass to send their pro-
ducts to the metropolis, and tend to develop the vast
mineral resources of the south coast districts. _ The
promises of support given in the recent deputation on
this subject by the Minister of Public Works, and the
general feeling expressed by the citizens of Sydney in
its favour, as well as by gentlemen who are likely to
occupy seats in the nest Assembly, lead mo to believe
that a sum of money will be voted by the now Parlia-
ment to accomplish this object.
I do consider fresh taxation necessary, as a large
revenue can be obtained by increasing the rents of the
Crown tenants, and giving them in return some security
of tenure.
While advocating economy in the management of the
Civil Service, I would not reduce the salaries of efficient
public servants, but would support a liberal Civil
Service Bill, which would enable candidates to eater
the Civil Service by competitive examination. A bill
of this description would root out the evil of Parlia-
mentary patronage and secure to the public officer pro-
motion according to merit and ability.
I am in favor of a proper system of immigration—a
system to induce small agricultural capitalists and
agricultural labourers to immigrate to this colony.
As to the defence of the colony, legislation is neces-
sary, and some measure should be adopted to enable
a* to produce a body of trained soldiers at a short
notice.
I will support a local Government Bill, as I believe
local matters can be best dealt with by the inhabitants
of each particular district.
With respect to publicans’ licenses, I have always
considered that the majority of the inhabitants of a
town or village are the proper persons to decide whether
they require a public house or not.
With regard to local and other matters of public in-
terest, I shall reserve myself until I have the pleasure
of personally addressing you.
I remain, &c..
Yours faithfully,
HARMAN J. TARRANT.
Hyde Pork, West Sydney,
November 11, 1880.
T
HEATEE EOYAL.
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar.
LAST NINE NIGHTS
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS
of Byron’s Romantic Drama,
THE LANCASHIRE LASS.
SATURDAY and MONDAY, November 20 and 22,
the favourite comedy,
BETSY.
TUESDAY. November 23—BLOW FOE BLOW. ~
WEDNESDAY, November 21—OUR BOYS.
U E E N ’• S
T H E A T E E.
THIS EVENING.
ANOTHER GREAT PRODUCTION.
The Favourite and Talented Artist,
W. H. LEAKE
For the First Time,
iii the title role of the Emotional Comedy Drama, in
5 Acts, entitled,
VAN the VIRGINIAN
An episode of the late American War.
Founded on Facts.
Mr. GREVILLE os QINGLE.
Miss KATE DOUGLAS as Mrs. CALVERT.
J" OHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS 7
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, BOYLE and HOGG.
roHN
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
Prices, from 44 guineas.
jOHfr
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
a five years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
E I N S M E A~D PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. EOYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BEINSMEAD and SONS.
JOHN
BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
EOYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
T" OHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and HOGG.
TATTEESALL’S CUP. — Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee —£1. First,
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Among-at competitors,
£3O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,’ ’
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.”
o ' “t e
for
ELKINGTON.
ELECTORS,
VOTE FOR
ME. ALBEET ELKINGTON
(The Mayor of Balmain).
A MAN OF ABILITY, INFLUENCE, AND
POLITICAL INTEGRITY.
His clear, straightforward, honest views on the leading
topics of the day entitle him to
UNANIMOUS SUPPORT.
VOTE FOE ELKINGTON,
AND
PROGRESS, ACTIVE REPRESENTATION, AND
A KNOWLEDGE OP THE WANTS OP
THE ELECTORATE.
POLLING DAY—FRIDAY.
E LfCTOES OF CANTEEBUEY?
SHOW YOUR APPRECIATION OF NATIVE
TALENT, AND GIVE A VOTE TO
COUETNEY.
THE LIBERAL CANDIDATE.
JfjLEO
TOES OF WEST SYDNEY,
reserve one of your votes for
P. ABIGAIL.
J. G. CARTER > Hon,
J. J. BENSON J Secs.
vv
fiST SYDNEY ELECTOES,
F. ABIGAIL
is a
CANDIDATE,
and solicits year vote and interest.
J. G. CAETERI Hon.
J. J. BENSON S Secs.
iJotHe
ELECTOES OF SOUTH SYDNEY
Gentlemen,—Having accepted the requisition pre-
sented to me to contest the election of South Sydney
for the representation of that district in the ensiling
Parliament, I have now the honour of famishing you
with the salient points of my political creed.
I accept the new Education Act as the expressed
wish of the majority of the people, and it would be folly
to attempt to subvert it. lam prepared to advocate
railway extension, especially that which shall directly
connect the interior with the shores of Port Jackson. 1
approve of the Tramway system, but object to the lines
being mn along our main thoroughfares. In the matter of
water snpply to Sydney and its suburbs, I decline to
accept Mr. Clarke’s decision as final, and am prepared
to support a gravitation scheme, should such be shown
to be practicable.
I am prepared to support a Civil Service Act. _ I
would gladly see a measure introduced for prohibiting
the sending to eea of unaeaworthy vessels, and for ex-
tending a greater measure of protection to seamen.
I earnestly desire an amendment of the Licensing
Raws and a radical alteration in the system of grant-
lt >? licenses.
I subscribe to the doctrine of Freedom of the Press,
and would extend to it the fullest protection.
I am entirely opposed to the remission of the Interest
“Ue by the Free Selectors.
I object to the indiscriminate Immigration that is
overcrowding our labour markets, and swelling the
Pauper element of our population.
I Object to any further influx of Chinese, believing
‘■beau to be in every sense nndesirubleas fellow citizens.
Finally, as increased Taxation will have to be sub-
mitted to, sooner or later, I am prepared to advocate,
in any amendment of the Tariff that may be proposed,
tue removal of Customs Duties from all actual neces-
saries, and the imposition of others on all luxuries.
J. B. OLLIFFE,
Royal Hyde Park Hotel, Sydney.
Hon. John Sutherland
William Hezlet, M.P.
Aid. J. Taylor, J.P.
Alderman Kippax, J.P.
John See, J.P.
John Booth, J.P.
A. Forsythe, J.P.
G. A. Murray, J.P.
E. Lowther, J.P.
C. B. Bond, J.P.
S. Q. Davison, J.P.
Joseph Graham, J.P.
W. Speer, J.P.
Wm. Neill, J.P.
George Mxmro
P. B.‘ Holdsworth
Arthur Hunt
Alexander M'Credie
William M'Credie
Archibald Blair
G. W. Tate
John Bitchie
Gordon Harr
Robert Henderson
Frank Buckle
C. Leistikow
W. H. Jeffrey
H. Jeffrey
Alex. Brown
G. F. Mason
John Cameron
J. Dykes
Henry Clarke, M.P.
Alderman B. Palmer, J
Alderman Playfair
Alderman J. Hardie. J.]
Henry Gorman, J.P.
A. Kethel, J.P.
S. H. Hyam. J.P.
C. Field, J.P.
Lya.ll Scott, J.P.
George Wills, J.P.
A. T. Nelson, J.P.
J. Macpherson. J.P.
John Woods, J P.
Thomas Donaghy
P. E. Larkin
David Brown
E. A. Jones
Andrew M'Credie
Thomas M'Credie
Samuel Kippax
Captain Bremner
J. H. Seamer
W. G. Matthews
John Amoss
Thomas Huntley
Henry Thomas
J. R. M'Fadyen
Oliver Jeffrey
John M'Minn
John Craig
W. J. Coulter
Thomas Gollan
B. H. Prescott
B. B. Nicoll
G. W. Nicoll
Q. R. Nicoll
Nicholas Hawken
U. J. Zahel
Robert Grant
F. C. Drew
W. M. Davies
W. Baltin
G. Burrows
J. H. May
Frank Blair
H. Davia
H. Harman
H. Button
F. J. Barker
G. Veacys
E. Coulter
Thomas Allen
Denis M'M ihon
Issac Bethel
John Mahoney
Peter Evans
J. C. Dimond
A. M. Coleman
Joseph Land
J. Drew
F. Horsey
C. Funs ton
F, O’Bynrks
Robert Lyall
John Smith
C. M. England
Enos Dyer
Alex. Campbell
Donald Campbell
F. J. Gibbons
Samuel Prieetlev
W. Oliff
B. Langley
W. S. Proidey
J. S. Drew
J. Corlesa
H. Priestly
James Grant
J. Chalmers
Alex. Donglns
T. W. Craven
T. Morrison
A. W. Blair
H. W. Preddy
W. M. Burns
A. Dent
James Murphy
John Grant
W. M’Millan
Walter Meore
H. Bethel
H. J. Macintosh
Peter Soldeu
John White
W. B. Coleman
J. Baird
John Young, jnn.
George Moore
W. Maxwell
P. Horan
J. B. Kelly
W. J. Kelly
J. E. Blair
James Plato
J .Conaher
J. B. Maim
J. Taylor
W. Bunker
F. Webster
George Moorley, jun.
Thomas Clark
J. J. Amess
C. W. Wyatt
J. K. Allen
B. Milne
D. Young
W. C. Kobinson
H. Shaw
T. Giblin
W. Drummond
J. Morrison
George Farman
W. Coach
John Turner
W. C. Treere
John Ryan
E. Sherritt
G. H. Poole
W. Bond
T. J. Cuthbert
James Dunn
John Lord
P. Consadine
T. Dinan
P. Gollagher
M. Flood
John Hussy
Henry Taylor
S. Talbot
T. Merrymond
W. H. Sillen
G. Broadfood
Geo. Moorley, sen.
William Elliott
W. W. Small
S. S. Amess
D. J. Tracey
H. Aalkett
D. Elphinstone
R. Saunders
W. Newell
Copt. Alley
J. Woolldridge
Robert Ogg
F. Bowers
James Crossitt
E. Gaxlick
J. Wright
R. Fry
E. Tinsley
B. Marshall
John Aird
Chas. Blair
B. Bailey
James Russell
S. Gagan
F. Fleetwood
T. Murray
J. Luck
Arthur Maguire
George Ireland
Robert Ireland
J. R. Rod dam
Geo. Humphrey
Lawrence M'Hvene
James Paton
Daniel Campbell
John Ferguson
N. Johnson
Jas. Cowan
Wm. Langley
B. Goddard
Arch. M'Neil
J. Baptist
T. Roddam
Percy Moffat
T. O’Neil
J. Staunton
E. Coulter
Thos. Nolan
Isaac Israel
Robert Swan
C. Barnett
E. J. Ainsworth
T. Robinson
P. O’Brien
H. Cope
| (Any gentlemen whose names have been omitted, or
are desirous of joining, will please forward their names
to the Secretaries.
B. B. NICOLL \ Hon.
ALEX. CAMPBELL j Secretaries.
Committee Rooms, Wynyord Hotel,
corner Erskine and Clarence streets.
10 THE ELECTORS OP WEST SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,—At the request of a large and influential
number of electors who know me, I have consented to
become a candidate for one of the seats at your disposal
in the new Parliament, I have no object to servo in
Seeking election, unless it be the ambition—well-
ordered I trust —to benefit my country and generation.
As I purpose addressing you publicly in the several
parts ef the electorate, I will only just bow shadow forth
my political sentiments.
First, the Education Act I am thoroughly in favor of,
and will strive to preserve intact.
I am opposed to the introduction of Chinese into the
country.
I would like to see the Liquor Licensing Act altered
very much and Local Option tried.
' I am in favor of the Extension of the Railway round
Darling Harbour to Circular Quay. Also, a Railway to
Illawarra and Newcastle.
I would never consent to the Remission of Selectors’
Interest, nor to the Payment of Members.
Nor do I like the Present System of Indiscriminate
Immigration.
Free-trade, as a general principle, I certainly approve;
but I would give the preference to our own manufac-
tures and preducts.
I would like to see Municipalities extended; Insol-
vency Act altered; also the Mercantile Marine Act.
Technical Schools taken in hand by the Government;
and Agricultural Schools established.
Should my sentiments be sound, and in accordanee
with yours, I hope to be honoured with your support.
I am Gentlemen,
Yours very respectfully,
WM. FRASER MARTIN,
Church Hill.
T HARVEY,
** • WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hat ajjd E.vciixe Streets. .
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Samuel Hordern has returned from Europe.
Mr. Sahl, German Consul in Sydney, has
£BO,OOO invested in Fiji.
President Grevy has a salary of .£24,000 a year’
besides £12,000 for his household expenses.
The Hon. Eatcliffo Bring has been gazetted as a
udge of the Supreme Court of Queensland.
Mr. S. S. Purnell, one of the oldest superinten-
dents of Victorian police, died on the 4th instant.
Young Keiller, the son of the Dundee Marmalade
manufacturer, is a partner in a large station on the
Darling.
Mr. Jacob Wood, who, in the old days of Mel-
bourne, was landlord of the Governor Arthur Hotel, died
recently at Warrnambool.
Mr. S. C. Burt, the energetic secretary of the
Commercial Bank, has resumed duty, much the better
for his holiday in the South.
The prettiest and most stylish girl in Townsville
is sweet nineteen, and is married to the oldest and
ugliest man in North Queensland.
It would be interesting to know it the Treasurer
is aware that the Government carts have been used as
furniture vans during the past week. *■
John Bourke, who brought the first overland
mail from Sydney i.e., from Yass to Melbourne, is now
filling a subordinate position in the Melbourne G.P.O.
It is with great regret that we learn that the ill
health of Mr. Hugh Kennedy, Registrar of the Uni-
versity, has necessitated his removal to Gladesville
Asylum.
Sir Arthur Gordon, late Governor of Fiji, was a
Court page in his youth, and a special favourite of the
Queen. Hence, although highly unpopular in all his
administrations, he has always received promotion.
Henri Eochefort is writing a serial tale, ‘ ‘ Made-
moiselle Bismarck ” in U Intransigeant, the advanced
Republican paper conducted and owned by him in Paris.
“ The Vagabond” is translating this for publication in
the colonies.
Mr. W. C. Browne, member for Patrick’s Plains,
is one of the few candidates fearless enough to denounce
Porkes. He is not to be beaten for Patrick’s Plains, for
the women all kiss him, and the men can’t shake his
hand often enough.
Professor Halford, of ammonia-for-snakebite
celebrity, is going home for a holiday. He visits the
English and Continental Medical Schools, with a view
to the establishment of a laboratory of practical
physiology at Melbourne.
Mr. J. C. Williamson has given £lOO for dis-
tribution among the Melbourne charities, and has also
generously subscribed £lO 10s. to the fund in aid of the
widow of the late Mr. Barnet Levy, who, we are sorry
to hear, has been left in rather unfortunate cir-
cumstances.
Sir Arthur Gordon intends to take up his resi-
dence at Auckland during each recess, ana will in all
probability make occasional visits to Fiji, for the pur-
pose of exercising an administrative cheek upon the
affairs of that interesting colony, and the initiation of
which was entirely his own work. During the session
of Parliament, of course. Sir Arthur will reside at
Wellington.
One night, twenty years ago, “Professor”
Hamilton, the phrenologist, was manipulating heads at
a rush north of Sandhurst, when a blustering rough
digger, the bully of the camp, asked the Professor to
“chuck his paw over his bumps." Hamilton ran his
digits through the shaggy locks of the would-be subject,
and shaking his head, said, “ if you are not hanged before
you die, you will richly deserve it." That man was
Sullivan, the Maungtapu murderer. He is, it is now
said, at Bermagui rush.
Mr. Samuel Macgregor, of Scott and Macgregor,
Brisbane,is a candidate for Bundamba.in the Queensland
Assembly. We notice in a Rockhampton paper a tele-
gram to the effect that “ a letter in the Brisbane
Telegraph vaguely hints at something in connection
with Mr. Macgregor*s Victorian life.” We are in a
position to affirm that Mr. Macgregor’s Victorian career
was a strictly honorable one, and that, after having by
the exercise of great ability and unbounded energy
built up in the Western district a stock business second
in magnitude to none in the colonies, he, like more than
one other good man and true has since done in the same
district, succumbed to circumstances, and was forced to
try his lack in fresh fields. We believe he has suc-
ceeded in Queensland, and hope that the Bnndamba
electors will always have as honest a man to represent
them in Parliament.
At latest dates Dr. Tanner was at his father’s
home, at Litchfield, Ohio,looking as bright and fresh
as a spring daisy in a May breeze.” There was nothing
to indicate in the man’s appearance that he had lately
undergone the terrible ordeal of a forty days’ fast. A
few harsh lines still curve over his open, slightly pale
cheeks, and the dulness of his steel gray eyes—of which
there was so much said during the fast—has entirely
disappeared, and they have resumed their bright, keen
and penetrating expression ; his hair, which had faded
into a colorless, straw-stack whiteness during the trial,
has again taken on its natural color, and shines in full
brownish glossiness. He is preparing a lecture on his
fast, and has received some princely offers from
managers. However, he means to lecture on his own
responsibility, select his own routes, and put out his
own advance agents. His discourse, he says, “will
demonstrate in theory what he has just shown to the
world in practice.”
There is in Sydney a gentleman who alleges
that Mr. E. C. Souper, now and for some years past
private secretary to Lady Ogle, of Withdeane Hall,
Brighton, Sussex, England, is identical with the long-
lost Sir Robert Tichborne; and who is so strong in
this belief that he exhibits in the shop window of a city
stationer two portraits, ostensibly of Mr. Souper, whom
he designates “ the self-abnegated Sir Roger Tich-
borne.” Prom certain letters which we had the privi-
lege of inspecting some time ago -to say nothing of
any other reasons —we have the strongest grounds for
stating that the Sydney man is altogether wrong in his
allegation. For years past periodical attempts have
been made by the enterprising individual in question
to revive the interest in the Tichbourne affair.
The home authorities have been written to—in fact,
everybody in power, from her Majesty Queen Victoria
to Mr. Guilford Onslow, has been addressed at great
length on the subject. Mr. Souper, Lady Ogle’s physi-
cian, Lady Ogle herself, and Mr. Guilford Onslow unite
in utterly discrediting the strange story of the Sydney
enthusiast, who has annoyed Mr. Souper for some
years, and persists in the assertion that Mr. Souper is
not Mr. Souper, but somebody else.
Mr. Jevona, whose lamentable death by accident
at the Fitzroy iron works, Nattai, was recently an-
nounced, was at the time of his decease conducting a
series of metallurgical experiments with a view to the
re-opening of the mine in question. He arrived in the
colony last year on the representation of several
engineering firms, and turned his attention to the iron
©res of the colony. Conscious of his own ability he
entered into an arrangement with the proprietors of the
Fitzroy iron mine to produce, on the most economic
system, iron and steel, the entire cost of experiment
being borne by himself. He succeeded far beyond his most
sanguine expectations, and arrangements were on
the eve of completion by which the mine, in which
many fortunes have been lost, would have been re-
opened. But whilst he was conducting a final experi-
ment for the purpose of observation he met with his
sad and untimely death, whereby the colony has
sustained a severe blow, and a widow, but two months a
wife, been left to mourn his loss. The expenses
incidental to the endeavour to reduce this hitherto
refractory ore have been very great, and will, there is
reason to fear, materially affect the circumstances of
Mrs. Jevons. The unfortunate gentleman thus passed
away just as fortune was within his grasp, and just as
an inestimable boon was about to be conferred by him
•n the iron industry—which in the not far distant future
will be the greatest of the manufacturing industries of
New South Wales.
Mr. Alex. Douglas (“ Black Douglas ”) the well-
known Inspector of Queensland Native Police, has re-
turned from Europe, and is to resume duty in the Hodg-
kinson district.
Mr. John Edwards, sen., father of the well-
known Mr. [John ’Edwards (who formerly represented
Collingwood in the Victorian Assembly), died in Mel-
bourne last week.
Mr. Nazareth Smith, of Levuka, is a pious man.
He supports Sir Arthur Gordon, takes in the Christian
Herald, but at nap., poker or 100 it is hard to find his
match. Hallelujah!
We are sorry to have to announce the death by
drowning, on Saturday morning, of Mr. Barber, lately-
appointed manager of the E.S. and A.C. Bank at Bulli.
Search was made for his body, but unsuccessfully. All
arrangements had been made for his marriage with a
Wagga Wagga lady, and had he lived the nuptials would
have been celebrated in a few months*
Joseph Solomon and William Fisher again op-
pose each other for the Huon Seat in the Tasmanian
Legislative Council. The former was recently arrested
for bribery by sub-agents. The Huonites now say they
will return him free of expense. Wonders never will
cease.
Miss Marie Carandini made one big success in
Tasmania, winning the heart of a tall schoolboy, who
followed her about like a lap-dog, and was eventually
locked up in his bedroom by his mother, to keep him
from further extravagances, such as rings, suppers
and buggy-rides.
Tam O’Shanter, the Tasmanian sporting pro-
phet, is back in Hobart, after a trip to North
Australia in search of health. Tam is a very lucky
tipster. At one Elwick meeting he tipped the winner
of ten out of thirteen races, in some instances being
correct with 1,2, and 3.
Sir John Lefroy, his family and private secretary
attend the services at St. David’s (Church of England)
Cathedral, Hobart. The last Governor was a Roman
Catholic.
Mr. Dowling, manager of the E.S. and A.C. Bank
of this city, leaves in a few weeks for London, twelve
months’ leave of absence being granted him on account
of ill health. His many friends will be glad to find him
return better in hill health.
Mr. G. Ashton (late of The Graphic), one of
the artists of the Illustrated Australian News, re-
cently paid a flying visit to Sydney. His brother, Mr.
J. R. Ashton, has been appointed to the post on the
Sketches vacated by Mr. Carrington.
Sergeant Sleigh has at last made a sensation.
He won a claim-jumping case at Nine-mile Springs, in
face of a strong bar. The miners go for the Sergeant
to a man now, and swear by him, whereas formerly they
swore at him.
Mr. Longfield O’Connor, formerly a member of
the S. A. Assembly, and well known in Victoria as a
sporting writer, under the nom de plume “The Baron,”
died last week in Sydney Infirmary, aged sixty, of gout
and ague. His wife died in Melbourne a month ago, of
diphtheria.
Mr. J. B. Were is the second senior
Melbourne merchant. He was appointed territorial
justice for Port Phillip in 1840. He was the first Pre-
sident of the Bible Society (in 1811), the first President
of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, the first agent
of the P. and O. Company, and the first member of
Parliament for Brighton.
A Burwood alderman boasts of being “ able
to wheel a barrow-load of sovereigns.” Notice will be
taken of him should he journey past our office —with
the load.
A telegram was on Friday last despatched by
the Mayor to the Right Worshipful the Lord Mayor of
London (Mr. M'Arthur), congratulating him on behalf
of the Sydney Corporation on his elevation to the post
of Chief Magistrate of the British Umpire.
The Fiji Argus is the Government organ, and
has no circulation to speak of. The Fiji Times, the
planters’ journal, read everywhere, is now edited
by Tom Pritchard, an old colonist and right good fellow,
vice P. S. Solomon, now Acting Attorney-General.
Brough Smyth, formerly secretary to the Vic-
torian Department of Mines, and who has been in India
for the last year or two, in the interests of a-gold-mining
company, is now in London.
The Governor of Tasmania was surprised to see
the head waiter of the first banquet he attended talking
familiarly to some of the guests with his arms on their
shoulders as they sat at table.
A former vice-principal and tutor in mathematics
and natural science at Trinity College, Melbourne, is
now one of four masters who have three pupils between
them at Christ’s College, Tasmania.
Mr. Edward Sayce, of St. Kilda, received an in-
vitation to the opening of the Melbourne Exhibition,
addressed to ’ ‘ The head of the Society of Friends, Mel-
bourne.” Mr. Sayce accepted the invite with thanks
for himself and lady, but at the same time informed the
Commissioners that “ The Society of Friends acknow.
ledged no head but Christ.”
Mr. William Swam Eoberts, late editor of
Maryborough (Queensland) Chronicle, who wna*
dead in his house last week, arrived at Mary boron »L U ? d
1860, and officiated as clergyman to the firstßantiat 111
gregation in that town. However, his views of ror° n '
were rather too far advanced for that church a™? 1 ? 11
found in journalism a sphere more suited to his rnk
energies and idiosyncracy. In 1863 he bought . .i® 1
in the Chronicle, which he edited for many years
he was 18 months since compelled hy failing hTam. ■
retire from literary work. Mr. Roberts was a genial
large-hearted man, and a prominent member k?ir*
Masonic body. of th e
Why Ned Trickett Lost.
Nous samines vaincus I In plain Saxon, we are ‘ ■ licked
and now that it is all over, we had better admit that ’
have been beaten on our merits, in order that we m 8
with the more grace make a few brief remarks upon the
circumstances attendant on what was to have been the
greatest aquatic contest of the decade. We have not
had a good ruif for our money; and this, we are free to
admit, is unsatisfactory. But it must not for a moment
be understood that, while saying this, we give in onr
adherence to the sentiments expressed by the junior
daily paper, which declares that, in view of Laycock’s
easy victories, it cannot understand Trickett’s utter
collapse, and, in saying this, of course broadly hints
that Ned Trickett didn’t row “ straight.’ ’ We are sorry
to find that the cue above referred to has been exten-
sively followed, and that there are in this community
a number of people cowardly enough to kick a man
when he is down. We prefer to look in directions other
than those of dishonesty and cowardice for the causes
which brought about our man’s defeat; and speak-
ing now, not for the paltry outsiders who
have parted with their shillings and half-crowns
and are “whipping the cat,” but on behalf of
those who have staked their hundreds and lost
without murmur, we say that Edward Trickett
though beaten, is not disgraced. To sell a race would
be so utterly inconsistent with his character that the
imputation will, we are sure, be utterly scouted by all
those who know him well, and who must, therefore
have leamt to perceive beneath his unpretending ex!
terior the attributes of a true man. This time he went
home under circumstances very different from those
which attended his last visit to England. He had not
of late been called upon to engage in any great con-
test, and he was roused to action—induced to row, on
the Thames, a race which, according to time-honored
rule, should have been decided on the Parramatta
—by the facts that the title he wrested from Sadler was
being laughed at as an empty one beyond the water, and
that, having been unfortunate in business, it was neces-
sary for him to go to war again. When he won the
English championship he was a quarryman, with every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose ; this time he had, in
sporting parlance, to row “for his shirt” against the
world’s most successful oarsman. On this occasion
Trickett, instead of being supported, attended and coun-
selled by an experienced man having his interests
really at heart, was surrounded by persons whose
actions—and the fact cannot be disguised—were looked
upon with distrust. He, though several years older,
came to the post, according to the telegrams, weighing
a couple of pounds less than when he, then a mere
stripling and an undeveloped man, rowed Sadler,
and a great many pounds under what the best authorities
know to be his proper sculling weight. When Trickett
arrived in England his weight was 2101 b. (15st.), and
that he should during his course of preparation have
been reduced to 1701 b., or in other words have had 401 b.
taken off him was totally at variance with all modem
medical ideas in regard to training—this especially ia
view of the fact that his more youthful opponent gained
instead of losing weight whilst getting ready for the
race. That the powers of endurance possessed by
Trickett when properly trained are of the greatest,
those who have seen his trials and races will testify ;
that his nerves are sound and his pluck commensurate
with his strength admits of no question. It will have
been noticed that the time made by the men for the
first mile and a half was excellent, but that, seemingly
in consequence of Trickett’s exhausted condition, the
pace for the remainder of the distance was so slow as to
make the record a wretched one, which Laycock, judged
by past performances, could have beaten without diffi-
culty. There is every reason to believe that Edward
Trickett on Monday was in no better condition than
was his brother William when rowing Rush on the
Parramatta last Saturday, and that Harry Kelley has
this time been either not so kind or so capable a mentor
as in 1876, when James Punch, an old champion oars-
man, and good judge of condition, “ stood by to see.”
As previously remarked, we don’t wish to deny having
been beaten on our merits ; and in saying these things
our object ia not to try and prove that our man ought
to have won, but rather to show why what should
have been a great struggle was a battue rather
than a battle, a chase rather than a race.
All accounts so far tend to show that Trickett, who is
said to have “splashed” and “let his boat roll" was
not in his proper form. While by no means sanguine
that the condition of our best sculler will allow him to
distinguish himself in the Hop Bitters contest, com-
mencing to-day (Thursday), we are still confident that
if in his best trim and otherwise on level terms with
the brilliant Canadian, Trickett will on another occa-
sion induce English critics to vary their opinion as to
his oarsmanship. In face of the somewhat conflicting
cabled accounts of the race we can for the present do
little more than ask the public, before condemning
Trickett or in any way withdrawing from him their
confidence, to await further particulars. We trust,
moreover, that on present information no more will be
said about “ swindles." Deep-laid plans of the kind
referred to are not usually carried out with the accom-
paniments of bad rowing and worse time; but are more
ordinarily and naturally associated with snapped oars,
water-logged boats, exciting finishes and fast records.
It is to be hoped that, next time Trickett, or any
other representative Australian, rows the Champion
of the World on the Thames for The Sportsman
Cup, he will have beside him, not a host of
bookmakers, but a man who loves sport for its
own sake; who is able to dissociate it from
pecuniary considerations ; and who, moreover, may
be looked to, not for unvaryingly rosy messages,
but for a right sign at the right time. Now, when it’s
too late, we are all sorry that, though our man may
have been decisively beaten on his merits, he did not go
home in good company. In conclusion, let us, for th«
benefit of Trickett and all other cornstalks, say with
poor A. L. Gordon—
“ And when you’re driven against the ropes,
Hit out: it’s the shortest way.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. D. B.’ (Murrurundi): Good story. Glad
to hear from you. “A. B. C.” : Thanks. “ Grand
Flaneur” (Melbourne) : Letter for yon from editor at
Gordon and Goteh’s, Collins-street West. ‘‘J- W.’’j
We don’t give opinions on medical subjects, and should
say that the Town and Country Journal, which
professes to do so, is accountable annually for the death
of a number of good subscribers. However, from a com-
mon-sense standpoint, we recommend you not to smoke if
you have weak lungs; and not to sing if you have
diseased lungs. Go and see a good physician and man-
fully face your malady, whatever it is. “LizzieS. ;
Not suitable; try again. “W. F. B.” (West Botany):
A little too “ rough.” Send us something good-natured-
“An old tile cuber,”: Too personal. “ Phos. •
Unsuitable for our columns. “J. Thompson s
Thanks for your suggestion. “Lizzie S.": Hardly up
to the mark. Send it to “ The Meddler.”
EDWARD HANLAN, CHAMPION SCULLER OF THE WORLD.
GRUEL!


The Refree.
THE GREAT BOAT-RACE.
[SPECIAL CABLE TO THE BULLETIN.]
LONDON, Nov. 15, sp.m.
It was a cold, raw day. Trickett appeared to suffer
much from the chilly weather. He was attended by
Kelley and Jack Thompson. Barney Thompson was in
great form, and rushed about iu an excited manner.
As the Australian champion emerged from his quarters
Barney whispered to him long and earnestly. Trickett
was heard to remark, “Go to ! I wish Jim Punch
was here.” There was not a very great throng at the
starting place, hut all along the bank, at every available
vantage point, the crowd was enormous. The Metro-
politan Railway Company ran special trains to Hammer-
smith. The bridge there, generally the turning point
in these aquatic contests, was literally packed with
people. One of the girders has given way, and the
damage is computed at £lO,OOO. The river was lined
with all sorts of boats, from outriggers to steam-
launches. The men rowed between a lane of floating
crafts. The Thames Police only made on e arrest during
the day, such was the perfect order maintained. The
culprit, who was in an advanced stage of intoxication,
and insisted on blocking the course in an old punt, gave
his name as “ M'Guven, of Sydney.” [This is probably
incorrect. — Ed. B.] He was locked np. Both the
’Varsities were emptied on this occasion. It is com-
puted that not twenty undergraduates were left in
either Oxford or Cambridge They had each a special
steamer. The Dark blue (Oxford) supported Hanlan,
the Light-blue (Cambridge) supported Trickett. The
Umpire’s boat, the Press boat, the Police boat, the two
boats chartered by the candidates, and the ’Varsity
boats were allowed first, as given in order. After
these came a veritable fleet of steamers. Colonel
Henderson, Chief Commissioner of Metropolitan
Police, was in the Water Police ' launch, —the
swiftest boat on the Thames. With him was
a gentleman disguised in along Ulster, a beard, slouched
hat, and a big cigar. He was recognized by his friends
as the Prince of Wales. Before the start he shook hands
with both Trickett and Hanlan, and made use of this
remarkable expression, “ May the best man win. You
are both colonists, and England is proud of tou 1 ”
Trickett was much affected, and Hanlan was heard to ob-
serve, “This is too much 1" Barney Thompson wanted
to lay H.K.H. even money, but the police interfered.
On the Press boat were the representatives of The Bul-
letin ; Mr. Mackinnon, of the Melbourne Argus ;
Smythe, S. A. Register; W. S. Smalley, New York
Tribune; Colonel Jennings, New York Herald ; J. A.
Robinson, Toronto Globe. Bret Harte, the United
States Minister; Charles Reade, the novelist: Anthony
Eroude, the historian; and the Bishop of * * * *
were alsoj present—disguised as reporters. On
Trickett’s boat, which floated the Australian flag,
were Jack and Barney Thompson (of Sydney),
Browne (of the Warrigal). Jones (of Coonanbara),
and other prominent Australians. The Agents-General
of all the colonies, with Sir Julius Vogel and B. S. Ear-
jeon, were also on this boat. Sir Julius lost £350 at
“ under and over ” be f ore the start. On Hanlan’s boat,
which bore the flag of Ontario, were his backers (Messrs.
Macdonald and Brigbtman, representatives of the To-
ronto Rowing Association;, the Colonial Secretary of
Canada, and Charles Bush, the English “leviathan”
bookmaker. The men stepped into their boats exactly at
5 minutes past 12. Hanlan’s last words to Randolph Cook,
his trainer, were “Send a wire at once to Mr. William
Eleming, at Sydney, and The Bulletin.’’ Trickett said
again to Barney (Thompson, “Go to , I wish Punch
was here! ” The men “ fiddled” about a bit and then
at the word “ Go” were off. Trickett jumped ahead
with the lead, but did not hold it for more than halt
a minute. The “Kanuck,” rowing his 39 a minute,
hand overhand, steadily and without spurting drew up,
caught, passsed and was never again collared. Trickett
tried to row him down—to make the pace too fast—but
in vain. Hanlan kept one length ahead till past the
Soap works, where Trickett made a tremendous spurt,
but the Canadian had taken his water, and to avoid a
foul Trickett had to take the wash of a steamer.
This was a great disadvantage, but truth compels me to
say he had no chance here. Hanlan, in compliance
with the wishes and shouts of his backers, put on a spurt,
and won easily by four lengths after a race which,
though fast for the first mile or so, during the re-
mainder of the distance degenerated into a chase. A
scene of the wildest excitement ensued. Trickett, who
looked like a bag of bones or a skeleton covered
with, parchment, seemed almost ready to faint Hanlan
calmly asked for “a chew of fine cut.** [This is at
variance with Hr. Beg’s assertion that Hanlan
don’t chew. Ed.]— Lord Harris and Hornby,
who had come down iu a drag, in very bad
taste danced a hornpipe together. They were hissed by
the colonials present. Strange rumours afloat. Said
to-night Trickett not properly trained. A bookmaker
is missing. Both men will be bauquettfdatSt. James 8
Hall to-morrow. It is very unfortunate, the Prince of
Wales says now he will not go to the colonies. That
was his arrangement with the . If Tnckett had
won he waste come out I went back on the road with
Qdorge Augustus Sala and Archibald Forbes. I wished
to explain to them why Trickett did not win—but the
English press, as it has been all along, is prejudiced
against us. “ Pendragon,” of the Referee, who is the
brotherof a well-known baronet, won, it is said, twtlU.
It is amazing to think that not only have his loathsome
prophecies come true but that he has wo>i money. I
will set Jack Thompson on to him.
W. S.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Napper Tandy fetched only .£240.
Jim Punch looks well after his Melbourne trip.
Jim Punch says Trickett was altogether too
fine.
The Traducer blood is still triumphant in New
Zealand.
Midwinter, the cricketer, returns to Melbourne
in a few weeks.
The profits of the V.E.C. over the recent meet-
ing were £12,000.
Mr. W. H. Leake has been splendidly photo-
graphed by Boake.
Grand Flaneur is at very short odds for the
Champion Stakes.
The London Sportsman prefers Laycock’s
style to Trickett’s.
Victoria beat South Australia at cricket by seven
wickets and one run.
The Parramatta Eiver champion course is 3
miles and 330 yards.
The Victor, Lottie, and Dreamland are likely to
meet at the Pyrmont Kegatta.
Le Loup, the horse that failed in Sydney, is
winning largely in New Zealand.
Welcome Jack has been heavily backed for the
next Melbourne Derby and Cup.
The Melbourne Cricket Club are about to erect
a monument over Tommy Mills grave.
The Australian eleven play three matches in
South Australia before leaving that colony.
Little St. Albans, the jockey, is 13 years old-
Wilson says he is worth his weight in gold.
South Australian sportsmen generally backed
Grand Flaneur in all the recent Victorian events.
Andrew Eussell defeated Hugh O'Donnell at
West Maitland last Saturday in a 150 yards spin for
£2O.
Himalaya, the winner of the Melbourne Steeple-
chase, was bred on the Lachlan, N.S.W., and stands
17-U.
We are very glad to hear that Professor Caviu,
the champion swimmer, intends remaining permanently
in Sydney. He has taken a lease of the Lavender Bay
baths, and haa fitted them up in first-class continental
style. They will be open three da,rs each week tor tne
accommodation of ladies.
The sculling race between Mr. Arthur Lord and
Mr. Brett, postponed from the Balmain Regatta, is to
come off to-day (Saturday).
Jim Punch says he’ll go home yet to fetch bach
the championship. Thousands regret now that Punch
did not accompany Tnctett.
Mr. Bagot, of the V.R.C., deplores the action
of the Victorian Upper House in “blocking” the
Totalisator Bill to start him.
A match has been made for the end of the month
between the Lottie and the Dreamland, which latter
defeated all competitors at Balmain.
Under the verandah on settling morning at
Melbourne Mr. Joseph Thompson, “ The Leviathan,
paid away over £lO,OOO in a very short time.
Mr. W. Long gave Hales .£l7O for successfully
steering Grand Flaneur in the Melbourne Derby, and
Hale’s three wins on the same horse mean £3oo.
The Singleton players have scored another win.
They defeated the Newcastle Ironclad last Saturday
with six wickets to spare, in the Waddy Challenge Cup
match.
The Pyrmont Regatta promises to be a big
success. Good prizes are the rule. The yachting prize
offered by Mr. John Harris will bring about a grand
contest.
Mr. H. J. Cortis, the distinguished English bi-
cyclist, has succeeded in riding 10 miles in 6seo. under
the half-hour. The best previous amateur record was.
30m. 59sec.
Mr P Williams’s Anthea won the sweepstake
trophy last Saturday, for 19-feet skiffs, and this being
her third win, the condition of the race, the prize was
awarded her.
Three days before last Saturday’s event Rush
wrote'to a friend who had formerly lost on him that he
could now regain all his money by taking the odds in
his (Rush’s) favour.
It is now stated that the exact winnings of Mr.
Long in bets over Grand Flaneur’s victories amount to
£12,000. The same amount,, it is said, was won by the
Hon. James White, and by two or three other gentle-
men. It was a New South Wales “school.
In the Royal Sydney Yacht squadron match for
£l5 for 7-ton'yachts. last Saturday, Mr. A. G_Milson s
lone, 6 tons, won. followed by Mr. W J Tnckett a
Mabel, 7 tons, 8| minutes later. Dr. Milford a Dons, o
tons was third. The wind was light and variable.
Thornton v. Els wick C.C., played on Saturday,
23rd October: won by Thornton, by 22 runs. Thornton
v. Chester C.C., played on Saturday, 30th October;
won by Thornton, by 17 runs. Thornton v Lismora
C. C., played on Saturday, 6th No vember; won by Thorn-
ton, by 22 runs. Thornton v. Caxthona C.C., played on
Saturday, 13th November; won by Thornton, by 12
runs.
The dinner given by Captain Chevalier, of the
(flagship) Zealandia, to the committee of the Balmain
Regatta and other friends was socially a delightful
affair, and from a gastronomic point of view would have
done credit to the chef of any Parisian restaurant, iho
pleasure of the event was heightened by the fact that
the festive board was graced by the presence of Mrs.
Chevalier. The toasts were : “ The host and hostess ;
“ The officers of the ship, coupled with the names of
Mr. Guest (chief officer) and Mr M'Donald (purser);
•‘The Vice-president” (Oapt. Broomfield); . CJ 10
Executive Committee,” coupled with the name of Mr.
Pitzhardinge and the lion. Secretary.
There was first-class racing at the Hunter River
Turf Club meeting. The results were: —Shorts: Beatrice
1. Kanaka 2, Hypatia 3. Handicap Ponv Race : Navy.
Eights 1. Useless 2, Amy 3. Ladies’ Mile: Kanaka 1,
Satellite 2, Nemo3. Hack Race : Silence IJasperess 2.
Voltaire 3. Nursery Handicap; Kerolite 1, Canary 2,
St. Clair 3. Trot Handicap: Charley won easilv from
Lioness and Grey Paddy. Turf Club Handicap: Stanlv,
7st. 71b., 1; Dexter, 7st 121 b., 2; Darkie, Bst. -.1b,, 2.
This was a most exciting race, Stanly winning by a bare
half head. Novel Race: Cremorne 1, Ozella 2.
Subjoined is a statement of the results of the
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club’s athletic sports
meeting on the Prince of Wales’ birthday; J5O Yards
Maiden Plate-A. J. Wells, 1; T. R. Bloomfield. 2 150
Yards Grand Intercolonial Handicap—Final Heat: w.
B. Freeman, 3 yds, 1; M. Evans. 6 yds, 2; A. J. Wells,
7 yds, 3. Time, 15’,sec. 120 Yards Handicap Hurdle
Race Final Heat: J. Robertson, scratch, 1; W. Lllm,
4 vds 2 Time, 17sec. 300 Yards Intercolonial Handi-
cap-Final Heat : W. B. Freeman, I; J. Bray, 15 yds,
2; M. Evans, 12 yds, 3. Time, 32sec. One Milo Handi-
cap Bicycle Race—W. S. Hazelton, scratch. 1: H.
Stevenson, 90 yds, 2; A. Mair, 6p yds 3. Yardfl
Handicap—For playing members of M.P.C.: D. Aitxen,
7 yds, 1: J. F. Watson, 5 yds, 2 ; E. W. Longden. 8 yds.
3. Time. 15|sec. Two Miles Handicap Walking
Match—M. Cann, 15 yds, 1; J. Ewm. !00 yds, 2; 1.
Woodhouse. scratch, 3. Time, 14mm 10sec. 440 Yards
Footballers’ Challenge Cup—J. Robert son, (Hotham), 1;
T. R. Bloomfield (Essenden), 2; W. Hall (Geelong), 3.
Time, 53sec. One Mile Handicap Flat Baco J.
O’Brien, 25 yds, 1; J- M‘(jaun, 60 yds, W. Slade,
scratch, 3. Time, 4min. 25s*. (the fastest yet made in
the colonies). Mr. Slade, the scratch man, was
formerly English amateur champion. Phiee Miles
Handicap Bicycle Bace-W H Hazelton scratch. 1;
H. Stevenson, 200 yds, 2; A. Mair, 120 yds, 3. ' 'me,
lOmin 40sec. H 0 Yards Intercolonial Handicap—J Bmy,
25 yds, 1; T. Knight, 25 yds, 2; M Evans, 18 yds, 3.
Time. 51lsec. 600 Yards Handicap Steepleohase-J. b.
Brunton, 40 yds, 1; J. Gerrard. scratch, -: J- Keane,
30 yds, 3. Time. Imin. ‘lotec. ioo Yards Blind Barrow
Race —F. Longden, 1.
The Dunedin and Christchurch Jockey Clubs
have removed the disqualification on M'Donald and the
mare Bluebell.
Joe Thompson lost <£20,000 oyer the Melbourne
Derby and Cup; Branch, £10,000; and Josephs, of
Sandhurst, £7OOO.
A sportsman was “hit” for eight doubles in
succession at the Parramatta races, and yet came off
with £2O to the good.
Money on Ned. Trickett was going a-begging
about Sydney on Monday. Twenty to seventeen was
offered, and no takers.
It is regarded as likely that a match will bo
made between M'Donald, of the Clarence, and Bob
Edwards, of Melbourne.
The first-class match of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Club is fixed for to-day (Saturday) and the
second-class on the 27th.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club have their
races for the 22ft. and 16ft. boats to-day (Saturday); for
their 19ft. and 18ft. boats, November 27 ; and the 24ft.
class on December 11.
Shakespeare on manly sports. Cricket: “I see
vou stand like greyhounds in the slips.” Henry V.,
act 111. scene 1. Football: “In sequent toil all for-
wards do contend.” Sonnet.
Edwards, the boatbuilder, has been doing a
roaring trade lately. He sent away in one week no
less than seventeen boats for the various rowing clubs
in Victoria and other colonies.
Joe Thompson, it’s said, sent home .£3OOO on his
own account to back Trickett. He also remitted £lOOO
on account of J. C. Williamson and Allison, of Adelaide,
and £lOOO from Sydney friends of Trickett.
A leading Melbourne sportsman cabled to one
of the best judges of rowing on the Thames for infer-
mation on the subject of the champion sculling match.
The answer was short but sweet, “ Hanlan.”
Elsinore C.C. v. Woodstock C.C. These clubs
met last Saturday at Bnrwood. The play resulted in a
win for the former by 23 runs. The bowling of Gyulay
and the batting of Brown were greatly admired.
A match played at Camperdown on Saturday
last by the Cambridge C.C. and the Alexandra (Double
Bay) club, resulted in a victory for the former by 88
runs. The scores were —Cambridge, 129 ; Alexandra, 41.
Kay and Smith, with 28 and 21 respectively, batted well
for Cambridge, as did Ellis with 12 for the Alexandra.
Mr. C. A. Benbow’s Harpy defeated Mr. J. H.
Want’s Guinevere in a match for £5O aside last Satur-
day. The distance was ten miles. The race occupied
seven hours, and with tacking, &c., about thirty-five
miles were sailed.
John Roberts, sen., and John Roberts, junr.,
recently played billiards at Brighton, England. The
programme consisted of a match of 2000 up, in which
the son gave his sire half the points as a start.
Roberts, junr., was in wonderful form, as will be seen
by the following items in his score 411 (one hundred
and thirty-four consecutive spots), 274 (eighty-five
spots), 903 (inclusive of two hundred and eighty-four
spot hazards), 151 and 263 (one hundred and seventy-
three spots). Roberts, jun., took up the cue but ten
times, thus giving an average of 200 for each break.
While the son was scoring his 2000 his father only put
together 240 points. The game wis concluded in the
remarkable time of 2 hours smm. John Roberts, junr.,
considers that this is the greatest performance he has
ever achieved with the cue.
There was considerable excitement on the Parra-
matta last Saturday, when Michael Rnsh and Wilham
Trickett scnlled over the champion course f o **^“ l “f;
Betting at the start was 7 to 4 on Trickett, without
many takers, the supporters of the Clarence man
having apparently invested pretty heavily at an
stage. Bush, owing to some misunderstanding regain-
ing the time appointed for a start, was twenty
minutes late ; but when at last a move was made,
the men got away smartly. Trick* tt with the advan-
tage. The latter, rowing a lively rather than a
powerful stroke, was allowed to lead for a little
more than a quarter of a mile; but after that Rash,
who for the nonce was in excellent condition, crept up
without effort and then passed his opponent. However,
a great many still thought that Trickett was pulling a
waiting race. Rush continued to lead, and at a mile
and a quarter was a coiiple of clear lengths in front.
Trickett spurted, but missing a stroke, knocked him-
self out of gear, and let the Clarence man increase his
lead. At Putney, Bush lead by at least five lengths,
and was evidently well satisfied with himself, for he
allowed his opponent to come up close and then darted
away again with the greatest ease. Thereafter the con-
test was of little interest, Rush pulling just ns
he pleased, and Trickett plugging away industriously in
the rear. At One Man Wharf Trickett spurted, but
Rush seemed to take little notice of the effort, and
pursued the even tenouf of his way until the brush,
where he wound up with a lively spurt, several lengths
in front of his antagonist. He was not in the least
distressed, whilst Trickett, who under no circumstances
could compare with the other man iu physique, seemed
weak and utterly out of condition. At the
settling, which took place at Punch’s same evening, it
was stated that Rush was willing to row Layceck for
£5OO on the latter’s return from England. In baturday s
match he showed much improved form in all respects,
and the public needn’t be at all surpri-ed if authorita-
tively informed that he ou-e mj*e a-pires to the
championship amimst ail comers The lime was 24m .
4lsec. A subscription for the beaten man was headed
b/ Rush with £5»
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER IV— Continued.
Here Helena came in, somewhat in the whirlwind
style, her tall figure erect—her silken skirts angrily
sweeping about her.
“You look annoyed, Miss Spencely, said Adrienne,
looking up trom where she sat, composed and cool.
“Annoyed!” repeated Helena, whose auger and
mortification had been augmenting all the time since
she had left home, and whose voice vibrated : 1 They
tell me on all sides my father is the richest man in
Thanshope, and that I shall have more money than
I know what to do with —some time. Some time,
indeed I And I cannot get five pounds now to help
people with. I’ve given away all my money. I have
just half a crown in the world, and I can’t get any
more for a month. Do you call that the proper to
treat a woman who will be responsible for five
thousand a year —some time ? My father said I should.
Do you call that the right means to accustom her to
the duties of her position ?”
She had turned suddenly, and almost fiercely, to
Sebastian.
“ Not at all,” said he at once, perceiving that her
lips quivered, and that she was divided between tears
of mortification and flames ofjanger. “Not at all, but,
my dear Miss Spencely, so long as wo have your
services, the money which you do or do not contribute
is not of the verj least consequence.”
“Don’t say that to me!” she exclaimed excitedly.
“ What is the use ? My services are nothing ; I can do
nothing.”
“ Indeed, I don’t know what I should do without
yon," said Adrienne. “ You can influence those girls
and women sometimes, when I can make nothing of
them. You can make them laugh heartily, when all
my efforts can only extort a solemn stare from them.”
“ You must not talk of going,” chimed in Sebastian.
“It is your countenance alone which reconciles my
mother to the undertaking. And if you did not come,”
he added, smiling. “ I don’t believe Hugo would have
anything to say to it ; and he is invaluable to me
amongst the boys. Dor Heaven’s sake, don’t desert
us !”
Helena, with downcast eyes, was taking off her
gloves. Her cheek was flashed, and she smiled a
little trivmphantly.
“ Girls can do something, then, after all ?” said she.
“ Have I not two living and bright proofs of the fact
before me now ?” ho replied, looking from one to the
other.
“Ah, yes I” said Helena, coolly, while the flush died
from her cheek, and the smile faded from her lips.
“Would you mind helping me off with my mantle?
Thanks. There comes Hugo von Birkenau. and there
is our first batch of girls. Miss Blisset. What is the
programme for this afternoon ?”
She was all business now; had tied on a great
holland apron, stud led with baggy-looking pockets, and
slung a huge pair of scissors by a string round her slim
waist. Adrienne was accoutred in a similar manner.
Helena stopped some of the girls who were coming in,
to make them carry a pile of calico to the workroom.
Raising his last, Sebastian loft them to their labours,
and joined Hugo outside.
Half of the great warehouse had been temporarily
cleared, and accommodated with benches and half a
dozen huge deal tables. This aft moon was to be a
“cutting-out” lesson —a lesson which, sooth to say,
Helena had had to learn herself for the occasion, from
her mother. The two young ladies, with some half-
dozen others, who rapidly followed on Helena’s steps,
each took a class, and began their instructions; the
women and girls standing round, and many of them
receiving their first impressions as to the practical con-
struction of the clothes they wore. The directions
were clear and simple enough; care was taken, by
questionings and cross-questionings, that the pupils
should thoroughly understand what was being explained
to them.
When the “ cutting out ” was over, they were
shown how to fix the things, and as they all sat doing
this, each one bringing up her performance when it was
complete, for approval and correction, there was much
talking and some singing, chiefly of hymns, in very
high and generally in minor keys. It was very
fatiguing work : the long standing, the continuous
talking, explaining, expounding, arranging and re-
arranging for the stiff, unaccustomed fingers, formed
no light task. After more than two hours and a half
of such labour, it was time to go. The work was
folded up, piled in heaps, laid on one side, and the
pupils prepared to leave.
Adrienne and Helena, both very tired, stood at the
door, counting them as they filed out
“ Three hundred and five,” they exclaimed together,
as the last one departed, and they smiled and turned
inside the room again to divest themselves of their
aprons and shears.
« Miss Blisset, will yon not come home with me, and
have some tea?" asked Helena, who had given the
invitation several times before, and always received the
same answer as on this occasion.
“ Thank yon very much. lam sorry to say I cannot
come.” , „ , , , .
“You always say that, said Hjlena, looking
earnestly at her. “I have tried in vain to get a little
conversation with you, and to know yon better. I
never see yon, except at the dingy schoolroom, where
I am sure the incentives to cheerful intercourse are not
smiled rather faintly as she replied :
“I am sorry; it looks rude, I know, but I must go
home to my uncle. Ho is not very wall at present;
and I am obliged to leave him so much. You must
excuse me!” _ , , , , ~ ~ ~
“ If I must, I must, I suppose, hut I don t, all the
same ” said Helena, turning away in some dissatis-
faction, and at that moment Sebastian and Hugo
entered, arm in arm.
“Miss Spencely!” said Hugo, eagerly, going up to
her; “it is getting dark. May I accompany you
h °™Oh yes, if you like,” said Helena, absently, while
she attentively listened to what was passing between
their fellow-workers. „ ..
“Miss Blisset," she heard Sebastian say. your
nncle particularly asked mo to call this afternoon. I
will walk with yon to Stouogaf.e, if yon will allow me.
“ I shall be very glad,” said she. “I am sure he
will be pleased to see you. Do you know, sometimes I
am afraid he will not live long.”
“His is hardly likely to be a long life, said
Sebastian, evasively. . , ,
« Oh, but it may be. Invalids—wh?n they are taken
such care of as I take of him—sometimes live a long
time. And he is not old, and it is not as if he had a com-
plaint in which there was danger of his dying sud-
“ Oo you dread his death so much ?” asked Sebastian,
folding her shawl around her.
“I do; and I fear for selfish reasons. Without him
I should be perfectly alone in the word.”
“You alone? not unless you wished it, said he,
almost reproachfully, whilst Helena, assisted by the
proud and happv Hugo, was wr ipping herself in the fur-
lined mantle with the sable border ; the mantle which
setoff her dark, piquant beauty to the utmost advan-
tage; for she was one of th >se truly English beauties
who look almost lovelier in their outdoor dress aud
with the flush of exercise upon their cheeks, than in the
airy fabric of the ball-room. But there was no flush
upon Helena's cheeks now. She turned to the boy who
had been, or wished to be, since he first saw her. her
particular page in attendance (if ho aspired to nothing
more in his own mind, and, despite all unfavourable
circumstances, he had always seen Helena the wife of
his worshipped friend), and said, in a voice that had
sunk and grown tired:
“Come, Hugo, I have no time to spare. We win
leave the others to lock up. I must go."
“ I’m ready and waiting your pleasure, mein gnddigee
Prd alein.” . ,
“ Don’t speak foreign tongues to me. Do you forget
what Gretchea said to Faust when he called her
Friiulein?” ... .
“‘Thank you, sir, I can walk home myself, that
would be shocking, and I will trot do it again.
“Good afternoon 1” suddenly said Helena, in a loutt,
elear voice, and she looked carelessly over her shoulder
at the other two, who started, as if suddenly recalled
to a sense of what was going on around them.
Helena suddenly began to speak, in?a voice bitter,
though it strove to be careless, and with a short laugn
that was not a merry one.
[to be contiotep.]
ME. J. MITCHELL, CANDIDATE FOR NEWTOWN.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
B. Y 0 U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Spring Millinery, now’s the time
„ Dresses, ready-made and made to order
u Parasols, Satin, Silk, Pompadour
„ Hosiery, Lisle Cotton, Silk
~ Dress Materials, all kinds
Gloves, Frillings, Laces, Fancy Goods.
J. B. YOUDAIE,
JjIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
PITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I 1 1
J, L. HORDERN.
The best and largest stock
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) geoege street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1861.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS * VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
•ST All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
N OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
« it ~ ~ Baby Linen
•t •» ~ Ladies’ Underclothing,
it »« ,t „ Dressmaking,
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
J.ONDON TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
>• Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AUD LINDSAY.
J£ON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
’S* e Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marchd is due to the following statements
a !2 °J 9? e t procurable
mPOrted fr ° m the leadi^
™ S r^ dly '“ The , Pri ° es are only a very slight advance
p ™es for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thmdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
Beautffuf F^sh^oods. 8 aIWRyS WeU a880rte(1 with new
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
(Comprising Coat, Vest.]
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well
cut and finished in the
best manner. I
32s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient ■
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; a use-
ful and durable suit
for business and ordi-
nary wear.
35s per
suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban-1 42s per
nockburns. for Spring ( Suit,
and Summer wear. j
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures. )
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Specially Light and")
Durable, the materials | a „
having been well }. 63s P er
shrunk before being I BUlt-
made up. J
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
Tin Superior Oriental')
Tweeds, cut in the „„ ~
[ latest style, and >• 68s
finished the same as I per Bm^-
L ordered clothing. J
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
/'Beautifully light in')
Orient ) Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
Serg Suits. j colour and very dur- C per suit
V able in wear. )
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
('Special attention is in-')
ivited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and Orient
most perfect in style I Clothing,
and flush procurable |
in the colony. J
/"In Superior Tasmanian
3 Flannel, thoroughly
j shrunk.
IBs 5d
{China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
.In Black Sergerette, 455.
/"In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■< In Black Merino, 30s.
(.In Super Sergerette, 555.
rSuper White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
I ~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
■( ~ ~ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s 6d.
LBlack Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
fin Superior, all Wool ~)
-j Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(. finished. )
The
Orient.
'A Special Dress Over-']
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- J-
fully tight, and agree-J
66s
able to wear.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
JgOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
C "1 7s 6d, 8s
In neat fashionable Bd, 12s 6d,
j Tweeds, neatly cut I 13s 6d, 15s
j and well made, and f 6d, 17s 6d,
i finished. j 19s 6d per
L J suit.
fin new shapes, very") 12s 6d to
j prettily trimmed, and > 19s 6d per
(. thoroughly well-made. J suit.
In fancy and plain
Drills, trimmed in
new and effective
styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
In superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s fid
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
/In light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- j 21s 6d to
able styles, well fto 23s 6d
| trimmed and strongly ) per suit.
L. made. J
(In fine durable Esta-l
mene Serge, admirably ( 22s to 27s
adapted for school and f 6d,
general wear. J
For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
. THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPEINp
MA TERIALS, G
Ready made for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK and SATIN POMPADOUR
in a ’
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT Etrpv
FIGURE. ViRY
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is in thorough working order, and is highly appr e .
dated, as the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY,
A PRETTY SCARF, Embroidered Ends, only &id.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality. Is 9d per
pair.
4-BUTTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
Prachutes, Sunshades, and Ladie’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices.
EDWIN RICE,
500 George-street.
J]MPOEIUM OF FASHION
THOMPSO
and
GILES’
MILLINER
("THOMPSON AND ’ GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
' comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, PICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
. variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 63s; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
_ every size.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPAETMEN'
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
COSTUME
DEPAETMEN'l
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other fabrics, &c.
THE
STANDARD
AMERICAN
SHIRT and CLOTHING
FACTORY,
Corner of
WYNYARD STREET
AND
WYNYARD LANE,
SYDNEY.
Excellence & Economy
Combined.
A PERFECT PIT
GUARANTEED
OR NO CHARGE.
LATEST
English and American
STYLES.
White Shirts to Order
A Speciality.
A Trial Solicited.
To a Discriminating
Public.
The Standard American
Shirt and Clothing Fac-
tory, in seeking a portion
of the patronage of this
community, the Proprie-
tor deems it an incumbent
duty to announce the
basis upon which its
business will be con"
ducted.
The heavy expense en-
tailed on other firms in
George, Pitt, and King
streets being avoided—
having secured a most
desirable and commo-
dious premises at the
corner of Wynyard-street
and Wynyard-lane, easy
of access, at a much less
rental and expense—
enables this firm to exe-
cute all orders at 40 per
cent, less than any other
tailoring establishment,
while at the same time
the materials used are of
the best quality, the work-
manship and style not to
be excelled, and the fit
perfect or no charge
made. The exhorbitant
prices charged for ordered
garments having become
burdensome, patrons will
no doubt readily avail
themselves of this wel-
come relief in the estab-
lishment of a first-class
Tailoring Emporium,
where excellence, style,
workmanship, and fit are
guaranteed, and economy
secured.
("■THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
Slain and printed Washing Dress
laterials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
- ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4jd
to 8|d; French Percales, from 9-Jd
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
WASHING
FABRICS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Onr prices commence 3s
Hd, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
- of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
„ all prices.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT AND CLOTHING FACTORY.
Corner of
WYNYARD STREET AND WYNYARD LANE.
£IOALCLIPP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BEICK
KILNS, LIME-BUENING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GEILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
I ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ")
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened > , T
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle.
SmaU coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
OENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from register on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
THOMPSON & GILES.
“Jj A 0 B CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “ HORDERN ’’ of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PAT,MS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STEEET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR,
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCEWTIH ECONOMY.
DON’T FOEGET
to calll at
THE NEW SHOP.
T. P. SI VI EE,
77 OXFOED-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Burney & Evans).
The New
GENTLEMEN'S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &c
Hosiery, Umbrellas, See.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PEIOES.
TT ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
JLi WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Chemists and Druggists
AEMSTEONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, •»
well as the most successful remedy for cougb,-.
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is fid, 2s fid, and 4s
fid.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILEa
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine," being the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease-
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY -EIGHT
HOURS. 4s fid and 100.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTBONQ’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. A E M S T E 0 N G,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE
NO M 0 E E
but try
PILLS
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness F
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are anyjof your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
V aluable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
46 and 47 George-strect.
Y EOYAL LBTTEES PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Mutter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such au
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chappc I
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph -
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephsou’a
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australiar
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at one - be
communicated with, and the large and daily increa ing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is fid each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMA
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
c Y,
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT,
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
H Y SIC.
P. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhoea, Piles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation —10 to 12,
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.
Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
£1 W. E 0 B E E
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS.
T S,
AND
OAC H AND HOESES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Me. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
%* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gnu can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
Hotels, &c.
riIHE COMPAGNONI PALACE
- 1 - CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM.
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
RTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Onmibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
rjIHE SYDNEY COPPEE PALACE No. 2.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and havei'27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Booms, Beading Room, Smoking Boom,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, fj>c., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Booms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled u} in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
T
ATT EES ALL’S HOTEL,
TERRARA, SHOALHAVEN.
Proprietor, P. STANTON
(Formerly of William-street, Sydney,andof Mittagong).
First-class accommodation for commercial travellers.
Good liquors, good table, Ac.
Good change for Sydney Sportsmen. First-class
sport in the neighbourhood.
X> I V E R VIEW HOTEL,
BIRCHGROVE ROAD,
Facing Cockatoo Island,
BALMAIN.
MICHAEL M'GEATH, so long and favourably
known as Landlord of the Warwick Castle Hotel,
begs to inform the residents of Balmain and the sur-
rounding districts that he has taken the above commo-
dious premises, and is prepared to accommodate
Boarders and to generally minister to the wants of the
public. Only the very best brands of Wines, Spirits,
and Beer kept, and M. M’GRATH trusts, by a care-
ful and conscientious regard to the comforts of those
who may favour him with a call, to merit a fair share of
public patronage.
N .B.—Visitors to the Balmain Regatta are particularly
requested to notice this advertisement.
RIVER VIEW HOTEL.
Australian wine.—carmichaeus
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf. Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
•yic
TORI A VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273). GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
A'°
HECARIES’
14 OXFORD STREET,
HALL,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAM E S, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
HE
APOT
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
g I M S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES.
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies onreceipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address —
SIMS AND PARKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
0 BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
The Celebrated
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
JUNI P E E TEEE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
SO*
&
cs
!r3
xn.
&
s
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public csti-
matiou. Common bitter crude beers are made very hne,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the pa I ate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers »toed to m
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
«AD£MAR
OAE’S HEAD ST|OUT.
This favourite brand of
stout
Is selected with great care from the best °f the brew-
ings of the celebrated fir;a of AETHER GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
fIR. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


The life of the Prince of Wales is assured for
£40.000. The annual premium is £800.
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.
Mr. and Mrs. J. South are in Sydney.
Bracy, of operatic fame, is doing well in England.
Signor Giorza’s masses are popular in Mel-
bonrne.
The “Pinafore” legal prosecutions cost Wil-
liamson £lOOO.
Maggie Stewart has had a legacy of JO2OO per
annum left her.
Lyster’s nephew is looking out, in London, for
talent for the colonies.
A new Opera Company is on its way from
England to the colonies.
At late dates the Loftus troupe were playing to
good houses in Cooktown.
The Williamsons open at the Hobart Town
Theatre Royal on Boxing Night.
The Misses Marie and Madeline St. Clair have
been giving successful concerts at Young.
Arthur Garner’s advertisement has kindled the
spark of hope in many an actor’s breast.
The diminutive but sprightly Clara Vesey leaves
the Soldene troupe, to marry a wealthy Russian.
The International Dramatic Agency, Melbourne,
have a registry of the names of all actors and actresses.
Saville, of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, be-
comes prompter and manager of the Opera House, York-
street.
Madame Carandini had no less than four benefit
concerts in Hobart Town,—tendered by admirers, of
course.
John Drayton (late Donnithorne) is losing his
voice by straining it improperly when he has a bad
throat.
“ Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player,”
*o. Yes, and many a "poor player” is a "walking
stick.”
“ Jack, the Giant-killer,” will be the Queen’s
pantomime this year.
The manager of the Austrian band can’t take
his people out of Melbourne without making a fresh
agreement with them.
Gilbert and Sullivan have sued the Opera
Coumdy Company, London, for playing “Pinafore.”
£30,000 damages claimed.
Fred. Marshall is little and good ; otherwise,
short and sweet. However, his comely wife compensates
for his shortness of stature.
Ahont 350 vocalists will take part in “ The
Messiah.” to be given by the Sacred Choral Association
and the Sydney Musical Union.
Wagner has signified his intention of coming to
the United States professionally for the small and
modest sum of 1,000 000 dollars.
D. Blair, Garnet Walch, and A. P. Martin are
the indges re the competition in dramatic productions
at Melbourne, for the £250 prize.
Ravnor's Panorama left by the Somersetshire
on Friday, November 12. in charge of Harry Stanley,
for another tour in South Africa.
Messrs. Edmund Holloway, Boothman and
Sweenev arc disputants as to which of them is eligible
for “ Falstaff " without padding.
Miss Pomeroy’s season at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, promises to be very successful, every seat
having been taken for her opening night.
Someone, it is asserted, is writing an Australian
Pastoral Tragedy in six acts, to ho entitled “ The
Wanton Lubra” or “The Adulterated Gin.”
“ Herr Steinbach,” formerly of Simonsen’s
Opera Companv, and now a teacher of dancing In
Hobart Town is engaged to a rich heiress in that lovely
city.
The Williamsons go to Tasmania for a well-
earned spill. Meanwhile arrangements will be made for
the production in Melbourne of the “ Pirates of Pen-
zance."
A club in Sandhurst, called the “ Pickwick,”
plaved (?) “ Black eyed Snsan" lately, and the William
weighed about 18 stone. Sailors well-fed in his
quarter.
Joseph Wieniawski, brother of the great violinist,
lately d ceased, has created a. furore in Wiesbaden by
his wonderful piano playing in the so-oalled “ Kur
Concerts. ”
The Civil Service Musical Society give Signor
Qiorza a benefit concert at the Masonic Hall, this
(Thursdav) evening. The Exhibition cantata will ha
performed.
The Stewart Family open at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, in the pantomime “ Sin bad the Sailor.”
Great preparations are being made under the direction
of B. N. Jones.
At Rockhampton. M'Lean’s Troubadours have
be°n fairiv successful. Thev have been playing “ Con-
rad and Liz “Milky White," “Pinbehind,” and
“ The Two Bailiffs.”
Mr. 0. J. Phillips, an accomplished musician,
son of the great Dublin organist of that name, has ar-
rived in Svdnev, and brings with him the highest
musical credentials.
There is a Herr Schott, R.A.M., in Hobart
Town, and there is a Herr Schott, R.A.M., in London.
The Roval Academy of Music has therefore two Herr
Schotts on its books.
Fred. Thorne is engaged for the Bijou Theatre
(Melbourne) at Christmas It is to be hoped he will
net be so stereotyped as formerly. “ I want to go home
to mamma,” &a., had better be shelved.
A “composer” called upon a gentleman the
other day, and said, “Yon are now immortal; I have
named ray new solo for the bassoon after you.” Arnica
now figures prominently in that virtuoso’s chemist’s
bill.
Great effects often result from small causes. A
beautiful ballet was recently spoiled by a flea getting on
the back of the principal danseuse at the moment she was
about to he crowned the Queen of Love and Grace by a
symmetrical Cupid with rosebud wings.
J. H. Martin, tho “ old man ” of the Queen’s,
has serious thoughts of relinquishing the “legitimate”
and exhibiting himself as “ The Pat Boy,” supported
by Enmrtt and Lenton as " Tho Living Skeletons.’” It
is probable they will shortly make their debut at the
Egyptian Hall.
Epigrammatic epithalmium.—
Slid E. to D., “I’m tired of thee.
For you I have no passion tender.
Now South's my course
Wichom remorse."
Thus “ D.” reoeiveda cool “up-ender."
Mr. Hugh Lablache, son of Mr. Frederic Lah-
lache, the well-known singing master, and grandson of
the famons “Jupiter,” is engaged to accompany Mrs.
Scott-Siddons on her next tour in the United States and
Canada Mr. Lablache is a rising young actor, and has
made great strides in his profession lately. Such names
as Lablache and Siddons ought to draw.
Writes an Australian in England:—Strolling
into the Gaiety Restaurant a few days since I heard an
order given for “ dark brandy.” Knowing this to be
pure y colonial, as they call it “brown brandy” here,
I turned round and beheld Harwood, late of Melbonrne.
A few minutes afterwards I saw John Hill, Da Murska’s
husband ; he wields the baton at the Strand under the
nom de theatre of Hillier. Australians and Americans
are getting quite plentiful in London.
Says a Melbourne writer : —“ There are a great
many people about who say that a large contingent of
these Austrians are Italians from Cork. Let the trust-
ing individual who has lent an over-credulous ear to
this ghastly fiction go to Yon Henningham’s (where
‘ most thev congregate ’), and delight his ears with the
beautiful Irish brogues he will hear. If not up in the
Doric, Fr au Henningham will translate. Give this child
a strong man condemned to death, cursing his fate,
weeping and swearing, dreading the coming event; let
yonr Sum guide him down Swanston-street, and moke
liim listen to this Austrian Irish for one brief hour, and
the doomed man will think it a cruel shame that he
should have to wait a week to he hanged.”
George Yates, who recently bought an interest in,
M’Lean’s Juvenile Troubadonrs, was brought back on
warrant to Ballarat, charged with forgery, and also
with embezzlement of his late employer’s money. He
used to act as clerk to Mr. T. Stoddert. sharebroker,
and managed to manipulate certain cheques, whereby
Mr. Stoddert considers he has suffered to the extent of
£lOOO. Two specific charges were brought against the
Ballarat City Police Court, but as the prose-
cutor was merciful enough to allow the charge to be
altered from forgery and embezzlement to that of lar-
ceny, George Yates got off with eighteen months’ im-
prisonment. -It is rumoured that he was “ struck ” on
one of the girls of the company, and only married her
two days before the exposure.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
It is not ladylike to wear evening shoes in the
street.
Mr. Reginald Bright, of Melbourne, is going to
he married.
Mr. Prank Brewer will lead Mias Bessie Harri-
son to the Hymeneal altar on the 23rd inst.
“ Spotty’s ” faultless “ get up ” in “ The
Lancashire Lass ” heralds the coming fashion.
“ A naval engagement.” A Darling Point belle
is to be married shortly to an officer of the Wolverene.
The richest widow in Brighton (Melbonrne), will
shortly lead to the altar a plain-looking young man.
“Barkis is Willan."
The only son of a well-known gentleman living
at Ash field is engaged to the daughter of an eminent
architect.
The Duke of Manchester appeared at the races
at Flemington with a large yellow umbrella, lined with
green silk.
Mr. Murdoch marries Miss Cissy Fletcher, of
Sandhurst, »n his return. The lady is of great personal
attractions, and is the niece of a Victorian millionaire.
Tasmanian lodging-house keepers are ready for
the season—open-armed, open-mouthed, and open-
pocketed. In the latter respect the yawning gulf is
bottomless. “ Come over and help ns,” is the cry.
Charming weather has set in, too.
The other evening a “ children’s fancy dress
ball ’’ was given by Mrs. W. K. Thomson, at her
residence, Eumesburgb, Brighton, Melbourne. Over 100
children were present, and after spending a most en-
joyable evening, they were all put to bed.
Some pretty toilets were seen in George-street
last week. One was a dress of cream brocade over pale
sateen, laced and looped nn with cardinal cord. Another
was of white cashmere trimmed with black velvet. A
handsome brunette wore a light pompadour, with
sleeves and underskirt of olive green.
A surveyor of the Braidwood district intends shortly
to become a Benedict. The young lady who is to
brighten his hearth hails from Murrumburrah, and is
petite and wealthy. Alas! for the other poor girls.
There is still a bean left; but, as an old lady once re-
marked, “he is old,” and there is a shrewd suspicion
afloat that he is already appropriated.
A ball was given by Mr. B. Hollingdale. of
Macqunrie-etreet, on Wednesday week. The aflairtook
place at Need’s Assembly Rooms, which were beauti-
fully decorated with flags and coloured lamps. _ About
150 were present. There was an extensive display of
handsome toilets, and the evening was a most enjoyable
one. The supper, supplied by Compagnoni, was all
that could be desired.
A fashionable redding was solemnized by the
Rev. Thomas Kemmis, at St. Mark’s Church, Dnrling
Point, on Tuesday week, when Miss Minnie Roberts,
youngest daughter of Mr. C. W. Roberts, and sister of
Alderman C. J. Roberts (ex-Mayorcf Sydney), was united
to Mr. George T. Rowe, of Terrara, The marriage was
witnessed by a numerous and genteel assemblage of
relatives and friends of the happy pair.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Eev. Charles Clark is in Birmingham, back
in the pulpit.
Bishop Perry (Anglican) and Archbishop Goold
(R. 0.) arrived in Melbourne as its first prelates in
October 1818. Dr. Perry is five years older than Arch-
bishop Goold, who is now in his 68th year.
Mr. Spurgeon speaks of a class of preachers
who preach so high over the heads of the common wants
of common people that one would imagine that they
supposed themselves called to feed giraffes rather than
sheep.
St. Mary’s (R.C.) Cathedral, Hobart, will be
finished in January next, and it is hoped that all the
archbishop 3, bishops, &c., of Australia will flock to the
little island to make the inaugural ceremony a “real big
thing.”
Cardinal Manning has become a subscriber to
the movement for establishing coffee taverns at Wool-
wich and other garrisons for the troops and their
friends, and has expressed his warm sympathy with
the scheme. ’
A Benedictine Monastery has been opened at
Fort Augustus, in the Highlands of Scotland. A large
gathering of the Catholic Hierarchy and Nobility,
including his Eminence Cardinal Manning, the Arch-
bishop of Edinburgh, the Bishops of Salford, Dunkeld—
(“ Oh what a pairish. a terrible nairish.
Is the pairish of Little Dunkeld :
They’ve hangit the minister, drooned the precentor.
And streckit the auld steeple bell ”) —
Aberdeen. Argyll and the I«!cs, Galloway, Clifton, and
Bishops Ullatborne and Hod ley, the Duke of Norfolk,
the Marquis of Bute, the Earls of Gainsborough and
Denbigh, and Lord Lovnt, were present. The Reverend
Prior is a member of one of the oldest Catholic families
in England, and the son of Colonel Vaughan. Strange to
sav, nearly all, if not all, the members of the family are
high ecclesiastics. The Prior, the Bishop of Salford,
and the Archbishop of Sydnev, are brothers, the
Bishop of Plymouth being an uncle, anc the Bishop of
Clifton a cousin
PEPPER AND SALT.
'More “Christian philanthropy”—of that kind
which saves souls and knocks 120 per cent, out of the
transaction. There is a Christian philanthropist in the
Words of Grace office. In a recent issue of the
Christian Weekly appears the following paragraph :
“ The good work to which wo have referred—the sup-
plying of Words of Grace to lighthouse-keepers—has,
unfortunately, suffered retrenchment in consequence
of the failure of friends to support the effort by their
aid. But we propose to send copies of Words of
Grace on our own responsibility for a time, and shall
continue to do so if kind friends will help us in a work
which is so noble and necessary. The Lighthouse
Mission is a work which has a special claim upou a
people like ourselves, who depend so much upon mari-
time commerce. Wo hope God will put it into the
hearts of many of His people to help to send
words of good cheer (otherwise Words of Grace) to
these noble men. * * * * Contributions should be
sent to our office, and should he endorsed for ‘The
Lighthouse Mis.-ion.’ ” Now, why should the Words
of Grace specially be sent ? Why not the Bible ? Is
it because that is not printed at the Christian Weekly
office ? Why should it not be the Bulletin ? Were It
our business we’d merely say: “Take this paper;
three shillings a quarter; send along the money.”
What the Christian philanthropist says is this : —“ Let
ns send these benighted men Words of Grace to save
their souls.” Not a word about the figure per quarter.
That comes in afterwards. Theu the philanthropist
adds : “ We hope God will put it into the hearts of
many of His people to help to send Words op Grace
to these men.” How niee it would read if we used the
same words : “We hope God will put it into the hearts
of many of His people to help to send the Bulletin to
those men.’’ It would be perfectly correct according
to philanthropic ideas, and, of course, a good many
would be gulled. One thing has certainly been over-
looked by the philanthropist. It is that lighthouse-
keepers are, as a rule, much nearer what is popularly
supposed to be Paradise than the Words of Grace
people. And, even after the Trickett-Haulan boil-over,
we’re ready to wager that three pen’orth of Bulletin
will go further towards making a roan waltz into the
bosom of Abraham or perch himself on a blue cloud
singing “Hallelujah!” than would six pen’ortb of
Words of Grace.
Shortly before the last band contest a certain
conductor was so overcome by his exertions to make
the D flats in his squad B sharp, and pull off a trophy,
that he lay down in a paddock on his way home, and
presently slept that sleep which is peculiar to the just.
Just as Aurora tipped the dawn next morning an old
cow in an adjacent paddock poked her head through
the fence and began to bellow in a style that almost
woke the peaceful dead at Rookwood. Instantly the
bandmaster rolled over and roared, “ Hey I —d you,
Jorkins, don’t you hear you’re flat —pullout that shank
or I’ll belt that trombone over yonr denied old wooden
head, I will." Then the cow said, “ I beg your pardon,
sir ;” after which the conductor apologised, and, rising
np, he went back to his company, who cleverly scored a
good last in every event they went for.
A most ridiculous story is going the rounds just
now about a girl who was afraid of being kissed, but as
all the credit is given to the wrong person I will tell
the affair my own way. It seems a young man from
Bathurst set out on what the ancients called the
“Wallaby.” He had the usual swag of blankets, pots,
&c., slung round his chest; in his left hand he carried
a large galvanised iron tub and a live turkey ; and with
his right he held a small prop, and endeavoured to lead
a restive, skittish filly. As he went up George-street
he met a Bathurst girl, and they walked and talked
until they came to the top, when the girl stopped, and
said she would go no further. “ Why?" asked the
astonished youth. “ Because,” said the bashful maid,
“ you might put your arms round my neck and kiss
me.” “That is impossible," replied the tramp, “be-
cause lam completely loaded.” “ Ah, yes," returned
the cautious girl, “ just now you are; but you might
stick that pole in the ground, and tie your horse up to
it with one of the straps around your swag, put the
turkey underneath tho tub and the bundle on top to
keep it down, and then how could I prevent yon rising
np and kissing me?” “By Jove,” said the youth, who
could take a hint, “ I never thought of that before, and
now I’ll doit.” It came to pass be did it. [We have
heard this story before. —Ed.]
We have been requested by the Under-Secretary
to Government in the Job Department to publish the
following notification:
“ All appointments of a clerical nature in the Lands
Department will in future be made by open competition.
The principle under which appointments have hitherto
been made will still be followed as far as possible in the
new system. The subjects for examination and the
number of marks allotted to each will be as follows :
(1) Relationship to a Member of the Legislative
Assembly 500
(2) Relationship to a Member of the Legislative
Council 300
S 3) Proficiency in Boating 75
4) Proficiency in Cricket 75
(5) Arithmetic 10
(6) Book-keeping and Kuowledge of Accounts... 7
(7) Writing from Dictation 8
(8J English Language, Literature, and History
(optional) 7
(9) Skill.at Billiards 18
Total 1000
After a fair trial in the Lands Department, the system,
if successful, will be extended to the other branches of
the Public Service.
“ (Signed) Hoosier Taylee,
“ Under-Secretary to Government
“ Job Department."
An eminent and learned Judge the other day
announced that whisky was the price of pressmen. We
are glad to notice that someone has at last descended
from a dignified and lofty position to ameliorate the
currency. But it is to be regietted that his Honor did
not prosecute his enquiries still further, for he might
have told the world the particular brand most suitable
for legal tender. It may be mentioned that we swear
by Lome, and that we are much obliged to the judge
for having made the foregoing intimation at a time so
opportune for pressmen as the eve of a general elec-
tion.
One of the best known and ablest of our surgeons
has a “buttons” and two waiting-rooms, and his stand,
ing instructions to his “tiger” are that patients or
visitors whose appearance indicates that they are liable
to expectorate on the “ Brussels ” are to be shown into
the outer waitiugroom. On the other hand, the “ tiger”
has orders that people of more imposing exterior are to
be conducted into tho inner waiting-room, which is
elaborately got up in blue and morocco, and is a kind of
holy of holies—in fact. “ And do you know," remarked
the surgeon to me the other day, “ I’ve never yet found
the boy put a newspaper man into that inner waiting-
room.”
There’s a Government clerk in Melbourne who
is as bald-headed as a Lachlan codfish, and being asked
the other day why this was thus, he replied that he didn’t
know, but he thought he’d lost his hair by allowing so
many young Berrys ta step over his patient head.
There was a tall thing in weddings out Darling
Point way on Prince of Wales’ birthday, when fortunate
Mr. Terrara Rowe led the charmiug sister of our genial
ex-Mayor to the gay hymeneal altar. I thought I could
reel off an epithalmium on this auspicious event, aud
after a few sleepless nights, got this far—
“ Rowe sisters, Rowe, the tied are fast;
The breakfast is near, and they’re one at last.”
This, however, was too much like the Canadian Boat
Song to seem appropriate, so I wooed the gentle muse
once more—that is to say, I drank four long beers, and
wrote the following—
“ Sister of Charley, cease to weep.
For love shall watch, and falsehood sleep;
The sun at dawn that lifts his blaze
From ocean, and the world surveys,
Shall never rise, shall never even shine,.
On beauties that shall rival thine."
On second thoughts, perhaps, I’d better own up and
admit I “shook 1 ’ the above from Catullus. Hanley Ben-
nett is about again, and as he was always an admirer of
the Verouian bard, maybe he’d split on one. Anyway,
here’s the happy couple’s health, and may they both live
long and prosper.
People talk bier about the Head-quarters’ Band
and the Austrian Band, and the band of the Coldstream
Guards, but these lunatics never heard the band from
Newtown. This hand has a style of its own, and alto-
gether does much to rob Death of its greatest terrors"
When a tune is selected for mangling all the treble ini
struments play the air—or as near to the air as they can
get by hand—and they play it four octaves higher than
the misguided composer thought fit to write it. Then
the bass assassins sail in and play the same air ahont
four octaves lower than it was tendered for, and the
boms, euphoniums, &c., jog along on their own ac-
count, and fill up the entrails of the tune, as it were"
whilst the drummer fancies he is a second Foley, and
that the drum is the defenceless head of his mortal
enemy. It is said that upon one occasion a constable
or a poundkeeper, or some other military official, having
died over there, it was decided to give him a first-class
funeral, and the Newtown hand rented themselves out
for £5 a man to cheer him home, and give him some-
thing to blow about when he got to the land of table,
thumping spiritists. So long as the musicians confined
themselves to Moody and Sulky, the deceased stood the
infliction bravely, but when they drifted into the Dead
March and began to throw flats and sharps about in all
directions, the corpse kicked the lid of the coffin over a
three-storied house, and, sitting up, yelled out, “if
someone didn’t gag those players, he’dbe hanged if he’d
let them bury him ; said he’d get out and stop the show
first.” The band put these remarks down to his bad
taste, or his disagreeableness at first, and took no notice
of him, but when he flung a brick at tho cornet-player’s
head, aud asked him what kind of a tune “ Tim
Flaherty” was to play at a decent person’s funeral, the
musicians packed up their weapons and moved away,
observing, as they went, “ that an ass like that didn’t
deserve a Christian burial.”
In England spring and winter have come together at
last. At least, I presume they have, as the Earl of
Malmsbury, aged 63, has just married an attractive
young lady aged 19, and when his mother-in-law skips
out after tea to rally up the fowls, the gallant Earl
takes his little spring on his knee, and observes that
the man who said that it was impossible to put a young
head on old shoulders ought to go and soak his head in
a tan-pit. And then, the young head lays over on the
old shoulders, and sweetly lisps—“ Of tourte he tood,
dear Marmy.”
That part of Pitt-street which is intersected by
King-street is perhaps the most remarkable spot in ail
the city; because, although it has four comers, still
there is only one public house on each of them. In any
other country there would be at least three, with a
barber’s shop, a pawnbroking business, and a tract store
at each comer; and in some places another hotel would
be built in the middle of the street, and the place
between tilled up with a full-sized brewery.
During the past week C.M.G. Davies has spoken
48 hours, aud Dr. Tanner himself couldn’t have
drunk more water. His committee, however, do their
best to relieve the monotony of John’s teetotal perfor-
mances, and the Young Men’s Evangelical Association
now declare that unless he holds his future meetings in
the (Gospel Tent, and winds up with the benediction,
they will slew round to a man and plump for M'Elhone.
On Monday last John answered every question but one,
and this was put by a fiend in the crowd as follows.-
“ Mr. Davies.” “ Sir,” said John. “ Have you seen The
Bulletin lately, and are you a subscriber thereto, or is
it true you only send out and borrow it P” John im-
mediately noticed this was just the time to change the
conversation. So he told the "rowd that he was a self-
made man, and not a fellow who was built by contract.
Ketten has, I hear, been falling off very much
of late in Melbourne. He bought another horse. Last
Tuesday, as he was poking about the Exhibition, his
eagle eye was struck by a small pamphlet in the Bible
Court, “ The Sermon on the Mount.” Henri at once
perceived this was what his vaulting soul so longed for.
He would purchase, read, mark, and inwardly digest
this book, aud then he like to see the horse that could
spill the child from Hungary. His language ten
minutes after this, however, was very bad,
I am an Australian, right out, and therefore
dropped money on Trickett. When I retired to— not
to rest —on Monday night, my only regret was that we
southerners hadn’t an eagle, so that we might make her
flap when the paper came out. I had already written a
new version of the Canadian boat song, dedicated to
Hanlan and calculated to make him weep ; but when, at
half-past 5, I arose and, not finding either of the
dailies under the door, enquired of a melancholy look-
ing policeman, evidently a native, on the subject nearest
my heart, I was glad when his answer came that our eagle
was only an emu, with short wings. It was then that
I discovered that the wild and free marsupial was sick,
as per picture in to-day’s issue. Frank M’Neill, the book
man, who has made his pile, or is going to make it, by
telling truths about bibles, says Hanlan is a Canadian.
Perkins and the Novelty fellow says he’s an “ Amurr’-
kun” citizen—now that he’s won.
V.
The spirits. There are a number of persons in
this city who profess, poor things! to write, and,
indeed, act under supernatural agency. Upon the
actions of some of these fantastic beings we prefer not
to touch, inasmuch as their very obscurity renders
them secure from censure. Of their writings, however,
it will suffice to say, that if they are really dictated by
the spirits, the denizens of Shadow Land must pos-
sess some very curious notions with regard to English
syntax. It is poetry, strange to say, in which these
droll creatures especially delight, and their efforts are
certainly entitled to rank with those spasmodic pieces
of the Della Cruscan School, which have been long since
utilised by the trunkmaker and the butterman. The
male bards ere always “ melting in pure delight,” and
the lady lyrists eternally making the injured “ moon-
light air come stealing o’er the land.” All these people
pay for the pleasure of getting into print, and pay
handsomely too ; and as the publications in which their
lucubrations appear are principally given away among
themselves prior to being purchased (wholesale) by the
butcher, the authors are enabled to continually smirk
with the conviction that at last they are read by a few
score of persons, whose intellectual capacity is, at any
rate, on a par with their own It is then, to these
table-tilting gentry that we dedicate the appended
little stanzas
IN MEMORIAM: ADELAIDE NEILSON.
There is a mournful whisper at the wings.
To every lip a cry of sorrow springs ;
Our queen has crossed the threshold of the tomb,
The voice that thrilled with love is hushed in gloom;
Lost, lost for ever, is her sunny smile,
No more shall Beatrice our hearts beguile;
For gentle Juliet let our tears be shed,
“ Alack the day; she’s dead, she’s dead, she’s dead.”
The Wisdom of Trust.
QUESTION.
“ If hope be vacant—baseless faith—
Our dreams of future bane and bliss
The hollow menace of a wraith.
And lust of unborn selfishness :
What wore the purpose, then, of life.
If this be so?” the doubter asks:
“Why stay the combat and the strife
Of that which nought but chaos masks ? "
ANSWER.
To him the truster: “ Spare thy pains.
Why tarriest thou with hope and fear ?
The now is thine. Rack not thy brains
With sequence of thy being here.
Thy path is duty’s. Our behest
Stands validly on either shore, —
To make bad better, better best:
Good follows good for evermore.
We see a brainless coterie
A table grouped around ;
The room is large, and scantily
In furniture 'tis found.
We see a few droll-looking men;
Strange women, too, are there, . . .
The “ glim ” is quickly “doused,” and then
The spirits fill the air.
The table tilts up to the right
Ten inches or a foot;
In sooth, a weird and wondrous sight,
But—where’s the medium’s boot ?
And when the raps come presently.
Quite loud enough to stun.
Where is—we ask it with a sigh—
The medium's eldest son ?
And when theflow’rs come through the wall —
Are scattered in the gloom.
Where is the box the lady tall
Had hidden in the room ?
And when the banjos leap on high.
With phosphorescence fair.
How well that medium's hand and eye
Work that frail line of hair!
’Tis sad to see these bizarre folk
So credulous and dense,
So angry at a harmless joke.
So lost to common sense;
So lost to all but phantasies
That wreck the human brain f
So lost to all but mockeries
They bow down to in vain !
How can the spirits benefit
Their weak-brained votaries ?
Can they bestow unon them wit —
The sense or power to please?
The spiritualistic brain.
Of clap-trap ever full.
Can but pour out a sniv’Uing strain.
Both pitiful and dull.


Notice.
The fact that this issue of The Bulletin is printed on
white paper is dne to onr having used up all the
fine tinted paper in the colonial market. We believe
■that our readers prefer tinted paper, but shall be under
the necessity of continuing to use white pending the
arrival, from England of direct shipments arranged for
some time ago and now overdue.
Notice to Advertisers.
On and after Ist December tbe charge for
advertisements in The Bulletin will be Five Shillings
(55.) per inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin ana
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of The Bulletin is
now guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per mouth.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
we find it necessary to go to press much earlier thaii
formerly.
Our advertising patrons are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
Bulletin Office, 13 Bridge-street,
Sydney, 11th November, 1880.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
A well-known trainer is now Branch’s partner
in bookmaking.
An Essendon lady lately had her two pet dogs
poisoned. She is having a tombstone erected to their
memory.
Mnch regret is felt by the ladies at the ravages
time is making in the raven locks of Sir Arthur Nichol-
son, our youngest baronet.
Now that the summer is coming on, the Exhi-
bition building will be like an oven. The roof is only
twenty feet lower than yours.
The main avenue in the northern annexe at the
Exhibition is popularly known by the name of “ Bourke-
street,” on account of its shoppy appearance.
Alderman Meeks, of Sydney, is now gracing
Melbourne with his presence. He says there is nothing
to beat our City Baths, and he intends introducing them
to the “ great unwashed ” of Sydney.
The best bull of the Exhibition is that contained
in the following notice appended to a luxurious arm-
chair in the British (not necessarily Irish) Court: —
“ This chair has been sold five times. Only one more
for sale.”
The Esplanade, St. Kilda, was the scene of a big
scuffle the other evening. The combatants were two
gentlemen, one well known in sculling circles, the other
a medical student. As usual, there is “ a woman at the
bottom of it.”
For reasons best known to themselves the man-
agement of the Theatre Boyal have been keeping the
name of the Borneo to Miss Pomeroy’s Juliet a pro-
found secret. Rumour speaks of J. C. Williamson assum-
ing the char a , but we refrain.
Edwards, the proprietor of the Bendigo Inde-
pendent. hitherto a servile Berryite organ, has apphed
for and been refused the Government Printership. The
Independent is now abusing Berry—on purely political
grounds, It’s pleasant to see “ the biter bit.”
The Mayor of a certain big municipality in
Victoria recently said : “ Measles are a kind of emetic
that unless it’s put down they will he fatal. It was the
same dignitary who the other day wrote in the records
of the City Police Court in a case of “drunk"—
“plaided guilty—fined 55."
Be Vivo, the entrepeneur of Be Murska and
Patti fame, still lingers in Melbourne. His house is in
New Jersey, U.S. It cost him 50,000 dollars to erect,
and it is there where his family resides. De Vivo loves
America better than Italy, but then he has not lived at
home for twenty-five years.
On the last day of the races at Flemington
Henri Kowalski, “the talented and genial pianist,”
was present, and the ladies waltzed and buzzed aronnd
him in true artistic style. But Monsieur assumed a
perfectly indifferent air, which was quite out of tune
with his “Belles of Melbourne Waltz,” the outcome
of Cup Hay. Kowalski resembles an Englishman rather
than a foreigner.
The French dinner given by M. Belconr, the
consul, at Menzics’, was a grand affair. Exclusive of
the wine hill, the caterer received three guineas a head.
M Kowalski looked after the musical arrangements,
and the wines were selected by M. Courmeaux from the
exhibits of the various nations at, the Exhibition. M.
Courmeaux is considered to be the best judge of wines
in France. Why not stop in Prance, then ? It seems a
folly for him to Courmeaux-ver to the antipodes in
search of champagne.
Mrs. Blank, wife of a well-known N.S.W.
Back Block” squatter, in her great excitement to get
a seat in the railway carriage on Cup Hay, was seen to
smack a gentleman in the face several times as he held
the door and prevented her from getting in. He politely
raised bis hat and said, “ Madam, excuse me, I was
merely assisting my lady friend in front.” In the con-
fusion the irascible N .S. W. lady lost one string of her
bonnet, and appeared on the grand stand rather lop-
sided and very like a “ peony."
This is a true bill. The respected proprietor of
a certain big city hotel died recently, and an Argus
reporter was sent to “do the funeral. As the pr
cession was to start from a place where there was plenty
of liquor, the scribe went early, and at the foot of trie
hotel stairs was met by a waiter who said, in a low
voice, “ Please come this way, sir. They ascended the
stairs, and when the landing was reached, the waiter,
pointing to a door which stood ajar, softly whispered.
.< xh a t is the mom.” The reporter felt perplexed, hut
he entered,—and found himself—in presence ot the
corpse. Heavens ! he had been mistaken for the unaer-
The French Comedy Company at the Novelty
Theatre does not pay. The empty array of benches
causes a depression of spirits that requires all the ener-
gies ot the talented little company to awaken. Jeoftne
Andree is the star at preseub-she is clever, versatile,
and natural; a new addition is expected in the person of
Mdlle. Eugenie He Grand, whose talents are well known
to all Melbourne playgoers. Jealousy, which finds a
menial home in the French breast, has already put in an
appearance at the Novelty; Andree and He Grand are
rival stars. The question at issue is, who is to play
“ Frou Frou ? ” Both ladies are noted for their excel-
lent tempers. _ )}
A Baily Telegraph reporter was “ flashing
a pound in the street the other night when a young
woman snatched it out of his hand. He chased her,but
could uot catch her. Next morning, in company with
a detective, he visited her residence and had her
locked up She was brought up at the court, but
he. with 1 the gallantry characteristic of reporters in
their cooler moments, did not prosecute Where he
got the pound from has not transpired. His is the first
instance on record of a reporter possessing so large a
sum That he lost the money at all would have been
utterly incredible, but for the fact that he only lately
came te town. _
At a Shire Council election meeting the other
dav the only man whom the candidate could mdnee to
take the chair was a Milesian, to whom he had long
owed £1- However, the patient one was moved into
the chair,” in which he sate silently. Well, Mr. >
circulated the candidate, after waiting some time, let, s
geT along with business.” “Not until youpay m «tlm
one nound” was the chairman’s reply. ‘ Oh. we ll
squam that up afterwards ” repHedtbccand.date,
Jz* “No fear, answered the creditor. v ery wen,
Ws the note.” testily said the candidate, throwing
the “ flimsy ”on the table. Then the chairman got up,
proclaimed that the meeting “ stood adjourned, and
marched off, the meeting following him.
An intpllicrent vniiTiCT lady, one of the very lew
who come and not to wt the ExHbflmn, has
nninted out to us a curious anomaly in the owns cou ,
in the shape of a Swiss girl attired in betX
costume of her country, who possesses Jtah beau ,
was born in Melbourne, and sings Bo-
^ native (?) language she knows nothing , m tne sou
sSo-strains of the Eanz-des-Vachcs she is equally at
sea • and of the existence of Mont Blanc she is eharm-
SIV ignorant. This young Swiss lady remmds me very
much of Bamum’s Fijian cannibal who for
bi»b«r wages. “ Shure, said the quasi aaiK-mieu
anthropophagi to a bystander, “ this is not the rig t
way to treat a Tipperary boy, at all, at ail.
Personalities don’t go down with the Melbourne
nubile and as a consequence the new paper does
not mXe much head-way. The Tom Hick and
Haxrv of fashionable life may consider rt a sjdendid
thing to he lifted out ot their pro
claimed “the handsomest man in town, the host- |
dressed man,” &0., &c., ad nauseam, but in the con-
ducting of a paper—as in everything else —a great deal
depends upon “the way in which it is done:” if the
bigwigs are to be approached let it be done in a gentle-
manly style. The young jounmal has already
received a warning. Windsor, of the Aoe, has intimated
his intention, should nnv further allusion be made to
him, “to break a few sticks up Queen-street way.’ He
says he will do it quietly, as he has no intention of ad-
vertising the paper.
The latest item of theatrical gossip is that the
Kelly troupe made their first appearance on the night
of the same day as that on which their relative
was executed. The locale was the Apollo Hail,
where some speculating miscreant exhibited them
to the tune of a shilling a-head admission.
Kate Kelly assumed a bouquet. We believe that
it was originally the intention of the cntrepeneur
to have engaged the services of Billy Gaunson
as corner man, but Billy was so cut up at the
cutting down of his friend Ned, that he felt himself a
cut above such an exhibition of his grief. Have 1
son relents at his conduct in the affair, whilst Hilly is
keeping his eye on the electorate up Benalla way.
Devious are the ways of aspirants to political tame.
Billy Gaunson a few years ago gave up a £250 treasury
billet in the hope—he thought, with the certainty—of
becoming an M.P. with £3OO a year, free billiards, free
travelling, the privilege of abusing his betters (who,
even in Victoria, are numerous), and other equiva-
lents.” But since the eventful day of his resignation
Billy has been rejected by at least a dozen constitu-
encies. So he’s going to see whether he can t get in on
the “ Kelly platform ’’—otherwise the gallows ticket.
The residents of the Kelly country will vote for him to
a man.
The affaire d’honneur, particulars of which have
already heen telegraphed to The Bulletin, has come to
a very prosaic termination. H *rr Ernest Speyer is bound
over to keep the peace for six months, and our illus-
trious foreign visitors are thus taught to respect law
and order in her Ma jesty’s dominions. Both Speyer and
Hirsch are Jews. Speyer is short in stature, with a pale
complexion and black hair, whilst Hirsch is of the
ordinary German Jewish type, with a pleasing counte-
nance. The “ lady in question ” is a dark-eyed Jewess,
with an agreeable cast of features, purelv Oriental ; she
is tall, and of good carriage. Mr. Hirsch has to thank
his second, Mr. Hugo Wertheim. who interfered on his
behalf, fortius agreeable conclusion to what would have
been in the end n, “nasty” affair. Mr. Wertheim a
conduct is much criticised, and the officers of H.l.Mts.
Nautilus clamour for his expulsion from the Deutscher
Verein Mr Speyer’s conduct in this matter leadsus to
believe that his idea of “honour” and the importance
of self causes him to a-Speyer rather too high ; and
although Mr. Wertheim’s attempt to Hirsch up matters
might be considered unmanly, we nevertheless believe
that he acted rightly in the main. Wer-theim and space
of less importance to us, we would dilate further on this
interesting subject.
Nei Kelly was duly hanged on Thursday The man
bv whose hands hedied was Upjohn, the new executioner,
who had not before “ made a man swing at the end of a
string.” Kelly took matters quietly, and when con-
fronted with the gallows merely remarked, in uncon-
scious paraphrase of the historical d vmg remark of blind
King George, “ Such is life ! ’ The writer does not
sympathise with crime or criminals. He would not,
under existing circumstances, have lifted up a finger
to save Kelly from tbe hangman. But, society had done
very little for Ned Kelly. The felon’s parents were and
are criminals. The first recollections of his childhood
were those of stolen bullocks whose flesh he helped to
eat—of stolen horses which he helped to drive away.
Kelly was brave, nut he was ferocious and revengeful to
the last degree—as is almost every man whose annual
spirits have not, in a measure been broken by education
or extinguished by what we call civilization. He said,
when about to be sentenced, that he was not afraid.
What a pity that the man who, to use his own rude
words, could face the Destroyer as “ easily as he could
drink a cup of tea.” should die by the rope instead
of riding to death in the van of a Eight Brigade . I
know that what. I have written will be unpopular, but
if a storv hasn’t always two sides it very often has one
and a half. I am a sportsman, and don t like to see a
line anima l , or brute, if you like topall it so, slaughtered
with its paws tied. Capital punishment is a satire on
Christanity and, in mv opinion, causes as many crimes
as it prevents. While on this subject, let me say that
every reader of The Bulletin should peruse the pam-
phlet on “ Capital Punishment ’ by Mr. Taylor, of the
Public Library, Hobart Town. By perhaps New
South Welshmen don’t/all know that both Sir Henry
Parkes and Sir John Robertson are in favour of. and
would vote for, the abolition of the death penalty.
When Monsieur Jules Joubert sees the Duke of
Manchester at the Melbourne Exhibition he involun-
tarily mbs the small of his (Jules’) back. This apparent
eccentricity is, however, hacked by a good yarn which
is worth recording. It appears that when Monsieur
Jules represented New Sonth Wales at Pans he save
strict injunctions that no stranger was to enter the
court until the opening day. One after noon .however
a grev-haired gentleman was discovered amongst the
packing cases posing before a bird’s-eye view of Sydney.
“Ah ’’said the stranger to Monsieur Jules, who was
superintending some distance away, “this is yonr great
city with its noble harbour; how I should like to see
it ” Whether it was the dilietanti air of the stranger,
or whether it was kindness of heart that actuated him,
we know not. but the genial Jules actually recom-
mended the stranger to stop a few paces hack in order
to get a better view of the picture. At the same twno
suiting the action to the word, he himself retreated a
few feet backwards, but suddenly came down upon a
p icking case in the rear, and at the same time upon a
perpendicular nail, which enteredl Jules* person sun*
ceremmie. This untoward accident caused the illnstn-
Australian to go through along airing of
English oaths as a relief to his injured feelings, in the
course of which he referred more than once to the
.< f j d impudence of the sanguinary stranger coming
into the New Sonth Wales Court without an order,
&o &c ” However, thanks to suavity and tincture of
arnica, matters cooled down at last, and Mon-ieur
Tides actually went so far as to ask the stranger to m-
seribe hia name in the visitors’ hook, a request which
the gentleman readily complied with.
surprise of onr Jules when he learnt that Man
Chester” wtia the title of the intruder. Monsieur
Jules was now all humility and forgiveness, but the
“noble Dook,” in a manner agreeable to the British
aristocracy, begged of him f eel at ease, and compli-
mented .Monsieur Jules on the purity of his bnglish.
Whenever the “ Dook ” meetsMoi.sienrJ.mtort attbe
Exhibition he greets “his little friend ti*om Pans
right fraternally.
The loveliest woman yet seen in Melbourne, or,
for the matter of that, anywhere else, was here during
the Cup week, ami. so “ The Children of the Sun are
informed, came from Sydney. She was one of
by the deponent “riding in a railroad car The twain
were evidently daughters of the same mother, and would
perhaps have been equally beautiful bad the elder been
blessed with the bewitchingly-gh nous complerfon of
her younger sister, whose face, in all the exquisite
beautv of its lily and coral, defies description by a poor
Bohemian’s ps/ As is the spoken word to the written
so is the picture to the idea, and if the beauty of that
Sydney girl is ever to be even dreamt of by those who
do not see her, it must be through the medium of a
brush like Foliagsby’s, or that of the great painter
whose portrait of a handsome yet dissipated-looking
courtier in the German gallery of the Melbourne Inter-
national strikes me as the most Perfect piece of A sh-
Australians have yet seen. She forcibly re
minded one in many regards of a picture
nr used to bane, at the east end of the Victorian
National collection in the Public Library, and winch, I
think had for its title “ The White Rose of England.
A beautifully oval face ; eyes of azure, ‘ witching unto
mildness a complexion which in its now bright,
wile now melting, ever healthful tints, combined the
hues of theTly the rose, and every other flower which
dually serves as port of the subject ef a backneved
rimiie of this kind-add to this a magnificent chcvduro.
teeth be-ide which artificial ivories would, in Han
ariantiephrase, have “ looked black £ a
careless elegance in dress; ’and a Diana-liKe ngure,
lithe powerful, athletic, perfect—is it wonderful that
the man who saw her stared rather rudelv. and then
(having impressed her picture on his brain for eve
went home straight, promised for the sake of lovely
woman ever to abjure whisky, and tned to write
some verse ? However. “ Loin des yenx, &c.. and
Lisette, dont I’empire
S’dtend jusqu’a mon vin
w-asrsas JKSBWS:
wore —but I mustn t.
MELBOURNE SOCIETY & FASHION.
Mr. Shiela, the clever young barrister, who
represents N ormanby in the Assembly .will shortly marry
on heiress from the western district.
On the sth instant a large hall was given by Mrs.
England at Toorak. One of the principal features of
the entertainment was the introduction of the cotillon,
which was danced in its complete form. Previous
initiation had perfected the movements of the dancers,
and the graceful, spirited manner of the French officers
lent a charm foreign to English assemblies.
Saturday was the last day of the V.K.C. Spring Meet-
ing, and the Stand and Lawn were well attended, for the
weather was beautifully fine. The ladies’ dresses were
in most cases less ambitious than those in which they
appeared on Cup Day, but nevertheless some of the
I costumes were charmingly attractive.
I noticed the re-appearance of two ladies, once Mel-
bourne belles, who have been living lately in N.S.W.
One of them, Mrs. Cecil Griffiths, was attired in a
handsome costume of silk damassc, trimmed with pale
blue silk and lace. The long trail was edged with a
thin cardinal silk frill, and in her white bonnet the
lady wore a broad wreath of red berries. Her com-
panion, Mrs. Travers, whose charming young face has
lost none of its beauty, was dressed in black silk.
Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Duncan Wallace, the latter a
young lady from N Z., appeared in black and old gold
with decided success. Mrs. Malleson’s dress was very
elegant, every detail of her costume being perfect. One
lady who was perhaps more quietly dressed than any
one of these wore a short black silk dress and a long
dolman or directoire mantle made of silk which covered
the dress and was trimmed with lace and lined with
crimson satin. With this a crimson toque was worn,
the effect being charming.
The Misses Moore, of Charnwood, were most becom-
ingly attired—one in a quilted short black silk, with a
stamped velvet polonaise, cut in points, and trimmed
with jet; bonnet trimmed with gold lace. Her sister
was in white, trimmed with black velvet. Miss Kennedy
wore a dress of pale blue, hand painted. The Misses
Wilkie wore simple costumes of white, trimmed with
cream lace. Miss Bouligny wore a simple cream-
colored dress, with handkerchief bordering, which
was much admired for its style. Miss Francis wore a
sage-green silk, trimmed with light pompadour. Miss
Gray, a white dress, trimmed with embroidery. Of
course there was a number of bizarre costumes, and
amongst these was that donned by Miss Louisa Pomeroy.
Everyone wondered who she was, for the bright red
colour of her long swallow-tailed satin jacket, worn over
a black skirt, was an attraction even to the non-curious.
A lady from East Melbourne gained questionable
notoriety by her toilette, which was composed of a
very dark-colored short quilted skirt worn with a pale
blue tight-fitting jersey. Somehow or other, there is a
want of repose in a Melbourne lady’s manner which
travel does not often remedy.
Narrow frillings of a different colour are worn round
the skirts of the dresses, and nearly all walking costumes
have hoods to correspond. I noticed that several of the
ladies wore patent leather shoes, and that some of them
had scarcely any heels. This grand reform must surely
be the effect of lawn-tennis. The Strauss Band played
during the afternoon, and afforded lovers of music much
pleasure, though some of the men did say there was too
much brass and a touch of Collingwood about the per-
formance. There was a great lack of fine-looking men,
in spite of our visitors, foreign and colonial.
A friend who recently went to England bns sent me
out a plate of the latest fashions for ladies’ costumes, it
represents as close a copy of a nun’s dress as one could
see, and should it once gain public tavor it will immedi-
ate! v put an end to all flounces and furbelows. The back of
the skirt is composed of two widths neatly hemmed and
gathered into the band at the waist; the round body is
gathered at the shoulders and waist, and the front
widths of the skirts are simply draped. I hope the in-
troduction of a fuller and more flowing costume will
help to dissipate the tendency of the age to the per-
nicious practice of tight-lacing, which the tight-fitting
bodice of the present tends to foster.
I wonder if any of your readers ever heard of a mother
who, not being satisfied with the size of the waist of her
daughter, a girl not in her teens, persuaded her to wear
a pair of stays shaped like a cuirass and fastened with a
padlock of which she always kept the key ?
The sad death of the only son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Wilson of Woodlands, has colled forth much sympathy
and regret. The poor young fellow, while riding across
country, was thrown from his horse and killed instantly.
He was but twenty years of age, and had just finished
his collegiate course. Mrs. Wilson (his mother) is a
sister of Mrs. James Cochrane, and one of her daughters
was lately married to Captain Bridges, of the Wol-
verene.
There was a large ball at Mrs. Osborne’s, at Brighton,
on Monday, the Bth instant, and another at Mrs. David
Moore’s on Tuesday. X wonder if it is the practice to
introduce o at your assemblies ? Such a thing has quite
~o n e out here, and the effect is disastrous to many a
•pretty girl’s enjoyment, for unless she happens to know
partners beforehand her chance of dancing is at a dis-
count What with duty dances, and the attractions of
the oiie or two bright particular stars of the evening,
men, as a rule, have not the time or inclination to gain
fresh introductions.
The officers of the men-of-war now in harbour have
so many invitations that they must find it hard work to
accept all the hospitality shown them.
Dr and Mrs. James gave a picnic the week before
Inst, and invited their guests to go to Doncaster, a few
miles beyond Kew, whore there is a wonderful tower
built by a man named Hummel, and from which an ex-
cellent view is obtainable. Unfortunately the doctor
took cold, and has since been seriously ill, though he is
now regarded as convalescent.
Lawn tennis is the outdoor game that engrosses
fashionable attention; everyone is having a ground
made. Some prefer asphlate to the green sward. Mrs.
Malleson’s is made of asphalte, and is pronounced a
great success.
A daughter of Dr. Lempricre is to bo manned on the
25th inst. Miss Hamilton’s marriage is also fixed for
the same date.
Society was in a flutter of excitement not long since
when news arrived from B n gland of the intended marriage
of a Toorak belle with a Swedish Count. The betrot ha
cards were issued and the brio’s trousseau, even her
wedding dress, arranged for. However, a little later x,
was learned that the engagement was broken off- for
when the marriage settlements were spoken of neither
party was satisfied.
A romantic young lady declares it was too bad for
Mr Call P M., to interfere so peremptorily with the
exciting arrangements Messrs. Hirsch and Speyer were
mnVinJte revive the old mode of settling disputes with
“pistols for two and coffee for one." Society at large
however is satisfied, whatever may be the feelings of
thedisputants or of the lady who was the cause of the
'' r Charles L Money, who greatly distinguished him-
JPL the list New Zealand war, and who is the author
of a charming Wtle brochure, entitled "Knocking
f n New Z "aland,” which made its appearance
some* years ago. is to the fore again. His frieuds-and
, , host of them —will be glad to learn that on the
hf was mTrried to Kathleen, eldest daughter
of Captain P. Grantham, H.M. 45th Eegt.
The two daughters of the Hon. J. B. Patterson
(Minister of Eailways) are to be married early in
December.
Boarding-house keepers are reaping a harvest on
account of the crowded state of the city, but the
boarders are not in all cases as some gentle-
men visitors from your quarter will testify, for their
landlord, one of the leading men m his line, has
been indulging in a prolonged Melbourne Cup, and their
landlady has a predilection for falling downstairs.
An instance of the quiet manner in which, in
Levukn, they sit upon and snub the Governor, was
thoroughly exemplified on 7th October. Tim quarterly
general meeting of the Fiji Agricultural Society was
advertised for that evening, and the Governor sentnp
word by his aide-de-camp that he should attend the
meeting and bid them farewell. Accordingly, at 8
o’clock, the Governor, attended by his aide-de-camp,
arrived, but, beyond two of his own appointed Legisla-
tive Councillors there was not a member present to
meet his Excellency besides the President and Secre-
tary. After all, this may be a better plan than revolvers
and bowie knives which such an unpopular Governor
would have brought into play in other communities.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Use scarlet zephyr for toilet sots; it does not
easily fade. ,
White and pink are a becoming combination tor
a brunette.
New coffee-coloured straw bonnets look well
with heliotrope trimming.
Sleeves often need to be fitted, almost if not
quite as much as the dress.
Young ladies who curl their fringes with hot
slate pencils will soon find the hair broken and spoiled.
“Wherever did I get such a nose, doctor?
remarked the lady. “Out of the decanter, madame,
was the reply.
Two thousand flower girls were recently taken
down to Southend from London, by special train, tnat
they might enjoy a holiday in the country.
The latest thing in the way of ladies’ hats is .the
“ Tam O’Shantor.” It is not a new idea, as it was the
head-dress which was the national headgear of ireian
in the 16th century.
A maiden lady of Johnstown, for disappointed
love, has let her toe nails grow seven years long, ihe
only proposal she has received since was from a man
with two wooden legs.
A Petersham resident states that he cured his
daughter, just returned from Melbourne, with a bac.
attack of the Grecian bend, by pouring water on her,
and holding her out in the sun till she was warped back
again.
In San Francisco and other large American
cities, there are more families living in hotels than is
the case in any other part of the world. The Press
regards this as a very unhealthy social sign, but no
remedy is suggested.
The morganatic marriage contracted by the Czar
of Russia with the beautiful Countess Dolgorouky, to
whom he was long attached, was approved, it is said, by
the Empress before her death. The marriage legiti-
mises the Countess’ family of live children.
A Parisian undertakes to manufacture dimples.
He makes a puncture in |the skin at the point where
the dimple is required that cannot be noticed when it
has healed, and with a very delicate instrument removes
a slight portion of the muscle. Then he excites a slight
inflammation which attaches the skin to the subcutane-
ous hollow thus formed. A very pretty dimple is the
result.
Matrimonial agents are certainly energetic people
in Berlin, where it appears that as soon as am
ment is made that a man has lost his better half, he is
plied with circulars ottering him a choice selection of
spinsters. One widower recently received ahstofthe
names of 13 ladies, with recommendations fitting them
tolook after motherless children. One of the 13
possessed a dowry of £5000.’
“ Those eyes again.” Blue is in the ascendant
in London. Treachery and deceit are proved to lurlti l '
m-ev and black. The trials recently recorded in the
Divorce Court show the majority of the victimised in
cases of domestic infelicity to be gifted with the orbs of
celestial azure; whereas black and grey eyes of Spanish
lustre flash out all manner of iniquity from under their
dark drooping lashes, and are proved to produce more
than their due share of the matrimonial complications
scandalizing the world.
An American millionaire lady recently gave a
breakfast to a select number of American friends at her
Trouville cottage, on the coast of France. The costli-
ness of the table service and decorations reminds one of
the Arabian Nights. Not only gold, silver, and priceless
porimlain were used, but amber, coral, and precious
stones wore pressed into the service. Ices were served
on crystal plates inlaid with uncut gems, and wine and
honors sparkled in flasks of amber, or were contained
in flagons of gold, cloisonne, and enamel.
“ Viator,” at the bottom of whose misery there
is evidently a woman, writes us thus :—“ Oh, make my
bed under an iron roof during a night of wOMMiit i toil,
or surround me with a score of boilermakers all in
feather—soak my corns in a boiling solution of potash
compel me to endure a fashionable opera—put me on
the rack-in fact, do anythiug-only save me from the
everlasting clack of that woman, whose mildest tones
are enough to harrow up a man’s souk freeze his warm
blood, and make his hair stand on end.
A Brewarrina young lady has just finished a
qui't for a full-sized bed. and the amount of labour ana
material expended thereon is worthy of Witb-
out the fringe, it consumed 19 dozen or 238 reels oi
crochet cotton, each reel containing 200 yards; so that
45 600 yards or nearly 26 miles of cotton have been
into it. Allowing five stitches inch
of cotton—probably there are more—there are 8.308P00
stitches in it. The work has occupied a long time,
having been done in spare hours snatched from the
supervision of a large household, and is a model of
patient perseverance.
There is no one article of feminine apparel which
receives so much attention and thought osthe I bonnet;
and certainly it is more deserving of consideration than
any other, since it has such a marked effect upon the
face, and, withal, enjoys so prominent a position. Let
a woman wear a bonnet she knows to be pretty and
becoming, and it will make all the difference in the
world in her manner, but put a fright upon her head a
home-made combination which rag-bag and garret have
been ransacked to produce, and you may at once observe
how painfully she realizes the fact of its ‘
She is afraid to smile, for fear some one will fancy she
thinks her bonnet a perfect love, while she is dju* of
mortification on account of it.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
ceueral interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulleti n
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard_
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“Fact and Fancy Focussed.” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
A STOLEN VIEW.
This is her dainty room,
Where youth and beauty found their perfect bloom.
This is her cosy chair—
How oft her form has nestled softly there!
Here is her gleaming glass,
Bv which her graceful figure used to pass;
And, though she is away,
It seems her smiles are there, and still will stay.
These are her favourite books,
The pages longing for her loving looks.
Here is her happy bed.
The pillow where she nightly rests her head.
She comes—her step I know ;
Bless thee, sweet room ! Alas, that I must go !


Public Companies
C
OMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar.
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury.
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera.
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedali, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee.
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Pennth, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree!
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wmgham, Wollongong, Woodbum. Yass.
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay.
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ot South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Gotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco: The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED),
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
Sk DNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
sffices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do, do. 725. do.
£BOO do, £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Q
UEENSLAND INSURANCE COMPANY
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accep FIRE
BISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLEB, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
Peapes and Shaws
Public Companies
rpHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK
Incorporated by Act of Counoil, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000,
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
Ueorge A. Murray, Esq. | Jeremiah B. Bundle Fa*
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long Esa**
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostroeht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymkrket 1 Eedfern | Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
THE BANE UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO 000
m DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay. K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Win, Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
usmess on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
PROVIDENT
Australian mutual
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STEEET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.Q., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq*
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
_ _ CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER • q
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Momce A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society: . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
,1“ Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
!880, says :—‘No British Company of any age can via
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.*
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STEELING.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
P. A. Jennings, President,
m iw Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery. Esq., J P. P. Higgins, Esq., J.p.
T.J. Chapman, Esq., J.P, | E. J. Eubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
. BIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits. 1
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary,
T
lON FIRE
INSURANCE
Limited.
COMPANY.
Chief Office— o, LOTHBUEY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO, C. NEILD, Manager,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
■jO HELLYER,
* ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver. ,
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
■ to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street)
SUMMER CLOTHING FOR GENTLEMEN.
MODERN CUT, SUPERIOR FINISH, and UNSUR
PASSED for STERLING VALUE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S WHITE MILITARY
DUCK COATS,
Stand-up collars, patch pockets, beautifully made,
14s 6d, I7s 6d, 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SUPERIOR SILK SAC COATS,
all pure bright silk, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S FINE BLUE SERGE SUITS,
admirably suited for Tourists or Business Men,
37s 6d the suit.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILKY ALPACA SAC COATS,
the very thing for office wear,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILK PALETOT DUST COATS,
extra well-cut and finished, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 25s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S CLIFTON TWEED SUITS,
fashionable patterns, light and durable,
42s, 45s, 50s, 55s, 63s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S MILITARY DUCK VESTS,
and.Navy Drill ditto, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
LIGHT SUMMER TWEED PALETOT OVERCOATS,
27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 35s, 42s.
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
A Largo Shipment just received.
Newest Shapes in HARD FELT,
from 5s 6d each. Drab Shells, Silk
Hats and Helmets, all the latest
Summer Fashions.
BEAUTIFUL NEW GOODS FOR SUMMER.
PEAPES and SHAW beg to call tbe attention ot
Ladies to their stock of
SUMMER GOODS,
comprising NOVELTIES in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Onr representatives in London and Paris have supplied
us this season with some of the CHOICEST GOODS we
have ever had the pleasure of SUBMITTING to OUR
PATRONS.
PEAPES and SHAW,
Qoorg-e-street.
STYLISH FRENCH
MILLINERY,
PER STEAMERS
MONTHLY.
PEAPESandSHAW’S
GLOVES,
TWO-BUTTONS, at
HALF-A-CROWN W-
PAIR, ARE
UNRIVALLED.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
JUST OPENED.
SPANISH and LANGUEDOC
1 ACE. in OLD GOLD, CREAM
WHITE, and BLACK
SILK and CHENILLE MAN-
TLES
*EW SILK and CASHMERE
VISITES
’OMPADOUR SATEENS
IELIOTROPE and SILVER
RIBBONS
>LD GOLD BROCADE RIB-
BONS
HL VER and GOLD FRINGES
and CORDS
'HE NEW SILK DRESS
LACES
■ HEN ILLE TINSELLED
SCARVES
fEW BALL SKIRTS and
COSTUMES
FEWEST WHITE, TINSEL.
LED and COLOURED RU-
CHINGS
BLACK SATIN PARASOLS
RIMMED SPANISH LACE,
at 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d.
15s 6d
ET NECKLETS and BRACE-
LETS.
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Bracket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
DSFAS
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL.
tIBBOTSON’S FILES,
em». :
LAKGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
WAUGH
IV/ I ACKJIOWLEDeSB TO BK THE BEST IN THE WORLD I vCn
r \manufactured by W.DMItS&C? coulburnN.SJN | v? U
GEORGE BARR,
mu
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2iD.IPEIT GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—63I GEORGE STREET.
Outside Venetian,
P * WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN.'* GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blind.


Business Announcements
jALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
I >
%
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at .
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
fN B. MOD IN I,
GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
F.A^gifp^&SoX
c
RICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
I N JJ?^A TIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
frizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
H. ARIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BiiiJNCKAi'T and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Kent-street.
AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
m tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of I}, 2,3,
and cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
QHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. churchwood.
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
m
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“Karl Theodor Staiger,
“Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William-street.
R. S. TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
GO U N D R T ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
Jg CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tobacconists
T
HE GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron * Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEOEGE STEEET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sr
V
m
T.
Manufactured by
S A T W E L L,
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
E
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
rp HO S. J. BO W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSEINISHERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS. GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS. SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed,
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you bj
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6, _
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com*
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Conntry Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
w
H. A R I E L L,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Rent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
L O U E SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
H/T AIZENA FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS. Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
•TAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
5 VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
> SUSSEX-STREET,
$ NEAR THE HAYMAEKET.
j OFFICES AND STORES :
| 797 GBORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
J Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
j IFLOUR, Wlieat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
| Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
1 1 Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
> (Potatoes, <fcc. .
GEORGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES —Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OP MEAT, and
SOUPS can he bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta,
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
Money
jyj" ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 ~ „ 0 7 6
20 „ „ 010 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
©pened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
jyj- ONEY.
MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only! ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blacf
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
»• ORfefft Ofohctlng
Depot fn the Colonies.
FASDFAS
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
Printing
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with. Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.”


THE HURLSTONE ESTATE,
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
is the most important large
SUBURBAN FREEHOLD
now in the market.
ear The POSITION of this GRAND PROPERTY U
exceedingly good, both for access to
TWO RAILWAY STATIONS,
SUMMER HILL and ASHFIELD,
and for the ELEVATION, commanding, as it does
MOST EXTENSIVE
including the
and PICTURESQUE VIEWS,
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
BOTANY BAY,
THE CITY and HARBOUR,
CANTERBURY, PETERSHAM. STANMORE, BUR
WOOD, FIVE DOCK, Ac.
*,* The SUBDIVISION is the BEST and MOST
LIBERAL of any property offered at auction this season
THE BLOCKS vary from 63 FEET to 50 PERT each
frontage, by depths of about 165 feet; and the subdivision
is so arranged that purchasers may secure LARGE
THROUGH BLOCKS from STREET to STREET, with
EXTENSIVE FRONTAGES.
esr THE COLLEGE is a COMMODIUS and NEWLY-
ERECTED BUILDIN G, specially adapted for
COLLEGIATE PURPOSES,
and contains very large accomodation (of which PULL
PARTICULARS will be duly given), besides valuable
and useful outbuildings.
%* This PROPERTY will be sold with a BLOCK of
LAND, having nearly
300 FEET FRONTAGE TO PROSPECT ROAD,
300 FRET FRONTAGE TO SANFORD STREET,
by the great depth of
330 FEET from STREET to STREET,
or nearly
TWO AND A HALF ACRES IN AREA.
The GROUNDS are tastefully laid out into
LAWN,
FLOWER and
KITCHEN GARDEN,
PADDOCK.
Ao.,ic.
**• HURLSTONE is situate on the
HEIGHTS OF ASHFIELD,
and is bounded by
ASHFIELD STREET
SEA VIEW STREET
SANFORD STREET
CANTERBURY ROAD
PROSPECT ROAD,
nearly all of which are WIDE. WELL-MADE, and
PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARES
leading to the township of
ASHFIELD,
and the village of
SUMMER HILL.
The title is under
TORRENS’ ACT.
The terms will be
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT,
10 per cent, in 3 months. WITHO UT INTEREST, and
the balance may remain for a period of 2 years, bearing
interest at the VERY LOW RATE of FIVE PER
CENT., and PURCHASERS will NOT be compelled to
give mortgages.
HARDIE and GORMAN have received
POSITIVE INSTRUCTIONS to sell by public
auction, at 3 p.m.,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
27tb NOVEMBER.
ON THE GROUND,
WITHOUT RESERVE,
THE HURLSTONE ESTATE,
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
comprising
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
and about
TWENTY-SEVEN ACRES
of
MAGNIFICENT
and
HIGHLY IMPROVED LAND,
surrounded by MAIN THOROUGHFARES,
now subdivided into
LARGE SUBURBAN BLOCKS
and
VILLA SITES,
by Messrs. Roberts, Harris, and Weston, as follows
SECTION 1
car THIRTY-SIX (36) LOTS fronting
ASHFIELD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 PE ET.
mar THIRTY (30) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
• depths of about 165 feet.
SECTION 2
«5T TWENTY (20) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
msr FOURTEEN (14) LOTS, fronting
PROSPECT and CANTERBURY ROADS,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
On LOT 9, SECTION 2, the land having an area of about
TWO and a HALF ACRES,
stands ■
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
with coachhouse and all usual outbuildings.
oar Farther particulars of the buildings and of the
accomodation will be duly given.
LARGE SALE PLAN is now
ON VIEW.
LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE
ROOMS.
* • TO SUBURBAN BUYERS for RESIDENCES.
HURLSTONE offers the most ELEVATED and BEST
SITES
* » To SPECULATORS wishing to secure a LARGE
BLOCK for FUTURE SALE HURLSTONE offers the
BEST ADVANTAGES.
**» To INVESTORS in LAND, HURLSTONE
Blocks are bound to increase in value.
The SURROUNDINGS of
HURLSTONE
are of the very best character, and include the highly'
improved properties and grounds of the following,
gentlemen:—
DR. EDWIN CHISHOLM
FREDERICK CUISSOLD. ESQ.
HENRY M'tSES. ESQ., M.P.
GEOROE GRIFFITHS, ESQ.
J. S. JAMIESON, ESQ., J.P.,
and others.
An inspection of HURLSTONE will show the Kit H
CHARACTER of TOE SOIL from the BLOOM ana
FOLIAGE which surround it.
Opposite to HURLSTONE is the
VICTORIA-SQUARE, ,
upon which property are erected the largest number
the PRE1TIES T VILLAS
and COT PAGE RESIDENCES
to be seen anywhere along
THE RAILWAY LINB,
giving to the locality
A SPECIAL CHARM AND CHARACTER,
and making it both ATTRACTIVE and wcr-
VALUABLE.
An opportunity will be afforded to inspect
THIS GRANU FREEHOLD,
On SATURDAY, 20th NOVEMBER
(the Saturday previous to day of sale).
DON’T FORGET.
HURLSTONE
HURLSTONE
i is the market for Sale,
Withomt RESERVE.
SATURDAY, 274b NOVEMBER,,
ON THE GROUND.
a.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit op Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We Bur fob Cash—We Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
| COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS |
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES
GUEES.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15 6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Our Stock is always
New.
For every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make, ,
7/6, worth 10/6.
O nr immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establishments.
All GOODS Masked in PLAIN FIGURES.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6/6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
ROWING
BROTHERS’ TRAEE
SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
, i ■ ii.—.
GOWING BROTHERS,
MEN’S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, &c..
Trading under the names of
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court),
AND
J. E. GOWING, 332 George Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BROTHERS’ SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivalled FOR PRICE AND QUALITY.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. Military Front SHIRTS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very best value in the Sydney market.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
m
UST*
iI»J
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
al^AYs
&
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, kc.
And for every purpose of wasting and clean sing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
OU CANNOT DO BETTER.
If you are ready to famish, come without delay to the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE. Every article is
planly marked, and complete lists are available to enable
you to select what you require to the best advantage.
THE PRICES ARE MOST ATTRACTIVE.
Single Bedrooms furnished as follows :
Bedstead, Palliases, Mattress, Pillow, Sheets, Blankets,
Counterpane, Pillow Case, Set Mosquito Curtains,
Chest Drawers, Toilet Glass, Washstand, Toilet Set,
Chair, Hat and Coat Rack, and Piece of Matting or
Carpet for £7.
A NICE SUITE OF DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE.
Spring seated Rip Couch and six Chairs, Sideboard, Oval
Table, and Whatnot for £l2.
JAPANESE BLINDS in all sizes from 6s. A FEW
CASES of Superior Frosted Fly Traps. BARGAINS IN
DRAWING ROOM SUITES, DINING ROOM FUR-
NITURE, and BEDROOM FURNITURE. KITCHEN
UTENSILS of every description at the lowest cash
prices. Glassware cheaper than ever.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
VISIT THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM,
ELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
A good opportunity now presents itself ho purchase
one of the oldest-established Book and Stationery busi-
nesses in the best and idoit central position in Mel-
bourne, well-known in Victoria and adjacent colonies
as MUSKETT’S, 78 BOURKE ST., EAST, nearly oppo-
site Theatre Royal. The proprietor being desirous of
retiring from business as early as possible, will treat
with any intending purchaser on favorabjg terms.
Addreeq, as above.
Also
The New Show Rooms Upstairs.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCH.iI, and see the beau-
tiful MILLINEUY BONNETS from 12s 6d, MIL-
LINERY HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COS-
TUMES from 3s lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d,
Ladies’ Corsets from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from 4sd per pair, Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves,
Fischus, Baby-linen, Underclothing &c.. cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
Eifle practice—pocket picking.
A Belief Society—A gang of pickpockets.
Back Yards —The trains of ladies’ dresses.
Courage—the fear of being thought a coward.
Withdrawing an Amendment —Taking out a false
tooth.
How exceedingly kind it is for the average mur-
derer to forgive everybody before he is swung off.
The Kurds in Persia have been described as
Kurds in the way, or (excuse the explanation) “Curds
in the whey.”
A contemporary says, “ Fullness under the eyes
denotes language.” The writer has probably been
knocked down for something he has printed.
When Emperor William went to the Art Exhi-
bition at Dusseldorf, and all was solemn silence, a
parrot remarked: “ Oh, my God, how thirsty I am.”
Alderman Carter remarked the other day that
it was permitted in the Corpora tion for a man to be a
scamp, but not a scamper. He has since expressed a
wish to edit a comic paper.
What’s in a name ? Need she bo named Amy
to be amiable; or Dora that we should adore her; or
Myra, admire her. If she is Ida must we idolise her? or
Minnie, sigh for her miniature ?
A gentleman who cherished an aversion to the
“ light fantastic,” called at the house of a friend, not
knowing that a “ spree ” was the order of the evening.
Asked to join the dancers, he excused himself by saying
that he had nails in his boots, but forgot to mention
that they grew on his feet.
Troublesome Clients. —A celebrated lawyer ©nee
said that the three most troublesome clients he ever had
were a young lady who wanted to be married, a married
woman who wanted a divorce, and an old maid who
didn’t know what she wanted.
Some actors have their line —ef business, others
have only one line —to speak; some are allowed to
“ gag,” whilst others are gagged ; some put tights on,
whilst others “get on tights;” few “star,” many
starve; careful actors get their “screw,” negligent
ones get “screwed;” by playing roles they earn their
bread and butter.
More Snake Stories.
We can vouch for the truth of the following snake
story:—A well-known Civil servant, who distinguished
himself by coming in third in a double scull race in a
regatta held recently at Mossman’s Bay, has lately
built himself a marine residence in the salubrious
suburb of Bondi, and now resides there. His spare
time during the week is generally filled in by excavating
earth, quarrying freestone, and such like light employ-
ment ; but he is too pious to do this sort of thing on
Sunday, and being an ardent student of Natural History
he spends the seventh day in collecting botanical
specimens and fossil remains at the back of Bondi
beach. A few Sundays ago, whilst prosecuting his
researches, he espied a splendid specimen of the
Bangalow palm (Ptychospenna Cunninyhamii), and was
about to secure it, when, beneath its shade, he was
horrified to behold a monster snake of the diamond
species. For some time he stood riveted to the
ground, speechless with terror. At length, finding the
use of his articulatory organs, he called to his friend
Jack (Jack usually accompanies him on these ex-
peditions), who rushed to his assistance, and the
twain, after a desperate struggle, in which many pints
of perspiration were lost, managed to despatch the
reptile. But the strangest part of the story has yet to
be told. The survivors of the struggle were struck
with the enormous girth of their fallen foe, and pro-
ceeded to dissect him, when, to their surprise, they
drew from his inwards a pair of blue blankets, a bottle
of red heart rum (which they immediately emptied)
and an old clay pipe. What was more singular still,
his snakeship, when fresh killed, measured sixteen
feet, but when on exhibition at a large Government
establishment, next day, his total length was only six
feet. Such facts speak for themselves. There are
mean people who say that the rum was drunk before
the snake was seen, but we don’t believe this.
We are sorry to hear that the Baewon Argus
one of our best country papers, has been seized under
a bill of sale. However, Mr. Dixon, the quondam pro-
prietor, still edits it.
A well-known mining gentleman, having satisfied
himself of the payable and permanent character of the
Palmer reefs, hopes to induce some southern capitalists
to start at amalgamating and working some of the
abandoned claims.
The iron horse has advanced as far as Withers-
field, Queensland,. Distance from Rockhampton, 202
miles. Surprise was expressed that there was no cere-
mony to mark the important event. It takes ten hours
to do the journey.
The Good Templars of Eockhampton are sadly
cast down, a fine large brewery which bids fair to do
a thrivingtrade, having commenced operations. The
friends of Bacchus mustered in force the other day to
taste the new brew, and the experts pronounced it
to be as good as Oastlemaine.
On Cup day, at Melbourne, a young fellow,
minus cash and yet anxious to see the races, thought o '
a plan of reaching the Stand “on the cheap.” He went
as coachman to a well-known Melbourne gentleman, and
as soon as the horses had been taken from the carriage
he doifed his hat and overcoat, put on his own, and ap-
peared in style with his family on the lawn.
The Tasmanian Parliament has been prorogued.
Its last echoes were, as usual, redolent of mingled
cowardice and bombast, the two Houses assuming the
attitude of belligerent schoolboys who don’t want to
fight, but beg their comrades not to allow them to get
at one another. The Council is certainly the cock-of-the-
walk at present, and will remain so until there is some
alteration in the Constitution, which is one peculiar to
Tasmania, and worked to the very death by one of its
framers, Mr. T. D. Chapman.
Water is so bad in Brisbane, owing to the acou-
cumulation of decayed vegetable matter and dead cock-
roaches in the pipes, that the indefatigable Graham
Nix m, is straining his fertile brain in order to
invent a spe ial and unapproachable cure of the
“offensive effluvium which assails the senses of the
unfortunate citizens while performing their ablutionary
duties.” The instrument of healing will, it is believed,
be of india-rubber, and shaped so as to fit tightly over
the nose and mouth, and ornamented with the letters
Q.1.C., which mean, ‘ Query, if confident," and is to be
called the “Connixonite.”
For certain oddities of conduct considered
ungentlemanly after an Oddfellows’ ball in Tasmania, a
Knight of Figures was called upon to resign his mem-
bership of a local club by the committee of it. The
same circumstances were brought before a court
martial, and our hero was, strange to say, allowed to
retain his commission as an officer and a gentleman, and
his brother officers declined to say that his conduct had
led him to forfeit his right to either title. Whence the
divergence in the verdicts is now asked ? Is the
military standard of propriety lower than that of club
life? Ur, on the other hand, was the action of the
committee of the club a little spiteful and influenced by-
prejudice ?


BRIEF MENTION.
More shops closed on Oxford-street. Rents too
big.
The Leichhardt boiling-down nuisance con-
tinues.
Victorian railways are now only about ,£160,000
per annum behind the paying point.
Mr. Evans hasn’t told us how the New Zealand
people dealt with his tramway points.
The teller of a Savings Bank in Tasmania hands
a tract to any likely-looking customer.
A leading Sydney tobacco merchant paradoxi-
cally “cuts up rough” because people smoke in the
trams.
Innocent Abigail, candidate for West Sydney,
was the other night received with cheers and—eggs.
Fresh ones.
Garnet Walch said it was a pity to hang Ned
Kelly, who might have lived to make a very fair member
of Parliament.
The French army is going to dispense with all
drummers. The English army could afford to dispense
with a few sticks.
Summer is now upon us. Once more the gigantic
gooseberry and the big strawberry are brought to the
meek country editor.
It is illegal to slaughter calves in town. But
then, you see, the noise of a sausage-machine drowns
groans and squeals.
A wealthy young man, one of the chosen race,
is in trouble, and will shortly have to face one of their
Honors in a breach of promise case.
It is probable that the hot winds of the past day
or two were of classic, that is to say, Hellenic origin.
We Beg of our rev. friend to explain.
You can always get the dead to vote for you in
South Sydney. Their address is “ Devomshire-street,"
but they “ hang out” at the slaughter-yards.
The Burwood Borough Council doesn’t see its
way clear to “ blind” the rough metal near the School
of |Arts. Some of its members must surely be shoe-
makers.
A 'well-known Bathurst man, with his wife and
Slaughters, [was driven to the Redfern railway station
the other morning by a man named Bergin, who, after
the party had left the carriage, found therein a purse
containing a considerable sum in notes and gold.
Bergin at once gave up the purse, but was not even
thanked for his trouble.
A certain bank manager in a town not over one
hundred miles from Wagga Wagga, whose reputation
for getting engaged to pretty girls is Australasian, ex-
panded all the chest his four-feet ten possesses, and
put on frills ”on the Prince of Wales’ birthday The
object of his wrath was a servant, but. miroWc dicta, how
he recognized the master in the man when he felt him-
self collared, then taken by the seat of his expansive (not
expensive) breeches, and quietly pitchedheels over head
among the dears he was introducing into all the mys-
teries of tableaux vivants There was only one reheai sa
of this performance, and that to a white audience.
In some districts, it seems, when a man (?) has a
** down” on another he gratifies his spite by ham-
stringing his enemy’s horse, or cutting its nosei off , o
•utting its tongue out, or poisoning it. We think it
the experience of most people who have lived any length
•f time that a horse is, on the averagers good as a man,
and sometimes a great deal better. We flog for gar -
ting, and we hope that some member of the new 1 a
ment, who has a little Norman blood in his veins, will
introduce a bill to give the common hangman some work
wheneverj a “ man ” is found manning what,
opinion, is, taken all round, emphatically the noble
Cod’s creatures.
At Doyle’s Star Hotel, Clarence- street, a lucky
digger from Temora placed a £5-uote between tw
slices of buttered bread, and deliberately ate it. P '
*O3 of this. A vagrant confines of Bathurst Gaol died the
other day, without a penny and without a friend. 10
the warder who, during his last sickness, gave b
glass of wine, he said, “Ah! I have spent
this stuff to build many gaols like this. I have spent
thousands on thousands in drink in my b“ e - ~ ,
poor wretch was a miner, and during what he called
his “ lucky ” days, he had made as much as from 4.J5 to
£3O a day in nuggets, all of which he had sunk in a
‘wet shaft ” otherwise his stomach.
Marcus Clarke has been heard to regret that he
and Shakespeare were not contemporaries. “We could
have adapted so well together from the French,” he
simpered.
A well-known champion of the Chinese has been
summoned for his hotel bill, and condemned to pay it.
“ How he must sigh for Chinese hotelkeepers 1” exclaims
a contemporary.
The editors of the Uralla Times and the
Armidale Age have seriously fallen out as to which of
them has the finest printing office. Caesar and
Pompey are, after all, very much alike.
When Judges speak, the cheek of Freedom pales,
And startled Justice drops her trembling scales,
Tears from her sightless eyes the blinding cord,
Looks on the light, and breaks her dreaded sword.
An English newspaper says that more than half
of the Glasgow Bank shareholders “ have disappeared
from view in pauperism, bankruptcy, and death.” And
yet the man chiefly responsible for all this was a
Sabbatarian, who religiously abstained from reading
the Monday’s newspaper because of its having been
printed on the Sunday.
Advertisement in S. M. Herald, October 30 ;
“ Mr. Milner Stephen has sent a few cases of magnetised
water to Messrs. G. H. Stephen and Co., Australian
wine merchants, 13 Bridge-street, who are appointed
his sole agents.” As the fluid referred to is supposed
to be manufactured with the aid of beings from Shadow-
land, won’t it be necessary for Messrs. G. H. Stephen
and Co. to get a spirit license ?
The other night, in a suburb which shall be
nameless, the candidate stood up behind a chair to
address the electors, and when he had ejaculated the
word “(hie) Gentlemen," for some unexplained reason
he doubled up like a pocket-knife, and “ the subsequent
proceedings interested him no more.” He was carried
unanimously away, and the bold “free and independent”
are now thirsting to know what his views are.
Mr. Christie is on the political war-path in the
North. At a meeting the other night he was asked
whether he wouldn't take a Government billet. He
replied that he was recently offered one in the Survey
Department, but that he had replied to Mr. Adams
thus :—“ You have sacked me once, but, sooner than
give you the chance to do so again, I would rather die
in a gutter and let my skeleton haunt you.” This
candidate, who is a surveyor, is a trigonometrical
Demosthenes.
As the newly-made Registrar of the University
was lecturing to the “Circle Squarers” the other day,
a large piece of the plaster fell, and nearly on his head.
We are glad to state that this is not an "ex ammo
case.
A prominent member of the Y.M.C.A., who has
just returned from Melbourne, is awfully horrified at
the state of morals there, one young lady, he states,
having attended the races in a state of , well, let
her speak for herself. “No, didn’t enjoy the Cup at
all,” she said to him. “Was there, but had nothing
on, not even a pair of gloves.”
We don’t want to know what Hanlan did the
distance in ; nor do we want to hear about the fastest
times on record. What we do want to know is what
became of that leading article which was in type in the
Herald office last Monday morning, and which com-
menced with the words, “Now that New South Wales
has licked creation out of countenance,” &c.
The congregation of St. Mary’s were very much
alarmed last Sunday. They thought someone was
choking the tenor of the choir with a rope. This has
been going on for a long time. The baritone has had a
cold for 15 years, and has begun to croak bass solos
most divinely.
At an election meeting at Woollahra, the other
night, it was proposed that Dr. M'Quaife should take
the chair. A noisy elector got up and objected in very
forcible language. Then came a loud voice from the
back of the hall Doctor, see whether that fellow is
of sound mind.”
An Ashfield man, who lives in one of the main
streets of his suburb, accepts as a substitute for his
bath a large tin-dish into which he struggles at six a.m.
each day. As this performance goes on in an open shed,
in full view of half the town, those who live close by are
developing strong artistic proclivities.
In a recent Herald leader appeared the follow-
in,,—“When the parent dies the children are often
thrown upon the charity of strangers, but such a result
seldom follows when the children are taken and the
parents are left." This is a self-evident truth, because
if children were “ taken ” they couldn tbe left.
“ Three penn’orth of fusel oil, Boss,” said a
humourist on entering a Balmain pub. one day last
week. Dr. Hastie expects to be able to complete the
cure of the fractured limb in the course of a few weeks.
The other night a well-known suburban bank
clerk was called up out of bed for “ something particu-
lar.” When he got outside the hand of a muscular
woman was placed on his collar, almost to asphyxia-
tion.
Pans have been in demand at the Wesleyan
Church, Ashfield, since a man who wears an overcoat
during service has been allowed to close the windows.
We don’t know this of our own knowledge—we’ve been
told it.
A Cooktown man, who intended physicking his
horse, tried to ram prescription, bottle, cork, and
contents together down the animal’s throat. Buce-
phalus kicked and escaped, and threw the physic to
the dogs.
Just before the declaration of the poll for East
Sydney an elector remarked that as Sir Henry Parkes
was so great an advocate of Education, it would only be
graceful to return the Premier and the “ Three R’s —
Reid, Renwick, Roberts.”
“ The Vagabond,” when speaking on behalf of
Mr. Joseph Mitchell at Newtown, the other day, said
he knew “ lawyers who had taken fees to advocate
private measures from their seats as members (of Par-
liament.” Names required.
A certain roving evangelist, some time*|ago,
started a publication—well, let’s call it the Hornet —
which stung no one so hard as it did himself, pecuniarily
speaking. Then he thought of matrimony ; but, in the
words of a country scribe, “ a marriage-bell might soon
have pealed forth a merry chime only that the saint
(so the story goes) wanted to take control of the finan-
cial interests of the lady before he had forged the
chains of wedlock around her.” He is once more out
prospecting.
A coffin was waiting for the funeral train, at
Burwood, one day last week. Crowds gathered around.
“Who’s dead?” one person asked. “The man in the
coffin, I suppose,” was the reply from the Hibernian
porter. “A man dead!” ejaculated one of the oldest
inhabitants; “ something must have killed him. I never
heard of a man dying up here before.” “ More’s the
pity,” remarked another fellow; “Burwood’sbeen long
in want of some first-class funerals." The oldest in-
habitant walked away.
At the Hon. John Sutherland’s meeting, the
other day, Mr. Tom Slattery, in setting forth the claims
of “ Honest John,” commenced ns follows Gentle-
men and fellow-electors of Redfern, Darlington, Water-
loo, and Botany—for I see gentlemen here from those
four centres.” Now, Tom, a circle has but one centre,
and that centre is Burrowa.
Sign painting is a lost art in Balmain. Near the
Darling Dock Ferry is a public-house which bears this
inscription :
The Shipwright, s Arm, s.
The whole inscription appears to have been painted with
a glue-brush on a coffin-lid. However, “ Are ent eelare
artem.” First boy, construe 1
In all ages kissing has been an .institution ; and
on the Continent of Europe, at the present day, it is the
most ordinary thing to see two men meet in the street
and go in straightaway for kissing on each cheek.
Among* our colder race, however, it is usually confined
to one of each sex. Kissing Point will serve to com-
memorate this practice in New South Wales. In the
primitive church kissing was a part of the weekly ser-
vice, and we are glad to add that we know of one suc-
cessor of the apostles who still adheres to this pleasing
ceremony. The only difficulty in his case is, that he
possesses a spouse who objects. However, a library
with a spring lock on the door meets the case. No hus-
bands, brothers, or sweethearts admitted.
The clocks at the Balmain Ferry are dummies.
Well, there was a man going to be married the other
morning, and having temporarily disposed of his
“ Waltham,” strolled down to the Ferry, and glanced at
the time. Seeing that he was too early, he “ mouched
around for an hour or so, and extensively sampled the
Erskine-street whisky. When he returned, observing
that it was still only a quarter to 9, he just strolled off
a block or two to collect 3s. 6d. for half-soleing and
heeling a plumber’s shoes, and, quite easy in his mind,
he danced round to bid a few friends a fond good-bye. . .
When he eventually reached Balmain, the scene of the
nuptials, he found that the bride had gone home in a
faint and a spring cart, and that two of her brothers
wanted to see niin very urgently. He has been looking
1 ever since for the artist who manufactured those
■ clocks!
A Sandhurst capitalist wanted a cow the other
day, and asked a grazier to send him in one on approval.
He got the animal, milked it, and- -asked that another
might be sent in on approval. The answer was “We
can milk our cows ourselves."
Mr. Harry Levien, in addressing the electors
at Manilla the other evening, used the words of
“ Shakespeare, England’s great orator : —Honour and
shame from no condition rise; act well your part
there all the honour lies." Try again, Harry.
Hanley goes in strong for the remission of
interest. In his circular addressed to the electors is
the following:—“ All money heretofore paid as interest,
&c., &c., to be allowedj to the payee as part payment of
the balance due.” Who is responsible for this ?
Charles Bright says that Sir Henry Parkes,
having admitted that he (C. 8.) is on the same religious
footing as Archbishop Vaughan, he intends, should he
advertise himself ns “ Archbishop Bright,” to add,
“ By special appointment of the Colonial Secretary.
The Railway Department has a notice posted
in each carriage: " Public strictly prohibited from
riding on the platform.” If this order is to be enforced
the Department must on Saturday evenings, between
Sydney and Pai-ramatta, give the public more accom-
modation.
Kate Kelly and her friends have formed them-
selves into a show, and have been holdinf shilling levies
at Melbourne with great success. They say they only
want to get enough money to enable them to leave the
country. If Kate wants to make money she ought to
start a “whisky-mill.” Perhaps some enterprising
landlord will yet try to make a Hebe of her.
The Age has been trying to make capital out of
the fact that David Gaunson is a native of Sydney.
However, it consoles us cornstalks to know that the
proprietor of Ananias originally came from Scotland;
that Mr. Berry is also a Britisher; and that Ned Kelly,
who lately shared with the illustrious personages last
named the honour of ruling the Southern colony, was a
Victorian.
“ Egardiensis ” (Peter Camel), writes to the
Standard to the effect that St. Patrick was a Scotch
Presbyterian. Dr. M‘Guv*-n says it is “a manifest
anachronism,” which literally interpreted means “ Peter,
you’re another.” To have St. Patrick a Presbyterian
and all his descendants of the same religion would give
the Dr. no field. We’re under the impression the Dr.
is right. We’d do it ourselves.
Here is an artful defence: —The policeman who
summoned Mr. Clark, of Pitt-street, for exhibiting in
his shop window the photograph of a nude figure, has
been pronounced by the magistrates to be a nopale.
Evidence was adduced to prove that ‘ Chloe, the
young lady in question, has never worn a stitch ot
clothing since she first appeared in public, and it is
hardly to be expected now the hot weather is coming
on she can make any alteration. The ‘ ‘ demoralising
influence" is all imaginary, for it is impossible to asso-
ciate “Chloe” with loose habits of any kind. Had it
been “ Polly" now, there would have been some justifi-
cation for the outcry.
In a playful par., last week, we gave a specimen
of the eccentric verse forwarded to us by secluded
geniuses, who, like the owner of “Somebody s Luggage,
sigh for the glories of “ perrint.” “ Viator] sends us
this time a prose item, which he labels “ jottings, and
which consists of one greasy sheet of paper embellished
by twelve lines of execrable writing. His lucubration
is about “ the incubent ” of a church, who “ hoped in a
charatable manner” that the attendance at his prayer-
meetings would be better, and that an increased
“ attendence would renovate these meeting.” With
this the spark of “Viator’s” genius goes out, and with
it also our patience expires.
Another snake-story, told about a Dundoo Hills
man, whose character for veracity is such that he is
regarded as a second St. Paul. The individual referred
to was crossing the Bland Plains in a buggy, and sawn
big black snake a short distance off the track. The
D. H. man immediately pulled up his buggy, jumped
out, and ran towards the snake, which had got about
half-way—that it is to say twelve feet—down a hole in
the earth. No stick being close at hand he pulled the
brute but by the tail and threw him some distance. On
alighting—which happened in about a quarter of an
hour—tie venomous monster (good word) again made
tracks for his hole, but was again palled out by the tail
and slung away. This occurred five times, but at last
the snake having got tired of being thrown towards the
heavens, turned round and entered his hole tail tirst.
“Then,” said the Dundoo Hills man, “I saw_ him put
his tongue out at me, and I remembered having heard
of the death by snake-bite of two of my ancestors, who
were in ,the early days.” Ananias and Sapphira,
we suppose.
EDWARD TRICKETT, CHAMPION SCULLER OF AUSTRALIA.


fjio the ELECTORS of CAMDEN.
Gentlemen, —Having been informed by Captain On-
slow that it is not bis intention to seek re-election as
one of your representatives, and having been requested
by several of my personal friends who are old and in-
fluential residents of your district to place my services
at your disposal, I beg to say that I have consented to
become a CANDIDATE for one of the seats at your
command.
The new Parliament, which must shortly be convened,
will not only be the largest Legislative Assembly that
has ever met in New South Wales, but, judging from the
number of able and respectable men who are already in
the field, it promises to be the most intelligent. This
is well for the colony, because several most important
and difficult questions will have to be dealt with—among
which will be Land Legislation, Taxation, and Law Ee-
form.
The Education Question has been settled for the pre-
sent by the Public Instruction Act recently passed.
This is an Act of which the colony can boast with
justifiable pride on account of the liberal—indeed muni-
ficent -provision it makes for the promotion of cheap
and efficient education throughout the length and
breadth of the land. lam aware that by a large
majority of the inhabitants of the colony it is
deemed one of the best features of the Act, that it has
provided for the withdrawal of all State Aid from De-
nominational schools ; but I must admit that I was one
of those who would have been better pleased had it
made provision for rendering Denominational schools
more efficient, insfead of decreeing their extinction. I
am an active member of the association for providing
religious instruction in the Public schools to the Church
of England children during the hour set apart for that
purpose; and I have no doubt the members of other
Protestant denominations will also take advantage o '
the privilege the Act allows in that direction ; but the
Homan Catholics will not do so, and if by providing nnc
supporting their schools they relieve the State of al.
expense in the education of their children, I do no’:
think it would be an unreasonable thing for them to ask
for a share of public money in proportion to their num
bers, provided that upon inspection by Government
Inspectors it was shown that their children in the
schools were receiving in secular subjects as good an
education as the children in the Public schools. lam
aware that at the present moment this is an unpopular
view to take, but I am determined not to expose mysel
to a charge of want of candour on this important point
It cannot be doubted that an early appeal will be made
to Parliament to further amend the Land Acts. It mas l ;
be admitted that our Land legislation has not been
hitherto quite a success. It was expected that the
Crown Lands Alienation Act of 1861 would have coverec
the country with an industrious and prosperous yeo
manry, and if it had been foreseen that it would have
led to the formation of gigantic freehold estates of forty
thousand, fifty thousand, and a hundred thousand acres,
such as are not uncommon now. It would never have
been passed. That the Act was well adapted to the
agricultural parts of the colony has never been denied,
but that it was not so well adapted to the pastoral parts
of the colony every one must nowadmit. While the hold-
ings it enabled the conditional purchasers to take up
were large enough to materially injure the leaseholds
of the Crown tenants, they were in most cases too small
to enable the selectors to make a living, for the pro-
mised grass right proved but a delusion and a snare, and
consequently very many of the conditional purchasers,
have had to sell out to the squatters, not, as is often
alleged, because they ore always intended to do so,
but because their selections were too small to
enable them to make a livelihood as graziers; and
the saltbush country, although affording the
best pasturage in the world, is fitted for nothing
else but grazing. To enable our conditional purchasers
to prosper they must secure more land, and to
do that they must convince the public that they are
the best customers for the public to sell the land to ;
hut the public will fail to see that if, while the squatters
are willing to buy all they can get at 20s or 25s per acre,
cash down, the selectors are only willing to give 5s p>er
acre, cash, and the balance by long deferred instalments
WITHOUT INTEEEST. Statistics recently published
have shown the magnitude of the concession sought for,
and all reasonable men must feel convinced that to
abolish interest on the unpaid balances of conditional
purchases would he an injustice to the community at
large and to posterity, and already the selectors must
see that in making the request to be relieved from this
part of their obligation, they are lowering themselves in
the eyes of the public. The programme adopted by the
Conference of conditional purchasers’ delegates recently
held in Sydney is altogether too one-sided to meet with
public support. I am of opinion that a line should be
drawn dividing the agricultural lauds of the colony
from the pastoral lands, and that an indefeasible lease
for 21 years should be given at an adequate rental to the
squatters of one-balf of their runs, and that the other
half should be thrown open to selection as grazing
farms, in measured portions of not less than 5000 acres.
I believe your representative, Mr. Garrett, has
announced his intention to endeavour to introduce some
such alteration of the present law, and should he do so
I shall, if returned, give him my cordial support.
I am in favour of free and unrestricted commerce, but
as it appears necessary to raise some revenue by taxing
imports, I think the tariff should he so adjusted as to
encourage native industry. 1 shall, therefore, not vote
for the repeal of the duty of sixpence per gallon which
is now levied upon imported kerosene, nor shall I endea-
vour to increase the duty upon imported unmanufac-
tured tobacco. At present the duty upon imported
cigars is 5s per lb, and the duty upon imported tobacco
is 2s, while the duty upon unmanufactured imported
tobacco is only Is ; and the consequence is that there are
seven or eight tobacco factories flourishing in the colony,
and giving profitable employment to a large number of
bands. On the same principle I object to colonial beer
being subject to an excise, and to wool, coal, gold, and
any other articles of colonial produce being taxed.
Last year I was a member of a Eoyal Commission
appointed to inquire into and report upon the working
of the Heal Property Act. That Commission sent in a
report recommending several very important amend-
mends intended to simplify the mode of bringing land
under the Act, and to render the Act more generally
serviceable and jiopular. I believe it is the intention of
tho present Government to introduce a Bill to give
effect to those recommendations, and I shall, of course,
be very glad to be able to assist them in passing the
same. I think our common law system will admit of
great reform. I have seen the proof of a Bill which the
present Government have bad prepared for extending
the jurisdiction and simplifying the proceedings of the
District Courts, and I shall be glad to bo able to give
the measure my support.
I shall take an early opportunity of addressing you
personally, when I shall I>e able to explain os fully ns
you may desire my views upon all other political topics,
lam, Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
THOMAS EOBEETSON.
Landsdowue, Burwood, 27th October, 1880.
A L M A I N ELECTORATE.
TO THE ELECTOES OP BALMAIN.
I'ellow Electors,—
Before acknowledging the kind impulse which
prompted your requisition to represent the Balmain
Electorate in the next Parliament, I took serious
counsel with myself as to the absolute necessary quali-
fications of a representative for such an important con-
stituency. After calm consideration of what appeared
to me tho undesirable qualities, and setting in opposi-
tion the essential requirements, I determined to accede
to your request
la the administration of municipal affairs, I have
always to do my duty to those whose representative I
was, and if my endeavours have met with satisfaction,
I am amply repaid.
The importance of this electorate (embracing as it
does not only the Borough of Balmain, but a moiety of
the flourishing Borough of Leichhardt, and a portion
of Petersham) renders it incumbent on those in whose
bands the choice of a Parliamentary representative
rests to select one who can, by ability, influence, and an
intimate knowledge of the requirements of the con-
stituency, obtain these rights and privileges which
justly belong to us, and which, through inadequate
representation, might become lost iu the future as it
has been in the past.
Combined with this I insist that yourr. preeentatives’
views upon the loading subjects of the clay should he
sound, straightforward, and logical. To my mind, the
evasiveness and mi.red policy of some of the gentlemen
thirsting for Parliamentary distinction is fraught with
danger to the well-being and future happiness of the
country. Truth and honor are sacrificed, and even
slander indulged iu to acquire the desired end. I be-
lieve, however, that the intelligence of our electorate is
superior to this trickery, I have not hesitated to
place my views before you on the several occasions
upon which we have met, and will content myself now
by summarising the leading questions calling for sound
practical legislation in the new Parliament, and upon
which I hope to address you fully within the ensuing
week, when I will endeavour to explain the important
position of our new electorate, and the necessity of
active representation to secure the benefits that then
must accrne.
I am an advocate of municipal reform ; am opposed
to assisted immigration ; and never in my life believed
that the Anglo-Saxon race, with its free and enlightened
institutions, should eutert ain or tolerate Chinese cheap
labour. My views on Free-trade are gathered from a
varied intimate connection with commerce, and I can
testify as to its advantages over the so-called Protec-
tion ; which simply means an artificial stimulus, “ cod-
dling of manufacturers," and the real impoverishment
of the working classes.
The great internal wealth of onr colony will naturally
strike any man of capacity of intellect that the revenue
must be derived in other ways than through the Cus-
tom House. A property tax will not discourage accu-
mulation, and will only affect those best able to pay it.
After a 20 years’ trial our Land Laws are found defec-
tive. I denounce repudiation of interest on purchases
of Crown Lands as being at variance with fair dealing,
that I doubt if a mau in Parliament could be found to
advocate it.
The Education Act has evoked such enthusiastic
feelings among the heads of denominations that the
vitality of religion is better assured than ever. The
culture of the emotions, or rather creed, belongs not
to the State but to those who exercise the sacerdotal
functions in our midst. I adhere to the present Act.
Water supply—the immediate commencement of
works in relation to it; the more energetic establish-
ment of the Tramway system, and the advocacy of the
Southern Railway line have been referred to by me at
previous meetings.
I do not seek the position of being your representa-
tive with any vain, glorious, or ambitious ideas, but
simply from a wish to do my duty to the electorate of
Balmain.
Gentlemen, I leave my good cause in your hands, and
remain your obedient servant,
ALBERT EL KINGTON.
Clovernook, Balmain, November 10, 1880.
N EWTOWN ELECTORATE.
The following named Gentlemen met at the Council
Chambers, Camperdown, on the 5th instant, and formed
themselves into a COMMITTEE for the purpose of
securing
THE ELECTION OF
Mr. STEPHEN CAMPBELL BROWN.
R. Fowler, Esq., Mayor of Sydney
Alderman Larkin, Camperdown
Alderman Culbert, ditto
Alderman M'Gtrath, ditto
Alderman Cruickshank, ditto
Walter Hamblin, Esq.
J. J. Leslie, Esq.
J. Bell, Esq.
J. Harris, Esq.
Wm. Huxley, Esq.
J. Annan, Esq.
Wm. Peters, Esq.
Wm. Mainer, Esq.
W. Gorman, Esq.
H. Sanbrook, Esq.
J. Sanbrook, Esq.
J. Larkin, Esq.
Richard Fowler, Esq.
Alderman Q. Sparks
Wm. I vers. Esq.
Wm. Morgan, Esq.
JOSEPH JOLLY) ) Joint
ROBERT HANNAN;Secretaries,
EWTOWN ELECTORATE.
The following named gentlemen met at Mr. Meek’s
Cricketers’ Arms Hotel, Newtown, on Wednesday even-
ing last, and formed themselves into a COMMITTEE
for the purpose of securing the ELECTION of Mr.
STEPHEN CAMPBELL BROWN, for the next ensuing
Pavlinmftiif
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BEIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEOEGE STEEET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
I
ICE. IC E ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY'S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office— 24 O’CONNELL STREET.
FOST E R.
a?
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE
MEEC HANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
tw-
Proprietors, ry m -
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
towns.
ii&c/Ca
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o Kh, (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals :—London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili). 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown. 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) t Sydney, 1879.
Notice.— The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the fall extent of the law.
JOHANN MAEIA FAETNA,
Julichs-Platz, No i.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
[LEGAL.]
SHOETEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHEE
_ SOLICITORS, K >
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.— Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at IS9 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w
o D,
MAC L E
POETEAIT PAINTEE,
225 BOUEKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO. |
AND S. PEEDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskinb Steeet.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber.
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves.
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, See., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Jjl O W L E E’S P O T T E E T
AND
BEICK WOEKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
ROBEET BUTCHEE & CO..
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
ME. AND MES. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVEEPOOL-STEEET-
Pamphlets gratis.
€
T. B U E P I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
S. MANDEES & CO.,
(Late Grant, Manders, and Gramt)
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL STOEES, SUSSEX-STEEET.
JOHN Mo M INN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS. PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered, intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
NOTICE. —I be? to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs, Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
GLASSO N'S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWEIGHT
WOEKS,
Habris-steeet, off Geobge-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Bail way.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed.
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, <fcc., &c.
S. Q. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
-jyjp U B PH Y AND 8 O ~W r
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled) |
Paperhangera’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., Ac,
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and*
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
[THE GEEAT PEOMENADE FOE LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3Jd per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costunfes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marche Weol Beiges at 5Jd, 7|d, 9|d per
yard.
See the Bon Marchi- New Linen Costume Cloth at 7fd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows—
LEADEE AND STAEE,
96 KING STEEET.
NAMES of Gentlemen forming the COMMITTEE of
Mr. STEPHEN CAMPBELL BHOWN, at Newtown.
James Pemell, Esq., J.P.
Daniel Wildman, Esq.,
Mayor, Newtown
Alderman William Tye,
Newtown,
Alderman J. P. Smith,
Newtown
Alderman David Bedford,
Newtown
Alderman Charles Boots,
Newtown
Charles Henderson, Esq.,
J.P.
J. Hamblin, Esq.
Martin Gibbous, Esq.
S. Baldick, Esq.
W. Meek, Esq.
Alderman Hr. Hargraves,
Darlington
Alderman Jno. Humphries,
Darlington
Henry Howe, Newtown
J. F. Jones
J. Baldick
A. Chevers
Alderman George Sparkes,
Camperdown
Joseph Abbott, Esq.
F. Stewart
— Symons
P. Dolan
M. Plea
E. W. Tnllock
T. Moore
W. Wilson
G. Kapson
P. B. Whitfield
E. Eapson
A. M'Martin
C. Turtle, jun.
G. Grasby
D. Stett
T. H. Griffiths
John Webster, Esq.
E. Whiting
C. F. Pierce
M. Leddeu
T. Mangle
W. E. Eggleton
C. Churchill
H. Thomburn
J. J. Pattisou
W. Ivers
Q. Eaton
T. Whitehead
W. Hare
W. 0. Shirley
T. Tuft
P. Penfold
W. Pike
R. Hannan
Thos. Bingongh
R. Watson
J. Church
W. G. Turtle
Chas. Hadleigh
J. Rochester
Owen Friend
Thos. Fisher
W. Martin
E. F. Henderson
J. F. Thompson
J. S. Rosenthal
J. Jones
Jas. Goldsmith
J. Horsfall. Esq., Mayor of
Muodon a Id to wn
H. Walkley
Wm. Thackeray
Robert Henderson
Wm. Mason
J. Whitehead
J. Campbell
F Hoffman
W. Lands
JOSEPH JOLLY > Joint
ROBERT HANNAN ) Secretaries
LECTORS OF NEWTOWN,
Can you rely on a man who said, in his first Address,
that he was a Teetotaller, and would not hold
meeting's at an hotel, but who now holds all his public
meetings at hotels ; a man who was once a strong
opponent of the Public Schools Act, but latterly
turned round and supported it, in order to court
popularity. Can you have confidence in such a man ?
No. Who signed a letter congratulating Sir Henry
Parkos upon the action he took in suppressing Proctor’s
lecture ? W. J. Foster.
Em A S O N,
• DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—12i ELIZABETH STREET (near Kiug-st.)
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marchi ! and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Yisites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche 5 and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.


OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
f W NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D ER,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
REMOVAL.
'7 I IHE undersigned have removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
'Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
■ a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
JT IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition or 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
ANTHONY BORDER N & SON S,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
The Goods for this Season were most carefully selected by our Mr. Samuel Hordern, who
has just returned from Europe, where his intimate knowledge of the Colonial Trade, combined
with an almost unlimited amount of ready money, enabled him to secure for each Department
throughout the House such real Bargains, both as to style and value, as we have seldom been able
to offer the public.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, of the Haymarket (only), beg to state that every
order from the country, receive prompt and careful attention, and the carriage and freight on
parcels of £2 10s. and upwards is prepaid by us.
We are constantly receiving letters from our customers in the country districts testifying to
the careful and satisfactory manner in wliich their orders have been attended to.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY',
Who are the original firm of the name, and who have No connection with any other establishment
of a similar name.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS ark now Selling—
Brown Holland, from sd. per yard
Linen Table Damask from 1/7 per yard
Bedroom Towels „ 3/- per dozen
Lace Curtains, 3 yards long, trom 3/- per pair
Men’s Strong Tweed Trousers, all wool, 4/9 to 6/11
Durable Tweed Trousers and Vests, 12/- and 13/-
Four-button Sac Coats, 14/- and 16/-
Black Cloth Pagets, 18/- to 25/- (well finished)
Tweed Sac Suits, 25/- to 35/-
Tweed Paget Suits, 34/- to 46/-
uoys and Youths Straw Hats, Sailor and other
new shapes, 1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-, &c.
Youths’ Soft Felt Hats, black, drab, and slate,
from 2/- to 10/6
The Helmet Hat, in Merino and Felt, from
2 '6 to 10 6
Horrocks s Calicoes at less than wholesale prices
White Mosquito Net from 6*d. per yard
White Sheeting „ 9d. ~
Grey do. „ 7d.
All orders must be accompanied by remittances, and customers are requested to make all post-office
orders payable at the “ Haymarket” Branch, to
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION. SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MADDOCK’S select library.
381 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This Library will be found to contain all the best and
newest works of Fiction, Travel, Biography, popular
Theology, &c., which are received immediately on pub-
lication by mail and fast ocean steamers. Arrange-
ments have been made with all the leading publishers
for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of interest to be
sent as soon as published. Also all the best magazines
and quarterly reviews.
Terms of subscription forwarded on application.
A list of the NEWEST BOOKS in circulation
A History of our own Time, by Justin M‘Carthy.
Australian Abroad, second series, by J. Kingston.
The Mudfog Papers, by Charles Dickens.
A Peal of Merry Belts, by Leopold Lewis.
The Rebecca Rioter, by E. A. Dillwyn.
The Wellflelds, by Jessie Fothergill.
The Lady Resident, by Hamilton Page.
Two Worlds are Ours, by Rev. H. Macmillan, D.D.
What will Society Say ? by H. C. Coope.
St. Martin’s Summer, by Shirley Smith.
A Sheep in Wolf’s Clothing, by Debaus.
Society's Verdict, by Annie Thomas.
The Dean’s Wife, by Mrs. Eiloart.
Lizzie of the Mill, by Christina Tyrrell.
Mountain and Prairie : A journey from Victoria to
Winnipeg, by Rev. D. M. Gordon.
Round about a Great Estate, by Richard Jefferies.
In Pastures Green, by (lharles Gibbon.
Bells and Ringers, by Hawley Smart.
Thoughts in my Garden, by Mortimer'Collins.
The Shadow of a Life, by Beryl Hope.
White Wings, by William Black.
Oliver Constable, by Sarah Tytler.
A Very Opal, by G. L. Pirkis.
The Rival Doctors, by A. Lapointe.
The Sergeant’s Legacy, by E. Berthet.
Our Sous: How to start them in Life, by Arthur Kinc.
Shelly : a Study, by J. Todhunter.
Innocence at Play, by Jean Middlemas.
Wait a Year, by Harriette Bowra.
Fascination, by Lady Margaret Majendie.
Winged Words, by Henry Spicer.
Forestalled, by M Betham-Edwards.
Monsieur Guizot in Private Life, by Mdme. De Witt.
A Female Nihilist, by Ernest Lavigne.
The Sport of Fate, by R. Dowling.
Pious Frauds, by Albany de Fonblanque.
The Tenth Earl, by John B. Harwood.
w ILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Boys') Own Annual, 1880, 832 pages, 600 illus.—
cloth, 7s 6d; post, 11s 6d ; gilt extra, 9s; post, 13s.
The Girls’ Own Annual, 1880, 624 p., profusely illus.--
cloth, 6s ; post, 9s; gilt extra, 7s 6d; post, 10s 6d.
The Cottager and Artisan, illus., 1889—Is 6d; post, 2s
3d.
Every Boy’s Annual, edited by Edmund Routledge,
illus.—gilt, 3s; post, 7s 9d.
Sunday, 1880: Reading for Yoimg and Old, 200 illus.—
3s; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Little Wide Awake, edited by Mrs. Sole-Barker, illus.—
3s; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Routledge’s Every Girl’s Annual, 1881, edited by Miss
Alicia A. Leith, illus.—gilt, 6s; post, 7s 9d.
Little Folks, vol. n., illus.—3s 6d; post, 4s lOd; cloth
gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Child’s Own Magazine, 1880, illus.—ls; post, Is 6d; gilt
extra, 2s; post, 2s 6d.
Kate Greenaway’s Birthday Book for Children, 382 cold,
illus., printed by Evans, Verses by Mrs. Sale-
Barker--gilt extra, 3s 6d; post, 4s. Ditto plain,
2s 6d ; post, 3s.
The Family Novelette Library: 12 High-class Novels,
vol ix, cloth—2s 6d; post, 3s 3d.
Berthet’s The Sergeant’s Legacy, Translated by Gilbert
Venables —3s; post, 3s fid.
John Ploughman’s Pictures: More of his Talk, illus.—
Is 3d; post. Is Bd.
Fullerton’s The Family Medical Guide, with plain
directions for the Treatment of Every Case and a
list of medicines required for any household, by
George Fullerton, C.M , M.D., 3rd edition—l2s 6d ;
post, I ts.
Profit on Returns; Tables for showing the price at
which goods must be sold in order to realise a given
rate per cent, of profit on selling price. Calculated
from Id to £lOOO, ami 5 to 35 per cent. By J.
Scouller, Accountant.
The Crown Lands Acts of New South Wales, and the
Regulations, with notes and index. By John S.
Watkins, Esq., Barrister-at-Law—los 6d ; post, 11s.
WILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TZ" EAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Pork-street.
MATHIAS &||CO.,
IMPORTERS AND INVENTORS
OF
FRENCH BOOTS AND S.HOES
AND
GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
313 GEORGE ST., AND 24 WYNYAR
S Y D N E Y.
ALSO,
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
JjHRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL PEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.’*
Volumes could express no more than this award, wot
bv SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
♦Full instructions gratis’, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney,
Department of Mines,
Sydney, sth November, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
is hereby given that the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Lease has been declared
void, the Lesseeshaving failed to execute and take
delivery thereof when called upon to do so.
E. A. BAKER.
Lachlan Mining District.
N 0.82; P. C. Cantwell and others; Portion No., 78;
Frogmore, parish of Narallen; 4 acres. Application
No., Young 79-3.
ƑASDFA
JUST aebiVed
JUST ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OP USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, Ae.
TOTS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, Ac.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
N o trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
• article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
E. L A E K I N,
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
.4B George-strcet West (late Porramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
p. e. "laekin,
'WhOLESAXJS AND RETAIL WINK AND SPIRIT MEECHANT,
778 and 7so GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
•OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
JXOMES EOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIE OWN FEEEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
■and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undehiable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
•Out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
-fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO. ;
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
FSAFASF
MANUFACTORY:
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
• ls ? s the effective substitute for kerosene in lighting? Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more bnlliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A- M, A Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
-thout cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
Department of Mines,
Sydney, sth November, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING LEASES.
(Vf OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No.
186
187
111
112
Tambarooha and Turon Mining District.
Name.
Portion
No. 1
Locality.
Area. j APPjjwtkm
W. H. Campbell 1278
Innocent Ram pa I 1276
Thomas Kerr and another ...
Joseph Hawken and another
1 GL
4 GI,
a. r. p.
Big Oakey Creek, parish of Sofnla 1 1 ! Sofala
do do 1 0 610
Bathurst Mining District.
Tindale’s Hollow, parish of Yetholme 5 0 0 Bathurst 63
Anthony’s Creek, parish of Yetholmo 4 0 0
New England and Clarence Mining District.
TeaterfieldB2
86
87
92
94
96
98
101
106
110
80— 1
IN the Press, and will shortly be published,
SONGS FROM THE MOUNTAINS, by HENRY
KENDALL. This volume, now on the eve of publica-
tion, has been printed on the best paper, and is being
handsomely bound in cloth. Price, 6s; by post, 6s Bd.
Sydney: WILLIAM HADDOCK, publisher, 381
George-street.
I
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
j LAW L E R
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 Goorge-street.


M
'"'prqvsd
Ifci.. AIWlf CIIAHSINt
riLTBR y
r o r
IMPURE
WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filter, which is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the dlite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Fillers ivhich
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYJ*HOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAYIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EYES
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
wonderfufdeodorisw,^dlsin^tan-^
and ail aplXs infist plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant. Jeyes’
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Cou y.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS, .
Receive regular consignmenta, and now are
in receipt of .
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaherry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES :—348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PiiTJSHT' MEIL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
Miscellaneous
T|RYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied ; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
AX I)
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES.
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &e., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
T
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD,
R
x>
$
*
*
UR a >n
ELASTIC
I E MOWN.
m
Us e 22’V'1& £)
CSof
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., 4 gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
■s:—“Woollahra. August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to Its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GRIGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
machiner y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters. Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., Ac.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
quinetem wine.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION,
Wm, TAYLER is CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDER LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WAKE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
6 YORK STREET.
ƑSAFASF
O
PRIZE
Coco A
sail
TRADE MARK.
. '%<&■
A
■3k
%
AS
vT _
<Va
TRADE MARK.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
The most' wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old by all Grocers and Storekeepers*
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL . atiK
W
OR
ALLWOOL
T D TWEED
THr.
lOS&J.
m
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
M.Ss.
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns' ochoose 0 choose from
Hi SUMMERFIELO
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E,
GREER AND CO. ’ &
PEI Z E
ALBTJEY WINES,
Bed Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines:
Eeisling
Verdeilto
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLAES:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
S9F
SYDNEY : Printed and published by of
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the v
John Woods & Co„ Bridge-street.
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the hest of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
m!mc§
(HU
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
PD or**
prize:
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
s
INOE H ’ S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FOEMEE YEAES OUTDONE,
The SINGEE Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGEE’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGEE’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine so!d by the Com-
pany’ a Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at SEDUCED
PRI TIME-PAY O ME < NT I SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTEE STEEET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCISTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not hoard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Eepairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
08 KING STEEET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Eoom).
Sole Agents for Australasia —PAELEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389
George Street
SYDNEY. /
" J aOLIC
/Agents
*
FUR
N
Hornsby
*
o
$
’S*
-Australian
STRIPPERS
& PAIN
187
AND
& 189
WITH
4
’ \\
Request
\
Farmers X ft
toexamineV*j\YOrk St.
Hornsby’^
strippers'
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
Our HORNSBY'S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and ,m P roveme " ts p
Lean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during Recent DAMP ENGLISH
lARIIEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Ha
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
rile Leading House in the Agricultural Implement Business.
