

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 37
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1880.
Price—3d.
t|r t lßiilktin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1880.
Unmeaning Surprise.
The people of this colony —meaning the adult
portion of the population paying taxes—are
much surprised at the vis inertia of the Govern-
ment. His Excellency the Governor has now,
in the Coalition Ministry, a body of advisers of
great intellectual vigour and administrative ex-
perience ; in fact, they are all head and no
heart. If they were once put in motion—if
another deus ex machina did something
to concentrate and direct their energies,
they would soon surprise the world with
noble statesmanship; but as they have
squared the circle of political achievement by
the Education Act, they have a right to wear
their laurels with a nonchalant air during the
recess, and say, with that old pastoral swain who
used to pipe nearly 2,000 years ago under
an umbrageous beech while his sheep were brows-
ing on his neighbour’s free selection, that the
genius of laziness had given them their leisure.
If —it is all in the if — they were put in motion,
they would run on with a rapid pace; but as
there is no motive-power behind to drive them,
they enjoy a grim repose, or go “bobbing
around” in quest of popularity. The tax-
paying portion of the public cannot understand
this listlessness of theirs —this odious state of
otium without dignity. It is all the tax-payers’
own fault. They are so doggedly dull and
stolidly apathetic in reference to the discharge of
their public duties, that they would hardly de-
vote a couple of hours a year to force Minis-
ters to go faster. Their honourable rulers ob-
tain money from Parliament for needful public
works; the money is not expended, and is called
“ savings ; ” the independent electors growl; the
Press condenses the general grumbling into
vigorous leading articles, and stump orators de-
nounce Ministerial lethargy; but tbe distin-
guished individuals bear it all in a spirit of sub-
lime resignation, knowing that it is not the kind
of feeling that will compel them to resign their
portfolios. If our potential Premier cared
to oblige the public —to do a real service,
and doubly do it by doing it promptly—he
would have weeks ago advised a dissolution of
Parliament—to take effect on the Ist instant —
and thus enable bona fide candidates to announce
themselves and commence their open-air evening
lectures without delay. We have in former
issues warned our readers that Sir Henry
Paekes means to surprise the community in the
matter of the general elections. He is said by
some who know his tactics generally to have
meditated a grand coup d'etat (or de theatre) by
fixing the elections for one day, after the manner
of Yizier Berry, of Victoria ; but his col-
leagues begged him to forego the bold stroke and
give a month to the people to work off their
political enthusiasm in cheering or groaning at
candidates. If there was a real public spirit in
tbe community—a real impelling sense of duty •
no Administration could delay, parley, and
“potter” about as the present one is doing.
Why are not the public works “ ordered ” pro-
ceeded with P Why is dissolution postponed ?
Why is not the cause of the postponement —if
there is reason for it—acknowledged? To enable
ministers to gad abroad and obtain
cheap popularity and dyspeptic hospitality
in the principal centres of population. No one
need be surprised at anything that occurs in the
political arena, because nobody seems to care a
straw whether Ministers act well or ill. No
doubt they—the people—will bestir themselves
when the day of ordeal arrives, and many of
them will practically demonstrate their disgust
at official supineness by voting against the chief
of the Coalition. Should the Canterbury electors
—most of them men of education, experience, and
tact—once see through the hollowness —the sham
—of the present Administration, with all its
insolent insouciance and braggart airs, they will
give the Premier a quietus, even if be should fix
the day for his own trial the first of the electoral
series. People wonder at the coolness of their
rulers; and we wonder at the people for being
so absurd, seeing the fault is their own. Minis-
ters are just as we (the public) made them ; or,
rather, they are what they have thought fit to
make themselves —official fixtures, because nobody
tries to make them move on. This “shove” of
ours is not likely to be effective.
The Chinese Shuffle.
The policy of running with the Imre and hunting
with the hounds seems to be in higher favour with
Sir Henry Paekes than ever it has been. From
the day on which the question of limiting Chinese
immigration came to the front he has been coquet-
ting with it, equally afraid, to all appearances, of
leaving it alone and dealing with it. Admitting
that a great deal of the art of statesmanship in
these times consists in shilly-shallying till the
drift of prevailing opinion becomes unmistakable,
and then taking immense credit for doing what
cannot safely be left undone, no man can keep a
lead forever by tricks alone. The idea of getting
up a Conference of Colonial Ministers to agree
upon joint action may be ingenious, as a fresh
device for staving off action ; but it is too trans-
parent to hide the intention it is meant to conceal.
The people of New South Wales are not particu-
larly concerned about what the other colonies are
willing to do in the matter of Chinese immigra-
tion. At any rate, this anxiety about the con-
dition of affairs outside their own colonies is not
half so pressing as their wish to attend to the
affair so far as it concerns themselves. It would
be time enough to concert plans for assimilating
the fashion of excluding the Mongolians when
each colony had done it somehow. Queensland
did not beat about the bush when it was found
desirable to deter the Chinese from pouring into
that territory. Yet its measures for stopping the
rush were not a whit less effective for being
independently carried out. To refer the matter
to an intercolonial Conference is merely to inter-
pose new difficulties in the way of doing any-
thing at all.s Different colonies look at the case
from different points of view. No agreement at
all to joint action might be arrived at; and even
were some understanding come to, the chances
are that it would be by compromises. The course
of action thus fixed on would in all likelihood be
as much too trenchant for the Parliament of one
colony as it would be too lax for the liking of
another. Sir Henry seems to bo deliberately
laying his plans for another convenient failure.
His Cobden medal seems to lie too heavily on
his breast. He appears unwilling to venture
upon any step which might lose him the good
opinion of theorists and sentimentalists in Eng-
land. The man-and-brother idea is very excellent
in the abstract, as is also the buying in the
cheapest and selling in the dearest market
principle. But when the competition is between
sellers of our kin and those of a race utterly alien,
the strict line of theory is unworkable. It would
be just us well, and much wiser, to look facts in
the face early as lute. The difficulty has to be
faced some time, and the sooner it is to bo tackled
the less disturbance its settlement is likely to
cause. Discussion will not alter the hard fact
that the artizan and labouring classes in New
South Wales arc thoroughly resolved that they
will not subject themselves to Chinese competi-
tion in the colony. Their spokesmen and self-
elected advocates have talked an immense deal of
rubbish in justification of that resolution, and a
good deal of time has been gained by answering
arguments which were never worth a reply,
because they did not represent the genuine work-
ing of people minds. It isn’t because Chinese
are dirty or celibate or immoral that their coming
raises objection, in the main. The most vehement
objectors —the enthusiasts who yell their delight
at claptrap served hot at public meetings, and the
noble Anglo-Saxons who chase Chinamen down
George-street alleys—are not individually remark-
able for personal cleanliness or severe morality.
The question is essentially an economic one for
them, and they would hunt a shipment of
Scotchmen or Germans just as cheerfully and
devotedly, if the Scotch or Germans made a
national practice of living on scraps and under-
selling every other man at every trade they un-
dertook. It would be absurd to exclude a race
because they are frugal and industrious, and
consequently the artizans’ reason is only good
among artizans. But although the well-to-do
may be indifferent to the case as it presents
itself to the poor, there are other aspects of it
which should be felt with a force proportionate
to men’s leisure for thinking the matter out.
Blood is thicker than water, and the best sort of
well-to-do people will sympathise with their own
people in a difficulty which is perfectly real and
a trouble which is obviously sharp, and likely to
grow if not checked. But it is the statesman
above all other men who might be expected to
realise the true scope of the danger in its full
significance. His “extensive view” should be
able to discover latent causes and foresee pro-
bable effects. He should know better than any
poor undersold joiner that the Chinese are
literally too many for us. While he might smile
at the exaggerated stress laid upon their social
demerits, he should see bettor than any unlucky
spouter, thinking otf his empty cupboard and
unused tools, that the danger is real and for-
midable, though perhaps not so pressing to the
community as it feels to the man thrust already
out of work. It is on the latter, which is a small
thing considered from a national point of view.
But it is in its distant aspect a far bigger and
more threatening business than the workman,
conscious chiefly of his empty pockets, has any
idea of. The colonists of N. S. Wales are not
all without bowels. They feel for their artizans,
and what they expect from their rulers is not a
conference, but direct and vigorous action.
There is no general disposition to sit still and
twiddle thumbs because Sir Henry Paekes has
a Cobhen medal.
Abusing the Press.
“Set a beggar on horseback,” says the proverb,
“and he will ride to ,” for further infor-
mation, enquire of the Rev. Wazib Beg. It is
quite useless going to Rabbi Davis, as he ranks
the distinguished personage referred to along
with Mrs. Hakhis, Prester John, the Unicorn,
and other mythical characters. Whatever may
be the truth in this matter, about which even
our cleverest Printer’s Devil can give us no
satisfactory intelligence—it is quite certain that
if a beggar unexpectedly elevated to the back of a
high-stepping trotter will make an unseemly
exhibition of himself, a snob in office will yet
more glaringly betray the inherent rottenness of
his nature. It is the unfailing test of a noble
mind that it remains unspoilt by fortune. To
whatever height in the social scale it may ascend,
it pever becomes puffed up with personal pride
and scornful of the surroundings of humbler
days. The common-place being, on the contrary,
Dressed in a little brief authority,
Most ignorant of what he’s most assured.
His glassy essence—like an angry ape,
Plays such fantastic tricks before highSheaveu,
As make the angels weep.
We are led to these reflections by noting the
gorgeously shoddy style in which officials like
Sir Dknsy Pahkes and Sir James Mautin
speak of the Press. Time was when both of them
owed any little importance they possessed in the
community to their connection with an institution
of which they now affect such scornful indiffer-
ence. According to the Chief Justice, forsooth !
the Press and the people connected with it have
“no duties,” only to look after the pounds,
shillings, and pence; while the Premier, in public
addresses, like that he delivered at Ashfield, can
never too sardonically sneer at the “ young men”
who—contemptible pursuit ! —write in news-
papers. So long as the Press served their turn,
it was the “palladium of English liberty,”—the
“ bulwark against the encroachments of arbitrary
power.” Now that it galls their knightly withers,
it has “no duties,” and would soon, if they (and
such as they) had their will, have no rights.
Of all contempts —even including that non-
descript offence, “contempt of Court,” —there is
none so contemptible as this contempt of the soil
out of which we have sprung. The Press remains
an able and inestimable institution, even though
these two knights have wiped its dust off their
aristocratic heels and painted their now escut-
cheons over the old ink-stains on their lacquered
armour.
Mr. H. C. Russell, Government Astronomer
The true student of Science has few commonplace
consolations. He never experiences that elation
of popularity which is a kind of ecstasy to the
politician, nor the inflation of gratified vanity so
MR. H. C. RUSSELL, GOVERNMENT ASTRONOMER.


observable in the successful man of letters. Even
the preacher receives external aids in his vocation
which rarely fall to the lot of one whose life is
devoted to the “ exact sciences.” The latter,
nevertheless, enjoys at times a rapture which far
transcends that of either legislator, poet, artist
or sacred orator. In the bright surprises of
truths discovered—in the gleams that reveal the
harmonies of nature —there must be a supreme
mental fruition that completely satiates the soul,
and amply repays the labourer for his days of
study and research. Amongst the ‘‘trine-set
starry band” of the investigators of truth, the
astronomer deservedly occupies a premier position.
He belongs to that radiant procession of the sons
of light who, according to the late Lord Lytton,
“ have solved a new law in the statute-book of
heaven!” Although Australia is more famous for
the powers of her sons in athletic sports than in
the agone of science, or the fair fields of art, still
she has —in this very ‘‘dizzying and dazzling”
domain of astronomy—names which brightly shine.
If Gloriana could —
A Newton boast,
The brightest star amid the heavenly host,
so can the young queen of the Southern Seas
pride herself on her Russell and her Tebutt, to
say nothing of secondary stars. It is with un-
qualified satisfaction we give to-day the portrait
of one of them, and bring together such disjecta
membra of his toilsome student-life as wo can
crush into a necessarily brief notice. Henry
Chamberlain Russell is the fourth son of the late
Honorable Bourn Russell, M.L.C. He was born
at Maitland in 1836, and received his rudimentary
education in his native town. His preparation
for the Sydney University was under the skilled
guidance of the Rev. W. K. Colyer. In 1856 he
matriculated; and at the end of the first year
obtained first class in Mathematics and Physics, and
a scholarship for general proficiency. His second
year was distinguished by his carrying off the
Deas-Thompsou scholarship for Physics and
Chemistry. In 1858 he took his B.A. degree, and
at once became a candidate for the position of
first assistant in the city Observatory, in January,
1859, and soon won the confidence and esteem of
the Rev. W. Scott, who was then Public Astrono-
mer. During his first year Mr. Russell designed
and computed a set of tables which were quite
novel, and saved a great deal of time. On the
resignation of Mr. Scott in 1862, Mr. Russell took
charge of the Observatory. During that time he
instituted valuable meteorological observations.
He designed and erected an instrument for re-
cording automatically all changes in the direction
and force of the wind. He also joined
in the observation of the planet Mars, and made
a valuable and extended series of the measures of
that planet. On the arrival of Mr. Smalley, in
January, 1861, Mr. Russell resumed his position
as assistant. In 1868 he designed a sliding-scale
for finding the humidity of the air from readings
of the dry and wot bulbs. His researches in this
direction wore published in Sydney, and after-
wards in London,and his pri aciplehas been accepted
and adopted by several practical astronomers. His
hand anemometer, showing the velocity of the
wind, belongs to this period of his useful and
luminous career. In 1870, on the demise of Mr.
Smalley, Mr. Russell succeeded him, and at once
reorganised the meteorological department. He
also designed and erected a tide-gauge for Port
Jackson, which removed the confusion that pre-
viously existed about the times of high water.
The duplicate gauge at Newcastle was then
erected for the study of tidal and earthquake
waves,and it was soon found to possess a local value
of much importance, inasmuch as it showed every
rise and fall of the waves, and indicated the rise
and fall of water on the bar when there was a
swell on, hence avoiding the necessity of taking
bar-soundings every time a largo ship is going to
sea. His barograph for registering the changes
in the barometer was invented by him in 1871, and
the year following ho caused a time-ball to be put
up at Newcastle. Instead of five meteorological
stations in 1870, the number is now—thanks to
Mr. Russell—one hundred and sixty. The transit
of Venus engaged his attention in 1874, and he
became one of the principal observers of that—
the greatest astronomical event of this ago. He
located observing parties at Sydney, on the Blue
Mountain, at Goulburn and Eden; and the results
far exceeded expectations. In fact, when the
Astronomer Royal issued his report, it was shown
that if England had not sent her observing parties
to the South Seas, but had relied on New South
Wales, exactly the same solar parallax would have
been found as that obtained from all other stations.
The photographs taken in this colony were the
best and most numerous obtained by any country.
Some idea of the extent of preparation and the
training of the observers may be got from the
fact that in the space of three hours New South
Wales secured 1300 photos, of Venus on the sun’s
disc. This work had to be presented to the scien-
tific world of England, and Mr. Russell obtained
eight months’ leave of absence for that purpose.
Ho and his work were well received, and after
visiting the principal observatories of Europe he
returned homo ina America, where he also unfolded
his scientific investigations. After his return, in
1875, he began a vigorous prosecution of his
meteorological work, and in the same year read
his famous paper before the Royal Society on
‘‘ Meteorological Periodicity,” in which he brought
together the results of a vast amount of labour
and a mass of information before unknown about
the climate of this colony. The part which
attracted most attention, and caused its repro
duction in the columns of several country news-
papers. was the theory of what is now known as
the “Nineteen Years Period.” His conjectures
on this subject, backed by statistics, are un-
answerable. His work on the climate of the
colony (254 pp., 8vo.) appeared in 1877, and is a
reperto ire of all important information about its
atmospheric phenomena. His papers, pamphlets,
published letters, and other additions to our
scientific knowledge arc too well known to need
eulogium or lengthy notice. Through him the
country possesses one of the finest refractors in
the southern hemisphere. He has re-measured all
the important stars in Sir John Horschel's cata-
logue, has discovered 550 new double stars, besides
observing all the comets and making important
observations of eclipses during the past 10 years.
In 1876 he was elected a member of the Senate
of the University, and lias ever since taken an
active part in the work of the body. He was 1
elected F.R.A.S. (1871) and F.M.S. (1873). It
would be “gilding refined gold” to add another
word of praise on a life so useful and distinguished.
The engraving is taken from a portrait by
Boyd.
Laycock and Blackman.
The contest yesterday on the champion course,
Thames, resulted in a very easy victory for Lay-
cock, who won the race by nearly half the distance.
Blackman pave up. A protest was entered on the
ground that Blackman’s bow was crossed, but it
was disallowe*’.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Lord Augustus Loftus is an accomplished
linguist, readily speaking, reading and comprehend-
ing moat of the European languages. At his first
levde in Sydney, the foreign consuls, in full
bedizenment of lace, embroidery and parti-colours,
mustered in great force. His Excellency agreeably
surprised the first four by conversing with them
in the respective languages of the nations they
represented. The fifth one was the Consul for
Crim-Tartary, with the vernacular of which country
Lord Augustus (for obvious reasons) is very
familiar. He therefore at once addressed Mr.
in Crim-Tartaric, paused for a reply—and did not
receive any. Ho tried again. Mr. blushed,
looked confused and at length stammered out, “The
fact is, my Lord, that though I have represented
Crim-Tartary in this city tor many years, I-a-do
not speak the language—that is not readily—l-a-”
“ What! ” cut in his Excellency, “ not speak the
language of the country you represent! ” And he
turned at once to the next comer. Mr. sneaked
out of the presence, and appeared less at ease in
his uniform than had ever been known before.
It is said that the only Consul who “bothered”
the Governor in a linguistic sense was the repre-
sentative of Hawaii.
The question is, do wo require assisted immigra-
tion ? I don’t think we do. Dr. Beg and I have
been worrying up statistics, and we find that there
are just 350 full-sized seats in Hyde Park, and
each of these seats is nightly occupied by two
couples of opposite sexual persuasions, but of
tolerably mutual tendencies. This gives a total
of 700 couples. These will no doubt marry, and
on an average will probably account for 5 children
each during the next 5 years. So that in the year
1885 the population of Sydney will have been in-
creased to the extent of 3500 souls by these Hyde
Park proprietors alone. Figures can't lie. They are
simply dead on the truth —like George Washington
was, and Frank Warden is. I therefore submit
that we do not require any more assisted immigra-
tion. What we do require is more seats.
Gentle reader, —Of your charity pray for the
soul of a party by the name of Johnson.” I shot
him eight times in the back, and then threw the
carcase down a glue mill. This may seem hard at
first: but he wrote poetry. He said he was a
clerk in the Government Printer’s, and he wanted
to make a match with the Benalla bard, or Tenny-
son. As a sample, he sent me an ode which, he
says, has a smack of the Swinbnrnian school about
it. Here’s a sample verse:—
O i wood not Die in sommir
when J uyus sounds is neer.
And every iumped-np Bummer
haz a vote thet's wurth a beer,
when Korfee shops is awl the go.
Bar Lunchins too az wel :
Ow cood I dy I’d like to no
Evin tho thare iz no Ell.
He had to die, however-, and he made a lovely
corpse. At least, so the glue man told me.
They don’t intend “ planting ” any more people
in the Sydney Infirmary. An unknown man died
there a few days ago, and the authorities con-
descended to allow the press to publish on the
following morning, such minute particulars as
must have rather astonished deceased if the jour-
nals were punctually delivered at his new address,
A favourite song of Henry Russell’s used [to
be—
-44 Man the life boat I”
but a recent sad event goes to show that the
woman should occasionally have a chance. She
mightn’t be so much afraid of sea-sickness as her
worsor half.
The water was just suffused with the last
deep crimson glow reflected from the burnished
sunset heavens, as the young ardent Endymion in
his bounding bark swept swiftly homeward over
the glassy wave. Fixing his melting azure orbs
on the beautifully-diversified landscape of mingled
■hingly beach, leafy tree, and sloping lawn gently
declining to the shore from some stately mansion
or delicate villa in Roman or Venetian style, his
ingenuous and cultured mind naturally reverted
to the many “ lovely things that ho had heard or
read” of evenings'on the golden Tiber or blue
Venetian Laguna —evenings brightened by tho
light of fair ones’ smiles and rippling laughter—
lightened by the lay of the Provencal troubadour,
or the guitar blending in fitting cadence with the
song and dripping oar of Adria’s legendary gondo-
lier. Thus the scene was to him surrounded by
a borrowed halo of romance and invested with the
shadowed {flory of innumerable traditions of the
old chivalrio annals and of medioeval story. Just
then there beamed upon his gaze an ecstatic vision
of feminine grace and loveliness, surpassing all
that his dreams had conjured up of beautiful or of
fair. The sunlight of 18 summers had lightly
fallen on her fair form, colouring it with hues of
health and vivifying its svelte proportions with
gracious beams. Endymion stayed his glittering
oar, on which the sunlight gleamed like priceless
gems in the fading solar ray. A gentle breeze
stirred the aurioomoua tresses of the fair vision
and, rapture! gently removing her hat, it lightly
wafted that sm-red object towards the stricken
adorer. This dispelled the charm that bound him,
and with throbbing pulse he proceeded to recover
and restore the etherial gauze. Well, space for-
bids us to dilate. With smiles and protestations
the service was accepted and the graceful vision
sped—sped, alas, like some frail exhalation which
the dawn robes in its golden beams. Long did
Endymion linger, and long in the dark of evening
did the now dreary waste of waters ripple and
splash against his unresisting oar. But the charm
was broken. Often now does he return often
in the silvery moonlight does he lavish languishing
glances on the scene where that gracious vision
dawned, lamenting that tho customs of a unpoetic
age forbid tho rapturous joy of an aquatic serenade.
Alas ! alas ! These are all derned facts and the
hero belongs to a local rowing club. He wants to
marry the girl, but the old man shows his boot.
One of the very many candidates coming forward
for a seat in the new Assembly, recently held a
meeting of his friends or had it held by them for
him, which amounts to pretty nearly the same
thing. In answer to questions, he said he would
invoke the genius of the Constitution ; but that he
would always be open to conviction. “Yes, and
three months with it,” was the naughty remark of
one of the audience. Seeing the mistake he had
made, the coming man endeavoured to got out of
it by saying that, if elected, he would support
Murdoch’s indubitable claim to tho Attorney-
Generalship—or any other ship—and that he would
always beg both sides of the question.
Our picture posters have “roped” my sympa-
thies once again. This week the attraction is a
screamer, representing one of the loveliest
daughters of Eve that ever broke the gizzard of a
Barwcn squatter, or a good St. Anthony. She is
clad in a sort of knock-me-down toilette of tlie
17tli century period, which consists of a red cloak,
a jaunty little cap, and a pair of the duckiest little
shoes, and variegated extremity envelopes that
the world has seen since Troy went insolvent over
the nice but naughty Helen. Below this peace-
disturber is the legend, “As you like it.” Now
the man who penned that line has reckoned up
the Bulletin’s sentiments to the last item.
That is the way we like it; but, ah me ! it’s the
way we seldom get it. Now that we have it,
however, let us rally round the flag, and make
Miss Pomeroy’s Rosalind the biggest hit this
season.
The man who accidentally leaves his umbrella
behind in a church pew, scoots back for the same
with all the impetuous zeal of an electioneering
agent going for a bar luncheon; but the man who
forgets his hymn-book only, simply observes,
“Ob, jam the thing ! I’ll get it next time,” and
there the matter ends. I don’t understand this
much, and I must telegraph to Dr. M'Guven or
Garden Honey about it.
One would have thought that things might have
been made lively for Dull-cigno long since; but
Eastern etiquette is a slow affair unless when
some Christian dog is found superfluous and
requires putting away. One of our latest telegrams
gives particulars of an interview between the
English Ambassador and the Sublime Porte.
They may best be given in the following con-
versation :—E. A. —We want you to give up Dul-
cigno. S.P. —Can’t see it. E.A.—You must give
up Dulcigno. S.P. — I mustn’t. E.A. — You shall
five up Dulcigno. S.P.—l sha’nt. E.A. —Well,
eep it and be ; it isn’t worth half the
cost of the telegrams wired all round the world
about it. There!
On and after the Ist of next month all the
Government offices, banks, warehouses, &c., will
close from 9 till 4 on Thursdays, in order to enable
the clerks to properly read The Bulletin. This
is to facilitate their business, not to help The
Bulletin. It doesn’t want help: it only wants
bread and cheese and kisses.
The Underwriters’ Picnic to Sandringham, last
Friday, was a very pleasant affair; but, of course,
not quite so jolly as that of the Undertakers some
days previously. After they had insured every-
thing under and over its value the corks were let
loose on society, and one of the speculators in
risks asked a friend sitting next to him, “ Why
do they put a donkey pumping engine on board an
out-going vessel —uninsured?” The conundrum
having been given up, as all of them should be,
the answer was, “To make the other donkeys
follow.”
A word in your ear, Mr. Stationer Clarke, of
Pitt-street. The art collection in your window
to-day is a tip-top turn-out I know, but don’t you
think the sub j ects are somewhat unduly mixed ? For
instance, the Zulu chief and that nice girl dressed
only in ringlets, are not happy companions for Dr.
Vaughan; Sir Hercules Robinson seems out of
place alongside the Greek Slave, whose toilette is
rather thin, even putting one’s opinion mildly;
and the idea of Triokett gazing so intently on
Titian’s most indecent Venus is simply a .£5OO
libel upon our Edward’s generally “proper” de-
meanour. Again, Adam and Eve in all the glory
of their primeval fig-leaf costume might show off
amongst a group of Fiji islanders, but when you
come to place them between Dave Buchanan and
Dr. Barker the connexion seems to jar a little.
Proctor and Sitting Bull, Sir John Robertson and
Noll Gwynne, are equally distasteful in such elose
proximity; but when we further discover Sir
Henry Parkes peeping furtively round at the
chaste but nevertheless fully undressed Susannah
the public mind recoils horrified from the sinful
spectacle, and the wonder is the public body
doesn’t rise up and scalp you. You must shake
the portraits round a little more, Mr. Clarke.
Good day.
Prior to the exodus of the Juvenile Pinafore
Company from Sydney, Mrs. Lewis took a very
careful census, and would have lost one valuable
member had it not been for her wise precaution,
as the little midshipman vainly thought he could
conceal himself under a cover-dish. However, he
was disappointed and ultimately had to go with
the rest.
It was the intention of Dolange to challenge
the winner of the Trickett v. Hanlan match for
£5OOO and lie gate-money, but ho has changed
his mind since the Laycock business. He now
thinks he’ll run Aplitt, or swim Cavill, or fight
Foley, or try something else which will be a nice
and easy certainty.
A middle-hair-split accountant in one of our
leading banks made such outrageous and prepos-
terous blunders in his balances last Saturday that
a very special meeting of the directors was at once
convened for the purpose of considering whether
the affairs of the institution were not in such a
desperate condition as to necessitate immediate
stoppage of payment. It was, however, subse-
quently discovered that the official in question had
got slightly mixed through scrutinising his ’bus
tickets to see if he had won any of the prizes
given by the company on the previous days.
It is related of that excellent actor, Mr. William
Hoskins, that many years ago he woe about to
produce “ Rob Boy,” and that his efficient stage-
manager, Mr. Stuart O’Brien, suggested that, as
the piece was so well known, a rehearsal would be
unnecessary. “Look here, O’Brien,” said the
careful Mr. Hoskins, “ if the angel Gabriel came
down from heaven, he couldn't blow his Sunday
trumpet without a rehearsal. Put it up ! ”
It may not be generally known, but it is
nevertheless a fact, that the “ Steam Iron Man”
who walks in the vestibule of the poor old Vic.,
feeds on latch-keys, pocket-knives, and “ other
articles of oeriit.” They don’t seem to disagree
with him.
There’s a male telegraph clerk across the border
who has sparked a female ditto since 1874, and yet
the pair have never gazed a gaze on each other’s
loving face. They wait about after office hours,
and court by wire. This must be about as filling
to the general run of clerks as eating soup with a
three-pronged fork would be. The other night
this pair had told each other all about the Dul-
oigno war, and the measles, and the frozen meat,
and cremation processes, and other matters of a
like kind, which lovers invariably run on, when
the masculine clerk heaved an electric sigh, and
observed, “ Oh, Maudie, love ! Isn’t this ecstatic
bliss P Ain’t you up to your ears in joy ? ” Then
Maudie sighed, only bigger, and rattled back,
“ Well, yes, Artie, love; it’s pretty high. But
I'd rather have one good old hug than a thousand
chats like these;” and immediately all the other
feminine clerks chimed in, “ And so say all of ns."
Professor Huxley says this feeling is caused by-
well, he says something about divergent atoms and
primordial centres. Tomkinson, however, says
Huxley ought to go and shave his head: “ ifs
because girls like to be squoze.”
Herr Bandmann, as Hamlet, doesn’t shake
hands with Mr. H. N. Douglas, as Laertes, prior
to foiling for the championship. Larry Foley
(who ought to be a judge in such nice matters)
regrets the absence of the amenity, and despairs
of seeing the legitimate drama brought to perfec-
tion in his day.
6. M. Pitt is in great demand at present.
Firstly, it seems the people of Manly have been
seized with a sporting mania: they have, there-
fore, subscribed funds for two days' good racing,
and have also petitioned Mr. Pitt to lend the Club
his big hat to be used as a temporary racecourse.
Secondly, animated by the success of the Austra-
lian Eleven, the master-butchers hsure formed a
cricket club, and invited the stock and station
warriors to come out at once until they’ve slaugh-
tered them. At the last meeting, however, Mr.
C. Glass proposed that as butchers were naturally
of delicate constitutions, and as it would be desir-
able to finish the match before Christmas, the
wickets shonld be enlarged to twice their present
size, and pitched nice and close to a big brick wall.
Alderman Playfair, however, improved on this,
and it was finally decided that the wickets be
represented by two fat bullocks, and that the
Hon. Mr. Lucas and Mr. G. M. Pitt be requested
to act instead of the brick wall. Some of the
bowlers may occasionally miss the bullocks, but
they’ll never miss the wall.
It has recently been said, on high authority, that
the Press has no duties to perform. If it has not,
its members have some duties to pay, and 12s. a
gallon on spirits is no joke.
The first vice-regal request made of the Marquis
of Normanby by Lady Augustus Loftus at the
opening of the Melbourne International Exhibi-
tion was, “Do tell me which is the new C.M.G.”
A very free-and-easy thinker suggests that the
spires of some of our churches might well be
utilized (after the manner of the Bathurst column)
in carrying away our surplus S tbbatarian effluvia
to one of those very small stars of Mr. Proctor’s
which revolves on its own responsibility only once
in every hundred thousand million of years and
then waits for a little while to give the others a
chance of coming up to the scratch.
A “ daughter of St. Mark’s” went to her Pa’s
church the other night, and was all attention.
The text, however, was that which referred to
those halcyon days when the sword shall be beaten
into a ploughshare, and the Volunteers have a
tolerably safe and easy time of it. The daughter
didn’t think much of this. She says, give her
one “Capting” with gold buttons and shiny
boots, and the rest of her sex are welcome to all
the clodhopping ploughmen from St. Mark’s to
Kamschatka. This girl has a level head, and will
leave her footprints on the sands of time, espe-
cially if the warrior hurries up and means
business.
On the last day of the last month a certain
clerk in a certain Government department held
two-and-sixpence. It is the general opinion now
of the other Siberian slaves in that department
that the said clerk has friends in the great
Strathbogie district, and that these friends have
lately “sprung the plant” of the Kelly gang.
Anyway it’s a suspicious affair at best, and some
one ought to let Kelly out to sift it.
The Honourable Mr. H is a younger son
of the Earl of , and in Ear Northern Queens-
land, whither he has gravitated in search of
colonial experience, is a trusted official of a certain
very prosperous bank. He is noted for possessing
less money than independence, and has two
hobbies —one being his love (natural enough
under the tropical circumstances) of very light
clothing and the other his partiality for bull-dogs.
Now on the Hodgkinson waistcoats are unknown,
and as for coats—well no man wears a coat unless
he’s going to visit a lady. And when, out of
politeness, the visitor dons a habit, it is customary
for the hostess to say—“ You must be very hot
Mr. in that coat: don’t keep it on for my
sake.” Whereupon the visitor usually doffs his
coat, sits on it while the call lasts, and then walks
away carrying it on his arm. Well, the other night
the Honourable Mr. —, who “ hasn’t a coat to
Viia name ” called, with four bnll-dogs, at the
weatherboard palace of Mr. , a Government
official whose charming sister (owner of the only
piano in the township) keeps house for her brother.
The Honourable Mr. H ’s only sacrifice to
convenances consisted of a pair of Chinese boots,
a cabbage-tree-hat, duck continuations (washed by
himself same morning specially for the occasion),
and a short-sleeved singlet full of holes. Miss ,
though the Hodgkinson had somewhat overcome
any prndishness she may formerly have possessed
looked rather askant. The Honourable Mr.
observing this, said something which sounded
apologetic. “ Oh, Mr. ” sweetly responded
the fascinating hostess, “ don’t keep yonr coat on
for my sate.” The scion of nobility has since been
busily engaged in “fine-drawing” his valued
garment.
THE VANITY OF INHUMAN WISHES.
(The following lines shonld have reached us a
fortnight ago, but have only just come to hand): —
The rain I the rain I the drenching rain !
For which we bo long prajed in vain,
Has come at last—oh I hitter curse;
We were had before, hut now we’re worse?
Who cares for water when grog is nigh ?
Who says he does tells a thumping lie.
Save he’s in love with a squatter’s daughter,
No sane man ever pants for water.
Her father may wallow in wet knee-deep,
And have cold hatha upon the cheap;
Hut this here child prefers it dry,
Save when it smells of the malted rye.
I can vouch for the truth of this. _ Not many
months ago, a young gentleman arrived by an
Orient steamer, and, as might have been expected
of a any opulent new chum, put up at a guod hotel.
On returning late one night, after what in colonial
phrase is termed a “ knock round,” he found a
fetter in his bedroom from his favourite waiter.
Eighteen years before, the letter stated, the waiter
had come out to the colony “ to seek his fortune,
as they say in the story-books. He had money,
speculated in mines, and became a waiter.
That waiter was the new chum’s brother.
A solicitor, charged with the defence of a pri-
soner who was accused of a very grave crime,
brought the brief, marked 10 guineas, to Davia
Buchanan. David opened the bulky document,
looked it down, folded it up again rather deliber-
ately, and then, pulling a very long face, drawled
out, “ Eh, mon, out it’s horr-r-r-r-ible ! ” G •
replied the solicitor, “we have a good decree :


QUBE N * S T
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, He:
Stage Manager
CROWDED HOI
Nightly assemble to witness the
of the Fascinating You
LOUISE POM
Who will appear as f c
THURSDAY and F;
7th and Bth Oc
Positively Last nights of f
AS YOU LIKE
Rosalind
SATURDAY and M(
9th and 11th Oc
MAC B E T
Lady Macbeth
TUESDAY AND WEE
12th and 13th Oi
ROMEO AND JU
f Juliet
SB=BXSapported bv the principal n
MELBOURNE THEATRE R(
Prices of admission—Dress circli
Doors open at 7, commence at 8.
Box office at Messrs. Nicholsoni
Business Manag
ASO N I C
Mr, John E. Fulton,
SATURDAY EVENING, >th
r POSITIVELY LAST NIGH r
BRASS BAND CONTE
MUSICAL FESTIVAL, ackn
the most wonderful musical m
The following Bands will compel
PERFORMANCE of THE GREA
above Evening:—The Naval Brigat
land Baud, the Balmain Alliance I
tralian Band, the Imperial Baud, i
Head-quarters Band, the Balnmi
City Fire Brigade Band, the St. Le
Bond will play a new selection o
The following prominent musical gi
consented to act as judges:—Sigi
M'LEAN, Esq., and CHARLES P
PRIZES ore now on exhibition i
T. F. Wiesoner, the manufacturer.
Grand Torchlight and Brass Bn
Head-quarters of all the Bands to
above Evening.
NOTE—After this, the last Conh
Judges will give their decision, an
presented to the THREE VICTOR
V SECURE YOUR SEAT!
Scale of Prices Admission, 5s
Doors open at 7, Contest begi
H. OIF
VICTUALLERS
GRAND ANNUAL I
Under the Patronage of his Wo
to take place at F. Smith’s Sir J
Botany, on WEDNESDAY, 20th O
Tickets may bo had of the follov
CouncilC. Kelsey, J. E. Kelsey, .1
F. Smith, 8. Hodge, H. G. Rowi
Shannon, T. Curran, J. D. Young,
F
REETH OUGHT ']
THEATRE RO
SUNDAY EVENING, OC
Mr. CHARLES BI
Will deliver a LECT
entitled:
LIBERAL ORQANIJ
and
SUNDAY FREED
Doors open 7. Comm«
Sittings as o«ma
N.B.—Transferable Course Tick
con bo obtained on Sunday Evenint
during the week at Messrs. Turnei
Hunter-street.
Dress Circle, £1; Stalls, 10s.
G°
VERNMENT
m H B A T E E ROYAL
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lasar
THIETY-FIRST WEEK IN SYDNEY,
and
SIXTY-EIGHTH WEEK IN THE AUSTRA-
LIAN COLONIES,
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING,
and during the week,
will bo produced the Comic Drama, in two Acts,
ALL THAT GLITTERS IS NOT GOLD.
Aot I.—Hall in Jasper Plum’s Home.
Act 2. —The Ball.
After which, for the first time in Sydney, F. W.
Broughton’s charming Comedietta, in otic Act,
entitled
WITHERED LEAVES;
or, the
FAIRY OP THE GLEN.
*** Scene, "The Glen, 1 ’ by George Gordon.
Stage Manager Mr. Frederick Marshall.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY,
October 9th, 11th, and 12th,
By special desire,
BLOW FOR BLOW.
WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY, October 13th and 14th,
PYGMALION AND GALATEA,
and
WITHERED LEAVES.
FRIDAY, October 15th,
BETSY.
SATURDAY, October 16th,
The world-renowned Comedy,
TWO ROSES.
With a powerful oast of characters
by the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
and new scenery by Mr. George Gordon.
Prices of Admission : Dross circle, ss; stalls, 3s;
family circle, 2s ; pit, Is.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
pE I N TE E ’ S REGATTA.
SATURDAY, 9th October,
AT TENNYSON PARRAMATTA RIVER.
Eight Races, starting at Twelve o’clock. Dancing in
the new Pavilion. Young Australian Band engaged.
Refreshments at Sydney prices.
First boat from Woolloomooloo at 9.30; Circular
Quay at 10, and every hour.
R. W. COMYNS, hon. sec.
EfrbT GRAND SITES FOR ORANGERIES.
CASTLE HILL.
Splendid Block of Improved Land, subdivided into
ELEVEN FARMS,
varying in size trom 10 to 15 ACRES,
CASTLE HILL, NEAR PARRAMATTA,
SATURDAY, 16th October.
BATT, EODD, and PURVIS, have received
instructions from'the trustees in the METCALFE
(late Whitoeide) ESTATE to sell the above, by public
auction,
at PAYTEN’S HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
on
SATURDAY, 16th October, at 3 p.m.
Full particulars will appear in a few doys.
Plans and lithographs in course of preparation.
TITLE FREEHOLD. TERMS EASY.
Solicitors to the Estate,
MESSRS. NORTON and SMITH,
From whom particulars as to title may be obtained.
WOODSIDE ESTATE.
WOODSIDE ESTATE. WOODSIDE ESTASE.
Between
Granville and Merrylands Stations,
and HAVING LARGE FRONTAGES TO THE LINE,
Subdivided
into 34 Allotments, each having an area
of about
HALF AN ACRE,
BATT, EODD, and PURVES have received
instructions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, October 23rd, at 3 p.m.,
THE above very VALUABLE ESTATE.
fronting the RAILWAY LINE and ROADS
ONE HUNDRED FEET WIDE,
stud in the immediate neighbourhood of the
residences of Messrs. Holroyd, Docker, Lowe,
and others, while not far distant from PARRA-
MATTA,
offers advantages
to those requiring GOOD VILLA SITES rarely
to be inot with.
HIGH LAND. RICH SOIL. BEAUTIFUL SITES.
TITLE FREEHOLD. TERMS EASY.
LARGE SALE PLAN and LITHOGRAPHS of the
subdivision on view at the ROOMS of the AUC-
TIONEERS.
■Hr Special Train to convey intending purchasers on
Day of SaIe—SATURDAY, 23rd October,
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
n 0 can clearly show that he isn’t guilty.” “I
don’t mean that,” returned David; “ it’s your fee
I’m talkin’ aboot.”
JUDGMENT.
A Judge attacked the Press,
And fixed his legal dart in;
The Public claimed redress.
And now that Judge is (s)Martin’.
Solely for the benefit of workers in marble,
plaster, or bronze, the ancient Ajax once defied
the lightning, and the marvellous attitude ho
struck on the occasion pulled him through. The
modern one seems to admire danger at a distance.
The Big Woman coming from California is stated
to be 24 hands high. She wouldn’t make a bad
mother-in-law if she always kept her temper.
Want of time and space forbids me from
attending to all of the countless communications
received during the week from personal friends
and unknown correspondents. However, these
will have a show next week, and in the meantime
the obliging authors may feel assured that I am
glad to have heard from them, and am ready for
more. V-
FACTS FOCUSSED.
Mias de Manuel, the daughter of a Darling Point
publican, was recently fined 40s. at the Narandera police
eourt, for supplying Minnie Melon, a Warangesda mis-
sion aboriginal, with spirits. The rev. superintendent,
when he found Minnie had been tippling, promptly
administered sage advice and a severe emetic. The
65 Maori prisoners received a sentence of two years’
imprisonment each, and to find sureties at the expira-
tion of the sentence. They are agitating for a paper
at Maytown, Palmer. Mellefont, formerly of the
Beisbane Obsebveb, is starting a paper at Gladstone.
Mr. George Rouse. of Biraganbil, has cut the fol-
lowing weighty fleeces from six champion rams : —Prince
Imperial, 16 lbs ; Royal Duke, 14 lbs; Nugget, 14 lbs
4 oks ; Sir Walter Scott, 15 lbs; Deflanc, 14 lbs 2 ozs.
—-Sheer necessity compelled a man to steal a pair of
boots in Melbourne. He did it openly, and made no
attempt to escape, for gaol was his only refuge from
starvation. He got three months. John Woods, late
Victorian Minister of Railways, says that this year
N.S.W. will draw 20,000 of Victoria’s best men. The
average earnings of miners on the Palmer goldfield for
1579 were £330 per man. However, the Palmer returns
for this year show a decrease of 30,233 oz; those for
Charters Towers, an increase of 11,086 oz. Balmain
now has a paper—the Balmain Independent and Leich-
hardt Observer. The Melbourne Exhibition build-
ing covers more ground than thatof London in 1851,which
spread over three-quarters of a million of square feet.
However,Schweppes paid at the Crystal Palace £5,500 for
the privilege of supplying refreshments, and season
tickets sold before the opening produced £40,000
The Rockhampton Freemasons give a “ calico ball ’’ on
the 18th inst. The “ Vegetable Creekites” (Queens-
land) are to have their own organ. Mr. J. W, Pillar, of
the Stannum Miner will be the proprietor. The pay-
sheets of the Gympie mining companies have been
greatly reduced by illness (to which the use of bad
Uthofracteur contributes) among the miners. Late
Gympie crushings—N. Glanmire, 295 tons for 240 oz ;
Phoenix, 310 tons for 295 oz. 16 dwts. A trenchant
essay, entitled “Parkes v. Proctor," appears in the
Australasian Thompson, formerly known as “Ben-
digo,” the prize fighter, but latterly as a revivalist
preacher, is dead. The success of the Collingwood
(Melb.) Coffee Palace is such that the directors are
enlarging the premises. A correspondent of the
Argus points out that the picture supposed to represent
“Melbourne in 1880" has been made to do duty for
several years past by the Australian News. Gold,
to the value of nearly £37,000,000 has been exported
from N.Z. since 1867, and the average export for several
years past has been considerably over £1,000,000.
Twelve or fourteen families, the first of a large wealthy
settlement party, for whom a block of land is being
selected, arrive in N.Z. from England in December.
They bring with them £60,000 or £70,000. The pre-
liminary hearing of the charge against Leo Guy,
accused of the horrible murder at Kyeburn,
New Zealand, was proceeding when the mail left.
Two men in a boat, on the Mary River (Q.), commenced
fighting. The boat capsized, and the battle was fought
•ut in the river. A large kangaroo, alive, but with
its two hind legs broken, was found fixed in the cow-
catcher of a locomotive, in Victoria, recently. It is
said that the Leichhardt copper mine (said to be the
richest in the world) will shortly be opened and worked
by a Melbourne company. Some eight years ago a
German travelling in the Bundaberg district with a
Danish companion, disappeared. A skeleton, believed
to lie that of the missing man, has just been found by
a prospector, buried at a shallow depth. It is said
that a man named Maunder shore 207 sheep in 1873, in
one day, at Myall Creek, near Bingera.——During the
recent discussion on the Polynesian Bill, in Banana
land, Burnett Baynes pitched into it—it was a slavery
bill, Ac. When the voting came on Baynes walked out-
side ; Morehead wanted to naturalise kanakas so as to
make them free British subjects; M'Fnrlane said the
question was “a burning one;” Cooktown Walsh
declared that if the kanaka labour was stopped
Northern Queensland would go in for separation.
Defaulting newspaper subscribers were known in this
colony as early as 1810. In that year their names were
published. Tunes are changed now, for the worse.
The Coleraine Albion (Vic.) has been sold by a
sheriff’s officer. The new Commissioner of Police,
Melbourne, it is said, is going seriously to set himself
to the extinction of larrikinism. Balfour, a Vic-
torian M.L.A., is founding a teetotal town on his estate
contiguous to the Albnry railway extension. The
Victorian gold yield last quarter was 198,5280 z. 7 dwts.;
123,572 oz. 18dwts. from quartz, and 74,955 oz. 9 dwts.
from alluviums. The estimated number of miners
employed in Victoria last quarter was 37,592, of whom
14,004 Europeans and 8543 Chinese were employed in
alluvial mining, 14,909 Europeans and 136 Chinese in
quartz mining. At Jamison Creek, Tam worth, a man
named Barker playfully pointed a revolver at a friend
named Long. The pistol went off, and the ball struck
Long over the heart, wounding him severely, but not
fatally. There was a gala day at Corowa on the
occasion of the laying of the foundation-stone of the
local P.O. and Telegraph office by Mr. George Day.
Bobberies of goods sent by the Northern railway are
now very frequent. Near Narrabri, Mr. W. D. Wright
lately came across a heap of about a dozen black snakes,
all coiled up. He managed to kill five, the smallest 4ft.
long, but the rest escaped. At Springsure recently
120 blacks turned up to claim the thirty blankets
available for distribution. Dunedin has 31,800 in-
habitants and 179 hotels. A mining battery is being
erected on the Broughton, (Q.)— —Two armed and
masked men are alleged to have stuck up a Mrs.
Pebble’s house at Yamingambah and taken £l5O cash,
together with deeds and other papers. Thomas Cain
and Henry Pantou have been arrested at Boggabri on
suspicion. Mr. George Rouse, of Biraganbil, recently
sold eleven paddock-fed bullocks, weighing as follows:
—1520 lbs, 1416, 1272, 1260, 1216, 1200, 1160, 1116, 1052,
1048 and 1047 lbs. Mr. Duncan, surveyor, one of the
oldest Maitland residents, is dead. Two Auckland
policemen arrested a man who had fallen and broken
nis leg, and dragged him the whole way to the lockup.
At Gunning, on Tuesday week, twelve valuable
sheep, part of a large flock, were cut to pieces by a
train The double line from Bowenfels to the Zigzag
is now open for traffic. At Temora, the well-borers
had their bore-hole choked at 190 feet by crumbling
ground. It is thought that the apparatus will have to
i»e removed to harder country. Burglaries have taken
place at Temora and at Goulburn, but little plunder was
secured. Elizabeth Thnrsfleld was found in a gully
near Brisbane with her neck broken. She had been
drinking. Excellent crushings are reported from the
Palmer. A seaman named George Colwell, who was
recently locked up at 12 o’clock at night on a charge of
drunkenness, was found dead in his cell next morning,
r —John Gibson, a well-known selector, suicided at
Tuppal on Sundayllast by shooting 18 tenderers
obtained the whole Victorian loan in London.
Harrison, Jones, and Devlin’s warehouses will shortly
oo equal to the storage of 30,000 bales of wool. A
woman named Margaret Hutchinson, and her infant,
baye been burnt to death in bed at Hokitiki, N.Z.,
owing, it is thought, to the explosion of a kerosene
lamp.——N.S.W., after the proposed reductions in the
Victorian Ministerial salaries have been effected, will
have the costliest Cabinet in the colonies. 71 officers
of the Victorian Lands Department have received notice
of dismissal, and they will receive full pay for one
month.—Robert Adams, a clerk, attempted suicide by
shooting himself with a revolver at Glenelg, but is
likely to recover. The sugar, tobacco and coffee
industries are progressing splendidly on the Herbert
River. Mr. Wickham, of Maragen, an old Brazilian
planter, has been especially successful with tobacco.
The first prize fat bullocks at the Toowoomba Show
weighed, when dressed, 10701bs and 10761b5, and the
second prize 11921bsand 10241ba. Christy Palmerston
is going to prospect the head of the Daintree River for
gold. A 60oz nugget has been found at Port Darwin.
4OO Chinese have left the Palmer for the Coen
Latest pearl-fishing accounts from Thursday Island are
satisfactory. 600 men employed; Parbury, Lamb and
Co. especially doing well. Dr. Madden, M.P. (Vic.),
suggests as a cure for deadlocks the suspension of
payment of members pending the resumption of
business. The “National” rock-borer is a brilliant
success at the Extended Cross Reef, Sandhurst.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Nelson declines to contest Orange.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton and Mr. P. W. Crowe
are candidates for Young.
Mr. W. Davies, M.L.A., announces his inten-
tion to withdraw from political life.
When yon see Members of Parliament attend-
ing eight-hour deputations, then you know that elec-
tions are nigh.
See will have no chance for Grafton now that
Stevey is out. He had better stick to the Randwick tram-
way unless he seeks ignominious defeat. The Church
dignitary is nervous iu view of Steve’s opposition, but
his strength is in—lies in, we should say —protectionist
principles.
The large property-holders of the Clarence have
been coming out strongly—in talk —in support of
the railway agitation. Some of the wealthiest limit
their subscriptions to 205., when they should at least
contribute £lOO. As usual, the best men in the agita-
tion are mostly those who have least to gain by its
success.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G. (Cullenbone): Very much obliged.
“A Joke”: Thanks, but not funny. J.L. (Mer-
riwa): Hardly good enough; besides, of only local in-
terest. T. 8.: Much obliged for the scraps, some of
which we print. D. Grose: Having now gone care-
fully through your matter we find that the mottoes are
in many cases inappropriate. S.C. (Woolloomooloo):
The fun must have been rather in how they looked,
than in what they said as reported by you. Q.B.
(Waggn): The publications referred to are not worth
noticing. They’ll die of slow consumption. “I-S.,**
Newtown Road : not suitable, idea fair, hut rhythm de-
fective Darling-street Balmain : Call in the police.
“Alice” : Much obliged. The story is a good one.
M. C.; Thanks. Re “ Vagabond ” (no name or
initials): The matter may be of private, hut it is
certainly not of public, interest. -A. H. L.: The
verse acceptable; the prose hardly so good. “A
Tennis Player ” : It is against our rule to insert items
of which only a limited private circle and not the
general public can be expected to see the point. At any
rate we never insert anything which we do not ourselves
understand. “Anonyma”: Obliged for the infor-
mation. Yon should, however, never again use your
present nom de plume, forit hasn’t nice associations.
“Johnny A Don’t you think you are rather
rough on an actress who has been unfortunate, but has
always worked hard and intelligently ‘i Send some-
thing good-natured.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad to
receive information from correspondents living in town
or country or the other colonies on subjects of general
interest, more especially on matters connected with
sport, the drama and fashion. Communications from
ladies will be especially welcome.
Miss Louise Pomeroy.
We give to-day a portrait of tho popular authoress
and comedienne, Miss Louise Pomeroy, now per-
forming at the Queen’s, in this city, a lady whoso
fame warrants the expectation of a very enjoyable
dramatic season. It is long since the city has
had two of its theatres offering Shakespearian at-
tractions —as is now the case at tho Queen’s and
the Opera House —and the liberal patronage be-
stowed on both houses indicates that a taste for
high-class drama still exists. Miss Pomeroy’s
repertoire includes Rosalind, Juliet, Lady Mac-
beth, Viola in Twelfth Night, Julia in The
Hunchback, Imogene in Cymbeline, Paulino in
The Lady of Lyons, Lady Isabel in East Lynne,
Parthenia, and Lady Gay Spanker, and in each of
these characters she has won golden opinions
from the English and American Press. Miss
Pomeroy is an American by birth, and was born
in the state of Ohio in 1853. Her father’s family
were of Scotch descent and her mother’s German.
Miss Pomeroy received her education in the best
schools in America, and afterwards went through
a course of studies in England and in Germany.
Subsequently Miss Pomeroy travelled over
Europe, and while touring turned her attention to
literature. She opened a series of correspondence
letters to various leading daily papers in America.
On returning to the United States Mias Pomeroy
was engaged to edit a department called * The
Home Corner’ in a leading New York political
newspaper, and for two years short essays were
contributed which were so extensively copied that
‘ Elm Orton,’ the nom deplume of Miss Pomeroy,
becanfe a household word throughout the country.
Since then she has been a regular contributor to
the leading magazines of the States. Miss
Pomeroy’s father and brothers arc attorneys-at-
law, and hold a high position in their pro-
fession. Family prejudices kept Miss Pomeroy
away from the stage, but now her father is as fond
of his actress daughter as if she were a queen.
The Philadelphia press thus compliments Miss
Pomeroy on her representation of Imogene: —
“ The lady certainly makes as beautiful, refined,
tender, piquant, ardent, modest, and noble an
Imogene as one could wish, and in the higher at-
tributes of the conception and her delineation of
strong emotions she fulfils the promise of her light
phases. Her impersonation of the charming cha-
racter was natural and effective. That Miss
Pomeroy exhibits phenomenal powers of mimicry
must be admitted, but this faculty being inherent,
her imitativeness is necessarily unconscious, and
therefore not unploasing. At the same time the
lady deserves credit for much higher histrionic
talents than would be suggested to those who
readily recognise in her voice, reading, and action
a familiar counterpart, for whenever the original
is merged in the conception the change is for tho
better.”
Mr. John Bridge’s Stores, Circular Quay.
Owing to the fact of its being known in Mel-
bourne that a great portion of the clip from
Riverina and the Darling will find its way to
Sydney this year, and that special arrangements
are being made for this increase by the Sydney
houses, the question of the wool trade of this port
is attracting a good deal ef attention in the Mel-
bourne press. Wo have yet another instance of
the efforts made by the Sydney houses for the re-
ception of the wool. As may be seen from our
engraving on page 14, Mr. John Bridges has en-
larged his stores, offering extra accommodation
and facilities for the storage, sale, or shipment of
wool and general produce. The stores are situate
right on the Circular Quay, almost immediately
connected with the gangways of the London ships
lying alongside. Their situation admits of the
shipment of produce without any extra cost, a
most important particular in these times of severe
competition. The stores are of solid masonry,
and rise to the height of three storeys. Powerful
hoists operate on each floor, front and rear, and
six drays may load or unload at the time. The
stores have a capacity of 4000 bales, each bale
being visible for sampling at time of sale. The
business done by Mr. Bridge is a significant one,
as his trade is principally with the selectors all
over the colony, who are now developing into a
large and important class of woolgrowers. The
total of the trade is but little behind that of the
principal houses of Sydney. The business in
hides and tallow is nearly equal to that of any
other house in this city: and besides this, an ex-
tensive trade is done in leather, flour, grain, and
sugar. Sales of stock, likewise, are conducted at
Homebnsh. _ Mr. Bridge has agencies in all the
towns of this and the adjoining colonies, as well
as in London and in San Francisco. The business
of the honso_ has been built up by sheer industry
and energetic capable management, the whole
affair having been from the first under the imme-
diate supervision of Mr. Bridge himself. The
clerical staff in the slack part of the season num-
bers twenty, and in the wool season thirty-five.
As to the arrangements which Mr. Bridge has
made for the business of the coming season, the
reader is referred to an advertisement in another
part of this paper.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. T. Willmett is Mayor of Townsville.
Harry Dix represents Queensland Punch at
Melbourne exhibition.
Mrs. George Lansell (wife of the Sandhurst
quartz-king) has just died.
The two Don Juans are removing from Eock-
hampton. One comes to Sydney.
Mr. Broome, the Colonial Secretary, will suc-
ceed Sir George Bowen at Mauritius.
Don Carlos is very poor. He lives from hand to
mouth, and has five children to support.
The Archbishop of Canterbury, it is said, is
about to marry a well-known London society lady.
At Eockhampton, the most eligible bachelor has
shocked Mrs. Grundy by buying two houses.
Sir Hercules Eobinson is now holding his
seventh Governorship, during 26 years’ service.
The man who originally purchased the Mel-
bourne racecourse is now a shearer at Riverina.
Lord Augustus Loftus returns from Melbourne
via Deniliquin, reaching Sydney on 14th instant.
Blaynoy and Carooar editors are giving a bad
example to their readers by going to law for libel.
Mr. Proctor, after lecturing to three crowded
houses at Hobart Town, left for N.Z. on Thursday last.
A.M. Topp, literary celebrity, of Melbourne,
is so called because be always goes home after mid-
night.
The poetic A. P. Martin will write on “ Two
Australian Poets” in the new number of the Mel-
bourne Review.
M. Eenan, it is said, intends soon to begin writ-
ing a history of the Jews. The worn will comprise
three or more volumes.
Dr. Frost, the big Townsville medico, got <£loo
the other day for riding seventy miles and attending a
boy with a broken leg.
Two Queensland J.’sP. lately received their
quietus. One was a Darling Downs swell, and married
the widow of a rich squatter.
The liveliest man in Charters Towers is Morgan,
the clever little lawyer, who earns his money like a
horse and spends it like—the animal that usually draws
a knife-grinding machine.
Bobby Byrne, of Queensland Punch, now
wears patent leathers, and has his clothes made to order
by the swell tailor of Brisbane.
The owner of the yacht, Eed Gauntlet, at
present anchored in the waters of Port Jackson, is said
to have an income of £26,000 a year.
Miss Frances Evelyn Maynard, the reigning
English beautv, is shortly to be married to Lord Brooke,
heir to the historic earldom of Warwick.
That great naturalist, Le Comte Louis Fran-
cis de Pourtales, curator of the Cambridge (Mass.,
U.S.), University Museum, is dead, at the age of 58.
It is said that Mr. Justice Pring, of Brisbane,
would like to buy another racehorse. If he does we
hope it may be a clipper this time to make up for the
past.
Mr. John Wheatcraft, M.A., of St. John’s Col-
lege, Cambridge, and now of Woollahra, has been ap-
pointed headmaster of the new Rockhampton Grammar
School.
Garnet Walch is bringing his magnum opus—
" Victoria, 1880”—to a close. The advance sheets
suffice to show that it will be a magnificent drawing-
room book.
A well-known Southern litterateur is now laid
up with gout. This is rough, after measles and
ophthalmia. Evan, the bailiff, is moved to tears at the
sight of such suffering.
All the Australian Governors were entertained
at dinner by the Melbourne Club on Monday night.
120 were present. Lord Augustus Loftus replied to the
toast of their Excellencies.
The Foreign visitors to Melbourne are, in the
American phrase, “mashers." Verdi and George go
into Nissen’s caf 6, only to find the waitresses talking to
Italian officers in kid gloves.
Baroness Burdett Coutts quarrelled early in life
with her only and eccentric brother, Sir Robert Bur-
dett, and they had never spoken to each other since.
Sir Robert died a few months ago.
The Duke of Manchester does not attempt to
conceal the fact that his income is only £20,000 per
annum, and that is not sufficient to maintain the
responsibilities of an English Duke in England. It is
whispered that he is not unlikely to be the Marquis of
Normanby’s successor as Governor of Victoria, and
that ho has come out on a “ prospecting” expedition.
f There are three candidates mentioned for the
Melbourne mayoralty, namely, Mr. C. R. Meares, the
present Mayor; Aldermen Stewart and C. R. Garton.
The contest will probably be between the first tw*. The
election takes place to-day (Saturday).
We are in a position to state with confidence
that a certain N.S.W. member of Parliament, while on
a visit to Melbourne, the other week, put up at a six-
penny restaurant in Bourke-street. During his stay in
the city he visited the houses of Parliament, of which
he in the main approved.
On dit that two marriages are to take place in
Sydney in a couple of months, on the same day, in the
same church. In fact, as Fred Marshall says in “The
Girls,” “a double event." The happy pair in one case
will be represented by a newly created official assignee,
and the accomplished daughter of the Crown Solicitor;
the others by a bank official, dating from a corner bank
in George-street, and a beautiful (and report says
wealthy) young lady from the fashionable locality of
Potts Point.
Jeff. Stow, of Adelaide, feels hurt because when
Holloway offered to plaster Davis’s black-eye with a
twenty-pound note he did not also offer to apologise.
Holloway says he’ll see Davis in—court first.
Walter Snelling, of Brisbane, has been made a
colonel. It was about time they did something with
him, for the Colonial Mutual Co. have utterly failed to
make an inroad on his superabundant energy.
There was trouble the other night in Wynyard
Square. While a small and select party were amusing
themselves at “ Nap,” in the house of a gilded child of
Israel, one of the players, a pet of the hostess, was
accused of “ sheating." Thereupon he arose, remark-
ing that he was in the habit of playing not with cads,
but with gentlemen. There was a little “bruising
match” at Petty’s next day, and proceedings at law are
talked of.
Macrossan, the Queensland Minister for Works,
was formerly a miner at Ravenswood. Shrewd, calcu-
lating, and unassuming, but ambitious, be won bis way
to Parliament, and now is ruler but here we stop.
M. B. Murphy, the president of the Owl Club,
Melbourne, is the choicest spirit in that city. To see
him and that distinguished tragedian, George Darrell,
eating saveloys at 2 a.m., is enough tomake a cab horse
weep.
Mr. “Larry” Bell, the well-known rowing man
formerly Victorian amateur champion sculler), had
his house at St. Hilda, Melbourne, robbed last week of
a considerable amount of jewellery, which, however,
was recovered.
Since the technical difficulties cropped tip in
reference to the Hon. J. P. Bell’s commission, which
prevented his being present at the opening of the
Melbourne Exhibition, he bos been in a chronic state
of “ man delights me not nor woman either.’’
Arthur Rawlins, who was smart enough to sell
Sweetmeat in a £5OO sweep in Brisbane for £5O, mys-
teriously lost £3t of it a day or two afterwards by
leaving it on his desk in the Registrar-General’s office.
There has been an enquiry, and the other fellows in
the office don’t seem to appreciate Rawlins' misfortune.
During the last few years the practice of putting
advertising cards under people’s doors has been attended
with a fair amount of success to shop-keepers. How-
ever it is hardly etiquette for a medical practitioner in a
thriving suburb to resort to the practice indicated. If
ability will not establish a medical man be ought to
start selling matches or candles, not pill*. After all the
medical profession in Sydney is a mere trade. Every
\ quack is allowed by law to call himself “ doctor.”
Mr. Charles Norton Harper, of 201 Macquane-
street, notifies that on end after the Ist current he
assumes his family name of '* and will be known
as Charles Norton Harper-Crewe.
The bright light of the Northern Argus is
Mr. F. H. Nixon, well-known throughout the colonies
as a forcible and versatile writer. He was formerly
of the Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator.
At a certain auction-honse (in an adjoining
colony) the sale of seized and overtime goods is nicely
managed. Not unfrequently cement, for instance, will
be knocked down to a confederate at 9s. and 10s., while
there are buyers present ready to go 18s. Ditto in re-
gard to ironmongery, &c. By good manoeuvring goods
are secured at ridiculously low figures, and they are
subsequently offered at auction at the auctioneers pri-
vate mart.
Mrs. Newman Hall, who was recently divorced
from her husband, has been married at Yarmouth
Registry Office, to a groom, so the cable informs ns.
The “ groom ” referred to is probably the co-respondent.
Dr. Gregory, of Rockhampton, has sold his
practice to Dr. Paterson. The former goes to England
to enjoy the fruits of his hard work. However, the city
of “ sin, sweat, and sorrow” will see him again when he
wishes to replenish his pile.
R R. Dawbarn has been appointed secretary
to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
at Brisbane. He “ oughter” know better, for the in-
spector hates pigeon shooting, and will he sure to have
D. for cruelty next November.
Mr. M‘Each era, of M‘II wraith and M‘Eachern,
who succeed to the splendid business at Rockhampton
from which Mr. Waite* - Reid has just retired, gave a
farewell picnic to Mr. Reid the other day. The guests
were numerous, and the affair most enjoyable.
It : s now improbable that Superintendent Hare
will lose his band as a result of the bullet wound in the
wri-i received by him at Glenrowan. Since the
exfoliated portions of bone have been removed from the
wrist the wound has exhibited much more favourable
symptoms.
The Princess Dolgorouski, with whom it
is commonly reported the Czar is about to con-
tra - t a morganatic marriage, is one of the most beauti-
ful and elegant women in Europe. She accompanied
her illustrious lover to the banks of the Danube during
the tate war with Turkey under the name of Madame
Rilejer. The Princess comes of an ancient and noble
house that has already been allied by marriage with
the imperial family of Russia.
The following, from the Western Champion
refers to a northern celebrity, “the handsomest man in
Queensland”: —“Spicer Briggs, Favenc’s mate, was
married to the second daughter of Dr. Elliott, of Syd*
ney, last week. The lady, to other charms, is said^to
add the merit of not being entirely under the influence
of the usual feminine craze for the ceremony and dis-
play, and the wedding arrangements were of a kind
that would ordinarily make expectant bridegrooms
jubilant and their promised brides mad. They hare
gone away to St. George.” On reading the above we got
up and, in compliment to ®ur old friend Spicer, threw a
played-out boot—at the devil, who was waiting for copy
It wouldn’t do for a certain well-known
Judge to dine with the Queen. It is not con-
sidered etiquette to continue eating of any particular
course after Her Majesty has partaken of it to her
satisfaction, and as Her Majesty eats very little, the
courses are hurried over. After dinner there is hardly
time to take even one glass of wine before coffee ig
brought in. The Queen does not put her cup on the
table, but sips a little as the servant holds it on the
salver. Then Her Majesty rises, and, of course, the
guests all rise and stand back from the table. The Queen
then makes the round of the room, stopping to talk for
a few minutes to anyone of the guests whom she may
delight to honour, and then goes out, leaving the guests
to amuse themselves as they like for the evening. Lively
isn’t it ?
Even at the risk of giving somebody a free
advertisement we venture to reprint portion of a notifi.
cation which appeared under the heading “ Deaths,” in
Saturday’s Herald “ Major de Montmorency.—The
funeral of the late Major Keymond Hervey de Mont-
morency took place at Norwood Cemetery, near London,
on Tuesday, July 20. Among the relatives of the
deceased officer present were—Mr. George Coles, Cap.
tain Coles, Mr. Horsman Coles, Mr. A. Bailey, aud
Messrs. Edward, Ernest, and Charles Coles (members
of his wife’s family) ; also, General James Abbott,
C.B. * • • Mr. C. Qubbins, &c.”: —Just imagine a
“Gnbbins” being allowed to follow a Montmorency to
the grave! We haven’t been told who paid the Herald
I people for all this glory, but after reading the advertise,
ment we can make a shrewd guess.
General Phayre is a son of a private soldier,
who died at Calcutta some years before the outbreak of
the former Afghan war. The General’s brother was,
when a sergeant, killed at the Khyber Pass; and the
General himself, when orderly-room sergeant, had the
honor of being imprisoned with Lady Sale and six
others. The remnant of the 44th Regiment at the con-
clusion of the campaign numbered only sixty men of
all ranks. Originally the son of a mere private, after-
wards the adopted child of a color-sergeant, and edu-
cated in the regimental school. General Phayre has
carved out his own fortune with his sword.
Speaking of the unfounded rumour given pub-
lication to by the Standard regarding the engagement
of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts and Mr. Ashmead-
Bartlett, a London paper says : —“ The Baroness has
been engaged several times before by the Press, but
rarely with such accuracy of detail as in the present in-
stance. Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett, all blushes and happi-
ness, was presented to the Baroness as her affianced
lord, and then the editor discreetly retired and left the
happy couple to whisper soft nothings and arrange
about the breakfast. Ashmead didn’t like it, and the
Baroness went crimson with annoyance. Letters of
congratulation poured in on her from all sides, and
presents began to arrive by parcels delivery. What
makes the matter all the worse is that the gentleman
is already married, and has five little Bartletts whose
infant tongues lisp the sweet name of papa. To hand
the benevolent spinster over to a married man with a
ready-made family after all these years of single blessed-
ness, was exceptionally cruel." By the way, it is stated
in the Abgus and Australasian that the “rumour”
isn’t a canard after all—but that the marriage has
actually taken place.
We wonder whether James Martin Esq.,
barrister-at-law, who made so brilliant a speech in
defence of The Empire newspaper many years ago is
identical with Sir James Martin, the present Chief
Justice of N.S W.? In the course of the oration above
referred to Mr. Martin said: —“ Comments may be made
of a man in a public capacity much more freely than of
a private individual. Leaders of Public Affairs, Com-
manders of Armies, Judges, Magistrates, and others
who have the interest of every man in the community
committed to them; all who have large powers entrusted
to them for the public good should have free comments
made on the way in which they use those powers. The
public interest requires that such comments should not
be too nicely weighed. A large, liberal, common-sense
view should be taken of them. * * * You are asked
to wind up a paper that exposes a gigantic system of
oppression and mismanagement: you are asked to ruin
that portion of the Press of the colony that has dared
to speak aloud in defence of the persecuted. Gentlemen,
I feel confident in your verdict. The course that has
been taken in this matter will call for the gratitude of
the country in all time to come, and this trial in
future ages will point to an era in our history when
oppression was put down and mismanagement driven
from our public institution.” Sir James, do you
recognize your own words ?
Rear-Admiral Carr Glynn, R.N., C.B. C. 5.1.,
to whom Adelaide Neilson hxs left her fortune, is lb®
second son of Lord Wolverton. He was born in lazS,
and is consequently 51 years of age. His first wife, by
whom he had four children, died in 1870.
Cheap fares to the Victorian Exhibition are
likely to bring bad fruit. If our working classes go
down to the democratic capital they may return intoxi-
cated with the Berry epidemic, and may possibly be-
come dissatisfied with the way in which municipal
affairs are done here.
Mrs. Henry Wood, the authoress of “East
Lynne," is eldest daughter of the late Mr. Thomas
Price, and was born in Worcestershire in the year
She was married early, and commenced her hteTMJ
career by contributing to the period! als of the uaj*-
“Danesbury Honse” was her first complete work, ana
gained a prize of £lOO offered by the Scottish leinpe •
ance League for the best tale illustrative of the evils oi
intemperance.
MISS LOUISE POMEROY.
A Yachting Incident at The Hawkesbury.
Fitzherbert Jinks, who was on board, undertook to recover the lost anchor. The
yacht was taken round into a bay and a boat with Fitzherbert aboard repaired to the spot. Fitz-
herbert dived, and unconsciously swam along the surface of the water. He reported the anchor
"wasn’t there!”
Beneficial effects of the Early Closing Movement.


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER II— Continued.
In the evening, Sebastian, calling at Stonegato,
*nd asking if Mias Blisset could see him, w\s ad-
mitted, and taken to the drawing-room, where he
found Adrienne alone, seated at her piano. She
rose, coming forward to greet him, and he saw
that her face was pale, and her eyes sad and
heavy.
“ I hope yon are in a good-natnred and self-
jacrificing mood, for I come to ask a very great
favour,” said he.
“ I shall be delighted if I can help yon in any
way”
“ Did yon know we cease to work at all after
Friday ?”
“Cease to work at all! What will become
—oh, I am very sorry—what will the workpeople
do?”
“ I thought,” began Sebastian, and bit his
lips.
He was afraid of appearing to parade his inten-
tions before her, and altered the form of his an-
nouncement.
“ I have consulted with Sutcliffe, my manager,
yon know, and we have come to the conclusion
that it will be the best and wisest plan for me to
relieve my workpeople myself, for the present at
any rate, and ——”
“ All of them! To keep them, do you mean ?”
asked Adrienne.
“It is really the best, and it will be the cheap-
est way in theend,” said he, “ and what I wished
to ask you was ”
“It is right—it is a generous thing to do. lam
glad yon are going to do it,” she interrupted him,
her eyes beaming, and suppressed warmth in her
tone.
And sho looked at him more fully and steadily
than she had done for many weeks past. Yet
there was something not perfectly pleased in her
repression.
Sebastian, a young man who was not usually
given to losing hia self-possession or presence of
mind, coloured, half with embarrassment half
with pleasure.
“ I am glad yon approve,” was all he could find
to eay.
“I do. It will be such an excellent example.”
“An example—
ah, yes! But now
to ask my favour.
Sutcliffe thinks it
will not do to let
them be idle all tho
time, so wo have
determined to open
some schools one
for the men and
boys, and another
for the women and
girls. Both of them
will require some
•ne with brains and
a head on their
shoulders to look
after them. I want
to know if yon will
take the manage-
ment of tho women’s
school ?”
“But Mrs. Mal-
lory will she not
wish to ”
“No. Sho will
lave nothing to do
with it, beyond giv-
ing me a subscrip-
tion. I believe she
does not altogether
approve of the
•curse I have taken,
and has decided to
hold herself aloof.
You can do it, if you
will, and if Mr. Blia-
set will spare yon,
I know you are not
afraid of yourself,
and that is why I
asked you.”
“ If my uncle can
spare me, I will un-
dertake it,” said
Adrienne, speaking
as she now usually
did speak to him—
rather briefly and
drily.
Sebastian could
wring no sign from
her —nothing but a guarded glance, and a brief, un-
emotional speech. It was unsatisfactory, he felt.
He was not making way. She tormented his
thoughts sometimes in a way that was harassing ;
he carried in his mind almost incessantly the
calm, sweet face, pale and clear; the rapid glance
which was, he felt, not so much destitute of ex-
pression as full of something veiled —something
which she would not allow to beam fully out upon
him.
“It will not bo play,” he proceeded, after a
silent panso,” during which his eyes interrogated
hers, which made no answer. “It will be down-
right hard, arduous work. If it should prove to
be too much for you——”
“It will not be too much for mo,” said she
quickly, and then her eyes did suddenly fill with
some expression—what, he could not tell. “ I
want some work like that —work which will be
hard and absorbing,” said Adrienne, clasping hcr
hands with an involuntary movement. “ What
must I do ?' Have you got a room for tho school,
and some teachers ?”
“ I think of dividing part of my warehouse, and
filling it with benches. It can soon be done. As
for teachers, I thought some of the better-edu-
eated amongst the young women themselves, or I
could find a mistress, and —do you know Miss
Spenoeley?”
“No, I do not,” said Adrienne, steadily, her
colour rising.
“She is a young lady who professes to need
active work and to love it, and I really think, if
she had the opportunity, she would throw herself
heart and soul into such a scheme. But perhaps
you would rather not make her acquaintance?”
Adrienne paused again. Was she to extend the
•corn and contempt she felt for Frederick Spence-
Icy to his whole connections, and to make diffi-
culties and quibbles about her co-workers in a
scheme in which it was essential chiefly to have
Takers as soon as possible ?
* No,” said she ; “if you think Miss Spenceley
would help, I shall bo very happy to work with
her.”
,f Of course you will be the head,” said Sebas-
tian. “ I will take care that is understood, and
there will be no difficulty.”
“ If you will send me a list of names and ad-
dresses,” said Adrienne, “I will go myself and
see after them. I dare say Mary Heywood could
tell me something about a good many of them.”
“That reminds me that Myles Heywood, for
soma reason or other, has seen fit to decline all
assistance. He has ordered his own name and his
sister’s to be taken off my books, and withdraws in
dignified silence.”
He looked intently at Adrienne as he spoke.
She was silent, crimsoned for a moment as she
met his glance; then sho started from her chair
and walked to the fireplace, stooped over the fire-
irons, and began to mend the fire.
“ Allow me!” said Sebastian, politely, coming
to her assistance in time to see her disturbed face.
“Is it not foolish of him?” he added, remorse-
lessly. “He is too young to have been able to
save anything almost, and there is not the least
prospect of work at present.”
“He was quite right,” said Adrienne, clearly,
as she fixed her eyes upon Sebastian.
“Quite right?” he echoed, holding the poker
suspended in his hand, and looking at her in his
turn.
“ Perfectly right. lam thankful to hoar it. If
he had stooped tamely to accept charity from
you—l mean from any one—as soon as it was
offered, I—l would never have forgiven him.”
Sebastian gently replaced the poker in the
fender.
“ Perhaps he knew that,” he remarked in his
softest tone. ,
“ He could not,” was Adrienne’s quick retort.
“ I have not spoken to him for weeks. And if 1
had —if he had known it —— ”
“ He might know it perfectly well, all the same,”
insisted Sebastian. “ Have you thought seriously
abdnt it, Miss Blisset? I know Heywood is a
friend of yours ”
“ Yes, he is—a great friend of mine,” she
answered firmly, and not one sign was lost upon
Sebastian’s cool, observant eyes ; the head a little
thrown back, eyes bright, the pale cheek flushed,
as if she braced herself to meet some peril. He
saw and noted it all.
“You should be cautions how yon influence
him,” said he.
“ I do not influence him, Ho is far too strong
and decided to be influenced by—by a girl like
me.”
Sebastian smiled politely bnt derisively.
“Pardon me, bnt I don’t think you are quite
right there. lam convinced that you do influence
him, and if so, don’t you think it is nnkind to pre-
judice him against his real interests f ”
“ Hia real interest is not to take charity. Mr.
Mallory, the bare idea of Myles Heywood coming
up to receive charity is dreadful. It makes me
miserable to think of it —only I can’t imagine hia
doing such a thing. He never will. Poor fellow!
I am sorry for him ! ”
“ Sooner or later it will oome to that —it must,”
said Sebastian. “ And I—you spoak as if I had
tried to thrust alma upon him ostentatiously, like
a rich man relieving a beggar, and then appealing
to everyone to notice his generosity. Can you
suppose I intended anything so revolting ?”
The usually placid and unruffled Sebastian spoke
in a tone of deep vexation and chagrin.
“No, of course I did not suppose any such
thing,” replied Adrienne, her face still flushed.
“ I did not do you so much injustice. But lam
glad he refused —so glad. I hope he will find
something else. I even hope that thia present
trouble may turn out to be a means of improving
hia position, for I think ho may turn his thoughts
to some higher employment than mere drudgery
in a factory—even though it is your factory,” she
added.
“He is certainly fit for a higher post. You
would be glad to know him in such a situation,
would yon not?”
“ Indeed I should.”
“ Even though it took him away from hia friends
and native town ?” went on Sebastian, somewhat
ironically.
“ Y —yes. Even in that case.”
“ Well—who knows! It may turn out to be as
you say.”
The conversation had been a far from satisfac-
tory one to Sebastian. Ho had had no idea, a
month ago, that Myles Heywood’s image would
tako such an important place in her concerns.
Ho tnmed tho subject, and made arrangements
with Adrienne about the school; bat it scorned to
him that since their passage of arms—for it had
been a passage of arms—her eyes had brightened,
and her voice had been more full and decided. He
left her at last, firmly convinced that Myles was
his formidable rival, and the convictic n gave him
a strange sensation, such as he had never known
before. All hia life he had been accustomed to
quietly make up his mind, and then as quietly
carry ont his decision. Now, to hia own aston-
ishment, he found himself strangely waverir g be-
tween certainty and uncertainty; and as ha walked
from Mr. Blisset’s house to his own, he pondered
over the history of his own love for Adrienne, and
almost for the first time began to wonder what
would be the end of that history.
It was three years now since ho had first mot
her. There had been a chamber concert, in
Coblenz, of classical music. Adrian Blisset had
played violin and his daughter piano, and Sebas-
tian had been one of the not very numerous audi-
enco ; for the taste of the Coblonzers for music
was not of the severe sort. Perhaps the small
audience was the more appreciative—at least
Sebastian Mallory sat a long two hours and a half
without a thought of being weary or any wish to
go. When the music was over ho had penetrated
to the little room whither Adrian and his daughter
had retired ; had knocked, had boon bidden herein.
Apologising for the intrusion, he had introduced
himself, and said ho imagined that certain pieces
that had been played that evening, and which
stood on the programme without any composer’s
name, were the production of the musician himself.
He was right, and as these compositions had
appeared to him to a certain wild, weird
beauty of their own, there had ensued a long con-
versation upon the subject, during which Sebas-
tian’s discrimination and real, earnest love for the
art he professed had won over even Mr. Blisset’s
reserved and moody disposition.
Thus the acquaintance began. The musician
had been kinder and more open than he usually
was, not only to strangers, but to any one at all.
Sebastian had been allowed to visit him and his
daughter. Adrienne had played for him; she had
talked with him, and he had found her charming.
Prom Coblenz the* 1 had gone to Wetzlar, in the
vain and illusory hope that there they might find
an audience, and receive remuneration. The pro-
jected concert never took place, but certain other
things did. They spent altogether a week in the
sleepy old town. They floated in a little boat np
the river, between the rows of poplars and the
level meads; they sat under the shadow of the
grim old Heidenthurm of the cathedral, and looked
over all the landscape below. Adrienne eat upon
the wall above Goethe’s Brunnen, and looked at
the girls coming to fill their pitchers, and said to
Sebastian, who was standing beside her, and look-
ing earnestly down at her:
“ I wonder if it was to such a well that Hermann
came and helped Dorothea? I could almost fancy
so. Could not you ?’ ’
“I think I could,” Sebastian had answered,
looking, not at the well, but at her.
With each day that he saw her, his admiration
for her grow greater. She was a fair jewel in poor
setting. Her gentleness, her dignity under
trouble and sorrow, her
V eaten Muth in schweren Leiden,
impressed him, delighted him. Her flashes of
quaint humour, which showed him how gay tho
spirit she owned be, if only the sun would
shine a little upon Its dwelling-place; her grace,
her intellect, attracted him irresistibly; and ho
loved, too, the quiet independence with which she
met him ; the calm dignity with which she ignored
his wealth, his position, his advantages, and
treated him as her equal—no more, no less.
Amongst tho list of events which made, as it
were, a gaily coloured, kaleidoscope pattern in his
memory, that week at Wetslar stood out from
the rest, like a little patch of pure gold, like the
lucent background on which stands out, pure and
clear, some modueval Madonna.
One morning, when ho went to call upon them,
ho found Adrienne in sore distress, which she
tried in vain to conceal. She was alone, and he
had succeeded at last in getting her to confess
what troubled her. A creditor of her father’s
pressed hard for a certain sum of money, duo long
ago. The fact was in itself painful enough, but it
alono would not have beon sufficient to break down
Adrienne’s calm and steadfast courage. It was
her father’s manner of accepting, or not accepting
his position, which alarmed and made her
wretened. More than once ho had uttered dark
and oracular hints as to the wisdom of leaving a
world which was full of nothing but misery and
contradictions. At that time ho was in hii room,
and had refused to see or speak to her. She did
not know what would happen, what ho might or
might act do ; and Sebastian saw the young girl’s
courage fail for the first time, for the first time
saw her fold her hands, and, with tear-stained
eyes ask piteously :
“ What am I to do ? ”
“ Leave it to me, Miss Blisset. Of course some-
thing must be done, and I will do it. For your
sake 1 will do it gladly,” ho had said, taking her
hands, looking into her troubled eyes with a glance
that made thorn more troubled still, and going
straight to her father’s room.
The “ something to bo done ” naturally resolved
itself into pecuniary assistance. The matter was
perfectly simple. Notes for three hundred thalers
settled it. Sebastian insisted upon becoming Mr.
Blisset's banker, and Mr. Blisset said that ha
could not refuse the possibility of being under
obligations to a gentleman, -who would understand
the feelings of another gentleman, rather than to
a coarse-minded tradesman, who could not by any
possibility understand such fine sensibilities. The
money was a loan. They both called it a loan;
and Sebastian came out and told Adrienne that it
was all right.
She had burst into tears ; then recovering had
said:
“ There is nothing that I would not do for you.”
To which he had replied:
11 Then come and have a row on the river.”
Upon which they had straightway had a very
delightful row on the river, the Lahn; and delicacy
alone had prevented Sebastian from then and
there saying to Adrienne that he loved her, and
asking her to be his wife. He deferred the ques-
tion—ho hoped, not for long—only until ho had
spoken to her father; and that he decided ho
would do the following day.
In pursuance of this resolution, he had called
during the forenoon at the musician’s lodging’s,
and had asked to see him.
“ Ja! ” the hostess told him, with a shrug of the
shoulders, “ the Herrschaften had left by the first
train that morning. Last night the gentleman
had spoken very sternly to the Fra olein; she had
heard him. The Fiaulein had expostulated, and
cried, and said, “ How thankful it will seem!”
To which her Herr Papa had replied that he could
not endure such % burden; ho must leave the
place. After which ho had desired his Frdulein
Tackier to pack up, and they were gone.”
“Where?” asked Sebastian.
“ Na,! How should I know, mein Herr ? Ap-
parently to Frankfort, since the first train in the
morning goes direct there ; but from Frankfort, I
have heard, one may out anywhere over the
whole world, even to Africa, if one chooses.
What do I know?”
Sebastian had retired, quite convinced that it
was not Adrienne, but the morbid pride and vanity
of her father, which had caused this contretemps.
That pride could not endure to live in the pres-
ence of the man who had placed him under an
obligation. He had gone to hide himself, and
Sebastian tried in vain to find any further trace of
Adrian Blisset and his daughter.
He had so mnch the less forgotten her. The
feelings of warm admiration, chivalrous respect,
and tender affection which he had hitherto felt for
her, suddenly leaped into a quiaker flame—he loved
her. From feeling
convinced that to
have her as his wife
would boa pood an d
a happy thing for
him, he had become
determined that one
day she should be
his wife ; she, and:
no other. From
that time she had
remained for ) in as
a sort of standard,
an ideal of woman-
hood ; gentle-spiri-
ted, true, and pure,
wise and prudent,
sweet and modest.
He had j . dgad all
other women by this
standard, and had
never felt anything
more than a cer-
tain admiration for
any woman since
hia parting from
Adrienne.
Then had cnsnod
his return home, his
not very satisfac-
tory relations with
hia mother, the dis-
tress amongst his
people, the neces-
sity for prompt ac-
tion and hard work,
his introduction to
Helena Spenoely,his
andden and unex-
p« ;ted mo ti g with
Adrienne, and the
full conviction that
now she soon must,
should be his. Be-
side Helena's bril-
liant beauty, the
delicate grace of
Adrienne was as the
beauty of a whit®
violet and a crimson
rose. Helena was
daxzlingly boauti-
ful. but she waa the exact opposite of all which ho
had been for three years praising and exalting to
himself as best and sweetest and most desirable
in woman. He thought a good deal of Helena.
She was younger than Adrienne, wilder, less edu-
cated, prejudiced, hot-headed, violent, and be-
witching.
“ Yea, she must bo bewitching,” argued Sebas-
tian, with exquisite naivete, within himself.
“Look at Hugo. The lad waa enraptured with
her.” That was to be expected. Hugo was
young too; he had not loved Adrienne Blisset for
throe years. Sebastian had the steady purpose and
intention of asking Adrienne to marry him, to
honour him and mate him happy by becoming hia
wife. When ? As soon as he could find tho
opportunity, he aaid to himself. But it never did
come.
(to bb continued).
A Sketch at Goulburn.
Goddbuen may be classed as one of the most
prosperous inland towns in this colony, and the
substantial character of its principal edifices gives
it additional prominence in the eyes of a visitor
from the metropolis. In particular, the hotels are
generally fine buildings; and they offer an accom-
modation equal to that of any hostelry in the
capital. Notably may be mentioned the hotel
shown in the accompanying engraving, known as
Hickson’s Hotel. This fine building stands at the
corner of Sloane and Market streets, in close
proximity to the railway station, and from its
extensive balconies a splendid view of the sur-
rounding scenery is obtainable. The balconies
are over 200 ft. in length, and extend nearly round
the building. The hotel is a great resort for
commercial men, and there is a splendid sampling
room for their accommodation. The extensive suites
of apartments, ensuring privacy, comfort, and
convenience, render the hotel attractive to metro-
politan visitors who sojourn at Qoulbum for
change of air. Tho catering is made a feature in
tho management of the hotel, and the wines and
liquors are the beat procurable, the proprietor
being very particular in this roepect. B uggica and
other vehicles run between tho railway station and
the hotel, for the convenience of visitors.
A SKETCH AT GOULBURN—DICKSON'S HOTEL.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
D AVLD
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
, best manner.
32s Cd
per suit.
JJAYID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; a use-
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- " suit,
nary wear.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In light Homespuns and'
thin Cheviots and Ban- 42s per •
nockburns. for Spring ’ Suit,
.and Summer wear.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac suits,
{la Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat r per suit
checks and mixtures. )
JJAVID
Orient
Sac suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
I
Specially Light and'i
Durable, the materials I
having been weU J-
shrunk before being I
made up. J
63s per
suit.
JJAVID
JONES AND * COMPANY’S
JJAVID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
fSpecial attention is in-'|
Ivited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and }- Orient
most perfect in st> le I Clothing,
and Qnsh procurable |
in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers
I
In Superior Tasmanian
Flannel, thoroughly
shrunk.
i
18s 5d
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
I
China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats. 14s 6d oach.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior serge Coats, 21s each*
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 80s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
{
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Hlnck Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 465.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
r In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■J In Black Merino. 30s.
Cln Super Sergerette, 655.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8» 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s 6d.
Cln Superior, all Wool")
J. Tambary Tweed, well >• 30s each
(. finished. )
A Special Dress Over-')
coat, silk trimmingD; |
and facings, beauti- '
fully tu ht, and agree'
able to wear.
I
66s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theia EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are how making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour ns
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
• comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
. GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
J variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
Hd to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
evqry colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
, other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
■ ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to Bfd; French Percales, from 9|d
to ltd ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d ; Royal Navy Striped
Galalea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to!4d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10b 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
-j of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies'
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid ; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
„ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
“ li A c E
CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
Cd
FH
IH
£
JgXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB.
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
P3-SW
5^
Mo v
£ g«
cJ £5
50 5
H CJ
a w
1 So
oQ 0-g£
* - .
I- s S
B §
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ’’ of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as ,
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzil
ness of the eyes. They promotes healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d. i
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hacil
ing cough of consnmution, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4a
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOE-
HAQE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price 1 ,2 s.
E. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
FJi AKE
NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Rauderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES 1
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any of your children sick at any time P You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
BST Remember this, and always keep a box of this
V aluable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
JIJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson's
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is gnaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
H Y S I C.
•F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhoea, Exl®?,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours ot Consultation —10 to 1*«
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance, Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
EUzabeth-street, near Market-street.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
B. Y O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DP.APER.
This New and Commodious Establishment is now in full
operation, and customers have an opportunity of
purchasing from a well-bought stock of Choice, Cheap,
and Useful FANCY and HOUSEHOLD DEAFERY,
Corsets, and Frillings.
J. B. YOUD A L E.
NEW MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
JJIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Neab the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 I 1
J. L. HORDERN.
rjiHE
CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 684 GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
T
HE BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J, TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’b
MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482 (late 484) gkokge street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
«3* All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
J V iCAKb (fe CO.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS.
E CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
W Y N Y A K D-S T R E E T,
Corner of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
arc made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from,
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.


Hotels, &c.
The compagnon
CAFE AND CATERING COB
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTA
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the
Marriette, late ch<sf de cuisins oi
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners
Three hours notice required for privi
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-deoorat
Every attention will be paid to 1
establishment.
SAMUEL P
Jnne 30,1880.
COMPAQNONI PALACE Ci
serve" up in their best
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOI
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURA
Patrons of onr Theatres and Cone
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI’S, opposite
c.
W. ROB
MARKET STREE
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
Coach and hors
MITTAGONQ.
'Within three minutes of the R
Mb. C. SHEATHER, PRO
%• Buggy always in attendance t
Visitors from the metropolis
finding the very best accomodation
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gnu
immediate neighbourhood.
The best shilling li
(including a Glass of Ale
ia to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCi
AND
LUNCHEON Ri
BRIDGE-STREI
Soup, Pish, Entrees, Joints
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets cai
the bar in packets of eleven
available for any day.
Table d’h6to on Sundays at 1
FREE COUNTER L
COME AND TASTE THE OLD Cl
* p A
\ That the Old Liverpo
(corner of Pitt and Kii
is the Best House to get a Ojas
Also, the Cheapest House for Bo
Proprietor, DAVID H.
rO H N A. W I
WINE GROWER & ME
COOLALTA WINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Oil
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, 1
PRICE LIST 0
COOL A L T A A
Extra fine quality, 425, ]
RED WINES
Noff'coolaita Red 21 C
No. 2 ~. i
Vin Ordinaire 1
Quarts
s. d
30 C
WHITE WINES.
Muscat B 1 ,
No. 1 Coolalta zi J
.30 C
No. 2 .„ ,
Vin Ordinaire 1£ '
4 USTRALIAN WINE/
ZA -r»n-n TITTY7DV n/iiiol f n
16 (
Business Care
[Legal.]
SHOETEE, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary F
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at 1
PITT-STEEET. opposite tl
News Office.
B
OBEETS, HAEEIS, A
Licensed Suryetc
LAND AGENTS. ARBITRATORS,
Rescissions and reclamations sp
Run Maps compiled to latest date.
House ; Chambers, 130 Pitt-street.
w.
MAC
POETEAIT PAIN
225 BOURSE STREET, WOOI
Q. AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIMB
16 Erskine Stbei
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, 1
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &0., at 1
ESTABLISHED li
F
OWLEE’S P t
AND
BEICK WOEK
CAMPEEDOWN, NEA
Price List on applica
CWOODFOED
• (From London
SANITARY AND PRACTICA
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer
Baths and Water-closets fitted on
principle. Galvanized Iron Worker
and Gasfltters.
J. F
CEIPPS, FASTI
CONFECTIONEJ
267 (late 255) Pitt Strk
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., ca
best style.
B
OBEET BUTCI
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
534 GEORGE STRi
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Pro
E,
mas
DRAUGHTSM.
Engraver on
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND G t
All matters carried out promptly.
Address —124 ELIZABETH STRE
ME . AND ME S.
Experienced and thoroughly
PATHIG PRACTITIONEI
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVI
Pamphlets gratis.
N
OTICE. —I beg to infom
friends that I have RESUM
a WINE and SPIRIT MI
undermentioned address, an
continuance of the conflden
corded me during my late
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK E
11
Hotels, &c.
rjIHE SYDNEY COFFEE
158 Qeorge-street, and 13 Net
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPE*
The Premises are Three-Storied
frontages to both Georgo-street and
Quay, with, a through depth of
into—-
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with conven
tiring room, &c-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Roo
(all leading papers). Parlours
Rooms, &>c., &c.
Thirty-seyen Bed Rooms and an Ops
Roof, with View of Sydney Hai
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Baki
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lard
and spacious Shop Accommodation
a most complete manner, and quite
the demands of thousands of perso
Family and Picnic Parties supj
to order on the shortest notice and
terms.
ARTIS’S CLUB
Comer William and Dow
This new and splendid HOTEL hs
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor
service of the A S.N. Co for thirte
will be a sufficient guarantee that i
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has or
Tables, and is replete with every re
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, <fcc.,
only.
Omnibnsses pass the Hotel every
J. E.
HIS K Y B
READ PAMPHLET and PUB
ROE'S %• FIVE-YEAR-Ol
UNBLENDED WHI
Recommended by the I
ROBERT PHILLIPS and C(
Sole Agents for 1
THE ISLAY BLEND WHH
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of G
fast becoming a favourite in nea;
colonies. For purity, strength and
excelled, and the analytical report, c
“ A very flue spirit with that delic
teristic of the finest Scotch wh
thoroughly matured, and can be i
most wholesome and pleasant whisl
Agent for New South Wales and C
UNIP E R T R
P. MULCH UPS
sS
Chemists and Dru.
&
m
SisU
JS. '
sa.it
mM : mB
1 fWE
ms
u B L I' c
N
„ THE following Lisl
WATSON’S RENOWNED PI
MEDICINES,
80 well and favourably known to the
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antil
Watson’s (Vegetable) Won
Watson’s Gingerbread Won
Watson’s Compound Chlorc
Watson’s Strengthening Ey
Watson’s Australian Vermi
Watson’s Excelsior Toothai
Watson’s Concentrated Goi
Elixir (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STRI
apothecaeie
14 OXFORD STRE
Near Hyde Park C<
(N.B. —The Tram-car stopt
W. D. EAMES, Pr
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of t!
Societies of Victoria and New
■Spot HE C ARJES
i
JJ
U
■


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
Miss Leaf is in Auckland,
Annie Pixley is dangerously ill again.
Al. Hayman looks younger every visit.
Arthur Garner is on a visit to Adelaide.
Grattan Eiggs is doing well in Ballarat.
Zulngy is still studied at the School of Arts.
“ Doctor Clyde ” was not liked in Auckland.
Gordon’s “Glen” has never been surpassed.
Sara Flower’s grave is in a disgraceful state.
F. Marshall’s “ Toby Twinkle ” is a screamer.
Nothing but amateur shows in Wellington, N.Z-
G. L. Goodman does not keep the “Pass-”
over.
“ Zulu” Thompson is to have a benefit and
presentation.
Purtonls circus was at St; George by last
advices.
Adelina Patti and Nicolini are about visiting
America.
More Hamlet. We have had thirty doses already
this year.
Mr. Lachlan M'Gowan says, “ Stay, Jackwees,
stay! Oh I”
The New Lyceum,Melbourne, rapidly approaches
completion.
Teddy Haygarth and O'Brien benefit in Auck-
land shortly.
The Loudon Comedy Company have been photo-
graphed by Wood.
J. K Kmmett is playing “ Fritz ” at the Grand
Opera Honse, New York.
The Dillon and South Company have been very
successful at the Towers. •
Tom Margetts, the comiqne, is in Auckland,
waiting for something to turn up.
The “ Weathercock ” is the latest novelty at
the Bush-street Opera House, S F.
Bandmann and Miss Beaudot are called in
’Frisco the great B and the little B.
At latest dates Mrs. Bates, unfortunately finding
no engagement in ’Frisco, had gone east.
Mr. Colville lectures in England for the Zeaian-
dia Exhibition, which sails by the Mataura.
Fred. Laroche, the comic singer, is one of the
attractions at the Sun Music Hall, Knightsbridge.
Jeff. Da Angelis had a gun accident at Eock-
haniptou, and nearly ended the merry life of Butler.
The Queen’s Theatre has bean let to Coppin and
Co. for turee months, with the option of another three
months.
The Taylor troupe, including Little Mattie and
G Bromley, are doing a capital business in Qippsland,
Victoria.
How about the Mammoth Minstrels playing
against such a company as Haverly’s? Just what we
thought
Cole’s great American circus, with a special lot
of side show blowers and deformities, is about to open
in Melbourne.
Laurence Foley, the champion pugilist, is
playing the Wrestleria “As you like it,” at the Queen’s.
“ Yon know I”
Mr, James H. Eainford has purchased the copy-
right of tho whole of the late Walter H. Cooper’s
dramatic works.
Lydia Howarde at latest was in N.Z., waiting
for a company to support her, which is being formed by
Mr. Bhepperson.
Emily Soldeno is coming back to Australia—not
to sing in public, but to teach singing, and prepare
pupils for the stage.
M‘Lean’s Juvenile Troubadours are doing a
tour up Bathurst, Orange, Ac., previous to their de-
parture for tho Cape.
Miss Gertrude James, a most accomplished
pianists (one of Giorza's pupils) has died at Auckland,
N.Z., from bronchitis.
At latest dates, Batohelder’s Panorama and Cha-
let, the ventriloquist, were showing at the Theatre
Royal, Timarn, N.Z.
“ Arrah-na-pogue ” is sixteen this year. The
“Octoroon” is three years her senior. Both their
birthdays in next month.
The all-absorbing question at Auckland just
now is how Mrs. William Horace Lingord gets into that
wonderful jersey of hors.
J. C. Williamson has offered .£6OO for tho right
of playing “The Pirates of Penzance,” which it would
cost £lOO more to produce.
The Lingards play four weeks in Dunedin, two
In Christchurch, two in Wellington, and than return to
Auckland for another season.
The Steam Man, in Pitt-stroet, walked 337 miles
on Saturday. He only requires one pint bottle of
castor oil a day to sustain him.
Walter Eeynolds, Burford, Mrs. Walter Hill,
and company, are doing good payable business at the
Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z.
Lewis’ Juvenile Troupe have brought up the
number of “ Pinafore ” performances in this city to one
hundred and twenty-four (Ist Got.)
Commodore Nutt’s lata bar-room in San Fran-
cisco is alleged to have been closed by the authorities
on account of his aristocratic patronage.
M. Vavasaour, the famous actor of the Follies
Dramatique, Paris, who died lately, ended a glorious
stage career as a street vendor of umbrellas.
The Alice Johns Company has been playing in
Launceston, and has now gone to Hohart Town. The
company includes Bello Russell and Harry Power.
The Aconcagua, with the Austrian band, has
arrival at Melbourne, and the band performs for the
first time to-day (Saturday) on Flomington Lawn.
Mr. A. W. Boothman was accorded a hearty 1
round of applause for his delivery of the first actor's
speech on his first appearance in Sydney lost Monday.
“ This night, at 8 o’clock, sacred service for the
people; songs, addresses, Ac.” Such is the nightly
late of the Bijou, Brisbane. “To what base uses,” Ac.
Miss Ruth Grey (Mrs. A. W. Boothman) is in
Sydney, awaiting an opening for a performance of
several now plays. The lady is pretty, and reported
clever.
Mrs. Walter Hill, Miss Bessie Vivian, and Miss
Arethusa May recently appeared in Byron’s “ Old
Soldiers," with the Lyttelton Times Sick Fund
Society.
Max Freeman is now stage manager at Bneh-
etrcet, B_F., in place of Mr. Weill. The News Letter
nays. The little theatre haa profited hugely by the
change.”
At latest dates Mies Eleanor Carey was in the
country, in C Uifornia, with tho “ Deception” company,
plajing’ to rather poor bongos. Belleville was with the
company.
’Die cabby got the better of Lnscombe Searell,
at Auckland. The eminent pianist had to pay the cab
fare 9b. 9d., and costs £3 ss. 6d. He surely uttered a
big, big D.
De Lias got judgment against J, B. Steele at
Auckland, for £lO money paid, being the amount paid
by ** Shy lock ” to* Pattcr&on and Thompson under their
guarantee.
The lime light, originally introduced to illumine
the face of a particular actor or actress, is now em-
ployed to define the legs—especially those of ghosts in
“ Hamlet.”
Prank Lloyd, the serio-comic singer, has re-
turned from Brisbane, after a very successful trip, and
intends starting on another tour after a stay in Sydney
of a fortnight.
Billy Sweatnara has joined the “ Leon” show
nnder pressure of his original agreement, and has
proved a great draw, for he is really an artiste in the
cork bnsiness.
Batchelder, who is so well known as the pro-
prietor of the American War Panorama, has for a time
given np show business, and is at present settled at
Dunedin, N. Z.
Mr. Daniel Bandmann, in Hamlet, during the first
act is the positive presentment of Roley Pickering-
only not quite so lovely. And, besides, he 'didn’t wear
a malacca cane.
The great comique, Maodermot, took his seventh
annual benefit at the London Pavilion, on August 12.
He sang a new song on the occasion, “ Youe’r always
sure to fetch ’em."
The new act-drop-onrtain at the Opera House is
a failure as regards etfect. The colour is too dark, and
it looks like cretonne—no one would take it for expen-
sive velvet, which it is.
Signor Lablacho, son of the great Lablaohe, has
taken up bis abode in Now York and prepares pupils for
the operatic stage. His daughter shortly makes her
debut at New Orleans.
Tho Savage Club recently entertained the Ameri-
can actors now in London. Barry Sullivan provided,
and among the 150 guests present was Mr. William
Creswick, the tragedian.
_J. M. Sweet (who for over a year held posses-
sion of the Victoria, Newcastle) has, we are sorry to
hear, not found theatrical speculation profitable and
has therefore given it up.
Tho “gorgeous” (so tho bill says) pantomime
“ H M.S. Pinbehind,” comprising all tho airs of •* Pina
fore ” has been pioduced in Dunedin, N.Z., by Wilkin-
son, Lizzie Morgan, and company.
Uncle Tom and the Octoroon, with darkie busi-
ness, are played out, even in Sleepy Hollow. Alice
Johns succeeded them in burlesque business with a
white company, and is doing well.
The bright little Emilie Melville is having a
holiday, Miss Helen Dingeon taking her place in the
title rile in Strauss’ Comic Opera, “ Prince Methusa-
lem," now being played in ’Frisco.
Knipe and L. L. Smith are, it’is said, the joint
owners of the newly erected Hippodrome in the classic
street of Stephen. Melbourne will soon be fairly well
supplied with places of amusement.
In late American papers the death of Ole Bull,
the fo mous violinist, at the age of 70, is announeod.
He was a native of Bergen, in Norway. He was un-
questionably the finest violinist of his day.
The Owl Club had a crowded house at the Bijou,
Melbourne, on the occasion of their performance of
“Caste" and “The Happy Man." The president was
happy on the boards ana essentially so later on.
A paragraph is going the rounds of the papers
to this effect: “ George Rignold, the handsome, pro-
poses returning ere long." The mas who wrote the
squib could never have seen George off the stage.
Lingard’s “Wreck of the Pinafore,” we are
requested to state, is, in regard to its plot, dialogue
and songs entirely the work of Mr. William Horace
Lingard. The music is by Mr. Luscombe Searell.
The Georgia Minstrels have finished their
Ho Dart Town season. Richardson, “ Flash Harry,”
who took them there, made a dead loss, leav-
ing the company, which includes J. P. West, penni-
less.
Miss Madeline St. Clair will appear for the
second and last time in Sydney at the complimentary
farewell benefit tendered to her sister Miss Marie St.
Clair, on Tuesday next, 12th October, at the School of
Arts.
We now hear that it is Barlow and Walhalla’s
circus, not Burton’s, which is at present camped near
Appin. Bernardo, the well-known clown, travels with
the Barlow company in this their second tour of the
country.
At late dates the debris of the Loftns troupe
were at Rockhampton Theatre Royal. Le Clair's imper-
sonation of the Grand Dnchess is spoken of by the D.
N. Aitovs as the “finest piece of burlesque acting we
have ever seen 1”
Among those who snpported Adelaide Neilson
in 'Frisco was a Mrs. Corlett, the well-
known “Silver Pen" of the Auckland Hbrald.
Adelaide Neilson took a great fancy to, and prognosti-
cated a brilliant future for, her.
“ Tho Irish Pilgrim ” (whoever he is), has been
appearing at the Academy of Music, Christchurch, N.Z.,
in his unique aud highly-humourous entertainment
entitled, “'lhe Pilgrim through America, and Life on
the Australian Gold-fields in 1851."
Madame Lottie Wilmot is lecturing in Dune-
din, N.Z., against orthodoxy. In a recent discourse,
after stating that the “bwand”of the murderer was
on the “bwow’’of Coin, she added, “Oh, wa oome
•fwom’ a bod stock, my ‘fwends.* '*
At Mr. Fraser Smith’s soiree musicale, lost even-
ing. says the B.F. Nkws Ljsttkb of 14th August, “Miss
C lare de Vero(Miss Abrams, of Sydney) made an excellent
impression by her clear, pure, soprano voice. She will
one day make a sensation we predict."
They have a “model” railway train at the
Theatre Royal, Hobart Town. It has been used for the
last fourteen years, and is still advertised yearly as
“ new and startling mechanical effects.” It will be put
in the Museum in about another decade.
Trouble seems to cling to Bandmann. The story
now is that at Salem, Oregon, he hod a misunder-
standing with a Celestial laundryman; and because the
tragedian seized his clothes and attempted to march off
with them he was mobbed by Chinamen.
“ Frankenstein ; or, the Man with tho Iron
Lungs,” is one of the latest novelties in mechanism.
This wonderful piece of workmanship is now under the
management of “ Liddy," and every week will seo addi-
tions and improvements made to this show.
After playing the “Wreck of the Pinafore ” in
Melbourne, Mrs. Lingard goes home to England for a
season. She will not, however, be accompanied by Mr.
Lingard, who prefers a sojourn in his native States.
The latter benefited at Auckland on 21th .September.
E. N. C. Braddon, M.H.A., Tasmania, is a
settler on the North West Coast of that island, a
brother of the celebrated novelist, an old Indian Civil
Servant (ex-collector of the tax on salt—vulgarly and
locally called tho/’Swoat Tax") and a very fair actor and
reciter.
They have a show bullock now in Melbourne.
The bullock—not Melbourne—has seven legs, and it is
being exhibited in Paddington Market at sixpence a
head. One of the swelliest of bookmakers is the osten-
sible proprietor. This mast be one of the first results
of the totalisator.
Miss Florence Colville recently played Lady Gay
Spanker in “Loudon Assurance," with the Wellington
(N.Z.) Amateur Dramatic Club. One of the local jour-
nals speaks very plainly about her playing thus:—
“ Great things were expected from Miss Colville, but
she was not a success.”
Melbourne pros, were well represented at the
opening ceremony of the Melbourne Exhibition. To
the fore were Williamson, Garner, and Darrell—the
latter wore a medal and was “ airy ” in consequence, but
as 455 d other men in the building also wore medals,
George’s did not stand out as a startling novelty.
Charles Whcatleieh first produced “ Baby ”
this side of the lino. He played it at Auckland three or
four years ago. Wheatleigh appeared os Tracy Coach,
Fred. Belton as Mr. Howard St. Paul, Charley Veruer
as Willie St. Paul (“The Baby*’), George Leopold as
Mr. Oliver Magnus, and Tilly Andrews os Mrs. Oliver
Magnus.
“ The Danitoe,” at the People’s, Melbourne, has
proved a genuine and well-deserved success. Knrely
hag a piece been better acted, all round, on the Austra-
lian stage. Miss Annie Mayor played the part of Manaie
Williams with an earnestness that roused the audience
to enthusiasm. There is a successful future before (his
yonng lady, if she be not spoiled by injudicious flattery.
Thoo. Hamilton was excellently well fitted with the
part of Sandy, and Johnny Hall was very fuuny as the
Judge, and the remainder of the cost were efficient, not
the least deserving of notice being Mr. Warner as the
Chinaman. “Che Donites" will run np to the period of
Ooorge Darrell’s opening with the “Trump Card.”
A. successful amateur dramatic entertainment
took place at St. Francis’s H ill, on the 4th inst. The
exponents of the various parts succeeded in eliciting
the hearty laughter of the audience both in tragedy and
comedy; and the assemblage with aching sides,
declaring that “Eichard the Third” must be the
funniest farce out next to “ Bos and Cox."
Mapleson has discovered a star tenor in the
person of a Signor Kavelli who one evening recently
volunteered to take the part of Edgardo in “ Lucia ” in
lieu of Mr. Joseph Maas, who was unprepared. The
Signor, so say the English papers, undoubtedly possesses
one of the most magnificent tenor voices that has been
for years heard on the stage of htr Majesty's.
Genevieve Ward is a New Yorker. Her grand-
father was Gideon Lee, one of the so-called “ Fathers
of the City.” Under the nom de theatre of Madame
Guerra' eMa she, in the early part of her career, sang in
Italian opera in Cuba. Miss Ward made her first ap-
pearance in England ns a tragedy queen (Ladv Macbeth)
at the Theatre Koyal, Manchester, October Ist, 1873.
Mr. Joseph Solomon, who made his first ap-
pearance in public at Signor and Signora Kabris 4
concert at Manly on 22ud Sept., possesses a magniicent
baritone voice of great power aud volume. His ren-
dering of Eicci’s song, “ Here upon my vessel’s deck,”
was received with unbounded applause, and an encore
demanded. We hope to hear more of this very promising
amateur.
Haverly’s Mastodon Minstrels (40) have opened
her Majesty’s Theatre, London, and when the last mail
left were doing a really splendid business. The thea-
trical journals are unanimous in their praise of the
company and their new and novel acts, aud our old
friend Billy Emerson is specially mentioned as being
the best ever seen in his line. The Moore and Burgess
Company are entirely put in the shade by Haverly’s,
and tho public wonder how they have stood them so
long.
Later details in regard to Miss Neilson’s sudden
death reveal the fact that she privately married to
her leading man, Mr. Edward Compton, one year ago,
prior to sailing for America. It is also hinted that her
American divorce from Mr. Philip Leo is not likely to
be held as valid in England. That gentleman will claim
her estate in the absence of other blood relatives. This
may lead to a law encounter between Compton and Lee,
providing tho latter is not married again, aud tho law-
yers will find handsome pickings in the fruit of the
deceased actress’s labors. So say the American papers.
The Prince of Wales appears to have the
Privilege of going behind the scenes and bothering in-
dustrious actresses when they are busy attending to
their work. Miss Genevieve Ward, after suffering cold
neglect, directly she had been visited and complimented
by his Eoy&l Highness, began to play to packed houses.
It has been suggested that it would be a good thing if
managers would club and raise money enough to import
tho Prince to America and keep him Jong enough to
make a round of congratulatory calls at the green-
rooms of the several theatres.
Haidee Heller is assisting the celebrated con-
juror, Dr. Lynn, at tho Piccadilly Hall, in London.
" Sketch," in a local, says “ This lady possesses the
gift of a second sight to a remarkable degree. Close
blind-folded, she can describe every article that the
audience chooses to hand to Dr. Lynn. Not long ago,
when she was entertaining at the Brighton Aquarium ’
I endeavoured to mystify her on three successive days
with a pocket aneroid, a copy of the 4 San Fsancisco
News Lettee,’ and a photograph of a professional
beauty, but it was of no use. Each was accurately
described to me, and I gave it up in despair."
Years ago, when Herr Bandmann first appeared
in London, he was remarkable for the flowing locks
which streamed over his shoulders. There was pro-
duced at that time a play by the late Lord Lytton
entitled 44 Ths Eightful Heir, 44 in which Bandmann
sustained the principal part. This piece, together with
the,tonsorial peculiarities of the chief actor in it, were
exquisitely burlesqued at the Olympic Theatre by a
piquant sketch called 44 The Frightful Hair,” in which
the chief character had an enormous capillary poll, and
mot his fate in the manner of Absolom of old. This
44 skit” set all London on the broad grin.
Tho latest London music-hall sensation is en-
titled 44 The Ivy Bower. 44 The song is described as 44 a
screamer," and it is the manner of the singer as well as
the matter of the song that provokes hilarity. The
singer is warbling of his lady-love, and this is what he
says
I gave her one in tho ivy bower, one little kiss and
that was all ;
And ever since that happy hour, my Katty holds me
in her thrall.
I gave her one in the i—•, I gave her one in the i—,
I gave her one in the ivy bower—and that was all.
In a recently published volume on Malibran, it
is related that the violent temper of her father,
Garcia, caused a severe quarrel which resulted in the
separation of father and daughter. One evening
the opera of 44 Othello 4 ’ was produced at the Theatre
Itahens, with Garcia in tho r6l« of Othello and
Malibran in that of Desdemona. The daughter,
as usual, was admirable in the part, and the
father became once more the Garcia of his best years
There was an enthusiastic recall, and on the curtain
being raised Desdemona was discovered almost as black
as Othello. Moved by tho ovation in which both had
shared, Malibran had thrown herself into tho arms of
her father, and in the embraces which ensued Garcia <
had imprinted upon her features some of the dye which
stained his own.
Tho cantata given at the Melbourne Exhibition
was, after all, a success. Kinshan Lewis (uot Alpha-
betical—don’t mix np tho great men) played the organ,
and the country is safe. It may be remarked en passant,
that Lewis wore a medal. Caron conducted with aston-
ishing vigour—be gets a medal riext week; and
Ortori appeared in light pants, contrary to con-
vention, and at intervals 44 caught fleas 4 ’ before the
audience with amazing rapidity. In one ef Beethoven’s
symphonies, the second fiddlers were a trifle at variance
with the rest of the orchestra, and introduced a little
‘Pinafore’ music—having lost the page; but it didn’t
signify to Caron, or the people. The two fiddlers came
in with a ruth at the finale, and—also expect medals.
In last issue wo stated, on the authority of a
paragraph famished by a N.Z. correspondent, that
44 Millie Palmer, Herr Bandmann 4 8 wife, who is now in
America, proceeds to India with a company shortly "
Mr. Bandmann now informs us that the foregoing
statement 44 is absolutely untrue in every particular,
inasmuch as Mrs. Bandmann is living in England with
her husband’s children, awaiting Mr. Bondmann’s return
from Australia." Now, as we do not know Mr. Band-
mann, and as there is a variety of excellent reasons
why our correspondent cannot possibly be acquainted
with him, we must altogether repudiate Mr. Band-
mann s assertion that the paragraph referred to was
dictated by malice. The error probably arose from the
names “Millie” and “Minnie” having been confused.
A most ludicrous incident occurred at the con-
cert at Manly the other evening. Among the furniture
of the orchestra, at the Oddfellows' Hall, is a music
stand which is some five feet high, and had been used
by Mr. Hodge during the evening. Towards tho close
of the entertainment Signor Pagnotti appeared to play
a flute accompaniment. The Professor, who stands
about three feet nothing in his stockings, approached
the music stand, hut found when he had arranged
his music that it was two feet above his head. In this
dilemma he pinned the music half way down the stand,
te the intense amusement of tho audience. The ex-
periment failing he was obliged to place hie music in its
original position. By standing on his toes ho got occa-
sional glimpses from afar, and managed to execute his
piece in spite of such discouraging circumstances.
The present trouble between Kotton and De
Mnnck is said to have arisen from the fact that tho
pair quarrelled in America, and the result was that
Ketten did not come rut with tho Patti troupo as was
intended. The Patti troupe came to Australia and did
not succeed; Ketten came after them and made a big
hit—hence those tears. Since tho two have been here
there has been internecine war. Do Munck has been
outraged beyond all forgiveness by some one who, for
purposes of concealment, signed himself 44 Ernest Gene-
re ux,” sending him a telegram addressed to 44 De
Munckcy" and speaking of 44 tho lame one" (i. a., poor
Carlotta Patti). Whereupon the great vloloneoUist
rushed to the press for succour, and unbosomed his
woes to tho Aok and the S. A. Advertiser on 44 public ”
grounds. And Ketten is going, so he says, to sue
Munok for £lOOO damages for weeping on the bosom of
tho public. Ketten repudiates all connection with the
telegram in question, and it is almost impossible to
believe that ho could have had any.
The Royal Middy.” an opera condone
Genee. was first, produced in the colonies at t heMef
hounie Opera House, on Friday, Ist Oct. Miss Annfp
Montague made her first appearance as Fanchette
aa a cantatrice delighted the critics and the nninero™
audience. She has a pnre, well-cultivated soprano vnhSf
and she uses it like an accomplished artist. When
Montague speaks, her American peculiarities grate
harshly on educa-ed ears, and detract thereby from W
general acceptability. Mr. Charles Turner, an Engiuv
tenor, made a genuine hit. He sings with excellent
taste, and possesses a strong yet sympathetic voice-
he acts freely, and speaks easily and well. Farley
thorou hly at home in the ].art of De Barros. as als£
were Miss Royal, George Leopold, and Morrison to
their several r6lcs. Of the opera itself it may be said
it is no Pinafore,” alueit it pos esses some qtiaintaad
tuneful melodies The opening solos are effective and
two or three duets, notably an introduced one, were
excellently well rendered, and very favourably received
run PIBCC 112,3 b6en Well mounted > and will doubtless
Our Auckland correspondent sends ns the fol
l?mi ngr T- e,ifrical K°»sip in a letter dated 25ih Sept -1
The Litigants have done po >r business during the
w-ek. Liugard took a benefit last night, and hi abilitr
was recognised by a good house. Stolen Kisses • and
Lmgard s clever sketches forme? the hill of fare and
the now popular comedy went as well as on its first
production here. All theatregoers know
v ■ - . , • IS *p. his quick changes, and on this occasion
fai . l ! l / outdid himself. I was «lad to notice Mrs
Fitzwilham in her old part of Mrs. Jawhins after her
illness, and Mr. J. B. Steele imp* rsonating Lord Trang.
Dlar Ti*- ' 9 ur ’ it t*> tie the attraction to-night, and
on *^°i nd r y „‘ H. M's. Pinafore' is to be revived
with the following castLingard as the Admiral, Mrs,
Jjingara as Campbell as Captain Corcoran,
West’ord as Dick Deadeye, Dawson as K.lph Rack!
straw, Craig as the Bos’un, Edith Adelle as Hel*e. and
M i ss Horan as Little Buttercup. The season clones on
the 2nd October, the company going straight to
Lmnedin. W. W. Cole s big circus is expected to arrive
by the City of Sydney from 'Frisco, and the town is
now iargely billed. An old friend of all professionals,
indefatigable Charley Weightman. is looking after the
interests of the proprietor. It is proposed to open
here for three weeks to give the horses, &0., a mn, and
then proceed to Sydney, staying there for the Christ-
mas and Mew Year holidays. It is said that the con-
tract price for bringing the show over ie £3300
Queen’s Theatre.
MISS POMEROY AS ROSALIND.
“As You Like It” is a popular comedy. It is a
popular comedy because it abounds with the deligntful
tun and fancy of the most glorious of our poets. The
play is one that has been received by the public with
unbounded favor for generations, not because its con-
struction displays any successful combination of the
unities of the drama, but on account of the marvellous
wit, humour and satire which are embodied in this
most extraordinary creation of the brain of our
greatest dramatist. “As You Like It,”bting a sketchy
comedy, of course demands more exertion on the part of
the actors than a more modern—and we might add
inferior—production bespeaks. There is, comparatively
speaking, no plot in this, perhaps the most successful
cornedv, that emanated from the brain of the
bard of Avon. The principal interest of course centres
in the impersonator of the vivacious Rosalind; and
there is also an almost equal phase of interest concen-
trated in the eccentricities of Touchstone. Miss
Pomeroy’s Rosalind is no original conception of the part-
but isone which is most meritorious. In the first act she
has not sufficient scope for the display of her undoubted
histrionic abilities; bat when in the forest of Ardennes,
when dressed —and delightfully dressed—as the
male protector of Celia, Miss Pomeroy exhibits to the
utmost the indisputable talent which she possesses.
Her impersonation of Rosalind is full of humour. She
exhibits a complete comprehension of the various
sarcastic phrases allotted to her part; and, in
addition to this, her stage appearance is decidedly
prepossessing. Miss Pomeroy has, perhaps, some-
thing to learn in the representation of Shakes-
pearian comedy, in the same manner that we
have all something to learn in every phase of our ex-
istence. Bnt it affords us pleasure to chronicle the
success of this young lady in a most difficult part—a
success which is most indubitably endorsed by the
play-going section of the general public. Mr. Oroville’s
Touchstone was a performance worthy of himself. It
was brimful of humour, of delicious touches of face-
tiousness ; his by-play was inimitable and his appearance
was unique, the part being dressed to perfection. Mr.
Vincent’s Orlando on the moment seemed to be an
unfortunate instance of the deteriorating influence
which the long run of a popular play has upon the
abilities of an actor His impersonation of Orlando
appeared at first to be infused with such a strong de-
coction of “ Ramirez ** that one momentarily ex-
pected the advent of “Bel Lorimer** to engage him
in a “battle-axe” combat. But then it gradually
dawned upon the auditor that " New Babylon” was
running in his own head and not in that of Mr Vin-
cent, whom we like as Orlando—and as a good many
other characters. As Celia, Miss Melrose was pictu-
resque, speaking her lines with a rhythmic ripple that
was positively delightful; bat the Jacques of Mr.
Emmett was hardly so successful a performance.
Mr. Larry Foley’s impersonation of “The Wrestler”
was greatly admired. His magnificent physique and
well studied fall elicited grand demonstrations from
the “gods.” The representatives of the other cht-
raoters in the comedy call for no special mention.
Miss Pomeroy had many disadvantages to contend with
on the opening night—and not the least of them was
the noise made by that highly intellectual portion of
the audience who told her plainly that they had com*
to sea “ the Wrestler,” and not Rosalind.
Opera House.
MR. DANIEL BANDMANN, AS HAMLET.
Thk announcement that this theatre would, on Saturday
la’st, re-open, with Shakespeare’s masterpiece, and with
Mr. Bandmann in the title r<sle, created amomst the
more thinking section of the general community a con-
siderable amount of Interest. The Sydney public has seen
many Hamlets—some good, some “ conventional," some
bad—and others “ excruciating.'* They have behe d with
admiration the representation of the Danish Prince by
Montgomery and Creswick; been pleased with that of
Fairclough and Dampier ; and smiled at that of poor
Hates and Darrell. They have been alternately stricken
with “ astonishment and admiration.” Soaring amateurs
of tho “geebung" order have p uyed it for “ono night
only,” “hard-handed mechanicals” have strolled thoir
three brief hours in black tights and a tin badge, and
afterwards retired into private life to mingle and sympa-
thise with unappreciated “geniuses.” We have seen
Hamlets who have ranted, Hamlets who have growled;
Hamlets who wore sober, Hamlets who were drunk. We
have left a theatre pondering over the sublimity of a per-
formance—quitted a thespian temp c sore with laughing
at the antics of a tyro. We have, in short, seen so many
exponents of the unhappy Dane that the advent of Mr.
Bandmann—a foreigner-to open iu the “test piece” in
tnglish dramatic literature, was, as we have before
observed, an event to which we, in common with many
others, attached uo small importance. Hamlet, as played
by Ur Bandmann, abounds in innovations. Instead of, in
the first scene, having, as set down by the great poet, a
“ platform before the castle,” tho audience is surprised to
see a snow-clad mountain scene, the general etlect of
which is far from being realistic. This is ono drawback.
Another might exist iu tho tragedian’s perceptible German
accent; and a third iu—speaking generally—the indif-
ferent manner in which he was supported When these
impediments to success are taken into consideration, it
redounds more to the credit of Mr. bandmann when we
state that his Impersonation of Hamlet was a performance
which must live in our memories a life-time. Mr.
Bandmann is an actor of the ••intense” school, and his
conception of the part is singularly powerful and emo-
tional. His reading is in the highest degree intelligent
and poetical. The novel points he makes are numberless,
and his delivery of the various soliloquies exhibits de-
clamatory powers of the highest order. From the first
moment of his appearance the actor completely secured
tho sympathy of his audience, and his peiformanoe, as
the play proceeded, was a succession of brilliant triumphs.
Mis* Louise Beaudet. as Ophelia, was almost faultless. She
is the Ophelia which the immortal bard must have had ia
his “mind’s eye” when he wrote the delightful poetry
she speaks. Her appearance, even at the risk of a little
“ bad form,” we cannot help commenting on. Her figuce
is slight hut perfect in symmetry, and her face delicately


• and abounding in expression. Altogether this
tbise‘ e( ‘ ““ a very wo icome addition to the list of Aus-
roafg *“ traces and she will undoubtedly become a groat
favourite. As the ghost Mr Hoskins was
* nd .B„t and impressive, and we were pleased to see the
di* o '“r“_ accueil which was accorded to the veteran actor.
A* l u outer’s Folonius was, we are forced to state, a
* r ; jlhnlv performance. With all th* quaint savings
J down fQr hira .. h „ was not successful in
tW* en the ghost of a smile to the laces of the audi-
r»'sin» Mr. Caihcart plated Claudius—and dressed it—
WO** oh as Bland Holt woul' a pintomlne ting. From
reTy Tnearance of a huge “ornament” upon his left
tW .. neared to be insured to his full value, which,
breB ?fobe gauged by his “ rurabu-tioal” performance of
if 11 Irini would be of a rather insignificant character.
,be Zv Mainwanng. a careful young actress, was pam-
/weighted as the Queen She neither looked nor
.he Character, and although we must commend her
* ct Unr •< letter perfect.” we regret to state that both
for Jn hcr kingly consort did not a little between them
el the illusion. Mr 11. N Douglass’s Laertes was a
I® 1 /hough careful performance, but the pitch of his
u decidedly un-Shakespearian; and moreover he is
r0 * tn «pcak blank verse as though he were delivering
J?Lfllfof the “asides” of a “swell” in one of Byron’s
b ' U .ales Mr. Mortyno looked picturesque as Ouilder-
cot/. hut he should avoid treading on llosencrantzs toes
rt ®mnch as possible. The latter character, as delineated
Mr Sweeney. is a thing to dream of. He dresses it in
tights and a short ten-inch black tunio. and ap-
*ca*.' to have left his sword at the cutlers to have the
P®Sv notches” ground out. Me bonnily compliment
8 Kam Howard upon ills first Gravedigger, which was
humorous; and Mr. St Laurence was satis-
f/7nrv as Osric. The piece is well mounted, and the play
was received with every dem mslration of approval by a
jt ’c and enthusiastic audience.
Band Contest.
v _ j OKN K. Fclton has entered on a successful specn-
uu'tm Comparison, as our copy-books tell ns, being;
«< odious,” we will not attempt a detailed criticism of
, lu> various bands which engaged in the prize contest of
which Mr. Fulton is the entrepreneur. Mr. Fulton
had two good houses, and we trnst that on Satur-
Sr v nest when tho award of prizes is to take place,
that the receipts will be such as will bring a smile of
triumph ” to the faces of the mauagers. ‘ Music hath
charms to soothe the savage breast.” So saith some
rwvt Well, wo are not inspired poets, yet we confess
{The quite too awfully “soothed” by the gigantic
•■ blare'* with which Mr. Fulton has delighted tho
public.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
A Banks’ Bowing’ Club is being formed at Bris-
bane.
Trickett cables Mr. Frank Hill that he is in
excellent health.
The Auckland Stnd Company are only charging
iix guineas for Cap-a*pie s services.
The Petersham C. C. defeated the Botany
Excelsior C.C. by 19 mns last Saturday.
Lord Harry, the well-known Victorian hurdle-
ra»er, has been sold to go to Singapore.
The local cricket clubs of Newtown and Peter-
sham try conclusions next Saturday on tho Petersham
Ground.
Percy M‘Donnell, the well-known cricketer, has
» brother in Brisbane who plays a very moe game—
of billiards.
In the cricket match Petersham versus Botany
Excelsior, G Seale obtained a bowling average •£ 9
wickets for 14 runs.
Our old friend “ Jeff Cramer.” at present located
in Victoria, is engaged on a “ Life of Mace.” Ho has
had extensive experience.
Anlitt and Martin—a race for 150 yards—on
Saturday, at Botany, for £l5 a-side, the former giving
the latter four yards start.
At Geraldine (N.Z.) races, orir old friend, Lone
Hand, carrying 12 st. 41b., and ridden by Hedges, won
the steeplechase, beating Milo and Little John.
It pleases us to be able to report that the veteran
Nat Thompson has so far recovered from his iadisposi-
tion that it is expected ho will once more don tho flannel.
E. Button, who shot nine consecutive birds, won
the big pigeon match at West Maitland. I. Chaiker,
with eight, was next. Five other competitors shot six
each.
The two leading Hobart Town metallicians,
Jacobs and Burbury, have gone into business as but-
chers. A profitable way of passing their time between
the meets.
A programme of eight events has been arranged
by the Grafton people for New Year’s Day. £2lO added
money, will be offered, including maiden (£4O) and han-
dicap (£80).
Mr. Ivory, Junior, has been on a visit to Auck-
land. and returned by the last mail boat. He goes back
to the same town in about seven months with a string
of horses for disposal.
The Irish American athletes have beaten the
Scotch Canadians in trials of strength and speed by
three points. The contest was for 1000 dol. and the
championship of the world.
At the weekly meeting of the Printers’ Eegatte,
Committee, held on Monday last at the Bass Hotel, the
entries for the ensuing regatta were received. There
is every prospect of a successful meeting.
The Western District Eacing Club (Hamilton,
Victoria' holds its annual meeting on December 15 and
17. The added money is to be £390. A grand pigeon
match is on the tapis for the dates named.
Ironclad C.C. v. Glebe Strathmore C.C. The
above clubs met together at Camperdown on Saturday
last, the latter adding another to their list of victories.
The scores were Ironclad 38, Strathmore 50.
By the Nobthsbn Abqus of Ist current we
notice that Baker was. on the evening of the dote men-
tiouod, to corn id 8 efi tils feat of walking 130 miles
ir. 36 hours, at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Rockhampton.
A twelve hours’ go-os-yon- please match, confined
to youths under 21 years of age, has teken place at Dun-
edin. New Zealand. It was won by Vf. Drummond, who
covered 70 miles and 7 laps. There were 10 entries.
John Tyler, better known by the soubriquet of
’■ Boq” th~ ex-nmtilist and noted second and trainer,
sailed’from England for Melbourne. July 22. He settles
in Victoria, and comes, it is said, at the instance of Jim
Kaoe.
The 50-mile run in the Haverly-Englehardt
tournament was won by Dennis Donovan, of Natick, m
6h. 19m. “Choppy" W.irbarton, the English crack,
•darted, bnt withdrew at fifteen miles, at which point he
had a lead.
At Narrabri, on Saturday night, some scoundrel
broke into Thurlow’s stable and administered strych-
nine to tho horse Starlight, which has since died. Star-
light was considered a certainty for the two Tam worth
handicaps.
Tho winner of the All Schools race at King s
Schools sports, writes, in reference to a paragraph in
our last issue, that he is bnt a few months past his
nineteenth year, and that he is the Junior of at least
two of his opponents.
A coursing match has been arranged at Manly
Beach between the brindle dog of a popular hotel
proprietor, and the best greyhound to be selected from
the local kenuel of a veteran sportsman. George s
nomination is at present the favourite.
The Brisbane Gun Club announces a pigwm
match to be shot on Monday, November 8. This day
intervenes between the first and second days’racing.
It is of course a handicap, 23 to 27 yards. Conditions a
sweepstake of £2 each, 9 birds, 3 traps, 100 yards
boundary.
Captain J. C. Lyons, well known among Vic-
tcriin and South Australian racing men, many of whom
will, no doubt, remember that be won the Adelaide wip
witb Ebor in the year 1835, died last week at the Athe-
rwnm Club, Melbourne. He had long suffered from
pawdyaia.
A 24 hours " go-as-you-ploaae ” walking: match
has taken place at Wellington, N.Z. Croft, of Welling-
ton, won, having covered 128 miles. Swan, Christ-
church, was second, 109 miles. Hanson, Wellington,
third, 100 miles. Brookes, of Dnnedin, gave in, after
going 86 miles. Nine started.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke has been elected
president, and Messrs Boyd, Perse and Levey, members
of committee of the Victorian Rowing Association. Mr.
A. D. Michie, one of the retiring members, who like Mr.
Levey, offered himself for re-election, was rejected—by
the force of the “ manual labour *' votes.
The Singleton Races resulted as follows: —
Maiden Plate.—Twilight, 1; L idy Mary, 2 ; Hesitation,
3. Shorts Handicap.—Giram, 1; Dexter, 2; Doo Dee,
3. Hack Race. —Firelivht, 1. Jockey Club Handicap,
2 miles.—Scrubber, 1 ; Nemo. 2; Sir Solomon, 3. Time,
Smin. 44eecs. Forced Handicap.—Dexter, 1.
“ T. Hales and W. Yeomans, the well-known
jockeys” (says “ Augur,” of the Acsthalasian), ‘‘may
now be ranked among the landed proprietors of Austra-
lia, as they have given £ll,OOO for a station on the
Lachlan.” W a are glad to hear this. It shows what
good horsemanship, honesty and steadiness will do.
Kaeperneck. a private in the sth company of the
Kaiser Franz Grenadier Guards, recently walked a
match of 270 English miles with the well-known British
pedestian Freeman. The match was brilliantly won by
the Prussian grenadier, who strode past the winning-
post nearly three hours before Freeman gave in, the
hitter having walked 258 miles in 51 hours.
In the Victorian Assembly, during the debate
on the Totalizator Bill, a member stated that at Caul-
field one afternoon when one of the machines was in
use he had seen the whole of the bookmakers standing
idle. Allowing that the use of the instruments became
legal, he thought the right to rnn them should he put
up by anction, as ho was sure it would bring at least
£5OOO.
W. George, one and four-mile champion amateur
runner, was successful in both the half-mile and mile
runs at tho athletic meeting held in the ‘ Dripping-
pan,” Lewes, England. July 20. Running from scratch,
ho won the mile without being pressed in 4m. 17 Im.-
the best time ever accomplished by an amatenr on grass.
He won the half-mile in 2m. 1 4-55., the course being
330yds. in circumference.
The Albert Cricket Club has engaged as pro-
fessional bowler, E. Tindall, who has for many years
been in the employment of the Newtown C.G. The
Alberts are wise in securing the services of so redoubt-
able a trnndler. Tindall will now have an opportunity
of showing what he can do as a club bowler; his per-
formances in Intercolonial matches and against Elevens
from England which have visited N.S.W. bearing favour-
able comparison with those of Spofforth and Evans.
Laycock, writing to an Adelaide gentleman,
spoke hopefully of his chance in the race with Black-
man. He said, “My friend Trickett will see that I
come to the post fit, so lam not in bad hands. ae
speaks of Blackman os a very neat sculler. Laycock
likes the course at high water, but not atlow water.
The race is to be rowed with the tide. Trickett and
himself were getting fast into good condition, but both
were on the stont aide—Trickett having 20 pounds, and
Laycock 9 pOnnds to get off.
The annual meeting of tho N.S.W. Cricket
Association was held on Monday night. The report
submitted was of a most satisfactory character, but tho
balance sheet showed a debt of £2OOO odd. It was
announced that the net amount of the hat Thompson
fund was £39113s 6d. Hr. PH. Dangar was elected
President, and Messrs. M. H. Stephen, 8. C. Brown, M.
Fitzpatrick and J. J. Calvert vice-presidents. Mr. J.
M. Gibson was re-elected hon. secretary; and Mr. W.
B. Walford treasurer. Messrs. A. Docker and L. <i.
Bennett were elected auditors.
The Carlton Cricket Club is determined to go to
the front this season. As previously mentioned, the
members have secured the services of Bannerman, but
seemingly not satisfied with the services of one ‘ pro.
they have re engaged Ned Sheridan, who played among
them last season with great success. With two cracks,
and the many really good players in their own ranks,
they will certainly rule supreme until the return of the
A ustralian Eleven, when no doubt tho Albert C.C.,
w ith the assistance of Murdoch, Spofforth, and Bonnor,
will bo too much for tho Trophy club.
At the recent Cooktown race meeting when
•« Faugh-a-Ballaugh,” ridden by a “ Chinkey,' won the
first heat of the ” Hack Race,” an Irishman yelled out
“Hurroo! the ould connthry for ever; well done
Johnnie, all a same my countryman, you savee. The
almond eyes glistened with a proud gleam, themonth
puckered into a gratified grin, he rode at least two
inches taller, he doffed his cabbage-tree with a salaam
worthy of a grandee, and advancing with extended hand
sought to ratify the “ entente cordiale in • Ingohßh-
man way.” But Pat turned from him in disgnst, yelling
out furiously “to hell wid ye, ye yellow devil! sure it a
the horse I mane; he’s me own connthry man, anyhow.
On Monday last the yachting season was inau-
gurated at Clontarf. The yachts present were Mistral
—Commodore W. O. Gilchrist; Oithona—Vioo-oomrao-
dore Dr.Mackellar; Peri-Mr. W. Laidley ; Pert-Dr.
Evans; Meteor—Mr. Jas. E. Fairfax; Daphne-Mr.
Chas. T. Gedye; Harpy-Mr. C. A. Benbow; Pleiades
—Mr. E. W. T. F. Knox; Osprey—Mr. Jas. R. Love;
lone—Mr. A. O. Mil son; and Dons—Dr. F. Milford.
The Commodore (Mr. C. Balfour) and Mr. C. Smith
delivered good-humored addresses at the dinner; and
the inauguration of the sailing season was one of tho
most successful reunions that has, for some years,
attended oven the Sydney Yacht Club.
The V.H.C. Hunt Club Races at Flomington, on
Saturday last, resulted thus:—Hurdle Race —Pember-
ley 1: Kingston, 2; Nullah. 3. Corinthian Flat Race.
-Monarque.l; Brenda, 2; Morning Star. 3. Handicap
Plat Race.— Monarque, 1; Dongolston, 2; Gossip, 3.
Won by a goo 6 length. Hunt Club Cup.—The starters
were Marquis, Highflyer, Syphon and Laura. Highflyer
went away with the lead, and was not caught, winning
by fifteen lengths. Time, 6 minutes 37i seconds. The
Steeplechase.—Turpin, 1; Intrepid, 2. Turpin won
easily from Intrepid, the other U(? o? C^ J !! nd
Mistake, being a long way behind. Selling Stakes.—
Little Lady, 1; Attach*. 3: A.T.. 3.
Tho fifth half-yearly sports mooting of tho
Hunter Hill Athletic Club was held on Saturday last,
on the Hunter Hill Cricket Ground, and passed off very
successfully. The steamers Were crowded, and better
arrangements will no doubt be afforded to visitors in
this respect for their next meeting. At the same time,
the crush showed the interest taken in the club. The
races were for the most port run in good time—S. H.
Fairland won the 100 yards and also the Hunter Hill
Challenge Cup, beating A. J Gerard by about a yard.
A P. Phillips was in splendid form, winning the 15U
yards Handicap, the 300 yards Handicap, and the
Maiden 300. 8. H. Teeco won the two miles Walking
and the mile Handicap, C. Wood the Bicycle Race, J.
A Bnckland the Half-mile, O’Brien the Quarter-mile
Challenge Cnp, O. G. Blaxland the 300 yards for Mnffs,
J J Brenau the Hurdle Race, and R. E. Eaton the
Forced Handicap. Tho Tug of War was a highly
exciting affair, and was won by a team from Glades vine,
consisting of Boon, Golby, Polliard and Neely. The
attendance was good, numbering about 800 people, and
tho ladies’ costumes principally those we noticed at the
Sydney sports on the Association Ground on Saturday
week.
Tho first heats of the Sheffield Handicap took
place on Saturday afternoon, on the N.S.W. Association
Cricket Ground. The following are the results of the
various divisions: —1, Albert and Bull; 3, R. Eagles,
O. Gardiner, and W. Crosby; 3, J. Bull; 4, G. Hum-
merton, J. Kirby, and A. Chaafe; 5, G. btnddert and
Anlezark ; 6, W. H. Dundo and T. Collins ; 7, T. Punch.
M. Lawless, and W. Agor; 8, L. Pyke, J. Mori arty, and
P Kean; 0. 8. Thompson and R. Thame; 10, John
Aplitt; 11, Q. Settlor and W. August; 12, W. Fnrnoss,
J. Honan, and J. Morgan; 13, D. Howell; 14, J. Thomp-
son S R. Hogan, and H. Lambert; 15, R. Hill, C. Pnnco,
and’T*. O’Connor; 16, M. Solomon, 8. Stainton, and
1 J Sherry ; 17, J. Graham and R. Coulter; 18, C. J. Wil-
liams and J. Schangler; 19. E. C. Prendergast and
T Murphy; 20, J. A. Griffiths, W. H. Morgan, and
a! Warren; 21. E. Weekly, T. Thoms, and S. Rowe.
The contest now remains between Aplitt, Eagles, ana
Dann; these will draw for places again, and the remain-
ing heats will come off on Saturday next. Messrs.
P E Simpson, E. Cape, and W. B. Wolford officiate! as
starter and judges respectively, and Messrs. Stmtler
and Oibeon as timekeepers.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The new editor of London Punch, Mr. P. C.
Burn and, ia a Roman Catholic.
An Anglican church is to be erected at Leich-
hardt, on the Whaleyborough estate.
Nine thousand inhabitants of Adelaide have
been induced by Matthew Burnett to sign the teetotal
pledge.
The Sydney “ Lord’s Day Observance Society ”
hold a public meeting in the Protestant Hall on Mon-
day evening next.
The Manchester papers announce that the Roman
Catholic priestn have quite obliterated Fenianism Irom
the cotton capital.
The Book of Common Prayer has been translated
I into more than 60 languages, and 1,000,000 copies of it
are printed every year.
The English Catholic journals make much of the
conversion of Mr. Santley, the celebrated English
baritone, from Unitarianism.
The Baptists of San Francisco claim apostolic
succession, and trace it to Montan us, who lived in the
middle of the seoond century.
During the present century nearly five millions
have been spent by the Roman Catholics on churches,
lil'oges, seminaries and hospitals in Ireland.
The Duke of Norfolk, the premier Roman
itholio peer, voted with the Tories against the Burials
ill, as did Lord Bury, another Roman Catholic.
Rev. James Paton delivered a most interesting
eture on “ The songs and song writers of Scotland
nee Borns" before a large audience at Petersham on
Londay night.
An English journal points out that Mrs. Bovey
itroduced Sunday schools in England one hundred
Bars before Boikos* time. To Baikos, however, is due
10 vigorous development of the system.
The Rov. Dennis Fouhoy, Roman Catholic priest,
od the Rov. Caleb Terrev, Wesleyan minister, were each
nod £lO at Brisbane for neglecting to register a
larriage within one month after its celebration, as
squired by the Act.
The Rev. J. C. Kirby, who is leaving to take
he pastorate of the Port Adelaide Congregational
Ihurch, and who is respected by all classes and sects,
ras entertained by his friends on Thursday evening
ist, in Pitt-street church.
The Scottish Guardian states that lately
wo ladies were set apart with imposition of hands by
he Bishop of London as deaconesses. The service was
leld in the chapel of the London Diocesan Deaconess
nstitntion. West bourne Pork.
A R. 0. priest at Rockhampton refused to
Mend the funeral of Thos. Laing, a young fellow who
vas drowned, because deceased belonged to an Odd-
allows* Lodge. The funeral service was, therefore,
sonfined to the ritual of the order.
A presumably pioiis individual ia moving at
»etorsham for the establishment of pew sittings at Ht.
Peter’s. The custom of free sittings has all along been
recognized, and the unauthorized attempt at introdnc-
ig a change has been met with a snubbing.
At Ballarat, a mob of larrikins throw mullock,
•oid metal, and dirty fat at the congregation leaving
she Synagogue. The Jewish Association prosecuted,
aut did not press the charge on the understanding that
the hoys’ parents should punish them. The offenders
were Bnod Is. and £3 Bs. 6d. costs each.
Some one supplied the Daily Tklboraph of
Tuesday with a par. intended to be complimentary to
Rev. Mr. Spurgeon, junior. He says: The style of
Mr. Spurgeon's speaking is very much of Ur that of his
distinguished father.” Let ns hope that some day,
when the young man grows np, it will not lie so very
much after.”
A “ C. E. Clergyman,” writing to the Chubch-
maw. draws attention to Bishop Barker’s statement
that Sir Henry Parkes desires to transplant the best
teachers in the C.E. Schools to the Public Schools, and
says that the Church of England willWe descended
to the last stage of degradation if it permits this to be
accomplished.
The first funeral of an adult in Auckland, N.Z.,
conducted according to the mortuary rites of the
Spiritualists, took place there recently. The whole
ceremony was divested of the sombre characteristics
which mark the orthodox funeral rites, and the coffin
was covered with royal purple and ornamented with
white silver-plated trimmings.
12,9-14 white men and 203 darkies were received
into the gaols of this colony during 1879. Of the former
4592 were of Australian birth, 4106 of Irish birth, 3136
English, and 954 Scotch. 6127 wore Roman Catholics,
1785 belonged to the Church of England, 1178 were Pres-
byterians, 396 were Wesleyans, and 81 Jews. Only i
Cfonrregationalists entered the gaols, and there was no
Congregationalism Baptist, or Jewish woman in prison.
Similar results arc shown in the returns of the police
gaols, which received 16,006 whites and 285 darkies.
The "Rev. Mr. Horsley, chaplain of the Clerken-
well Prison, writes to a London newspaper to state
•* that ont of 50 boys who passed through that prison,
whose ages varied from nine to sixteen, 48 had been
Sunday scholars, 42 had attended regularly, 20 were
still on the hooks, and no fewer than 29 hod received
prizes.” This strengthens the position of the Rev.
Stephen Gladstone, who demands a radical reform in the
present Sunday School system.
In six years, since the arrival of Archbishop
Vaughan, the Catholics of New South Wales have spent
and are spending £212,421 on schools and churches. It
was a similar liberality in the United States that im-
pressed Beecher, the great Bmtist pulpit orator.
Standing beside the gigantic marble cathedral erected
by the R C.’s of New York at a cost of nearly a quarter
of a million, it was then, he said, he felt there must be
1 something in that religion which carried from a distant
clime showed such vitality on foreign shores. Beecher’s
address stirred up his people, and his various projects
immediately received vigorous support.
A good story is told of Pope Loo. When bishop
in one of the Roman States he had a priest who was
I pitremly remiss in his duties. This clergyman, who
j should have been an Englishman, loved sport and spent
I a day with his gun whenever he had a chance. Sundays
I and holy days alike found him after the partridges.
I His flock complained: but Mens. Pecci oonld hardly
I credit the rumours, and he went down to the village the
I follow ng Sunday. His reverence was away in the field.
I Next day he was summoned to the episcopal palace.
I He came and was beginning to stammer out excuses
I whm the bishop ont him short, saying, “I merely
I wanted to ask a favour of yon—that if you want to go
I ont shooting on Sunday, you will give me notice in good
I time, so that I may celebrate yonr mass for you. You
I will stay to hrevkfast I hope." The cure never trans>
I grossed again.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Female extravagance.—a woman’s waist.
Her glove was found in his pocket, but abe said
she had no hand in it.
No lady ia bound to bow to a gentleman until
he loosens her pull-back.
In the matter of dress, the more yon approxi-
mate to uniformity of colour the better.
Why will pretty girls persist in hiding part of
their faces by the ugly, closely-drawn, semi-transparent
blindage ?
The prettiest girl in Townsville is the daughter
of a widow, and the neatest little woman is a widow.
Names shortly.
Tea .contains tannic acid, which combines with
milk, and forms leather. And now we know what makes
old maids so tongh.
Old gold is the fashionable color at Melbourne
International. Flowers, feathers, laoe and braid will
all be of that eolor.
During the passage of the “ Hero ” from
livttleton to Wellington. N.Z., a lady passenger, Mrs.
Morris, died from sea sickness.
According to Truth, the fashionable age in
London just now is from twenty-four to thirty. Sweet
seventeen is out of the running.
A very fashionable young lady Cooktown-wards
never says “Tea.” She thinks “Yowi,” the abori-
ginal equivalent, sounds better.
Three squatters from the Never Never country,
who have not seen'a white woman for five years, are now
in Charter* Towers giving the girls a treat.
Dr. Beg claims that smoking injures the eye-
sight. But this is not true. The boy with a bit of cane
n his mouth can see his father 10 blocks away.
A tableau in a San Francisco charity exhibition
represented the dead Blaine of Tennyson’s poem, a
pretty but naturally pallid posing for the corpse.
We have a parson (unmarried of course), who
says that the human woman will continue growing in
beauty and loveliness till the difference between her
and the angels is absolutely nil.
The Homeopathic Ekvikw says that a French
doctor recently cured an otherwise hopeless case of
tetanus in a lady by allowing a mouse, tied to a long
string, to run over his patient’s body.
The Christchurch (N.Z.), Young Ladies’ Anti-
Wild Oats Association has collapsed, after a brief
career of live weeks. Cause: The young ladies falling
in love with the abandoned young men.
Wife-beating is one of the cheapest luxuries in
England. A brutal fellow in Exeter, who severely
thrashed his wife with a bellows because she had not
got his breakfast ready, was recently fined ss.
The training master of the Education Depart-
ment, Sydney, has “ ukased " that lady teachers are not
in future to wear high-heeled boots or pullback dresses.
Three cautions, he also says, involve dismissal. .
Lovers should bo cautious. One was caught by
a policeman a short time ago opening a window at mid-
night, and was only saved by a young lady confessing
that a stern parent stood in the way, and that the
appointment was of her making.
In the bill of a French lady of quality, now
before the Paris courts, are three articles for garters,
as follows:—“ Gaiters flounced with point lace, 700
francs; garters with horses’ hoofs in diamonds, 7000
francs; garters cusco-dsucss, 2SI francs.”
Bismarck said, when the Crown Prince of Ger-
many married the daughter of Victoria, that he knew
the “ unhealthy blood of the English royal family would
spoil the magnificent Hohenzollern race.” Conse-
quence—the Crown Princess does not like Bismarck.
A pretty girl told bar bean that she was a mind-
reader. "You don’t say sol" he exclaimed. “Can
you read what’s in my mind?" ••Yes,” said she;
“ you have it in your mind to ask mo to bo your wife,
out you’re just a little scared at the idea.” The wed-
ding cards are out.
Climatic influence on female beauty is singularly
marked in New Zealand. In Auckland the pale, slender,
delicate type predominates, and the stamp of beauty
Sets more robust as we journey Southward, until in
itago the sonsie ruddy two-hundred pound lassie has it
all her own Way.
Some girls can work hard all day making a silk
embroidered motto where the words “ Love one
another ** stand out in all shades and colours, and then
take nearly the entire top off their little brother’s head
just because he wants to stay in the parlour while
Adolphus is making his regular call.
A writer in one of the Adelaide newspapers, in
speaking of the case of Noble, who the other day
recovered .€2O damages and costs, for breach of promise,
advances the very gallant theory that “by tacit right
a lady has permission to change her mind whenever sha
likes on the all-important question of matrimony.”
A mneh-marriod individual at Auckland, N.Z.,
named H. S. Shephcrdson, has been bound over to keep
the peace towards his third wife. Three marriage
certificates were produced in Court, shewing that ho
was in the habit of sampling wives every ten years.
Shephcrdson is lobe prosecuted for bigamy, after which,
he intends to join the Mormons.
I bend my knees in the sand.
My heart—she has gone before;
The print of her foot is before me, and
I measure it o’er and o’er.
Look, how the lines of strength
Cross it from side to side;
Just a short eighteen inches in length.
And eight and three-quarters wide.
The following appeared in a lata issue of the
Dunedin Star Matrimonial. A widow lady (with
one child) desires to meet with a gentleman with a
view to kuv rimony. Is twenty-nine years old, and
possessed of €l7OO, loft by her late husband, over
which she has solo control. Ia a native of Guernsey,
fairly educated, and prepossessing. Has lived for the
last seven years in the bush. Strictly confidential.
Enclose photos. Particulars, &c., also one pound as a
guarantee of good faith, which, with the photos, will be
returned to the unsuccessful. Address, “E. T.,” care
of Manager Private Inquiry Office, 17 Manse-street,
Dunedin. This offer would exactly suit meet
fellows—that is to say, if all reference to the **on»
pound ” were left out.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
"Stout-hearted Philanthropy.”
" The transformation of these extensive warehouse
premises into a modern hotel of flrst-olass character
has been effected by Mr. William H«rdv (contractor),
nnderthe supervision of Mr. Thomas Rowe (architect).
The furniture has been snpplied by Messrs. Farmer and
Co., and the decorations have been executed by Messrs.
Watson and Sous, who deserve a compliment for the
sncoess they have achieved 1 ) In altering and furnishing
about £l5OO have been expended. This is stout-hsarted
philanthropy (sic).’’— Sidney Mail, Oct. 4,1879.
When the grey of early morn
Softly glimmers in the air—
Long before the rose of dawn
Sheds aloft its ruby glare— '
Long before the city’s heart
Has commenced once more to beat—
Long before the earliest cart
Rattles through the silent street—
Languid, and with aching head.
Faltering feet and weary tread.
Eyes lack-lustre, soul forlorn,
Troubled heart and epint worn.
Coffee Palace slaves are there.
Toiling in the foetid air:
Slaves to that unblushing lie.
Stout-hearted philanthropy."
• • * •
Toiling, toiling, ever toiling,
’Midst the roasting and the boiling—
’Midst the plates' and cruets' clatter —
’Midst the feeders’ ceaseless chatter—
’Midst the •’ jokes’’ of royst’riug “ fellahs”—
’Midst the steam of damp umbrellas —
’Midst the roar of many orders,
Both from “regulars” and boarders —
’Midst th’ aroma of stale courses—
’Midst the “ clink' ’ of cups and saucers—
Work for thirteen hours a day
(H ilf-a*orown the daily pa ),
Work, with many a weary sigh.
Slaves to this “ philanthropy I ”
• • • *
Garbed in black, the palace slave
(Black, the emblem of the grave).
Gliding quickly here and there.
Beading out the bill of fare,
Footsore, weary—her face pale.
Tells itself a sorry tale.
Forced to smile when she is sad—
Smile sweetly on some little cad;
Coax him to give, the little snob,
•• Philanthropy ” an extra “ bob I *’
• • • •
But draw the curtain —put out the gas;
We’ve told the tale of the suff'ring lass.
The tale is sad, perchance, bat yon.
Dear reader, may rely it’* true.


Public Comps
Commercial bankin'
SYDNEY.
Established IS
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £500,000. Reserve
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Job
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , 1
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R
Solicitors .-
Messrs. Want, Johusoi
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head Office— George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; P. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office—39 Lombs
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., CJ
Esq.; P. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel (
Branches in New South Waxj
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Campbelltown, Cannon bar. Care
Coelah, Cooma, Copeland (North;
Cootamnndra, Dub bo, Dungog,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. (
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kian
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murrurundi, Muswellbro.ok, Nam
audera. Orange, Parkes, Parrams
Queanbtyan, Quirindi, Richmond
ton, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga Wag
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellingtc
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Wo
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bris
Maryborough and Rockham
Agencies in the Cc
Victoria: The Bank of Victori
Australasia, Colonial Bank <
Commercial Bank of Anstrsßi
South Australia : The Bank of
National Bank of Australasi
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diet
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London ; The London and Westu
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester auc
Ireland : The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of B
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de (
New York ; Messrs. Drexel, Morn
India, China and Singapore : Ti
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lor
Cetlon; The Chartered Mercam
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Go.
Honolulu ; Messrs. Bishop aud C
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security, i
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, a
led f bills payable at any of the a
elsewhere, at current rates ; collect
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investmen
ties in Great Britain or in the colo
to undertake the agency of Banks -
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURAN
VICTORIA (LIMP
Established a.d. 1
NEW SOUTH WALE!
9 Wynyard-atreet, S
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Cht
Ebenezer Vickery. Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es
This Society is established for Li
granting of Annuities and Endown
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the enti
Society at every distribution there
LOANS granted on Mortgage or
oombmed with Life Assurance.
TO LADIES.
JJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT GOOD, EELIABLE
TWO-BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6 P
Try PEAPES & SHAW'S
•
JJO YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T\o YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OE FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Makers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)° YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PAEASOLS?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
QO YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PEESENT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEI
JJO YOU WANT SHIRT
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty
Try I
T)0 YOU WANT FA
LINEN COLLARS ?
Try I
Tjo YOU WANT a Sfcyli
erBOWP-
Try P
J)0 YOU WANT a Reliable
Try P
JJO YOU WANT Good Sumr
Try P:
Public Com]
IJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOI
Incorporated by Act of
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, wit]
£1,000,000
Reserve Fund, £
Directors
Edward Lord,-Esq.,
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jei
William B. Walford, Esq. | Wi
Moses Moss,
General Man
Vincent Wanostroc
Head Office, S
City and Suburban
Haymarket | Redfer
London Office—lB King Wi
Branches throughout the C<
Wales and Queensland, and At
Colonies, Great Britain, Ameri
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL
BUSINESS
The mercantile ba
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Pond....
„ DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.Q.
Hon, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Phillip Qidley Kin
Jas. Scroggie, Eaq.
MANAGER,
E. A. A Wilt
SECRETARY
Hector Allen
Southern Branch, 537, G
LONDON BANK
The National Provincial Bar
London Office, 30, Great
Director—Edward Cha]
Agent—G. H. Alexan
This Bank transacts all usual I
Agency Business on the mostfavoi
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other produce shipped to England
Australian mutua]
SOCIETY,
ESTABLISHED
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STR
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LI
- AUSTRALIA
directoi
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.Q., 3
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Dejmty-C
Robert Saddington, Esq. | lg|
Robert J. King, Esq. S
_ CHIEF MEDICAL OB
Dr. W, F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P,
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | A
Extract from Post Magazine r
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinqu
Society; , , ; 4 lt is, as a w
plete statement ever issued by a
affords an incontestable proof that
success it tells is the result, not of
tical and theoretical ability, govei
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Londc
trays : —‘No British Company
with the Australian Mutual, which,
of its existence, has received in Intel
than it has been called upon to pay
ACCUMULATED FUND, THI
STERLING.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANT
Capital, £500,000. Unlimi
TTTI A Tv AnrvTFITS nn/>
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, S’
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Solk Agents foe Messes. Tangye Be
02
o
02
pt
o
«
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IBEIGATI
Engines and Boilers of all
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, I
IN STOCK.
p ■ WE
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GA
BLIND MANUFACTURER &
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREE
(Opposite Congregational Ch
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted i:
7M
8
N
$
mk


Easiness Asmouna
ADDOCK’S SELEC
3.81 GEORGE STE]
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to conta:
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLO<
which are received immediately on
and fast ocean stean
Arrangements have been made w
publishers for full supplies of eve
interest to be sent as soon as publisl
In addition to the above wi
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTEB
Subscribers may join at any dal
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One month, 6s. ; Three months, 12
255.; Twelve months,.£2 2s.
To Heads of Families,— Those s
a larger supply of books than one s<
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sel
taken from the Library at once for '
Books or Periodicals may in all
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.— Subscr
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors \
may even join for a Fortnight, and
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Specif
made for the benefit of Country Sul
taking a parcel of from Three to Ti
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MAD
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-
parcel rates. A card of country t(
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST o
BOOKS now in circulation:
• Pipistrello, by Ouida
Moths, by Ouida
Alan Dering, by Mrs. Fethersti
The Story of an Honest Man,
translated by Bertha Ness
A Modem Greek Heroine
Lady Laura, by Mary Elizabetl
Memoirs of Madame de Remust
Fair-haired Alda, by Florence I
Second Thoughts, by Ehoda Br
The Duke’s Children, by Antho
Joan Corisbrookc, by Emma Jni
Travel and Trout in the Antipoi
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by H
Mary Anerley, by E. D. Blackmi
The Duke of Albany’s Own Hig
Grant
Travels in New Zealand and Aus
ford
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twa
Poet and Peer, by Hamilton Ai(
Poor Zeph, by author of “ Gran
Random Recollections of an C
Belton
Roughing it in Van Dieman’s
Howe
Brazil, the Amazons and the C(
Smith
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesw
Holidays in Home Counties, by
Memoirs of Catherine and Crau
Curiosities of the Search Room
Renan’s Hibbert Lectures
Beauty’s Daughters, by the aut
A Cruel Secret, by Lola
Wooers and Winners, by Mrs. ]
Eros: Four Stories, by Sarah 1
field, and Miss Butt
Soldiers of the Victorian Age, 1
Life of the Prince Imperial <
Barlee
The Violin Player, by Bertha T
Troublesome Daughters, by L.
Glimpses through the Cannon I
Memoir of Rev. John Graham,|
Charles Graham
Caroline Von Linsingen and M
philus G. Arundel
Life and Letters of Horace Bus
HADDOCK’S SELECT
381 George Street 83
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO I
260 and 262 GEORGE-S
(over Peate and Haro
Now open to the Public. The higl
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Ci
Crayon Water Colours, am
will be produce
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fa*
Speciality.
Horses and Veb.ii
KEAREY BR 0
COACH AND BUGGY B'
290 PITT STREET, ST]
Near Park-street.
T H A R
** • WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Stei
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS. DRAYS, S
BUSINESS CARTS, LORE
Railway Contractors would find it to
inspect the large stock of seasone<
able for Dobbins and other Ea
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Strt
g GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WHJ
WORKS,
Habbis-stbeet, off Geob
and
Adjoining the Darling Hart
S. Q. would beg to draw the part
Export Merchants to the large qv
Spokes always on hand, which w<
saving in freight to purchasers ir
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock t
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express i
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is
Carts, and has supplied the Qovemm
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASS
Harris-street, neai
Tobacconists
The gen
VIRGINIAN TOBA
Comprising Every Desci
Manufactured by the renowned fir
Richmond. Virgin
To be had at the Wholesc
639 GEORGE S 3
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHS
CAUTION.
rHE unprecedented demand
~*011,010,. TAQ tobac
s inducing other manufacturers t
3f OU1 ‘ TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the R<
stamped with the words „
1 CONQUEROR or YANKE.
DIXSON & SOI
155 YORK STREET,
M
E S
, CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
ut Ruby, Bird’s Bye, Gold Lea
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
:
Pipes Mounted and B
Business Announc
O MES FOE THI
It is difficult to understand why
continue to pay rent, when for a em
amount now going to the landlord
years realise
THEIE OWN FREE;
for their own profit and that of
them.
The undersigned offers a cho
hundreds of well-situ
VALUABLE BUILDING AL
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suhui
■£l< CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMI
Giving Immediate Po
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., t
, Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLI
For those having no present ini
on undeniable opportunity of imi
denced by the fact of the astound;
main during the past six years, a:
that the present chance can ever rec
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORK!
There are no law costs, no com
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDII
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton 1
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Bal
Hotel.
ICTORIA YARNISE
ALEX. BORTHW:
OIL AND COLOR MER
Importer of Paperha
Oils, Colors, Van
White Lead, Glass, B
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and G
Room and Picture-Frame 1
281 (Late 273), GEOBGE-STRE
P.
R. LAI
Wholesale and Ret
PRODUCE MERC
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS I
* SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 George-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Baxley Feed, and
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
PRINCE OF WALES !
778 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
GO U N D
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED T
is very much stronger than the sau
The reason is very simple. The gre
to bear on the leaf crashes the sn
tain the essential strength and rea
and which is to a great extent lo
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compr
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by us
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMP!
As much strength is drawn out
minutes as cgn be drawn out of
n Aira Lrtnro TVIO foil
Business Announ!
International p xhi;
SWALLOW and ARIELL wei
j 7pg for their celebrated Biscui
W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 34
north King-st.
tNTERNAXIONAL EXHIBIT
PENCRAFT and Ce. were award*
rZ tiieir superior Oatmeal and *
gie Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-
<?W ALLOW AND ARIELL’S
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRU
.* tins 2. ", 14, and 231bseach, and
Ind cwt. each. Sole agent, V
£nd 345, Kont-street.
X M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Poi
and assorted Jams Special agei
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors no;
XIALING-’S MUSIC Y
1
mzm
(nap
ERARD’S PARIS PIA
hare gained tli
TWO FIRST PI
in
THE FRENCH (
Agent : W. H. PA
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATI
Non-competiti 1
BUT UNSURPAI
Agent: W. H. PA
W. BELL and CO.’S CANA
have gained th
FIRST and SPEOIAI
OYER ALL OTE
Sole Agent: V/. H. '
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAN
have
GAINED ANOTHEI
for the
FOURTH TO
at
THE INTERNATIONAL 1
W. H. PALII
352 GEORGE-ST
opposite
WTNYARD-STREET,


Business A nnorrn
O NCE USED ALI
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” o;
out which none is genuine. Be
ALW,
c\jStO
o^*
TRADE MA
The GRAND GOLD MB
HIGHEST MEDAL, ]
Highest award, s
LATHEES FREELY, SOF
AJ»» SHOULD At WAT 8
For Washing Clothes, Linen,
For Scouring Floors, Greasy
For Washing Glasses, Plates,
For Cleaning Paint, Marble V
And for every purpose of wash
Sold retail in Jib packets by al
storekeepers throughout Australii
T. VIVIAN EAI
1« CHARLOTTE
Sydney, N.S.V
E. KEEP A (X
37 ELIZABETH
Melbourne, Viet
B. D. NKIL3O
BRISBANE, QUEEN
g T O C K-T AEING
AND
Ms. W. B. CAM
Having retired in onr favor, we h
informing our friends and the pub
BUS I N E
OS THH
EOYAL FUENISHINt
will henceforth bo carried on by
TITLE of
CAMPBELL BE
and we trust, through our united
continuance of the support so liber
FATHER.
ALFRED BRANCE
CHARLES JACKS(
WILLIAM WEBB
HENRY CAMPBEI
THE RESULT of STOCK-TAK
marking and Reduction of Goods t
render the present BARGAIN I
quate. It is, therefore, onr intent
THE SUBTERRANEAN BA
CAMPBELL BRO
BOV A T VTTPVTQUTV
Business Annou:
JgOOTS! BOOTS!
MAKE YOUR PU]
AT
H. HILDE
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE S
BRICKFIELD I
ALL NEW GOODS, J 1
AND TO BE S(
AT THB
LOWEST POSSIEU
NOTE THE ADDRESS
H. HILL
670 GEOE
MPROVED HOM
LOCK STICI
SEWING MA (
To prevent fraud and deceptic
the following words on the steel s
they ship their sole agents in Aas
All Genuine Mju
stamped
M. MOBS and
Sole Agents
Sydney, N. S.
Look for those words before n
or a Worthless Imitation may 1
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that root
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHI
has the largest sale of any Mac hit
a proof of its durability, ia
GUAEANTEED FOE F!
Erdttced Prich I
No, I. —F or Hand Use, com pi
No. 2,— For Treadle Use, wit!
No, S.—Ditto, with cover an
plete, £7,
Sole Agents for Australia ai
M. MOSS & C
WTSTABD'IANH,
JpIRST - PRIZE SEWIN
At the Sydney International E
1880, after a contest extending ore
severest tests yet applied to So wit
trolia, the Judges hare endorsed
THE YEEDICT OP TH
and awarded
THE ONLY FIEST
for
SEWING mach;
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL F]
on every poini
BEAD THE AW.
" The New Davis Sowing Macbi
departure from the ordinary style
possessing all the advantages of i
machines, and in addition an inert
with the greatest simplicity of coi
tion in number of working puts, v
to the tirst place in awards."
Volumes could express no more
by SHEER MERIT in competiti
WOELD, the opportunity being ft
I
Auction Sr
N
E W SOUTH
TO CAPITALISTS, QEAZIERf
and othen
The most Luxuriant and ex
Pastoral and Agrii
Northern Est
comprising
"DAETBROOK,” near At
13,955 acres, in 11’
" ST, HILLIEES” at MUS'W
14,126 acres, in ti
“GUNDIBEI" near Ml
27,140 acres, in sev
These magnificent Freehold Pi
submitted to public competiti
pursuant to a Decree of the S
South Wales, in its Equitable Jr.
cause of Hall and another v. Hall
approve of the Master in Equity
EICHAEDSQN and 1
at their Booms Pitt-stre
Monday, 4th October next, a(
following ord<
DAETBROOK ESTATE, Com
LOT 1.-730 ACRES, near Lc
Yarraman, known as Pike
and two other small select!
LOT 2.—1,981 ACRES, 4 rood,:
the “ Sheep Station," in the
and permanently watered
Guangua Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between
the Parish of Halscot, a
adjoining Lands belongin' l
Esq., and S. WRIGHT Esq
LOT 4 — CIO ACRES, near Lot i
Stratheam, adjoining tl
STEPHENS Eso.
LOT 5.-5,081 ACRES 1 rood 23
on the Railway-line betwoc
Scone, in the Parish of Stra
pastoral property and high!
Inoging to D. MTntyrc, Esq
Family Residences, with all n
The greater portion is clei
and subdivided into Paddoc!
ST,
HILLIEES E
a<Hoining Muswelll
COUNTY of DUE
LOT 1.—3.799 ACRES, being
Magnificent tract of highly
cultural land extending fr<
Scone, and including Sparl
adjoining the Permanent a
mons. On this is a commodio
fitted with every conveniei
necessary out-buildings. A 1
hntsotc. This estate is wn
River, Mnswellbrook, St. Hil
tributaries, and the Railway
Property.
LOT 2.-5327 ACRES, Parish®
Balmoral, close to Lot One a
Town Common.
GUNDIBEI ESTj
COUNTY of BEISI
LOT 1.-7297 ACRES, the Sot
Estate, in the Parish of ]
Sftll’s Crock
LOT 2.—9143 ACRES, adjoining
of Hall and Merriwa. On t
stead, comprising Cottag<
Quarters, Stock Yards, and
LOT 3.—1694 ACRES, adjoinin
ded on the West by Hall’s Ci
LOT 4.—6918 ACRES, next to L
Webimble, on Hall’s Creek.
LOT 5.—1120 ACRES, situated ;
of the Estate, and having a c
to Hall’s Creek.
LOT 6.-928 ACRES, West of f
situated in the Parish of Cot
LOT 7.-40 ACRES, on Reedy C
dibri Proper.
«ar It is not the intention of the
single comment on the value and
above Freehold, Pastoral and Agri
They prefer merely to furnish t
and to leave such well-known and \
stand on their own merits with caj
only say that as the several lots
*>onafide sale the attention of Capi
directed to unquestionably the I
investing in this Interest, whicl
them throughout the whole of the
the colony of New South Wales.
PLANS of the Several Lots nr
LIT HOGRAPHS obtainableat the
SON and WRENCH, Pitt-street,
the Offices of E. G. FITZGEEA
Musweil brook.
TEEMS LIBERAL: One-quart
the hammer, and the residue in i
and 3 years from day of sale; int
annum.
FUN AND FANCY.
A nap sack —a night gown.
The fastest oh record —Dr. Tanner.
A apankaphone is the latest invention.
The best “ Anti-Fat ’’—Elbow grease.
Parramatta is renowned for fruit Pyes.
A pure Tale of fio#on —A native bear’s.
A two-foot rule—Don’t wear tight shoes.
Carriage and pair—A perambulator with twins.
‘Graves of a household,” —a furniture auction
mart.
n 08 Pi® e the lowly. The under jaw does
all the work.
“My sole is saved,” as the boot said to the as-
phalte pavement.
“ This is in earnest,'’ said the kan-
garoo to the dog.
, Intricate water,” as Hanlan will think when
he gets Tnokett s wash.
In Brisbane an undertaker’s establishment and a
chemist s shop adjoin one another.
A great feature of Double Bay is its reserve.
The same cannot be said of its larrikins.
„ ® r - Tanner’s fast isn’t an original idea. Old
Father Noah lived for 40 days on water.
One year ago a dog was born without a tail, and
ne will now sit down right beside an old kettle.
If Dr. Tanner can go without eating for 40
days, he will probably start a country newspaper.
8 ol a well-known Melbourne litterateur
uiat ne lives by the pen — of a great many authors.
They say a sporting man has named his horse
Ur. Tanner because he wants to make him “ fast.”
~ Bail ° r boy learning a hymn, asked if
liord above us ought not to be Lord A. Loftus.
It is said that whenever Henry Ward Beecher
Jughly praises a married woman her husband buys a
gun. J
If you have a pretty daughter you will have a
oram full of anxiety and a house full of scented note
. paper.
Can it be fairly said that in this age of short
sleeves and low dresses one woman tries to “ outstrip'*
the other ?
Ilanlan’s scull is 7in. broad, Triokett’s 6Jin.
From this we may assume Hanlan goes In more for
head work.
A man in the suburbs whose name is Thorn lives
in what he calls “ Bose Cottage." Every rose, they say.
haaathorn.
It is said the bottle kills 50 persons where the
sun kills one. This is because the bottle has a chance
day and night.
Weakly wit to young lady companion—“ Were
you at St. Vitus’ dance?" Prompt reply—No. He
didn’t w-tito-iw.
u Tk®, Chinese always paint eyes on their junks,
For, say they, ** sposee no got eye, how can see
which way wolkeo ?"
A young man of Bandwick suggests that a suit-
able opening for many choirs should be, ” O Lord have
mercy on ns miserable singers."
He wrote and told her that he was dying to get
a picture of the one he loved most. Beplied she, “ you’d
better sit for your own portrait."
Since the “ gardener and his wife ” picnicked in
Bden, fallen humanity has retained its appetite for
truifc. u Five corners ” are now ripe.
Friend! How oometh it to pass that the savage
dog ever snappeth at that part of a man’s leg where-
upon he may take the largest mouthful ?
The captain of the ship which passed on this
side of the iceberg did not hail the vessel on the other
aide because there was a coolness between theta.
A Turk who recently eloped with an English-
woman says she is a harem-scarom, and that all efforts
to make her adopt Turkish dress are without avail.
A mean man offered half a crown to the fellow
who hod fished him out of the bay. The rosener handed
bun back 2s 3d, remarking that the job wasn’t worth
more.
Devil— behead him and he is evil ; behead him
and he is yil (vile); again—and he’s (ill) il; again—and
he s 1 (hed)—he’s nothing bnt a
every way you take him. Not original, bnt good.
A Zulu who obtained a situation as barmaid by
purporting to be a princess, has stolen fourteen pounds
and a gold watch. It is surprising bow soon these
savages become civilized.
Ketten and the big dog have quarrelled. The
pianist would persist in playing before the animal—who
resented it. It was while Ketten performed “ Home
sweet home ” with the left hand.
A married woman recently eloped with her lover
Tho train ran off the rails. But the hand of Providence
is in every human event. There were but two persons
tolled—the engineer and tho fireman.
Sunday-school teacher: “What is tho worst
thing about riches ?’’ New boy in the bad class under
the gallery, “Their scarcity. S.S. teacher: "Now
please rise and sing • Don't be weary, children.' ”
“ Looking up into the heavens on a still, clear
night,” says Proctor, “ we are struck with the sense of
quiet and harmony." This is on 'indication then, that
the cat ho s been previously struck with the sense of a
brick.
In Ashantee, tho man who feels inclined to got
drunk has to put on his forehead before imbibing, a
danger signal consisting of dashes of red paint. In
Sydney the “danger colour” is also red, but it’s put
m after the event,—and not on the forehead, bnt ou the
nose.
Down by the river side they mot.
Sweet Borneo and Juliet.
Her hand in his he placed and said,
“ Sweet Juliet. 1 would thee wed.”
“Indeed” she queried. “Ah! let’s go-
Get in this boat. Oh! row me, oh I” ’
, A. now opera, “On the Wedding Day: by
Lanfre. Tho bride’s songs—“ Just before the battle,
mother and “After me." Tho bridegroom’s sings.
My brightest days are past ” and “ The dream of
aomc. The father’s song “ Poor little Sne." The
mother s song, “ Come live with me." The first brides-
maid sings “ Awfully jolly ” and the bridesmaids “En-
core! Encore.” The parson’s song, " Tho same old
game. Chorus by his friends, “ Bock the cradle John."
sister sings, “ What a funny thing it is." Her aunt
chants, “ Little Fraud.” Tho best man sings “ Tho
custom of the country " The song of tho friend of the
family,' 111 tell her.’ Chorus by the populace •* Mar-
vied at last.”
Wrecked.
Sho twined her white arms round his neck,
one looked into his face 5
And all the coming hours of time
Went streaming by apace.
Oh lips! how many a heart to you
-31 list trace its wildest griefs;
How many a life hath all been lost
Upon those coral reefs.
‘‘ter soul went with her breath,.
Oh, give me one more kiss,
Pori hare wrecked my God on thee.
Why brought thou mo to this ?”
** Oh, love me, love me, love me, dear
Oh love me more and more;
Por icy waves dash on my feet
Upon an icy shore."
So pure, yet so fallen, sweet,
Mcthinks in thee doth dwell,
Doubled within thy two-cellod heert
All Heaven and nil HelL


BRIEF MENTION.
A Platitudinarian— Oily Gammon.
C.M.G. means “ chewer of much grub.”
Tram rails are hard lines for omnibus companies.
The North Queensland motto —“ Shout or go.”
Ah Chow is opening a butcher’s shop at the
Coen. Ah Why!
Purification by fire” is Lumley Hill’s (Bris-
bane) Parliamentary definition of being burned in
Lewis Scott has bought a horse, and he calls it
“ Sugar-stick,” because the more you lick it the faster
t goes.
A dwelling in a certain Paddington Street is
named “ Theale House.” Facetious people mispro-
nounce.
In Townsville an Italian is the big gun. In
flooktown it is a Chinaman, and in Charters Towers
Teddy O’Kane, an Irishman who has run wild, holds
sway. .
On Garrett’s door in George-street is posted a
notice in the following terms: —“ Mr. Garrett will be
n office on Tuesday next.” Whom is Sir Henry going to
shunt ?
Mr. Swellington (to fellow passenger) -. “ Sad
thing, Mr. Tapes, the loss of the Sorata." Mr. Tapes:
“Oh! very sad, sir; for the drapers.” Queensland
Punch.
At a recent convivial meeting on the Barcoo the
local doctor sang “My Grandfather’s Clock,” with
chorus by the P.M., the banker, and a Blackall sub-
inspector.
“ Parkes is a big man now,” remarked some one
to the editor of the Cumberland Crimes. “Yes," re-
plied that bearded gentleman, "I have always sup-
ported him 1”
“ The beautiful music, giving one the idea of
gliding on smooth waters instead of hardwood boards,"
lays the Brisbane Courier’s correspondent of the
Eoma Ball. It took place in the Roma railway goods
shed.
Morehead of Brisbane, chaffs all round —even
his own followers. He said the other night that Fool-
den plantation was a very suitable name for Amhurst’s
Hack ay estate.
A squatter’s wife near Taree says that if the
ladies in that distriet had votes Mr. R. B. Smith would
he unanimously and eternally elected member. He s
so polite, yon know. But then politeness “ don t mean
anything.”
A Broadsound (Queensland) young lady at-
tended a kangaroo hunt lately on a Thursday. Danced
all that night. Was married on Friday afternoon.
Taken ill at 11 a.m. on Saturday, and died at noon. The
last straw, &c.
A couple of months ago there were two cases of
measles in a house in Surry Hills. A “ party” was given
in that domicile. There are now about 200 cases up
there, but they are outside that house. What is more
serious, the undertakers have already provided two
cases.
Says the Cooktown Courier ; —‘‘The pro-
prietors of the Evening News have determined not to
pay the fine, and probably if the judges proceed to ex-
tremities they will |be burnt in effigy in front of the
Herald office.” That’s doubtless how it would be up
North.
The W itness says the Standard to the truth cannot
aspiie; . , .
The Standard says the Witness is a thundering
big ~ .
Now, say, who shall decide when these “ great jour-
A happy^thongM^— let them appoint Windeyer “re-
feree.”
Titles are in future to be made taxable luxuries !
The Italian Parliament has passed a law to tax titles
and decorations on a scale, including those of Prince,
Duke, Marquis, Count, Baron, etc. How beneficial it
would be to our State fund to have a similar law
enacted for the colonies. We shall eagerly look for
such a proposal being introduced by Mr. C. M. G.
on the re-assembling of the New South Wales Parlia-
The Premier is intent on a tax on newspapers.
Electors, beware.
There is in Woolloomooloo a parson whose name
in (draper’s) brief would be Sox.
The man who got out of the tramcar when in
motion is still going— to be fined for it.
It is not a fact that the tram “ carries all before
it.” Generally the cars come up behind.
Some C. of E. clergymen, on Monday week last,
proposed to establish a Trades Union to protect their
interests.
Some bunglers put the cart before the horse,
but the enterprising entrepreneur puts the carte before
the stalls.
It would be unjust to stigmalise the agitation of
Eastern Suburbanites for tram extension as a low-
oemmotion.
Omnibus conductors imperil their lives by walk-
ing along the roof of the coach, because “ none but the
brave deserve the fare.”
An eager small boy recently crawled under the
“Gospel Tent" of the Sydney Y. M. C. A. But he
nearly blasphemed his head, off when he found he wa sn t
inside a circus.
A correspondent points out that at the time
Miss Robinson’s jewellery was stolen from Government
House, Melbourne, the Payment of Members Bill had
not been passed.
The following pleasantry in regard to John’s
C.M.G. comes from Brewarrina: —“ This is not Handel s
Harmonious Blacksmith, but the inharmonious black-
smith’s handle.”
The Bank of N.S.W. has such a plethora of
gold in its vaults that the ceiling of the new banking
room is being utilised to receive a surplus portion ot
the precious metal.
How long is it sine© a ma»n who can read a little,
write less, and count not at all, was gazetted as a
returning officer through the influence of an insuffer-
able ministerial toady ?
Keith, of the Wide Bat News (Queensland),
has for the last five years been threatening to sell his
paper. He found a man at his own terms at last, and
now would give him £5OO not to complete the pur-
chase.
The Pastoral Times bewails the fact that the
Deniliquin youth go kangarooing on Sunday. It pre-
scribes as a cure for this the formation of a ‘ Mutual
Improvement Society.”
At Cairns (Q.), the other day, a humorous man
gave to a blackfellow a cigar stuffed with gunpowder,
which exploded and blew off the greater part of the
aboriginal’s nose and eyebrows. The funny one is now
laid up—in gaol.
A friend remarked that Wazir Beg of all men
ought to be least annoyed at Rabbi Davis proving that
there is no such person as the Devil, as, should the
Rabbi be in error, Wazir is sure to enjoy the triumph of
finding him out.
A whole Circuit Court was recently held in Mary-
borough (Q.), to try a man for prigging 6s. Pope Cooper
was Crown Prosecutor, and he felt it much beneath
beneath his dignity to go at such a small offence. So
did the Judge; and between them they let the pri-
soner go.
The Penny Bennett saith that “the New-
castle people are burning with indignation at the
supineness of the functionaries in charge of the life-
boat.” This suggests a queer paradox The reason
they are burning with indignation is that they are so
much put out.
The “gentle Shepherd, with his crook,”
From Wellington has “ took his hook;”
He’s “ took his hook,” for they ain’t shook
On him now in that rustic nook.
So Barton has the running took,
And John and Crook have “ took their hook.’
The Protestant Standard says that “Bishop
Quinn, of Brisbane, has often boasted that he would
change the name of Queensland to that of Quinnsland,
as expressive of his contempt for loyalty to her Majesty
Queen Victoria, but of loyalty to his lord God th< Pope.
We have never heard this before, but it is certain that
Bishop Quinn was neatly and deservedly snubbed the
other day, by his Excellency Mr. Bell, the Acting-
Governor, for having proposed the health of the
Governor before that of her Majesty.
Victims to the measles (now very prevalent)
cannot be said to have led “ spotless ” lives.
There was a phenomenon in Grafton a few days
since—a well-known person with a new suit.
Some of the barristers in Brisbane have never
yet held a brief. They may have seen one—once.
Custom House officers in Brisbane have caught
it of late. Three dismissed for too much gauging.
Two men quarrelled on Gympie. One refused
to fight until he was called a “ Macllwraithian Syndica-
dian.” Then he stripped.
It’s a remarkable fact that one of the trustees
of a certain cemetery near Melbourne runs a bone-mill.
But it is true nevertheless.
Sydney is to be christened “ Picnicton.” So
says one who watched the grand Eight-minute Demon-
stration Procession last Monday.
When Lord Augustus goes, says “the Flaneur”
in the Freeman’s Journal, a monster cock-fight will
probably be got up in his honour.
A correspondent of one of the daily papers
wants to know why the guards of “ sleeping” cars
allow rowdy bookmakers to play cards therein and keep
people awake all night ?
George Collins Levey,says Melbourne Punch,
appears to have a great contempt for the Press. He
thinks them low. He ought to know. He has been a
Pressman in the Aoe office.
The problem of how to run a combination paper
is being tried in Brisbane (Q). Government men own it,
a Liberal edits it, and the Government whip corrects the
proofs. Its politics are mixed.
Festively the last joke about John’s title: —
When John Davies retires to rest, a certain article of
nocturnal wear reminds him that some day C.M.G. may
be transformed into—night-hood.
Putting his foot in it. A fact. Landlady to
Milk Boy: “ Ton must put condensed milk into your
cans—it tastes quite sweet.” Boylndeed, no, ma’am
—nothing goes into it but water.”
Says the Port Darwin newspaper of the local
Chinamen :—“ When they die they will not bury themselves,
but allow their opium-impregnated bodies to be picked
up and interred at the expense of a beneficent Govern-
ment.” An Irishman was in this.
This is how a writer in the Queensland Times
commences an article on the mail contract question :
“There is a pervading sulphurous vapour in the air
betokening a volcanic outburst.”
The Friday Frank remarks anent L’Estrange’s
ballooning that “ his last ascent in Sydney was emi-
nently successful.” Can the spirit of toupon
the journal in question, we wonder. Poor L Estrange !
—his “ last ascent.
At Rockhampton, the other day, it is said, one
of the (temporary) surgeons examined a patient, felt
his pulse, and pronounced his complaint colonial fevers
“Colonial fever be glorified,” said the patient, I
broke my leg last week.”
Ee the contempt of court case. The S. M.
Herald differs from the Argus, and says it (Hunter-
street) doesn’t want any more liberty. Some sarcastic
people say that Hunter-street cannot reasonably be
expected to require more of that which it has already
got hut never uses.
Things are made so comfortable in the debtors’
side of Darlinghurst gaol that debtors have come to look
upon it as an hotel. “Let me have my bill, Mr.
Burke ” said a prisoner to the chief warder when about
to “ aute up” for his discharge. There was no charge
for “attendance.”
Fact. A patient in the Cooktown Hospital,
suffering from fever, had almost succeeded in baffling
the skill of Dr. Korteum, the local medico. The
doctor's rarely-failing prescription for fever having
proved ineffective, he tried a new remedy. He sent
his patient a few copies of The Bulletin. Quite well
now.
What hath become of all the cackle
Anent John Dowie’s tabernacle ?
Where, or when, to whom, or how
Have they “ put up’’ the “twenty thou, r’
Who are the builders that will tackle
John’s gigantic tabernacle ?
If he’s truly got the tin, it
Seems strange that he don’t begin it.
By Jupiter! won’t Dowie cackle
When once he’s in that tabernacle!
When the “Tabernacle” has discharged its
congregation on Saturday morning we see sin-a-gog!
“Le Roi du monde” overcomes his subjects in
Elizabeth Bay on Sunday morning, with a cow’s horn.
Alas for his principles! J. D. now confesses
that he has been in a state of elevation for some time.
If the Coffee Palace waitresses be not allowed
a little more relaxation they will soon be Hughes’d up.
Thompson says his is the greatest show in
Sydney. Surely he must have forgotten that a certain
leader in politics still abides among us.
They don’t stand on ceremony at Charters
Towers. If a man won’t “ exteriorate” the boss sends
two Kanakas to accelerate his departure.
The artist who designed the Bandmann litho.
that now graces the city posting stations meant to stop
at neck or nothing. He stopped at the last.
Although Fisher, the candidate for Camden, is
not a lineal descendant of “Fisher’s ghost,” some
people think he hasn’t the ghost of a chance.
It is a fact that, had the advice of the surveyors
of the N.S.W. Underwriters’ Association been acted
upon, the ill-fated Susanna Godeffroy would not have
left this port in her dilapidated condition
The Tell-a-cram must surely be sweet on some
omnibus company, or it couldn’t so persistently abuse
the tramway, or everlastingly ignore the engineers’
errors and fix them on the superintendent.
The Inverell Heraed remarks that a Mr.
R. Xj. Murray stepped twice on a 28-inch snake without
being harmed. The “ Zig-Zag Man” says says (pri-
vately) that he adder remarkable escape."
The Mackat Free Press, commecinng on
evidence, says : “ How people can calmly perjure them-
selves for nothing betrays a sad want of stability of
mind and character.” The italics are ours.
The champion nuisance of Unian-street, North
Shore, is a cornet-player, who will be a good musician if
he live. However, it’s quite unlikely that the neigh-
bors will let him live. Some one must die shortly.
In an interchange of confidences between Mrs.
He Lacy Evans and the “ Maori Queen," the former
lady stated that “ she could never love again.” This
will be a sad blow to the gilded youth of the me-
tropolis.
The statues in the Art Gallery are not bald,
yet a paternal Council provides them with fly paper
this spring. If the church people follow the same line
during the next few months the naked headed men will
curse less.
The Markets. —Lords have gone off. Dukes
advancing. Knights lively. C.B.’s steady. Esquires
improving. C.M.G.’s going down. Gentlemen scarce.
J.P.’s no better. Misters rising. Captains dearer.
Majors (Vol.) dull. Bulletin active.
In the Native Industry Procession several of
the members were much admired. One gentleman,
who was in close proximity to a pink and white banner,
expressed a wish at 11 a.m. to be “ put in his little
bed.” However, he was a very brilliant exception.
An advertisement appeared in last Thursday’s
Herald to this effect“ The gentleman who wrapped
himself np in my ulster please return the same to
Railway Department.” Perhaps the reason of his
being wrapped up in it accounts for the gentleman
having forgotten to return it.
The detective force has much improved both in
efficiency and morals since several of their number
have been compelled by Mr. Fosbery to attend Mr.
Bright’s lectures. Their reports are interesting, con-
taining a little truth and a great deal of fiction. They
don’t like paying the shilling.
This is a solemn fact. He was a young clergy-
man six weeks married. They were staying in the
Blue Mountains, and got the measles. She telegraphed
to the doctor —“Come soon as can, spots all over the
body.” The cruel telegraph clerk mis-wroteit “ Spots
all over the baby I” That’s all.
A little while ago some one sent a bogus notice
of a birth to the Cairns Chronicle, and its appearance
gave more pleasure to the father of the joke, a Hodg-
kinson man, than to the alleged father of the alleged
baby. The Calms editor in his last despairingly ex-
claims :—“ What is an unfortunate editor to do P If he
inserts a birth advertisement, and it is a hoax, the pu-
tative father is on him like a ‘thousand of bricks,
while if he, warned by such frauds as we apologise for,
refuse to insert it, and it happens to be true, it is more.
"MAN THE LIFE-BOAT!”


than probable that a furious attack from the proud
parent, demanding the editor’s reason for doubting big
capability to become a father, will be the sad result.
We therefore beg to notify that no notice of birth will
be published unless the said notice is handed to us by
a person who will make an affidavit that he is the
father. No notice of marriage will appear unless
handed to the editor by the bride, accompanied with
sufficient wedding-cake to satisfy the demands of our
staff.” This is all very well, but not long since a newly-
married miner advertised in terms something like
these:—“At Blank, on Blank, Thomas Blank, bullock,
driver, to Mary Blank. No cards, no cake, no
nothing.” What would the Caims editor do in such a
ease?
A free feed, and John away !!!!!!!!!!!
“Who spreads lies?” asks the Cobab and
Louth He halo. A resident says the editor ought to
know.
The Eev. Peter Campbell has returned to Syd-
ney. He says Temora is very 'ot. |We wonder where
is Westwood? If he were not living we could easily
tell where he was.
A story showing “how Ketten snubbed a snob”
is going the rounds of the papers just now. The yarn
isn't original. It bears too close a resemblance to the
anecdote concerning the old gentleman who reproved
Sin.
Said Mary Morton to Janet Dunbar—
“ Could I come near your beauty with my nails,
I'd set my ten commandments on your face."
Fined 10s. and £1 Is. professional costs. And yet when
the Duchess of Gloster said it in Henry the Sixth’s
time, she got off scot free. Surely “the world is growing
moral, my masters.”
The other day, writes “Ananias,” one ot our
local tanners, who is noted for his love of the “al-
mighty dollar,” was sitting on the box-seat of a 'bus.
The driver was laying the whip on the cattle pretty
freely, when the tanner said, “ You might be a little
more gentle on your horseflesh.” “A deal you care
for their flesh,” replied the driver, “ it is their hides
you are thinking about.”
Griffith, the leader of the Queensland Opposition,
got angry because the Colonial Secretary would not
speak (for or against an amendment on the Education
Bill which he had proposed. Griffith suggested that at
the least he could have said how he would order his
supporters to vote. Not necessary. Palmer’s sup-
porters always vote for Palmer—no matter what they
may have said previously!
Says Queensland Punch, “ How is it that,
for abuse of a really vile and brutal character, one must
go to the religious newspapers ? . . . The Acsxra-
xian, jealous apparently of the reputation of the
Evangelical Standard, has determined to assert its
pre-eminence as a reviler, and has been successful
beyond all expectation.” Mr. Gresley Lukin will pro-
T>ably give the Australian a lesson.
The Age whines plaintively because
our Government has so arranged railway
freights as to divert the wool trade from
Melbourne to Sydney. David wants to
know whether this “ is doing to others as
they would wish,” &c. No, David, it isn’t.
This, David, is a homeopathic dose of your
own mixture—'Protection.
The Crown Solicitors of Queensland
have had to shift their offices. They used
to occupy a Government building, but as it
was going to be pulled down they had to
dear. They now dwell next door to Ben,
Harris, the pawnbroker, and it is very sin-
cerely hoped that Ben’s hankering after
60 per cent, won’t prove contagions.
The cartoon in the current issue of
Melbourne Punch represents Berry tor-
turing a suspended cat supposed to repre-
sent the Civil Service. However, there are
a good many people who, while fully believ-
ing that Berry has treated the Government
empoly<ss shamefully, are also of opinion
that Punch may go too far in the agony
line.
Frank Warden, prior to going to Vic-
toria with a view oi converting some of the
dismissed Civil servants, preached in the
Domain to a concourse of some forty peo-
ple; he prayed and he sang, and finally,
with tears in his eyes and his hands in his
trousers pockets, gave a little valedictory
speech ending this way—“ Sydney, to thee
I say farewell, p’raps for ever.”
A couple of Gundagai J.P.’s have
quarrelled with the local P.M. Now, when-
ever a country J.P. quarrels with the
stipendiary the latter is of course wrong.
One of the J.P.’s has written to the
paper a letter, in which he modestly calls
himself “a gentleman of refinement and
culture.” However, it’s a sad fact that the
P.M. this time “ holds the big end of the
stick.”
Arthur Sketchley relates that the
sunshine skies, and stenches of Adelaide
made him believe he was in Italy; that
being thus impressed he accosted the first
dark-bearded organ-grinder he saw with a
sentence of choice Italian ore rotunda; and
that his sweet delusion was ruthlessly des-
troyed when the dark-bearded organist
promptly retorted, “Hold your, something,
colonial jaw!”
The Western Champion’s last mul-
tigraph is entitled “ Freezing on to him,”
and represents the “meeting” between a
country grazier and a city man, who con-
verse on the meat question. Country
Grazier: “ But I don’t see you city men
putting any capital into the companies.”
Business Man: “Of course not. You find
the cash and the cattle, and we’ll find
the brains."
The Daily Telegraph’s correspondent re-
cently asserted that many of the Lithgow women were
“deplorable looking, depressed in aspect, vacant in
manner, and for the most part clothed in rags, or
mended colourless garments—smoke-dried, care-worn,
and haggard.” Since this appeared the fair—or smoke-
dried —ones have livened up considerably. They want
to “ depress” the Telegraph man in the creek.
De mortuis, &c., notwithstanding, wo can’t help
it. The Shoalhaven News of 2nd October gravely
says:—“ With regret we hear of the death of an elderly
daughter of Mr. , who died at the residence of
her father a few days since. The deceased was, we
believe, a promising woman,” &c. Breach of promise,
we suppose. We wonder how many pumpkins or
gooseberries were exchanged for this, the neatest and
most left-handed obituary we’ve read for a long time.
That child of fortune, the Newcastle De-
SPATCH/warbles musically thus : —“To-day we complete
the first half-year of our e.vistancc. It would be worse
than ingratitude if we did not thank our constituents.
We have been more successful than we deserve. We
have had to pass through adverse times. . . . It
would have been disgraceful to have lam down under it
like a supple dog, and” Ac. We wonder what kind of
beer they drink at Newcastle! Were the Newcastle
editor to procure a few “ supple dogs,” and go into the
show line, he’d find it more congenial to him than even
literature. t
From Friday’s Lyre :—“ The powerful ironclad
ship of war, built to the order of the Italian Govern-
ment and named the Italia, was successfully launched
yesterday. . . The ship, which wUlbe oneof themost
•powerful afloat, is to be armed with Armstrong guns of
100 pounds.” Now, for length, breadth, depth and
general massiveness of construction this is the most
successful bull that we have rounded up for a long time
—even in the Evening News.
There is either a Frenchman or a Swede on the
Daily Telabangee, because in the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion leader, on Saturday, occur no less than three
foreign phrases. Let ns carefully copy them .
“Echit,” “recherche” (sic), and “coup de theatre”
(sic). But this is not all. In the theatrical notices
we see “debut” (sic), “par excellence,” “beau ideal,”
and “suite.” This is all very well, of course, and be-
trays a very extraordinary linguistic power on the part
of the staff; but we venture to suggest that the Tele-
wag people must be short of accents —or have mixed
them. That’s all!
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Sir Henry is on the stump.
Gilt coins are in circulation.
More trouble in Afghanistan.
A great fire has occured in Paris.
Phayre’s forces winter at Candahar-
Parnell is on the stump again in Ireland.
A N.S.W. Institute of Surveyors is to be
formed.
After all Sydney is not to lose the renowned
shirtmaker. C. Hemsley has removed to 297 George-
street.
That clever gymnast, Mr. August Siegrist,
advertises in our issue of to-day that he is open for
engagement.
Leon’s circus is billed at Temora, where the
Froliques and Perman’s Variety Troupe are now doing
fair business.
That clever publication, Queensland Punch
has now reached its third volume, having been two
years in existence. The current number is an excellent
one.
There is no truth in the rumour that the Town
Hall officials, the Town Clerk and Mr. Clayton in par-
ticular, are busy with a testimonial for Mr. Alderman
Hordern.
Dr. Lowson, late of Merriwa, and a father and
son named Judge, were on Sunday morning last drowned
at Gosford, through a boat upsetting—it is supposed in
a squall.
The selectors’ conference has resolved on advo-
cating decentralisation in land law administration and
election of local land boards, with a chairman appointed
by government.
A press correspondent says that the foreign
visitors at Melbourne International appear unanimous
on one point—that a great European war, in which
France and Eussia will attack Germany, is near at
hand.
The first Spiritualistic funeral in Auckland
took place on Sunday (9th Sept)—that of Mrs. J.
Wilkes. The Eev. Mr. Edgar conducted the service.
A number of ladies throw bouquets of flowers into the
grave*
The cricket match between the Stanmore and
Parramatta Alfreds, last Saturday, resulted in a draw,
greatly in favour of the suburban club, who made 119
runs in their first innings, to which Coates contributed
50, playing a splendid not-out innings, and F. E. Searl
21. When time was called, the Parramatta had lost
9 wickets for 49.
About 800 persons are at Bermagui rush ; but,
until fresh ground is opened, it would be injudicious for
more miners to go. The field promises to pay at least
wages, but so far there is nothing very sensational about
its prospects.
“ Brookong ’’ is the best-appointed station in ]
Eiverina. probably in Australia. 250 men are now em- j
ployed at the shed; 345,000 sheep will pass under their j
shears; and* the clip is expected to yield 3600 bales j
washed wool. The wool comes to Sydney this year, i
Hitherto it has gone to Melbourne.
The heroic struggle of Messrs. Ferris and De- ;
lange, in Petrea, at the Telegraph Regatta, has been j
unnoticed by any pen. Weakened by the tussle, the )
former called on his mate. “ Pull, Delauge, for your j
honor and your life,” friend Ferris exclaimed. “Pull !
up, you mean,” gasped Delange. At that moment some ;
one caught a crab, and heels up, the colours were j
down. Mr. Croft is to immortalise this touching inci- ■
dent in verse, and strips of it will appear next week.
The Australian cricketers have been sump- !
tuously entertained by the Lord Mayor of Loudon, and j
presented with trophies by their countrymen resident i
in Loudon. There was much ceremony and a great j
display of good feeling at both affairs. Even the |
Times and Standard warmly compliment our represen- j
tatives. The former paper justly remarks that the ;
constant exchange of visits does more to knit Australia
and the Motherland together than many years of be
flcial legislation.
A crowded and enthusiastic meeting for the
purpose of protesting against the decision of the
judges in the late couteniptjof Court case was held in
the Masonic Hall on Tuesday evening. The speech of
the evening was made by Mr. Daniel O’Connor, who
had disentombed some long-forgotten facts in regard to ;
the political history of the judges. Resolutions con- ;
demuatorv of the action of their Honors were unani-
mously passed, and arrangements were made to collect I
subscriptions for the purpose of meeting the verdict.
The admirable acting of the London Comedy j
Company, at the Theatre Royal, has delighted good andi - i
euces throughout the week in the comedies “ All that
glitters is not gold” and “Withered Leaves.” The
scene of “The Glen” in the latter piece is a picture
such as is rarely presented on any stage. On Saturday
“Blow for Blow” is to be reproduced, followed up on
Woduesday by “Galatea,” and concluding the week on
Friday with “Betsy.” Want of space precludes us
giving an extended report.
The Victorian revenue for the quarter shows a
decrease of £41,000.
A Wrangling and Debating Society has been
started at Petersham.
The “ encouragement to native industries’ ”
league is on the war-path.
Several more large nuggets, weighing up to
19 oz., have been found at Temora.
Leichhardt enjoys the boon of a boiling-down
establishment right in the centre of the township. Who
are aldermen ?
The Porte agrees to the cession of Dulcigno, but
asks for delay in order to settle the Greek and Ar-
menian questions.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Elliott (Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner) are not engaged to Darrell, but come to Sydney,
open for engagement.
Peter Campbell’s church at Temora has been
turned into a cook-shop. True Christianity isn’t a
success on the new field.
There is great excitement throughout the United
States over the approaching Presidential election. A
close contest is looked for.
There are no fewer than 400 tenantless houses in
Wellington, N.Z., 200 being in one ward alone, and
during the last twelve months 3000 persons have left
the city. Ichabod !
Professor Stanich, the aurlst, has treated with
success, at his hospital, in Collins-street, Melbourne, a
great number of poor patients recommended by the
municipal councils.
Dr. Tanner’s divorced wife says that in the
water he drinks nourishmentiis conveyed in the form of
matematis, a South American infusion, well known for
its force-giving qualities.
The Melbourne International will be quite a
paying speculation. It will cost half-a-million or so and
on Saturday last 6508 persons attended, including dead-
heads. The prospect is cheerful.
Mrs. Byrnes, the wife of the Hon. W. C.
Byrnes, M.L.C., died at Parramatta on Monday night*
aged 72. The deceased lady’s mother, Mrs. Oakes, is
still living, and resides at Parramatta.
The N.S. W. Underwriters’ Association held their
annual picnic at Sandringham on Saturday last. Mr.
H. T. Pox presided at the luncheon. The attendance
was numerous and fashionable, and the affair most
enjoyable.
It is singular that a work of art of such great
merit as the marble statue of Ariadne should lie un-
purchased in the Garden Palace. Has New South
Wales no art lovers possessing the money power to
secure this artytreasure ere it passes to another colony.
A replica of this statue has been secured by the British
Academy of Art.
The patriots who now boss that rapidly-declin-
ing colony, Victoria, have once more voted themselves
payment for their “ services.” 76 old, and most of
them valuable, civil servants are shortly to be turned
adrift by way of compensation.
The Premier of Queensland has introduced a
Bill to facilitate the construction of a railroad by a
company to whom land grants shall be made from Eoma
to Point Parker, in the Gulf of Carpentaria. The con-
tractors and the lessees of runs along the line share
the plunder and the country pays the piper.
Pressure on our space prevents our giving an
extended report of the first N.S.W. Rowing Association
Regatta, held last Saturday—which, unfortunately,
turned out squally, and anything but a regatta day.
Mr.Gaden’s crew (S.R.C.) won the Maiden Pours, after
an exciting struggle with the other S.R.C. crew, stroked
by Mr. Sullivan. The Mail Challenge Cup was easily
appropriated by Mr. D. Lord, Mr. Arthur second, and
Mr. W. Bull third. The S.R.C. men, stroked by Bed-
ford, easily beat Williams’ M.E.C. in the Challenge
Poiu-s ; the Challenge Eights was walked over for by
the S.R.C. crew, and the brothers Bros without difficulty
appropriated the double-sculling prize.
People who visited Mr. Boyd’s studio last week
were prepared for the news which was flashed by tele-
gram from Melbourne to the effect that his pictures
stood in the exhibition unapproached by anything
shown there. Prior to sending his pictures on to Mel-
bourne, Mr. Boyd exhibited them at his extensive gal-
leries, and there was a splendid attendance of the
connoisseurs of art. It is needless to remark that what
was telegraphed from Melbourne was quite in harmony
with what was expressed here. It is to bo hoped Mr.
Boyd will give the Sydney public another opportunity
of inspecting his splendid works.
The “ Eight Hours Demonstration ” on Monday
was a great success. The breezes blew and banners
waved. Grand was the procession immense was the
enthusiasm. Silk coats fluttered, “turbans” floated;
boots were dirty, processionists were dry. But
enthusiasm was everywhere. The show, in fact, was
one gorgeous coruscation of glittering splendour—an
evidence of the power of those who support the colonial
industries of the colony. The industrious M.P. and the
aspiring candidate for Parliament mustered in great
force. Names needn’t be mentioned—anyone can guess
who was there. However, it’s a good thing that the
working man of N.S.W. isn’t so easily humbugged as
his Victorian brother.
The foreign commissioners, &c., at Melh™„
International are to be banquetted.
Mr. Hance Wilson, late of the Stray Too
Company, is now agent for Herr Bandmanu. av ° ;
Government offers .£lOOO reward for the eoi*
tion of the assassins of Viscount Motmtmorres. Vlc '
“ Separation, and a new capital at Bowen ” •
now the cry in the Far North. And no wonder. ’ 13
The sum of £35 was demanded by and paid +
the London Comedy Company for their services in „ .
nection with the Bennett benefit. con '
A movement has been started in London for ft
formation of a Syndicate for the construction of
Australian Transcontinental Eailway.
Wade-in-gore Thompson gives a piano awav if
his benefit to-night (Thursday). He then taken fir
Zulu War Panorama through the colonies. tile
The Hon. E. A. Baker has been gazetted
commissioner for this colony re the Melbourne P a
hibition ; as also has Mr. Hugh Taylor, M.P. x '
H.M.S. Conflict has sailed for New Guinea t
investigate the recent massacre. Mr. Howard gt
George, the Cooktown P.M., accompanies her.
Mr. Hogg, of the firm of Eoyle and Hogg, drive*
the handsomest chestnut and altogether the neaW
turn-out in Sydney. The style is “ all the go ”in En„
land, and ought to be adopted here.
Garibaldi’s son-in-law has been imprisoned for
taking part in some disorders at Genoa, and the Italian
Liberator has set out for the city named to see about
the matter. Trouble is anticipated.
Three bodies—those of John Taylor (chief mate)
Antoine Vulgar and Daniel Studder (able seamen)—have
been washed ashore from the wreck of the Susannah
Godeffroy, and been buried after inquest.
The survivors of the Marquis de Ray’s New
Ireland expedition are now in Sydney. They are for
the most part terribly debilitated by fever and ague
and the noxious effects of bad water and insect bites.
The Colonial Secretary of Queensland has for-
warded to Mr. Cox, whose wife recently gave birth to
triplets at Mount Perry, a cheque for £lO, and a note
expressing his best wishes for the mother and infants.
George Henry Shepperson, of N.Z., the man
with three wives, has cut his throat badly. He says he
is weary of life. In his diary it is stated that his first
two wives were spiritual, and the third veiled in flesh
but faulty. ’
The Compagnoni Catering Company find them-
selves compelled to extend their premises to keep pace
with demands. The house adjoining, formerly occu-
pied as an hotel, and known as the Shakespeare, has
been purchased, and is to be entirely altered and
renovated—to make a spacious and elegant dining
room.
One of the largest tanks yet made in
this colony has been manufactured by Mr.
Brown, of Bnrwood, for Mr. Start, hotel-
keeper, of that prosperous suburb.
The Gladstone people are working
hard for and are establishing a paper on
the ticket of a branch line from Eock-
hampton to the magnificent port first-
named. This programme unless Bock-
hampton be beforehand with a port at and a
railway to Broadmount, will, if carried out,
assuredly end in the total extinction of the
city of “ sin, sweat, and sorrow.”
The first report of the Cottage Home
for Destitute Children has been published.
This institution has been founded through
the zeal of Mrs. Jeffries, the estimable wife
of the Key. Mr. Jeffries. Good work has
already been done, and with the present
good management the Home is likely to
prove a really practical useful charity.
Subscriptions are needed.
Dr. Cleland, of Adelaide, has been
telling the people of S. A. that if they took
less meat and substituted light wine as a
food, health and longevity would be greater.
It will be a grand day for South Australia
when every breakfast table will be sup.
plied with its pure and wholesome bock
and claret, instead of decoctions made from
sloe leaves or chicory and horse beans.
The Selectors’ Conference has affirm-
ed that it is desirable tbat future payments
on land selections be devoted to the liquida-
tion of balances of purchase money, that
applications for selections be accompanied
by a deposit of 2s. per acre, that balances
bo paid by 18 annual instalments of Is. per
acre each, and that a national bank for
lending money to free selectors should be
established.
At Cooktown a wild hoar attacked
a China boy who had two dogs with him.
The brute partially disabled the boy and
was going to eat him, but was prevented
by the dogs. The boar caught one of the
dogs by the back and ran away with him
until the part held in his teeth gave way
and the dog escaped. The China hoy got
up a tree and the dogs fought it out with
the boar, who, having got the best of the
trouble, marched off.
Charters Towers crushings for the
month: —Identity p.c., 2596®z. from 552 tous
of stone; Blue Peter, 14fl0oz. from 404 tons ;
Day Dawn extended, 1058 oz. from 339 tons;
Brian O’Lynn, 5580 z. from 221 tons: St.
Patrick’s block, 3340 z. from 61 tons : Maud
St. Leger, 3570 z. from 146 tons; and from
the Protection Area, 168 oz. from 71 tons.
Total yield 77470 z.; average per ton 2oz.
15dwt, 3gr. Ye Ballarat and Sandhurst
men, meditate on this.
Chinese have found payable alluvial at M‘Leod s
Creek, Palmer Eiver, at a depth of 30ft. Eeported
prospects, Idwt. to the dish with 4ft of wash. This is
a most important discovery. Apparently the rock has
been passed and below are good alluvial deposits.
Consequent upon the Bulletin’s article and
illustration, the American Novelty Company’s show-
rooms in Market and George streets have been crowded.
The colonial made toys have had a very large sale, as
likewise the new malleable iron bicycles and the Em-
press household sausage-making machines, &C.
A curious circumstance has been brought under
our notice by Mr. J. B. Oliffe. A mare stinted by
Goldsborough on Bth Nov., 1877, only dropped her foal
on 11th Jan., 1879 —or 429 days afterwards. The foal
was a colt, and died two days after birth. On 29th July,
1879, the mare visited Volunteer, and again the foal, a
very fine colt, now doing well, was carried for au
abnormal time, namely, till 22nd Sept, of this year. ■
The mare belongs to Mr. J. J. Sledge, of Homebush.
Mr. R. H. Rattray is the first LL.B. of the
N.Z. University.
A breach of promise case is approaching, m
which a barrister, a judge, and a billsticker’s daughter
are concerned.
Another swell barmaid married to a Eiverma
squatter. Which makes at least the fifth Hebe who has
married well during the last two months.
The testimonial to Mr. John Bennett was pre-
sented on Tuesday afternoon by the executive commit-
tee. Mr. Bennett, in response, upheld the respecta-
bility of the stage, said that the people made it what n
was, and that he did not thank the London Como >
Company.
Variety is charming ! There is nothing bke a
change, of whatever nature —change of scenery, change
of occupation, change in customs, and even a c ban ire
fancies sometimes gives pleasure. But what enn
greater than the change wrought by the weli-kno
chemist, Eanderson, who, from years of careful su J*
produced a mild and safe aperient medicine in the suai
of a lozenge, suitable to all stages and conditions ot •
Therefore, a change from Bolus and Pills is the gr *
estofall. and must be thoroughly appreciatedJ>y e ■
class of the community. Keep a box in the.hous
way of variety.
MR. JOHN BRIDGK'S WOOL STORES, CIRCULAR QUAY. (See Page 3.)


Business Announcements
NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
p t .,, 3 respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahWt Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
fflli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Radies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
.do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
which everything is turned out.
G would also impress upon her customers the
lact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
~ Baby Linen
~ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE.
81 OXFORD-STREET.
RINSMEAI) PIANOS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Referring to certain advertisements that have lately
appeared in the daily journals, Messrs. BOYLE and
HOGG desire to call the attention of the public to the
following fact, viz.: That the Judges of musical in-
struments at the recent Sydney International Exhibi-
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPECIAL MENTION for
Pianofortes, and that was to Messrs. JOHN BRINS-
MBAD and SONS. A reference to the book published
rmder the authority of the Commissioners, and entitled
Official Awards, will clearly prove this assertion.
We append letters, signed by a majority of the
judges, which establish this fact, and fully explain to
the public tbe position of affairs.
44 Sydney, July 27,1880.
“ To the Executive Commissioner.
‘‘Dear Sir, —At the final meeting of the Judges of
Pianos at the Sydney International Exhibition, it was
decided to award to Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD and
SONS the ONLY SPECIAL MENTION.
"This was duly presented and confirmed by the Exe-
cutive Commissioner. Afterwards, at the request, as
we understood, of the Secretary, we drew up certain
particulars for the official catalogue ; but this was in no
way intended to invalidate the distinction to Messrs.
JOHN BRINSMBAD and SONS—viz., the HIGHEST
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO EXHIBITS, and as
such are entitled to a higher award.
" We give you these particulars in justice to the firm
entitled to special distinction, and, no doubt, you will
see this duly carried out.
“ We remain, dear sir,
“Yours obediently,
“C. J. JACKSON,
“ MONTAGUE YOUNGER,
“ EDMUND T. BLACKET,
“CHARLES PACKER.”!
*’ 99 Pitt-street, Sydney,
“July 28, 1880.
“ To H. Brinsmead, Esq.
“ Dear Sir,—l received your letter of the 19th inst.,
and am very much surprised at its contents.
"Youare perfectly correct in saying that your pianos
were the ONLY ones which received any special men-
tion from the Judges of Musical Instruments.
“When it was proposed to give you this SPECIAL
AWARD I objected, and divided the meeting on the
subject, but was outvoted, and the special mention was
nude, and I signed the report accordingly. lam not
aware that any alteration was mode in this report, and
d it was so it was not done with any knowledge or con-
sent on my part, therefore cannot be said to be the
report of the Judges.
“Your statement that the ONLY SPECIAL notice
among pianos was given to you by the Judges of
musical instruments is ABSOLUTELY TRUE, as the
report itself will show.
“ I am, dear sir,
“Yours truly,
“EDMUND T. BLACKET.”
“ Organ Manufactory, Newtown
44 Sydney, 1880.
‘ Messrs. John Brinsmead and Sons,
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in being able to
ronch to the degree of perfection to which you have
drought the art of pianoforte manufacturing. I must say
'be improvements invented and patented by your firm
jre of such value that the musical judges, after care-
Jbuy examining the instruments, competing with about
'l °r 80 other manufacturers, awarded your pianos tbe
urst prize above them all. I am also of opinion that
jour pianos with snch simple action, simplicity of me-
fbanism, strength of construction, combined with the
mark able purity and sweetness of tone, ore unrivalled,
patent action produces a touch absolutely
“ I am, Gentlemen,
“Yours truly,
“ C. J. JACKSON.”
ROYLE and HOGG,
c , BOND-STREET STORES,
«>le Agents for JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS’
Celebrated Sostenente Pianos.
highest award above over SEVENTY other Mann-
“cturerg at the Sydney International Exhibition.
Highest awards : Paris, 1867, 1869, 1874, 1878.
Highest awards: London, 18511862, 1871.
Highest awards, gold medals everywhere.
PRICES to SUIT ALL.
Hive years’ guarantee with every instrument.
for
TOUCH,
TONE,
WORKMANSHIP,
DURABILITY,
and PRICE.
A splendid selection now on view at the
BRINSMEAD PIANO DEPOT,
Bond-street Stores.
BOYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents.
Business Announcements
Angus and siegeist,
The World-renowned
GYMNASTS, TIGHT-ROPE PERFORMERS, AND
PANTOMIMICS,
would like to make Engagements for the Holidays.
First-class Managers only need apply.
First come first served.
ANGUS and SIEGRIST.
Arditto’s Hotel, Hnymarket and Pitt sterets.
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESEEVING COMPANY
(LIMITED;.
Winners of the FIRST PRlZES—Vienna. 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. 6. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macqnarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
E. CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES AND GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DABLINGHU RST.
IF YOU WANT
A Cup of
REALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TAEPING
MIXTURE.
PACKED INTO 1-tb AND fib PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William - street.
B. S. TTGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
V '
\v .. N
MANUFACTURED AT
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence -street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
I
NCREASING SUCCESS MEANS PUBLIC
APPRECIATION.
NOW THAT IT IS WELL KNOWN
That the CO-OP. means a THOROUGH SAYING
amounting in course of time to
A VERY LARGE SUM,
THE NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS INCREASES
DAILY,
And all are pleased both with the value and prices
and the way we do business.
The LOWEST LISTS IN TOWN for CASH
and NO ABATEMENT.
THE LARGE WELL - ASSORTED STOCK
COMPRISES:
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE PARLOR—
Long Lace Curtains, from 3/11
Beautiful Cloth Table-Cover, 7/11
Handsome Twilled Cretonnes, from 7Jd
Lace Antimacassars, from 7Jd
Tapestry Hearth Engs, 5/9
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY for the BEDROOM—
White Blankets, from 4/11 pair
Counterpanes and Quilts every possible size, from
3/11
Sheetings Beautiful soft finish, 1/0
Mosquito Net, two yards wide, 7Jd
Chamber Towels, 2/11 per dozen
Turkish Towels, very nice, BJd each
Scolloped Valance Hangings, &)d
Marcella Toilet Covers, IOJd
Bedroom Carpets, 1/3
Window Muslin, SH
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE DINING-
ROOM—
Beautiful Oil Baizes, 1/3
Unbleached Linen Table Damask 1/2 i
White Table Covers, 2J yards long, 4/9
Damask Table Napkins, SVH per dozen
Scarlet and Black Table Covers, 5/11
Lace Window Valances, 2/S
Good Pattern Chintzes, 5Jd
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE FAMILY—
The best value in Flannels in the city
Pink Edge Saxony Flannel, 1/3J
Very Stout Flannel for shirts, 11?,d
Calicoes of every quality and make
Hollands, Linings, Diapers of every quality
HOUSEHOLD DR APERY for PERSONAL USE—
A Splendid stock of White and Coloured Stays, 2/11
Parachutes, thoroughly reliable silks, 4/11
Tussore Picnic Parachutes, lined colors, 2/11
Black two-button Gloves (a nice kid), 1/11J
Hosiery of all sizes and makes.
THE PRINCIPLE OF THE CO-OP S THAT
“ THE NIMBLE NINEPENCE ’
is better than the SLOW EIGHTEEN! E MCE,
and customers evidently think so too.
CHARLES LANE.
568 George-street.
Business Announcements
JOHN BRIDGE, SYDNEY,
fJ WOOL aud PRODUCE AUCTIONEER,
LIVE STOCK, STATION and FINANCIAL AGENT,
FLOUR, GRAIN, and METAL BROKER.
Sales by Auction held each week at Sale Rooms,
Sydney.
Wool aud Sheepskins—Tuesdays and Wednesdays;
Hides, Tallow, Hair, Horns, Bones, Ac., —Fridays;
Leather, Sugars, Ac. —Tuesdays.
At Homebush. —Cattle and Sheep—Mondays and
Thursdays.
At Sale Yards, Sydney.—Lambs and Calves —Thurs-
days ; Pigs—Mondays, Wednesdays, aud Fridays.
At Railway and Wharves.—Hay and other Farm
Produce—Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; and by
Private Contracts when advisable.
Sales of Stations and Store Stock or Landed Property
conducted at Auction, or Privately, on most reason-
able terms.
Advances made against the Growing Clip of Wool, or
any sort of Produce or Property intended for Sale or
Shipment. Loans negotiated on easiest terms.
Supplies of all sorts on hand, or carefully selected from
best wholesale houses, at lowest prices; and every
sort of Agency undertaken for squatters and others.
Any Bank or Merchant holding liens on wool will, if
asked, allow the owners to send their wool to my care
for sale or shipment, and if required, an advance may
be had to within a trifle of Sydney value before or on
receipt of each parcel.
My friends will please remember that in all cases I act
as a selling agent only, never buying on my own or
any other person’s account.
All charges lowest in the colony (50 per cent, less than
Melbourne).
Best Lighted and Spacious Stores provided ; no expense
or trouble spared to ensure highest value ror all
produce, with perfect correctness and straightfor-
wardness.
In all cases of error, or supposed error, or where my
constituents become aware of any cause of com-
plaint, I shall feel thankful to hear from them, that
every satisfaction may be made.
To any of my friends who may prefer having their wool
or other produce sold in the London market I can
offer every facility, such as an advance to within a
trifle of Sydney value, and being one of the largest
exporters in the colony, I can always command
freights to London or elsewhere at lowest rates. My
London agents’ charges are on the lowest possible
scale, and in Sydney the charges on produce intended
for shipment only are the mere expense of carting to
the ships, bills of lading, Ac., or about 2s. 6d per ton
in all. When required, too, shipping documents
handed over, andjowners left to arrange for advance
on London Agency.
Local Agents who will forward Wool, Ac. —Goulburn—
Mr. E. B. Barber; Gunning—Messrs. Reynolds and
Son; Yass, Mr. M. Coen; Gnndagai, Mr. A. S. Smith;
Coolac, Mr. E. Q. Adams ; Gundaroo, Mr. W. Affleck;
Cootamundra, Mr. A. W. McCarthy; Burrowa, Mr. F.
J. O’Leary; Binalong, Mr. L. J. Dargon; Wagga
Wagga, Mr. J. Walsh; Murrumbnrrah, Mr. J.
Bonrke; Young,Mr. J. O'Leary; Grenfell. Mr. Chas.
Ingrey; Quirindi and Murrurundi, Mr. T. S. Grehan ;
Tamworth, Mr. M. G. Cunningham; Qunnedah, Mr.
C. Jacques: Scone, Mr. D. Gallagher; Merriwa, Mr.
E. ISimmons; Muswellbrook and Singleton, Mr. Jas.
Hutchison ; Glen Innes, Mr. P. M'Connack; Inverell,
Mr. T. J. Walsh; Bathurst, Messrs, Meagher and Co.;
Blayney and (Orange, Messrs. Heaton Bros.; Cowra,
Mr. D. Donnelly; Carooar, Mr. W. Tanner, Junr;
Railway Stations, South and West, Wright, Heaton,
and Co.; Walcha, Mr. M. J. Walsh.
w
o
L.
TO WOOL GROWERS, MERCHANTS and OTHERS.
THE COMING SEASON, 1880,
The near approach of the New Season causes us to
remind growers to make their arrangements in good
time for the Disposal of their Wools, and while thank-
ing our friends for the business which has been entrus-
ted to us hitherto, we have the pleasure again to offer
our services for either the SALE or SHIPMENT of the
New Clip.
The extension of the railways throughout the interior
will cause the Wool of the coming season to reach Syd-
ney both earlier and within a shorter space of time than
heretofore, and in view thereof we have made such ar-
rangements, by securing more extensive Warehouse
Accommodation, to deal with the Wool as fast as it
arrives, that we can promise those who may favour us
with their Business that, as soon as their Wool reaches
the railway station or the wharves, we shall take IM-
MEDIATE DELIVERY of it
On this point, therefore, no delay need be feared by
OWNERS of WOOL.
Our Warehouses are SPACIOUS and PARTICU-
LARLY WELL LIGHTED, and are thus admirably
adapted for the Display of Wools to the best advantage.
All Wools are carefully examined and valued by our-
selves prior to being offered at auction, thus each lot is
thoroughly protected up to its full MARKET VALUE.
Instructions, when given os to reserve prices, are also
carried out. We can, therefore, confidently assure
owners that every care is exorcised by ns in the disposal
of Wools placed in our hands for sale.
In our Circular issued prior to the opening of the
Last Season we therein anticipated an active demand
from American and Continental Buyers in this Market,
and the result justified our expectations, and it now
affords us pleasure to inform Wool Growers that a still
more animated Business may be confidently looked for-
ward to during the Coming Season.
The quantity of Wool sold during the past year in the
Sydney Market, owing to the operation of the Foreign
Buyers, considerably exceeded what was sold in any
previous year, ard as the demand from the same
sources, added to the requirements of the Local Buyers,
promises this Coming Season to be still larger, the
prospects that prices will be well maintained are very
bright.
These inducements will no doubt operate largely to
cause Wool Growers to try this Market. To those of
our Friends who prefer shipping ,to London we also
offer our services.
We are always in a position to ensure best Terms of
freight by first-class vessels. We will therefore either
ship to our Agents in England, making full advances,
or we will hand over Documents os we may be directed
by the owners of any Clips entrusted to us for shipment.
MAIDEN, HILL and CLARK,
Offices—Pitt-street, Sydney.
Wool Stores, Circular Quay.
YDNEY COFFEE TAVERN COMPANY
* (LIMITED),
251, 253, aud 255, PITT STREET,
Next Tattersall’s.
This very handsome Establishment, replete with all
modem conveniences,
IS NOW OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
TARIFF:—DINNER.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Saloon, upstairs. Is 3d per
meal, or six tickets for 6s 3d.
Gentlemen’s Mercantile Dining Hall, on ground floor.
Is, or six tickets for ss.
Ladies’ Luncheon Room, upstairs} 9d, or six tickets
for irS.
The dinner, in all cases, to consist of Soup, Meat, or
Fish, Vegetables, Pastry, or Sweets, with Tea, Coffee,
or other Temperance drink. Poultry, 6d per meal extra.
BREAKFAST OR TEA.
Ladies’ and Gentleman’s Saloon, \ipetairs, Is.
Mercantile Dining room, on ground floor, 9d.
Ham and Eggs, 3d extra.
Ladies’ Rooms upstairs, Bread and Butter, with
Tea or Coffee in sufficient quantity, 6d.J
Single or Double-bedded or Family Rooms, as may be
agreed.
BILLIARD-ROOM, fitted with 2 of Alcock’s best tables.
Reading-room, Promenade, Baths, Ac.
A visit solicited.
F. ABIGAIL, Chairman.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH, Hon. Secretary.


Miscellaneous
D
EYSDALE AND
397 George Stre
76, 78, 145, 147 York
33 Pitt Stree f
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERi
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensiv
which, besides being the largest in S
varied; and comprises all the latest
Engines, Engineers’ Material an
Agricultural Implements, Thr<
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eir
Axles, Buggy-bodies. Lamps,
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, &
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chande
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinj
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Gal
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Job
And
GENERAL IRONMOI
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
A
416 GEORGE STRI
MERICAN MACHIN
H. P. GREGORY A
No. 11, PITT-STRE
Importers of all Descrij
MACHIN
Have for Sale—
J, A. Fay and Co.’s First Special P
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumj
Rubber and Leather Belting, Eaw-h
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fool
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil,
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and
T
HE BEST PAINT IN
Of //OUMBL
22 k .HB6^
c? ofS
THE PACIFIC RUBBE
is mixed ready for
supplied in cans containing 1 gal
These cans form a convenient P;
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin
us :—“Woollahra. August 20th, 188
RUBBER PAINT to be all that i
and Bright, and owing to its large
R
EME D Y
POE,
IM P U
EAPID WATER FILTERS
N.t&VED PATiKT
CIIAWSW 6
J' P, ° WATER FILTER /
80STO
. L
THE UNDERSIGNED a:
Rapid Water Filters, whi
others by the English and Fo
Medical Profession, Hospitals
found in every establishment o
dom and the whole of Europe
most remote parts of the G 1
other Filter. Its superiority
rapidity of action, simplicity <
ciency is verified by the numei
been awarded in England, the
Australia.
Thousands had a drink oj
were placed in the Garden P
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHO
arising from drinking impure v
CHEAYIN’S RAPI
SOLE AGENTS:
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), G-EOR
CD
CO
C*
-<
PRIZE
Q_
OC
cc
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
.- Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
»tah
These goods
fresh, wholesoi
and genuine. 1
Exhibition Judg
Report says:—
“ Deserving
special notice. r
quality is fi
equal to import
they are well s
tastefully got u
BUYS^
CD
co
cc
PRIZE
cc
<t
zn
INGE It’S GENUINE SEW
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDOb
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,1
MAP, HINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTS
EASTERN AND CO!
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignmerv
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualitii
Do. Indian Prize Mec
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri;
PRESERVES—Indian P
COFFEE—Plantation Nc
Do. „ Pe
Do. „ Nc
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B 1
OFFICES :—348 GEORG
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
REOGAT
And FOOD OF
The most wholesome n
children or persons in c
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO S
Bold by all Grocer* and
o
2J&S
PITT STREEI
BEAUTIFUL^J
OR
ALLWOOL
To TWEED
PARK
DARLING ROAD, BA]
W. DEAMER begs to inform trav
generally that The Bulletin, S. M
News, &c., &c., will be found in tl
of the above Hotel.
SCHOOL OF ARTS
TUESDAY EVENING, OC'
rT»nyrx>T.Tn/rn’xr'r atjv ■c a ■R'EVwri
Gr.
Awarded
B. M 0 D
GUNMAKEE AND Cl
602 Geohoe Street, Sye
2 special prizes for cole
tlery. Importer of every c
Eirearms, Cutlery,
