

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 34.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1880.
Price—3d.
§:«IWin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1880.
Obliterating a Distinction.
Sib Heney Paekes is a rare master of phraseo-
logy. He once described himself as “ blushing
like a virgin ” because a political know-nothing
condemned his affectation of purism. Some
years later he ranted about the potentiality of
his voice on the sensitive ears of our 'white
aboriginals ; and now we have him straining his
maxillary process by assuring us that many
people will not bo found in this country who are
“in favour of obliterating the distinction be-
tween Sunday and other days of the week.” It
surprises many to find in the Premier so strict a
Sabbatarian, particularly as, during the days of
his journalistic career, he used to argue pretty
much after the manner of a Freethinker, and
was looked upon as a long-headed sceptic. He
certainly exceeded his duty in interfering with
Mr. Peoctoe’s Sunday lecture, and ought to re-
ceive condign punishment at the general election
for that arrogant and despotic interference. It
is now pretty well known that the Premier does
not consult his colleagues very frequently, or
even ask his legal vizier to expound the law to
him on certain doubtful subjects. An infuriated
bull in a china-shop is said to be typical
of destruction, and Mr. David Buchanan is
something of the kind in private or social rela-
tions, He “pumps” the Attorney-General with
the greatest ease, and then reports progress to
the country through the columns of the S, M.
Hekald. Through this elasticity of conscience
on the part of the honourable and learned gentle-
man, we find that Mr. Wisdom did not advise
Sir Heney Paekes that Mr. Peoctob’s pro-
posed Sunday lecture was illegal; but it
really matters very little what the influences
were that put Mr. Fosbkey, the fussy, in motion :
the act was the act of an autocrat, and deserves
the severest reprehension. Mr. Buchanan may
metaphorically wash his hands, and “ leave the
dirty subject for ever.” He has certainly
managed to make what was muddy from the first
muddier before he performed the act of ablution.
On subjects of this kind everyone has a right to
speak out boldly and defend his conclusions. We
do not censure those reverend gentlemen who
have conveyed their congratulations to the Colo-
nial Secretary for silencing Mr. Peoctoh. They
have acted according to their habits of mind and
the peculiar lights which irradiate their paths.
But we certainly do object to such homilies as
Sir Henhy Paekes writes on Sabbath observ-
ance. It is difficult to conceive a subject better
fitted for Sunday edification than the considera-
tion of the stellar universe. The poet Young
w as so penetrated with the thought of its gran-
deur, that he cried out, in a kind of ecstasy,
“ An undevout astronomer is mad!” Because
Mr. Proctor, or his agent, chooses to make a
charge for a moral and scientific discourse, we are
told that we are “ obliterating a distinction ” be-
tween Sunday and week day if we go to hear him.
The sooner rant of this coarse kind is
reprobated the better it will be for the
freedom of the country and the en-
lightenment of its youth. Since, then, there
is such confusion in men’s minds on the law of
the case, why should not the aid of Parliament
he promptly invoked, and effective legislation
be brought to bear on the question ? The era of
£ superstitious reverence for Sunday is gone
by. That it will be in every civilised Chris-
tian community a day of rest and recrea-
tion we are satisfied; but that a portion of
it may not be profitably devoted to a scientific
ecture is an assertion we cannot possibly
subscribe to. Since tbe Museum, the Public
labrary,and theBotanic Gardens have been thrown
°pen decided improvements in the manners of the
People have been observed. We certainly think
s- 9 much “food for thought” can be gleaned
Mr. Peoctoe’s Sunday lecture as from a
sermon by “ Dr. M‘Guten ” or a pious homily by
‘ V” Heney P abkeS . The despicable Chadbandism
w uch pervades our holy Premier’s snuffling
e uerances, and the greasy adroitness with
men he, the tottering Southern Czae, seeks to
r °duee religion into every difficult question,
contemptible beyond expression. We are
am? -k° tolerate every man’s religious belief
t° give all honest men, be they Christian,
a °mmedian or Buddhist, equal privileges in
gurd to their faith. But it would be a huge
satire on Christianity if it really required the
sustaining help of a man who, by such actions
as these, makes himself true Christianity’s greatest
enemy. How the Premier must laugh in his
sleeve as the unsuspecting churchwardens, elders
and deacons send in blessings galore and assur-
ances of their heartfelt thanks to this wolf in
sheep’s clothing, this ass in lion’s skin.
The Robinson Demonstration.
The manner in which the people of Sydney have
shown their appreciation of their former Governor,
Sir Hercules Robinson, does them great credit.
Improvising a day’s racing, getting up a social
lunch and an evening banquet at the Town Hull
—all serve to indicate an enthusiastic admiration
of the gentleman in whose honor the several
arrangements were made. We can quite under-
stand why his Excellency is so popular. He is
thorough a and earnest. When certain sancti-
monious eyes were uplifted in horror some years
ago, at the iniquities of horse-racing, he persisted
in the amusement, and contributed much to
purify the turf and make it a healthful and
respectable recreation. But he did other and
better things that sunk deep into the affections
of the people. He reprobated in forceful lan-
guage the snail-like pace at which our railways
were being extended, and lie so pluckily defended
his conduct in the Gardiner business as to gain
the admiration of those who did not agree with
him on that subject. What tact and pluck has he
exhibited in New Zealand, and with what regret
he leaves that Britannia of the South, to take up
the serious and more responsible Government of
the Cape! We wish him many years of health-
ful activity and the fruition of the honors he has
won, and trust that his now sphere of duty will
be as agreeable to him as his experiences in New
South Wales and New Zealand have been. It
must have been in obedience to a very keen sense of
duty that he accepted the new appointment, as
he tells us he was desirovis of settling in one of
the colonies. We have every reason to believe
that he will at the Cape do the very kind of good
service which he is expected to perform.
News-papers.
What is a newspaper? Presumedly a paper
f urnishing news. Anything of public interest
happening between one issue of a newspaper and
the following one, might be expected to find a
place within its columns. The conductors of a
newspaper, so far as nows is concerned, have not
to consider what their private opinions may be
touching the propriety of any occurrence. That
is a matter for their leading articles to take note
of, where comment upon news is expected.
They have simply to give the public as fair an
account as they can of any event, be it evil or
good, which is of public concern. All this would
seem to be so obviously the first duty of a
journalist,—the keeper of the public journals or
diary—that it should be needless to enforce it.
As the French have it, it should go without
saying. But to judge bj recent occurrences the
morning papers of this city have yet to learn the
initiatory lesson. If they are to be called news-
papers, it must be on the lucus a non lucendo
principle of withholding the news.
All last week the town was in a ferment over
the stoppage of Mr. Proctor’s Sunday lecture.
Even the tidings of General Roberts’ grand
victory and Ayoub Khan’s stampede, the wrecks
of the Sorata and Eric the Red, the Randwick
races, and Sir Hercules Robinson’s coming
visit were less eagerly canvassed than the latest
intelligence touching the Sunday lecture and the
Parkes ukase. What would be the outcome of.
it? It was alleged by some that the Czar of
Canterbury had put down his foot and that the
Sunday Platform was doomed. The interest ex-
tended far beyond the single Proctor deliverance.
Had not Mr. Cbitchett Walker, replying for
the Colonial Secretary to Mr. Proctor’s agent
declared—“ I am desired to say that if Mr.
Bright or any other person has made similar
charges to those announced in the instance of
Mr. Proctor the practice has never, to Sir
Henry Parkes’ knowledge, been publicly
notified, nor the circumstance been brought
under the notice of the Government in any way.
The police will, however, receive instructions in
this respect in the future.” Nothing could be
clearer than this. Mr. Bright’s lectures, which
had been proceeding uninterruptedly every Sun-
day evening for eighteen months, were to be put
an end to by a coup de baton. It could hardly
be conceived that Mr. Bright’s charging a shil-
ling where Mr. Proctor charged four shillings
would preclude its being regarded as a “ similar
charge.”
Now, what happened? The Theatre Royal
was duly opened last Sunday evening, and filled
to overflowing with an enthusiastic audience
which paid at the doors the prices demanded for
the respective seats. Placards had to be placed
outside announcing “ standing room only.” The
lecture on “ The Gospel of Police ” was duly
delivered, and—on the following morning those
who looked to the recorders of news to learn
something of what had transpired the previous
evening found a blank. There were the usual
notifications about the arrest of the delirious
female, the number of inebriates duly reckoned,
the boy who had been run over, the exciting tea-
meeting which had been held; but the scene
whiph had been witnessed by such a vast assem-
blage within the walls of the Theatre Royal was
left unchronicled, notwithstanding that it formed
the culmination, as it were, of one of the most
eagerly-discussed Government interferences that
have ever occurred in New South Wales. People
had to wait until the Evening News appeared
to satisfy their curiosity. We end as wo
commenced, by enquiring—“What is a news-
paper?”
The Hon. Ezekiel Alexander Baker,
Minister for Mines.
The people of New South Wales cannot boast of
having had many brilliant statesmen. It is true
her illustrious Wentworth gave indications of
exalted genius, and Robert Lowe and John Bailey
Darvall shed corruscations of eloquence—parlia-
mentary and forensic —in the Senate-house and
the Supreme Court. If we have not had many
men of singular administrative ability, it is for-
tunate that several of those who occupy foremost
places in public life are persons ®f sound sense and
good morals—upright, painstaking, and energetic
men, who do real service for the honours and
emoluments they receive. The Hon. E. A. Baker
belongs pre-eminently to this class of men —is well
worthy of the trust reposed in him, and is anxious
to do fair service to the land of his adoption.
His life has been a varied one, but on the whole
successful. Born in Middlesex, England, in the
year 1823, he was at an early period of his life
initiated in the mysteries of A large manufacturing
business, both his father and grandfather being
contractors for military stores to the East India
Company and the Board of Ordnance. Whatever
advantages of education he could obtain, he sought
to obtain them with a zeal that showed earnest-
ness of purpose and a desire to cultivate his
highest intellectual faculties. While yet a young
man, Mr. Baker devoted himself to the study of
mineralogy and mining in general; and, when cir-
cumstances induced him to emigrate, in 1853,
he found his theoretical knowledge of immense
value. For many years he passed through the
chequered existence of a miner’s career, but
fortune and chance at last brought him into
public prominence. The reader knows something
about the Lambing Flat Riots and tl e “ roll-
up,” made against the Chinese in 1860. Mr. Baker
made every effort to allay the fury of those who
were most incensed against the “ Celestials,” and-
he succeeded in his pacific purposes. He was one
of the persons appointed at a public meeting to
lay the facts of the case before the then Governor,
Sir John Young, afterwards Lord Lisgar. Mr.
THE HON. EZEKIEL ALEXANDER BAKER, MINISTER FOR MINES.


Spioer assisted Mr. Baker in that mission, and to
both was the colony in a great measure indebted
for bringing about a peaceful solution of
a difficult question. Law and order were
promptly vindicated and lawlessness suppressed.
From that time we must look upon Mr. Baker as a
representative man. He kept himself before the
public not only as a politician, but as a journalist,
for wo find him in 1866 at Grenfell, where he issued
the Mining Record, a newspaper in whose
columns he expressed strong views on the _ more
important questions of the dayand made himself
extremely popular with the miners, particularly
those of the Southern Gold-fields, who returned
him to Parliament as their representative, a favour
they have conferred on him eight times in suc-
cession. Ho discharged an important duty while
on the Gold-fields’ Committee, and to him the
country is mainly indebted for the splendid statis-
tical Report on her auriferous regions. Mr. Baker
was not long in Parliament before he made the
solid qualities of his mind and character felt. We
are not inditing a panegyric ; we are not claiming
for him any extraordinarily shining characteristics.
He is a “plain blunt man,” but honest withal,
and is as worthy of the position he occupies as
either of the knightly free-lances, whose coalition,
offensive and defensive, is the theme of much
exaggerated eulogium in the new Colonial Secreta-
riat! Mr. Baker was put into the Commission of
the Peace in 1873, and became Minister of Lands,
vice Garrett, retired on his rank, in the Robertson
Forlorn Hope Ministry of 1877. The re-integrated
Ministerial combination put Mr. Baker into the
bureau of Mines in August, 1877. Then came the
Parkes-Robertson compact of 1878, and the further
b« vilification of the subject of this notice as
Secretary for Mines. Mr. Baker has administered
the affairs of his office with marked ability and
contributed in no small degree to the placing the
great mining industry of the colony in its present
prosperous condition.
A Titled Geebung.
Messrs. P. A. Jennings and John Davies
have, so the cable informs ns, been awarded
titular distinction. The former is now to be ad-
dressed as “ Sir Patrick; ” and from an enthu-
siastic people floridly-worded letters of congratu-
lation will no doubt pour in by hundreds to
“John Davies, Esq., C.M.G.“ Nobody, wo feel
assured, grudges the Executive Commissioner of the
late International Exhibition an honour which he
is understood to have long coveted, and which ho,
a loyal, cultured, able and energetic public man,
has fairly earned. Mr. Jennings, whose able
administration of the affairs of our great show is
far from being his only credential, would not dis-
grace ns anywhere; and ho has long been pointed
out as a man upon whom her Majesty^would no
doubt be asked to confer some mark of favour.
But now Mr. Jennings has attained a title
of which any British citizen would under or-
dinary circumstances have reason to be proud,
we don’t know whether to pity or to congratulate
him any more than we know on the moment
whether to laugh at Mr. John Davies in all the
glory of his newly-acquired prize, or to resent its
conferment as the grossest and most brutal insnlt
ever offered to the intelligence of this community.
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., M.L.A., and Aider-
man, is ton thousand other things. In politics he
is merely the sycophantic retainer of a scheming
and utterly insincere chief, in whose service he is
kept by reason of the fact that John Davies
is the only professional politician in New South
Wales less sincere and more designing than his
employer. Of course no one compares the intellect
of the master and the man, who to each other are
relatively as a lion would be to a very diligent and
unusually hungry jackal. John Davies owes
his innumerable petty public distinctions solely to
the imperturbability of his temper —to the admir-
ably acoommodating disposition which enables
him to fawn on every government, party, and sect,
and to be kicked by everybody without complain-
ing. Ho is an utterly insignificant localist. It
is fair to assume that Lord Augustus Loftus
knew something about the appointment when
first it was proposed, and that he has know-
ingly or unknowingly been used by Sib Henry
Parkes as the means of utterly degrading the
Order of St. Michael and St. George, and of turn-
ing what was intended by her Majesty to be a
compliment to Mr. Jennings, his political oppo-
nent, into a grievous insult. The order has never
been regarded as a by any means distinguished
body, but up to the present time it has included
only men of good political repute and at least fair
intellectual culture. Sir Patrick Jennings may
well ask to be saved from his friends. In future,
whenever a man agrees to be a K.C.M.G. or a
C.M.G. he will bo regarded as tacitly admitting
himself to bo on the same intellectual level and of
the same despicable political creed as John
Davies, the prince of Geebungs. No one under-
stands John and his little game hotter than Sir
Henry does ; and the fact that the Premier
should, on the ovo of a general election, have
found it necessary or expedient to throw such a
sop to Cerberus, only evidences what a desperate
clutch the Knight of Faulooubridgo is making at
his fast-fading power.
The Penny Bennett a short while ago in a
brevity remarked that jokes improved a comic paper.and
that Sydney Pusch would be readable if a little humour
were embodied in its letter-press. This statement
“ riled ” our comic little contemporary in an hi-cke-
traordinary degree, and it published a waspish rejoinder.
The little hunchback, however, can now score a point;
for on Friday last the Afternoon Alfred is delivered
of the following cabuloua—we mean fabulous (but it’s
catching)—pleasantry “ Ayonb Khan thought ho
could ‘squelch’ the British, but Ayoub Can’t." It
would have been more candid—or perhaps we could
with more fitness say Candahar—on the part of our
contemporary to have acknowledged from whence they
culled this time-honored, not to say bald-headed,
pleasantry. It iros ours, and so was the elegant !xm
mat which defined "Bright’s Disease” as being
Spiritualism; but then, you know, ns we said before,
the Vbspernal Nuisance is quite welcome to all our
little jokes—after we and the public have done with
them.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. George Pile says he’s safe for Canterbury.
G. H. Reid is the coming Free Trade champion.
How will onr holy friend do without his certi-
ficate ?
Sir Henry Parkes is to be nominated for East
Sydney.
Mr. rrickett’s election for Woollahra is almost
,a certainty.
Mr. J. H. Heaton, of the T. and C. Journal,
stands for Young.
Rumour is silent as to the political intentions of
Cover, Peter Campbell and A. B. Rae.
Messrs. S. C. Brown and W. J. Foster are
thought by many to be safe for Newtown.
Cover’s going to risk £40. However, a cover
will not be laid in the refreshment-room for him.
Charley Roberts says he knows nearly every
man that signed his requisition as a personal friend.
Sam Lees hopes to slip in somewhere. Why,
he’s got so thin he’d have to cough in a division to se-
cure his vote being counted.
David Buchanan objects to requisitions as being
so many pledged votes. We know one candidate who
hasn’t had a requisition yet.
Mr. S. H. Terry stands for Mudgee. Mr. Bu-
chanan, Mr. Rouse, and, it is said, Mr. J. G. O’Connor,
will be the other candidates. '
Ikey Josephson has elected himself, and has
already invited John Davies and Dan O’Connor oyer
to tea every night of the session.
Gladesville and Darlinghurst should have been
created separate electorates. We could name some can-
didates who would stand for either.
George Pile says Sir ’Enery’s mistake is fifty
points in his (George's) favour, and he is arranging to
nave a sale after four o'clock any day.
Tom Slattery says he isn’t a bit afraid of Mr.
Campbell for Burrowa, but he thinks the electors
shouldn’t expose so respectable a man to certain defeat.
Mr. Henry Carey Dangar will be nominated, it
is said, for the Hastings. The other candidates already
announced are Mr. J, D. Fitzgerald and Mr. W. H.
Gill.
Mr. G. H. Reid is certainly coming for one of
the Sydney electorates, and will be the civil servants’
favourite. Free Trade on to that onght to secure a
victory.
The requisitions to Mr. Plgott from Canterbury
have been very numerously signed. Mr. Pile has like-
wise received from the same quarter every assurance
of support.
Requisitions signed by over 2,000 persons have
been presented to Mr. R. B. Smith, asking him to stand
for the Macleay. and likewise for the Hastings. Mr.
Smith has decided to stand for the Macleay, and it is
understood he will be returned unopposed.
Mr. B. O. Holtermann meets with every support
for St. Leonards. Mr. Holtermann has, quite unknown
to the public, been instrumental in many public works
being taken in hand, and out of his own pnrse and by
his own efforts he has done more abroad than any per-
son we know of to advertise the wealth and greatness
of this colony. He is determined, he says, to ally him-
self with the beat interests of St. Leonards, and is con-
fident of receiving liberal support. Mr. Holtermann’s
meeting at Manly last Saturday was a very successful
one. He promises to address the electors at an early
date.
Hustings Fledges.
Electors are reminded that candidates for Parliament
must be called upon absolutely to pledge themselvee to
the following things:—
1 Honesty in politics.
2 The Balmain tunnel.
3 Abolition of corruption.
4 A Civil Service Bill.
5 The North Shore bridge.
6 Good behaviour in the *ouse.
7 Railway to Circular Quay.
8 Water to the suburbs.
9 Intelligence for Bathurst.
10 Equity in Divorce matters.
11 Abolition of Supreme Court Judges and institution
of arbitration by the Press.
12 Moral reformation of the Police.
13 A clean sweep out at the Infirmary.
14 A new Board at the Randwick Asylum.
15 An educational test for Magistrates, Jurymen,
and Members of Parliament.
16 Abolition of free passages by Rail for Members to
attend cattle sales and other artistic lines of
business.
17 Freedom of the Sunday Platform.
18 Repeal of ancient barbaric legislation.
19 Abolition of Chinese.
20 Ditto imprisonment for debt.
21 Reform in libel punishment laws.
22 Cultivation of trees and shrubs in towns.I
23 Education of Municipal Councils and Mayors in
suburbs.
24 Equalization of property.
25 Assertion of women's rights and punishment of
women’s wrongs.
26 Regulation and lighting of the Town Hall clock,
27 Enlivenment of Parramatta.
28 (John Davies) Abolition of Free Feeds.
29 Government supervision of lazy waiters at cater-
ing and coffee palaces. (Mem: Reduction of
Coffee Palace waitresses' hours of work—from
91 to 48 hours per week—so that they won’t
work harder than blacksmiths.)
30 Inspection of sausages.
31 Clearing of omnibuses and civilising of con-
ductors.
32 Suppression of blatherskite.
33 Paving of Sydney streets.
34 Cleansing of the Soup Kitchen.
35 Abolition of Surry Hills omnibuses.
36 Due delivery of Bulletins posted to subscribers
37 Justice to Denominational and Public Schoo
teachers.
38 Reduction of Dr. Belisario’s high charges.
39 Promotion by fitness in the Civil Service,
40 Monopoly to the Bulletin.
41 Opening the School of Arts on Sundays.
42 Suppression of Qeebungs.
43 More "philanthropic” 20 per cent, institutions.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Roman Catholics in Gerringong are going to
build a church.
Bankrupts are not to be allowed to hold offices
in Presbyterian churches.
Rev. Dean Flanagan has been granted prolonged
leave of absence from Wollongong.
Rev. S. J. Green, of Melbourne, formerly of
Campbell town, is on his way to Queensland in search of
health.
The Rev. A. H. Mackonoohie, the well-known
Ritualist, who has recently been suspended, contem-
S late a taking a holiday extending over some months in
anada and the United States.
Mr. Gow Jukafifar, a full-blooded African
educated af the Wesleyan Missionary Training Insti-
tution, South Africa, and who is described as being a
pleasing and fluent speaker, has been drawing large
audiences at Mount Gambier and Narracoorte, S.A.
When Canon O’Rielly preaches at the Cathedral
the beau mcmdc get it all round. Last Sunday afternoon
his te»t was “ The life is more than meat, and the body
more than raiment.” On this foundation he raised a
pillar of fiery wrath that should consume all such vani-
ties as pull-backs, artificial fore-locks, and patent ex-
pression corsets. Fashionable ladies were told they
would be indicted for the ruined sight and early deaths
of thousands of poor dressmakers, that the original aim
which rendered dress necessary was ever accumulating
at compound interest, showing itself even in the con-
firmation service, when candidates appeared to think
more of their semi-bridal drees and elaborate jewellry
than of the sacred oath they were taking.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Chicken-pox is raging in Ravens wood, Queens-
land.
The proposed match, Australian v. English
professionals, hak been abandoned.
latest accounts war was inevitable at the
Cape between the Basutos and British.
Sampson, who is sojourning at Darlinglmrst
Gaol, is in the mat-making department.
The sixteenth annual show of the Murrumbidgee
Pastoral Association proved a great success.
The average weekly yield of gold at Charters
Towers lias for some months past been 1660oz.
Within eight months 560 tons of tin ore, valued
at £27,871, have been exported from Cooktown.
There is now considered to be no chance of
floating the Sorato. Seas was over her at frequent in-
tervals.
Professor Cavill, owing to bad weather, did not
attempt his long swim from Parramatta to Sydney, on
Saturday.
The Now Zealand Parliament has been pro-
rogued. The chief characteristic of the session has
been talk.
The courts at the Melbourne International are
all very backward, and the accommodation for refresh-
ments is considered disgraceful.
The M‘IIwraith Ministry has done well by
Townsville. Macrossau, the Minister for Works, .is
member for that dignified little town.
The City of Sydney took away to San Francisco
100 tons of. wheat and a quantity of oats. This is
carrying coal to Newcastle with a vengeance.
The Insurance Companies Bill, introduced into
the N. Z. Parliament, is condemned on the grounds
that it would drive foreign companies out of the field.
Mr. William Arkwright, recently inheritor of
the large estates of the Arkwright family at Sutton
Scarsdale, Derbyshire, lias become a convert to the
Romish Church.
Canon O’Reilly, in denouncing the turf on Sun-
day night, said that if the bookmakers were to go to
heaven, he didn’t want to go there. The “books ” are
glad to hear this.
A number of the New Zealand telegraphists,
who have been dismissed in consequence of the reduc-
tion in the Civil Service, intend trying their luck in
Cape Colony and America.
Lady Franklin’s tree on the Huon road, Tas-
mania, inside which twenty-six people could dine
comfortably, has followed the illustrious Arctic explorer
and his good wife. Dead.
The editor of the Campbelltown Herald has
in his last issue a leading article on “ Lying"- -a subject
on which, as might have been expected, he touches with
the dexterity of a practised hand.
In the restoration of the railway bridge across
the Tay it is proposed, instead of the 13 long girders
which were blown down, to erect 23 smaller girders,
varying from 100 to 109 feet in length.
In consequence of the State’s neglect to destroy
infected vineyards, phylloxera vantatni has secured a
firm hold in Victoria. Not much hope appears to be
entertained of its speedy eradication.
On Saturday last a train running between Wel-
lington and Greytown, N.Z., was caught in a gale of
wind which capsized part of it over a precipice. Three
persons were killed and a number injured.
The Russian police have discovered that the
ordinary commercial advertisements of the press, even
of the official journals, are frequently worded so as to
convey Nihilistic proclamations and messages.
It was a pretty grim satire, in the present state
of things, to ask a Supreme Court judge to propose
“ The Press ’’ at the Sir Hercules banquet. However,
Sir William Manning is no enemy of the newspapers.
The Metropolitan Board of Works, London,
have adopted a recommendation that the application of
the National Sunday League for permission to place a
band in Finsbury Park on Sunday evenings be granted.
An irrigation association, to secure the advan-
tage of water supply during dry seasons to orchards and
land under cultivation, on the system adopted in Spain,
France, Algeria and the Levant, is the latest Brisbane
spec.
A new court-house was recently opened in a small
town in N.Z. The first occupant of the dock was a man
charged with being drank and disorderly. His Wor-
ship the Mayor lot off the accused in honour of the oc-
casion.
The match Australia v. Sussex has been drawn
on account of heavy rain. The match so far was de-
cidedly in favour of the Australians. Sussex scored in
their first innings 107; the colonials lost eight wickets
for 119.
The projected elopement at Burwood turns out
to be a canard. It proved to he a mere preparation on
the part of our friend Mr. Wilkinson (the popular
vocalist), for his intended visit to Melbourne re our
mineral exhibits.
The splendid atand*made by the Australians in
the second isnings of their match with All England
has been a prominent topic of conversation during the
week, and has divided public attention with the Parkes-
Proctor imbroglio.
The following result attended'a poll recently
token at Mount Gambier, S.A., on the Sunday closing
of public-houses questionIn favour of total closing,
252; keeping open two hours, 76; keeping open all day,
12; declined to vote, 29.
The last religious census in France shows that
there ore 35,387,703 Roman Catholics, 467,531 Calvinists,
80,117 Lutherans, and 33,119 of other Protestant de-
nominations. The Jews number about 50,000, and
90,000 are attached to no church.
The Bourko police allow prize-fights. Recently
there was a protracted and most exciting combat
between two local residents, a coachman and a butcher
respectively. “ There was a woman at the bottom of
it," and the coachman prevailed.
Dampier left for England by the John Elder,
to claim the estate gained by Mrs. Dampier as a result
of the termination of the Chancery snit, to which we
have more than once mode reference. We are glad to
hear that he intends returning ere long.
Oyer the principal arch of the Melbourne Ex-
hibition is written “ Victoria welcomes all nations."
The unemployed suggest the addition of the words
“ Except the Chinese.” Others suggest that the words
" At 25 per cent, ad valorem ” should be added.
During the voyage of the Hinemoa from New
Plymouth to Lyttleton, N.Z., the Maori prisoners made
things generally lively in the hold of the vessel by a
long war-dance and a number of performances which
were probably required to keep their spirits up.
At the annual district meeting of the Auckland
Oddfellows the corresponding secretary showed that
the lodges had expended £1046 14s 4d during the
year in sick gifts, and in funerals £247. The gain
in the funds during the year amounted to £1857 14s 5d.
The Petersham Municipal Council are making a
big muddle over their Town Hall. A piece of land was
bought for a School of Arts, and a Government subsidy
granted. They buy a block alongside and propose to
build the Town Hall on both allotments—no School of
Arts!
An electrical appliance wakes up the Customs
cashiers at twenty minutes to 4 every day. The ap-
pliance is to be further developed so as to prevent
clerks from showing the Treasury orders to agents and
others before such orders are knqwn to even the indoor
officials.
Jones, a supernumerary, has to enter from the
right and say, “My lord, the carriage waits.” Certain
changes having to be mode, the stage manager informs
Jones he will have to enter from the left and say, “ The
carriage waits, my lord." "My ,” Jones
exclaims, in pitiable accents, "Mire study! More
study! *
Mr. T. M. Slattery says that under the new
Electoral Act the next Assembly should consist of 113
members instead of 108. Canterbury, the Mnrrum-
bidgee, and Redfern will, he thinks, if proper steps are
taken, be entitled, under the provisions of the Act, to
three members each instead of two; and Balmain and
Bourke to two members each instead of one.
When Macaulay was an undergraduate he at-
tended an election meeting at Cambridge, and was re-
warded by a dead cat being thrown in his face. The
man who hurled the offensive article apologised by say-
ing that he had no wish to hit Mr. Macaulay, as he in-
tended it for Mr. Adeane. “ I wish," replied Macaulay
“you intended it for me and hit Mr. Adeane.”
Spiers and Pond comfortably lunched 4000
persons at the opening of the new London docks. There
were 500 waiters, 100 cooks and carvers, and a mile and
a-half of table-cloth. The value of the plate on the
tables could not be less than £50,000 ; while the cham.
pague drunk would easily have floated the boats that
contained last year’s Oxford Cambridge crews.
The latest by cable is that her Majesty has been
graciously pleased to institute a new order of knight-
hood for the benefit of distinguished N.S.W. residents.
This will be known as the most illustrious order of Gee-
bungs. The regalia will consist of a collar which will
hear “ Government whip ” argaut, and the jewel, to be
worn on the left breast, will be a discarded anvil.
In the Medical Bill introduced by the South
Australian Government it is provided that persons pre-
tending to be legally qualified are to be liable to «
jjenalty of £20. Non-qualifled men are not to give a
certificate of death or to be able to charge unless it is
shown they did not represent themselves as qualified,
and are not to receive any fees for giving evidence as
experts.
A very lamentable event occurred at Burwood
on Tuesday in the sudden death of Mr. Herbert Hock-
nell Dawson, son of Mr. John Dawson, the well-known
solicitor. The deceased gentleman had been ailing but
for a few days, and his death was quite unexpected.
Mr. Dawson’s many good qualities had endeared him
to a large number of friends, to whom the news of his
death occasioned deep regret.
At Micalago a party of hard-working minors are
said to have a good property. They have 600 ft. of reef
which at the surface is 18 in., at the 60 ft. level 33 in.’,
and at 100 ft. 51 in. wide, going down between two’
splendid walls. The quartz, the gold in which grows
coarser and coarser os the lower levels are reached, is
yielding 15dwt. to the ton with old and very defective
machinery. There is a large waterfall near the claim,
and the men are willing to come to terms with anyone
who will supply a powerful battery.
Mr. Charles Bright’s lecture at the Theatre
Royal last Sunday evening was duly delivered before a
crowded house. To the last there was considerable
difference of opinion as to whether the lecture would be
permitted to be given or not, but no interference with
it was attempted. Some of the public officials pur-
chased tickets and took notes of the proceedings,
apparently with the object of subsequent action. In
place of Mr. C. B. Foster presiding at the organ aqd the
usual choir, the platform was filled with supporters of
the lecturer, prominent among whom were the Hon. J
Bowie Wilson (in the chair) and Mr. Greville, M.P.
J. S. Butters is trying to re-establish the Vic-
toria Club, Coll ins-street, Melbourne, which was some
years ago inaugurated with a flourish of trumpets, bnt
which, like "Butters’ diamonds,” and Cakobau’s crown,
didn’t shine long. The place, during its brief existence
as the home of a cotisation, was a veritable cave of
Adnllam, where all the " needy, seedy and greedy ’’ —
people who called themselves "leading doctors” and
yet found it necessary to advertise ; briefless barristers,
and salary-grabbing Berryites who liked cheap billiards
—were wont to congregate. Let us hope that the ever-
energetic J. S. B. will succeed in drumming up his
faithful followers and safely depositing them once more
within the beautiful and historic precincts of "the Bird-
cage."
A New Zealand sporting writer (“ Pegasus”) has
published his annual register for the past season. An
extract will no doubt be interesting to onr readers —
Otago was the largest prize giver, with £8411; Auck-
land, £8092; Canterbury, £7368; Wellington, £606;.
Of Clubs, Canterbury Club gave most money, £3345 •
Dunedin, £2745; Wanganui, £2545; Auckland, £225o!
The largest winning owners were Mason and Yallanoe.
£2434, R. Ray, £1821; Waiters, £1762; Butler, £1756;
Stead, £1749 ; Goodman, £1504 ; Robinson, £1325 ;
Keith, £1215; Cutts, £1107; Mclvor, £1085. The prim
cipal winning horses were—Betrayer, £1656; Mata,
£1107; Chancellor, £1000; Foul Play, £958; Soukar,
£887. Traducer’s stock won over £10,000; Day Daw*
coming next, with £3000; Dead Shot, £1307.
Mias Blyth, whose name is now so well know*
in connection with the recent extraordinary poisoning
case at Wellington, N.Z., says that when Henderson
mixed strychnine with the lemonade she at first believed
himtq be in jest, but he became very violent, and swore
that if she did not instantly drink her share he would
pouri t down her throat by force, and expressed his re-
gret that his pistols had been taken from him, as other-
wise he vowe d he would have mode matters snre
at once by blowing out her brains first and then his
own. She still hesitated, but ultimately, overcome
with terror at his storming, and seeing no way of es-
cape, as he was preparing to execute his threat, she, by
a sudden impulse, yielded, and swallowed the poison, he
immediatly afterwards following her example. Then
he rinsed the glass out with water and mode her share
the dregs. she says that they drank share and
share alike. However, Henderson died; she has re-
covered.
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson with
Lady Robinson and family arrived in Sydney on Sunday
morning last by the Rotomahana from N.Z. On landing
at the Governor’s Steps, where a guard of Permanent
Artillery was stationed, and 500 or 600 citizens gathered.
Sir Hercules was received with enthusiasm. The party
were conducted to Government house, where Sir Her-
cules, Lady and Miss Robinson remained as the guests
of Lord Augustus Loftns. On Monday the city was
astir to do honor to the presence of our Late Governor.
The shipping and the principal business houses of the
city were decorated with bunting, and business was
almost entirely suspended, the public offices being
closed during the afternoon. The sports at Randwick
got up in honor of Sir Hercules proved a splendid finale
to the Spring Meeting; and, in point of attendance and
sport, was a grand tribute to his Excellency. To the
Committee of the A.J.C. and Mr. Clibborn belong the
honor of getting up a day’s sport that probably has
never before been equalled in this colony. On Tuesday
the commissioners of the International did honor to
Sir Hercules. They received him at the Garden Palace
on Tuesday, and together with Lady Robinson and the
other members of the vice-regal party,he was shown over
the building and grounds. After the promenade a
luncheon was partaken of, and the affair passed off in »
pleasant manner. In the evening Sir Hercules was en-
tertained at a banquet in the Town Hall. On this
occasion his Excellency found himself surrounded by
a gathering of the best men in Sydney—the representa-
tive menjof this colony. The Mayor presided, and did
the honors of his position in right style. Neat speeches
were made. His Excellency’s health was drunk with
immense enthusiasm. Sir Hercules made a splendid
speech, quite equal to those addresses he delivered some
years ago when the whole colony was roused almost to
a new life. The banquet was about the best that has
yet been served up on any occasion in this city, and did
great credit to Compagnoni and Co. Sir Hercules,
family and suite left overland for Melbourne by special
train on Wednesday evening.
The Goulburn Herald says the Immigration
vote should be devoted exclusively to the introduction
of females
Mrs. Rierman, a resident of Wellington, N.Z.,
was blown clean off her feet by a sudden gust of
and she fell to the ground with such violence as tobreax
one of her legs. Wellington is the champion windy cuy
and a Wellington man who goes abroad is always known
by the anxious way in which, while turnings street cor-
ner, he puts his hand on his hat to keep it on.
When the Empress of Russia was placed in her
coffin she was arrayed in the imperial robes, with long
mantle, crown and all her decorations, including that
the Red Cross of Geneva, which she prized above a >
her feet were encased in white satin shoes— the wn
costume being more fitted for a festival than tor
journey to the land whence no traveller returns.


Amusements
rji H
Lessee
E A T R E
ROYAL.
Mr. Samuel Lazar
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
_ llt v , , THIS evening.
VV ill be produced Lord Lytton's world-renowned Plav
MONEY.
SATURDAY, September 18.
Production of Byron’s successful Comedy.
THE OIELS,
for the lirst time in Syduey.
Ti, is , p . la ?Tr is not to be confounded with a comedy
entitled Weak Woman,” which has recently been
played through Australia under the title of "Our
Gfirlg.'*
NEW SCENERY by Mr. GEOEQE
The plays produced under the stage direction of Mr
Frederick Marshall.
AETHUE QAENEE, Manager.
Doors open at 7.15. Curtain will rise at 8 o’clock
sharp.
Prices of Admission; Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3s
Family Circle, 2a ; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, Goorge-street, where
seats can be secured six days in advance.
Q
U E E N ’ S
theatre.
THE LEWIS JUVENILE “ PINAFORE ”
COMPANY.
having the sole right of producing
JUVENILE PINAPOEE throughout the Colonies
by special arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson,
the
LEWIS JUVENILE PINAPOEE COMPANY,
varying in ago from 3 to 13 years, will perform
EVEEY EVENING, until further notice,
“ H.M.8. PINAFORE.”
with Pull Chorus of GO Children, the whole arrange-
mente and production under the supervision of Mrs.
irV,™ Lewl9 - Conductor at the Oj>era, Mr. JAMES
U KjCi.
Admission—3s., 2s., Is. No half-price for Children.
.Box plan at Nieholaon and Ascharberg’s,
I>oor« open at 7—commence 8 sharp.
g C H O O L OF ARTS.
Lessee W, H. Thompson.
THIS EVENING.
nrT€ 0Mf ’?°5 r -/ J COLOSSAL MIEKOE of the ZULU
WAH, received Last Night with nuboundod enthusiasm.
Every scene applauded again and again The MAR-
VELLOUS MECHANISM the of nnifenml
l Mwi on “ L0KD CHELMSFORD'S BELIEF of
. thn VHr / echo—the BATTLES
of ISANDUT.A aud POHKE S DRIFT.
Concluding with the most iatricate piece of mechanism
in the world,
THE FUNEBAI. P K O C E 8 S IO N
OK T11K
PRINCE IMPERIAL
FEOM WOOLWICH TO C HISLEHUEST.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8 sharp.
' Front seats, 3s; second seats, 3s j gallery. Is.
Children half-price to lirst and second seats only.
Tickets to all parts of tho hall can bo had at Kirby’s
bookseller. Pitt-street; or Altraann’s. next door to the
School of Arts.
SATUHDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, GRAND MATINEE
for the convenience of Schools and Families.
Doors open at Half-past 2, commence at 3 p.m. sharp.
Descriptive Lecturer Mr. W. H. Thompson.
T
10 THEATRICALS AND OTHERS.
t tho VICTORIA THEATRE, WEST MAIT-
LAND, thoroughly reuovated and re-modelled.
J. Maitland,
THEATRE,’ NEWCASTLE.
TO LET, from September 13. Apply,
E. NUTTER, 102, King-street, Sydney.
E
DROP E S
BURWOOD,
300 Yards from Station.
Torrens’ Title.
T A T E,
This \ ALUABLL Estate will bo sold by public auction
ON THE GROUND, ’
SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER, at 3 p.m.,
BAIT, PEEVES.
issrLITHOGRAPHS of the subdivision now ready
KirSee Auction Advertisement.
ic-tT Note the terms.
WSolicitors.
J> U B L I C NOTICE,
f!l 9H S Y p U B UICLY PROCLAIM that the Sale
of the EDEOP or WALDRON ESTATES
.. _ HAS NOT BEEN POSTPONED,
as the Public may be led to believe in consequence of
Strips of Paper printed “ Postponed" having been
Maliciously and Wantonly posted over the Lithographs
and Posters of above Estates.
BATT, EODD, and PUEVES,
Auctioneers,
offenders! 1 ™ 0 f0r IDENTIFI CATION t o7the
What a fine day it is,” Charles 1 How bright
yon look! We shall enjoy our Picnic, no donut?
* x i? 8 ’ Matilda, I feel up to adny’s pleasure, although
that dinner last night I had to take any quantity
of liquid not to be mentioned here, and am none the
worse for it." “ Oh I Charlie, I wish I Jknow how you
always manage; you never had headache, and I think
not even heartache, so tell me".
keep EANDEKSOVg
•instock.—-Any.
" I always
LO ZEN GrES
bar lie whispers,
PODOPHYLLIN
FACTS FOCUSSED.
It takes 30,000 rose blossoms to make one ounce
o the famous* “ attar of roses," and yet upwards of
SOOOlbs. of the “ attar ” are manufactured in Italy alone-
Fires still of daily occuraeuce in N.Z. The liqui-
dators of the City of Glasgow bauk have brought the
payments to 17s. in the pound. There is now only
£500,000 owing. The N.Z. Government has called
upon all insoleent J.’sP. to resign. A cabman in
Christchurch, N.Z., wna lately arrested for drunkenness
and cruelty to a horse. He resisted the constable when
putting him in the lock-up, and fell heavily, breaking
one leg. A Sketching Club has been formed in Auck-
land, N.Z. The members of the Auckland (N.Z.) Har-
bour Board think so much of the certificate received
from the Sydney Exhibition Commissioners, that they
have had a number of photographs of it taken. A
critical weekly is to be published in Wellington, N.Z.
• The double poisoning case at Wellington, N.Z., in
which Matthew Henderson and Miss Blyth were con-
cerned, caused an immense sensation through the
colony. Garrard, the Sydney working man’s agitator,
was a failure in Auckland, N.Z. A boy named Wal-
lace, 16 years old, has died from drinking a great portion
of a bottle of brandy at Christchurch, N.Z. For de-
facing ear-marks in sheep two defendants have been
fined £20 each by the Wagga bench. A new paper.
The Times, has mode its appearance at Burrowa.
The Carcoar people are endeavouring to obtain a promise
that the Blayney-Mumimburrah line shall pass through
their town. Wesley's Garden Palace claim (tin) at
Vegetable Creek, has been sold to a company for
£30,000 cash. Special religious services, including an
oration by the B. C. Bishop of Sandhurst, have been
held at Albury, in memoriam of the late Kev. Dr.
M’Alroy. A large dam is to be constructed at Temora
by a limited company. At Newcastle the streets are
now watered with salt, water. Proctor’s course of
lectures at Newcastle was a brilliant success. Peter
Purcell, a Botany-street larrikin, threw stones at the
Randwick tram, and was fined 20s. Washdirt taken
from post-holes at Dalmorton, yielded colours.- Cap-
tain John Williamson, for many years commander of
the Agnes (s.), formerly trading between Port Stephens
and Newcastle, is dead At Ballarat potatoes are
selling at Is..per bag. At Gympie, a number of valu-
able horses have died of a disease about the nature of
which there is much difference of opinion. The Sonth
Louisa Company, Gympie, are again upon gold.
Latest Gympie crushings .—South Glanmire, 210 tons
for 600 ozs. gold; Glanmire Prospectors, 215 tons for
618ozs. retorted; N. Z. Junction, 100 tons for 179 ozs •
7 and 8 Monkland,.78;tons for 81 ozs.; North Glanmire
and Golden Crown going through ; South Lady Mary,
about to crush 70 tons. W. Field, travelling from
'femora to Yass by coach, suddenly expired at Corn-
laming. The S. A. Education Department have
further subsidised Professor Pepper to give two more
lectures to teachers and school-children. Part of the
body of a man in a dreadfully mutilated condition was
found on the rocks between Cape Otway and Apollo
Bay, close to the Glory Hole; also a packet of papers,
belonging to one Ed. Dobson, apparently a steward.
'Ihe Alfred Town selectors have held a meeting and re-
solved to vote for no one uot pledged in favour of the
abolition of interest on selectors’ unpaid balances.
Mr. M. Cullen recently brought 14,050 sheep from Logan
Downs to Turalee, Darling, in nineteen weeks, lauding
half of them fat. The wreck of the “ Eric the Bed ’*
brought £110. Mr. George Day, M.L.A., has been
banquet ted at Jindera.- A large number of
diggers en route for Temora have arrived from
New Zealand. The Adelaide Marino Board means
to charge the captain of the Sorata with having
lost his ship by wrongful act and default.
Lee Guy, a Chinaman, has been committed for trial for
the shocking murder of the poor woman at Kyoburn,
N.Z. Italian bees have been introduced in N.Z. from
’Frisco. A well-defined gold-bearing reef has been
found iu Wicklow, Ireland. It is said that Coe, who
sent down to Sydney from Appletree Gully, Inverell,
some stones supposed to be diamonds, has received a
handsome cheque from the consignees, a city firm of
jewellers. Efforts are being made to obtain the re-
lease from Pentridge of Harry Power, the bushranger,
who is ** on his last legs/' Capital cmahings are re-
ported from the Norton, Queensland. Barr and Go.,
of Oundagai, are having a battery erected at their claim.
The prospectus of the Melbourne bread and flour
store, on the co-operative principle, capital £50,000, has
been issued. A trout over two feet in length has
been taken from the ponds of Mr. Brown, of Bowonfels.
Ova were placed there two years ago.— Some Echuoa
boys recently It ole 112 quarter-pound packets of lollies,
and consumed the whole. A testimonial is shortly to
be presented to Dr. Lyons, of Wollongong, by the local
residents. A young woman named Lizzie Middleton,
has been committed at Armidule, on a charge of having
strangled her illegitimate child.—Mr. James, bntcher,
west Maitland, is sending 12cwt. of beef (spiced) to
England, as an experiment. A complimentary benefit
has been given at Granville, to Mr. Nobbs, in recogni-
tion of his efforts in the ad vaucement of local iu forests.
— At Queanbeynn, an old man, named Andrew Nilliers,
choked himself to death by trying to swallow a large
piece of meat. May Stone, a child of two years, was
tatally bnmt at Queanbeyau, last week.- Mr. William
i.umming has refused £1500 for his champion ram
Duke. The Victoria** Government intend allowing n
Melbourne firm to manufacture starch from rice in bond.
— The Victorian Minister for Works says that so
many public works are contemplated, that if in two
months a man finds himself idle it will be his own
v- . ~ ®°bh 1st and 2nd October will probably be
> ictonon public holidays, in connection with the open-
mg.oi the International. Gunster, the well-known
fashionable caterer, of the Cafe Gunster, Melbourne,
his sold his business to his partner, under terms which
prevent him from purveying locallv for a long time to
come.-—There are, by last returns. 1454 borrowers
from tbe Free Public Library. General Brooks and
six Officers were killed in i he sortie from Candahar on
Laycosk and Black man row from Putney to
lortloke on 5th Oct. Trickett, it appears, was at
latest mail dates taking gentle exercise, and was 281b.
°™ight. The Siam, with the Suez mail, arrived
« Albany at 5.20 on Tuesday night. A dastardly at-
tempt has been made by some unknown persons to blow
up the London trains on the North Western Hallway
y dynamite.— -The Sydney school districts are likely
soon to be brought under the compulsory danse.
•twine Newcastle people undertake to return G. A. Lloyd
fO the Assembly free of all expenses. The Govern-
ment have decided that the tmmcars shall uot run
•innugtho hours of Divine Service on Sundays—this
oecause there are churches along the line. However,
ineir regard for religion has not yet induced them to
tL • ? £ rom tuning the tram on Saturday poet the
/vr d. Synagogne ‘ “ A subscription has been started
»■ i « Vlew of presenting Murdoch with a testimo-
t0J grand iuuiugs he played against All
England. It is proposed that as soon as the Anstra-
wns return they should be played against by a team
made up of the following —F. Allan, T. Horan ,0. Han-
Evans, Donald Campbell.Massie. Kendall, El-
.. v7. ■ Garrett, D.Gregory,F.Baker and Coates, Heuty
i is C<>0 , pe £; —r W - J - Holloway, the actor, bos
."Tjpted Frank Davis, of the Adelaide Advertiser,
•ua formerly of the Ballarat Cockier, on account of
0uraWe critique which appeared in the flrst-
‘led, Pupcr. During the -Melbourne International
r return overland fare will be five guineas. Mr.
Ea Hargrave has been apjiointed Primary Judge in
fA terrible colliery explosion has pccurred
; 130 persons were Killed. —Many
divuiii , ,ave occurred at Temora, and some good
have been declared out of the proceeds of
ahont- * P lc hed from wash-dirt. -The Wesleyans are
Del,it; , to e c rec -t 11 c 'hapel at Temora. The Adelong
“ct. Society are about to discuss the question:
-‘vi.1 Adelong become a Municipality ?" Of
Gen-i-m * bls , T 11 h® • decided in the negative.—-
aufi to/ a . Austria have entered into au offensive
them ? tens J ve alliance. Overtures made to Italy by
will ,.k e 1,een wel1 received. The Australian Eleven
__ u Way a return match with AU England o« the 20th.
Proposes that iu future the salary of the
and tf he £8,000, of the Chief Secretary £1,800,
been e ‘■’‘"her Ministers £1,400 each.——There have
two a hfff floods iu Victoria, and one or
Duke xpf- 1 vessels lost iu Southern waters.
severe] „ . K t t 'h, an Oxford-street publican, has been so
dying ,/ J -,- red , by oue Mic hael J. Cotton, that his
aid S f el°^ ous h ave been taken.— Generals Koberts
has been keen made K.G.C.B.'s, and the former
— —.jr_ p l . p^ Governor of the Madras Presidency.
M. and H. B. Railway Co ,
w aysV i Pl^ lnte d Eogiucer-in-Chief of Victorian Hail-
Victorian Civil Service
*o £700 I , over will remain unchanged ; those up
• w will be reduced 10, and above £700,15 ;er cent.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A lunatic escaped and married a widow.”
Escaped ? He got caught.
When a wife dies, she always leaves her hus-
band a wi-dower, (and generally a family.)
Time works wonders,” as the lady said, when
she go. married after a thirteen years' courtship.
A girl in Walgett challenges to run, jump or
swim any other on the Darling, for £5 or £50. The
Na . m Z 1 says We eon find a girl in Gun-
nedah that will kick against her.” The People’s
Advocate says There is a girl to be found in Qul-
gong that will skip against her.” Says the Babwon
A * , w ® can And a girl in Brewarrina that will
eat fish against her.”
The following advertisement appeared some
months ago in a newspaper, published not a thousand
miles from Carcoar: —“ The advertiser, who is not very
old, hardly ever rich, but an eminently distinguished
gmtleman hailing from Quid Oireland, would marry, if
much pressed, a widow with property not under sixty
thousand pounds.” And he got her. For particulars,
enquire Macquane-street.
A distinguished Parisian doctor says that the
lives of thousands of children are annually sacrificed to
the absurd custom of exposing their arms. The blood
that flows through the exposed limbs, falls below the
tomperatiire of the heart and compromises the child's
vitality. He says he has seen more than one child, with
cough or hoarseness, entirely relieved by simply keeping
the hands and arms warm., \
It is presumed that the strange oar-practices in-
dulged in by sundry amateur boatmen on Saturday
afternoon, are intended as a symbolic or telegraphic
mode of communication with their fair friends, who
comprise their boats' cargoes. When a future Triokett
laboriously forces his scull deep down into the azure-
covered mud, is it correct to suppose he wishes hrr to
infer that his love is quite as deep as that ? Or, when
he points his ashen blades at “ the beauteous orb of day ' ’
does he desire her to imagine that the heat fiery Sol can
heart 1 equnlleti the incandescence his burning
A little romance has takeu place in Masterton
H.Z,, m which a fair young lady with light fingers, and I
a police officer figured as the hero and heroine. It ap-
pears that the lady, whose name is Thom, got a pair of
boots by false pretences, for which offence she was ar-
rested and takeu to the station house; but on arrival
the heart ot the constable waxed warm, and. instead of
locking her np in a cell, he placed her on a comfortable
seat beside the kitchen fire. He required to go out dur-
ing the evening and on returning found that the bird
had flown. He gave chase, and discovered his victim
in a dancing room, and once more arresting her,
marched her off from the gay and festive scene to "dur-
ance vile.
A society of ladies has been formed in Christ-
church. N.Z., called the " Anti-Wild-Oats Society.”
The ladies have for their object the reformation and
moral improvement of young men. A vigilance com-1
mittee has been appointed, whose business it will be to
carefully watch the proceedings of all such as are in-
clined to enter on that horrid course called “ seeing
life” and a ‘‘general circumnavigation commission"
has been organized. Every lady becoming a member of
the Association takes a solemn vow, to the effect that
in case all other moans fail, she will (this being leap '
year) propose to the wayward one, and thus reclaim him. I
The latter motion is generally understood bv the sex to
boa “ clincher."
If in our public schools any attention were be-
stowed upon the cultivation of the sense of beanty, the
educated gentleman would not encourage by his ad-
miration the vagaries of feminine fashions, not be-
cause of its changes—" variety is charming "—but be-
cause all the changes revolve round a centre of radically
bod taste, formed by two fixed ideas, viz. that the waist
and the foot cannot be too 'small. Amid all of the
changes there is no being rid of the stiff contracted
waist, really ugly, always so low down as to suggest the
positive deformity of the short lower limbs, and cruelly
destructive to health ; nor of the straight compressed
shoes, destroying the form of the foot, and turning the
beautiful structure info a crippled bunch of bunions. j
Messrs. Davenport and Alcock’s Estab-
lishment.
Thebe ia no branch of industry in this colony
that has met with such surprising development as
the manufacture of boots. And it is to the credit
of the trade that this success should be secured
in the face of but small fiscal encouragement.
Not only has the market of this colony been com-
pletely won by our own manufacturers—that
is, of course, in respect of the important
branch of tho trade —but the very .same
result has been attained in Queensland,
New Zealand, and South Australia. New South
\\ ales has been remarkably successful in this
direction, despite the vigorous competition
created by tho aotiyty of Victorian manufac-
turers, and it is satisfactory to find that our
trade is every day on tho increase. One of
the principal boot factories in the colonies,*
and indeed the principal one in New South Wales’
is that illustrated on page 12. It is situated at
Marnckyillo, and on account of its dimensions,
tho position it occupies, and its immediate sur’
rouuidngs, it supplies quite a peculiar feature to
the locality. Tho proprietors, Mr. Joseph Daven-
port and Mr. Thomas H. Alcock, have been iden-
tified with the leather and boot trades in this
colony for very many years, and tho firm have a
reputation in this and the neighbouring
colonies—more particularly in Queensland and
South _An.stralia.~for the uniform excellence and
the comparative cheapness of their productions.
The gentleman whose name stands first in the
designation of the firm comes from the district of
Leicester, in England, a town famous for its
achievements in leather work and warhs. On the
other hand, Mr. Alcock. who delights in claiming
Tasmania as the place of his nativity, is a born
tanner, and for thoroughly practical personal
knowledge of hides and leather stands second to
no one in the trade. At tho rear of the building,
depicted on page 12, are tho tannery premises, very
spacious and complete, furnished with all tho
latest mechanical appliances, and capable of an
“ output ” of say seven to eight hundred hides per
week. The total area of the Marrickville works
is not less than seven acres, in addition to which
Messrs. Davenport and Alcock own land adjoining
tho factory, and they have a largo slice of “ scrub ’ ’
behind the tannery which serves the purpose of
deodorising the waste water, Ac., after passing
out of the works. Even these premises do not
take in all the manufactories belonging to the
firm : for they have another extenisve tannery at
bt. Mary South Creek, a village famed for tan-
ning operations throughout a lengthened period.
The tannery there is fitted up for working a
weekly average of more than six hundred hides.
It is surrounded by a somewhat large farm, the
soil being unusually rich and productive, doubtless
in a great measure because of the rich dressings it
receives of refuse from tho tanyard. Here the
firm grow corn and forage for their teams, and
the teams themselves area credit to them, for they
comprise some splendid young draught horses, for
which there is never any scarcity of work at their
various busy establishments. Contiguous to the
St. Mary a tannery is a fine orange orchard, and
Messrs. Davenport and Alcock have recently
planted some ten acres additional with carefully
selected orange trees. The business done in boots
by the firm of which we are speaking may be
estimated from one single statement. Since the
first of January in tho present year, the firm
have manufactured (arid nearly all have been
sold) no less than one hundred thousand pairs of
boots, and this during a season that is univer-
sally admitted to have been anything but a
??°~ °j 0 -. Tor leather they stand at the head of
tne trade in these colonies, and having for years
been regular exporters of “ sides” to England,
their productions are almost as well known there
a^ii in >> The brands “ D & A over Marrick-
Mary’s,” regularly appear in the
11 • on trade lists, to which we would
call the attention of those interested who may wish
to ascertain the truth of the matter. In the. case
or this firm the success attained may be deduced I
xrom the following catalogue of provable facts: —
At the 1st Exhibition held at Sydney, Mr. Alcock
took the premier prizes for all kinds of colonial
leather, the first prize for boots being awarded
to IMS partner, Mr. Davenport
At Philadelphia Messrs. Davenport and Alcock
obtained a bronze medal for their leather ex-
mbits, accompanied by a parchment certificate
setting forth that the products of the firm wore
sound and well tanned, and evinced thorough
skill in their manufacture. ,
At Paris the firms exnibited leather of various kinds
which unfortunately were somewhat damaged
transit, but nevertheless they received
‘ high commendation ” from the judges.
At the recent International Exhibition Messrs.
Davenport and Alcock had a splendid show, and
to them was awarded the first prize for all
leathers. The boots shown were improperly >
put in competition with hand-made goods; but
notwithstanding that evident unfairness and
great disadvantage, they gained the second
prize.
The warehouse and town office of Messrs. Daven-
port and Alcock are in Barrack-street, Sydney.
Town Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL.
On Saturday night Lord Lytton’s drama “ Money ”
succeeded “ The turn of the Tide ” at the Theatre
Royal. It cannot be said to contrast favourably
with previous efforts of the London Comedy Com-
pany. The scenery is in some instances incon-
gruous, and there are obviously some serious flaws
to be remedied. The play of “ Money ” offers op-
portunity for both scenic and artistic display, and
with it the most important part of the evening
is identified. In many respects some of the lead-
ing characters are well played. Miss Blanche
Stammers’ re-appearance, after her recent illness,
was the signal for a prolonged burst of applause.
As Clara Douglas her acting is marked by the quiet
force and refinement which has always charac-
terised her impersonations. Miss Alma Stanton
scarcely succeeds in doing justice to the part of
Georgiana Vesey, and her acting borders on the
monotonous. Mr. Titheradge displays some excel-
lent acting as Alfred Evelyn—his grip of the charac-
ter is strong and knows no faltering. Mr. F. Mar-
shall’s “Graves” is an excellent piece of acting,
and as the bereaved widower of “ Sainted Maria
is inimitable. Mr. Shepherd as Sir John Vesey,
shows himself to be a most capable artist, and
realizes his part in almost every particular. Mr.
Arthur Garner plays the part of Sir Frederick
Blount, and as a “ heavy swell.” seems to have
found a congenial part. His acting in this char-
acter is an agreeable surprise, and he plays with an
ease and freedom by no means usual.
“ Money ” will continue till next Saturday, when
* The Girls” will be produced.
QUERN'S THEATER.
“Pinafore” continues its extraordinary rnn at
the Queen's, and the Juveniles seem thoroughly
well inured to their work. The attendance during
the past week has been equal to that of the first
week. Good results for Lewis, Williamson, and
Green wall.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
In noticing Mr. W. H. Thompson’s "Colossal
Mirror of the Zulu War ” we may state at the
outset that the diorama in question is by far the
best thing of the kind that has ever been seen in
the colonies. The pictures are painted with a care
and finish that are positively refreshing to behold.
Thompson’s entertainment stands out pleasantly
in contradistinction to the one-horso dioramas wo
have been accustomed to. The Zulu War Show is
quite a mental invigoration; it is so bright, so
delicate, so charming in its every detail. And
more than this, there is a lesson to bo learnt in
beholding the pictures of the war in Zululand ;
and there are deep and adroit tonchos of pathos
interwoven in Mr. Thompson's able descriptive
lecture. The mechanical portion of the enter-
tainment Is quite marvellous in its ingenuity, over
three thousand moving figures forming the funeral
cortege of the late Prince Imperial from Woolwich
to Christchurch, Mr, Thompson’s delivery is
ready and flowing ; and his imposing personal ap-
pearance, lit up by a flash of diamonds, carries all
before it. The front of the house is superintended
by Mr. Philip Stuart, who is obliging and cour-
teous to the last degree. The orchestra is really
first-rate, a little mildness on the part of the cornet
being excusable when regarded in the light of an
excess of loyalty on the part of the performer.
We wish for Mr. Thompson the success he
deserves, and we sincerely trust he will have no
cause to regret the enormous expense ho Inis
incurred in presenting to the public this admirable
"Mirrow of the Zulu War.”
OPERA HOUSE.
The Mastodon Minstrels opened on Saturday
night, and have proved themselves to bo well
worthy of public patronage. Taking the company
all round they are excellent, and include some of
the beet minstrels in tho colony. Much judgment
has been used in the compilation, so to speak, of
the varied entertainment, and some of the solos
and glees are especially good. One of the best
songs of the evening is “ The Blue Alsatian Moun-
tains,” sung by Mr. Vernon Reid, who has greatly
improved since we heard him at tho late Interna-
tional Exhibition. Tho sweet and charming alto
of Mr. Beaumont Road, in that exquisite ballad
Pretty Blue Eyes ” is most acceptable,
and well merits the applause which it receives!
The only Leon is as sparkling and vivacious
as ever and appears as ” Jenny Leathorlungs ” in
an operatic burlesque. In ' dress, facial ex-
pression, he, with that grace peculiar to him, looks
the beau ideal of feminine attractiveness.
Mr. Bent, whether as an experimental lec-
turer, or ns Mr. Granby Gag, the London Manager,
was intensely amusing, and is certainly one of the
most spirited and versatile members of this
talented company. We can confidently predict
a season of success for tho Mastodon Minstrels
who are well worthy of a visit.
Mr. Hugh Taylor, M.P.
Vert few of onr representatives have exhibited
such thorough devotion to the welfare of their
constituents as has Mr. Hugh Taylor, the member
for Parramatta, whose portrait is given forthwith.
This gentleman has had a seat in Parliament for
the past twelve years, and during that period he
has always pretty actively associated himself with
substantial legislation. Mr. Taylor has ever occu-
pied an independent position in the Assembly,
adopting in a practical way the principle of
“ measures, not men.” Both in and out of Parlia-
ment, Mr. Taylor has done w r oll for the district he
has so long represented. In his private capacity
particularly he has shown himself much attached
to whatever concerns the welfare of Parramatta.
No public or private movement has ever lacked
support from him, and his liberality also has
manifested itself in a marked manner in connection
with the various schools and charities of the
district. It is moreover largely due to the exer-
tions of Mr. Taylor that vitality has again been
imparted to the Parramatta Jockey Club, whereby
good sport is annually provided for the people, and
an attraction created for sportsmen in all parts of
the colony. Mr. Taylor, wo learn, is again to be
nominated for his old constituency in the coming
elections, with the certainty, it is said, of renewed
expressions of confidence from his constituents.
The engraving is taken from a fine portrait by
Gorus. J


To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad to
receive information from correspondents living in. town
or country or the other colonies on subjects of general
interest, more especially on matters connected with
sport, the drama and fashion. Communications from
ladies will be especially welcome.
BRIEF MENTION.
Is life worth living? This depends on the
Liver.
Nearly every paper in the colonies is now trying
to imitate The Bulletin.
The unemployed mosquito is visiting Townsville,
and has already got an appointment.
Last time we saw Father Leeming’s big hotel at
Mount Victoria it stood without arrival.
When a certain legislator is in a jocular vein,
his friends call him a “ Merry Andrew.”
The “fifteen puzzle” has been given to the
Maori prisoners in N.Z. to keep them quiet.
“ McGuven” jumped for joy when he read that
his bete noir was going to—such warm latitudes!
Tombstones are cheap now in Shoalhaven!
Eoseby’s there, wooing the electors with promises.
The Cooktown journals are sad freethinkers.
They both blasphemed at the late rain-praying decrees.
The tram ran off the line on Saturday. Lucas
was coming towards it in his buggy. The motor
shied.
Of Parkes and Pompilius the initials and finals
are the same, and that is where the similarity begins
and ends.
The Herald spells “banqueted” with two
*t’s.’ But then the Hekald always did advocate ‘t’ea-
meetings.
It was an Irishwoman who said that though the
captain and all hands were on deck, yet Sor-a-ta(r) was
lost. —Zigzag.
The Evening News telegraphic reporter at
Newcastle, on Friday, re Proctor, coolly says:—“He is
to lecture to-night on the Sun.”
Melbourne Punch says that George Collins
Levey, secretary of the Melbourne International, is
making an exhibition of himself.
Some children of Maryborough have been “ play-
ing the Kelly Gang.” They put two under a large case,
while the rest set fire to the grass about it.
Last Sunday Charles Bright quoted from Emer-
son—“The Churches are outgrown—the creeds are
outgrown—the technical theology no longer suits us.”
Since Mr. John E. Pulton has announced his
** band contest,” the passage at Bowden’s has been con-
tinually blocked up by eager bandmasters burning for
riches.
Berry won’t let anybody but a solicitor and a
parson visit Ned Kelly. Like Mahomet’s coffin, Ned
may be said to be suspended between heaven and the
■other place.
Oamaru (N.Z..) publicans have been summoned
for diluting their brandy with water. It is not at all
likely that anyone will ever be charged with the op-
posite offence.
An octopus recently attacked an Adelaide con-
stable named Bruce, and tried to take him into cus.
tody. The “peeler” how charges the beast with in-
sulting behaviour.
The unfortunate mistake made by Mr. Proctor
in calling Frauk Warden “Warner,” prevented the
audience from seeing the point about his keeping a
watch over public interests.
The preachers, said Mr. Bright on Sunday,
object to “ The Contemplation of the Heavens” on the
Lord’s Day. On that day nothing is to be allowed but a
contemplation of the Hells.
It was a noticeable fact that only one “ liquida-
tion” office was kept open for business during TUri and
Kipur. The principal holds a high official position in
the Synagogue (not in Sydney.)
Samuel E. Lees is a candidate for Parliament,
and Samuel is a geebung. To paraphrase Macbeth, can
it be that “ the wine of politics is drawn, and the mere
Lees left in this vault to brag of ? ”
In his lecture last Sunday evening Charles
Bright said that if they were to choose between “ arbi-
trary authority” in Victoria and in New South Wales,
he should prefer Berryism to Fosberyism.
“ The more I know the ladies, oh! the more
I love them 1” John Davies cried of late.
By this we're really no much tickled, for
We wonder if these ladies will reciprocate!
A “ healing medium,” with plenty of good testi-
monials, has arisen at Newcastle. He cures rheu-
matism, neuralgia, toothache, headache, lumbago,
hysterics, paralysis. See. Terms, moderate. We are
sorry to notice so much competition in this business.
A Melbourne firm last year had ,£2000 odd
money beyond the cyphers in their credit balance. This
they generously presented to their clerks in the shape
of a bonus calculated at a percentage on their salaries.
At the “ Metrop.” Mr. McElhone was seen in
the Paddock smoking a cigar. On one of his consti-
tuents, a selector, approaching, and gazing inquiringly
at the weed, Mac hastened to ejaculate, in some confu-
sion : " It was given to me.”
The new Moderation Society on the Hodgkinson,
Queensland, is headed by Billy Little, of “FlyinglPig "
celebrity. The guiding principle of the association
prohibits more than one drink at a time. Drinks are a
shilling each on the Hodgkinson.
Justitia non Lex in themornin’ Mackat sings : —
Bring Mnfk Lemon—bring John Leech up for their
gross contempt and laugh.
On what authority does Jmtitia infer that because John
Leech is dead, he is down. Poor fellow ?
If the Colonial Secretary did snub Mr. Wisdom
by ignoring his correct legal opinion, surely that gentle-
man won’t retain his Attorney-Generalship ! Surely he
won’t consent to be regarded as occupying the degraded
position of a mere slaveof the Premier 1
The function of the police in a democratic com-
munity, said Mr. Bright last Sunday, is intended for
the preservation of freedom, not for its prevention.
When people assailed the liberty or rights of others
then, and not till then, they forfeited their own.
After reading from the Protestant Standard
a statement to the effect that the authorities had not
been aware heretofore of the fact of his charging for
the seats in the Theatre, Mr. Bright stopped and quietly
asked —“ Now, is that a truth or a Me Quven ? "
Bishop Barker has aged considerably. Of course
he does’nt see it, but he ooes’nt compare well with Mr.
Hoskins, the veteran actor,* his senior by years, —
although the life of the latter gentleman would be
described by his Lordship as one of “ sin and sorrow."
A firm *of city warehousemen “lent” one of
their clerks to an adjoining house last week.^The clerk
objected and said that man was never meant to be a
loan. The firm were firm and would not let him alone.
As he was not alone (having a family of 13) he was
loaned.
The following advt. appeared in the Evenin’
Noose :—“ Silks. —Three dresspieces from England.
Lady short time out, in want of money. Apply Soie,
George-street.” We shouldn’t wonder if the lady who
is short of money felt a little soi« in respect of her
shillings.
The other day a cart, bearing some dirty-looking
swags, passed through Braidwood. A man was in the
shafts, bearing the weight, while a miserable-looking
horse was in front as leader, fastened to the shafts with
ropes for traces. Three wretched-looking children, and
a still more wretched-looking woman followed. They
were evidently a family looking for employment. So at
least one New South Wales man has got to the level of
a beast of burden 1
We are glad to notice that the editor of the
Witness has, in accordance with our suggestion,
ceased to devote his rag to that Sisyphean task, the
“ conversion ” of the Jews. After writing 150 columns
of matter, he finds that neither Jew nor Gentile ever
read a line of it.
Sir Henry Parkea’ action in preventing Mr.
Proctor from lecturing on Sunday, in face of the
Attorney-General’s opinion that the astronomer’s pro-
posed act was not illegal, clearly shows that Sir Henry
has a greater regard for what he (or perhaps his eccle-
siastical friends) considers should be the law than for
the law as it stands. So at last we are under a dictator-
ship.
An English church at Petersham has now a
white-robed choir. They sang first at the choral ser-
vice last Saturday, and sat down to a recherche dejeuner
at the close of their labours. His Lordship, Bishop
Barker, was nearly half-an-hour late, and the congrega-
tion were edified and instructed by a long solo on the
cheerful bell outside.
The Thames (N.Z.) Gas Company can lay claim
to some distinction. It boasts the shortest annual
meeting on record, the business incidental to the
occasion having been disposed of within five minutes.
This result was achieved by the report and balance-sheet
being accepted as read, and the Chairman and other
movers of motions abstaining from the usual " few re-
marks.”
The belle of the
Union Club Ball on
Friday night was a
young lady, a native of
Goulbum.
It is said that the
fellows who open letters
at the Dead Letter Office
have to wear veils to
hide their blushes.
Thaddeus O’Kane,
editor of the Northern
Miner, says that pray
ing for rain is “ stone-
walling the Almighty."
The directors of the
Orient Steam Naviga-
tion Co. are s ore arter the
Sorata. [One ot the
Zig - Zag men mode
this].
The publicans of
N.Z. complain bitterly
of the reductions made
in Civil Service salaries.
No orders on “screws”
are flying about now.
Dr. Tanner’s having
maintained life on a diet
of water isn’t half so
wonderful as David
Buchanan’s prolonged
existence on a diet of
wind.
The Manly Her-
ald published som o
“ Happy Thoughts by
Tippoo." They are so
good that the proprietor
has told "Tippoo" to
Walkee — possibly to
Wakatipu.
J. W. Bull, of Ade-
laide, says the present
Chief Secretary of South
Australia, is the most
gentlemanly and courte-
ous individual he ever
met. But then, every-
body didn’t invent a
reaping-machine.
A melancholy-looking individual glided into a
William-street hotel the other day, and addressing the
occupants of the bar in a weary tone, said “ Will any-
one sign a requisition for S. E. Loos ? ” • • * The
doctors entertain sanguine hopes of being able to save
his other eye.
A rather amusing incident occurred recently at
the Soup Kitchen, Christchurch, N.Z. Au eccentric
individual applied for a bowl of soup, ate it, and on de-
parting laid half-a-sovereign on the counter. The bene-
volent associations there are anxious to relieve a few
more cases of this sort.
Victoria is getting up a gorgeous International
Exhibition, over which, directly and indirectly, she’ll
spend nearer half than a quarter of a million. She is
also “ sacking” all respectable public servants because
she can’t afford to pay tried intelligence and integrity,
and she’s taking off sixpence a-day from the pay of her
postmen. Happy Land!
We don’t often agree with Mr. David Buchanan ;
but what respectable white man can fail to endorse the
sentiments expressed by David in his letter to Tues-
day’s Herald y With the private conversation quarrel
we, of course, have nothing to do —we merely take the
stated facts, which Mr. Wisdom’s “explanation” ton
Herald reporter don’t materially alter.
Quoting what the Premier had written about
his sympathy with “the poorer and weaker classes,”
and contrasting it with the Sunday labour of Govern-
ment employes, Charles Bright brought down the house
by emphatically referring to Sir Henry Parkes as “ the
honourable member for Caut-erbury.”
The Burwood aldermen intend to make a claim
upon the Government for a reward for discovering a
kind of asphalting that the public will never wear
out. Persons desirous of viewing this can do so by
visiting the local School of Arts. It is placed in front
of that building. It is composed of bricks smashed
into quarters, and if walked upon in |the dork produce
a most peculiar sensation in gouty toes. Swearing is
now unknown at Burwood.
They are going to
have a matrimonial so-
ciety in Cooktown and
give premiums for legiti-
mate marriage. Strange
that up North people
won’t marry, though
each man has a wife.
Marcus Clarke, in
“ His Natural Life,"
makes the sailors on
board the convict ship
furl the top - gallant
sails before the royals.
He now says that it
was Dick Thatcher
who coached him in
seamanship.
As the Premier was
passing the Post-office
on Friday last he took
off his hat to a lady.
As he did so a sulky
artizan who was stand,
ing near growled out, —
“ It’s no good yer
’oldin’ out yer 'at. Sir
Henry, I have nothing
to put in it"
The Evening News,
in stating that if Spof-
forth plays in the return
match with the All-
England Eleven we may
all expect the tables to
be turned, saith, "The
wires may have a tale
to tell different to that
just unfolded.” Can
Pierce Egon be really
dead?
Some members of
the South Australian
community ore suffer-
ing I Here is an extract
from last Wednesday
week’s Evening Jour-
nal ;--Gustave Barbeck,
a foreigner, was sen-
tenced to fourteen days’
imprisonment for so-
liciting arms on the
Parade, Norwood.
This is what “ the press ” has come to. A man
who gets his living by sweeping chimneys and perform-
ing even less aesthetic duties in an inland town,_ ad-
vertises in the local paper that “ all communications
addressed to the care of the editor will receive prompt
attention."
Schenck’s picture, “ Anguish,” in the Victorian
National Gallery, cost £1200, "and yet," says iEgles,
“a friend of mine who knows a good deal about station
property says that no sheep ever opened its mouth as
does the ewe in Schenck’s picture without putting out
its tongue."
In the “ Merriwa Items” in the Evening
Waters, appears the following: —“Mr. W. R. Hall,
Esq., met with an accident. His horse fell upon him,
cansintr serious injuries, but he is now progressing satis,
factorily under Dr. Wilson. * Mr. W. Hall, Esq.,’ must
be a big man in Merriwa! ”
An advertisement appears in the papers, re-
questing those who wish to act on the committee of the
Rev. J. A. Dowie to apply without delay to Mr. Richard,
son, of Sussex-street. There had been no block of
enthusiastic admirers of the Rev. J. A. D. up to the
time of our going to press.
Bright’s advice to the clergy is : —“Don’t run
for the police when you find you find your theological
ground slipping from under you. Answer argument
with argument; reason with reason. The most fatal
condemnation you could pass on Ereethought argu-
ments would be their refutation.”
"We hear from Adelaide that Mr. Benjamin Jud-
kina, in his action against the Register, was non-
suited. We sincerely trust not, for Benjamin, like most
men who get damages on account of their “charac-
ters ” having been taken away by the papers, may pos-
sibly have only one suit to his name.
The beautiful scenery of the Bower, Mount
Wellington, has been wantonly laid waste by the Cor-
poration of Hobart Town. Visitors next summer will
miss the fern-shaded avenue leading to it from the Fern
Tree Inn. C. W. S. .Tames, Director of the Waterworks,
was the Goth who did the work. Only Mayor Burgess
and Alderman Maher had the courage to condemn it.
James’ avocation is, in fact, ’Avoc.
The candidates for the Victorian Government
Printership are said by Melbourne Punch to be as
follows: —George Collins Levey, because he once
made a book. Master Ben. Berry, because he’s fond of
“pie.” Henderson Africanus, because he wouldn’t
show the ink-marks. Little Mirams, because he would
be good company for the printer’s devils. O’Loghlen,
because ho wants a patriotic “press ” to support him.
Can the following, which appeared in Saturday’s
Herald, be a hospitable invitation to an old friend to
pay a social visit, or can it be a case of “shook” on
the part of the Jehu? —“Cabman who brought lady
from King-street to street, call again, as
he is known.” From the knowledge we possess of human
nature (and of licensed drivers), we think it extremely
probable that the cabman will call as requested.
Garrard, the Sydney “ labour agitator,” now in
New Zealand, recently said at a public meeting on the
“yellow agony ” question He had had enough of
the question in Sydney, and he would only say, there-
fore, ‘Let them as brings ’em ’ere support ’em, and
marry ’em into their family. They shan’t marry my
daughter.’ ” (Applause.) It is alleged that a Mongo-
lian who happened to be in the crowd muttered, " No-
body asked you, sir, to let ’em.”
Owing to some very officious and * proper ’
individuals having objected to scullers pulling in
short-sleeved jerseys, a document, of which the follow,
ing is a copy, has been posted at the North Shore Row-
ing Club shed ;—“Members of the North Shore Rowing
Club desirous of being considered gentlemen will for
the future bo required,, to row in full evening dress.
N.B. Caps, as hitherto, will be allowed.—(Sg.) Watt
A. Lark, Inspector of Costumes.”
The ablest and most vigorous paper in this
island (The Australasian) says of Sir Henry Parkes
that the celebrated lecture clause in his Licensing Bill
“appeared to he framed for the purpose of investing him
with the functions of Inquisitor-General and Censor of
the lecture platform.” The Australasian also remarks
that the Premier was responsible for the proceedings in
regard to Mr. Proctor, which proceedings were dis-
creditable and un-English in the extreme.”
This (says the Tamwobth News) is a true hill.
A certain party who visited Tamworth recently, said he
had, a week before, been asked to preach a sermon for a
brother down south. The skies were cloudy and
threatening, and Clericus thought it a good time to pray
for rain. He did so. When the service was over not a
cloud was visible, and the heavens were “darkly,
deeply beautifully blue.” That parson says he is
doubtful about the efficacy of prayer, now.
An order has gone forth (says Melbourne
Punch) that all the reporters are to have their photo-
graphs fixed on to their passes—we presume to prevent
them transferring. This precaution is perfectly useless.
All reporters are so much alike, and all so hideously
ugly, that it will he perfectly impossible to tell t’other
from which. The best plan would be for the door-
keeper to get his photo, pasted on to the reporter’s
pass, so that he could at once spot the man who ought
to let him in.
A rather remarkable bachelors’ ball was recently
held at Tunpeka Mouth (N.Z.). Each bachelor was
decorated with an insignia according to his age—thirty
years, one little bunch of creeping jeanie; forty, two
bunches; and sixty, three. The Chairman wore the
latter badge, and in a speech, which opened the pro-
ceedings, he informed his juniors that there was great
danger in delaying too long in a state of celibacy. Take
an example by me (he said). Behold an old man who will
have to sleep the rest of his days where no wife will be
seen!
Those two distinguished aldermen, Messrs.
McElhone and Bennett, were present at a banquet not
long since, when Hanley noticed on the menu the words
hors d’ceuvres. This he pointed out to the irrepressible
John, who, glad of having discovered an abuse even
upon such a festive occasion, called up the head-waiter,
and said, “ Look here ! we all know that h—o—r—s—e
spells ‘horse,’ and that’s enough to turn the stomach
of any honest man, without your adding: insult to in-
jury by putting Greek words after it which no one hnt
old Badhavn could be expected to understand. I’ll
bring it before the ’Ouse.”
Is it true or is it not true that the Sydney Coffee
Palace waitresses never work less than eighty-one
hours weekly ; that the average weekly period of their
labour is eighty-four hours; that one week out of everv
three each girl works ninety-four hours ; that each girl
has in her turn to work thirteen hours daily for thirteen
consecutive days ? Is it also true that the company re-
ferred to boosts on every possible occasion of its
“philanthropy?” and is eomposed chiefly of God-
fearing men, who never drink anything but coffee, and
go to church regularly ? As rumours embodying such
statements are in circulation we shall be glad to insert
in our next issue the snbstance of any communication
on this subject with which the Directors may favour
ns.
We the other day attributed a brilliant article m
favour of threepenny drinks which recently appeared in
the Central Australian, to Mr. J. M. Perrier, late of
the Sydney Daily Telegraph, and now editor of the
first-named paper. Our paragraph was copied by the
Barwon Argus, and great trouble has in consequence
arisen between the two editors. This is what the
Barwon scribe says in his latest: “The Central Aus-
tralian since its establishment has had more than one
editor from Sydney for each year of its existence—
Journalistic etiquette prevents our naming them —who
iave each started with the idea that their Heayen-
appointed mission was to utterly re-model everything
within the radius of the circulation of their paper. Sad
have been the fates of the majority: Font are dead, two
got into gaol, another into an inebriate’s retreat,
another tnrned policeman, another baker, and of the
remaining two, one still follows the profession, and the
does not. It is to be hoped the present holder of the
office may be spared a similar fate.” Espirons le.
The manager of a certain large institution in
N.S W. had a messenger and a pig, and it was the duly
of the former to look after the latter. The messenger
soon got tired of his pet, and set to work thinking do
he could get rid of it. At last a happy idea struck nun.
Ho stuffed the brute’s nostrils with half an 01 ' ,lC< L„
cayenne, and then, pulling a face as long as a hear,
driver’s, rushed in to tell his master that the pig
mad.” A very cursory inspection served to lead i.
employer to the conclusion that the animal was
right in its hend,” and a unanimous verdict
“guilty” having thus been returned, the pig was P
axed and thrown into a hastily-prepared grave.
ever, as soon as the master turned his back, the Pus 3
“ resurrected,” hidden until evening, and then duly _
to the butcher a few doors off. Now roan is eBB ® n og t;g
a hunting animal—he always likes best what
most to get. The pig’s decease naturally sngg
leg of pork, and this is what the master hiid f
day's dinner. Said he, pathetically, ns be hell
self to some more apple sauce : “ Maud, my d»r. „
a nity it was we didn’t kill our pig before it went
Of course didn’t recognise “ our pig's leg-
MR. HUGH TATLOB, M.P,
I.O.Q.T. ( soliloquising ): Pray’rs for (hie) rain,
eh? What I want (hie) water for?


Auction Sales
SATURDAY, 18th instant.
ELSWICK ESTATE,
PETERSHAM.
The PROPERTY of the EXCELSIOR LAND INVEST-
MENT and BUILDING SOCIETY and BANK
(Limited).
TO BE SOLD ON BUILDING SOCIETY'S TEEMS.
PRELIMINARY.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have been in-
structed to sell by public auction, at the Com-
pany’s Rooms, 171, York-street, at 3 p.m. on
SATURDAY, the 18th instant,
The above Property, consisting of—1st, ELSWICK
HOUSE, andl acre reserved for grounds.
ELSWICK HOUSE
contains
GROUND FLOOR:
Very large drawing-room
Very Large dining-room
Breakfast room
Large sitting-room
Library
Children’s room.
FIRST FLOOR
Four large bedrooms
Three smaller bedrooms
Four bedrooms in attic
Kitchen, servants’ rooms, cellarage, &c.
2nd.—SPLENDID PAIR OP ENTRANCE GATES,
to be sold separately. t
3rd.—THE ALLOTMENT FRONTING THE MAIN
PARRAMATTA ROAD.
NOETON-STEEET.
MARION-STREET,
ELS WICK-STREET,
HEN WICK-STREET,
THOENLBT-STREET,
BOFE-STBEET,
EXCELSIOR-STREET,
JABBBTT-6TBEET,
ROSEBY-STREET,
C ABY -STREET,
DAY-STREET,
and
OTHER IMPORTANT STREETS.
There are altogether over 600 splendid lots.
The Subdivision has been made with due regard for
drainage.
The Auctioneers consider it needless to say anything
in favour of Petersham, it being so well-known ns the
most elevated and salubrious of the suburbs along the
Railway Line, residents having unequalled faclltles for
reaching the
CITY BY RAIL
or OMNIBUS.
It is within easy walking distance, the soil is rich and
the views splendid.
PROPERTY AT PETERSHAM.
is continually on the rise, it never depreciates.
Among the advantages of This Estate, it may be added
that both Gas and Water are laid on, and the valne of
an unlimited Supply »t Water is appreciated these
times.
THE TERMS WILL BE WONDERFULLY EASY:
TEN PER CENT. DEPOSIT.
BALANCE, 1 per CENT, per MONTH.
ASSISTANCE to BUILD.
CALL AND GET A LITHOGRAPH
N
E W SOUTH WALES
TO CAPITALISTS, GRAZIERS, AGRICULTURISTS
and others
The most Luxuriant and extensive Freehold,
Pastoral and Agricultural
Northern Estates,
comprising
“ DARTBROOK," near SCONE, area
13,953 acres, in five lots,
“ ST. HILLIERS ” at MUSWELLBEOOK, area
It, 126 acres, in two lots.
“ GUND1BBI" near MEERIWA, area
27,140 acres, in seven lota.
These magnificent Freehold Pastorol Estates, will Ijc
submitted to public competition, and will be sold
pursuant to a Decree of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, in its Equitable Jurisdiction made in the
cause of Hall and another v. Hall and others, with the
approve of the Master in Equity, by
RICHARDSON and WRENCH,
at their Rooms Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Monday, 4th October next, at 11 o’clock, in the
following order.
DARTBROOK ESTATE, County of BRISBANE.
LOT 1.—730 ACRES, near Lot 8, in the Parish of
Yarraman, known ns Pikes Grant of 610 acres,
and two other small selections.
LOT 2.-4,984 ACRES, ’4 rood, 21 porches, known as
the " Sheep Station.” in the Parish of Myrabluan,
and permanently watered by the Wybong and
Gnangua Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between Lots two and five, in
the Parish of Halsoot, a square of 4 Sections
adjoining Lands belonging to D. MTNTYRE
Esq., and S. WEIGHT Esq.
LOT 4. —640 ACRES, near Lot five, in the Parish of
Stratheam, adjoining the property of W.
STEPHENS Esq.
LOT 5.—5,0811ACBES 1 rood 23 perches at Dartbrook,
on the Railway-line between M unwell brook and
Scone, in the Parish of Stratheam, adjoining the
pastoral property and highly improved estate be-
Inoging to D. MTntyre, Esq. On this Lot are two
Family Residences, with all necessary convenience.
’Che greater portion is cleared, securely fenced,
and subdivided into Paddocks.
ST. HILLIERS ESTATE,
adjoining Muswollbrook.
COUNTY of DURHAM.
LOT 1.—8.799 ACRES, being the whole of that
Magnificent tract of highly improved rich Agri-
cultural land extending from Muswollbrook to
Scone, and including Sparkes 2,000 aero grant
adjoining the Permanent and Temporary Com-
mons. On this is a commodious Family Residence
fitted with every convenience, and having all
necessary out-bnildings. Also stockyards. Men’s
hnts etc. This estate is watered by the Hunter
Ri ver,JMus wellbrook, St. Hilliers Brook and other'
tributaries, and the Railway passes through the
Property.
LOT 2.-5827 ACHES, Parishes of St. Aubin’s and
Balmoral, close to Lot One and the Mnswellbrook
Town Common,
GUNDIBRI ESTATE.
COUNTY of BRISBANE.
LOT 1. —7297 ACRES, the Southern portion of the
Estate, in the Parish of Hall, and watered by
IX)T 2.—9143 ACRES, adjoining Lot 1 in the parishes
of Hall and Merriwu. On this Lot is the Hosne-
stead, comprising Cottage Residence, Men’s
Quarters, Stock Yards, and other improvements.
LOT 3.—1694 ACRES, adjoining Lot Two and boun-
ded on the West by Hall’s Creek.
LOT 4.—6918 ACRES, next to Lot 3, in the Parish of
Webimble, on Hall’s Creek.
LOT 5.—1120 ACHES, situated at the Northern end
of the Estate, and having a considerable frontage
to Hall's Creek.
LOT 6.-928 ACRES, West of Gundfbri Proper, and
situated in the Parish of Coulson.
LOT 7. —10 ACRES, on Reedy Creek, South of Gnu-
dibri Proper.
«5T It is not the intention of the Auctioneers to add a
single comment on the value and profitableness of the
above Freehold, Pastoral and Agricultural Estates.
They prefer merely to furnish the above particulars
and to leave such welUcnowu and valuable properties to
stand on their own merits with capitalists, thefore will
only say that as the several lots are in the market for
bvnafide sale the attention of Capitalists is particularly
Auction Sales
directed to unquestionably the best opportunity for
investing In this Interest, which can be afforded to
them throughout the whole of the northern portion of
the colony oi New South Wales.
PLANS of the Several Lots are now on view at the
Rooms of RICHARDSON and WRENCH, Pitt-streot,
Sydney, and also at the Offices of R. G. FITZGERALD,
Esq., Solicitor, Muswellbrook.
TERMS LIBERAL : One-quarter Cash on the fall of
the hammer, and the residue in equal amounts at 1, 2
and 3 years from day of sale ; interest, 6 per cent, per
annum.
Messrs. HOLDEN and) LAURENCE,
No. 35 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
SYDNEY.
B TJ E W O O D. BFEWOOD.
THE EDROP ESTATE,
with FRONTAGES to
VTCTO RIA-STKEET,
LUCAS-EOAD,
E DROP-STREET,
and SABAH-STREET.
BATT, RODD, and PURVBS have been instructed to
sell the above Valuable Estate by public auction,
on the ground, on
SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER,
at 3 p.m.
tar This magnificent BLOCK of LAND, by its eleva-
tion commanding extensive views over the Parramatta
River, Ashfleld, Redmyre, and the whole surrounding
oonniry, Is but three minutes’ walk from the Bnrwood
Station.
W The estate has been carefully and liberally sub-
divided by Mr. Licensed Surveyor Binsted, as fol-
lows :—
Section 1.—36 ALLOTMENTS, having frontages
severally to VICTORIA-STREET, LUCAS
ROAD, EDROP- STREET, and SARAH-
STREET.
Section 2. —18 ALLOTMENTS having FRONT-
AGES to EDROP - STREET, SARAH-
STHEET, and LUCAS-ROAD.
Section 3. —10 ALLOTMENTS, having FRONT-
AGES to VICTORIA - STREET, SARAH.
STREET, and E DROP-STREET.
TITLE—TORRENS' ACT.
«3- TEEMS:
15 percent, deposit, 10 per cent, in three months, and
the BALANCE in equal instalments at one, two, and
three years, bearing interest at only SIX (6) per cent,
per annum.
Coupled with IMMEDIATE POSSESSION; no
mortgage required, and with liberty on, part of any
purchaser to pay off the balance at any time, with in-
terest only to date.
tsr The EDROP ESTATE may fairly challenge com-
parison with any in this most popular suburb, its
special features being—
1. Its HIGH ELEVATION.
2. Its NEARNESS to the STATION (within three
minutes’ walk).
3. Its FRONTAGES to good made WIDE ROADS.
4 The immense advantage of being HEAVILT
TIMBERED.
LARGE SALE PLAN on view at the Rooms.
LITHOGRAPHS of the Subdivision now ready, at
the Booms of the AUCTIONEERS.
Solicitors to the Estate, Messrs, NORTON and
SMITH.
Special arrangements will be made with the Railway
Deportment to convey intending purchasers to the
Sale.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
Splendid Block of Improved Land,
subdivided into
ELEVEN FARMS,
Varying in Size,
From 10 to 15 ACRES,
CASTLE HILL, NEAR PARRAMATTA.
BATT, RODD, and PUEYES have received in-
structions from the trustees in the METCALFE
(late Whiteside) ESTATE, to sell the above, by pabho
auction, ON THE GROUND, early in OCTOBER.
Full particulars will appear in a few days.
Plans and lithograapha In course of preparation.
TITLE, FREEHOLD. TERMS EASY.
Solicitors to the Essato
MESSRS. NORTON and SMITH,
From whom particulars ns to title may be obtained.
PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
GRAND SUBURBAN ESTATE.
REGENTS PARK.
REGENTS PARK.
REGENT’S PARK, NEAR AUBURN PLATFORM.
BATT, BODD, and PURYE8 will offer the
whole of this most valuable estate, by publlo
auction, on an early date.
The ESTATE is now being subdivided by Mr. L. Sur-
veyor Binsted on an exceptionally liberal scale.
PLANS and LITHOGRAPHS now in course of pre-
paration.
Money
J ONE Y. MONEY,
SION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
782 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Harden and Sons.
Hours: 9 to 3; every evening, 7 to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TEEMS,
Ivanced on machinery. Farms, &o., Leasehold and
eehold Properties (without ©xpenM of Mortgage).
HONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
ICUBITY: repayable by instalments as follows :—
£10 by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
95
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
30 m f*
md in due proportion up to £1000.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
\>r the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
lr business during the day, these offices will be
sned every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
minge, from 7 to 9 p.m.
ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO wmm.L FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONBYLBNT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £500,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments token.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms. „
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 Qeorge-street, Hay-
111 ante t, three doors from A, Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Caetlereagh-streefc next comer
King-street. Established 1850.
Public Notices
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
rt m
Trademark “Arm aud Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
Us.
TRADE
MARK
sSSCl
The GRANT) GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
ASD BHOCTJ5 ALWAYS HE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, 4c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in $fb packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. YTVTAN BAUCH,
1« CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney. N.S.W.
B, KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Mefbotnme, Victoria.
R, D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
EINSMBAD PIANOS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Referring to certain advertisements that have lately
appeared in the daily journals, Messrs. ROTLE and
HOGG desire to call the attention of the public to the
following fact, viz.; That the Judges of musical in-
struments at the recent Sydney International Exhibi-
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPECIAL MENTION for
Pianofortes, and that was to Messrs. JOHN BRINS-
MEAD and SONS. A reference to the book published
under the authority of the Commissioners, and entitled
Official Awards, will clearly prove this assertion.
We append letters, signed by a majority of the
judges, which establish this fact, and fully explain to
the public the position of affairs.
“ Sydney, July 27,1880.
“ To the Executive Commissioner.
“Dear Sir,—At the final meeting of the Judges of
Pianos at the Sydney International Exhibition, it was
decided to award to Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD and
SONS the ONLY SPECIAL MENTION.
“ This was duly presented and confirmed by the Exe-
cutive Commissioner. Afterwords, at the request, as
we understood, of the Secretory, we drew up certain
particulars for the official catalogue ; but this was in no
way intended to invalidate the distinction to Messrs.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS—viz., the HIGHEST
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO EXHIBITS, and as
such are entitled to a higher award.
“ We give you these particulars in justice to the firm
entitled to special distinction, and, no doubt, you will
see tbis duly carried out.
“ We remain, dear sir,
"Yours obediently,
“ C. J. JACKSON,
“ MONTAGUE YOUNGER,
“ EDMUND T. BLACKET,
” CHARLES PACKER."
*’ 99 Pltt-street, Sydney,
“July 23, 1880.
“ To H. Brinsmcnd, Esq,
“ Dear Sir,—I received your letter of the 19th inet.,
and am very much surprised at its contents.
“ You are perfectly correct in saying that your pianos
were the ONLY ones which received any special men-
tion from the Judges of Musical Instruments.
“When it was proposed to give yon this SPECIAL
AWARD I objected, and divided the meeting on the
subject, but was outvoted, and the special mention was
made, aud I signed the report accordingly. I am not
aware that any alteration was made in this report, and
if it was so it was not done with any knowledge or con-
sent on my part, therefore cannot be said to be the
report of the Judges.
“Your statement that the ONLY SPECIAL notice
among pianos was given to yon by the Judges of
musical instruments is ABSOLUTELY TRUE, as the
report itself will show.
“ I am, dear sir,
"Yours trnly,
“EDMUND T. BRACKET.”
“ Organ Manufactory, Newtown
“ Sydney, 1880,
" Messrs. John Brinsmead and Sons,
“ Gentlemen, —I hove great pleasure in being able to
vouch to the degree of perfection to which you have
brought the art of ptanoforte manufact uring. I must soy
the improvements invented and patented by your firm
are of such value that the musical judges, after care-
fully examining the instruments, competing with about
70 or 80 other manufacturers, awarded your pianos the
first prize above them all. I am also of opinion that
your pianos with such simple action, simplicity of me-
chanism, strength of construction, combined with the
remarkable purity and sweetness of tone, are unrivalled,
whilst your patent action produces a touch absolutely
perfect.
" I am. Gentlemen,
** Yours truly,
“ C. J. JACKSON.”
ROYLE and HOGG,
BOND-STREET STORES.
Sole Agents for JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS’
Celebrated Sostenente Pianos.
Highest award above over SEVENTY other Manu-
facturers at the Sydney International Exhibition.
* Highest awards : Paris, 1867, 1869, 1874, 1878.
Highest a wands : London, 18511862, 1871.
Highest awards, gold medals everywhere.
PRICES to SUIT ALL.
Five years’ guarantee with every instrument.
INCOMPARABLE for
TOUCH,
TONE,
WORKMANSHIP,
DURABILITY,
and PRICE.
A splendid selection now on view at the
BRINSMEAD PIANO DEPOT,
Bond-street Stores.
EOTLE aud HOGU,
Sole Agents.
Mb. W. B. CAMPBELL
Haying retired in our favor, we have much pleasure in
informing our friends and the public generally that the
BUSINESS
OF THK
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE
will henceforth be carried on by our Firm under the
TITLE of
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
and wa trust, through our united efforts, to receive a
continuance of the support so liberally accorded to OUE
FATHER.
ALFRED BRANCH CAMPBELL
CHARLES JACKSON CAMPBELL
WILLIAM WEBB CAMPBELL
HENRY CAMPBELL
THE RESULT of STOCK-TAKING leads to the Re-
marking and Reduction of Goods to such an extent as to
render the present BARGAIN ROOM totally inade-
quate. It is, therefore, our intention to establish
THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET.
Sept. 13th, 1880.
FUN AND FANCY.
Sold at bazaars —the visitor.
A Drink for the Sick—Well water.
“ After dark,” as the bobby said when chasing a
Bigger.
The filial tie of a cow is undoubtedly its calf
(scarf).
Cabby’s idea on hire education. —Knowing how
to charge.
Sweetening one’s coffee is the first stirring event
of the day.
If you want to know whether a tree is hollow or
not, axe it.
It’s not the bicycles that frighten horses, but
the legs of the riders.
The man who can live on himself, like Dr. Tan-
ner, needs no rich relations.
Some drinks require sugar, and some stories salt,
before you can swallow them.
If a man’s religion compels him to pay his debts,
you may be sure it is genuine.
No true gentleman will ask a lady if her coral
jewellery is made of sealing wax.
Temperance reformers should turn their atten-
tion to money—it is always tight.
When the moon gets full it keeps late hours. So
do men under similar circumstances.
Theatres are not considered unhealthy places,
but lots of people end their days in them.
An editor, being challenged, sent word in reply—
“ When I want to die I con shoot myself.”
Many are called but few have full hands. So
gays a friend of ours who is fond of “ Nap.”
When two men put their heads together it is for
mutual advantage, but it ain’t so with goats.
A happy mother of male twins enthusiastically
refers to her treasures as “ sweet boy and boy.”
A frog was found in a milk can the other day.
The milkman believes that the cow swallowed it.
Did Dr. Tanner eat the sponge or the towel ?
is the question over which doctors are fighting now.
The tramcars are very often like a man who as-
pires to the position,of domestic economist—off the
track.
An ounce of keep-your-mouth-shut is better than
a pound of explanation after you have said it and “ put
your foot in it."
“ One touch of Nature takes off a world of
*kin,” observed Brown, as he, outside a bottle of P.B.,
hit his mother —earth.
A negro teamster declares that he must either
give up driving mules or withdraw from the church;
the two positions being incompatible.
History says that Tullms Hostilius was “ impa-
tient of peace and born for arms." Who ever saw a baby
that was not affected in a similar way ?
He put it down without anyone telling him to do
so, and peevishly remarked that “ a woman was a fool to
set a red-hot flat iron on a kitchen chair.”
“ I would box your ears,” said she recently to
her stupid and tiresome admirer, “ if —” “ If what P”
he anxiously asked. “ If,” she replied, “ I could get a
box big enough.”
‘ 1 Quail on toast,” was what ho ordered. ‘ ‘ Quail
•fi trust,” was what the inn-keeper called it some
time afterward. Same difference as that between moire-
autique and moire “ on tick.”
Young men and girls, as you by niglit
Inspect the silent stars —
Orion, Saturn, Venus bright—
Beware of watchful Mara.
Astonished landlady to traveller who has sent his
eup forward for the seventh time, “ You must he very
fond of coffee.” “ Yes, madam, I am, or I should never
have drunk so much water to get a little.”
“Oh, thought this was a drawing-room car !”
apologetically observed a lady to a man in the door of
the smoker, as she discovered her mistake. “ It is,
mum,” he said, pullisg at his, G.B.D. with all his
might.
Mere snrplus-age. —Squatter-. “Well, Jacky,
how do you like’em parson?” Jacky (who has seen a
clergyman in a surplice for the first time) : ‘ * Welly good,
that' fellow—but why ’em jwear shirt outside um
trousers ?”
In July, people were able to think of no one but
Bradlaugh in England. An old gentleman about to go
on a journey told his young sou “ to go and turn up
Bradlaugh ” to see what time his train started. Brad-
shaw, he meant.
COME AWAY.
Come where the moonbeams linger ;
Come to the fairy dell cloth’d in silv’ry sheen;
Come where the pale light fnlleth
Upon that finger-slicing chaff machine.
One of the old-time stage-drivers, who has been
on the road more than a quarter of a century, says
“ that life is put together considerably like a set of har-
ness. There are traces of care, lines of trouble, bits of
good fortune, breaches of good manners, bridled tongues,
and everybody has a tug to pull through."
He went into a barber’s shop to be shaved. Ho
didn’t in the least mind the professor tying a newspaper
round his neck, and giving him the towel to read. But
when the professor shoved the shaving brush in his
mouth, and began rubbing his chin with the lighted end
«f a cigar, he thought it time to go.
When a man looks back into the dim vista of
bygone years, about the only things he can remember are
his mother’s islipper, his first pair of boots, the old
schoolmaster, and the little rosy-cheeked school girl
who used to make his heart flutter whenever she asked
him for a bite of his india-rubber to chew. Life was
worth living for in those days even though there wasn’t
much money in it.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
B. Y 0 U D A L
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
E,
This New and Commodious Establishment is now in full
operation, and customers have an opportunity of
purchasing from a well-bought stock of Choice, Cheap,
and Useful FANCY and HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY,
Corsets, and Frillings.
Y O U D A L E.
NEW MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
JpiASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND GUT
PITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Neae the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOB NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I ! 1
J. L. HORDERN.
fjHE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ABE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 684 GEORGE-STBEET, SYDNEY.
fJXHE BEST LARGEST STOCK
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
’ GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (LATE 484) GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST. 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
ear All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
j. VXCAKS & CO.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. ’
SYDKnEiY.
JJONDON TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12a. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s,
» Suits 63s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
E CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
o THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
, late of 100 King-street,
Has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
W Y N Y A R D-S T R E E T.
Corner of Wynyord-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
whiteT Fiaest and Fittin *
’ CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
„ , , _ in any quantity to suit.
n ml 8 ? tl iT sa “^ M . Suit 5 of tbe flnes t West
?A E^ W»d cloths and Tweeds mode to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, nt 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen's Dress suits.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG'S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as
General FAMILY APERIENT
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. cause
neither gnping nor sickness, and are confident!*
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s. and 4s 6d. 7
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best knovm
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP.
wen as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack’
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
m the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
. re ?oguised by medical men as a triumph
' being the only kno£n
°V- . . for this hitherto intractable disease
tIa r? AIN ,’ aud arrest of hemmoe-
" A °E. Can always be RELIED upon in
s°oV s WE 4 rK°i u of ,o
biucd with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E- B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
46G, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
ARE NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, aud be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES 1
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
soon cure, if taken as directed beimr the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any "of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
tt 8 ?* Remember this, aud always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
JJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
i< ree from all poisonous qualities, and composed
. °£ Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
m the Bush of New South Wales.
® iatr ? ent .I s uot . n “ere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
t “ at the Public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
e ?f r( tb ng t ts /w acy (n ? ve ; havill g "sed such an
JSwf ?l klnd before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
a . J ow » nc k poor, have received vast bene-
fats from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and °
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
!S now the household word of the country
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ami miraculous cures, are * *
. . , . . TH E WONDER OF THE AGE,
prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casuahties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson s Australian Ointment? J “
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
ment ? by USiUg Jose I )hsoil ’ s Australian Oint-
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son s Australian Ointment ? y
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when thev
Au^ZuSm^tV 61161 aPPlyiDg J ° Sephs0n ’' a
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
o undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
he natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
ana totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
. . . . OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
.binctus, you will not be able to cough Price Is. at
WASmtfGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pi ft-stree™ next to
Punch s Hotel.
ICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
trahan Kelish, made by Washington H. Soul,
17/ -Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
. EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STEEET.
PMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d., 16s. 6d., 21s.. 25s.
TEOUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
AH wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
Fashionable tailoring
ESTABLISHMENT, H
T ” ~ STREET.
127 KING
R. C. HAGON has opened the above estab-
lishment with a view of supplying garments of a
in Svdnev Cla ThA a h d i at a hitherto unattainable
CASH wVSa" eS T 8 Wl11 be conducted on terms of
a great Baying to the Pur-
tri flmg advance on prime cost, and for
fc Ea f P ers .°nally selected and purchased
AeBi «* a in the market.
Patrons of this establishment may rest assured that
will be given to all orders he may be
favoured with, which, combined with good workman-
ship, punctuality, and civility, hopes to comZ™Tfh»
attention and patronage of a discerning public.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order
, Suits, to Order
Bliss s Tweeds Trousers, to Order
Ditto Suits, to Order
..S.'SSSgi' 0 ” thi ‘‘ ‘’•“M.mo.t £2
16s 6d
70s Od
16s 6d
70s Od
Have a look at the s&j pompadour
CAMBRICS, at EDWARD inS
lanaed from the S. S. JOHN ELDER, FAST COLOURS
onfy NEWEST DE SIGNS. 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL
Family bereavements suitabid
, MATERIALS for SUMMER WEAR PELT
EDWAED°HOR upp« yd T nejr i° r BLACK GOODS.
iiDWAKI) HORDERN, Importer, 668, Brickfleld-hill.
Horses and Vehicles
K
earey brothers,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J. HARVEY,
WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Steeets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
J§ # glas.so N ’ s
steam coach and wheelwright
WORKS,
Habris-stbeet, oee Geoege-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries.
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Chemists and Druggists
m
UBLIC NOTICE
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG SPORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
JJAYID JONES AND
COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
32s Cd
per suit.
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
JJAVID JONES AND
COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
/The latest shape; a use-
1 ful and durable suit
I for business and ordl-
l nary wear.
35s per
suit.
23 AVID JONES AND
COMPANY’S j
Orient
Sac Suits,
42s per
Suit.
fin light Homespuns and
J thin Cheviots and Ban-
j nockburns. for Spring
land Summer wear.
/
JJAVID JONES AND
COMPANY'S
Orient
Sac Suit!!,
( la Choice Oriental \
J Tweeds, excellent for I
1 general wear, In neat (
V. checks and mixtures. )
I 48s 6d
per suit
p|AVID
JONES AND
COMPANY'S
Orient
Sac Suits
r Specially Light an<n
| Durable, the materials |
- having been well ]■
I shrunk before being I
L made up. J
63s per
suit.
JJAVID JONES AND
COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
JJAYID
In Superior Oriental
Tweeds, cut in the „„ „.
latest style, and I 68s
finished the same as | P er
ordered clothing. J
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Berg Suits.
/'Beautifully light in
j Texture, permanent in
1 colour and very dur-
v able in wear.
3Ss 6d
per suit
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen's
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wea*.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
('Special attention is in-’’)
I vited to our Orient I
I Clothing, as being (
the best value, and )
most perfect in stvle I
and flnsh procurable |
.. in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanian"}
Flannel, thoroughly /
shrunk. f
Geulemens
► Orient
Clothing.
18s 5d
rChina Silk Coats X5s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d oach.
| Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, I4s 6d each
I Superior Serge Coats, 21a each-
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
'In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 25s.
In Blue Sergerette, 45s.
.In Black Sergerette, 45s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
In Black Merino. 30s.
In Super Sergerette, 55s.
ler White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
i ,. .. in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s 6d
LBlack Alpaca and Merino, 7s 5d.
„ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
fin Superior, all Wool
•s Tambary Tweed, well
C. finished.
'A Special Dress Over-']
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- i-
fully tight, and agree- |
_ able to wear. J
30s each
56s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
JJOY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions
to theU EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suita.
7s 6d, 8s
8d, 12s 6d,
13s 6d 15s
(id, 17s 6<1,
19s 6d per
suit.
r
| In neat
J Tweeds,
] and well
finished.
fashionable
neatly cut
made, and
Boys”
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
(111 new shapes, very')
-i prettily trimmed, and >
v. thoroughly well-made.,)
12s 6d to
■19s 6d per
suit.
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s fid
per suit.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
In fancy and plain')
Drills, trimmed in (
new and effective (
styles. )
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
ZOs to 27s
6d per
suit.
For dress wear, extra - '
finished, superior (
material, and excel- (
lent shape.
I 248 6d to
► 27s 6d per
i suit.
r Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
In superior Navy Serges \
complete with lan-1
yard, whistle, badge, j
. collar and undershirt, j
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
I
21s 6d to
to 23s 6d
per suit.
fin light and dark mix-'i
1 tures. cut in fashion- |
•' able styles, well i-t
I trimmed and strongly I
k made. j
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
f! TAMES pemell AND CO.,
> VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
i SUSSEX-STREET,
I NEAR THE HAYMAEKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
| 797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
I
i Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
I FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
| Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
[ Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne BDay and Chaff,
i Potatoes, Ac.
GE0RGE-3T. Sth., SYDNEY.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
22s to 27s
6d,
Iln flue durable Esta-
mene Serge, admirably
adapted for school and
general wear.
28s to 40a
per suit.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
I For dress wear)
■j trimmed and made in -
i a superior manner. I
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.


Hotels, &c.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be bad at
H. DONALDSON’S MEECANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad. . , . , , , .
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’h6te on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COMB AND TASTE THS OLD CHESHIRE CHBB8K.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find ail
the comforts of a first-class house. ,
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS. BEERS, Ac., of the Best Brands
only. . „
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace. Pints, in
3 doz. cases, 12s. fid. doz.; quarts, 1 and 2 doz. coses,
21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.. Agents, Circular Quay.
Boots and Shoes.
T °
BUYERS OP LEATHER
AND
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS.
DAVENPORT AND ALCOCK,
TANNERS AND BOOT MANUFACTURERS,
5, Barrack Street,
Sydney.
Tannery and Boot Factory at Marriokville, and Tannery
at St. Mary’s, South Creek.
Davenport and Alcock ask the particular atten-
tion of all buyers of Leather to the acknowledged
superior quality of their tannages. They ore prepared
to supply Sole and Dressed Leathers, the very best of
their kind, in any quantities, at very moderate rates.
Boot Manufacturers and Makers requiring Heavy Sole,
will have their requirements promptly met by this firm.
Davenport and Alcock are the largest Tanners
and Boot Manufacturers in New South Wales, audfrom
the extensive nature of their works and the complete-
ness of their arrangements, are able to execute orders
for Colonial Boots with groat dispatch and upon the
most liberal terms. Country Storekeepers would be
simply farthering their own interests by communicating
with D. and A., who will readily furnish price lists,
terms, and all particulars.
Awarded First Prize for Colonial Leathers at
the recent Intercolonial Exhibition and flirst prizes for
Boots at former Exhibitions.
Awards also obtained for Leathers at the Phila-
delphia and Paris Exhibitions. Hides and Skins are
bought by Davenport & Alcock, who allow full market
values, thus saving commission and other expenses.
NTHONY MATHIAS & CO.
■ Importers and Indentors of
FRENCH BOOTS AND SHOES,
54 Queen Street, Melbourne,
and
7 Vaughan's Chambers, King Street,
SYDNEY.
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R.
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
SLATTERY AND
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
705 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
C O.
P. M A H O N Y,
AGENT, ETC.
ALL KINDS OP COLONIAL PRODUCE, &c.
Hotels, &c.
ICTORIA HOTEL.
ICTORIA
Having taken the above hotel and made extensive
alterations and which will be fitted up in the most
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., and conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
PUbll °’ GEORGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
w
H I S K Y
FRAUDS.
READ PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
ROE’S V FIVE-YEAR-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Recommended by the Faculty
ROBERT PHILLIPS and CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Woles.
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot be
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very fine spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
thoroughly matured, and can bo recommended as a
moat wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and
R
OYAL EXCHANGE HOTEL,
Corner King and George Streets).
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen s Dining Rooms are now
onened under the auspices of the proprietor.
P N B —Pic-nics, Balls, Parties, Clubs, &o., supplied on
best of terms. EDWARD PERKINS.
Coach and horses hotel,
MITTAQONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mr. C. SHEATHER, proprietor.
• • Bngtrv always in attendance at the station.
• .1- - *- mUTT OP, rtf
w w jjnfirtry mwuvu m -— —
Visitors from, the
Visitors irom . -- -
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
b sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
RAD£
MAR
AR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
s selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ngs of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
nd CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
k;
£3
[T is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mtion. Common bitter crude beers ore made very fine,
at no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
5r. the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
ualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
ire cautioned against traders who for the , BaJ “°*
xtraprofit represent the common.beers refewed_to as
in quahty to the Bull Dog. J. CAi 1BLL ana
0., Sole Agents.
U N I P E R
P. MELCHERS
TREE GIN.
Auctioneers and Commission Agents
SCOTT, READ & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CENTRAL TEMORA,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydney
Firms. Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & Co., 322,
George-street, are their Sydney Representatives.
T N. MEIKLEJOHN AND CO.,
• Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
<1
T. B U R F I T
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
T,
PW. CROWE & CO., STOCK, STATION
• AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
4 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
NJ,-We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &o., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneors, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows : —
BEEF, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station —every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour —every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
PITT, SON, AND BADGER T,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—All Fat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctually rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
Hotels, &c.
IJIHE COMPAGNONI
PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chof de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compaguoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers), Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, grc., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Room s
and spacious Shop Accommodation, ore all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meettug
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
c.
J. ROBERT
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
S’
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
4 F A C
That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(comer of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest. House for Bottled Stuffs.
T,
Proprietor, DAVID H. WARBY.
COLONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAQH STREETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation f6r Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
Legal
M
E. A. GODFREY,
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—-53 Elizabeth^stbeet.
[Legal.]
Shorter, fitzgerald, and asher,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattkry,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards
Guide to modern parsing and
ANALYSING.—For Schools, various Examina-
tions. Ac., by F. LYON WEISS, Headmaster, Modern
High School, Bourke-street, Moore Park. Obtainable
at all booksellers. ,
C. E. FULLER. Publisher.
Roberts, karris, and weston,
Licensed Surveyors,
LAND AGENTS, ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt with.
Bun Maps compiled to latest date. Office —Royal Blue
House ; Chambers, 130 Pitt-street.
■gLACHMANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W.
M A C L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
D,
Gr.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS ANlJ TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &o., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
F
S
OWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
IGNORA L. P. FABRIS,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlpighurst.
MISS ELISE SHERWIN,
(From Tasmania),
TEACHER OP THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
J SKINNER AND CO., 18 KING-STREET,
• BRASSFOUNDERS, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap.
C WOODFORD AND CO.,
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Corner of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gaatitters,
J.
F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
O
N,
Em a s
• draughtsman
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters canned out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—124 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
pi H A S. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
JBOSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGQA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
1VT R- AND MRS. BOOTH,
ItJL Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY. at 107 LIVERPOOL-STKEET-
Pamphlets gratis.
NOTICE— I beg to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHAN1, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership w.tn
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children s
, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
sts, sheets, counterpanes, mosijnito curtains, and
es. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
rpO BUILDERS AND OTHER!
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
CHAS. BATH
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
[o PURITY and FLAVOUR.


STAGE GOSSIP.
J- P. West- 0. Smith.
They have shunted Hoskins’ benefit.
Miss Christian will soon visit Sydney.
Miss Madeline St. Clair is studying opera.
Herr Bandmann opens at the Opera House.
The Hall combination play “ Oh! Romeo ! ”
Folks are anxious to hoar Miss Jennie Boyer.
Stray Leaves : W. Hoskins’s farewell benefits.
An ill-starred theatrical troupe makes no money.
Wybert Reeveis still playing “ Young Gushers.”
. Alfred Clint is engaged on a new drop curtain.
Theo. Hamilton put Frank Bates’ things up for
Hans Phillips is in Adelaide, studying Corio-
lanns.
< '^ rar<^8 are mee^*n ff with groat success in
The Carandinis are still playing in New Zealand
towns.
The KeUyrama visits North Queensland next
mouth.
Harry Emmett and Marion Melrose return in
October.
Melbourne*’ N is aiaffiag’ at St, George’s Hall,
lief'ls dead once-popular English voca-
®.1.8a May appears in “Evangeline” with the
vV ilhamsous.
Why don’t some of our variety shows go to
New Zealand ? 6
Bellringers are still in
Dimedhf^N 6 / 3 Panorama is bein JT exhibited at
, “The Banker’s Daughter ” was not much liked
In Auckland, N.Z,
Sara, the “ high-kicker,” visits the United States
with a ballet troupe.
Miss Ada Cavendish commenced her career as an
actress of burlesque.
The “ dancing spider,” Harry Sefton, was in
Hull when last hoard of.
Proctor opens at the Town Hall, Melbourne, for
a farewell, on September 20.
There is a great deal of “ paper ” about the
Melbourne theatres just now.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Jefferson at latest dates
were at Hoboken, New Jersey.
The Pantomime at the Queen’s for next Christ-
mas will be a splendid production.
.. r ' a S' Burford recently appeared os Conn in
The Shaughran at Christchurch, N.Z.
Pepper declares he will never lecture again be-
fore dinner. It interferes with his geniality.
Harry Braham and Lizzie Watson (oomiques)
are singing at the music-halls in Nottingham. 1
George Coppin has had a terrible attack of
gout. He couldn’t even play the “artful dodge."
The Bathurst ladies went to hear Proctor
because their spiritual pastors told them not to go.
Friday, 17th instant, was the anniversary of the
first performance in London of the “ Colleen Bawn."
Clara Stephenson and the Byronic Dramatic and
Burlesque Company are doing fairly at Dunedin. N.Z.
The monument over Charles Pechter’s grave
bears the inscription, "Genius has token ite flight to
Uoa.
Great preparations for the future at the People’s.
Melbourne. Look out down street—the Yankee is
&11T6*
The theatrical licenses issued in Sydney were
never legalised by any enactment of England or this
colony.
‘‘ New Babylon ” has brought in so much money
at Adelaide that Blond Holt feels justified in havinrrhie
hair cut,
Jennie Nye has organised a company, with her-
self as leading lady, and is appearing at Queenstown.
Otago, N.Z. ’
Auckland (N.Z,)_papers say theatre-goers will
never forget Mrs. Fitzwilliam’s •• Mrs..Jawkias " in
## Stolen Kisses.”
Mr. Crain, “ the distinguished English tenor ”
Griffiths’ " Enterprise Company” at St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne.
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Hall, Miss Laura Wiseman,
and Miss Julia Merton (“a line lady once”) go to Ade-
laide in November.
The Kennedy Family have been singing at
Milan, Ttaly. They assisted at a concert in aid of the
English Church there.
Messrs. J. A. Patterson and A. Thompson sued
Da Lins for balance of wages before they left Auckland.
N.Z. Case adjourned.
The Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, is now vacant
and affords an opportunity for any enterprising com-
pany to realise a fortune. * 8
Mrs Charles Florence, who has been laid up.
recently took a benefit nt Dunedin, N.Z. Miss Adelaide
uownng gave her services.
GreviUe says he’d rather have a barn in Sydney
than the best theatre in Melbourne. He intends to
make Sydney his home soon.
Clara Stephenson recently appeared in Dunedin,
Heah,” with an over-weighted company. We
wonder if the audience sat on it.
Miss Jennie Lee (Mrs. J. P. Burnett), ef “ Jo ”
renown, first appeared on the boards at the Lyceum.
Loudon, as a page in « Chilperic."
Wybert Reeve will tot up half a century next
ia nine years ahead of him, and Henry
James Byron three years in hie rear.
Miss. Marion Melrose has jumped into public
favour in Melbourne, her “ Lady Ann " in Eichard III
procuring a call for her every hight.
Kelly and Loon’s Minstrels, under Mr. D. Hay-
man s management, open at St. George’s Wail
Melbourne, Oct. 16th. for a long season* *
3or^e Barrell offered a big sum for the right to
WhL fOF dra “ atio other entertainments
in the Exhibition grounds. No results.
R. J. Roberts and Miss Lemore are doing enter-
tainments at 6d. and 3d admission enxier
Hall (not Military BiffSC T «“P«”-ance
“The Pirates of Penzance,” we hear is on its
5 a 7. oat ’ m ohiwge of a gentleman who has bought the
right to produce it m Australia and New Zealand?.
Professor Miller, the champion athlete of tbo
world—and an Australian—will shortly appear in Mel
bourne under the management of J. I’.Vfwid “ *’
n GreviUe opens with a company at the
& 8 J. M- re T 011 16t 5 0ctob<jr ’ ™th an
star actress. Miss Louise Pomeroy, in “ As Ton Like It."
ill £ ba P lin > who has been very seriously
ill in New York, hae completely recovered. Hie com-
lung** WM ' tost P newB10nia thsa abBoesB n th*
Billy Sweatnam, says onr N.Z. correspondent.
W ?V n . every ba . mfet “d town in America, and
to be one of the cleverest minstrels on the
• Auckland Star says Mrs. Lingard de-
signed the scene of “ the rained chateau by moonlight.”
takes place 6 dUel episode of Br onson Howard’s drama
Should sufficient inducement offer, Madame
Simonsen, with a company of (30) thirty artists and
the luce *^ k perfom 111 °P era “ Wagga Wagga during
E. J. Kennedy received a good notice at Christ-
church, N.Z., for playing the principal part in •• His
Last Legs. No doubt his friends will be glad to hear
of his success.
They call Fairclough the “two to one bar one
actor, because he requires so many hackers, i. no
actor in his company need “make up" his face, as the
audience never see it. ’ “
’ J °e Beaver G. W. B. Lewis’ old checktaker.
has come in for a fortune, and received £1000 on
“«»
..tie Dillon and South Company finished a apian-
did season of one week in Townsville on the 4th inst.
They cleared over £400, and are now at Charters
Towers, the golden city.
Cb^^£T\ fir8t . a PP earanc e in London was as
mufV, B ' ( After Dark”), at the Globe
Theatre, on 26th June, 1877.—Anent Mr. A. G„ for *57
m last week s issue road ’51,
It is a fact that the Mammoth Menagerie and
Gigantic Combination, piloted by that enterprising
manager and indefatigable collector, the late -Noah
Esq., A.E.C., never visited this city.
Tilly Andrews supported the late Adelaide
Neilson in her lost engagement in San Francisco, and
was praised highly by the Press of that city for her
Queen Elizabeth in 11 Amy JJobsart/*
“The Old Love and the New ” is not running in
London now. It was withdrawn in the middle of the
season to make room for Madame Modjeska in “ Hearts-
ease/' but will be resumed in October.
The Williamsons (says a correspondent) will
produce a novelty at the Theatre RoyaL Melbourne
w n- 6 wee * 8 ' time - It is called “ Struck Oil.” and
Williamson plays an old Dutch cobbler in it.
At the Royal, Melbourne, Mr. Fairclough
viSf nr ft season on Friday, the
fill iiiv’i.'T‘ . B rP. w ? e * the American artiste, is billed for
the Ilth, his initial play being “ Good as Gold.”
Zealand agent of the Dramatic
Authors Society, has sued George Geddes, the manager
of the Christchurch Theatre Royal, for producing “ His
Last Legs without paying. Judgment reserved.
The rSle chosen by Mr. W. Hoskins for his fare-
well benefit. Dr. Pangloss, was that in which the elder
bothern made his (Ubut on the American stage. That
Bo e ston CCUrre<1 1st April, 1830. at the National Theatre.
Crowds gather every morning at ten outside the
“P-T 1 - Melbourne, to see George Coppin drive
up the Kelly gang horses. They are the attraction, for
terribly WS * U ' e 8orry Beax > looks cross and limps
Poor Prank Bates’ wardrobe was sold by auc-
taon in Melbourne at the People’s Theatre. Hamilton
H . a11 "P the bidding, good prices were
realised, and now everybody wants to know who got
tne money. 0
Harry Simmona has organised the “ Alice Johns
Combmation Company,” consisting of Alice Johns.
George Collier, Ted Russell, George Melvin, Mr. Ed-
7 F ° Wer himaelf ’ open in
The oave scene in “Turn of the Tide” at the
Dijou has blue water dashing against sandy rocks in
lumps without an atom of spray or foam. We can’t
spare George Gordon to teach them to imitate nature
better than that.
Th , e Melbourne actors want to know why Edwin
Shepherd is caat for so small a part as “Assheton” in
J® 1 -? f the Tide, with the London Comedy Com-
aCt ° r 18 ca P a hle of something
Hoselmayer, the ambidextrous, opened at the
Melbourne Opera House on the 9th to a good house,
ills perfonnnnces have been successful and well at-
tended. Harry Lyons, a good man and true, is doing
the management. "
_ A grand complimentaiy concert tendered to
Carlotta Tasca. at the Melbourne Town Hall, proved a
brilliant success. Quite an unusually grand array of
artiste assisted, and both artistically and pecuniarily
the affair was most gratifying. 1 y
All theatrical and sporting men who visit Auck-
land, New Zealand, find their way to the Thistle Hotel.
Queen-street. Mr. M. Gallagher, the proprietor, is a
gentleman and an enthusiastic sportsman, and is well
liked by all who know Kim,
people Bay that Marie and Madeline
8t. Clair, T. H. Romford, W. A. Thompson and F
Lyndon, styling themselves the Cecilians. are the best
concert party they remember hearing. They even drew
a big house in Parramatta 1
Dick Stewart and his daughters appear in the
pantomime Sinbad the Sailor, ’ at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, next Christmas. They are now “ fetching ”
the New Yorkers at Haverley’s Theatre, although their
business has been over-done.
An Auckland (N.Z.) paper says: “It is not
often that the jeun« premier of a colonial company
wears such fashionable and well-cut clothes as Mr.
Craiff does m Stolon Kisses." His two momiiur suite
are models of quiet good taste/*
One feature in “ Hiawatha,” as played by Rice’s
Surprise Party— on its way here-is the unition of the
twins, Romulus and Remus, by a stout but very aecom-
modating rubber ligature, which brings them together
with a crash when they try to separate.
Emilie Melville contemplates returning to Aus-
tralia With the nucleus of a company, for the purpose of
producing the series of comic operas in which she has
appeared at the Bush-street Theatre, Frisco. Everybody
will be glad to see the dear little woman once more.
On receipt _ of the cablegram announcing the
death of Adelaide Neilson, the actress, the sub-editor
of ,, I Ddnedin (N.Z.) Herald—mod wag that he is—
pulled down “Men of the Time,” and extracted a
lengthy obituary notice of Christine Nillsson, the
singer.
The opera artistes are now doing the block in
Melbourne by way of a change. Collins-street literally
slops over with signors and signoras. The “smiles”
aifected. by robust baritones and manly tenors who pose
in front of Allan’s are numerous and doubtless cou-
solatory,
Langford, the champion billaticker of Hobart
Town, blushes like a flower unseen. He is a Scotchman,
and is amassing a nice little fortune in many ways. If
anybody should be wanted to defend his hoard you
needn t go outside the proprietor himself, with or with-
out gloves.
And yet another pianist !— “ with the line sketch
out, 4c. Henn Kowalski, billed as the poetic, the
romantic, the brilliant, is announced for six recitals
only, commencing at the Melbourne Opera House, Sep-
tember 20th. Where on earth do these marvellous
key-punchers ” spring from ?
The Kellys ” is still being produced by scratch
companies in New Zealand, Disgraceful scenes have
attended the representation of the piece on several
occasions. In one town the female portion of the stalls
audience had to be escorted en masse to the calmer
retreat of the circle " for protection.
Desirous of convincing the Sydney public that
his two previous local attempts at balloon ascents
proved failures through no fault of his own, Mr. Henri
L Estrange, the Australian aeronaut, who purposes
leaving the colonies at no distant date, has made
arrangements for a grand free ascent to take place from
Cook Park, kindly placed at his disposal by the trustees,
on the afternoon of the 25th (weather permitting), and
Tery ccngulerubk.
At the commencement of the present century
there played at the Chesnnt-st. Theatre, Philadelphia!
an old comedian who was a special favourite with the
people of that city. His name was Joseph Jefferson.
Me was not, however, the Joe, but his grandfather.
Bip did not see the light until Feb, 20, 1829.
Whilst playing 1 an emotional drama in Queens-
land the other day our old friend Miss it would
be cruel to conclude—had occasion to say—" False,
yourself I cast it back in your teeth; ’’ on which the
whole of her ‘ top sot " came clattering down on to the
stage. This rather spoilt the effect of the situation.
Sterling Whyte and Nat. Douglas were taken
for Foreign Commissioners in Melbourne, but Nat.
would smoke a pipe. Then they were taken for exhibitors,
and so rushed into the height of popularity that a
sudden exit was necessary to prevent their being seized
MhdSof 0 S meilt H0Uae<WrSl ° r bein * “ ade
The Williamsons, announced as the most suc-
cessful stars that ever visited Australia, open at the
Melbourne Royal.for a farewell engagement on Satur-
day, the loth. Nothing new is announced, but good
business is anticipated. May it so eventuate, for the
Kpyal can put up with a turn of Fortune’s wheel and
Jimmy and his wife are genial souls.
In a recent issue of the London Referee, the
writer of the musical and dramatic gossip in that journal
acknowledges receipt from "somebody" of a cutting
containing the report of the assault case De Belleville v.
(xorner. What kind friend forwarded the cutting, and
what was the motive;? Mr. De Belleville, we notice, was
at latest advices playing in San Francisco.
. concluded at the People’s, Melbourne, on
the 10th, and Mark Twain’s version of "The Gilded
Age, with Johnny Hall as Col. Sellers, is now the
attraction. Every patron of dramatic art in Melbourne
would like to see the People's nightly crammed, for the
popular lessee, Theo. Hamilton, does everything in his
power and keeps the best stock company in the city.
At the Melbourne Academy of Music “ Turn of
the Tide ’ has held the bills and attracted moderate
houses during the week. Miss Alice Deorwyn supplied
the place of Miss Lester on the 6th, and this talented
young colonial actress has in'every way proved herself
‘fraat acquisition to the company. The “ Woman in
White is underlined and "Stolen Kisses” is in prepora-
.. Monster Promenade Festival at the Exhibi-
ts? 1 °“ Friday, to compliment a citizen
(Mr. John Bennett) on his charity, pluck, enterprize,
and humane liberality, will be the grandest musical
gathering yet seen here. Vocalists and instrumentalists
have inundated the honorary secretary, Mr. E. Lewis
Scott, with offers of assistance. The building will be
decorated in an attractive style.
On dit that a Melbourne manager intends
offering a prize of £250 for the best original Australian
dmma to be ready for production during the ran of the
Exhibition; the successful playwright to sell the colo-
uiol right of the drama for the above-mentioned sum or
take a nightly royalty, retaining the ownership. Goo.
Darrell, who has nearly completed a local play, thinks
it will be a “ throw-in ’’ for him.
H- II- y incent secedes from the Academy and
joins Coppm and Co. as stage manager and leading man
at the Queen s, Sydney, ft is wonderful how opinions
Tw ? J 6 ®** ag 9, tb ? Koyal management parted
with Vincent to Darrell, the latter always holding a
high opinion of the former’s capabilities; now Coppin's
management readily avail themselves of the services of
Mr. Vincent, who is a gentleman on and off the stage.
T,.?H, AucjrLAND St ab, in speaking of Mrs.
Fitzwilliam, who is plajing with the Lingards there,
says:— ‘Blood,’ they say, ‘will tell,’ and so does a
training on the metropolitan stage. It may not be
generally known that Mrs. Fitzwilliam was for a long
time a member of the old Haymarket Comedy Com-
pany, and played in the principal pieces which made
the later (though not the latest) years of the Buck-
stone regime so successful.
Printers’ errors are very fnnny at times. In an
American journal lately there appeared an advertise-
ment notifying that a certain troupe of British blondes
had been two years on the rood without clothing."
This statement astonished the public, and roused the
ire of the British blondes,” who wrathfully demanded
an immediate explanation of such a statement. The
original copy was sent for by the beleaguered editor,
when it was found to have been written, “ two years on
the road without closing.”
The Banker s Daughter” has been produced
with much success by the Lingards at Auckland. The
r tab speaks in flattering terms of the performance, and
in these words compliments Miss T. Horan lot
Sydney)Next to Mrs. Lingard’s Lilian, the most
notable performance was that of Miss T. Horan, who
made Mrs. Brown the most ingenuous and captivating of
coquettes. N either in London nor New York could the
port have been played better ; in point of fact it was
near perfection.’ 1
A Christchurch (N.Z.) paper says of the Scratch
Dramatic Company that recently played in that town —
The bill of fare provided is a remarkably varied one.
08 it does a pugilistic set-to, a walking-match.
The Colleen Bawn, ’ and the first stage of a prize fight.
The greatest admirer of the “legitimate drama" could
hardly ask for more. What poor Boucicanlt has done ,
that he should be sandwiched between a mile walking
match and a set-to between two professors of the noble
art of self-defence, it is hard to say, but so it is. The
new star who is expected will form rather a peculiar
notion of the tastes of the playgoers whose acquain-
tance he makes on Saturday, if he gauges them by the
playbill at the Royal. The new actor referred to is
««m • j 1{0 72. olds w ho has since successfully opened in
Tried and True.”
M. Chalet, the lecturer and ventriloquist of
Bochelder’s panorama, now in N.Z., recited “Moses’
Mistakes, at the request of the Dunedin Freethought
Association, at the Queen’s Theatre there lately He
eulogised the author of “Moses’ Mistakes,” and in the
course of his laudatory remarks said that having come
from the same State, Illinois, he was in a position to
state that were Ingersoll to seek election at the next
Presidential election, he would be the chosen of the
people by a larger majority than had been given since
the days of Washington. To this averment, however,
one of the audience objected by giving expression to an
emphatic No. M. Chalet then recited the lecture,
imitating the author’s mode of delivery. Bursts of
laughter were frequent, but were caused evidently as
much by the lecturer’s quaint Yankee intonation as
by the points in the lecture.
Our Auckland correspondent in a letter dated
September 7th, writes to us as follows“ The Lin-
gards so far have no reason to regret coming to Anck-
land, for since the commencement of the season, over
two weeks ago, the Theatre Royal has been well filled
every night. "Stolen Kisses,” “ The Banker’s
Daughter, and Betsy,” ore the pieces that have
been produced, and each has been put ou the stage in
a praiseworthy manner. The latter comedy is the
present attraction, Lingard as Dawkins, his wife as
Betsy, and Chas. Craig as “The Baby" playing their
respective parts very effectively ; and the company,
which is pronounced by theatre-goers to be one of the
best which we have had here for some time, give good
support to the principals. Your Sydney "amateur,”
Miss Homn, is winning golden opinions for the excellent
way m which she plays every character allotted to her,
and X must certainly add my compliment. “ Our Boys ”
was produced for one night on Friday last, and as was
anticipated, drew a big house. Mr. and Mrs. Lingard
in their oM parts were as good as ever, but the cast was
w Fau , cy ? te ? le Paying Charles
Middlewick. The Wreck of the Pinafore" is in
active preparation. One of our clever dramatic writers,
Max, has been getting into trouble for stating that
steele mad « Strebelow in " The Banker’s
Daughter a most uninteresting, nnsyirpathetic, and
common-place personage, and that the part in his hands
was a failure. The writer I believe saw Coglan
the part some months ago. Steele got his “back
. at these remarks, and informed some of his friends
that the writer had a down on him,” to which “ Max ”
replied " There is no truth whatever in the statement.
A glance at the files will show that for one unfavourable
critique of Mr. Steele's acting there have been ninety-
nine favourable ones. That gentleman, as we have
frequently said, is a capital representative of certain
sorts of parts, but he comes it rather strong when he
m th P® r * everything. Few of us
PEPPER AND SALT.
Thbt say : ‘‘As drunk as a lord, and as sober as
a judge. What a hollow mockery!— especially
in regard to the judge. 1 3
There was a hen convention at Government
House on Saturday last. It seems that the old
Shanghai rooster who bosses the yard proposed
that as soon as Sir Hercules arrived on Sunday be
(the rooster, not Sir Hercules) should mount the
r xu 01 18eand give twenty-one crows in honour
of the glad event. All the old geese and hens
immediately waited on the head cook and pointed
out that it this was allowed there would be
nothing to prevent any travelling rooster from
desecrating the fowl-house, and the Sabbath also,
by crowing for his own particular benefit or
amusement. The head cook said, “just so,” and
the guests at the subsequent dinner remarked that
the Shanghai wasn’t as tough as they thought he’d
be. We re going to have a “ bully ” picture in
Ihe Bulletin soon; two, in fact —one repre-
senting a venerable patriarch prohibiting the de-
secration of the Sabbath by scientific lectures,
and the other representing the said patriarch
getting ready the tram on Sunday for Monday’s
races, and trooping the artillery out to play
Ninety-Five ” and other Sabbath tunes to cheer
Sir Hercules.
“A party by the name of Johnson ” has left the
Hev. John Alexander Dowie .£20,000—it is said.
Fortuna favet fatuks. Persons translating this
will be brought up for libel. As it stands, how-
ever, it will pass O.K. John walked into the
pomps and vanities of this wicked world on Sun-
day m a style that would draw repentant tears
from the oyster-shell eyes of a Queensland
mummy.
Facts about Proctor.—Our sun is the nearest
star we see a sort of next-door neighbour, as it
were—and yet he is perched about ninety-one mil-
lions of miles and some odd yards away from us. If
a man were kicked from here to the sun it would
take him 2,500 millions of years to get there, and it
would take just about ten times that time before
he would be in a position or state of mind to sit
down again. If a person had a mother-in-law
who lived in the sun she wouldn’t be able to make
his home happy more than once in every 500
years. There are no mothers-in-law up there,
however—they always live where the train is nice
and handy. Anaxagoras once said the sun was
Possibly as large as all Greece. The Grecians
shaved his head, put him up in a wool-stuffed
cage, and marked him “ dangerous.” The sun is
quite a useful sort of help to our world. He has
been known to strike politicians and book-
hawkers dead by a single blow. Upon these occa-
sions his usefulness bordered upon the sublime
That s all at present. I don’t want to injure
Proctor s business.
Facta from Tyndall.—Sound travels at the rate
of so many miles per second. Much, however
depends on the nature of the sound itself. When
a wife, seated at a distance of three feet, asks the
average husband “ What abont that blue silk at
David Jones’ or Peapes and Shaw’s,” the sound fre-
quently takes 18 months to traverse that distance
and somebody else has the silk ; but when a man
stands at Perkins’ bar and shouts to another man
near Hunter-street to “give it a name,” the
sound reaches the Hunter-street man at the rate
of about 1,490 miles a second, and he promptly
replies. Oh the same again, I suppose,” at an
equal rate of velocity. Sound reaches the sun
mim the earth in about thirteen years and a half.
The Sunites, therefore are now enjoying “ Nancv
Lee ’ and “ Grandfather’s Clock ” for the first
time. What a treat is in store for those happy
people!
A fact for Tyndall. Tyndall says prayers are
either never heard, or if they are they only reach
their destination after a lapse of 2,561 years. Now
the Catholics of Sydney offered up prayers for rain
on the oth instant, and it rained like a young and
active waterspout on the 8th. This looks like a
jolt for Tyndall. Any way, getting married upsets
a heap of science on a person. The first time I
saw Tyndall he was holding a Manchester audience
spell-bound by his masterly description of the
power of heat. The last time I saw him was just
as he_started on his wedding tour, and the giant
of science was down on his knees in a tramcar
pawing about nnder the seats for the cork of his
lady’s smelling salts. The effect was not im-
posing, and lyndall doesn’t lecture about hot times
any more because Mrs, T. might think it personal.
They had ten hours’ rain up westward, and they
would have had abont ten weeks of it but for one
distressing circumstance. No sooner had the first
shower fallen than poet Halloran took four pills,
and then eat down to write an ode to it. Henry
has written an ode to everything in his time —ex-
cept the small-pox. I don’t ever remember reading
an ode to the smallpox, and yet it’s quite useful
in its way occasionally, because Chinamen some-
times catch it. Henry’s water poem is written in
blank verse, and smacks of the grand mysterious
school of which Shelley was, and Zachary Barry is.
the greatest master. Here’s a piece off the top of
Mr. Halloran’s ode :—
Moisture immense ! Thou vast majestic dampness !
Offspring Thou of that pregnant union of
Hydro. 1 ; oxy. 2; for which the men of Balmain
oo long have looked—welcome fluid !
thee we cry—All ale—(and one long shandy)
Here Henry ceased, —and the pills began.
Fact for Darwin. A tailed man has been at last
discovered. At least the Evening News has a
column headed “ The Duke of Manchester’s
narrative. If a poor common labouring man —
like Parkes for instance —had anything to say the
News would have _ simply labelled it Parkes’
“ pitch ” ; but coming from a real “ jook ” of
course we call it narrative.
All the telegraph clerks who have entered for
the pair-oar race on Saturday have applied for one
week s leave of absence. They say they are per-
fectly well aware that a mile and’a half is no
slouch of a distance, but they are all sanguine, and
believe one week will be quite enough to travel in.
The most sanguinary man of the lot is Molony.
but the “piller” of the crowd is Board. He has one
fault, however. By himself he pulls standing up,
and in a pair-oar race he likes to face his partner
and tell him all about Ayoub Khan while the
partner does the slavery. The part of the harbor
where the regatta is to be pulled will be fenced in,
in order to prevent the rowers from running down
the Melbourne steamer, or splashing foam on the
people up Surry Hills way. The water police are
also ready for the usual emergencies and some first-
class funerals may be soon expected.
“ We, the inhabitants of New South Wales
consisting of one incumbent, two lay readers, and
a pile of Sunday-school performers, have felt it
incumbent upon us to return our grateful thanks


Siren Beeparques for his providential de-
r erance of us the faithful from the terrible
. tastrophe with which we were threatened by Mr.
Ririiard Anthony Proctor: —to wit the dis-
plling our marvellous ignorance, and the
filling U P °f our k ra *M with knowledge.” There
as a time when the earth used to open up and
Iwallow this kind of people, but it’s getting a
hose degenerate old world of late, and doesn’t
any more than it’s actually forced to
swallow.
The people of Wagga Wagga have started anew
pastime, which they call a ‘ ‘paper hunt.” If they
£ant a patron I would suggest Judge Windeyer.
are few who can hunt a paper round like
learned W. can.
There’s an editor ont West whose stock-in-trade
consists simply of a paste pot and a pair of scis-
sors, and whose furniture is represented by one
American broom and a window blind. He runs
his journal with one man and a boy, and the boy
occasionally helps the firm by doing little odd jobs
in washing. When the “ boss” finds he is short
of paper he advertises that a prize will be given for
the best ode on Spring, and 2,500 millions of local
poets immediately open up and bombard him.
He prints his paper on the untarnished side of the
poetry, and he is now inventing a plan to enable
him to drawoff the poets’ ink and sell it for old port
or the best blacking. Every country editor
who reads this will at once perceive how aptly the
•description fits—the other man.
V.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Manuka has been sold to go to Tasmania.
King of Clubs reached Christchurch (N.Z.)
•safely.
On Saturday week South Melbourne again beat
Carlton at football.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) horses are being trained
■for their engagements in November.
Mr. H. P. Lance, late handicapper in N.Z., it is
-gold will run Sir Hercules Robinson’s horses.
The New Zealand Jockey Club wants a handi-
capper. Here is a chance for some " sport."
A 24-hours “go-as-you-please” walking match
will take place in Wellington, N.Z., this month.
During last season 572 members of .the Mel-
bourne C. C. paid up, the income from subscriptions,
being £1160.
The annual report of the Wellington (N.Z.)
Racing Club is satisfactory. It is proposed to hold a
Spring meeting.
Mr. Owen C. M‘Gee, an Auckland (N.Z.) sports-
man, has lost a fine foal by Musket out of Perfume, a
celebrated steeple-chase mare.
A yacht club is being formed in Auckland, New
Zealand, and it is proposed to send a boat to compete at
the Melbourne Exhibition Regatta.
The editor of the Canterbury Times (N.Z.)
offers a prize of £50 for the correct placing of the first
three horses in the C.J.C. Handicap, to be run in
■November.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club have re-
ceived their plans for the now grand stand from
Mr. Morrell, architect, of Sydney. They give great
satisfaction.
Cables inform us that Trickett and Laycock
rowed over the Tyne course the other day—that their
style was criticised by a big crowd, and that in the
opinion of that crowd the Australians showed a decided
want of form and training. But then Edward always
■was a “ foxer.’”
James Davies, a member of the Permanent
Force, has (says the Newcastle Herald) issued a
challenge to box either young Dntchey or J. L. West.
The latter has accepted, and Dutchey offers to box
either Davies or any other man of his (Dutchy’s)
weight in the colonies.
Mr. Phillips has lost a splendid colt by Stock-
ham from Myth, the dam of Melbourne ; Mr. Lang’s
well-known more Violet basso severely injured herself
that it will be a very long time before she is again
seen on the turf; and Mr. J. O. Inglis has lost his beau-
tiful filly by King of the Ring from Norma, the dam of
Damwell.
The entries for the V.R.C.’s complimentary
meeting in honour of Sir Hercules Robinson, which
takes place at Flemington on Saturday, 18th inst., are
of excellent quality and very numerous, there being 34
In the Hurdle Race, 33 in the Two-year-old Stakes, 34 in
the Eobinson Stakes, 25 in the Welter Plate, 12 in the
Steeplechase, and 52 in the Farewell Handicap.
The cricket contributor of the Australasian
*aye“ I can well imagine how pleased the great W.
<1. Grace and his comrades were to have Spofforth out
of the way. 1 feel persuaded if Spofforth had been
against him that the champion would not have mode
his large score of 152, for I know that he has never
shaped with confidence when playing the bowling of the
renowned New South Welshman."
J. O’Connor, “ champion of New Zealand,”
performed the feat of walking seven miles within the
hour at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Christchurch, the other
evening, O’Connor walked in his usual good form, and
did not appear distressed at the conclusion of his task,
which occupied 59-1 minutes.' The following is the time
for each mile:—1st mile, 8min.; 2nd, 8min.; 3rd,
Ntnin.; 4th, 9min.; 5th, 8|min.; 6th, 8('min.; 7th,
«min.; total, 591 min.
Messrs. C. Evans, F. Weston, S. Fullford, J.
bnalker, J. Stein, C. Bather, and 44 others, haveeutered
■or the big pigeon match at Maitland on 27th inst. The
acceptances are to be sent in by the 14th. The winner
receives 50 sovs, with 50 per cent, of sweepstakes added;
second 30 per cent., and third 30 per cent, of sweep-
stakes. Conditions are 9 birds each, 100 yards boun-
,ary> l«oz. shot, gun not to exceed twelve bore; han-
dicap range, from 21 to 28; 1 trap.
The Temora Hbrald states that a neat little
prize-fight for £5 aside, during which the combatants
certainly took five pounds’ worth ont of each other,
Recurred on Saturday afternoon last, at Temora. The
ipngs ’’ were Jim Kelly (the Home Rule Pet) and Jim
“Oncher. The former, who was adjudged the victor
after twenty rounds had been fought, bore bis honours
®cekly and ‘ shouted ’ with praiseworthy promptitude.
£here was a large number of spectators and much
The services of the beautifully-bred imported
Vasco di Gama are now at the disposal of breeders
-at the i ow fig nre Q f jo guineas. This sire, remarks
Augnr,” is most muscular and symmetrical, and is
y Beadsman (who won the Derby) ont of Salamanca,
p“d ls thus own brother to the English Leger winner,
t«£™ Bez ' Prom the success which last year at-
j,“deu Bethnal Green’s youngsters, the Beadsman
r .'?■ evidently well suited to the colonies. His lo-
tion is L. L.-Vale, Nunawading, near Melbourne.
P a y ne - 'of Molesey, winner of this years’
V. t eld sculls, and therefore champion amateur of
* 8 father a slightly-bnilt man of 5ft 9iu,
fron p only, and he performed the distance
ami r' u , tne y to Mortlake in 24m 4s, or nearly a minute
jjj a fi'dcher than that made by Bob Chambers on
shin ( vr erent occasions when he won the champion-
for fi. Lowndes, of Oxford, who was the favourite
aouaf- ,, e . ve ? t au d holds the Diamond Sculls and other
victn C <ais tinctions,is much heavier than Payne, whose
in th > 1 ? e °nred after a tremendous struggle, creditable
ne highest degree to both victor and vanquished,
i„ a ver y brilliant one. Says “ Cloanthns ’’ of the
fecent LASIa ?’ * n re ff to this race : —“ I confess that
»bont t (f x Pf r i en - e 8 begin to raise donbts in my mind
c J,nat long-occepted theory of the "good big man,”
0 f’n 1 " 6 conclusion is forced upon me that a good man
much ®in, and made of the night grit, is as
smiil. 118 !, 18 required in a sculling boat to bold his own
install weights and rises."
A. J. C. SPRING MEETING.
FOURTHDAY—SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
On Friday night, when the rain-clonds were low-
hanging over the city, and the distant rumble of
the coming thunder gladdened the heart of the
free-selector, gloomy were the anticipations formed
anent the coming day’s racing by those whom the
success of the meeting more immediately con-
cerned. Doubting shadows flitted across the
upturned faces of the wall-polishers at Punch’s
corner, as they marked the gathering anger of the
heavens; and the assembled “books” outside
Tattersall’s gazed with “lack-lustre eye” upon
the coming meteorological change. Ladies living
in fashionable suburbs decided at once that going
out to Randwick on the morrow was “ not to be
thought of, my dear ! ” and various orders which
had been given to ladies’ maids respecting the
sewing on of now ruffling were incontinently
countermanded. When the morning broke the
aspect of affairs was, in the classic vernacular of
a distinguished Melbourne metallician, decidedly
“ multy; ” the sky being overcast and a persistent
drizzle. descending upon the city, and towards
the hour of starting the rain steadily increased
umbrellas and mackintoshes being in univer-
sal demand. Mud was everywhere. It was
whirled up from the wheels of hansoms; it was
whirled on to the pavement by the hoofs of ’bus
horses; it was mixed upon the sidewalks by the
busy feet of passing pedestrians ; it got upon your
ulster, and down your neck; it appeared in specks
on your nose, and in clots on your trousers. Sport-
ing dandies gazed ruefully upon the departed gloss
of their patent leathers ; economical clerks turned
up the bell-bottoms of their pants, reckless, ap-
parently, of the display of leather which was thus
exposed to the astonished gaze of the aesthetic
traveller. Shortly after 12 o’clock, however, a
temporary lull took place, but the joy consequent
upon this atmospherical change was rather damped
by an authoritative rumour which gurgled through
the city to the effect that the tram was off the line.
On reaching Elizabeth-street we found this rumour
to be confirmed; and we also found that thorough-
fare to be blocked up by a seething crowd of in-
dignant citizens, —many of whom were flourishing
tickets, and uttering treason against the Govern-
ment. “ I’ve been here nearly an hour, and they’ve
told me everv five minutes that it would be here
directly,” cried the tall representative of a pious
contemporary, as he puffed so despairingly at a
black cigar that hejbecame nearly as black in the
face as the cigar itself. There was a general
clamour, and many persons, in their excitement,
selected conversational idioms which, in their
calmer moments, they would have shuddered at.
On questioning an we were informed that
“she” (the motor) had run off just by Moore
Park, and that it was “ pretty uncertain ” when
things would be “ put right again.” Accepting
this intelligence philosophically (notwithstanding
the fact of having purchased a ticket) we were
about to move off in search of some less erratic
means of transit, when the distant familiar, tintin-
nabulation denoted the speedy arrival of the errant
tram. And when it at last glided up there occurred
a scene which beggars description. Each person
in the crowd appeared seized with the idea that he
was to be left behind, and consequently the oars
were rushed in a manner that would have done
credit to a line regiment storming a citadel.
Gallant clerks and shop-boys rushed man-
fully forward to the breach, their souls
so full of victory that they appeared to
forget that ladies’ garments were of a perishable
nature, and that children’s heads suffered by
coming into contact with hard stone kerbing.
When the oars had been crammed to their utmost
capacity we started, but on reaching Moore Park,
the scene of the accident, we were compelled to
descend and change carriages, when another scene
of struggling, fighting and swearing took place.
By this time it had commenced to rain, and there-
fore the course on our arrival presented a com-
paratively funereal aspect. Of ladies in the en-
closure there were comparatively very few, and
those who did grace the Grand Stand having wisely
attired themselves in sombre raiment, the aspect
of the whole was proportionately quiet. Lady
Loftus, who was present, wore over her plain silk
dress a light cloth cloak of now design, very
tastefully braided. Her Ladyship appeared in
good health and spirits, and from her Intent
perusal of her book, and the many questions she
put to elaborately-ulstered authorities who now
and then dropped gracefully into the vice-regal
box, appeared to take much interest in the
racing.
At about three o’clock there was a break in the
weather, and for a while there was a little sun-
shine—just enough to bring the aroma out of the
umbrellas, and to cause a vapour the reverse of
aromatic to arise from the garments of the great
unsoaped. After the steeplechase, however, the
rain set in in good earnest, and great was the con-
sternation of the flat-ites, and loud was the jubi-
lation of the bar proprietor and the lessee of the
Leger stand, as a dripping public hastened to
avail themselves of the only available shelter —
and to pay for it. The ladies in the Grand Stand
enveloped themselves in wraps and gazed upon
the dispiriting scene with calm despair, while the
bookmakers donned the most wonderful collection
of overcoats that were ever seen gathered together
in one enclosure. Yet they plied their calling
lustily. Jimmy AVhite, cased in a gorgeous
macintosh, shouted “F our to one, Othello !” with
the rain peltering against his eye-glass; the
“Sydney Leviathan” laid 300 to 50 against
Ravenswood, with the welcome water splashing
down upon his betting-book; the ubiquitous
“Ikey” screamed “ Who wants to back hany-
think?” with the moisture squelching ont of his
pale balmorals ; —nothing could impede the in-
dustry of the roaring ring. Before the free han-
dicap was run, a general stampede took place, and
the scene that ensued was a series of bobbing
umbrellas, scampering hoops, and puffing trains ;
but, as the papers say of a crowded election
meeting, “the utmost good-humour prevailed.”
We append a detailed account of the clay’s
racing.
The Hurdle Plate of 100 sovs. For four-year-olds,
lOst 101b; five years, list 51b; six and aged, list 71b.
The winner to be sold for 125 sovs. 71b allowed for
every reduction of £25 on selling price down to £25.
Two miles.
Mr. AY. R. Cortis's b g Pearl Diver, £50, aged, 9st 111b
(Pickard) 1
AY. Gannon’s b g Limerick, £25, aged, 9st 41b (K.
Battye) 2
Tribulation, Esmonde, Radical and Whitelight,
also ran. Radical was the favourite at 2 to 1, but
Pearl Diver went to the front at the back of the
course and won as he pleased. No third was placed.
Radical struck heavily. Time, 4min 9 2-lOsec.
Members’ Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of 5
sovs each, 1 ft, with 100 sovs added. For three-
year-olds. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize. One
mile and a furlong.
Mr. H. Herbert’s bf Carmen, by Qoldsbrongh—Dolly
Varden, 6st (Campbell) 1
S. G. Cook's ch f A B C, by King of the Ring—
Zenobia, 3 yrs, 7st 81b (Cracknel!) 2
P. Bre jnan’s b c Creswick, by Yattendon—-Q.E.D,
3 yrs, 8st 101b (Yeomans) 3
The other starters were Kamilaroi, Orient, The
Admiral, Bruno, Rosine, Annandale, and Otira.
Rosine was most fancied, but Carmen came out at
the turn, winning easily by nearly a length. Time,
2min.
AVaverlet Handicap, a handicap sweepstakesof 5 sovs
each, 1 ft, with 100 sovs added. For three-yea-olds
and upwards. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize.
The winner of a handicap after the declaration of the
weights to carry 101b extra. One mile and three-
quarters.
Mr. J. Cook’s b h Oakhill, by Maribyrnong—Dora,
4 yrs, 5st 71b (Gough) 1
AY. Kite’s b g Woolstone, by Gemma di Vergy—
dam unknown, aged, 6st 41b (Emsworth) ... 2
John Mayo's ch h Secnudns, by Kelpie—Hebe,
6 yrs, 8st 71b (Yeomans) 3
The others were Hopeful, Saunterer, The Dean,
and Middlesex. Oakhill won a good race from
AVoolstone, Secundus, the favourite, being third,
Hopeful, on whom a lot of money had been laid,
last. Time, 3min. 10 4-lOsec.
Randwick Plate, of 200 sovs, with a sweepstake of 5
sovs each, 1ft, to go to the second horse. For three-
year-olds and upwards. Three miles.
Mr. T. Ivory’s b h Sweetmeat, by Yattendon—Sul-
tana, 5 yrs, 9st 71b (Pigott) 1
Hon. J. AYhito’s b h Martindale, by Maribyrnong—
Mainbrace, 6 yrs, 9st 91b (Huxley) 2
Hon. J. AVhite’s b h Democrat, Gemma di A’ergy—
Silverhair, aged, 9st 91b (Gordon) 3
Democrat and Martindale were sent to cut
Sweetmeat down, hut Pigott, whose splendid
jockeyship was cheered to the echo, landed his
horse a winner. Time, 5min 40 3-lOsec. [On
the road home on Saturday evening Sweetmeat
trod on a broken bottle and severely injured
himself.
Steeplechase, a handicap sweepstakes of 5 sovs each,
1ft, with 150 sovs added. Second horse, 20 sovs from
the prize. Over such course and jumps as the
committee shall direct. About 3 miles.
Mr. Henry Yeend’s b g Intrepid, aged, list (B.
Batty) ... 1
A. Saqui’s ch g Express, aged, lOst 91b (H.
Chiffney) 2
P. N. Bfivley ns ch g The Hatter, 6 yrs, 9st 31b
(AY. Chiffney) 3
The other starters were Maritana, Pearl Diver,
Selector, and Bolivar. Bolivar led for a mile,
and then fell. Intrepid, the favourite, went to
the front and won in a canter. Express next, 100
yards away. Only four finished. Time, 6 min
20sec.
Free Handicap, of 106 sovs, with a sweepstakes of
1 sov each, to go to the second horse ; for three-year
olds and upwards. A winner of a handicap after the
declaration of the weights to carry 101b extra. One
mile and a quarter.
Mr. J. Thomas’s bl h Othello, by The Barb—dam un-
known, 6 yrs, 7st 61b (Nicholson).,. ... ... 1
Jae. Damn's br h Ravenswood, by Maribyrnong—
Dolly Varden, 4 yrs. 8st 51b (Gordon) 2
E. De Mestre’s b h His Lordship, 3 yrs, 7st 101b
(Reilly) 3
The other starters were:—Black Swan, Ches-
terfield, Milbrodale, Black Eagle, The Dean,
Lightning, The Baroness, Nancy Lee, Doctor,
Prairie Bird, Annandale and Golden Locks. After
the Doctor and Nancy Lee had led Othello came
out at the home turn and won easily from Ravens-
wood. Time, 2min 14sec.
SYDNEY AMATEUR TURF CLUB
MEETING.
MONDAY—THE “SIR HERCULES" DAY.
The fairies on Sunday night must have held a
consultation about the pillow of Sir Hercules, for
the marvellous change in the weather could only
be reasonably attributed to the influence of the
filmy inhabitants of “other worlds than ours.”
Perhaps, however, since Mr. Milner Stephen has
thrown over the poor angels, they, in revenge for
being banished from that loft over the Coach
Factory, have transferred their attentions else-
where, leaving merry Milner and his “ miracles ”
to the care of these mysterious beings which Mr.
Bobbins was wont to term “the sperrits.” In
any case a lovelier day never dawned than that on
which the S. A. T. Club races took place in honour
of his Excellency, our late Governor. From the
very jump “ all went merry as a marriage bell.”
The appearance of the course was something to be
remembered. It is something to be remembered,
because the large concourse of people which
assembled there—hundreds having left, at some
loss, their business associations—werenot gathered
together with a view of merely witnessing the
racing, but specially to do honour to a gentleman
and a sportsman on his advent once more 'amongst
us. The event, indeed, will constitute a very
pleasing episode in the history of the colony. The
Government House party arrived at about one, the
two Governors leading the cortege in a Victoria
drawn by a splendid pair of bay ponies. The
entrance of this vehicle at the back of the Grand
Stand was the signal for one of the most enthu-
siastic demonstrations it has ever been our lot to
witness. The moment the hero of the day was
sighted, such a roar went up from the ‘ 1 paddock ”
as must have gladdened the heart of Sir Hercules.
Then, at a given signal, a rush was made—the
“ books ” in the van enthusiastically waving their
wager-books—towards the Vice-regal entrance, and
the distinguished visitor was vociferously cheered.
All the “ ten-bobb#rs ’" (and “ dead-heads ”)
were there in one compact mass, reaching across
to the fence. “ Three cheers for Sir Hercules,”
cried a stentorian voice, which at once betrayed
that its owner was a lineal descendant of
“Moshish.” “Hip, hip—hoo—ray.” “Now, all
together—take time from me,” cried Mr. Honri-
gan, flourishing an umbrella with a faded blue
lining— ‘ * Hip—pip—pip—hoo—ray—hay!” “One
more for Sir’Erkilles,” yelled a “knight of the
pencil,” with his hat upon a stick and beads of
perspiration—as big as walnuts —upon his forehead
—“Hip, pip ” —a loud hiccup intervening—“ Oo —
ray! ” Cheers for Lady Robinson, Cheers for
Lord and Lady Loftus. cheers for “Sinjen”;
cheers for “ heverybody.” But when Sir Hercules
and Lady Eobinson appeared on the Stand, what a
prolonged roar emanated from the country’s “bone
and sinew ! ” All rushed to the fence facing the
Vice-regal box. Venerable glucosers tore them-
selves away from the seductive “ long-sleever ” ;
the gentlemen with rings and knives left their
stock-in-trade to its fate; perspiring list-men
hopped off their perches and bellowed the visitors’
praises instead of bellowing the odds; the “ three
cigars for sixpence ” man shut his box in despair,
and joined ; even the magsmen relinquished for a
few brief moments their habitual employment of
“looking for a joker” to join in the general
cheering. The accueil did credit to the people’s
hearts and lungs. It was a great reception of a
great man—the sporting public’s welcome to a
sporting man. The following lines will, perhaps,
be not out of place as adding our meed to the
general—
WELCOME.
’Tis meet the sun should shine on this fair day;
’Tis meet cool winds should filter through the trees ;
’Tis meet all should be clothed in bright array.
To warmly welcome thee once more. Sir Hercules!
'Tis meet that Nature smile her sweetest smile,
That all around thy honest gaze shall please :
’Tis meet that honour should be done thee, while
Thou dost abide amongst us, good Sir Hercules 1
Where’er thou goest, all who know thee can
But speak of thee in ringing tones like these: —
“Ik all his acts he proved himself a man ! “
There is no greater praise than this, Sir Hercules!
So fare thee well, and may fair breezes waft
Thee safe across the circumambient seas;
" Our hearts, our hopes ” go with the craft
That bears thee to thy native land. Sir Hercules!
In the enclosure the ladies mustered in great
force, and the dresses were remarkably elegant.
Lady Robinson was in black corded silk, with a
black bonnet, and she wore at her left side a mag-
nificent silver chatelaine. Mrs. St. John, who
looked remarkably well, was in chestnut satin.
Sir Hercules was in great feather. He sported a
black frock coat, light grey continuations, lavender
kid gloves sewn with black, and a red geranium in
his button-hole. By a singular coincidence, Lord
Loftus and Mr. St. John wore unmentionables of
the same materials —black and white stripes.
When we say a singular coincidence, we speak
advisedly ; for we would not insinuate that these
distinguished gentlemen purchased a remnant
between them, and ; but the mere thought is
treason! To return, however, to the ladies.
Amongst the uu morons elegant and costly costumes
with which ouV fair sisters adorned themselves in
hononr of our late worthy Governor, undoubtedly
the most effective dress was that worn by a blonde
lady of unmistakeably great personal attractions.
The dress was of white satin, trimmed with violet
bows of the same material. The style in which it
was made was peculiarly artistic, and when we add
that it encased a figure of most exquisite symmetry,
the reader will be able to form some idea as
to the effect »f the whole. Perhaps, however,
the most successful item in the costume was the
hat. It was a dear little hat of a gipsy pattern,
made of quilted white silk, and embellished with
small golden ornaments. It was such a hat as a
lady might dream of after a supper of rose-leaves
and nectar, and on awaiting destroy herself about
because that dream was not a reality. Another
pretty costume was of grey shot silk, with a fan-
shaped train trimmed with black velvet. It would
be unfair, also, not to notice a very charming dress
of lemon-coloured silk, which became the wearer
admirably; both dress and wearer appearing to
find great favour in the eyes of the lavender-gloved
patricians. In short, it was a glorious day, full of
lights but rare of shadows. How true, indeed,
sang poor John Keats, when, in “ The Grass-
hopper and the Cricket,” he wrote—
The poetry of earth is never dead.
We subjoin a synopsis of the day’s racing;—
The Welcome Stakes, a handicap of 50 sovs, for three-
year-olds and upwards; second horse 10 sovs; 6 fur-
longs.
Mr. E. De Mestre’s bh His Lordship, by the Marquis
-i-Beatrice, 5 yre, 8st 101b (T. Hales) 1
W. Forrester’s ch h Lightning, by Barbarian—
Casuarina, 5 yrs, 7st 4 lb (Cornwell) t
M. Thompson’s ch m Bareness, by The Drummer,
7st21b(A. Smith) t
Soothsayer, Lorton, Valetta, Carmen, The
Admiral, Bow Boll, Otira, Brownlockjand Kelso
also ran. His Lordship, who was the favorite at
3 to 1, won easily by two lengths. Lightning,
followed by Otira (who before the end of the race
burst a blood-vessel) made most of the running.
Lightning and Baroness beat Soothsayer for third
place by a length. Time, Imin 15 8-10 sec.
The Juvenile Stakes, of 60 sovs; for two-year-olds;
colts, 8st; fillies and geldings, 7st 121b. The winner
of any two-year-old stakes, not a handicap, to carry
71b penalty. Half a mile.
Mr. R. Sknthorpe’s hr f Flora, by Malta—Rosemary,
7st 121b (F. Mortimer) 1
E. Lee’s b f Skipka.by Maribyrnong—China Bose,
7st 121b (O’Connor) 2
C. T. Roberts’sbc Exeter,Set (Nicholson) ... 3
Roxburgh, Dondi, Loftus, Raymond, Mistletoe,
Boronia, Statira and Moneta also ran. Loftus and
Flora got away with the lead, the latter entering
the straight first. Shipka here drew up rapidly
and was only beaten by a short head, Exeter a
length off. Time, 50 min 3-10 sec.
Corinthian Cup, a silver cup value 40 sovs, or specie ;
for three-year-olds and upwards ; welter handicap; to
be ridden by members of the S.T.C., A. J.C., V.E.C.,
or any recognised amateur racing club. One mile and
a quarter.
Mr. R. Waiu’s b g Murray, aged, by Express—a New
Warrior mare, 9st 71b (Mr. Ivory) I
J. Thomas’s bl h Othello. 6 yrs, by The Barb,
12st 71b (Mr. P. Glennister) 2
E. Rouse’s be The Admiral, 3 yrs, by Yatten-
don, lOst 81b (Mr. Betts) 3
The following also started: —The Dean, Be-
douin, Prairie Bird, Limerick, Banker and Cleon.
Murray won cleverly by three-quarters of a
length, the Admiral third, ten lengths away. Time,
2min 17sec. [In a private match the following
day Murray again beat Othello, by a short head
only.] Time, 2min 17sec.
The Selling Plate of 50 sovs. For three-year-olds
and upwards. The winner to be sold for 100 sovs;
71b allowed for every reduction of £20 on selling
price down to £20. One mile.
Mr. G. Donnelly’s g g Rosinante, by Mazeppa, £20, 5
yrs, 7st (Clarke) X
T. Pickard’s br g Major, £20, 6 yrs, 7st (Cmck-
nell) ■ 2
D. Melhado’s b c Baudalbion, £40, 3 yrs, 6st
51b (Emsworth) 3
The following also started: —Verdict, Nar-
rara, Esmonde, Liberator and Whitolight. Band-
albion was the favourite, but Rosinante led all
through and won easily, Major just beating Band-
albion for second place. Time, Imin 44 4-lOsec.
The Steeplechase, a handicap of 60 sovs. For three-
year-olds and n pwards. Second horse 10 sovs from
the prize. Over such course and jumps as the com-
mittee shall direct. About two miles and a half.
Mr. H. Yeend’s b g Intrepid, aged, 12st 41b (Battye) X
P.J. M'Alister’schmMaritana,6yrs,9st(Phelps) 2
AY. Ttanuon’s b g Mustang, aged, 9st 51b (J.AVall) 3
The following .also ran: —Express (fell), Bolivar
(fell), Harlequin, Lord of the Forest, and King-
fisher. Bolivar fell at the first fence, and Express
at the next round. Intrepid got home in front of
Maritana, who ran a good mare, and then came
Mustang third in a scattered field. Time, 4min
ofisec.
Farewell Handicap, of 60 sovs; for three-year-olds
and upwards; second horse 10 sovs. The winner of a
handicap after declaration of weight 8Jto carry 101b
penalty. One mile and three furlongs. *
Mr. J. Mayo’s him Black Swan, by Yatteudon—Lady
of the Lake, 6 yrs, 8st (Hincks) 1
George Lee’s br m Nellie, 4 yrs, 7st 81b (O’Connor) 2
E. Terry’s br h The Dean, 6 yrs, 7st 31b, includ-
ing 71b over (Williamson) 3
The other starters were :—Master Avenal, Ches-
terfield, Oakhill, Retrospect, Lightning, Zulu,
Rosinante, and Garryowen. Zulu, who led by
three lengths at the turn, there ran off, leaving
Black Swan to get home under her heavy weight-
just a neck in front of Nellie. Time, 2m 26secs.


Public Companies
IOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
1 SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £525,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.: E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq,
Solicitors :
Messrs.'Wnnt, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; O. H. Green, Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.: F. H. Dangar.
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coelah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Cornki, Coonamble,
Cootamnndra, Duhbo, Dungog, Forbes, Gormanton,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Gunnedah,
Gimning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
andera, Orange, Parkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton,
Queanbeyan, Quirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
ton, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass, Young.
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia :. The Bank of South Australis, tho
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman's Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London ; The London and Westminster Bonk, and the
Loudon and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland •• The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco: The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
BatavIa : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances ©n approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
ic < O bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates ; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on "debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £100,000, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
Masses of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE ns
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
IOENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
1 ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £100,000.
RESERVE FUND ... £80,000,
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
—
The standard life assurance com-
pany.
—
Head Office George-street, Edinburgh.
Sydney Branch ... 283 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE. •
The next DIVISION OF PROFITS will be made, as
at 15th November, 1880, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T. WATKINS,
• Secretary.
Lion fire insurance company.
Limited.
Chief Office—5, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
Department of Mines,
1ST of application received in the Department of Mines, for permission tc/mine underloads, &c.,
• &c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28. *
E. A. BAKER.
Names of Appli-
cants.
Locality.
Description of Land applied for. Extent.
28 July ...
28
...29
29 July.
A. Armstrong ,
H. E. Way
Henry Copeland
and Thomas
Garrett.
Henry J. Withers.
J. B. North ....
Henry J. Withers
Do
S ; L. Bensusanand
Patrick Griffin
Dr. H. Tarrant, per
A. G. Martin
Purpose for
which land is to
be used.
Port Hacking
do
do
Near Port
Hacking.
Port Hacking
Near Port
Hacking.
Reserve No. 34, being a reserve
for National Park.
do do
Portion of the National Park
reserve
Reserve No. 42, county of Cum-
berland, parish of Wattamolla
Reserve for National Park
Extension of reserve No. 42,
county of Cumberland, parish
of Wattamolla.
do Reserve No. 45, county of Cum-
berland, parish of Bulge.
Port Hacking Land at Gratugunyah, reserve for
National Park.
Albert Wood
Do
Tuggerah... Under Tuggerah Beech Lake,
Munmorah Lake, the village
of Norah, the reserve adja-
cent to said lakes, the said
village, and reserve Toloam-
bah, county of Northumber-
land ; and bounded on the
east by the Pacific Ocean, and
on all other sides by Crown
land and alienated land.
Port Hacking Government Reserve; bounded
j on the east and north by the
j Pacific Ocean; on the west by
O’Byrne’s freehold of 400
j acres ; on the south by Min-
1 era! Lease No. 18,286, parish
of Wattamolla, county of
Cumberland.
Near PortReserve No. 42. county of Cnm-
Hacking. j berland, parish of Wattamolla.
570
for
limestone.
To mine for
coal.
To mine for
coal and
shale.
do
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 3rd September, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
' Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
Lachlan Mining District.
Department of Mines,
Lycirp t t l- „ Sydney, 31st August 1880.
l!sl ot applications received in the Department of Mines for permission to mine under roads &o
&c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28. ’ ’*
P> WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
815 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
r
Outside Venetian.
h
n
s
N
m
&
a
m
■UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
I UA NUFACTUR.EO BY W. DAVIES* C? COULBURN.N.SJN |
N
W
EASON
Ex s.s. Menmuir.
The arrival of this steamship has given us the opportunity of selecting with care and judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
We present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will be
appreciated by onr Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
2s 6d per lb Very Choice Rich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s ,, A Rich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congou, very good and
strong
Is 6d „ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a family’s stock of Groceries, wo would most respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
W NOTE THE ADDRESS —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
MCCLE LLAND AND ROACH,
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
Public Companies
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase tr,
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq.
"William B. Walford, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esa.
William A. Long, Esq. *
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket j Eedfem | Glebe.
London Office—18 King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. ’
THE BANK UNDEETAKKS ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869,
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARMAMENT. 187a
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £110,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England,
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
Australian mutual proyiden
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq*
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER :
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Momce A, Black, P.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society: . . ; ‘ It is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singulai
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie-
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence,, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
IJ1HE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability,
HEAD OFFICE—283 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
' F. T. WATKINS. Manager.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per -cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£200 House, £20 Cash; Balance, 36s. per Month.
£400 do. £40 do. do. 72s. do.
£800 do. £80 do. do. 146s. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
V
IC TOR IA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperbangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brash ware.
Marble and Enamelled’ Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273). GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
TO THE THEATRICAL PROFESSION AND
LADIES GENERALLY.
A choice variety of COMPLEXION POWDERS
on Sale, also fine PERFUMERY and T0ILE1
articles, &c., &c.
W. D. EAMES,
Chemist, 14 Oxford-st.,
Near Hyde Park.


Business Announcements
rTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 345, Keut-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. — GEO.
gBNCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
lor their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Keut-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2, 7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of 1J, 2, 3,
and 64 cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Keut-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, AV. H. ARIELL,
S43, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
tjalingps music warehouse
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
, THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent; W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
ftSWENT oaSfRVflT
]F.AlJOTR*SO)Sfj
e rt r Watch
Opticians.
i w** ff;
i~\ Z’b hunter Sr8 rfT
’ V SruXur. | ■;
-QjttfUriaot -ho-.l "f-m on Af (ji'itdtien ' •'
G- OUNDRY’S
M CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
« Tery much strouger than the same not Consolidated,
me reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
.. be , I J r °n the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
ana which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
‘oose tea is used.
foundry's Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
QOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
“Wiles as con be drawn out of the same Tea not
nipressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
e consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
used m a week or a month.
ow' C JY iwe11 (late Secretary of War) expressed his
1 English Government must ultimately
RiV" ru me tbod of solidifying its large stores of teas,
rivon Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
nmins honour after his return from India, said it
most valuable improvements in modern
w »mi SS anat plans.
«Deri«iw E 2J >erts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
jiJ J'J 0 England for a fresh supply.
® a^a ?i° n of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
(onr „ iea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
«ontinf a ?. ag0 discarded the ordinary teas, and have
tfeT “ ued tonseGOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
since.
Ite ® x P e dition under Sir George Nares used
*o ea*iii . a ®knowledged the advantage of having Tea
flavo^ y stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
uslunen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
T <>beobtafn^L re8PeCtfUlly solicited ’
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
®ole . .. . 175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
-—- —. en ts for the Australian Colonies.
JS NO WORD IN THE ENGLISH
of the CAGE to adequately describe the beauty
. " POMPADOUR CORSETS ”
DIRECT FROM PARIS by
Thevnv HORDERN, of 663, BRICKFIELD-HILL.
Sr St BLACK SATTBEN with EXQUI-
S P«ag P^ D - W0RKED BOQUET8 of the choicest
I’SfDaiv „T, er8- “ Come and see them.” Only 8s 6d
• We Al worth 1 guinea.
Business Announcements
JJO MES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
„ . , . hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS iN
, BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4, CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
CHARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS:
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER.
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental). Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B.—Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
P.
R. LARK]
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
•18 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darliughnrst Road, near William-street.
N,
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orderly post punctually attended to. POST
ibb
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
I T Y
E
X
Nine Cases
0 F
A.
N. Co.,
S.
SYDNEY.
Eureka Puzzles,
Consisting of
NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOTIONS, TOYS, 15
Puzzles, Articles of useful invention.
Books, &c., &c.
CO.,
AMERICAN NOVELTY
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank).
Depot :
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPARATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BERTRAM, Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto „
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON, Toronto „
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, &c.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other os rated beverages—a; rated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
Ac., Ac.
FIRST PRIZE (International Exhibition) Soda-
water Machinery, -ZE rated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
SMITH AND HAMILTON.
43 GLOBE BUILDING,
SUSSEX STREET NORTH.
B. M O D I N I,
* GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, Ac.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
Business Announcements
BRAY BROS.,
402 & 404 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
GREAT
CLEARING SALE
OF
£13,000 WORTH OF
CHINA,
CHINA
GLASS,
GLASS,
EARTHENWARE,
AND
LAMPS
AT TWENTY PER CENT DISCOUNT
FOR CASH.
BRAY BROS.,
402 & 404 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
M
ADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 GEOKGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, Ac.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating.from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, 5s. ; Three mouths, 12s. 6d.; Six months
25s.; Twelve mouths, £2 2s.
To Heads of Familif.s, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
teken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
, .V? Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from HADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Roil at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation :
Memories of my Exile, by Louie Kossuth
A Ride in Petticoats and Slippers, by Captain H. E.
Colville.
Cross Purposes, by Cecilia Findlay
Miles Harding, by A. Weber
Edgar Allan Poe : His Life, Letters and Opinions,
by J. H. Ingram
There’s Rue for you, by Arthur Keunard
The Pair Haired Alda, by Florence Marryat
Loudon Town, by Marcus Fall
Mervyn O’Connor, by Lord Desart
Signor Molodini’s Neice
Memories of Troubled Times, by Marshall
Second Thoughts, by Ehoda Broughton
With a Silken Thread, by E. Lynn Linton
The World of Cant
Six Life Studies of Famous Women, by M. Betham-
Ed wards
The Mistress of Coon Hall, by Margaret Cartmell
The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century,
by Jules Verne
Very Genteel, by the author of “ Mrs. Jemingham’s
Journal’*
David Armstrong
George Vanbrugh’s Mistake, by H. R. Pritchard
In Her Majesty ’s Keeping, by Hon. Lewis Winfield
The Duke's Children, by Anthony Trollope
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jane Worboise
Plain English, by John Holliugshead
Dr. Rigby’s Letters from Prance, by Lady Eastlakei
The Purcell Papers, by J. S. Le Fanu
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Moths, by Ouida
Protection and Bad Times, by G. Bodeu-Powell
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blockmore
Poor Zeth, by author of “ Grandmother’s Money ’*
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
In Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Royal Windsor, 4 vols., by W. Hepworth Dixon
A Seamy Side, by Bcsant and Rice
Russia, Before and After the War, by the author of
*‘ Society in St. Petersburgh ’ ’
Life and Writings of Henry Thomas Buckle, by
Alfred Henry Huth
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Giant
Her Dignity and Grace
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephsou
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
200 and 262 GEOEGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures mode
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Pounders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marino and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
JJURST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
. to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“ The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards."
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time ymeni
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney,


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STOUY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.-PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIX— Continued
Friends at home the girl had none. Fred, had one
of those hopelessly dense natures which may be
called the complacently brutal—nothing in the
way of friendship or sympathy was to be had from
him. Her father —Helena, in her intercourse at
school with girls of good family and social sur-
roundings, had learnt to know that her father’s
language and manners were to be abhorred,
while, had he been a Sir Charles Grandison
in the matter of deportment, his coarse bullying
and ferocious bantering of her mother would alone
have made the hot-spinted girl almost hate him.
And Fred —his mother stood in profound awe of
him; his talk, his slang, his ways in general; and
she was the one soul on earth, except himself, who
was firmly convinced of the fact that Frederick
Spenceley was at once a finished gentleman and a
consummate man of tho world.
As Sebastian sat watching his hostess, and
partly divining some of these facta, a voice at his
elbow roused him.
“ Good evening, Mr. Mallory; you look as if you
were dreaming.”
Looking quickly round, he saw Helena standing
close beside him, smiling as frankly as if no mis-
understanding had existed between them, as if
they had not quarrelled violently within two hours
of first seeing each other. How lovely she was !
None but a very lovely woman could have stood
the dull ivbry satin dress she wore, fitting tight in
the waist, without a fold or crease ; and, in an age
of voluminous, portentous’crinolines, trailing long
and straight behind her. She wore a black lace
fichu, and elbow sleeves with black lace ruffles
falling from them. Tho fichu was fastened with a
golden brooch ; beyond that there was not a rib-
bon, not a frill, not a Jewel, or a flower about her.
And her beauty came triumphant through the
ordeal.
They had parted on decidedly evil terms, and he
was surprised now to find that she welcomed
him cordially, and smiled as she took the chair
beside him.
‘I’m afraid I was very cross the other night,”
said she, with a sunny smile. “ But I thought
you had treated me badly, and I am going to have
my revenge to-night, and show you that I am in
earnest. My greatest friend, Laura Mereweathor,
lias most fortunately been able to come just when
I invited her. Wasn’t that wonderful?”
“ I am prepared to say it was; but I don’t yet
know why.”
“ Yon know Miss Merevveather by name, at
least ?
“ To my shame I never oven heard of her be-
fore.”
“ What an extraordinary thing ! She has a
European reputation.”
“ You astonish me! For- what ?”
“As being the most advanced female thinker,
and the greatest benefactor of her sex, of her
time.”
Sebastian’s face fell, and he looked round the
room.
“ These very intellectual women have often
nothing remarkable in their personal appearance,”
said he. “ Would you believe that, of the several
young ladies I see seated about the room, I could
not say which I should suppose to be Miss Mere-
weather.”
“ That ” said Helena, impressively, “ that
slight girl, all intellect, and mind, and spirit, talk-
ing to my brother —that is Laura!”
‘ la it, really?” he said, his eyes falling upon
the ethereal-looking being described by Helena.
He saw a thin, nervous-looking being—a girl
with not a bad face, if it could not be called abso-
lutely handsome. She too was dressed, like
Helena, in a tightly-fitting robe, with undistended
skirts, but her dress was black. She wore an eye-
glass, looked restlessly around, and had a deep
contralto voice. There was nothing alarming in
her appearance; she looked, thought Sebastian,
as if she would have made an excellent head-mis-
tress of a large school, the matron of an hospital,
or some authority of that description.
“ She is a woman of powerful individuality, I
should say,” he remarked.
“ Is she not ? After dinner she will talk to us.”
“Oh, you are very kind ! I wouldn’t trouble
her for the world.”
“ It is no trouble. Nothing done for the cause
would be a trouble to Laura; and then you must
be enlightened. You must learn that ours is not
a cause to be treated with levity. You must be
punished for what you did and said the other
night,” said Helena.
“ I submit; but —I am sure you could talk just
as well,” said Sebastian, resignedly.
“ Ah, if I could!” said Helena, gazing with ad-
miring devotion towards her friend.
“Is there not an immensity of power and force
about her?” she said enthusiastically. “Laura
has several times been mistaken for a man —by
persons (who have heard her voice, and her re-
marks, without seeing her.”
“Hassjje? How excessively annoying for her! ’ ’
said Sebastian with feeling.
"Annoying! It pleases her, as a testimony to
her power, and as a proof that there is no real dis-
parity in the respective capacities of men and
women. Of course, when it is known that books
or pictures have been written or painted by
women, all hope of fair and impartial criticism is
over.”
“la it? Well, I was looking at the question
from another point of view. I thought that if
Miss Mereweather disapproves so strongly of men
in general, it would annoy her to be mistaken for
one of that odious and inferior sex ; and, more-
over, would only be a sign of how very different
she must be from most women.”
“ She is very superior to most women ; if that is
what you mean, I concede the point willingly.”
“ Well, if such a superior woman is often mis-
taken for a man, is not that a piece of negative
evidence of the inferiority of women in general ?”
he asked politely.
Helena’s face had flushed again.
“ As I said, Laura shall talk to you. She will
argue much bettor than I can. I do not pretend
to her abilities. And there is Parsons announcing
dinner,” added Helena, hastily, her colour mount-
ing still higher as she caught Sebastian’s eyes
fixed with a grave yet not unkindly expression
upon her face.
He rose to offer Mrs. Spenceley his arm, and
stood with her, watching the couples as they filed
out of the room. Yes, Helena was lovely, and
not all her wild talk, not even her enthusiastic
admiration for Miss Mereweather, could make her
otherwise.
He looked absently on, as first hia mother and
Mr. Spenceley went by; next a gorgeous dowager,
whose tribal name and standing were unknown to
him, but whom he distinctly heard saying some-
thing about “ the ’oist at the Lang’um ’otel,” as
she swept past on the arm of a flaccid-faoed, red-
haired, meek-looking man, pertaining to the goodly
company of cotton-spinners. The wife of the said
cotton-spinner followed next, with a gentle-looking
incumbent—he who ministered to the spiritual
needs of Mr. Spenceley and his family. More
couples followed. Fred Spenceley with Miss
Mereweather —more gorgeous dowagers and re-
splendent spinsters, and more of the native young
men, leading the same to the banquet, and, at last,
Helena, in her creamy robes, with Hngo.
“The lucky young dog!” thought Sebastian,
resignedly, as Hugo’s eyes met his, and the lad
smiled rather triumphantly, in the full oonscious-
that he was leading out the prettiest woman in
the room.
Was she talking women’s rights now? Sebas-
tian wondered, as no silently brought up the rear,
with the equally silent Mrs. Spenceley. No! She
was laughing with Hugo, like any other pleasant,
well-conditioned girl, and asking him to tell her
exactly how he spelt his name, and if it had any
particular meaning.
“ For I know nothing about German, except a
translation of the ‘ Sorrows of Werther,’ which I
thought very funny.”
“ And I do not know much about English,”
said Hugo, much delighted with his own good
fortune, but I can understand yours, sehr gut —I
mean, very well. Yon speak so clearly, it is dif-
ferent from the London people.”
“Not bad for a first attempt, old boy!”
thought Sebastian, smiling as they entered the
celebrated dining-room of Castle Hill, with its
•pictures and bronzes, and statuary, all of the very
best, and “ bought by people who understood
such things,” as Mr. Spenceley was wont modestly
to say, when any one praised any of his artistic
treasures.
Mrs. Spenceley did not look like a person would
have exactly a discriminating taste in the matter
of genre-paintings, or landscape, but Sebastian
broke the silence between them by remarking on a
little picture hanging opposite to him.
“ Yea ; it’s by a person called Ansdell, I believe,”
said Mrs. Spenceley. They say it’s very good;
but for my part, I am no judge of such things.”
Sebastian bowed, and then, thinking that per-
'hapa local topics might prove more successful
than artistic ones, said he feared that distress
was already beginning amongst the work-people.
Mrs. Spenceley turned with some vivacity to her
guest.
“ You’re right, Mr. Mallory. If it goes on as it
is doing it’ll break some ’earts before all’s over.”
“ Do yon visit much amongst them?”
“ Not so much as I could wish. There’s some
of the poor creatures will soon bo fair clemming—
starving, I mean.” Mrs. Spenceley sank her voice,
and every now and then her eye turned with a
little nervous, wavering glance towards her lord
at the other end of the table. “Yon see, I
shouldn’t like to go so much amongst them with-
out I could help them a bit. I should like to have
a soup-kitchen !” she added, with feeling ; “ but
Spenceley doesn’t quite approve of it. He says
that many of them have money laid by, and he’s
of opinion that we must let them help themselves
a bit before we begin to help them.”
‘•From a politico-economical point of view Mr.
Spenceley is perhaps right,” said Sebastian,
glancing down the table at the red-faced, coarse-
featured man, with the heavy jaw not devoid of
cruelty; and noting that same jaw reproduced
even more obtrusively and unpleasantly in the
son; scarcely at all in the daughter, or at least
only id a manner which gave an expression of de-
cision to the charming mouth.
“ I know nothing about politics,” said Mrs.
Spenceley; “and you may mark my words—
those that’s starving will want bread — not
politics.”
“ Certainly they will. TJnfortuna.tely yon often
cannot give them the one without a good deal of
the other.”
“ I dare say. But if the war doesn’t stop soon
we shall have to do something, if it was only to
try and teach the poor women to make the most
of their bits of stuff. Most of them are no house-
keepers to speak of. They can spin and weave,
but they can’t make home comfortable, and after
all that’s the chief tiling. But,” she added, sud-
denly remembering different reports she had heard
of Sebastian, and Helena’s contemptuous an-
nouncement that he was a fop, who thought the
world was made for his amusement, and that there
was nothing in life worth the trouble of being
earnest about, “ you won’t be much interested in
these kind of things, Mr. Mallory.”
“ On the contrary. I am much interested in it.
Your idea makes me wonder if something could
not be done. If some schools, or something of
that kind could be established,* if some of
the ladies of the town would take it up
—my mother and you, for example,
Spenceley—and make it unnecessary for thos
poor girls to be wandering about, laughing ani !
making fun of people in the streets, as I saw them
the other day. And your daughter—I shoau
think Miss Spenceley should find the work conge-
nial.”
“Helena!” echoed the mother, shaking
head. “ It’s of no use talking about her, jj r r
Mallory. She has always some fresh craze in t er
head, and never a useful one. That horrid Mr!
Mereweather has been the ruin of her.”
Sebastian repressed a smile.
“ If she only would turn to something useful <"
lamented Mrs. Spenceley, “ but with these jp
diculous ideas about women being better than
men, and all that—and she can’t even make a shirt
for her father or a pudding for her brother. Oh
but I beg your pardon —only I do often tell he-
that she would never make a good wife with these
ideas—not if she had millions of pounds andv a ,
the prettiest girl in England.”
Though Mrs. Spenceley threw back her head
and spoke in a tone of annoyance, yet Sebastiaa
clearly distinguished an accent of pride in her
voice. The homely mother then was not alto-
gether displeased with her wilful girl.
“ And what, does she say to that ?” he asked
looking at Hugo and Helena, who seemed to bj
enjoying some remarkably good joke; and bj
thought: “The prettiest girl in England! A;
least she might hold her own amongst a dozen of
the prettiest.”
“ Oh, she says she never will be married, and
that nonsense. I tell her to wait until Mr. Eight
comes, and then we shall hear a different song? j
wish he would, I’m sure, before she gets spoiled
She has a right good heaxt, has Helena, if only a
giddy head.”
Sebastian did not answer. He was still lookup
towards Hugo and Helena, and felt intensely con-
scious of the ripple of laughter which scaroeh
ceased between them. It was impossible that
women’s rights, or any such bristly, hateful topic
could be causing that delighted look on HngoA
dark, artist face; could call that gracious oarrs
to Helena’s red lips. Hugo threw himself * ltD
Eassion into the joy of the moment, as Sebaatwa
new: Helena seemed to have something ot
eager, inflammable temperament. At least they ap-
peared to be very happy together.
# # * * # *
Dinner over; a group of four congregated in *
comer. Helena on a sofa, with Hugo beside Mr •
Sebastian and Miss Mereweather facing
another in chairs, and the cross-examination »0o '
to begin. Helena had wished to leave Seh*® .
and Miss Mereweather to fight it out alotie, n n ,
had meekly suggested that it was not fair to w
him confront the most remarkable woman o
age entirely without support; and Hugo aac
his petition, Helena had consented to be P r€sl
at the discussion.
Helena seated herself, opened her fau, an
said;
“ Now. Laura, dear, Mr. Mallory would
know your views on the Woman Question. ,
She avoided meeting the look of
amazement and reproach with which
heard this decidedly exaggerated announc
and Laura replied: ,, „ , a0ir n
“ I should first wish to know Mr. Mallo 7 -
views upon that subject— the subject, I
of the present age.” „ , ,. “ I
“ They are soon stated,” said Sebastian,
have none.” „ jfcr*
“ Then there is some hope for yon, a* 11
Mereweather. i T „h 0 uri
“ I am glad of that. At the same timet -
like to knovy in which direction the nop
itself.” , , utter
“ Your frank acknowledgment ot j von :
ignorance of the question is a great P 01 it’ye' 1
favour. As you have no views at all npo 0 ‘ n ,-
are the more likely to be able to receiv J
when they are offered to you.”
(to be continued)
•An apology is herewith offered to the Manchester
Central Committee, for thus putting into the mouth of
a fictitious in dividual their excellent proposals for the
schools which were of so much benefit in most of the
distressed districts.
MESSRS. DAVENPORT AND ALCOCK’S ESTABLISHMENT, BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY. (See page


PERSONAL ITEMS.
What has become of the six waitresses and the
waiter ?
Mr. White, the lucky litigant, is now on a visit
to Sydney, in company with the solicitor who “ pulled
Mm through.”
Mr. George Bonrner, one of the pioneers of
Cooktown, and formerly a resident of Bowen, has died
a t Townsville.
Jn the club scene in “ Money ” at the Royal, a
Macquarie-street doctor and a Hunter-street chemist
sit at the same table. This is evidently the grouping
of a master hand.
Mr. Hamilton, alias “Dr.” Hamilton, is the
ne w proprietor of the Hodgkinson Mining News. It
will be remembered that he recently obtained a verdict,
oarrying £200 damages, against that paper, for libel.
A grand soiree is to take place at “ Seven
Oaks, Upper William-street, on the 28th instant, to
which most of the (Hite of Sydney are invited. On dit
that the house possesses a splendid floor for dancitg.
We of Sydney recently had the pleasure of
seeing Mr. W. J. Carr-Boyd (” Potjostler ”). The latest
about him comes to us through the Brisbane Tele-
graph, iu which he makes the assertion that an order
had been issued to the messengers of the Lands Office to
extrude him from the building, and that in obedience
to that mandate one of them ordered him out. “ Can
each things be?”
Mr. Bradlaugh has
famished the material
( or a life of himself,
which will soon be pub-
lished.
Mr. Blanchard, In-
spector of the Colonial
Bank, died at Auckland,
N.Z., lately.
In Melbourne now
they call Langridge not
Minister of Public
Works, but of Public
Promises.
Mr. Nicholson, now
Assistant-Commissioner
will be the new Chief of
Victorian police.
Philip Hansen King
the oldest identity in
New Zealand, is dead.
Archibald Forbes
has brought out a new
book which he calls
“ Glimpses Through the
Cannon Smoke.” It is
made up of some of his
best newspaper letters.
Sir Hercules Robin-
son had an address pre-
sented to him as he
passed through Auck-
land, N.Z., en route to
Australia and England.
Mr. C. A. Farrell,
of Stanmore, as Premier
of a debating society is
equal to any of the great
politicians in impertur-
bability and sarcasm.
There are only three
lawyers in Townsville,
but they keep the place
lively. They are Messrs.
Norris, Chubb, and Cal-
laghan.
The young Duke of
Portland immediately on
coming into possession
■of his vast fortune set-
tled £100,000 on each of
Ms half brothers, and a
jointure of £6000 a year
on his stepmother, Lady
Bolsover.
Mr. Sergeant Sleigh
was addressing a jury in
Hobart Town, last week,
and leaned over the
ledge of the box, peering
into the faces of the
jnrymen. The foreman
.(Andrews) said he could
bear his teeth rattle. A
bod artiste must be to
blame.
Mr David Buchanan
■opposed the cutting off
of increases on Civil
servants’ salaries. He
says, and j ustly, too,that
a Minister and his heads
of departments know an
officer's merits far bet-
ter than the Parliament
can.
Alfred Clint, the
scenic artist, is one of
■the very best caricatur-
ists we have in Australia.
Two of his best hits were
•exhibited in King-street
last week—Sir ’Enery
trying to throttle
’Science, and G. R. Dibbs
making a model of John
Shepherd. They brought
a high price.
Tom Lempriere,
once the adored of Mel-
bourne belles, is insol-
vent again. “ Losses on
shares held by him in
the British and Tas-
manian Charcoal Iron
Company ’ ’ (Limited)
■did it this time. Liabi-
lities, £5069; assets,
£270; deficiency, £4,799.
Said the late Mr.
Thomas Higinbotham
Engineer-in-Chief of the
V ictorian Railways, only
two days before his
•death, to a friend .whom
lm met in Collins-street:
~“I think I now see
the end of the furrow I
have been ploughing so
long!"
In poculis delectant wrote some one
many years ago. He must have had three of the Bris-
bane soft-goods-men in perspective, for they arrived
home the other morning (4 a.m.) walking, like Deadeye,
triangularly.
The marriage of Mr. R. Chirnside and Miss
Alice Ware, at Minjah station, near Warrnambool,
’Victoria, was a very grand affair, the wedding presents
being in value a long way over four figures. The happy
Pair are spending their honeymoon in Sydney.
The Towers Herald has arrived at the con-
clusion that the lucky Mr. Frank Stubley, M.L.A.,
though very rich, very generous, and well beloved by
his employes, is yet unfit to represent the Towers in
Parliament. The paper colls Mr. Stubley a windbag.
To show how little sense of decency exists in
the average Liberal mind, it is but necessary (says Mel-
bourne Punch) to refer to the voting list for the elec-
tion of a Chairman of Committees. Mr. Gaunson, the
successful man, voted for himself 1 and Mr. Mirams,
the defeated, voted with the Noes! “Ah,” sighed the
Weat little disappointed man from under the shade of
his umbrella, “if the representatives of the Liberal
Phrty had only been like the Collingwood working-men—
to be bought with a pint of beer 1 Ah! JJ— what
»“ght have been/'
The magnificent dog which, dog-like, strolled
into Government House grounds the other day, and
was, it now appears, shot dead by a very aristocratically-
connected young gentleman, wore a brass collar, on
which were engraved in full the owner’s name and
address. The cockney sportsman walked to within
three paces of the unsuspecting dog, which had never
before met so great a coward, and killed him with a
pistol-bullet. There is at any rate one cur in town who
deserves shooting, and will certainly be cowhided as
soon as he shows his nose outside his kennel.
The mnch-talked-of Union Club hall, which
took place last Monday, was brilliantly attended, and
went off with great iclat. Though the crush was great,
many managed to dance. Most of the dresses worn did
honour to the occasion. A certain Professor’s wife
looked charming, as usual, and was, it must be acknow-
ledged, one of the most attractive women in the room.
The dress most admired was that worn by the fascinating
and handsome wife of one of onr leading barristers.
Two sisters who wore white silk had their hair dressed
in a very becoming style, viz., combed up and twisted
to the top of the head. They were universally admired
and found plenty of partners.
A new weekly journal, Saturday Afternoon,
is about to appear iu London, under the editorship of
Farjeon, the novelist. Farjeon, a Hebrew of English
birth, was for many years in the colonies, he having for
some time been a compositor on the Melbourne Argus
and other Victorian papers. He was subsequently con-
nected with the New Zealand press, and first came into
note as the author of several Australian stories. He, it
will be remembered, wrote “Grif,” “ Bread and Oheese
and Kisses,” and “Footprints on the Snow.” Farjeon
is a good fellow, and in nis present well-deserved pros-
perity does not forget those with whom he was formerly
associated in the " land of gold,”
There is trouble round about a certain religi-
ous ” newspaper office, in consequence, it it said, of the
editor having refused to insert a letter wherein a very
holy man, with a face like a benediction, and supposed,
of course, to be a teetotaller, was charged with having
“ been seen ” drinking at public-house bars.
Captain Gingah was riding out the other day in
the Domain, and meeting a ladies* school, headed by
the venerable duenna, he stopped his horse and gazed
steaeily at them. “ What do you mean by staring at
me like that ?” angrily exclaimed the old lady. “ Par-
don me. madam, it was the young stock I was taking
in," replied the gallant captain. Now Captain Gingah
always speaks the truth.
A much-respected Jewish gentleman, consider-
ably beyond his great climacteric, on his way to
Shule the other day met his two sons in a buggy.
Astonished at their irreverence, he stopped them and
asked, “ Where are yon going ?" " To the races,” fear-
fully answered one young hopeful. The old gentleman
looked at them for a moment in surprise. “ Well," said
he, “ you ought to have more respect for your father
than to behave in this way ; but, seeing that it is a
parent’s duty to look after his children, why, make
room there, you young scamps—I'll go with you." And
he did.
A gentleman named Graham (says the Central
Australian) left Bonrke by coach last week. He had
driven in a buggy from Townsville to Thorgomindah, bad
great difficulty in crossing the Grey Ranges, and was
several times badly off for water. He left Townsville
early in May, and on arrival at Thorgomindah sold his
buggy and horses, and came on to Bonrke. He made no
fnss about a journey which was, nevertheless, a remark-
able one. *
It was amusing on the night of the Union Club
ball, to watch certain young gentlemen of Darlinghurst
wading through the mud to the ’bus-stand, with their
dancing “ pumps," carefully rolled in brown paper,
protruding from their pockets, and their unwhisperables
rolled nearly up to their knees. The sight was one
which would have made even an alderman blush. But
commend us to the individual who carried his shoes
tied up in a white pocket handkerchief, lit his pipe
and made ’‘tracks” down the hill with an indepen-
dence of spirit, and a ready resource, that did him in-
finite credit.
Francis William Newman, the great Cardinal’s
great brother, writes to thank the Freethinkers of
Sydney who sent home to him a handsome testimonial,
and an address written by Charles Bright. Professor
Newman says .—“Yon rightly judge that, as the denial
of free judgment was the cardinal error which has made
historical Christianity a doubtful advantage to the
world, so the vindication of freedom to think and judge
is the common cause of all who look for a gentler and
nobler future for mankind. Even in the midst of
corrupt religions, Science is ever uttering her cry, that
with candid freedom and mutual respect, Truth has the
most hopeful career. ... I have thanked you for
your gift,” adds the Professor, “ but I am bound to
give you double and triple thanks for the cordial senti-
ments of your address.”
His Grace the Duke of Manchester is an elderly
gentleman, say between 50 and 60, grey, of a military
air, and decidedly aristocratic in his general tout
ensemble. By the way, there has been a little cool-
ness, as one might say, between Sir Samuel Wilson and
the Hon. W. J. Clarke, over the arrival of this visitor.
Sir Samuel, it appears, invited him to his house, and
Mr. Clarke, as President of the Exhibition, of which
the Duke is a Commissioner, considers Sir Samuel’s
action a breach of etiquette.
Little Mirams, the Liberal terrier, who was de-
feated by Gaunsou for the Victorian Chairmanship of
Committees, justly complains that he has been most
ungenerously treated by the Berry party, at whose heels
he has followed meekly for years past. Hwwever, he
has learned too late that there are treacherous men in
this world ; that an ounce of self-assertiveness is in the
long run worth a ton of servility; and that, on the
whole, the principle with which we have all been
familiarised by old Isaac Pitman’s shorthand primer—
“ Speak gently, it is better far
To rule by love than fear,”
does not apply to Victorian politics. See Melbourne
Punch,
On Saturday night a rather serious accident
occurred to a respected Government officer. He had
been at the Theatre Royal, and was rather inconsistently
making his way over to the Coffee Palace, when, owing
to the slippery nature of the American pavement, he
collapsed. A passing cab con’d not resist the tempta-
tion of running over his prostrate body, but “ there
were friends that came to bind np his wonnds.” He
is rapidly recovering from the effects of the accident,
and loudly condemns the "treacherous pavement”—
which, by the way, has during the past few days oc-
casioned many falls.
At the farewell dinner given to Sir Hercules
Robinson iu Wellington, N.Z, His Excellencv in reply-
ing to the toast of his health said that had he been at
liberty to consult his own inclinations he should have
stayed there. He had told his English friends that he
was pleased with the climate and people, and that he
should like to settle here after he retired into private
life, expecting ns he did to remain in New Zealaui for
the full term. He had made private engagements that
would have identified him with the interests and amuse-
ment of the country. He regretted leaving the co onv.
which he said was of surpassing interest. It hud
an unrivalled climate, unsurpassed soil, vast mineral re-
sources, and most favourable geographical position, but
the administration here had not always been anove
criticism. The resources of the country were so vast
that it would not go wrong eventually. In proportion
to population. New Zealand was more in debt than any
other country. As a parting advice he would urge New
Zealand to rest content with its pre-eminence iu in-
debtedness. They must not go to the extremity of the
last straw or the result would be disastrous. They were
very fortunate in getting so able an administrator as Sir
A. Gordon. He was a most conscientious, able, aud
high-minded man—a better could not be found.
People want to
know whv Lord Augus-
tus Loftus didnt attend,
the banquet to Sir Her-
cules.
Hayden, a London
detective of some forty
years’ standing, has just
died. He wa s concerned,
in all the modern causes
celeb res, such as the Bid-
well forgeries on the
Bank of England, and
the gold bar robbery,
and his portrait figures
in Frith’s famous “ Rail-
way Station.”
Mr. Robert Daw-
son of Ultimo (says the
Sydney correspondent
of the Camubelltown
Herald), commenced
here twenty-eight years
ago, with fifteen shil-
lings in his pocket.
He can now sign his
cheque for fifteen thou-
sand pounds. And all.
as he says, through the
exercise of honesty, in-
dustry and persever-
ance.
Judge Bathgate, of
Dunediu, N.Z., who
lately returned from
England, has retired
from the Bench. He
received a farewell ad-
dress from the Bar ou
the occasion, and in re-
ply said that while cir-
cumstances in connec-
tion with his retirement
were not as yet satisfac-
tory to him, he had no
reason to complain of
his relations with the
Bar. Mr. Simpson suc-
ceeds him.
At the Parliamen-
tary diuner given last
week by his Excellency’,
Lord Nonnauby at Gov-
ernment House, Mel-
bourne, there were some
six vacant chairs, and
this fact occasioned
some comment, as most
of the absentees hod not
had the courtesy to ex-
cuse their inability to
attend, although they
had accepted their invi-
tatious.
The other day a cer-
tain ecclesiastical swell
got into a Qeorge-street
'bus. A fair but frail
female, who had drunk
of “the flowing bowl,”
began, impudently
enough, to toy with his
comforter. He begged
her to desist, and per-
haps meant what he said.
However, she went ou to
the bitter end,and untied
the clerical Apollo’s gor-
geons scarf. Then his
reverence arose to leave,
“ Good, bye,” said she,
airily kissing her laven-
der kids — “get thee
away, Satan.” Fact.
A well-known Syd-
ney barrister was the
victim of rather a ludi-
crous mistake on Satur-
day at Rnndwick races.
Just before the “Rand-
wick Plate ” was run, be
was busily, engaged in
writing in bis race-book
when an excited indivi-
dual rushed up to him
and demanded “ Sweet-
meat’s price, and was
he laying the odds?”
“ Frank" opened his
expressive blue eyes in
astonishment, and ex-
plained briefly to the
verdant votary of the
turf “that he was not a
bookmaker.”
A new arrival in
Sydney from the mother
country is staying at one
of our leading clubs. He
is said to have £35,000 a
year, and is quite a god-
send for those young
gentlemen who jilay
billiards—and other lit-
tle games—with him.
Superintendent Singleton, one of the pluckiest
and most energetic police officers the colony has e-’er
had, died on Tuesday morning, at Albury, aged 53. He
had been In the service lor 33 yeaiv, was formerly
head of the detective force, and made his reputation by
the resolute and during manner in which he from time
to time dealt with bnshrangiug outbreaks in bygone
days. He was married twice and leaves a, widow and
young family. To Mrs. Singleton the Colonial Secretary
has sent a message of condolence.
Mr. Dan O'Connor is, as is well known, the
Adonis of the Assembly. He has a face full of in-
telligence and bonhommie, and an undulating beard,
marked here and there with delicate hues of silver; he
is in short, as Wordsworth hath it —
“A noticeable man with large grey eyes."
Well, he was having a drink at a well known hotel the
other day, and he tendered the barmaid half a-sover-ign
in payment thereof. While chatting with her, he forgot
to ask for his change, and had reached the door before
he remembered the lack of the “tinpennies.” He
returned,, however, and requested the Hebe to give him
his change. The young lady sighed, and as she slowly
opened the till, gazed into the orbs of the legislator and
said—” Ab, Mr. O’Connor, when you are looking at me
with those eyes of vonrs, how I find thoughts for
mundane things V* She kept ttnt change.
FRIENDS!


Election Notices
T
O CHAELES JAMES lEOBEETS, ESQ..
J.P., EX-MAYOR of SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,—We, the undersigned Electors of EAST
SYDNEY, have much pleasure in requesting 1 you to
allow yourself to be placed in nomination for the forth,
coming Election, assuring you, in the event of your
consenting, of our warmest support.
We are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
D.G. E.Alsop Q. Brockstayue John Carter
C. E. Austin R. Bourke
H. E. A. Allan Charles Bent •
H. Abrahams Wm. Bailey
John Ahern Joseph Bowden
Thomas Allen W. Brewster
Job. Abrahams E. Bownel
G. Anderson F. Bonfeld
George Adams John Behan
E. B. Armstrong E. T. Bolt
W. Adams " F. E. Bnshell
Harry Andrei A. Blane
F. Atterton C. Bath, jun
Charles Adrain James Bowden
Frank G. Adrain D. E. Brown
C. V. Adrain J. Beaucham
Frank Adiaiu
M. W. Alzano
Arthur Allen
George Albecht
James Agnew
P. Akins
J. Ackroyd
H. Allt, jun.
A. Adams
Thomas Allen
F. Anderson
Isaac Abrahams
W. Adams
H. Anderson
H. C. Abrahams
J. S. Abraham
W. Alexander
James E. Artis
Thos. Aday
W. Andrews
Thos. Adams
B, Amdaer
E. S. Abrahams
John Allan
Wm. Allison
E. Atherton
A. Anderson
W. Arrowsmith
Thomas Amnas
J. H. Amord
J. Ackman
A. Allerton
J. Absolme
J. Allan
F. Allington
W. Aldenhaven
Arch. Ashdown
A. Appel ton
T. Adamson
E. Allen
John Ahem
T. H. Ayton
Jas. Alford
A. Arrow
J. Assenhiem
Walter Bradley
T. Betteridge
Hy. Brecknell
T. Coneroy
R. H. Case
S. Campbell
H. Cosgrove
Michael Corbett
Wm. J. Cowell
Sam. Clnpham
J. A. Carpenter
J. J. Curvin
John Crew
John Clapton
H. Coghlan
T. Constable
Owen Clarke
Frank Capell
D.Bortshomestle George Clifton
A. Bond Wm. Carroll
J. H. Bnme
George Benton
W. H. Bryan
W. Baikie
E, Blunsum
Morris Brott
E. J. Brott
J. H. Bunn
P. O. Bruster
James Bowen
James Braun
A. Cohen
J ames Clarke
Geo. C, Collins
A. F. Cook
E. Cooper
J. M. Curtis
Alex. Cooper’
E. Callaway
James Conner
H. Cohen
S. Canton
W. E. Brighton C. P. Collins
W. Barker R. E. Campion
D. BrOch
W. Balham
Joseph Becker
C. Balzer
G. M. Black
J. Brannelly
John Byrt
John Bath
Joshua Bennett
Z. Berner
Richard Bennett
Wm. Burt
F. B. Bennett
Henry Brown
Peter Brownlie
James Boland
Edward Beard
C. Breneke
G. E. Barlow
Wm. Brown
Edwd. Byrnes
C. Bennett
W. Brady
George Byrne
A. Bloom
Thomas Brown
Wm. Buttel
B. Burdekin
Bolland
H. Bnist
Edward Burke
A. Begly
W. Brevod
B. Bell
T. D. Bristanest Wm. Bunn
J. R. Bonrk .7. Bymot
B. Beberfeld
W. Banaclouger
John Barton
John Benney
G. Barker.
E. Baird
James Bing
J. H. Boyd
E. Burton
A. W. Burrell
Geo. Barlow
Jas. Bennett
H. C. Bartles
F. Banks
E. Blackmoore
D. Berger
F. J. Bonflier
M. Brodziak
F. A, Blake
C. Brown
T. J. Beck
E. T. Beilby;
J. B. Bauer
Geo. Bawden
Alf. Breaknell
J. Buckley
W. H, Beech
P. G. Bawlau
Geo. Bennett
W. Blair
J. Brown
F. Bennett
P. Bourke
F. Browne
Thos. Bromley
T. Brakill
J. C. Bonner
Louis Blender
G. £. Blue
John Brooks
H. S. Bird
A. Bargained
Thomas Bourke
Wm. Bourke
Dennis Bourke
James Burton
W. H. Booth
John Bauman
Jons Blomgren
Wm. Bums
Wm, Babn
Henry Brown
Thomas Baker
Malcolm Bruce
Thomas Brown
W. T. Baker, jun
Henry Butler
E. Boulton
W. Banning
D. Barnett
Joseph Bates
Arthur J. Brady
T. Bartley
W. T. Baker
Bernard Byrne
Russell Burgis
H. C. Benson
Henry Burrows
Robert Buist
Frank Bennett
E. Barthell
J. Barrett
A. E. Bassan
James Brown
Jas. Brown, sen
John Barnett
W. J. Boylan
Frank Barton
J. C.:Brady
Cecil E. Becke
H. Beckc
C. A. Beckc
Joseph Brown
Charles Brace
W.Bottomly, ju. Edward Barnett
Henry Bastram J. Q. Bruton
Fred. M. Bond
W. Beeird
W. Benson
W. Bouth
J. Bradley
Walter Burke
J. H. C. Beore
James Bourne
Harry Bartlett
T. M. Browne
W. T. Brenan
S. F. Bolger, jun
Wm. Burt
H. J. Benson
T. W. Brevitt
T. Brocklebank
David Bamanau
J. W. Bomkiu
W. Bottomley
P. Bradshaw
J. J. Barry
C. J. Britten
W. Baird
James Burt
S. Bartian
H. O’Brien
A. Bartlett
Thomas Burke
Robert Beckett
H. Brennell
J. W. Bennett
J. Bradley
J. A. Brown
J. H. Bums
H. Bailey
J. Brown
Wm. Bode
Win. Body
B. Byrnes
Wm. Broom
Wm. Brenton
W m. Bromley
Wm. Brown '
Jos. Brady
Win. Bunn
G. Buckland
H. S. Bird
A. Boyd
J. Broz
J. H. Bum
James Burns
E. Barter
J. Bulmau
R. Blaydes
Emanuel Brown
Wm. Bishop
John Bryant
Henry Bones
Wm. Butcher
Jas. Bailey
W. Brennan
A, Brockstayue
S. Bauman
T. N. Brown
L. Brockstayue
L. Benjamin
W. Compne
John Cormack
T. Cook
J. M'Caroll
T. Cole
K. Cripps
M. Cobum
E. N. Clarke
G. E. Clarke
W. Cope
L. Clarke
M. Cohill
John Crollick
B. E. Clarke
M. Constable
Wm. Canhur
John Collo
James Call
John Call
James Cottier
P. H. Cox
D. W. Clarkson
P. Cassidy
J. G. Clifton
James Cullen
A. Carroll
James Carroll
John Clifford
A. Cox
J. E. Carter
Wm. Cooke
H. Chapman
J. Casnave
Wm. Crosby
W. C. Callaway
Richard Coghlan
H. Campbell
Wm. Coghlan
Alex. Campbell
G. Coleman
B. D. Cohen
R. Curell
Thomas Colling
J. Carruthers
David Cowen
Sydney Cowen
Walter Cooke
Wm. Clarke
John Cotter
N. W. Cooke
S. J. Collopy
J. Chisholm
Coleman Cantor
James Clarke
J. B. Clarke
Wm. Camb
John Cormack
James Cain
Henry Carr
Louis Cohen
H. Chambers
Walter Cotes
W. Carter
Mat. Collins
Mel. Coran
C. Cullen
T. Casey
C. Crampton
M. E. Carter
J. Coar
A. Campbell
Clark, Brothers
Henry Corbcn
W. H. Chard
Walter Charlton
R. Clonan
Chris. Caul
N. J. Crocker
Charles Clarke
Daniel Coffey
Isaiah K. Colven
Samuel Cohen
T. S. Clibbom
E. Coleman
W. M. Byrkmyre W. Crego
E. S. Buckletou Wm. Cochrau
Thomas Birks W. B. Campbell
J. C. Beare Emanuel Cantor
John Brady C. Coleman
Q. M, Bennett George Clarke
H. S. Butler M. M. Cohen
W. Connell
Thos. J. Chapman John Coghlan
John Cnrugati John A. Cahill
Albert Croft
John Canu
Wm. Christie
T. Cronin
E. H. Curegon
John W. Collins
F. R. Co hen
John Curran
J. T. Curran, jun
Wm. Chilliem
David Cotton
J. E. Chant
Wm. Cleary
James Cook
James Crooks
M. Crawford
P. Corti
Wm. Clemens
J. Caddik
F. Cummer
A. W. Cowell
Q. Childs
Thomas Cleary
George Campbell
F. Cracknel!
J. H. Cochrane
Denis J. Coognu
John Campbell
F. Cohen
A. C. Cameron
A. F. Cameron
T. Charnley
George Cressy
A. Cohen
Wm. Chapman
J. Cohen
Wm. Cooper
John Cutter
Michael Collins
John Collins
W. Cornish
G. Copeman
T. Chandler
F. Curtiss
Samuel Congdon W. H. Champion
I. Cullen P. Copeman
John M. Cams
N. A.Cannon
G. S. Chapman
W. Chapman
Henry Cheate
W. Chantville
W. Clinton
D. Coffey
John C. Cattell
E. Chisholm
Charles Couldery T. Cowlishaw
M. Cullinann John Costigan
Edward Cattlin
Daniel Conroy
B. Churqhliili
Matthew Clark
N. Clark
S. H. Carter
Francis Cannis
Martin Coonan
Patrick Carron
James Corben
P. Codroy
D. J. Curron
E. W. Calien
W. J. A. Cox
Charles Cooke
John Cochran
W. B. Christie
George Curtis
William Clarke
William Davis
Vincent Davis
J. Davie
Francis Dalziel
R. B. Dunn
H. T. Dunn
John Daly
E. Dawson
W. H. Derry
J. Desmond
John Dullow
H. Dempsey
S. pevenan
Michael Da»cey
Election Notices
W. Dalziel
M. Durkan
J. M. Devlin
H. M. Dawson
H. Donaldson
Jos. Deeble
William Daly
C. Dale
James Dunn
J. Ditchnm
C. Dequer
J. C. Franklin
F. Thorashall
J. Fitzsimmonds
C. Fletcher
Thos. Freeman
John Forwood
H. A. Fisher
G. Fisher
F. Fitzpatrick
Jas. Fahey
Thos. Fear
Del L-Deinstine. Sydney Purguson
C. Dermond
Chas. Daly
James Daly
James Donney
James Dolan
F. Doxe
J. Dobson
G. M. Downing
Q. A. Darby
James Davison
David Denley
Wm. Doyle *
Wm. Dwyer
James Driscoll
T. Driscoll
John Driscoll
H. Douglass
E. Dickson
T. Dumphy
D. Dallon
C. B. Dawson
F. Dnmphy
Wm. Darcey
James Dealy .
John Davison
M. Dunn
Pat Daley
Wm. Dina van
W. Driver
T. Dickenson
Thomas Daley
John Davis
Patrick Derry
Robert Daley
W. Dayle
E. Downey.
M. Dayle
James Danby
Thos. Donnelly
W. Dodd
Robt. Dennis
J. C. Dornham
C. Dawson
J. R. Drewett
John Davis
Ernest J. Davis
Arthur J. Davis
Andrew Dennis
C. Dobson
Enos Dyer
R. Dainty
J. Dunlop
G. G. Dickenson
T. W. Dixon
A. Dahlquist
J. J. Darcey
John Darcey
J. Donaldson -
J. Dwyer
J. Donnelly
R. R. Drew
J. S. Deane
Chas. Dale
R. Dwyer
M. Donald
P. Dogherty
John S. Davis
M. Davidson
Geo. J. Doyle
J. H. Davies
Chas. Davis
D. Davies
J. W. Delaney
George Dailey
J. Deery
William Doyle
David Davis
J. Dickenson
Wm. Drane
P. Dimond
David Davies
Wm. Dunlop
John Davies
Fran Filgno
Jas. Fleming
Sim Frankel
T. Forster
T. Faircapper
W. G. Fairfax
Alf. Freeman
J. Fitzgerald
Wm. Firm
H. J. Ferguson
T. J. Ferguson
H. Finch
H. Franks
J. T. Fallon
W. Fisher
Wm. French
J. E. Fisher
E. Forrest
F. T. Freeman
Geo. Full
David Fogarty
W. Fitzsimona
P. Foy
Louis Frank
W. Foughty
H. Fitzgerald
J. Frone
Cecil Griffiths
A. Guilfoyle
Wm. Garrett
B. Gaffney
Walter J. Gay
James George
F. Glieb
Charles Gietz
E. J. Griffiths
T. H. Griffiths
Michael Galvin
Michael Gara
Bryan Galvin
Arthur Gates
Geo. Graham
George Green
H. W. Gilmore
J. Gallictt
Thomas Grier
James Qinnou
Ed. Grouse
W. C. Goines
Henry Green
R. H. Grierson
Geo. Godveer
H. W. Gayfer
Hy. Gilmore
Geo. F. Qennrt
R. F. Gibson
M. Geoghegan
Chas. Goode
A. W. Goodie
P. Gaffney
Charles Gede
Alf. P. George
Henry Golding
Jas. P. Garvan,
M. Guilfoyle
E. R. Gray
F. Gannon
T. G. Green
H. H. Groth
J. Gifaend
H. W. Goldfinch
O. L. Grntton
C. W. Gillespie
S. N. Green
J. B. Gibbs
E. C. Gortt
A. L. Giles
Louis Giles
L. Green
W. Garatty
A. Gohlesinger
John Gosgan
W. Gross
Chas. Evans R. F. Galbrith
Alfred Ewers E. Callian
David Evans J. Goldbnrg
T. J, Evans J. Guttenridge
Thomas Eagle H. Goldfinch
Wm. Eyre W. Gerard
P. J. English James Gough
A. Edwards W. Grogan
Hy. Elliott J. G. Gannon
C. W. Egerton L. Gantley
Wm. D. Eames R. Gornall
John Eedy W. Gray
John Edwards P. Godfrey
Peter Espersou John Gough
• W. R. Emerson James Gerrurd
Wm. Enway James Gleeson
John Edwards Thomas Gleeson
M. Emanuel Wm. Gleeson
Q. Ebthorpe J. Greenwood
H. Ebsworth Richard Green
Q. C. Elliott George Qascoe
Jas. Ellis M. Qoulston
J. A. Engle Hy. Gleeson
Jas.Eley C. T. A. Griffiths
P. S. Englis John T. Horns
John Eedy Jas. Gilchrist
Jas. Eve E. C. Grace
J. Emmerson H. S. Gibson
J. Elvey Wm. Groves
A. Emanuel Fred. Qascoe
G. C. Elliott John George
J. Enright Frank Gibbons
W. J. Edwards Francis Graham
John Eccles Thos. Gallaher
A. Elliott W. Greneger
L. Eveille Chas. T. Qedye
Ed. Ellard James Grant
P. Emmett F. H. Green
C. Ellis S. Goodman
W. Eaton W. Gotthey
Jas. George
W.H.FelmiughamGeo. Griffiths
Samuel Furness R. A. Goff
A. J. Farrell
Geo. Furlong
Joseph Farday
Martin Foster
Henry Ferrin
Jas. Farrell
E. W. Farrell
Robert Fuller
W. R. Ford
E. Fennelly
Edward Fisher
Patrick Flynn
James Flynn
Jos. Fitzpatrick
Henry Fenton
C. Fosbery, sen
John Field
J. H. Flynn
James Flycn
C. L. Frith
Wm. Fry
Johu Fahey
L. Fienberg
John Fox
John Ferguson
Geo. Fraser
W. H. Fairbnvu
Francis Faddy
R. H. Fox
J. O. Francis
James Fisher
W. H. Freeman
Alfred Freeman
A. Foster
G. Fitzgerald
Chas. Fidler
D. Fernandez
C. Fitzsimmons
Alfred Flower
C. B. Fischer
A. Fitzgerald
C. Farrell
Wm. Furness
Ralph Flindale
T. Fitzgerald
Jas. Gibson
G. F. Garland
Thomas Greig
Albt. Goldstein
John Gilmore
W. Garratt
W. Groves
C. George
G. T. Gerrard
C. H. Gerrard
J. H. Heaton
J. T. Harland
Michael Hnghes
Ernest Haskin
Edward Hunt
S. B. Hunt
D. B. Hale
Chris. St. Heaps
Sum. Hoskins
T. Hood
W. Hatton
James Hunt
Victor Hugo
Wm. Heaton
M. Hickey
Ernest Haskins
Wm. Hales
J. C. Haydou
Joseph Haynes
0. C. Hanslow
Geo. Hardwick
John Hickey
Thos. Horrgan
Geo. Holding
George Hiug
G. W. Hilder
Hy. S. Harponr
E. J. Kingston
Edward Hurley
Edmond Hurley
Chas. Harding
F. H. Hagon
B. C. Hogan
John Horn
R. C. Higgins
Sam. J. Hardy
J. H. Horsfleld
A. Hamilton
James Haut
F* Hammond
J. Hale
W. Henderson,J.P
Geo Hodgson
J. C. Hallnn
A. Homann
W. S. Hoddle
H. H. Holmann
R. C. Hagon
F. H. Hagon
F. Hammond
F. Humphrey
W. J. Hide
Jas. Hanlohan
M. Hackel
Bernard Hale
P. J. Heagan
R. J. Horgan
S. S. Hill
P. Haran
J. W. Hawkins
W. Harrison
W. Hackel
B. Hayloy
J. B. Hanson
W Henderson
W. H. Helcher
A. W. Hare
G. Haselmayer
A. T. Helmsley
H. Haigo
M. Hawkes
John Hinton
H. Hamilton
R. A, Hunt, J.P.
E. T. Hollingsdale
T. R. Hogg
Joseph Haynes
W. Harris
H. S. Howe
Ed. Halloru
Phil. Henry
Thos. Harper
E. Hornyman
G. Hurley
Louis Hagh
W. Heystrum
Hy. Harris
James Hoskin
E. D. Halbert
J. T. Henwood
Hy, R. Hoeben
Owen Hughes
J. Hinchcliff
H. Henderson
James Hall
J. Hall, junior
Wm. Geo.'.Hall
Patrick Head
Alf. M. Hands
John Harlock
Henry Hinton
Wm. Harvey
J. R. Heaton
Thos. Hume
Alfred Harris
Edward Harris
F. Henschkel
Bery Hughes
John Hogg
John Hammond
John Hogam
J. K. Huntley
George Henry
F. Hoalstrom
J. Hunter
Wm. Hutton
J. H. Hoare
P. G. Hearnson
M. Hargdon
Fred Hanks
W. J. Heuningham
J. G. Hanks
W. R. Hall
Thos. Hooke
D. Hodkins
Chas. Henning
Geo. Harrison
R. Hombley
John Hamilton
John Higgins
Harry Harris
Thos. Hardyman
P. J. Hirst
H. C. Hnmflert
H. Hund
F. Hutchinson
J. M. Harrison
Wm. Haughtou
C. Hnenerbein
Robert Horne
J. L. Horden
George Hurst
W. H. Hiuton
Robert Hillyei -
W. Harmer, juu.
E. Hafer
Chas. Hampson ’
B. Hoare
P. H. Hagon
Denis Healy
H. W. Hesse
M. Hinch
P. Healey
Geo. Hansell
Geo. Heath
T. Hogan
J. Hannah
J. A. Hines
C. W. Horn
G. Harrington
I. Himmelhocb
John Harris
J. H. Hardy
Thos. Hodge
Hugh Hannah
A. S. D. Harston
Alfred Hilder
E. Hordern
John Hardie
L. Hordern
Ernest Hahn
W. H. Hill
Thomas Hastie
R. Harnett, Inn.
Jas. H. Hume
Thomas Hogg
W. H. Hicks
F. B. Hull
F. J. Ireland
William Irving
E. Ireland
H. Ireland
W. H. Ireland
S. Irland
Hy. Ingram
Adolp. Isaacs
J. L. Isaacs
David Ingram
John A. luglis
Geo. Ireland
Lewis E. Isaacs
Henry Israel
W. J. Ingram
Ben. Ingram
Thos Ingram
S. A. Joseph
Henry Johnson
Thomas Jones
W. T. Jackson
J. A. Jackson
Edward Jackson
Samuel Jones
C. J. Jones
J. Johnson
W. Johnson
O. F. Jones
P. Jonas
G. R. Jacobs
S. S. Joel
J. Josephs
J. R. Jones
J. Johnson
B. Joseph
J. Johnson
John Jackson
Ftedk. Jnryens
Election Notices
Richard James
J. Jagelman
C. W. Jarrett
Charles Jenner
A. M. Jennett
William James
Philip Johnson
A. Jacobson
T. E. James
E. Johnson
| John Jackson
M. Joseph, jun.
G. E. E. Jones
R. Jones, jnn.
Henry Jonas
R. Joseph
C. A. Jones
Charles Johnson
J. R. Joslin
A. K. June
Harry Jones
C. Jayner
R. Jayner
H. Jayner
C. Jennina
George Kiss
William Keily
William Kidd
Patrick Kearney
T. Kavanagh
Bernard King
Reuben King
C. 0. Kelly
J. Kinkertin
Wm. Knapp
J. Kearnan
Thomas Kileey
W. J, Kennally
Wm. Kuth
Wm. Kain
Wm. J. Kerry .
J. Kohen
W. Keary
Jas. Kerwau
T. Keogh
Jos. Kearey
Thos. Kerrigan
John King
P. T. Kent
Patrick Kelly
James Kelly
Chas. Kelly
A. Kurts
E. Kurts
P. Keating
Wm. Kerridge
W. Kempster
Alt. King
C. Kleeman
Jos. Kavanagh
Stephen Katte
James Kennedy
Jas. R. Kenny
Samuel Kime
Wm. Keogh
Michael Krause
Wm. Keogh
Wm. Kerr
George Knox
E. Kron
W. Kerry
Thomas Kenny
Jas. E. Kelly
John Kennedy-
James Kenny
James Keary
A. E. Kellick
Robert Kelly
M. Keeshan
W. 0. King
P. Kirby
F. King »
D. Keefe
Thomas Kenny
John Kavenagh
Jas. Kenny
E. W. King
John Kelleard
K. F. Kirchner
John Keef
C. Kitson
Joseph Kaps
J. B. King
R. Kennedy
A. S. Kennedy
Jas. Kennedy
H. King
Jas. Keogh
Jus. Kernel'
Mich. Kerwvn
Phi. Kean
E. Klees
E. A. Keddie
Jules Leclerc*
R. Lawrence
J. H. Logan
J. Lanner
Thos. Lake
James Lake
C. E. Lowe
H Letuke
M. Lehar
T. W. Lister
Jas. Langley
P. Larkin
Pk. Lenhara
J. Larker
George Lloyd
Thos. Loveday
Hy. Lee
W. Londesnan
A. Lang
J. Lix
John Laddey
Robert Lime •
T. Leech
Wm. Land
Thos. Land
M. Lazarus
Thos Lee
W. L. Lammond
John Logue
Montague Levey
I). L. Levey
Patrick Lahey
J. R. Le Forest
S. G. Laws, jun.
S. Laws
James Lahiff
James A. Lang
Charles E. Low
Henry Lewis
George Lewis
D. Laurdel
M. Lynch
P. Lapham
Q. Loneghlen
George Leere
George Lane
George Lee
S. Lennon
James Livermore
Mat. Lynch
Thomas Lees
Wm. Lissaght
James Lawler
Thomas Lewis
D. Lynch
H. C. Levin
W. H. Larrell
Thos. Leo
John Levesou
Chs. Leistikow
A. Levensen .
Andrew Lawler
Mich. Lonergan
R. T. Lambert
Edward Lawler
J. Liebentrett
Thomas Lutton
Wm. Land
Thomas Lester
J. H. Longworth
Edmond Lyons
H. W. Little
D. H. Leody
G. Lambert
James Loder
W. J. Lash
G. L. Little, sen.
G. L. Little, jun.
Chs. Lewis
Edwd. Lewton
A. L. Lackersteeu
W. Lane ,
W. B. Lancashire
George Lentz
John Lawless
Patrick Lawless
G. A. E. Lentz
James Lockrey
P. Lawson
Thomas Lewis
J. T. Loneragan
j Lewis Levy
George Lorkiug
i N. J. Levi
E. A. Little
Simon Levin
S. Lewis
W. Lapham
Joseph Lowe
! Joseph Landers
Joseph Liptnan
Joseph E. Levey
Alfred Lamb
Montague Levey
Thomas Lewis
W. Lane, jun.
T. W. Lovelle
B. R. Lloyd
John M'Evoy
J. D. Morris
Samnol Merrick
W. elville
A. T. Morris
A. Messenger
J. L. M'Graw
James H. Martin
P. Maloneys
David Mortimer
Chas. Morris
. M. Manning
T. Murray
Tim. Mahony
G. Meade
R. P. MTntosh
Sydney Moss
Robert Mahoney
Michael Mullens
James Myars
James Millar
John Meyerfleld
M. Meyerfleld
J. C. Mahoney
D. L. Mahoney
John M‘Kie
W. P. Manning
H. Mappel
J. C. Morris
Alex. Meyrs
Thos. M'Carthy
J. C. Miller
Thos. M'Namor
W. L. Morrison
E. H. Moore
G. W. Montiflore
Jas. M'Neil
Jas. Midlehook
Thos. Manning
E. Mills
Jas. M'Donald
A. M'Donnell
Wm. Murphy
John M'Carthy
P. Murray
Daniel Maher
Daniel Murphy
Jas. Murray
Morris Mack
G. Monk
Jas. M'Eicahrd
John M'Eickard
Edwd. Marony
C. J. Miller
E. P. M'Donald
A. C. Moleeworth
C. J. Marsden
W. B. M'Cloud
W. J. Money
P. R. Munro
Denis Murray
James Most-on
J. M'Laughlan
Geo. Morris
W. F. McCarthy
D. Marks
A. Meyers
C. F. Menrer
A. Moldelham
F. M'Douald
A. W. Mandrou
E. C. Mathison
J. P. Mann
W. M. Mastin
P. Mitchell
S. M'Donnull
C. May, jun.
A. W..Mills
H. E. Mills
W. T. Miistor
M. Meyers
D. Moses
P. M'Cormick
T. Manning
J. Matthews
M. M'Carthy, juu
G. Merriman
Morris Menser
J. M'Naughton
M. M'Carthy
D, Mulqueeny
Thomas Morgan
M. M'Carthy
Alex. M'Carthy
Wm. Mason
James Murray
John M'Creu
T. M'Cleland
W. Menrs
J. Mansell
W J. Malpas
John M'Eae
H. C. Morales
O. Mattow
H. E. Morgan
B. Moore
William Mason
George Mason
M. M'Conghey
John Morrison
John M'Leish
Thomas Morris
George Monk
R. M'Sweeney
Frank M'Donald
John M'Hongh
J. V. Mitchell
P. Mac Donnell
H. A. M'Clnro
Joseph Marshall
George Moss
Koh. K. Morris
James Meek
J. Mitchell
Thos. Muir
Thos. Mack iy
Paid Modests
A. H. More
W. J. Monro
H. E. Monro
Daniel Mullins
W. B. Martin
C. Mumdie
Geo. Mansell •
August Murray
J. F. Murphy
Thos. Mullins
D. Mitchell
Hugh Manning
Frank M'Govem
J. Murphy
Timothy Maher
L. Murray
HyJMnrrny
.T. Manning
F. Mears
Arch. Maekellan
J. Megarridge
L. Marlin
W. Meany, jun.
M. E. Meyers
F. Morley
John Murray
J. M'MiUnu
E. Mearley
W. Mecheu
Jas. Majonn
H. Martin
Jas. Mahoe
Thos. Marsh
A. Manar
W. M'Kenzie
D. Mitchell
H. W. Mortyn
Richd. Murray
Wm. Murray
T.;W. Mayhew
Peter Martin
Oscar Mackay
F. Mathews
Gaspard Maun
Camelot Maiens
Thos. M. Mount
W. G. Maclean
S. M. Maddocks
P. Maloney
W. Menary
Moses Moss
C. E. Moore
H. M'Neil
D. M'Guire
P. M'Mahon
F. M'Annally
John M'Ginnis
T. M'Govem
Hugh M'Ghee
J. M'Caffrey
John M'Cann
James M'Carty
W. M. M'Ewan
Alex. M'Cnlloch
John M'Carty
E. C. M'Carty
Edward M'Grath
E. M'Conville, jr.
John M'Farlane
J. H. Mulholland
John Motiitt
James Murray
John Murphy
Charles Mitchell
J. M'Langhlin
William Malone
Thomas Mackie
M. Macdermott
J. Macdermott
H. Macdermott
M. Macdermott
W. Macdermott
Henry Moss
Albert E. Moss
Samuel Moss
D. M'Farlane
Edward Morris
John J. M'Kone
Charles Molloy
Robert M'Nee
F. Matthews
A. Murray
Frank Mercer
Edward Mitchell
Eugene S. Marx
J. Marshall
B. Montelle
H. Mitchell
K. Marshall
W. H. Mitchell
W. E. Murray
A. Marks
H. M. Mills
J. M'Namara
F. G. Morris
F. A. M'Lamon
M. M'Carthy
C. Martel
T. E. Mawlie
T. M'Donagh, j.
T. M'Donagh, s.
H. M'Guire
W. Macleod
A. M'Qregor
E. J. Malcolm
Frank Mercer
D. Murray
Daniel Neill
W. Neilsou
C. W. Neihott
R. W. Newman
— Needham
Joseph Neilson
C. W. Nichol
James Nadive
D. Nash
W. Nelson
W. H. C. Nunn
Geo. Newell
Jos. Nelson
T. Newcombe
Thos. Nest on
James Nicholas
G. J. Newell
J. H. Newman
Dan. Nunn
A. W. Norton
E. Nninton
R. Nichol
G. H. Nist
K. G. Nyheru
R. R. Norris
T. R. Norton
Thomas Norton
Patrick Nestor
William Nolan
W. Naylor
John Nesbitt
W. Neal
George Nicholson
David Noble
W. H. Norman
John Nnmmelin
J. S. Norrie
John Noake
H. Newman
Daniel O’Connor
W. O’Keeffe
Daniel O’Revasfa
P. O'Toole
John O’Qesby
R. O’Malley
John O’Sullivan
Michael O’Connor
Michael O’Shea
Patrick O’Malley
Henry O’Connor
Wm. O’Longhliu
Robert Orr
John O’Shea
M. E. O’Callaghan
Edw. Jas. O’Hara
Wm. O’Connor
John O’Brien
James O’Brian
P. O’Connor
Edw. O’Connor
G. Ounell
John O'Shea
And. Oppiman
Richard Osborne
E. Oatley
John O’Connor
P. O’Neill
P. O’Keef
Wm. O’Donnald
James O’Neill
H. Oxenhain
Edward O’Neill
John Pope
J. S. Parrott
J. J. Power
John Pnrman
H. Peters
Charles Pearce
John Payne
Henry Parr
William Parsons
Philip Pike
James R. Powell
E. J. Powell
S. Q. M. Penrose
T. Powell
R. Pengelly
Thomas Proctor
H. D. Powell
Wm. Parsons
H. Packman
H. 0. Payton
Election Notices
Benjn. Palmer
F. E. Purchase
Samuel Pearce
E. M. Pitt
G. M. Pitt
George Parkins
E. E. Peisley
E. Punch
E. Punch
C. Perry
J. Pole
W. C. Proctor
H. J. .Phillips
E.J. Phelp
T. Peart
John Pearse
A. J. Peisley
James Page
Wm. Page
J. Parfell
JohnPrengast
G. P. Power
E. H. Proctor
Thomas Pope
J oseph Pinksto
James Pringle
M. Power
F. Pepper
N. B. Punch
C. Pauls
James Prior
W. H. Piddy
J. B. Phillips
D. B, Pelli
A. Pagnott
E. A. Poole
E. A. Pery
Frederick Perry
M. Peudigrass
Wm. Peterson
John Pope
Alfred Powess
T. Purcell
W. Parke
Charlie Perrin
Charles Perry
W. S. PerKins
Henry Pantliu
J. Enmpt Louis Steen ber*
A. Eogers Henry W, Sadler
Joseph B. Eead Jules Sarason
Joseph Eobinson Joseph Strettle*
John Eogers Matthew SnUi Ta -
George House Chas. Smith Q
James Roberta Samuel Simmons
James Eobertson Alfred Smith
George Eobinson Charles T. Smia
T o oaK PnnVi 'VT n Cl —
Jacob Eaph
John Eapp
Philip Eitchie
H. L. Roberts
George Rollo
Osborne Rich
J. S. Eosenthall
J. Eeid
C. W. Roberts
Mark Summers
John Toohey
William Tig’he
John Thompson
John Tindell
F. Tom
W. S. Tilbury
George Turner
Charles Tom
E. Burdett Smith Henry Thompson
George Stenner John Toltey
Austin H. Shuttle George Tho'mnsm.
Sydney Smith Wm. Thondia g
Frances J . Smith Wm. Taspsell
James Tapp
John Tandy
John Thorp
John Selvege
Wm. Artr. Parfit Samuel Stead
G. Samuel
William Sainty
P. Stanley
Jacob Sohefer
F. Smith
G. Simons
Arthur Sylvester
D. Shahy
William Scottou
James Sims
John Smally
Charles Smyth
John Stewart
J. Sweeney
William Smith
Charles Sturdy
J. J. Smetts
Thomas Sullivan
John Starkey
A. C. Starkey
John T. Starkey L. Ticiak
George Sharpe Wm. Tompeon
T. F. Thompson
Dr. A. Thomas jr
Mirk Triggs J
Edwd. Tromain
Robert Tanner
Thos. Tfdrnau
G. H. Thompson
J. G. Tomkins
Wm. Tremain
T. G. Tusedor
W. Thomtim
W. Thompson
Samuel Thorn
Denis Tom sin
J. W. Tarim*
J. Toohey
Jas. Tosh
S. Tompson
Joseph Tierney
Geo. Thomas
V. Townsend
J. Tuienmin
— Twimloe
E. Turner
Philip Pring John Simmons
Stephen Punch W. A. Seward
Henry Plant Peter Sutton
George Pntland W. M. Sanguily
Vincen Priuefe Wm. C. Stewart
H. C. Press William Sanders Thos. Trnmper
George N. Pbipjis F.E. Scuntlebury Chas. Trumper
Thomas Punch Henry Stephens W. W. Todd
W. H. Palmer R. N. Sadi ear R. B. Trncv
G. W. Prince Wm. Steel J. Tugg
Samuel Pnckbam Wm. Hy. Storey C. H. Thone
W. H. Picott John Shearston John Token
William Pincott John D. Smith Wm. Thompson
J. W. Pising David Shepherd J. Taylor
Edward Pickering Abraham Service Ed. Truscott
R. J. Parish
Louis Phillips
H. Pennington
Kredk. Pomeroy
G. Pyke
W. Pearce
Thomas Peate
Robert Petkeltby E. W. Selwood
C. Pickering Ed. Surrey
J. Power W. Schultz
William Powys A. Smila
Frederick Penny T. Salisbury
Thomas Peters J. Sampson
Thomas Susans
J. Stevenson
Daniel Swain
Patrick Sheehy
W. Sarre
Patrick Smith
W. E. Sparke
F. T. Perry
Edward Perkins
Joel Phillips
E. Pon’ton
C. F. Priddy
Thos. J. Quinlan
J. Quinn
Patrick Quick
— Quidley
J. Quye
H. G. Rowell
D. Robinson
Frederick Reid
Isaac Eemnndry
Buy Robson
Thomas Reid
Allert Rowland
Reuben Ray
J. P. Kisdy
Wm. Strange
C. B. Sifsindch
Frank Senior
Hy. Simpson
Chas. Sherwin
R. Sim son
Harry South
O. Sanders
Isaac Stevens
W. Soul
George Smith
A. Steflani
John Savage
Denis Shannon
C. F. Scheidel
F. Sanderson
Hy. Shell
Phil. Stewart
Wm. Stoddart,
William Robbins W. A. Seward
William Russell M. Staiuley.
T. Rose John Skilbedk
John Reed Albert Smith
John Eyan F. Solovnn
W. A. Richardson Wm. Smith
N. Rnte
P. Rynn
Joseph Roberts
Wm. Do Kenere
R. J. Ramsden .
William Eeid
Jos. Summers
Ed. Sherwin
John Shearston
R. W. Skinner
E. Tarrant
W. H. Thompson.
W. Twigg
Edwin Truscott
Josh.Tuniiiclitt'e
George Twigg
Geo. Taylor
S. Turner
A. Tupper
Titus Turk
W. H. Turpin
Mark N. Traill
John Templet o»
Step. Townsend.
P. Torzillo
F. Underwood
R. H. Uushauk
Jack U nderwoed-
John Venn
Eipert Vitore
Thomas Vickery
John Vally
Thos. Vaughan
A. M. Vautin
T. H. Vaughan
E. Vaugnn
G. D. Verdon
D. Vider.
John Woods
W. B. Walftud
W. H. Wigzod
W. Whitehead
D. D. Wynter
Thomas Wilton
J. S. White
J. B. Walker
A. I). Williams
P. William?
Francis Williams
H. L. Snmmerfleld A. J. Wuterson
Hy. E. Smart
Michael J. Ryan Joseph Smart
James Roche A. B. Simmons
P. Ritchie
J. L. Sandefer
Thomas Reynolds Pk. P. Sannders
W. Roberts W. Shepnrdy
Thomas Ejan Hv. Sippel
William Eearden W. Shaw
Thomas Rice James Service
Peter Reilly H. Schneherger
G. Reid George Spring
Ellis Eobinson James Smith
J. G. Eeid E. Sitthorpe
Robert A. Kents W. J. Smythe
A. E. Ryan James Singer
C. J. Eyan Hugh Savage
J. W. Richardson John Solomon
W. E. Eobinson Soul and Son
James Rhodes Robert Sands
Roderick Eonche B. Simpson
Ch. Riedewnlde A. Smith
H. Rees
John Beaveys
A. Reid
E. Bead
C. H. Read
Charles Eitchie
H. Roberts
R. Richard
H. Eeid
H. E. Eae
A. Rogalsky
H. H. Roberts
J. P. Bussell
William Eolle
George Eusse
I C. J. Royal
C. Reynolds
E. Enst
James Regan
Daniel Eyan
Pk. Eingrose
Pk. Eyal
T. Eorke
James Eyan
George Reede
Edward Rebello
W. J. Reido
Alexander Reide A. Sappleton
Herbert Raymond George Spain
J. C. Read, jnn. David Saul
F. Robertson
W. H. Smith
John Smith
J. Stevens
W. D. Smith
H. Solomon
E. Solomon
E. Solomon
E. Snrall
B. Slatter
Thomas Squiue
R. ’Smith
G. Smith
H. W. Statham
J. Stewart
W. H. Stephens
J. Smith
Edwin Stumoke
A. W. Stephen
W. Stonier
G. Solomon
W. T. Shorter
V. Sanvage
J. T. Solomon
W. T. Smith
R. W. Squibb
R. Scott
John Sawton
T. Reid
S. H. Roberts
J. Rogers
Chas. Rombath
John Rennie
Henry Read
George King
Joseph Rose
N. G. Eoss
T, J. Ryan
R. J. Ramsden
J. Rice
Peter Rice
W, Robinson
F. Kosten
Thomas Rice
John Solomon
G. S’atyer
N. Sargant
F. Somerville
G. B. Simpson
Phinea.8 B. Selrg
George Snell
Myer Solomon
Thomas Watkins
William WilsoA
Wm. G. Wilson
Thomas Wilton
H. C. Weston
T. Wilkinding
John West
J. B. Walker
T. Weisuer
H. Williams
J. P. Wilson
G. Watjgenbeiui
J. Walsh
John Williams
L. J. Waddington
R. Ward
Alex. Wamartiae
E. 1). Wright
E. Walsh
Eobt. Weir
Thos. Wright
D. Walsh
E. Webb
J. H. Woods
H. Warren
J. E. Wayland
R. Walker
W. Watkins
Thos. Willan
J. W. Wartiu
Benj. Wartin
J. Weneaugh
F. W. White
O. J. Ward
Syd. Woodcock
Jas. Wishart
W. J. Williamson
John Williams
F. J. Williams
P. H. Woodman
P. Williams
W. P. Wood
A. Wallis
H. T. Wright
Thos. Williams
T. J. Williams
Jas. Williams
Jas. Watson
J. N. Wallis
Jas. Wells
Jos. P. Wat Van*
Lotus Woltt
A. Walker
F. Walker
J. Welsh
Thos. Williams
Michael WIT o.>
E. S. West
John Westina >
Thomas Reynolds Simon Solomon
J. D. Riley
M. Reeve
John Eyan A. Solomon
John Rent William Swords
E. Rice Robert Stelle
A. Rice F. H. Sinclair
J. Clarence Ross John Shaw
H. HcuUtone' WSlliam Shaw
E. G. Staniforth E. J. Wright
E. E. Snell C. W. Whitened
Montagu Solomon R. C. Webster
Charles Solomon A. Wright, ju i.
W. Smith E. Ware
Isaac Simmons J. M. Webb
John Solomon John Ward
Patrick Sherlock William Wyeft
W. Seaward E. H. Weekes
F. E. Ward
E. H. Sbeppenl W. H. Ward
Robert H. Sempill M. F. Walsb
Howard Walker
E. C. Webster
R. A. Watson
Charles Watt
F. Welt
Richard White


Election Notices
tieo. Wylde
Xmas Wilson
w'm. T. Woods
Thomas Walsh .
s Webber
f g.W'est
Joseph Haynes
r Waterhouse
C. J. Word
T Wilson
£ Williams
r" Withers
j W. Ward
yr m . Whiteway
Win- Wooller
j Walsh
To* W. Withers
E A. Withers
Wm. Whyte
j W. H. Wades
a g Watkinson
Jacob Wirth
Henry Williams
Thomas West
H. H. Worth, jun.
Francis T. Way
O. Withers
William Wright
T. W. Williams
Edward White
Joseph Williams
G. T. Woodman
Samuel Wright
John Weekes
Edward Haynes
J. W. Watson
A. Welshman
Robert White
Samuel Walder
W. H. Williams
John Wells
W. Winten
John Williamson
P. J. Weekes
H. Woodward
John Haynes
J. Weir
P. J. Whelan
W. 0. Willis
E. Way
C. R. Winston
Abraham Haynes
Robert Williams
J. C. Williams
N. Warner
W. Walters
Stephen Woods
H. Woodhouse
J. A. Wilkinson
E. C. Williams
David Wilson
Syd. H. Young
A. E. Young
E. Young
J, W, Yates
John Young
Gentlemen, —In reply to the above requisition, so
influentially and numerously signed, I may state that it
will afford me much pleasure to allow myself to be
nominated at the next general election as a candidate
tor the representation of East Sydney in the Parliament
of Xew South Wales.
Assuring you that I am very sensible of the high com-
pliment you have paid me,
1 I remain,
Yours very faithfully,
C. J. ROBERTS.
Cbatsworth, Potts’ Point, 10th September, 1880.
|0 W. H. P I G 0 T T, ESQ.
gj r> _We, the undersigned electors of Canterbury,
respectfully request that you will allow yourself to be
nominated as a candidate for the representation of the
.electorate in the ensuing Parliament, and we pledge out-
selces to use all the legitimate means in our power to
secure your return
John S. Jamieson
Frederick Clissold
W. J. Green
Wm. Archer, Mayor of Burwood
Michael M‘Mahon, Mayor of Petersham
William Henson
Henry Hughes, Alderman, Petersham
John Pope
E. T. Jones, M.D.
J. W. Watkin
Thomas West, Mayor of Five Dock
J. Mullens
Robert Barrell, Alderman, Petersham
John Graham. J.P.
and 815 other electors.
To J. S. Jamieson and John Pope, Esqs; William
Archer, Esq., Mayor of Bnrwood; Thomas West,
Esq., Mayor of Five Dock; Michael M'Mahon,
Esq., Mayor of Petersham; and the 824 other-
gentlemen signing the above requisition:—
Gentlemen, The reception of such a requisition as
the above, signed by members of Parliament, mayors
and aldermen, magistrates, clergymen of almost every
denomination, and electors of every rank in life, is
eitremely gratifying to me, and I, with great pleasure,
place myself unreservedly in your bauds. If I shall be
elected to be oue of the members for Canterbury in the
ensuing Parliament, I shall endeavour to perform my
duties in such a manner as to merit your approval.
Immediately after the dissolution of the present Par-
liament I shall address the electors at the various polling
places in the electorate, and trust that my views will
meet with general approval.
I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
W. H. PIGOTT.
Burwood, September 2, 1880.
Jg AST SYDNEY ELECTION
I. J. JOSEPHSON,
Of Macquarie-street, is a
CANDIDATE
Fob this Electorate.
T. LEONARDS ELECTORATE
GENTLEMEN ELECTORS.
I hereby, in accordance with the wish of several of my
friends in the above electorate and the support of
R. SELDON, Esq.,
who has kindly resigned in my favour, offer my services
as a candidate in the forthcoming Election.
Believe me. Gentleman,
Yours very faithfully,
B. O. HOLTERMANN.
Tobacconists
T.
H
E G E N U • I N B
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET, 1
Haymarket.
C. L O U G H N A N.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
Kone are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK. STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES EYE'S
CELEBRATED
. EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
15 9
PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
* to
C,
Sc
<
_ tc
50 m
s i
O M
<
0?
R
N
Of Every Description
A T REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
■JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
OFFICE of 41 THE BULLETIN."
TO LADIES.
JQO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?■
Then pay a Visit to
PE ATE S & SHAW'S
X\0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO - HUTTO V GLOVTSS 5 fi ?—
TWO-BUTTON GLOVES @ 2.6?-
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
jljo YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME P—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
Tyj YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OR FICHU ?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JQO YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Makers ? •
Try PEAPES &■ SHAW’S
T\0 YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?—
Try PEAPES k SHAW’S
n ° YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PARASOLS?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
| JO YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES k SHAW’S
T’tO YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PRESENT ? -
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S,
TO GENTLEMEN.
T)0 YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?—
Try PEAPES A SHAW'S
T\0 YOU AY ANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLARS?—
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S
D°
YOU AA T ANT a
or BOW ?—
Stylish SCARF, TIE,
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S
JQO YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA?—
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S
D
0 YOU AVANT Good Summer HOSIERY
Try PEAPES & SHAAV’S
D
0 YOU AVANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OVERCOAT P—
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TRAA'ELLING BAG ?—
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILORS and HABIT MAKERS in
the CITY ?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Amusements
S
ACRED CHOEAL ASSOCIATION.
GRAND OPENING CONCERT.
GARDEN PALACE.
SATURDAY, 18th SEPTEMBER, 1880.
Quarter to 3 precisely.
MOZART’S 12th MASS,
aud
SELECTIONS FROM MENDELSSOHN’S
“ ELIJAH.”
Doors open at half-past 1.
Admission Is.
G
RAND
PROMENADE
FESTIVAL.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
exhibition building,
Prince Alfred Park.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
BENNETT TESTIMONIAL.
BENNETT TESTIMONIAL.
ONE SHILLING.
ONE SHILLING.
• Signora FABRIS, the Great Operatic Vocalist.
Miss BESSIE HARRISON, the Sweet Soprano.
Miss EMMA WANGEN1IEIM, Australia’s Josephine.
Miss MARIE ST. CLAIR, the Sweet Contralto.
Miss MADELINE ST. CLAIR, the New Soprano.
Miss SHERWIN, Pupil of Signora Fabris.
Mr. THOMAS H. RAINFORD, the Eminent Basso.
Mr. ANDREW FAIRFAX.
Mr. J. J. HINCHEY, the Silver Tenor.
Mr. H. R. WOODS, the Resonant Baritone.
Mr.|J. H. FLYNN, another Sydney Favourite.
Signor GIORZA, the Celebrated Pianist.
Mr. SEBASTIAN HODGE. Solo Saxophonist.
Mr. W. A. THOMPSON, the Champion Cornetist.
Mr. W. G. BROADHURST, Painstaking Accompanist.
THE NAVAL BRIGADE BAND.
THE YOUNG AUSTRALIAN BAND.
THE PETERSHAM BAND.
All the above have already consented to assist in making
THIS THE GREAT MUSICAL FESTIVAL OF
THE CENTURY.
DECORATIONS.
FIREWORKS.
ONE SHILLING.
CHAIRS, TWO SHILLINGS.
TUESDAY, 21 st SEPTEMBER.
Don’t forget the Date.
Don't forget the Treat.
Don’t forget the Price.
Don’t forget the Object—
To REWARD Sydney’s most enterprising MANAGER,
and Liberal Citizen.
TICKETS at Kirby’s, and all over the city.
E. LEWIS SCOTT, Hon. Sec.
UBLIC SCHOOL,
GLEBE.
CHILDREN’S CONCERT,
LADY AND GENTLEMAN AMATEURS.
Under the Patronage
of
Sir G, W. ALLEN, LADY ALLEN, and the
Mayor and Aldermen of the Glebe Town Hall, Glebe
FRIDAY EVENING, 17th inst.
Conductor—HERR HUGO ALPEN.
Front Seats, 2s.; Back, Is.
Proceeds of Concert to be devoted to Prize Fund.
F
REETHOUGHT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SUNDAY EVENING, SEPT. 19, 1880.
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a LECTURE entitled ;
“ M'GUVENISM; ”
OK,
PROTESTANT POPERY.
Doors open at 7.
Commence at 7.30.
No preliminary reading.
Sittings as usual.
T
0 EXCURSIONISTS, PICNIC PARTIES,
AND OTHERS.
For CHARTER daily during the Summer Season at
REDUCED RATES.
The Favourite and Commodious Steamers —
COMMODORE
EMU
ROYAL ALFRED
BREADALBANE.
Port Jackson Steam Boat Co., Limited, 3 Pitt-street.
REMOVAL.
fill HE undersigned have removed their present
~ business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
B I. A C
ENGINEERS
K E T AND I) A V Y,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents tor Messrs. Tanote Bros., Birmingham,
GANDY'S COTTON BEL TIN O,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANG YE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOT SON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FTLES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Grabs, Cranks, Bellows, Fobobs, etc.,
in STOCK. •
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10th September, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Leasees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Mineral Lease within thirty days from this date, it will be declared void.
E.
GREER AND C O. ’ S
PRIZE
A L B C R V W I N E S.
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
H I
2 5
flMHS
03 00 -
ss
O ® p, x
oFff'S
"SO ®
I !=
5 o
b i
*8
■3tfl
S® g
03 C5
0^3
5
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 18/0.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
• Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the,
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
ELBOUENE EXHIBITION
A good opportunity now presents itself to purchase
one of the oldest-established Book and Stationery busi-
nesses in the best and most central position in Mel-
bourne, well-known in Victoria and adjacent colonies
asMUSKETT'S, 78 BOUEKE ST., EAST, nearly oppo-
site Theatre Royal. The proprietor being desirous of
retiring from business as early as possible, will treat
with any intending purchaser on favorable terms.
Address, ns above.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
WORV^.
The Same of M. MOSS <t GO.
every Genuine Bottle.
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malign mt Diarrhoea, Piles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &o. Hours o£ Consultation—10 to 12,
and 2 to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance, Medicines included,
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.


Miscellaneous
TJ EISDALE AND EGBERTS,
097 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being’ the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders' Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &o.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Lon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER Y
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prise Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber aud Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels aud Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, bes1
quality GUARANTEED, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices,
IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
rt
5*
G"t.
SI
*
*
*
DURABl
LASTIC
ECO/IO
m
n ne 22
C9
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns.—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
lam inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean aud glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SHUTTLE
SEWING M AC H I N E.
., prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :—
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co„
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
**>*° w R rds before making your purchasi
vendorTofcoZterfeift upon you b
Ph^adeS^'ExuSttoS? thatreceiTed th
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and a
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Pkice List :
No. 1.—For Hand Use, complete, £4
£°- 2-For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.-Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7. J
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
E M E D Y P O R IMPURE WATER.
EAPID WATER FILTERS.
“X
" 1:i ITiiliij
PATSKT
•fr,p, 3
filtir
«dst
a
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the elite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe—a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
SOLE AGENTS:
P. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
R.
Against the world
HARPER & C o.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
TEN FIRST PRIZES
and the
SPECIAL FIRST
As the BEST OF THEIR CLASS
in the
STDNET
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
R. HARPER & CO.
SYDNEY.
BUY
PRIZE
BUY
m
MUSTARD
R. HARPER & CO-,
SYDNEY,
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says:—
"Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
g 1 N G E R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
Ma ™facturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
nu n 7r.™ ge op y ;n £ W ELLS ( Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
irxClOHio — Jbi) 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Moat Liberal Terms—5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and <5o.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
rpHE UNIVERSAL LOCZSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
„ Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
JEYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE A6B.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :—
J ®y es ’ rerfec t Puriflor is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society.—From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Joyes’ Perfect
Pun her. Froro L King, Esq., inspector of Asylumn, Sydney .—Joyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esc,., M. I)., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
1 unfler is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
i rom Mr II. Meads, Sydney .—My child had so*o eyes for 2) years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured "her in
one week.——J rom C.A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaqucs, solicitors), Sydney .—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant Jeves’
Purifier is uunvailed. 1
. ®° ld in ,, D , ruTns aTld Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W N
PALMER (late MOSS ami COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
NTERNATI
O N A L
SYDNEY, 1879—80.
exhibition
a , LEATHERS—
Sole.. .. ... Special 1st Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c Ditto
Harness, Strap, and Bag Ditto
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing Ditto
Splits, Levants, &c Ditto
Patent Enamel and Japanned Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridie Mid-
dlings Ditto
Morocco Roans, Levant, and Book... Ditto
Paris, !878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
1 hiladelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, &c Special 1st
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
n ) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851—80 —Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
Miscellaneous
LIFFORD, LOYE AND c 0.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTN1ES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do* » Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PJlTJSIT MEJl
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
: 'r 'rr,' ' *
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MAftK.
The most wholesome morning diet fo
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON
■•Id bj all Grocers and Storekeepers
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street),
R hellyee
* ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Pork-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to tbe best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
New reflecting lamps for gas oe
KEROSENE,
%
'h
5$
i
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.,
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET,
J.
M
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
SYDNEY : andpnblished by the
John Hatnes and J. F. Ahchibald, at the Offices oi
John Woods & Co., Brie
