

THE BULLETIN
No. 8.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1880.
Shepherd v. Dibbs.
Now that Shepherd v. Dibbs has been so far
brought to a conclusion and we are at liberty to
refer to the evidence without incurring the dis-
pleasure of that inexorable and almost omnipotent
tribunal the Supreme Court, it may be well to see
whether any of the features of this most dis-
•creditable case cannot be made to point a moral,
and to offer a few brief observations arising out of
the disclosures made during the trial. The first
and most obvious reflections which occur to one
who impartially surveys this cause celehre are
analogous respectively to those which find expres-
sion in the French epigrammatic saying that “ That
which is known to more than one person is no longer
& secret,” and to our own proverb “ Silence is
•golden.” Shepherd v. Dibbs is a striking
(example of a case of very common occurrence,
and shows not only how easily a man like Mr.
Shepherd may under certain extraordinary
circumstances make money, but with what
facility a man like Mr. Dibbs may
have himself mulcted in heavy penalties. Mr.
Shepherd may be accurately estimated by his
evidence; but the verdict, in addition to
demonstrating the fact that the jury ap-
praised the plaintiff’s reputation at its legal
market value —that is, at the price they thought I ''
Mr. Dibbs would be able though unwilling to pay
for it—proves, for the benefit of those who may
have been so ignorant of law as to have any
doubts on the subject, that a man’s private repu-
tation is an article altogether distinct from his
public character, that both are his own exclusive
property, and that anyone who attempts to take
away either aims at committing a profitless and
very expensive species of larceny. An incau-
tious assertion, however true, a hasty word,
uttered under whatever provocation, may, if only
given expression to in the presence of a gossiping
listener whose delight it is to “ find dead men,” or
of a friend of the absent one, hurl the speaker to
financial perdition. Many flagrant cases of slander
go unpunished owing to the offenders’ lack of legal
powder and shot; and Mr. Dibbs’ misfortunes in
the present instance should be the means of in-
ducing those who are possessed of plenty of
money, or the next best thing, the reputation of
wealth, to regard their mouths as their purses,
their wills as their purse-strings, their tempers as
their banks, and a writ for slander as the com-
mencement of legal proceedings which may in-
volve them and their friends in irretrievable ruin.
We have not at hand the means, nor are we under
the necessity of minutely enquiring into the cha-
racter and abilities of the jurymen who have
thought fit to inflict so severe a punishment on
Mr. Dibbs; but though from the nature of the
evidence we share their opinion that the plaintiff
was entitled to a verdict, we certainly think that
the damages given were outrageously excesssive,
and that they must have been fixed rather on the
basis of what it was thought Mr. Dibbs would be
able to pay than according to a well and calmly-
considered estimate of what Mr. Shepherd’s ad-
mirable character was worth. However, let us
• console ourselves with the hope that the jury have
made in regard to the paying powers of the de-
fendant an error similar to that committed by
Bismarck respecting the milliards exacted from
France. Let us also leave Mr. Dibbs to extract
the utmost possible amount of comfort from the
reflection that he for slander has not been more
harshly treated than have the many colonial news-
papers who from time to time have unwittingly
libelled the possessors of characters just about as
valuable as that which Mr. Shepherd has been
kind enough to give himself. Mrs. J. C. Dibbs,
and not Mr. Shepherd, is the person on whom
those who take into consideration nothing but the
sworn evidence must have compassion. We feel
inclined neither to congratulate Mr. Shepherd
on his victory, nor to condole with Mr. Dibbs in
his defeat. Arcadians both of them. This is
English—for we’re not legally sure of our Latin.
Justices of the Peace.
Now that law reform ia being agitated for
here, and has in a measure become an accom-
plished fact in Great Britain, a most glaring
defect in the administration of justice in
this colony might with advantage receive some
attention. The prevailing idea that the Crown
can do no wrong has always appeared to our minds
to be subversive of both the intentions and wishes
of the blind goddess, and that its errors
should be subject to the same remedies as
those of any private citizen seems to us
to be only in accordance with the true inter-
pretation of the principles of justice. The fact
of the Crown or its officers being liable for
their mistakes would in no way affect the due ad-
ministration of the law, but it would compel those
who are “ dressed in a little brief authority,” and
who have the liberty of the subject in their charge,
to see before them clear and weighty evidence before
interfering with such liberty. At present the ends
of justice are being every day defeated by the
ignorance or prejudices of J.P.’s, many of whom
are absolutely unfit to hold their positions. The
qualifications in these colonies for a seat on the
Bench are indeed small, and a knowledge of law
is not numbered amongst them. Too frequently,
also, character is only a secondary consideration,
whilst education has in many cases been utterly
ignored. We know many magistrates who cannot
read a common sentence of English correctly,
though their financial positions enable them to
sign cheques for thousands ; yet to such men the
public have to look for the just fulfilment of the
law. Until some well-recognised qualifications are
insisted upon previous to an appointment being
made to the Commission of the Peace, wo cannot
hope to have the Bench either pure or capable.
In the interests of the public the law should be
altered, or some well-known principle laid down to
guide all future appointments to the magisterial
Bench. It may be all very well to allow free trade in
medicine, so long as the public have a fair oppor-
tunity of knowing who is legally qualified and
who isn’t, and of taking their choice. It may
also be advisable to permit free trade in religion,
for the State has definitely decided in various ways
not to interfere in theological matters; and be-
sides, a great many people in this and other
countries appear to have firmly made up their
minds that no man can be too great a fool, or too
hypocritical a scoundrel, or be too ignorant to
properly expound the Gospel. It may also be not
unreasonable to permit the existence of amateur
lawyers of all kinds, for the people whom they
get into trouble and ruin ought to know that, to
use a Hibernicism, “ cheap law is expensive.” If
people like to go to medical quacks instead of to
good doctors and get themselves into the dissect-
ing room, that is their affair ; and it is their affair,
too, if, instead of being gently conducted to Para-
dise by properly-qualified exponents of Holy Writ,
they allow themselves to be dipped even figura-
tively into “ Tartarean sulphur and strange fire ”
by Domain ecclesiastics and swindling ranters.
Let us have free trade even in law up to the point
at which the British subject’s option ceases ; but
let us reflect that while we can choose the sources
of our legal advice if we have the money, we can-
not select our judges. In regard to the latter,
we should go in for Protection.
In 1879 there were in Ireland 4,067,000 cattle
and 1,072,000 pigs; 5,204,000 acres were under crops, as
compared with 5,882,000 acres in 1852. Of the 331,000
small farms, at least 100,000 were living in the worst
classes of mud cabins. In 1871,155,675 one-roomed
cabins were occupied by 227,379 families, while 357,126
better class cabins (from two to four rooms) were made
to accommodate 432,774 families. Taking these facts
into consideration, what must be the effect of famine ?
Mr. James Merriman, M.L.A.
We present our readers this week with the portrait
of Mr. James Merriman, formerly Mayor of Sydney, and
now one of the representatives of West Sydney in the
Legislative Assembly. Few men in this community
stand higher in public estimation than this gentleman.
He is one of a stamp of men —not many of whom un-
fortunately now remain—who have given Sydney
the mercantile stability she now enjoys. When Mr.
Merriman was fighting his way in life, the mercantile
marine of Australasia was being formed. This port
?o-day most undoubtedly reaps the benefits of the en*
terprise of the men of those times, and it is to the
credit of the community that in Mr. Merriman’s case
at least no opportunity has been allowed to slip for-
doing him due honour. Mr. Merriman is Australian
bom, and represents the commercial men of a period
now long past. Thera is no one in this city who has
not a good word to say of him, and it is to his credit
that he never aimed at gaining popularity, and
that those who know him best prize his friendship
most. It is a grand test of a man’s excellence that the
public should always think the same of him. Mr. Mer-
riman has never fallen in public estimation as long as
he has been known to the people. Every contest,
political or municipal, has loft him the same number of
friends, and it is likely this will be the case as long as
he continues in public life. Mr. Merriman is now sixty-
three years of age. He was born at Parramatta on the
23rd October, 1817. He has been three times elected
unopposed for Gipps Ward, and has been successfu
with very large majorities in three contested elections.
At the last general election Mr. Merriman was returned
to Parliament at the head of the poll for West
Sydney.
OLLA PODRIDA.
BY FISCUS.
Gentle Reader, —What do you think of our
Harbour P And having mastered this time-honored
question, tell me what do you think of our Cir-
cular Quay ? Truly it is a magnificent picture, a
triumph of natural beauty adorned by the art of
man—probably a Chinaman. Dingy warehouses,
looking like so many morgues, grace one side,
whilst the other is set off by a building that would
make Michael Angelo suicide himself with envy.
I allude to the Government Stores. The middle
of the Quay is fringed with worm-eaten logs which
bear evident traces of having been laid down
during the carboniferous period, and upon these
logs recline divers sons of toil seeking work, and
praying hard they may never get within a mile of
it. Travelling fruit shops roam hero and there;
stalwart Masaniollos offer to “ glide o’er the
slumb’ring sea,” a la the gondolier scene in “ The
Vespers,” for “a bob each way;” majestic ships
raise their towering masts high in the azure sky,
and a determined, but dilapidated small boy en
doavours to entice the finny denizens of the sea
from their briny home with the aid of a bent pin
and a piece of orange peel. There is a sort of
pleasing, although rather bad-smelling repose
about the whole affair, occasionally varied by a
Bacchanalian votary slipping over the side, and
being afterwards fished up full of intense surprise
and salt water, and I doubt not the appearance of
our Quay to-day is precisely the same as it was
when the first batch of patriots landed on its
sylvan shores. However, tilings are to bo altered
soon. The march of time and the advancement
of the ago are about to lay their ruthless stamp
upon this grand old relic of colonial enterprise.
And even as I write, two men and a boy, armed
with one saw and a pot of Peacock’s paint are on
their way to the scene of destruction,
Many of our racecourse sceptics have sneered
at the story of the Babylonian King who lived
upon grass for seven years, but it has just been
discovered that in some parts of Africa and
America there grows a pale green grass which
Eossosses all the intoxicating powers of the pale
rown Hennessey’s “three star.” I could give
the latitude of these spots, but I’m afraid. We
have so many admirers of Mr. Hennessey’s works
here that I fear the reputation of Nebuchadnezzar
would be reduced to par. And besides, who’d
keep up Jim Punch’s posts, or attend our auction
sales where luncheons are provided ?
The sun of the Exhibition is setting fast, but
even as the glorious orb of day before it sinks
to rest throws out a last rekindled blaze—so does
our International. It now boasts of a Punch and
Judy show. The band in the Palace itself is also
something to sit down and howl about, but I have
a word of advice to give to those skilled per-
formers. They should remember that, in addition
to a naturally correct taste, we —the people of
Sydney—have of late had the experience of some
critics who have never been equalled for
sagacity in this or any world that we know of.
Consequently our ears are opened, and we know
as much now about sporzandos and molto adagios
and pooo poco crescendos, and delirium tremens,
and cead mille failthes, as the greatest musician
from Mozart down to the lady who plays the twin
hurdy-gurdy ever did, and we therefore want
something better than Beethoven in A or Weber
in Z, or Wagner in L. What we want is Grand-
father’s Clock, and Johnnie Morgan, and the
Maiden’s Prayer, and Nancy Leo, and such like
music that has something of classical tone about
it. Now that that “ Sweet Jemima ”is on the
musical war-path once more it will take something
more than old tow-headed Handel, or Daniel Lam-
bert Rossini, to please our epicurean taste —
something more than a Patti or a Giorza to
astonish us.
How are we to account for this on scientific’prin-
ciples ? A few months ago 220 Market-street was
occupied by a Tract Propagating Society, and its
windows enlivened by Bible pictures, and the por-
traits of Messrs. Chiniquy, Allen, Beecher, Spur-
geon, and other apostles, and during this time the
front of the building was about as silent and de-
serted as a pauper’s grave. Now, however, it is
used as a curio shop—photographs of Dickie Lin-
gard, Mrs. Siddons as Rosalind, and a countless
number of burlesque Queens are daily exhibited ;
and it is about as easy to get a look at one of
these as it was to get a view of the late comet’s
nucleus. And it is about as easy for a person to
pass the assembled crowd as it is for a soldier to
pass a long beer, or an electioneering agent to
pass one of Perkins’ bar luncheons. I wish
Mr. Buchanan, or Dr. Moffitt, or Lottie Wilmot,
or some other philosopher —would look this matter
up, as it has troubled me much of late, and
caused me more mental anxiety than my tailor’s
bill or the unsettled state of affairs in Peru.
I never dreamt that anything could overcome a
journalist’s philosophy until I visited the late fruit
and flower show at the International. I didn’t
feel so bad about the flowers, but when I came to
gaze upon pears that seemed to melt into a saccha-
rine vapour as I looked at them ; upon grapes
that Bacchus himself might eat, until he brought
on indigestion ; upon apples that made me men-
tally recommend Eve to mercy; and upon melons
that a person could scoop out and make lodging-
houses of ; —when I came to gaze on these, and then
to reflect that there was apparently no one look-
ing, I felt I must either risk a bite or rush outside
and drown myself. I did the latter —at Cotton’s.
Seriously, however, I object to these shows, be-
cause they place undue temptation before us ; and
if anyone will start up right here and put down
the shows, I’ll find a man who will second his en
deavours by putting down the fruit.
MR. JAMES MERRMAN, M.L.A.


Lady Loftus at the International.
AN OBDURATE ATTENDANT.
It is a strictly-enforced and judicious rule at the
Garden Palace art gallery that no visitors be
allowed to enter without having handed over to
the attendant their walking sticks or parasols.
Now Lady Loftus wanted to go into the gallery on
Tuesday afternoon, and she showed a strong in-
clination to take with her a giant gingham. (N.B.
—Giant ginghams will henceforth be the correct
thing.) The door-keeper, who didn’t enjoy the
honor of being a personal friend or even an ac-
quaintance of the lady, plainly intimated that her
ladyship might enter, but not the gingham. “Do
you know who I am ?” enquired Lady Loftus. “ I
do not, madam,” replied Cerberus. “ Well, I may
tell you that I am Lady Loftus, and that I wish not
only to go into the gallery but to take my parasol
with me.” Then the attendant said that he
couldn’t make any distinction between her ladyship
and the elderly female critic cf the Herald, or
any other ordinary person. We can hardly credit
the statement that her ladyship was injudicious
enough to point her umbrella handle at the atten-
dant in her endeavour to obtain admission, ging-
ham and all, by fair means or foul; but it may be
set down as an historical fact that about two
minutes afterwards someone bearing a very strong
resemblance to Lady Loftus was seen sitting on a
chair in the art gallery, pointing at the pictures
with her parasol in true aristocratic style.
The Romanys at the Royal.
There are plenty of Bohemians in Sydney, Bohe-
mians of all kinds, and some of them may well
sing with the chorus in the “ Bohemian Girl,” —
“ Oh, the gipsye’s life we le-e-e-ead.” The
Romanys were in all times considered throughout
their haunts in Europe as the head tribe of
gipseydom. The Romanys of Sydney are the
head tribe of our Bohemians: the very cream of
the aristocracy of Bohemianism. In fact, they
are Romanians —not the Roumelians or Servians
—of the order. Wo put off mufti, donned
the habiliments of swelldom, and went to
honour Romany at the Royal on Saturday
night, they having a dramatic entertainment. A
new Romany star was to be in the ascendant that
night; a lady of the very bluest (almost black)
Romany blood: and so it was decreed that the
vulgar oi polled, should not gaze at this star, and
live: only Romany friends were to be present.
Tickets of admission were to be bought of the
Romany Committee under the most fearful oath of
the order that they should not be parted|with to any
inferiorßohemians or other sectarians. Imagine
the effect. The vulgar pit was untrodden by
vulgar foot and was flagged and screened off from
Romany eyes. The orchestra was draped and
boxed [off for a select party with whom his Ex-
cellency could converse on the subject of
“ The New Dispensation,” without the heat affec-
ting his diplomatic sensitiveness. Stalls and dress
circle were (only fairly) filled with the ice-cream of
Sydney society, the friends, followers, and flat-
terers of Romany. A seat was kept free between
nearly every Romanist —no! Romanyist—to pre-
vent the ends of his enormous white tie
from touching the whites of the eyes of his
Neighbors. Some of the dresses worn on the
occasion did honor to Romany taste. Two
young ladies at the extreme left of the
grand circle wore tight but flowing robes,
with bodies au naturel. The upper circle
was devoted to the brave defenders of Romany-
dom—the men-o’-war’s men and soldiers in (and
out of) barracks, a rich background of enthusiastic
applauders of Romany swelldom. In the “ Happy
Pair,” the blue-blood Romany lady amateur was
Mrs. Houryton : she came, she talked, she did not
conquer ; she screamed, not having learned how
to pitch her voice. In fact, she rather made a
mess of it. But Romany applauded to the echo,
and the gallant blues and reds of the upper circle
took up the joyous strain; and then Romany
friends fell to fanning and flirting. Then came
“Still Waters Run Deep”: they were very still
and ran very deep. In fact, our professional and lady
friends, Miss A. Deorwyn (pretty dear !_ —for the
man who wins her) and Miss Melville, did all the
acting. No! a Mr Savage did a little very well.
The Romanys talked in the Romany (haw-haw)
dialect, but did not act, not a little bit. We did
not sit it out, we had the bad taste to be bored.
So, kissing the tips of our fingers to the two dears
in the bodies au naturel, we nodded to swelldom,
and departed, inwardly determining to resist the
kind efforts of friends, and to decline even the
risky honour of being black-balled by Romanydom
“ Under the New'Dispensation.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Derby has intimated his intention to join
the ranks of the British Liberals.
Governor Ord will probably leave Western
Australia for England next month.
Governor Weld leaves Tasmania for Singapore
shortly.
Mr. John Young is likely to stand for the
Clarence.
It is proposed to celebrate in Sydney the cen-
tenary of that illustrious Scotchman, Thomas Chalmers.
Sir Samuel Wilson entertains Lord Normanby
at Ercildoune, at Easter.
Mr. Angus Mackay is shortly to be banquetted
by the Sandhurst electors.
The proprietors of the Brisbane Telegraph
are jubilant. John Warde has cleared out from the
paper.
Mr. R. A. Proctor, the distinguished astrono-
mer, sails from San for Sydney on the 12th
April.
The Hon. John Sutherland will not stand for
the Clarence, but will go for a seat at the general
election.
The Hon. C. H. Buzacott, Postmaster-General
of Queensland, arrived in Sydney from Brisbane by the
Elamang. He goes overland to Melbourne.
The female who fills the whole space at the
Elizabeth-street tramway ticket office, and inquires,
‘ How much is it ?’ before she begins to fumble for her
purse, is a nuisance.
The Rev. Thomas Jones, ‘the Welsh poet
preacher,’ delivered his farewell addresses on Sunday
last to over-crowded audiences at the Baptist Church,
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Mr. William Boles, architect, a native of
Sydney, and one of the most promising members of his
profession, died on Sunday last after but a few days’
illness, at the early age of 36.
Mr. Alfred Bennett, managing pi’oprietor of
the Evening News and Town and Country Journal,
has returned from New Zealand, where he had been to
attend a telegraphic conference.
Bohemian of the Brisbane Telegraph be-
lies his name. He is very fond of home comforts and
has one of the snuggest and cosiest of freeholds in the
suburbs of Brisbane.
The eldest son of Lord Augustus Loftus (who
is aide-de-camp to His Excellency) has just engaged
himself—in France they would say has just been en-
gaged—to marry Miss Labertouche, niece of the local
Imperial paymaster.
Now that a Glasgow chemist has produced
crystallized carbons which are veritable diamonds,
there is a chance of supers, &c., becoming as big men
as Dr. Beaney of Melbourne, and George Browne, the
Sydney architect.
In the outcome of joy caused in the Brisbane
Telegraph office by the resignation of J. W. the staff ban-
quetted him last Saturday, and in the fullness of grief
one of the journalists wished him an elevated position
in his new sphere down South.
They say lex-Judge Simpson is the best member
of the bar in Sydney. Best in his treatment of clients;
best in his treatment of attorneys; and best with regard
to his adversaries. Practising at the bar he still retains
the dignity of the Judge.
Mr. George Hall (Bohemian) has been re-ap-
pointed editor of the Brisbane Telegraph. He is one
of the best journalists in Australia and has only been
off the editorship for about eighteen months. The
Sroprietors may now look for a policy as well as divi-
ends.
Mr. Bardwell, late of Ballarat, who formerly
did an extensive photographic business in that city,
and who afterwards fitted up a big studio in Collins-
street, but failed owing to the keenness of competition,
is, we are sorry to hear, very ill. The Melbourne photo-
graphic trade is now completely in the hands of a few
houses.
Mr. Vicars, the tweed manufacturer, has his
peculiarities. He slaves in the factory and battles in
the newspaper. Around the works where noisy looms
whirl from hour to hour and busy hands attend them,
there is to be found a splendid garden—no better in fact
in the city
The Rev. Principal Kinross, who is to repre-
sent the Presbyterian Church of New South Wales at
the Pan-Presbyterian Council, and who with Mrs. Kin-
ross left for Europe by last P. and O. steamer, was,
prior to his departure, presented by a committee of
Presbyterian gentlemen with 500 sovereigns to defray
his expenses.
Mr. W. H. Archer, ex-Victorian Secretary for
Lands, who was dismissed the service on Black Wednes-
day, and who for some time past has been residing in
Sydney, is now in Melbourne, and hopes to be treated
liberally by the new Ministry. Mr. Archer was a great
success in his former office of Registrar-General, in
which he was succeeded by Mr. Hayter, who is a
Berryite, and accompanied the ‘Embassy’ to England.
There is terrible distress in London. Thousands
of Irish-stew dinners are daily being distributed by the
London Cottage Mission to hungry children, whose mis-
ery, as also that of many able-bodied and willing men,
is painful to witness. Those from England who have
found fortune in this country might do worse than send
even trifling subscriptions to Miss F. Napton, 304,
Burdett-road, Limehouse, E., and Mr. Walter Austin,
14, Finsbury Circus, London.
Earl Grey contributes to next number of the
Victorian Review an article on ‘Our Political
Troubles.’ Emilo de Castelar, the great Spanish
statesman, will, it is said, also be an early contributor.
Castelar is one of the most graceful of bving writers.
His book on Lord Byron’s life and works is one of the
most gloriously poetic productions extant, and should
be read by every one, in order that it may be known
how fiercely the grand spirit of romantic old Spain still
bums in the breasts of her sons.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs has been fined £50 for con-
tempt of court, in failing to comply with Mr. Justice
Windeyer’s order for the production of Rosa Crocker’s
statutory declaration in the case Shepherd v. Dibbs.
Mr. Dibbs’ counsel argued that Mr. Dibbs could not
possibly have complied with the order in question, but
the Court remarked that the document had been written
with Mr. Dibbs’ own hand, and was in the possession of
his brother, who, nobody could doubt, would have given
it him on application.
Mr. Mirams, M.L.A., of Melbourne, who has
been brought into prominence by some correspondence
with Mr. Munro, is a little man who has so long a body
and such short legs that, like Baron Munchausen’s dog,
he would appear to have been a greyhound in his youth
and to have gone so fast while young that he wore out
his legs and became a common terrier. At any rate he
is a common terrier now. He is secretary to a fif-
teenth rate building society, and next to making a lot
of money and becoming important, aims at being re-
garded as a financial genius. When Berry came into
power, Mirams tried hard for the portfolio of Minister
of Education, and would probably have got it, but for
the fact that a malignant paper announced that he
(Mirams) had a few years before miserably failed in
several attempts to pass his examination for a license
to teach—the lowest grade of teachers’ classification.
However, he lives in hope, and has just made another
unsuccessful attempt to become famous.
Sporting conundrum. —‘Who is the gamest
oarsman in the colony ?’ Concerning this a correspon-
dent writes:—‘ I overheard an argument the other day
between two little boys who believe they know some-
thing. Jimmy said he knew who was the pluckiest
sculler. Dickey said Solomon was, for he won and wasn’t
allowed to get the stakes. Said Jimmy, ‘ Oh, I cat
beat that. I know a man who went to England and
won, and only got his tucker and a fiver.’ Dickey gave
Jimmy best, especially when he heard that the game
mpn was thinking of going home again, to row Haulan.’
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
The quarterly inspection of the Naval Brigade
takes place to-morrow (Saturday),
Mr. Jim White won £3OOO by his last Mel-
bourne tour. About ditto with Mr. Ned Jones.
On Thursday week forty-five members of the
Nimrod Fishing" Club caught 930 schuapper at Broken
Bay.
Betrayer has won the Wanganui Cup, Hornby second,
and Sonkar third.
Martine has not yet recovered from the effects
of his late hurts when racing Watson.
To-morrow (Saturday) Messrs. Ray and Dono-
van of the Sydney Rowing Club are to have a race in
light skiffs; it is likely to be a good contest.
Negotiations are going on with a view to a race
between Pearce and Bill Hickey of Newcastle in water-
men’s boats.
On Bth, 9th, and 10th April Edwards walks Goodburn
at Forbes for 48 hours, A'loo aside, the latter receiving
20 miles start.
Mr. Jarvis, father of the South Australian player, has
entertained the Australian Eleven and a large company
at a banquet in Adelaide.
From the silence of the past week of so, it is
hoped that Hanlan and Courtenay have frozen over for
the winter.
Green and Spencer, the English oarsmen, have
signed articles for a race from Putney to Mortlake on
the Thames, for £2OO a-side.
H. Thatcher and A. Hancock were to walk at
Islington, England, on the 6th instant, for £'2oo and the
60-mile championship of the world.
There are said to be forty-five American ama-
teur sprint runners who have a record for a hundred
yards of 10* seconds or better.
John Hawdon and Joseph Kempster were to
row in best-aud-best boats on the Tyne, from the Man-
sion House to the Suspension Bridge at Scotswood, for
£IOO a-side, on Monday, February 23rd.
Hawdon, whom Hanlan defeated so easily in
England, is out again in a challenge, offering to take
four lengths’ start of .any man in England over the
Tyne.
Blower Brown and Hazael, who will be remem-
bered as participants in the International Belt Match
at Gilmore’s Gardens, and S. Day, were to begin the
contest for the long-distance championship of England
on February 24.
At Maitland on Saturday last, McDermott,,
who undertook to walk 28 miles in 5 hours, gave up at
the request of those present, on account of the small
attendance. He walked 23 miles, and had 1J hours to
finish the balance.
James E. Kelley, of the firm of Kelley and
Bliss, New York, has arrived in England to engage some
of the noted sprint-runners of that country, and also to
secure Emmett (Wallace Ross’s competitor abroad) for
the Eastern Regatta, next June, and other races.
Hanlan is a very bad correspondent, • and
doesn’t appear remarkably anxious to row Trickett, who-
will, we believe, proceed to England in the company of
one or two sporting gentlemen and of his brother,
William Trickett, as soon as news comes to hand from
America; or indeed perhaps before.
And now Riley is included in the contest for
the medicine man’s purse which Hanlan won last Fall,
Courtney has declared his willingness to compete with
Rilev and his former victor, and the race is fixed, on
paper, for May next, to take place on the waters of the
Potomac. All was right up to the time the mail left.
Elliott, the English oarsman, has had a won-
derful boat built for him. Bell’s Life acquatic tout
says :— ‘ I am, however, forbid to tell the secrets of the
prison-house, and can only say that I have great faith l
in the principle, and it is a magnificent specimen of the
boat-builder’s handicraft.*
On Saturday last Professor Cavill swam from
Glenelg to the Semaphore, close in shore—a distance of
over 10 miles —in eight hours and three-quarters. The,
sea was rough and the tide was against him. He swims-
the same distance to-day (Saturday) against Mr. D.
C. F. Moodie, an Adelaide journalist, for £IOO and the
championship of the world.
In a six-day go-as-you-please race, twelve hours
each, held at Dundeee, Scotland, December 13th to 20th
last, and over a track that had 35 laps and 10 yards tO>
the mile, W. Smith, of Paisley, mad 358 miles 5 laps ;
P. McKellam, Edinburgh, 336 miles 21 laps; M. Fox,
Dundee, 331 miles 14 laps ; J. L. Robson, Liverpool, 329
miles 16 laps.
It is proposed to give a champion belt, open to-,
the world, for a bicycle race in New York the last week
of the present month. The belt is valued at 1000 d 015.,..
and prize money to the amount of 2,500 dols. will be
added. The object is to bring together the champion
riders of England, France, and America. Can't we send
a bicyclist ?
U|The S. A. sixteen have beaten the Australian
even by 69 runs, the total scores being 304 and 235
respectively. For the South Australians Gooden with
28 was the highest scorer. In the first innings of the
Australians Jarvis scored 22 and A. Bannerman 39. In
their second innings Jarvis scored 18, Bannerman 10,
and Boyle (who in the first innings had totalled 19), 25. .
We learn that Mr. Cowles, the well-known
gunsmith of George-street, contemplates disposing at
the manufacturers’ price, of the splendid collection of"
English fowling-pieces exhibited by him at the Inter--
national. This very exhibit took the medalat the Paris
Exhibition, and the weapons will doubtless be sought
after by our sportsmen. IPurchases’ we believe, can now
be arranged.
Mr. James Gordon Bennett, of the N.Y.
Herald, is to shoot a pigeon match, 50 birds, 28 yards’’
rise, against Mr. Skelbroek, a well-known Hurlingham
and Gun Club shot, for £I,OOO a-side, early in April,.
There is no idea of any international rivalry in this,
merely a friendly match, and it is to be decided in Paris,,
where we doubt not there will be considerable specula-
tion, as the American colony waxes strong there, and
its inhabitants will rally round their countrymen.’
Thiebaud Bauer and William Muldoon will
wrestle shortly, Gneco-Roman style, for a medal valued
at 100 dols. It may not generally be known that the
champion wrestler of the world, William Miller, is an
Australian. His father, a tutor in Melbourne, is an
accomplished swordsman, and, like his son, is a man of
great personal strength. Young Miller, who is now
either in America or in England, formerly kept a gym-
nasium in Melbourne. His muscular development was
so wonderful as to be almost ridiculous.
It is anticipated that the following will do battle
for Victoria in the eight-oar race on 10th prox.
Stackpool, Nicholls, Irvine, J. Booth, Tnckett
R. Booth, Brown, G. Upward (stroke). This
lot comprises three of the men who rowed
here in May last —Messrs. Irvine, J. Booth, and
Tnckett. The brothers Fairbaim, who are both splendid
oarsmen, will not, it is thought, be able“to row. They
perfected themselves in rowing at Cambridge, where the
elder had a seat in the University boat. Upward, the
stroke, belongs to the Corio(Geelong)club andis a power-
ful and finished puller. It is possible that Tuckett
may after all be- unable to row, in which case
his place will probably be taken by Blyth. The
new Victorian boat built to the order of the
Victorian Rowing Association by Edwards of Prince’s
Bridge, has met with an accident so serious asjto neces-
sitate the building of another.
An obliging correspondent writes us as fol«
lows ‘ Lambton, 15th March, 1880. Seeing in
recent issue of The Bulletin that you are taking an
interest in the great porridge match —[[This isn’t true.
Ed.]—at Lambton here, I thought I would write and
let (you know that a match has been arranged for £2
a-side, to come off in Stoker’s Hall on the 22nd instant,
the man who eats the most porridge in half-an-hour to
be declared the winner. Three respectable residents of
Lambton have been selected to act as referees and
judge; and the Lambton band has been engaged for the
occasion, so that the affair is likely to be a great suc-
cess. G. Penman is a native of Scotland, and has eaten
several matches before this, and always proved success-
ful. James Bibby is a native of Lancashire, and has
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
VI.—‘THE DUCHESS' AND ‘SOIEITUALISM.'
Mt dear Bean-Blossom,—
The day is warm; by vulgar people it would
be called hot, but if you decline the adjective ‘ warm’
in its superlative sense you will understand what I
mean. I had gone early to the Garden Palace, for
Giorza gives one of his harmonious orchestral concerts,
and on such occasions chairs do not go begging; in
fact, we often beg for chairs, or make up our minds to
stand all the time rather than miss a concert arranged
and conducted by such a maestro. Signor Giorza is
a great favorite with Sydney people and deservedly
so, as is shown by the packed attendance at all his
Palace concerts, and yet there are persons, not among
the working class, who, even during the rendition of
classical music, break through the hushed crowd of
standing people and materially affect the harmony by
their noise, merely for the sake of drawing all eyes upon
themselves.
The concert programme to which I allude was
formed of selections from the works of that grand com-
poser Mozart, and many esteemed it a rich musical
treat. Others, whose minds were probably better
cultivated than many among those who were giving
their whole attention to the concert, evidently thought
otherwise. In the midst of a beautiful, pathetic move,
ment, room had to be made through the crowd for a
fussy, chattering lady. I said the day was warm, but
this unmusical female was attired in a velvet robe, fitting
her well-rounded figure to admiration. On her head was
a large ‘ Gainsborough ’ hat, on her forehead borrowed
curls. She wore gauntlet gloves and a large black fan,
in fact she affected the * Duchess,’ whose portrait, if
we omit the face, she had carefully copied. Certainly
this Duchess of the antipodes is well versed in the
art of powder and paint. I look at her and laugh to see
the amazement she creates in the crowd as she makes
her way forward, fanning herself fussily and laughing
over her shoulder to two or three lanky youths who
suck the nobs of their pretty little sticks and pull
vehemently at invisible moustaches, and whose united
age§ would not far out-step that of their delightfully
coquettish * Duchess.’ As she passes my chair her face
sets me dreaming, strangely enough on the subject of
spiritualism. I am present in a dimly-lighted room at a
seance where brother ‘Brainless’ introduces brother
« Know-all ’ with a few words as follows: ‘ Dear friends
and spirits’ (by this time we are all in the dark) ‘it
gives me great pleasure to introduce Brother “ Know-
all ” to you. He is one of our most believing members
and has developed—entirely through his own energy—
into a first-class medium. He is here to-night to
illustrate, if needful, the wonderful power he has gained
in not only soothing, but entirely eradicating one of the
most painful ills that flesh is heir to. I need scarcely
say I allude to tooth-ache. The cure is very simple and
yet strictly spiritual—any one present suffering from
that agonizing pain has only to tell “ Brother Know-all ’’
and with a few passes of his hands and one little kiss on
the patient’s lips the pain has gone —at least so says
our medium.’ Upon the worthy brother * Brain-
less ’ ceasing to speak, a female voice is heard penetrat-
ing the darkness, saying pretty loudly, ‘oh my poor
tooth, how I do suffer. Jack! Jack!’ (anothermedium
I surmise) * go quickly and bring brother “ Know-all” to
me.’ In the dark was heard a scuffle; words, not exactly
profane, nor yet strictly spiritual, burst upon the
spirit-laden air, the gas was suddenly turned on. Brother
‘Know-all’ had vanished, and in a chair holding her
poor face with her jewelled fingers sat —the ‘ Duchess.’
I arose from my reverie at the final crash of music.
The Duchess has made me forget the concert, and still
I think of her as I pass slowly out and see her at the
Palace gates, still chattering in parrot fashion as she
saunters up the street. A cockatoo looking down
knowingly on her from his perch on a balcony, bristles
his comb and calls out, * oh poor Robinson Crusoe,’ like
the ill-bred parrot that he is, for surely so grand a
Duchess could not have any connection —except in a
parrot’s brain—with such a tatterdemalion as Robinson
Crusoe.
Yours abstractedly.
PEA-BLOSSOM.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
VI.—THE DOCTOR.
There are numerous professions in the colonies, all
more or less lucrative; but to be a doctor or a surgeon,
or both combined, seems to be the ambition of the
larger portion of our colonial young men. It is as-
tonishing how many Australian youths find that their
vocation lies in the medical profession, and how few in
the clerical. Perhaps it is the very slender stipend the
latter receive that deters many from entering the field
of ecclesiastical labour, where the work is always abun-
dant and the pay inadequate.
But with doctors it is different. They no sooner re-
turn from their five years’ study in London hospitals or
Scotch colleges, than their name appears on a brass
plate on door or gate probably on both—for they
agree with the maxim, “ You cannot have too much of
a good thing ’—while the happy owner of so much brass
is seen daily in a well-appointed buggy, rattling through
the streets at a strictly professional rate. The days of
steady-going ‘pill boxes' medical English for
«brougham ’—died out with door knockers.", * Buggies ’
and ‘bells’ came in to suit the fashionable race of
young doctors, who, clever as many of them un-
doubtedly are, could not, with all their learning, give a
sonorous rat-a-tat, like their portly progenitors. Time
will not allow knockers—life and death now travel at
railway speed. After all, our last breath is but a freak
of nature, or of the doctor. With care we may live
the * seven ages of man,’ and pass out of life as utterly
helpless as when we’,’entered it, without time or sense
to say ‘ mea culpa.'
Doctors of the present day are in one sense like hot-
house plants: their brains are taxed to the utmost
limit; they are crammed with learning before their
beards begin to sprout, and they enter manhood and
their profession at the same epoch. They are popular—
and often justly so. Many a one of them, at a compara-
tively early age, attains a’large and remunerative prac-
tice that would often be steady work for two men.
Older and cleverer doctors find themselves now in a
medical steeple-chase. When a young Australian takes
the field, they are distanced and left winded at the first
hurdle; whilst young Australia walks over the course,
and, bowing low, says, in the words of Julius Caesar —
‘ Veni, vidi, vici.‘
Their consulting rooms are crowded. They ‘ receive ’
from nine to twelve, then rush like a whirlwind —in a
buggy—to visit their out-door patients. This generally
occupies them until luncheon—too often taken hur-
riedly while the incessant ringing of the bell warns
them of the steady arrival of patients. By evening, as
the last of a long list of would-be invalids leaves the
door, the clock more often strikes ten than nine, after
which hour our young Australian doctor is supposed to
see no more patients. He, if not engaged profession-
ally or otherwise, turns to his library, mechanically
draws a chair to the table, and essays to be interested in
some late medical work; but nature, already outraged,
asserts her authority, and our tired but fashionable
young doctor retires to rest. His days for study are
gone:—a brain strained to its fullest tension during the
day naturally refuses the food its owner wishes it to
receive. Scarcely are his eyes closed in a sound yet
troubled sleep, than the night bell tardily rouses him —
he hurries on his clothes, rubs his eyes into wakeful-
ness, and away out in the cold night air to some urgent
case. He returns in the grey morning, too late to
think of sleep; he must take a bath, and so brace him-
self for his day’s work.
As he sits languidly eating his solitary breakfast, the
post brings him a heap of letters. At some he smiles,
at others the colour rises, and he thinks long and ear-
nestly before venturing to accept any out of the many
invitations sent him, for our young unmarried doctor
is considered an ‘eligible’ in the matrimonial mart.
Mammas with marriageable daughters try to snare him.
Lucille has a delicate chest or Corisande grows too fast.
He listens dutifully to all mamma says on the subject,
prescribes for both, admires silently Lucille’s splendid
breadth of chest and general healthy physique, glances
approvingly at Corisande’s willow-like form, takes men-
tal notes of their several tastes, habits, tempers and
accomplishments, remarks to himself how Lucille
always sings the songs he admires, and accepts
rather awkwardly the embroidered cigar-case from
Corisande, which mamma says is entirely the dear girl’s
own thought, in return for all his kindness. And as he
looks at Corisande he sighs audibly at the possibility of
future happiness when he can find time to marry.


been brought up in the farming districts. From a trial
which he has done it is believed that he will take a lot
of (b)eating. I have written these few particulars to
you hoping they will meet with your approval, and if
you put a paragraph in your next issue you may tip one
of them to win. I will send you particulars of the affair
after it is over. [Will our correspondent kindly en-
quire and inform us how the men train, what quantity
of porridge is required lor a “gentle breather.” and
how much is consumed in a preliminary canter. —Ed.
Bulletin.]
Subjoined are the results of Tumut races; —
Thursday—Maiden Plate Lloyd’s Eros, 1; Black-
bird, 2; Mamma, 3. A great race. Time, 2 m. 18 s.
Selling Stakes—Lowther’s Laycock, 1; Selection, 2;
. Sir Solomon, 3. A good nice. Tumut Handicap.—
Clayton’s Musjid, 6st. 31bs., 1; Zuleika, 9st., 2; Kildare,
' Bst. 21bs., 3. Won by a length. Time, 3m. 42 s. Pro-
duce Stakes.—Patten’s Fishbone, 1 ; Guy's Young
Josephine, 2; Young Empress, 3. A grand finish; won
by a nose. Time, 1m.29 s. Fishbone’s jockey broke
his stirrup. Hack Race.—Hargreave’s Angler, 1;
Jones’s Pilot, 2. A capital race. Ladies’ Purse —Eros,
1; Zuleika, 2; Robin, 3. Time, 1 m. 47-J s. Close
finishes were the order of the day. Two-Year Handicap
—Allott’s Nimblefoot, 7st., 1; Guy’s Young Josephine,
Bst. 81bs. 2; Patten’s First Love, Bst. 101bs., 3; won by
a short nose. Time, Im. 19 s. Town Plate —Lloyd’s
Eros, 7st. 21bs., 1; M'Donald’s Kildare. Bst. 71bs.
(Hailes), 2; Roche’s Don O’Connell, 6st. (Yeomans), 3.
The last named horse bolted, and mu two miles before
the event; Eros won easily. Time, 2m.46 s. All-aged
Stakes—First Love, 1, M’Donald’s Aristocrat, 2,
Pooley’s Zuleika 3. Time: 2 m. 20 s. A grand race.
Grand Stand Handicap—Musjid, 6st. 61bs., 1; Chinnery’s
Verity, 6st. 61bs., 2 ; Davis’ Robin, 7st. 31bs., 3. Time:
3m.15 s. The best event of the day—won by a bare
head. Forced Handicap—Aristocrat, 7st. 121b5., 1;
Robin, 7st. 91bs., 2; Verity, 7st. slbs., 3.
The Eight to do battle for New South Wales
against Victoria on 10th April next, on the Yarra, have
been selected. A. Stewart is stroke, W. Anslow 7, C.
Gaden 6, F. Woodriffe 5, C. Bros 4, L. Zolluer 3, W.
P. Simpson 2, and J. Thomson, bow. Taken as a whole
they are not a bad lot, and the Selection Committee
have done better than was expected considering the
available men. The crew have been rowing together for
more than a week, and during that time have made
rapid progress—owing, in a great measure, to their
coach, Mr. P. J. Clarke, who goes to no end of trouble
to get them fit. Stewart (stroke) is the makings of a
good man, but lacks experience, and always takes
two tugs at his oar instead of rowing it through with
one dash. He ought to look to this as it is a bad fault.
No. 7 (W. Anslow) is a fair oarsman, and rows strong,
but has the same fault as stroke. Gaden (No. 6) is a
very poor puller, and people may well ask what he has
done to be in a representative crew. So far as we know
he has started three times. His best performance was
at the Glebe Regatta, where he was beaten by Williams,
a junior oarsman of the Mercantile Rowing Club. He
does not straighten his arms, nor will he row upright;
in fact, he rolls out of the boat half his time. No. sis
also a new man; is weighty, but does not make the most
of his strength. He ought to sit up, and pay more
attention to time which is occasionally very erratic.
No. 4 (Bros) is a good but ugly oarsman. He rows very
strong, but ought to sit up better to his work and get the
lump off his back, paying more attention to stroke. No.
3 is the weakest point in the* boat, and with No. 6 tends
to spoil the rowing of the crew. He may appear to
row iu form, but°most assuredly, unless he improves
greatly, by straightening his arms and putting more
weight on his oar, he will be a mere passenger iu the
race. No. 2 (Simpson) is a man who has done a lot of
rowing. He is pulling in good form, but has rather a
tendency to stoop at the end of his stroke. He gets
very well out and certainly rows ‘ forcibly.’ Last, but
not least, is J. Thomson, who is as good a bit of stuff
for his weight as has ever got in a boat. He rows an
oar well, but is at present inclined to throw the blade
into the air before getting in. ‘ Clio’s’remarks iu
the Town and Country Journal last week were rather
amusing. He probably knows more about fashions and
kid gloves than boating. On Saturday the eight are to
have a spin on the river with a scratch crew. They
purpose leaving for Melbourne on the 22nd instant,
overland. May they do credit to the colony.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
On Monday morning 56 drunkards were fined
at the Central Police Court, Sydney.
Red tape forbids the transfer by one passenger
to another of a tram ticket. What next ?
The Afghans are again on the offensive. A
new campaign is regarded as inevitable.
Socialistic ideas are rapidly gaining ground in
Russia.
At Collett’s Creek, Northern Territory, the
blacks have murdered Mr. Holmes, a telegraph official.
The Sydney Corporation have increased the
assessment from Is 5d to Is 6d.
All the members of the new Victorian Ministry
have been re-elected without opposition.
Mr. Gladstone objects to the cost of the
Afghan campaign being thrown on India.
In South Australia the Irish Famine Relief
Fund amounts to £B,OOO.
Japan is buying heavy Krupp guns for her
fortifications.
Brinsmead and Son have been awarded the
,prizes forpianofortes by the judges at the International.
Jules Ferry’s Education Bill has been rejected
by the French National Assembly.
A great demonstration took 'place at Mel-
bourne on St. Patrick’s Day.
The efforts of Mrs. King, matron of the
' Shaftesbury Reformatory at South Head, in reclaiming
fallen girls, have been very successful.
The Giffard process, which has been patented
in Australia, is now recommended as being simpler than
the Bell and Coleman system.
In 1879 there were built on tho Clyde 173,438
tons of new vessels. On the Tyne, during the same
period, 139,843 tons were built.
In the new Medical Bill now before the As-
sembly provision is made for punishing practitioners
guilty of drunkenness.
Mr. Dampier commences a season at the
Queen’s Theatre on Saturday evening, in ‘ The Royal
Pardon.’
The Saturday Review says the late Victorian
Ministry acted like the drunken helots of universal
. suffrage.
The Chinese ambassador, recently recalled from
' St. Petersburg, has been decapitated by order of his
sovereign.
The ‘ Our Boys Amateur Minstrel Company,’
■gave a very successful entertainment at the School" of
Arts on Wednesday evening, in the cause of charity.
On Saturday last a company of eighty, including
■several of the officers of the Bismarck, was entertained
by Mr. B. O. Holtermann at his residence. North
Shore.
New danger signals—having for their base the
recently invented and powerful ‘ cotton powder ’—were
tried on board the John Elder on Tuesday night, and
■found to be a great success.
Signora Link and Mrs. Cutter took part in a
splendid service at St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne,
last Sunday on the occasion of the opening of the new
organ.
The Mayors of the various municipalities have
met at the instance of the Mayor of Randwick, and
formed themselves into a committee on the sewage
question.
Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald, Mr. F. H. Linklater’s
solicitor, writes to point out that Mr. Linklater has not
been * liberated on lus own recognizances,’ but absolutely
discharged.
John Costan, for many years book-keeper to
McEwan and Co., wholesale grocers, Melbourne, on
-Monday morning last cut his throat from ear to ear.
and then flung himself from an upper window of his
house, fracturing his ribs. He died almost instantly.
At Moira, last week, a child of 5 years, the
son of Mr. James Wright, was lost in the bush for two
nights and a day, in heavy rain. He was found trudging
aboutjbut little the worse for his mishap.
Last year’s revenue of the United Kingdom
amounted to £80,860,000, and expenditure to £84,216,000.
The ensuing year’s revenue and expenditure are esti-
mated at £81,560,000, and £81,485,000 respectively.
Last Sunday night, at the Redfern station,
twenty people were detected by one railway porter
either travelling without tickets, or using second-class
tickets in first-class carriages.
Dr. Hunter has been presented bv the Sydney
Hebrew Philanthropic and Orphan Society with a
valuable gold watch and chain, as a slight recognition
of his kind and gratuitous services to the Jewish poor.
Spence and Owston, a Melbourne firm, are to
be granted the fee simple of 20,000 acres in tho Northern
Territory on condition of expending £lO,OOO and pro-
ducing 500 tons of sugar.
The Service Government intend to classify the
State school teachers so as to make them independent
of political influence. Also, to abolish all political
influence in the police force.
‘ A draper’s assistant ’ points out that persons
employed in shops have to remain on their feet 75 hours
a week. This he considers highly detrimental to their
physical health, and he suggests that the ladies of
Sydney, following the example of those of London,
should send round a circular begging employers to pro-
vide seats for their employes.
James Poison, tho unhappy creature who
during a fit of delirium tremens chopped up his two
children with an adze, lias, since his reception at
Bathurst gaol, been in a pitiable state of wretchedness.
Any person hereafter found burning the mouths
of horses for lampas will be prosecuted by the Animals’
Protection Society. Burning for lampas is asserted by
the society’s veterinary surgeon, Mr. John Stewart, to
be altogether unnecessary.
Madame Carlotta Patti and her splendid
concert company will give a concert at the Masonic
Hall on Monday evening. They will visit Goulburn on
Wednesday; and give a sacred concert at the Masonic
Hall, Sydney, on Good Friday.
Madame Camilla IJrso, the violiniste, with
Miss Jenny Sargent, Miss Agnes Palma, and Messrs.
Sauret and Scherek, commence a series of farewell
concerts in Sydney at the Masonic Hall, on Tuesday
evening.
Victoria, says her Minister for Railways, has
not £50,000 left out of the loan to go on with a line of
railway. Any lines the construction of which may be
sanctioned will have to wait until the balance of the
loan is subscribed.
Miss Agnes Gillie, for many years an earnest
and active philanthropist in Sydney, died on Friday
last at St. Vincent’s Hospital, and was, in the words of
a daily paper, ‘ followed to the grave by a few mourners
but no mends.’
Annie Miller, the young woman who tried to
drown herself because her sweetheart failed to keep an
appointment, has in consequence of having threatened
to renew the attempt on the first opportunity, been com-
nutted tor trial.
Mr. Railway-Superintendent Evans and a
subordinate, who had concealed themselves in a horse-
truck for the purpose, on Tuesday morning last, at
Mount Victoria, cleverly captured two men who had
been in the habit of pilfering from trains.
The Herald says that “ a public endowment
of education is one of the objects at which the Legis-
lature should aim, and the income from the Church and
School lands could hardly be devoted to a worthier or
more legitimate object.
Mark Marston, a young fellow of 19, has died
at Sunbury, Victoria, from snakebite. He rallied at
first under the influence of ammonia, but on the day
following that on which he was bitten violent inflam-
mation of the bitten part set in and he sank rapidly.
H. L. Franklin, the alleged proprietor of an
obscene publication, was charged at the Water Police
Court, on Monday last, at the instance of Mr. Andrew
Baylis, with criminal libel. The case was remanded
tor a week.
Captain G. W. Woon, of the New Zealand
militia (an old campaigner), says that the Maories have
so decreased in numbers that it would, in his opinion.
be extremely difficult for them to bring more than 500
fighting men into the field at any given point.
Mr. Mirams, the Victorian M.L.A., has accused
Mr- Munro of nefarious proceedings in connection with
the Carlton election. Mirams, it appears (like a certain
N.S.W. Exhibition Commissioner), has been trying to
get up testimonials to himself, and has actually paid in
subscriptions to his own account.
The first four competitive poems for the Mel-
bourne! International cantata are placed by the judges
thus:—‘ Eucalyptus,’ ‘Lyra,’ ‘Onmbali,’ and ‘Lyre
Bird.’ ‘ Eucalyptus’s ’ poem is simple and can easily be
handled by the composer of the music. It is short and
the conception is original—two points in its favour.
At the Sheopwash, near Sandhurst, a ghost,
taking the form of a headless female, has been seen
four nights in succession by four woodcarters, ‘who
gazed with fascinated horror on the spectacle. * She ’
is to be * plotted ’ by some adventurous young men on
her reappearance.
At Pigeon Holes, near Cohar, the other daj,
two men named Hatton and Newsome pursued a team-
ster named Collins, by whom Hatton had just been
thrashed in a stand-up-fight. Newsome rushed at
Collins with a tomahawk when the latter in self-defence
shot him in the knee with a gun.
Father Henneberry has brought his Bathurst
mission to a close. While in the city of the plaius he
worked wonders in the temperance cause, violently de-
nounced Sir Henry Parkes iu the matter of education,
and made remarks strongly deprecating mixed mar-
riages, saying that any woman who didn’t obey the
voice of tho church upon this question would suffer
eternal woe.
Tho excursion to Chowder Bay on Wednesday
(St. Patrick’s Day), under the ausjuces of the Hibernian
Society, and in aid of the Irish Relief Fund, was a great
success. Mr. D. O’Connor, M.P., delivered a powerful
address appropriate to the occasion from the balcony of
the hotel at Chowder Bay,
On the 23rd instant Mr. Coonan will move in
the Assembly ; That the conduct of tho Honorable the
Minister for Lands, in interviewing members of this
House who accompany their constituents in reference
to the administration of the land laws of tho colony, is
highly censurable.
The ticklish question of payment to members
is to be immediately considered by the Victorian As-
sembly. At least half-a-dozen of the Berryite M.P.’s
have no visible means of support. Their only hope is
payment to members, and their only fear the Vagrant
Act.
Decrees nisi for dissolution of marriage were
were on Tuesday granted by Mr. Justice Wiudeyer in
the cases of Elizabeth Standen v. Samuel Standen (for-
merly of Bathurst and Hill End); and of James Killi-
grew x. Frances Killigrew. Neither case presented any
remarkable features.
The Protestant Alliance Friendly Society of
Australasia has in New South Wales 3000 members and
forty lodges, with an income of £BOOO. During 1879
£7OO was paid for funeral donations, and £l5OO for sick
pay. The various branches of the Society have an
aggregate cash balance, with investments, amounting
to £lO,OOO. Mr. Walker is W. M. for the current
year.
On St. Patrick’s day there was an imposing re--
ligious service in St. Mary’s Cathedral. The decora-
tions of the Sanctuary were splendid, and the music
magnificent. An oifertorium * Ecee Deus Salvator mens,’
was well sung by Mr. J. H. Flynn. Dean Sheridan
officiated and Dr. Bermingham preached an admirable
sermon on the life of St. Patrick.
Messrs. Cowan and Co’s. Warehouse,
Wynyard Square.
We give in the accompanying sketch a view of
the warehouse of Messrs. Cowan and Co., Wyn-
yard Square, in this city. The engraving will con-
vey to people at a distance some idea of now
Sydney, or in other words of the style and extent
of tho splendid new warehouses recently erected,
or_ now in course of erection, in various parts of
this city. The change in this respect that has
come over Sydney during the last few years has
indeed been great, and this is all the more satis-
factory as it is but a fair indication of the sub-
stantial development in trade observable on all
hands throughout this free-trade colony. The
warehouse now illustrated was built on a
special design to suit Messrs. Cowan and Co’s.
business, and is one of the finest that ornaments
Wyuyard Square. The foundation is on the solid
rock, and built throughout of the best Pyrmont
stone. _ The stationery trade of this well-known
house is the most extensive in Australia, its
business with Now Zealand in particular being
very largo. Cowan and Co. are manufacturers of
their own paper, having extensive paper mills, and
each month they ship direct from London to Sydney
Tneir business in this city includes that of
printers’ brokers, as they supply complete
printing outfits and the most improved description
of printing machinery, etc. They are likewise the
colonial agents of several of the principal English
and continental stationery manufacturers, and
have recently entered into arrangements with all
the leading publishers in Great Britain to
supply their books in Sydney at the home trade
price, merely adding the cost of shipment. This
arrangement greatly facilitates trade with co-
lonial booksellers. The business of the firm in
Sydney has been conducted in a very satisfactory
manner, and it cannot but increase as the colony
prospers.
The Australian Vinegar Works.
Herewith is given a sketch of the interior of the Aus-
tralian Vinegar Works, Sussex-street, in this city. The
proprietor is Mr. D. J. Monk, who established the in-
dustry twenty years ago, and who has made it now one
of the most successful and promising in Sydney. The
works were first situated at Chippendale, but increased
trade demanded more extensive and more central pre-
mises. The present site was fixed on, and it proves in
every way adapted to the requirements of the business.
During the last eight years there has been a
great increase in the trade, owing entirely to the
excellence of the article manufactured, its purity and
cheapness. This is the only place in the colonies where
vinegar is manufactured from direct sources, and the
production is guaranteed by the proprietor to be abso-
lutely pure and wholesome. The latest improve-
ments have been introduced, and the brewing of
Yuiogiu' is carried out on true scientific principles.
Xho imported article, it ought to be known, contains a
large percentage of sulphuric acid, the use of which
strange to say, is yet tolerated by Act of Parliament in
England. Science rejects the use of any such injurious
ingredient in the manufacture of vinegar, and it is in no
small degree creditable to Sydney that we liave here an
industry that gives us a purer, stronger, and more whole-
some article, at a figure that puts competition on
the part of the foreign manufacturer ont of the ques-
tion altogether. The trade of Sydney is completely in
the hands of Mr. Monk, and an increasing business
is done with all the inland towns of the
colony, and with Queensland, Victoria and New
Zealand. The view given herewith gives a good
idea of the interior arrangements of the works,
and a visit will be found very interesting. To
the right on entering is a very compact 4-horso power
engine capable of working up to six-horse power. Near
by is the malt-grinding mill, and right opposite are
three wash-tubs each capable of holding 2000 gallons.
The liquor passes from the wash-tubs to immense clari-
fying vats, each capable of holding 8000 gallons, and
then passes to another department to be acetified.
This process is performed by appliances of the most re-
cent invention, and the vats used in connection with this
part of the work are necessarily of enormous dimen-
sions, each being capable of holding 10,000 gallons*
The amount of pure strong vinegar turned out is 3000
gallons per week. No better process can be desired,
as it it is simply a natural one, and the ex-
cellence of the vinegar after years of storing is found
to be unchanged. There are the usual appliances
tor washing bottles by steam, cleansing casks,
etc., and in these particulars Mr. Monk stand
without a superior in the brewing trade. The
bottling, labelling, and packing are done in a separate
department, and skilful hands are engaged in the work.
There are large cool cellars where stock is stored in.
order to allow of nothing but the best manufacture
being supplied to the trade. It may be mentioned
that Mr. Monk is also an extensive manufacturer
°* i, im , e j n * ce holds the principal part of the trade
of Sydney in this line.
Ho appeared to be almost gone. Rolling his eyes towards
the partner of his bosom he gasped, ‘ Bury me ’neath
the weeping willow and plant a single white rose above
my head.’ ‘ Oh, it’s no use,’ she snapped, ‘ your nose’*-
soorch the roots.’ He got well. J
THE AUSTRALIAN VINEGAR WORKS.
ORIGINAL POETRY.
Song of the Two “Dianas."
(A Reminiscence Revived at the Romants.)
We are both onr father’s daughters.
Likewise our mother’s too;
We have been across the waters
And we know a thing or two.
In dress we set the fashion,
Our style’s unique and chaste.
All the girls are in a passion,
We both have such good taste.
Our hair is dark and curly.
Our hats the * Pinafore,’
Our cheeks are pink and pearly—
Shall I tell you any more ?
We do the block together
In dresses tight and short.
With shoes of patent leather
And hose of the proper sort.
At night we look like Graces,
Our clothing is so slight—
We trust our pretty faces
Will make it all look right.
Our arms are round and pretty.
So are our figures too.
To dress would be a pity.
So, of course, we never do.
When in the ‘ Circle ’ sitting—
With neck and arms quite bare
And skirts so tightly fitting—
Makes all the people stare.
My sister, when I fan her.
Will sometimes make me laugh ;
She looks like the chaste Diana
Just going to have a bath.
We are our father’s daughters.
Likewise our mother’s too;
And this is all they taught us :
And my sister says it’s true.
QUIZ.
Sydney, March 16, 1880.
Lo! Gentle Shepherd.
Mars’ fury is silenced, and peace sheds its fay:
The waged war is over, now tuneful pipes play.
Ihe smile of the shepherd beams bright on his fold
As be looks on his crook, fresh tinted with gold.
What pleasure he feels when, the hurdles wide throw
The sheep are corrrect, as they skip o’er the down
The shepherd now hears, after restless nights’ sleep.
With a sigh of relief, there’s not one lost sheep.
The bell-wether gambols, the rest string behind,
Ne er doubting he’ll lead them rich pasture to find.
Where succulent herbs their carcase increase.
Till ott their round backs rolls the deep golden fleece.
The shearer expert puts the blades next the skin.
These deftly he opens and shuts with a grin •
With nonchalant air, as if no care he took, *
Says, ‘ here goes for a fleece, by hook or by crook.’
The owner, well pleased, eyes his flock with content.
And feels on such shepherding money's well spent;
He curtly remarks, ‘ turn the sheep in their cribs’:
Well done, faithful servant. I’ll down with the dibs.’
MESSRS. COWAN AND COMPANY’S WAREHOUSE.


LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, K.C.8.,
etc., etc., whilom Secretary of Legation at Ber-
lin, then Charge d’ affaires at Vienna, lately
British Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary at the Court of St. Petersburg,
and now Governor-in-Chief of New South Wales,
having during the whole of his diplomatic career
shown the strongest penchant for illustrations of
the highest school of art in the way of public
amusements, very naturally increased by the
atmosphere of art in which he has lived and
moved and had his being, has desired
to give the people amongst whom he is
now sojourning and to whom he will
doubtless impart valuable instruction in
the practice of strict domestic economy
and the art of saving money, the
benefit of his admirable judgment on
such subjects. Of this excellent taste
his Excellency gave us an instance by
attending—within a few days after his
arrival thosg magnificently artistic
performances at the Guild Hall, under
the name of “The Froliques’ ” enter-
tainments. The brilliant and witty
dialogues of the gentlemen, the lovely
surroundings, the sweet music, must
all have contributed to enslave the
heart and charm the eye and the ear
of the cultivated diplomatist. Of
course, Lord Augustus would have
patronised the show even if he and
the company hadnt’t been shipmates.
Passing over an interregnum, his lord-
ship showed his good taste by attending
the week before last a concert, the
vocal and instrumental music of which
must have far outvied even the bril-
liant court entertainments of London
and Paris. Last week again, his
Excellency attended no less than three
theatrical performances—at one of
which he displayed a positive greed for
high art by remaining till the close of
the performances, at midnight. That
his Excellency is greedy as regards high
art alone is shown by the fact that he
never stays out at suppers after eleven.
Of course, as Lord Loftus would not
attend three scratch performances in
one week even if pretty girls and filial
representations should try to induce
him unless the performances were of the
highe'st order, it may be understood
that the usual theatrical entertainments were
far excelled on these occasions. But the greatest
expression of his perfect taste lay in his not
attending one of the Patti concerts: for had
not the Sydney Morning Herald, the
high-toned organ of good taste and of aristo-
cratic and diplomatic Government House, damned
with faint praise and a cry of 'passes, an
artiste whom the world had delighted to honor ?
How could a Lord Loftus, a simple Governor,
presume to differ from the Sydney Morning
Herald in a matter of good taste? No, he made
a bonne bouche of Patti—and invited her to
dinner —a Patti for the good taste of his’guests.
Who is to have the pickings and—leavings (not
stealings, oh, no!) the tailings—as our mining
population would call them—the “ odds and ends”
—that will remain at the Garden Palace after the
Exhibition is over ? There are a number of things
in the main halls and alleys as well as in the base-
ment storey or stairs for which we have often
tried to find an owner, an exhibitor, or an
agent: in vain! True, they must belong to some-
body, for some of them—especially edibles,
bibibles (not “bibles,” for they have careful
owners always poking themselves under your very
nose!), and sniffibles—appear to be gradually
diminishing. Still, the vendor is not forthcoming
and people can’t be blamed if they can find no one
to take their money for the quantum non suff., the
quid for the quo which they get. There will be
sufficient leavings of all kinds—if they are not
cleared off without an order —to erect a sort of
exhibitional holocaust. Well, we have it: let
them all be collected together, and, as Mr. Jen-
nings’s followers and toadies are greedy for a din-
ner and he himself does not say nay to a
testimonial, let them form a monster pyramid for
the banquet table to be presented to the
Executive Commissioner at the dessert as a trophy
for his desserts, —a monument of melancholy
mismanagement.
—— i
“Our Girls” are imitating their great-great
grandmothers in the nasty scantiness of their
attire, if they don’t do so in the fulness of their
virtues. Formerly, “ Honi soit qui mal y pense ”
was a good motto for those who talked, perhaps
broadly, according to the manners of the times, but
neither thought nor meant broadly or badly. Now-
a-days, it is the meaning that is broad though the
talk is wrapped up ever so finely. But in the
matter of costume our girls make no secret at all
of their meaning. Imitating the dress of boys or
men in the public promenades during the day,
they love to appear as naiads or fauns in public
places in the evening. At the Romany Club per-
formance at the Theatre Royal on Saturday
evening there were two young girls of good family
who were dressed, or rather undressed, in a garb at
which a modem Eve would have blushed. We
like classic studies and admire the human form
divine, but for all that we may tell young lady
aspirants for Thespian fame that dramatic critics
judge or should judge even amateur actresses by
their histrionic abilities rather than by the man-
ner in which or the extent to which they display
their personal charms.
The First Balloon Ascent by a Native-born
Australian.
Some time ago, in passing along a Sydney street, a
poster met my eye: it bore the legend which forms the
title of this article, and as I was meditating upon .
But at this moment a friendly hand seized me, and its
owner (one Jones) exclaimed: ‘Why, old chap, you’re
just the very fellow we were looking for. You’ll make
a first-class aeronaut. Come on, Bill, “ Old Whiskers”
will make the daring ascent!’ ‘You don’t mind, do
yon?’ said he, addressing me. I did not speak.
‘Silence gives consent,’ continued he, ‘come along,
boys,’ and dragging me with him, proceeded to a large
paddock at the rear of his paternal domicile. Here we
found an expectant multitude of juvenile Sydneyites
gazing at the struggles of an Australian balloon.
This destined tourist of the air I found was the work
of the aforesaid Jones, who had turned out a very neat
balloon of a moderate size; the material used in its
construction being a certain kind of paper. However,
when this paper globe was inflated it had elevating
powers sufficient to enable your humble servant, with
the orthodox car, to ‘ mount the clouds.’
After much debate, noise, and struggling among the
assembled larrikins to get near the balloon, the pre-
liminaries of the ascent were satisfactorily settled,
except as regards the proposed hero of the day, who,
however, disdained giving expression to his fears. He
can say, with truth, that he has never been called a
coward.
I did not attempt to enter the car, though everything
was arranged; but some of the crowd, fearing they
would be deprived of the amusement, forced me into
the basket. At once the ballon was freed, and rose
quickly from the ground; but horror! I had left terra
firma unaccompanied by a representative of the ‘ fourth
estate.’ 'Thus it is that lam forced to recite the plea-
sures and perils of that aerial voyage.
We ascended amid the plaudits of the populace, whose
huzzas lingered in our ears, even after the shouters had
disappeared from view. (Please notice that the writer,
like weller, effects the we.) Alone in the air!
Turning onr eyes towards the earth we could see the
fair ‘ Queen of the South,’ reclining in all her majestic
beauty, illumined by the glory of a mid-day sun. Away
to the north were the undulating lauds of North Shore
in all their sombre greenery. Out eastward could be
seen the mighty Pacific, with here and there a craft
steering its solitary course. The view westward was,
after the eye had traversed a vast extent of country,
at length interrupted by the azure peaks of the Great
Dividing Chain, while above still far, far above—
stretched the vast blue atmospheric vault. Away to
the left were the rich vales of Illawarra. But after our
eyes had rested for some minutes on this magnificent,
varied panorama, it became evident that the balloon
was descending. We had been so entranced by the
splendid views that we had no sensations of fear what-
ever, till the roofy ascent of our city reminded us that
the shock to the car upon reaching the ground might
not be without danger. Anxiously we awaited till the
almost collapsed balloon at length bumped upon the
ground at the northern end of Macquarie-street, where,
catching in the iron railings of the vice-regal do-
main, it remained fast, and enabled the aeronaut to
escape from the folds of the late navigator of the air.
He at once made for his hotel—the nearest sewer—for
he was a native-born Australian rat. The ‘ navigator’
proved a prize to some larrikins, who had no respect
whatever for the owners of small fire-balloons.
NALGHO.
Professor and Madame Haselmayer.
Our artist gives us this week the portraits of Pro-
fessor and Madame Haselmayer, who have just arrived
amongst us after a lengthy and most successful tour
through the South African colonies. The Professor’s
last visit to Sydney will be well remembered. His suc-
cess throughout Australia was unparalleled, and he well
deserved the rest which he proposed to take. Starting
from Sydney in the St. Osyth he proceeded to Europe,
and spent more than a year in a tour on the continent.
He found his way eventually to Vienna, his native city,
and unable to resist his inclination for mechanical pur-
suits, gave rein once more to his marvellous inventive
powers. In Vienna he perfected some new apparatus
and developed other no less extraordinary in-
ventions, and with these, after astonishing
people elsewhere, he comes- amongst us. The
Professor’s life has not been without a romantic
side to it. While in Austria he obtained a
partner, this time in the person of a charming yo ung
lady, whom he married. He had travelled the world, and
with fortune and fame, returned to redeem his promise.
The marriage took place at Buda-Pesth, on the Danube.
Madame Haselmayer is a native of France, but was
reared and educated in Vienna. She has the polish of
Viennese society, and is certainly a brilliant and most
entertaining little lady; the fortunate possessor of rare
charms in face and figure, and a vivacity of manner
that is quite pleasing. We have no doubt she will be-
come a great favourite with the Sydney public. With
regard to Professor Haselmayer’s entertainment, little
need be said. He promises us some startling exhibitions
and new marvels in the world of electrical science. He
is a great fellow at keeping his promise. In The Bul-
letin’s next issue we will deal with his performances,
and entertain onr readers with a sketch of the incidents
of his travels. The Professor opens at the School of Arts
on Monday night, and, with unusual liberality, gives his
performance wholly and solely to a great public charity,
the Irish National Belief Fund.
An Exchange has an article on * How to run a news-
paper.’ This should be read only by editors, as every
other person in the world knows just how a newspaper
ought to be run.
A Victorian Goldfield.
Written expressly for The Bulletin.
There is a popular belief that thejrreat thoroughfares
running into the country from many cities in the west
of the United States get gradually narrower and nar-
rower until they finally end by running up a tree. If
the inland towns in Victoria do not present similar
characteristics they occasionally arouse speculation
regarding the mental peculiarities of their founders in
building them where they stand. An enterprising
Frenchman once made a clock possessing most of the
best attributes of similar articles, but, in addition, one
trifling defect. It would not go. His neighbours
wondered why their ingenious friend had expended so
much pains on a work of such doubtful value. In the
mind of a casual visitor a like feeling of
surprise as to why Sandhurst is built where
it is is apt to arise. Like the stupid pro-
fessor who unworthily occupied the chair
of a famous predecessor, and whose time
was largely occupied in wondering how the
devil he got there, the tutelary spirit of this
golden city must betimes indulge in a grim
and shadowy smile at the fate that binds
her to her present abode. The creek
which meanders through the town would
be a pleasant one if it had any water, and if
there were not so many dead dogs watching
stones in the middle of it. As it is it forms
an open sewer exhaling under a burning sun
a perfume differing from that of the Spice
Islands. After a few days’ rain this sweet
thing, which does not ‘ flow on for ever,*
makes up for its former in attention by
pouring a few thousand tons of water into
the shops of the tradesmen on its banks
who trusted in its treacherous lethargy.
But the whole mystery of the situation is
explained on remembering that, from the
sun-baked hills around, thousands of stal-
wart men extracted gold by the ton
in the days in which Mr. Lalor was
engaged in fortifying the Eureka Stockade
and defying the British lion, little dreaming
of the time when his cunning diplomacy
would so over-reach Sir Henry Parkes that
it would have been better for the repu-
tation of your Premier if his footman had
hung him up to his own hat-peg rather than
allow him to ‘ try it on ’ the wily Peter.
[Sydneyites don’t admit that Peter tri-
umphed. Ed. Bulletin.] Omnipotent
Gold, that would induce men to settle on
an iceberg if it were to be found beneath the
chilly surface!
There is something indescribably melan-
choly in the aspect of a deserted diggings,
with its miles of ground honey-combed with
shafts and drives where once broad-
shouldered diggers mode their ounce a day.
Uninviting in their dreariness stand
these reticulated hills. Sometimes a soli-
tary walk is disturbed by the mono-
tonous tapping of a pick, and on
turning off the road, a broken - down
looking man, resembling, in some particulars, the
Mantuan Apothecary of Romeo’s day, is observed
languidly pursuing the occupation known as ‘ fossick-
ing.’ He is communicative, and loves to dwell on
the good old times, seven-and-twenty years ago, in the
brave days when he was twenty-one and thirty thousand
like him were delving and shovelling on the surrounding
flats. Ah, those were the days for enjoyment and rum.
He was as good then as the best of them, and spent
many a ‘fiver’ in the shanty of Dives yonder, who is
now so respectable and conservative and whose wife—
glad to turn an honest uenny at the wash-tub before the
allies sat down in front of Sebastopol—is now a lady of tong t
with her villar and her planner and would not touch our
honest friend with the tip of her deep-fringed fan.
Sometimes our fossicker finds a few ounces of gold and
then he proceeds to imitate in an humble way the doings
of a generation ago, when Wellington boots were washed
in champagne—or what sold for champagne in those
days, and since—and bank notes eaten in sandwiches for
want of bacon. But if the little transparent airs and
affectations of a maiden of forty-five move our mirth,
nothing but sadness is suggested by the attempt of the
grizzly-bearded man to appear as hedid ever so long ago-
in the early 50’s.
There is one well-marked trait common to the inhabi-
tants of all gold-producing towns. It has been noticed
that a person must rise very early in the morning in
order to ‘ wipe the eye ’ of one who has had much to do
with horses, whether as breeder, jockey or stable-boy..
It has never been satisfactorily explained why those
connected with the noble animal should resemble the
spider rather than the fly in the scheme of creation. If
you doubt it, however, try it on with the nearest cab-
man. Well, this useful peculiarity is largely enjoyed
by all the successful men on goldfields. They are
dreadfully wide-awake. They may know nothing of
inceptive verbs or the binomial theorem, and entertain
‘ mixed ’ impressions concerning the atomic theory or
the properties of triangles, but try to induce them to
invest money in a scheme for supplying Catfres with
boot jacks or developing the problematical richness of
their own mines at two thousand feet or so, and publish
the result. Money-making is a sixth sense. Those who
have it fairly developed will die rich—if that be a
desideratum—even though oatmeal or potatoes formed
the chief sustenance of their infancy and adolescence..
Place a North Briton on any island in the Pacific, andi
when you visit the place in five years he will havea lien-
on every wigwam in the land with a reversionary-
interest on the crown jewels—always providing that no->
scarcity of sufficient intensity has induced the natives-
to cook him.
But the saddest sight about a declining goldfield is the
decaying public houses met with in every direction near
the sites of old alluvial diggings. No great imagina-
tive power is’required to people the rotting tenements:
with the noisy frequenters of long ago. The ghosts of'
swaggering treasure-seekers leer at you through the-
broken windows, while oaths, laughter and ribaldry
resound [again from the mouldy bar. In one comer a
couple of foot-pads, euphuistioally called "t’other-
siders,’ are planning a raid upon some escort. In
another an Ultramontane ‘foreigner’ from Cork is
proving the truth of a recently promulgated theological
dogma by knocking down everyone in the neighbour,
hood with the soft end of a quart pot.
See that shade yonder with the handkerchief round his:
head. How he gibbers and mouthes. His skeleton is at.
the bottom of a shaft, not a hundred yards away, the-
skull battered in with a shovel. It will be found some:
day and then old Bendigonians will wag their heads-
and tell how men disappeared mysteriously in those
days, leaving no trace behind. Many a life’s history
begun in the hop-fields of Kent or on the banks of the
Hudson had its final chapter written in blood in the
wild days of old Bendigo, to be kept a close secret till
the great day of Atonement.
VAURIEN.
Tommy Campbell the aboriginal bushranger,
has been captured at Tewantin, Queensland, by Sergeant.
King and some trackers. King is one of the police who
were sent from Queensland in search of the Kellys. He
is a splendid bushman, thoroughly understands the
blacks, and is one of the best riders, rifle shots, swim-
mers, and boxers in Queensland.
The following incident, related by a corres-
pondent in this city, is worthy of being added to the
numerous testimonies to the faithful attachment of
some animals to their masters: —A gentleman, possessed
of an intelligent rough-haired terrier, lately being sud-
denly called away on urgent private affairs, left his
portmanteau in a certain place for safe keeping. His
dog, who was with him at the time, watched the pro-
ceedings with some interest, and evidently noted in his
mind that wherever his master might be going he
would surely return for his property. So the dog
settled himself down at the place to wait the result,
and although at intervals he wandered about the imme-
diate neighbourhood, he was scarcely ever out of sight
of the door (I have seen him myself frequently hover-
ing round the spot.) On one occasion he was taken
home by his mistress, but escaped again, and returned
to rest near the loadstone that attracted him. For five
months he sacredly kept watch, and one
was rewarded by his master and myself driving up to
take away the long and anxiously-guarded property.
Ere the vehicle had well stopped the faithful animal
sprang on to the front with the wild delight of a joyful
recognition of the master who hadbeen so long absent.
No sign of any sort was given, the recognition was
spontaneous on the part of the dog, and the hearty
welcome (displayed in his antics) given to him for whom
he had so lon j, so patiently, and so faithfully waited,
would have moved the most obdurate heart.
PROFESSOR AND MADAME HASELMAYER.
A SKETCH AT THE GARDEN PALACE.
Paterfamilias: “Lors! another improvement in Sewing Machines.”
Paterfamilias: “What! another? When are we,” &c., &c. [See page 6.]


Ante-Mortem Obituaries.
No. II.
HANLEY BENNETT, THE ELECTORS’ CHOICE.
Another great statesman has gone from amongst
us. Scarce has the country recovered from the
loss of the late Oily Gammon, Esq., than there
break on our ears the fatal words—Hanley Ben-
net is no more. A hopeful people recovering
from the first shock felt that the place of
the great diplomatist and chameleon might at
no distant date be filled by the brilliant re-
presentative of Liverpool Plains; but pleuro-
pneumonia has done its work. Hanley
Bennett will never again set hand to the
helm of state, nor write bad English any
more. The Stockyard Improvement Bill, to which
he gave all the weight of his influence, must now
inevitably be shelved, and it is not unlikely that
the Worms in Sheep Protection Act, by which
he calculated on benefitting
millions yet unborn, will never
see the light of day. But for
all that, a grateful people will
not easily forget him. His
orations in the Assembly are
recorded in the undying pages
of the short-hand writer’s
note-book, and are printed, as
they were never spoken, in
the pages of Mr. Robinson’s
“ Parliamentary Debates.”
The form of Hanley may fade
from the Chamber, but the
shadow of his classical figure
will remain for ever. On the
cross-benches he will be pic-
tured to all time with his
hands elbow deep in his
pockets, his eyes half closed,
and his mouth wide open—
that pensive attitude which
was peculiarly Hanley’s own,
and which, while it lasted,
was a monument in the flesh
to the intelligence and per-
spicuity of that vast section
of the electors of Liverpool
Plains who preferred him to
all others. He was a man
who troubled the reporters
but seldom. True, it was said
he could not speak two words
of English, but it is more than
probable that, like Yon
Moltke, he preferred to be
silent in seven tongues. His
harangues, when he did come
out, were good. They were
novel. His stirring appeal
on behalf of the selectors of
Teapot Swamp will not soon
be forgotten. And if he made
such a grand impression here,
what must he have done at
Tamworth, where he kept
his butter stall ? There on a
two-wheeled ark he travelled
round, buying up butter and
eggs, and dispensing in return
from the tailboard those grand
political truths which had
won for him at election times
majorities by the hundred.
It was thus he got such a hold
on the discerning people of
Liverpool Plains; and if his
enemies in Sydney did laugh
at him now and then, and jeer
the Tamworth people for their
choice what cared they so long
as the ark went round, and the
butter and bacon went to mar-
ket ? As to the early history
of the lamented Hanley, we
must pass it over. Nothing
is known of him, and his friends
do not care to enter into parti-
culars. From what we hear,
however, from reliable sources,
we believe Hanley was dragged
up. Like most of our states-
men, he never went to school.
He was, however, bom with
a mouth, and on this account
it was predicted of him that
one day his voice would be
heard. His ears were large—
larger than on the average donkey, and that is why
people said of him he would lend his ear to anything.
Of course, it was always a good time for the mos-
quitos. With these words we must conclude.
Hanley’s giant form is yet nninterred. His last
words were that he should be given to the crows,
but several humane electors have interposed on
behalf of the birds ; and the dingoes won’t have
him.-
R.I.P.
It has often been said that the Evening News
cables are unreliable. One or two items have certainly
proved incorrect, as in the case of the reported death
of Garibaldi, but the errors have invariably been shared
by the Daily News, the Evening News’ London
agents. It may fairly be said that the Evening News
has altogether distanced the Herald in regard to infor-
mation by cable.
BRIEF MENTION.
Dr. Bowker seems care-worn.
One of the principal Chinese merchants in
Lower George-street had a bath last week. Aged 44.
The ‘ Nightly ’ ruler of Sydney streets:
Stin-king.
Ted Lee has commenced a suit for divorce.
Not for himself, yon know. Professionally.
A Smile Persuader. —The Governor’s regatta
statement * that Sydney promises to rival, if not to
surpass, London itself!’
Every night Sir Henry Parkes reads the Bible.
In the morning he reads the Twaddlegraph. ‘ The
ways of the wicked,’ &c.
We are busy with the obituary of George
Foolish Wise. The lamented gentleman but here
we must stop. We are not quite ready.
Frank Warden still has The Bulletin. He
says it takes better than Gospel. We don’t know that
it pays better.
Mr. G. H. Reid’s free-trade arguments are
officially regarded as unanswerable ; but it is his capti-
vating wink that does the mischief in George-street.
Tom White, the political agitator, writes:—
‘lf 2 pints make 1 quart, how many quarts make
one drunk ?’ About fourteen.
‘Wine Vaults.’ —So we are told by the legends
in the windows of several pubs, in Svdney. Now, why
wasn’t old Wine a competitor in the vaulting contest at
the Exhibition sports ?
Mr. Nancarrow, one of the constructive
geniuses of the Exhibition building, still wears a slouched
hat and blucher boots. Mr. D’Avigdor, one of the
secretaries, wears an eye-glass.
Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson, of the Volunteer
Artillery, is learning to ride. Unhappy man! many a
time and oft has a feu-dc-joic been a matter of dislodg-
ment to thee !
A correspondent writes : —‘ Does the Rev. Dr.
Fullerton still marry ?’ Of course he does. His
formula is : Rise—grab hands—hitched. Now for the
bawbees.
A George-street importer asks: ‘ Why does
The Bulletin pitch into public men so hard?’ Our
answer is—because most of our public men are
without a fragment of principle. Of course we speak
politically.
The Exhibition has been a big success. The
takings, we hear on good authority, will just cover John
Young’s commission. We agree with Mr. Young that
the Exhibition has been a great benefit to the country,
mammoth or alligator contractors included.
There is no room now for Sir Henry Parkes in
Lord Loftus’s carriage. The proposed increases at
Government House have all been rejected. Mind you,
The Bulletin may not object to the proposed increases.
What we don’t believe in is, a carriage when a ’bus
would do as well.
The Hyde Park Commissioners say; ‘No
stout person shall go on to the park.’ Otherwise it
is downright stupidity, as well as indecency, to have
the posts at the entrances so near one another. We
should like to see one of the old fogies on the commis-
sion fast midway between the posts. Malicious people
would be found to say, ‘ He looks well in irons.’
There is a rumour abroad that young Herbert
Underwood, who has just come of age, and is.so import-
ant an individual at the School of Arts’ debates, has de-
clined a numerously signed requisition to stand for East
Sydney. It is more than probable he will run for
Bullock Island.
‘ When I was last in Siam,’ writes Fuscus, ‘ the
inhabitants of that colony had a plan for keeping cool
during the hottest days that we might with profit follow
here. It is simply to take a large, iced, water-melon,
cut it in two, scoop out the inside; put one half on
your head; sit in the other, and then devour the balance.
Anything left should be thrown on the pathway, and
the fun occasioned by seeing various parties of both
sexes suddenly sitting down on the back of their heads
will lead to a frame of mind highly favourable to the
melon-eater’s digestion.’ We are told Adam earned his
bread by the sweat of his brow, but if we could do the
same in these days one would only have to sit in front
of the Museum for half an hour, to earn, not only his
bread, but a round of beef and a pint of beer also.
Adam is another over-rated man.
‘ Matrimony. —Houses furnished by weekly
payments,’ advertises a Sydney furniture dealer. Young
man, if you can’t pay cash down, furnish your house by
weekly payments rather than not furnish it at all. Only
let the weekly payments be made before you get married.
Let your wife be the last piece of furniture instead of
the first.
The Evening News of Monday, under the
head ‘ Commercial,’ says :— ‘ Skins —Hides.’ Our friend
Wackford Squeers, of Sydney, observes that he hides
the skins with an acidulated preparation of an oxide, the
hite of which permeates the system much more
thoroughly than the bark, and does not, as in most
tannin processes, pollute, but adds more sweetness to
the air.
Recently, in holding an inquest on a dead body
found in the Yarra, the coroner remarked that the
lowness of spirits which prompted deceased to commit
suicide had probably resulted from congestion of the
liver.—Yes, the disordered liver is the cause of all our
woes, and many a man bent upon suicide has been
plucked from the arms of Beelzeebub and placed in the
bosom of Abraham by a blue pill and a black draught.
There has been a great deal of fun over the
marriage of our friend Jim Hobson of the Herald. But
with all the rejoicings and all the fun, and all the puns,
andallthe verses, no one has hitherto been sharp enough
to remark that the lady was and is Hobson’s choice.
Even we’d say nothing about the matter but for the
fact that other people are still trying to be funny at
J. H.’s expense.
A new, simple, and effective costume for
evening wear has been introduced by two of the ladies
of the Romany Amateur Dramatic Club, Sydney. In
fact the chief merit of the new dress or undress—in
whichever way it may be pleasant to regard the matter —
is its simplicity and naturalness. It consists of a narrow
shoulder-strap, and is warranted mot to offend anyone
of Adamite tastes. But then when at Romany one
must do as Romany does.
J. J. M'Elhone is the smartest reporter in the
Washington House of Representatives. He is said to
be able simultaneously to take notes with his right
hand and write out the printers’ copy with his left.
The smartest spoeker in the Sydney House of Assembly
is a M'Elhone who, it is true, has only one J. to his
name. We want to see these two smart men brought
together. We’ll wager that the Yankee doesn’t take
any liberties with our M'Elhone.
Our contemporary, the Town and Country,
had a glowing picture of South Head last week, and a
neat little article with it. The writer went into heroics
over the scene there during a storm. He spoke of * the
turbulent billows lashed into fury,’ of ‘the huge,
merciless waves climbing in angry spray up the face of
the frowning cliffs,’ and|then added: ‘South Head is well
worth a visit in such a storm.’ We think it’s worth
more. It’s worth keeping away from.
Tuesday’s Herald says —‘Yesterday a number
of gentlemen visited the Asylum for Destitute Children
at Randwick, and inspected the various departments of
the institution. After the inspection, the visitors were
entertained at luncheon by the directors, and those
concerned in the management of the institution were
complimented upon the success which had attended
their efforts.’ Surely this is a * goak.’ What * success’
is alluded to? and who are ‘those concerned in the
management of the institution ?’
There is no truth whatever in the statement
that Mickey Chapman has declined all recompense for
his services on the Transit Board. He says that while
there’s a shot in the locker he’ll stick there. • Besides,’
he adds, ‘ look at the cabmen that are yet to be prose-
cuted.’ We say, look at the ’bus company that is to do
what it pleases—demand of a passenger that he shall
purchase what he does not want, and which he cannot
use in any other part of the city. All the uniformity
we’ve got is uniform stupidity and servility. The day
the tramway runs to the Glebe the 'bus company will
be without a head, and the transit board without an
occupation.
The Mysterious Cruiser.
INTERVIEW WITH THE CAPTAIN.
As the citizens of the metropolis always depend
upon The Bulletin for the earliest and most
reliable information on things in general, and mat-
ters sensational in particular, we despatched our
special interviewist to the Chandernagore to in-
vestigate the mystery that surrounds the craft,
her officers, and crew.
Chartering a boat propelled by an ancient salt,
our representative was speedily alongside the
strange vessel.
She is a French built barque of 682 tons register.
There is nothing very particular about her further
than that she appears to carry a tremendous spread
of canvas. The usual slovenliness which charac-
terises merchantmen was conspicuous by its
absence, and in its place was the trimness of a
man-of-war. About thirty men, hailing from
various parts of the world, were lying about in
different parts of the deck. The officers peered
curiously at our representative as he ranged along-
side and gave the usual nautical salute “ ship
ahoy.” Tnere was no reply.
“ Comment vous portez vouz ? Hoe aar zig ! /”
Buenos noch.es !!! ” “ Fencegua !!! ” “ Hoo
Kila!!!” bawled our interviewist when he saw
that his arrival had not caused a sensation on
board.
Still no response.
“ Thry thim in Irish, sorr,” said the boatman, a
gentleman of Milesian extraction. “In difficul-
ties Oi niver knew it to fail.”
“Wat fordam you no speaks Anglese,” at this
juncture yelled the captain. “ Does you tinks we
foreigners, and not Anglesemen ?”
“I beg your pardon,” returned our interviewist
in the courtly manner he uses at Lord Loftus’s
on state occasions—“ I really was unaware ”
“ Gum up ye lugger and have some eau-de-vie —
it am goot,”
It is needless to say that
this invitation was promptly
accepted.
A select party of three then
sat down in the handsome
cabin. There were present the
skipper, theinterviewist, and a
bottle of cognac.
“ How do you like our beau*
tiful harbour?” pleasantly re*
marked our representative, as
the second glass of eau-de-vie
trickled over his larynx.
“ Minsh Godsh,’’ rejoined
the captain, nearly falling off
his chair. “ Steward, bring
your rum. Ach ! ach! Zat is
the 750th time I have been
asked the zat stupid—what do
you call ’im, kavestion ? Why
ze pilot, he asked me too. I
do not like your harbour one
bit —I wish I had never seen
it, and I vill gives you zume-
thing handzume if you can tells
me how to get out of it. By
ze way,” continued he, wax-
ing suspicious, “ who ze devil
do you happen to be ?”
“I am the special reporter
of The Bulletin,” replied
our interviewist.
“You are, sare! Lets me
embrace you. All dhrough my
lonely cruise I have been wish-
ing to see zat famous publica-
tion. Pact the only zing zat
reconciles me to staying here
is the opportunity of reading
zat invaluable paper. Put me
down as a life zubzgriber.”
I. “ Where do you come
from.”
Captain : “ Stay and have
your loonch.”
I. “ All right old mariner,
but you have’nt answered my
question.”
Captain: (winking cro’-jack
brace fashion) “ Mum’s the
word ; I’ve coom from trading
Zouth Zeas.”
I. “ Judging from that
young arsenal of revolvers and
rifles under the mate’s bunk I
thought you might be a mis-
sionary vessel —a sister of the
John Wesley.”
Captain : “ Ha! ha ! ha! ver
goot. But we doos converts ze
heathen when we gets among
:hern.”
I. “I have no doubt you do.
What flag do you sail under ?”
Captain: “Well you zee wo
belongs sort of intemazional:
cosmopolitan you oonder-
stand. We sailed in under the
American flag, but we’ve got
an assortmentof others —we’re
not a particular sort. I’m
thinking of flying the Bel-
gian flag next. The Consul’s a
good sort.”
I. “ That war schooner over
there seems to take great inter-
est in your movements.”
Captain: “Ach ! yes sare—sacr-r-r-re—but Ino
cares mooch for him. One dark night, one slipped
cable —what your mer poets says —‘ A wet sheet
and a flowing sea, a breeze that follows fast. “ Zat
it is a trip on the Ocean Wave —would you like a.
cruise?”
I. ‘‘No thank you; not just now. You re a
nice, jolly fellow here. I fancy, however, from
your appearance that you wouldn’t be such a good
sort outside. You preserve strict discipline I
suppose? , . , ..
Captain : “ Oh, not mooch; I only shoots em if
they don’t do what I tells’em. I’m .not
barous as ze Anglese, who flogs zere seamen.”
At this juncture the mate, a mariner from Heli-
goland, came down, accompanied by a Spanish
passenger. The steward speedily followed, and a
luncheon of 8 courses, washed down with claret.
"A FAIR EXCHANGE NO ROBBERY.”


burgundy, champagne, and corrected digestively
with cognac, was put away by those around the
table.
The passenger spoke English fluently, and as
soon as he had embraced our interviewist in
continental fashion, observed —
“ They’re making an awful fuss about this ship.
The customs won’t allow us to leave. The naval
authorities say as soon as they catch us outside
they’ll make the craft a prize, and there’s the devil
to pay generally. And they call this a free port!
Ugh!”
First Mate; “ I’m a simple sailor, lowly born.”
Captain :“ D n that gag, say zhuts up ! I’ll
clap you in irons.”
First mate : “ I wished for to observe that my-
self and the crew were taken eighty miles out to
sea from Flushing, and we sailed without a clear-
ance. I’m swing to get out of this fix as soon as
possible. No use scowling, skipper ; you arn’t on
the high seas, and there’s a good many guns in
them there batteries.”
Passenger : The ship is on a colonizing expedi-
tion to bring the blessings of civilization and
Christianity within the reach of the humblest
savage of New Ireland.”
I.: “Is that your method?” (pointing to the
heap of firearms.)
First Mate : “ By Jove, the girls at Niki-Niki
Bay are a splendid lot. I think the
sailors founded an independent colony
on their own hook. The next generation
will be like Jacob’s cattle.
Passenger: “ Shut up, you blathering
fool.”
I. : “ You didn’t show any of the
natives of New Ireland how the bless'ngs
of civilization and Christianity are to be
easily acquired by digging guano on the
Chincha Islands at five bob a year, paid
quinquennially in arrear ?’ ’
Captain : “ Wat is dat I hears p”
Passenger: “ You wound my feelings.
If my sainted mother heard me spoken
to that way she would faint for a week.
Steward, half a tumbler of cognac.”
I. : “ How much a head do they give
for niggers at the Chinchas nowp I
haven’t heard from them for some time.”
Captain: “You makes me ill wiz such
curious sayings ; you funny dog, lot’s
change the conversation.”
Passenger and first mate simultan-
eously ; “ More cognac, steward. I’ve
a curious sensation about the throat
when he talks that way.”
J. M.: “Your fellows seem flush of
money; black-birding pays, eh old
man! ’ ’
Captain: “For God’s sake stop it;
it knocks me over ; my nerves won’t be
right for a week if you talk that way.”
I. : “ Don’t mention it, my gallant son
of Neptune. By the way, I must be
going. By thunder, what’s the matter
with your mate and passenger ? They’re
about as pale as the white cap of a man
going to be hung.”
Captain: “Oh nozing : only ze sultry
—w r ell —w r eather. ’ ’
I.: “Ta-ta; remember me to the
colony in New Ireland. Before I leave
you might tell me where you’re bound for.
Captain (doubtfully); “ Europe, if we can get
out of this hole.”
I.: “ Bricks are a common cargo for the South
Seas. Niggers going in for building houses, eh ?”
Captain: “Go, for heaven’s sake; I’m getting
worse.”
I. : “ Good-bye ; don’t forget to Christianise the
pagans effectively. You’ll stand a chance of being
canonised.
Captain (so/lo voce ): “ Hang him, he knows too
much. What a fool I was to let him on
board. O Lord, if I had him on the open sea for
just five minutes—only a short five minutes —
wouldn’t I cue ”
And our interviewist returned to shore followed
by the united orbs of the strange crew.
Educational Reform.
A lecture was delivered on Tuesday at the School of
Arts, Pitt-street, by Mr. Hume, the well-known phre-
nologist, of 130 Market-street, on the above subject.
The hall was anything but full, but, although it is one
of the most dispiriting things in this world to hold
forth to empty benches, the lecture was extremely well
given and highly interesting, and it is greatly to the
praise of the lecturer to be able to say that he kept the
attention of the small audience unflagging to the end.
The subject was much too extensive a one to be treated
of in one evening, and all that Mr. Hume could do was
to touch ‘ slightly on each head.’ He, however, promised
to give a series of lectures on phrenology, and the
various branches of that interesting science, shortly;
and it is to be sincerely hoped that they will be attended
more largely than the one delivered the other evening
—given would perhaps be the better word, for the re-
ceipts could not have equalled the disbursements. Mr.
Hume in the course of the evening referred to most of
the questions which are agitating public opinion at the
present time —the sewage question—prison reform —the
ignorance of M.P.’s in general, and New South Wales
M.P.’s in particular protection and free trade
—were all mentioned; and the manner in which
the many abuses ranged under each and every
head might be met and got rid of, was clearly showed.
Not even the maimer in which the prizes were distri-
buted at the Exhibition was passed over. The speech
of the Hon. W. B. Dailey on the education Bill was
freely canvassed and rather severely handled ; axd the
lecture concluded with the examination of the bumps
of a shy young gentleman from the audience, who
proved that Mr. Hume is at any rate a master of the
science of phrenology, for that gentleman immediately
on feeling the occiput Of the young man exclaimed,
‘ Courage largely developed!’ Mr. Hume should be both
seen and heard by all.
A Sketch at the Garden Palace.
Our artist pourtrays on page 4 an incident which came
under his notice at the Garden Palace last week.
Materfamilias, after investing in sewing machines with-
out number, is at last taken with the Singer, the im-
provements in which the young ladies at the stall of
course dexterously dilate upon. Paterfamilias is also
struck with the manifest improvements shown him, but
is staggered at the prospect of another investment.
His shrewd better half, however, alighting on what she
has been looking for, succeeds in inducing him
to make another purchase, and a Singer goes home
to the family. By-the-way it can’t be denied that
the Singer sewing machine, that wonderful little me-
chanical marvel, has been a fortune to the inventor and
a boon to the people. According to returns furnished
us, two million machines have been manufactured since;
1850, the last annual return being nearly 300,000. The
sale in New South Wales—and we believe in the other
colonies also —equals that of the sale in the United
States or in Europe, and it is not a bad indication of the
condition of domestic life in this country to find the
Singer making its way into every home. The excellence
of these machines is admitted all over the world, their
durability and simplicity making them really a prize to
every purchaser. No appliance so substantial or so
useful was ever manufactured so cheaply. The fact is so
many are made that the manufacturers can make on each
a very small profit, and this is the explanation of recent
great reductions in price. The Victorian agents are
Messrs. Stanford and Co., Bourke and Eussell-streets,
Melbourne; and the Sydney agent, Mr. G. J. Wells, of
No. 1, Hunter-street. The premises in the nty are ad-
mirably suited for the business, and a great trade is
■done. Owing to Mr. Wells’s enterprise, the Singer
Sewing machine makes a grand show at the Interna-
tional.
The Concrete Cottage at the Garden Palace.
No more valuable exhibit, so far as the colony
is concerned, is shown at the Garden Palace
than the one depicted in the accompanying en-
graving. This concrete cottage is exhibited by
Messrs. J. R. Cattell and Co., of George-street,
on behalf of Messrs. White Brothers, the English
manufacturers, and has attracted particular at-
tention from visitors from the country. The
cottage is constructed of slabs of cement more
durable than iron. These slabs can be fitted
together or taken down with the greatest ease,
and a comfortable air and waterproof cottage or
apartment erected cheaply and expeditiously.
Windows, doors, chimneys, &0., can be arranged
for just as in the case of a wooden structure. °of
course the cheapness of the new invention is one
of its strongest recommendations ; and galvanised
iron, weatherboard, or other material is com-
pletely superseded. The material is dry and
wholesome, and presents an elegant exterior.
Cottages, stables, or other buildings used on se-
lections or stations in the interior can be bought
from the importers and landed sound ready for
erection on any site, no matter at what distance.
The saving to the purchaser is a most substantial
one. We are indebted to Mr. Jovoins, the gentle-
man in charge, for some valuable information
respecting this and other exhibits; and we are
glad to hoar that with respect to this concrete
cottage material, as with several other of their
exhibits, they have hit a great public want, and
opened another profitable source of business
between the colony and the mother country.
Hodge’s Commercial Hotel, King and
Castlereagh Streets.
The accompanying sketch shows one of the
most important and popular hotels in Sydney- Its
situation, and the excellent manner in
which it has been conducted for years past have
given to the Commercial Hotel an important
position in the metropolis. The hotel has lately
changed hands, and Mr. Sebastian Hodge, for
some years the popular proprietor of Bass’s
Hotel, Market and Pitt-streets, is now the lessee.
The Commercial will continue to be conducted as
a first-class family hotel, and the house having in
this respect the personal supervision of the
energetic proprietor, every satisfaction in this
way may be expected. The hotel has suites of
well-ventilated and well-furnished apartments.
The liquors, wines, etc., are of the best, and the
greatest attention is given to the cuisine The
Coinmercial has for years done one of the best bar
businesses in Sydney, and it is likely, under the
new management, to increase its popularity in this
direction. We wish the popular host and hostess
a continuance of their present good success.
A Novel Ball Dress.
Here is a description
of a lovely tall dress
which any deft-fingered
and tasteful lady may
make for herself, or im-
prove upon, according to
the complexion and style
of the wearer : The
dress in question was
composed of black tuille,
a low square bodice and
long train; round the
shoulders ran a row of
white lace, very narrow,
and from the commence-
ment of the bodice in
front to the end of the
skirt—just above a close-
ly-kilted flounce, of about
six inches in width —ran
horizontal rows of white
daisies ; about an inch of
tulle being left between
each row, and each row
gradually lessening in
width towards the waist,
and widening again to-
wards the bottom of the
skirt, though only suffi-
ciently wide for the
broadest part to form a
sort of robe in front; the
train was puffed tuille,
with one row of daisies
round the edge of the kil-
ted flounce, and round the
skirt. The hair was arranged with the orthodox fringe,
very fnll over the forehead, gradually lessening to-
wards the temples, and worn very low on the neck;
and from behind the ears, where they joined, ran three
rows of white daisies, gradually widening towards
the top of the head. A dress made similarly,
substituting small scarlet or pale pink flowers for
daisies, would be most effective. [There surely must
be some slight mistake in the last sentence but one of
the above description. We have not yet seen any lady
whose ears join.—Ed. Bulletin.]
A Vermont girl married a rich man in order to get a
sealskin sacque, and the very day she got it, she eloped
With her.poor lover, who hadn’t even a Spring jo vereoat.
which appears to justify the statement that proper con-
clusion for the marriage ceremony in many of our
fashionable * society ’ weddings would be, ‘ What com-
mercial interests have joined together, let not ill-temper
put asunder.’
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times be glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
“Foe I AM NOTHING IF NOT CRITICAL.”
—" Othello."
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PATTI CONCERTS.
The visit to Australia of an artist so finished and so
celebrated ns Carlotta Patti, with her talented com-
pagnons de voyage, is so rare an occurrence (because
there are in the world so few Carlotta Pattis or her
equals to visit us), that we are fully justified in de-
voting a short space to a few remarks on the last two—
9th and 10th—concerts of the series. The new pieces
introduced to us as far as the cantatnce is concerned,
wore the so-called ‘ Mad Scene’—or series of scenas and
arias—from Donizetti’s ‘Lucia’ (repeated on the last
evening), with a singing polka ‘La Capriciosa,’ by Tito
Mattel, its first bearing in Sydney; and (with Signor
Ciampi) two new duets—one, |a Barcarole by Gounod,
the other, ‘La Eeconciliazion©,* by that charming
modern composer, Lucantoni. The repetitions have
been Jenny Lind’s ‘Echo Song’ (Eckert) ‘Within a
mile,’ ‘ The Laughing Song,’ and ‘La Calecera.’ The
Mad Scene, sweetness throughout, lost a little of its
effect by the flute obligato not being quite so pure as it
might have beeu. It is very long and trying for the
concert platform where there is no opportunity for
relief by acting. Commencing with the recitative ‘II
dolce suono,’ it goes on tc the air, ‘ Edgordo, Edgardo,’
then changes to a series of brilliant variations, intro-
ducing the air of the duet previously sung with Edgardo,
and then concluding with another set of ornaments
on the air of the finale, ‘ Spargi di qualche pianto,’ in
which especial opportunity was given to Madame Patti
for those peculiar flights of staccato passages, which
bring the pearl-like drops from her voice with an ease
and a grace that have a most exquisitively soothing
effect on the system. The Polka of Mattei is another
of those joyous pieces of rhythmic tune which require
the vocalisation of a Patti to render them with the
effect that alone forms their beauty. The phrasing aud
marked time in every passage were simply wonderful.
Of the duets, ‘La Eeconciliazione’ was the soft cooing
of doves, so inimitably soft and wooing were the com-
bined tones of the singers. In such singing there is a
charm which places it above the prosaic analysis of
close criticism. It is felt. Throughout these two even-
ings the tumultuous greetings that Madame Patti re-
ceived must have convinced her that the memory of her
exposition of the power of song will long linger in the
hearts of the people.
M. de Munck’s contributions to these two delightful
evenings were the arrangement of ‘ Le Desir,’ the Eo-
manza, by Vieuxtemps, transcribed by the executant, a
part of a concerto (No. 9) by that grand master of the
violoncello, Eomberg (composer of the music to Schil-
ler’s ‘ Lied von der
Glocke,’ ‘ the Lay of the
Bell’) and once more
that glorious ‘ Marche
Funobre,’ of Chopin, of
which we can safely say
that we believe if Chopin
himself could hear it he
would be out of conceit
with his original piano-
forte score and execution.
It will be quite under-
stood that each of these
pieces was encored. We
have written so much
in praise of this artist’s
performances, the rich
luscious tones he pro-
duces, the true artistic
skill of his embellish-
ments, his enticing from
the instrument every-
thing of which it is
capable, and many of
which one would sup-
pose it incapable (and
every combination is
heard in that wonderful
‘ Ave Maria’ of Schu-
bert), that we need only
add that M. De Muuck
has never sacrificed art
to gain popularity; that
has come to him without
seeking, and he has
never descended to clap-
trap or commonplace
music. If Madame Patti
desire to rest for a time.
M. de Muuck may rest assured that his skill will attract
remunerative audiences to any series of concerts he
might organise.
■L’Esule’ (the Exile) by Gordigiani, the Eomanza of
Hoel from ‘ Dinorah,’ a Eomanza ‘lo t’amo, by Stan-
zieri, and that lovely ‘Di Provenza il mar, (Traviata)
were the new pieces given to ns by Signor Ciampi-
Cellaj, proving him to have a boundless repertoire.
Where all were executed in such a finished style it is
difficult to say which was the most attractive; but for
expression the last has our favour; the intensity on the
phrase ‘ Dio m’ esaudi’ was exquisitely toned; and the
feeling thrown into the ‘ Non e ver’ (given for an encore)
gave that lovely song a meaning it had never previously
received here. Signor Ciampi gives thorough delight
to those who can appreciate pure singing; if we meant
unmeaning noise we must look elsewhere.
On Friday evening Mr. Crain was in form, and gave
a not inelegant (if rather boisterous) rendering of
Verdi’s ‘La mia Letizia ;’ but the ‘Let me like a soldier
fall,’ was all the worse by comparison.
His own ‘Grand Duchesse,’ and I/iszt’s ‘Ehapsodie
Hongroise,’ showed Giorza to be in full form; and his
accompaniments were, as before, irreproachable.
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
The fame of this Company for the completeness of
its representations in every respect has preceded its
advent here ever since its arrival in Melbourne some
seven or eight months since. With on e exception (Mr.
litheradge having exchanged for Mr. De Belleville, who
has joined the Lingards) the members are all new to
Sydney, though Mr. and Mrs. Gamer (Miss Blanche
Stammers) had been in Melbourne for some time pre-
viously. 1
,, w ® are not disappointed; there is not a single star in
the Company; but, what is much better, they are all
stars in the sense of having learned to act, talk, dress,
an(J - nnpve about with such perfection of naturalness,
that the highest point of the actor’s art is attained in
its not appearing to be acting at all. In witnessing
b nends, we forgot the theatre, and were interested in
the people whom we seem to have known all our lives.
We watch the little game—the tale of friendship’s
hollow falsehood (and its reality in Ihe person of the
doctor) as though we expected to be called on to take
part in the little domestic drama that is going on before
our eyes,
! Friends'— an adaptation of Sardou’s ‘ Nos Intimes ’
—is well constructed and well written; occasionally, a
trifle bordenng on the equivocal, but very carefully
veiled from the ear of pruriency. The scene in the
third act, in which Maurice (Mr. Titheradge) allows his
passion for Cecile (Miss Blanche Stammers), the wife
of his friend, is perhaps rather too vehemently pas-
sionate for our English taste; but for all
that, the passion seems to be real and not
assumed; and from our previous knowledge
of Mr. Titheradge, as a quite gentlemanly,
easy actor, we had scarcely expected to see
him work up a passion to such warmth. The
play is infact a modem * School for Scandal,’
which has evidently been taken as the model
for ‘Nos lutimes.’
Where the acting was so perfect through-
out it is most difficult to particularise any
point, as tliat would imply inferiority as to
the rest. But Mr. G. Ward, as the true
triend, Dr. Thompson, certainly signalised
himself, though perhaps it was by the effec-
tiveness of the part. If one were disposed
to be captious it would be on the point that
Mr. Ward’s enunciation is a shade too
marked or emphasized. But he realised the
character so thoroughly that we were
always as glad to see him enter the room as
we should be at the visit of a friend. Mr.
Gamer’s Eobert Dawson was a study, espe-
cially in the last act. As for that little
animal Markham (Mr. F. Marshall) we meet
him every day, and almost feel inclined to
kick him for his impertinence—of course we
mean the class of whom Markham is the
representative; and his •* Seraph,” Theodore
(Mr. Frank Cates (do we not all know him ?
Mr. Marshall is an actor whose every
movement is to be watched. Mr. E. J. Eo-
berts has just an elegant dash of brogue as
Captain O’Dongohue. Mr. E. Shepherd, as
Meanley, was a thoroughly atra-bilious
curmudgeon. The servant of Mr. H Lem-
mon, was a trifle too fussy.
Though very good, the assumptions of the
ladies were scarcely equal to those of the
gentlemen, simply because the voices are
scarcely so full and flexible as the elocution
requires. Miss D. Stanton, as Amy Dawson,
has nothing to show her capabilities. Mrs
Meanly (Miss Marion Stammers), and Susan,
the waiting maid (Miss Annie Taylor) are
character sketches.
The way in which the piece was acted from
beginning to end proves how the company
have pursued the one thing needful, rehear-
sal. Only the constant repetition of every
movement could produce such perfection. No-
body is standing about awkwardly : whilst two or three
are talking, others are re ading, looking at albums, and
so on. There is no over-dressing; morning clothes are
worn in the morning, dress clothes for dinner and
evening, as in every well-appointed household.
The two scenes are models of stage effect.- the library
or hall of an old country house, it s oaken staircase,
bric-a-brac, busts (so admirably imitated), whips, and
hunting gear; the lady’s boudoir, with its elegant fur-
niture and appointments (rather ‘ fast ’ pictures, by the
way, for a lady’s room), are all examples of good and
effective arrangement.
* Friends ’ will no doubt be given for some time, and
we shall therefore have another opportunity for a few
further details.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
Comparisons may be odious, but they are occasionally
unavoidable and sometimes even useful, especially when
it is made between two stage representatives of the same
character. When, however, that comparison in courted,
there should be circumstances to warrant it; and we
therefore think Mr. J. L. Hall unwise in advertising his
* Winkle’ as superior, or even equal, to that
of Mr. J. Jefferson, certainly the greatest comedian (in
his line) of the day. In such cases comparisons are
’cd, 66 '! odious. We have many times, at many
different periods, spoken of Mr. Hall as one of our very
best actors : none can therefore dispute our recognition
of his talents; but we are bound to say that his Eip
Van Winkle is by far not the best of his impersonations.
Very little was made of the scene on the Catskill
mountains with the spirits of old Hendrik Hudson.
The fine scene preceding it, in which Eip is driven by
his shrewish wife out of his home into the pitiless
storm, and which gives a clue to the sequel of the story,
is omitted. So, too, the pretty scene with the children
and the toys.
Besides, Eritz, and other similar characters, are
merely personal introductions into plays with English-
speaking personages. Here, however, nearly all the
characters are Dutch ; and if one speaks broken Dutch-
(or German-) English, the others should do the same.
Even the English that was spoken (not mongrel was
not of the best character. There’s many a slip ’twixt
the tongue and the lip.
As ‘ Sour Grapes ’ was so attractive from its being so
well acted (giving us pleasure at the time to speak of it)
we hope that similar, productions will be put on the
stage.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPEEA HOUSE.
1 Otir Boys has now been through its second week,
e 5 < S era ’^ n l’ us _ saying anything further in praise
ot the performance in addition to the high eulogiums
passed on it in our last issue as a thoroughly excellent
representation- But wo were indeed horrified to find
that we had been made by the printer to speak of that
charming Miss Melrose as having a ‘ grinning ’ coun-
tenance, when we wrote ‘grimy—oh! how grimy!’
Of the afterlude, Operti’s musical sketch of ‘I
Ladroni,’ we certainly cannot speak in high terms of
commendation. It is nothing if not perfect in every
detail; it was not perfect; there was a great too much
noise and very little dumb show.
But that delightful burlesque comedy by Gilbert,
‘ Engaged,’ is to be produced. It attracted crowds when
given by Miss Bose Osborne (so great an actress) and Mr.
Chaplin; everybody was surprised into enjoying the
amusingly sarcastic ideas it ontains : everybody en-
joyed it. How much more enjoyable will it be when
played by a company like that now occupying the boards
at this theatre.
CRITIC.
Mrs. Whiteside, at the request of Lady Loftus, gave
a ‘‘cookery recital” at Government House on Friday
last, in the presence of a select company, specially in-
vited for the occasion. Eor Augustus, contrary to ex-
pectation, did not perform his great feat of preserving
legs of mutton in vinegar.
People who attend cookery classes should merely
taste the manufactured article and not chew it up whole-
sale. Miss Whiteside must have noticed that two or
three ladies in particular make a meal every time, thus
leaving the person who runs the show a credit balance
on the transaction of a half-penny in the half-crown.
It is said that a ladies foot-ball club has been establish-
ed in England. Any one who h is seen an English woman’s
foot will be sorry for the foot-ball. A rude foreigner
said this.
. Victor Hugo is gallant; he kisses the ladies at meet-
ing and parting, and he says women are forgetful crea-
tures. They say good-bye, and then come back with.
‘‘Oh, monsieur, I forgot to tell you ”
THE CONCRETE COTTAGE AT THE GARDEN PALACE.
HODGE’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL.


Nicholson and as
325 GEORGE STR]
LILY QUEEN WALTZ. —By A
most popular waltzes ever
Thousand already sold out.
Superbly illustrated in colon
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH.—By A.
lustrated in colours. Very b:
its popularity is assured. Ft
her 6th. Price 2s, by post 2s
THE FARMER AND HIS PI
Taubert. Second Edition,
and effective. Sung by Miss
the Urso concerts. Always
6d, by post Is Bd.
Fourth Edition !!! Fourtl
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MA
A Wonderful Success. No less tha
Weeks. Everybody is talking abo
teen Popular Songs and Pieces, i
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on o
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me
The sale of this book is so great t
tions are being offered to the put
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAi
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCI
325 George Stee
Humble and nichol
WASHING MACI
Is the Best Invention befor
Its Action is Entirely Different
It is Self-acting and Does not De
It Saves Money and Labour, a:
Noise or Dirt.
It is Impossible for It to Get
It is the Quickest in Its
It Cleanses Equally well Pari
Very Dirty Cloth
Its Superiority is Established 1
See Opinions of the Press and 01
CAUTION.
Several persons having made imit
Washing Machine, we beg to give
take legal proceedings against any (
exercising, or vending copies of the
On SALE by the Ag
DRYSDALE and R(
397 GEORGE STREET, oppos
ry'IONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENI
Whose success is attributed to his I
in catering for the million at sv
PRICES as to enable every workin
and fashionably, while those with
disx>osal can wear so many extr:
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, w
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measu:
Who will not avail themselves
GETTING MEASURED at ZI
ESTABLISHMEI
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in far
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, a
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUI
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLJ
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6(
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready f
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS W 1
A TRIAL WILL COB
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HO
409 GEORGE STR
THE ONLY ZIONS IN
JJATTI AT MASO
Only One
GRAND PATTI CONCERT
GRAND PATTI CONCERT
rp « e
A
T R E
Lessee
Business Manager & Treasurer
Stage Manager
I
ENTHUSIASTIC RECI
of
LYSTER and GARN
LONDON COMEDY CO
THIS EVENINC
AND UNTIL FURTHER
FRIENDS
Friends.
Faiends.
PRICES OF ADMISSION.-Dres
35.; Family Circle, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and
street, where seats may be secured ii
days in advance.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8.
ordered at 10.30.
ICTO R I A
V
Stage Manager ...
T 1
Mr. .
SATURDAY and MONDAY*2Ist
Saturday and Monday, 21st an
Saturday and Monday, 21st an
MARVELLOUS AND PRODP
POSITIVELY FOR TWO NI
THE GREATEST LEVIATION
EVER HEARD OF IN TB
THREE STAR COMPi
THE VICTORIA BYRONIC S']
THE MAMMOTH MINSTREL
THE LOFTUS TROUPE STA
The whole of each Entire Compt
SATURDAY and MONDAI
The Performance will commence
sharp, with a magnificent Comedy, i
Sydney, entitled,
MY PRESER
MY PRESER
Embracing Mr. J. L. HALL, and
VICTORIA STAR COIV
To be followed by i
MAMMOTH MINI
And concluding wit!
VICTORIA LOFTUS TROUPE
MINSTRELS.
The above Combination will be
ONLY, as the Loftus Troupe and
strels leave for Melbourne on Tuesd
*,* Notwithstanding the expense
Company there will be
No advance in the pi
M
ASO N I C
Lessee and Manager—Mi-
Director—Mr. Frederic
CAMILLA URSC
GRAND CONCER
A
SERIES OP CONCI
by
CAMILLA URS
Camilla Urso
Camilla Urso
(the CELEBRATED VIO
previous to her departure fi
THE FIRST TO BE (
on
TUESDAY EVENING NEXT
Madame CAMILLA
will be assisted b
Miss JENNIE SARGENT (£
Miss AGNESE PaLMA (Coi
Mons. AUGUSTE SAURET
Herr BENNO SHEREK (Mu
FULL PARTICUL
will be
PUBLISHED IN FUTURE AD
Prices of Admissh
Reserved seats, ss; second seats,
Doors ojien at 7 o’clock. Concer
Carriages at 10.
QUEE N ’ S
Lessee
T H
I
TO-MORROW (Saturday) Nl<
GRAND OPENING NIGHT (
DRAMATIC SEAS
Engagement of
that YOUNG
TRAGEDIAN,
TMV AT.PHED DAM
IHE GREAT WAXWORKS EXHIBITION
NOW OPEN
Opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street.
Just added, ANDREW GEORGE SCOTT alias
Captain Moonlight, and THOMAS ROGAN alias
Baker—the notorious Wantabadgery Bushrangers,
taken from original casts; and other figures.
Admission, Is.; children half-price. Open from 10 a.m.
to 10 p.m.
TTIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HOEDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT!!!
J. L. HORDERN.
DOLPHE GABRIEL & CO,
'SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahlert's hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
jpi OR ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L P E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
David m * c a l l,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment.
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBINSON. K.C.M.G.
And
His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869,1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Pounders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.-PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER III.—continued.
Edmund’s shoulders were drawn up to his ears,
and his back expressed distinctly that he felt him-
self jarred and grated in every fibre of his being.
“ Now, then, Edmund,” said his mother, in a
thin, penetrating voice ; “ art comin to the table,
or m’un thou have thy tea carried to thee, to drink
on th’ sofa, like a lady, ehP”
Answering to this appeal, he raised himself, his
face darkened, his lips quivering with anger.
“ That’s right!” said he, bitterly. ‘‘Do insult
me a little more ! It’s so nice to be ill, and so
pleasant to spend your days by yourself on a sofa
in a kitchen. I’m likely to keep it as long as ever
I can. So would you if you once knew how agree-
able it was. , .
He had supported himself by means of a stick to
the table; and as he limped along to the chair
which Mary had placed for him, one could see how
much deformed lie was, and how clumsily he
moved. No look of pity warmed the woman s face
as she saw him. He was not, like many a weakly
or deformed child, the object of the mother s
divinest love and tenderest care. Ho had been
born three months after his father’s sudden death.
Mrs. Heywood had never been noted for enthusi-
astic devotion to any of her children, or to her
husband, or, indeed, to any one but herself and her
own interest. Myles could influence her : but she
seemed to have a positive aversion to Edmund, who
used to say that his real mother was Mary.
When the meal was over, there was a little
movement. Edmund looked wistfully towards
Myles and the book; but Myles did not offer to
resume it. He had begun to think over that con-
versation in the office before pay-time, and was
wondering whether it could be really true that Se-
bastian Mallory meant to return.
Sebastian Mallory was, and had been for years,
his hete noire. He had seen him once, ten years
ago, a handsome, fair-faced, ‘ ‘ yellow-haired lad-
die ” of sixteen, who had come to look round his
own works, with a somewhat listless air. Myles s
vigorous mind had been filled with contempt for him
at that moment, andhe hadnever seen fit to alter that
feeling. All he heard of Sebastian Mallory was ex-
actly contrary to his ideas of what a man—unless
the man was some irresponsible person, with
neither business nor estate in the background—
ought to be and do. He had a very strong sense
of duty himself, and never, so far as he knew, left
a duty unperformed. He struggled hard, accord-
ing to his light, to do what was right; conse-
quently he felt himself in a position to be some-
what censorious upon those who, he considered,
obviously did not fulfil their duties—duties to their
property, their dependents, their privileges, to him
—such persons as this very Sebastian Mallory.
Therefore he smiled somewhat grimly to himself as
he imagined the lily-handed, yellow-haired, delicate-
looking young man, coming to take his place at the
head of affairs at such a crisis as was striding to-
wards Lancashire —a storm which it would take the
keenest heads, the strongest hands, and the most
practised eyes of the wariest business men who
should succeed in weathering it. Probably Mr.
Sebastian Mallory, if he did come, would cut a
sorry spectacle, and would soon be glad to retire
again to more congenial scenes abroad.
He did not think it his duty to excite Mrs. Hey-
wood’s disagreeable remarks by reading what she
justly considered “balderdash” to Edmund; he
therefore suggested that they should go and take a
turn on the Townfield.
Edmund, who for some reason was in a more un-
happy temper than usual, shrugged his shoulders,
and said he did not feel inclined to go out.
“ No ? Then I must go by myself, I suppose,”
said Myles.
But he made no immediate effort to leave the
house. He seated himself at the table with a book,
and might possibly have remained in the house,
but for his mother, who, having ascertained that
his book was entitled ‘ The History of Rational-
ism,’ announced that the bitterest grief of her de-
clining years consisted in having to see a son of
hers growing up an infidel, or worse. She hunted
under the Family Bible, and produced a tract,
which she offered him in lieu of the work he was
reading. It bore the alluring title, ‘ Thou also,
Worm ?’ And on his refusing this tit-bit of reli-
gious badinage, she put it aside with a bitter smile
and an audibly-expressed hope that it might notin
the future go too hardly -with those who had
spurned the means of grace proffered by a mother’s
hand.
Myles endured these, and a succession of similar
remarks, for some little time, while he appeared to
go on with his book without heeding them ; but,
as none knew better than she who made them, the
contracted eyebrows and the impatient twisting of
the moustache covered considerable inward irrita-
tion. He at last abruptly rose, and took his cap
from the nail on which it hung.
“ Out again!” said Mrs. Heywood in the same
maddening voice ; “ and if a mother may ask, what
pothouse are you going to now?”
“ No thanks to you, mother, that I’ve not taken
to the pothouse long ago,” replied the young man
curtly, slapping his hat on his head and leaving
the room.
“If he doesn’t break that door off its hinges
some fine day, in one of his tempers, my name’s
not Sarah Ann Heywood,” remarked his mother.
“ It’s a grevious thing to have an ungovernable
temper. His Bible, if he ever read it, would tell
him that the tongue is a little member, but a con-
suming fire.”
“ The Bible never said a truer word,” retorted
Edmund witheringly; and Mrs. Heywood return-
ing to her knitting, with the pleasant sense of hav-
ing driven out the strongest, sank into silence.
CHAPTER IV.
Adrienne.
“ I love my lady; she is very fair;
Her brow is wan, and hound by simple hair:
Her spirit sits aloof, and high,
But glances from her tender eye.
In sweetness droopingly.”
Myles left the house, and, traversing some side-
ways, found himself presently in a steep, hilly
street, which he descended, arriving at last at a
sort of square, through the middle of which ran
the river Thanes, and on both sides of which were
rows of shops. Then walking on a hundred yards
or so, he emerged into another, still larger open
space, opposite a large and beautiful building,
which, in its delicate and multiform Gothic tra-
cery, and noble dimensions, with the springing
gilded tower leaping aloft at last, offering a start-
ling contrast to its sordid surroundings — the
shabby, low houses, narrow streets, and grimy
factories which crowded round, as near as they
dared. The river here made a bend, and past
the front of the town-hall was a house standing in
a garden, divided by the river from the road. It
was a fine old house of red brick, which had no
doubt originally been “in the country.” There
was a look of stateliness and substance about it —
the brick was relieved by handsome stone mul-
lions, copings, and chimney-stacks.
The trees had been stunted by smoke, but they
lived yet. Much ivy, strong and tenacious from
advanced age, clung about it. The grounds were
thoroughly well kept. The parterres were blazing
with the passionate, glowing colours of late sum-
mer flowers; the windows were glazed with
sheets of plate-glass. Here and there a bow had
been thrown. Behind were extensive stables and
outhouses. It was, though dingy, and miscellan-
eous in architecture, a fine, imposing old man-
sion; it instantly caught the stranger’s eye, and
was known from infancy to every inhabitant of
Thanshope as well as the old church on the hill
behind the town-hall or as the great co-operative
on the other hill at the other side of the town.
To-night Myles looked more earnestly than
usual at this old house. It was called ‘ The
Oakenrod,’ and was the property of Sebastian
Mallory, tenanted during his absence by that
stately dame, his mother.
“There it is!” said Myles within himself.
“ Cumbering the ground—kept like a palace for a
fellow who doesn’t care two straws for it!”
Again he shrugged his shoulders and turned some-
what abruptly to the left, making for one of the
side doors of the town-hall. He went in, and ran
up a great many flights of stonesteps, past corri-
dors and branching passages, till he could go no
higher, for the excellent reason that he was at the
top of the building. Pushing open the glass door,
which swung to behind him, Myles found himself
in the holy of holies —the library. A door to the left
led to the reading-room, and thither he directed his
steps. It was a large, lofty, handsome room, with
many tables and chairs, and plenty of pens, ink,
newspapers, and periodicals scattered about. When
Myles entered, the room was almost empty. One
or two men were reading newspapers, and at one
table in a window sat a girl, who had a great book
open before her, but whose eyes were intently
fixed upon the old house, the Oakenrod, which lay
directly beneath.
Myles, searching about, found a number of the
Westminster Review, and took it to his ac-
customed place, at the table next to where the girl
sat. He noticed no one to right or to left of him,
not even her who was almost the only lady visitor
who ever entered the reading-room.
She was already a familiar figure to his eyes.
For some months past he had seen her nearly
every evening, sitting at the same table, even at
the same side of that table, with a book —generally
some large and weighty volume, open before her —
and a small thick notebook, in which she wrote
extracts or abstracts of what she read.
(To he Continued.)


OUNTAIN- KILLED MEAT.
P. SALISBURY and Co. ore doing what the Govern-
ment are dreaming of —viz., supplying the public with
good wholesome MOUNTAIN-KILLED MEAT.
F SALISBURY and Co.’s meat is MOUNTAIN-
• KILLED, and of splendid quality.
F SALISBURY and Co., the only Sydney firm
• supplying Lithgow-ldlled Meat and pure country
Milk. Office—George and Hay-streets.
MOUNTAIN - KILLED MEAT. Pure Country
Milk.
Lithgow-killed Meat. Pure Country Milk.
Only to be obtained—
P. SALISBURY and Co.,
George and Hay Streets.
K
EAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J.
HUBERT NEWMAN,
PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12 OXFORD STREET. HYDE PARK. SYDNEY.
J,
F.
CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK
CONFECTIONER,
AND
267 (late 255) George Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
JOHN CUTTER, PRACTICAL TAILOR,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Has on hand
The largest and best assorted stock of Woollens in the
colony.
All orders attended to with care and dispatch.
£lO TO BRAY POE YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
c.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER STREET.
FRESH PISH EVERY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
ERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
No. 11 PITT STREET,
Importers of and dealers in all descriptions of American
Machinery.
Indents executed on reasonable terms.
R 0 8
E E T CAS
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
SIN,
BRANCH AT NAEANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing E. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w
KERR, MAFUFACTUEING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
574 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE. SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY,
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufactures are all executed
under their own personal supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, carriages, fours-in-hand, &c.,
cannot be beaten for durability or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, and only the most skilful work-
men employed.
ICENSED VICTUALLER S’
ASSOCIATION
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
gYDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each.
Distributed as follows:
The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over Tattersall’s Cup, their orders having
been received after the consultation was filled.
Country subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change on cheques and stamp for reply.
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
The undersigned, having purchased all the LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS in Kerosene Lamps exhibited at
THE GARDEN PALACE,
Have pleasure in informing customers that they may
select any of the Lamps on show, which will he reserved
for them till the close of the Exhibition.
F. Lassetter &Co
(Limited).
F. Lassetter & Co.
(Limited).
Georoe Street,
Sydney.
George Street,
Sydney.
TABLE LAMPS in—
Dovetou Ware
Wedgewood Ware
Ceramic China
Crystal Glass
Pate sur Pate
Bohemian Ware
Majolica
Japanese China
CHANDELIERS for-
Churchns
Schools of Art
Public Rooms
Mansions
The Drawing Room
The Dining Room
The Study
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
F. LASSETTER & Co. (Limited),
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country
visitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALACE.
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously cool.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
UNION CLUB HOTEL,
Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGGA WAGGA
(Close to the Railway Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYRNES. Proprietor.
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well supplied with fresh and
wholesome provender, and be under the supervision of
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. BATHS.
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 39?, GEORGE STREET.
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock,’s Best Tables.
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
TATTERSALL’S hotel,
PITT-STREET.
GEORGE ADAMS
(Late of Kiama),
wishes to inform his friends and the public generally
that he has succeeded
Mr. W. J. O’BRIEN
in the above old-established Sporting Hotel, and trusts
by keeping none but the best brands of
WINES. SPIRITS, AND BEERS,
to merit a continuance of the support so liberally
bestowed on his predecessor.
♦,* G. A. purposes making important changes, so as
to afford
THE SPORTING PATRONS
every convenience and satisfaction. Also, Gentlemen
visiting the Metropolis.
N.B.—Night Porter.
G. ADAMS, Proprietor.
C. W. ROBERTS’
£3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.
*** CARRIAGE FREE by RAIL on STEAMER.
ON receipt of the above sum the following genuine
articles will be forwarded, in SQUARE BOTTLES,
securely packed in a case, viz :
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 ~ PALE BRANDY
6 „ WEST INDIA RUM
1 „ WHISKY
I „ SUPERIOR PORT WINE
1 „ „ SHERRY WINE.
Total: 15
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. W. ROBERTS has much pleasure in stating that
he is constantly receiving the highest testimonials from
residents in all parts of the colony referring to the high
character of the LIQUORS supplied in his
FAMOUS £3 CASE.
Try one and judge for yourself.
Kindly make a note of the Address—
C. W. ROBERTS,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
QTOB,
JJIFLES,
R
EVOLVEES
PEICE MODEEATE. QUALITY GUAEANTEED.
C. COWLES.
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEOEGE STEEET (OPPOSITE EOYAL HOTEL.)
PECTOEAL CHEEEY BALSAM.
Au elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PEE VENTIVTS
FOE THAT fatal DISEASE, CEOUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BEON-
CHITIS, Whooping - Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THEOAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. AEMSTEONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Eetail Druggist,
46G GEOEGE STEEET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABEAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
• Eeoistered.
THE GEEAT LIVEE EEMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safet3'.
Invented only by
. J. S. ABE AH AM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL
FOE human use, curing all kinds of Wounds, Bruise.:,
Blows, or Eruptions of the Skin in all parts of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, and removes Warts a I
Excrescences; applied to the Hands and Face dnriu;
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes, and venot:
ous spiders, &c., and may be easily washed off in tii
morning. Possesses an agreeable aroma.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL removes Lumbai
Eheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joints, Sprains, Enlarg
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet, Chilblains, Bnnioi
Warts, and Excrescences. Prevents the consequent
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers, and such «.«:
must encounter damps. But its most astonish! -
result, and that which distinguishes it, is its power
prevent a recurrence of the diseases it cures.
J. POTTIE,
Veterinary Surgeon to the Government of N.S.W.
263 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
IMPEOYED HOME SHUTTL
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stan
the following words on the steel slide of every machi a
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you b
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at tt
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and a
a proof of its durability, is
GUAEANTEED FOE FIVE YEAES.
Eedijced Price List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
W Y N T A B D - L A N E, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alpne of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned agaipst traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
EDfTOEIAL AND BUSINESS NOTICES.
The Bulletin is published every Saturday morning.
Communications should reach to the office not later
than Thursday at noon.
The usual course with regard to editorial and business
letters should be pursued.
The Proprietors of The Bulletin intend giving
provincial matters the greatest attention; hence
communications from country readers will be always
acceptable. Postal irregularities should meet with
prompt complaint.
The price per copy of The Bulletin will be 3d, and
the terms of subscription as follows, viz. : —3s., cash in
advance; 3s. 6d., booked. Advertising scale 3s. for
the first, and 2s. for every additional inch, with a dis-
count on quarterly, half-yearly, and yearly advertise-
ments.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Haynes
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at The
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-street.
WHEN PURCHASING FURNITURE IT
IS DESIRABLE TO HAVE AN EX-
TENSIVE ASSORTMENT TO CHOOSE FROM.
THIS DESIDERATUM can be well attained
at the ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
THE FLORENCE
THE SARAH BELL
THE DUMFRIESSHIRE
Have brought large, valuable, and very attractive
additions to our already well stocked premises, all
purchased before the rise of price in Europe of iron
bedsteads, and many other important daily re-
quired Household Goods: —
Austrian Furniture, English Furniture
American Furniture, Canadian Furniture
Beautiful Mirrors, Cheval Glasses
Gilt Whatnots, Gilt Girandoles
English Bedsteads, French Bedsteads
Flower Centres, Flower Vases
Musical Chairs, Musical Albums
Musical Companions, Music Boxes
Cuisine, Atelier, Bureau, &c., Clocks
Writing Desks, Work Boxes
Novel Compendium of Games
Table Billiards, Bagatelle Boards
Union Drawing-room Stationery Cases
Students and Travellers’ Stationery cases
Papier Mache Work Boxes and Desks
Fenders, Fireirons, Coal Cabinets
Olivewood Workboxes and Desks
Jewel Cases, Tea Caddies
Compendium School Prizes
Chess Boards, Chess Men
Draught Boards, Draught Men
Ivory Inlaid Cribbage Board
Tete-a-tete sets, Toilet Sets
Marble Clocks, Gilt Clocks
Horloge Mysterieuse, or the Mysterious Clock
Crystal Inks, Single and Double
Crumb Trays, and Brushes, Graphoscopes, albums
New Door Mats, New Fibre Matting
Beautiful and Inexpensive Drawing-Room Suites
Noble Wardrobes and Toilets.
In our “ Guide to Sydney,” which we supply
without charge, will be found Elaborate House
Lists, with each article distinctly priced.
OUR SYSTEM OF BUSINESS
IS ADMIRED BY EVERYBODY.
PLAIN FIGURE PRICES.
NO ABATEMENT.
AND PROMPT NET CASH.
A VISIT TO OUR UPSTAIRS SHOW
will well repay the visitor.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
(Next to the Royal Hotel),
George Street.
fJVHE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
American Mechanical Ingenuity.
Instructive Mechanical Toys for Schools or Households.
Bead what the Bulletin says:—
“ Some of the most ingenious mechanical contrivances
ever seen in this city are now on view and on sale at the
establishment of the American Novelty Company, in
Market-street. They were intended to arrive in time
for the International Exhibition, and exhibited as speci-
mens of American ingenuity, but coming to hand late,
they are now exposed for sale in the ordinary way.
They comprise miniatures of every known description
of steam engine, and the style with which they work is
perfectly astonishing. There are four-inch locomotives
complete, four-inch saw-benches with pumping appli-
ances &c. Better models for our Public Schools could
not be obtained. With these little appliances working
under steam more could be explained to the juvenile
mind in one hour than in a month under other circum-
stances. They are, strange to say, only a matter of a
few pence. There are also various mechanical appliances
worked by springs, which travel round and round a
room, and form most pleasing and instructive toys for
children. The Americans, furthermore, show their
good sense by producing a variety of other toys, quite
new in design, by means of which the opening intelli-
gence of the child is encouraged and its constructive
powers developed. Quite gladly we recommend a visit
to the American Novelty Company."
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.. MARKET STREET.
SYDNEY.
RTHUR CUBIT T.
157 (late 203) PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFICE-
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTED.
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS. DEATHS
and MARRIAGES.
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
24 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS,
most intricate cases have met with marked success.
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART.
260 and 262 GEORGE-STBEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made a
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
y*-
IEORGE TALL, PRACTICAL LOCKSMITH
VHf and saw maker,
PITT STREET
(Next the Congregational Church).
Saws sharpened and re-set on the shortest notice
GEORGE TALL
is the leading Practic Locksmith of Sydney, and chal
lenges any competitor for speed or effectiveness
of work.
