

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 14.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1880.
Price—3d.
The Bulletin
SATURDAY, MAY 1, 1880,
The Chinese Question.
jfo Sydney paper which has of late spoken on tho
subject appears to be thorough on the Chinese
question. The Mongolian proclivities of our lead-
ing morning journal are notorious and wore never
more than flimsily disguised ; and the newspaper
which, while the “ Chinese sailor” dispute was
raging from Capo York to Cape Otway, took so
active a part in aiding white mariners against coolie
labor, appears to regard the present anti-Chinese
agitation as ill-timed and unnecessary. Perhaps
there would be little said by the white workman
against the Chinaman were the latter to confine
his operations to vegetable-growing and potato-
peeling, for these occupations are comparatively
unromunerative and employ so limited a number
of persons that a guarantee would, by the natural
laws of trade, be afforded against the supply of
Chinamen being out of proportion to the demand
for vegetables. However, the present agitation
results from the fact that tho white man sees
Chinamen erecting buildings in the main .streets
of Sydney and perceives that the Mongolian, who
has long been a cabinetmaker, has now com-
menced practice as a carpenter. The action taken
by those who promoted Monday night’s meeting at
the Temperance Hall is not the less commendable
because the speakers and the audience were for
the most part men who had personally felt or were
afraid that they would soon feel the effects of the
Chinese invasion—a dearth of work and a reduction
in the rate of wages. The workman may yet be a
philanthropist and a sound political-economist
but he has not yet learned to regard questions of
this kind except from the standpoint of self-in-
terest. The Chinese question is a weighty one
and one on which hundreds of pages have
been written, and will in the future be written;
but the conclusion which inevitably and inexorably
forces itself on every reasonable white who, whethev
as employer or workman, practically studies the
question is that where the white man and the
yellow stand side by side under the same laws the
former must, if he is to exist, sink to the level of
the latter. On the Chinese question there
must be no compromise on the part of the
people of this country. All the sophistry in
the world will not remove these facts—that the
Chinaman, while living under the protection of our
laws and enjoying every privilege accorded to
the white, contributes hardly anything to the
revenue; that the indirect taxes he does pay are
imports levied on the consumption of opium, and
on other vicious habits ; that he invariably re-
moves his realised wealth from the country,
which as a set-off only gets his cheap labour—the
ruin of the white; that the Chinese brm£ no
women with them, and foster immorality wherever
they settle: that the races should not be al-
lowed to mix; that they are mixing to an
appreciable extent in the lowest quarters of the
large cities ; and that the presence of the China-
man must ever be a disturbing element in the
at all times sufficiently strained relations be-
tween capital and labour. The Chinese as a
body must eventually be cleared out of all but tro-
pical Australia, and it will be well for the
community to settle the business as soon
as possible, by imposing on every Mongo-
lian who lands on our shores a poll-tax so
heavy as to prohibit the Celestial workman from
competing with the white. The Government which,
in imitation of the English practice, goes so far
as to protect the ordinary professional man from
the competition of the professional civil servant—
whose status here is, unfortunately for him, utterly
different from that of his English prototype-
should surely take a lesson from the experience of
the United States, and protect the white man against
the inferior race which under present conditions
must in time supplant him. This we say not merely
as theorists. The writer has “ humped his swag
through North Queensland, the Celestial s para-
dise, and seen how, in spite of the advantages
given to white men by the mining regulations,
hundred of whites were deprived of work in order
that thousands of Chinese might fossick for a
living. At present the Chinese, who, properly
speaking, are not morally, physically, or intellec-
tually fit to sit down in the same continent with
the European, are living amongst us as a favored
race. They enjoy all the Caucasian’s privileges
—labor under none of his disabilities. They will, if
allowed, yet starve him out. According to the
Herald, they are splendid colbnists. We know
the Chinaman better than most people. He pro-
duces two things—vice and vegetables.
Apostles of Temperance.
A MOST interesting piece of information, and one
over which many Sydney people might with ad-
vantage ruminate, is conveyed to us by telegram
from Adelaide. It appears that at the opening
meeting of Mr. Matthew Burnett's temper-
ance crusade in that city, a certain Rev. Mr. S. J.
M’Ewin ref erred to the Melbourne Argus aa an
‘anti-Christian, anti-temperance newspaper which,
though it had opposed Dr. Somerville and Mr.
Yarlet, was won over by Mr. Burnett.” Mr.
M’Ewin further expressed an opinion to the effect
that in the conversion of the Argus was to be an
illustration of the truth of the Bible saying, ‘ When
the ways of a man pleaseth the Lord He maketh
even his enemies be at peace with him.” We,
however, learn from the same telegram that Mr.
Burnett took quite a different view of the matter
and ascribed the Argus’ advocacy of his movement
to the “ fact that he introduced no political or sec-
tarian influence, but conducted the crusade on a
broad, comprehensive basis ; that he had accom-
plished much good; and, from a sense of duty,
they supported him.” Mr. Burnett is, as every-
one knows, one of the most earnest and self-
sacrificing of men; and though perhaps a little
over-zealous, he would probably accomplish more
good in a single month than would be effected in
an ordinary lifetime by any clergyman in the habit
of expressing opinions such as those attributed to
Mr. M’Ewin. Of the Melbourne Press it
may be said that it is thoroughly un-
sectarian, and that it rarely comes into
conflict with the pulpit unless through the
instrumentality of such hot-headed unreasoning
people as Mr. M‘Ewxn. With clergymen of the
stamp of Bishop Mooehouse and Messrs.
Stobbs, Steong, and Thomas Jones —unbigoted,
honest, Christian gentlemen—the leading daily
journals of Victoria are ever in accord; for
men such as those named read the signs of
the times and look from the petty battle
grounds of the churches to the vast needy
world beyond. As in the case of Mr. Bue-
nett, it is not that the newspapers are some-
times suddenly converted by a watchful Provi-
dence, but merely that a minister here and there,
with keener perception and better sense than his
fellows, announces by deeds which are stronger
than words that he is a man and a humanitarian
first and an Anglican or a Roman Catholic or a
Presbyterian afterwards. The Mooehouses and
Stkongs and Buenetts are the men who do
good in this world and make a heaven around
themselves before leaving it; the M’Ewins are
the people who should never have been born—who
are almost a curse to society. Mr. Burnett’s
opinion of the Argus will doubtless commend
itself very forcibly to a certain red-hot fanatical
Sydney divine who a few years ago visited Mel-
bourne with a view to distinguish himself by
stirring up sectarian dissensions; but who in
return for his trouble was so witheringly “ sub-
leadered” by the Argus that he was glad to
leave the southern city like a whipped dog
The Hon. F. M. Darley, Q.C., M.L.C.
The colony of New South Wales has had from
time to time citizens of whom she has had reason to
be proud. At present she has at least a few
who would take a high position in any part of the
world as far as learning and a high regard for the
principles of honor are concerned; and amongst
them may be ranked the gentleman who is the
subject of the sketch which this day graces our
front page. Bred and nurtured in a profession
requiring the highest integrity, and which is
governed by the strictest laws of etiquette that
custom has ever enacted, Mr. Darley can fairly
claim to be the possessor of the many virtues
necessarily allied to the character of a man whose
avowed office is to procure the establishment of
rights and the redress of injuries. In his own
profession, in the Legislative Council and in
private life he is sans peur et sans reproche.
Mr. Darley is an Irishman by birth,- and was
called to the Irish Bar on the Bth of January,
1853. He left hia birthplace in 1862 and was
admitted to the Bar of this colony on the 2nd
of June, 1862. Mr. Darley immediately commenced
the practice of his profession and during the past
eighteen years scarcely a case of importance has
come before* the law courts without Mr. Darley
being retained on either one side or the other.
Since his arrival in 1862 he has visited Europe on
two occasions, being warmly congratulated each
time by both Bench and Bar on his return Mr.
Darley was appointed to a seat in the Legislative
Council in September, 1868, has proved himself
a great acquisition to the Upper House, and is one
of the most attentive of its members. In April,
1879, he was created a Queen’s Counsel, and in
1879 he was elected a member of the Senate of
the University in place of the late Sir Edward
Deas-Thoropson. As a speaker Mr. Darley ranks
high. His utterances, whether at the Bar or in the
Council, command universal respect.
THE HON. P. M. BARLEY, Q.C., M.L.C.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
X.—"THE PRIEST OF SOCIETY"
Is a familiar to most of us. We are accustomed
to meet him in our daily walks or drives, and some of
us even are on familiar terms with him. As a rule, he
is a man of many friends and few enemies—polished,
educated above the greater number of men or women
with whom he associates, raised involuntarily in his own
and their estimation, and placed on a pinnacle of
greatness, which has but one drawback —he mnst stand
alone. The priest’s advice is never gainsaid; his will,
though despotic, is law; his rule absolute. When at
the altar, surrounded by all the panoply of church state,
the subtle influence of his appearance, the mystic
censers swinging so solemnly, the organ pealing
forth its volume of sacred sound, he their priest in
robes of state stands before them, yet far from them.
Speaking to them and stretching his jewelled hands
towards the mass of supplicants, he prays for them as
his children —they almost worship him. What
though he prays in an unknown tongue, he prays for
them: he stands as their mediator, through whom and
by whom their sins are absolved, and they themselves
are given a passport to Heaven. Among the poor, * His
Biverenoe' rules with power greater than that of a
crowned head. His flock worship him, and it pleases
him; but he has pdid a price for his popularity. From
his youth he has learned to subdue all inclination for the
iioeting, intoxicating pleasures of the wicked world, all
longings of the flesh, and, let us hope, all connection
with his Satanic Majesty. He has been taught from
the earliest days of his novitiate to put aside as antago-
nistic to his religion all warmer emotions than those of
love for his church and her behests, and yet stern
egotist Jas he is—his love for little children is un-
bounded ; he is always their staunch friend, seems to
know intuitively their numerous half-spoken wishes,
deals gently with their faults, gathers them round him,
loves them tenderly like a woman, kisses them
reverently, pities them sincerely, and condones their
childish sins readily, binding them to him with cords of
love. In society, the priest is almost always popular,
well read, cool in all argument, and conversing well on
most topics of the day. He is a steady diner-out
among his flock —and frequently entertains at his own
table. He is a politician, a clever talker, although
perhaps a trifle positive, the result of his living so much
within himself. When dining out, he declines to sit
over his wine with the host, but follows the ladies to
the drawing-room, where he proves himself a true
carpet knight, flattering the hostess and listening to all
the little gossip she may wish to relate, adding a little
of his own; finally, after listening with apparent de-
ference to the elderly ladies, he seats himself quite at
his own ease, and very much to his satisfaction in the
midst of a bevy of young girls with whom he is soon on
excellent terms. He knows all their secrets, makes
them blush, sigh, or laugh at will, gives them a little
advice in a fatherly manner, and finally crosses to the
piano, where he not only sings, in a well modulated
baritone, the songs of the day, but accompanies him-
self as well. Later in the evening, when he has almost
exhausted his powers of amusing, he sits down to a
steady game of whist with his host and friends. Here,
too, he shines as one who plays a part, and that is to
hold his own under all circumstances. His life is but a
successful game at cards, in which he always continues
to hold trumps, and will to the end of the game or till
life’s chapter closes.
A FICTION FOUNDED ON FACTS.
BY QUIZ.
Once upon a time, in the year of onr Lord eighteen
hundred—l cannot get any nearer the date —for aa sure
as nineteen is a number impossible to score in oribbage
so is it equally a matter of doubt what exact year the
following little story first saw light. However, if my
story is read attentively some of my clever readers may
be able to tell the precise date. Once upon a time there
lived four little boys, Matthew Mark, Luke, and John.
They had for cousins James, Paul, and Peter, not for-
getting little Mary who lived near the sea, and was the
special pet of her rich god papa; also little Trinity, who
lived near a big hill, and was a broth of a boy and no
mistake. Now Mark and his brothers separated, and
being fatherless were adopted by different parishes.
Being very young they became estranged, and while
James, Matthew, and John grew into commonplace little
boys, Mark, who had from the time of his adoption by
a rich parish been literally nursed in the lap of luxury,
began to be proud and vain-glorious, and when he grew
old enough his rich friends built him a house to live in.
They put pretty stained windows in it and added a spire
because little Mark wished it, Then they gave him a
guardian or spiritual adviser, and although the house


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Pitt-street is being doctored.
Cattle stealing is rife at Grafton.
Phe Somersetshire has reached Aden. .
A new paper is to be started at Armidale.
There are nearly 60,000 Jews in England.
Mr. R. Want returned from Europe last week.
Oak timber is rapidly disappearing in Europe.
The Colonial Bank’s dividend is six per cent.
China is blockading Macao, and has seized 17
Portuguese vessels.
Intercolonial Press messages (to N.Z. excepted)
axe in future to be charged 3s. per 100 words.
Mr. A. Winton is N.G. of the new Oddfellows’
Xodge, ‘ Glebe Union.’
Mr. Arthur Todd Holroyd still serves the
country by making bricks and tiles.
a million rabbits have up to date been
killed by the exterminators at Charlton, Victoria.
| JMessrs Goodlet and S. A. Joseph are the two
new directors of A.M.P. Society.
Melbourne Hospital is greatly overcrowded. It
ini room for 350 patients.
- Th , e at Auckland, will meet the
ironclad Raleigh at Sydney by the end of May.
John Shuttle worth, a jockey, has committed
«tu«lde at Toorak.
There has been severe fighting in Afghanistan.
■Our troops have had the beet of it.
The Right Hon. Robert Lowe is to be raised to
■the peerage.
By the P and S. (Bank failure the Victorian
•Government loses £4,000.
Archbishopaughan formally opened the new
B. C. school at Forest Lodge on Monday last.
A lady’s pocket was cut out on board the
Prince of Wales on Tuesday.
t i 3 £*»V'A a 8 contributed £27,511 ss. 6d. to the
infin lie lief Fund.
•n L^ fc o £ harterB Towers escort .brought to Towns-
ville 13,863 ounces of gold. b
The Bishop of Adelaide objects to purely
.secular education and supports coffee taverns. J
Ihe Evening News of Tuesday has a stirring
leader on the aborigines' question. J K
Zymotic diseases are veryjprevalent in Vic-
Little doubt exists that Ned Kelly was at
-Gienrowan a week or two ago. J
60,000 men annually die from the direct effects
■of drink in the United States.
r lhe waters of Lake Rotorua, N.Z., appear to
have been doing wondera of late for paralytic patients
A mail coach now runs from Cooktown to the
Palmer-over the new truck. Q W tne
° fficer 11118 been arrested while
sketching buildings near Paris.
here are forty-two prisoners in Rockhampton
° ftu «■
JS" * f ‘ ir,llOW ,or d “P««ting „„ th,
Talleyrand’s memoirs, which were
published until 40 year* after hia d<M+b w *n v* °* *'° J 3O
to the world next year d9ath * Wlll be revealed
D. M. Osborne and Co. mMiufantnw.™ v
“■S
■O«™»m.nt*o<auir ..Mbit of
at the Paris Exposition of 1878, in addition to the grand
gold medal which was received some months ago. The
same firm earned away the highest awards atfthe Sydney
Infemationai Ezhibition. ■.
The Common Council of London have rejected,
by 72 to 45, a motion for an address of congratulation to
the Czar on his escape from assassination.
Two big steamers, it is said, shortly leave
’Frisco for Australia—one for Sydney, the other for
Cooktown —with cargoes of kicked-out Chinamen.
At the Hodgkinson the Just-in-Time people
Blackmore and party) have crushed 150 tons for 518
ounces.
There are 246 Odfellows at Charters Towers.
Mr. Archibald, the Mining Registrar, is the head of the
lodge, which is a flourishing one.
The Deputy-Comptroller of Prisons and Chief
Clerk of the Department, Mr. Beverley, has been com-
mitted for trial on a charge of embezzling £lO.
William Hodquin, who died at Darlinghurst
the other day, had had 100 convictions recorded
against him.
A hurricane, with several wrecks (including
that of the whaling ship Offley, but no loss of life, is re-
ported from Hobart Town.
Last Saturday Bishop Barker laid the founda-
tion stone of the parsonage at St. John's, Ashfleld. The
new building will cost £1,750.
Several instances of extraordinary extravga-
gance on the part of the Berry Government have been
brought to light.
Our likeness of Mr. Darley is engraved from a
life-like photo, by Messrs. Newman and Co. of George-
street.
Mr. David Buchanan was in glorious spirits in the
Assembly on Wednesday evening. No doubt over the
success of his latest brochure.
Sir John Robertson was mentioned in town on
Thursday night as the probable new Minister for
Education.
Mr. John Gardyne is about to be married to
Miss Skarrott, daughter of the former proprietor of the
Royal.
Copies of minutes and correspondence in the
case of Mr. T. M. Slattery have been tabled in the As-
sembly.
There are great fears that Ninian Melville will
be elected for Northumberland and represent the miners
and —himself.
Mr. Fitzpatrick’s motion censuring the Govern-
ment was debated on Wednesday night, and rejected by
35 votes to 9.
Nearly -£l,OOO is on hand for the establishment
of a Masonic sholarship at the University. Terms of
competition will shortly be arranged.
The Sydney Rowing Club’s junior eights have a
race on the Ist May over the champion course. It is
likely to be a good contest.
2,500 copies of the International Exhibition
Certificate of Merit, printed in America for the Com-
missioners, arrive by next 'Frisco mail.
A Chinese faction fight has coma off at Albury.
It lasted several hours, and bamboos, knives, &0., were
used, but as usual nobody was much hurt.
Her Majesty the Queen cables direct to Lord
Augustus Loftus‘ Thankful for your satisfactory tele-
gram'—r» the closing of the Exhibition.
L’Estrange’s cafe is the most favourite resort of
the Newcastle b«au mends. The proprietress, an Eng-
lishwoman, is fair, fat, and forty.
At Gilberton, N.Q., robbers, presumably
Chinese, have carried |away from a store a 3001 b. iron
safe containing £7OO.
John Hurley, of Hartley, is bringing an action
for £5,000 against the City Bank for dishonoring a
cheque of his.
Melbourne shipwrights, on the occasion of the
eight-hours’ procession the other day cheered the
Premier (a free-trader) very heartily.
Silver ore assaying 8,000 ounces to the ton of
stone, besides 402 ounces of gold and other minerals, is
said to have been found at Worrel Creek, Nambucca
River, by Mr. Frank Greve.
The Service Government decline to make any
advances in official salaries. In the departments ths
Premier is considered a very uncivil Service.
The Hon. Saul Samuel, it is said, is to be Agent-
General, and Mr. John Davies Postmaster-General. It
is thought very unjust that Mr. Davies should not have
been selected for the Court of St. James'.
Mr. David Gaunson is actively canvassing votes
for the Victorian Chairmanship of Committees. Mr.
Cooper, M.L.A. (owner of the Academy of Music), is the
Government's nominee for the position.
There are a few of the Sydney manufacturers
who benefited by the International Exhibition. Koarey
Brothers sold upwards of 230 of their buggies and
obtained orders for nearly 100 additional.
There are 1,000,000 horses in Australia, New
Zealand included. In the ‘ big island ' there ore 7,250,000
homed cattle; the number in New Zealand is not known.
The number of pigs in Australia is computed at 815,000.
The memoirs of Prince Metternich, the cele-
brated Austrian statesman of 60 years back, are now
Snblished. They are creating a furon in political and
terary circles at “home,"
Mrs. Grant, aunt of Mr. Dewar, who with his
wife was murdered in Dunedin, declares that she wit-
nessed his nssassiaation in a dream, and that Butler
(who has been tried and acquitted) was the murderer.
It is calculated that there are in Q.ueenelottd
6,000,000 sheep and 2,000,000 cattle, which, after allow-
ing for home consumption, would permit of a weekly
export of 2,000 tons of meat.
Dan King, the Chinaman sentenced to death
for the murder of Lizzie Hart, at Tamworth. now lives
as well as the gaol regulations permit, but doesn't take
kindly to Christianity.
Mr. Angus Cameron dines with Mr. Hoskins
next Sunday evening. The Minister has taken for the
occasion one of hie old apartments in Sussex-street—
‘ Beds at all hours.'
Mr. Herbert Brown, M.P. for the Paterson, has
refused the contract for the supply of ponies for the
Telegraphic Department. He says: ‘lf however, they
should run short I don’t mind, Ac.
Mr. Tom Garrett paid a visit recently to Joadja
Creek, and looked over the locality. It is said to be
valuably auriferous. Everything has been settled to
the satisfaction of all concerned.
The two or three aspirants for the office of
Minister for Education are anxious, we hear, to know
how much they are to receive out of the £l5OO, how
much is to be contributed, and to whom is the contribu-
tion to be paid,
Mr. S. H. Terry is expecting something i i ths
reconstruction of the Ministry. At least. Sir Henry
throws out dark hints ; you can't call them promises
for the Premier makes none now."
It is rumoured that Mr. William Teece M P
for Goulburn, is anxious for an appointment as forest
ranger at £3OO a year. He might long since have been
appointed assistant Parliamentary librarian on the
recommendation of M'Elhone.
At a public meeting last Monday night resolu-
te were carried to the effect that it was uudesir-
able to allow Chinamen to land in this colony, and that
steps should be taken to make the Chinese question a
test at the next election.
Butler, who was charged with but acquitted of
v f Mr -* n ? M f s ; Bewar, at Dunedin, recently
visited the choir of a local church, song a couple of solos 7
and stole two pieces of sacred music, which wore found
in his possession when arrested.
3A Ballarat hotelkeep-r who had failed to ke*n
hou “ a cleur o' th. crowd of shori-
brokers by ttio mscnpti m ‘ W.t Paint* ha, no* had
wa.er pipes terminating in a ‘rvse* laid oa. Whin
the doorway is blocked a tap is turned on. Those who
saw the first experiment were divided into the people
who admired the 'ingenuity of the scheme and those
who swore and wrung their clothes.
According to the Ashbueton (N.Z.) Mail
about a hundred volunteers, in uniform, from Dunedin
and Christchurch, recently rushed an Ashburton fruit
shop and completely sacked it, carrying off in triumph
about £8 worth of goods. A foraging party, no doubt.
Phil Saunders, the well-known Northern pros-
pector, says that Port Darwin alluvial is worked out,
and that the reefs are not what they should be. Ten
out of twelve machines have been idle for two years.
M’Leod has been prospecting without success.
James Ilamblj and John Humphries, two nav-
vies, were terribly injured near Tam worth on the 20th
instant, owing to the unexpected explosion of a charge
of dynamite to which a defective fuse had been ap-
plied.
Among Victorian State school teachers absence
on account of illness has been so common that the
Minister now intimates that teachers frequently inco-
pacitated by sickness for the efficient discharge of duty
will be regarded as disqualified for advancement.
John Wood-Geeeon, a station hand, picked up
an old copy of the Victorian Government Gazette the
other day, and discovered that he had succeeded to a
very big Lincolnshire property. He is now on his way
to England.
Mr. Christopher Bennett, brother of the late
proprietor of the Evening News, a gentleman of 80
summers, is about to enter the bonds of wedlock again.
We didn’t think in was in the old buffer. Poor * What
you-do-boy !*
Mrs. James A. Hogue, wife of the talented
sub-editor of the Evening News, presented her hus-
band with twins during the week. It is to be hoped
the Newcastle wire has not been silent. Last time our
friend got a hundred congratulatory telegrams.
The averages for six years in the Australasian
colonies of illegitimate births to each 100 children horn
are as follow : —Victoria, 3.38; New South Wales, 4.14 ;
Queensland, 3.11; New Zealand, 1.68. In England and
Wales the per-cextage is 5.1, in Scotland, 8.9, and in
Ireland only 2.1.
Thirty-two persons have died from diphtheria
at Hamilton (Vic.) in 12 months. Of these two wore
adults. Eight of the deaths, including that of Arch-
deacon Inns, are clearly shown to have arisen from the
victims having travelled, in the company of an infected
child, to a picnic on Easter Monday.
P. and O. boats, according to Thursday’s
Twaddlegraph, now ascend the Murray and land the
mails at Albnry ‘ from Qalle, Western Australia.’ Says
the paper named; —‘ The P. and O. Company's steamer
Malwar arrived at Albnry from Galle (W.A.) at 6.15 a.m.
yesterday.' Hooray!
Mr. Jamieson, of Prince, Ogg, and Co., intend 8
shortly addressing the citizens of Sydney three or four
nights in succession in behalf of the charitable institu-
tions. Mr. Skarratt will take the chair. The fact is
we 'want ‘more Jamiesons and more Skarratts. They
are jolly good fellows.
It has been understood in political circles for
some days that Mr. Eamell will shortly take down his
signboard in George-street, which is tied up with a piece
of string, and instead of occupying a second floor in
George-street, take a more comfortable position in a
Ministerial department.
Mr. Thomas Wyon, of Mr. Haddock’s circulat-
ing library, who has been appointed Assistant Parlia-
mentary Librarian, waa last week presented with
cheque for thirty guineas by the subscribers to Mr.
Haddock’s library as a mark of their esteem for
his personal character.
Mr. W. Neill, of the City Bank, one of our most
popular bank managers and citizens, has, we under-
stand, been appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer for
this colony. It is said that he receives all the screws
of certain high officials on the first of the month, and
divides them on the second.
Last Saturday an aged deaf man named Richard-
son, who had just been discharged from Parramatta
Asylum, was knocked down and almost cut in two by
a tramway motor in Elizabeth-street. The jury re-
turned a verdict of accidental death, hut considered
that a good and constant look-ont should he kept from
a more prominent part of the engine.
Mr. Gilbert Selfe, the well-known chemist, of
Oxford-street, was awarded at the Sydney International
Exhibition a prize modal for pnrity and excellence of
quality of medicines." Mr. Selfe, it may be mentioned,
was some time ago awarded a similar distinction by the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, of which’he is
a member.
Charley Rodgers, one of the original prospectors
of Woolgar, says that the field ie not a rich one, though
experienced should Queensland miners do fairly on it.
The majority of men are doing nothing; scores are
leaving; nobody has got payable gold while prospecting
around ; and water ie scarce. Rations are reasonable,
and brandy is 14s. per bottle.
An excellent variety entertainment was given at
Manly on Monday night last by Mr. J. Summers, band-
mrster of the Manly Alliance and Balmain Alliance
Brass Bands, in aid of the former, and was a great suc-
cess. Messrs. Summers, Gray, Holmes, and Heiring
distinguished themselves in their parts. A steamer
left Sydney to convey patrons to the concert and re-
turned after it was over.
We have received the annual Victorian mining
report, a comprehensive and valuable publication. In
Victoria there are now 37,553 miners—4l2,76o alluvial and
14,784 quartz. Therelare nineteen shafts considerably
over 1000 feet deep. The Magdala, Stawell. was at latest
dates 2,273 ft.; the Newington, 1,940; the Prince Patrick,
1,730; Prince Alfred, Stawell, 1,544; and Lansell’s No.
180, Sandhurst, 1,476.
Mr. |Andrew Lynch is not at all particular.
When he wants anything done he stays away. ‘ Hallo,’
says the Government. ‘ What’s up with Andy Lynch f
And then they go to him and say, ‘ Here, we want your
vote to-night.’ * Och, what’s the use of yer talkin' to a
man in his sober sinses like that? Don’t you know
I want that bridge agin me own door ?’ ‘ Oh, well,
you’ll have the bridge,’ says the Government. ‘ Very
well, then,’ remarks the legislator, ‘ and which way am
I to vote ?’
There was a most fashionable choral service at
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, last Sunday evening. The
attendance was large and included the leading families
residing in that aristocratic quarter. The ladies of
Darling Point are very pious. They attend church in
large numbers; yet are very pretty and very jolly. It
will please the residents of Darling Point to
learn that we have secured the services of two fair
correspondents in that locality.
Is the new building Act already a dead letter ?
asks a correspondent. In one of the suburbs not 100
miles from Surry Hills, a Civil Servant is getting'two
tenements built on an allotment 25 x5l feet. Our
correspondent would like to see the owner of this
precious property living in one of the mansions to be
built at the front or rear of his amozing allotment. A
short residence in any of them might have the effect of
restraining his Paphian proclivities—so far as this
world is concerned.
A young fellow from Auckland who had been
in 4very colony and tried every occupation without
success the other day robbed a native woman in Samoa
of ss. He was sentenced to six months’ servitude, and
in the company of some niggers was set to work blast-
ing a coral reef. He got tired, and didn’t like being
guarded by a native policeman, so he walked up to the
latter, took his gun from him, and made biTn exchange
employments. But the Commissioner came along,
foand the scapegrace doing “ sentry go," and gave him
three months in the “ stone jug.”
Ihe Animals’ Protection Society offers a series
of prizes on ‘Man’s duty towards animals’ —to be
competed for respectively by pupil teachers and
scholars of public and private schools in New South
Wales. The pupil teachers’ prizes are of the respective
value of £5, £3, and £2 ; those offered to scholars (who
must be neither under twelve nor over sixteen, are £i
£3, and £1 in value. Essays ore to be sent to Mr. J'
Sidney, 53 Elizabe h-etreet, not later thin Ist July,
fend must bo certified as bomi-dde by head teachers.
The new British Ministry Treasury and Ex-
chequer, Gladstone; Chancellor, Selborn* ; President
of Council, Spencer; Privy Seal, Argyll; Home 80.
partmont, Harcourt; Foreign, Granville; Colonies
Kimberley: War, Childers ; Ireland, Forster: Indu’
Hartington; Admiralty, Northbrook; Lancaster’
Bright; Works, Adam; Secretary to Admiralty, Shaw’
Lefevre; Foreign Under-Secretary, Dilke. Eleven
of Gladstone's old colleagues have thus joined hijn
again.
In another column appears an advertisement
relative to Goundry’s Consolidated Tea, an article that
is finding its way into every well-regulated household
here and elsewhere. The facts about this consolidated
tea are very simple and patent. The leaf of the tea
plant is subjected by special machinery to au enormous
pressure, which has the effect of opening all the minut*
cells in the leaf. These cells contain the vital properties
of the leaf and hence it is that a very small portion of
those properties axe extracted when the leaf is used in
the ordinary way. Practical scientific tests prove that
by compressing the leaf all the aroma and strength,
giving properties are completely extracted, and hence
it is that a much better and more enjoyable beverage j g
made from the consolidated article, even when over
a third less is used. This test has been made to
our satisfaction and it can he made tothat of any other
persons. There is no doubt that once used, this article
would always he {preferred. The wholesale agents
are Messrs. Taylor and Co., Pitt-street.
On Friday morning last, between ten and
eleven o’clock, there was a splendid exhibition of the
"noble art” in Hyde Park, opposite the Royal Hyd e
Park Hotel. Two woll-kuown pugilists, stripped to the
waist, knocked each other about in a highly scientific
manner in the presence of a oouple of spec-
tators. Everyone who passed near the scene of the
combat stopped to look, and at was quite evident that
whatever may be the law on the subject of prize-fighting
and whatever may be “public opinion" on the] same
question, the majority men are not at all
averse to a display of the kind conducted in the orthodox
way. On the occasion referred to there were seconds
bottle-holders, bottles, and, in fact, everything complete
with the exception of a ring. However, the deficiency
in this regard will no doubt be supplied next time, for
no police appeared, and it was not until the glitter of a, 1
solitary inoffensive transit officer’s cap-peak was ob. J
sewed in the shadowy distance by those who, in the J
language of our sohool-boy days, were “ keeping cave,”
that the company dispersed, after prtiasantly spending
three-quarters of an hour. The Affair was apparently
* bossed ’ by a well-dressed man, who kept time and
seemed to understand his business thoroughly.
* Friends,’ as those who bare seen the agreeable
performance given by Mr. Garner’s company,
will know, is a comedy, hut a piece with
pretty nearly the same plot was performed the
other night in King-street, Sydney, in so lively and
realistic a manner that comedy was changed to
tragedy. A certain foreign tradesman has a pretty
wife, and with this fair creature an officer belonging to
a foreign man-of-war in harbour fell desperately in love.
The husband watched, heard and observed, but said
nothing. He announced to the wife of his bosom that
he had received a telegram summoning him to New.
castle on urgent business, and that he’d probably not
be back for a couple of days. The lady was of course
much|distressed by ‘this informations,’ but she bore up
against her grief. Her lord left his premises in time
to catch the II p.m. boat to Newcastle. He waited a
while, and then, doubling on his tracks, went home and
obtained ingress through a grating which he had left
open in view of certain contingencies. To make a long
story short, there was shortly afterwards such a row
on the premises that those who heard it thought that
someone was being made into sausages. A Frenchman
has since the husband's return had his wounds dressed
at the Infirmary.
It is said that tbe late Dr. Moore, of New
Norfolk, Tasmania, only lost six out of 276 diptheria
cases treated by him as under; —
Emetic.
Powdered Ipecacuanha, 10 to 15 grains, according to
age; Tartar Emetic, Ito 10 grains. Mix.
Mixture.
Tincture of Muriate of Iron, Joz.; water, Boz. Mix
and take one or two tablespoonsful 3 or 4 times a day,
according to age.
Thb Garole.
Beaufoy’s Concentrated Solution of Chloride of Soda,
twenty drops to one ounce of water; make a six ounce
garble. Apply with a mop, 3or 4 times a day.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
"Foe I AM NOTHING IE NOT CBITICAL.”-
-"Othello.”
Notices Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members or the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
, We shall at all times be glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
It is an evidence of the excellence of the acting and
of the general representation when a piece like ‘Never
too Late to Mend'—interesting enough in its way—
which, though highly sensational, has often been pro,
duced here for a few evenings at a time, has continued
its attractions uninterrupt ed for five weeks. Though
we might naturally des ire to see Mr. Dampier
in characters better suited to his talents, yet ths
management is not wrong in gauging the public taste
for a piece which can be made successful by excellence
of performance; and Mr. Dampier throws all possible
life and animation into the character of the erring but
repentant Tom Robinson. The George Fielding of Mr.
Sefton is a well-represented, manly character, delineated
with fidelity. We have seldom seen a better imitation
of the Australian aboriginal than that given by Mr H.
Leston, and but very slightly overdrawn in point
of conversation; the peculiar gait, erect, though
unmilitary, position, the gestures and expressions are
all the result of study ; and Mr. Leston keeps up the
fun of the piece to the end. Mr. J. J. Welsh is also
good as the sneaking Peter Crawley ; and Mr. E. Hollo-
way (John Meadows) is always up to his work. Little
Lily Dampier plays with unaffected simplicity as the
boy Josephs; Miss Alice Deorwyn acta naturally as
Susan. The scene of the waterfall at eve, by moonlight,
and under the lovely tints of early morning—its gushing’
water (in ample quantity) sparkling like diamonds and
leaping irom rock to rook into the gully beneath—is as
pretty a scene as we remember to have witnessed in such
a drama, and deserving great praise for the artist, whose
name is not in the bill.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
Only on Boxing Night, and scarcely ever since, has
such a crowd been seen in a theatre as thronged the
Victoria on Saturday last to witness the first production
of ‘ New Babylon.' Long before the performane com-
menced there was no standing room, all the avenues
being tilled, and the border of the stage itself having
occupants. The immense success of the piece in Lon-
don, and the thorough ventilation industriously given
it here, contributed to the result; but the very large
audiences on the other evenings were attracted by the
tongue of good report, the excellence of the piece
itself, and the superiority of the mounting: more es-
pecially as the slight defects incidental to the opening
night of a piece of such magnitude, as regards incidents
and scenic effects, have all been overcome, and every-
thing already works so smothly as to ensure for it a
long career of success.
In our last issue we gave so ample an outline of the
plot of -New Babylon' that we need here touch only
on the few details necessary to fill up the breaks in the
narrative.
The early history of Mr. Moltby, the faithlessness of
his wife, the depositing child in the Frioadling
belonged to little Mark, the guardian, who was called
Saint * Tomaso Loyala,' ruled for him. So Mark grew
under the loving charge of his spiritual adviser, who
fairly spoilt him because it gave him more power. Did
little Mark cry for a costly altar cloth, or chalice, or
crucible, or bells, or a new reredos —for little Mark was
•of a very high church tone of mind even in play—then
would his kind guardian * Saint Tomaso’ go among the
rich people, and with gentle pleading and much earnest
•exhorting make known the wishes of his little Mark ;
and being well favored in person and gifted with an
■eloquent tongue he generally contrived to return to
Mark with the toys or the money for them in his
pocket. So it came to pass when Mark was thirty-two
he hod gathered many friends to himself, and at his
weekly ‘ at-homes’—which (D.V.) took place every Sun-
day—his little house was crowded almost to suffocation.
At these re-nnions ‘Saint Tomaso’ always addressed
Mark’s friends, and improved the occasion in many
ways. So on the eve of Mark’s thirty-second birthday
Saint Tomaso said, ‘ I have now been sixteen years your
faithful servant; let ns keep this birthday, so that the
world may be cognizant of the fast that I have held the
keys of my dear Mark's house for so many years.’ And
Mark responded very properly in the following words :
—‘Friend of my youth, guide of my manhood, and
.guardian of my home, it shall be as you wish.’ So Saint
Tomaso, well pleased, sent out his invitations. The
guests were all more or less chosen from the rich mag-
nates of the land. First on the list was Lord and Lady
Highty Tighty and family, and their satellite good Sir
Slubber-Touch—knighted on account of his unwavering
■servility to Sir Highty Tighty—and many more too
numerous to mention, although doubtless more de-
serving. No sooner did the lovely daughters living
round Mark's home hear of the ' fete’ than they picked
*ll the flowers in their rich if not noble papas’ gardens,
and ran with their floral offerings to decorate the house
■of their dear Mark, where they were received by Saint
Tomaso, who liked them all and accepted their offering
as though they meant it for him—and probably they
■did. Now, on the auspicious morning Mark set all his
hells ringing right merrily, had his doors thrown open
wide to welcome all his friends, and soon his house was
full. Good Sir Slubber-Touch with a sunflower in his
button-hole thought it not derogatory, but quite in
keeping with his servile character, to act as doorkeeper
for his dear friend Mark, but among all the guests there
was no space left for Mark’s poorer brethren, not even
for little Mary. The boys, James and John and sturdy
Trinity, were not aristocratic enough, being only city
people; and little Mary’s god-papa was so inconveniently
tall, and although very quiet in speech and demeanour,
Saint Tomaso knew well that if that tall church dig-
nitary put in an appearance and began to speak, his own
flowery pipe would never be listened to. So they kept
high festival without Mark's poor relations. Saint
Tomaso got all the adulation and fulsome flattery he
longed for, and after much singing and some discoursing
Mark's birthday came to an end. Saint Tomaso and
Sir Slubber-Touch both stood at Mark’s portals to speed
bhe parting guests, and Sir Slubber-Touch linked his
Arm with Saint Loyala, and together they disappeared.


~ 1 t Xie birth of another daughter of Mrs. Maltby
Hospita > . mer j CR> Q f whom her husband’s treasured
(Eunice) father; the scene at the New York
f nen /L “ and the simultaneous robbing of
Sufcv’s bonds (by O’Sligo’s confederate)—are all mat-
cf explanation during the first and subsequently
ters 01 rpfog prologue is in the saloon of the mail
scenes. . _ t jje Atlantic, where we meet the prin-
stea™c rncters —p] ec k Flotsam (Mr. Bland Holt) being
eipalcn gang of swindlers (also on board) of
Ramarez Vincent) is the chief), armed with
whicu or jty to obtain the aid of the London police in
due an nre Then comes the collision :it has evi-
theu" I viUn foggy, for the fog-horn sounds—the looming
( larce body close at hand—the hoarse calls—the
°l ? k gjTthe lowering of boats—the heaving of the
s Vs—the struggling of (human forms —and ns the
UAing ship with its rows of lighted portholes, its
001 Wnm funnels, its masts and sails, crosses the scene
Sn f°he ill-fated Antarctic settling is down beneath the
i tless sea —up rises the scene. We have no hesitation
•a vine that a finer sea-scene has never been pre-
-111 fpd and never has a better hit of scenic canvas been
Planted on tbe stage than Mr. Ssright’s painting of
fsfmaieGic steamship on the Atlantic.
1 »(tor an interior scene at Mr. Maltby’s home, where
axe introduced to Mr. Maltby (Mr. S. Whyte);
Modse (Miss L. Wiseman); Dora Sparks, her wealthy
friend (Miss Edouin); the simple-Cymon lover of
flutter Mr. Lamb (Mr. St. Vincent); Edgar Laza-
Vck (Mr.’j- L. Hall) ; and O’Sligo (Mr. Douglas)—who
rue to Maltby’s on business; Broughton Sulney,
Madge's unheeded and very stagy admirer (Mr. Hodg-
who is of course abitter rival of Vincent Vayue,
Madge’s favoured lover—and Jack Randall (Mr. Jordan)
Maltby’s confidential clerk.
We are next taken to Tattersall’s, a very lively and
well-managed scene —with the well-known cupola and
auctioneer’s box. A number of buyers, racing men and
others are here assembled, and the incidents of the
Sramn are further unravelled. Horses are sold by auc-
SoT, amongst them tw lovely little ponies which are
P-ocked down to the celebrated belle of the London
demi-monde Bell Lorimer (Miss Myra Kemble) for a
hundred guineas. Here, too, we meet Tiny Spnrts, the
» ocke y (Mr. Mewry), who is to ride Vnns’s horse for
wick is a pretty little front set with movable windows.
Here Mr. Tolano -gives us a capital rendering of the
Chinese servant, Ah Luck, whom Maltby has placed in
charge ; and then to Cremorne, with its hundreds of
lights in the dancing saloon, private boxes at the sides,
orchestra on the stage,—a brilliant but terrible scone,
with its ‘ soiled doves ’ ane other concomitants of ‘ a
night ’ at this famous place of the orgies of
• New Babylon,’ hut now done away with. Here of
course some of the main incidents of the drama are
worked out; bnt this part might be very much con-
densed with advantage to the piece, already over long;
it includes an excellent scene for Belle Lorimer—
capitally acted by Miss Kemble, with great feeling and
exprsssion (in a part of which she was nearly spoiled by
the injudicious exaggeration of Mr. St. Lawrence) in
which she is cast off by Vayne ; and a splendid finally
of the attempted arrest of Ramarez by Flotsam, a sitn-
tion after the manner of that with Hawkehaw in the
Ticket-of-Leave Man.’
In the next act we have again Eunice’s cottage, and a
capital and unlooked for situation, in which Ramarez
having discovered his wife here is using violence to her
when, in pursuit of her as she is escaping, is suddenly
confronted by Ah Lack, who has ‘ a down’ on all
‘Melican men.’ John destroys all the goods of the
supposed pedlar, except the picture of the Queen, who
hoi been ‘ welly good’ to John Chinaman.
Then (Goodwood on the cup day) another capitally
painted and arranged scene. The stand, the sad-
filing paddock, the crowds of spectators, tha racing,
small horses in the distance, increasing in size as they
advance. Here, however, an improvement might be
effected by keeping the imitation horses in the distance,
and letting three or four real horses he led by their
grooms and jockeys through to the weighing stand,
where the culprit jockey might he seized. Further in-
cidents in the plot are here evolved; and as Belle Lori-
mer is rejoicing in the ruin of Yayne, Madge springs for-
ward to his rescue with her fortune, in the saddling
paddock of the Goodwood race-course.
The double scene of Maltby’s office with its electric
telegraph, and the adjoining office of ‘ The Firm,’ and
their pass-word ‘ Rmnbo.’ The discovery of the gang
that the ‘ Swindler’ —as they call Maltby—has taken
everything, is unique in its way. Maltby’s first wife
returns as * Aunt Crazy, an Outcast’ (Miss Julia Mer-
ton) , and tells Madge that she is necessarily illegitimate,
her father having had no right to marry again—a well-
acted scene.
Then oomes the robbery and attempted murder of
Maltby at his private house, and the commencing of
the telegram by the wounded man who erroneously im-
putes the deed to JackEandall; the latter has j ust left him
in anger at being offered money to marry Eunice, whom
he dearly loves, but falsely imagines to he Malthy’s mis-
tress. The telegram having stopped at ‘ Attacked by
John Ea—,’ Flotsam at once takes it to be Jack Ramarez.
In the old rookery of the thieves’ den in ‘ Seven
Dials,’ London, in the last act, the piece is wound up
with all the necessary explanations. Bella Lorimer
visiting the dying Spurts is mistaken for Eunice by
Ramarez, who is (with his brother blackguards) over-
come h y Flotsam, whose make-up as the vagabond
song-seller is thoioughly artistic. The settling of this
scene is perhaps one of the most difficult in the play.
Several of the characters were admirerbly imper-
sonated. Miss Julia Merton has the most repulsive
character in the drama, but it was represented to perfeo-
tion. We do not remember seeing anything more
natural or less over-acted, and Miss Merton well de-
served the two rounds of applause she obtained in
open scene. Miss Kemble was equally successful in
two very difficult characters—one unquestionably
equivocal". In four scenes she was especially con-
spicuous by her excellent acting, as Eunice in her inter-
views with her abandoned mother and her villainous
(supposed) husband, Ramarez (who had another wife
living when he married her), and, as Bella Lorimer, in
the scenes where she is castoff by Vayne, and in her
straggles with Ramarez at the crib, when he mistakes
her for Eunice. Mr. Bland Holt, Mr. Vincent, and
Mr. J. L. Hall were all three admirable—Mr. Vincent
keeping up the Spanish character without ranting.
Mr. Emmett, Mr. Whyte, Mr. Douglas, Mr. Tolano,
Mr. Mowry, and Mies Wiseman, were also well up in
their parts, and acted effectively; but we shall have
abundant opportunity to speak of the representation
more in detail than we have space for at present. The
scenic artists and stage mechanician surely deserve a
place in the general mention.
THEATRE ROYAL.
After six weeks’ constant intimacy with our ‘ Friends
at this theatre they have left tie, and given us ‘ Blow for
Blow' in their stead. It is a well-worn sensational
drama, by Byron, taken from a novel by Edmund Yates.
It has been played here often enough without exciting
any particular attention ; hut the interest of the present
version lies in the excellence of the representation,
though perhaps lees perfect than the first production of
the company. Any other company, less excellent in the
general acting, the dressing, the appropriateness of the
scenery, and the thorough completeness of the minute
details, playing the piece with the measured slowness
of the present representation, would make a failure of
u- It is full of incongruities and absurdities which
would prevent its support by those who are not usually
interested in the sensational drama, it it were not for
the admirable acting of some of the principals. Mr.
George Ward, with a character so utterly despicable as
that of John Drummond, so opposite a figure to that of
the genial doctor in ‘ Friends,’ shows himself to be
a more thorough and more finished actor even than
m his previous impersonation, because tbe part is far
more difficult. The drunken scene in Sir Harry Lin-
den s study is perfect, and the finale with the sudden
cunning consciousness is a fine artistic study.
A ll -Marshall as Charley Spraggs is simply immeuse;
ana whenever he is on the stage the merriment infused
the audience is spontanoons and uncontrollable.
*v“is fact alone is due the prominence given to the
naer current comic element that has but little connec-
-1 'he plot, and which is drawn out to an undue
iVK * n * PSR R ht e hands would bo unendurable.
i ss Craddock’s junior clerk with his bounce and
Istt v' combativeueas, his ‘ biceps’ andhis ’easiness,’
as th Bervant w h° wins a sweepstakes prize,
hut 6 hr-hmdp'l fox-hunting squire, put upon a pedestal
■1 Jr during a cropper—or as the itinerant player of the
-estcu German flageolet, with his sepulchral ‘Wot’s
1 : r „. n hreakiu’ ’art, Kitty?’—Mr. Marshall is the
of th act ’ never for a moment losing the identity
.‘r character he represent s. A column of quotations
thov 1 16 Tnßr ‘ e °‘ his sayings—not necessarily because
un it, arp I ho hook —that would be in the author’s
86 out from Mr. Marshall’s manner of saying them
Mr. Marshall is ably seconded by Miss Annie Taylor
as Kitty Wobbler, servant and seamstress, and Char-
ley’s forgiving sweetheart, a jolly girl, represented to
the life.
The Doctor Grace of Mr. Shepherd is also a well
acted character; bnt the gentleman got into a little
awkward ‘ muddle ’ in one sentence, against which he
should caution himself. Miss Stammers is better as
Alice Petherick than as Mrs. Dawson in ‘ Friends.’
The rest of the impersonations require no comment.
Each scene is perfect in the setting ; the appearance
of reality is more marked than anything we have seen
among other theatres in the colonies. What an advan-
tage are the boxed-in scones over those with openings at
the wings and ceiling; they realise the situation.
CONCERT AT PETERSHAM.
All the small suburban hamlets by which Sydney is
surrounded are beginning to add their quota to the
rapidly increasing accumulation of musical knowledge
amongst the community, and with the increase of
knowledge comes also the desire for greater advance-
ment. The residence in Petersham of the energetic
vocal teacher, Mr. J. C. Fisher, has already produced
good fruits and given an impetus to the musical taste
of the district displayed in the foundation of a very
steady little musical society whose working bees gave
their first concert on Tuesday evening at the School
Hall. The members wisely restricted their efforts to
music which they could execute successfully; and under
the conduct of Mr. Pisher, a number of well-known
glees and choruses were sung with great precision as
regards time and tune, and in very marked attention to
light and shade. Amongst them we noticed particularly
• Oft when night ’ (De Call) for male voices, Stevenson’s
‘ Ye spotted snakes,’ and Bishop’s * Chough and crow,’
in which the solos were also well rendered. The chorus
numbers about sixty voices. Some of the solos were
very meritorious. Miss Emma Fisher played a pianoforte
solo with considerable expression, and also acted as
accompanyist.
As the officers of the society are all well-known local
residents, it cannot fail to bo successful; and too much
encouragement cannot he given to such praiseworthy
efforts of amateurs.
MONSIEUR JULES MEILHAN.
The musical dilettanti of Sydney will regret to learn
that failing health and the necessity for a change of
climate will deprive Sydney of one of its most accom-
plished and most refined musicians and teachers, M.
Jules Meilhan, who is about leaving for Europe. Pre-
vious to his departure a complimentary concert will he
given for him as a souvenir of his residence here by
his many friends and confreres. M. Meilhan had just
completed some valuable vocal and orchestral compo-
sitions which were to have been given in public hut for
the severe illness which has almost deprived him of the
power of labour for some months past. Musical disci-
ples will lose in M. Meilhan a most conscientious
master.
CRITIC.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Mr. Creswick has loft Melbourne for England,
Simonson’s Froliqnos are showing still in
Hobart Town. They are doing a good business.
Madame Sibly is “ phronologising ’ in the
western district of Victoria,
McLean’s Juvenile Troubadours opened at the
Royal, Hobart Town, on tha 20th.
Williamsons are doing troll in Adelaide in
‘ Struck Oil.’
The “ Children’s Pinafore,” under Mrs. Lewis’
management at the Bijou Theatre, is a grand success.
Mr. G. Yerdi has left the Lyster Opera Com-
pany. He counts his conquests by thousands.
Signora Boema will be the star of a new opera
company about to be formed by Lyster.
Mr. John Warner, the ‘ Ezra Lazareok’ of the
Duka’s Theatre, London, is a native of Sydney.
Ella Carrington’s Stray Leaves Company is
playing at the School of Arts, Brisbane.
George Darrell is playing at Brisbane. ‘ Back
from the Grave’ is the piece de resistance.
Wilson’s circus ai’rives at Melbourne in
October.
It is said that Lyster’s Opera Company is
broken up. Rose Hersee is going home.
Madame Arabella Goddard has retired from
public life, and devoted herself exclusively to tuition.
Boucicault is arranging for the debut of bis
son in ‘ Hamlet ’ at Boston.
Mr. J. B. Steele has joined tbe Arethusa Com-
pany in Christchurch.
A London paper says Mr. Bancroft has, during
his management of the Prince of Wales Theatre,
amassed £70,000.
Nothing caused J. E. Kitts more pain than to
see people wearing ulsters during the late sultry
weather.
Woodyoar’a (late Burton’s) Circus is performing
at Richmond. The local Agricultural Show is being
held.
Bland Holt smiles blandly at the success of
* New Babylon.’ and because the public does not say,
‘Holt, enough !* «
As Sir Giles Overreach, in ‘ A new way to pay
Old Debts,’ at the Bijou Theatre, Melbourne, Mr. Cres-
wick made a palpable hit.
Mdlle. Olga Duboin, the Russian pianiste, has
left Sydney for Brisbane (where she will give concerts),
en route for Batavia.
Maskelyne and Cooke’s new entertainment at
the Egyptian Hall, London, is so successful that they
have to give ten performances a week.
Mr. Harry Bennett is writing a play. They
say that after all Harry’s not much ‘ on the write,’ but
he occasionly comes in very extensively with his left.
The Carandini season" terminated at Christ-
church on April 12, when Madame took her benefit and
had a good house.
The Maploson Opera Company number 269 all
told and travelled through the States in eleven specially
fitted palace Pullman ears.
Le Clair, tbe female impersonator, is jealous of
Hawkins the Christy with a high soprano, and tedd
Sarony ‘ ho ought to be ashamed of himself for fixing
that hussey’s veil.’
Mr. and Mrs. E. Hart, of “Happy Home”
fame, were to commence a short season at the Princess
Theatre, Dunedin, and were to be succeeded by Simon-
son’s Proliques.
Cheevers and Kennedy have organised a com-
pany for the N.Z. provinces, including Mrs. Cheevers,
Miss Maggie Liddle (Mrs. Fred. Hilton), with Charles
Lewis as pianist.
J. H. Rainford, of the Victoria Theatre, has
taken the Cambridge Club Hotel. ‘ Good night, old
hoy, and thanks.’ In the words of Macbeth (slightly
altered, he says, ‘ Had I four hands I’d serve thee.’
Mr. Arthur Daaro, who is creating such a
favourable impression at the Court Theatre. London,
prior to taking to the stage was for seven years at Guy’s
Hospital and took his M.D. degree at Aberdeen.
The commemeration of tbe 100th consecutive
performance of ‘the Merchant of Venice’ at the Lyceum,
by Mr. Henry Irving, was celebrated on the 14th by a
grand banquet. Most of the^ljterary.celebrities of the
day were present thereat.
Fanny Kemble (Mrs. Butler) was recently
asked the Mr Baroness Burdett-Coutts what she thought
of Mr. Irving’s Hamlet. ‘ln my opinion,’ was the
answer, ‘ if Shakespeare could see it, he would rewrite
the part.’
Professor Pepper has been prevented by the
police from taking money at the door of St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne, on Sunday evening. The Professor
had to satisfy himself with a collection—a small one,
too.
Mr. Lyster is organising an opera bouffo com-
pany. Miss Elsa May, a new artiste (Mrs. Fairckmgh),
is to be the prima donna : she is said to bare a splendid
voice. Her real name is Emily Thompson. She is a
native of Melbourne.
The Murielle Opera Bouffo Company have come
to grief at Cromwell, N.Z. Tbe troupe have quarrelled,
but Mdlle. Murielle says she intends to re-appear * with
a strong combination from the English and Italian
opera companies of Melbourne and Sydney.’
The Yaidis sisters, in company with their
mother and Mr. Leamy (at one time part proprietor of
tbe Froliqnos’ show) wont to England, under assumed
names, by the Garonne. As already stated, ono of the
girls a little while ago ran away from the troupe and
got married. She has, however, left her husband
behind.
A certain well-known tragedian is said to bo the
author of ‘The Scalpel,’ a series of printed slips very
warmly attacking Dr. Neild, the theatrical critic of the
Australasian, whole noma de phi me have been Jaques,
Tahite—anagram for Hattie (Shepherd), a great favorite
of his—Andante, Ac., Ac.
Old Kohler has left Sydney for China. He has
taken with him a lot of posters printed in Chinese and
translated into that celostially-heathenish language by
a Qeorge-street Mongolian. The latter now wears the
smile that is ‘ child-like and bland.’ He says that he’s
taken a rise out of Dick, and that the posters will an-
nounce tojthe Chinese world that the musical-glass man
is no good. The Chinese libel law is understood to be a
peculiar one. All same, welly good, Johnny.
For theatre goers, here is a line of news. Mrs.
Spencer, as may be seen from an advertisement, has
introduced a new feature in connection with her
popular Victoria Luncheon Rooms. Suppers may be
ordered to be delivered or taken away after the theatre
is over. No doubt this will be a boon in these days of
servant galism, and will moat with pretty general ac-
ceptance. It ought to be pointed out that this restau-
rant is conducted on principles that must give the
greatest satisfaction. At Waterloo there are fine
gardens, poultry yards, etc. where first-class articles for
the tables of tha restaurant are procured, The enter-
prising proprietress deserves all her present success.
Says the Saw Francisco Nnwa Lwtthb ;
* Mrs. Soott-Siddons gave a reading at the Ashury
University, Greencastlo, Ind,, for the benefit of the
institution. She wore a handsome evening dress, and
as low at the neck as is ordinarily worn. On the fol-
lowing morning she attended the religious services, and
was vehemently prayed for by a professor, who described
her dress to Providence as disgraceful to herself and
insulting to the audience. What do you think of this
preacher, who takes D. P. in a corner as it were, and
quietly tells D. P. all about Mrs. Soott-Siddons’ low
neck dress F Bnt jesting aside, it is by such outrageous
actions on the part of ministers that, in so many intelli-
gent minds, religion is brought into disrepute.’
Here is the ‘ Song of the Breeze,’ as sung by
the Major-General in Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest, ‘ The
Pirates of Penzance: ’—
Softly sighing to the river
Comes the lowly breeze,
Setting nature all a quiver.
Rustling thro’ the trees,
Thro’ the trees.
And the broek, in gentle measure.
Laughs for very love,
While the poplars in their pleasure
Wave their arms above.
Tos, the trees in very pleasure.
Wave their leafy arms above.
Yet tha breeze is but a rover;
When he wings away
Brook and poplar mourn a lover,
Sighing, well a-day!
Well a-day
Ah, the wooing and undoing
That the rogue could tell!
When the breeze is out a wooing
Who can woo so well ?
Ah, tha tales the rogue could tell!
Nobody oould woo so well.
The Major-General also sings an exquisitely ludicious
song, the rapid delivery of which is occasionally
interrupted by the vocalists’ hesitation for a rhyme.
The ‘ Bobbies’ Chorus ’ in the ‘ Pirates ’ is, it is said,.
destined to outdo in popularity the ‘Conspirators’
chorus ’ of ‘ Angot.’
Businesses and Industries of Sydney.
MR. W. P. WELCH'S FACTORY, PITT-STRERT.
SYDNEY.
The Venetian and gauze wire blind factory, which
is the subject of this sketch, is aituato at 315,
Pitt-atreet, and may at the outset be spoken of
as the principal establishment of the kind in this
colony. The business was founded in 1852, and
it has year by year been growing till now it has
reached large dimensions, ensuring a most profit-
able trade connection throughout this colony, and
a no less lucrative one as regards the adjoining
colonies, though the proprietor, Mr. Welch,
has had to contend against fiscal and other
discouragements. For several years the
business was carried on in promises oppo-
site the School of Arts, but increased business
demanded extra space and additional facilities.
These aro now secured to tha fullest extent in- the
splendid new premises at 315, Pitt-street, and a
ramble through is not only likely to prove to a
visitor very pleasing, but likewise very surprising.
In the front shop is to be found a fine collection of
the various descriptions of work done in the fac-
tory, and there can be no mistake in saying that
the workmanship is flrsb-olaa* throughout and
not- likely to be surpassed anywhere. The wire
gauze blinds made here are coming daily into more
general use, and we could hardly find a more suit-
able decoration for a window than those blinds
when artistically ornamented with a pretty land-
scape or soma charming marine view. The artistic
work is faultless, and as it lasts for years it is not
’surprising that tha blinds should hero, as elsa-
where, be coming -into more general adoption
every day. Excellence of workmanship is likewise
observable in the celebrated Venetian blind now
illustrated, and in manufacturing which the
establishment is kept busy
all the year round. Tha pro-
cess of manufacture of these
blinds is slow, in order to
prevent warping, &0.. and to
ensure elegance and durability.
The work from end to end is
done by experienced hands,
and it will compare with any-
thing ever imported here.
Another description of blind,
which from the requirements of
our climate is coming into more
general use is the Oriental and gauze wire blind,
a sketch of which also is given here.
This class of blind is very orna-
mental and cannot but add to
the elegance of any residence.
The materials are of the best,
and all the latest improvements
are combined in its manufacture.
There is another description of
blind which is deserving of spoial
mention. It is the spring roller
blind for studios, photographic
galleries, &c. Ail varieties of
gauze wire blinds, plain or
artistically ornamented, with
scenes or floral comers, aro
likewise made : and mention might also be made
of cornice polls and other like articles for the
internal decoration of There are
different departments for the various branches of
the work. First the laths have to be made,
then punched, dressed, and painted, and for each
there is a separate department. The wood is
thoroughly dried by a natural process on the front
floor of the building, and after being painted the
lathes are again dried : for this work and for the
varnishing and seating there are different depart-
ments, and it is no to be wondered at that the
work should be found carried on with the utmost
economy, speed, and regularity. The latest and
best appliances are employed for the various
branches of the work, and they include many
of Mr. Welch’s own invention. Trunk-making is
likewise carried on to a considerable extant, and
a good business is done with all the leading whole-
sale houses of the colony. The workmanship in
these articles is particularly good and must be
strongly recommended. An important feature in
the work is that of restoring discoloured blinds.
This is carried on with such success that the old
blind is turned out almost as good as new.
Altogether, about 30 men are employed, and the-
business, as already stated, is a substantial one.
The factory is well worth a visit, not only from the
trade, but from any person interested in the de-
velopment of our industries.
NEW BUSINESS IN THE EXCHANGE QUARTER.
It is satisfactory to find some enterprising hotel
proprietor in the Exchange quarter studying the
wants of the commercial men in that part of the
city. Mr. M. Donaldson, of the Commercial
Hotel, Bridge-street, recently fitted up a very fine
dining and luncheon room, where a first-class
table, not surpassed by of that any other house in
the city, is to be found. The room is large and
well-ventilated, and the hour is not, at this house
at least, an hour of suffocation and inconvenience.
The cuisine is carefully attended to, and
the staff of waiters, Ac., is under the personal
superintendence of Mr. Donaldson. The
liquors, &0., are excellent, and there are beside-
all the other essentials of a first-class business.
The patronage of the principal commercial and
Government offices in the neighbourhood has
already been secured, and the business bids fair,
the more it is known, to become increasingly suc-
cessful.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Wine v. Water.
There sat two glasses filled to the brim
On a rich man’s table, rim to rim,
Ono was ruddy—as rod as blood —
And one was clear as the crystal flood.
Said the glass of wine to the paler Irother,
“ Let ns tell the tales of the past to each other;
I can tell of banquet and revel and mirth,
And the proudest and grandest souls on earth
Pell under my touch as though struck by blight.
Where I was King, for I ruled in might.
Prom the heads of kings I have tom the crown.
Prom the height of fame I have hurled men down
I have blasted many an honored name.
I have taken virtue and given shame;
I have tempted the youth with a sip, a taste.
That has made his future a barren waste.
Par greater than any king am I,
Or than any army beneath the sky.
I have made the arm of the driver fail.
And sent the train from the iron rail ;
I have made good ships go down at sea.
And the shrieks of the lost were sweet to me,
Por they said ‘ Behold, how great you be;
Fame, strength, wealth, genius before yoq fall.
And your might and power are over all.’
Ho ! ho ! pale brother,” laughed the wine,
" Can you boost of deeds as great as mine?”
Said the water glass : “ I cannot boast
Of a king dethroned or a murdered host;
But I can tell of a heart once sad
By my crystal drops made light and glad—
Of thirsts I’ve quenched and brows I’ve laved.
Of hands I’ve cooled and souls I’ve saved ;
I’ve roamed the valley, dashed down the mountain.
Plowed in the river and played in the fountain.
Slept in the sunshine and dropped from the sky.
And everywhere gladdened the landscape and eye.
I have eased the hot forehead of fever and pain.
And onoe-parohed meadows I’ve clothed with grain ;
1 can tell of the powerful wheel of the mill
That ground up the wheat and turned at my will;
I can toll of manhood, debased by you.
That I have lifted and crowned anew.
I cheer, I help, I strengthen and aid,
I gladden the heart of man and maid;
I sot the wine-chained captive free,
And all are better for knowing me.”
These are the tales they told each other,
The glass of wine and the paler brother.
As they sat together filled to the brim.
On the rich man’s table rim to rim.
F. E. DIAMOND.
Paddington, Sydney, 37th April, 1880.
The Bell-bird’s Song.
Where the rushing' water glances, casting diamonds on
the grass,
Where the wattle bloom is sweetest, ferns are seen a
tangled mass;
Here the noble Eucalyptus throws his branching arms
afar.
And upon the bank above them gleams the princely
Waratah.
Hark ! What sound now breaks upon the ear ?
It is the bell-bird’s song, distinct and clear.
Yon traveller ’neath the blazing sun that gilds Austra-
lian skies.
See how he checks his tired horse with start of glad sur.
prise;
Since morning light his way has been o’er ridges steep-
and drear.
And well he knows the welcome sound that tells of
water near.
Hark! What sound now breaks upon the ear ?
It is the bell-bird’s song, distinct and clear.
When evening shadows gently steal across the grassy
plain,
Or ’mid the blaze of noontide heat, when droops the
head with pain,
How sweet the sound that tells of shade, of water, and
repose—
Of horses fresh and spirits high, none save the traveller
knows.
Hark! What sound now breaks upon the ear ?
It is the boll-bird’s song, distinct and clear.
E. B. PAENELL.


BRIEF MENTION.
Who’s Muley ?
Bills are plentiful.
Dog-poisoners should visit St. James’ Church.
A batch of Government Printing Office hands
Rave joined Temperance Lodges. Just about time.
There’s shortly to be a hen convention at
Government House.
Chinamen are useless colonists. They’d never
learn to appreciate The Bulletin.
Angus Cameron is not yet dead, but The
Bulletin will soon put him out of his misery.
Bob Fairweathor, the cricketer, has a cure for
chilblains.
A new weekly high-class periodical, to be called
Pacific Weekly, is on the tapis in Sydney.
Walter Smart is wild. He says he doesn’t like
The Bulletin —it’s too rough on humbugs.
Jack Teece’s umbrella has thirty-six ribs and a
split between each.
Mr. Read’s hotel is becoming select. Meals at
»II hours, and uo charge for attendance.
Mr. Baly has taken to writing lachrymose
poetry in the Evening News.
‘‘Lubricate your ejaeulator” is the latest form
Of invitation to drink.
A legend of Hodge’s Hotel.—W. S. : Walter
Smart. S. W.: Soda Water. D. B.: David Buchanan,
likewise Dark Brandy. Who stole Walter’s buggy ?
Gentlemen will stay in the dress circle with
their wives uow that the three houses opposite have
lost their licenses.
We have received seventeen pieces of copy
during the current week, all commencing ‘Now that
the Exhibition is closed." Declined with thanks.
Mr. William Senior (‘ Red Spinner’) of Bris-
bane, says that Tasmanian trout fishiug has only one
drawback. There ore no fish.
Who robbed Kitty ? is a question always put
to one of the new Victorian Ministry whenever he comes
before his constituents.
‘ Dead head Dave ’ (Buchanan) has not been so.
enthusiastic in his dramatic notices of late. Free list
entirely suspended.
‘The Service Government,’ says a correspon-
dent who has just been shifted from a*‘ fat billet,' 4 is to
be no purer than that of Berry.’
The lease of the ‘Smiling Morn’ Hotel in
Bussex-street is advertised for sale. The new pro-
prietor may sing 4 Hail Smiling Mom 1 Ale I’
The ‘ silent system ’ does not prevail in Dar-
linghurst. Every Sunday the hoarders sing ‘Safe in
the arms,* Ac.
The Echo’s commercial of Monday gives a
a report of the half-yearly meeting of the Wallsend
Coal Company. However, the Wallsend held no meet-
ing. The Waratah did.
‘ What have you to say for yourself?* said a
judge to a prisoner. ‘ I was her father's fust coach-
man, yer Honor,’ replied the convicted horse thief.
Seven years. A fact.
Marriages are becoming frequent at the Regis-
trar’s office since Willy Dawes has taken to giving away
the brides. He never kisses them, for it’s not allowed
Officially.
King Theehaw, of Burmah, has buried 500
people alive to stop small-pox. That’s exactly what
our health officer does. He’s just been burying a lot of
people alive at the quarantine ground.
The reason why Demosthenes was so forcible a
speaker is that he used to ‘ orate’ in the open air. John
Alexander Dowie, Frank Warden, and Tom White ore
all good orators, and they all preach in the open air.
There was a cookery lecture at the Temperance
Hall on Tuesday evening, at half-past seven, on ‘ Half
Puff Paste.’ This was doing things by halves without
puffery.
Is it true that at inquests held inside Dar-
llnghurst the prison half of the jury is sometimes
composed of prisoners who are attendants in the gaol
hospital ?
The three Graces of the University Senate
election —Law, Physic, Divinity—Backhouse, Renwick,
Badham. But to have elected their candidate, Parkes,
would have been disgraceful.
The Melbourne Liberals, we hear, are going to
hold a monster meeting to ‘ congratulate' the English
* Liberals’ on their recent victory. Fancy Mirams and
Longmore congratulating John Bright! Ha! ha!
The Express says that if people want to know
whether Sir Henry *Parkes is a man of fashion ‘let
them look at his hoots.’ This is on the ex pc do Her.
culem principle, no doubt.
Just before the Chisel-’em estate was bought by
Government for £lOO,OOO, a man with a black bag was
affectionately welcomed at a Blue Mountain railway
platform (now famous for its syrninetry) by on unhaspi-
rating Minister.
The prisoners in Darlingburst complain that
they can’t sleep at night now. A lady opposite singe
from 8 p.m. to 3 a.m. within a register of an octave of
a soprano cat-screech. Every prisoner hums to him-
self ‘ Thy voice I often hear but thy face I seldom see.'
The clever folk of Evening ‘ Thingumbob ’
and Town and —‘what d' ye call it'—gave us the
Startling intelligence last week, that among the horses
Shown at Maitland were ‘ Chevalier ’ and ‘ Sunlight,’
4 both equally well known on the turf, especially the latter.,
The late ball given by Jewish bachelors cost
one shilling less than £lO to each of the committee;
but Bob Fairweather is getting up one that will (he
•ays) knock spots off the ‘yedisha’ affair. The sur-
plus, after Bob is done with it, goes to the charities.
Some time ago a Sydney M.L.A. wrote to an
Australian paper saying that he drank fifteen pints of
water per day. We’ve noticed during the last few days
that King-street hasn’t been wide enough for a certain
barrister.
One of our contributors residing at Glebe
Point has a cow which voraciously devours paper. The
Bulletin is its especial favourite. O, learned cow 1 Is
there a School of Arts for the cultivation of literature
in this enlightened neighbourhood P
At the Maitland Show there was quite a display
Of pictures. Among the paintings exhibited was a copy
of the 4 St. Cecilia,’ recently exhibited at the Garden
Palace. The erudite rustic who attended to such
matters had labelled her saintship ' A fine Ark Picture.'
The proprietor of the Oxford hotel gays he
can’t keep his barmaids—they all get married. * Going
up King-street* has hitherto meant going insolvent. A
step past the Insolvent Court, towards the Oxford, now
means a further calamity—marriage.
A paper in the north calls itself the Cairns
Advertiser and Smithfield Observer. It's easy to
observe Smithfield, that is to say if you once get there.
When we last saw Smithfield it consisted of one aban-
doned store. The Mayor of the town was an alligator.
The Burrowa News, commenting on Sir
Senry Pokes’ gift of a piece of land at Faulconbridge,
Blue Mountains, to be consecrated as a burial ground,
ask* Why was not this land sold for three hundred
pence, and given to the creditors ?’
A Daily Twaddlegraphic formula :—• There
were few cases of any interest at the Water Police
Court yesterday. Margaret M'Gowan was fined for
being excited, and was ordered to pay 13s damages for a
window she had revengefully smashed with her fist at
<ne Smiling Mom Hotel, Ac., Ac,
The two Charters Towers papers, the Miner
and the Herald, are fighting, as usual. The cams belli
this time is the question whether or not the P.G.M. of
the Oddfelows, in enumerating the documents placed
within a certain foundation stone, mentioned the name
the Miner or the Herald first. It really ought to
be sufficient for these quarrelsome editors to know that
their papers ‘ were lovely in life and in death were not
divided.’
The health of young Chris. Bennett, of the
Evefino News, was drunk —and Heaton?
They say Jem Punch has been robbed. Jem,
when questioned on the subject, merely rubs his nose
with his forefinger and says, ‘ Other way on, old man.’
The Cooktown Courier is now the most
sensational paper in Australia, bar the S. M. Herald.
It publishes half-a-coluum of headings over five lines
of telegrams. Reading the Courier is like shelling a
hollow cocoa nut, sitting down to a napkin and no beef,
or eating a shrimp out of a soup-plate.
We notice that the S. M. Herald of 21st
April states that, on the previous Sunday, at the open-
ing of the Burwood Congregational Church, the meeting
was addressed by Mr. Joseph Thompson. Surely there
must he two Mr. Joseph Thompsons. Joe the Leviathan
bookmaker didn't when last in Sydney say anything
about church matters.
A Goulburn youth asked : —‘ Father, are you
not in favour of reading the Bible in the Public schools ?’
The father, pleased with the apparent youthful piety
indicated by the question, replied that he was most
thoroughly. The youth continued: ‘Well, I thought
so, for you never read it at home.’ This ended the dis-
cussion in that family for the day.
Canon O’Reilly denounces the S. M. Herald
as an unchristian paper, and says that no one should
read its issue of Monday, which is always set up on
Sunday (night. We are sorry to have to say that that
cheque for £5O which we put in to the plate at St.
Phillip’s last Sunday was written the same day. Will
Canon O’Reilly please return it so that we may ex-
change the unclean document for a righteous one.
A gentleman has written us requesting that a
slight error made by us in a personal paragraph con-
cerning him may be corrected. Except in very extreme
cases The Bulletin corrects nothing. It s always
right. The only way to obtain satisfaction from it is to
institute a libel action, in which a fellow’s bound to
lose, or to advertise in another paper that The Bul-
letin’s wrong—which will please us immensely.
The bookmakers are coming to the front full
gallop. They’ve cut down the vulgar prejudices of the
past by living virtuously. One of our legislators says
that the metallicians ‘do good by stealth and blush to
find it fame.’ Then the bookmakers and their good
deeds have been immortalized in a dramatic piece by a
local playwright; a bookmaker has been given a dinner
before <3 eparting for ‘ fresh fields and pastures new ;
and the same knight of the pencil has been wished bon
voyage by a newspaper.
A Mormon elder writes thus to the editor of
the Auckland Star (N.Z.): —‘Sir, —All the Falshehoods
sircnlated by either Press or Pulpit will nott stop the
Truth from rolling forward and spreading on the Right
hand and the left nether will it prevent the honest in
heart from in investigating and when found embracing
the Truth, as for Mr. Davis and his Challenge I will say
to him and to all high and low Priest and People read
thirty eight verse in second Captor of Acts, pray over
it reflect over it, and above all obey it—respectfully
yours. J. P. Lorbnsen (not Sorensen) Elder m the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.’
The editor of the Cairns Advertiser (Dr.
Myers) is doctor to the Cairns hospital. He thus
pleasantly ’discourses in his last issue on the coffin
question, which, with the alligator trouble, the stand-
by of Cairns journalism is, as usual, the all absorbing
topic ‘ A coffin, although provided by a charitable in-
stitution, should have the semblance of decency, and
generfl.! opinion fl.ccompft.ni6S tlifl.t decency witli a black
colour. The extra expense of adding lamp black, or
other black paint, and screwing coffin lids instead of
nailing them down cannot be much, while it would evi-
dently afford public satisfaction.’ We recollect Dr.
Myers’ fever mixture.
The leader of the S. M. Herald staff must b*
a merciless, cold-blooded man. The gentleman sent by
him to report the proceedings at the Licensing Court
the other day was Mr. L. E. Harcus, Q.W.C.T., 1.0.G.T.,
Ac., who is emphatically and beyond dispute the most
important cold water man in Australia. Mr. Harcns,
who was elected head of the South Australian Good
Templars in 1879, is now * boss' of the Good Templars
of N.S.W. He was born in Leicestershire, England, in
1849 : joined the South Australian Press in 1873, repre-
sented the S. A. Advertiser at Philadelphia Exhibition
in 1876, and became a member of the S. M. Herald staff
at the end of last year. When the cafe-keepers saw the
cold water King in the reporters’ box, the blood froze in
their veins.
Payment to members is stopped for the present
in Victoria. This is how a certain hard-up M.L.A. now
soliloquises;—
Cursed, wretched, stupifled,
Through me indeed to-day, a million or thereabouts
Of withering and gall-embittered motions, disgusted.
Ripple and regurgitate!
Foul be the wind that blows thee, and swift
The trap that traps thee, O ! wily Service !
Implacable Scotchman!
Behold me! Thine and retrenchment’s victim
Done heartlessly out of two months’ wages ;
O! monthly choquelessness ! O! played-outedness,
Gone up! Obliterated !
Scooped 1
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Cetewayo wants to visit England.
Tenny Smith has his boots on again.
Madame Eugenie Legrand is in Sydney.
Lord Ripen succeeds Lord Lytton in India.
Lord Augustus Loftus is an enthusiastic
poultry-fancier.
Mr. Berry has sold his share in the GbblcHG
Advertiser.
Mr. Hogg, of Braidwood, who came to the
colony many years ago with his regiment, and who was
afterwords an officer of police, died on Monday night
and has been buried with Masonic honors.
Peter Campbell never goes to Merr mbula now.
There’s no * munny ’ there.
Rev. Charles Clarke’s abandonment of Protes-
tantism is denied.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher clears £BOOO
a year from pew rents.
Miss Roscoe, a young lady from Dunedin, N.Z.,
is expected to take academic orders and be enabled to
place the letters V.A. A. at the end of her name. She
has been proposed and seconded as a Member of the
Victorian Academy of Arts. The election takes place
at the next meeting of the Academy.
B, P. Whitworth is compiling a guide-book
for the use of visitors to the Victorian International.
Mr. Wallace, the Mayor of Newcastle, is a
lawyer and a * killer.’
The Tichhorne claimant, it is understood,
will be released this month.
Lord Rivers, the Tichboume claimant’s patron,
is dead.
Mr. Garrett will probably be Commissioner of
Customs upon Mr. Duncan’s retirement.
Mr. Greenwood will in all likelihood be
Minister of Education.
Mr. Berry now largely patronises the Parlia-
mentary hilliard-room. He is a good player.
The Cornwall Chronicle, of Launceston, is
changing hands. Mr. T. C. Just clears out.
.Herr Victor Schoenberger, the handsome and
courteous Commissioner for Austria, has entered into
a solemn contract of marriage with Miss Holle, daughter
of the fashionable German Sohenider in George-street.
The wedding comes off shortly. After this we shall be
uo longer interested in Mr. Schoenberger’s goot Eeng-
leesh. He vill shbeek ver’ goot py-and-pye.
Grattan Eiggs drinks lager beer
And calls the German barmaid ‘ dear.’
John Elliott, the poet-tailor of Melbourne,
calls Mark Twain an ‘ JEstnetic winkle.’ He is the finest
Shelley student living.
Miss Scott, one of the banlmids at Garton’s, is
the belle of Melbourne. At least a dozen fellows write
ns saying so.
Ninian Melville and G. R. Ma dean were candi-
dates for Northumberland. A nice alternative, truly.
The latter has now retired.
Little Joe Brown (of the Age), the author of
the Agapemone, is the Lest waltzer in Melbourne, and
the darling of the ladies, though a confirmed owl.
Times are looking up with Prank Gardiner,
who has married a Nevada widow with considerable
means, and settled down.
The Northern Argus has sent out some
good men into the waters of Australian literature,
among them is Mr. Walter Hampton Cooper.
Mr. Riches, we notice in the Herald, has
married Miss Slade. Matrimony, at least with the lady,
appears to have been a matter-o'-money.
The Hon. W. Robertson, of the N.Z. Ministry,
is portly, but still he manages sometimes to ‘ palaver*
all day and dance all night.
Kallock, who was shot a little while ago by
Charles De Young, of the ’Frisco Chronicle, is, we
notice, on the Aar path again.
Prince William, eldest son of the Crown Prince,
is to he betrothed to the eldest daughter of the Duke
of Schleswig-Holstein.
Mr. W. MTlwraith, cousin and brother-in-law
of the Queensland Premier, joined the Bris-
bane Press.
Mr. R. H. Rathay, 8.A., of Auckland, has just
passed his L.L.B. examination, and is thi first Bachelor
of Laws of the N. Z. University.
Mr. John Biles, of the Evening News, is one
of the oldest compositors in the colonies. He is 82.
We know no older man in the profession.
Dr. Kenealy was a master of fourteen lan-
guages, but didn’t know how to hold his tongue in
English.
The two Davids. —David Blair has written a
letter to his friend David S , commencing ‘ You are
a scoundrel and a liar.’
David Blair is trying to assist Aitken, the
brewer, who wishes to make people believe that the
picture in the loan collection at the Melbourne gallery
is a Claude Lorraine. It won’t gee.
David Blair is the publisher (for private cir-
culation only) of the fierce attack on Marcus Clarke
and David Syme (of the Age), entitled * Martial in
Melbourne.*
Mr. Carrington, the artist of Melbourne
Punch, is, it is said, about to bring an action against
Berry and Co. for going out of office. His occupation's
gone.
A distinguished official connected with a Gov-
ernment establishment is always observed on Saturday
evening pottering about Paddy’s Market, possibly in
search of materials for (printer’s) pie.
It is rumoured that J. J. Brown, the pro-
prietor of the Yass Courier, is about to sell out.
£17,000 is not a bad return for fifteen years’ journalistic
labour.
The Duke of Manchester, it is said on good
authority, visits Australia as the representative of
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. He will be present at the
Melbourne Exhibition.
There is a disagreement in the Cabinet in
reference to the appointment of a new Agent General.
Some ministers, including Sir Henry, want to appoint
Saul Samuel; others strongly oppose.
Mr. Labalmonaiere, assistant Chief Commis-
sioner of London Police, is insolvent. Liabilities,
i £119,000; assets, £3 10s. It would puzzle a Sydney city,
auditor to figure how much he’ll pay in the £.
Chris. Bennett and his newly- wedded bride,
just after leaving the church, were capsized in a quarry
at Pyrmont. This was just before they crossed the
bridge which is now known as the bridge of (cap) sighs.
Japanese Tommy is worth his weight in golcL
or as near to it £lO,OOO comes. It will greatly interest
the fair to learn that Tommy though single is still
' hopeful.
The Buenos-Ayres Standard is in want of a
reporter. It is an English paper—in fact the only on*
in S. America, and (is supported by the English squat-
ters in La Plata.
Tam O’Shanter (Mr. W. J. Taylor), the sport-
ing editor of the H. T. Mercury and Tasmanian Mail,
is at present in Sydney. He goes to Queensland for the
benefit of his health.
When part of the Czar’s ‘(Vinter Palace was
blown up the Duchess of Edinburgh was within 30 feet
of the dislodged flooring. She showed great nerve.
The Czar, it is said, now drowns trouble in wine.
Mr. John Want’s speech for the plaintiff in
Little v. Sandeman is alluded to by the Independent*
as ‘ probably the most powerful ever delivered in the
Mudgee Court-house.’
t A Sandhurst man who has recently gone to
reside in Ballarat wears £3OO worth of diamonds on his
shirt-front, and a watch-chain composed of linked nqg-
gets that would do credit to the Washington.
Mr. Berry and his party are going to start &
new ‘ Liberal' daily in Melbourne. John Andrews,
ex-M.L.A. for West Melbourne-, a retired linen draper,
has gone to England to bring out machinery.
Sergeant Sleigh, the eminent English barristej
who has taken up his residence in Tasmania, is trying
to get a seat in the Legislative Assembly. He is in ill
health, which was the reason he came to Victoria from
England in the first instance.
‘ How I became Governor of New Barratria,’
written by the gifted Deuiehy, is being published by
Triibner at the instance of Mr. Forster, who supple-
ments the narrative by a trifling commentary on
colonial politics.
Mr. J, B. Thurston, Colonial Secretary of Fiji,
returns—after a tour through this and the neighbouring
colony, Victoria—to Fiji. The commercial relation*
of Fiji with N. S. Wales have been improved by hi*
visit.
Mr. A. Irtglis, who writes over the signature
4 Maori', is a Scotchman by birth : he lived in India for
ten years, and came to Australia and edited the New-
castle Herald. He is now Secretary for the Accident
Association. He writes in a cheery style.
Mr. Miller, of the S. M. Herald, is one of the
smartest compositors in the profession. He is best
known as ‘ Sharkey’—from the mysterious manner in
which he devours copy, especially poetry. He is a
Tasmanian.
Lieut.-General Sir Samuel Brown, the Indian
hero, has lost an arm in battle. He recently dined
privately with the Prince and Princess of Wales at the
House of Lords. The Princess cut up the old General’s
meat.
A. P. Martin, editor of the Melbourne
Review, will he in Sydney in a week. He will he seen
at Jim Punch’s and the dress circle of the Theatre
Royal when he is not composing poetry on the 4 Golden
shores of Sydney’s crystal bay.’
The French man-of-war Rhin leaves here on
the 20th May for Melbourne, and stays at the latter
port for about a week to deliver goods consigned by
French exhibitors to the Southern International. She
then goes home via Cape Horn. She is considered to
be very much under-manned, having on board only four
watches instead of six. The officers don’t look forward
to a passage round the Horn in winter with pleasure.
The unexpected summons home materially interfere*
High Art from the Photographers.—A recollection of the Garden Palace.
ANGELINA (reading inscription on photograph), "Alas! say what remains, when hope is fled?”
HER AMERICAN COUSIN: " Well Angy, I guess there’s a good 129 lbs. of gal left yet, anyhow.”
AN IMPRESARIO.


.v ■, .rrangements. Several of them are busily
With j e !^,iip C tine native curios, and one is known to
himself during his stay in Sydney of a
have P? 8 * e t - 0 n of aboriginal hair. Several others taka
fine colioc France extensive clippings from the locks
J' s who, though native born, are not aboriginals.
ot r> Walch and A. P. Martin tried to start
, f as hion, called the Empire, in imitation of
They ‘busted’ on the fashion plates,
hither of' them know a jersey from an Ulster over-
c°t!’ -vtoloney, the medico of Melbourne par excel-
UT ' V-Tillftcts water-colors and bric-a-brac, notably
His brother James, the solicitor, goes in
and poetry, while Mick, of Sydney,
devotes himself to the tender passion.
6 Tnlm Bentley, formerly part proprietor of the
Wagga Express, died at Wagga on the 23rd
, and was buned in the local cemetery on the fol-
i - tf'day- The Wagga Advertiser says:—‘John
bad no enemies.’
Commodore Wilson will visit Melbourne at the
f t he Exhibition with the Wolverene and other
tir “® , s 'on the Australian station. The ironclad Ealeigh
reach Melbourne by the end of May for the same
•purpose.
Mr Alfred Bennett, of the Evening News,
v«l an intruder to leave the office the other day. A
!ff,.sal was followed by the newspaper man lifting up
Ids friend, whom he carried down stairs and deposited
n the street
‘Maori’ tells us, in regard to the paragraph
.vn/'pming his coming book in last issue of The
that ‘we of all others will be the least
j i-lined to quarrel with a candid expression of opinion
rr*mt frauds and humbugs. If the book is “ rough" on
individual it is on “ Lord ’Arris” himself.’ We are
■glad to hear this.
An elegant florist’s department, a la Paris,
the management of a well-known and clever
Utertuwlady, who will show Sydney how to do it in the
wav of flowers, is shortly to be opened in a leading
Street. Mrs. Parnell’s arcade will be literally a
"bouquet.
Mr. B. L. Far jeon, the novelist, who has made
„ _„ m ’e for himself in London, is a Hebrew, and was
/nrmeriv a compositor on the Melbourne Argus. We
notice that his latest story, ‘ Set in a Silver Sea,’ is now
antiearing in the Otago Witness, a journal for which,
Trhen he was young as a litterateur, he used to write
pretty trifles.
In a certain city not a million miles from
Sydney there lives a young man who makes bets with
■bookmakers, religiously takes his money when he wins,
-and when he loses, gives cheques which are unvaryingly
dishonored. This young man now publicly announces
that he doesn’t intend to pay any wages. The book-
makers in general and Ned Jones in particular will know
■what to do.
Mr. Christopher Bennett, of the Evening
News proprietary, left with his beautiful young bride
by the Sorata on Tuesday. Afterwards the reporters
drank bon voyage in rounds of aerated cordials in an ad-
jacent hotel. Says our poet, who, as usual, didn t
‘intox.’ on the occasion : .
The happy pair sailed off in the Sorata!
Employes then drank gingerbeer pro rato I
‘I don’t intend to go once to the Exhibition,’
said a lady friend of ours to her brother a few days
before the opening, for Some cause or other. What a
pity the Government didn't know that earlier, my dear,
he replied; ‘perhaps they wouldn’t have put up the
building.’ The lady, who doesn't live out of the way to
Glebe Point, mode a point, of never missing a day from
the opening to the closing.
‘Mr. George Milner Stephen, the Crown
Prosecutor’ (says the Pastoral Times), ‘in addition to
his legal duties, is a firm advocate of spiritualism,
mesmerism, and the other occult sciences, and has
placed his services at the command of various suffering
persons in the township.’ We’ll not forget to take
special note of the Deniliqum death-rate in the next vital
■statistics.
Charles Dickens the Second inherits his father’s
love for printing offices and newspapers. He manages
one of the largest printing offices in London, or m
Europe. He has very successfully published the Lon-
don Dictionary’ and the ‘ Guide to London, and is now
preparing a ‘ Dictionary of the Thames. His brother,
Mr Alfred Tennyson Dickens, is a member of the firm
ot Bree, Dickens, and Co., auctioneers, Hampton,
Victoria.
The public will regret to learn that the pro-
jected marriages of three gentlemen on the Herald
staff to three widows have been broken off. ihe pro-
prietors could not spare so many away at one time on
marital excursions. The regret will be all toe greater
when it is known that the widows were experienced
dames. We’ll not be surprised to hear of some
reporters being called upon to report their own cases of
breach of promise.
Mr. James Gordon Bennett, proprietor of the
New York Herald, is a composite#; and so was
his father, the founder of the paper. The late Mr.
Samuel Bennett and the late Hon. John Fan-tax were
likewise compositors. Mr. James Fairfax knows lus
boxes, and is good at poetry. Mr. Alfred Bennett also
picks np type; mostly off the floor Mr. Angus Mackay
knows the difference between a bodkin and a shooting-
stick; but he is all astray among quoins and thick
leads. The Bulletin proprietors mind their p a
■ and q’s.
A Melbourne man who has just come to Sydney
for the first time says that while walking in Georgo-
. street he often imagines himself in the southern city.
Sydney, he observes, seems to be the refuge of the
young-old ladies who, as far back as his memory
extends, ‘ walked the block’ in Melbourne in search of
husbands. After years of pedestriamsm they failed
and suddenly disappeared from the south. However,
he says they look quite sprightly in Sydney, and remind
him of old times.
Mr Caton, incumbent of St. Phillip’s Mel-
bourne, has been getting into hot water in consequence
■of his having permitted a theatrical entertainment to
take place in his schoolroom during pent. One of the
plays performed was ‘ Mad as a Hatter, the other The
Mischievous Nigger.’ so that the performance hardly
smacked of the ‘Lenten entertainment that Hamlet
speaks of. The cream of the joke is that Mr. Caton has
written to the Church of England Messenger, saying
that he didn’t know it ira« Lent I
The Hon. Napier Broome will, it is rumoured,
he the next Lieut.-Governor of Natal. A more unfor-
tunate appointment could hardly be made. Mr. Broom#
is a conceited person, of little ability and less tact.
His wife. ‘ Lady Barker,’ who appears to object to her
present husband’s name, writes books full of nonsense
about the countries in which she sojourns from time to
time. The Cape Argus says that Mr. Napier Broome
should be sent to the Transvaal as a last argument
.against annexation.
Vanity Fair mentions a curious little differ-
ence about precedence arising out of the marriage of a
colonial lady to the youngest son of an earl while on the
staff in the colonies. This lady taking precedence of
others who had been accustomed to go in before her
(says Vanity Fair) caused such offence that her hus-
band (the Earl of Donoughmore) resolved to resign his
appointment. Lady Donoughmore, who will be remem-
bered by many of our readers as one of the belles of
Tasmania, is a daughter of Colonel Stephens, aim niece
•of the Hon. David Lewis, at present a visitor to Sydney.
The following story is related to us by a local
correspondent:— A leading Melbourne firm, wbicb has a
house iu Sydney, recently sold to a leading Sydney hrm
a considerable line in sago. The Sydney firm required
the sago for shipment, but on applying at the Customs
for their drawback were astonished to find that the
sellers had imported no sago, notwithstanding that they
had been selling it as importers for some time. It came
out that the Melbourne man had been importing sago as
tapioca—the latter being free, the former dutiable, and
both articles being very similar in appearance. he
offender is a man high up in politics and commerce, and
has been making a handsome thing by smuggling sago
in large qaantitiae.
A Dish of Trifle.
VII.
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A Sbttlbb on the Back Blocks. —Doctored
rum.
A Mineral Seeing.— Jumping a digger’s
claim.
Comb and Go. —Sabbath breakers and the other
sort at Bondi.
An In(n)keepbe. —Reid of Darlinghurst.
Confounded Bore (at present).—The Moore
Park one.
A Rush Light. —That on the tram engines.
These engines follow “a strict line of conduct.”
Not a Fencer. —William Forster is the man to
rm.il up the Telegraph’s railings.
A Strapping Fellow. — A certain Woolloo-
mooloo schoolmaster.
Temperance League.— This matter is now
exciting notice. Why make a fuss about it?
More than a hundred of them can b® measured off
on the Hawkesbury.
X, G.—A piece of string, about three yards,
went down Oxford-street on Tuesday night. In
its course it brought to their mother (earth) two
old gossips (feminine, of .course), three nursemaids,
four boys and ten dogs. At one end of that
string was a boy, at the other a dog. •
A correspondent objects to certain occupants
of the pits and galleries of our theatres “ sitting
in their shirt sleeves.” We would like to see the
rrm.ri who could do this. His next feat would, no
doubt, be to perambulate the proverbial gaspipe.
Not Musical. —We are indebted to a friend
for the following [relation in regard to a young
gentleman well known in Sydney, as, inter alia, a
disciple of Mendoza. It appears that Saltsale, as
we will call this son of a celebrated piano manu-
facturer, was, some short time before leaving
England, present at a dinner of a noted road-
club. Saltsale had taken a little too much wine,
and was very noisy. The chairman, a certain
noble Duke, leaned towards the clamorous one and
remarked —“ Saltsale, my boy, piano, piano !”
A Matter of Form. — The new jersey costume.
“ I KNOW A Cat”—but enough.—Fancy a
tom in Kemp Land (in the arctic regions), where
the night lasts for about twenty-six weeks!
A Geoege-btreet shopkeeper announces him-
self as 44 a draper of thirty years’ standing.” Is
it not time he Bat down ? Some of his assistants,
who aren’t of thirty years' standing, want to sit
down already.
The ladies at present giving instruction in
cookery in this city and the Sydney Bill Posting
Company are much alike. The first shows you how
to puff up your paste, the latter how to paste up
your puffs.
LANFRE.
[ln sporting parlance, the editor of The Bul-
letin ‘‘ gives Lanfre best.”]
WOMAN ITEMS.
A New Zealand man has married his stepdaughter.
University College, London, has 211 female students.
The champion fat girl of America is dead. She
weighed GOOlbs and was sft. Sin. high,
Many ladies are learning to play the violin, so that
they may take a beau in hand and wax him. Poor fel-
low, he will never be out of scrapes.
When a man discovers it was all a mistake about a
girl having any money, he also discovers it was all a
mistake about her not having freckles on her nose.
For putting his arms round a girl’s neck and attempt
ing to kiss her against her will, a man at Waim ate, New
Zealand, has been lined L 5 and costs. Defendant’s
counsel appeals on the ground that attempt to kiss does
not constitute assault.
A young lady the other day was married at a London
registrar’s office without knowing it. At least, that is
her statement. She affirms that she thought it was
only ‘ a form of betrothal.’ A great many ladies appear
, to think this, in places further south than Loudon, too.
At Birmingham, Michigan, the other day, a Romeo
of 70 married a Juliet of 60, and while the merry
marriage-bell was still sounding was sued for breach of
promise by a lorn damsel of 65, the united #ges of the
three being 195. The rime of antiquity is over all, and
a frosty consistency pervades the legendary narrative.
The Queen of England is now the grt atest Moham-
medan sovereign in the world, in respect ( f having more
Mohammedan subjects than any other 1 ©wen. These
are found chiefly in India, over which the Queen rules.
There are not so many Mohammedans in Turkey as
there are in the East Indian dominions of Her Majesty.
When Mme. Emile de Girodin wrote her ‘Lady
Sartefle,’ some one said to her, ‘ What imagination you
must have had to have found the rtsumt of all the vices
that you incarnate in your sad heroine! ’ ‘My imagina-
tion had nothing to do with it,' quickly replied Mme. de
Giradin ; ‘ I simply summed up all my best and most
intimate lady friends.'
A year-old infant can clamber upon chairs and tables
without falling, hut when its mother puts it in a high
chair at the table and fastens it so securely that she
thinks nothing less than a south-easter can upset it, the
youngster will manage, without the slightest effort, to
fall out of his seat and break an arm or fracture its
skull.
A bracelet slipper is one of the latest novelties intro-
duced in Paris. The shoe is cut very low in front, and
high up on the instep; it is fastened with a finely
chiselled real gold bracelet instead of the usual strap.
Another expensive novelty in the same line is the
Andalusian boot, made of black satin, with lace ruffle
down the front seam, and fastened with real jewel
buttons.
When the maid I mean to marry
I of evenings go to see,
I make it a rule to carry
Watches twain along with me.
One is hours and hours too fast.
One is hours and hours too slow,
I call by the first—the last
I consult when I should go.
FUN AND FANCY.
Better have large feet than a small understanding.
Edison says the newspapers make light of his latest
invention|more successfully than he can do it himself.
The first thing a man takes in his life is his milk, the
last is his hier.
When a man falls down his temper generally gets up
before he does.
Six into four you can’t, as the shoemaker mildly
suggested to a lady customer.
Emulate the utile. It is always backward in deeds of
violence.
It’s your tall fellows who are luckiest in love. The
ladies ore all in favour of Hy-men.
Mince-pie, like Masonry, arouses curiosity from the
mystery attaching to it. Its popularity shall never
swerve till faith is lost in sight.
Never look over the shoulder of a man who is writ-
ing. Have mind upon your health; he may forget
himself.
The difference between a man who digs in the ground
and one who digs in books is that the former digs for
hire and the latter for lore.
‘ The first woman we ever proposed to boxed our ears
and dratted our imperence. The fifth sighed softy,
and murmured, “ Aak me a mouth hence when you
know me better,’ and as there was no better her
in two months, we didn’t ask again. The seventeenth
said, with Rsome show of indignation, “Wait tiil
you’re sober, sir, before putting such a momentous
question !*’ '
‘ We are one year nearer heaven,’ is the way a Kansas
paper begins a farewell to the old year. * Those sub-
scribers who have not paid up are not included.'
He told me he was regularly engaged as a writer
on one of the leading dailies. His honest old mother
said, writing wrappers at fifteen bob a week.
‘ Bemember who yon are talking to sir,’ said an
indignant parent to n facetious boy, ‘ Pin your father
sir! ’ ‘Well, who’s to blame for that ? ’ said young
impertinence, ‘ 'tisn’t me.’
A little two-year-old miss told her mother the other
day that she was going to marry but meant to be a
widow, because widows ‘ wore such nice black clothes
and always looked so happy.’
A western man at a ‘ revival ’ meeting, said somewhat
enviously, ‘ Brother Lawson can sing and exhort very
well, but he can’t pray; by the grace of heaven I can
pray his shirt oif.’
The negro who came near being drowned in being
baptised at Foley’s baths, scrambled ashore and indig-
nantly exclaimed, ‘ Some gentleman T 1 lose an eigh-
teen hundred dollar nigger sometimo|by dis foolishness.’
A schoolmaster, whose wife was one of his pupils, had
occasion to punish her one day. The next day the
school-house door bore this inscription ; ‘ School closed
for one week; schoolmaster ill.’
At a social party, where humorous definitions was one
of the games of the evening, the question was put—
‘What is religion?’ ‘Religion/ replied one of the
party, ‘is an insurance against fire in the next world,
for which honesty is the best policy.’
Jones says his wife is the most thrifty woman he ever
saw. ‘ Why, sir,’ he says, ‘ she has made ten bed-quilts
during the last two years ; made them herself sir, out
of the samples she collected in her shopping tours during
that time.
Motto for Miss Fidler—
She may dress in silk, or dress in satin;
May know the languages, Greek and Latin !
May know fine art; may love and sigh ;
But she ain’t no good if she can’t make pie.
An increased sale of corsets among the colored people
of the South is mentioned as an evidence that the blacks
ore increasing in civilisation. "Wait till the water melon
season, though, and see how quickly that * boom ’ will
bunt*
A Boston man hod sixty-five dollars stolen from him.
A week afterwards he received a letter containing
twenty-five dollars, that read: *1 stoled your money.
Remorse naws at my conshens and I send you some of
it bock. When remorse naws again I’ll send yon some
more.*
A Nashua man sang, ‘ Don’t be angry with me darl-
ing,’ while he larruped his wife with a stirrup strap, hut
she got the bulge on him and stood on his stomach,
while she strewed his hyperion curls about the kitchen
floor and warbled, while she twined her lily fingers in
his auburn locks, ‘ Darling, you are growing bald.’
They sat in the parlor and he squeezed her hand.
‘Oh! would that this hand were mine!’ he sighed-
‘ Why,’ she simpered. * Because if it were mine, I
could knock bullocks down with it better n with a
sledge-hammer.’ The last seen of that young man he
was trying to climb to the top of the house by means of
the water-spout.
When poor pa died and went to heaven.
What grief mamma endured 1
But ah! that grief was soon assuaged.
For pa he was insured;
And when ma went there —oh how funny!
The office paid her all the money ! —_
It was the Australian Mutual Provident Society.
I IVWhen Mr. John Hill Burton, the historiographer of
Scotland, visited Ireland and made his first trial of on
Irish ‘ outside ’ car, he sententionsly remarked to his
fellow passenger: ‘Now you perceive that we have
arrived in a country where property is scarce and
therefore valuable, but where human life is redundant,
and therefore of no account. Here, you observe, they
put the wheels under the seat, and protect them with
the legs of the passengers.’
A Romance.
CHAPTER I.
She stood before the altar with a wreath of orange
buds upon her head —upon her back the richest kind of
duds. Her lover stood beside her with white kids and
clean dicky—the last was twenty years old, the first
was seventeen. The parson’s job was over, every one
had kissed the bride and wished the young pair happi-
ness and laughed and cried. The festive scene was
ended, the last words had been said, the hiuipy maid had
simmered down, the last gay guest had fled.
CHAPTER 11.
She stood beside the wash-tub with her red hands in
the suds, while at her slipshod feet there lay a pile of
dirty duds. Her husband stood beside her, the Grossest
man alive; he was twenty-nine and she was twenty-five.
The heavy wash was over, and the clothes hung up dry;
and Tom hud stuck his finger in the dirty baby’s eye.
Tom hod been whipped, and supper mode on a crust of
bread ; and the happy wife and husband went grumbling
off to bed-
An Essay on Man.
Man was made in dry weather.
He was made of dust.
Quite a number have never recovered from their
creation; they are still dry.
It's a man's nature to be discontented.
Adam hod a monoply, but he couldn’t be happy
without some one to crow over.
For awhile, he knocked around the garden of Eden
and then went to the house ; but he had to cook his own
supper, there was no stove-wood chopped and things
were in a bad shape generally.
The next morning it was the same way. He had to
make his own bed and sweep out. His socks were dirty
and his arm would win through a hole in his sleeve.'
So he was dissatisfied. _
The next night, when he went to sleep, the treyor
punished him by making one of his ribs into a woman.
It’s six thousand years since that rib was lost, and
still man continues feeling for it.
This is a very feeling subject.
After Eve got acquainted with her mate, she vowed
that all the men in the world were not like Adam.
A fop is a male who is ashamed of his sex
attempts to conceal the fact that he is a man.
Concealment in such cases is attended with but lityg
trouble. It is only necessary for him to part tts
hair in the middle.
Job is said to have been a very patient man.
He had boils all over him.
! Many a man boils all over, himself, on a hot sumimjp
day, and never thinks of the grandeur of Job’s example.
It is natural for a man to disregard good example.
CHING CHONG : " You Inglisee man, want ’em work? Al 'ightee. What ’em want ’em week."
WHITE MAN : " Three Notes."
CHING CHONG : " Whaty’ call 'em notes notes? Tree poun'? No savee. Fifteen shillee week; bring
'em own timber.”
In His Clerical Capacity.
They settled Parson Posey in the quiet country town;
He seemed exactly suited to their need.
But on the second Sunday he remarked to Mrs. Brown :
• Your social life is very dull indeed!
And so the genial, eloquent and gentle Parson Post*',
Who thought to give the parish more vivacity.
Just started ‘ Copenhagen ’ and ‘ ring-aronud-a-rosy,
And played them in his clerical capacity.
Quite brotherly and sisterly they soon begun to be.
And when be saw the social parties thrive,
He said ‘ Now this is spirited, and it appears to m*
Much more as if the parish was alive 1
He introduced the forfeit games, instructed how to piny
them, ~ ..
And followed up the fun with pertinacity;
But when they gathered forfeits and wondered bow to
pay them, . , ...
He showed them—in his clerical capacity.
• We ought to do to others as we’d have them do to us,’
He said with earnest emphasis—but then
If ever he performed the solemn duties of a buss,*
He skipped the ancient maidens and the men.
i 4 l do discriminate; it is not surprising, is it ?
! He asked, ‘ they might exhibit some pugnacity t
And so when I encounter them upon my weekly vif«,
I skip them in my clerical capacity.
And so the faithful Posey of the species labiate.
Revolving his parishioners among.
Remarks to the trustees: ‘it is good to recreates
To prosper we must interest the young!
And if a man observes to him, ‘ Yon do exhibit feeling,
He winks his eye and whispers with sagacity, .
• I sacrifice myself to keep the parish from congeaJh%>—
I suffer in my clerical capacity.’
•Yankee tor a ' kiss.'
A Hint for Teetotallers.
When Noah alighted on the height
Of Ararat one Summer night,
There came an angel to the Ark;
Quoth he, “ My friend, Sir Fatriaroh I
ITI grant your wish, whate’er it be,
If you will only tell it me.’
Old Noah replied, ‘You’re very kind.
But water is not to my mind;
The reason you will see, I’m sure, _
What drowned the world must be impure ;
My prayer is this, I rather think
I’d like a little better drink!'
Off flew the angel in a trioe,
And winged his way to Paradise,
He had a private key, and brought
A vine-tree of the choicest sort,
And taught the honest Patriarch how
To plant and tend, and make it grow.
A pupil apt proved Noah they say.
He planted both by night and day,
And soon built up a spacious store,
And crammed it full with casks galore.
Made from the Ark whose gopher wood
Supplied materials stout and good.
Now, Noah was a holy mSa,
Water he never drank again;
He made a vow, and kept it, too.
Till cask by cask he drank ’em through
And so kept on three hundred year
Before they laid him on his bier.
Then I’ve a right to say, I think.
That wine’s a good and wholesome drink:
Nay, more ! a man should, I opine,
With water never mix his wine!
What drowned the world can’t well be swfrw,
< So always take your liquor neat 1*


SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Warwick (Queensland) May 4th and sth
Breewarina April or May
Wilcannia May 6th and 7th
Bourke May 20th and 21st
Queensland T. C. Autumn May 22nd and 24th
Parramatta J. C May 24tn
Walgett May 24th and 25th
Newcastle May 24th and 25th
Muswellbrook , June 2nd and 3rd
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Q. T. C. Mares Prodnce, 1883 ; nomination
of mares and sires, Derby 1881 and St.
Leger 1882 April 30th
Muswellbrook Handicap May Ist
Warwick General Entry May
Wileanuia General Entry May 4th
Parramatta General May 12th
Dalby Flying, Town Plate, and J. C. H cap May 13th
Q. T. C. General Entry May 14th
Index to Declaration op Weights.
Cohar Handicap May sth
Wilcannia J. C. and Plying May 6th
Muswellbrook Handicap May 9th
Newcastle Shorts, J. C., and City May 17th
Newcastle minor handicaps May 24th
Parramatta May 19th
Index to Forfeits.
Bourke C. E. Australian Handicap and
Steeplechase accept May 4th
Q. T. C. acceptances May 4th
Wilcannia Hurdle accept May 4th
Wilcannia J. C. Handicap accept May 7th
Walgett Handicap accept May 10th
Answers to Correspondents,
INKSTAND says: —‘ I wrote last week to one of your con-
temporaries aeking the age of a horse foaled in 1876.
The question was given ; but I can only surmise why the
answer was not attached.’ Your horse would be run as
a three-year-old now.
BREEDER. —1. The Nightshade you ask about was by King
Alfred from Bamoolut by The Premier from Rose by
Cornhormgh. 2. Snowden is an imported horse. He
was bred in England; from thence he was taken to Hong
Kong, and afterwards came out to Victoria, Ha died
on this side of the border in 1876.
NOBLE ART. —King and Mace fought twice, but Sayers
and Mace never met.
Two Year Old Racing.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
In the present state of turf affairs in Australia,
having in view the large number of racehorses bred
every year, one cannot too urgently call on the
Australian Jockey Club to make extra provision
for our two year olds. Just now, the breeding of
blood horses simply entails a certain loss to the
stud masters, by reason of the low prices that
have to be accepted for all the yearlings except a
few of the moat fashionably bred ones; and
nothing can bring such a stock up to a paying
value again, save and except tho establishment of
more two year old races. We have already two or
three valuable stakes for the first-class animals,
such as the “Champagne,” “Sires Produce,”
“ Substitute ” and “ Great Foal Stakes,” but
stakes of lesser magnitude are needed which would
be left to the more moderate performers, and
perhaps a series of selling plates for two year
olds are the best class of races that could be de-
vised. Of these there is no sufficient reason that
I know of why there should not be one each day of
the Autumn Meeting at Randwick ; and as most
likely the winners of these plates would in almost
all races fetch considerable surplus over the upset
price, it is reasonable to expect that the Club
would receive back in this way, almost if not
quite as much as the added money. There evi-
dently is no possible cause or reason for restricting
the number of races to the existing daily tariff;
and no additions could be so welcome as the plates
of the class I have mentioned. Owuers of suc-
csesful youngsters would have a good opportunity
to get rid of what would otherwise be, at best, but
unprofitable goods; and in order to divide the
prizes as equally as possible, the winner of each
day’s selling plate could be well penalised in the
succeeding ones ; by which means, and with the
assistance of the already established two year old
races, proper and short mixed events as well, the
four days might provide winning races for a dozen
two year old colts and fillies, which would go a long
way towards lightening the burden of training
expenses. It may bo predicted, with a good show
of such prediction turning out true, that unless
something be done very soon in the direction
towards which I am pointing, there will take place
a vast curtailment in the number of mares kept
for breeding race horses ; and trotters and carriage
horses will be raised instead of thoroughbreds.
The question of inaugurating some two year old
racing under A.J.C. auspices, at an earlier period
of the season fhan Easter, is one to which I intend
addressing myself at some future date.
We require no further evidence of a general
desire among breeders to support two year old
stakes, wherever such are offered for sup-
port, than that supplied by the hundred and
seventy foals nominated for the Great Foal
Stakes ; and this fine entry offers a fine defence of
our Jockey Club policy in establishing self-
supporting stakes for two and three years old.
True, the breeder of tho winner is to receive “ a
century” from tho Club ; but as far as the com-
petitors are concerned, they run for their own and
each other’s money; and when I see such a number
of foals entered at the first offer of the new stoke,
and notice that without any great stretch of good
fortune it will be yyorth between six and seven
hundred pounds to the winner, besides fifty to the
second, and tho breeders’ hundred, it seems that
the blood horse breeders’ of all the colonies have
given a most unmistakable endorsement of the
Jockey Club’s knowledge of their subject, as dis-
played in the drawing up of the new conditions.
The members of both Houses of Parliament
who support the great Terry’s Betting Bill
felt not a little scandalised the other
day at hearing a report that the gifted
author of that measure was bowled out
making a horse-race match with one of his tenants
for th ree po u nds sterling' and a het for three pounds
aside also. The race duly came off at or near
Killarney, and, sad to relate for tho apostle of
betting suppression, who of course thought to give
his opponent a lesson, the tenant icon. On this
(Friday) night the bill will come on again,
but in committee, I believe, as the members of the
Upper House at two readings confirmed its prin-
ciples, and nothing remains now but for tho com-
mittee to examine it in clauses. That any en-
lightened body of gentlemen could be got together
to pass a bill such as that undea notice with the in-
tention of it becoming law, I for one would not
have believed. Of course my readers are aware that
‘ Terry’s Bill ’ is, excepting that it is a deal more
stringent, a copy of tho English one passed 22
years ago ; so that tho groat would-be turf re-
former is indebted to other than his own
brains (?) For one, I have no fear whatever that
the bill in its present form will over become law.
do firmly believe that tho committee will
hack and chaw ” it about so as to make it in-
operative. Very little more is needed to make it
such a jumble that even Mr. Terry, with all his
wishom (?) will not understand it.
Turf Talk.
The only items of importance since our last
issue, at any rate the most attractive to metro-
politan sportsmen, have been the annual meetings
of Wellington and Cross Roads. Wellington
meetings always attract their share of lovers of
Isthmian games, and this time there was no ex-
ception, but the weather was against the sport,
and several unavoidable postponements militated
against the fixture being as successful as it other-
wise would have been. The meeting at Cross
Roads, near Glenfield, which took place on Wed-
nesday last, boasted of only a small crowd of
visitors; and although the prizes were only small
and the equine representatives made up of
moderates, the racing was good, and altogether a
fair day’s sport was got through. The manage-
ment, which was vested in the hands of some three
or four, was not good, and future meetings at
Cross Roads are not likely to increase in impor-
tance. A ready demand for space compels us to
shorten the race index, but owners and all others
interested will be kept well posted up in all things
requiring their attention. Looking forward to
races to come, the first told of is that of the
Warwick Jockey Club, to come off on the 4th and
sth of the present month, and if preliminaries
couleur de rose go for anything our readers may
well expect to hear of a successful gathering.
The dates for the Brewarrina annual tryst have not
yet been announced, nor have we heard how things
are progressing in that district. The coming
Thursday and Friday will see the annual fixture
of the Wilcannia Jockey Club run out, and after
that nothing further need be looked for until the
20th and 21st, when the sportsmen of Bourke will
be up to their ears in business. The programme
put forward has met with approval on all sides,
and we hope to hear tell of a success. This Fri-
day is an important day for those owners and
breeders whose attention has been drawn to the
Queensland Turf Club programme, for entries re-
quire to be made for tho Derby of next year and
St: Leger of 1882, while mares and sires must be
nominated for tho Mares’ Produce Stakes of 1883.
These are three of the most noticeable events in
turf affairs in Queensland, and we hope to hear of
a good response from those interested. The War-
wick general entry is called for on this Saturday
as also are entries for the Muswellbrook Handicap,
and as each stake is well subsidised dwellers and
owners of horses ought to have no cause for com-
plaint of a lack of sport. Next Tuesday is the
day on which tho Wilcannia general entry falls
due, and that finishes all requiring attention in
the matter of closing of stakes for the coming
week. The imposts for the big event on the
Cobar programme are due on the coming Wednes-
day, those for the Jockey Club and Flying Handi-
cap to be run for at Wilcannia on the 6th, and
owners will know their “ troubles ” on the 9th for
horses engaged in the Muswellbrook Handicap.
The Central Australian Handicap and Steeple-
chase on the Bourke programme require to be
accepted for on the coming Tuesday, as. also do
those events already handicapped on the Queens-
land programme, and as a similar duty must be
performed for the Wilcannia Hurdle Race, there
are sufficient items for the one day to interest any-
body. Then, on the 7th, acceptances are due for
the Wilcannia Jockey Club Handicap, and for those
interested this is an item not to be lost sight of.
There is no truth in the rumour that Messrs.
J. S. Smith’s and W. A. Long’s horses have gone
to Windsor in charge of Tom Brown. They are
at present in work at South Creek, where there is
a very suitable course, consequently they are not
likely to leave such good quarters sooner than is
absolutely necessary.
The sportsmen of Rockhampton have put for-
ward a very pretentious programme, to be run for
on the Bth and 9th of July, and altogether it
boasts of upwards of 800 aovs., to be given as
added money. It does not call for immediate at-
tention,, and we will refer more minutely to it
in a future issue.
We have been favored by tho Secretary of the
A.J.C. with a copy in pamphlet form of the entries
received for the Champagne and Substitute
Stakes and Derby for 1881; the St. Leger Great
Foal Stakes, Sires’ Produce and Mares’ Produce
Stakes for 1832, and tho Mares’ Produce Stakes
for 1883. In point of number and quality those
have exceeded expectations. It may not bo generally
known that the “Substitute Stakes” takes tho
place of the Breeders’ Plate, but why such a
change has been brought about we are at a loss to
know. We have never heard any reason given.
Sportsmen generally are extremely glad to notice
the name of Sir Thomas Elder amongst the
list of entries, and we venture to hope that his
colors may be seen figuring conspicuously on the
Randwick convincing ground.
Previous to the departure of Governor Weld
from New South Wales to his new home in Singa-
pore he became so impressed with the usefulness
of the hackneys used in New South Wales that he
purchased from Mr. Fonnelly a black gelding hack,
by Cossack, for 50 guineas ; and as tho animal was
second to none in this colony (at any rate we have
seen nothing better) he was not a dear purchase.
Joe Cook, trainer of Richmond, warns horse
owners from harbouring a boy named William
Johnston, who has absconded from his (Cook’s)
employ.
The conditions of the Great Metropolitan
Stakes will shortly be laid before the public in
these columns, and as they will bo made con-
siderably lighter for the benefit of horse owners we
make no apology for referring to them here. The
added money will be the usual amount —350 sovs.
with 20 sovs. each —but 1 sov. only will nominate,
and in place of half forfeit, as before, horses may
stay in until tho Derby Day for 5 sovs. in all.
This is a reduction that wo are pleased to tell of,
and one which will be well appreciated by horse
owners. The conditions are much the same as
those of the last Sydney Cup, which found so
much favour with owners. While on the
subject of the A.J.C. we may as well refer to
several important improvements and alterations
at present in course of completion at Rannwick.
The A.J.C. Committee have decided to do away
with the Derby Stand, which has been an “eye
sore” to Randwick for a long time, and a room
for injured jockeys will be substituted, called the
‘’i nfirmary Room.” When the latter can be
said to form a portion of the “surroundings,” a
want long felt will have been supplied. The
course, which wo may say, having been over it, is
in splendid order, is now open for the purpose of
being worked upon, but trainers are informed that
unless they apply at the A.J.C. for their tickets
their horses will not bo allowed inside tho entrance
gates.
If we are correctly informed the racing mare
Potroa has left tho turf and will in future be used
as a “hack’ by Mrs. W. J. Clarke, wife of the
Victorian millionaire of that name. Our infor-
mant is wrong, evidently, for wo venture to think
that tho Hon. W. J. Clarke has the interest of the
turf more at heart than to lot one of the grannost
fillies Australia has yet aeon be used for such a
purpose.
Tho Committee of the V.R.C. have endorsed the
decision of tho A.J.C. with regard to Sam Davis,
the Victorian jockey who was disqualified by tho
A.J.C. for wilful disobedience of the starter’s
orders. We wonder such a fate did not overtake
him long since.
The Yass racecourse will shortly be the scene of
a match between the well-known racing mare
Zuleika and a horse not so well known, named
Murray, the mare to carry 9 st and her opponent
8 st. The stakes are £lOO a side ; but from what
is known of Murray an easy win for the mare is
looked forward to.
The well-known race horse Ralph Leigh will be
shipped for India during the next few days.
Lowlander, lately the property of Mr. Mayo, has
been purchased by the Victorian jockey Joe
Morrison.
We regret very much to hear of the death of
Mr. W. Dorling, which took place in America on
the 29th of February last. New South Welshmen
will remember Mr. Dorling as the travelling cor-
respondent of the London Sporting Life, and
all those who came in contact with him cannot but
feel grieved at his demise.
At the late meeting of the Victorian Amateur
Turf Club Mr. T. Jones won £155, Mr. Webster
£l2O, Mr. F. Mann £ll5, Mr. Ned Gough £64,
and Mr. Robertson £6O.
Darriwell, the Melbourne Cup winner, has been
sold to Sir Thomas Elder, of Adelaide.
Martindale has been scratched for his Brisbane
engagements. Freemason is still left in, so that
the stable is likely to be represented.
Tom Brown, the well-known trainer and jockey,
has joined the Benedicts, having been married on
Thursday last to Miss Dillion, a daughter of the
once celebrated rider, “ Johnny Cutts.”
PIGEON SHOOTING.
The silver cup given by Mr. Hilder, the Mayor of
Manly Beach, was shot for at Manly on Saturday last,
and the handicaps appeared so well apportioned that
despite the very inclement weather thirty-six shooters
were brought to the mark. The affair caused much
excitement amongst ‘ knights of the trigger,’ and as will
he seen by the following long list of names, mostly all
the ‘ cracks ’ were brought together. Messrs. H. Pay-
ton, Evans, Lee Lord and I’. Gannon were spotted by
the ‘ fancy ’ as most likely to produce the winner, and
the ‘ ring ’ who mustered in good force had rather an
unpleasant and not very profitable time of it. The
shooting, considering the unfavourable circumstances
surrounding, was good. The conditions of the cup
were that eight birds each were to be shot at, and at
that number Messrs. H. Payten Lee Lord tied, and
as the cup itself conld not be divided the ‘ ties ’ decided
to divide the money portion of the sweep and shoot off
for the cup, and the plucky representative of Goulburn,
Mr. Payten, killing the bird while his opponent missed,
the much coveted trophy went to Goulburn: —A Sweep-
stakes of one sovereign each; seven birds and silver
cup.
J. Lennon, 26 yards .. 11010 —3
Waddell) 26 yards 011110 —4
Budgerio, 26 yards ... 0100 —1
H. Smith, 28 yards 0110 —2
F. Weston, 25 yards ... 11010 —3
R. Freeman, 25 yards 0101 —2
L. Lord, 28 yards 111011110 —7
Bailey, 25 yards 0100 —1
F. Smart, 21 yards ... ... ... 0100 —1
G. Crook, 26 yards 11100 —3
Henry, 27 yards 110110 —1
Skerratt, 21 yards 0010 —1
Workman, 26 yards 0010 —1
Young, 26 yards 0100 —1
H. Braid wood, 26 yards 0101 —2
T. Giblin, 27 yards 11010 —3
Warrenor, 25 yards 1010 —2
F. Isaacs, 26 yards 1101110 —5
C. Evans, 28 yards 11111100 —6
H. Peyton, 27 yards 111011111 —8
Hamilton. 28 yards ... 1011110 —5
Stein, 28 yards 0110 —2
Feetham, 26 yards 1100 —2
E. Jones, 24 yards 000 —0
Mudina, 26 yards 1001 • —2
Bagnall, 25 yards 0001 —1
Farrell, 24 yards ... 0000 —0
Banker, 24 yards ... 0011 • —2
J. Gannon, 26 yards 1001 —2
L. Smith, 25 yards 1000 —1
Belisario, 25 yards „. 1110110 —5
Columbia, 21 yards 0001 —1
Milton, 25 yards ... 0101 —2
De Mestre, 21 yards 0001 —1
F. Gannon, 28 yards 1111101 —6
Pidock, 25 yards 11010 —3
The Town against Country Pigeon Match, so long
talked of, is to be shot off at Goulburn to-day (Satur-
day). As the name implies the match is between repre-
sentatives of town and country, and as mostly all the
• cracks ’ intend being present, some good shooting
may be looked forward to.
PEDESTRIANISM.
W. T. Thomas and F. Blakeman met on the Military
Eoad, North Shore, on Saturday last, to contest a run-
ning match over 150 yards for £lO aside. Blakeman,
who had beaten Thomas previously, was the favourite,
but Thomas won rather easily by two yards. A good
deal of money changed hands over the affair. Blake-
man has since challenged Thomas.
Edwards, the long-distance champion, and W. Baker
are said to be matched for £SO aside to|wolk for 48 hours.
Is this a genuine match or one only for gate money P
We hope the former, as • gate-money’ matches are being
worn threadbare.
CRICKET.
Borodoh Match —Darlington v. Glebe.
A meeting of the members of the above clubs was
held at Darlington on the 23rd April to present the
fortunate winners with their trophies. Mr. N. Tindall
received a gold medal for highest single inning score; a
gold medal was given to Mr. Gosnell for best average
batting ; bat to Mr. Sweetman for best bowling average;
and an opera glass to Mr. H Pier for the best fielding.
The match which was to hare taken place on Saturday
last at the Association Ground between old players of
the northern district and similar ones from Sydney fell
through owing to the inability of the Northemites to
be present. If this had not been so, the match could
not possibly have been a profitable one, the weather
being much too wet for the game.
N. S. W. COURSING CLUB.
At a committee meeting of the above, held on Wed-
nesday afternoon, at the Royal Hotel, Mr. E. Lee
presided. Messrs. G. Lee, W. Lamb, G. F. Want, R.
L. Tooth, and W. R. Hall, were elected stewards. Mr.
C. C. Skarratt, slip steward; Mr. G. Denny, flag
steward ; and Mr. Lord was deputed to look after the
horses for the Club, while Messrs. P. Higgins and W.
E. Hall undertook to see to all railway arrangements.
We have to remind coursers that nominations for the
Woodstock meeting are to close on the coming Wed-
nesday, at 4 p.m.
AUSTRALIAN COURSING CLUB.
St. Leger Meeting—Werribee Park.
Point Cook Stakes.
Second Ties.
Little Alice a bye.
Castor beat Fugleman.
Deciding Course.
Hon. W. J. Clarke r w d Castor by Salamander—Joan
beat Mr. R. Chirnside’s bk f Little Alice, late Arun by
Bontango —Sea Princes, and won the Point Cook Stakes.
St. Leger.
Fourth Ties.
Housewife-beat Werribee Princess.
Rupee—beat Last of the Barons.
Deciding Course.
Messrs. Hart Bros', bk w f Housewife by Domestic—
Needle beat Mr. W. B. Ronnsv-Vll’s bl n b Rupee by
Casique ll—Ready Money and won th> St. Leger.
THE NOBLE ART.
Dave Ingram, who was and is, we believe, now the
chainjiion light weight boxer of Australia, will be ten-
dered a benefit on Monday evening next at Foley’s,
Rooms. William-street. Ingram is well known, and w®
hope that his friends will rally up and accord young
D. I. from * Brummagem * a bumper house.
WILCANNIA ANNUAL RACES.
The following acceptances have been declared :
Wilcannia Handicap.
st lb
Mountain Maid, aged... 810
Sunshine, 5 years ... 8 4
Miss Angler, 4 yrs ... 810
Hawthorn, 3 yrs ... 7 12
Huntsman, aged ... 710
st lb
Cossack, 6 yrs ... 613
Chieftain, 6 yrs ... 6 8
Fisherman, aged... 6 6
General, 6 yrs ... 512
Nyanda, 4 yrs ... 510
Steeplboha.se.— (Palmer’s Cup.)
st lb st lb
Try Again, aged 12 4 | Circassian, 5 yrs.., 10 10
Young Boss, 6 yrs ... 10 12 |
... XV X* ,
Steeplechase.
„X 11.
st lb
Try Again, aged 11 5 1
Young Boss, 5 yrs ... 10 2 |
St lb
Monarque, aged... 9 13
Circassian, 5 yrs... 912
WALGETT ANNUAL RACES.
The following are the weights for the Namoi
Handicap:—
Galax 9 3
Sir Roger 9 0
Hunter t, ... ... 812
Waxworks 8 0
Deerfoot 7 10
Lord Lyon 7 &
Chanticleer 7 9
Clontori 7 6
Schoolboy 7 2
Comical Jack 6 10
CROSS ROADS RACES.
Wednesday, April 28.
Glenfield Handicap—
Prophet (6s. Tibs.) ... 1
Park Stakes—
Mary Ann *. 1
Cross Roads Handicap—
Oak Hall 1
Flying Handicap—
Prophet 1
WELLINGTON JOCKEY CLUB ANNUAL RACES
(By electric telegraph from onr own Correspondent).
First Day, April 23.
The course was very heavy owing to late rains.
Wellington Town Plate —
Songstress, 1; Master Avenel, 2.
Hack Race —
Tanderville, 1.
Montefiore Gift —
Lor ton, 1; Trump, 2; Bay Middleton, 3.]
Second Day, Monday, April 26.
Flying Handicap—
Stella, 1; Love Not, 2; Lorton, 3;
Jockey Club Handicap—
Songstress, 1; Drum Major, 2; Melody, 3.
Prince of Wales’ Stakes—
Melody, 1; Paddy Go Easy, 2; Idalia, 3.
Forced Handicap—
Master Avenel, 1; Songstress, 2.
There was a good attendance, and the weather was.
flue.
KENSINGTON PARK RACES.
Saturday, April 24.
(By elec, telegraph—from our own Correspondent).
Hurdle Race—
Devilshoof, 1; Myrmiong, 2 ; Stampede, 3.
April Handicap—
Dollar, 1; Fizz, 2; Franciscan, 3.
Pony Race —
Elsie, lj Frolic, 2; Nellie Grey, 3.
The Steeplechase—
Ace of Trumps, 1; Haricot, 2; Rocket, 3.
Final Flutter—
Patter, 1; Lea King, 2; Lea Serpent, 3.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
‘'Blower” Brown has walked 593 miles in six
days and thus beaten all previous records.
Elliott this month starts from England for the
United States to participate in several boating contests.
James Gordon Bennett is organising a racing
stable in England.
Kelly, an Australian pedestrian, has been beaten
by Davis of San Francisco.
The Australian Jockeys, Southal and Stratford,,
axe proving very successful in India.
Dean and Carver race at Wagga on the 28th
inst. for £lOO.
A second deposit of .£25 each has been made by
Callaghan and Carver.
Mr. Monahan’s horse, Wildrake, while exercising
on the Brisbane racecourse the other day unaccountably
broke both his forelegs short off and had to be shot.
Lone Hand, the celebrated Victorian steeple-
chaser, is doing well in New Zealand and is a starter for
the N.Z. Grand National.
Racing at present is not well supported in India
because Lord William Beresford and other leading
sportsmen are in Afghanistan.
One day during the week Mr. J. E. Artis caught
off Botany a splendid rook cod of 181bs. Altogether
the catch, with soles, schnapper, &c., was a very fine
one.
W. J. M‘lndoe beat Kitz and all other comers
for the £lOO swimming championship prize, at Hegarty’s
baths, St. Kilda.
Kangaroo tongues, smoked after the fashion of
Russian reindeer tongues, are finding favour in the
London Market.
A splendid 36-ton yacht is being built to the
order of the Hon. W. J. Clarke ; and the Messrs. Chim-
side of Weinbee Station, Victoria, are said to be in
treaty for the purchase of the Sydney yacht Magic.
A handball match, £l5 a-side was played on
Saturday last at Hamilton between Jos. Pattison and
Thos. Alderson. The former won by two points after a
good game. The same parties will piay again on the
same terms to-day (Saturday).
The coursing match to take place to-day at
Hexham between Godfrey’s Luna and Anderson’s dog
Harbinger, is causing some speculation. However Luna
is fully exx>ected to add another win to her long list of
victories.
A porridge match has been arranged between the
champion, Bibby, and J. P. King, of West Maitland, for
£5O, to take place at Newcastle on the 24th May next.
£5 apiece has been deposited with Mr. M. Durham, a
Lambton hotelkeeper; and the winner of the event will
should he make another match, favour the metropolis
with avisit.
The English Press is up in arms already against
the Australian cricketers. A recent issue of Life has
a-scathing article headed ‘Commercial Cricketers,’ in
which the are warned against ' the ill bred curs ’
who led to Lord Harris being mobbed ; and the public
are urged to look on the Eleven merely as ‘money-
grabbing strollers. Figaro has published many para-
graphs of much the same character.
A good day’s sport with tho gun can always be
had at Mittagong. The train leaves Sydney on Satur-
day morning at 10 minutes to 8, arriving a few minutes
to 11, fare 6s. sd. return ticket lasting one week. A
buggy is always at the station to convey visitors to
Stanton’s Coach and Horses Hotel, and there is a man
ready to act as guide to where the best scrub is obtain-
able. The game, which is in abundance a few miles
from the hotel, consicts of rock and scent wallabies,
pheasants, ducks, &c. Train fare and hotel expenses
do not exceed two guineas for the week.
‘ Kosmos,’ a New Zealand writer, has forwarded
nu pamphlet on the Totalisator question, in which he
thus summarises the arguments against the machine: —■
4 1. Betting is essential to the existence of the turf. 2.
Owners of horses can bet only with bookmakers. To-
talisators are of use only to tho public. 3. Bookmakers
and the totalisator cannot exist side by side. The ring
cannot hope to compete with a co-operative betting
machine. 4. If the public deserts the ring in favour of
totalisator, then the fielders’ occupation is gone, and
they must close their books. 5. If the fielders dis-
appear, owners cannot back their horses. 6. If owners
cannot back their horses they certainly will not run
them for the public profit and amusement. 7. As soon
as owners cease to run their horses there is an end to-
the turf,’


T
heat
Lessee ...
BE E
... Mr
Business Manager & Treasurer ..
Stage Manager
Mr
Mi
SEVENTH WEEK and CONTINU
of
LYSTEB and GAENE
LONDON COMEDY COM
THIS EVENING,
And every evening until fnrtht
Will be given BYEON'S favourite C
b BLOW FOE BLOW.
Characters by
THE LONDON COMEDY CO
Scenery by Mr. George Goi
ALTEEATION OF TIIV
Doors open at 7 ; commence at 7.45.
Prices as usual.
T H
ICTO E I A
Stage Manager Mr. Ja
STILL HOUSES CEOWDED
FUEOEE INCEEASINQ
EXCITEMENT INCEEASI
INTEEEST SWELI
BOUND AFTEE BOUND OF APi
LAUGHTEE.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGK
FEIDAY, May 1.
NEW BABYI
OUE EXCELLENCE END<
by the largest audience ever asse;
‘ OLD VICTOEIA."
The event of the Australian Dramatii
NEW BABYLON.
EVEEY NIGHT
the audience testified their approval
cheers till the act drop had to be
times on the
MIEACULOUS COLLISION
causing the greatest enthusiasm w:
incidents,
being without doubt the grandest and :
produced on any stage in the southern
THE CAST
includes the best and most carefully
of Artists that has ever appeared tog<
in Sydney, the parts allotted to eac
suitable.
From the Profound and Erudite
to the
Hardworking and Worthy j
all heartily testify to the wonderfu
‘THE NEW BABYLC
It is the most attractive drama <
The COLLISION on the A r .
is the best piece of mechanism and
duced.
TattersalTs, with its Sale of
Cremome, with its Dancing 1
Goodwood, with its Grand Eu
The Thames Embankment
and the
Seven Dials by Night,
are pictures of
EEAL LIFE, only to be seen by
NEW BABYLON
The honest and independent Wort
toil with a smile, when he has (
bring his family to t
THE NEW BABYL
The Fashion and Beauty of our grea
our auditorium when att
THE NEW BABYL
It is, therefore, the talk of the Blot
the Studio and the Wor
Ours is a Tide of Triumphant and
NEW BABYLON. NET
NEW BABYLON
NOTICE. —Those of our patrons '
gain admission owing to the cr<
theatre, can have their money re
ticket any night during the week.
Free list suspended—Press alon
Boi plan at Elvy’s, where seats
advance.
QUEE N * S
Lessee
T H
1
CONTINUED SUC<
of
Mr. DAMPIEB, and
TO-NIGHT (Friday)Ap:
f-piIE GREAT WAXWORK
NOW OPEN, opposite the Viet
street. Just ARRIVED, from
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE W
Christine, the two-headed Nighting
heads, four arms, four legs, and om
Admission Is, children half price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
T
HE PUBLICS CO
Knowing the aversion which
Gentlemen have to remaining in to
are closed to have supper,
Mrs. SPENCE!
of the
VICTORIA
LUNCHEON & SI
247 PITT STREI
(next Victoria Thei
Has made arrangements whereh,
order early in the evening or day
ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF !
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WIND'
N.B. This is not restricted to
meats, etc. can be served and obtoii
Suppers, Oysters, etc. t
Cleanliness, civility and chenj
Discount Tickets, entitling the w
extending to any period of time, to
be had at the cash counter.
Note the Address—
-247 PITT STREI
B
UT TOUR BLANKS
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL
WHAT YOU CAN DO
EDWARD HORD
(the original firm of tb
668 BRICKFIELD 1
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of tl
SOUTH WALI
to
THIS SEASON’S SHI
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by hii
DIRECT FROM THE MAN!
SNOW WHITE, PURE WOOL
“PLENTY to TUCI
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the CO
and
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I,—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER VI— continued.
“TToW clo you mean?” asked her eldest son,
+nmin(? towards her; “ you mean that Jimmy
H vie would come here a second time after I d for-
S?Ln him the house?” . ,
He laughed, as if he thought it rather a good
turn him out of the house? That’s
... you!” said Mrs. Heywood, emptying the
toes into the tureen.
Pur r eally don’t know what your talking about,
said Myles, in some surprise at her whole de-
you’ll get to know, then,” she retorted,
■without meeting his eye. ‘‘ A good man is like the
Hof the earth. He can make even a sinful
house holy, and bring a blessing on James
Hoyle and me is going to be married Wet be
fed this day three week, and then I’d like to know
w you’ll forbid him the house.”
There was a momentary silence, during which
•Vlvles who had risen, stared at his mother in an
Credulous manner. Mary, after a moment,
tarned pale, and sat down upon a chair in the
background. Edmund’s lips were curled into a
I” said Myles, confronting ( her, and
somehow forcing her eyes to meet his. “Is this a
foke that you’re playing upon us P Because, if so,
it’s a very poor one.” . .......
“ Joke !” she retorted, her voice rising to shnll-
tims “What should it be a joke for, I’d like to
wjw P Have I such comfort in my children that
I shouldn’t be glad of the help of a godly man—oh,
and he is a godly man—like that?”
“ That’s a poor answer, mother, said Myles,
who had thrust his hand into his breast, as if to
renress some anger or emotion. Your children
have never done anything to cause your uneasi-
go on blowing your own trumpet!” Mrs.
ve no more to say about it. But I want
a better answer than that your children’s conduct
drove you to marry that great, idle, greasy,
santimonious, all-praying, no-doing brute—he isn’t
a man. I can understand him wanting to marry
vou you’ve thirty pounds of your own : but that
you’should look at him ! ” He made an expressive
gesture of contempt. ,
“So it’s my money he’s marrying me for, said
Mrs. Heywood ; and no girl of eighteen could have
annken with more anger at the suggestion.
it, is itP Ay, ay,! ‘ Honor thy father
and thy mothe ’— do!”
“ Are you giving us an example of honouring
our father?” he inquired, growing quieter in his
tone as his anger and disgust grew more intense,
and her determination (he saw) more fixed. “Or
is your present plan likely to lead us to honour
you? No, mother; I can’t see what a woman
like you wants marrying again ; though if it had
been a decent man, let him be ever so rough I’d
have put up with him, but that—why, I saw him
on Saturday night coming out of the lowest public
house in Thanshope—half-drunk—as plain as I see
you, But here’s the long and short of it. That
man certainly never enters this again. I’ll let him
know that. And if you do marry him, he’ll please
to find a home for you ; for neither he nor you will
share ours. Mark my words—if you go to him you
leave us for ever.” . . ~ ~
“ Mother, thou 11 ne er be so wicked, said
Mary, from her corner, in tears.
“ Hold thy tongue, thou hussy! calling thy
mother wicked,” said Mrs. Heywood sharply.
“ I’ll not have Molly called by that name,” said
Myles, composedly. “Remember, it’s I that am
master here, when all’s said and done. ITI have
no such nonsense carried on. So let us hear —do
you intend to be a wise woman or a fool?”
The words were not at all rudely spoken, but
they were unfortunately chosen. They incensed
Mrs Heywood, and she replied sharply :
“ I intend to marry James Hoyle.” »
** Then,” said he, slowly, as if giving her an op-
portunity to recant, “ it’s settled that I intend to
have no no more to do with you.”
“ Oh, Myles, don’t be so hard on her ! implored
Mary, coming forward and laying her hand upon
his arm.
“ My good lass,” said he, “dry thy eyes, and
be glad thou’rt not called upon to be hard, as thou
■calls it.”
Mary did not expostulate. Under the gentle-
ness of the words she read a decision which she
'did not attempt to combat.
“ Mary’s our good angel,” remarked Edmund
from the couch ; and his eyes, too, fell upon her
with affection. ~
“ A nice angel you’ll find her when I m gone,
•grumbled Mrs. Heywood.
“Once more,” broke in Myles’ voice, I tell
yon, mother, I have spoken to you for the last time,
unless I hear that this abominable thing is given
up—for the last time.”
“ Myles !” implored his sister. But she might
as well have tried to move one of the great boul-
ders on Blackrigg as make him soften or yield one
jot.
“ Come, lass !” he observed to her. Those
that must work must eat. The time’s gone by in
this precious palaver, and we’ve only twenty
minutes left.”
He sat down and helped himself, and tried to
look as if nothing had happened ; soon, however,
he laid down his knife and fork, and told Mary,
who had not even pretended to eat, that it was
time to go.
She put her shawl over her head, and, saying
good afternoon to Edmund, they went out.
CHAPTER VIL
Sans Faijon.
Six o’clock was the time at which the work-
people “ knocked off.” Myles and Mary had not
; spoken as they went to their work, and of course
not during the afternoon ; and it was only as they
were coming home again that they first named the
subject which at the moment lay nearest their
heartness. Mary was all for mildness and tem-
perate measures.
“ I think, Myles, that if we was to to
her, and talk to her, she’d likely give it up,” said
the girl, in her soft, broad Lancashire dialect.
“ Not she, Molly. She’s no intention of giving
it up."
“ I never could abide yon Hoyle,” went on
Mary. “A false, sneakin’ fellow, he always
•uemed to me. I reckon he’s after mother’s bit o’
hraeg ; but how hoo can gi’ so much as a thought
to him—nay, it fair passes me !
“Av ! you may well blush! I don’t wonder!”
•■id Myles, grimly. “It looks as if peoples minds
' were fair crooked, or set up on edge, or upside
down, or something.
They went into Hie house, and found Edmund
|, d«9.
“ She’s not coming back,” said he, by way of
salutation. “ She’s gone to some of his relations.
She says she’s lived through a deal o’ trouble, and
has found out at last what it was to be turned out
of doors by her own children.
Neither Mary nor Myles made answer to this
announcement. Mary got tea ready and they sat
down. It was a silent, painful meal. Myles rose
from it with a sense of relief, and, taking Edmund’s
book to change, said he was going down to the
reading-room. _
Would thou mind calling at th’ saddler s in Bold
Street for yon strap o’ mine ?” said Mary.
“ Which strap, Molly ?”
“ It’s a girder as I took to have a new one made
like it. He’ll give both th’ old and th’ new one.
I could like to have it to take wi’ me to-morn.
I’ve been using Sally Rogers’; but hoo’s
back again to-morn, and boo’ll want it hoo rsel .
“ Ay, I’ll get it,” said Myles, putting on his cap
and going out.
He made a little detour from his usual route, in
order to go to the saddler’s on his errand for Mary.
Bold Street was one of the principal streets of
Thanshope, and close to the very shop to which
Myles was going was a place known to the vulgar
as “ th’ Club.” This was abilliard and whist club,
frequented by the golden youth of the promising
town of Thanshope.
It was a spot not exactly loved of the mammae of
the said town, and much discussed by the young
ladies of the same. Much iniquity was vaguely
supposed to be perpetrated there; some of the
piously disposed spoke of it as a “ den others,
who knew nothing, and wished to appear as if they
knew a great deal, said it was “ as bad as the
worst of London clubs,” which remark may serve
as a specimen of the mighty self-consciousness of
little provincial towns —and ‘ ‘ den ” is a word
which has about it a fine abstract flavour of awful-
ness. , ,
It is probable tbat, as a matter ot fact, much
bad whist was played there ; billiard balls were
knocked up and down, and bets made ; too much
spirits were probably consumed; as many dull,
coarse, or vulgar tales were told, as much aimless
scandal was talked, as many praiseworthy efforts
were made to ape the manners and tone of metro-
politan clubs, as in most provincial institutions of
a similar kind. .
Myles went to the saddler s, which was next
door to this temple of hilarity, fashion, and fast-
ness ; got the straps which Mary had spoken of,
and then came out to take his way to the town-
hall As he passed the portico of the club, he saw
just within it a back, which he remembered,
clothed in broadcloth. Beside this figure was
another, that of a mere lad, with a babyish face
and no chin to speak of, who would have been bet-
ter in the cricket-field, or even grinding at his
Latin grammar. On his small-featured, insignifi-
cant face was stamped an expression of foolish
glee and admiration.
The first individual was speaking ; Myles, stroll-
ing leisurely past, beard the words, i* a loud,
strident voice: , , _ , , T
'•Such a chase, my boy! but I succeeded. 1
found out where she lives, and waylaid her; gave
her my protection whether she liked it or not.
Unless I’m much mistaken, we shall soon be very
good friends. She’s a deep little de-
mure things always are. Ha, ha !’
“ I say, Spenceley —, , ,
“ Doosid pretty, though. D d good eyes she
has, and knews how to nso them. Look her ! do
you want your revenge for Saturday night P
“Oh yes! Come along!” . ,
They walked forward to the interior of the hall,
and were lost to view. . .
Never before had Myles felt the singular sensa-
tion which just then clutched him—a kind of
tingling, half of rage, half of shame, from head to
foot—a tempest of his whole mental being. He
was in a white heat of fnry, and only two ideas
were distinct in his mind : to find Adrienne, and
to punish her insulter. . , , ~
Almost unknowing how, ho hurried to the town-
hall up the stairs, through the library, into the
reading-room. Would she be there? Yes, she
was there, in her usual place. He strode towards
her. She was not even pretending to road or
write. She sat pale as ashes, and trembling, as he
saw in his approach. . , ,
“ Miss Blissit!” ho almost whispered, as he
went up to her, and bent over her, his face dark
with suppressed indignation, his eyes aflame, it
she too had not been moved out of all conventional
calm, she must have started at the expression
which flashed from his face upon hers.
“Oh Mr Hey wood, will you be so very good as
to go home with me now, at once ? I have been so
frightened and —insulted.” , , w _
Her voice broke, though her eyes flashed. How
proud a front soever she might have showed to
her insulter, the re-action had set m: the remem-
brance was not to be borne unmoved.
“ I know you have,” said he, in a low, emphatic
voice : and a tremor shook him too as he looked at
her, and saw how beautiful she was. He had ad-
mired her as she sat in repose, but now every fibre
bowed to her, and he felt a passionate desire to do
eomething, anything, that would set him apart m
her eyes from others. Yet, after his first swift
glance, he scarcely looked at her, and said very
Uttle. Words appeared weak and trivial he
could not express in them his detestation of the
conduct of that other man, or how profoundly he
re “ e HoTwas o itf” he asked, speaking composedly,
but clenching his hands, and crushing together
what he held in them. ... . , , .
“ It was that man,” saidshe, in a low, breathless
voice “ That hideous man. I don t know where
he saw me. I think he must have followed me
but when I got to that little lane, h ° s^ d ‘ lo^
overtook me, and spoke to me. I could not turn
back It would have been much farthei—and so
lonely I did not answer him; 1 went on very fast
r r i
thought, when we got into thetown, that ho would
have left me, but he did not. He came to the very
door of this place, and I dare not go out for fear
he should be there yet. Oh, I am so glad to see
you 1 I thought you were never coming.
J She had leaned her head upon her hand, or she
must have seen the light that flashed suddenly into
his eves—not the light that had been there at first.
He drew a long breath, but succeeded in not be-
traying for a second his emotion, as she turned,
nale and quivering with excitement, and put hei
two little slender hands upon his, s^X^XSld
“ You have been very kind to me. What should
I have done if you had not helped me ?
“ It has been a pleasure to serve you, he said
oou.taTedlj “Do you feel fit to welt home
n °™Ob quite!” she answered, picking up her
note-book- and they went away together. ,
Myles walked with her to the gate of her uncle s
house, and said, as they paused there :
“ Of course you will never come again, miss
Blissit?” ~
“Never. Of course not.
< • Then—then— ’ ’ he faltered unable to say what
he “ W ßut ed f shall see you again, of course,” said
Adrisauo, quickly ” You will coma again. My
uncle wishes you to come again. And you will—
yes?” _ ,
‘‘You are sure it wouldn’t be an intrusion?
said Myles, doubtfully.
“ Very far from an intrusion,” she answered.
“You will be welcome —and you will be expected
until you come.”
With which, and with a warm hand-shake, she
disappeared.
Myles did not pause to-night to contemplate the
street, or to look out for the light in the window.
He took the shortest and the straightest course
into the town again, went direct to Bold Street,
and stopped before the club.
There was a light in the vestibule of that build-
ing, and a waiter stood at the door surveying the
passers-by, and feeling no doubt that he looked
negatively fascinating.
(to be continued.)
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street
K. Callaway, King-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-st.
George Hill, George-street
Nash. >•
J. W. Clarke ~
E. E. Cole »
Gordon & Gotcli ~
- Sandon ~
Collies, George-st. west
Turner, Brickfield Hill
Abmidalb —
H. Mallom
Asheield —
W. J. Banks
Bathurst —
H. Bridges
Beoa—
O. Welby
Bodalla —
W. Brock
COOTAMTJNDRA —
J. Percival
Echtjca—
Q. Poedyke
Porbes —
E. Chapman
Germanton —'
T. Brown
Glenlnnes —
E. Marshall
Goulburn —
J. Walsh
Gunnedah —
Fitzgerald
Lambton —
J. Firth
Lismobe—
— Jones
Maitland (West) —
C. W. Clarke
Morpeth—
James Maher
Mudgeb—
W. Hall
INTEBCOLONIAL:
Melbodknh—
Handers & Co.
W. Yard
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
Clarke, Pitt-street
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. L. Berghoefer, Pitt-st.
Schueberger, Oxford-st.
Spragg & Adams „
Lapbam „
G. Barker, Sussex-street
Thereby, Erskine-street
J. Walton, Railway Station
J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
Pierce, William-street
Narrabri —
O. Haussman
Newcastle —
Hale Williams
P. Alcock
North Shore —
Deacon & Son
Nicholson Bros.
Orange—
R. Lessell a
Parramatta —
G. W. Green
J. Eeeve
Petersham—
•— Thompson
Port Macquarie—
J. J. Penn
Rtde —
R. Young
Scone—
M. P. Asset
Shoalhavkn —
Wicks
Singleton—
J. P. Quinn
Waqga Wagga—
C. H. Daniel
Wattle Flat—
L. Grim wood
Wellington (n.b.w.) —
W. Booth
Young—
G. F. Oil
Brisbane —
Gordon & Qotoli
Stanthorpe (Q.) —
J. P. Williams


IMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
THE UNDERSIGNED, haring pnrobaeed all the LATEST IMPROVEMENTS In KEROSENE LAMPS
exhibited at THE GARDEN PALACE, hare pleasure in informing customers that they may select any
of the Lamps on show, which will be roserred for them till the close of the Exhibition.
A BTHUB OUBIt T .
vn Gate SOS) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFIob
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTRn
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS, DEATHS
and MARRIAGES. 3
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE TEAR 1879
853 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
24 were unsuccessful or abandoned
SI were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS
most intricate cases have met with marked success, '
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET. *
(over Peate and Harcourfs),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) 0 (
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made a
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
R
IFLES,
R
E VOL VERSA
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
PRACTICAL QuHMAKER,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
BMSTRONG'S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM,
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul.
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON.
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist ahn Apothecary,
Wholesale A Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
• Rboisthrhd.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, Ac., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABE AH AM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE:
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deoeption, the makers stamp ■
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by ■
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the •
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and u
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOE FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Prick List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, oom»
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearn sa or condition alcne of] BulßDog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public*esti-
mation. Common bih er crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand h is the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness i n the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Hatkes
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at Tnk
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-street.
department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, April 16, 1880.
TO QUARRYMEN AND OTHERS.
TENDERS will be received at this office until 11
o'clock a.m. on TUESDAY, the Ist Juno, 1880,
from persons willing to contract for the supply of 30,000
tons of Cube Sets for the Government Tramways.
The Sets must be of approved hard, tough, and
durable stone, to the following
dimensions, viz., 9in x 4in x 5, delivered in Sydney
wherever required at any place where Tramways may
be constructed within a radius of throe miles of the
Circular Quay. . , ,
The supply will be required as under: —2000 tons
within four weeks from date of acceptance of tender,
4000 tons every subsequent four weeks until the whole
contract has -bWn completed. Contractors may tender
for the whole quantity in one lot, or for smaller
quantities of not less than 2000 tons, in which latter
case special arrangements will be made for the rate of
must state in their tender the quantities
they are prepared to supply, and the price at per ton.
Samples of the stone, with the name of the locality
where they have been obtained marked thereon, must
be deposited in the office of the Superintending Engi-
neer, Elizabeth-street. and from whom farther parti-
culars may be obtained.
Contractors will be required to deposit with the
Colonial Treasurer a sum equal to 10 per cent, of the
total amount of their tender as security for the due
performance of their contract.
Payments will be made monthly at the rate of 90 per
cent, of the value of all materials supplied to the
satisfaction of the Superintending Engineer, and the
remaining 10 per cent, will be paid on the proper
completion of the contract.
Tenders must be endorsed, ‘ Tenders for the Supply
of the Cube Sets for the Government Tramway,
Sydney.”
The Commissioner does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
JIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 I I
J. L. HORDERN.
PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at ihs same
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suite, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS. 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 84s, worth JB6 os.
Who will not avail themselves of this chanoe of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT f
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45e
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, Ms
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 25s ; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all siaes, 10s Od, half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS. 15s, to fit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, Os M
SILK COATS, Men's and Boys'. 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s 4d, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self -measurement, with samples, te ewe
part of the country, poet free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOUSE,
400 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
s
YDNEY
PIANOFORTE
178 Pitt-street.
WAREHOUSE,
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
Cheapest and best House in Sydney for
PIANOS ORGANS HARMONIUMS
Ac.
A. and C. HUENERBEIN have again been awarded the
g FIRST PRIZE B
« FIRST PRIZE m
P* FIRST PRIZE H
ch FIRST PRIZE m
m FIRST PRIZE W
P 3 m
& at the w
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION,
for the
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
In addition to this A. and C. HUENERBEIN have
again been awarded the
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
for the
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
SOLE AGENTS—A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. H. have just unpacked a superb lot of
PIANOFORTES
by
Bluthner, Kaps, Ronisch, Mannsfeldt,
Erhordt, Biese, Neumeyer, Kriebel
Wittig, Winklemann, Ac., Ac.,
All iron-braced and bound. Guaranteed to withstand
the eSects of this changeable climate.
PIANOFORTES by
Aucher Bord, Aucher Frere, Erard.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
for any Instruments.
HARMONIUMS by
TRAYSER, ALEXANDRE, KRAUSS.
ORGANS by
GEO. WOODS, PRINCE, PELOUBET, Ac.
A. and C. H. have also for sale, cheap,
TWO CATHEDRAL HARMONIUMS,
two manuals, 16 stops, foot pedals.
Letters promptly attended to.
Old Pianos taken in exchange.
PIANOS TUNED, REPAIRED. AND REGULATED
A. and C. HUENERBEIN.
187 Pitt-street (opposite Victoria Theatre), 178.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
CHANDELIERS for—
CHURCHES
SCHOOLS OF ART
PUBLIC ROOMS
MANSIONS
THE DRAWING ROOM
THE DINING ROOM
THE STUDY
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
TABLE LAMPS in—
DOVETON WARE
WEDGE WOOD WARE
CERAMIC CHINA
CRYSTAL GLASS
PATE SUE PATE
BOHEMIAN WARE
(MAJOLICA
JAPANESE CHINA
F. LASSETTEE & CO. (LIMITED), GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
K
EAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEWMAN,
, PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Goremor.
Sole Place of Busimeee :
13 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
Jr. CUPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
*O7 (late 255) Pitt Stbhkt, Stdnbt.
Bella, Sappers, Pio-nios, Ac., catered for in the
best style.
QO TO BRAY FOR YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address
E. BRAY.
Statiomir and Booksbli.se,
Newtown Road.
/"I HAS. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAQQA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
OCULIST.— Professor HARRISON
Oculist, (late of the Manchester
Eye Hospital) 129 WILLIAM STREET,
may be consulted daily—lo to 12 a .u. ;
2 to A F.M.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Etmibo
Niws Opmci!.
DOLPHE GABRIEL A CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from prahlbbt’s hotri),
SYDNEY.
CIUTIONI
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m*call.
U HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
bo His Royal Highness the DUKE OP EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OP
BELMOBE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.Q., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869,1870,1873, and 1875.
[LB. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
B 0 B
EET CASEIN,
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDKRA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
Obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w.
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Makrb,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made oa
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
QUEWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence «f
iVi Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
Atlas foundry and engineering com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marius Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-cria-iing, Baw-mill, Sheep washing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all oQier descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
OUND R Y ' S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crashes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted whore
loose tea is used.
QOUNDEY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA.
oannot be adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDEY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
, Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
! opinion that the English Government must ultimately
| adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
' Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
; was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
: commissariat plans.
I General Roberts is now using it at Cabal, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
| brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
I four years ago discorded the ordinary teas, and have
i continued to use
GO UNDRY'S
CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLOR and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
CW. 8088 B T 8*
# SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Tory superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Bum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
The great northern hotel.
(Late " La Flore Australienne”)
If CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DALYEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Lnneheon
Booms, which oannot be excelled in any ,house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
£jOACH AND HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
M». P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sporty with the'f.gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
Metropolitan stakes consultation,
1880.
3000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ... ... 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The eonsnltation on the above is now open [(on'usual
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply. ,
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattsrsall’s Club, Sydney.
X ICENSED VICTUALLER S’
I i ASSOCIATION
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF TH*
INTERESTS
OF Til
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
