

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 29.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1880.
Price—3d.
8% §«lktin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1880.
Unmeaning Mystery.
Political Sydney is just now variously exercised
over the mysterious conduct of the Ministry,
and speculation is rife as to their real intentions
and their next move. Is there to be “ a short
session” before the dissolution of Parliament,
and if so, why should not the resolution to hold
one be made publicly known ? What is to be
gained by cowardly silence when a frank avowal
would be accepted as a boon by the public, and
premature agitation duly suppressed? The
Premier intimated at the Ashfield banquet that
the present Parliament would bo called together
for a short “spell” before the fiat for its ex-
tinction had gone forth. Was he sincere in his
announcement ? Doeg he mean to act up to his
original intentions? It is difficult to answer
these questions. He has so, frequently posed—
assumed mysterious airs, and worked his touts
and lieutenants —that an ordinarily cautious ob-
server of passing events cannot confidently say
whether he mpans to do what he asserts, or rely
on statements which the exigences of party war-
fare may inspire. It would doubtless be a good
thing—wise, bold, and practical —to have a short
parliamentary session, provided the Ministry
during the holidays reviewed their financial
policy and were prepared to meet the House of
Assembly with a comprehensive scheme. Nobody
would expect from them an absolute solution of
the fiscal problem; but if they cleai-ly showed
how they intended to meet an inevitable deficit,
they would greatly relieve the public mind.
They have, in fact, a fine chance of securing the
confidence of the country by honestly declaring
what they intend to do. Extra revenue must be
raised somehow, and that in considerable
amounts, from obvious sources; and as the re-
presentatives of the people will not accept excise
duties on local manufactures or a royalty on
coal, real estate and income must be looked upon
as a means to an end—as the way of maintain-
ing the public credit till our public works begin
to pay good interest on the capital expended on
their construction, and ‘ a rational scheme of
retrenchment pervades every department of the
Civil Service. It is somewhat surprising, and
not without a phase of the ludicrous, to see
patriotic candidates by the score offering their
services to the electors in the face of a minis-
terial promise that Parliament will be called
together again for a session of eight or nine
weeks before an appeal to the country will be
made. If that appeal were made on a vigorous
financial policy, and not on absurd side-issues, or
phantoms, as unreal as the Kiama ghost, of an
ecclesiastical crusade against the Education Act
oi the last session, the constituencies would be
m a position to declare themselves with effect,
a nd a real practical reply to the paramount poli-
tical question of the day would be elicited. At
present people are simply puzzled; they
anxiously want to know what is to be done
forthwith, and they cannot get a scintilla of
information from any authentic quarter. It
certainly is a curious sight to see police-officers,
on the one hand, trudging about collecting the
names for the new electoral rolls, and political
a gents on the heat, touting for their employers,
° n the other. All this ministerial mystery is
unmeaning, and some of the most ardent sup-
porters of the Government are beginning to
smile sarcastically at its hollowness. It is to be
noped that before wo again address our readers
“arliament will be called together for the dis-
patch of business before the middle of Septem-
er > or a dissolution proclaimed. It may be a
T er y ingenious specimen of statecraft to blow
. ot a nd cold; but the most patient soon become
under the process. Is the “ short session ”
be or not to be ? —that is the question. Sir
■geney Paekes will lose nothing by giving it a.
prompt and unequivocal reply.
Knox on the University.
eorge Knox, barrister-at-law, ought to
an authority on the Government and goodly
of a University. He is a Master of
3 of two Alma; Maires, and a scholar and
su ernan .°f both. A pamphlet emanating from
eve * -an * n(^v idual * s sure to attract attention,
M a . ln a community where the nil admirari is
idered to be a sign of mental independence.
We have carefully read Mr. Knox’s twenty-two
octavo pages, and regret to say that they do not,
in our candid opinion, contain a single original
thought, or one inspiring suggestion. If Mr.
Knox has never been a tuft-hunter, which wo
believe he has never been, we are satisfied that
he believes in and respects the golden tassel, and
that a JJniversity would not be to him an
academy of universal culture if it were not a
“swell” affair and a head-centre of learned
leisure. His chief objection to the Sydney Uni-
versity springs from a fear that it will become a
school for technical education, and thus enable
young men while cultivating their minds
during their academic career to lay the
foundation of' their future professional pursuits.
Why should they not? Why should sucking
lawyers and juvenile medicos have all the facili-
ties supplied them to make their way in the
world, while those who wish to become civil
engineers, land surveyors, mineralogists and
geologists, experimental chemists, or mental
philosophers are utterly ignored ? If Mr. Knox
had fully weighed a quotation he gives from
Cardinal Newman’s work on “ University Edu-
cation,” he would hardly have, railed so irritably
against “ technical instruction.” We accept that
distinguished scholar’s theory, and thank Mr.
Knox for the excerpt. It is- quite true that a
University should consist “in demand and
supply,” and the latter, we maintain, should
be regulated, by the quality of the
former. It is quite right to secure
intellectual culture first, and then “secular
advantages, as its instruments and rewards.”
This is precisely what those who are indolently
demanding technical instruction at the University
want. Why should lawyers and doctors go
through the refining process, with its ultimate
material benefits, while others, equally gifted —
equally desiderating culture—are left out in the
cold ? The sooner our University is associated
with evert/ great branch of literary and scientific
culture the more hopefully will it be regarded by
those who pay for its support. It should be
made a really national institution, which it will
never become, in the best sense of the phrase,
unless it impartially confers benefits on all
sections of the community. It is not the endow-
ments, actual or contingent, that will interfere
with the healthful development of the Sydney
University, but the want of an understanding
mind on the part of its professors and senators.
If it takes little wisdom to govern a State, how
much less need be expended on an institution
for the conversion of “ swells ” into “ superior
graduates” and dilettanti prizemen?
The Sabbatarian Victory.
The School of Arts citadel is once more safe from
the hands of the despoiler. The dangerous band
of members who seek to gain access to its reading-
room and reference library on Sunday afternoons
have again been defeated, and in the name of the
gods the barriers are retained which prohibit the
thirsty from sipping on Sundays at the Pierian
springs of secular knowledge. The thirsty must
go elsewhere. Are there not unnumbered public-
houses ready to accommodate them ? Boniface
has, happily, no scruples about the gods. So long
as people have small change about them, he does
not enquire their opinions touching the mandates
of Moses. What a blessing, then, for religion
that the School of Arts reading-room is to remain
closed 1 Well m ight the victors give “ three cheers
for Christian liberty.” It is a wonder they did
not raise a “ Hallelujah ” into the bargain. Let
us sing to the praise and glory of Bunkum!
The righteous have triumphed. The glory is still
with the Saints. t
And next to the gratification which the
incident must afford the gods, is the happiness
which it confers upon the attendants of the
institution. That any one of these should be
called upon to sit in the reading-room for three
or four hours on Sunday, and take an extra half-
holiday on a working day, was a spectacle of
white slavery which not even Dr. Beg could con-
template with composure. It was too deplorable.
None of these consistent Sabbatarians employ
domestic labour in their houses on the first day
of the week—not one of them. They light their
own fires, boil their own potatoes, wash up their
own crockery, and black their own boots. They
obey Moses to the letter, and allow their servants
to perform no manner of work. And, as they
thus rule their own households, could they permit
the School of Arts to be differently conducted ?
They had no desire to domineer over their fellow-
members, not they. They are all ’umble souls,
whose sole wish it is to do to others as they
would have others do to them, and glorify the
gods. Well might Tom Hood sing—
“ Of all the prides since Lucifer’s attaint.
The proudest swells a self-elected saint
or another poet, Southey, represent the devil as
saying—
“ He owned, with a grin,
That his favourite sin
Is pride that apes humility.**
The Hon. James Watson, Colonial
Treasurer.
English adages are not as incisive and compre-
hensive as those of Spain, not because insular wit
is less concentrated than peninsular —the fact is
quite otherwise —but because the latter has passed
through the purifying process of four or five
different races’improvements on the originaT'saw.”
Romans, Phoenicians —supposing Hannibal to bo
a thirty-first cousin to Finn McKool, the father of
the Fenians —Goths, Moors, and Kelts have in
their turn artistically touched and improved
Spanish proverbial philosophy; and hence
“general readers” find in it a rich mine into
which very few shafts have yet been sunk. A
couple of instances will suffice to prove the jiruth
of this statement. Four-fifths of Europe are con-
tent with recommending ladies to have neither
eyes nor ears, but the Iberians go further and
take away their feet. They say— La muyer en
casa, y lapiema quebrada, which, roughly rendered
in English, means —the wife is at home and her leg
broken, as much as to say that she cannot gad
abroad. Take another instance. We say, “It is
better to be born lucky than rich,” and there is
an obvious “ moral ” —a poetic fly in amber —en-
shrined or enclosed in the aphorism; but the
Spaniards put a climax on it by assuring the fickle
crowd that it is better to be born wise than either
rich or lucky. King Solomon, although by no
means a model monarch, was a very good boy in
his youth, when he selected wisdom for his bride
before he paid addresses to the interesting
Egyptian princess who afterwards became his
wife —mixed marriages were not then forbidden to
the highest class of Israelites —or any of the
numerous ladies who subsequently became the
“ lights of his harem.”
The reader will probably stare aghast at
this preamble to a biographical sketch of our
colonial Chancellor of the Exchequer. What
have proverbs and King Solomon’s private
affairs to do with the Hon. James Watson?
A great deal. He was born lucky and wise ; and
if money-getting is a sign of intellectual activity,
he has a right to set himself upas a colonial Roths-
child or |as a rival of that Zankeefied Irishman who
is making four or five thousand pounds sterling a
day out of his Ame-ican silver mine. It does not
follow that Mr. Watson is a good financier pro
hono publico, because he has been such in hig
private business. In fact, so far as he is per-
sonally concerned we should think he has a real
dislike to studying “ ways and means,” and would
rather occupy his arm-chair as a Bank Director
than hold high office even in the British Downing-
street. The money that “ made a man of him ”
did not make the man a heaven-born statesman;
but it did not corrupt a really fine and inflexibly
honest nature; it did not blunt refined sensibili-
ties, nor inflate an upright mind with arrogance
or vanity. A couple of men like Mr. Watson
recur to our mind at this moment—they are John
Sutherland (of that ilk) and John Hurley, of
Campbelltown. These men got on, as men like
them will ever get on, by the inflexible energy of
their nature and the sterling qualities of their
mind. When poor they were neither poor nor
parsimonious; when they made only wages, they
saved a little out of that; when Providence (that
is to say, intelligence united with perseverance)
bettered their fortunes the result caused no
superfluous inflations. Three better or more
typical colonists in the best sense of the word than
those alluded to we have never known ; nor do wo
expect to see many of their like again. The Hon.
John Watson (nunc et semper honorabile nomen)
was born in the somewhat dingy Portadown,
County Armagh, Ireland, on the 17th December,
1837 ; and is consequently in the blithe and cheery
THE HON. JAMES WATSON, COLONIAL TREASURER.


Auction Sale
T
HE GREAT WAVEELEI
THE GKEAT WAVERLEY
LUQAR BRAE
LUGAR BRAE
On SATURDAY, the 21a
on the Estate, at 3
J. W. WATKIN will sell by Av
DAY, 21at August (say next Satnrd
66tftt6>
That well-known Estate, LI
prising Lngar Brae Hoi
description is subjoined
sold by private CONTE.
EIGHT ALLOTMENTS,
LUGAR BRAE HOUSE.—The 1
none in Waverley. Sheltered from
it commands views of the ocean a
coastline, which only require to b
membered for a life-time. The hi
built of best stone in 18-inch chisel!
the roof, slate, joiner's work, all p
furniture of best quality. The accc
of entrance hall, drawing-room '
inches; dining-room, 17 feet 6inchi
breakfast-room, 16 feet 6 inches
seven bedrooms, bathroom, beside
rooms, wide verandahs, conservat
x 22 feet, fitted with two cooking
pantry, wine cellar, scullery, laun
throughout. The water supply
underground tanks, besides numeri
so admirably arranged to supplj
w. c., kitchen, and laundry, that n
be bettor served in this respect.
Three-stall stable, coachhouse, rr
hay store, Ac., Ac.; in fact all t
comfortable surroundings which in
and money supply.
The grounds, in area labout 2j
lawn, shrubbery, garden, Ac,, wh
amount to bring to their preseni
and which need only be seen to be
Section 1 comprises 15 lots
Nelson Bay Road by exc<
Section 2,17 lots, of whicl
Lugar-street and 8 to Ne
Section 3,10 lots, 4to Nelson
street.
Section 4, 16 lots, 6 bavin*
street, 7 to Brae-street
street.
The contract for constructing tl
let, and soon that which has kept
the position which it ought to
suburbs will be provided, viz., a i
and comfortable mode of passengei
Another opportunity for acquiri
subdivision offers, cannot soon occ
Comparisons ore said to be oc
infeyior, and comparisons are in
solicited to this property.
The Title is first-class 1
H. Heron, Esq.’ Hunter-sti-eet, 8<
will furnish all necessary
The Terms—One-quarter Cash; ]
bearing 6 per cent, interest, bavi
12, and 18 months.
Cords to view the House may
Auctioneer’s office. Temperance I
Lithographs of the Sul
Omnibus will leave Temperanc
next, at 2.30 p.m., to convey partii
iug this property to and from free
ATURDAY, 14th
ON THE GROU
NORTH SHORE CENTRA
s
• 20 CHOICE BUILDII
Fronting MARKET BTREI
WILSON BTEEE
And a GOVERNMENT
50 FEET FRONT.
138 FEET IN DI
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHR
structions to sell by by public au<
ON THE QROI
on SATURDAY*, 14tl
at half past 2
The ABOVE CHOICE BUI
situated, well-elevated, co
in a central position.
They are near the residence c
Mr. DODDS, and but a short disi
known CROW’S NEST.
ST. LEONARDS is one of
suburbs, and has advanced rapt
population during the past few y<
T.i howo 1 form
Auction Sales
rjl UESDAY,
15th INSTANT.
SUBURBAN ALLOTMENTS,
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have been in-
structed to sell by Public Auction, at THEIR ROOMS,
114 PITT STREET, on TUESDAY, August 17, at half-
post 11 sharp.
The following suburban allotments :
BOTANY Fronting the BOTANY ROAD—
Lots 5 and 6 of the BANKS HILL
Subdivision, having 132 feet frontage
to the MAIN ROAD, by a depth of
356 feet to BANKS-TEERACE.
BOTANY. Fronting WILSON STREET—
Lots 28 and 30 of same Subdivision,
having 434 feet frontage to BANKS-
TERRACE and WILSON-STREET,
by a depth of 396 feet.
ROOK WOOD. Lots 32 and 34 PELL’S BUBDI-
VISION.
BONDL Lots 29 and 30, BOYD’S SUBDI-
VISION, having a frontage of 66 feet
to GEORGIAN A-STEEET, by a depth
of 132 feet.
PETFESHAM NOEWOOD-HILL, ALBEET-ST.—
4 Choice Lots, each having 30 feet
frontage by 146 feet in depth.
PETERSHAM. BISHOP-STREET. —An allotment
having 33 feet frontage by 135 feet in
depth.
ASHFIELD. Lot 12 of Mr. Allison’s Subdivision,
havii g 50 feet frontage to THE
AVENUE, by a depth of 180 feet.
Mt. VERNON REDMYKB —5 line Building Lots,
ESTATE. the remainder of the Subdivision.
SUMMER-HILL 1 Choice Villa Site, having a frontage
of 33 feet to CHAPMAN-STREET,
by a depth of 104 feet.
PETERSHAM. 4 Choice Villa Sites, the pick of the
WAEDELL HILL ESTATE.
BALMAIN, Lots 71 and 30. section B, WEST
CALLAN PARK.
Terms at sale.
H
OSKING’S ESTATE,
GLENFIELD PARK.
GREATEST SALE OF THE YEAR,
1600 ACRES in Blocks, HAVING TWO MILES
AND A HALF FRONTAGE TO RAILWAY LINE
and TWO RAILWAY STATIONS thereon ; one hours’
gleasant ride from Sydney ; suitable for Homestead for
ydney business people. 82 ACRES dedicated for
Roads on the Estate, all one chain wide.
Unprecedented oportnnity of securing
SEVERAL ACRES OF RAILWAY FRONTAGE
CHEAP.
This well-known Park und Estate will be SOLD BY
THE ACRE, without any reserve, at the Booms, on
MONDAY, the 39th August. 1880, at 11 a.m.
Plana and particulars can be obtained from
BARDIE and GORMAN,
Auctioneers,
Pitt-street.
forty-third year of his age. Ho saw the light
within a few miles of the Hob J. F. Burns natal
spot. Mr. Watson acquired a pretty general
knowledge of the “three R s ” at the Church of
England School in his native town, and must have
garnered some historic traditions of troublous
times while wandering along the banks of the
Baim, inspecting the antiquities of East and West
O’Neilland, or gloating over the chaste scenic
beauties of Lurgan. Poetry, in any shape, was
never much in his line of speculation, while the
prose of money making was his natural instinct.
He left home before he was well out of his teens,
and arrived in Australia in *57. He faced the
country at once, worked the alohymist s
olembio on several diggings, and having made the
nucleus of a business and a fortune at Young he
was joined there by two of his brothers, and the
mercantile firm soon became one of importance
in the land. When Mr. William Manson retired
from the distinguished house of John Frazer and
Co., of York-street, Mr. Watson made his way
(1869) with a golden key into the innermost shrines
of that magnificent business, and became its
“ boss.” He was drawn by the magnetic force of a
certain venerable old buffer’s palaver to become a
politician, stood for the Lachlan in the same year
that he became the “ Co.” of the house of Frazer,
was returned, entered Parliament, kept on “ the
even tenor of his way” without fuss, or like a
fanny and reticent countryman of his who, after
coming away from a love-feast declared that “ he
had kept on saying nothing all the time the tea-
fight lasted.” Mr. Watson has been always
eloquently silent, or stolidly indifferent in the
Honse of Assembly. As a debater he would not
shine amongst the Parramatta “ brilliants ” of the
Mutual Improvement Society, or bold a candle to
the Obelisk orators, Hyde Park. The intense
respectability of Mr. Watson soon won the regards
of Sir Henry Parkes, who loves a rich man as Tom
Moore loved a lord, when he was forming his
Ministry in 1878. Mr. Watson was then offered
and accepted the portfolio of Treasurer in the
present Administration. Ho has on three_ occa-
sions given prelections on finance, but failed to
impress the House of Assembly with his fiscal
facts and figures. Ho is tame as a speaker and
timid as a politician ; but ho is a shining light in
the richly-carpeted back parlour of the City Bank.
He is not responsible for the absurd excise duties
(proposed and rejected), the “royalty” on raw
products (modified), and the exceeding irritating
etampa-racket—his colleagues (or “ comroguoe,”
as they say in his native North of Ireland) invented
the financial scheme for him ; and although he did
not put it well before the country, he did his very
best: and what more can any man do, including
Sir Henry Parkes, Sir John O'Shanassy, and Mr.
Graham Berry. The private, oommercialand civic
life of the Hon. James Watson is of purer lustre
than the political. He is generous, humane and
hospitable. In a word, we are much mistaken in
onr analysis of his character if we find that he is
not heartily sick of politics.
Mr. W. H. Figott.
We give a portrait to-day of Mr. W. H. Pigott,
the well-known solicitor, and one of the candidate?
for Canterbury in the coining election. Mr. Pigott
has for years taken on active part in many
movements of wide public interest, and his views
on the questions of the day have at all times been
characterized by a sound intelligence and libe-
rality. His career from boyhood has been one of
vigorous effort —first for bis own professional
advancement, and then for the benefit of the
people among whom he lived. At the early age of
12 years he was put to the business of a law sta-
tioner, and at the end of five years entered the
office of Mr. Newton, solicitor. His apprentice-
ships were, together, ten years, but his leisure
through that long period was not lost. He studied
assiduously, and passed his examination at the
Supreme Court with much success. In 1868, he
was admitted a solicitor, and then went to prac-
tice at Grafton. His health suffered by the change,
and he returned to Sydney, and took the manage-
ment of the business of Messrs. Rowly and
Holds worth. Three years later he took a trip to
England for the benefit of his health, and re-
turned at the end of twelve months completely
restored. Mr. Pigott then went into business with
Mr. W. J. Trickett, and together they have ao-
S aired an independence, having built up one of
ie largest businesses in Sydney. In 1877, Mr.
Pigott lost his wife, and ill-health again occurring,
he was compelled once more to tour. On this
occasion, he went through the United States and
all over the Continent of Europe, and much of his
subsequent activity in civic affairs may be traced
to what he observed in the course of his travels.
Mr. Pigott was one of the foremost advocates of
the Public School League, and contributed largely
to the movement, which eventuated in the passing
of the present Act. On the incorporation of
Petersham, Mr. Pigott was unanimously elected
its first Mayor, and for eight successive years the
same honor was conferred on him. In February
last he resigned his position in the Coun-
cil, owing to his removing to Burwood. Two years
ago Mr. Pigott lent powerful aid to the movement
among the suburban municipalities against the
new Sydney Corporation Bill, which proposed to
give the Sydney Council very arbitrary powers
with respect to the suburbs. The objectionable
clauses were struck out. Mr. Pigott also took an
active part in the conference among the represen-
tatives of all the Councils in the colony on muni-
cipal law, and he acted as chairman during their
deliberations in this city. At the close of the
the work, he was elected permanent chairman of
the committee appointed to watch over municipal
affairs. The result of the conference was the in-
troduction into Parliament of an Amending Muni-
cipalities Act, which was prepared by Mr. Pigott,
at the request of Sir John Robertson. The
measure had passed its second reading, but was
lost in consequence of the defeat of the Govern-
ment on another political question. Mr. Pigott
contested Canterbury nine years ago, but being
only five days in the field, he was unsuccessful,
though he defeated his opponents in every part oil
the electorate where he had addressed the con-
stituents. Mr. Pigott is te be nominated with
Sir Henry Parkes for Canterbury at the ensuing
election, and of his sriboess there is very little
room for doubt.
A Sketch at the Sailway Station.
Wk give (on page 3) a sketch of Walton’s Book
and Newspaper Stall at the Railway Station.
This stall is of great convenience to the thousands
who travel by train to the interior or to their
homes in the rapidly-growing suburbs of the me-
tropolis. Walton lias managed his business with
good judgment, and supplies all the leading papers
of this and the adjoining colony. Is it necessary
to say that he sells The Bulletin ? The fact
is Mr. Walton knows his business, and his active
little generals know which paper takes best. Mr.
Walton hepes sooA to have a first-class circulating
library.
The Troubadours.
Thb above company of youthful performers,
known as M‘Lean's Troubadours, have just closed
a very successful season in Sydney. Their season
in Melbourne was also a triumph. _ They have
now gone on a tour in the Northern districts, and
at last accounts were doing well. Mr. M'Lean’s
good judgment has developed rare talents in the
youthful artistes, and their sketches of character
are admittedly very life-like and very entertaining.
The young ladies, Miss Emma Tulloch (No. 1),
and Miss EmiUno Fox (No. 2), are charm-
ing little creatures, of good voice, and win-
ning manner. Our young friends, Master S.
M’Loim (No. 3), and Master J. Platoa (No. 2), are
droll little customers, and dance and sing with
great effect. The troupe altogether afford at all
their entertainments a thoroughly good evening’s
amusement.
Latest Political.
On Wednesday the Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.,
was appointed Agent-General. The Hon. F. B.
Suttor was appointed to succeed him as Post-
master-General, and the office of Minister of
Justice, vacated by Mr, Suttor, was offered to and
accepted by Sir George limes.
The Coming Elections.
Mr. W. S. Targett stands for Hartley.
The Hon. Robert Wisdom contests Morpeth.
Mr. C. E. Pilcher stands for East Macquarie.
Mr. G. L. Carter will stand for South Sydney.
Mr. Shepherd is to be opposed for Wellington.
Mr. A. H. Jacob stands for the Lower Hunter
again.
Mr. Tom Hangar has been requisitioned for the
Nomoi.
Mr. Bouse again meets Mr. Buchanan for
Mudgee.
Mr. J. B. Donkin, surveyor, is a candidate for
Grenfell.
Mr. Alexander Stuart will again stand for
Illawam.
The Rev. Mr. Hulbert contests either Qoulburn
or Argyle.
Mr. Joe Eckford is to be vigorously opposed for
the Wollombi. •
Mr. P. A. Jennings, C.M.G., is to be nominated
for East Sydney.
Mr. C. J. Roberts has now consented to stand
for East Sydney.
An effort is to be made to get Sir John Robert-
son into the Lower House.
Mr. Roseby stands for Shoalhaven. At present
there is no opposing candidate.
It is understood that Mr. Julian Thomas with-
draws from the Wollombi contest.
Mr. Tom Slattery will be opposed by Mr. Camp-
bell, a local squatter, for Burrowa.
The Hon. James Watson stands for Young.
Mr. M'Lean thinks of opposing him.
A requisition to Mr. John Young, for West
Sydney, has been extensively signed.
Mr. Samuel Mudge, of Albury, is spoken of as
a candidate for Albury, or the Hume.
Mr. John Hurley, the old representative of
Norellen, has retired from political life.
Several candidates are announced for the elec-
torates of the Clarence and Macleay, etc.
Mr. Ninian Melville contests Northumberland.
The £4O deposit is being locally subscribed.
Mr. John Pearce, J.P., opposes Mr. Soiling for
the Paterson. Nothing of Mr. H. H. Brown yet.
Mr. John Daves stands for East Sydney, and if
defeated will go against Mr. Buchanan for Mudgee.
Mr. J. H. Heaton, if well enough—which is now
probable—will stand for some provincial constituency.
Mr. C. J. Byrnes and Mr. Hugh Taylor contest
Parramatta. There are, however, to be more than two
candidates.
Sir Henry Parkes has definitely decided on going
for Canterbury. Mr. Pigott goes with him. Mr. Pile
is the third man.
Mr. Albert Gorriok, solicitor, a gentleman well
known in the Hunter district, oppose Mr. Eckford for
the Wollombi.
Mr. John Sutherland and Mr. John Woods are
going for Eedfem. Mr. Fremlin is petitioned to stand
fortne same electorate.
Mr. John Young, Mr. Dan O’Connor, Mr.
Angus Cameron, Mr. Tom White, Mr. John Hams,
Mr, Alderman Weekea run for west Sydney.
Messrs. Harrison, Jones, and Devlin's
Wool Stores, Macquarie Place.
As a considerable amount of interest has been
manifested in the article on the wool trade of this
port which appeared in our issue of the 31st July,
we give to-day an illustration of the splendid new
warehouse of Messrs. Harrison, Jones, and Devlin
as a further instance of what is being done here
to meet the expected great increase in the wool
trade of the approaching season. The edifice
shown in the engraving is one of the finest build-
ings, as far as the wool business is concerned,
that is to be found in the colonies; and by ex-
perienced jndges it is said to far surpass, in the
matter of light and facility for display, the best
houses in London. The building is situated in
Macquarie-place, and has a frontage of 157 feet,
with a depth of 90 feet. It rises to the height of
six storeys, and is built throughout of the best
Pyrmont sandstone, the walls being of an average
thickness of 3 feet. Pour columns rise from the
solid rock, end arc capped round the girders so as
to form solid pillars from basement to roof. Two
drayways lead to the building, offering great
facility to the receipt and delivery of wool, and of
great advantage in wet weather. Portions of the
basement are raised in order to allow of the easy
removal of the wool, and as there are trap-doors
over each way, the wool is whipped to the
highest parts of the building by the steam
hoists. The hoists are driven by two compound
steam engines, which, together with the boilers,
are situated in the roof, so as to save space. Some
idea of the massiveness of the structure may be
gained from the fact of its roof being considered
strong enough for the lodgment of these boilers
and engines at such a height from the ground.
The hoisting machinery was specially designed for
the warehouie, and is so constructed as to enable
raising or lowering operations to be carried on at
the same time on every floor and without any
reference whatever to the engineer. On each floor
there are shafts with perpendicular ladders
enabling the men at work to go from floor to floor
without loss of time, and there are tubes at the
several doors communicating with the clerks’
offices by moans of which receipts or messages
can be transmitted from the receiver of the wool
to the clerk checking its receipt. The offices of
the firm and the clerical staff occupy a portion of
the first floor, and are very roomy and well fur-
nished. The wool sale-rooms are situated on the
second floor, and are furnished in the highest style.
The benches are slightly raised at back, and nicely
cushioned : and the auctioneer occupies a raised
dais with handsomely polished and carved cedar
front. The stores are fitted with gas, so that they
can be brilliantly lighted to permit of operations
(as is frequently the case during the wool season)
being carried on at night. The light by day cannot
be surpassed. The windows are 8 ft. high, of plate
glass, and, being arranged opposite each other, give
a flood of light not excelled by any warehouse
in England. The wool is stored in rows, leaving a
lane running from window to window, securing an
uninterrupted light, and permitting—a most un-
usual advantage —every single bale of wool in the
warehouse to be sampled and inspected in the
light. This is one of the greatest advantages that
can be secured. The warehouse cost in a round
sum .£50,000, and by this enterprise of the Arm a
warehouse has been secured to Sydney which must
go a long way to gain for this port the great
bulk of the wool trade of the colonies. The firm
are just now erecting another capacious store in
Elizabeth-street, also within a few hundred feet
of the Circular Quay. This also is a grand edifice,
and will be finished in time for the approaching
season, thus giving the firm a total storage of not
far short of 45,000 bales of wool. It is a solid
brick structure of four storeys, with a frontage
and depth of ninety feet. The floors are large
open flats, to be fitted with steam hoisting ap-
pliances, as in the larger building. We believe it
is intended to use these stores for the tallow and
hide business, the wool and grain trade being ex-
clusively carried on at the other premises. From
these particulars it will bo seen what efforts have
been made by this enterprising firm to meet the
requirements of their constituents. Prom the
arrangements already made, the results _ of the
coming wool season will be watched with interest
by the pastoral community of all the colonies.
THE TROUBADOURS. —(No. 3).


st
lb
st
lb
Chester
Calamia ...
.. 9
6
Geraldine
. 6
8
.. 8 11
Pawnbroker...
. 6
8
Woodlands ...
.. 8 10
Chatterbox ...
. 6
8
Bos worth
.. 8
8
Sunshine
. 6
8
Darriwell ...
.. 8
7
Respite
Euclid
. 6
7
Martlndale ...
.. 8
7
. 6
7
Avemus
Lord Harry ...
.. 8
.. 8
6
5
Geide Olgothnch .
Auckland
. 6
. 6
6
5
Sweetmeat ...
.. 8
4
Terrific
. 6
5
Democrat
.. 8
3
Rothschild ...
. 6
4
Columbus
.. 8
3
Remembrance
. 6
4
Rapid Bay ...
.. 8
2
Juventas
. 6
4
Mata
.. 8
2
Thomtopper...
. 6
4
South Hamilton
.. 8
0
Queen Bee ...
. 6
4
First Water...
.. 8
0
Star of the West .
. 6
4
Zambesi
.. 8
0
JeBter
. 6
4
Banter
.. 7 18
Bertie
. 6
3
Richmond ....
.. 7 13
Yardley
. 6
3
Rivalry ...
.. 7
8
Guinea
. 6
3
Secundns
.. 7
7
Bandalbion
. 6
3
Imperial
.. 7
6
Gloucester
. 6
3
Stockbridge ...
.. 7
6
Adventurer
. 6
3
Lord Burghley
.. 7
5
Cynic
. 6
3
Nellie
.. 7
5
Bathurst
. 6
0
Fan Bias
.. 7
4
Lothair
6
0
Pimpampa ...
.. 7
3
Western Princess ..
6
0
Aspen
.. 7
1
Middlesex
5 11
Napper Tandy
.. 7
1
A.B.C
5 10
Xamilaroi ...
... 7
1
Lord Lisgar
. 5 10
Riverton
.. 7
0
Constance
5
9
Wandering Jew
.. 7
0
Totalisator
. 5
9
Elastic
.. 6 13
Progress
. 5
7
Grand Prix ...
.. 6 11
Latrobe
5
7
Bobbie Boras
.. 6 11
Yaletta
. 5
7
Grand Flaneur
.. 6 10
The Stag
5
7
Trevellyn
. 6 10
Chatterer
5
7
Kinsman
. 6
9
Rita
5
7
Sir Joseph ...
. 6
9
British Workman..
5
7
LATE SPORTING.
THE MELBOURNE CUP.
(BY ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.)
Melbourne, Tuesday.
The following are the acceptances for the Melbourne
Cup:—
The gates at Randwick for Saturday’s races
were purchased for ,£155.
Osman, winner of the Casino Handicap, has been
refused to an offer of =£l2o.
The Gun Club had a meeting at Botany, last
Saturday. Mr. Friend and Mr. Pidcock were in
good form —particularly the first-mentioned, who
missed but one bird the whole afternoon.
The Glebe Strathmore Cricket Club’s trophies
can be seen at Spencer’s, Glebe-road. They are
neat, elegant, and expensive, costing over <£2o.
P. Marr won the first batting and bowling; J.
Brewn, second batting; J. Lynch, second bowling.
D. Brown and J. Bickley received special trophies
for services rendered.
Training at Randwick has been pretty active
during the past week. Gipsy Cooper, Colima,
Thomtopper, Auckland, Nelly, Remembrance,
Loiton, and Cinnamon, among others, have been
doing good work.
The second Metropolitan meeting of the New
South Wales Coursing Club was held on Saturday
and Monday, at Woodstock, Rooty Hill, the estate
of W. Lamb, Esq. The attendance was large, and
the sport excellent. The Woodstock St. Leger
for puppies (winner .£3O) was won by Mr. E. L.
Tooth’s f.w.b. Temerity. Mr. Tooth also won the
New Plnmpton Stakes of £4O, his dog Taxation
(Barmby—Eupertina) beating Mr. G. Lee Lord’s
Lethe (Barmby—Seawave). In the first ties for
the Metropolitan Cup (winner £3O), Mr. G. Lee
Lord’s Lelex beat Mr. W. Lamb’s Loma Doon,
and Mr. Lamb’s Bracelet ran a bye. For the
deciding course Lelex and Bracelet divided. In
the Beaten Stakes, final course, Mr. A. L. Park's
Hamiah and Mr. G. Lee Lord’s Lelantus divided
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Parkes reefa are looking up.
Woolgar reefs are looking well.
The Greek army is being mobilised.
Victorian Treasury deficit, .£655,170.
Master Butchers’ Picnic —15th September.
Walgett purposes haring a fancy dress ball.
The Sultan is yielding to the Great Powers.
The Agrarian agitation in Ireland continues.
The Northumberland has arrived in London.
There are now six mining batteries at Yalwal.
Further tin finds near Gladstone, Queensland.
Proctor’s opening lecture —Monday, 16th inst.
Mrs. Greer goes to England by the Ben Cmachan
in October.
Mr. Andrews will be nominated for Geelong in
opposition to Berry.
Ned Kelly has been committed for trial for the
murder of constable Scanlan.
Berry proposes to reduce the salary of the Vic-
torian Governor and Ministers.
Some of the Victorian Ministers will find it
rather hard to secure re-election.
“Peeping Tom” opposes the “Vagabond”
(Fijian) for the Wollombi electorate.
The G. W. E. extension have difficulty in ob-
taining labour, owing to Temora rush.
The Victorian Government intend floating the
two million balance of their five million loan.
Johnny Campbell, the aboriginal bushranger,
will be hanged at Brisbane, on the 17th, for rape.
Australian team v. Bradford—Australians Ist
innings, 89; 2nd innings, 94. Bradford—lst innings, 66.
Latest news from Candahar is reassuring. The
British are posted in the citadel, which is considered
impregnable.
Miss Nellie Playfair, one of the attractions
in the London Comedy Company, is sister of Miss
Blanche Stammers.
Mr. Warden Martin, of Glen Innes, holds that
an applicant for a mineral lease has no locus standi in a
trespass action. We consider that either his decision
or the Mining Act wants rectifying.
Grattan’s Press Agency is proving a boon to the
proprietors of the country Press. Mr. Grattan has
now been commissioned to collect particulars as to
businesses, etc., for the Annuaire-almanack du Com-
merce, a work of great continental value.
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman are to sell the
Hoskings Estate,(Macquarie Fields, on the 30th August.
Capital chance for investors.
At Temora, a miner named Nestor has been shot
dead by a careless individual who had put up a target
and was firing right across the track.
Mr. W. B. Campbell, that enterprising man of
the Eoyal Furnishing Arcade, has got out a nice little
brochure on the Mutiny of the Bounty.
The Toowoomba P. and A. Society, being desir-
ous of securing competent judges for their ensuing
show have invited the co-operation of the “ marsupial
king."
The suburban buildipg sites are all being rapidly
bought np. Messrs. Mills, Pile and Gilchrist announce
a series of important sales well worthy the attention of
buyers.
Dr. Tanner, a New York physician, who under-
took to go without food or water for 40 days, has done
so, and in completing bis task has almost “ finished
his days."
D. J. Newton, formerly a solicitor, and already
under sentence for forgery, has been sentenced to an
additional two years’ imprisonment for forging Judge
Wiudeyer’s signature.
Berry says that the policy of his Government
is to live at peace with all, to see justice done to all,
and injustice to none; and to “ squelch" the Conserva-
tives at the same time.
The Corporation sub-committee of works say that
the whole of the work executed in connection with the
foundations and basement of the great hall is unsatis-
factory and bad in construction.
A cablegram was received in Sydney on Wednes-
day giving the names of the All England Eleven, against
whom the Australians are to play before leaving Lon-
don. The list includes the most renowned English
players.
“Blacksmith Thomas Ball,” who offered Sir
Henry Parkes £5O to procure him a Government
appointment, has pleaded guilty, and been discharged
after entering into his own recognisance to appear if
called upon.
Needles’ patent gas machine caused a sensation
at the Ashfield banquet. People not only wondered where
the gas came from, but were astonished at the ex-
treme brilliancy of the light. Six shillings per 1,000 ft.
only is the cost of manufacture.
Masked men have fired at Mr. Boyd, a Crown
solicitor, while on a visit to the County Kilkenny. He
was wounded, it is believed, mortally. One of his sons
was shot dead, and the other slightly wounded.
Accounts from Temora are conflicting. No
really full and competent description of the field from
a miner’s standpoint has yet been published. Business
of all descriptions at Temora is greatly overdone, and
many poor men are on the field.
Proctor’s prophetable. Mr. Proctor’s fee for
giving two lectures in the Ballarat Academy of Music
last Monday and Tuesday in aid of the City Free
Library was a hundred guineas. There were large
audiences, which was a good thing for the Free Library.
A. T. Clark, Victorian Commissioner of Customs
(who, by the way, was formerly a subordinate officer of
the department) has suspended Capt. Payne, chief
harbormaster. The other day Sir Charles Sladen en-
quired in the Council whether Clark wasn’t the man
who recently insulted the Queen.
Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus, with Mr.
Bloxsome (private secretary), visited the institution
for the Deaf and Dumb Children, Newtown Bead, on
Monday, and were shown over the buildings Before
leaving, his Excellency entered a most complimentary
memorandum in the visitors’ book.
Mace (champion boxer) and Miller (champion
wrestler) were, by latest accounts, en route for Adelaide,
where they purpose exhibiting their powers. On the
return journey, it is stated, they will perform at Hamil-
ton and other towns in the Victorian provinces.
Miss Christian has been asked by the musical
world of Melbourne to give some ballad concerts in the
Town Hall, but the gifted vocalist has so many college
and private pupils that her time is already fully occupied.
She has, however, consented to sing in Schumann’s
“Pilgrimage of the Eose" at the next concert of the
Philharmonic Society.
The newly-formed Boco Club had a pleasant
day’s outing at the Buena Vista Hotel, Mossmau’s Bay
on Saturday last. The programme comprised an ex-
cellent lunch, at which the chair was occupied by the
president, Mr. Coonan, M.P., and some impromptu
sports. The members’ list is already extensive, and
as some of the “choicest spirits" of the city are
included among its promoters the club bids fair to
have a prosperous future.
An important sale of homestead properties is
announced in another column. It is one of unusual
importance to capitalists, graziers and agriculturists.
The land for sale is Dartbrook, St. Hilliers and Gudibri
estates with all improvements, and it is being sold pur-
suant to a decree of the Supreme Court. In addition
to these estates Messrs. Eichardson and Wrench will
submit a valuable parcel of 2,000 acres of land adjoining
the rising township of Muswellbrook.
At a meeting of the Sydney Mercantilo
Dramatic Society, held on Tuesday night, the resigna-
tion of Mr. Hugh Lockrey, as manager aad secretary,
was accepted with regret. Mr. J. H. Eainford was
unanimously elected manager, and Mr. Morris Menser
hon. secretary. Mr. Goodman, who had tendered
his resignation, was requested to continue as patron;
and Messrs. John Bennett, Samuel Lazar, M. Hegarty,
G. L. Goodman, and H. Lockrey were elected hon.
members,
Mr. Charles Bright’s Sunday evening lectures
at the Theatre Eoyal continue to draw large audiences.
Last Sunday the subject was “ The Miracles of Jesus,"
in which the position taken relative to such ancient
marvels by the leading scientific writers of the day was
forcibly stated and the testimony on which they have
been received thoroughly analysed. Mr. Bright said
that the healing powers alleged to have been exercised
had been manifested at various periods of the world’s
history, and would constitute the subject of his next
Sunday’s lecture.
The Parramatta folks are promised a great treat
for next Wednesday night. A concert is
behalf of a local church by Miss Emilie E. North, the
clever young pianiste whose performances at the
International Exhibition attracted so much attention.
This young lady gives promise of great ability, and her
performances next Wednesday will be looked forward
to with more than local interest. Miss North will be
assisted by Mrs. Spipway, and Messrs. Fairfax, Parkin-
son and other well-known vocalists. Dr. Beattie will
also give some select readings.
Kelly and Leon have made a great hit ” with.
" Pinafore " in the country districts, the present tour
inland being one of the most profitable they have yet
had. The characters in the play are well known. Miss
Emma Wangenheim, the charming young Australian
artiste, has sustained the role of Josephine, and achieved
a complete triumph in it. Her thorough comprehension
of the author's idea of the character, and her admirable
rendition of the captivating airs allotted to Josephine
have won her great praise in the local press. The troupe
have now gone westward with their choice bouquet of
novelties.
The locality of the old “ Scandinavian ” can"]bo
pointed to as a place where property has been improved
nearly 100 per cent, in value by the establishment of
respectable businesses. Mr. Scholer, the proprietor,
deserves a good deal of praise in this way. The pro-
perty round about has been greatly improved. The
latest addition is the importing business of Mr.
Schultze, who has already introduced into this market
some valuable articles of German manufacture never
seen here before. His importations are to continue.
One line of interest to printers is the new Swiderski
machine. This appliance is remarkable for its
strength and simplicity and excellence of work. One
of these machines is now on sale.
A SKETCH AT THE RAILWAY STATION.
MESSRS. HAERISON, JONES, AND DEVLIN’S WOOL STORES, MACQUARIE PLACE. (See Page 2).


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Gladstone is recovering.
Mr. Proctor, the popular lecturer, is good at
chess.
Mr. Julian Thomas, “ The Vagabond,” has gone
to Fiji.
Jay Gould has now direct control over 8000
miles of railway.
The Hon. Saul Samuel has been offered the
Agent-Generalship.
Sir Arthur Gordon succeeds Sir Hercules Robin-
eon as Governor of N.Z.
Richard A. Proctor’s head is the same size as
was Daniel O’Connell’s.
The eldest son of the Prince of Wales will enter
the Royal Military Academy.
Mrs. Davidson, the estimable wife of Captain
Davidson, of Mudgee, is dead.
It is said a marriage will shortly be announced
which will surprise all Sydney.
Sir James Martin presided at the Criminal
Court for a few hours last Monday.
Sir Garnet Wolsqley recently rode from Pretoria
to Pietermaritzburg, 340 miles, in three days.
Mr. J. J. Teece prosecuted for the Crown at the
Mudgee quarter sessions, and Mr. Docker at Albury.
Garibaldi’s birthday, the 22nd July, was cele-
brated by some of the N.Z. Freelhought associations.
Frank Fitzgerald, son of the veteran politician,
has gone into business (or rather resumed it) as land
agent.
Mr. Barrister Davis has made a good impression
at Armidale by his style of conducting the Meymott
inquiry.
Lotti Wilmot, flushed with success, says she’s
about to leave for America, where she purposes “ quali-
fying herself for the Bar !”
J. Carmichael late, of Sydney, edits the Towns-
ville Herald. A briefless barrister does the butcher-
ing work for the Standard.
Ketten, the first afternoon he was in Brisbane,
did Queen-street in a si\it of white flannel and slippers,
much to the horror of the Block.
Mr. Percy C. Hodgkinson, now a candidate for
Queanbeyan, is a son of Mr. Clement Hodgkinson,
formerly Victorian Secretary for Lands.
His Honor Sir James Martin re-appeared on the
bench of the Criminal Court, Darlinghurst, on Monday,
after an absence of nearly twelve months.
Bret Harte is lecturing in London on early emi-
gration to California and North-west Pacific Coast.
His lecture is called “ The Argonauts of ’49."
Sir Henry Parkes, while thankfully receiving a
compliment from a Victorian Anti-Chinese Association,
returned the card of membership offered him.
Mr. A. T. Clark, Commissioner of Customs in
Victoria, who was formerly a tide-waiter in that depart-
ment, has suspended Captain Payne, the harbour-
master.
A Crimean hero, one of the Enniskilliners who
fought at Balaclava, has now the honor of being in the
Newtown Municipal service. He breaks stones for the
aldermen.
Dr. M. Soul£, of the P.M.S.S. City of Sydney,
has passed the examination of the Medical Board of
this colony, and is now a legally qualified practitioner
for New South Wales.
Mr. J. M. Perrier, sub-editor of the Daily
Telegraph, leaves Sydney to take the editorship of
the Central Australian (Bourke). We are sorry to
hear that he is going to so hot a place, for we don’t
believe he deserves it.
It is to be regretted that Australians have not
more frequent opportunities of making the acquaint-
ance of “ Snow,” especially when it comes in such an
attractive form as represented by the merry little
damsel at St. Vincent’s Fancy Dress Ball.
A Jewish lady who went to St. Vincent’s Ball
as an Indian Queen, wore a dark dress covered with
scarrabens beetle wings, which had a most striking ap-
pearance, heightenedjby the dark ground, The prismatic
effect produced was extremely pretty.
The lady contributor of a certain well-known
weekly journal is a diminutive young person, endowed
with a pair of laughing eyes, a strong mind, plump
figure, and the soubriquet of “The Flirt,” notwith-
standing that she has five times waited in vain for leap
year. This makes it about 35. Our lady contributor is
a man.
Mr. J. B. Were, of Melbourne, who enjoys in-
numerable other consulships, has just been made
Consul-general for Denmark. The difficulty with some
of the people of the southern city, says “ Aegles,” is to
understand how Mr. Were manages to wear his various
consular uniforms at once. Probaoly the biggest and
brightest outside.
The Rev. T. De Witt Talmage has contracted
for a lecture season covering the montns of July,
August and a portion of September. While in Cali-
fornia he will in all probability lecture on the Chinese
question, and possibly reply to one or more of the
fancies of Colonel Ingersoll, the well-known champion
of Freethought.
A young lady addicted to tomboyism, whose
father is well-known in political circles, has come out
as a patron of rowing, and will officiate next Saturday
afternoon as starter in a double scull race for a prize of
two smoking caps worked by her own fair hands. The
competitors are members of a suburban Mutual Im-
provement Class.
Mrs. Greer, whose name has figured so promi-
nently in connection with the Melbourne Opera House
tragedy, passed matriculation examinations at the
Dublin and Oxford Universities, and graduated at the
London Academy of Music. It was intended that she
should open a music class at Kew, and that her husband
should find a position in some bank.
The ball given at Melbourne Town Hall on
Thursday night by the Hon. W. J. Clarke on the occa-
sion of his eldest daughter’s dehut was a very brilliant
affair, and was attended by no less than 800 guests.
Mr. Clarke is the coming baronet. He is .popular with
men of all sides and besides being the richest, is also
the most lavishly hospitable and judiciously charitable
man in Australia.
It was reported in town on Sunday that Sir
Henry Faxkea had died suddenly. As no evening paper
came out on that day people couldn’t make out how the
rumour originated. We are glad to see that the hon,
gentleman is still “ very much alive." Sir Henry looks
so well and hearty that the debt of Nature will probably
long remain unpaid. At any rate, we hope so.
Those two bewitching sisters were again greatly
admired at St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball. The elder, as
“ Gitana,” wore a black velvet bodice, rich white satin
skirt, ornamented with rows of gold coins, red and
blue scarf, and carried a tambourine; while the younger,
as " Ninette,” was attired in a beautiful blue satin dress,
round which was draped a cardinal scarf. In American
phrase, these ladies “ made some mashes."
Sir Hercules Robinson, the most popular
Governor who has ever come to Australia, has
been appointed to the South African colonies. His
appointment to succeed Sir Bartle Frere, admittedly
the cleverest administrator of British affairs out of
England, is a high compliment to the abilities of the
manly and gifted gentleman whom we have “ loved and
lost.” Let us hope that, ere Sir Hercules finally
leaves Australia, he will visit Sydney and receive the
ovation which is in store for him.
Viscount Sherbrook (Robert Lowe) delivered
his maiden speech in the House of Lords on May 31st
on the subject of Elementary Education, on a motion
put forward by Lord Norton. The London Standard
reports the conclaaion of his speech as follows:
“ These are the observations which I wish to make
to your lordships, and I have to apologise for the
imperfect manner in which they have been delivered—
caused, I have no doubt, by this being my first speech
in such an assembly as this (a laugh). [The noble lord
at one part of his speech hesitated and stammered so
much that he seemed unable to get on ].’’ Robert’s
modesty at his age is quite charming.
Mr. William Mather, a Melbourne hairdresser,
who has just turned confectioner, is one of the leading
art-enthusiasts of the southern metropolis. He has just
received a very flue specimen of the celebrated marine
artist, William Milby, painted to his order at a liberal
price.
The magistracy of Melbourne now includes
nearly all the money lenders of that city. Two more of
the fraternity were pitchforked on the Bench last week.
One, Moses, brother-in-law of the celebrated Aaron of
that ilk. The other, Mark, who has already made his
mark once or twice in the Happy Lapd.
Our reference to the “ lean and badly nourished
jockeys” at the M.R.C. ball had the desired effect, and
one youth only had the courage to don this style of
dress at St. Vincent’s ball.
Result of Colonel Scratchley’s visit to Brisbane
—as usual, another snub for the infantry. The artil-
lery have got a live lieutenant-colonel while the former
have to put up with a major.
Graham Berry has replied to the congratulation
of the N.Z. “Liberals.” remarking that he trusts
before long to have occasion to return their congratu-
lations with respect to events in N.Z.
A Tale of the Times. —Prorogation day was a
half-holiday for the members of the Civil Service. Five
friends in a certain Department intend to take a centre-
board boat for the half-day, and agree that it shall be
decided by lot who shall pay the boat-hire. The first
five numerals are to be placed in a hat. Whoever draws
3 is to pay. A. is to work out the numbers. This
gentleman (?) surreptitiously pays to 8., C., and D. the
numbers 1,2, and 4, keeping the 5 for himself, and
then places five tickets bearing the number 3 in the hat.
Each of the confederates draws a number 3 ticket,
destroys it, but replaces it with the stolen one. E. has
a 3, and of course has to pay for the boat. When dis-
covered it was said to have been done for fun I
Joe Jenkins, the clever and careful Jehu who
drives Cobb and Co.’s coach between Wallerawang and
Cunningham’s Creek, has been driving since 1852. He
was once stuck up by bushrangers. One got ten years,
and Joe had the pleasure of driving him home the other
day.
M. Soudry expresses the greatest sorrow for
Mr. Greer, and states that the occurrence will be a
sorrowful memory to him for evermore—and longer.
But it he had thought of that before, the trouble might
not have happened at all. He also expresses dislike for
Mrs. Greer, which appears to be a sudden change.
Every old friend of the clever and genial “Peter
Possum ” (Bichard Rowe) will gladly contribute some-
thing towards making provision for his family. The
editor of the Herald kindly acts as treasurer.
Dr. Earle writes to the Lancet to the effect
that cinchona, which was said to destroy a craving
for strong liqnor, made more drunkards in one year
than any drinking saloon. Similia simtUbus curantur.
J. Spr. Carter, solicitor, has just died at
Charters Towers. After an energetic life he succumbed
to the terrors of the climate of the far North. He
shared the honors of conducting the Towers Herald.
Par excellence the best character atSt. Vincent’s
Ball was Mrs. Ogle, as a Court lady in the reign of
Queen Mary. The dress was made of ruhy and blue
velvet, with white satin front quilted from waist. The
top part of the body was made of velvet pointed below
th 6 waist, with square of white satin at the neck, and
high Elizabethian pointed collar. The train was beauti-
fully trimmed at the edge with swan’s down, commen-
cing from the waist, and reaching down on each aide in
front. The head-dress was made of the same kind of
velvet as the dress, pointed in front, and edged with
pearls, with a large veil hanging from it, and the
hair artistically got up to imitate the style of the
period.
There was an extraordinary fluttering among
the Supreme Court judges on Wednesday week,
caused by the savage attack of a “client” who had
seen Judge Windeyer on Saturday afternoon enjoying
the North Shore breezes in a carriage with the late
Chief Justice. Both, it is said, had their hats covered
with native flowers and were laughing heartily at Judge
Windeyer’s good fortune in concluding his year’s work
as temporary judge.
Judge Windeyer has received a commission for
another year, and bids fair to become “ Permanent
Temporary” or “Temporarily Permanent" Judge.
The N.S. W. Government are apparently taking a lesson
from Victoria, whose Civil Service is classified with
admirable exactitude. In addition to the staff offices
of the various classes, there are (1.) permanent super-
numeraries ; (2.) temporary supernumeraries; and (3.)
supernumerary supernumeraries.
D. C. F. Moodie, the champion “ swimmist,
thrashist and walkist,” of Adelaide, has, with the aid
of the stick with which he didn’t flog A. T. Clark,
M.P., of Williamstown, Vic., once more reached his
native heath, after walking across the whole distance
between Melbourne and Adelaide—-the ninety-mile
Desert included—for pure amusement. As soon as he
got there he thrashed another man—a solicitor. There
was, as usual, a woman at the bottom of it.
Mr. Robert Hoddle Dryburgh White, who by a
decision of the Melbourne Supreme Court comes into
possession of about £125,000 property in the heart of
the Southern capital, and about £-18,000 in cash in accu-
mulated rents, was manager of the Bank of N.S.W. at
Mudgee. Sometime back he courageously defended the
bank against robbery, and was presented with a massive
gold ring by the head office in recognition of his
bravery. Mr. White is son-in-law of Dean Cowper.
Of Mr. Michael D’Arcy, recently deceased, and
formerly of the Freeman’s Journal, it was said, re-
marks the Sydney correspondent of a Tamworth paper,
that he never met a foe that he did not put down with
his pen or his hippeen. Mick was a generous soul,
spoke Latin and French with wonderful fluency, had a
phobia about parsons, and really believed in a universal
republic. He renounced literature for the Custom-
house about 15 years ago, but was always a liberal friend
to the “ forlorn hope” of the colonial Press.
The subjoined story is told at the expense of Dr.
Creed, a worthy and much-respected medico in one of
our inland towns: —A Chinaman, whom the Dr. had
been attending, was called as a witness in a police court
case, when the following colloquy took place between
the P.M. and John; “You savee swearem?” John:
“ I savee.” P.M.: “ How you swearem ?” John:
“Me kissee book, blake ’em plate, blow’em candle,
kill’em fowl. All same, plenty sweal’im.” P.M.:
“Are you a Christian ?” John: “No savee Christchin
—what you cull’em Christchin?” P.M.; “Then you
don’t know the Lord’s Prayer ?” John : “No savee
Losplayer.” P.M.; “Do you know the Creed?”
John (excitedly): “Me plenty savee Cleed, him b——
logue (rogue). Me plenty sick. Cleed chargee me £lO,
no makee me all lite; no good Cleed.”
In the South Australian legislature there is an
hon. member of Pickwickian figure rejoicing in the
name of Bright. Previous to his retirement from busi-
ness, in the not very remote past, his avocations were
rather of a nature to entitle him to give an authoritive
opinion on the value and weight of fat cattle than to
enable him to compose a book on the English tongue.
Consequently, when attempting to express his ideas,
his method does not invariably correspond with his
cognomen, being sometimes, to say the best of it, not a
little hazy. He covered himself with undying fame
some years ago by remarking, when wishing to express
his admiration of a newly constituted cabinet member,
“ The lily don’t want no paintbut he has lately
almost equalled this paraphrase for elegance by inform,
ing the House that " a deferent change came o’er the
spirit of the dream as it were."
More“ distinguished foreigners” on the warpath.
The excitement caused by Monsieur Soudry’s love affair
is just subsiding when another foreigner figures in a love
episode in Sydney. This gentleman had so far capti-
vated a barmaid as to induce her to occupy lodgings
which be took for near St. Patrick’s Church, on the
promise to marry her in a fortnight. He called on her
daily so as not to appear neglectful, ordered the trous-
seau, and made every preparation for the wedding. But
on the eventful morning the poor barmaid received a
note from the “ distinguished ” saying that he had no-
ticed that she did not love him as he loved her, and he
had therefore made up his mind to leave her and com-
mit suicide. It was only through his natural absence
of mind that he forgot to pay for the trousseau and the
lodgings. Unfortunately no paragraph has appeared in
the papers announcing the suicide. Let us drop a tear
for the poor girl, and hope that no more trouble in this
matter will befal her.
Dr. Bcdstick has an affectionate wife, who has
a loving husband. Lawyer Griffiths bears a wonderful
resemblance to the medico, and he was chatting with
some lady friends of his in his usual amatory style at
the tramway office, but on their leaving him he was
pounced upon by a strong-minded female, who dis-
coursed on the immorality of his conduct. She reminded
him of the wife and home he was disgracing by con-
versing with other ladies. More friends entered, took up
the cue, addressed the red-tape man as “ Doctor,” and
they all agreed that a reprimand would look better
coming from the Doctor’s wife than from a stranger,
and advised the moralisers to call and acquaint that
lady with her husband’s perfidy. She promised to do
so. Not even the present of a tram-ticket (which she
took) from the “ Doctor” would turn her from her de-
sign ; and now it remains to be seen what kind of a re-
ception she will have at the house of pills and draughts.
Whatever .be the outcome, the legal jokist will for ever
be known as the “ Doctor.”
From S.A. comes the rather strange story of a
man named Charles Stanley having cut the telegraph
wire to save himself from death by starvation. He
had been engaged in well-boring some distance inland
from the west coast, but left the camp and journeyed
westwards expecting to meet another man, in which
however he was disappointed. He was not in good
health when he started, and though he came across a
water tank, the water bag which he had with him being
leaky was drained when he had gone a few
miles. The second day that he had been travelling
Stanley became worse, and his sufferings from thirst
and want of food increased so much that he could pro-
ceed no further. Believing that he was dying and that
the only hope of obtaining assistance was to cut the
telegraph wire, as that would necessitate some one
being sent along the line to restore the communication,
he by a desperate effort managed to climb one of the
posts, and with great difficulty after two attempts suc-
ceeded in his purpose, then falling to the ground
insensible. After remaining there twenty-four hours
he walked on four miles to the next water tank, where
he again lost consciousness, and some time later was
picked up by the line repairer. On arrival at Fowler’s
Bay Stanley was charged with cutting the telegraph
wire, and the justices, apparently not believing his story
sentenced him to three months’ imprisonment. Stanley
however petitioned the Government for a remission of
his sentence, and this, after inquiries hafl been made into
his allegations, was granted.
South Australia has a legislator who is well
known for his plain speaking, Mr. Hugh Fraser. This
gentleman bears _on his sturdy Scotch countenance
sufficient indication that he is by no means averse to a
social glass, and whenever he gets the chance he is
particularly hard on the teetotallers. A new licensing
Bill being before the Assembly a great deal of
excitement has been got up throughout the colony on
the subject of Sunday closing of public houses. This
is supposed to be the law at present and it is accord-
ingly assumed that only lodgers and honafi.de travellers
are supplied at certain specified times. Mr. Fraser, in
his remarks on the Bill, said that in Adelaide no attempt
had been made to carry out this law “whilst in the
country there is always something good to be got if you
are willing to take it.” He ridiculed the proceedings
of a temperance reformer, Matthew Burnett, as “ a big
fraud and an immense joke,” and said he had seen
scores of persons in bars with Burnett’s red badge—
“ something which was to make them glorious for ever
and ever amen”—in their button holes, whilst some * ‘lay
speechless drunk with the badges on their breasts.”
He had asked the brewers how much less beer they had
brewed since Burnett’s crusade and they had laughingly
replied “ Less beer! The quantity goes on increasing
just the same as ever." He spoke of the non-teetotal
dignitaries who had countenanced the recent tem-
perance meetings by presiding at them as persons who
could not trust everyone to drink though they could
trust themselves, and he declared that the usual intelli-
gence of the people was a sufficient check to tell them
when to take a drink and when to let it alone. It is only
-__ j'TJ,! l ! l *' r ‘ ®' raser ’ s statements have not been
MR. THOMAS DALTON.
THE TROUBADOURS-(No. 4).


Messrs. Dalton Brothers’ Warehouse.
Tse splendid warehouse shown in the accom-
panying' engraving is that of the well-known firm
of Dalton Brothers, in Pitt-stroet, in this city. It
j g oonsidered one of the finest, if net the finest,
specimen of street architecture in the metropolis.
It is spacious and well-ventilated, and splendidly
lighted throughout. The frontage to Pitt-street
is about 80 feet, and the edifice rises to the
height of six storeys. The building is of Jthe
ness stone, and of great massive-
feet onghont. The foundation is some ten
cellars m solid ropk, and very ample
aresnhV 8 Pr o 1 Tlded - Tbo supports for the floors
most S BtaDtlal P^ 8 wbich ? ive the very top-
floors - r mi^ strength and solidity. The six
and ! 8 !! 6 . 4 °i ear open space of about 5,000 feet,
forming stored with all the various goods
Porting stock-m-trade of a largo im*
there S ■ J On the uppermost floor
and made f«, Bt ?u m h °kt, specially designed
mad ° for the warehouse by Mr. Norman
Selfe. Steam is generated by the aid of
gas, and the hoist is so admirably arranged as to
operate on every floor of the main premises and
by means of a shaft it also operates in an adjoin-
ing building, the lifts in each place being worked
with the greatest facility and safety. On the
main building there are six lifts, each capable of
hoisting a ton, and they command each f 100.% side
and rear, greatly facilitating the despatch of
business. The second building mentioned above
is a stout, well-built brick edifice, five “storeys
high, and is used by the firm as a bond. A
Eortion of the cellars of the main building is
kewise used as a bond. Goods are received and
despatched from the stores in a much easier and
more expeditious style than is usually observed in
city warehouses. A _ spacious drayway extends
around the main building, one side being the
entrance, and the other the outlet, the traffic being
uninterrupted. The drayways are of quite a new
construction, being made of wood embedded in
concrete and aapbalte, so laid as to form <> safe
and solid fool> ig for the horses The dtuf Oility
of this roadway is quite patent, for though sub-
ject to great traffic for some years past, the way is
as good as if only just laid. The offices of the
nrm, situate on either side of the front entrance,
are very elegantly furnished, the massiveness and
ornamentation being in keeping with the whole
character of the structure. The business of the
•loro ® rofc f® rs was first commenced at Orange
m i rm proper has been in existence
oniy years, when tha brothers, Mr. James and
Mr. Pnomas Dalton went into partnership. Their
house at Orange baa for years ranked as one of
the loading businesses in the Western interior.
The Sydney house, of which this article is descrip-
tive, is in no way connected with the country
house, the firm doing in Sydney only the business
of importers. They supply most of the inland
retail houses, as well as doing a large business in
and around Sydney—in the latter respect, as much
trade being done at the ship’s side as at the ware-
house. On page 4 we give a portrait <f Mr.
Thomas Dalton, the man ag e partner of the
Sydney house.
A Lands Office Fraud.
J. J) . Kva.vs, a young clerk in the Lands Department,
lias committed a rather extensive fergery, and run away
to San Francisco. In filling np o cheque for £lB 155.,
fcrans left the top lino blank, and wrote “Eighteen
pounds 15a.” on the bottom one, md afterwards placed
before them the words “Eight hundred,” thustoaking
the cheque for £BlB 15«., instead of the correct amount.
Ibis he took to the Honk of Now South Wale* land
upon the teller remarking that it w>« for a large sum
Kr. wages h d to 1,0 uaid ini h 9
office iu money that afternoon. Asl.the cheque was
payable to “ appraisers,” the teller thought everything
was correct and cashed it. Evans went to another bonk,
where he secured a draft for £6OO on San Francisco,
and obtained gold for the balance of the £BOO. Th en ho
took passage in the Cambrian Monarch, but returned
to the ofiice, paid iu the £lB 15s. to allay suspicion, and
sailed next day iu the vessel named, which left with
half a gale of wind after her. Detective Camphin leaves
for San Francisco by the mall, and will arrest Evans
on his arrival. In any case, the latter cannot possibly
profit to the full by his fraud, as the bank which issued
the draft on San Francisco is, at the instance of the
Government, withholding the advioe.
MESSRS DALTON BROTHERS’ WAREHOUSE, PITT STREET SYDNEY


Chemists and Druggists
RMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BlLTfmc
- AND LIVEK PILLS Stand unrivalled V US
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE a
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains ■
the head and chest, habitual constinati ?
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dhrS*
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy urn
of the stomach and bowels. They ca ° 0
neither griping nor sickness, and ore confident?*
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and Is 6d
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHEERY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections ni
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP
well as the most successful remedy for couch* 8
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack*
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, ticklin
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s Gd and /
fid. ’ 43
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine," being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractahledisease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEmMOr!
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon
■ from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY - Elf} ft t
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONP'c
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2a.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
C
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
E N T R A L PHARMACY
78 (Late 84) KING-STREET. ’
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM. Chemist.
T S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION)
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 Qeorge-street, Sydney,
Be careful not to get imitations.
T
A KE NO MORE
hut try
E ANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and he cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Rnnderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Areany'.'of your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-strect.
JJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to he
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to he the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment H
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can ha ve immediate relief by applying Josephsou s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephsou’a Australian
Ointment can be obtained? .
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy bke
Josophsou’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it ha®
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parti®®
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once do
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is niaoe,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT, A
whi«h is gnaranted to be what it is represented
purely vegetable compound. . .
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, 1
and Is 6d each throughout; the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARDROW & COMPANY-
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agents for
JBrinsmead's Celebrated Pianos.
PRICES TO SUIT ALL.
Guaranteed for Five Years.
Highest Award above all others.
Faultless and unsurpassed.
•JJ OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agents for
TEE ALPHA OAB MACHINE,
For making Gas in private houses,
large establishments, stations, or
towns.
No Trouble.
Simple and Effective.
Half the cost of Kerosene.
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Agents for
SMITH’S AMERICAN ORGANS
Unequalled and incomparable.
EOYLE & HOGG,
Brinsmead Piano Depot,
BOND STREET STORES,
Sydney,
WOMAN ITEMS.
Some girls have plenty of husbands —belonging
to other people.
• A worldly man says that he loves a certain poor
girl, but that he “prefers" a richer one.
Very ancient society ladies never shed tears.
They know enough to keep their powder dry.
Ho was handed a big bill for his wife’s funeral.
Said he, “ £6O! I almost wish she hadn’t died."
Business before pleasure, as the man remarked
when he kissed his wife before going to the club.
“ Yon bachelors ought to be taxed, oysters are.”
“ Yes, madamo, bachelorhood certainly is a luxury.
’Hie divinity which doth bodge a king is badly
needed by‘Emperor William. Mrs. Emperor William
snores.
“ I have bitten my tongue,” said a notorious
scandal-monger. “ Impossible—had you done so you’d
have been poisoned."
Marriages in May are said to be unlucky ; but
then so are those in June, July, September, and, in
fact, all other months.
At a ball. Match-making mamma : “ Virginia,
dear, don’t lose sight of that gentleman in mourning.
He may be a widower."
—Victor Hugo defines Paradise, as “ The place
where the parents shall be always yonng and the
children always little."
“ Woman’s rights” at last. Lottie Wilmot
for Newcastle. Ninny, Lottie, and Lottie’s dog are
expected to “ huaoh it.”
Michigan has six female lawyers, and every one
of them dares stand up aud “ sass back ’’ when his
Honor rules against her.
An observing man has discovered a similarity be-
tween a young ladies’ seminary aud a sugar-house.
Both refine what is already sweet.
An ordinary woman’s waist is 30 inches around.
An ordinary man’s arm is about 30 inches long. How
admirable are thy works, oh Nature !
Grace: “I am going to see Clara to-day. Hava
you any message?" Charlotte: “I wonder how you
cau visit that dreadful girl. Give her my love.”
A pretty actress settled her advertising bill with
a newspaper the other week by kissing the editor. Such
editors don’t get very rich, but they havq a heap of fun.
It is said that women live on love. Small-
salaried young men will be interested to know that the
love referred to is for roast beef, onions, and new
hats.
Sarah Bernhardt, who is very thin, is reported
to have exclaimed the other evening as she was leaving
Paris, “ Adien, ungrateful country; yon shall never
have my bones.”
An old lady with several unmarried daughters
feeds them ou oysters because oysters are rich in phos-
phorus, and phosphorus is the essential thing in
making matches.
“ Love is a nightmare with one foot.
Two little children with one bun.
Two turnips with a single root.
Two cabbage heads as one."
A girl of our acquaintance says when she dies
she desires to have tobacco planted over her grave, that
the weed, nourished by her body, may be smoked by her
bereaved lovers. There is poetry in the idea.
The reason meh don’t follow the example of
women and stop to look into windows of millinery
establishments is because such windows don’t contain
fancy pipes and the portraits of burlesque actresses.
They had separated. She heard that he was
seriously ill, aud sent a servant to usk after his health.
The servant entered, saying, “ Mrs. has sent me to ask
’’ “How much?" groaned he, rolling his eyes
in misery.
The reason why women have little or no success
at fishing is because but few of them possess nerve
cuoagh to hold the worm between their teeth so that
they can use both hands in getting the hook out of
their hack-hair.
Hare is a hint for colonial ladies :—Aristocratic
French women, whan in want of money, secrete their
diamonds, give out that they have been stolen, and
then pocket the reward which their husbands offer for
their recovery.
How is it that some Sydney ladies always con-
trive to be so costly in their apparel ? The latest
Parisian inodes are childishly, angelically simple,
jewellery is quite abjured and striking colours
are always avoided. >
The other afternoon Peapes and Shaw put an
extra high cover over their window to keep out the sun.
As it was consequently very hard to see what was
inside more than four times as many girls as usual
wanted to see the costumes.
A young fellow tried to scare a widow by ap-
pearing to her as her husband’s ghost. But as he was
iu the house before twelve o’clock at night and didn’t
appear drunk, she detected the fraud at once, and
thumped the intruder over the head with a fire-shovel.
She was an old lady with a moustache, and he
was dining with her. Said she : i“ You have stained
your shirt front with wine. “I always spill it," he
said, unmoved. “I never do,” remarked she, sharply.
“But then, you see, madame, your moustache is uot so
long as mine!"
Bridget heard the boss of the house remark at
the dinner-table that “ Kismet ’’ meant “ fate," and
that is the reason why she so astonished her mistress
by remarking the next day to the chambermaid, “ Oh,
Maria, I can’t scarcely walk wid the chilblains all over
me two Kismets.”
The other day a San Francisco snrgeon, Dr. B.
Chapman, operated on a woman who was suffering from
tumour. On the night following the operation, which
was performed very skilfully, he went into the room
adjoining his patient’s and committed suicide, after
writing, “ I have killed Mrs. De. Pas, and for that I will
kill myself.”
The richest young ladies in New York are the
Misses Garner, the daughters of Commodore Gamer,
who was drowned under a yacht that overturned a few
years ago. Ho made his fortune in Wall Street, and
upon his death was able to leave his daughters four or
five millions each. Added to this they are charming
and beautiful girls.
Always attend to ventilation. If, instead of air,
a room were full of pure clear water, and if, instead of
air, you were exhaling twenty times a minute a pint of
milk, you could cau see how the water, at first clear and
sparkling, would soon become hazy and finally opaque.
Were we able to see the air as well as the water we
would at once appreciate how thoroughly we contami-
nate it by breathing.
The latest novelty in Collins-atreet (Melb.) block
is a long-trained, blue velvet dress, trimmed with heavy
velvet work of the same colour. The cap is also taste-
fully made of the same material, whilst the shoes
match the lot. From under the blue cap a perfect
wealth of the most beautiful golden hair streams in
heavy ringlets down the wearer’s back to her waist.
The lady is a Jewess.
When Her Majesty the Queen wishes to convey
that some oue has had too much wine she uses the word
“tipsy.” Out in Australia we generally use another
word The only person we’ve ever seen look “tipsy"
was Emilie Melville. Not that she was tipsy, but that
the character she took on the occasion referred to
rendered an assumption of “ tipsiness ” necessary.
The dear little woman looked additionally charming and
more ladylike than ever.
Tho richest woman in America, is Mrs. E. H.
Green, wife of the Vice-President of the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad. She was a Miss Robinson, and her
father was a whaling master at New Bedford. He died
when his daughter was a mere girl and left her a fortune
of about eight millions. She lived slenderly and
prudently, aud as her tastes wore simple and her wants
few she was able to transfer her enormous income
almost every year to the body of the fortune itself, and
it has now accumulated to more than 27,000,000 dols.
Her husband, Mr. Green, was a very rich man when
she married him and has been successful since. It is
said by one who should know that the income of this
couple is 2,500,000.
FUN AND FANCY.
A dead language—Cold tongue.
A great hardship—An iron steamer.
A hop-merchant—A dancing master.
Harriet Beecher’s toe is 71 years old.
What does the pupil of the eye study P
If a follow is envious it shows that he is modest.
A nightmare is the only animal that has a dreamy
eye.
The mule has met his match. He kicked a bee-
hive.
The mark of cane —Dust on an unruly school-
boy’s jacket.
Born, married, died. Hatched, matched, de-
spatched. Bred, wed, dead.
A Frenchman says that the soul of wine is at its
top. It must he a cork sonl.
Barber: “How will yon have your hair cut,
sir ?" “In silence, if possible."
If there were no Sunday funerals many a poor
man would never enter a carriage in his life.
“I’ll have to stop that,” as the tom-cat said
when he saw the bootjack coming straight for him.
The Italian organ-grinder’s monkey knows too
much now. So his owner has got him a bell-punch.
It is reported that a Frenchman has discovered
a new substitute for gold He ought to make money
with it.
The small hoy now holds himself together at the
equator in acknowledgment of the subtle power of the
greeu apple.
It must bo a happy thought to a lover that his
blood and that of his owu sweetheart mingled in the
same mosquito.
A sheriff who lately assisted at a wedding snap-
ped his fingers and called out, “ The condemned will
now step this way.”
“ Hands wanted on boys’ pants,” is the daily
advertisement in the newspapers. ’Twas always thus
from childhood’s hour.
“ Married people who go into court to settle
family disputes, cover themselves with the blackest
dirt." Divorce soot is alluded to.
Yon can’t make a horse drink. This shows how
inferior is the horse to man. You can make a man
drink, but can’t always make him pay.
It’s said that a woman was recently kicked in
the jaw by a mule. It didn't hurt her much but the
mule broke his leg, and had to be shot.”
“ Is your wife’s name Margaret?” “No,” said
the farmer : “ Margy’s short for oleomargine, and
I calls her that ’cause I don’t love any but her."
Said a tailor : “ I never ask cash from a high-
toned gentleman.’’ But suppose he doesn’t pay ?’’
“Then I know he isn’t a high-toned gentleman."
A Sydney woman has a hen which.is twenty
eight years old, and sho thinks of opening a hoarding-
house so as to realize on it before it dies of old ago.
Several startling assassinations have been com-
mitted ou trains near Paris lately. One of the news-
papers thinks there should be separate compartments
for assassins.
In ancient story we are told
That Midas’ touch turned anything to gold :
But we, to-day, a stranger thing behold —
Men turn to anything when touched with gold.
“ Badly-shaven gentleman, suffering from de-
bility, consults a physician. "Do yon shave yourself ?”
asked the doctor, glancing at his slashed cheeks.
“ Yes." “ Stop it; you're losing too much blood.”
We notice that Bacon died on April 9th, 1626.
We thought so, but were not positive whether it was
the bacon or the eggs which our landlady had on the
table the other morning that had been deceased so long.
“ It was an informal affair,” wrote one of onr
country editors in a notice of a garden-party which he
had been specially invited to attend. The compositor
made it “ a very infernal affair," and the consequence
was that no more special invitations were received at
that editor’s office.
It was a coloured preacher who said to his flock:
" We have a collection to make this morning, and, for
the glory of Heaven, whichever of you stole Mrs. Jones’
turkeys, don’t put anything on the plate.’’ One who
was there saysj “Every blessed niggah in de church
came down wid de rooks.”
He came into the editors room with a large roll
of manuscript, and said very politely: “ I hare a trifle
here about the beautiful sunset yesterday, dashed off by
a friend of mine, which I would like inserted if you have
room." “ Plenty of room. Just insert it yourself," re-
plied the editor, gently pushing the waste basket to-
wards him.
Some people have queer ideas about praying. A
man some time ago overhauled the prayer book, and
selected the largest and most comprehensive prayer he
could find. He carefully copiedjit out and pinned it to
the head of his bed. Every evening before settling
down to sleep that profane man directs attention to the
prayer with the ejaculation “ Them’s my sentiments, O
Lord!”
Composition by a little girl of nine years : The
boss is a very nice animal. He has four legs, one fastened
to each corner, and one face; two eyes and one body ;
two ears and one tail. The boss can run fast. Oh, the
boss is a very nice animal, indeed. Well, when the
boss gets up in the morning, he don’t have to wash his
face nor comb his hair, and when he goes to bed he
don’t have to say his prayers. Oh, dear; I wish I was
a boss.
How dear to my heart is the school I attended.
And howil remember so distant and dim.
That red-headed Bill and the pin that I bended
And carefully put on the bench under him !
And how I recall the surprise of the master,
When Bill gave a yell and sprang up with the pin
So high that his bullet-head busted the plaster
Above, and the scholars all set up a grin.
That active boy Billy, that high-leaping Billy!
That loud-shouting Billy that set on a pin.
“Mrs. Crowley was taken to Mr. Stephen, and
had to be carried in. She was there about half-an-hour,
when she had to be carried out, not cured, but still
suffering great pain, and has not left her room since."—
G. Denison in the Evening News.
They carried Mrs. Crowley in, •
He made a “ pass," cried—“ Gojie, all pain! ”
And, while he grinned a placid grin.
They bore the lady out again, ,
And yet despite that “ pass ” and “gone ! ”
That smile, the paper prints a letter.
In a strain that’s most forlorn,
Which says, she’s worse instead of better
*******
To cavil ice have no intention ;
To sneer —oh, dear, 's not in onr mind; —
But yet one query we’d just mention :
Could those angels have resigned ?
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street Clarke, Pitt-street
R. Callaway, King-street Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-st. J. L. Bergboefer, Pitt-st.
George Hill, George-street Schneberger, Oxford-st.
Nosh „ Spragg & Adams „
J. W. R. Clarke „ W. Lapham ~
E. R. Cole „ Q. Barker, Snssex-street
Gordon & Gotch „ Thorsby, Erskine-street
Sandon ~ J. Walton, Railway Station
Colliss, George-st. west J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
E. Turner, Brickfield Hill Pierce, William-stree
W. Johnson, 35+Elizabeth.- J. Withers, Park-street
street South
SUBURBAN AND,COUNTRY:
Alexandria— Mudgee—
G. Robbins W. Hall
Arm i D at. b — Narhauri —
H. Mallam O. Haussman
H. M‘Alpine Naerandera—
Asheibld — W. Yonng
W. J. Banks Newcastle—
Balmain — Hale Williams
W. J. Small F. Alcock
Bathurst— Newtown—
E. Layt E. Bray
Beoa — E. Sheridan
0. Welby J. Arnold
Bodalla — E. Jones
W. Brook North Shore — •
Carcoar — Deacon & Son
J. A. Moss Nicholson Bros.
COOTAMUNDRA — ORANGE—
J. Percivol R. Lessells
Cowra — Parramatta—
R. Stevenson G. W. Green
Echuca — C. E. Fuller
G. Fosdyke Ride —
Forbes— R. Yonng
E. Chapman Scone —
Germanton — M. F. Asser
T. Brown Shoalhaven—
Glen Innes — Wicks
F. Marshall Singleton—
Goulburn —, J. P. Quinn
J. Walsh Waqga Wagga —
Guknedah — C. H. Daniel
J. L. Fitzgerald L. S. Joseph
Lambton— Wattle Flat—
J. Firth li. Grimwood
Liverpool— Wellington (n.s.w.)—
C. A. Scrivener W. Booth
Maitland (West)— £oung—
C. W. Clarke G. F. Oil
Morpeth—
James Maher
INTERCOLONIAL
Melbourne — Brisbane—
Manders & Co. _ , . „
Yard Gordon & GotcJb.
C. Muskett, Bourke-st. yj- Whelan
C. J. Bird, „
Nath. Devi, Spencer- Stanthorpb (Q.) —
street Railway Stn. •
D. Lazarus J. F. Williams
Roses.
A crimson rosebud into beauty breaking;
A hand outstretched to pluck it ere it fall!
An hour of triumph, and a sad forsaking ;
And then, a withered rose-leaf—that is all.
A maiden’s heart that knoweth not love’s darting :
A voice that teacheth love beyond recall;
An hour of-joy—an hour of bitter parting ;
And then, a broken heart-rand that is all.
Colonial Beer.
A pot of beer, the beady bubbles breaking ;
A hand outstretched to grab the pot and all ;
An hour of jollity, a sad awaking;
An awful headache and a taste like gall.
An angry wife, in manner all unbending;
A voice, “you’re drunk,” a stumble and a fall,
A Yankee broom upon your head descending.
And then you feel your wounds—and that is all.


Public Compaui
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT I
Incorporated by Act of Com
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pow
£1,000,000.
He serve Fund, £170,0(
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chat
George A. Murray, Esq. Joremia
William B. Walford, Esq. Willian
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Gi
Head Office, Stdnb
Citt and Suburban Bras
Haymarket | Redfom [
London Office—l 3 Kino Williai
Branches throughout the Colon!
Wales and Queensland, and Agents
Colonies, Great Britain, America, 1
Ao„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL QBE
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank
ESTABLISHED 180
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PA
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.C
Henry Mort, Esq.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Eon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Qidloy King, I
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Goo;
LONDON BANKER
The National Provincial Bank i
London Office, 30, Groat St
Director—Edward Chapm
Agent—G. H. Alexandei
This Bank transacts nil usual Ban
Agency Business on the mostfnvouri
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mod
other produce shipped to England fo
USTRALIAN MUTUAL I
Established 1872
Capital —£loo,ooo, with power to im
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, C
Manuel P. Josephson, Esq. Willian
John Wetherill, Esq. Willian
First Fire Society estai
Colony on the Mutual Pr:
Policy-holders back part
miums as a Cash Bonus c
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly fre
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for i
premiums,
Damage by Lightning ani
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement foi
Fire insurance at lowest hates.
WALTER CH
Head Office —144, late 184, Pit
but one north Evening News).
USTRALIAN MUTUAL
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-3TRI
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LL
AUSTRALIA.
DIBECTOI
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.Q., h
t-v- tr TPa/-. nAimfv/
D
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-M]
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and
Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date it will
Peel and ÜBAiiiiA Mining Pis'
D
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-M
N'
OTICE is hereby given that unless
Gold-mining Leases within thirty
the Lessees execute and
days from this date they
Huntbb and Maclbat Mining I
Dep
LIST of applications received in the Department of Mines for p
&0., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28.
Bate of Ap-
plication.
Public Compaa
Commercial banking
umm SYDNEY.
Established 1834
Incorporated by Act of Cm
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Pi
* Directors :•
Hiohard Jones. Esq., Chairman;
B 1 normtv-Chairmau; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
* T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Me
Auditors :
H. E- A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. S
Solicitors :
Messrs.rWant, Johnson a
Messrs. Cape and Westg
Hkad Office— Oeorgo-stre
m a Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Ooden, Branch Inspector; G. I
Branch Inspector,
with Branches at Haymarkot, Georg
Wlt “ Oxford-street.
London Office— 39 Lombarc
nirectors: J. A. Youl. Esq.. C.M
1,11001 Esq.; F. 11. Hogg, .
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Annibale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bogs
rf-ney Bombala, Bourke, Bowra!, B
fUnpl-elltowu. Cannon bar, Carcoi
I'ooltth, Cooma, Copeland (North),
Pootanmndra. Dubbo, Dungog. F
ki en Inues, Qoulburn, Grafton. Qi
Qunuiug, luveroll. Kempsey, Kiama
Maitland, Mernwa, Milton, Molong
Murruruudi, Muswellbrook, Narrab
Mdera, Orange, Parkes, Parramatl
Ouoanbtyan, Quirindi, Richmond, 1
tin Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagg
Waileniwang, Warren, Wellington
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Wooc
With the follogfcg .
Branches iSprBKNSLAKD : Bnsbi
Maryborough and Rockhamp-
Agencies in thh Col
Victoria: The Bank o£ Victoria,
Australasia, Colonial Bank of
Commercial Bank of Australia.
Sooth Australia The Bank of _ a
National Bank of Australasia,
Adeuuue.
West Australia: National Banko:
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diemt
Nkw Zealand : National Bank of I
Aqehciks bbtond thh C
London : The Loudon and West mi
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union I
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland: The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank o
San Francisco: The Bank of Bri
Messrs. Maoondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Naciouale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgi
India, China and Singapore ; Tin
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lone
Cetlon : The Chartered Mercauti
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of 1
Chinn.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co,
Eoipt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, an
lects bills payable at any of the at
elsewhere, at current rates ; collects
in public companies, and interest i
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually upon.
T
HE CITY BANI
Paid up Capital, £2l
With power to increase t
Reserve Fund, £5O
Di rectors:
Hon. JAMES WATSON, Esq., 1
ROBERT GRAY, Esq.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTC
JOHN ALGER, Esq.
EDWARD WRENCH, Esq
Auditors :
H. C. D’Ardier, Esq.
Robert Wisdom, Esq.,
Manager :
William Neill.
Secretary:
Edmund Rouse
Accountant:
Public Notice
W 0 —
TO WOOLQBOWEES, MEBCHAh
THE COMING SEASC
The near approach of the new Si
remind growers to make their an
time for the disposal of their Wools
ing our friends for the business whicl
to us hithorte, we hare the pleasur
services for either the SALE or i
New Clip. , ..
The extension of the railways thre
will cause the wool of the coming sea
both earlier and within a shorter
heretofore, aud in view thereof v
arrangements, by securing more e:
accommodation, to deal with the
arrives—that we can promise those
with their business that, as soon a
the railway-station or the wharfs, w
MATE DELIVERY of it.
On this point, therefore, no delay
OWNERS OE WOOL.
Our Warehouses are SPACIOU
T, ARY WELL LIGHTED, am
adapted for the display of wooi to
All wools are carefully examined
solves prior to being offered at aucti
thoroughly protected up to its full
Instructions when given as to i
also strictly carried out. We cai
dently assure owners that every cor
in the disposal of Wools placed in
In our Circular issued prior to tht
Season, we therein anticipated an s
American aud Continental buyers i
the result justified our expectations
us pleasure to inform Wool Grower
animated business may be comfldei
to during the coming season.
The quantity of Wool sold durin
the Sydney market, owing to thi
foreign buyers, considerably exceed
any previous year, and as the dem
sources, added to the requirements
promises this coming season to be s
pects that prices will be well m
These inducements will no doul
cause Wool growers to try this n:
onr friends who prefer shipping to 1
our services.
We are always in a position to e
freight by first-class vessels; we •
ship to our Agents in England, mi
or we will hand over documents as
by the owners of any clips entrus
xnent.
MAIDEN, HILL and
Offices—Pitt-S
Public Compar
T
HE STANDARD LIFE ASS
PANY.
Head Office George-s
Sydney Branch ... 283 Georj
SPECIAL NOT!
The next DIVISION OF PKOFI
at 15th November, 1880, and Policie
date will participate in the BONUI
F, '
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDE?*
BENEFIT BUILDING Ah
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and 1
for Investors. Eight per cent, lei
borrowers. Eight per cent, and
investors. The highest current rat*
on Deposits. Prospectus and all
offices, 171 Yorh-street. iirrin
WILLIAj
Excelsior land invi
BUILDING COMPANY & 1
The above Company Sells Land
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estal
sham, a few minutes walk from 1
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Ealano
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do, £BO do. do.
All information at the Companj
street. - WILLIAj
IHE INTERCOLONIAL L
ASSOCIATION, LIM.
Head Offices : — 263 (late 247), G
(formerly the Mercantil
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares
Subscribed, £SO,C
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G.,
Mr. Alderman John Young L J


Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The Australasian Ture Register ia out
again.
Carver has forfeited to Aplitt. .£5O was de-
posited.
Australia heat the Hunslet team by one run and
eight wickets.
Printers have decided to hold their annual re-
gatta at an early date.
Hicken and Foley have been giving boxing
displays at Newcastle.
Tattersall’s Club. Melbourne, has taken up its
quarters at Mace’s Hotel.
It is proposed to hold next Melbourne regatta in
December of the present year.
Wallaroo beat Burwood easily on Saturday by
two goals and two trios to nil.
Captain Bogardns, the rifle expert, proposes a
team of wing-shots to England.
There are now twenty rowing clubs in Victoria,
and only seven in New South Wales.
Trickett is said to have done the Parramatta
course, with the tide, in 18J minutes.
A senior race in clinker fours shortly takes place
in connection with the Sydney Rowing Club.
We are pleased to hear that an attempt is about
to be mode to start a rowing club at Balmain.
We ought shortly to hear of Laycock having
made some engagements with the English scullers.
The Orientals beat Windsor Grammar School
at football on Saturday, at Windsor, after a good game_
Capt. Bogardus has accepted the proposition
made for a pigeon match by an “unknown” English-
man.
W. G. Brett, N. Lockyer, C. Bros, T. Hall, and
H. Langley are probable competitors for the Fowler
Cup.
“ Choppy ” Warbnrton, df Loudon, offers to run
any man in the world 30 miles for not less than £lOO
aside.
It is said in Melbourne that Abe Hicken has
sent to America for a man to “ take the shine out of
Foley.”
Mr. Upward, stroke of the Victorian boat in the
late intercolonial race, has taken a temperance hotel in
Geelong.
Mr. Edward Cntts, who nominated Mata for
the Melbourne Cup, has sold his interest to Mr. E. H.
Vallance.
Boyle, captain of the Australian Eleven, says
that, without blow, the team is the best fielding team
in England at present.
Donnelly has almost finished a very fine out-
rigger to the order of Mr; Brett, of the Mercantile
Rowing Club.
William Trickett and Solomon had a spin on
Sunday morning, starting from Fort Macquarie, but we
were unable to glean how the wind blew.
Richard A. Proctor goes in for rowing, fencing,
and cricket; and at the Melbourne Chess Club beat
Goldsmith, one of the Victorian champions.
At a 72-honr walk at Buffalo, inaugurated by
O’Leary, Guyon won, covering 353 miles. Faber oad
Krohne were next with 355 and 346 respectively.
Mr. Fred. Woodhonse, jan., has commenced the
practice of his father's profession, that of animal-
painting, and he is said to inherit his father’s talent.
The Haverly-Eugelhardt tourney in Cincinatti
closed on Monday evening, May 24, the winner accom-
plishing 578 miles in the one hundred working hours.
Some sporting men have dreamt that a white-
faced chestnut is to be the winner of the Hawkesbury 1
Grand Handicap. There are three white-faced chest-
nuts.
The gates for Tattersall’s Meeting at Randwick,
on this Saturday, were sold lost Saturday for £155 to
Mr. Johnstone. The Leger stand brought £26, from
Mr. Goodin.
J. C. Laycock says he can beat Power, row
rings round his brother, lose Rush, and play with
Trickett—in fact, he can do anything except blow his
own trumpet.
The Second St. Leonard’s Football Club beat
the Glebe Football Club, on Saturday, by three goals
and two tries, besides forcing them fifteen times behind
their own goal.
Last Saturday Powell and Richards raced 100
yards at Moore Park, the former winning after a good
race. Then Hnmmerstone beat Harpnr over the same
distance by a yard, and Powell easily disposed of Hoy
in another 100 yards spin.
Hart and Dobler, of America, having failed to
make a match with "Blower” Brown and Rowell, of
England, Hart has challenged the latter to a 142-houre’
go-as-you-please for 5000 dol. aside.
A large majority of the Melbourne bookmakers
have decided to establish a betting-room in opposition
to Tattersall’s Club, the premises lately occupied by
which have been taken for the purpose.
The prize of .£lOO, for all comers, at the Clarence
River Regatta, will bring a splendid field of scullers to-
gether. William Trickett. Rush, Messenger, M'Donald,
and C. Laycock, are probable competitors.
Mr. Thomas Chadwick, proprietor of the Laurel
Hotel, Flemington, where Mr. John Tait and other
members of the New South Wales division have for
many years taken up their quarters, is dead.
Truth alludes to the large amount of money
owing by backers to English bookmakers, and antici-
pates that before long the tempest will burst, and some
“exceedingly unpleasant revelations be made.”
A club to play football under the English Asso-
ciation rules has been formed with good prospects of
success. Committee—Messrs. Savage, Hewlett, Baker,
Barlow, and Todd; secretory, Mr. W. J. Fletcher.
Tho University Foot-ball Club met the King’s
School Club on Saturday at Parramatta, and won by a
goal and three tries to one try for the School. The
match was about the fastest and best of the season.
George Fearn, an English swimmer, 22 years of
age, has swum from the foot of 33rd-street, East River,
New York, to Flushing. Long Island, 15 miles, in 3
hours 7 minutes 46 seconds. He swam directly through
the Millgate Rapids.
The Victorian football team chosen to play the
South Australians at Adelaide cannot be considered a
representative one, selected as it is from the outside
clubs; neither Carlton, Melbourne, nor Geelong having
any of their men in it.
At the American Intercollegiate Association’s
last meeting, W. Soren, of Harvard, cleared 5 ft. liin.
in a standing high jump, thus beating all previous
records by 3J inches. The second man also beat previous
record by an inch and a quarter.
Fred. Roff, an English authority on rpwing,
writes that Trickett will assuredly row second to
some of the English scullers this trip. Perhaps so,
but then so far as time tests, the only available indica-
tions go, Mr. Rolf’s conclusion is unwarranted.
Writes Boyle, of the Australian cricket team:—
“ Not one of the Australian team will play against either
gentUirwn or professionals of England for years to come,
unless the gentlemen play us or treat us like. We
oould not be treated worse if we were a set of black-
legs.”
A benefit was given to Abe Hicken on Monday
night, at the rooms over Dunn’s auction mart. There
was a good " attendance and an excellent display of
boxing, an enjoyable evening being wound up by a very
gentle set-to with the gloves between Hicken and
Foley.
Michael Donahoe, of New York city, and Nat.
Hutchins, of Marlborough, Mass., wrestled on 31st May
for the light-weight championship of America. Hut-
chins was the favourite, but Donahoe won by sheer
brute strength, throwing his man twice in five
minutes. •
Capt. Standish has been appointed chairman of
the V.R.C. The result of the polling for the election of
a committee was—The Hou. W. J. Clarke, 169 votes :
Mr. A. K. Finlay, 156 ; Mr. J. 0. Inglis, 139; Mr. T. N.
Fitzgerald, 129; Mr. Donald Wallace, 122; and Mr. W.
Leonard, 121.
Thos. Dale, alias Jordan, captain of the Canadian
Cricketers, was arrested iu the midst of a game as a
deserter from the British army, and sentenced to 36
days’ imprisonment. He managed to escape from
guard, but being recaptured by a ei viliau, another court-
martial increased the sentence to 336 days.
The necessary number of shares having been
subscribed for, the newly-foimed Australian Trotting
Club has been duly incorporated, jmd there is every
prospect of a good track being permanently established
at Northoote, Victoria. An American stallion. Von
Moltke, is now at the service of the public.
Mr. A. J. Wiseman, of Laguna, Wollombi, has
issued a challenge through the columns of the Mait-
land Mercury to back bis pony Boe-in-a-bouuet (only
14 hands 1 in. high) against anything her inches in
Australia, to carry 12st the greatest distance iu 12 hrs;
or he will back the same pony to cover 100 miles in 10
hours with 6st up.
A 20-mile running match, in which G. Mason
conceded A. Flannty two minutes start, for £3O aside,
took place at the Plumstead (Eng.) grounds, 15th May.’
To complete the distance the men had to traverse 92 laps
66 yards. At the 67th circuit Flannty stopped, and
after Mason had gone 14 miles 1718 yards he was told to
stop. Time. Ih. 30m. 33{s.
Messrs. Finlayson and Lord, of the S. R. C.,
will compete at the M. R. C. Regatta, in the Senior Pair
Oar Race. Their opponents as yet appear to be Brett
and Macfaxlane and Bros and Williams. It is not likely
that either of these pairs will have any chance with the
visitors, and it is to be regretted that the only senior
race on the programme does not show a better field.
Says the Alta California :—“ If Hanlon’s
last race showed his capacity to row, what chance has
he to win the race he Is engaged to row against the
boatman from Australia, Trickett? Was his recent
fiasco a trick for Trickett and his friends to stumble
over in making their bets? Or, are muscles as un-
certain reliances as are the promises of politicians ?”
“Atlas” in the World says that a distinguished
jockey was last winter the honored visitor in the Medi-
terranean villa of a popular duchess; another was
entertained at a St. James’-street Glub ns the guest of
one of the members. Some of the other members
violently object to what they hold to bo on abuse of the
hospitality of their institution, and threaten to call a
general meeting.
At last meeting of the New York Athletic Club,
L. E. Myers brought the American amateur record for
a mile down to 4m. 29)8., or within five seconds of the
best English amateur figures, while in the 300 yards run
he beat the American record by more than two seconds,
covering the 250 yards in 37Js. less time than the dis-
tance had previously been run here, and }s. faster than
Vidal’s time in England.
A most enthusiastic meeting of footballers dis-
satisfied with football played according to Rugby rules,
was held at Weber’s Post Office Hotel last week, to
start a club under the New South Wales Association
lately formed. Frequent bursts of applause interrupted
the speakers, who were all proud of being the originators
of the club. Altogether the project met with deserved
success. When the business of the meeting commenced
five persons were present, including the chairman, and
two dropped in when the proceedings terminated, —
bring the full attendance up to seven.
Says the N. Y. Clipper: — “A letter from
Horace Phillips—brother of the well-known cricketer,
the Rev. T. D. Phillips—received this week, proposes
the selection of an eleven composed of Canadians, who
are now residents of the Dominion, and who learned
the game in Canada, to take a trip to Australia and then
to England.” “However,” remarks the paper, “in
view of the ill-success of the so-called Canadian team
in England, the proposition to arrange another appears
rather untimely. It would be in place after the Cana-
dian clubs have come together more under a National
Cricket Association.
Once upon a time —a very long while ago—two
men started in a race over the (Melbourne) Champion
course. Both had secretly sold themselves. The pace
was hot for a mile, and then it suddenly calmed down
till at last it got so alow that the steamers almost
stopped engines altogether. One sculler fell off his
seat, the other ran ashore. They got under way again
and raced for a hundred yards, when each tried again
to get behind. The shouting and execrations of the
spectators waxed furious when No. 1 rogue after vainly
jerking half-a-dozen times to break his scull, rowed
alongside of rogue No. 2. A couple of winks sufficed.
They started off again like racehorses, the best man won,
and both shared the spoils.
The Australasian, in reviewing the present
unfortunate relations which exist between the English
cricket clubs and our representatives, says that it is
not too late for a few wealthy Australians to telegraph
home for our eleven to challenge the best professional
team in England for from £lOO tc £2OO per man. It
further says:—“Though, as a rale, we deprecate the
playing of cricket tor money, fjnd betting on cricket,
this ease is, we think, an exception to the rule. . . .
For certain iris that if the colonials return to Australia,
and the system of ignoring them is carried out until
they are on board ship on their way back, the occur-
rence will leave a very sore feeling of pique and dis-
appointment in these colonies.”
It would appear that the Rowing Associationis
not excessively popular among our rowing men. The
prime cause of discontent is that all gentlemen who
desire to compete at the annual regatta must first
become members of the Association, involving a sub-
scription of one guinea yearly. Already each Club
subscribes five guineas annually towards the funds of
the Association, and it is thought by many that this
should entitle Club members to the privileges of member-
ship. The expenses of the Association, however, are
very large, including the Intercolonial Eight-oar Race
each year; so that it is absolutely necessary to obtain
some revenue other than the small subscriptions of the
Clubs. It is probable that the requisite concession will
be made, bat we hope that this deserving institution
will meet with further liberal support from our yonug
men. To obtain public support and sympathy in con-
nection with the sports and pastimes of young athletes
it is well to see that they first attempt to assist them-
selves in a moderate degree. We trust that there are
few amateur sportsmen, and especially rowers, who
insist on seeing a genuine quid pro quo for each small
expenditure in connection with their sport. Yet.
to those who have felt the benefit of rowing and
have enjoyed the privileges of our well-conducted row-
ing clubs, we think there should be little hesitation in
affording practical assistance to an institution of this
kind, devoted to the promotion and furtherance of
one of the finest, healthiest, and manliest of British
sports.
After one postponement and two alterations in
the place of fighting, the match between Paddy Ryan
and Joe Goss, both of New York, for the championship
of America and two thousand dollars, was satisfactorily
decided on the soil of West Virginia early on Thursday
morning, June 1. The battle was stubbornly contested,
and both principals were severely punished, the result
being the defeat of the old general, Goss, by his youth-
ful and less experienced antagonist, whose strength and
stamina proved more than an offset to the superior
skill and knowledge evinced by the English boxer. Ryan
is a native of Thurles, Tipperary, Was born in 1853, and
is fifteen years younger than Goss. He is 6ft. o\ia. in
height, and weighs ordinarily 2211 b. Goss’s name may
almost be said to belong to a past generation. Its
owner first came into notoriety by beating John Rooke,
of Birmingham, iu 1859. Then, in succession, ho con-
quered Price, of Billston; Crutchley, Ryall, and Posh
Price. He sustained his first defeat at the hands of
Jem Mace, on Ist September, 1863. The pair met again
on May 24, 1860, for £4OO and the champion belt, at
Longfields Court, and after they had stood in the ring
an hour and five minutes without a blow being deli-
vered, the referee declared it a draw. This unsatisfac-
tory affair, bringing down upon their heads, as it justly
did, the condemnation of the Press and public, was not
destined to settle the matter, and a fresh match was
mode, in which Mace won in 21 rounds, 31 minutes, the
stakes being £2OO a-side. Prior to the last-named event,
Goss beat Ike Baker, and, after it, fought a hotly-con-
tested draw with Tom Allen, whom he subsequently
met in America, the stakes being awarded to him on
account of a deliberate foul on Allen’s part.
The following is the text of the articles of
agreement for the race between Trickett and Hanlan,
and is supplied by Mr. Charles Lett to a friend in
Sydney:—“ Articles of Agreement entered into this day
between Edward Trickett, of Sydney, New South
Wales, and Edward Hanlan, of Toronto, Canada, who
hereby agree to row a straightaway scullers’ race from
two boats moored twenty-five yards apart off the Star
and Garter Hotel, nt Putney, to a point above the Shif*
Hotel at Mortlake, corresponding in distance from thefl
said Ship Hotel with the distance from Putney Aque-
duct to the said Star and Garter Hotel. The men to
row in best and best boats for the sum of £2OO (two
hundred pounds) aside, the Championship of England,
and the Sportsman Championship Challenge Trophy.
The two men to be in their boats ready to start one
hour and a half before high water. JThe race to be
rowed on . In cose on
the day above-named the weather should be of such a
character as to preclude the possibility of a fair trial of
skill or to absolutely endanger the safety of the com-
petitors, the duly-appointed referee is hereby em-
powered to order an adjournment from day to day until
circumstances are favourable. The race to be rowed
according to such of the new Thames National Rules as
are applicable, cutters being allowed to accompany the
raoe, on the condition that they keep behind the stern-
most man from start to finish. The competitors to
start by mutual consent, but if they are not off within
fifteen minutes of the time fixed the referee to start
the men by signal or otherwise. The stake-boats to be
moored out in the river to the full satisfaction of the
referee twenty minutes before the authorised time for
the commencement of the race. The first deposit of
£5O (fifty pounds) aside has now been made good with
the editor of the Sportsman ; the second deposit of
£5O (fifty pounds) aside to be made good at the.
Sportsman Office on , and the
third and final deposit 6f £lOO (one hundred pounds)
aside to be made good on with
the editor of the Sportsman, who is hereby duly ap-
Siinted final stakeholder. Mr. John Ireland, of
ostings, is hereby appointed referee, but in case of
hie neglect or inability to fulfil the duties of the office
the stake holder is empowered to appoint a gentleman
to act in that capacity. The competitors in rowing to
proceed through the centre arch of Hammersmith
Suspension-bridge. The referee shall have entire juris-
diction over the race from start to finish, and his
decision shall be final, and subject to no appeal at law
or otherwise. Either party failing to comply with either
of these conditions shall forfeit all money down iu the
hands of the stakeholder. In case any question should
arise which is not definitely provided for in these
articles, the same to be settled according to the printed
rules and regulations governing competitions for the
Sportsman Championship Challenge Cup. (Signed)—
F. Wentworth for Edward Trickett. Witness—
T. B. Whitepoot.”
Professor William Miller, the Australian
Hercules.
"William Miller, of Melbourne, is undoubtedly the
most wonderful athlete of the age. At the age of 15
he began to learn athletics as a profession from his
father, the well-known swordsman, and in 1874 he de-
cided to go to America. As a wrestler he has beaten
every man ever opposed to him, aud is now champion
wrestler of the world. Amongst those whom he has
vanquished are—M'Langhlin, the Michigan giant;
Audro Christol, the French champion ; Louis Cartern,
the Brooklyn champion ; Leopold Vanderdokem, the
Belgian giant; Heygester, the Oak of the Rhine; Jean
Le Poitre ; Chas. Murphy, the New York blacksmith;
Ernest Tretier,.the Canadian champion; De Lion, of
Sherborne, Canada; La Boniere : Le Bonf; Alexander,
the American Hercules; and William Muldoon.
Amongst these antagonists Banner, M'Langhlin, and
M'Mahon were the most formidable; and during the
wrestling match with the first named 80,000 dollars were
taken and 5000 people were turned away from the doors
of the hall, so popular had the sport become. In boxing
Miller’s principal antagonists in America were Davis,
of San Francisco, whom he fought for 30 minutes, and
beat after six rounds; Patrick Kelly, of New York,
sumamed the “ Strong Arm,” beaten after a short con-
test at Wood’s Gymnasium ; Steve Taylor, beaten a
number of times at New York and Baltimore; Tom
Deuny, of Boston, beaten twice, the last time in 20
minutes, when there were 4500 dollars collected; Le
Boosiere, beaten in 35 minutes after seven rounds;
Patrickßyan, beaten in tworounds. This exhibition was
on behalf of the Irish Relief Fund, and was wit-
nessed by 4000 people. John Dwyer, of Brooklyn,
N.Y., called the Champion of America, beaten three
times with three draws out of six meetings; George
Eooke, who was supposed to be the best man in New
York at that time, was met and beaten in six rounds.
Out ot these, Dwyer was perhaps the toughest man to
deal with. In fencing. Professor Fredericks, Captain
Martin, and De Turek were met aud beaten with the
foil aud single-stick at New York and San Francisco.
In feats of strength, Mr. Miller is second to none. He
puts np 1001 b. dumb-bells twenty times without shift
or jerk, 1201 b. twelve times, 1651 b. three times, and
1801 b. once with the right hand, and, whilst holding it
over his head, lifts a 90 lb. weight with his left and puts
it up with the other, making a total of 2701 b., the
heaviest on record. In walking matches, he heat
Hoosier Penock at San Francisco, in a 40 mile race,
which he finished in eight hours easily. At Maryland,
he beat Ross in a 50 hour race. In another match
against Ross, Miller walked 102 miles in the 24 hours,
and stated he could have gone another ten miles ;»
necessary in the time. In wrestling in deep water he
Sehoenwiug, the well-known swimmer, who beat CaniufJ.
Webb. This match was for 250 dollars, and 2000 dollar*
were collected among the spectators. Mr JMiller weighs
16 st., is 5 ft. 10 in. in height, measures 45 iu. around th
chest, 171 in- around the arm, and 13) in. around the
fore arm, 27 in. aronnd the thigh, and 16) in. around the
calf. At present he has not decided as to whether he
will settle down iu Victoria or not, but it is probable
that he will do so in conjunction with James Mace**
with whom it is his intention to make a tour of the
colonies.
Fashionable Wedding.
One of the most brilliant weddings of the season
was that of the youngest daughter of Mr. Henry
Bell, of Rose Hall, Darlinghurst, and Lieutenant
C. Keitchen, Royal Marine Light Infantry, late
H.M.S. Wolverene, which took plaoe at St. Peher’s
Church, on Saturday, 7th instant. Long before
the time appointed for the ceremony the church
was densely thronged with a fashionable crowd,
almost entirely composed of ladies, who occupied
every available space, and appeared to take the
greatest interest in the proceedings. The altar
had been decorated by four of the Sunday school-
teachers of the church, under the superintendence
of a young lady friend of the bride, and seldom
have we seen so artistic a design or so much good
taste displayed in the decorative art. Across the
altar were suspended two arches of ferns and ever-
greens, in tlie centre of which was a medallion
bound with white carnations and lilies. The
groundwork was composed of navy blue, with the
letters C.K. in white and red, together with the
letter B. in Australian blue in compliment to tho
bride. On the communion-table were two “ bless-
ings” in gold letters on white enamel, and wreathed
in ivy, with tho words, “ The gift of God is eternal
life,” and “ He will keep tho feet of His saints.”
Just before three o’clock the bridegroom and a
number of his friends arrived, and shortly after
tho hour last mentioned the bride entered and
walked up the aisle, leaning on her father, appa-
rently deeply affected, and looking very beautiful
and very graceful in her wedding-dress, which
was of the richest ivory-white satin, handsomely
trimmed with old point lace and orange blossoms :
court train, cut out in squares with deep satin
TH TROUBADOURS.— (No. 1).
SPIRITUALISM.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
Mr Dear Bean-Blossom :
Once more I have been visiting the “ Prophet •”
this time I am sitting .idly gazing on the fast-fillip
room, and listening to the steady “roll up” of carriages
as they stop at the prophet’s door, which stands wide
open—like that belonging to the traditional old spide r
who invited the little fly to enter. But there the simile
ends, far the prophet does not suck his patients’ blood
—he only appeals to their purses. When last I wrote
on this subject to you, this modern worker of miracles
was not allowed by the spirits to take any fee; but find-
ing that all work and no pay was a very ono-sided game
he turned to the angels. This lanky masculine medinm
would not be able to commune with them, but a lady,
young and fair, with a dreamy cast of countenance
takes possession of the mediums chair, and remains in
a comatose state, as long as the prophet requires her
aid. It was to this feminine medium he appealed in his
dilemma about the spirits, who would remain contu-
macious. She went straight to the angels, who seemed
to know all about things terrestrial and specially about
monetary affairs. They incited her to write, “ The
angels wish you to charge one guinea, neither more nor
less, for each visit.” This was doubtless a very pleasing
and acceptable message to Galen. He at once set about
dividing the “ sheep ” from the “ gouts." The “ sheep "
or poorer patients, he at once bundled out as fast ns
they came in, telling them he would have a separate
room and separate day for them, but the “ goats,” or
rich patients, might still come to his chamber and bring
their guineas with them. Among those who remained
was an oldish man, who had known the Prophet in
times gone by, had even had business transactions with
him, and had allowed him ample time to meet his little
bills. Now he was partially paralyzed, and came
full of faith in his old frieud to be cured. The room
was three parts filled with ladies. “ Sit down, my
man,” said the prophet, “ and take off your coat.”
“ What! In the presence of ladies ?” “ Certainly, my
vitality cannot be wasted on fustian.” Off came the
coat. The Prophet then went to a chest of drawers and
took out three pieces of scarlet bunting. These he
placed one on each arm, and one on the chest of the
patient, and began to blow hard through each piece of
bunting in turn. The man felt as if a “ sirocco ” were
blowing through him. “How,” said the Prophet,
when he had no more breath to spore—“how do yon
feel f” “No better, sir, only a little nervous like.”
“ Oh, well, you will be better very soon ; come again.”
The patient got helped into his coat, and was leaving,
when he heard the prophet’s step after him. “My
good frieud,” he said, “ when next you come bring a
guinea with you.” That man went home wiser than he
come in. He thought he saw through the Prophet’s
little game, and made up his mind not to go the next
day. One more patient, this time a lady well up iu
years, blest with a comfortable income, and curst with
an incurable malady. Old as she is she believed in the
“ Prophet.” Living some distance out of town she
sends for him. He attends professionally, accompanied
by the irresistible piece of red “bunting," which again
does duty. He talks largely of his spiritual intimacy
with the angels. When he has blown long enough
through the bunting, he calls for a cup of cold water, in
which he rinses his hands, and then, handing it to the
r old lady, bids her drink, as it is fall of animal magnet-
ism from his body. After a wry face, and a half quiz-
zical look at the Prophet, she obeys. He then asks how
she feels, at which she shakes her head. “ What! no
better ? Impossible, my dear lady, after drinking that
enp of magnetic water. However, I will come to-mor-
row." He comes, goes through the same process, calls
for a cup of cold water, again washes his hands and
requests the old lady to drink it, but the patient is not
to be bamboozled twice. She says, “no I won't drink
it, I feel no better for the dirty water I drank yester-
day, so good-day.” The Prophet went. Next morn-
ing’s post brought a letter for the old lady from her
would-be healer. The envelope held his little bill—only
£2O, for attendance not strictly medical. The old lady
gasped and has not yot paid it, though doubtless she
will. The question naturally arrises, have the
“ Angels " given this favoured “ Galen ” a spiritual
diploma ? If not, how can he demand a fee P And efen
if demanded, why are the people so foolish as to pay it P
The medical board mast now wake up, or they may find
this worker of miracles enrolled as a qualified member
of the profession—" spiritually.”
Ycurs magnetically.
PEA-BLOSSOM.


•ifirur coming from underneath ; handsome ruffle ]
TlSf and insertion, with the usual bridal veil
ci Grange blossoms. The bridesmaids were Miss
nMias Friend, and Miss Brownlow. Their
pretty dresses were made short (the latest
\ C, L P o£ cream plush skirts, with a quilting of
r nffiiedoc lace round the bottom, cream cash-
T ftn ” trimmed with Languedoc lace
frmad in shells ; plush sleeves, plush bows, lined
f °-fh cardinal satin, cream plush hats trimmed
W '-fh lace and cardinal satin and feather to match
wl , t leather shoes and cardinal stockings. Each
rfthe bridesmaids carried a bouquet of white
with pendants of white ribbon. The
TTand handsome bridegroom at first was rather
(1 »rvous but soon regained his wonted courage,
towards the end looked quite noncfmlant
ceremony was impressively perform**! by the
-Rev Canon Moreton, assisted by the Eev. Mr.
Soran of Camden. Mr. George Labertouche
sld as best man, and Mr. Donkin and Mr. F.
uivnes as groomsmen. At the conclusion, the
Wedding March was played by Mr. Scrutton, and
Lnewly-married couple left the church, carrying
titn them the best wishes of their numerous
friends. After adjourning to the residence of the
Iride’s father, where the customary speeches and
Ss were given, they left for Parramatta, where
aSr spend the honeymoon, and then leave for
Sand The bride’s travelling dress consisted
% o short walking costume, bronze cashmere skirt,
handsomely trimmed with bronze plush to snatch
plush jacket body, and hat to match, homton lace
fifs and collar. All the dresses, which were of
fmost rech'erchi description, were made by the
Misses Gould, of Darlinghurst-road.
STAGE GOSSIP.
McLean’s Troubadours are at Maitland.
Chiarini is travelling in Northern Queensland.
Haselmayer has done a profitable provincial
tour.
Our old friends the Girards are the rage of
Paris.
De Munck and Carlotta Patti are going to
Egypt.
The Opera House has the best accoustics m
Sydney.
Burnand is writing a burlesque on the ‘ ‘ Merchant
of Venice.”
Tommy Hudson will join the Mammoth Min-
strels in England.
The Marian Willis Company have concluded
their Ballarat season.
All the lovers of music in Newtown attended
T. H. Rainford’s concerts.
Madame Jennie Boyer was at last advices con-
templating a trip to Australia.
Sam Emery is in Melbourne, and it is rumoured
will shortly show at the People’s.
John Brougham, the well-known actor and
author, died at N.Y. on 7th June.
Sarony, Waters, and Kelly left by the Garonne,
and join the Mammoths at Adelaide.
Mr. Dampier, who is a great favorite at New-
castle, does a season there after Biggs.
The Cambridge Amateur Variety Troupe intend
to visit Melbourne during the Exhibition.
Sam Lazar and Gleeson have taken well-deserved
leave of Sydney tor a round trip to Melbourne.
Emilie Melville, at late dates, was at San
Francisco, playing the title-role in “ Bocaccio.”
Salvini, tfce Italian tragedian, after a season in
New York, wiH visit Australia and New Zealand.
Wilhelmj has made 16,000 dollars by his violin
playing the past season. Verj prettj little pennj.
Each American mail for the next six_ months
brings ont novelties for the theatrical profession.
Roberts’ entertainment, “Merry Moments,” is
drawing fair houses at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne.
Tire Mammoth Minstrels leave Adelaide for
England, per s. s. “ Garonne,” on the 15th of August.
Harry Liston and a well-known theatrical
manager intend to a starring trip to Temora next week.
The Opera House will soon be put into the
hands ot the workmen for the much-required altera-
tions.
The last letter poor Harry Corbyn wrote was an
offer to Horace Lingard and wife for a tour through
India.
St. Lawrence, who played John Jeremiah Lamb
in “ New Babylon,” was tendered a benefit in Mel-
bourne.
The Australasian speaks enthusiastically of
Miss Clara Lemore’s performances in “ Merry
Moments.”
Alfred Dampier, we hear, sails for England, per
the "John Elder,” to claim a fortune just recovered
from Chancery.
Kelly and Leon, with Miss played
at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle,‘in conjunction with
Grattan Riggs.
Miss Annie Mayor’s rendering of Ophelia to
Mr. Fairclough’s Hamlet is highly commended by the
Adelaide Press.
On the manager of the London Haymarket
Theatre increasing the rent of his boxes, the Queen
relinquished hers.
In Europe there are 1,542 theatres. Italy has
318; France, 337; Germany, 191; Spain, 168; Austria,
152 England, 150.
A complimentary benefit is to be given by the
Simms Amateur Society, of Inverell, to the veteran,
Mr. George Simms.
At a florist’s. Says a pretty actress: “I will
take two of these bouquets.” “At what time do you
wish them thrown f”
“Othello” will be played at the Queen’s
Theatre on Friday night, by Mr. Hacket Coulthnrst, a
" real African gentleman."
Sara Bernhardt recently changed her dress nine-
teen times in sixteen hours, during which time she
appeared in three plays.
Bad business at the Bijou (Melb.), and no won-
der. Mrs. Clarke is deservedly a favorite, but the
surroundings are unfavourable.
Hiscocks and Hayman, according to aicoonnts
by the Californian mail, have engaged Robert Hum-
phrey’s party for New Zealand.
Mr. C. Butterfield, who successfully made his
debut as a tenor singer with Madame Camilla Urso, in
New Zealand, has arrived in Sydney,
“Sentenced to Death” has proved fairly suc-
cessful at the Royal, Melbourne. It will be withdrawn
for the presentation of “ Not Guilty.”
A critic died, and when a newspaper said that
everybody regretted him, two pressmen were of opinion
that he couldn’t have been much of a critic.
Another version of “ L’Aftsommoir,” called
“L’EaudeMort” (Water of Death) has been played
by the Marion Willis Combination at Ballarat.
The Bennett Testimonial Committee are working
hard, and have several irons in the fire. Lewis Scott is
hon. secretary and G. A. Hewett working ditto.
In describing a new organ, a rural editor says;
“ The swell died away in a delicious suffocation, like
one singing a sweet song under the bedclothes.”
George Darrell is in Melbourne, pay and festive
l os ever, and talks of a new drama on the stocks George
will in all probability take his farewell at the Royal.
Fairclough opens at the Royal, Melbourne, on
the 28th, for a season of “ legitimate." The company
will be strengthened for the occasion—necessarily so.
Madame Janauschek, who was ruined here by
the had acting of the company who “ supported her
and imperfect management, is coining money m Ger-
many.
The Juvenile Pinafore Company open the
Oneen’s on Saturday, August 21, after this theatre has
undergone its cleaning and altering. Thousands have
already suffered,
t Mr John Drayton, who has a Tasmanian repu-
tation as Captain Corcoran, has received an offer from
1 J. C. Williamson to join his “ Pinafore ’’ Company. »o
| says the Examiner.
An English paper says that J. L. Toole has been
offered the sum of twelve thousand dollars for three
i years’ entire right and control in America of the comedy
‘‘The Upper Crust.
The dramatic cantata of “ Kereward ” is
about to be produced for the first time in Australia
by the Brighton (Melb.) Harmonic Society, under the
couductorship of Mr. Herz.
On his return from Paris, Verdi stopped in Milan
and became the lion of that city. It at once honored
him in many ways, and it now proposes to erectu statute
to him in the Scala Theatre.
The returns of attendance at “ Liddy’s ”
benefit 0re—1,430 paid; tickets representing £B2! 13s.
were sold before the opening of the theatre. I his is
unprecedented in our annals.
It is rumoured that George Darrell intends to
write a drama with a strong musical part for Verdi and
a character for himself, and the two purpose visiting
America with the production.
Edward Clark and Billy Wilson, late of the
Arethusa Company—the last mentioned being one of
the comer men of the Georgia Minstrels—got them-
selves into trouble at Wanganui. Both have been com-
mitted for trial, the one for stealing £3o from a bar till,
the otherfor receiving part of the stolen money.
Mias Horan, an amateur who lias frequently
gi' f.a her services in behalf of charitable objects, has
accepted an offer of engagement from the Lingards.
The company go on a tour to N.Z.
Mr. James E. Kitts, the dead head’s friend, has
taken an hotel (the Barkly Arms) in Fitzrqy, near the
Melbourne Exhibition. Let us hope he will have as
many customers as he has friends.
The name of Miss Jeannie Winston, an old
Australian favorite, is mentioned in an American paper.
She has taken np her permanent abode in the States,
where she has ndw lived for some years.
Sheridan Corbyn, who introduced the Georgias
to Sydney, is running the Death Valley Company
through California. He is brother to poor Harry, who
killed himself lately at the Oxford Hotel here.
The agency for Strauss’s famous band, which
an enterprising citizen of Sydney is bringing out from
Vienna at a cost of £lO,OOO, was offered to Mr. R. S.
Smythe, who, however, would not leave Mr. Proctor.
John Bennett has his first benefit, to recoup
him for his losses, at the Royal, on Saturday afternoon,
August 21, when the London Comedy Company will
play. Mr. Gamer has generously given the use of the
theatre.
Eistori recently played Mary Stuart at the Poli-
teamo Theatre, Rome, for the benefit of a boys’ asylum.
The large theatre was crowded, and when Ristori left it
the Sisto Bridge, over which she passed, was brilliantly
illuminated.
In a late American paper we read that Mrs.
Scott-Siddons is forming a new company. E. O. Savage,
Groce Bennett, Walter Eytinge and wife (Josie Bailey),
Edwin Cleary, L. E. Rand, and Leo Cooper have already
been engaged.
Charles Wheatleigh is to be leading man and
act ing manager of the Agnes Robertsou-Boucicault com-
bination, which will be one of next season’s attractions
in the States. Max Strakosch, the impressario, is the
solid man of the enterprise-
Japanese Tommy has joined Hiscocks and
Dayman's Mammoth Minstrels, and goes to England
with them. He has taken his diamonds and a gold-
mounted walking stick with him, but says it is the first
time In hte life he has travelled second class.
Mr. John Bennett has given the Opera House
for Saturday night to his company, who lost several
articles of costume in the Victoria Theatre fire. John
is first and foremost in every kindly action, A large
house should assist in making np the actors’ losses.
“The Clipper announces the arrival in New
York of Mr. A. Hayman of Hiscocks and Hayman, and
states that as that firm have under their management
many colonial theatres, etc., they are enabled to
hook stars and combinations for a twelve mouths tour.
Signor Majeroni, who has for some time past
suffered from bronchial affections, is recovering quickly.
He is now acting as agent for his talented wife j but,
in a private letter, expresses his intention ot visiting
the colonies (Sydney and Melbourne) and acting in a
different capacity*
Mr. J. J. Wallace has a complimentary fare-
well benefit tendered to him at the Queen’s, on Tuesday
next. August 17. This gentleman is an artist, and has
been extremely ill for some time. We hope the always
generous public will respond to the call. All the avail-
able talent will appear,
A ernes Dookrill, daughter of the famous circus
rider, was shorn of a portion of her splendid tresses in
Fordham, N.Y., on the 10th June. A tramp did it,
having seized her as she was on her way to school. It
is supposed that in the luxuriance of her locks his gnaw-
ing entrails saw a glass or two of whiskey.
We must apologise to the Adonis of the lecture
platform, Mr. W. H. Thompson, for stating last week
that hie panorama dealt with American gore. It is of
the Zulus. Speaking of those /ulus (those who lose),
may Mr. Thompson be among those who win, for we
never met a more open-handed, open-faced man in our
lives.
Barry Sullivan is under engagement to Coppin
and Co., and plays at the Royal during his Melbourne
visit. No dates are yet fixed. Among other attractions j
for this theatre are mentioned a Miss Louise Pomeroy,
the Humpty-Dumpty Troupe of Pantomimists, and a
Variety and Minstrel Troupe-all from America, Good
news for the local ‘‘ pros.”
Mr James Liddy, so well-known in connection
with the theatrical profession years back, has become
landlord of the Melbourne Club Hotel, George-street.
Mr. Jas. Liddy is the elder nrother of the popular
Liddy, business manager of the Queen’s, aud all
theatrical communications sent to this address will
receive prompt attention from “ The Liddy.”
Harry Emmett’s operatic satire, “ Our Village,”
has been produced in Melbourne. Speaking of the
performance the Argus says“ It might be more ap-
propriately called an inscrutable mystery, prize puzzle,
aud insoluble riddle, or an unanswerable enigma.
The satire of the piece is as imperceptible as the story.
The music, by Mr. Cope, saved the piece from failure.
Try again, Harry.
Mr. W. H. Thompson’s new diorama of the
Zulu War, which comprises 8,000 moving figures and a
large number of beautifully-executed paintings illus-
trative of the most stirring scenes connected with the
late war, and painted to his order by those eminent
wielders of the brush, Telvin, Gordon and Harford,
Emden, Hann, and others, will shortly open at the
School of Arts.
It appears that our Adelaide correspondent 8
remarks in last week’s issue anent the non-success or
the Lingards in Adelaide are open to explanation
Proctor was crowding his hall, the Governor was giving
free lectures, Williamson was giving Press sappers, 19
out of 21 nights were wet and stormy—and yet £962 was
taken. As to the pieces being old ones, it may be
pointed out that at least live were quite new- Stolen
Kisses,” “The Banker’s Daughter, Old Bachelors,
“ Prince’s Reception,” and “ I Ladroui.
L. M. Bayless, the husband of the illustrious
Mary Glodstane, has taken the Guild Hall, and pro-
poses to re-name it the Vaudeville Theatre, not the
“New Victoria.” The first entertainment this ener-
getic manager will provide for his patrons will consist
of a new popular operatic burlesque by “ Messrs. Gilbert
and Sullivan,” entitled “ Pinbehind, in which the Lin-
gards (2) are to appear.
Signor Grassi-Landi, a musician in Rome, has
devised a new system in writing music. The thirty-five
names now given to the keys of the scale he reduces to
twelve, each of the twelve names representing a sound
that is always the same. Thus he abolishes flats and
sharps. All the chromatic scales become easier by this
method, and all the major and minor scales are re-
duced to two positions.
Barry Sullivan has announced that he will
commence an engagement in the United States in Sep-
tember, and proceed from California to Melbourne, ana
play during the Exhibition. He will be supported
during his tour by Miss ' Adeline Stanhojie, his
daughter.in-law, who gained considerable fame as his
leading lady in England, Ireland, and Scotland, and is
now playing in California.
“ The New Babylon” was not successful at the
People’s Theatre, Melbourne. It was withdrawn after
a week’s run, and a drama, renamed “ The Outcast,
otherwise “ The Forsaken,” substituted. The change
had not the desired effect, the houses being thin.
Bland Holt concluded on Friday, and Theo Hamilton,
John Hall, and others continue, “Nicholas Nickelby”
being the initial production.
The great event of the day in Melbourne is the
production of the 44 Pinafore ” at the Opera House on
the 7th, with a phenomenal cast, comprising the names
of Rose Hersee. Verdi, Beaumont, Farley, Riccardi, Ac,
The chorus and orchestra are very strong and efficient,
and the opera will be splendidly placed upon the stage.
It will be a notable performance, and the public seem
so to think, for every seat in the circle was engaged
last week.
J. K. Emmet’s wife had to give poor Joe into
safe keeping. Drink had shattered gentle Fritz’s
brain, and when before the Court ho was sustained by
bromide of potassium. Joe begged not to be taken to
the Tombs; but although he could suggest as many
cures as he used to give for colds, total abstinence was
deemed the only one. His residence in the magnificent
mansion he bought in Albany, N.J., will therefore be
postponed.
Another of those peculiar coincidences that some-
times happen, occurred after the Greer tragedy. It
will be remembered that that sensational occurrence
took place at the close of the third act of ** Tb©
Huguenots,” and during the fourth act a repetition in
play followed what had happened in such dread reality,
viz., the shooting of two men and a woman on the
stage, in accordance with the well-known requirements
of the concluding act of the opera in question.
Miss Myra Kemble created a sensation in
Bourke-st., Melbourne, last week, by the performance
of a bright bay horse which had evidently taken too
much oats. All the time she appeared to be in danger
of falling off, but her horsemanship saved her. Joe,
the groom, sat calmly on his horse a few yards in the
rear, apparently wholly indifferent to the result of
what, at first sight, looked like a deliberate attempt to
jib on the part of the animal ridden by the lady.
Here is a hint for any enterprising oirous-pro-
prietorAn Ohio lady fell madly in love with a circus-
rider. On a Saturday night, after the performance, a
minister stepped into the ring, and everybody supposed
that the good man was going to ride the tnck mule;
but not so. The circus-rider and the lady also stepped
into the ring (a new sort of wedding-ring) and were duly
married. The immense crowd applauded, the clown
kissed the bride, and the band played a wedding-
march.
The benefit to Mr. Dodge, at the Opera House,
Monday night, was a financial success. Mr. Dodge's
management in this city has been a marked success all
through. Grattan Biggs’ and Mr. Greville’s seasons
have been an unusually good hit, and much of the tri-
umph of Henri Ketten’s second visit was owing to Mr.
Dodge’s excellent arrangement. It will be interesting
to many to learn that Mr. Dodge goes to Hobart Town
to assume the lesseeship of the Theatre Royal during
the holiday season, during which period several stars
will be presented.
The Jewish Philanthropic Society having been
so often and so liberally assisted by Mr. John Bennett,
the committee personally guaranteed to take £'2s worth
of tickets for the coming benefit matinee, on the 21st
inst., at the Theatre Royal, and the cheque was paid
over in advance by the president, Mr. George Myers, to
the treasurer of the Bennett Testimonial I und, Mr.
John Woods. This was the first step taken towards
showing the citizens’ gratitude towards Mr, Bennett,
who has assisted every charity in the city, and proved
himself a true and earnest citizen.
We read in Tre Clipper that “Willie
Edouin’s 4 Sparks 4 Company will consist of himself and
Alice Atherton, Ida Shapleigh, a beautiful girl and a
remarkably good soprano; a twelve-yeor-old colored
boy, who is said to be a phenomenal singer; I rank W.
Sanger, Jas. Powers, Mr. Edouin’s sister, Julia, who
will make her first appearance in America, and who has
been a favorite soubrette in Australia for several years,
together with a contralto, n comedian, an eccentric
comedian, and a leader of orchestra yet to be engaged.
On Friday evening, at the School of Arts, a
concert will be given by a number of professionals and
amateurs. Miss Carrie Godfrey, late of the Froliques,
and now under engagement to Mr. Simonsen for bis
new Opera Company, will make her re-appearance. A
feature of the evening will be the cornet contest, for
£5O, between H. M’Mahon and W. H. Thompson, in
which the award will be made by a committee, consist-
ing of Signor Giorza, and Messrs. Hector M‘Leau and
W Cook. The competitors will play a test-piece
specially written for the occasion by Mr. Luscombe
Searrell. Mr. Osborne will re-appeax, and Mr. M’Namara
(amateur), the rising baritone, will be among the
vocalists.
When Artemus Ward was amusing overflowing
audiences in Boston, Mass., Maguire, the Californian
manager, wired, 44 What will you take for six consecu-
tive nights in Frisco ?” “Brandy and water, replied
the genial humorist. An Adelaide correspondent tells
us that when a South Australian speculator asked Mr.
Smythe by telegraph. 44 When will Mr. Proctor be in
Adelaide?” the most-travelled manager in the world,
whose head at the time was full of the grand Proctornyi
periods, wired back, 44 In 250 millions of years. The
speculator declined to make an engagement for such a
remote date-whieh was a good thing for the champion
star-gazer, wlio doored cousideroAily more in tlie tiiri"
nacious village than Truthful James would have given
him.
Miss Amy Sherwin gained great kudos at the
Cincinnati Musical Festival. Says the Cincinnati
Enquirer 44 Miss Sherwin promises well as a soprano
singer. She sang the roinanza from 44 William Tell ”
with pathos and precision. Her voice is remarkably
pure aud strong, though it may appear somewhat
strained. She jmts her whole soul into the subject,
i and has overcome quite well the difficulties of transi-
tion from the very low to the very high notes. Her
1 pianissimo is like an angel’s whisper prolonged (!) and
indicates a rare degree of culture. The least run ol
high notes was brought out magnificently, and brought
down the house in a tremendous burst of applause.
Her singing, too, was listened to with breathless inter-
est, generously applauded, and she enjoyed the dis-
tinction of a recall. Her voice is a peculiar one, but
full of melody. She sings with great expression and
soul, and is really dramatic in her style. Her costume
was a ciel-blue gros gruine silk and satin brocade basque
and over-dress combined, elaborately trimmed with the
richest Languedoc lace. She wears her front hair
parted at the side like a boy and frizzed—an odd but
becoming style. Her ornaments were diamonds and
plain gold bracelets. Personally Miss Sherwin is a
charming little lady, easy and unaffected. She was
brought out by an enthusiastic recall.”
INTAGLIOS.
“God Knows!”
in the buryinfir-sTrouiid Duiigeness,
Wheretbe graves of the shipwrecked he,
Through the grass-grown loam, like flecks o. foam
TUown in from the sea, hard by.
Mid the time-worn marbles, with many a trace
Of the wrinkling wind o’erspread,
Tb a tablet white os an upturned face
When the spirit of life hath fled,
With " God knows! ” brokenly carved thereon,
Like a sob that has stiffened along the stone,
hike a sob that is knotted in breast and throat
Long after its voice congeals, . ,
■That mute « God knows ” amid death’s windows
To the reader of tombs appeals.
■Tis a child’s light body thosedaises deck.
The sole one washed ashore
From the emigrant Korthfleet’s ill-starred wrec
And her wave-whelmed human store ;
The only body of all the drowned,
Nameless and nude, that was ever found.
The clergyman paused in the funeral ntes—
« Th e name of the dead ? quoth he,
God knows,” said the clerk of the parish church,
And the waif of the dark, deep sea,
■With only those words on the tombstone gray,
Which so much to the heart express,
Was folded away till the Judgment Day,
’Neath the daises of Duugeness.
And ever at hand, in a cadence deep.
The winds and the waves the requiem keep.
And the mist at morn, and the sun at noon,
And the stars when the day is done.
And the soft moon, too, in the shimmer of dew,
Wheel over the nameless one.
But God, in His infinite goodness knows
What ethereal name and rare
From lips seraphic in music flows
When they call to our waif np there
Gxl knows! In the earth’s maternal breast
Nameless and titled find equal rest.
May, 1880.
D. URNER.
» After that terrible marine disaster, the wreck of
the North9e<ft, there was hut one body washed ashore
■that of an infant —which, nude and mutilated, was
found on the beach at Dungeness.
The Little Abbey of Carennac*
(ON THE DORDOGNE).
From the French of Fenelon.
Here—in God’s house of the open dome—
Vigil is kept by the pilgrim breeze;
Here, from its sun-illumined tome,
Labour intones its litanies. .
For discipline, here is the chastening rain ;
For burden, the fruit of the bending tree;
Tbe thorn of the rose for a pleasant pain;
And palm for a costless victory.
(Hi 1 if my vow but bound to these,
’Twere long ere this laggard step grew slack.
•O that the wilful world would please
To leave me my flocks, my birds, and bees,
Mv ivied stall and my hours of ease,
y And my little Abbey of Carennae!
Par from the city’s guarded gate, .
Free from the crush of its silken crowds,
1 see the sun in his purple state.
And the changing face of the courtier-clouds.
M v thoughts are mine when my task is sped;
M v head aches not, and my heart is full;
And the laurels that cumber my careless tread
Are the only ones that I choose to puli.
Away from my friends, I love them best;
Away from my books, no lore X lack ;
Here—no longer a flying guest.
With wavering foot that hnds no rest—
Truth comes home to this lonely breast
■ In this little Abbey of Carennae.
Thus, half-hid from the smile of Spring
Under the bough of a blossomed tree,
Mv single wish is the grace to sing
The praise of a spot where a bard should be.
Sounding clear as the forest call—
Wbkeoiti§» man in tbe monarcii s breast #
Many-voiced as the waters fall—
Speaking to every sonl’s unrest,
Mv song should seize with a minstrel sway
Yon green twin-isles and their busy toe,
The hamlet white and the convent gray,
And the lodge for the wanderer on his way.
And thus to my Prance in my little lay
Give my little Abbey of Caienuac.
To journey again o’er the hard highway ;
To eater a garrulous, troublous tram;
Uncalled to come, and nnbid obey:
To feign it pleasure, and feel it pain.
To float—a straw on an idle stream ;
To glitter—a mote by the sunbeam sought;
To walk- a shade in a waking dream ;
To strive for nothings where all is nought.
An iron tongue to summon away,
And a rope of sand to bold me back,
Are the call to go, and the will to stay—
( M amorous Duty and still Delay :
0 gilded gloom ! O green and gay
k Of my little Abbey of Carennae !
Fields that teem with the fruits of peace.
Let your reapers reap, and your binders bind
1 <M,nnot flee for a fond caprice •
Yon stony spot to my hand assigned.
To me are numbered tbe seeds that grow;
Kot mine the loss of the perished grain,
If working I watch for the time to sow,
And waiting pray for the sun and rain.
Mv day to God and the King I lend;
The wish of my heart will bring me back
A few last, lightsome hours to spend.
And to pass with my lifelong looked-for friend.
Through a quiet night and a perfect end.
Prom my little Abbey of Carennae.
* The above is a translation of one of Fenelon’s most
charminglpoems. With that great master of the French
language all Englishmen have made acquaintance in the
“ Telemachis ** of their school days. What Goldsmith,
in his 44 Vicar of Wakefield” and 44 Deserted Village,
was to his countrymen, so Fenelon, in compositions
such as that of which a perhaps rat her halting translation
is now given, was to Frenchmen. For purity of sentiment
and delicate beauty of language, Fenelon is unr: vallec* in
any tongue.
THE TROUBADOURS.— (No. 2).


Business C
UNIVERSITY HALL. NI
Mr. SHERIDAN MOORI
pupils for ANY University oxami
by Mr. CRAIG, second-class clas
T. C. D. (1862).
TTNIVERSITY HALL.—ft
vJ gives private Lessons in
matics at this institution.
w
ILLIAM BEDE
Licensed Sub - '
(Surveyor under the Beal
LAND AGEI
14 Bridge-street,
Roberts. Harris,
LICENSED SURVEYOR
ARBITRATORS, ANL
Rescissions and reclamations
Run Maps compiled to latest dat
House ; Chambers, 130, Pitt-stre
JJLACHMANN A 1
ARCHITEC'
267 GEORGE
W.
G.
SYDNEY.
MAC
PORTRAIT PA
225 Bourke-street, Wi
AND S. P
SAW MILLS AND Til
16 Erskine St:
Every description of Foreign
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palingi
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c.,
ESTABLISHEI
JJIOWLER’S P
AND
BRICK WO!
CAMPERDOWN, NE
S 1
M
Price List on appl
GNO R A L. I
Professor of S:
173 VICTORIA
Darlinghurs
ISS ELISE
(Prom Tasmn
TEACHER OP THE PI
173 Victoria-st
J SKINNER AND CO., ;
• BRASSFOUNDERS, P
GASFITTEI
Beer Engines
C WOODFORD
• (From Lone
SANITARY AND PRACTIC
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Corn.
Baths and Water-closets fitted
principle. Galvanized Iron Worl
and Gas fitters.
T F. CRIPPS, PAS"
U * CONFECTION
267 (late 255) Pitt Stj
Balls, Supj>ers, Pio-nics, &c.,
best style.
R
OBERT BUTC
(Late William ]
WINE AND SPIRIT M
538 GEORGE ST
OPPOSITE TOWN HAT
Country Orders Receive P
Tp MASON, LAND AGE
street (near King-st.), g
of LAND for Sale at Waverley
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
HAS. H. D
GENERAL STORE'S
Auctioneers and Comm
JOHN BE
U SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce A
LIVE STOCK AND STJ
Flour, Grain, and Mel
J N. MEIKLEJ OH
• Produce and Commiss;
Market Wharf and A.S.N. C
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Cc
on hand, sold at market rai
guarantee as regards
All orders by post or otherwise i
COMMEECIAL STOEES, S
JOHN MoMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE 3
GENERAL COMMISSK
Special attention given to Consig
Sales promptly rendered. Ii
ami Country Orders executed
C~T. B U I
• HOUSE AND LAND i
359, GEORGE STI
NEAR XING STREE'
PRIVATELY OR BY
PW. CEO WE A CO., S
• AND GENERAL COMM
4 BAEEACK ST
SYDNEY.
N.B.—We have always Orders
Corn, Ac., consigned to ns.
N 0 DELAY
T\T ell s and smith ;
v » tioneers, Commission Af
Salesmen, hold Sales by
BEEF, Mutton, and Pork, at the
Company’s Sheds, Darling Ha
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Dari
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat,
Ac., at Darling Harbour Rail-,
days, Wednesdays, and Frida-
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, C
Ac., at their Saleyords, 699 Ge
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at New
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, i
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Ti
Darling Harbour—every Thui
HEAD OFFICE—639 GEORGE-
PITT, SON, AND
STOCK AND STATIC
SYDNEY.
N.B.—All Fat Stock received ar
Large Store Stock co:
Proceeds and Account Sales pui
STEAM COACH AND W
WOEKS,
Habris-steeet, off Gsi
and
Adjoining the Darling lit
S. G. would beg to draw the p>
Export Merchants to the largo
Spokes alwayh on hand, which
saving in freight to purchasers
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stool
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, Ac., Ac.
S. G. begs also to notify that he
Carts, and has supplied the Govera
Municipalities with a large numbc
Legal
MR. A. GO
SOLICIT
(Also of the Supreme Court
Has commenced practic<
Office —s 3 Eeizabet]
HORTEE & FI
Solicitors
69 CASTLEREAGH STHE
And
Macquarie Street
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOR, has c<
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
Hotels, &o
nnHE COMPAGNO
CAFE AND CATERING O
The ladies' and gentlemen's RESI
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late chef do cuisine
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne
Three honrs notice required for p]
The spacious rooms of Mesar
been greatly enlarged, re-decoi
Every attention will be paid t(
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1330.
/"'IOMPAGNONI PALACE
serve up in their b(
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLI
OYSTERS FRIEI
and
OYSTERS NATUI
Patrons of our Theatres and C<
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposi
HE SYDNEY OOF
398. 395, 397 George
The most POPULAR HOI
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, £
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of .
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-ola
Fare constantly varied. Pish aln
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. Tl
men’s Dining and Retiring Room
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the wee'
nightly. Meals only charged wb
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J.
IJIHE SYDNEY COFFEE
158 Qeorge-street, and 13 N
Circular Quaj
IS NOW OPI
The Promises are Three-Stori
frontages to both George-street an
Quay, with a through depth ol
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 5
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with eonv
tiring room, &c-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Rending Ri
(all leading papers), Parlou
Rooms, ?rc., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an O
Roof, with View of Sydney H
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bs
cook’s Department, Pantries, La
and spacious Shop Accommodatic
a most complete manner, and qui
the demands of thousands of per:
Family and Picnic Parties su
to order «a the shortest notice ar
terms.
J. E O B
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEI
Market-street
Hotels, &!
The best shilling i
(including a Glass of Al
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MER(
AND
LUNCHEON I
bridge-str:
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Join
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets c
the bar in packets of eleve
available for any day.
Table d’hAto on Sundays at
FREE COUNTER
COME AND TASTE THE OLD <
VICTORIA
Having taken the above hotel
alterations and which will be £
fashionable style, I trust that
brands of Wines, Spirits, &0., and
most respectable manner, to met
public.
GEORG
OACH AND HOR
MITTAGON (
Within three minutes of the
Mb. C. SHEATHER, PB
Bnggy always in attendance
Visitors from the metropolis
finding the very best accomodatio
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gui
immediate neighbourhood.
ARLTON CLU
199 Elizabeth-St., ;
H. Oliphant Baton, ]
Healthiest position and most &
Sydney. Private Suites o
Detached BAR; BATHS, £
Hot Coffee, Rum and Milk, Ac.,
d’hdte 1 p.jn. daily.
Id on parle Frai
HIS K Y
BEAD PAMPHLET and PU
ROE’S EIVE-YEAR-0
UNBLENDED WE
Recommended by the
ROBERT PHILLIPS and C
Sole Agents for
THE ISLAY BLEND WHI
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of 1
fast becoming a favourite in ne;
colonies. For purity, strength am
excelled, and the analytical report
“ A very flue spirit with that deli
teristic of the finest Scotch w
thoroughly matured, and can be
most wholesome and pleasant wbi;
Agent for New South Wales and
ASS’S PAL
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRJ
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and B 1
LIVERPOOL,
The undersigned have been A
AGENTSfortho above Celebrated
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN
Bridge Strei


Business Announce!
MADDOCK'S select
381 GEORGE STEE]
SYDNEY.
This Library will be found to contain
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLOG
which are received immediately on p
, and fast ocean steame
Arrangements have been made wit
publishers for full supplies of eyer.i
interest to bo sent as soon ns publishe
In addition to the above will
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUAETERL
Subscribers may join at any date,
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One S
Magazine (exchangeable as often ai
One month, ss. ; Three mouths, 12s,
255. j Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families, —Those sul
a larger supply of bo*ks than one set
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets .
taken from the Library at once for TI
Books or Periodicals may in all cai
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.—Subscript
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors wh
may even join for a Fortnight, and pn
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special
mode for the benefit of Country Subsc
taking a parcel of from Three to Twe
and the Commissioner Tor Railways h
arrange that Exchanges from MADD
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-F<
parcel rates. A card of country ter:
application.
Subjoined will bo found a LIST of
BOOKS now in circulation:
Memories of my Exile, by Louis
A Ride in Petticoats and Slippers
Colville.
Cross Purposes, by Cecilia Findli
Milos Harding, by A. Weber
Edgar Allan Poe : His Life, Lett
by J. H. Ingram
There’s Rue for you, by Arthur I
The Fair Haired Alda, by Floren
London Town, by Marcus Fall
Mervyn O’Connor, by Lord Desa
Signor Molodini’s Neice
Memories of Troubled Times, by
Second Thoughts, by Ehoda Bro
With a Silken Thread, by E. Lyr
The World of Cant
Six Life Studies of Famous Won
Edwards
The Mistress of Coon Hall, by M
The Great Navigators of the Ei
by Jules Verne
Very Geuteel, by the author of “
Journal’’
David Armstrong
George Vanbrugh’s Mistake, by '
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by H
The Duke’s Children, by Anthoi
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jan
Plain English, by John Hollings
Dr. Rigby’s Letters from France,
The Purcell Papers, by J. S. Le
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twai
Moths, by Ouida
Protection and Bad Times, by G
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackin'
Poor Zeth, by author of “ Gran
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie C
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme 3
In Kent with Charles Dickens, 1
Royal Windsor, 4 vols., by W. H
A Seamy Side, by Beaut and Bi
Russia, Before and After the Wi
“ Society in St. Petersburg!!
Life and Writings of Henry 'J
Alfred Henry Huth
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Gran
Her Dignity and Grace
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
HADDOCK’S SELECT :
381 George Street Sy
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
INTER <
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes. Regula
TENNIS BALLS, Regulation Size c
sewn.
RACKET BATS, all prices.
FRISQUETTE, or LADIES’ CRIC
All of Jeffries’ and Mailings’
GILBERT’S MATCH FOOT BAL
OUOITS, all sizes made to colonial
BOXING GLOVES, INDIAN CLP
Tininrmr O Tallin ITnn/1 rm/1
Business Annonnc
BOON TO THE SYD
Mr. P. HURST, having been
boot factories on the Continent, is i
to import ami sell the best makes
figure than any other house iu Sydip
French calf, hand-sewn, warrantee
high-leg satin boots, 6s. Od. Cellar
the style.
P. HURST,
494 Goorpo-atroe
II
OMES FOR THI
It is difficult to understand why
continue to pay rent, when for a sms
amount now going to the landlord,
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEI
for their own profit and that of
them.
The undersigned offers a choi
hundreds of well-situi
VALUABLE BUILDING AL
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the subur
V j£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMI
Giving Immediate Po
and trill SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., t
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLI
For those having no present ini
an undeniable opportunity of imi
denced by the fact of the astound:
main during the past sisc years, a.
that the present chance can ever rec
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKI
There are no law Icoets, no com
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDI;
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton I
Agency Office* Bcfl/ttie-sfcrect* Bui
Hotel.
A TE S T I N V
NEEDLE'S PATENT GAS A!
For lighting Dwellings, Churches,
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities,
For particulars sec Catalogues,
SMITH AND HAMILTON, solo A
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BER r
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON, Poi
Importers of all kinds of iron, le
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chai
soda fountains and machinery used :
of soda water and other terated hew
and bottling machines, map sheet:
Ac., Ac.
FIRST PRIZE (International
water Machinery, iErated Wine and
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stan
SMITH AND HAM!
43 GLOBE BUI
SUSSEX STREET N(
B. MOD
GUNMAKER AND C
602 George Street, Sti
Awarded 2 special prizes for cole
Cutlery. Importer of every (
Firearms, Cutlery,
Every description of Firearms re]
stocked on the shortest notice. (
made to order on the premises.
■jp STIEFYATER,
Easiness Annoanc
p R I N'T
Of Every Descripti
AT REDUCED
Executed with. Despa
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13
(Late Poster and Pni
Also,
PUBLISHING OPFICE of “ TB
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING COS
AND
NOTED BEIDE CAKE EST
420 (late 440) GEOEGE !
Sydney,
J.
Wedding Cakes always on hand,
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by <
Country and Shipping orders pron
SLAT T E E Y
Wholesale and Eet
GROCE
705 GEOEGE STEEET
SYDNEY.
P. M A II O
AGENT, El
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL
jp E, LAI
Wholesale and Eel
PRODUCE ME R (
Corner
GEOEGE AND GIBBS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOKE
48 George-street West (late Parra
Darlinghurst Eoad, near William
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and S
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
PEINCE OP WALES
778 GEOEGE STEEET
SYDNEY.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually
OPFICE OEDEES payable at Hayi
L A
O
JgJ X ZE A
Fifteen Cases
f A. 1
N. Co.,
• S.
Consisting of
NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOT!
Puzzles, Articles of useful
Books, &c., Ac.
AMERICAN NOVEL'
Show-Eooms :
408 GEOEGE STE]
(Opposite Australian Joint 1
Business Annonn
INTERN ATION AL PXHI
SWALLOW and AEIELL we
Vr A~ P B for their celebrated Biscu
2SS W. H. AEIELL, 343.* 3
jSrth King-st.
tvteenational ;exiiibii
rENCEAFT and Co. were award
r their superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. H. ABIELL, Kent
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’'
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYEI
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bseach, and
and cwt. each. Sole agent, >
and 345, Kent-street.
A M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Po
ond’ assorted Jams. Special age
243 and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors no
P
ALING’S music \
asggaaagggSßss
BEARD’S PARIS PIA
have gained t]
TWO FIRST P;
in
THE FRENCH 1
Agent : W. H. Pi
PLEYEL’S CELEBRAT
Non-competiti
BUT UNSURPA
Agent: W. H. Pj
W. BELL and CO.’S CANA
have gained tl
FIRST and SPECIAL
OVER ALL OTI
Solo Agent: W. H.
PALING AND C
♦ RENOWNED PIAN
have
GAINED ANOTHE
for the
FOURTH TL
at
THE INTERNATIONAL
W. H. PALI
352 GEORGE-SI
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET,
EAmejpK


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIV.— (Continued).
“ If I had known, perhaps I might have written
rather more carefully considered epistles to my
mother,” he said, and felt that it was, and soun-
ded, a lame reply.
“ That would have been a pity, for the sake of
a person you had never seen and did not know,”
she said, the smile fading from her face.
Sebastian felt that he had made a bad begin-
ning. It began to bo rather dreadful, when she
went on quite seriously.
“ Do yon mean that if you had thought your
letters were read aloud you would have made them
into set compositions to please an audience?”
“ I think it is a matter of no importance what-
ever. tetter-writing is not my forte. lam too
lazy.”
‘‘Oh, they were very interesting letters,” said
Helena, naively. “ But how can you talk about
being lazy! If only I had had such chances !”
She shook her head.
“ I should think you had the chance of doing
whatever you pleased,” he said, smiling.
Helena did not respond to the smile. Her face,
intensely expressive, darkened visibly. Her eyes
sank.
“No,” said she, coldly. “You are quite mis-
taken. Whatever pleasures and enjoyments I
have had in my life have been procured for me by
the kindness of Mrs. Mallory. She has been so
good to me !” She looked at him with eyes tragic
in the earnestness of their expression.
Sebastian, glancing down the table, saw that
Hugo’s eyes were fixed upon her in a perfect
trance of admiration.
“Then you have never been abroadP” said he.
“ I—no! I have been nowhere except to Lon-
don once or twice—oh, and to Brighton with Mrs.
Mallory I don’t want to go anywhere.”
“You are such a homobird ?’’
He saw immediately that he had asked a very
unfortunate question The blood rushed over her
face as she replied, again coldly:
“Ohno ! I think all that stuff about * home,
sweet home,’ and that, is the most wearisome non
sense imaginable. I hate it.
5 Jj I Did you study the
position of women at all, when
you were abroad ?”
Sebastian looked at her.
She was perfectly grave, ser-
ious and judicial. The
“ Woman Question ” had not
been forced so far to the front
in 1861 as in 1878, and Sebas-
tian was proportionately sur-
prised to hear that question
from so young, rich, and beau-
tiful a woman as Helena Spen-
cely.
“ I’tn afraid I was rather re-
miss in that respect. But one
sees their position without
studying it, I think.
“ And what do you think
about it ? Is it what ought
to be? But that is a foolish
question. It is not what it
ought to be, anywhere. It will
never be what it ought to be,
until women themselves rise
and refuse any longer to sub-
mit to their own degradation.
Don’t you think so ?”
“Really I am afraid I have
not thought much at all upon
the question.”
“ I suppose the idea has not
yet penetrated to Prance and
Germany. It will have to
come, though, sooner or later.
The German woman, for in-
stance—is she in bonds, or
emancipated?”
“As how?”
“ Is the German woman the
slave of the German man, or
has she a position of her
own ?”
A malign spirit took posses-
sion of Sebastian. Mrs. Mal-
lory and Hugo were both lis-
tening to the discussion, Mrs.
Mallory with a shade of anxiety
on her face. Sebastian, after
a pause,as if he were profoundly
considering the question, said s
“ I should say that she combined both these con-
ditions —that she was very decidedly the slave of
the German man, and at the same time had a dis-
tinct position of her own.”
“ Really. I wish I bad brought my note-book
Pray explain!”
“ The German woman’s thoughts are, if I may
use such an expression, directed manwards, Mcmn
being, you know, her word for husband. Her j
thoughts, then, are directed Mann-wards from her
earliest youth- -from the time when she begins to
go to school . .
“ Horrible!” said Helena, her eyes fixed in
grave earnest upon his face, so that his gravity
was sorely tried. “Horrible! Well?”
“ I don’t know how much or how little true the
report may be about her beginning in early youth
to prepare her trousseau.”
“ Disgusting!”
“ But she hears all around and all her life long
conversations on the subject of matrimony.
“ The end and aim of her existence, poor thing !’
said Helena, with a pitying smile, “Goon! You
have studied the subject almost unconsciously as
every thinking man must.”
“If she reaches the age of one-and-twenty, un-
married, she begins to wonder what the reason can
be of such a thing, and her friends, too, begin to
speculase about it. . . .”
“Naturally!” said Helena, her eyes flashing
and her colour rising, while Hugo looked preter-
naturally solemn, except for a gleam in the depths
of his eyes, and Mrs. Mallory’s face wore a puzzled
expression. “ Naturally—she is sold, disposed of
before her reasoning powers are developed. It is
very deplorable. Well?”
“ But very generally she is married at or before
thp,t age, and then ”
“ And then?” echoed Helena, waving away the
butler’s offer of wine, and leaning eagerly towards
Sebastian. “And then—what is her fife after-
wards, Mr. Mallory? Tell me that!”
“A long course of bondage, to husband, chil-
dren, domestic affairs, and social exactions.”
“ Hideous !” murmured Helena. “ What a sad
sad fate! Did you not burn with indignation
every time you witnessed it?”
“I—I—”
“ Ah! you did I know, or you could not have
described it so graphically. And now you will
consider the subject, I don’t doubt, and see it in
its proper light. But you said the German women
had a distinct position of their own. How do you
account for that ?”
“They have. The very fact of their bondage
gives them a distinguishing rank. They have
been accustomed to it for so long a time that now
they glory in it. If you were to attempt to inspire
them with your enlightened notions, they would
probably scoff at you ; you would appear as dark
to them as they to you.”
Helena looked at him with such intense earnest-
ness and expressiveness, that Sebastian began to
feel somewhat embarrassed.
“ What an odd girl she is !” he thought, “ And
how, in Heaven’s name, shall I get out of this
mess that I have got into ? I can’t let her go
wi L hont offering some explanation.”
lon grieve me, said Helena, in a sorrowful
voice. I had no idea it was so bad as that.”
Here Mallory rose, in dignified though perplexed
silence, and they all went into the drawing-
room.
Arrived there, Sebastian as in duty bound,
asked Helena to play.
I don t play at all,” said she. “ I can’t waste
my time upon practising.”
TVnste your time upon music P” he asked,
wondering whether that were one of the strong-
minded female ideas too.
I have not the power of interpreting music ; it
would be vanity and vexation. So I never try. I
can just accompany myself in one or two little
songs ; that is all.”
“ Then you Will gratify us by singing one of the
said little songs, I am sure.”
Helena went to the piano, and began to play an
introduction. Sebastian looked at Hugo, with
ever so slight a shrug, and they waited. It was
* Kathleen Mavourneen.’ But the faces of the
two critics changed gradually from an expression
of painfui doubt and suspense, to pleased surprise,
pleasure, and a broad smile of delight. A pure]
strong, fresh, sweet soprano voice rang out. There
was no attempt at airs and graces; the severest
simplicity and the most unaffected tenderness
sounded in every one of the true clear notes.
Mrs. Mallory watched her son covertly, but in-
tently, and saw that Helena’s music had power to
move him. The languor disappeared from his
expression ; his head was raised, and his lips
parted. Song and songstress engrossed his atten-
tion.
Mrs. Mallory’s countenance gradually cleared.
As Helena finished, both Hugo, and Sebastian i
sprang forward, with thanks and entreaties for
something else.
She paused a moment and then sang :
“ Since first I saw your face, I resolved
To honour and renown ye ;
If now I be disdained, I wish
My heart had never known ye!
” What! I that loved, and you that liked
Shall we begin to wrangle ?
No, no, no, my heart is fast,
* And cannot disentangle.
“ The sun, whose beams most glorious are,
Kejecteth ho beholder;
And your sweet beauty, past compare,
Makes my poor eyes the bolder.
“ Where beauty moves, and wit deMghts,
And ties of kindness bind me.
There, oh! there, where’er I go,
I leave my heart behind me.”
It is a sweet, tender, quaint old song, and Helena
sang it almost perfectly. She rose when she had
finished, and, looking at Hugo, asked him if he
did not play.
“Yes,” said the boy, flushing ; “ but after your
voice ”
“ Don’t refuse, Hugo,’* put in Sebastian.
And Hugo seated himself and began to play
German music—deep, strange, and expressive, con
amove.
“But he is a musician—he must be!” said
Heledh, turning with wide open eyes, to Sebas-
tian.
Most certainly he is. I believe he has it in
him to make a great name as a composer.”
“ How delightful to have a talent, a genius, that
gives pleasure to yourself and everyone else! Is
very great friend of yours ?”
“ Yes : he is my ward. I have been his guardian
now for four years.”
Ah ! if he can compose, he has a life before him
—a career!” sighed Helena ; and her eyes looked
dreamingly and longingly before her.
Sebastian felt strangely attracted to the girl,
but as yet he felt he knew her too little to know
whether he should even like her. The explanation
he had to make would serve to bring out some
fresh point in her character.
Mrs. Mallory was knitting fleecy-white wool by
the fireside, and seemed able to give op Helena’s
society on this occasion. Hugo’s fingers wandered
on in one melody after another —melodies like those
which Adrienne Blisset’s fingers most readily
wove.
Helena herself gave Sebastian the opportunity
he wished for.
About the German women and their position ?”
she began.
He laughed a little.
“I had no idea you were so much in earnest,”
said he. It was a joke.”
“ A joke!”
She turned to him in amaze.
In this way. What I said was quite true—
that is the position of the German women ; but—
but—l thought you would see it—isn’t it the posi-
tion of all civilized women? Are not English-
women in the same case ? lam sure I think so. I
don’t see how any woman who marries can expect
anything else.”
The colour rushed in an angry flood over her
cheek, and brow, and throat, as she realised tha't
he had been politely making merriment of the sub-
ject, and that the very point of the joke lay in her
having taken it all as solemn, thoughtful earnest.
“ You were making fun of me and of the cause :
that was very polite of you!” she said, her eyes
flashing upon him in anger.
“I am very sorry,” he said, with a provoking
smile. I was only describing the position of
women in general in a picturesque manner. It
depends upon the feelings of the speaker as to the
colouring he gives to his descriptions.”
“ I see,” said Helena, “you are just like any
other selfish, unthinking man—not in earnest.
But lam ! I think that cause is worthy the devo-
tion of a woman’s life; and it is what I intend
to devote my life to.”
“ Don’t !” said Sebastian.
But Helena had been roused to real anger.
“ Compliments and pretty phrases are all we get
from men on that subject. All my life I have been
sure it was women alone who must work their own
emancipation; and after what you hare said to- I
night, lam doubly sure of it. Oh ! it is horrible j
to think that a woman is not even allowed to have
a serious thought upon her own condition; or if
she says she has to a man, he laughs at her!
There is one consolation—the laugh dishonours
him, not her.”
“ But, my dear Miss Spenceley, do let me ex-
plain. Do you think you really have had any
experience in such things ? Many many moat
accomplished women think quite differently; the
nicest girl I ever knew—l mean tlie cleverest and
; best-informed young lady I ever knew—thought
| very differently.”
i ‘ Perhaps that was one reason why you thought
j her so nice. lam sure she had not been brought
I up in the school of adversity and experience.”
| “ Pardon me ; she had been brought up in that
school alone, and in no other. I fancy she had at-
tended more of its classes than you.”
“ I don’t see how yon can know what school I
have attended,” said Helena, the same sudden,
cold, sharp look coming into her eyes and over her
i face. “ And Ido not think much of any woman
j who is indifferent upon that subject.”
I “I did not say she was indifferent,” said Sebas-
j tian; and Helena, looking at him, saw that he
! was, in imagination, in some very different place
i from his mother’s drawing.room; perhaps think-
ing of “ the nicest girl I ever knew. ”
‘ Don’t you think,” said he, breaking the angry
silence which on her part had supervened, “ that
the best way of securing your ends would be for
| men and women to work together,and ”
“ I don’t believe in men’s help in that matter.
| They are too thoroughly and naturally selfish
i ever to giv*real help in such a cause.”
“ Without help you can do nothing,” he said
i composedly.
“ Can we not?” she replied setting her lips.
“ I don’t think that any number of women agita-
ting, and making speeches will answer the purpose.
The sort of help I meant is such as would be given
by, for instance, husband and wife practically
showing how much they had the subject at heart,
by working together and giving in their lives a
specimen of their doctrines. It is not a question
that will ever be settled by public meetings and
petitions. _ It must grow and evolve, as other
social conditions evolve—gradually!”
“ Husband and wife!” said Helena, with a
sneer —a sneer so bitter and unmistakable as to
startle him. “ That is a relation I have put en-
tirely out of my calculations in this matter. I
don’t believe in the existence of husbands who will
give up and help their wives. I have been able to
study the subject remarkably well , . .”
(“Mr. Spenceleysits upon Mrs. Spenceley, and
the redoubtable Frederick sits upon them all,” ;
thought Sebastian.)
“ And the women who wish to improve their ;
condition must put all such foolish ideas aside, and
feel, as I do, that they can never be tempted inf
accepting any such delusory fancies.” co-
“ You feel that?” he said.
Yes, I do —to the bottom of my heart.”
Helena spoke with emphasis ; her eyes flash
her cheeks flushing, She was very handsome •SF
was more, splendidly beautiful ; “ but how’,,
<‘ r u Qod : k° W unreasonable,” thought Sebastian
How different this beat and prejudice from th
calm, well-balanced judgment, the clear philo**
sophical mind, of that other girl, scarcely older
than herself. This raging against the weakness
and selfishness of men was very short- sighted
and rather vulgar was it not ?” All he said how
ever was :
“I am glad you feel so independent. It moat
give you a sense of superiority.”
[to be continued.]
The Approaching Wool Season.
The well-known firm of Maiden, Hill and Clark
! may be mentioned as another firm in this cfty
who
I have been actively preparing to meet the expected
; morease in the business of the approaching wool
season. This firm has been established but six
: years, and in that period by their activity and
i competent acquaintance with the various branches
of the business, they have built up a connection
extending throughout this and the adjoining
colony of Queensland. Last year the firm took an-
active part in the 'discussion as to the advantages
of Sydney over Melbourne with respect to the
wool trade, and this year they have prominently
joined in the general activity to meet the increased
trade arising from better seasons and increased,
railway accommodation ; and contribute, by their
extensive arrangements for storage and sale of the
clip, to make Sydney the great centre of the wool
trade of the Australias. The rapid manner in
which the clip is now brought forward by rail re-
quires exteusive storage accommodation for the-
three or four months during which the great bulk
of the wool comes, and Messrs. Maiden, Hill and
Clark have been careful to secure ample storage
room for the receipt of wool destined for sale or
shipment. The extensive stores shown here-
with, which are admirably ventilated and
well lighted, give a storage accommodation
for about 5000 bales. They are situated on the
Circular Quay, within a few feet of the wharves
where the ocean steamers aud wool ships are
berthed. Here the wool for
sale in the local market is
stored and displayed, and the.
light being splendid all through
the sampling is most effectual.
Besides these extensive stores
the firm have secured addi-
tional storage room on the
Circular Quay for the reception
of wool intended for direct
shipment to England. These-
stores adjoin Talbot’s wool
pressing establishment.and the
wool can bo shipped there and
passed through into the ship’s,
hold much more expeditiously
tlian hitherto. The firm have
made evpry arrangement for
the prompt reception of wool
at all the railway stations, and
in respect of securinga healthy
competition at the sales have
left nothing undone to make
the Sydney market the boat in
every respect for the wool
grower of this colony and cf
Queensland. The firm have
been established, as pre-
viously stated but six years,
and in that period of time a
collosal business has been buil
up —a success whioh, considerj
ing the short space of time, is
perhaps unrivalled by that of
any other firm in the colonies.
The business is every day being
further extended. As an indi-
cation of the present amount of
trade it may be mentioned that
the firm do one of the largest
live stock businesses as well aa
an extensive wool business.
The trade amounts to about
180,000 sheep and from 12,0C0
to 15,000 -live cattle. Last
year’s hide sales amounted to
upwards of 100,000. In another
column the firm give further
particulars of the general ar;
rangements made for the woo
season, which will doubtless be
read with interest.
BANANA LAND.
(FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
John Serjeant Turner is the most ‘ ‘ smiling man ’ ’
in Brisbane.
John Cameron continues to walk Queen-street
as if he had " a call.”
Heaton is now part owner of a newspaper. He
duly announced the fact.
Freddy Taylor still says “the country is going
to ruin.” Yet he wears well.
The height of ambition of the Bailey, M.L.A., is
to be the tallest man in Parliament. Tyrrell differs.
“ Arthur Sketchley ” and John Plummer have
accepted temporary engagements on Queensland Punch.
Somebody wants to know of Miles, how many
shareholders there are in the Pastoral Butchering Com-
pany.
The learned pig was the most profitable show in
Brisbane during the Exhibition week, Eeceipts one day
over ilk).
It is a toss-up as to whether there are most
clergyman or doctors in Brisbane. Yet undertakers re-
port business slack.
Miles and Griffiths against M'lllwraith and
Palmer is the latest “four" at whist. The latter hav-
ing Beor and Cooper looking are bound to pull through.
Kellett M.L. A. and Master of the Horse, to the
Acting-Governor at the settling over the Itockhampton
races, said that “there was not a sportsman iu
Brisbane.” His cheque was bigger at the Eockhamptou-
than at the Brisbane meeting.
Brisbane, your days are numbered! Perkins
the Minister for Lands said in the Assembly—“ His ex-
perience ever since he had come to Australia was that
there could not be a greater hot-bed of slander and false-
hood and false reports or greater assassins of character
than in the City of Brisbane.”
At the half-yearly mooting of the Queensland
Insurance Company, as we predicted, the family party
won hands down at the election of Directors. The 5
chairman read a protest against his own starting, but
he accompanied it with a bland smile, aud then made-
all the running. Jonny Cameron was nowhere.
MESSRS. MAIDEN, HILL, AND CLARK’S WOOL STORES, CIRCULAR QUAY.


BRIEF MENTION.
Abdurrahman Khant, it seems.
jlrs. Spencer has re-commenced business.
G H. Reid Dr.Mackellar for East Sydney,
pavid says that “ Berry” has thorns after all.
«rpjjg Man with the Iron Mask” was Ned Kelly.
Judges are but men —and some are mendacious.
Barton and Brown are morally safe for New-
toPeople of the “upper crust” are generally very
light.
They say that certain ladies chatter in the
of Burwood. — Dancing school right op-
posite a church.
M. Soudry says that “ ze Exhibition has too
soon commenced.”
The Bookwood Anthem Choristers have dis-
continued practice.
Major D on modern banking—“ Keep your
reserve well in hand.”
Favourite study of solicitors’ clerks —“Walker
on Whisky Bottles.”
George E. Dibbs doesn’t grind his teeth: he
simply turns his ivory.
A fact. They couldn’t get labour at Cooktown
for a wharf job recently.
Hanley Bennett has received an abject apology
from the Evening Lyre.
Salvation is free for all. The plate is handed
round for incidental expenses.
People would much like to see Lotti Wilmot in the
Assembly on the Malthusian ticket.
Of the sun’s interesting family of planets, Venus
is said to be Mr. Proctor’s favourite.
In asking a friend to drink on Sunday, always
sa y, “Let’s get the landlord into trouble.”
The clergy don’t want to convert John Bennett
so quickly now he has lost lots of his money.
Any man can travel to Parramatta by rail and
■exhibit his railway ticket an hour afterwards.
Oyster shops have declared war against the
Sydney correspondent of the Jewish Herald. •
To go to sleep, pass your station, and then
swear the guard never called the name, is mean.
Sir Henry isn’t dead. The Tell-a-cram says
it learnt that fact from Cootamundra! Ye gods !
In an eastern suburb the letter-carrier is so like
the local minister that awkward mistakes occur.
Memo for holy-looking young men —“ The affec-
tation of sanctity is a blotch on the face of piety.”
The “ roast pork ” faction are bringing out
Charley Byrnes against Hugh Taylor, for Parramatta.
Temora is now quite civilised. It has already a
place of business at which are sold “toilet requisites.”
A certain Castlereagh-street barber says that
the longest-eared men want their hair cut the shortest.
The prettiest woman in Cooktown is kept under
look and key by her spouse. Ho is frightened of losing
her.
In a township just started up north the blacks
speared a man to create the necessity for a
ground. -
Thomas Bell was the other day fined 10s. for
using indecent language. To fine a bell for using its
tongue I
The result of paid sittings in churches—Usually
a niggardly offertory. CBurch of England, Ashileld, for
instance.
There are more majors now in the Brisbane
Volunteers than there are captains. Spurs have risen
in pricq.
Judge Windeyer told a jury in effect that they
must not give a - verdict against the Minister for Works,
but they did.
There’s only one hen left in Stephen Court, but
barrister B. insists on its cremation. Its cackle inter-
feres with his.
They are so hard up m New Zealand that bar-
risters’ wig-boxes are [now used in some of the courts
as ballot-boxes.
The Civil Service holds at least one treasure.
Fancy, a wit, bard, poet, punster, and philosopher—all
rolled into one!
The miners irreverently term De Boos-street,
Temora, “Booze-street," to the great disgust of the
godfather thereof.
It is a good thing for the readers of popular
Action that “ L’Assommoir" and “Nauon,’ ore not
rendered into English.
A certain gentleman in fancy dress pour tray ed
“ The Fool ”at the M.B.C. ball. Private dress would
have suited just as well.
On every day on which the head office of the
A.M.P. Society is open to the public no less than £5OO
is gained by the members.
It is said there are now 200,000 Christians in
€hina. If they are real Christians, China compares
favorably with this country.
What fun there is for a few minutes when a
husband goes home at midnight and tells his wife that
he has been to see “ Betsy.”
A Pitt-street paper is negociating with Gustave
Dor£ to do some cartoons for it at so much per inch.
We haven’t heard how much.
Mackay is lugubrious. The Government have
refused to let it have volunteers. In revenge the people
have started an extra newspaper.
The “boss” puzzle at present, with Customs
and shipping clerks, is to get their entries passed
in anything less than three hours.
They never say in Cooktown, or in any place
near that latitude, “Are you going to shout? They
mildly observe, “ Did you speak ?”
A vendor of Freethought publications has been
forced to leave orthodox buildings in Market-street.
Result—greater sale in Pitt-street.
Townsville has no theatre. It has a hot climate
and a number of public-houses, but fire churches keep
the wickedness of the people in check.
Lewis Scott calls Proctor “ the star that runs the
sun,” and says that his secretary, K. S. Smythe, be-
longs to the r-s-tocratic order of things.
A Haymarket stump "orator, the other night,
described the Chinese immigration to New South Wales
as “a seething disruption of Mongolity."
In a sub-leader in Saturday’s Herald, the
writer remarks that “ a corporation can’t he kicked.
■Oh, can’t it P Ask some of the aldermen.
Mr. Dailey says he can’t see any fun in bicycling.
The idea of wheeling one’s self at the expense of one s
own legs is too painfully suggestive of work.
Educate your boy to be a bailiff. There are no
fewer than seven Victorian M.P.’s who started life in
that capacity. One of them is now a p.M.G.
It’s asserted, but we don’t believe it, that Mr.
Watson, in view of the approaching election, is en-
deavouring to secure the favour of the Young ladies.
Ashfield Church. —Kerosene lamps, no kneeling-
hoards, gorgeous interior adommeut. The animate aud
inanimate “ pillars of the church ” are well matched,
George Darrell is in the habit of going about
with a roll of manuscript protruding from his pocket.
Only he’s so welikpown, he’d have his pocket picked.
It seems strange that inebriates in evening dress
should choose the dress circle of a theatre to exhibit
themselves. Yet the Koyal was so chosen the other
night.
A lady writes again on the testimonial-to-curate
nuisance. She says so much money goes in this direc-
tion that the flocks of some pastors are considerably
horn.
Pitt-street insurance clerk did the block—the
asphalt block —on his bicycle last Friday. Quite a
sensation, 'specially when he came to grief against a
policeman.
The Brisbane public wants to know from the
directors of the A.S.N. Co. why the fare between Syd-
ney and Brisbane is double that between Sydney and
Melbourne ?
For Dr. Wazir Beg: Said an economical man
on his death-bed, “I have never smoked in my life;
but where, oh, where is the money I have saved on
my cigars ? ”
A correspondent asks what price per gallon
members of the (Victorian) Marine Board paid for the
sample kegs of Port Macquarie wine kindly forwarded
by E ?
‘The following gross libel on Sir Henry Parkes
was picked up the other day near Wagga:
« Crime and the Premier run close in parallels—
One sells the people, t’other peoples cells.
When the committee of the School of Arts wish
to increase their revenue, they get someone_ to call a
meeting to consider the opening of the readiug-ioom
“n Sundays Then the Y.M.C.A. puts on a lot of sub-
scribers.
Government is about to spend .£6,000 in erecting
additions to the Catholic Orphan School, Parramatta,
wMe twice\he mnount would build a edifice
and give the children recreation grounds. Penny
wise, etc.
A cleric, in Davy’s electorate, proposed leaving
his curffor another* and the usual purse of sovereigns
was presented, accompanied by an address repute with
expressions of sincere and agon^S s but the
tnre The purse was accepted with thanics, our wie
reverend gentlemen, to the horror and surprise of his
flock, declared that he wouldn’t cause them the sorro
their address depicted, but would remain.
The fifteen puzzle in Brisbane commercial
circles is endeavouring to find out the rate of freight
for salt between Sydney by the A. S. N. Co.’s boats.
Solution: Ask Jemmy Ewan “ who sold that last parcel
at Cooktown ?”
It has been held that naming a mean-looking
dog after a respectable citizen is a slander and a libel
on the man. Yet there is a Melbourne fellow who calls
his weedy kangaroo-dog “ Graham Berry " and a spotted
mongrel “Major Smith,” because, like the Majaw, it’s
no good politically.
Under the heading of “ Deaths ” a certain viva-
cious vespemal (in which is incorporated the Empire)
has the following:—“Watts.—August 2, at her resi-
dence, George-street, Waterloo, the wife of William
Watts, cab proprietor, of a daughter.” We wonder
whether William will get his shilling back!
Mr. James Byrnes gave .£5 to the Parramatta
Cricket Club. His son stands next election. Is this
startling’generosity affected by the bribery clause of
the new Act ?
A well-known Pitt-street merchant recently
•presented a family Bible to the Congregational Church,
Manly Beach. Changes were imminent, and one has
just been effected.
Dr. Wazir Beg claims that tobacco injures the
eyesight. That is all well enough in theory, but if you
have an extra cigar about your person a smoker is pretty
sure to discover it.
“ Dawes’ Point” was the favourite rendezvous
with the belles of St. Vincent’s Ball, as it enabled each
when making “ engagements” to archly say to any lag-
gard lover, “ Come to the Point.”
The current issue of the Melbouene Punch
represents Archbishop Goold ns “ Ruler No. III.” and
Sir John O’Slmnassyin the act of proclaiming that The
King is dead!” The “ dead rulers ” are the Age and
Ned Kelly.
This is how to do it. Have a season ticket for
Petersham ; get in; arrive at Parramatta, no one asks
for ticket. Next day, get in at Parramatta; arrive in
Sydney, let porter glance at season ticket. That s how
railways pay.
Another Queensland swindle is rumoured. A
stone-cutting company in England has completed (?) a
contract for iron bridges, but the pieces don t fit. Can
the inspecting engineer have passed them without due
consideration ?
A man stopped a Sandridge (Vic.) constable
and asked him in the most innocent manner in the
world whether the watchhouse was the Railway pier
or the Graving dock. He was told to move, but insisted
on being informed why it had a door like a gridiron!
He was shown the interior, which cost him ss. some
people cannot restrain their curiosity. .
Ned Kelly thinks he’s not going to be hanged,
and doesn’t want to depart this life at present. But if
they’d only allow all the Melbourne reporters to spend
a night with him in his cell, he’d be quite ready to die
in the morning.
At an amateur performance, the other night,
a well-known Thespian in this city astonished the
audience by exclaiming, at the place where he should
have threatened to “precipitate” himself out of a
carriage window, Let me out, or I will participate
myself out of the window.’*
There was a rush in the Customs’ long room on
Monday week, and the entries were not received after 20
minutes to 3. How much longer is the public going to
stand this sort of thing P Surely the very limited time
(9 to 3 o’clock) allowed for transacting public business
should not be curtailed in this manner.
A Sydney barmaid recently went to Townsville
under engagement, and has within one month five
offers of marriage and two hints at elopement. She
remains invincible —says she’ll marry no one socially
lower than an editor.
Hamilton, the Queensland Government whip,
got the straight tip (of a lead pencil) the other night.
Ho tried to sit in Griffiths’ seat during a division, but
a projecting HHH, fixed point up, made him spring
quickly to a point of order.
A younp barrister told David that he purposed
attending the Criminal Court sittings daily to learn the
practice of tlie court. Whereupon the eminent counsel
said, “ There is really nothing in it. You will pick it
all up in a week. I did in less.”
In reference to a paragraph in our last, we now
hear that Sir Alfred Stephen didn’t excuse himself from
attending the Civil Service Building Society meeting
on the ground that he was about to leave town, but
simply on the score of a previous engagement.
The new Victorian Premier. Says the Age of
Monday week: —“ Mr. Castieau, of the gaol, expecting
that Ned Kelly would be sent/or, had everything prepared
for his departure." Could it have been that but
no, of course not—(remarks Melbonrne Punch).
We can guarantee that the individual members
of the audience present at a schoolroom singing-bee
some few evenings since will remember to their dying
hour the vocalist who so un-jlynn-chingly warbled the
pathetic objurgation, “ Then you’ll remember me.”
A writer, who had a broken nose, appeared at
one of the Melbourne suburban courts last week. He
stated that the accident was caused by his wife dream-
ing that she saw him kissing another woman. Full of
the Opera House tragedy, she struck him in her sleep.
Residents on the railway line can all run 100
yards in 10 seconds. Anyone doubting this may con-
vince himself by attending the Redfern railway station,
and watching the rush for the solitary omnibus. It
has been suggested that ladies should be allowed a
start.
A J.P. in giving the judgment of the court in
two assault cases, heard hot a great way from Mel-
bourne, thus expressed himself: “We find that he
throwed water over she, and she throwed water over
he, and we dismisses the cases, and we gives no costs to
nobody.”
A fact. A North Shore lady relates that a
smartly-dressed female rang the front door bell the
other day, and enquired for Miss . On being
informed that no one by that name lived there, she
remarked, “Oh, yes, mum; the young lady I mean is
your cook.”
The usual peaceful quietness of Pitt-street was
broken the other afternoon by a shrill and prolonged
“ Coo-ee.” Enquiry revealed the fact that a lady from
the country in her eagerness to attract tho attention of
the driver of a Bourke-street, S. H., ‘bus, had for the
moment quite forgotten her whereabouts.
O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, is veering
round on the new mail contract. Nothing is heard up
North but “the New Mail'Service" now before Par-
liament for rectification. The North swear if they don’t
get it, they will separate. The South, who would bo
losers by the transaction, say " Separate, and .”
The editor of the Bowen (N.Q.) newspaper
recently “sacked” the whole of his typographical staff,
consisting of one man. In next issue apologies were
made for numerous shortcomings on the ground that
“the staff” was on route to Thursday Island, “where
he swears he’ll start a Thursday Island Garette.”
A well-known clergyman, who objects to smoking
attended the meeting on the “Sunday opening”
question at the School of Arts on Tuesday night and
aosent-mindedly took his seat next to Charles Bright.
However, as soon as he saw that the leader of the
Freethinkers was his neighbour he got up, shouldered
his chair and marched off to the other side of the plat-
form. “ Which of the twain was Satan ?”
A “ Vicar ” (in another colony, of course), indi-
cates the newly-taken vice-regal pew, not by the
atrocity of Royal arms —bad as that would be —but by
the still deeper outrage of the owner’s crest and mono-
gram. “ This,” writes one of the congregation, “is
extra rough on the rest of us in the flock who have
neither crests, monograms, armorial bearings, nor of
course the faintest wish to possess such things.”
What Power, the bushranger, said. —“ I always
was stuck up for want of a mate. There was young
Kelly was with me for a time, but he was no good, and
helped to sell me at last. They say that he or one of
the Quinns was dressed up ns a black tracker to deceive
me. God will judge them for taking blood-money.”
That’s a desperado’s opinion of the Glenrowan “hero."
Who said it ? Why, the “ Vag.,” and it must therefore
be true.
It is really too bad. Hundreds of papers,
Australian and New Zealand, are indulging in
imitations of our “News in Brief,” “News
in a Nutshell,” etc. The Bulletin is—must be—a
godsend to our contemporaries; and as to the
robbery of half-columns without a word of aokonw-
ledgement, it’s positively immoral. Every post
brings us a newspaper sent by an indignant correspon-
dent, who, finding all his matter reproduced as quite
original, thinks we ought to pillory the offenders or get a
copyright Act passed.
He was a nice young man, with light curly hair,
a member of the “ fourth estate,” and connected with
the Theatre Royal. The other day he went up to a
friend’s to have his photo, taken. He was fond of
practical jokes, but being ’cute his acquaintances had
rarely succeeded in “having” him. He sat down
in the chair, in presence of two dozen brother
“comps.” who had assembled to witness the sacrifice.
Now, when a man goes to have his likeness taken, it is
invariably the case that he either frowns as though he
were about to be hanged or else he smiles idiotically.
George frowned. “You’re looking too solemn,” said
the photographer, “ liven up your face a bit.” George
began to leer and look as sentimental as possible, but he
couldn’t understand why the multitude giggled and held
their sides, or why tears as big as horsebeans began to
roll down their cheeks. He burst into loud laughter,
but tho photographer told him to be steady and smile
again. He smiled once more, and just as a wave of the
playful humour which has made him as dear to his
friends as the apples of their eyes began to toy with
the dainty dimples of his classic mouth and to spread
itself gently o’er his rosy cheeks, like a zephyr play-
ing with corn-tops, a loud shriek rent the air. He
had been put on to the “ flying horse." They had sud-
denly elevated a long needle by means of a long string.
It won’t be safe to ask George to smile for three months
to come.
In reply to a correspondent of the Telegraph,
Mr. E. Cyril Haviland writes to the following effect:—
“To the third question. First, I may be permitted to
mention an experience of my own —that I was deaf in
my l°ft ear for about three months, and having been
told to sleep on my right side one night, the next
morning I woke all right and could hear distinctly, and
have done so ever since. The healing medium in this
case slept in the room with me
Perhaps “ Sufferer ” anl many others |may cure them-
selves as I do when I have headache or neuralgia, by
simply making passes myself over the part affected.”
If this kind of thing goes'on much longer the College
and Macquarie-streets rents will have to be reduced.
Not content with explaining “ how it’s done,” lo! and
behold Mr. Haviland at length tells us he can “ do it ”
himself. This is letting up on the four jEsculapii with
a vengeance—
Milner and Hume are both quite sure
They can effect a perfect cure ;
And Cyril comes and vows ’tis true,
That he can cure our ailments too.
And yet ’tis strange to say, despite
Great Milner Stephen's angels bright,
The magnetism of James Hume,
The cure in Cyril’s sleeping room,
The fact remains—we know not why—
That people still get ill and die.
It is frequently stated that history repeats itself,
but a recent occurrence in the Northern Territory
warrants the even more startling assertion that fiction
for once in a wav has been repeated in a great measure
by fact. Anyone who has read Charles Lamb’s delight-
ful essays cannot fail to remember his amusing and
ingenious sketch on the origin of roast pork. Possibly
after all it was not entirely fanciful, for the Chinese are
remarkable for being a conservative race, we hear
that during a recent extensive conflagration at Port
Darwin, by which a large number of Chinese tenements
were destroyed, pigs were roasted in their styes, and
MR. W. H. PIGOTT. (See page 2.)
CANDIDATES FOR PARLIAMENT—MISS LOTTIE WILMOTT.


Amusements
Grand intercolonial pigeon
SHOOTING CONTEST, at SYDNEY, Island 2nd
SEPTEMBER, 1880 (between the Hawkesbury and Metro-
politan Spring Race Meeting). Open to all comers.
A Sweepstake of 10 govs, each, with Gold Cup, valued at
30 guineas, added. Nominations 3 govs (part of entrance),
to be in the hands of Mr. George Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, Sydney, on TUESDAY, August 24; balance of
sweep, 8 sovs, to be made good at Tattersall’s,
before 4 p.m. on the day previous to the match. 13 Birds
each, 25 yards rise, 100 yards boundary, 12-bore gun, IJoz.
shot. Prizes—The Gold Cup and 50 per cent, of sweep
first prize; 20 per cent, for second; 10 per cent, third, and
5 per cent, fourth.
Any person discovered using a gun with a bore exceed-
ing No 12, or cartridges containing more than li oz. of
shot, will be at once disqualified. Any shooter may, on
payment of 1 sov., request the umpire to examine any
other shooter’s gun or cartridges when at the scratch, such
deposit forfeited if gun and charge found correct. One
trap only will be used, and a number drawn by the umpire
for the order of shooting after each bird is trapped.
Each shooter must have a report (according to the Gun
Club Rules), and only one discharge allowed. Any person
scouting within the groudnwill be fined 2 sovs. bhootiug
to commence each day at 11 a.m. sharp.
N.B. —The match will be shot on a ground which will be
under the supervision of stewards, who shall have full
control over keeping order on the ground, and upon
whose authority any person refusing to comply with the
rules laid down for their guidance may be removed. As
it is expected there will he from 50 to 70 competitors, lots
will be drawn for squads consisting of 10 shooters each.
Notice will be given to each shooter as to squads, and the
time appointed for each squad to be on the ground.
Any shooter failing to Joi> his squad at the appointed
time wiU be disqualified.
Tickets admitting shooters to the ground will be issued
at Tattersall’s, at 10 o’clock on each day of shooting.
Coumittsb and Ground Stkwards : J. Hamilton, F. Can-
non, George Curtis, W. Dargon, W. Forrester, Henry
Payton.
Vmpirrs : 0. C. Skarratt, William Gannon.
Rxfehxx: A. Uarcourt.
All communications addressed to Mr. George Adams,
TattersaU’s, Sydney, or Mr. Henry Payton, Royal Hotel,
Goulburn, N.S.W., will meet with prompt attention.
GEORGE ADAMS, Proprietor.
T
HE MOST SELECT PICNIC OF THE
SEASON.
OUR BOYS* CRICKET CLUB.
SECOND ANNUAL EXCURSION TO FERN BAY,
Os SATURDAY, 14th August,
DANCING, CRICKET, FOOTBALL, &c.
The popular ALBION BAND engaged.
Steamers from foot of King-street 1.30, 2.30, and 3 p.m.
Refreshments on the Ground.
Single Tickets, Is. 6d. Double Tickets, 2s. 6d.
W. MOTES, Hon. Secretary.
HE ASSOCIATION CRICKET GROUND,
T
2nd and 9th OCTOBER, 1880.
SHEFFIELD HANDICAP FOOT RACE.
FIRST PRIZE—£3S and Gold Medal.
SECOND PRIZE—£IO,
THIRD PRIZE—£S.
Competitors must dress in University costume.
Entrance, 55., to close at 9.30 p.m. on Friday, 17th
September, 1880, at Punch’s Hotel, King-street. Every
entrance must be accompanied by a statement of the
last six months’ performances, and the colors proposed
to be worn in the race.
Entrances may be addressed to the undersigned by
post, enclosing post-office order.
JOHN M. GIBSON, Hon. Secretary, Box 325,
General Post-Office.
W. B. WALFORD, Jnn., Hon. Treasurer,
Messrs, Waiford & Sparke,|Qeorge-street.
Lectures
F
REETHOUGHT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SUNDAY EVENING, AUGUST 15, 1880,
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a Lecture, entitled, “ Jesus as Healing
Medium,"
< with
Ancient and Modern Illustrations.
Doors open at 7. Commence at 7.30.
N.B.—There will be no prefatory reading, as the
Lecture wiU occupy the evening.
THH SOUTHERN CROSS
R
AND COAL-SACK.
O
R.
SCHOOL OP ARTS.
COURSE OF SIX LECTURES,
By the eminent Astronomer, whose Brilliant Discourses
on the
WONDERS OF THE HEAVENS
Have excited unexampled interest in the sister
colonies. The series will commence on
MONDAY NEXT, AUG. 16th,
with the celebrated Lecture, the
LIFE AND DEATH OP A WORLD
LIFE AND DEATH OF A WORLD
And will be continued as follows: —Wednesday, The
SUN; Friday. The MOON; Monday, Aug. 23, COMETS
andIMETEORS; Wednesday, OTHER WORLDS THAN
OURS; Friday, The STAR DEPTHS (the last lecture).
THE ILLUMINATED ILLUSTRATIONS
will be Exhibited by the Oxy-Hydrogen Light, with the
Lantern kindly lent by K. L. J. Ellery, Esq., F.E.S., of
the Melbourne Observatory.
TICKET ARRANGEMENTS.
Course Tickets: Reserved, £1; Unreserved, 10s.
Single Lecture : Reserved, 45.; Unreserved, 2s.
All classes of tickets to be obtained at GEO.
ROBERTSON’S Book Store, 361 George-st.
Commence at 8. Carriages at 9.45.
R. S. SMYTHB.
Amusements
Egyptian hall
406QEORGE-STREET. NEAR KING-STREET.
Engagement and Great Success of
JOHNNY COWAN and MAT RILEY,
assisted by the
GREAT VARIETY TROUPE of 13 Star Artistes
“THE ELECTRIC BOY." '
Scenes of the Kelly Gang' Outrages.
A Suit of Ned Kelly's Clothes,
Wonderful Freak of Nat n re,
A Mau with Six Perfect Fingers ou each H&nd and Sir
Toes on each Foot.
And many other Novelties.
Open from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m.
Admission —63
Business Announcements
ME. METER*
• 21, PARK-STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Broker, Financial and General Agent, Money
to lend. Various payable Hotels for Sale in excellent
localities, in-going easy.
CHARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will he entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols)
ships, and such like. It occupies hut a small space)
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS. 173 and 175 PITT-STEEET.
SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR. ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental). Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B. —Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
REMOVED TO 83 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
K,
T> H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATEB AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc, replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
NEW REFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OR
KEROSENE.
%
*5
A;
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.,
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
JUST ARRIVED. GLOBES, Ac.
VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Broshware,
Marble anil Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
J S. D E A N E
GRAND PRIX DISTRIBUTION-
METROPOLITAN STAKES :
Member’s Entrance Fee and Nomination, £l.
To close at 12 noon,
On MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 6,
MELBOURNE CUP:
Member’s Entrance Fee and Nomination, £l.
To close at 12 noon,
Ou MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1.
The whole of the Prizes, less 5 per cent, commission,
will be divided pro rata among those members who shall
have nominated the winning horse.
EJWinner not nominated, all entrances returned, less
per cent.
Communication'-', to he accompanied with
envelope, addressed t) sender, to
J. S. DEANE,
Box 116. Post-Offloe, Sydney.
Amusements
T
Lessee
HEA T E E
E O Y A L.
Mr. Samuel Lazar
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 14, 1880.
Production of Burnand’s Great Comedy Drama,
TURN OF THE TIDE.
Characters by Messrs. G. S. Titheradge, Arthur
Garner, Edwin Shepherd, Frank Cates, Edmund W.
Marshall, Wm. Farren, junr., E. A. Alberton, Henry
Lemon, J. Criss, E. Beverley, and Frederick Marshall.
Misses Blanche Stammers, Alma Santon, Kellie Flay*
fair, Mrs. Marion Stammers, Mrs. George Gordon, Mrs,
Frederick Marshall, and Miss Annie Taylor.
NEW SCENBET and EFFECTS by Mr. GEOEQE
GORDON.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Doors open at 7,15. Curtain will rise at 8 o’clock
sharp.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3s;
Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.'s, Qeorge-street, where
seats can be secured six days in advance.
T H E A T EE-
Q
U E E N'S
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Business Manager, Liddy.
TO-NIGHT (Thursda),
will be repeated
The Great Sensational Drama of interest, entitled
THE SLAVE’S REVENGE
The Slave’s Revenge
The Slave’s Revenge.
Full Cast of Characters by the Queen’s Star Dramatic
Company and Lewis' Double Company of Georgias.
New and Beautiful Scenery.
Startling Mechanical Effects.
THE THUNDERBOLT, BLOWING UP OF JEFF’S
HOUSE.
Caged in Fire.
Entirely New Jubilee Songs and Dances
by the GEORGIAS.
FRIDAY, August 13,
Grand Special Shakesperian Night,
OTHELLO.
OTHELLO (a real African gentleman
Mr. HACKET COALTHURST.
Pull east of characters by the Dramatic Company.
Admission —Dress Circle, 3s. Stalls, 2s. Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg's.
Q
UE E N
THEATRE.
TUESDAY EVENING, August 17th, 1880.
TESTIMONIAL BENEFIT,
Tendered by the Dramatic and Musical Profession of
this city to
Mr. J. J. WALLACE,
Who will make his First Appearance after a long and
painful illness, as
THE OLD SETTLER,
With the following superior Cast: —
Miss K. Douglass, as the Fashionable Wife.
Mrs. L. M’Gowan, as the Wealthy Vulgarian.
Miss C. Deorwyn, as the Dashing Widow.
Miss A. Deorwyn, as the Old Settler’s Godchild.
Miss M. Douglass, as the old Negress Nurse.
Mr. Lachlan M’Qowan, as the Melbourne Merchant.
Mr, Sweeney, as the Young Colonial Spendthrift.
Mr. Horry Leston, as the New Chum.
Mr. J. West, as Soft Words.
Mr. Moore, as Facts and Figures.
Together with a Host of Volunteer Talent.
o
ERA HO
York and King-streets.
SATURDAY August 14,
BENEFIT of DRAMATIC COMPANY of LATE
VICTORIA THEATRE.
ALFRED DAMPLER, One Night Only,
LILY and BOSE, One Night Only
Miss MYRA KEMBLE, One Night Only,
who have kindly volunteered, with a host of other
celebrities.
s
CHO O L
O F
ARTS.
FRIDAY EVENING NEXT, IS.
GRAND CONCERT
and
GREAT CORNET CONTEST!
H. McMAHON and W. THOMPSON,
For the sum of £5O a-side.
Test Piece written expressly for the occasion by
Luscombo Searrell, Esq.
Judges—
Signor Giorza, Messrs. H. McLean and W. Coll.
The following artists have kindly given their
services:—
Miss C. Godfrey, Lady Amateur,
lessrs. J. Osborne, J. McNamara, W. G. Broadhurst,
Gentleman Amateur.
Concert to commence at 8 o’clock sharp.
Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Great intercolonial handicap
PIGEON CONTEST.
OPEN TO ALL COMERS.
To be shot at Sydney on the days between the Sydney
Race Spring Meeting, i.e,, WEDNESDAY and FRI-
DAY, September 8 and 10,1880.
A Sweepstake of 5 sovs. each, with Silver Cup, valued at
20 guineas, added.
Nominations, 1 sov., to be addressed to the Promoter on
or before September 1.
Acceptances, with 5 sovs., to be in the hands of the
Promoter on or before September 7.
Twelve-bore gun, 100 yards boundary—ll birds.
Handicap Range—2l to 30 yards—will appear in the
Sidney Morning Herald, the Sydney Daily Telegraph
and Town and Country Journal, on Saturday, Septem-
ber 4.
Prizes —Ist, Cup and 40 per cent.; 2nd, 20 per cent.; 3rd
10 per cent.; 4th, 3 per cent.; sth, 5 per cent.; 6th, 5 per
cent.
The Committee have determined only to use one trap,
and that the numbers, corresponding with each shooter,
shall be placed in a bag and drawn by the umpire after
each bird is trapped, and he (the umpire) will then declare
the shooter.
GEORGE ADAMS, Promoter.
Tattersall’s, Sydney.
the proprietors availed themselves|of the opportunity,
and sold hot roast pig to their yellow brethren on the
spot.
The Milesian “sticks out” of Mr. O’Connor,
the gaol surgeon, not that the learned young gentleman
is witty, but that he has an Irishman s capacity for
“ making bulls." While giving evidence wi court the
other day ho gravely alluded, with all the dignity he
could muster, to the “ out-door ” patients at the gaol
meaning, we presume, those persons who, though not
in the gaol hospital, were still under medical treatment.
We always thought every prisoner was Tery much
Indoors indeed.
The most flourishing society in Tasmania is that
for the Prevention of Cruelty to. Animate. 3 here are
some ladies on the committee who make it a point to
examine the “ bits " of their friends' carriage horses.
It is even said that they are not above kissing a good-
looking nag. There is a precedent for even this. When
Don Juan won the Melbourne Cup Mrs. Joe Thompson,
the handsome wife of the Don's owner, first fainted,
and on recovering rushed out and kissed the noble
animal—not Joe, but the horse.
The other day a North Shore man, who lives a
long way from the boat, looked around him for a
horse. He saw, he bought, but did not conquer the
beast. It cost him 505., viz., 20s. cash down —the rest,
Ac., 4c. He now invites a friend to his retreat to see
him mount, for he doesn’t like to do it before a crowd.
The unfortunate beast has a slight, delicate figure—so
slight and delicate, indeed, that some people say it
“ don’t eat too much." Others remark that the horse
is evidently a new animal, and that so far its owner has
only succeded in getting the framework up.
A Quean beyan man argues that “ Mutual Im-
provement Societies are inimical to the growth, de-
velopment, and prosperity of the State, and on that
account ought not to be encouraged. He says that our
young men by attending these classes will have their
attention diverted from courtship and matrimony till
late in life, if not altogether, to the great detriment of
the increase of the population." He’s quite right.
However, the latter ob jest ion doesn’t apply to eat-
tights and Sunday evening church meetings.
Brisbane is as mad on testimonials to valediotor-
teing ministers as Sydney is. A shrewd elder of a
Presbyterian church took a mean advantage of this.
Just as his pastor was leaving he, who was considered
his enemy, inaugurated a purse of sovereigns. Over
£l3O was collected, and the elder presented the purse,
which, however, felt very light to the recipient. He
thought part of the amount must be in notes, and so
satisfied, pocketed it. On arrival home he found £2O in
sovereigns and a receipt for £llO which he owed the
said elder.
One of the members for Canterbury played a
sad trick on the big-bearded Hyperion auctioneer. He
rolled up in his buggy, one leg outside, asked for some
lunch at the land sale, ate half a loaf, 14 pound of
cheese, had a bottle of ale and one of porter (fact!),
and asked for 11 somethin’ 'ard." The auctioneer had a
bottle of three-star for special friends, opened it for his
old friend John and went on with the sale. Shortly
after a boy came with sixpence, sent by the hon. mem-
ber, for the glass with which and the three-star he kad
driven away.
Lord Beaoonafield once said of Mr. Gladstone
that he was a sophistical rhetorician inebriated with the
exuberance of his own verbosity, 4c. It is now Mr.
Gladstone’s turn to style Lord Beaconsfleld a mere-
tricious mercator sublimated with the efflorescence of
his own medulla oblongata, who has precipitated an ava-
lanche of contumelious obloquy upon the devoted peri-
crania of his compatriots, and who has been relegated
to that Acherontic oblivion which, in the gorgeous
majesty of his own Oriental vernacular, fits him like
the paper on the wall.
It will be remembered that when a late dis-
tinguished vocalist paid a visit to Orange she was
unable to obtain a carriage to take her to the concert
hall. One of the company, a good-natured
apologised to the disappointed audience, and explained
the reason which detained the lady. He said " the car-
riage which was provided for Madame at the railway
station she could get into it in her day dress, but in
her night dreas it was impossible." The worthy maestro
could not understand why the audience accepted the
apology so good-naturedly.
A little while ago we said, “The Western
Champion, a squatter's organ, published at Blaekall, in
the far West of Queensland, is rearing on its hind legs
with indignation at the Quebnsi-andeb for publishing a
series of articles on ‘How we civilize the blacks.'"
The Champiok now says, amongst other nice things :
•• Our Sydney contemporary is like a mule. • * * He
puts his head between his forelegs and with his hind
legs lashes out indiscriminately allround.” Now we’re
going to " heap coals of fire "on the Champiok. The
Champion isn't like a mule. A mule has a head.
In some townships in Far Northern Queens-
land, prisoners captured by the police are, for want of
a lock-up, often chained to a post in the stable. There
comes a tale to the following effect: —The other day
the number of prisoners captured in a township a long
way above Capricorn was very large. Some of the men
were chained to a log for want of better “ accommoda-
tion." While their gaolers were otherwise employed,
the prisoners coolly shouldered their gaol, and walked
off with it to the-nearest pub., where, to quote from the
Mormon Bible, "it came to pose, they all got on a
spree.”
A Gundagai woman who had been married by
the local registrar, the other day waited upon Mr.
Lowe, P.M., and asked that gentleman to "unmarry
her." Mr. Lowe said he couldn’t, and referred her to
Judge Windeyer, whereupon she explained that she
thought a marriage contracted before a registrar could
be dissolved by a P.M. within a year. Apropos of this,
remarks the local paper, is the story about Lord Dun-
dreary, who, when the young lady of his choice hesi-
tated, said. " We can try it for three months, my dear,
and then, if you don’t like it, you can go back to your
mamma."
Extracts from Brisbane Courier of Thursday
last. Scene, Legislative Assembly, 3.30 p.m., not a.m.
—" Mr. Hendren having attempted to speak, the
Speaker said that if any hon. member in a state of in-
ebriety rose to address the House he would order him
to sit down. He ruled that Mr. Hendren sit down."
The following day: “ Mr. Hendren rose to make a per-
sonal explanation with regard to the ruling of the
Speaker on the previous day. He (Mr. Hendren) was
not intoxicated on that occasion, and had been an ab-
stainer for six months previously." Palmer, the Colo-
nial Secretary, was heard to say something then.
The fame of the member for the Upper Hunter
extends outside civilization, as the following story will
show During the late cold weather an aboriginal
rather thinly clad, and who had not received his blanket,
betook himself to the Government department not 500
miles from the Circular Quay for the purpose of obtain-
ing one. Upon declaring the purport of his errand,
some demur was raised by the boss of the office to
supplying the blackfellow with the article he was in
quest of without the necessary authority, when he
retorted in the following words: "You no gimme
blanket. I’ll go to Jackey M’Elhone! Then up goes urn
donkey."
Mr. Bradlaugh is, first of all, a EedEepnblican,
and therefore disbelieves in paying allegiance to his
monarch. Secondly, his views on religious matters de-
bar him from invoking God’s assistance in tne usual
Parliamentary oath. Says the WObld
Religion, politics—in both
The saddest case of—well, privation —
Is Bradlaugh’s, from the members’ oath
Requesting dispensation.
What, Mr. Speaker, should he do
Whose principles no place supply
For Queen, to swear allegiance to.
Or God, to swear it by ?
Here is a piece of poetry from the waste-paper
basket of a New Zealand weekly paper. The author,
by the way, obligingly says that the editor "can alter
the metre or punctuation to suit himself —
The mysteries of Birth, of Being.
And of Death,
Are sealed, as yet, unto us;
Why are we P whither do we go ?
Alas, we cannot tell;
We only know that we are born
To suffer and to die:
Perfection comes of suffering;
We must all suffer.
And grow strong.
Doesn’t the above remind one of a Maori speech r
During the trial of a slander action in the
Supreme Court last week a witness gave evidence
stating that he was the accountant to the estate of the
plaintiff, and in such capacity called, with plaintiff, on
plaintiff's creditors, to get the deed of assignment exe-
cuted. He then detailed the slander. When cross-
examined, witness, in reply to a question by a learned
Q.C., said that the slander did not make any difference
as to his opinion of the character of the plaintiff. The
Q.C. then said, “It didn’t make any difference in your
opinion of plaintiff’s character although you were pre-
sent and one of the auditors ?" Replied witness,
meekly, “I wasn't an auditor—l was the accountant."


Tailors, Drapers
PE AP E S AN]
Have Opened:-
Real Russian leather purses. oard
bags, in all sizes, the most bt
that ever came into this market
The new Passementerie Trimmings
The new Passementerie 1 ranges
The new Passementerie Collarettes
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool muffl
warm, the largest and choicest
city, imported direct from Gern
Ladies’ Warm Winter Hosiery T
Ladies' Warm WmtOT G!oves s
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuff I
All the above *oods are only jm
marked off# ex B.S. Orient.
Peapes and
JACKETS AND MAI
14s 6d to 5 guinea
Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from £
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid glov
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for sing
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for don
“ Come and see them, comparison is
Stout Saxony flannels —Is, Is -a,,ls -
Real Welch flannels—2s, 2s Jd, -
imitation)
Peapes and Shaw’s umbrellas—ladiei
6d, pure silk .
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter ov
men—2os, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355, 42
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen sulsP
1 GEORGE STREET, GEORC
George-street.
Peapes and
DRESS MATERL
6).d,74d,8id.10i,l
Broche and Pompadour, for trimmi
Peajies and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d
4s6d, ss6d .
A beautiful assortment of nch coloi
for dinner, evening, and weddmi
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING ]
Ladies' chemises, plain useful garr
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto, 1
2 S 0^
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto dil
9d. 6s 6d
Wedding trousseaux, from tzo to a
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25 _
The new “ Bon Ton ” stays, in whie
The new *‘ Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,
Ladies’ winter merino hose, plain
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PE API
George-street. Geoi
SCARFS A
FOR OENTLEMI
HORDERN’S NEW MERGE
FITTING SHO
PITT STRE
Neab thb Victo®ia
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECK
TRY IT 1 1 1
J. L. HOED!
S
C 0 N O M Y IS
WHAT IS SAVED IS 1
THE STANDARD AM
H I R T FAC
late of 100 King-st
has removed to the more spacio
premises on
WTNYAKD-BTB
Corner of Wynyard
and
will hereafter be kn<
THE STANDARD AMEBI
and
CLOTHING FACT
where
the Finest and Best F
WHITIi ' CKIMKA.N,
and
REG
are made of the best material, aw
than at any other estab
in any quantity to
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suitf
of England cloths and Tweeds max
Tailors, Drapers
FEW DAYS! LAS'!
OF THE
BON MARCHE SEMI-ANH
NOTICE.- Goods opened up ex rect
offered at the Bnine PRICES an
the other portions of the Stock,
96. KING-STBEE’
Special Inducements offered duri
chasing NEW, GOOD, CHEAP, Pi
able. Reliable, Durable Drapery at
The Stock has been brought down t
departments throughout the house 1
revision, and the goods REMARK I
in order to clear out our Large Sui
New Stock.
TEN PER CENT
additional allowed on all purchas*
SPECIAL NOTIC
is directed to the following, and
Ladies to carefully peruse the qu
ments made in reference to this soli
PACT No. 2. —All our Goods are
and Reliable, fron
Houses.
PACT No. 3.—We have reduced
to Home Cost.
FACT No. ■A—ln addition to the a
on all purchases 1
this sale.
FACT No. s.—ls a very startling
from 4s lid to 255, i
the materials from
cent, also will be ab
FACT No 6.—A very superior lot
in prices from 25s
discount of 20 per
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 7.—Beautiful Jackets, <
cashmere, and sil
bugle, silk, velvet,j
long fashionable shi
vogue, reduced pri
A discount of 25 pei
lings in the pound.
w apt No B—Ladies’and8 —Ladies’and Cbildre
FAC In • kind of cloth and 1
commencing from
which a discount i
the pound will be al
v vo 9 —Mothers and heads
* ‘ ' not lose this oppoi
beautifully made E
their children, all s
from 5s lid to 235.
Business Announce
T
HE
CITY
T AILO
31 MAKKET-BTREE
ABE MAKING TKOUSEB
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CHAE
LATE 681 GEOKGE-STEEE:
£
m
I
11'ASSHJKm
President:
His Honor Sir Eedmond Bar
Vice-Presidents
He. Sctl. Ho- ~81
Queensland —The Hon. Joshua P
V South Australia—Samuel He
Western Australia—TheHon. Sir
Directors in New South
The Hon Sir J. George Long I
The Hon. J. F. Burns, M.L.A., C
Edward Lord, Esq., (Chairman
Joint Stock Bank).
Alfred Chandler, Secretary.
PEOGKBSS OF THE^SOCCEI
t
Financial year ended. Policies Assi
1 March 31st, 1875
457 i
1,2031
3,132
2,388;
2,905 j
3,258'i
£1
3
2 31st, 1876
3 ~ 31st, 1877
I ’ 31st, 1878
5 ’ 31st, 1879
6 . 31st. 1880
NEW BU SINES
During the year ended 31st March,
5 488 proposals for : •*;••••••••
1397 of which have been decked, i
drawn, or not completed, omc
3258*wcre compelled, and.policies is
for sums amounting to
833 remaining in various stages ot
income;
Business Announc
-TfIIEESIDE READING.—TE
rf attractive narrative, in.pamp
nort of New South Wales,
Souths how t 0 furnisi
ifost Economical manner,
ift Voces, Gratis, at the
16 rages, itQYAL FURNIE
FURNISHED
Tf U POUNDS, (£l5)
for £25, £35, and £5O, and foi
to £3OO, £4OO, £5OO, &c. See ne
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, plai
Tables.
Drawing room furniture, in great vi
DINING-ROOM: SUITES, Dining,'
Tables.
LIBRARY and OFFICE Furniture
BEDSTEADS, SOLID or TUBU
tester, stump; also youths size
BEDDING, in Horsehair, Fibre,
and feathers.
Bedroom Toilets and Bedroom J
variety.
COME AND SE
The VAST DISPLAY of FURS
CHANDISE, at t
ROYAL FURNISHING
All marked with PLAIN FIGUR
CASH PAYMENT b cAjn , BEL
426 (new number) Georj
w
o
SYDNEY WOOL SAL
HARRISON, JONES, &
WOOL AND PRODUC
Sydney,
Have much pleasure in annoui
NEW WOOL STO
Are ready for the reception of TH
SON’S CLIP, and offer advantage,
where, being brilliantly lighted, nn<
cive Buyers ample space to exam in
of Wool, however small.
We are Now Erecting a very Ca]
LIGHTED BUILDING, close to
capable of storing about 13,500 Ba
addition to our
PRESENT ENORMOUS
will entirely obviate any possibility
the great rush of Wool arriving da
in the heaviest port of the season, <
sions of our railways.
VALUATION
are carefully made by us of everj
offering for sale; no lot beir
FULL MARKET RATES AB
The FORWARDING AGENTS
Stations will receive Wools consigi
PAY CARRIAG
Parties desirous of Shipping t
London Market'are I placed in t
secure the Lowest rate op Fnmt
LIBERAL ADVAI
are made upon Wo6l shipped by
London.
ACCOUNT SALES are rendere
over seven days after each sale.
WAY, BILLS will he forwarde
HARRISON, JONES, AI
SYDNEY.
JUNIPER TR
** P. MELCHER
W
P
2
<
P
Xh
s
p
p
7!
Sri
August 14, 1830.


Miscellaneous
MA. HUGHES AND CO,,
• 580, Geoege-steeet,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambswool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts. Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
AtM. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
380 George-street.
T|RYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
•U 397 Geobge Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Boiled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
OP
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AT
RILEY BROTHERS*
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
| SAVE ss. IN THE POUND |
Don't fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
ON
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
WILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES.
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11. PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.'s First Special Prize Woed-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality GCLEANTeeu, &c,, Ac.
Circulars and Prices,
LAS SETTER & CO. (LIMITED),
Have on view the finest exhibition of Silver-plated Ware in the Colony.
J*
IP
Over One Hundred Patterns of TEA SERVICES to choose from.
Selected from the best •Ateliers in England, the Continent, and America.
NEW DESIGNS arriving by Orient Steamship Co., comprising Cruet Frames, Entree Dishes,
Biscuit Boxes, Butter Dishes, Liquor Frames, Salvers, Cake Baskets, Napkin Rings, Prize
Cups, Toast Racks, Sardine Boxes, &c., &c. CABINETS containing Full Suite of
Table Appointments suitable for Presentations.
AGENTS for REED & BARTON’S American Silver-plated-Ware.
AGENTS for CHRISTOFLE’S Celebrated Parisian Silver-plated Ware, every article of which is
stamped with the amount of silver deposited.
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. HARPER & Co.’s
M A N u F ACIUSES
were awarded
TEN FIRST PRIZES
AND THE
SPECIAL FIRST
As the BEST OF THEIR CLASS
in the
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
SVtfl)
V
BUY
<0
m
PRIZE
Ns
R. HARPER & CO-
SYDNEY.
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
id
PRIZE
&
R, HARPER & CO.
SYDNEY.
s
I N G E R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
. 2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —<£6 10s. Cash. ..
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
fJIHE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it ? It is the very beat of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EYES’
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PARENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE AGE.
♦ THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney :—Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for 2J years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaqucs, solicitors), Sydney .-—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled. _
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
YY P * WELCH,
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
• HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
oc=
Outside Venetian,
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blinds.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE ANDqo'
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. ~ Nos. 1 and 2-
RlCE—Saigou
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,.
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Bold br all Grocers and Storekeepers
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING M. A CHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may he forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Pkice List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com*
plete, £7,
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS &'CO.,
WYNYAED-LANE, SYDNEY.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,.
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of.
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
E
XCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
Johk Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices or
John Woods & 00., Bridge-street.
j VICAKS, & CO.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS.
>
’ "
imtm
t .
saa.
BYSZffBY.
HE KELLY GANG.
To be seen in the
WAXWORKS EXHIBITION
Life-size Figures of EDWARD KELLY, DANIEL
KELLY, STEPHEN HART and BYRNE.
I Also, numerous other Figures.
Now open, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street.
Admission, Is; children, half-price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
