

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.-No. 32.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1880.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1880.
A Sorry Spectacle.
No sane man in the community really believes
that any of our judges—Supreme or County
Court—are either corrupt or immorally partial.
They have been professionally trained under
influences which must render the most obtuse of
them men of honour ; and although they are not
devoid of human frailty, its manifestation appears
in other directions than in taking bribes, or plai ing
the role of partisans. There have of course been
bad judges, in the worst sense of the term, in the
British dominions; but they flourished at a
historical period when corruption was partly
condoned by its universality. If the illustrious
Chancellor Bacon took bribes—and there is li.tle
doubt he did —he could excuse himself on the
plea that he was poorly paid for his services, and
that others, in nearly as high a position as he,
did the same thing. The infamous JeffeeYs
practically became the executioner of a tyrant;
and there are some queer traditions current
about a certain Lord Nobbuby, In later times
the highest tribunals of justice, in most
civilised countries, have been purified;
and a really corrupt judge, in a British
community especially, would now-a-days
be looked upon as a kind of social
monstrosity. But while making these
admissions, as an act of homage to truth,
it must be confessed that our judges are
sometimes very indiscreet, and occasionally
make displays of bad temper. For equani-
mity—urbanity—rigid impartiality—few
of those who now occupy seats on the
bench of the Supreme Court would
favorably compare with a Forbes, a
Dickenson, a Milfobd or a Stephen of
some years ago. Although it cannnot be
said that all their Honors of to-day owe
their elevation to political circumstances,
exigencies or services, some of them
certainly do; and that, rightly or
wrongly—probably the latter—leads the
public to believe that they are biassed in
a friendly way towards certain persons—
that they would recognise, in cases before
them (but only in a friendly way) the
physiognomies of old friends and old foes.
The habit of studying one side of a
question or only looking at one
side of the shield—is still worse: it un-
consciously warps their judgments. Now
of all the learned and honorable judges
who permanently or temporarily occupy
the giddy eminence of a seat on the bench
of the Supreme Court there is none of
Diem so liable to this frailty as Mr.
Justice Windeyee. It has been his
Cental misfortune all his life to lack
logical acumen. He certainly never had
the “giftie” to see himself as others very
clearly saw him ; and hence have ai'isen
many of those freaks or occurrences
which expose him periodically to rude
criticism or loud laughter. As the costly
Premier graduate of the colony he never
caused his alma mater to blush at his
literary exuberance, or gladdened her eyes
With the sight of his lucubrations in law,
politics or philosophy. As a citizen-
soldier he performed one creditable act—
v ' re tircd on his rank” as soon as he
obtained his majority! As a Parlia-
mentary expert he was a signal failure—
as Attorney -General a bungling lawyer
fc^e ® veB< l uare miles] —and now, as
a Temporary S. C. Judge, he exhibits one
] worst infirmities of his nature—a
udicrous tendency to take offence at mere
rifles. If he had contemned the stric-
tures of the Evening News instead of
moving the machinery of the law—more
PartUularly that portion of it which is
fustiest and longest out of use—to punish
the proprietors of the journal for con-
e mpt he would have saved himself some
umiliation and the whole British public
e spectacle of three j udges, sitting in
anco, and a big bar of juris-consults
wasting the best part of two days in a
p . P“ rt or two days in a
f ft rensic discussion on an old charge with a new
ce, and -which will take nearly a week’s judicial
ecutation—three judges a-thinking—before a
conclusion can be arrived at! When will these
Ta gue powers of “pulling” and “plucking”
and “ punishing ” people for their contempt of
court cease in this colony ? They are obsolete in
England and unused in the neighbouring colony
of Victoria—nay, when South Australian jour-
nals were periodically criticising in caustic
language the frequent quarrels of two Supreme
Court Judges, neither of the said magnates
ventured on the contempt “ trick.” Journalists
will comment on their Honors’ shortcomings
whether their Honors like the operation or not;
and in doing so they (the journalists) claim no
more right than any man in the community has
power to exercise if he choses, either, on plat-
form or stump. The public acts —including the
conduct and demeanour—of the judges are public
property, and as such are material for stricture-
genuine farrago libelli, to use one of Juvenal’s
phrases. We feel as much ashamed as people of
our hard nature can feel, at the “show” the
judges made of themselves on Monday and
Tuesday last; but we feel more than all for that
infirmity of temper which made Mr. Justice
Windeteb invoke the aid of his brother judges
to vindicate his character by punishing the
employers of his critics.
Sunday Lectures.
The notion which has prevailed for nearly two
centuries in most English-speaking communities
that Sunday is to be given over to a special order
of teachers, and to be publicly used for no other
purpose, is happily undergoing rapid subversion.
The yoke which has been patiently borne for so
long is too severe, and at the same time too ab-
surd to be permanent. In the United States the
Sunday platform is free to every speaker who has
the needful capacity to attract an audience ;
and even in Conservative England an organisa-
tion has been formed under the most distin-
guished auspices to afford the public an oppor-
tunity of a choice of teachers on the first day of
the week. In this colony the process of emanci-
pation is going cheerily forward, and the
monopoly which has been enjoyed by the clerical
order is in a fair way to be shattered. The
attempt made by Sir Henby Pabkes last session
to legislate in support of such monopoly was
received with so pronounced an outburst of cen-
sure and ridicule that it is not likely to be re-
peated. It was made tolerably clear on that
occasion that the people of New South Wales
conceived that they had arrived at years of
discretion and were to be trusted with the
liberty of choosing for themselves their
own Sunday teachers free from ministerial
dictation, priestly or political. Excepting
then, in supremely bigoted quarters, and among
‘goody goody” young men and women, the
horizon of whose aspirations is barred by Sunday
school benches, the advent of so celebrated a
scientific teacher as Mr. Pboctob to the Sunday
platform will be matter of unalloyed satisfaction.
There are vast numbers in our community who
take little or no interest in theology, either from
an orthodox or heterodox standpoint, and who will
be prepared to give an eager welcome to a lecturer
who discourses at once competently and grace-
fully on the marvellous realities of the universe.
Sunday evening, when people are freed from the
worries and cares of business life, is j ust the time
most appropriate for an enjoyable study of this
nature, and gradually we hope to see the public
halls and theatres of this city and the larger
towns of the colony occupied by speakers of
culture, ability and power in various walks of
science and philosophy. We cannot expect often
to hear a Pboctob, but we may rationally look
for a succession of secular teachers of pronounced
excellence if not of first-class eminence and
fame.
A One-horse Parliament.
On the eve of a general election people usually
glance at the personnel of their Legislature
during the session which has expired. They
recall previous sessions, perhaps, and compare
persons and the respective courses of events.
Thus, at the present dubious juncture, intelligent
electors will review the legislative term just closed
by the light of those proceedings, placing the
more prominent figures of each in mental juxta-
position, and forming their judgments and
opinions by a process of consideration of
which the guiding criteria will be in the main
features of analogy or discrepancy. Anyone
pursuing this course will not fail to be struck by
the visible disparity existing between our last
Parliament and some of those of former years.
Whether the House be viewed simply in
relation to the personality of its members,
or as regards the actual work performed,—
or again, if an opinion be drawn from a con-
sideration of those who have been selected
from within its walls for promotion to high
and honorable offices, the fact noticed will,
from each point of view, be strikingly
apparent. We are ready to admit that
the Assembly which praciiodly is now
no more held many energetic and
practical-minded men, individually con-
sidered. But what the Lower Chamber
really is deficient in is a decided dash
of that originating and devising spirit
which can provide something tangibly
politic and statesmanlike for commonplace
and practical minds to thoroughly carry
out and perfect. An appreciable infusion
of the theoretic element is a first want
in any Legislative body, while the neces-
sity reaches its acme in a State like ours,
whose primary distinguishing charac-
teristics are those of youth and progress.
During past periods of our history we
have proved that it is not from any
chronic dearth of public-spirited men
possessing brilliant qualities that the
absence of the class of legislator we refer
to is attributable. The bearers of many
historic names have effectually disproved
such an explanation as that. Young as
we are as a colony, we have our traditions
of a time when the gloom of the chamber
was illumined by the flashing rhetoric of
men of the stamp of Dabvall, Dalley
and Fobstee, —when our halls of legisla-
tion were wont to ring with the logical elo-
quence of a class of which the names of
Wentwobth and Mabtin recall such
grateful reminiscences. We have seen a
time in New South Wales when a Denieht
might be, and was returned through sheer
force of the enthusiasm evoked by his
personal genius and ability. But the days
of this sort of thing are over, e lectors
plume themselves on the fact that they
have grown more solid and practical now,
and complacently tell how they form
their judgments from a consideration of
principles, not men; while to a calm
observer they too often present the
degrading spectacle of an unreasoning
herd led away by an unscrupulous
schemer or a rabid sectarian cry. The
outcome of this state of things is apparent,
and may be very briefly summed. Ihe
defunct House has been remarkable
throughout for the non-success of im-
portant measures, and a pronounced
absence of the slightest suspicion of
original talent, or even, except in some
few cases, of ordinary debating power;
while the highest post to which the
members of the profession that has
hitherto been the intellectual boast of the
colony could aspire, has been bestowed
on Mr. Acting Justice WINnBYEB!
‘‘Dazzling coruscations of forked logic” hare
given place to dismal platitudes about the “ Con-
stitooshun,” and practical tact and business-like
ability have ignominiously succumbed to the som-
nific influence of a “ one-horse Parliament.”
MR. RICHARD ANTHONY PROCTOR, B.A., THE ASTRONOMER.


Outside the Orbit.
We have heard during the week some super-
latively ridiculous remarks on the effect of Mr.
Peoctob’s teaching —in a religious sense.
Although we give a wide berth to all polemical
disputations, we cannot silently suffer the moral
effect of the great Astronomer’s discourses to be
sneered at by those who do not (or will not)
understand its scope. He has himself, in tran-
sparent and unconsciously eloquent language,
indicated and defended the results of his observa-
tions and speculations, and there is no one who
has more beautifully illustrated truths that fill
the mind with lofty aspirations and reverential
awe. The truth is, the religious idea lies outside
the orbit of science, or vice versa; and though one
may react on the other, they will never quite
coincide when they come in contact. The Rev.
Mr. Jeffeeis, for instance, takes a start from a
grand centre —from the world of human con-
sciousness and of emotion, from the sphere of
individual experience with its unsatisfied yearn-
ings for a better state of existence than this, and
its “fond desires —its longing after immortality”—
and no doubt his conclusions equally satisfy his
heart and reason, Mr. Peoctoe proceeds from
a different point of intellectual activity, and
reaches an equally sublime field of contemplation.
The former might well say to the latter, —
“ Look, then, abroad through Nature, to the range
Of planets, suns, and adamantine spheres,
Wheeling unshaken through the void immense;
And say, O Man, does this capacious scene
With half such kindling majesty dilate thy strong
conception,”—
as when you review the loves, hopes and fears of
humanity —the united desire of mankind to see
truth established and justice vindicated all over the
earth—the intellectual claim of men and women
to have their defective knowledge made perfect
and the mysteries of life rendered manifest.
Although the dominant thoughts of these men—
the Reverend Mr. Jeffeeis and the revered Mr.
Peoctoe do not move in the same orbit, does
it not strike the reader that both maintain, ex-
plain, and illustrate beautiful truths ? Mr.
Jeffeeis need not be afraid of the ultimate
consequences of Mr. Peocxoe’s teaching.
Civil Service Superannuation.
UfWABDS of two years since a meeting was con-
vened in the Masonic Hall by some of the older
permanent heads of the Civil Service to consider
the advisability of adopting a superannuation
scheme which had been thoughtfully incubated
by these benevolent gentlemen, for the benefit, as
they said, of their junior and less influential
brethren. The meeting transpired in due course,
and the details of the scheme were, with a pro-
fusion of glowing imagery and eloquent descrip-
tive power, duly placed before the enraptured
audience which had assembled for the purpose.
There are everywhere to be found one or two of
those cross-grained and intractable individuals
who studiously lay themselves out to warp even
the most wisely-planned philanthropic measure,
and the present instance presents no immaculate
exception to the rule. A few incredulous juniors
were observed to shake their heads dubiously at
an early stage of the proceedings, and some cold-
blooded miscreants actually displayed the un-
paralleled audacity of asking questions and
demanding further information before proceed-
ing to declare their confidence in the plan under
consideration. Perhaps the dignity of the
conveners was ruffled by the vehemence of the
questioners, or perhaps their high integrity
revolted against the vaguest suspicion of a doubt
as to their intentions, but anyhow it was noticeable
that people of inquiring minds were inconsistently
hustled forth from that particular meeting, or
remorselessly “ sat upon.” It may be, of course,
that the fact of one possessing an enquiring mind
was taken by tacit consent as excellent prima
facie evidence of the owner not being a Civil
Servant. Well, we do not quarrel with the logic
of the induction, but the fact as stated remains.
How, the perversity of the human biped is re-
markable. No sooner was the note of disunion
sounded than everyone interested set himself to
work'to pick a hole in the superannuation scheme
on his own account, and the result was, to say
the least, also remarkable. Prejudiced enquirers
persuaded themselves that the Blue Books and
other official records showed that the incubators
of the measure submitted had served sufficiently
long to be entitled under the terms of their little
wrinkle —which was of a very coercive nature —to a
retiring pension in a very short time. They also pre-
tended to discover that the amount so appropriated
would swamp their prospective contributions for
an indefinite period of years, and even asserted
that the drain would be . so great and so con-
tinuous as effectually to preclude any prospect of
a funded capital. Then some of the more ima-
ginative conjured up an airy picture of certain
highly-salaried officials seated in a well-appointed
club-room, laughing consumedly, and telling
over their Clicquot how artfully they had con-
trived to induce their quondam brethren to
minister to their hours of ease. By browsing
round among railway porters, messengers and
others, the malcontents then inoculated this class
with a perverse idea that such of them as would
be entitled to an allowance by reason of long
service would have to stand aside till their
superiors were served. In this way the scheme
eventually fell to the ground. Now this is all
very stupid, no doubt; that high sense of pro-
bity peculiar to the service would, of course,
have protected the weaker members from spolia-
tion. Of course we think that the successful
passage through the crucible of honour which
the possesion of a lucrative billet notoriously
implies, would guarantee justice and fair dealing.
But we do not profess to account for other
people’s vagaries, or for the desire which some
evince to have this subject dealt with by legisla-
tion. We may remark that another superannua-
tion scheme is now imminent.
Grateful Hypochondriacs.
As every paper in X.S.W. has printed a good deal
about Mr. Milner Stephen and as that gentle-
man has not only succeeded in catching the ear of
several journals but in posing as a nineteenth
century prophet before a multitude of those kind,
innocent, good-natured people whose superficial
knowledge of science only leads them into supersti-
tion, we shall merely be folio wing the fashion in say-
ing a few words concerning the miracles performed
by this Seer of the South. Our view of tne matter
is that had Mr. Stephen not belonged to so
influential and old a colonial family we should
have heard perhaps even less about him and his
“ cures ” than we hear concerning the numberless
clairvoyants, mesmerists, et hoc genus omne whe
get an easy living by exercising powers that affect
patients exactly in proportion to the firmness with
which those patients believe in the potency and
applicability of the particular occult force or
forces supposed to be employed. Every sane and
decently-educated medical man knows perfectly
well that Mr. Stephen practices on the homeo-
pathic principle of shnilia shnilibus curnntur—
that he sets up one delusion to cure another and
heals, whenever he does heal, not by fcis strength,
but through the mental weakness of his patient.
There are a considerable number of cases, princi-
pally existent in women, which are dependent upon
the imagination. The complaints. in such cases
are either entirely -imaginary or subjective from
within the patient or they are objective inasmuch
as they are reminiscences of something which
has happened. There is a gentleman in
town whose daughter is alleged to have
been cured by Me. Stephen, and who threatens
with a libel action —which under the existing
regime we suppose he’d win—any paper publishing
his or her name in connexion with the matter.
This young lady once suffered from an actual
physical derangement, which, the cleverest of our
medical men pronounced, long since disappeared.
There was nothing whatever in her condition which
would have prevented her from walking without
surgical appliances had she had the moral force to
do so—the reminiscence of a former pain was all
that stood between her and locomotion. She
believed in Me. Stephen and was cured, and her
ease forcibly recalls one of many successfully
treated by the celebrated Db. Budd of Plymouth,
who, when surgery failed, used to resort to
what he called “ strong impressions. ” Db.
Budd, having once convinced himself that a
lady patient was physically well, and that it was
mere hypochondriasis which prevented her from
walking, drove her out one evening to a spot some
miles from Plymouth, helped her to alight, and
then suddenly turned his horses’ heads, apparently
with the intention of proceeding home without
her. Alarmed at the prospect of thus being left
alone in the fast-approaching darkness, she
screamed, and made a desperate effort to reach
the vehicle. She ran a little way, and her con-
sciousness of having done so, added to the com-
mon-sense representations of the doctor concern-
ing the fact that she had accomplished an amount
of locomotion of which she had previously de-
clared herself utterly incapable, was the turning-
point towards her perfect recovery, whicn
rapidly took place. Coming nearer home,
we have instances in which burglars have, by
frightening people, effected cures just as mar-
vefions as those attributed by the credulous to
Mr. Milneb Stephen, and by Mr. Milnee
Stephen to the aid of the angels. It is easy to
imagine one’s-self ill, and after having exercised
one’s imagination in that direction, it is just as
easy, under certain conditions, to imagine one’s-
self well again. The medical student, at the com-
mencement of his career reads, or, to use a
Hibernicism, “dissects” himself into the belief
that he is suffering from, say incipient phthisis.
The nervous man’s sore lip becomes, to his own hea-
ted imagination, cancer; his dyspeptic palpitations,
heart disease. The impudent designing “Don’t
you feel well?” class of practitioner, or chemist,
writes books conclusively showing that the young
man who, like Baron Munchausen’s dog, has
been fast in his youth must, unless he be
treated by “the only qualified practitioner ad-
vertising,” or take someone or other of the nume-
rous, well-advertised quack nostrums, inevitably
“go into consumption ”or the madhouse. The
unsophisticated youth reads the book, which of
course always tells him to consult its author, the
result often being that he does go into consump-
tion or the lunatic asylum, even in cases where a
reputable surgeon would have positively laughed
bi'm out of his hypochondria. The mind’s influ-
ence is frequently more potent than that of drugs,
and even the skilled doctor more often cures
by inspiring hope and subduing fear than
by the help of medicine alone—he as often
succeeds by means of the fancied as of the real
effects of boluses. Some of Mr. Milnee
Stephen’s patients believe in him and they get
better, if only temporarily, by a process in many
respects similar to that which drives away pain
from the carious tooth of the surgeon-dentist’s
nervous patient. Mr. Stephen practically pro-
fesses to have been endowed with the power of
transmitting to the decaying physical organisation
that mysterious force with which the Almighty
animated Adam’s dust. When Mr. Stephen
succeeds in imparting to a shattered constitution
the force necessary effectually to combat and
arrest well-defined organic disease, we’ll be ready
to worship him as the one prophet. When he
shows us that he can rejuvenate a man whose
only disease is senile debility—otherwise the de-
cline, consequent on age, of that vital power in
which he professes to trade—we shall be glad to
admit that there are in Castlereagh-street things
undreamt of in the philosophy of an ordinary
surgeon. But until one of these things occurs we
shall have to rank Mr. Milnee Stephen amongst
ordinary mortals, and to regard his wonderful
array of grateful patients as people who would
have been cured by eating bread-pills or kissing
monkeys had they in the former case believed that
the bread was “Essence of Life” or Double
Patent Back-action Elixir,” or in the latter, that to
practise osculation with a simian was a sure way
of becoming immortal and “beautiful for ever.”
Proctor the Astronomer.
Among ’the philosophic traditions of Pythagoras
and his immediate followers —disjecta membra of
ancient speculations and beliefs —there is none
more remarkable than the position assigned to
astronomy as a means of intellectual illumination.
The Samian Sage (bom B.C. 570) seems to have
made its study an essential preliminary to initia-
tion in those sublime esoteric doctrines —the one-
ness of the Creator, the immortality of the soul,
and the fundamental principles of morality—o!'
which he may be fearlessly called the first Gentile
exponent. The truths on which he based his
system were for ©bvious reasons only dimly fore-
shadowed, except to the tried few who were found
worthy of their reception, and who were likely to
promulgate them with zeal and caution. Long
before the Pythagorean era, Chaldean seers and
Egyptian observers had contemplated the stellar
heavens with an intense desire to penetrate the
mysteries of their creation, and made some bold
but imperfect attempts to explain the marvellous
phenomena. The path of scientific investigation
continued to be for centuries afterwards a Milky
Way—a galaxy of mingled mystery and beauty—
to men of the highest genius and perseverance;
and even when Galileo, Newton, and other divinely-
gifted “ sons of light,” brought the human mind
nearer to positive truths, there still remained
much for the enthusiastic devotees of science to
examine into —much to formulate and explain.
In each generation, and in almost every country of
Europe and America, special interpreters of the
celestial arcana have appeared; and pre-eminent
amongst them all, during the last fifteen years, is
the subject of this brief notice, Richard Anthony
Proctor, the most independent and impressive of
all that ‘‘trine-set starry band,” who have_ lifted
up the minds of men to the contemplation of
wondrous creative forces, and to the ineffable
beauty of the stellar heavens. Some of the inci-
dents of Mr. Proctor’s early life seemed to fit—
almost predestine—him for the great mission of
his distinguished after-life. Born at Chelsea,
England, in 1837, his early life exhibited symp-
toms of debility, which naturally excited parental
anxiety, and hence he received the rudiments of
his education at home. It is probable that he was
mentally too precocious for the co-ordinate de-
velopment of his physical and mental powers ;
but after a time his health became more robust,
and he was entered at King’s College, London.
It is easy to imagine the delicate child, isolated
from boys of his age, contemplating the wonders
of nature round him, and gazing in rapt'awe by
night at those mighty orbs which he was after-
wards to observe —observations to be accepted as
those of the most accomplished astronomer of his
age. He subsequently pursued his studies at St.
John’s College, Cambridge, and graduated as 23rd
wrangler in 1860. While at college his physique
vindicated itself. He gave up a fair share of his
time to athletic sports, became an expert oarsman
—a fact which he demonstrated a few days ago,
doing ten miles in two hours on the Parramatta
River—and could wield the willow with the best
of his contemporaries. His fairy grandmother
does not seem to have been spiteful in bestowing
her gifts on him —she never allowed “fair
Science to frown upon his birth,” nor the
gaieties of youth to lead him altogether away from
the paths to Parnassus. He cultivated music
and pictorial art; and if he had chosen to make
either his profession, he would have succeeded.
This completeness of soul —this harmony of
several great mental powers or capacities—is not
often found co-existent in the same individual.
That Mr. Proctor is a poet by nature is evidenced
by the boldness of his speculations, and the
charms of language in his rhythmic prose. On
this point the opinion of the Westminster Re-
view may be deemed conclusive. “Of all writers
of our times,” it states, “ Mr. Proctor beat con-
forms to Matthew Arnold’s conception of a man
of culture, in that he strives to humanise know-
ledge, arid divests it of whatever is harsh, crude,
and technical, so as to make it a source of
happiness and brightness to all. ” If he had not
the rare power to embody his thoughts with per-
spicuity and vigour—if he did not possess, in a
masterly degree, the curiosa felicttas verhorum,
the gift of adequate expression—he could never
have become the admirable exponent that he is of
a grand but difficult science. On leaving the
University of Cambridge, we can imagine, judging
solely from probabilities, that he must have
sustained an inward struggle as to the direction
in which he would employ the best powers of his
mind. A man so diversely gifted could not at
once fix on a definite pursuit; the intellectual
Jacob must ever wrestle with a mysterious angel;
and unless he becomes a supplant«r of his feebler
impulses, he can never reach the high career for
winch he is intended by nature. Urania won
young Proctor at last to her bright service, and
made him a hierophant of her mysteries. Step by
step—steadily but securely—he advanced on_his
way —the way of knowledge without evil. In
1866 he became a Fellow of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society, and was appointed the editor of
its “Proceedings” in 1872, but resigned office
the year following. He has never been a salaried
officer in any society, or to any commission. He
twice .visited and lectured on Astronomy in the
United States of America between 1873 and 1875,
and during that period began to appear the first
of those numerous publications of his, which
have done so much not only to illustrate and
popularize astronomical science, but to illume
other regions of truth. It would be useless to
attempt, within the limited space at our disposal,
to give even an outline of those masterly pro-
ductions—let it suffice to state that his works on
the Sun and on Saturn place him in the first rank
of the most eminent scientific men of his time.
The very fact of his being selected to re-write the
articles on Astronomy and cognate subjects for
the latest edition of the Enctclopcedia Beit-
annica, as successor to Forbes, Playfair, and
Herschel, sufficiently attests his status in Eng-
land. A similar honour (with a suitable honorarium)
was conferred on him in America, as he was
selected by the Editor of Appleton’s Cyclopaedia
to write the article on his (Mr. Proctor’s) favour-
ite study. In England, America, and Australia,
he has surprised and delighted vast audiences with
his lectures, and stimulated enquiry amongst
thousands of students. That he is an industrious,
persevering, temperate, and high-toned leader of
thought may be confidently inferred from his
numerous publications, and the several lecturing
engagements he has fulfilled. That Australia has
received him with becoming appreciation and
enthusiasm —as a Prince Royal of Science —reflects
more credit on herself and the higher aspirations
of her people than on the recipient of her distin-
guished marks of admiration. When Mr. Proctor
returns to London he intends, it said, to start a
periodical entitled “Knowledge.” Should he do
so, it is sure not only to be “ rich with the spoils
of Time,” but a repertory of scientific speculation
on matters of paramount moment, and with keen
glances into the future. It has been given to few
men to entrance audiences for several nights in
succession as Mr. Proctor has recently done in
this city; fewer still have the privilege of feeling
that every one who heard them was abundantly
satisfied with the result. A biographical notice
of Mr. Proctor appearing in an Australian news-
paper would be incomplete without some reference
to the gentleman, who accompanies him on his
antipodean tour, and who had the good fortune to
be introduced to the eminent scientist in London
last year. The name of R. S. Smythe at the foot
of an advertisement is as satisfactory an endorse-
ment for the excellent character of an entertain-
ment as the name of Longman or Murray on a
title-page is an unquestionable guarantee for the
respectability of a book. The much-travelled
manager’s most valuable characteristics, the
qualities which place him in quite a different
position from all other theatrical agents in the
colonies, are his exact knowledge of the public
taste, and his care to associate himself only with
men or women eminent in their respective depart-
ments in science or art. This is the chief cause of
Mr. Smythe’s uniform success as a manager ; and
of all his numerous experiences with distinguished
people, probably none will have proved more plea-
sant or more profitable than his connexion with
the accomplished author, astronomer, and lecturer
whose business in Australia he is so prosperously
conducting. Our portrait is from a fine photograph
by J. Hubert Newman.
Hawkesbury Races
FIRST DAY, AUGUST 25TH.
Hawkesbury Guineas.
Mr. J. S. Smith’s br f Geraldine (Hales) j
Hon. J. White’s b f Sapphire (Huiley) ’’ j
Mr. B. Eichards’ b c Kamilaroi (Thompson)).., 3
Time, 1 min 45 8-10 secs.
Pnblic Auction Stakes.
Mr. W, Forrester’s b h Lightning (Cornwell) ... j
J. Mayo’s b g Speculation (Roarty) ... 2
T. Pickard’s br g Major (Kennedy) ... 3
Maiden Plate.
Mr. Devlin’s ch f Bow Bells (Welch)
V. H. Brown’s br f Rossini (Nicholson) ... 2
J. Phair’s b c Partner (Hemsworth) ... ’ 3
Country Purse.
Mr. J. Burton’s ch e Hesperion (Gordon) j
D. Mayne’s br f Nancy Lee (Jenkins) 2
J. Dargin’s br h Ravenswood (Hemsworth) ..' 3
Flying Handicap.
Mr. J. Mayo’s ch h Soothsayer (Hanks) j
T. Ivory’s b h Lorton (Pigott) 2
V. H. Brown’s br f Rossini (Gainsforth)... ... 3
Secokd Day, August 27th.
Mares’ Produce Stakes.
Mr. Rossi’s b c LordJLisgar (Thomas) j
J. S. Smith’s hr f Geraldine (Hailes) ... .’ 2
B. Richard’s b c Kamilaroi (Thompson) 3
Grand Handicap.
Mr. J. Burton’s eh h Hesperion (Gordon) 1
T. Ivory’s b h Sweetmeat (Pigott) 2
J. Ashworth’s br h Strathearn (Huxley) 3
Prince of Wales Stakes.
Mr. J. Moore’s ch g Speculation (Eoarty) x
W. Forrester’s ch h Lightning (Cornwell) ... 2
J. E. Onus’ b g Shamrock (Nicholson) 3
Turf Club Handicap.
Mr. J. Dargin’s br h Ravenswood (Gordon) 1
D. Mayne’s br f Nancy Lee (Nicholson) 2
V. H. Brown’s hr f Rossini (Gainsford) 3
Members’ Handicap.
Mr. S. Marshall’s b h Verdict (Emsworth) 1
W. Forrester’s eh h Lightning (Cornwell) ... 2
J. Mayo’s ch h Soothsayer (Hanks) ... 3
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
More big nuggets at Temora.
Proctor has been lecturing to big audiences at
Maitland.
The only Leon remains in Sydney and is in good
health again.
An exposure is promised in the matter of the
piano awards.
Mr. Dave Hayman promises the city a novelty
in the theatrical line.
Eeilly, for bushranging at Edenhope,—three
years’ imprisonment.
Steane’s Bitters is now the leading tonic in
all the Sydney Hotels.
The City Improvement Board won’t admit
reporters to their meetings.
Mr. Bandmann arrived by the ’Frisco mail on
Wednesday. He looks well.
A neatly-planned elopement was accidentally
frustrated at JBurwood last Tuesday evening.
The Berry Government mean to reduce the
salaries of Victorian police officers by 7i per cent.
Ann Shea, an Infirmary patient, died of syncope
on Tuesday while under the influence of anaesthetics.
The N. Z. Post Office receipts last year were
£115,680, and the expenditure and liabilities, £117,107.
A rule nisi for a new trial has been granted
in that much-litigated cause Campbell v. Commercial
Bank.
The Lingards have made a great hit at Auckland
in “Stolen Kisses." Their success in New Zealand is
assured.
Messrs. Peapes and Shaw announce in our
advertising columns the receipt of some attractive
novelties.
A rule nisi for the sequestration of Mr. G. E-
Bibbs’ estate has been granted at the instance of Mr.
Shepherd.
Eicketson and Barbour have at last settled.
The former takes over the latter’s selections, and pays
him £2,500.
100 acres of land on the Johnstone Eiver,
Queensland, are under cane, which will be ready for
crushing in Sept., 1881.
It is said that Bishop O’Quin, of Brisbane, who
has had a good many disputes with his flock of late,
has been called to Rome.
The steward of the Arawata, Henry Joseph Boss,
has been fined £5O, or six months’ imprisonment, at
Wellington, N. Z., for smuggling tobacco.
Messrs. Ashur and Falconer, of Pitt-street,
have received an order for the manufacture of all the
windows for the new St. Mary’s cathedral.
There are 817 public schools in N.Z., and no
fewer than 1,773 teachers employed in these schools, and
the average attendance for the past year was 58,738.
The finest specimen of walnut veneer we have
seen, is that on one of Messrs. Brinsmead’s open pianos
at the stores of their agents, Messrs. Eoyle and Hogg,
Bond Street.
Another river has been discovered south of
Cooktown, nine miles from Sehnapper Island. It has a
rich soil on its banks, with cedar, and it is supposed that
ebony is plentiful.
The M'lvor blacks (near Cooktown), have been
spearing cattle again. The Cooktown Herald veils
“be-l-ood!" and says it’s “sick of writing" about
“these black wretches."
People who take an interest in figures will have
an opportunity at Proctor’s lecture on Sunday evening
of ascertaining the exact number of people which the
Theatre Royal will hold.
Two new rushes have taken place on the
Temora field—one 21 miles to the eastward o:
Deutscher’s; the other about a mile beyond the dam
on the Cootamundra Hoad.
Inspector Stuart has been trying to make
Rockhampton moral. He has been living a long t l ®
at Port Douglas in the far North and is disgusted at ti*
depravity of tropical Queensland.
A printer named Talbot, whose wife keeps an
hotel, had the impudence to ask the committee n
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum the other day to acim* ■
his father to the institution named.
The Government had better look after tbd
Granville culvert, for fear the present P l 6?® 111 ?-™
water in Bergin’s Reservoir should carry away the
and perhaps the Railway embankment.
The Amelia Quartz Mining Company, upon t ®
Mary Macpherson reef on the hill to the east ot upv'
Temora is to be floated with a capital of 10,000 soar
of £1 each, 4,000 of which will be reserved.
Ayonb Khan has withdrawn from Candaharan
awaits the arrival of General Roberts who is r aP ia^ iut j l
vancing. General Phayre is advancing from the
and will probably effect a junction this week.
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of the Zulu ®
will be unfolded to the public gaze at the School oi£^ g
on Monday, September 12. One of the principal vie
is the defence of Rorke’s Drift, by W. Teltir.
The largest cargo of live stock yet imported
America has been brought by the steamer lona>.
Boston to Liverpool, consisting ot 734 cattle, wi ®
and 200 pigs. Only six animals died on the voyage.
AtJEchuca the Chinese cook of a steamboat,
i unsuccessfully attempted to shoot a woman


Newell and another Chinaman, his rival in her affec-
tions. He then tried to poison himself, but failed.
A largely-attended conference, having for its
object the making of suggestions for the proposed
municipal bill, has been sitting at the Town Hall. Mr.
A. H. Emerson, Mayor of Albury, was voted to the
chair.
Mr. Luscombe Searell, who was associated with
the first and greatest success of “ Pinafore “ in these
colonies, produces at Auckland shortly his new opera,
“ Wreck of the Pinafore.” The Lingards play in the
piece.
Moll wraith, McEachem & Co., have purchased
the splendid business of Walter Eeid & Co., of Eock-
hampton. It is most unfortunate for the Queensland
Premier that his brother should take such an interest
in the commercial affairs of the colony.
It has been suggested that the mast of the
Orpheus, now lying on the Monahan beach. New Zea-
land, should he taken to England as a relic of a
catastrophe not surpassed in naval annals for the
courage and resignation shown in connection with it.
The Ketch Rosebud has been wrecked at Boun-
tiful Island, Torres Straits. The crew was saved, but
while on the island the search party found skeletons of
fifteen white men, supposed to be a shipwrecked crew,
as there were signs of an unsuccessful search for water.
There will shortly be issued from the publisher’s
iu Brisbane an Australian edition of a lot of tables de-
termining the true meridian and latitude, which, from
their nature will, we infer, be useful to mariners and
surveyors. The author of the work in question is a
Queensland surveyor.
We are pleased to notice that Mr. L. A. Curtis,
licensed surveyor, an efficient officer lately attached to
the Surveyor-General’s Department in Sydney and who
was not long since stationed in the Armidale district,
has commenced the private practice of his profession
at the Post-office Chambers, Pitt-street, city.
Over one hundred thousand pounds was paid in
to the Queensland Customs during the week prior to
the treasurer making his financial statement. Then
when it was found that but little alteration had been
made in the tariff people declared that it was a bigger
swindle than that of the “ two majors."
The accounts at the annual meeting of the Auck-
land (N.Z.) Gas Company showed the income for the
year ending 30th June, 1880, was £19,582 0s lid, and the
expenditure, £12,204 18s Bd, which left a profit of
£6,377 3s 3d. A dividend was declared and the reduc-
tion in the price of gas is to be made in September.
Mr. Dampier concludes a very successful though
brief season at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, on
Saturday night. Mr. Sweet introduces to the Newcastle
folk the popular troupe known as M'Lean’s Juvenile
Troubadours, At the termination of his Newcastle
season, Mr. M'Lean sails with his youngsters for San
Francisco,
In the Queensland Assembly they were discus-
sing the financial position. George Thom wanted
ministers to sign a cheque for £60,000, which their
negligence had lost. Then he expressed his anxiety to
hear the member for Normanby, but directly the latter
sot on his legs, George walked out of the House wink-
ing all round.
Among the assets of the City of Glasgow Bank
was a gold reef in the Indian mines, and it now appears
that chis “ claim ” has proved very rich; indeed it is
rumoured that its product may possibly be of sufficient
value to return a moiety of the Bank’s debts, the
payment of which utterly rained so many previously
well-to-do shareholders.
The Gem Variety Troupe, which includes Gilbert,
Brett, and Graydon (late of the Loftns Troupe), and
Bennett, Boyle, and Bailey (late of the Queen’s
Theatre), have been performing at Windsor, Richmond,
and Penrith, with considerable success. They are now
travelling the Southern districts, and will probably
open at Kiama on Saturday.
Some excitement has been caused in Wagga
by the report of a reef being discovered at Man-
goplah, showing gold freely. Messrs. Hely, Moxham,
and others visited the spot aud are well pleased with
the prospects—already the line has been pegged out on
both sides of the prospectors for at least a mile. Man-
poplah is about 20 miles from Wagga,
The Egyptian Hall, George-street, has done a
first-class business since it was opened. The electric
bo.y continues a marvel, and the phenomenon still
baffles scientists. The humorists, Johnny Cowan and
Mat Eeilly give an amusing entertainment, and the
novelties to be seen round about the hall afford an
opportunity for an hour’s further entertainment.
A horrible murder has been committed on the
Kyebura, N.Z., the victim being a poor widow named
Mrs. Young, It is only equalled in atrocity by that of
the Dewars in Dunedin, supposed to have been murdered
by the notorious Butler, and as yet is involved in the
deepest mystery. A door of the house was hurst open
by large stones and knocked off its hinges. Three
stones were found inside the house from 301 b to 501 b in
weight, and two of them covered with blood.
Messrs. D. Jones and Co. have introduced a
novelty in the shape of tanned horsehides for fnmitura
covers. These hides are tanned in a splendid manner,
and are dyed in a variety of colours such as maroon,
huff, green, etc., imparting to the furniture a very ele-
gant appearance. The tanning is done in a thoroughly
artistic style, the material being made as pliant as cloth
though of the greatest durability. These are the first
of the kind imported from America. Here is a new
opening for Australian industry.
“ Saul the Orthodox, Paul the Heretic,” was
the subject of Mr. Charles Bright’s lecture at the
Theatre Eoyal last Sunday. The career of the apostle
to the Gentiles was eloquently depicted, and the first
great conflict among the early Christians, in which Paul
opposed the Judaizing tendencies of James aud Peter,
was graphically narrated. In announcing that Mr,
Proctor would lecture at the Theatre Eoyal next Sun-
day, Mr. Bright said that Freetholight would give place
to science, the two being more closely allied than the
orthodox were willing to admit.
The Victorian Parliament re-assembled on Tues-
day. Berry announced his intention to introduce a Re-
form Bill, and a measure for the abolition of plural
voting. A message was received from the Governor
recommending payment of members; Berry promised
to consider the electoral boundaries’ question ; Bowman
denounced ‘Williams as a traitor to the “Liberals;”
Longmore the Smiler and L. L. Smith alias “Don’t you
feel well?” abused Berry, the former also attacking
David Syme and the Age. Other members also spoke
acrimoniously. The question at issue was, as usual,
purely one of “ loaves and fishers,” and this perhaps is
the reason why Fisher, the violent barrister, had a
great deal to say.
Messrs. Maiden, Hill, and Clark’s Wool
Stores.
In continuation of our article on the approaching
wool season we give this week a sketch, by our
own artist, of the stores of Messrs. Maiden, Hill,
and Clark, Circular Quay. The preparations for
the expected increase in the wool receipts con-
tinue on all hands, and it may fairly be said that
at no previous time have they been in such a state
of forwardness. New warehouses have been
erected and the older ones altered or extended ;
improvements in the direction of better light and
extra facilities have been effected by a liberal
expenditure of money, and extra shipping facili-
ties have been made: and everything, in fact,
done to take advantage of the evident preference
for the Sydney market that is now manifest among
the woolgrowers of this colony and Queensland.
The stores of Messrs. Maiden, Hill, and Clark,
which are situated on the Circular Quay, and are
shown in the accompanying engraving, have
recently been extended and improved, mainly in
the great essentials of good light and facility for
the receipt and despatch of wool. The stores
have a frontage to the Circular Quay, the Custom
House Square, and to a right of way communi-
cating with Phillip-street, They are built of stone
and are throughout a solid piece of masonry.
Each store has three flats about 60 yards in length
and 20 broad. Light is obtained in front and at
the sides from windows situated at short intervals,
and at the rear there are large sunlights stretch-
ing from wall to wall. A flood of light flows
through the whole building from these windows,
and the interior of the building being painted in
the brightest colour, every wall and pillar
are as a reflector. On the uppermost floor
are situated the winding gear which is driven by
Sas power, and which operating on lifts at every
oor and doorway greatly facilitates operations in
all parts of the building. The upper flats are
used for the storage and display of wool intended
for sale, and the basement floors for the hide,
tallow and general trade. Gas is supplied to all
parts of the stores, and there is the addition of
large reflectors by means of which the whole place
is brilliantly lit up at night in the height of the
wool season. At the rear of the wool stores is
another roomy and well-lighted edifice where the
leather and hide sales are conducted, and in respect
of both these the interior arrangements are such
as to ensure a good display. At another part of
the Circular Quay the firm have secured further
extensive storage room, principally for wool in-
tended for shipment. The business of the firm,
particulars of which were given in a recent issue,
is one of the most extensive done in Sydney. It
has been rapidly built up, the success, in point of
fact speaking ef energy and great bus ness tac 1 ; of
the members of the firm.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Why do footballers swear so?
Renan hopes to visit America.
The Frank Leslie will ease is still in court.
Sir Hercules Robinson will soon be here and
away.
George Eliot has got married —and become
Cross.
Charles Bradlaugh refuses to swear. A very
commendable example.
We regret to hear that Warden De Boos has not
yet fully redbvered his health.
Menser says he lost over the go-as-you-
please tommament at Parramatta.
Young Pye, of Parramatta, goes to Melbourne
to represent the New South Wales fruit interest.
Tram-Superintendont Roberts say that for every
new line of tramway he gets an additional wrinkle.
Murdoch is courting the prettiest girl in York-
shire. “ For he is the captain, &c.,” —“ and a right good
&c.”
Officers of Naval Brigade air their cloth in
George-street after drill to the immense delight of the
fair sex.
Mr. Burt, the active secretary of the Com-
mercial Bank, looks well after his brief spell in the
country.
Sir John O’Shanassy and his friends have se-
cured seats for themselves in the Ministerial corner of
the Victorian Assembly.
Proctor was at Charles Bright’s lecture and
loudly applauded the statement that “ Science was
the master of the Bible.”
Lady Smith, wife of the Governor of Tasmania,
is sojpuraiug at Mrs. Waugh’s, Macquarie-street North,
but leaves town this week.
Sir John Robertson will be invited by the
Mudgee Railway League to turn the first sod of the
extension from Wallerawnug.
Mr. John Hurley, M.P., is at Maryborough,
Queensland. In last Wide Bay News appears a
reference to his “ beaming visage."
It has not rained in Brisbane for three months
yet John Cameron has all the time hugged that old
gingham of his under his right arm.
The other day a certain Rockhampton butcher
is alleged to have said that one of the local doctors was
“drunk." Damages have been laid by the medico at
£3,000.
Baron Maclay will soon be in Sydney. He re-
cently purchased the brains of a Chinaman who was
hung in Brisbane, and has been waiting to set and pre-
pare those of an Australian nigger hung the other
week.
At the Temperance Hall, next Tuesday evening,
Mr. Charles Bright will lecture on “ Charles Bradlangh,
Iconoclast, Reformer, Politician,’* in aid of the fund
now being formed to assist Mr. Bradlangh against
bigotry."
Hia Excellency Sir Hercnles Robinson, leaves
Wellington N.Z., for Sydney by the Eotomahana on the
4th September. Sir Hercules expects to quit this city
for Melbourne by the John Elder on 14th current, en
route for England.
A certain very rich Gympie miner laughed and
thought it an excellent joke when he heard of the death
of his mother. The same man was moved to tears
dnring the hearing of an assault case, the defendant in
which he was waiting to hail out.
James Abraham Garfield, republican candidate
for the American Presideneship, is nearly 50 years old,
and has been successively, a poor labourer, a boatman, a
sailor, a schoolmaster, a senator, and a soldier. He
was bom of very poor parents in the State of Ohio.
Matthew Arnold is now over fifty-seven years
old, and lives mostly in Loudon, with a grown-up family
about him. He is not dependent upon his pen for
support, having inherited a modest competence from
his father, the distinguished Dr. Arnold, of Eughy.
Charles Dickens’ son Charles, who has already
become distinguished for his successful bookmaking
and as the manager of a large publishing establishment,
recently had all the stock of his Dictionaries of London,
the Thames, aud the continental railways, destroyed by
fire.
A wealthy squatter residing in the Riverine
district was lately induced to take a trip to England, as
he had spent all his life in the bush. On his return to
the colony his friends were anxious to know what he
thought of England, aud upon asking his opinion were
informed,—“ That it was a nice little country, hut ail
taken op.’’
Mr. E. H. D. White, the lucky litigant, gives a
| “ mammoth picnic " at Mndgee to-day.
j There are two Sir Henry Parkeses in the world.
One (Sir Harry) is Her Majesty’s ambassador iu Japan ;
the other resides on the Blue Mountains.
Thanks to his fondness for butter. District
Court Judge Blake of Queensland, well known to the
New South Wales bar, is still the most active man on
circuit.
The gentleman who has for the last three years
j held a commission in the Queensland Volunteer Force,
| but who never would purchase a full-dress uniform, has
j resigned.
i J. A. Clarke, the artist, is engaged painting a
i bird’s-eye view of Brisbane to the order of the Queens.
| land Government. It will be shown at the Melbourne
| Exhibition.
George Pile is big on poetical quotations—he it
is who writes the elaborate advertisements whenever
a nice green space is to be spoiled by the erection of
ugly houses.
Prince Napoleon, according to a French news-
paper, now confesses to having eaten a pork chop on a
Good Friday, an achievement repeatedly denied by
zealous partisans.
It is proposed to make Walter Snelling an
honorary member for life of the Chamber of Commerce,
Brisbane, in recognition of his services as Secretary
for the x>ast ten years.
If current report speaks truly, Mr. Corry’a
reward will not end with a lift into the peerage. Some
day may see the whole of Lord Beacousfleld’s possessions
pass into his hands. 4
The Brisbane Press and Morehead M.L.A. are
having a tug of war. The Courier compares Morehead
to Meston to the disadvantage of the former! Morehead
doesn't want to play any more.
“The defence of Rorke’s Drift,” painted ex-
pressly for Her Majesty the Queen by Miss Elizabeth
Thompson (Mrs. Butler), will be one of the centres of
interest at this year’s Eoyal Acadamy.
Mr. Alexander M'Cully, educated at the Scotch
College, Melbourne, has passed the general examination
for the degree of B.A. at Trinity College, Dublin, occu-
pying the fourth place in the second class.
Mrs. Greer is to be forwarded to England, the
friends of her late husband having generously under-
taken to provide the means to send her from the colony.
She will leave the hospital in a day or two.
Our old friend Commodore Nutt, the dwarf, has,
we hear, opened a saloon in New York. It would be a
terrible temperance lecture if while drawing beer he
should fall into the glass and be drowned.
“ Ouida,” who is no longer young, is, it is said,
growing stout. She dresses neatly, loves luxury, has
been in love, talks little, and is constantly growing more
and more sarcastic about women of society.
Jemmy,” the last king of the Dabee blacks,
and whose right to the title of Native King there was
therefore none to dispnte (says the Mudgbb Ijjdbpbn-
dext), died on Tuesday week at the age of seventy-five.
An occurrence strikingly suggestive of the third
chapter of the first book of Kings occurred at Manly
Beach on Saturday night last, in the presence of a
worthy justice of the peace of that village. A child
was claimed by two men as theirs—one of the claimants
is a Victorian clergyman, and the other a Manly Beach
carpenter.—The youngster was rather roughly treated
during the dispute, hut the J.P. with Solomon-lika
wisdom in structed the resident policeman to take charge
of the child.—The issue was that the parson who had
deserted his child for nine years, proved that he was
the pater and consequently got possession. A District
Court case is likely to ensue against the father for the
nine years support of the child.
The Assembly Ball at Needs’ Rooms, hald last
Friday evening, was rathera tame affair when compared
with previous occasions. Probably people are reserving
themselves for the Union Club ball which takes plaoe
on the 10th instant, and promises to be a marked
success. Preparations of a most elaborate character
are going on, and it is probable it will be the most
brilliant affair of the season. Some of the Government
House party were present on Friday evening, including
the wife of a gallant naval captain, who was one of the
moat attractive ladies noticed in the room. Two very
pretty sisters wore black dresses with gold fringe,
which for night wear has a most pleasing effect. An
extremely dork demoiselle was attired in a pale pink
muslin, with red bands, w hich was not by any means
unbecoming, but the contrast of colours might have
been happier. A young Brisbane lady dressed in white,
—always a becoming attire—was greatly admired.
Dancing continued until midnight, when the pro-
ceedings terminated, as is usual with the Assembly
Balls, which, it may be remarked, are never so lively as
they might be made.
The oldest member of the N.Z. Legislative
Council, Lieut. Colonel William Henry Kenny, died on
August 17th at his residence, Ponsonby, Auckland. Ha
came to the colony in 1847 in charge of one of the four
MESSES. MAIDEN, HILL, AND CLARK’S WOOL STORES


parties of military pensioner settlers sent out by the
English Government in consequence of the war of 1845.
George Lansell, the Sandhurst quartz-king, who
is a great employer of labour, and is therefore
hated by the Victorian “ Liberals," gives £lOOO to the
Bendigo Hospital as an annnal birthday donation. He
has just given £lOOO towards the Hospital for Incur-
ables which Mrs. Austin so generously proposes to
build.
When Mr. Stephen, Q.C., had spoken for an
hour and a half on Monday morning last Sir James
Martin interrupted him with the query, “ Excuse me,
Mr. Stephen, but what is all this a! oat P" Mr. Stephen
looked up at their Honors, shifted his wig in a per-
plexed manner, and whispered to Mr. Darley, “I havn’t
the faintest idea."
Mrs. Mulock-Craik, the author of “John Halifax,
Gentleman," is described as being a thoroughly English-
looking woman, rather above the middle age, with lovely
grey eyes, and a plain attire. She is not at present
writing anything. She says her husband and daughter
occupy all her time; and adds, “I think the public has
had enough of my books."
Commenting on Sir Henry Parkes’ celebrated
oration at the complimentary dinner to the Bishop of
Newcastle, The Australasian says“ We cannot re-
member any occadon on which the astute premier ex-
celled the adroitness and self-confidence which he ex-
hibited in so gracefully skating over what he must have
felt to be very thin ice indeed."
A copy of a painting to be found at the present
day in the Hampton Court collection—a representation
of Venus lying on a couch after taking the bath—has
been selected by the Fine Arts Committee of Mel-
bourne Internationa], to the great annoyance of Mr.
Fergusson, one of the Commissioners, who, says the
Australasian, has been considerably “ chaffed" on his
pradery.
Mr. Justice Harding, the Sir Redmond Barry
of the Queensland Bench, had before him lately two
prisoners who pleaded guilty, the one to stealing a
horse, and the other to stealing a watch. His Honor
got them mixed up, and sentenced them vice versa, until
the error was pointed out to him, when he apologised
to the prisoners, one of whom exclaimed, “ Don’t
mention it."
The member for Mitchell (Queensland) is the son
of a most respectable and respected colonist of New
South Wales. Yet Morehead of Queensland only dif-
fers from M'Elhone as a legislator inasmuch as, though
equally coarse and violent and equally ready to abuse
his privilege as a member of Parliament in order to
gratify his personal feelings, he never even by chance
does any good.
Prince Bismarck is more than six feet three
inches high, and is by no means thin. He wears a uni-
form, and the lappels of his coat, of a bright yellow,
overspread his immense chest. He writes at his desk
nearly all night long, and then he sleeps until about
noon. He likes to sleep with street uoises about him.
Ho has ia his study portraits of Moltke, Beaconsfield,
and King Humbert.
The marriageable ladies of Rockhampton are, in
the words of an old Northerner, “ considerably on the
look-out" just now, for rumour has it that the junior,
partner of a celebrated shipping firm is about coming
to reside in the city of mosquitoes. The demoiselles
have therefore entered themselves for the grand matri-
monial handicap—prize, the said junior partner and
“ big money ” added.
Victor Hugo’s hats have commenced a career
among historical cariosities already. At a recent sale
in Brussels a straw hat formerly worn by the author of
Les Miserable# brought 17 francs. It belonged to Mr.
Camille Barru, proprietor of L'lndependance Belqe.
with whom Victor Hugo exchanged hats in 1870. The
purchaser was a Melbourne gentleman who has just
returned to Victoria.
Mrs. Fred Marshall's dress in the last scene of
the “ Turn of the Tide " is extremely rich and costly.
It is of black velvet, the flounces trimmed with
three rows of rich bullion lace, and the sleeves, which
are long, puffed with old gold satin, together with a
beautiful lace collar, worn over the shoulders and made
square. This dress is the most superb which has been
noticed among the many elegant costumes of the
company.
Professor Tyndall, in his last article, says that
the emotions of man are older than his understanding,
and that the poet who brightens, purifies, and exalts
those emotions may claim a position in the world at
least as high and well assumed ns that of the man of
science, because he ministers to different but equally
pennant-nt needs of human nature. The man of science,
he thinks, will never be able to destroy the glory of the
lilies of the field.
Mr. John Cuthbertson, for three years editor
and part proprietor of the Peak Downs Telegram, died
on 22nd inst. of asthma, aged about forty-five He was
formerly a member of the staff of the Brisbane
Courier and was subsequently attached to the staffs of
the Rockhampton papers. Mr. Cuthbertson was un-
married, bnt, in the words of the Dailt Northern
Argus, he leaves behind him many friends who will
lament his sadden removal from among them.
Ketten has left off horses. Some people are
mean enough to say that the last horse left him off—
absolutely refused to wear him any longer—but we don’t
believe it. The great musician now does the block in
the company of a magnificent dog, for which, it’s said,
he gave £3O. However, the people admire the dog so
much that Ketten, it’s stated, is growing jealous of him
and is about to dismiss him in favor of some animal
which won’t be the means of bringing about invidious
comparisons.
The elderly-admirer nuisance is becoming in-
tolerable in Sydney. Only last week a young lady was
followed from Sydney as far as Glebe Point by a
venerable fossil, whose persistent attentions it was
impossible to shake off. Another of the same class, who
sports gold rimmed spectacles, carries a malacca cane,
and is fast approaching the petrified state, followed a
lady almost into her house at Darlinghurst a few even-
ings ago. Judge Lynch will look into these little
matters, shortly.
Ladies who wear Jersey bodices at concerts and
on all inappropriate occasions should invent some way
of finding out the exact condition of the garment after
sitting, or, indeed, after any pose save standing. A
lady coming ont from one of K«ten’s recitals the other
evening, and who wore a black jersey, was walking in
blissful ignorance of the fact that this manly garment had
turned up at the back, and revealed all the wondrous
machinery of clothing underneath. We mention this
as a mild caution.
An old colonist named Armstrong died at Kianm
last week at the great age oL about 107 years. He was
an Irishman and for several years after his arrival in
the colony fanned at Mangeston Grange, Wollongong.
About 30 years since he bought a farm near Kiama, and
resided there until his de&th. Until very recently he
used to ride about Kiama, and he married a second time
when on the verge of the century, his wife being his
junior by an ordinary lifetime. He was highly respected
as also are his many decendonts.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, in his capacity of presi-
dent of the Exhibition Commission, gave another of
his dinners last Thursday evening, at Menzies’ Hotel,
Melbourne. Mr. Clarke is celebrated for his dioners.
He obtains the blessi g of the increasing number who
fail to see the point of the sort of speeches and “ He’s
a jolly good fellow" harmony that, as a rule, obtain on
these occasions. At a “ Clarke dinner" you have, first,
the most rechercM spread obtainable, and second, a
musical entertainment by the best talent to be had in
the city. The judgment that decided upon securing
this first-class “ native" as president of the Exhibition
was unquestionably good.
For the authenticity of the subjoined elegant
specimens of the art of polite letter writing an in-
fluential correspondent vouches. All names are
suppressed for obvious reasons:—Sydney, August 27th
_lBBo. Dear S'r —My wife, myself and daughter, are
invited to the Mercantile Rowing Club affair to-morrow.
To make a creditable appearance it only necessitates my
wearing one of your frock coats, which would admirably
suit me. Thanking you for past favours (and if you
can) for this I remain yours truly, . “ The
addressee of the above, who is located in York-street,
replied thus: —“The long continuance of the winter
season necssitates my personal use of my frock coat, and
as much uncertainty must necessarily exist as to the
state of the weather on the coming festive day you
allude can only come to the conclnsion that it
would be imprudent for me to lend you my coat and
make shift for myself."
“Gorgeous Fred” (Cooper) wrote the Cook-
town folk that Macrossan was the ** first statesman in
Queensland." Fred meant the first statesman who
trusted him to frame Parliamentary Williams and paid
him out of the Treasury tor doing it—for coopering
Government casks.
Mr. Francis E. Abbot, the talented conductor
of the Boston Index, whose writings have many ad-
™H| erB in Australia, has, in consequence of the financial
difficulties of his paper, retired from the editorship.
Mr. W. J. Potter succeds him.
.Morehead, M.L.A. of Queensland, talks about
P J ess aB “cowardly stabbers in the
«Tp..uT he °. th v r da T, u ? der protection of the privilege
of Parliament, he called a pressman in the reporters'
P 1 3? “big a rogue as any in the country.” Here-
fused to repeat the statement outside the House
Count Wilhelm Bismarck, son of the great
Chancellor, has just made his maiden speech in the
German Parliament. He resembles his father in
appearance, and also in his manner of speaking—his
rather hoarse voice, his pauses in the midst of his sen-
tences, and his energetic but unvaried gestures.
James R. Dickson, ox-Colonial Treasurer,
Queensland, and the would-be-leader of the Opposition
is styled by the youngsters ou the Ministerial benches
“The organ grinder," because his speeches are long
drawn ont and very monotonous.
Among other exhibits for Melbourne Interna-
tiona!, which arrived by the John Elder, there is a
portrait of the late Charles Summers, sculptor, painted
i Miss Thomas. This picture was accepted
S , ® Committe of the Royal Academy for
the last Exhibition, but was not bung for want of space.
The large New Zealand towns are at Drese-nf
blessed with many new chums in a very “ hard .. ■ •
condition. A young “cornstalk," now resident •
Christchurch, writes over to a Sydney friend earing
that almost every evening he is accosted bv v0,.nl
Englishmen, newly arrived, who tell him that thev iTrf
unable to obtain work of any kind, and are destitute
He says that he knows more than one instance in whifG,'
really respectable young fellows, usually clerks w.
had to sell their clothes for the purpose of “ cairvtef
on the war.” v in s
Poor old Lockett, whose name is familiar to
Victorian Pressmen, has just died in Melbourne Hb
was best known daring his career on the staff of the
Ballarat Star, and latterly was engaged in metropolitan
journalism. He was greatly respected, had a moat
gemal disposition, and was noted for his fund of old no.
ionial reminiscences. Times were not too blooming
with him during the twilight of his career, but some of
his old comrades of the Press had the satisfaction, of
smoothing to some extent the roughness of the track
towards the end of his journey.
Rockhampton is “ on the rampage ” just now
Her people are so full of gossip that they fight shy of
their “ grub and look sideways at Boucicault’s beer
A well-known squatter went into town a day or two
before the races to interview his agent and bank
manager. After getting through his arduous task he
dined sumptuously at his hotel and then prowled
around. There were several metallicians staying- in
town, and Mac., who fancies he is a whole team and a
big dog under the waggon at cards, came across one of
them and proposed a game of crib. The game went on
and Mac. dropped £4O and then gave up for the night
Next morning before breakfast he was at this “book”
to play again. At it they went until Mac. found he had
lost £370. In his high and mighty style he drew a
cheque for “the dust," and then quietly posted off to
the Bank to stop the precious document. The lawyers
are mixed up in the affair now.
For the marriage of Mr. E. Chimside iun
with Miss A. Ware (daughter of Mr. Joseph Ware of
Minjah, Caramut, Victoria) which takes place at Min
jah to-day (Thursday, 2nd September), great prepara-
tions have, we leam, been made. On one of the peaks
of Sugarloaf, a spur of the Mount William Range an
enormous beacon fire is to bo lighted, which it is expected
will be seen for a great distance across the plains should
the night be clear. A large number of men have been
employed on the Mount dragging timber in a most
enthusiastic manner to the site of the great bonfire and
a number of tar barrels have been placed on the pile to
secure the rapid spread of the flames to the whole of
the heap. Two large fortunes are joined by this wed-
ding, which will be one'of the grandest yet celebrated in
Victoria. The bride.is a charming young lady, and for
her, so far as can be judged by mortals, no more suitable
partner could be found than the plucky young horse-
man “Bob."
The dress circle of the Theatre Royal presented
a somewhat sombre appearance on last Saturday night.
Most of the ladies’ toilettes were of an extremely
quiet description, and black was in a great mauy
instances worn. Notwithstanding the variety of ways
in which dark costumes may be brightened with jet and
beads, this time of year calls for gayer hues and more
lively effects than can be produced in cases where the
funereal colour prevails. Two extremely pretty cos-
tumes were noticed. One, worn by a young lady, a
stranger in Sydney, consisted of a black velvet dress,
with long sleeves and lace cuffs, scarlet satin sailor
collar, puffed between gold braid, with a necklet of large
pearl beads, and a single diamond ornament in the hair,
which was of a rich brown colour. The other (a married
lady) wore a cream coloured cashmere dross, trimmed
with crimson silk and Languedoc lace, a white llama
jacket trimmed with swandown, with also a single
ornament in a wealth of auburn hair.
Mr. Read, the ingenious and genial chief clerk
of the Supreme Court, has one fanlt—we don’t know
that he has more than one—he is not a brilliant elocu-
tionist. He belies his name in fact, for though a good
Read he is a bad reader, or, to be Yankeefied for a
moment, “ readist.” On Monday' he was entrusted with
the delightful task of reading out to the Court the
Evening News article re Judge Windeyer, and to those
who then for the first time heard this now historic
impeachment the beautifully-turned sentences and
polished invective of the Pitt-street scribe sounded
dreadfully monotonous and thoroughly harmless. In
fact Mr, Read’s recital of “ Windeyer’s woes " did
nearly as much to take out of the article any sting it
might have contained as did the depressing oration sub-
sequently delivered by Mr. M. H. Stephen towards killing
the respondent’s case. In future some distinguished
tragedian—George Darrell, say—should be employed
by the Court to recite “contempts" with proper
emphasis.
Mr. Roland Ferrers Pickering (“Nemo’’),
known to _his numerous friends and enemies as
“Roly,” is just now the most severely persecuted man
in New South Wales. It is almost impossible for him
to walk a dozen steps without being asked “What’s
going to win ?” and what he thinks about Geraldine,
Sweetmeat, or some other nag. This is how people
have been treating him: —“ What’s going to win the
Guineas, Roly ?” “ Kamilaroi, I think,” says the great
authority. “Really?" “Yes." says Roly. “Now,
like a good fellow," continues his friend, “don’t you
know something quite straight and certain —something
strictly private and confidential—now, like a good fel-
low you know, on the strict QT, of course." Answers
Roly, sternly, and flourishing the Malacca cane the
while, “ D’ye think I publish one opinion and carry
another about in my pocket ? D’ye think I’m goipg to
spoil my professional reputation by writing up horse
number oue and talking np horse number two ? If you
w aut to back my private opinion back my published
one." Roly, who has by this time got very red, says
“ Good day,” and marches off, wearing his hat as far
over his ear as does an artilleryman. From all this
the moral will be gathered that when “ Nemo " looks
red it’s not safe to ask him for a tip.
Mr. Harley is to be congratulated on the speech
made by him on Monday in the Windeyer cum Evening
News case. Comparisons they say, are odions, but it
must still be said that the vigorous manner in which
the learned gentleman forced on the Court his keenly
logical and pointed observations afforded a marked
contrast to the rather weak utterances of the counsel
who preceded him, and proved a genuine treat for those
who had come to see the fun. Mr. Darley's speech
was one of a kind which somehow or other only
big-beaded broad-framed men seem capable of uttering.
The battle seemed to have been lost, and won until the
hjg-headed Darley rose to address the big-headed Sir
Jatoes. A man may have a hatchet face and wear a thin
beard in Equity and still be successful, but to make in
the first place a successful advocate and in the next a
popular judge, one must have the big frame and broad
good-natured countenance so indissolubly associated
with the names of Martin, Manning, Molesworth,
Butler, Dailey, Ireland, Aspinall, Dunne, and other great
advocates, most of whom we grieve to say, have passed
away. We are in these days running short of what may
be called the “ Daniel O’Connell" class of lawyers. The
most pressing want of Sydney at the present time is
one more clever advocate with a good temper and a big
head.
This is how the Fiji Aegtts gushes concerning
the recent big divorce case at Levuka, in which the co-
pispondent, tin Fijian Attorney-General, was mulcted
in £l,OOO damages:—“ This national sanctuary has
been invaded, that venerable divinity has been violated,
and its tenderest pledges torn from their shrine by the
polluted rapine of a kindless, heartless, prayerless, re-
morseless adulterer. With all the grossness of vice, a
mean, muffled, dastard incendiary, in the silence of
sleep and in the shades of midnight steals his Ephesian
torch into the fane, which it was virtue to adore, and
worse than sacrilege to have violated. With the ser-
pent’s wile and the serpent's wickedness, the adulterer
stole into the Eden of domestic life, and turned her
virtue into pitch, and out of her goodness made the net
that should enmesh her, poisoning all that was pure,
polluting all that was lovely, defying God, destroying
man; a demon in the disguise of virtue, a herald of hell
in the paradise of innocence; with just head enough to
contrive crime, hut not enough heart to feel for the con-
sequences." All this may bo very true; and if so all
that can be said is that here for the first time we find
truth conveyed in language which is “the height of
gorgeosity," as Mark Twain would say. It’s quite a pity
that the Fijian scribe didn’t think of making some
slight reference to the case of Tarquin, which would
have enabled him to finish off the article properly. To
anyone acquainted with Levukan people and journalism
the foregoing cannot fail to afford the most intense
amusement. There are some people in Sydney who
have the pleasure of knowing that paragon of virtue, the
editor of the Figi Argus.
MR. S. H. TERRY, M.P. (SEE PAGE 12.)
A Candidate for Young.
He came out for Young,
With his ah! ah!
But he couldn’t get a show,
Lily, lily, li lo.
Onee there was a Crow:
Lily, lily, li lo!
He perched upon a fence.
With his quah! quah!


Government Advertisements
G
Department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, August 26,1880.
OVERNMENT RAILWAYS
GREAT SOUTHERN, WESTERN, and
RICHMOND LINES.
DESPATCH OP GOODS.
In consequence of the opening of new lines necessita-
ting the starting of Goods Trains from Sydney at an
earlier hour than at present, the public are informed
that on and after SEPTEMBER 1 all goods for stations
south of Goulburn must be delivered at Redfern station
not later than 12.30 p.m., and for stations west of Ba-
thurst, not later than 1 p.m. daily.
Goods received after these hours will NOT be FOR-
WARDED until the following day.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
Department of Public Works, Railway Branch.
Sydney, August 26,1880.
gj.OYEENMENT RAILWAYS.
OPENING OP GREAT SOUTHERN LINE
TO GEROGERY.
NOTICE is hereby given that on and after September
1, 1880, a further length of the Great Southern Railway
from Wagga Wagga to Gerogery, being a distance of 59
miles, will be Opened for the conveyance of passengers,
goods and live stock.
The mail train leaving Sydney at 7.30. p.m. will run
through to Gerogery, arriving there at 11 a.m.; and to
enable passengers from Sydney to catch the afternoon
train to Melbourne, the Victorian Railway Department
has made arrangements for the train which at present
leaves Wodonga at 3.5 p.m. leaving at 4 p.m., and arriv-
ing in Melbourne at 11.30 p.m., thus accomplishing the
through journey in 28 hours.
The first train will leave Sydney for Gerogery at 7.30
p.m., on Tuesday, the 31st instant.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
IST OF NEW PUBLICATIONS ON SALE
at the
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, Viz:—
The Crown Lands Acts and Regulations. New Edition.
Price, Is. 6d.; by post, Is. 9d,
The Stamp Duties Act, 1880, with Regulations. Price,
Is.; by podk. Is- Id-
Electoral Act, 1880. Price, Is. 9d.; by post, 2a.
Public Instruction Act and Regulations. Price, Is.; by
post. Is. Id.
Pastures and Stock Protection Act. Price, 6d.; by
post, 7d.
Report on certain Museums for Technology, Science,
and Art, by Archibald Liversidge, Esq. Price, 75.;
by post, Bs. 6d.
Report on Lighting, Heating, and Ventilation of School
Buildings, by Edward Coombes, C.M.G., M.P.
Price, 7s. 6d.; by post, 9s.
Report and Evidence on Fisheries of New South Wales.
Price, 55.; by post, 6s.
The Railway Tourist Guide of New South Wales,
with illustrations. Price, 55.; by post, 6s
Plants Indigenous in the neighbourhood of Sydney, by
W. Woolls, Ph. D., F.L.S. Price, Is. 6d.; by post.
Is. 9d.
Results of Rain and River Observations made in New
South Wales during 1879, with Map, by H. C.
Russell, 8.A., F.R.A.S. Price, Is.; by pose. Is. 2d.
Results of Meteorological Observations made in New
South Wales during 1875, by H. C. Russell, 8.A.,
F.R.A.S. Price, Is. fid.; by post, Is. 9d.
Manual for Clerks of Petty Sessions, by T. E. Mac-
Nevin, Esq. Price, 205.; by post, 21s. 4d.
The Orchids of Australia—Part V. Price, 255.; by
post, 265.
Bine Book for 1879. Price, 55.; by post, 6s.
Bligh Reserves, from December, 1861, to 31st December,
1879. Price, Is.; by post, Is. 6d.
Postal Guide—Quarter ending September. Price, Is.
fid.; by post Is. lOd.
Oliver’s New Edition of the Statutes of New South
Wales (two volumes ready). Price of the work, £5
55.; by post, £5 12s.
The Acts and Ordinances of Fiji. £2 25.; by post, £2
3s. 9d.
THOS. RICHARDS,
Government Printer.
Sydney, 13th August, 1880.
B
ARGAINS. BARGAINS. BARGAINS,
BARGAINS at W. B. CAMPBELL’S
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
George street.
Visitors and intending Purchasers are requested to call
early and inspect the vast display of furniture,
all marked with plain figures, and at unusually
low prices.
Some of the Bargains are as follows: —
No 1, a SUITE OF FURNITURE consisting of Spring
Seated Couch and six (6) Spring-Seated Chairs,
covered with green, crimson, or maroon rep, for
£6 10s
If with Gent’s and Lady’s easy chairs, £lllos.
No. 2, DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, consisting of Couch,
six (6) small chairs and 2 easy chairs. Walnut
frames, covered with green, crimson, or maroon
rep, £l4 10s.
Ho. 3, a nice DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, consisting of
nine (9) articles, covered with cretonne, is also
worthy of notice; price £l9.
No. 4, a complete Horsehair DINING-ROOM SUITE,
consisting of Spring-Seated couch, six (6) Spring
• Seated Chairs, Gont.’s and Lady’s Easy Chairs, for
£lllos.
No. 5, a Mahogany DINING-ROOM SUITE, consisting
of Couch, six (6) small chairs, and two easy chairs,
all spring-seats, covered with roan leather, £22 10s.
No. 9, SUITABLE SUITE for the coming season, con-
sisting of a nice cane Lounge, and six (6) cane-
seated chairs to match, £5 ss.
Carpets, various patterns. 2s 6d per yard.
Hearth Rugs, to match, 5s fid, 8s fid, 12s fid, &c.
Oilcloths, various patterns, for rooms, libraries, pas-
sages, halls, Ac.
Door Slip, Door Mats, 2s, 2s fid. &c., &c.
Gilt Frame Pierglasses, stout British plate, 355, £2 17s
fid, £3 10s, £4, and upwards.
Marble Slab Chiifonieres with plate glass buck., and
doors, for £7 10s.
Cedar Chiffonieras. 3 feet 0, for £2 15s.
Cedar Chiffoniere Safes. £1 2s 6d.
DINING TABLES,
6 feet i 4 feet Oval Dining Tables, with pine top and 4
inch cf dar legs, £llos.
5 feet i 3 feet 6, Oval Dining Table, with Pine Top and
3£inch Cedar Legs, £l2s fid.
4 feet x 3 feet Square Table, with Pine Top and Cedar
Legs, 12a 61.
Bedsteads and all kinds of bedding, at unequalled
prices.
Marble Slab, half Circle, 3 feet Washstand, with green
and gold Toilet set, the whole reduced to £2 Bs.
Toilet Table, with drawers, and swing glass attached,
with washstand to match, £3 10s the pair.
A large assortment of single and double toilet sets, at
considerably reduced prices.
Washstand with large size Toilet set 15s; remarkably
cheap
Towel Rail Cedar Washstand, 12s fid.
Chests of Drawers, £1 15s.
Cedar seven (7) Drawer Chests of /DRAWERS, £3 3s,
£3 10s, &c., &c.
Pay a visit to the show rooms up stairs, where you will
find
BARGAINS in DOMESTIC GLASSWARE,
BARGAINS in ELECTRO-PLATE O WARE,
and a splendid assortment of vases, dinner services,
dessert services, tea services, at prices to suit
everbody.
All goods are marked with plain figure prices, from
which there is no abatement.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426, George-street, Sydney.
N.B.—ASK FOR THE PRINTED HOUSE LISTS.
Election Notices
James Crittenden
J. G. Clack
P. Cahaleu
W. Cable
J. N. Cantor
Charles Cooper
Daniel Cooke
Henry Cross
Michael Conroy
Matthew Coonan
James Clark
Matthew Connors
W. Carty
Michael Cunningham
M. Cummins
H. Clack
Lewis Cohen
P. Cunninghame
M. C. Colyer
Robert Cork
G. G. Caird
Donald C. Commins
T. E. Cansdell
Predk. M. Darley
W. W. Dean
Joseph Davis
Robert Dyoson
Jas. Dwyer
J. Durham
Prank B. Dixon
H. Dorhaner
A. Downs
H. P. Dixon
Geo. M. Dunn
C. Dorhauer
David Doyle
Edward Daniel
John Dyason
Samuel Donaldson
J. L. Dunokuer
A. Donaldson
P. Dwyer
W. Doyle
W. Donaldson
W. G. E. Drake
John Doyle
Peter Doyle
P. Dawson
Charles Day
James Doyle
Andrew Drysdale
Edward Doran
T. Denohey
Luke Dunn
Robert C. Dawson
W. Deacon
Thomas Davis
G. Davidson
C. Day
W. Down
Q. Donaldsone
Pras. J. Doddemeade
Neville Dowling
William Druitt
M. Daly
R. H. Denna
M. Da Lissa
Edward Eggleton
Walter R. Evennett .
William Edward
William Evans
James Eve
J. England
W. Jas. Ellis
Walter Eyles
George Evans
W. Edwards
W. Emerson
Thomas Ellen
J. W. Eedy
E. Evans
William Evans
Anthony Eagleton
—Edmonds
A. G. Edwards
William Edwards
James East
S. Elliott
E. Elliott
Jehu Eedy
John Frazer
John Fletcher
J. Fitzgerald
W. Fletcher
A. Freeman
Richard Fennelly
William Ford
James Ford
A. Frazer
Herbert J. Ferguson
B. Foreman
C. Foreman
E. Fesq
Mort. Maloney
Thomas Maloney
Thos, R. Martin
J. Meehan
George M. Miller
Thomas Mackay
William Mackay
James Mackay
G. Macdounell
Chas. Mae Guinness
H. M'Auliffe
W. B. M'Leuehan
P. Malone
Joseph Marshall
W. Jr Martin
John Mae Guinness
H. H. Massie
J. S. Mitchell
John M'Kenzie
Wm. Mason
R. C. Macpherson
Thomas Morrissey
John M'Master
John Mills
T. M'Govem
E. Miner
Kenneth M'Kenzie
Mitchell
J. M'Bride
S. Morcomb
Peter M'Hugh
S. F. Mellin
H. Miller
Thomas B. Mowle
John Martin
James Norton
W. Navin
Joseph Newton
William Northcote
F. Newsham
Thomas Newman
Thomas Nailon
John Nailon
Christopher Newton
John Newton
W. Nesbitt
E. Newman
W. H. Nixon
T. Nixon
Samuel Neale
J. Hubert Newman
O. E. NewmanJl
Thomas Nayle
James North
Thomas Nott, M.D.
H. H. Quid
J. O’Toole
C. R. Ord
Joseph Ohlback
M. O’Connell
John O’Dowd
J. O’Neill
P. O’Keefe
Joseph Oates
P. O’Brien
E. O’Connell
John Oliver
Patrick O’Carroll
Patrick O’Corroll, jun,
Joseph D. O’Carroll
Michael O’Carroll
E. E. A. Oatley
F. A. Oatley
Robert Oliver
W.F. O’Grady
J. Lang
G. E. Labertouche
E. Lyons
Charles Lake
George Long
Robert Lees
Claude H. Lyons
0. H. Lewis
O. H. Lewis, jun.
Samuel Lazar
Samuel Lyons
Abraham Lazarus
D. Lamb
J. W. Lynch
James Lockwood
John Lookwood
Matthew Lockwood
Henry Lockwood
George Lloyd
John Landors
Thomas Lecke
James Loutit
James Little
G. Lord
D. Lynch
John Logue
R. Livingstone
Stephen W. Law
John Law
Sydney Law
James Lees, jun,
Wm. Lees
A. Long
Robert Lamonfc
Henry Lambert
H. Lawson
John Lawn
C. Lake
F. Lecke
Chas. B. Lamb .
Thos. J. Leclare
Stephen Leolare
J. T. Langstaff
ooseph Lawler
Charles Lutton
Jno. Macpherson
W. M Dowell
B. Milos
Geo- Miller
Geo. Muir
Geo. Muir, jun.
John Muir
Thomas M'Nevin
Edward Montgomery
W. P. Monkhouse
W. H. Monkbouse
Julius Montedore
C. Monks
Aaron Maclean
Chas. Maclean
Samuel Matohett
W. M’Guiro
A. Moon
P. Meehan
Jas. M'Laughlin
John M'Laughlin
John M'Enerney
Alfred Mildwater
Jas. M'Kennar
J. Moore
George Munro
D. Mitchell
Redmond Marshall
James Mitchell
William Matchett
D. Clark M'Laughlin
Lewis M'Dowell
John Mahoney
Joseph M'Neilly
E. M'Donald
Edwin Manderson
F. Mildwater
John M'Qrath
J. M'Veigh
M. M'Cracken
Wm. Mortimer
M. Maloney
Hngh Moore
James Maloney
James Malham
Samuel Malham
John Morris
J. W. M'Cutcheon
Edward M'Leod
George M'Leod
Wm. Monckton
Wm. Matthews
D. Morris
Alex. M'Donald
E. Markey
B. Mountstephen
J. H. Maddooks
Stephen Morris
J. Morris
J. D. Mid son
Patrick Rogers
John Robins
Geo. Thomas Robinson
Lawrence Ryan
W. Rollinflon
J. Richardson
W. Rickett
W. H. Rickett
Staunton Spain
George Skinner
James Scotland
H. Stockham
J. Seabrook
W. C. Shorland
C. Soul
Washington Soul
H. W. Stroug
J. H. Strong
Patrick Saiutrey
G. R. Sircom
Robert Sands
J. Stephens
John Smith
C. Shipton
E. Shipton
J. A. Smith
D. M. Stuart
J. South
H. A. Scott
W. M. Spear
J. Snow
L. St Aubyn
C. B. Stephen
George Selway
George Shaw
Samuel Steel
Alexander Shaw
James Sampson
A. S. Stewart
J. W. Stewart
Walter Stafford
W. Stainward
W. Stainward, junr.
Wensley Spahor
R. P. Simpson
Phillip Stephenson
J. Sewell
John Starkey
John Short land
Francis Seaunk
Miehael Shine
J. Slattery
G. B. Simpson
James Scott
Henry Shipton
T. Swain
William Searle
J. R. Smith
Thomas Steel
Henry Sidney Smith
Robert Stewart
John Stewart
A. Shipton
F. H. Smee
Alexander Sellar
J. Slater
W. Sannders
W. Swiney
John Steadman
Thomas J. Southern
Richard E. Symonds
John Shearwin
F. M. Sigmont
Donald Q. Steward
E. P. Simpson
Alfred W. Sladen
Election Notices
H. J. Pitt
George Prince
Joseph Pearkes
R. O. Powys
Henry Price
W. J. Palmer
Robert Pitcairn
Y. S. Pennington
E. Pennington
W. Pennington
George Pickering
George Pickering, juu
James Pickering
John Pickering
Alfred Pickering
T. Patterson
D. Purcell
J. Paterson
Alfred Paterson
John Powell
Charles Porter
John Purcell
T. Pascoe
Edwin Pierce
Henry Pierce
John Patterson
Robert Parsons
J. Pike
W. J. Peters
Patrick Page
J. Powell
John W. Plumb
W. T. Potter
James Powell
Edward Paterson
Austen J. Pawley
W. Pepper
H. Pottinger
George Pikes
Donald Peape
Henry Pearce
D. Parker
John Pepper
John W. Peters
James Pringle
W. Pritchard
Robert Quinsey
James Quigley
James Quirk
Thomas Quinn
Patrick Quigley
Charles Richardson
J. Roakes
J. Radford
Chas. D. Rainsford
Boles R. Rainsford
John Rainsford
W. Ridley
Daniel Riley
J. Robinson
John Rush
T. C. Robinson
Thomas Robinson
Charles Clay Rush
Herbert Raymond
A. L. Ritchie
John Ryan
Wm. C. Richards
Henry Richards
John Ridmond
M. Rogers
O. Regan
Thomas Rowling
H. H. Rowsell
W. Richards
Nicholas Regan
James Regan
James Regan, jun.
R. Heading,
William Roberts
C. W. Roberts
A. L. Ritchie
William Richards
Henry Richards
A. Renwick
Henry Rogers
W. Randle
M. Robinson
S. Ryall
John Robins
Henry Ryall
J. T. Richard
John Ryan
Lawson Robinson
Cornelius J. Ryan
John Robert Rundle
John S. Richardson
Donald Rees
Darid Stewart
Thomas Smith
David Saul
H. Slattery
S. Taylor
James H. Tisdale
E. Truscott
Henry Tillagh
A. Hill Trevor
M. A. Thompson
W. G. Tayler
A. Ternooth
H. Thornton
John Tierney
Herbert S. Thompson
Samuel Thompson
George Threft
William Townsend
William Taylor
G. C. Tuting
D, H. Trader
J. Tait
J. Thompson
W. Tottadell
Joseph Trappel
Thomas Tobin
John Thomson
J. J. Teece
A. Tndehope
J. Tobin
Jacob Theiss
H. W. Thackeray
W. Treble
W. Taylor
Samuel Thomas
Arthur Taylor
H. C. Usher
Toh Unngerberhler
Walter Vogan
Robert Vise
J. Van Heekeren
Samuel Vickery
T. Vogan
E. Watson
J. Wahl
William Westbrook
George Williams
W. H. Walker
A. Wagner
W. P. Welch
W. Whitehead
J. H. Want
George Woods
Ang. H. Wilson
A. Windeyer
John Webster
John Winning
R. Westaway
George Wright
Robert Warner
Edward Wrench
A. Wingrave
H. Windrom
P. Webster
C. Wandy
A. Walker
Q, F. Want
Thomas Welch
George Whymark
Francis White
G. H. Wright
W. White
A. Willis
Andrew T. Whitelaw
A. West
W. G. Waters
E. White
P. Ward
J. B. Wallace
Patrick Wholohan
T. B. Walcot
Q. Williams
T. C. Wallis
W. Winehcome
C. J.*Wallis
J. V. Wareham
John Woods
J. Walker
George S. Yarnton
B. Yeomans
T. Youag
George Young
Thomas Young
To the ELECTORS of PADDINGTON.
Gehtlbmhn. —I have very great pleasure in complying
with your influential requisition, which has been so
generally signed throughout the whole of this important
electorate.
It is most gratifying to me to know that I possess
the confidence of so large a body of my fellow-electors,
and that my efforts for the public good have so far met
with approval as to elicit your request that I should
represent yonr electorate in the new Parliament.
Should I he elected as one of the representatives of
Paddington, I shall indeed esteem it an honour, and
will carry out the trust to the best of my ability.
Yours obediently,
W. J. TRICKETT.
Woollahra, August 18, 1880.
Horses and Vehicles
K
EAEEY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS.
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
GLASS O N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habeis-stbeet, off Geoboe-stbeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would heg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
B.
H E L . L T E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
R,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
Election Notices
EQUISITION.
ELECTORATE OF PADDINGTON.
To W. J. TRICKETT, Esq.,
Mayor of Woollahra,
Halverston, William-st., Woollahra.
Dsab Sie, —*
In conformity with the new Electoral Act, which pro-
vides for the eleotion by this Electorate of Two Mem-
bers to Parliament, we respectfully request you will
allow yourself to be nominated a Candidate for a seat in
the Legislative Assembly in our interests ; and, in the
event of your acceding to onr wishes, we pledge ourselves
to exercise all legitimate means in our power to secure
yonr return.
Charles Artlett
Charles Artlett, jnn.
J. Alcock
Joseph Andrew
A. Allen
Alfred Allen
Thomas O. Acton
Robert Adams
F. Ayres
C. T. Anderson
Charles D. Alexander
James Alexander
A. Armstrong
Eugene Arnold
John Ahern
Charles Andrews
W. G. Anslow
Archd. Ashdown
Ernest Ashdown
William Armytage
John Ait ken
R. Anderson
J. Anderson
Francis Armstrong
J. W. Allen
Q. E. Austen
Andrew Allen
W. G. Armitage
W. A. Brodribb
Charles Bate
W. H. Barraclongh
J. T. Begg
John Byron
P. Bowes
Michael Bums
Peter Barnes
R. T. Beauman
W. A. Balcombe
John Bulgin
William Bulgin
John Bourke
W. Baylis
J. Baker
P. Brady
B. Bieen
A. W. E. Bassan
William Barker
H. Bradstock
George Burrows
Charles Boyce
M. Bayfield
John Berkeley
J. Breen
W. Brown
Ephraim Beard
H. Bradstock, jun.
George Bishop
Richard Bourke
Vincent Brown, J.P.
J. E. Barry
Clement Bloomfield
William Boulton
Denis Brown
O. Bryant
James Byrnes
C. J. Boyce
E. IBradridge
E. Bradridge, jnn.
Alexander Brown
Thomas Byrne
Henry Burrows
E. Butcher
J. Brown
Alexander H enry Brown
A. E. Bellingham
Charles Butters
W. Bellingham
J. Barns
Zachary Barry
A. Barrie
George Brown
Isaac Bennett
Upton Bradford
J. Brodie
James M. Brown
Charles Bovis
George Birtels
John Buchanan
J. Brown
James Brennan
Benjamin Backhouse
James Bateman
Edwin Baker
Enoch Bennett
Hosea Bennett
T. Benton
Mark Brabant
James W. Bogie
Frederick Blyth
Robert Bryce
A. S. Boyd
John Borton
Francis Bogan
J. Bennett
H. Baker
J. Barling
T. Brown
T. Boulton
J. Bums
John F. Boyd
Maxwell Broadfoot
Charles H. Bracken
Henry Beaumont
W. J. Barley
John Bnndy
James Bail
J. Bickensale
J. Bums
Henry Burrows
C. B. Bond
E. E. S. Bowker
Sydney Burdekin
Harry Barrows
Bossely Burdekin
J. C. Broughton
F. A. Broughton
Charles Broughton
A. Brown
A. H. Brown
Alfred Beckett
Joseph Brignell
John Cnbitt
G. H. Curtis
Andrew Cunningham
Alfred Collie
J. M. Coombs
Jesse Cowley
Cornelius Cleary
John Cassidy
T. W. Creagh
H. E. Castle
M. Casey
Henry Corbett
Robert Crowe
Philip W.Carter.L.M.D.
John Compton
Charles Colby
• John Cooper
Charles Campbell
James Churchill
Alfred Clark
J. A. Carroll
W. Charters
Charles Chamberlain
W. Chamberlain
W.lChamberlain, jtm.
John S. Christie
Hugh Connelly
Thomas Cripps
J. I. Clulow
Robert Campbell
Robert Csowe, sen,
J. Calvert
Alfred Flower
James Fitzpatrick
J. H. Furness
Stephen Fowler
John Fowler
James C. Famish
Thomas H. Fielding
John Fenton
W. Flegg
W. Fitzgerald
H. Franklin
R. Farrell
Richard Fletcher
T. W. Ferris
Thos. Fairweather
W. Firth
Wm. Foskett
James Robertson Firth
C. Gibbons
Alfred Goold
James Greenwood
J. Oswald Gilchrist
C. Gibbons
Charles Goddard
F. A. Gorrell
James Gibson
Thomas Glennie
George Guyatt
W. J. Glassby
John R. Gosling
P. E. Gowling
F. Gardiner
A. Gardiner
H. C. Gleeson
G. Gongh
Horace A. Gibbes
George Gordon Grogan
E Grice
' A. Gairns
Peter Qondolph
Patrick Griffin
Raymond Gosling
A. W. S. Gregg
Thomas Griffiths
George Graham
Patrick Gardiner
Andrew Galbraith
D. Gilchrist
John Gray
Thomas Glassbrook
Henry Glassbrook
H. S. Gibson
N. Goodwin
G. Hillman
H. W. W. Holdsworth
Henry Heron
P. J. Holdsworth
J. Hasmot
C. W. Hensley
Edward Hanlon
J. E. Holdsworth
Frederick Hammon
W. H. Hargraves
J. Eagerty
T. A. Hall
Henry Humbert
A. S. Hollander
W. Hamilton
Richard Hennessy
J. Hall
John Halse
Anthony Horden
Samuel Horden
W. H. Howard
J. Horbury Hunt
J. A. Hough
Peter J. Hodnett
John Hogan
Thomas Haigh
Michael Hefferson
W. H. Hay man
M. Harte
Peter Hogan
J. R. Humbley
W. Hamilton
T. Haylett
"William Haigh
G. Heapy
George Hobbs
James Holmes
F. Hunt
Alexander Helmrich
H. Hickerman
G. Humberstone
William Hellyer
J. T. Hinwooid
James Haughton
Robert Haughton
John Haughton
Charles Haltensbnrg
6. Hillman
H. W. Holdsworth
Henry Heron
C. W. Hemsley
Thomas Higgins
Charles Hoselgrove
Michael Haggarty
Edward Hanlon
J. E. Holdsworth
J. Haggerty
T. A. Hall
Henry Humbert
C. Helmrich
J. Helmrich
F. F. Iredale
J. Geo. Long Innes
James Ireland
W. H. Jeffries
Fredk. J. Jackson
Thomas E. Jarrett
James Johns
W. H. Jeffries
W. Jaekson
Robert Jackson
H. Johnston
Robert Joyner
Robert W. Joyner
James W. Johnson
Thomas Joyce
J. Johnson
Samuel James
William James
W. M. Johnstone
William Kidney
Martin Kennedy
Patrick Kenny
William Knust
George Knox
Lawrence Kruer
John King
Thomas King
James Kerr
A. H. Kiss
J. Kildnff
G. Keegan
George King
J. Kiloh
T. King
W. Kilgour
Joseph C. Larter
Thomas Lane
James Lees
Thomas Lees, sen,
Thomas Lees, jnn.
Cornelius Lees
W. Larmer
John Lynch
George Leatera
John Leonard


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JjIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STEEET
Near the VicToniA Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TEY IT! I !
J. L. HOED E E N.
HE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MAEKET-STEEET 31
AEE MAKING TEOUSEES TO OEDEE
9a. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 681 QEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
BRAY BROS.,
402 & 404 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
GREAT
CLEARING SALE
or
£13,000 WORTH OF
CHINA,
CHINA,
GLASS,
GLASS,
EARTHENWARE,
AND
LAMPS
AT TWENTY PER CENT DISCOUNT
FOR CASH.
BRAY BROS.,
402 & 404 GEORGE STREET,
I
SYDNEY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
E
X CHIMBORAZO. EX CHIMBORAZO.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
DEPARTMENT.
PEAPES and SHAW
have great pleasure to notify that the first portion
of their
EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS ARE NOW OPEN
FOR INSPECTION, ex CHIMBORAZO.
And in submitting these goods for public approval, we
shall simply enumerate the various classes just arrived,
as WE ALWAYS AVOID CLAPTRAP ADVERTISE-
MENTS, AND ABSURD MISLEADING QUOTA-
TIONS OF PRICES.
fOur well-known make of
Black Silk, 3s lid, 4s 6d,
4s lid, 5s 6d, 5s lid, 6s
6d, 7s 6d, up to 10s 6d per
yard.
J Beautiful Satins, in all
DRISS -J colours
Black Broche Silk Robes
Black Striped Silk Robes
Coloured Silk Gros Grains,
3s lid per yard
Elegant Pompadour Trim-
ly ming Silk, Foulard Silks.
(Pompadour Printep Sat-
I teens
Plain Satteens, newest
suits usedin combination
I Pompadour Crepes
) The colouring and designs
PRINT DEPARTMENT. | in these goods are more
beautiful than ever, in fact,
j when made up, they
(resemble rich Satins,
f Newest Rufflings and
Ruchings
Honitou Duchess and
other Fashionable Lace
Sets
Brabrant Raguse and Lan-
J guedoc Lace Ties
'! Spanish Lace Scarfs, in
LACE DEPARTMENT. | Black, White. Cream, Old
Gold and Coffee Colour
New Mull Edgings and In-
sertions
The New Beaded and
Netted Fichus in all sizes
f Fashionable Mantles
I Ladies’ Silk Dollmans
PEAPES and SHAW’S Ladies’ Silk Visites
I Ladies’ Silk Capes
COSTUME and MANTLE -J Ladies Cashmere Visites
I Newest Silk Fichus
Ball Costmes in Tarlatan
Grenadine and Brussels
I, Net.
[ All the Newest Shapes in
Untrimmed Chip, Straw,
PEAPES and SHAW’S
PEAPES and SHAW’S
MENT.
and Tuscan Bonnets and
Hats
Beautiful Parisian Trim-
med Millinery Bonnets
MILLINERY DEPART- ! and Hats
Spring Flowers
Evening Flowers
Bridal & Evening Wreaths
Ostrich Flats and Plumes
LMarabout Feathers, &c.
We have also opened, INFANTS’ CHRISTENING
ROBES, MUSTIN FROCKS, PIQUE PELISSES.
LADIES’ SA.NIN, POMPADOUR, and CASHMERE
MORNING WRAPPERS.
ATKINSON’S CHOICE PERFUMERY
and
THE RENOWNED MITCHAM LAVENDER WATER.
PEAPES AND SHAW,
GEORGE-STREET.
Chemists and Druggists
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation.
This is not vain expatiation;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation,
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration—
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation,
Then —friends of suffering creation —
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation,
Called “Farmer’s Friend,’’—ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
PUBLIC NOTICE. —The following LIST of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES, so well and favourably known to the
Australian public—Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious
Pills, Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders, Watson’s
Gingerbread Worm Nuts, Watson’s Compound Chloro-
form Liniment, Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion.
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer, Watson’s Excelsior
Toothache Essence, Watson’s Concentrated Gout and
Rheumatism Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—can
be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mannfactory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES, 567 George-street; and
WHOLESALE only at the following Establishment:—
Messrs. Elliott, Bros., Pitt-street; Messrs. W. Taylor
and Co., Pitt-street; Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Co.,
Pitt-street; Messrs. Myers and Solomon, George-
street ; and Mr. James Macgregor, George-street.
JOHN WATSON,
CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST,
Begs to acquaint the public and the trade that he has
been appointed WHOLESALE AND RETAIL AGENT
for the sale of STEWARD’S MOTHER’S BLESSING
No more crying Babies while this is in the Nursery.
This old-established Medicine is, without exception,
the SAFEST AND BEST for instantly relieving the
various ailments of children while teething.
*** See published Testimonials.
567 GEORGE-STREET.
Chemists and Druggists
RMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILTOItcj
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled „
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINEf™
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi’
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy acti™
of the stomach and bowels. They* cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d. J
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack’
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s Gd, and 4s
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest cf HEMMOR-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
C
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
ENTRAL PHARMAC
78 (Late 84) KING-STREET.
Y,
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
_ FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
fjl A K E
NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
JgY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
. of Vegetable Matter only.
Being* made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
regarding its efficacy (never having used snch an
a , . ic }, e kind before which affords snch instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now bo
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and he perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may he cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can he obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability', and who can at once bo
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, you will not he able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Ans-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177jjPitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MAW’S AND MINTON’S well-known
TESSELATED PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS,
HEARTH TILES, WALL LININGS, new and elegant
designs.
Also,
Some very cheap encarustic tiles, for verandahs, baths,
conservatories &c.
BEILBY and CO.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY. I
■jPJXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
jEXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
j, VICAKS & Co.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. **
UHU
SYDWEY,
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are how making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest..... 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
i> Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
JJCONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
W Y N Y A R D-S T R E E T,
Comer of Wynyard-laue,
and
■ will hereafter he known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE, 5
CRIMEAN,
and
. REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of tne best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
.in any quantity to suit.
Jxf nt ,- 8 Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge,
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
Black Cloth Walking Coats and Pagets,
lBs, worth 50s; D. B. Frocks, 38s, worth 50s
409, George-st
15s TROUSERS to measure, fashion-
fr* aole materials. Cheviots, Bannockbums, Adder.
&c., 409, George-st.
TOONS’ 188 6d TROUSERS, West of England.
409 George st * 10 ° patt#rns to select from, cash only
White Linen SHIRTS, 3s 6d. ready for
street 1865 Crimean ' 3s lld; Crape, 4s lid. 409, George-
best and cheapest Tailor for CLOTHINi
meas Sf° °“ shortest notice, at lower charge
an y other house. Large assortment fane
V s ?l ect + fro »- System of sf If-measuremen
with samples free to all ports. 409, George-st.
z
iONS’ Biack DRESS SUITS to measure 80s
worth 6 guineas. The Tailor, 409, George-st.
Z IONS’ Black Dress Suits, our own make lari
stock to select from, 40g, worth 80s. 409, George-'
Black Dress Trousers, to measure 21i
worth 425; ready-made 12s, worth double ’ 40
George-st.
Z IONS’ Tweed Trousers to measure, 15s, wort!
255; ready-made all wool, 9s, worth 18s 40
George-st.
Z IONS’ Tweed Suits to measure, 100 patterns
choice woollens to select from, 555. 409. George
street. s
lONS’ Overcoats—Ulsters, Munster, Chesters
&c.. Iss. worth 425; come and look, 409, George-st,
z


Auctioneers and Commission Agents
I D
JOHN BE
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION
G E,
AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
T N. MEIKLEJ OHN AND CO.,
• Peoduce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Com, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STEEET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
«
T. B U R P I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
PW. CROWE & CO., STOCK, STATION
• AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
4 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows :
BEEF, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour —every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
P
ITT, SON, AND BADGERY,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—All Fat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuallly rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
M.
E. MEYERS,
21, PARK-STREET, SYDNEY,
Hotel Broker, Financial and General Agent, Money
to lend. Various payable Hotels for Sale in excellent
localities, in-going easy.
Tobacconists
Jl H
EGE N U I
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
N E
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
JAMES EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE,
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
O
t
§ %
g O
H M
< o
P 5
O
Eh
s «
o .
Eh >
O
£
c.
P R I N C
TOBACCONIST,
149, KING STREET,
E,
Begs to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain a really first class article in TOBA C CO, CIGARS,
&c., at his establishment.
Just received a fine assortment of WALKING
STICKS in all the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149, KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre RoyaL
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacions rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
jOMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397 George Steeet.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES.
General Manager.
rjIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50x27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Booms, ?rc., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
CJ. E O B E E T S’
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
A F A C
-jL. That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(corner of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuffs.
T,
Proprietor, DAVID H. WARBY.
R
OYAL EXCHANGE HOTEL,
Corner King and George Streets).
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Rooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
N.B. —Pic-nics, Balls, Parties, Clubs, Ac., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWARD PERKINS.
COLONNADE
CORNER OF
HOTEL,
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
J. SHAEP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
- Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an ofiicer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
UNIPEE TEEE
P. MELCHERS.
GIN.
Hotels, &c.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MEECANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON EOOMS,
BEIDGE-STEEET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FEEE COUNTEE LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
-\T ICTOEIA HOTEL.
C
Having taken the above hotel and made extensive
alterations and which will be fitted np in the most
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., and conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
PUbhC ’ GEOEGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
O AC H AND HOESES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Kailway Station.
Mb. C. SHEATH EE, PEOPKIETOK.
• t * Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry. , ... ~
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
AELTON CLUB HOTEL
199 Elizabeth-St., Hyde Park.
C
H. Oliphant Paton, Proprietor.
Healthiest position and most comfortable Hotel in
Sydney. Private Suites of Apartments.
Detached BAE; BATHS, STABLING, &c.
Hot Coffee, Earn and Milk, &c., from 4.30 a.m. Table
d’hote Ip.m. daily.
Id on parle Francois.
A U STEAL lAN WINE.—CAEMICHAEL’S
r\ PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace. Pints, in
t doz. cases, 12s. 6d doz.; quarts, 1 and 2 doz. cases,
!ls. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO., Agents, Circular Quay.
HISKY FEAUDS.
W
BEAD PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
ROE’S V FIVE-YEAE-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Recommended by the Faculty
EGBERT PHILLIPS and CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales.
rHE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
ast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
olonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot be
xcelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
1 A very flue spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
eristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
horoughly matured, and can be recommended as a
aost wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and
ALE
ASS’S
PALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLEES’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
The undersigned have been APPOINTED SOLE
IGENTS for the above Celebrated Bottlers, and are m
•eceipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
TRADE MAR
HEAD
0 A E’S
STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. E. CATTELL and CO.,
Role A cents.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities ef the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to aa
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agente,
Legal
MR. a. GODFREY
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—s 3 Elizabeth-stbeet.
[Legal.]
SORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
» SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 139 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards
W
ILLIAM BEDE CHRISTIE
Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under the Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Roberts, karris, and weston.
LICENSED SURVEYORS, LAND AGENTS,
ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt with.
Run Maps compiled to latest date. Office —Royal Blue
House ; Chambers, 130, Pitt-street.
LACHMANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
w.
225
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
F
0 W L E R’ S P
AND
0
TTE E Y
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
s
IGNORA L. P. FABEIS,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlinghurst.
M
ISS ELISE S HER WIN,
(From Tasmania),
TEACHER OF THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
J SKINNER AND CO., 18 KING-STREET,
• BRASSFOUNDERS, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap.
C WOODFORD AND CO.
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gasfitters.
J.
F. CEIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., catered for in the
best Style.
R
OBEET BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
E.
MASON,
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near Kiug-st.)
c
HAS.
H.
DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LI VERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
J LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
COTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
blankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
T| MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Grocers, Ac.,
Comer of York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney,
Our Prices Current for Groceries, Ac., giving lowest
market quotations, is issued the first of every month,
and circulated gratis throughout the colony. Store-
keepers who have not received our Circular will do so
by forwarding ns their address.
IJIO BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Famishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
&
&
&
%
xri
&
ifi
ss
o
g
i
CHAS. BATH
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET*
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAR THE HATHARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
Potatoes, &c. 1
GEORGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.


STAGE GOSSIP.
Madeline St. Clair is studying for opera.
Bandmann is back—more Dutch business.
Goodman is hard of hearing—to dead-heads.
Tiddlewinks is studying Opera; bass parts.
W. H. Hoskins, the veteran actor, is in Sydney.
Do not leave us, Marshall, before impersonating
Quilp.
The darkies sailed for New Zealand via Hobart
Town.
Bandmann will probably play at the Melbourne
Royal.
There are more bald heads at a concert than at
a play.
“ The Revenge” was the first play performed in
Sydney.
J. A. Delaney, musical conductor, is a native of
Sydney.
Dick Thatcher’s wife got a divorce in his
absence.
Professor Pepper is at the Academy of Music,
Adelaide.
A motto for disengaged pros in Sydney: Laissez
nous faire.
Otto Fischer, the basso, has left Sydney for
Melbourne.
Ada Ward was performing at Portsmouth when
the mail left.
All the Melbourne actors are expecting money
left them now.
Ella Carrington, of the “Stray Leaves,” is an
English actress.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons and her daughter have re-
turned to England.
The plaster medallions of Ketten are excellent,
and surprisingly cheap.
The “ Japanese Company ” have been playing
to good houses at Milton.
J. J. Wallace is a native of New York city. He
has been on the boards since ’53.
Something less than .£5lO a foot is asked for
the site of the Victoria Theatre.
The estate of Phelps the actor, sworn under
£9,000, has gone to his daughters.
Loveridge’s concert at Petersham threatens to
be a musical and financial success.
Ketten goes next to Melbourne, then to Adelaide
and perhaps here again in January.
Grattan Riggs is offended when Harry Emmet
is referred to as the Hyperion curlist.
The Theatre Royal, Melbourne, has done very
meagre business since "New Babylon."
On dit that Lydia Howarde has been engaged to
proceed to India at a salary of £55 a week.
Hall goes from Melbourne to Adelaide in
November and produces there a pantomime.
Haselmayer, the ambidextrous, will open at the
Melbourne Opera House on September 11th.
George Coppin is, we are sorry to hoar, again
seriously ill with his ancient enemy, the gout.
R. J. Roberts and Clara Lemore had a big
benefit in Melbourne before leaving for England.
Professor Haselmayer has arranged to appear at
the Opera House, Melbourne, under Mr. Lyster.
The Petersham Musical Society numbers among
its vocal members the prettiest girls in the district.
Darrell and Bent are, it is said, hatching an
Ethio-Australian drama together, both to play leading
parts.
Strong efforts will be made to induce some of
the members of the (Strauss band to settle in this
colony.
Dampier finishes with Newcastle this week and
pays Maitland a visit next week, commencing on Mon-
day next.
One pair brown stockings, one scratch wig and
a steinkerque formed a certain actor’s wardrobe not
long ago.
B. N. J ones has become a great favourite both
before and behind the curtain at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne.
The “ Big Pinafore” Company at the Opera
House, Melbourne, have averaged £BOO per week, for
three weeks.
The King of Portugal has finished his version of
the Merchant of Venice, and his translation of Othello
is far advanced.
Dampier and Harry Saville, who have both
come into money, leave for England in the same ship,
the John Elder.
Bessie Royal has made a big hit as Cousin Hebe
in the operatic “ Pinafore." She makes Hebe prim,
but very fascinating.
Dillon and South claim £2OO damages from
Chas. Nash for taking forcible possession of the
Rockhampton theatre.
Irving and Toole recently played at Glasgow on
behalf of the bank sufferers. They had to pay for the
hall used on the occasion.
Fairclough plays three weeks in Melbourne, and
then Williamson follows for at least two months under
the management of Coppin.
Miss Clara Stephenson, at the head of a comedy
and burlesque company, has been playing in Oamarn,
and will visit Dunedin shortly.
Lyster announces four farewell pianaforte re-
citals by Ketten, to be held on September 4th, 6th, 7th,
and Bth respectively, at Melbourne.
The new Theatre of Varieties (the old Melbourne
Polytechnic) is fast approaching completion. Harry
Lyons and Griffiths are the lessees.
Advices from India state that Wilson, of circus
fame, has fallen on troublesome times. The weather
has been very much too much for him.
Theo. Hamilton has taken Charlwood’s printing
office in Melbourne, and as he is still running the
People’s Theatre, it is splendidly billed.
We have tried to speculate on what Mrs. Brown
would say concerning her visit to Ketten—her story
would be replete with humour and interest.
Armes Beaumont as Ralph Rackstraw is fear-
fully melo-dramatic, talks about “ be-lud,” and does
the operatic rush from the flats to the footlights.
A company, styling themselves the “ Byronic
Star Dramatic Company," ore playing the “Capture of
the Kelly Gang ’’ in Dunedin. The piece draws well.
“ Trne to the Core” has run its length at the
Melbourne Royal. Generally speaking the management
cannot be congratulated upon the cast or the receipts.
It is rumoured that J. C. Williamson will pro-
duce a pantomime at the Royal, Melbourne, at Christ-
mas. Let us hope that it’s not “ The Babes in the
Wood."
Mr. Stirling Whyte gave his services very
generously upon the night of Mr. M’Gowau’s benefit;
and someone, while his back was turned, stole his watch
and chain.
The girl portion of the “Juvenile Pinafore”
Company visited the Botanic Gardens on Sunday.
Prettier and more tastefully dressed children we’ve
never seen.
The last night of “ Pinafore” was announced at
the Melbourne Opera for the 28th. Management and
artistes can be alike congratulated on the success of the
production.
There are heaps of professionals doing the block
in Melbourne, of all classes and of all varieties. There
is no future save that of expectation: the up-country
districts are sterile and Melbourne proper is overdone.
Happy the pro. who can jingle his passage money and
exclaim, “ There is a world elsewhere." There is but
one refuge left—Charley Wright’s.
St. Laurence declares he’ll never play anything
else but John Jeremiah Lamb now, and his diet consists
principally of crumpets. The Adelaide girls all call
him “Johnny."
• “ Hurricane” and “ Uncle’s Will” have drawn
fairly well at the Melbourne Academy, the business
improving towards the close. “ Turn of the Tide" is
billed for the 27th.
A short time ago, in Philadelphia, Madame
Jananschek did “ Come Here” for the benefit of the
Gen. Meade Memorial. When she did come here it was
for her own benefit.
At the annual meeting of the Queensland
National Bank it was resolved to pull down the School
of Arts, Brisbane. Another inducement for the erec-
tion of a suitable theatre.
At Roberts’ benefit in Melbourne, an amateur
who was to play in “ A Happy Pair," jibbed at the last
moment, and Harry Emmet took his place. Harry says
he played the part splendidly.
Mr. Garner is wondering whether Dan. O’Connor
will engage and supply Roberts’ place, for he has several
comedies in stock requiring a Milesian actor. But will
Dan shave ? Did he ever shave ?
Harry Emmet has another sorrow—hie opera
was only rehearsed a week —musicians couldn’t play—
vocalists couldn’t sing—nobody knew a line: such novel
complaints for an author to make 1
Things theatrical in New Zealand are still very
dull, and it is necessary now when you produce any-
thing for the amusement of the public to give more
than the receipts of each night away in prizes.
Liddy will shortly introduce to the Sydney public
what he considers one of the greatest inventions ever
put before the sightseers of the celonies. At present,
however, we are not at liberty to mention its nature.
A curious old bye-law has been put in force at
Shrewsbury, Emma Fawcett, proprietress of a travelling
circus, being fined £1 and lls. 6d. costs for driving 10
vans and 30 horses through the streets of the town on
Sunday.
George Leopold is an immense improvement on
Oily Deering as the Bo’sun in " Pinafore," at Mel-
bourne, and Deadeye sings his song—“ He is an Eng-
lishman." Why, nobody knows except Jimmy Wil-
liamson.
Mr. John Forde, of the “ Stray Leaves” Com-
sany5 any now performing at the School of Arts sang at St.
ames’ Catholic Church on Sunday. This gentleman’s
splendid full baritone voice was heard to great
advantage.
Mr. J. C. Williamson has offered .£lOOO cash
for the right to perform the opera which is now creating
such a rage in America, “The Pirates of Penzance."
If he succeeds in getting it he will spend £4OO upon its
production.
Mr. Grattan Riggs left Sydney on Tuesdvy on
route for Ballarat, in which city he commences a short
starring engagement on the 11th September. Ho will
have a very good company—-the Marian Willis people—
to support him.
The Franzini Enterprise Co. is the name of a
combination of variety artistes billed to open at St.
George’s Hall on Saturday, the 28th. Roberts, Crane,
Harding, Miss Leaf, and Mdlle. Franzini form the
principal attractions.
A portion of poor Ball’s wardrobe was auctioned
on the stage of the Melbourne Princess one day during
the past week. As usual at a meeting of “ pros." quips
and quirks of merriment pervaded, but it was melan-
choly fun at the best.
It is related of R. S. Smythe, that when asked
whether he would take the management of the Strauss
band, he replied “No, I have been agent for on«
German Bandmann. He was as much as I could manage
and more than anybody else could.”
“ What is the matter with your eyeP” was the
question once put to Emmett, who in New York re-
ceived a violent blow in the face. “Oh,” was the
cheerful reply, “it’s only been undergoing an operation
at the hands of a knockulist, that's all."
The “New Babylon” is a success in Adelaide
and so is that prince of good fellows Bland Holt. On
the first night Miss Jenny Watt Tanner was taken ill,
and at short notice Miss Annie Mayor successfully
played the dual parts of Eunice and Bell.
Johnny Hall has been to the fore at the Mel-
bourne People’s during the past week, his farcial
comedy being greatly admired. The theatre has held
its own and with vigorous management will continue to
do so. “ Lost in London "is announced.
Don Piatt, like many others, was much shocked
recently by the scantiness of the costumes worn on the
stage in New York. “The women," he says, “ap-
peared in a style of dress—or undress—that our grand-
mothers would have blushed to use as a nightgown."
We are sorry to hear that Messrs. Kelly and
Leon, after many years’ close association, have at last
disagreed and separated. To the outside public it would
forcibly appear that this talented pair need only the
help of a capable business manager to guide them to
fortune.
One night Boucicault fell asleep in an American
theatre. Returning to his hotel he found that some
enterprising agent had posted on his bald head a
slip bearing the words “Use Hail Columbia Hair
Restorer."
It is expected that Mdlle. Sara Bernhardt will
appeal against the decision of the French Courts in the
suit brought against her by the Com&lie Francaise.
Sara does not relish having to pay a fine of £4.000, and
losing her pecuniary rights as a eocittaire, which amount
to about £2,000.
Macdonald the indefatigable has opened his
international musical and dramatic agency next door to
Garton’s Hotel, Melbourne. The office wears a business
like aspect and Mac. has supplied a want long felt. He
understands his work and will doubtless conduct it
with energy and success.
When it was reported some time back from
Hamburg that Madame Patti was suffering from an
affection of the knee she received 10,000 letters and
telegrams offering remedies or expressing sympathy.
There was no truth in the statement. It was a squib
from the Paris Figaro.
The Petersham Musical Society will perform
Mr. J. Churchill Fisher’s “ Emigrants " shortly. The
principals will be Miss Madeline St. Clair, Mrs. E. R.
Morris (contralto), Mr. J. J Hinchey, Mr. T. H. Rain-
ford and Mr. J. H. Flynn. Every effort is being put
forth to make the concert a success.
The success of the Marian Willis Company at
Ballarat has been great. According to the Aus-
tralasian correspondent, the public are so far educa-
ted that in future they will not be able to get on with-
out a good theatrical company. They have been play-
ing “The Lady of Lyons” and “The Corsican
Brothers."
Recently, as M. Dumas was entering his house
an old woman timidly asked for alms, which he gave
her. “Perhaps," suggested a friend, “she is an im-
postor.” “ When it is an old woman who begs,” re-
plied the dramatist, “ I give without fear, for it is
almost certain that she has not been fortunate enough
to have a son."
A Prague newspaper has discovered the meanest
of managers. Faust was the opera, and he had been
requisitioned for a penny flower for Marguerite. “ Let
her use the one she had last night,” said this thrifty
soul. “ She picked it to pieces," said the applicant.
“ Let her pay for a new one, then; I’ll teach her to
destroy properties."
Madame Modjeska was playing Juliet at Buffalo,
U.S., recently, and as she was about to take the potion,
some irreverent heathen gave an excellent imitation of
pulling a cork, followed by gurgling sounds, that con-
vulsed the house with laughter. The lady left the
stage in a rage, the curtain was rung down, and only
when the offender was ejected would she continue the
scene.
A Constellation. —The following was the cast
Of the “ Rivals” when played in Melbourne for the fare-
well benefit of Sir William and Lady Don :—Sir Lucius
O’Trigger, Mr 6 V. Brooke ; Sir Anthony Absolute,
Mr. Wallack (his first and only appearance in that city);
Bob Acres, Mr. G. Coppin; Fag, Sir William Don;
Captain Absolute, Mr. R. Heir; David, Mr. H. R. Har-
wood; Falkland, Mr. R. Yonnge; Lydia, Lady Don;
Julia, Miss Rosa Dunn; Mrs. Malaprop, Mrs. Alfred
Phillips.
“More juvenile prodigies,” says a correspondent!
What a list of lamentable failures stand recorded since
the brief success of Master Betty, the young Roscius.
Feeling ran high in London about 1805, when a society
was formed called the Anti-Juvenile-Roscuisities. Its
members crushed Miss Mudie and a number of her
successors. Alas! That society and its members are
no more."
Saber Bros, tried to induce Ketten to visit
Rockhampton, but in vain. The mosquito men are not
great on instrumental gymnastics, but dearly love
anything in the circus or “armless-lady" line so long
as prices are low. Our correspondent says:—“ If you
have any travelling shows in Sydney to which strong
men or pugilists are attached, send them along. Even
a dog fight in a tent would go well here.”
Coppin (“ Slippery George”) advertised a bene-
fit “in honour of the arrival of foreign exhibits at
Melbourne,” and in small type—“in aid of the funds of
the Dramatic and Musical Association." The bill was
“ The Serious Family,” followed by sawdust artistes,
and a dance to which all circle and stalls people who
had dominoes were admitted. This last was called “A
Grand Carnival and Dance of All Nations.” There was
a wretched house.
It was at Sadler’s Wells. A young man called
on Phelps, asking for an engagement. By request he
recited Othello’s address to the Senate. “ Sir," said
Phelps, “don’t go on the stage; it’s an ill-requited
Srofession.” The aspirant, however, was not to be
iverted from his resolution. “In that case,” remarked
Phelps, “ come here; £2ja week to commence with.”
The youth thought it better to have a provincial
training. His name was Henry Irving.
An esteemed correspondent, just arrived from
America, tells ns that Fred Lyster, of San Francisco,
had made arrangements to send out by him to his
brother W. S. Lyster, the copyright, music and parts
of “ The Pirates of Penzance," “ The Royal Middy,"
“ Boccaccio," and, our correspondent thinks, “ Madame
Favart," but on the day the mail left Frisco., Fred told
our informant that the manager of the Bush-street
Opera House had sold them to somebody else.
Theatrical business at Pompeii which has been
at a standstill since the eruption of Vesuvius in 79 a.d.
has lately been looking up. Sig. Luigi announces that
“ after a lapse of more than eighteen hundred years, the
theatre of this city will be reopened with 4 La Figlia
del Reggimento. I solicit a continuance of the
favour bestowed on my predecessor Marcus Quintus
Norcius, and beg to assure the public that I shall make
every effort to equal the rare qualities displayed during
his management.”
A Victorian theatrical manager once became
the partner of a brother manager in one of the Sydney
theatres. The business was not profitable, the com-
pany playing to almost empty houses. In going through
the weekly accounts he found the following item
charged: “ Chucker out £1 per week." “ my
eyes," he vulgarly exclaimed, “what’s this here for?
I don’t mind giving £2 a week for a chucker in, but I
can't stand paying for a chucker out, when there’s no-
body to chuck out."
It was in contemplation (says our Melbourne
correspondent) to form a strong combination at the
People’s Theatre to oppose Fairclough at the Royal.
The cast of “ Hamlet" would have embraced Darrell in
the title role, Hamilton, Emery, Hall, Cathcart, Wal-
lace, and other artistes. The plays of “ Richelieu” and
“ Othello," with an equally strong array of names were
also cast, and the Royal would have experienced a
startling opposition; but presumably somebody's corns
were trodden on, and the speculation did not eventuate.
Mr. Charles Matthews’ will was proved some
time back at £20,000. Everything was left to his wife.
Matthews came into a permanent income in a curious
way. He was on a voyage to India in 1875, and a fellow
passenger was so impressed with the charms of his con-
versation that just before the steamer arrived at
Calcutta, he said: “Mr. Matthews, you are the most
delightful companion I have ever had. I am rich and
have no reason to live with my relatives. Permit me
to settle £6OO a year upon you, to be continued to Mrs.
Matthews if she should survive you." Matthews
accepted.
It is said that Barnum on one occasion offered
Madame Patti an engagement at Boston. “ But," said
the Diva, “ they have already hissed me; I shall not
sing there again." “ I don’t wish you to," replied the
Yankee. I intend to advertise you there largely,
and on the eve of your appearance yon will elope.”
“ Elope ?’’ “ Yes, in the newspapers. Then I shall
take you to New Orleans, where your appearance will
create a furore. Nothing makes a prima donna so
popular as an elopement.” " And what am I to have ?”
“ Two thousand dollars and a third of the profits." The
bargain was struck and Madame appeared at New Or-
leans with enormous success.
Madame Carlotta Patti has addressed to several
French newspapers a letter, of which the following is
a translation: —“llearn from private letters that the
French papers have published certain facts which it is
alleged took place during my artistic tour in the United
States, under the unhappy (malheureuse) direction of
Mr. Chizzola, and that these facts>elate to my person
and that of my husband, M. de Munck. The great
distance at which I now am from France does not per-
mit me to give the lie to these infamies in the
strongest and most formal manner. I shall be obliged
if you will publish these lines, and accept my saluta-
tions. —(Signed) Carlotta Patti."
Some time ago the well-known theatrical manager
Mr. J. W. Dodge, nearly came to an untimely end. He
was skipping round on board one of the A.S.N. boats
with a lantern in his hand, when they (that’s to say J.
W. and the lantern) suddenly disappeared over the side.
J W. was soon hauled on the deck again, but without
the light. The “ glim " had been effectually “doused"
and nought but the vital spark remained in the enter-
prising manager. He explained subsequently that he
had intended to go ashore and “ must have mistaken
the side of the ship ” and that the “ lantern must have
dazzled his eyes," &c. However, he made no allusion
whatever to whisky, and merely remarked, when chaffed
about the matter. “Well, I stuck to that darned light,
anyhow,"—which he had done.
A fantasia from the Chorus. “ Telegram from
England of date 16th instant, announces the death of
Madame Neilson, the greatest of all English opera
singers and actresses." If the lamented Adelaide was
the greatest “of all opera singers" in the opinion of
Chorus she must at one time or another have given the
editor of that journal a private exhibition of her vocal
powers. It is known that however great an actress she
may have been, her powers of vocalisation were so
painfully hampered that, not being able to chirp the
inimitable “ When other lips," etc., she never risked
that favourite emotional character. Lady Isabel, in
East Lynne. In common with the Penny Bennett,
Chorus has confused the late Miss Adelaide Neilson,
the actress, with the lady known to fame as “ The
Swedish Nightingale.” We make no charge for
instructing our contemporaries.
The grandest critical genius of modern times, or
for the matter of that, any other time, lives at Mackay,
Queensland, and writes for the new newspaper, the Free
Press and Pioneer Advocate. In last issue he re-
views the doings of the South and Dillon Company,
who ought really to be obliged for his column-and-a-
half notice. The critic, after a brief allusion to the fact
that “ the drama still claims its usefulness and to be an
educator of the masses, despite the modem studies of
printing and the march of intellect,” philosophically
observes that “ ever since some Athenians went limp-
ing into Rome along the Appian way, with the muses
upon their backs, the drama has become national
property in every civilised country.” “ Nothing,” he
remarks, “ can be more delightful, reflective, and in-
structive than witnessing the plays of Shakespeare,
Sheridan Knowles, Lytton, Goldsmith, Byron, Robert-
son, and other renowned modem dramatic writers; re-
vealed, acted, and impersonated by the histrionic power
and conception of a Garrick, Kean, Macready, Siddons,
Ristori, Boucicault, Sara Bernhardt, Majeroni, Henry
Irving, South, and Dillon. The combination of such
literary and dramatic genius is irresistible upon
the mind, which must naturally be fed with
originality and excitement; the brain with Sen-
sation and the heart with emotion.” “What,” he
exclaims, “a list of first-class players and
cyclorama of a world’s character have the South and
Dillon Company performed, and will perform during
this week!" In regard to “ Richard the Third.” he is
of opinion that “ Mr. Dillon was a shade too painstaking
in bringing out the traits of the ‘ Duke’s ’ character; ’’
but this little defect notwithstanding, “ his acting was
quite natural effective and pleasing." Touching on the
company’s performance of “The Lady of Lyons" the
critic cleverly perceives that “ a cloud of favouritism
hangs around the characters of Pauline and Claude
Melnotte. Claude was played hy Mr. Dillon ala
Henderson, and he appeared to great advantage in the
descriptive ‘ Lake of Como ’ scene, at the end of the
fourth act.” We are so glad to hear this, and it is
with the liveliest satisfaction that we become aware of
the Maokay man’s intention “ to review several of the
above-named plays."
The Theatres.
THESTRE ROYAL.
The “Turn of the Tide” still draws la.-ge
audiences at the above theatre. The piece
is put on the stage with all the care that dis-
tinguishes the London Comedy Company, and
the acting throughout is remarkable for higli finish,
and in some instances for true power. By far the
most forcible situation in the play is the rising of
the tide in the grotto scene, in which the feelings
of the audience are worked up to a high
pitch. Miss Blanche Stammers in the char-
acter of Marguerite is extremely clever, and she
retains all the many charms of her acting in this
part. Mr. Fred Marshall as Mr. Danby is as
amusing as ever. His means of producing laughter
are in the truest sense of the world legitimate,
and it is no matter of suprise that he retains his
remarkable command over the hilarity of the
audience. The scenery, the production of Mr.
Gordon’s brush, is unrivalled, and his previous
efforts, excellent as they were, have been com-
pletely eclipsed in the paintings for this piece.
We believe “ Money” is next to be produced.
Queen’s Theatre.
It is an undoubted fact that anything in the way
of novelty, should it possess only moderate merit,
is tolerably certain of success. Thus, Mrs.
Lewis’s ship “ Pinafore,” manned by her crew of
juveniles, still careers along its merry course with
the wind well aft. The children, taken as a
whole, are above the average of Lilliputian
performers; but the more prominent members of
the company, taken individually, exhibit histrionic
precociousness of a very remarkable character.
Little Flora Graupner is a delicious little picture
that will live long and pleasantly in our memories ;
while the extraordinary humour which Master
Driscoll embodies in his impersonation of Dick
Deadeye is singularly bright and refreshing. The
grouping, the choruses, and the stage-managership
generally, speak volumes for Mrs. Lewis’s untir-
ing patience and great skill in the difficult art of
training children; while Mr. J. Url nightly conducts
the opera with the most marked success. When
we state that the theatre is bright, clean, and
tastefully decorated, and that the front of the
house is looked after by a gentleman so well-known
for his courteousness as Mr. Morris Greenwall, we
are sure that we have said quite enough to induce
our readers, to visit the Queen’s Theatre with-
out delay.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Hawkesbury settling took place at Tatter-
sail’s, on Monday evening, and passed off satisfactorily.
Last Saturday Dovey and Kirby ran 150 yards,
in the Domain, for £lO a side. Dovey was the favorite
and managed to win by a couple of feet after a capital
spin.
The properties for the ensuing Randwick [meet-
ing were disposed of on Monday. The gate was sold to
Mr. J. Noble for £ll3O ; the booths brought £384 and
the fruit stalls, &c., £34.
Professor Cavill, the champion long-distance
swimmer of the world, now in Sydney, had the honor
of teaching the unfortunate Prince Imperial, whom he
found to be a very apt pupil.
Mr. S, C. Brown, M.L.A., has been elected as’a
trustee of the Association Cricket Ground, and Mr.
W. C. Goddard ns a trustee of the Domain Ground,
vice Mr. Richard Driver, deceased.
On Saturday last the first fifteens of Newington
College and Windsor Grammar School met at Stanmore.
Newington won with ridiculous ease.—Newington Col-
lege and King's School play their first and second fif-
teens against each other this week.
A young fellow named Semsen has died at Gee-
long in consequence of a fall received at football.
Death, in the opinion of the doctor, was the result of
congestion of the lungs, which were enormously en-
gorged with blood owing to the fall.
The Australian Team has been beaten by [an
eighteen of Stockport, the scores being 188 and 288
respectively. However, Bannerman had to retire,’hurt,
and Spollorth had not sufficiently recovered from the
injury he recently received to play.
In order that His Excellency Sir Hercules Robin-
son may be able to attend, the Sydney Turf Club Meet-
ing will, by consent of nominators to the different
events, come off at Randwick, on Monday, the 13th, in-
stead of Saturday, the 18th of September.
A few days since an auburn-haired youth haunted
the offices of a rowing club with what appeared to be a
subscription list, but which proved to be a petition t*
allow him to compete in a race at a coming regatta, the
entries having closed some days before The embryo
Trickett’s prayer was refused. “ Procrastination,” &c.
A movement is on foot having for its object the
presentation of a belt to Lorry Foley, champion pugilist
of Australia. As Larry, who was bom in this colony, is
probably the most creditable representative the prize-
ring has ever had, being not only an accomplished master
of “ le boxe,” but one of the pluckiest, best-humoured,
and steadiest of men, we shall be pleased to see a hand-
some trophy got up for him. Mr. James Punch receives
subscriptions.
Professor Cavill will on Saturday, 11th Septem-
ber, perform the great feat of swimming from Parra-
matta to Sydney—a distance of about sixteen miles.
He starts from Parramatta about 1 o’clock, and has
made arrangements for steamers to carry the large
number of persons who will be desirous of witnessing
the swim. The Professor, we are glad to hear, intends
to settle in Sydney and establish a swimming school on
the American and French model. We shall, therefore,
soon see ladies and gentlemen bathing together in ap-
propriate costume.
At a public meeting held on Monday night, at
the Balmain School of Arts, Mr. Albert Elidngton
(Mayor of Balmain) in the chair, it was resolved to
hold next Balmain Regatta on 9th November next. It
appeared from the balance-sheet, which was adopted on
the motion of Mr. M. A. H. Fitzhardinge, that last re-
gatta had resulted in a 'profit and that there was a
balance in hand of £72 15s. Bd. Mr. Storev was re-elected
honorary treasurer, Messrs. M. A. H. Fitzardinge and
G. C. Elliott were appointed joint honorary secretaries,
and an influential committee was formed. The general
committee will meet at Balmain School of Arts on every
Monday evening between now and the date of the re-
gatta.
We are sorry to hear of the death of Mr. Robert
Learmonth, son of Major Learmonth, of Ettrick,
Portland, Victoria, which took place a fortnight since
at his father’s station. Mr. Learmonth, or, as he was
familiarly known, “ Bob," was one of the most accom-
plished of Australian gentlemen riders, and ruined
himself financially and physically in the celebrated
match many years ago, in which he rode Ingleside
against, we think, Van Tromp. Poor Bob, at the close
of a most exciting race, was leading but Ingleside struck
the last fence and fell, kicking his rider in the chest.
Bob whose lead was so strong that had he not been
seriously hurt he might still have won, gamely got up
and tried to remount; but the shock had been too severe
and he fell back insensible. Ingleside trotted in without
his plucky rider, passing the post before his antagonist.
But the good old days of big cross-country matches and
gentlemen riders —the days of Gordon, Learmonth,
Mount and Bristowe—seem to have gone, to return no
more.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Mussulmans in China have multiplied by
millions, and are making many converts.
Hyman Goss, the defaulting secretary of the
Melbourne Hebrew congregation, has been remanded.
It has been decided to hand over to Mrs. Dare,
of Melbourne, and family the sum of £650 collected
amongst the friends of the late Rev. Dare.
Subscriptions are being raised in Brisbane to
recoup Mrs. Cummins, the plaintiff in the recent action
against Bishop O’Quinn, and whose case has attracted
much sympathy.
. On Sunday afternoon last, in the presence of a
large gathering of spectators, Archbishop Vaughan laid
the foundation-stone of a new schoolroom in connection
with St. Bede’s Catholic Church, Pyrmont.
The Unitarian Minister of Rockhampton claims
to possess the same gift of healing as Milner Stephen.
He calls it the mesmeric curative process, and he offers
to exercise it privately for the benefit of those who
desire to healed of disease.
In the British Parliament the Dissenters are
more numerous than at any time since the Common-
wealth. There are 25 Independents, 5 Jews, 5 Baptists,
9 Wesleyans, 29 Presbyterians, 48 Irish Roman Catho-
lics, 16 Quakers, and 1 Bradlaugh.
Says M. Ernest Renan;—“Even when on re-
flection we find we have to make some changes in ar-
ticles of belief at first held certain, we never break
with the symbol under which we have at first tasted of
the ideal. For faith is the work of the logic of the
heart.”
Of 913 students who graduated at Harvard, the
great American University, between 1869 and 1875, 360
were Unitarians or Liberals, 219 Episcopalians, 126
Orthodox Congregationalists, 46 Baptists, 25 Presby-
terians, 16 Methodists, 12 Swedenborgians, 8 other
Trinitarians, 2 Quakers, 15 Roman Catholics, 2 Jews,
1 Mormon, and 113 undecided.
The Bishop of Manchester recently said that
there were people living in cellar dwellings in Manches-
ter, in hovels in Ashton, and other towns, eating offal,
clothed in rags, and not spending as much on their
sustenance as the rich man’s horse or hound cost.
However, added his Lordship, there was no harm in a
Duke having £lOO,OOO a year if he only made good use
of it.
Archbishop Vaughan, in the Express last week,
writes an amusingly sarcastic leader entitled “ The
Premier as Primate." Here are two or three sentences
from it: —“ For a politician to claim to be the repre-
sentative of the Church of England is one thing; for
him to be accepted by the Church of England, with
unmitigated jingling of glasses and universal post-
prandial applause, is another. We do not remember
ever having come across a similar instance. Men of
business will possibly consider that their Church is
wise in its generation in exchanging the monotonous
proprieties and mental woodenness of Bishop Barker
for the elastic metaphysic, the soaring faith, and the
unapproachable morality—commercial and otherwise—
of a really successful adventurer, who knows how to
put his apron on with any Bishop ou the Bench, and
how to turn the world, the flesh and the devil himself
to good account.”
The Jewish festivals will begin on Sunday
evening next. The Day of Atonement falls on Tuesday,
September 14th, and Wednesday 15th inst. The Feast
of Tabernacles commences Sunday September 19th, and
includes the festival of the Eighth day of Solemn
Assembly on the following week and the Rejoicing of
the Law. The Jewish year is commonly composed of
12 lunar months, consisting of 29 or 30 days each, and
is adapted from time to time to the course of the solar
year by the use, not of intercalary days, as in the
Gregorian calandar, but by the more ancient device of
intercalary months. The difference between a year
measured by the waxing and waning of 12 moons, and a
year measured by the earth accomplishing her path
round the sun, being about 11 days, there are in 19 years
seven occasions on which the lunar year must be length-
ened by an embollsanic month to prevent the festivals
shifting to inappropriate seasons of the year, as Ram-
adan among Moslems goes the round of spring-tide,
summer, Ac. The intercalary month is added in the
3rd, 6th, Bth, 11th, 14th, 17th and 19th years of the
Metonic cycle, and always consists of 29 days. Formerly
it was left to the Sanhedrim to fix the year in which
the intercalary month should be inserted, just as in
ancient Rome the like duty fell to a college of priests,
who abused their discretion for electioneering purposes.
The Sanhedrim were guided by no rule, but if they saw
the harvest behind-hand, so that the people would not be
able to bring their sheaf offering, or the cattle weak, they
ordered the year to be leap-year. But under the per-
secution of the Emperor Constantine, who caused the
Jewish houses of learning to be closed, and permitted
no Sanhedrim to assemble, the need was felt of a calendar
based upon rules. Hillel the Second, of Tiberias, fixed
the calendar, and Scaligar says there is nothing more
perfect than the Jewish calendar. Hillel was doubtless
indebted to the Gentiles for devising a system which
has worked well up to the present day, and particularly
to Meron, the inventor of the Motonic cycle ; but that
the rabbis had themselves attained a high degree of
astronomical skill appears from the Mishna, which
•describes a kind of orrery used by Rabbi Gamaliel more
than 1,500 years before the re-discovery of the machine
in Europe.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE TENTH—"TURN OF THE TIDE.”
BY QUIZ.
The abovenamed four-act comedy was played for the
first time in Sydney on Saturday, 14th August, before a
crowded house —in fact, the theatre was fairly packed,
even ladies had to stand: not from lack of chairs,
but for the want of spaco to put them in. Hardly one of
them knew what the attraction was that had drawn
them in such numbers to the “ Royal,” and although
the piece was mediocre, the scenery was a triumph
of art. The whole mass of human beings clapped,
shouted, made the house echo with cries of “ Gordon,"
until the clever scenic artist was brought before the
footlights, to receive a well-merited ovation, not once,
bpt thrice. We all know as a fact that the tide takes
six hours to make, which to a onlooker is rather
slow work. The comedy entitled “ Turn of the Tide ”
is relatively slow, the plot shallow and the whole piece
points no moral. Titheradge, as the hero, rather
inconveniently falls in love with the heroine, he being
a married man, but his wife as conveniently meets with
an accident and dies before Dr. Mortimer makes the
fatal mistake of taking a young wife who is in
love with another man, and that man is Titheradge as
“ Phillip Erascliffe." Of course “all’s well that ends
well,” and we do not seek morals in Mayfair. Mrs.
■** Gordon ” as the neglected wife acted and spoke her
part carefully. Mrs. Stammers, as Lady Templemore,
made a capital Belgravian mother. Gamer succeeded
in looking far more like a detective on the war path
than the rich middle-aged doctor he was intended to
pourtray. F. Marshall, as the rich parvenu, made the
most of his small part. His reception is always good.
Titherdage and Cates looked rather like colonial
tourists than Englishmen abroad, and if they both used
their tobacco a little more sparsely, their voices would
sound better. As it was the few clever hits in the play
were lost in the smoke. From experience we may safely
affirm that a French “ garcon ” never airs his native
tongue at the expense of his rich English customers.
Of the lady who made her ddbut that night, much
might be said, but “silence is golden” and yet, if a
little word may be added, we should say, she studied
dress more than her vocation. Comedy is not tragedy, and
( h - ess is but a stage attribute which a clever
woman is slow to take advantage of.
WOMAN ITEMS.
You can’t marry a-miss if you marry a widow.
A mystery to Gentiles —Why Jewish ladies are
so stout.
A delicate parcel to be sent by rail —A young
lady wrapped up in herself.
Never vent your choler on a woman, though you
may give affront to your laundress.
Abel in Hebrew means means vanity, and Abelle
in English has much the same signification.
A baby will cry no harder if a pin is stuck into
him than if the cat won’t let him pull her tail.
If you don’t happen to know the name of your
dressmaker, speak of her “ Miss Sew-and-Sew."
Sensible married men always depend upon their
bettjer halves when they want to change their quarters.
A single lady though advanced in life.
Is much more hapny than an ill-matched wife.
“Like father, like son,” as the young lady re-
marked when she decided to marry the young man for
the old man’s money.
The Sandhurst Bench sent a young woman to
gaol for prevarication in giving evidence in order to
screen her mother-in-law.
Judging from the contents of the Victorian
journals the young men of that colony do not favor
noosepapers (marriage certificates).
Mistress: “You may have one night a week,
but I shall expect you in every other Sunday." Cook:
“ No, Mem, I must have every other Sunday out."
Epitaph in a French cemetery: “Here lies
Mme. Bertrand, wife of M. Bertrand, marble cutter.
This monument is a specimen of his work. Brice, 1500
francs.”
Miss Whatmore is married, ’tis too much to bear.
To count on her tin I’d begun.
But now Whatmore’s no more I’m plunged in despair
For what more can be said or be done ?
Mrs. Ayrton, wife of Professor Ayrton, and one
of the ladies who after studying medicine at Edinburgh
University were denied degrees, has received the
degree of Doctor of Medicine from the University of
Paris.
Bridget (to caller): “ Will ye kape shtill a
minit till I have a luk at ye? No, missis ha in’t at
home. She told me if a woman came with a wart on
the end of a red nose to say she wasn’t at home, and
there’s no mistaking that wart."
At Koroit, Victoria, a young man summoned his
mother and step-father for ’•tin-kettling" him on the
night of his wedding The father was acquitted, but
the mother was fined ten shillings. This is a new way
of renouncing a parent for a wife.
There has been a great dispute in Wynyard
Square as to the propriety of allowing young widows
latch keys. The gentlemen carried the point in the
affirmative and thus the fair widows are permitted to
roam round Lady Macquarie’s Chair after 10 p.m.
On seeing a pretty female foot we used at once
to conclude that it belonged to a pretty girl, on the
principle of “All’s well that ends well." However, we
have since had occasional “ peeps under the umbrella,"
and are not now so ready to jump to conclusions.
Some admiring poet said of his best girl:
“Upon her face a thousand dimples smile for me."
Which only adds more emphasis to the adage—“ Love
is blind." How like the mischief a girl would look with
a thousand dimples on her face! The poet must have
meant freckles.
It is suggested that the good lady at Mount
Perry, who recently presented her lord with triplets,
should receive £l6 a head (the price of a new chum)
from the Government in token of their appreciation of
her efforts in the cause of population. Tins quite jumps
with our idea. We have always maintained that every
parent should receive from the State at least that sum
per healthy infant*
He came home at 6.30 p.m., and as usual threw
his things about. At 6.49 he sat down to tea; 6.42 he
found fault with everything, said inter alia the meat was
a cinder, he wished that people would roast themselves
instead of his meat and that the scones were not fit to
feed pigs on; 6.45 he used bad language, etc., etc. f 6.47
his wife broke a dish on his head, ploughed his face and
cleared—up. At 7 he was in bed.
While defending a blackfellow at Brisbane,
charged with assaulting a girl the other day, Mr. Havery
Prior asked, “What’s in a scream?" and instantly
replied to the query by saying, “ There’s no more in it
than there is in a pig’s grunt." If this rising barrister
were harnessed to a healthy young porker for a day or
two he would admit that there was a considerable
difference between a scream and a grunt.
“ Spring, gentle spring ” is with Australia now,
and the “ Melbourne Block ” is blossoming with spring
dresses. I am, says a press correspondent, no hand at
describing the fashions, but as far as my lay eyes can see
drab, puce, buff, and like neutral colors are the rule,
and cardinal still holds the sway for the trimmings.
One feature of the fashion is the absence of “ stuffing,"
whereby if a lady is at all stilty in her understandings
she looks like a body placed on two broomsticks. Our
golden youth show a desire to wear tight-fitting in-
expressibles., which are very trying to the spindle-
shanked. Those glorious pegtops and crinolines of our
youth—how they concealed defects in our pins.
Two Women.
The shades lay along Broadway,
’Twas near the twilight tide.
And slowly there a lady fair
Was walking in her pride ;
Alone walked she, but viewlessly.
Walked spirits by her side.
Peace claimed the street beneath her feet.
And honour charmed the air.
And all astir looked kind on her.
And called her good as fair;
For all God ever gave to her
She kept with chary care.
She kept with care her beauties rare.
From lovers warm and true,
For her heart was cold to all but Gold,
And the rich came not to woo—
But honoured well are charms to sell
If priests the selling do.
Now, walking there was one more fair,
A slight girl lily pale;
And she had unseen company
To make the spirit quail—
°Twixt want and scorn she walked forlorn,
And nothing could avail.
No mercy now could clear her brow
For this world’s peace to pray.
For as love’s wild prayer dissolved in air
Her woman’s heart gave way—
But the sin forgiven by Christ in heaven.
By man is cursed alway.
N. P. WILLIS.
OUR WASTE PAPER BASKET.
No. 1. —“Friendless.”
It would be instructive to those guileless indivi-
duals who believe that the life of a newspaper
editor is a delightful existence, teeming with
every pleasure that money can buy and influence
produce to be obliged to read of a morning—to
read critically and carefully digest-one tithe of the
amateur contributions of which we are the un-
happy recipients. To those persons who forward
ns long prose essays on abstruse subjects such as
the mechanism of a Portuguese windmill, or the
habits and customs of the South American ant-
eater —regarding such our feelings are to a cer-
tain extent negative. We would poison them, it
is true, could we do so inexpensively and without
fear of after circumstances; but so long as they
do not break out into poetry we are content to let
them continue supplying waste paper for the
trades-people with whom we deal. Towards the
poets, however, we must confess to feelings of a
bloodthirsty nature. Those of a sentimental turn,
more especially, we yearn to “ devastate.” One of
these mad “explorers of the bathos,” whose initials
are L.C., and who hails from Macqnarie-street,
forwards us, in cold blood, a “ poem,” bearingthe
touching title of “ Friendless.” This is such a
remarkable production that we cannot resist
noticing it, even in its unpublished condition.
From the first stanza the “ bard” leads ns to be-
lieve that he is most forlornly desolate ; but
a little further on he “ lets up” on his friendless-
ness in a very peculiar manner. He says ;
“Each hour, each day, each week I roam.
My time alone I spend ;
I scarcely have what’s called a home,
I cannot boast a friend."
It would appear Irom the nest stanza that “ his
home” must be a cellar, for he pathetically sings,
“ The sun that rises in the mom
On me sheds no bright ray.”
The reproach, anyhow, is a bit hard on Sol, who
is admitted, even by sceptics, to be impartial in the
allotting of his radiance. He (that is to say tho
poet) continues:
“ I often think why I was bora
To thus live out my days
which is an indirect query we are far from being in
a position satisfactorily to answer. We can’t
tell why he came into the world at all —unless it
was to be a poet. Now comes a most dreadfu
hardship—
“ Friendless and in a foreign clime.
Compelled my bread to win,
I feel that poverty’s a crime,
Yea, that it is a sin—"
Which would naturally follow.
“ All those that I would wish to know
Their doors are closed to me,
Because I’m poor, and cannot shew
The coats they’d like to see.”
There is true pauhos in this : something that in-
voluntarily tickles the lachrymary glands. It is
so truly pitiful to find that all the garments of
this sucking laureate have been consigned to the
care of an avuncular relative. But further on,
with delicious candour, he trolls the following :
“ I may be wrong, the fault may lie
In my false pride and shame,
I think, but yet I can’t deny.
Society’s to blame.”
Here it would seem that he has reached the bot-
tom of his “friendlessness;” and despite the
Homeric fire of his verse, he leads us to the conclu-
sion that he is a man who aspires to know the rich
because he is poor, but who, if he were rich, would
know nobody. We do not wish to reveal our
poet’s name, for fear of his being run away with
by heiresses, and thus being lost to a land the
literature of which is yet in its infancy. How-
ever, we may remark with Byron,
“ to say no worse
His name Would bring more credit than his verse.”
The sentiment of the poem throughout is that
which pervaded the young English swell who in
reply to the query of a sprightly American belle
defined “gentleman” as meaning a man who
travelled and didn’t work for his living. “Ah!”
ejaculated la belle Amiricaine, “ we call such
people ‘ tramps’ in our country.”
FUN AND FANCY.
The laps of time. —the tails of an old coat.
“ Rope conferred maketh the heart sick,” said
the murderer.
Basket picnics were originated by Moses. So
says the Best of Books.
What animal has the least love ? —The bull; his
hatred (hate-red) is proverbial.
A bald-headed clergyman took for his text, “ All
the hairs of the head are numbered **
When is a copybook like a henpecked hus-
band? —When it is ruled by the mistress.
Arab to old toper : “ Don’t carry yer nose too
near to any powder-shop or they’ll play the hose on yer.”
Nothing but a steady dye-it can preserve the
reputation of a moustache on the face of a red-haired
man. »
Washington Soul’s motto.—Be honest, pay your
debts, avoid strong drinks and use “ The Australian
Relish."
The man with a cold loves to talk just a little
hoarser than necessary. It is so pleasant to be taken
notice of, you know.
A printer in our office is so enthusiastic in his
business that on sitting down to dinner he always in-
sists on seeing a proof of the pudding.
“You must not play with that girl, my dear;
her father is a shoemaker." “ But I don’t play with
her father, I play with her, she isn’t a shoemaker, ma.”
The following startling statement appears in
Victorian up-country newspaper:—“lf they are true
men they will refuse to sell their birthright for a mesa
of postage.”
We are told of a young lady who is so delicate
and ethereal a creature that on losing a hair-pin from
her head the other day, she caught a bad cold that hung
on for a week.
When a schoolmaster says to a boy, “ With a
little pains you’ll make a very fair penman," the boy
can already write rings round the Pedagogue, who is
growing jealous of him.
“ How’s crop ? ” Atom asked Molecule, meeting
him in the street-car. “ House crops ?’’ repeated
Molecule, cheerfully, “Twins.” And Atom blushed,
and said he hadn’t heard of it.
A loyal schoolmaster’s toast: “ Addition to the
friends of old England, subtraction of her wants, multi-
plication of her blessings, division among her foes and
reduction of her debts and taxes."
When a young man has learned to smoke cigar-
ettes in an artistic manner by ejecting the smoke
through his nostrils, life is no longer a barren ideality,
but as real and as gushing as a pickled cucumber.
Old gentleman to boy of five: “ Where are you
going to my little fellow ?’’ “To school.” “ And what
do you do at school? You leam to read?" “No."
“ What do you do ?’’ “I wait for school to be let out."
“ Doctor,” said a gouty man to his physician,
“ I want you to be thorough, and strike at the root of the
disease.” “Well, I will,” said the doctor, as he lifted
his cane and brought it down hard on a bottle and glass
that stood upon the sideboard.
A church trustee had just got every thing fixed
to run away with the church fund, when to his indigna-
tion, he found that the other trustee had spent it all ou
liquor. He says now that the world is too full of thieves
and scoundrels for any honest man to have a show.
“I can’t trust you,” said a rum-seller to an
impoverished customer. “ You shouldlet liquor alone ;
if you hadn’t drunk so much of it you might now be rid-
ing in your carriage." “ And if you hadn’t sold it,"
retorted the victim, “you’d have been my driver! "
Visitor from the country, to German next door:—
Jane not at home, did you say ? German—Nein; Chane’s
not at home. Visitor—Where is she ? German—She's
gone der cemetery down. Visitor—When will she come
back ? German—Oh, she vont come back already any
more; she’s gone to stay; she’s det.
Acrostic.
Right heartily we’ve welcom’d him, that man of science
great;
Astronomer par excellence, whose mind’s extensive
freight
Pours forth to wondering thousands in language grand
and terse
Resounding the mes—their subject, the endless universe.
On his authority we learn of Nature’s mystic ways.
Concealed in starry depths profound or lit by solar rays.
To realms of thought before unknown, he points the
mental gaze
Of earnest seekers after truth; unravels nature’s laws;
Reveals by logic keen and sure, of each effect the cause.
C. L. W.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
The Seamstress.
Well, let her work, she’s only a girl
And poor, and the poor must take
The bread they eat from the rugged rocks
Of toil tho’ the heart-strings break.
Yes, let her toil, till life’s sun goes down,
’Twill be but a few groans more.
Abroad ’ithe as the freighted ships
Stretch out to the unknown shore.
Little it recks, there are thousands left
Away in the laughing farms
To fill her place when the crushing load
Drops out of her weary arms.
What matters so long as my lady knows
jjifor sorrow nor tears nor sigh,
What hands may ache ? —not a cloud is seen
In the depths of her azure sky.
If the dog which lies on her silken skirt
Should look in her watching eyes
And dumbly ask for her helping hand.
The hand and the heart replies—
Bub woman may plead till her prayers go down
To the dust of the silent grave,
Nor find the sisterly hand outstretched
To shelter, succour and save.
Is it hardness of heart or want of thought
That with pleasure and riches come—
That hands to rescue and lips to cheer
Are motionless, cold, and dumb ?
The bloom will fade from her girlish cheek
And the light from her winsome eye,
And the cunning hand will forget its skill
And lay it for ever by.
Surely the worth of the human soul
Shut out from the smile of God,
Is more than that of a wild field-flower
Which dies in the autumn sod—
The flower will wake from its sunless sleep
When the feet of the spring- tide rain
Run to and fro thro’ the cheerless hills
And out on the sobbing plain.
But spring nor summer to her will bring
The blossoms of vanished peace;
She must toil and wait—till the phantom Death
Bids her nerveless fingers cease.
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.
INTAGLIOS.
(Song words)
"The Gold That Wears.”
We parted one eve at the garden gate
When the dew was on the heather.
And I promised my love to come back to her
Ere the pleasant Autumn weather—
That we twain might wed
When the leaves were red.
And live and love together.
She Cut me a tress from her nut-brown hair
As I kissed her lips of cherry.
And gave her a ring of the old-time gold.
With a stone like the mountain berry—
As clear and blue
As her eyes were true —
Sweet eyes, so bright and merry !
“ The wealth of my love is all I have
To give you,” she said, in turning;
“ The gold that wears —like the radiant stars
In yonder blue vault burning! "
And I took the trust.
As a mortal must.
Whose soul for love is yearning.
Pate kept us apart for many years.
And the blue sea rolled between us ;
Though I kissed each day the nut-brown tress.
And made fresh vows to Yenus—
Till I sought my bride.
And Fate defied.
That had failed from love to wean us.
I found my love at the garden gate
When the dew was on the heather.
And we twain were wed at the little kirk
In the pleasant Autumn weather.
And the gold that wears
Now soothes my cares.
As we live and love together.
She and I.
Why do I love my love so well ?
Why is she all in all to me ?
I try to tell, I cannot tell.
It still remains a mystery:
And why to her I am so dear
I cannot tell although I try.
Unless I find both answers here:
She is herself and I am I.
Her face is very sweet to me.
Her eyes beam tenderly on mine;
But can I say I never see
Face fairer, eyes that brighter shine ?
This thing I surely cannot say
If I speak truth and do not lie;
Yet here I a n in love to-day.
For she’s herself and I am I.
It cannot be that I fulfil
Completely all her girlish dreams.
For far beyond my real still
Her old ideal surely gleams;
And yet I know her love is mine,
A flowing spring that cannot dry.
What explanation ? This, in fine:
She is‘ herself and I am I.
Mid all the cords by which fond hearts
Are drawn together into one.
This is a cord which never parts.
But strengthens as the years roll on:
And though, as seasons hurry past,
Grace, beauty, wit, and genius die.
Till the last hour this charm will last:
She is herself and I am I,
She is herself and I am I,
Now, henceforth, ever more the same.
Till the dark angel draweth nigh
And calleth her and me by name.
Yea, after Death has done his worst.
Each risen soul will straightway fly
To meet the other. As at first
She’ll be herself, I shall be I.


Public Companies
COMMERCIAL
BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £'525,000-
Directors .-
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want. Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; Q. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxiord-street.
London Office— 39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors; J. A. Foul, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Borrima, Bingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonoar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble,
Cootamandra, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton,
Glen Innes, Gonlburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Ghnnedah,
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgeo,
Murrurtmdi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
andera. Orange, Parkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton,
Queaubeyan, Quirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
ten, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerswang, Waixen, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass, Young.
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dolby, Mackay,
Maryborough and Rockhampton.
Aoes'cies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ot south Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania: The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
'Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macoadray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of Indio, London and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bonk of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
ic <D bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
f|l ERRI B L E ACCIDENTS
Are continually happening, and
FRIGHTFUL MUTILATIONS
and
LOSS OP LIFE
are recorded as the result of accidents in every issne of
the daily press.
The best investment to provide against
ACCIDENTS OF ALL KINDS
is to take out a Policy with the
AUSTRALASIAN ACCIDENT ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION
(Limited).
CAPITAL —.£lOO,OOO.
OVER 300 CLAIMS ALREADY SETTLED.
Head O dices—2s6 Pitt-st., corner of Park-st.
RICHD. TAYLOR,
Secretary.
THE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION. LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors;
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. j E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
, LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
m the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
QIHE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T. WATKINS, Manager.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager,
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Booses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 14rs. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 24th August, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING LEASES.
CTIHE Lessees of the undermentioned Gold-mining Lease are hereby called upon to show cause, within
-L thirty days from this date, why the lease should not bo cancelled, for non-observance of the condi-
tions thereby imposed.
[BO-7,029] E A -raNEE.
Peel and Üballa and Hunter and Macleat Mining Districts
Department of Mines,
Lrccrp t t.• ~. ~ „ Sydney, 20th August, 1880.
ISI of applications received in the Department of Mines, for permission to mine under roads &c
&c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28. ’
E. A. BAKER.
Description of Land applied for. Extent.
Reserve No. 34, being a reserve
for National Park,
do do
UiAMA-UUjr Ul \_z Ulii-
berland, parish of Wattamolla
ctension of reserve No. 42,
county of Cumberland, parish
of Wattamolla.
.•serve No. 45, county of C
berland, parish of Bulge.
nd at Gratugunyah, reserve
National Park.
ider Tuggerah Beech La«. c ,
Munmorah Lake, the village
of Norah, the reserve adja-
cent to said lakes, the said
village, and reserve Toloam-
bah, county of Northumber-
land ; and bounded on the
east by the Pacific Ocean, and
on all other sides by Crown
land and alienated land.
(vernment Reserve; bounded
on the east and north by the
Pacific Ocean; on the west by
O’Byrne’s freehold of 400
acres ; on the south by Min-
eral Lease No. 18,286, parish
of Wattamolla, county of
Cumberland,
serve No. 42, county of Cum-
berland, parish of Wattamolla.
\Y u P - W E L C H,
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTUEEE & I M POE TEE,
HAS EEMOYED TO
315 PITT S T E E E T 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Eepaired and Painted in the First Style.
JNTE K N A
TIONAL EXH
SYDNEY, 1879—80.
IBIT I O N
ALDEESON and SONS’ AWAEDS.
LEATHERS—
Sole Special Ist Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &e Ditto
Harness, Strap, and Bag Ditto
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing Ditto
Splits, Levants, &c Ditto
Patent Enamel and Japanned Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings Ditto
Morocco Roans, Levant, and 800 k... Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers
Philadelphia, 1876 —Leathers,
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Paize
Harness, Collars, &c Special Ist
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
Gn) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851 —80—Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Silver Medal
Bronze ditto
101 TORK-STEEET, SYDNEY, and MAEY-STEEET, BEISBANE.
&
m
a
f:
$
m
m
'A
AC KNOW LKOCED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
UA MU FA CTURED BY W. DA VIES & C? COULBURNN.SM
BEST
THE
WORLD
N
W
SEASON'S
Ex s.s. Menmuir.
The arrival of this steamship has given us the opportunity of selecting with care'and.’judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
We present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will be
appreciated by our Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they, are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
-2s 6d per lb Very Choice Eich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s ~ A Eich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congou, very good and
strong
Is 6d ~ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a family’s stock of Groceries, we would most respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
tar NOTE THE ADDRESS —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
M*CLELLAND AND ROACH,
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
Public Companies
IJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, E-n
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq. *
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Eedfem I Glebe.
London Office—lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. '
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING-
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873.
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fuad £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital—£loo,ooo, with power to iucaeaseto £1,000,000.
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. William Hezlet, Esq., M.P.
First Fire Society established jn the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part of their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonus out op Profits
every year.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums,
Damage by Lightning and Explosions by
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fired.
Fire insurance at lowest bates.
„ WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office—l 44, late 184, Pitt-street (next doof
but one north Evening News).
Australian mutual providen
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIBECTO rs*
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq*
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER :
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Mortice A, Black. F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society: — . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says;—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLO Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
mHE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
with unlimited liability, and special Acts in each
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued.
Directors in Sydney :
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman.
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Life business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer ;
A. Roberts, Esq.
M, W. S. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Head Office for Australasia—62 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Business Announcements
International exhibition, isso.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 <fc 345, Keut-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. — geo.
BBNCEAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW ANI) ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231hs each, and in casks of IJ, 2,3,
and 6| cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Keut-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
IALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
i
mSs
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS,
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY,
F-AttTOl^gfSoXi
G
U
N
D
R
CONSOLIDATED
COMPRESSED TEA
■is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is mode by using
GOUNDEY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed hi
opinion that the English Government must ultimate!
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas
.Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banque
■given in his honour after his return from India, said i
was one of the most valuable improvements in moden
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sen
specially to England for a fresh supply.
, ■Dm 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cek
orated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralte
lour years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and hav
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TE4
ever since.
+ ,Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares use<
ine lea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Te;
flavour B *° whilst still retaining its strength am
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable
„ , A trial is respectfully solicited.
ao be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
o . , 175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
f>ole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
A ML A IDE TOWN BRANDS Superfine FLOUR
sacks, halves, and quarters; Hart’s, Magarey’s
amSS, ’ 5? d Dtum ’s; ADELAIDE Country Brand
WATv ® F lour> various; VICTORIAN and N. S
" ALES Flour. BEILBY and CO.
Business Announcements
jpRIN T I N G
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch f)y
JOHN "WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.”
J STEDMAN,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET.
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country hy experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
SLATTEET AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
705 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
P. M A H 0 N Y,
AGENT, ETC.
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL PRODUCE, Ac.
JgJX CITY OF
Nine Cases
A. ]
N. Co., (
SYDNEY.
Eureka Puzzle
Consisting of
i NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOTIONS, TOYS, 15
Puzzles, Articles of useful invention.
Books, &c., Ac.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank).
Depot :
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
.INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPARATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for —
Messrs. McKECHNIE A BERTRAM, Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto ~
Messrs. RITCHIE A SON, Toronto ~
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, Ac.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other sc rated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
Ac., Ac.
FIRST BRIZE (International Exhibition) Soda-
water Machinery, iErated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
43 GLOBE BUILDING,
SUSSEX STREET NORTH.
CHARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS:
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental). Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B. —Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
- KILLED MEAT.
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
COUNTRY-KILLED BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see.
And Judge for Yourselves.
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
Business Announcements
H
OMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
IN
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
.£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
N I,
O. B. M O D I
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &o.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
Boots and Shoes.
A
NTHONY MATHIAS & CO,,
Importers and Indentors of
FRENCH BOOTS AND SHOES,
54 Queen Street, Melbourne,
and
7 Vaughan’s Chambers, King Street,
SYDNEY.
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
fir NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Gent’s Boots, French Calf, Hand sewn, warranted,
10s 6d; Gent’s Boots, Exhibition Calf, Hand sewn war-
ranted, 13s 6d; Gent’s Kid Boots, very best quality.
Hand sewn, warranted, 14s 6d; Gent’s Kid Shoes, very
best quality, Hand sewn, warranted, 12s 6d; Ladies’
Exhibition Sateen Boots, high leg, 6s 6d; all the best
brands of Ladies’ Button Boots, 10s 6d; Gent’s Full-
Dress Boots of every description, 18s 6d; Ladies’ Ball
Shoes, black and silver to match dresses, 10s 6d.
Ladies’ Fancy Shoes and Boots of every description
at the lowest prices. Boots made to order lower than
any other house.
P. HURST,
494 George-street.
Money
Money for investment on mort
GAGE. PIGOTT and TRICKETT, Solicitors
143, King-street.
M
O N E Y.
MONEY
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Honrs : 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c., Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
eveninp;s, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M
ONE Y.
MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager. UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
manket, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
T OANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
JU moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
Easiness Announcements
ITADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12s. 6d.; Six months
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.— Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from HADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Memories of my Kxile, by Louis Kossuth
A Ride in Petticoats and Slippers, by Captain H. E.
Colville.
Cross Purposes, by Cecilia Findlay
Miles Harding, by A. Weber
Edgar Allan Poe : His Life, Letters and Opinions,
by J. H. Ingram
There’s Rue for you, by Arthur Kennard
The Fair Haired Alda, by Florence Marryat
London Town, by Marcus Fall
Mervyn O’Connor, by Lord Desart
Signor Molodini’s Neice
Memories of Troubled Times, by Marshall
Second Thoughts, Dy Rhoda Broughton
With a Silken Thread, by E. Lynn Linton
The World of Cant
Six Life Studies of Famous Women, by M. Betham-
Bd wards
The Mistress of Coon Hall, by Margaret Cartmell
The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century,
by Jules Verne
Very Genteel, by the author of “Mrs. Jerningham’s
Journal”
David Armstrong
George Vanbrugh’s Mistake, by H. R. Pritchard
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by Hon. Lewis Winfield
The Duke’s Children, by Anthony Trollope
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jane Worboise
Plain English, by John Hollingshead
Dr. Rigby’s Letters from France, by Lady Eastlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. S. Le Fanu
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Moths, by Ouida
Protection and Bad Times, by G- Baden-Powell
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackmore
Poor Zeth, by author of “ Grandmother’s Money ”
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
In Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Royal Windsor, 4 vols., by W. Hepworth Dixon
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Rice
Russia, Before and After the War, by the author of
“ Society in St. Petersburgh ’ ’
Life and Writings of Henry Thomas Buckle, by
Alfred Henry Huth
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Grant
Her Dignity and Grace
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
TMITC H E L I
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANT,
HAY STREET
' and
DRUITT STREET.
Sydney.
Best Newcastle Screened Coal
Mountain Coal
Nut C0a1...
225. per ton.
12s. per £-ton
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
11s. per i-ton.
19s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
Cut Wood, 12 and 9 in.
~ .. 6-in.
Blacksmiths’ and Engine Coal, at Lowest Rates.
The above prices are Cash on Delivery within the
City boundaries.
Correct Weight in all cases guaranteed.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
JgIIRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 Qeorge-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.


The Juniper Gin introduced into this market by
Mr. Charles Bath is meeting with a great sale through-
out the colony.
The public now appear to be alive to the great
practical value of many of our local inventions. The
latest instance is the demand for Lewis’ Vertical Steam
Cooking Ovens, which have displaced all other ap-
pliances of the kind at the leading Sydney hotels and
restaurants.
A great deal of sickness, also a considerable
amount of money, could be saved, if the juvenile
portion of our colony had proper food given them. A
correspondent writes and informs us that since he has
used Rcdgate's Patent Meal (Australian Cricketers
Brand) his family have enjoyed the best of health, ana
have recommended it to several friends with the same
good results.—[Advt.]
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XV.—(Continued).
“ Yes, it shall be attended to,” repeated her son.
“ Now, Hugo, sit down to that piano, and play
something —something right lively and soul-stir-
ing, you will understand.”
“ I think I do,” said Hugo, smiling in an
uncanny manner, as he placed himself at the
piano, and straightway burst into a triumphal
march.
#,# * * * # * * *
Later, when Hugo and Sebastian were alone,
the former said:
“ Now you can go and call, Sebastian.”
* ‘ Heaven forbid ! I have not the least right to
do so.”
But you would like to. Make a way. Make
that note about the repairs an excuse. Call upon
Mr. Blisset and find out what sort of an old party
ho is.”
Sebastian said nothing and the subject dropped.
The next day, as they sat in Sebastian’s study,
and he cut the leaves of a Review, he remarked:
“ I had a conversation with Myles Heywood
to-day.”
“ The revolutionary weaver?”
“ He is no weaver, ignoramus. He is a sort of
head man, but they call him a cut-looker.”
“ A how much?”
“ A cut-looker. Your education, like mine, has
been neglected. But I know what a cut-looker is.
Myles Heywood is one. He earns forty shillings
a week. It exercises the brains and the observa-
tion, and they have time for reading and thinking,
too. Myles Heywood reads. He has read Buckle’s
* History of Civilisation.’ ”
“ Indeed!” said Hugo, sitting with his head on
one side, looking like an intelligent dog. “ That
does not raise my opinion of him. It is a book I
hate.”
“ He has read most of the works of John Stuart
Mill.”
“I’m glad I don’t know him so well as you do.”
“ Impertinent!”
“ Can he play Beethoven’s Sonatas, and paint in
oils ; and does he sing tenor, baritone, or bass ?”
“ Tsh ! I toll you I take the greatest interest
in the fellow. He knows a lot of German too.
Where ho learnt it I can’t tell. When I asked
him who taught him he flushed up, looked mo
straight in the face, and said, ‘ A friend.’ So I
had to beg his pardon.”
Sebastian had thrown himself into an easy-chair,
and was lighting a cigar.
“ Beg his pardon—why ?”
“ My dear child, you would say to your equal,
* You learn German —who teaches you ?’ and why
should you say it to a cut-looker?”
“ Well ?” said Hugo, seeing the expression upon
Sebastian’s face, and knowing it to be no careless
one.
“ I did beg his pardon, and he said, * Don’t
mention it.’ Then 1 asked him what he meant to
do with himself while we were working half-time.
He said he had no doubt ho could manage to dis-
pose of his own time, and I incautiously persisted
‘Buthow?’ He said he really had not thought
much about it —might ho ask why I wanted to
know ? So I had to beg his pardon again.”
Sebastian was puffing away, with raised eye-
brows. Hugo burst out laughing.
“ I never heard of anything so preposterous.
Why did you go on talking to him, if you got so
vexed ?”
“ But I didn’t, I got interested. Why should
the fellow dislike me so intensely? What can be
his object P”
Sebastian! I thought you did not care a straw
what any one thought of you. You have said so
often enough.”
“Well, and it was generally true—generally,
mind you. I am interested against my will—per-
sonally interested. One thing I’ve found out —he
hates me.”
“ Nonsense!”
“ Hold your forward tongue! You know how
to play Beethoven’s Sonatas, and I know what I
am talking about. He hates me, and I have made
up my mind that he shall, so to speak, eat his
words—that is, change his opinion. It will give
me endless trouble, I know,” added Sebastian,
knocking the ash from his cigar; “ endless
trouble, but I will do it, I must know whether
that man is master, or I.”
“ Oh, if it comes to that,” said Hugo, shrug-
ging his shoulders, and laughing a little; “if he
has excited your obstinate combative instincts,
you will never let the poor beggar alone until he
at any rate says he gives in. Bless you, I know
you!”
“ He will never say he gives in unless he actually
does so.”
“ Ja, ja !” said Hugo, nodding significantly,
“ I know. May you find the game worth the can-
dle is the sincere wish of one who succumbed long
ago to your masterful disposition !”
“Thanks!” laughed Sebastian. “And as I
can’t begin this laudable campaign on the instant,
I shall carry my investigations into another direc-
tion, that, namely, of Stonegate. I am going to
call upon Mr. Blisset.”
“ At Stonegate—also with a view to conquest?”
inquired Hugo, politely, rising and walking quickly
to the door, and closing it after him just in time
for it, instead of his own person, to receive the
largo bundle of tape-tied “documents” which
Sebastian wrathfully sent flying after him.
CHAPTER XYII.
DISCORD.
The scene once again the drawing-room of Mr.
Blisset’s house; its occupants, Myles and
Adrienne: he just arrived; she smiling to receive
him, and he smiling in answer, as one might smile
on suddenly finding a flower peeping up through
the snow.
“ I rather hoped you would come to-night, to do
some German,” said she, “but I did not think
you would come so early.”
“We are working half-time. We began to-day,”
said Myles.
“Half-time already? I thought there was an
enormous supply of cotton somewhere in the
country.”
“ So there is, somewhere ; but it will have to be
bought with a price before it can be got at. Lots
of other places have begun half-time to-day. And
it’s not only that cotton is dear ; there must have
come a reaction after last year’s over-production.
It was tremendous. There is a bad time coming
for the workers; but those who can afford to wait
and who know how to use their chances, will make
some big fortunes.”
“ Some others will lose them, I think.”
“Naturally. The one goes with the other.”
“ But how will you all manage when the hard
times come ?”
_ “ We shall pull through,” said poor short-
sighted Myles, little dreaming of the depths of
misery, and what he, and such as he —proud, hon-
est, self-dependent men —considered deepest de-
gradation, which lay in the not far-distant future.
“We shall pull through. If it is only half-wage
we get, we shall have to do with half-doings ; pinch
a bit, and clem a bit, and put on a good face.”
But,” said she gravely, “ my uncle and Canon
Ponsonby were saying the other night that the
time must most likely come when there would be
no work, and no wages.”
If the war lasts a long time, or the ports are
very well blockaded, it may come to that.” said
Myles, calmly. “ But we, and a good many others
beside us, have money laid by. We must live on
that till better times come.”
In six months from that time, thousands of
working homes were stripped of every stick of
furniture that could possibly be done without.
Many a savings bank had collapsed. Many a
stout-hearted toiler had to bend his proud, un-
willing feet towards the relief committee, or the
guardians, and, with burning face and bursting
heart, and down-drooped head, tell his tale, and
ask for “charity.” Not yet had the “Lanca-
shire Lad” sent to the Times that pathetic ac-
count of the shame-faced girls who stopped him to
ask him, “Con yo help us a bit?” that appeal
which brought the tears to thousands of eyes of
readers in every end of the earth. None of this
happened yet. The great “ panic ” had not come
swooping down upon the land ; but it was not long
before the cry of the distressed must go up.
Myles Heywood after this his first half-day’s en-
forced idleness, perhaps not ill-pleased to be freed
for a few hours, on a fine afternoon, from his toil,
said he had no fears for the future. He felt him-
self strong; felt that a little pinching and “clem-
ming ” would do him no material harm, and smiled
at the storm-cloud hurrying across the Atlantic.
They went on talking about different topics;
but while she questioned or answered, his jealous
eyes detected some some change in her. She
was not cold to him ; there was the same genial
grace and cordiality, and yet there was a change.
In the pause which presently ensued, a footstep
passed on the flags outside. She raised her head
quickly and looked up, with parted lips and a
startled expression.
“Do you expect some one ?” asked Myles, and
so much were the words a part of the thought, that
he scarcely knew he had spoken them, until she
answered:
“I—oh no! Why should I? But shall we not
read some more of ‘ Iphigenia ?’ Here is the
book.”
She did not look at him. There was a sudden
constrained expression upon her face as she opened
the book, and he as suddenly felt his heart sink
with a reasonless, aimless, lover’s pang. He said
nothing, however, but obediently began to read.
But neither his heart nor hers was in the work, as
usual. She had told him that he was an apt
scholar; his intelligence was ready, and his ear
quick, and attuned to the Lancasliire gutturals,
and its broad “ a’s ” and “ u’s ” found htUe diffi-
culty with the corresponding German sounds.
Myles, for his part, had treasured up that hour
that she devoted to him one or twice a week, as if
it had been some precious coin or gem. Then she
was all attention to him; then she was thinking of
nothing else but him and his lesson, and the idea
was heavenly. But this ve. - y evening, for the first
time, he was obliged to let himself stand that her
attention wandered, that she sometimes scarcely
heard what he said, and his anxiety and forebod-
ing increased every moment. He was no favoured
lover ; he had striven assiduously to conceal every
sign of his devotion, for fear it should annoy her,
or repel her. He had no right to ask her why her
attention strayed, what made her absent and
distraite, and that very fact made him the more
sensitive to the change in her manner.
He read on, and translated, mechanically,
dreamily, till he came to the words;
“ Und kiinft’ge Thaten drnngen wie die Sterne,
Rings um uns her, unzahlbar aus der Nacht,”
“‘And future deeds,”’ he slowly translated,
while the sense of discord and oppression grew
every moment stronger; “ ‘and future deeds
pressed about us, out of the night, countless as
the stars.’ ”
She had not heard a word. He looked at her,
with eyes that dared not be reproachful, and said
nothing. There was pain, there was embarrass-
ment, in her expression. Then she suddenly said:
“ I want to speak to you. Let ns put away this
book. I want to tell you something that I ought
to have told you before.”
At once his face changed; the cloud fled; he
turned to her with a smile.
“ Something you ought to have told me ” he
began.
The door was opened. Just outside they heard
the voice of Brandon, Mr. Blisset’s old servant,
saying:
“ I will see whether Mr. Blisset is at liberty, sir,
if you will step in here.”
Then he threw the door wide, open, and
announced:
“Mr. Mallory.”
Sebastian came into the room, and Adrienne rose,
feeling like one in a dream, looking like a person
who has received overwhelming news of some kind.
She saw Sebastian; she felt that Myles was
there—felt it in every fibre of her being, and while
Sebastian spoke to her, she was only intensely con-
cious that Myles was gazing at them both; and
she wondered, with an intensity that amounted to
pain, what he was thinking of her.
She gazed at Sebastian, as he came up to her,
looking as if he saw no one but her, with extended
hand, and she heard him as he said :
“ Miss Blisset, I little thought, before Saturday,
that I should have the happiness of meeting you
again—in Thanshope! ”
With that their hands closed, and her voice said
(with a vibration):
“It is long since we met. lam glad to see you
again.”
Myles had risen, with a swift, almost uncon-
scious impulse, and was now in the window, leaning
against it, and looking into the night, which was
now falling fast. He closed his eyes. He felt his
own emotion to be almost grotesque in its intensity,
but it was so—he could not help it. The devil
jealousy caught his very heart-strings on the instant,
and clutched them relentlessly. There was one
thing, and one only, that he could do—having no
right to call her to account, he could suffer in silence,
and speak gently to her—after all, he reminded him-
self, she had been exquisitely kind to him, and he
had no sort of claim upon such kindness.
While Myles fought this silent, desperate battle
with the feelings which urged him to rush out of
the room, and leave those two together, Sebastian
was saying:
“ I came to see Mr. Blisset on some business,
and his servant asked me to come in here. I fear
I disturb you.”
“ Not at all. May I introduce—but Mr. Hey-
wood tells me he knows yon already.”
She turned to Myles, who also turned. His
very emotion made him rise to the occasion.
Pride and self-esteem, respect and regard for
Adrienne, modesty as to his own merits, all urged
him to put on an outwardly calm demeanour ; and
Sebastian, whatever astonishment he might feel,
was of course far too civilised to betray it.
“ We have met already to-day, earlier,” re-
marked Mr. Mallory, courteously bowing towards
the young man, who on his part bowed his head
gravely and proudly, and wished his employer
good evening. If Adrienne had not flushed up and
looked with such startled, conscious eyes, and such
a half-excited smile, around her, he could have
done even more—he might have been able to force
a smile too, but under the circumstances it was
physically impossible.
Adrienne, turning aside, as if to push forward a
chair, looked at him, but in his then state of mind
he could not understand the glance ; all he could
do was to answer it with another, of bitter, clouded,
miserable feeling ; sorrow, pain, and a sort of pre-
monitory despair.
Sebastian did not see Adrienne’s look, but he did
see this one of Myles’s, and it made him feel sud-
denly grave and doubtful. In an instant he under-
stood how things were with Myles : as to Adrienne’s
feelings he was utterly in the dark. He remem-
bered one morning, when she, relieved through
his efforts of great anxiety, had clasped his hand,
and, looking up at him with brimming eyes, had
said: “ there is nothing I would not do for you.”
They had been almost the last words she had said
to him. The day afterwards he had lost her. He
knew nothing of what she thought of him now, but
he realised immediately that the stiff-necked young
workman, whose pride and reserve resisted all his
efforts to break through them, was over head and
ears in love with the woman of whom he had been
thinking, when he spoke to Helena Spenceley of
“ the nicest girl I ever knew.” It might be pre-
posterous : it might be that young, handsome, and
more than ordinarily high-spirited and ambitious
young workman had no business to fall in love
with young ladies in a superior position in life; but
all that did not prevent the fact that such an oc-
currence had taken place before, and would take
place again. Sebastian knew it, and, reasoning
from the interest ho himself took in Myles, did not
underrate the importance of the discovery he had
made.
“ Have you seen the evening edition of the Man-
chester paper?” he asked Myles, as he seated him-
self.
“To-night? No.”
“ The war news seems rather important. I hope
our neutrality won’t be put in peril. It would be
an everlasting disgrace to us if it were to be
interrupted for one moment.”
“ Yes, it would,” assented Myles, dimly con-
scious that it was a superior sophistication which
was able to converse thus easily upon foreign
affairs —under the circumstances.
“I suppose you take a great interest in the war
too ?” said Sebastian turning to Adrienne.
“Yes,” she replied. “Mr. Heywood and I
have the audacity to dispute even with my uncle
sometimes.”
“ Mr. Blisset is your uncle?”
“Yes. Oh! I forgot you could not know; I
live with him here. Have you known him before P”
“ Never. But I find he is my tenant. I came
to see him on a matter of business, and ”
“ Will you step into the other room, sir?” inter-
rupted Brandon, coming in.
Sebastian rose.
“ Shall I see you again?” he asked, stooping a
little towards Adrienne, who looked up to him
with the same distinct, though well-repressed
agitation or excitement of some kind in her face.
“ It will depend upon how long you stay; I do
not know,” said she; and her voice was not calm
and deliberate, as usual.
Myles sat still, his face composed, watching
those two; realizing her grace and beauty, and
his charm of manner, and all those advantages
in the background. No girl—he felt it keenly—
need bo ashamed of the fact that she had fallen
captive to the wooing of Sebastian Mallory. His
heart grew heavier and colder.
“ Then I will say good evening, in case I do not
see you again,” said Sebastian.
They shook hands, and Mallory followed the
waiting Brandon.
Then they were left alone. Adrienne’s face had
changed ; the excitement from it; it was pale; the
glow had faded; her voice sounded tired when she
spoke.
“When Mr. Mallory came,” she said, forcing
a smile, “ I was just going to explain to you that
I knew him —or rather, had known him a few years
ago. It was curious that he should call at that
moment.
“ Yes,” said Myles, in a voice colourless as her
own.
“ Once he was very kind,” she pursued, “when
my father was in trouble. He saved me a great
deal of anxiety and distress.”
“ Yes,” again assented Myles. “ I am sure he
is very considerate and means to do right.”
“Yon think so! Then your opinion has
changed?”
“Yes, very much. He is not at all the kind of
man I supposed him to be.”
“I am glad you have discovered that. I am
sure you and he will got on, now the misunder-
standing is cleared up.”
Myles rose, smiling rather a faint miserable
smile. He felt it impossible not give her one little
thrust in the midst of the agony he was enduring.
“ You knowl am hot-tempered, and, I am afraid,
prejudiced,” said ho, quietly; “ but if you had
mentioned to me that you knew Mr. Mallory and
that he was not the kind of man I supposed, I
should —perhaps I might have behaved more
rationally.”
Adrienne stood speechless. She made neither
apology nor excuse. When he said good night she
put out her hand silently, and did not meet his •
eyes. His own manner was quite to coldness.
Thus they parted. Myles, as he walked home,
could not forget the verse from ‘ Iphigenia,’ which
he had laboriously translated:
“ Und kunft’ge Thaten drangen wie die Sterne,
Bings um uns her unzahlbar aus der Nacht.”
In that moment he doubted bitterly whether any
deeds, whether anything but woes, lay for him in
the future.
Meanwhile Adrienne was left alone to reflect
upon the situation, to think of Sebastian’s smile,
and of Myles Heywood’s pale face and glowing
eyes; and after due reflection, either to congratu-
late or comiserate herself, as she thought most
appropriate.
CHAPTER XVII.
“may mi mother call upon you?”
Mr. Mallory contrived to make his visit so
delightful to Mr. Blisset that that gentleman
pressed him, with an eagerness unwonted to him,
to remain a little longer; and Sebastian hoping
each moment to see Adrienne appear, continued in
his place.
At last she came into the room; but she had
brought her work with her, and, after a few
sentences of courtesy, amiable but meaningless,
she took a chair a little apart, and sat in almost
entire silence, while the two men discussed, first
politics, and then, when each had taken the length
of the other’s foot on that topic, science and
philosophy.
Sebastian, whether intentionally or not, showed
himself in his best mood, and putting aside both
cynicism and indifference, discussed the subjects
earnestly, and incidentally displayed how much
thought and attention he had really given to them
Mr. Blisset, greatly delighted at finding so
cultivated a listener, was also in a happier and
more hopeful mood than usual. Adrienne’s eyes
were fixed upon that monotonous embroidery. It
is to be presumed that she did not see the repeated
glances, half of inquiry, half of surprise, with
which Sebastian’s eyes continually sought her
face. He knew she could talk on such subjects.
Mr. Blisset’s reiterated appeal to her—“Eh
Adrienne F ” “ Don’t you think so, my dear?”—’
showed Sebastian that she was not accustomed to
sit in silence at the feet of even so great a
philosopher as her uncle; and yet she was silent
now, merely answering when spoken to, as briefly
as possible.
(to be continued).
Mr. S. H. Terry, M.P.
There are few men known to political life in
this country of whom the people may feel more
justly proud than of Samuel Henry Terry, the
member for New England in the present Parlia-
ment. It is twenty-one years now since this
gentleman first took his seat in the Legislative
Assembly, and to-day he enjoys the reputation of
being an honest, a capable, resolute and consistent
politician. Mr. Terry entered the Assembly in
1859, and his career down 1 1 the closing session of
the last Parliament has been one of useful service
on behalf of liberal and practical legislation. He
is the author of ton Acts now on the Statute Book
of the colony, all of them of direct benefit to the
people. Besides these, ho .has introduced sixteen
other measures, which, however, were either not
assented to, were withdrawn from the Assembly,
or were rejected in the Council. Mr. Terry did
work often in the face of Ministerial opposition—
for there are Premiers who think no private
member should be the author of any new law—
and in the face of popular prejudices and vehement
class opposition. Pew men in the Assembly would
have cared to face the opposition Mr. Terry met
in introducing his measures for the suppres-
sion of betting; and it may be that the crime
of garotte robbery, so rife here some years ago,
would have continued to this day but for Mr. Terry’s
resolute advocacy of corporal punishment as a
means for its suppression. And if Mr. Terry has
not been heard in the general bluster for the
“people’s rights,” he is about the only man whose
name is found on measures which facilitate the
claims of the people in proceedings against
the Crown. To Mr. Terry, again, is the country
indebted for the Triennial Parliaments Bill,
in the able though futile advocacy of which the
Eev. Dr. Lang had long lent the influence of his
voice and pen. All the other measures introduced
by Mr. Terry are of corresponding value, and are
on the side of liberal and progressive law-making.
Mr. Terry, as might be expected from his inclina-
tions, has not always been on the best of terms
with successive governments, and hence,
though enjoying great public esteem and confi-
dence, he has only once been offered a portfolio,
namely, by Sir John Robertson, which, however,
he was prevented from accepting. Doubtless his
reputation has not been impaired, but rather his
usefulness increased by his having remained a
private member. Mr. Terry is a native of the
colony, and was born at Box Hill, near Mudgee,
in April, 1833. He was educated at Cape’s school,
and was a member of Parliament in his 26th year.
He was first elected for Mudgee in 1859, defeating
Mr. Bailey, the Attorney-General of the Cowper
Administration. In another contest for the same
seat he was opposed by Sir James Martin, and was
again successful; and in a keener contest with Sir
George Innes was once more victorious. Mr. Terry
stood for Mudgee a fourth time, but was opposed
and defeated by Mr. M. H. Stephen. At about
the time of this reverse he was nominated for Now
England against Mr. Abbott, and was returned by
a large majority. Subsequently, for the same
electorate, Mr. Terry had to meet the Attorney--
General of the Parkes Administration, and this
time he was returned by an overwhelming ma-
jority of nearly 1000 votes. At the last election
Mr. Terry met the late Mr. W. M. Poster, whom
he defeated after a severe contest by 100 votes.
Appended is a list of the measures introduced by
Mr. Terry:—
1. Commons Regulation Act, passsed, 1873.
2. Triennial Parliaments Bill, passed, 1874.
3. Act for the Suppression of Garotting, passed,
1874.
4. Claims Against the Crown Bill, 1875, not assented
to.
5. Dog Act Amendment Act, pass 'd, 1875.
6. Betting Houses Suppression Act, passed, 1876.
7. Claims against the Colonial Government Bill and
costs in suits against Government, 1876, reserved
—Assented to.
8. Public Place Definition Act (suppressing betting),
passed, 1877.
9. Real Property Act Amendment Act, passed, 1878.
10. Betting Houses Spppression Act Amendment
Act, passed, 1880.
11. Small Debts Act Amendment Act, passed, 1880.
12. Bill to Incorporate No Liability Mining Com-
panies, 1877, passed Assembly but not dealt
with in Council.
13. Criminal Influx Prevention Bill (withdrawn) 1874.
14. Bill to Extend the Law of Bar by Possession.
to the Crown (withdrawn) 1876.
15. Bill to Facilitate Formation Mining Companies
(withdrawn) 1878.
16. Bill to Amend Law relating to summary proceeds
ings before Justices (rejected) 1878.
It will be seen from a glance at the character of
these measures that Mr. Terry is in every sense a
practical legislator. But it is not in respect of
these only that Mr. Terry has displayed his energy
and ability. He has taken part in the. debates in
almost every measure that has been introduced to
the Assembly. His opinions are valued for their
soundness, and his independence and courage have
rendered him of rare value in the House. He is a
man of unwavering pui p >se, attached to principles,
honest, liberal and true in politics, as in private
life. He has ever kept himself clear of the shame-
ful manoeuvring that has from time to time
distracted the people of thrs country. In a true
sense he has been a representative. His return to
Parliament at any time would do honor to the best
constituency in the country.


BRIEF MENTION.
Newman Scott says Te-mora has come!
There is a big pool (e) in William-street.
More crowded Courts —more frantic Sheriffs !
The Tamworth Observer has “phoenixed.”
Jupiter Pluvius seems to be on a long furlough.
Judge Windeyer didn’t sit on the “ Lyre ” case.
The Marrickville gardens look very desolate
now.
.£l9OO for statue for Colonial Secretary’s new
offices.
Dowie has returned himself for eleven electorates
already.
A New Role. —Bellicose Dan as 5 bellipotent
bellman.
Public schools cannot accommodate the increase
of pupils.
Dowie and his friend haven’t laid their founda-
tion stone yet.
“ Gently touch the Warbling Lyre,” as Lotti
Wilmot said.
Temporary Judge Windeyer has been Lynched
by the Telegraph.
Gus. Wangenheim has two good sketches of
Ketten on horseback. #
The motto of the big drummers in the Brisbane
Artillery is “burst or die.”
Washington Soul advertises thus—“ Sold only
by Washington Soul, sole agent.
E. B. Armstrong says he’ll give the country a
dose if he gets into Parliament.
Tom Slattery gives a lesson (geographical) on
Burrowa every day at Compagnoni’s.
New brooms may sweep clean, but don’t they
raise the dust!—just like the wind here.
They are obliged to “leave well alone” in
Petersham. Not one has any water in it.
Art, acting, and authorship are the grounds on
which an official iff the Education office poaches.
The ministry of the Mutual Abuse Association,
Petersham, have resigned—beaten by one treacherous
vote!
There are only fifty or sixty papers claiming the
position of “ the best advertising medium in the
colony.”
Washington Soul eulogises The Bulletin in
an adveriisment. This is the kind of “sauce” we
approve of.
We don’t want any more poetic or other con-
tributions concerning the waitresses at either of the
■Coffee Palaces.
The Echo remarks “that the situation in
Afghanistan is evidently highly critical.” This truism
smacks of Greenwood.
“ The Queen,” says the Wide Bat News, “ has
refused to sanction the contemplated marriage of
Baroness Burdett Coutts.”
“ Ba Oholum JBelisario ” —Try it after you have
had an old stump grubbed out by him, and then take a
note of B’s demeanour.
The new building, corner of 64, Oxford and
Liverpool streets, is not to be a Coffee Palace, but a
hospital for tramway victims.
Feez, M.L.A. (Queensland) says Protection is a
synonymous term for centralisation. He understands,
if he cannot speak, English plainly.
Frisquette is to be added to the Petersham de-
lights as soon as the residents can confidently place
their handkerchiefs in their pockets.
A captainin the Volunteer Rifles, Brisbane, who
never attends drills, gave a lecture the other night in
a chapel on the “ Force of Example."
There is a Parramatta policeman who gives in-
formation to intending burglars as to whether owners
of premises sleep at their shops or not.
The Associated Press Correspondent at Mel-
bourne has fallen into the clutches of John Davies.
Read the Victorian telegrams and see.
The “ warmest” journalist in New South Wales
is Mr. W. Bums, of the Burrowa News. The Hon.
James Watson says he’s a “scorcher,”
Little men in big official positions are always
objects of ridicule to their subordinates. But then the
little men sometimes have “ long arms."
A jug of hot water is kept at a certain suburban
post-office. When the time hangs heavily, steam is used
and a variety of light literature is the result.
A Christchurch man offers to raise a loan at
home for the municipality on condition that he be given
£2OO down to enable him to start for England.
Says an advertisement in a daily paper : —“ Two
sisters want washing." We know at least one member
of Parliament who is in the same predicament.
A missionary collector in Petersham invites her-
self out to dine at the house with the tower and then
goes home to swear like a trooper at her fowls.
The plate passed round at the recent wedding in
Brisbane was for new halter (altar) rails, not for floral
■decorations. Gross results, 25s 9d. Very gross, indeed.
Is there in Sydney a man modest enough to walk
down Oxford-street without suggesting to any one some
Improvement in the manner of setting down tramways ?
“ The indefatigable secretary ” says that Proc-
tor proves the moon to be unfit for sustaining life be-
cause of the “ craythur " being taken too hot up there.
The Rev. Mr. Dowie’s definition of a Mesmerist
—One who wants to get good out of the way, so that
he can have a good time all to himself, and no questions
asked.
Tram-motor drivers have discovered a novel
species of amusement—dodging the cars a few inches
to and fro just as lame old gentlemen are endeavouring
to get in.
Mr. Benjamin Judkins, of Adelaide, has brought
an action against the S. A. Register for damages for
injury done to his reputation in an article in that paper.
Oh, Benjamin!
At Aramao they are going to have a saw-mill
worked by the wind. George Porter and the editor of
the Mail, it is expected, will be able to supply the jjro-
pelling power.
A scrap of paper on which was written “ I ’ont
stand no more if them papers is alowed to kri’tercize
my spelinn,” has been picked up near Tamworth.
Query—who wrote it ?
Strange, a fellow in Woolloomooloo, every night
before retiring, allows his eye to fall on the same thing
—the bottom of a glass of water. It’s a glass eye
so he keeps an eye-glaes.
Andy Lynch says he’ll contest Cowra, even if
the Premier of England be pitted against him. In
view of this, it is improbable that Mr. Gladstone will
consent to be nominated.
A. H. M'Culloch (junior), has scattered toys all
over Central Cumberland. —The children smash them,
and teach their parents how like they are to political
promises—easy of breakage.
It’s no reason because Lotti Wilmot and
Chiniquy didn’t run in partnership, that Proctor and
Jefleris shouldn't—on the “Star” system. These
emphatic lights will not be long livers.
Some old heathen author wrote-. “The rustic
waits till the river shall have all flowed by.” The rustic
is not such a fool, but, if he was, and came out here
just now, he would not have long to wait.
“ Tailor’s cuttings ” are supplied bi-weekly in
the Walgett Mail “by Phoenix." This is the paper
whose ex editor has turned barber. Perhaps before
long we shall have some “ barber’s cuttings.”
The press and the pulpit may say what they
please, but a man in dove-coloured pants and patent
leather boots doesn't look well sneaking out at ten p.m.
with a jug in one hand and sixpence in the other. ♦
Kill-me-dead is the name of the latest tem-
porary terminus of the Central (Queensland) Railway.
Probably it derives its name from the fact that a public-
house, whereat is sold the choicest liquor, flourishes
there.
Ketten has had his likeness taken “ another
way.” By and by there’ll be no more ways left. Ketten
will soon occupy a position similar to that of old Isaac
Pitman, who has used up all the straight lines and
curves.
Alderman Cubitt, who was elected on the purest
and most unselfish tack, has managed to get all the
roads near his own house put into excellent repair.
We always did think that Arthur would turn out to be a
patriot.
The construction of the new tramways exhibits
a series of strata—of corporation contract, and the top
ones do not convince the ratepayers that economy or
improved systems have been kept in view by our city
fathers.
Judicial soup-eating is managed in Sydney by
tucking one end of the napkin round the neck, putting
the other end under the plate, and then, with the spoon,
imitating the combined efforts of the syphon and the
mud-dredge.
Extract from an overlander’s diary in Brisbane
paper:—“ June 6. Charlie got bogged to-day, so had to
shoot him. Called the Camp Charley-vale.” The nar-
rative does not state whether “Charlie” was a European
or a blackfellow.
Proctor eyes Smythe talking to the girls, and
wonders if the man could take the master’s place for a
while : for instance couldn’t Smythe manage the stars
and Proctor the petticoated and be-jerseyed constella-
tions by way of a change ?
Dunedin is becoming very highly civilized indeed.
We have before us a bill rendered by a Scotch landlady
to a young man lately resident in that fair city. It
runs thus :—Mr. Dr. to Mrs. Mac . To four
weeks’ board and lodging at 32s 6d, £6 10s; two pills 2d,
—total £6 10s 2d. There is something essentially
northern about this.
Says a country newspaper : To prevent the
occurrence of errors, please write legibly on one side
only.” We modestly conjecture that the editor wishes
his contributors to write legibly and on one side only.
The following mysterious paragraph is clipped
from the Maryborough Chronicle : —“ Mr. Bell’s suc-
cesses with Warhawk and Canary are as popular as the
triumphs of an hornet; gentlemen always are among
honest men, let him race at home or abroad.” Exactly.
An old toper excused himself recently before the
Eockhampton Bench by stating that ‘‘his feet gave
way.” Of course his head hadn’t anything to do with
it. The Rockhampton people now say “ Take care of
your head and your feet will take care of themselves.”
The Inverell editors are still “at it.” One now
calls the other the “ Bull-frog of Inverell ’’ —evidently
hoping that he’ll “croak" soon. The game so far, it
has been remarked, is about even. At present dirt
appears to be trumps, with full hands out on both sides.
Judge Trencherman, when a member of our
chief deDating club, went to a spread where he devoured
a whole round of beef and in addition ate a piece left on
the plate of another guest. Heaven save us from his
rapacious maw! He is still the champion “ feedist ”of
Sydney.
A telephone has been laid between the reporters’
gallery of the Queensland Assembly and the Courier
office. O'Carroll the editor, during the first night, was
so frequently asked to “ smile ” or telephon-y story
that the apparatus in the gallery has been protected by
lock and key.
If they knew how to push the sale of a paper
“in the old days” of this city, it is doubtful if they
practised it, judging from the following notice to sub-
scribers and advertisers in the Heads of the People
<1847): —“No copies are on sale except at the office of
the proprietors.”
Illegal Circuits: The Southern circuit, Dun-
dreary on the block. 2. The South-western circuit,
Jimmy S. and J.P.W. doing a “ plantation ” walkround.
3. The Northern circuit, the N. Shore man —rowing
rings round his opponents. 4. The home circuits,
toddling about at night with the baby.
A parson was preaching recently at Bowen,
when an opossum fell from the roof on the minister’s
head. After clawing the reverend wig for a few
minutes, the sacrilegious little varmint made a bound
from the pulpit and escaped.
No scorbutic man will be believed in our courts.
Fond parents who desire their sons to be regarded as
credible witnesses should therefore feed them on brim-
stone and treacle, and instruct them to drink in after
life nothing but rum and limejuice.
The clergymen who the other Sunday (Twelfth
after Trinity) read: —“ And a certain man drew a bow at
a venture and smote the King of Israel between the
joints of his harness,” started his congregations
thinking of the Kelly gang affair right off.
Signs of the Zodiac Aristocratic news:—
“ Lyra ” couldn’t stand a Supreme Court duel with
“ Capricomus,” so “Lyra’’turned approver. It will
therefore be “George Capricornus” against “Jack
Fairplay.”—Well! " Occupct extremum scabies."
Brown, like faded flowers, has gone—
The dream has pass’d, the spell has gone.
Bright hopes have fallen one by one;
The whisper'd words—so swiftly flown.
Reveals, alas! Brown wants a loan.
A parson in the South Sydney Electorate gave
last week, as his sermon, one of Mr. Proctor’s lectures.
A good det 1 hacked about certainly, but still the p. was
merciful and spared its face, so many of its old friends
were enabled to recognise it before it expired.
“Gipsy” has “adopted,” without acknow-
ledgment, a little joke of ours which appeared in last
week’s issue, about Arthur Sketehley being “ a full-
blown rose.” This vivacious lady is perfectly welcome
to any pleasantry of ours—after we have done with it.
The Wagga Advertiser is getting pious. It
objects to lawn tennis on Sunday morning. This is
only natural. Wagga editors generally play so much
whisky tennis on Saturday night that Sunday loses its
charms. We’re ready to take our affidavit that no
Wagga editor up to the present time has ever thought
of anything on Sunday but soda-water.
0
A Darlinghurst parson says, with reference to
the conduct in church of certain young ladies of good
families and bad manners, that they appear always to be
under the impression that they are in the theatre.
At a meeting held at Maryborough, Queensland,
the other day, Tom Hutchins ‘‘the People’s Auctioneer ”
said that there were 75 000 adult males in Queensland—
including men, women and children! Bravo Tom!
The wretched comedy of “ The Bold Traitor,”
as played in the Queensland Assembly the other even-
ing, was badly received and loudly hissed by the
audience. Kingsford’s pathetic appeal to the Premier
to let him sit on a three-legged stool in the middle of
the House showed the true dignity of a legislator.
A well-known spiritualist announced his inten-
tion some months ago of proceeding to America. He
sold his house, bade farewell to his friends, invoked the
aid of the spirit “ Awassa,” and changed his mind.
The people are now writing over by every mail from San
Francisco, asking who is to pay for the triumphal
arches.
A young man, who lately tried to check his ex-
travagance. and for whom some one will be waiting in-
side the Golden Gate, used to give locks of his curly
hair to certain young ladies of his acquaintance. Those
favored ones have used the hair as poison for rats. It
was ineffective. But it made those rats feel awfully
thievish.
An article for the next London International
which would elevate New South Wales in English esti-
mation would be a sample of well-dressed legislators.
A nice show case containing the representatives of Nor-
thumberland, Tamworth, Wollombi, Upper Hunter,
and Goulburu would doubtless attract attention, and
probably comment.
In the case of Gaynor v. Gosset heard at
Maryborough, Queensland, lately, the Judge reversed
his decision four times. First he awarded defendant
£6 costs. Then upon plaintiff’s counsel objecting he
awarded nothing to defendant. Then upon defendant’s
counsel objecting he awarded him £3 costs. Then upon
plaintiff’s counsel again objecting he finally awarded
defendant nothing! How difficult it is for a Judge to
make things pleasant all round.
It is a fact worth noting by temperance lec-
turers that the successful stonewalling carried on in
the beginning of the month in the Queensland Assembly
was marked by a high average of sobriety. Moral; If
you want to succeed in Parliament don’t drink. But
the debate was inexpressibly dreary.
In New Zealand now some squatters make a,
heap of money by taking premiums from new chums
desirous of making themselves acquainted with pastoral
pursuits. This system has now pretty well died out in
N S.W. and Victoria. In N.Z. the new chum often
finds when too late that “pastoral pursuits" means
pursuing sheep—otherwise, shepherding.
Ire up. William John was a good little boy. So
his ma gave him 2 shillings and 6 pennies. William
John spent half on currant buns and half on ginger
beer. He forgot to give the blind man one of his bright
pennies. When William John was last seen he seemed
to be going for Saturn’s belt. He had passed out of the
air space, but still had his own air space.
The cartoon in the current issue of Melbourne
Punch is entitled—“ Moderation,” and represents Ned
Kelly (typifying the Berry party) as standing on the
hustings and addressing his audience (of policemen) in
the following terms: —“ Gentlemen, why should we
quarrel ? I am quite willing to let bye-gones be bye-
gones. Let us coalesce and go in for moderation.”
This is the kind of poetry that appears in some
of the weekly papers:—
Falling for ever, and ever
Sinking with shuddering dread.
Never to rise again, never,
For ever to die with the dead!
This particular bard is evidently suffering from an attack
of “ Pinafore.”
Little Mirams, who expects to be elevated to
the Victorian Chairmanship of Committees, recently
said to a friend that as ho hadn’t a seat in the Cabinet
he would surely have to be raised to the Chairmanship
of Committees. The friend said that of course he
would have to be raised—nobody expected him to be
able to climb into it himself—unless he borrowed a
step ladder.
There is a little man in town just now the
deathly pallor of whose countenance is not so much re-
lieved by a straw colored moustache as it is intensiSed
by the rouge-like tints which appear to have been
dabbed on by a cunning theatrical hand. It is ex-
plained that the little fellow was formerly a wax figure
in Ghiloni’s collection, and that he has just been en-
dowed with life by Milner Stephen.
The following announcement appeared in a re-
cent number of the Bendigo Advertiser: —“Ameri-
can Photographic Co. will be in attendance at White
Hills Cemetery on Monday next, 23rd inst.; Back
Creek, Tuesday, 24th; Eaglehawk, Wednesday, 25th.
Any persons wishing to have their tombstones photo-
graphed can leave word with the sextons, or A. Flegel-
tanb, Bull-street, next door to Pickles’ factory."
A well-known medico at Clermont, Queensland,
and the C.P.S. of that place hod a slight difference of
opinion some short time since. The latter gentleman,
who is “a bit of a bruiser,” wished to try conclusions
with the doctor, but he “wasn’t on.” At the Court,
when the doctor was asked whether he was not rather
violent at times, replied to the effect “ that since ho
had been made a J.P. he was like a lamb.”
A Few New Books. —“By a Hempen Rope,”
sequel to j" With a Silken Thread. “ Pokers,” by the
author of the “ Great Navigators of the 18th Century.”
“ Spiders,” by A. Weber, author of “ Miles Harding.”
“On Mount Bulli’s Open Strata,” companion to “ A
Seamy Side.” “Meditations of a Mother-in-law.” by
the author of “ Memories of Troublous Times.” “ The
Reading of the Will," companion to “The World of
Cant.”
Two respectably dressed young men were caught
in the act of playing rather a mean “lark”—so they
called it—at a city restaurant a few days ago.
It appears they were in the habit of dining in
up-stairs room, where they indulged in all the
luxuries of the season. Having obtained their
tickets, they went up to the billiard room, remained
there some time, came down with nonchalant air, and
finally swaggered out without paying.
The editor of the Tamworth Observer puts
the matter gently thus:—“ln conclusion, we may
remark, that every type, and all other material used in
the production of this paper is new, and not a solitary
sixpence worth or it has been paid for; nor, as the paper
leaves the office to go to you, have we the amount of
money necessary to buy a wine round for the little staff
that printed it. Under these circumstances,” &c. We
hope so.
A gold coin, of the date of 1768, was picked up
by a boy the other day at Cooktown. The Cooktown
Herald says that it is well-known that portion of Capt.
Cook’s crew resided on shore and that no doubt the
spring where the coin was found would be the source of
supply for them. The journal is confident, taking all
the circumstanoee into consideration, that this interest-
ing relic of the past is connected with the renowned
navigator’s visit to the Endeavour River just one
hundred years ago.
“ Curius Beniatus." These words do not, as
is commonly supposed, mean a person whose teeth have
been under the Dentist’s care, and therefore glisten
with platinum and gold. Curius in his time could shew
two jaws full of such molars and incisors as are now
rarely seen; and when he gnashed his teeth and clenched
his fist there was no fear of the stopping falling down
his throat. By the way, übi derivetur "stopping?"
Isn’t “ stopping " a cruel misnomer, considering that it
is always dropping out—always “ in transitu! "
A Maryborough (Q.) man whose wife was sup-
posed to be dying, had her parents and relatives sum-
moned to her death-bed. The fond husband in broken
words said to one of her relatives, a Scotchman with
plenty of money, “ Poor Mary, she’s a good girl, ’avry
—good girl. I’ll buy her the best tombstone I can get.
I’ve got 500 d good store bullocks coming
down next week " —this all in the same breath. Of
course there wasn't any whisky about.
“ To prevent the landing of bricks on that ’ere
wharf is a hinterference with the bone and sinew of the
place,” said owe of the speakers at a recent meeting held
at Manly. “Yes” remarked one of his hearers, one who
by his appearance evidently knew what work is—
“ That man srwuting there would hide himself for a
month if he thought there would be a chance of his
getting a day’s work—Bone and sinew indeed. I know
him.—He will take precious good care there is no
hinterference with his bones and sinews.”
Mr. David Buchanan has from time to time
made Mr. Temporary Judge Windeyer the butt of some
good jokes. Mr. Buchanan was once handling a witness
severely and the judge interfered. “You can’t go on
thatway; the witness is not before a jury." “No,your
Honor; but he’s before me,” was the laconic reply.
Then another time Mr. Buchanan was addressing a jury
on law. “These views, gentlemen,” he said, “were
upheld by the English judges—maintained by the lumi-
naries of the English Bench—not by the nondescripts
you meet when you go abroad," etc., etc.
A lady the other day took her son to a phreno-
logist who resides not a hundred miles from the Post
Office:—
“ Will he be clever,” the lady said.
But sadly the student shook his head.
And answered her in classic writ.
Ex nihilo nihil fit." ,
The modern Banl:
My fellow M.P.’s, should a commission or two
Be offered me while doing my duty to you.
I’ll heed not the coin, no, by Samuel, I’ll lock it.
With a good deal beside, in the depths of my pocket.
A wayward Hebrew named Marks has been
outraging the feelings of the ‘ uncos ’ at Christchurch,
N.Z., by selling on Sunday "apples; oranges and
lemonade,” as the theatre confectioners have it. The
powers that be have decided that the vending of stick-
j aw, acid drops and fruit on the Sabbath is inimical to the
moral welfare of the people, and that the baneful in-
fluence of such traffic is heightened by the accompany-
ing trade in those maddening drinks called lemonade
and hop-beer respectively. This marks an era in
civilisation, observes a press correspondent.
A showily-dressed draper’s assistant, on entering
church the other Sunday, knelt down so gingerly and
apparently took so much trouble in settling himself
that people behind him thought he meant to pray till
he got corns on his knees. But he got up soon and
hadn’t been sitting down the eighteenth of a second
before he jumped up ejaculating “ Good 1” and a lot
An Apology for an Apology; “ Not Corrupt, but Incompetent.”


o NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trade mark “Arm and Dolly’’ on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
HUDSON’S EXTRACT of SOAP.
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL. Paris
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1873.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1873.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
A!fD SHOULD ALWATS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
JJOYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agent's for
Brins mead's Celebrated Pianos.
PRICES TO SUIT ALL,
Guaranteed for Five Tears.
Highest Award above all others.
Faultless and unsurpassed.
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agents for
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE,
For making Gas in private houses,
large establishments, stations, or
towns.
No Trouble.
Simple and Effective.
Half the cost of Keroseue.
JJOYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Agents for
SMITH’S AMERICAN ORGANS
Unequalled and incomparable.
ROUE & HOGG,
Briaamead Piano Depit,
BOND STREET STORES,
Stonst.
Amusements
gCHOOL OF AET S.
Manager Mr. C. H. Taylor.
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
MSS ELLA CARRINGTON’S
“STRAY LEAVES” COMPANY'
in their
Noveltv Entertainment.
“STRAiT LEAVE S.”
Encouraged by the success of Australian Scullers
Cricketers, Athletes, &c., &c.. Miss ELLA CAfil
RINGTON has formed a Company of purely Australian
[ Artistes, and with entertainments written by an Aus-
tralian Author and illustrated by beautiful Paint-
ings from the brush of an Australian Artist, and pur-
poses visiting England and America at the conclusion’
of her engagements in Sydney, Melbourne and Ade-
laide.
The Company includes the following Artistes
Miss ELLA CARRINGTON,
Burlesque Artiste and sparkling Soubrette (late of Sad-
ler’s Wells and Queen’s Theatres, London).
Miss NELLIE MANSELL,
the Australian Ballad Singer (late of Academy of
Music, Melbourne).
Mr. C. H. TAYLOR,
the Australian Captain Eluellen, Michael Eeeny,
Harvey Duff, &c., &c., and for three years principal
Character Actor and Comedian at the Theatre Royal
Melbourne. J ’
Mr. J. F. FORDE,
the Australian “Mourzoo ,” “ Larrivandiere,” “Cap-
tain of Pinafore’’ (late Primo Baritone of Lyster's
Opera Bouffe Company, &c., &.)
Mr. J. A. DELANY,
the Australian Pianoforte Soloist )late Organist of St.
Mary’s Cathedral).
The Entertainment is Illustrated by
TWELVE BEAUTIFUL SCENES,
Painted expressly by the Australian Artist,
JOHN HENNINGS, ESQ.,
of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
MONDAY E VENING, SEPTEMBER 6th,
production of the novelty entertainment
“ APPOINTMENTS.’*
Box Plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
Admission3s., 25., and One Shilling.
Doors open at 7. Overtime at 8. Performance ter-
minates in time for Suburban trains.
CHAS. FULLER, Business Manager.
Auction Sale
YVTEW SOUTH WALES-
TO CAPITALISTS, GRAZIERS, AGRICULTURISTS
and others
The most Luxuriant and extensive Freehold,
Pastural and Agricultural
Northern Estates,
comprising
“ DARTBROOK,” near SCONE, area
13,955 acres, in five lots.
ST. HILLIERS” at MUSWELLBROOK, area
14,126 acres, in two lots.
GUNDIBRI” near MERRIWA, area
27,140 acres, in seven lots.
These magnificent Freehold Pastoral Estates, will be
submitted to public competition, and will be sold
pursuant to a Decree of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, in its Equitable Jurisdection made in the
cause of Hall and another v. Hall and others, with the
approve of the Master in Equity, by
RICHARDSON and WRENCH,
at their Rooms Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Monday, 4th October next, at 11 o’clock, in the
following order.
DAYBROOK ESTATE, County of BRISBANE.
LOT 1.—730 ACRES, near Lot 2, in the Parish of
Yarraman, known as Pikes Grant of 640 acres,
and two other small selections.
LOT 2.-4,984 ACRES, 4 rood, 24 perches, known as
the “ Sheep Station,” in the Parish of Myrabluan,
and permanently watered by the Wybong and
Guangui Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between Lots two and five, in
the Parish of Halscott, a square of 4 Sections
adjoining Lands belonging to D. M’INTYRE
Esq., and S. WRIGHT Esq.
LOT 4. —640 ACRES, near Lot five, in the Parish of
Stratheam, adjoining the property of W.
STEPHENS Esq.
LOT 5. —5,081 ACRES 1 rood 23 perches at Daxtbrook,
on the Railway-line between Newcastle and Scone,
in the Parish of Stratheam, adjoining the pastoral
property and highly improved estate belonging
to P. M'lntyre, Esq. On this Lot are two Family
Residences, with all necessary convenience. The
greater portion is cleared, securely fenced, and
subdivided into Paddocks.
ST. HILLIERS ESTATE,
adjoining Muswellbrook,
H COUNTY of DURHAM.
LOT 1.—8.799 ACRES, being the whole of that
Magnificent tract of highly improved rich Agri-
cultural land extending from Muswellbrook to
Scone, and including Sparkes 2,000 acre grant
adjoining the Permanent and Temporary Com-
mons. On this is a commodious Family Residence-
fitted with every convenience, and having all
necessary out-hnildings. Also stockyards. Men's
hnts etc. This estate is ’watered by the Hunter
River, Mnsell Brook, St. Hilliers Brook and other
tributaries, and the Railway passes through the
Property.
LOT 2.-5327 ACRES, Parishes of St. Auhin’s and
Balmoral, close to Lot Cue and the Muswellbrook
Town Common.
GUNDIBRI ESTATE,
COUNTY of BRISBANE.
LOT 1. —7297 ACRES, the Southern portion of the-
Estate, iu the Pariah of Hall, and watered by
LOT 2.—9143 ACRES, adjoining Lot 1 in the parishes-
of Hall and Merriwa. On this Lot is the Home-
stead, comprising Cottage Residence, Men’s
Quarters, Stock Yards, and other improvements.
LOT 3. —1694 ACHES, adjoining Lot Two and boun-
ded on the West by Hall’s Creek.
LOT 4.—6918 ACRES, next to Lot 3, in the Parish of
Webimble, on Hall’s Creek.
LOT 5.—1120 ACRES, situated at the Northern ends-
of the Estate, and having a considerable frontage-
to Hall’s Creek.
LOT 6.-928 ACRES, West of Gundibri Proper, and
situated iu the Parish of Coulson.
LOT 7. —10 ACRES, on Reedy Creek, South of Gun-
dibri Proper.
It is not the intention of the Auctioneers to add a
single comment ou the value and profitableness of the
above Freehold, Pastoral and Agricultural Estates.
They prefer merely to furnish the above particulars
and to leave such well-knowu and valuable estates to-
stand ou their own merits with capitalists, thefore wu*
only say that as the several lots are iu the market tor
lion a jiile sale the attention of Capitalists is particular l .'
directed to unquestionably the best opportunity foi
investing in this Interest, which can be afforded tp
them throughout the whole of the northern portion or
the colony ot New South Wales. -
PLANS of the Several Lots are now ou view at a
Rooms of RICHARDSON and WRENCH. Pitt-street.
Sydney, and also at the Offices of R. G. FITZGERALD »
Esq.. Solicitor, Muswellbrook. ... f
TERMS LIBERAL.- One-quarter Cash on the fall <>*
the hammer, and the residue in equal amounts at L -
and 3 years from day of sale ; interest, 6 per cent- i' e
annum.
Solicitous :
Messrs. HOLDEN and LAWRENCE,
No. 35 CASTLEREAGH-STREET.
S Y I) N E T.
Amusements
fJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Leasee Mr. Samuel Lazar
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
THIS EVENING, AND UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
Production of Burnand’s Great Comedy Drama,
TURN OF THE TIDE.
Characters by Messrs. G. S. Titheradge, Arthur
Gamer, Edwin Shepherd, Frank Cates, Edmund VV.
Marshall, Wm, Farren, junr., E. A. Alberton, Henry
Lemon, J. Criss, E. Beverley, and Frederick Marshall.
Misses Blanche Stammers, Alma Santon, Nellie Play-
fair, Mrs. Morion Stammers, Mrs George Gordon, Mrs.
Frederick Marshall, and Miss Annie Taylor.
NEW SCENERY and EFFECTS by Mr. GEORGE
GORDON.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Doors open at 7,15, Curtain will rise at 8 o’clock
sharp.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3s:
Family Circle, 2s; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.'s, George-street, where
Beats can be secured six days in advance.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Easiness Manager, Liddy.
THE LEWIS JUVENILE “PINAFORE”
COMPANY.
Mrs. G. B. LEWIS having the sole right of producing
JUVENILE PINAFORE throughout the Colonies
by special arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson,
the
LEWIS JUVENILE PINAFORE COMPANY,
varying in age from 3 to 13 years, will perform
EVERY EVENING, until further notice,
“ H.M.S. PINAFORE.”
with Full Chorus of 60 Children, the whole arrange-
ments and production under the supervision of Mrs.
G. W. B. Lewis. Conductor at the Opera, Mr. JAMES
URE.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. No half-price for Children.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
Doors open at 7—commence 8 sharp.
mO EXCURSIONISTS, PICNIC PARTIES,
JL AND OTHERS.
For CHARTER daily during the Summer Season at
REDUCED RATES.
The Favourite and Commodious Steamers—
COMMODORE
EMU
ROYAL ALFRED
BREADALBANE.
Port Jackson Steam Boat Co., Limited, 3 Pitt-street.
There is no word in the English
LANGUAGE to adequately describe the beauty
of the
" POMPADOUR CORSETS ”
imported DIRECT FROM PARIS by
EDWARD HORDERN, of 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL.
They are made of BLACK SATTEEN with EXQUI-
SITELY HAND.WORKED BOQUETS of the choicest
Spring Flowers “ Come and see them.” Only Ss 6d
per pair, well worth 1 guinea.
ofj **big, big D’s.” He subsequently explained to bis
much-scandalised wife that on trying to sit down he
suddenly remembered that he'd been laying carpets a
little while before and had half a paper of tacks in his
pocket.
Mr. Gladstone ia staying at Kingstown, near
Dublin.
“On the Wallaby” is coming out in the Aus-
tralian. As a bona fide relation of colonial life it will
be of information and interest.
Mr. Barley is rough on his country. The other
day in Court he refered to Reilly, the half-breed in-
terpreter, as “a Chinaman of Irish descent.”
“ The best divorce case” has been settled out
of court. They are to live separately in future and no
questions will be asked. What a pity for Mrs. Grundy !
“By one of the greatest living orators, who is
now dead," observed Mr. Barley to the Bench the
other day. However, an Irishman is allowed to speak
twice.
Mathematical conundrum. —If it takes the
Judges a week to consider what they’ll do with the
newspaper man, how long ought it to have taken the
newspaper man to consider what he’d do with the
Judges?
The second son of that most brilliant of colonial
advocates, the late Butler Cole Aspinall, Q.C., has been
admitted to the English bar. In this young gentle-
man’s education H.E.H. the Duke of Edinburgh, who
entertained a high regard for his genial and worthy
father, has generously taken a warm interest.
We hear that it is the intention of Mr. M. H.
Stephen, Q.C., to take a lengthened holiday at an early
date, his health having suffered considerably from the
effects of overwork. Mr. Stephen’s numerous friends
will join us in hoping that the contemplated trip may
have the effect of thoroughly restoring him to health.
Jnst as their Honors the Judges took their seats
on Tuesday, a window immediately behind Sir Jnmes
Martin slammed violently, the glass breaking and being
freely scattered round. The occurrence reminded one
of Mr. Broadhurst’s hon mot when some plaster fell
from the ceiling of the Criminal Court, Darlinghurst—
Fiot justitia mat cerium.
Ever since the date of Adam’s little unpleasant-
ness a woman has been at the bottom of every great
row. What supposing that Sara Bernhardt’s remark,
addressed to the German Minister at the Copenhagen
banquet the other day, that “ she hoped the toast of
‘ France’ included that of ‘ Alsace and Lorraine,’ ’’ were
the means of setting the world ablaze?
Messrs. W. W. Stephen (Under Secretary for
Lands), and Mr. J. P. Croft (accountant in the pay
branch of the Lands office), have been suspended on
the alleged ground that to their carelessness are due
the frauds committed by Evans, who recently absconded
to San Francisco. Further defalcations to the extent
of £2OO on Evans’ part (making in all £1000), have been
discovered.
By the bye—who is keeping an eye on the doings
of “Our John” now that he is on a visit to the
" Southern Paris ’’ with his 40-mile native companion ?”
Aldermen are only men after all, and it would be sad to
see either of these Johnnies come marching home with
“ Capua" stamped at the end of his pensive nose, or
with patent leather boots shewing specks of (well —not
monte} casino dust. It is all very well for Supreme or
District Court Judges and First Flight Barristers to
“ see life ” at Melbourne whenever a Southern Circuit
gives them a pretext; but it would be quite too cruel a
shock to our faith were we told that either of our
Municipal tourists had been “ seeing life " there, in-
stead of snuffing about the Melbourne drains and
pondering over the Melbourne pavements.
A man who wasn’t asked to Br. Renwick’s
banquet the other night, writes commenting severely
on the fact that no one but the host was Slowed to
speak on the occasion. Our correspondent expresses
his opinion to the effect that the affair was got iy> in
order that Dr. Eenwick might publicly praise the Chief
Commissioner, and winds np eloquently thus: —“ Angels
and Ministers of Grace defend us! Has it come to
this ? Was Parliament ignored because Ministers
are too cowardly to speak ? Was the press, the Ith
estate, forgotten because no one dare open his mouth in
defence of its liberty ? Dare no man speak because the
Chief Commissioner fed him ? Is the gag to be placed
upon visitors to public banquets as well as upon the
press ? “Oh Liberty, thrice sweet and gracious goddess,
art thou to be henceforth but a lip-word, an empty
bubble in this fair land ? Get ye hence, ye hungry pack,
to a pie-shop, gorge, pay, and be 'not afraid to
speak.” Now we don’t see why, if Dr. Renwick chooses
to bring together an assemblage of notabilities so that
they may listen to his eloquence, which we all know is
very brilliant, our correspondent should think it
necessary to grumble.
South Sydney contains a big Brewery within its
boundaries. Therefore our friend Dowie (“Take care
of Dow! ”) has chosen himself a candidate for the
Electorate on the Total Abstinence ticket. He will
also represent Protestantism and Social Reformation
for that priest-ridden and demoralised District. Ah !
John Alexander, what an Apostle thou wert in the
“locally optative" mood! But discriminate John. —
Wage internecine war to thy stomach’s content against
glucosed ale and all dragged beverages, but be
gentle to pure Malt and Hops—that is to say if the
Total Abstainers will and can send thee up to Macquarie
Street, there to support thy snug colleague Com-
missioner John in refined Teetotalism—peradven-
ture to become a rival even to the doughty “ John of
Canterbury ” in feats of alimentary assimilation when
the “Ouse” adjourns for the seven o’clock tea and
the “ horacles ’’ are dumb under the soothing influence
of unlimited ten and “ buttered Tommy ” for sixpence.
Mr. Hay. M.L.C., of Adelaide, has been com-
plaining that the Hansard reporters don’t do liim jus.
tice. The following, according to the Register, is the
precise shape into which the hon. gentlemou threw his
remarks“ The reporters—ought not to—the reporters
ought not to be the ones to judge of what is important
—not to say what should bo left out—but—the member
can only judge what is important. As I—as my
speeches—as the reports—as what I say is reported
sometimes, no one—nobody can tell—no one can under-
stand, from the reports—what it is—what I mean. So-
il strikes me—it has struck me certain matters—things
that appear of importance—what the member thinks
of importance—ore sometimes left eut—omitted. The
reporters—the papers—points are reported—l mean
what the paper thinks of interest—is reported. I
can’t compliment the reporters." The foregoing
should interest those of the Macquarie-street sages
who “don’t think much” of the excellent staff so
capably led by Mr. Charles Robinson.
“Stray Leaves.”
Miss Ella Carrington’s “Stray Leaves”
Company opened on Monday night at the School
of Arts to a crowded house and have during the
week been favored with audiences thoroughly
satisfactory from a managerial point of view.
The entertainment consists of the exhibition of
thirteen capital dioramio scenes by Mr. John
Hennings, the clever artist of the Melbourne
Theatre Royal, these pictures serving as a means
of introducing the performers to the audience in
various characters, and thus supplying an excellent
and diversified evening’s amusement. Ever since
Mark Twain wrote about the “appropriate tunes”
of the Western panorama-man, a special interest
has attached to entertainments of the class offered
by the company under notice —(hough in the
present case the charm of the show does not lie in
the grotesqueness with which the pictures, dialogue
and music are associated but rather in the harmony
of the whole. By their sprightly acting and ex-
cellent vocalisation the ladies of the company—
Miss Carrington and Miss Nellie Mansell—con-
tribute greatly to the success of the versatile little
company; while that well-known actor and singer
Mr. J. Forde (*f “ Pinafore ” renown), has an
able second in Mr. C. H. Taylor, who is a
pleasing lecturer and the possessor of a robust
tenor voice. The entertainment is de havt en has
and has evidently been framed with a desire to
please all round.
Election Mems.
It is stated that Mr. H. C. Dangar, formerly
member for West Sydney, will stand for the Man-
ning, in response to a requisition.
Requisitions, some with nearly 1000 names on
them, have been presented to Mr. E. B. Smith,
asking him to stand both for the Macleay and the
Manning. These electorates were formerly com-
prised in the Hastings, which Mr. Smith long
represented. It is probable that he will stand for
the Macleay.
Mr. W. H. Gill, formerly a resident of the
Manning, and now one of the proprietors of the
Mountain Maid Gold-mining Company, will con-
test the Manning, and will publish his address in
a few days.
Mr. Meeks will form one of the candidates for
West Sydney, and will come out with a liberal
programme within the next fortnight. The other
candidates are, Mr. Cameron, Mr. Harris, Mr.
John Young, Mr. D. O’Connor, and, it is said,
Mr. John Woods. Mr. Eoylancc will stand in the
interests of the Trades and Labour Council.
It is pretty certain that Sir Henry Parkes will
be nominated for East Sydney. The other can-
didates will be Mr. Greenwood, Dr. Eenwick, Mr.
W. B. Dailey, Mr. C. J. Roberts, and Mr. Charles
Moore.
The M.R.C. Regatta.
The annual regatta of this Club was held on
Saturday last, and being favored with bright
weather and smooth water it was in every way a
success. Most of the racing could be hardly said
to lie _ exciting, and the form displayed by the
majority of the rowers was not up to concert pitch,
though this may be attributed to the presence of
a large number of maiden and junior rowers. The
senior members were but poorly represented, and
in the omission of the senior Gig Eace, the regatta
this year lost its principal attraction. Whether
this is attributable to a falling off of senior
members or not, wa are not aware, but we noticed
many old faces on the sward fronting the Club
House, who this year were conspicuous by the
marks of parental care, and who might have been
seen submitting to the more peaceful occupation
of nursing their olive branches.
The first race was the Junior Fours, in which
the M.E.C. crew stroked by M‘Farlane easily
defeated the Glebe Kowing Club crew stroked by
Mr. Ickson.
The Junior Double Scull Eace was excellently
won after a hard struggle by Fitzgerald and
Hebblewhite. The rowing of the winners was
finished and most effective.
The Senior Pair Oar Eace brought five boats
to the start, and was won with ease by Finlayson
and Lord. Brett andJM'Farlane defeated Anslow
and Arthur for second place after a severe struggle.
The rowing in the first and second boats was all
that could be desired.
The Maiden Sculls, for which there were sixteen
entries, was won by Mr. A. Fraser, who can boast
the possession of a considerable quantity of wind
and muscle.
The Maiden Gig Eace was won on Saturday by
Mr. Eldridge’s crew, but owing to his opponents
having met with an accident during the race which
destroyed their chance, the crew generously
allowed the race to be rowed over again on
Monday, when the piize fell to their opponents
stroked by Mr. Bros. The rowing of the winning
crew was certainly the most curious seen in the
Harbour for some time. Throughout the race the
stroke varied from 43 to 50 a minute, and not one
oar in the boat kept time. Each worked with the
greatest determination, but at the same time with
the most profound independence of the unfortunate
stroke, who must have had a peculiarly hard time
of it.


Public Notices
E
AST SYDNEY ELECTION.
0 R
I, J. JOSEPHSON.
Of Macquarie-street, is a
CANDIDATE
For this Electorate.
jp R O C T
THEATRE KOYAL,
SUNDAY, September 5.
The Eminent Astronomer’s Grandest Discourse,
THE BIRTH and GROWTH of the UNIVERSE.
“As touching the Almighty, we cannot find Him
out,” —Job.
SIXTH ILLUMINATED VIEWS,
Exhibited on a Screen Twenty-four Feet Square.
Dress Circle, 4s. Stalls, 3s. Upper Circle, 2s.
Pit. Is.
Family Tickets admitting Three: Dress Circle, 10s 6d.
Stalls, 7s. 6d.
Commence at 7.30 Carriages at 9.
B. S. SMYTHE.
Early intimation of items of news
(not already published) will be appreciated and
paid for when authenticated.
GRATTAN’S PRESS AGENCY, 124 PITT-STREET.
Have a look at the sja pompadour
CAMBRICS, at EDWARD HORDERN’S, just
landed from the S. S. JOHN ELDER, FAST COLOURS
and NEWEST DESIGNS. 668, BRICKFEELD-HILL
only.
Family bereavements, suitable
MATERIALS for SUMMER WEAR, FULL
ASSORTMENT, LOW PRICES. The only RELI-
ABLE HOUSE in Sydney for BLACK GOODS.
EDWARD HORDERN, Importer, 668, Brickfield-hill.
I T E ]
R
R
SYDNEY CORRESPONDENCE of the highest class.
Written in a short, sharp and pungent style, conveying
the latest and most interesting information obtainable
in the metropolis will be supplied (bi-weekly, weekly or
fortnightly) to the COUNTRY PRESS on reasonable
GRATTAN’S PRESS AGENCY. 124 PITT-STREET,
RINSMEAD PIANOS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Referring to certain advertisements that have lately
appeared in the daily journals, Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG desire to call the attention of the public to the
following fact, viz.: That the Judges of musical in-
struments at the recent Sydney International Exhibi-
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPECIAL MENTION for
Pianofortes, and that was to Messrs. JOHN BRINS-
atr AT) and SONS. A reference book published
under the authority of the Commissioners, and entitled
Official Awards, will clearly prove this assertion.
We append letters, signed by a majority of the
judges, which establish this fact, and fully explain to
the public the position of affairs.
“ Sydney, July 27, 1880,
“ To the Executive Commissioner.
“Dear Sir,—At the final meeting of the Judges of
Pianos at the Sydney International Exhibition, it was
decided to award to Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEADand
SONS the ONLY SPECIAL MENTION.
“ This was duly presented and confirmed by the Exe-
cutive Commissioner. Afterwards, at the request, as
we understood, of the Secretary, we drew up certain
particulars for the official catalogue ; but this was in no
way intended to invalidate the distinction to Messrs.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS—viz., the HIGHEST
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO EXHIBITS, and as
such are entitled to a higher award.
“ We give you these particulars in justice to the firm
entitled to special distinction, and, no doubt, you wiU
see this duly carried out.
“Weremain, dear sir,
“Yours obediently,
“ C. J. JACKSON,
« MONTAGUE YOUNGER,
. “ EDMUND T. BLACKET,
“ CHARLES PACKER.”
*’ 99 Pitt-street, Sydney,
“July 28, 1880.
“ To H. Brinsmead, Esq.
“ Dear Sir,—l received your letter of the 19th inst.,
and am very much surprised at its contents.
“ You are perfectly correct in saying that your pianos
were the ONLY ones which received any special men-
tion from the Judges of Musical Instruments.
“When it was proposed to give you this SPECIAL
AWARD I objected, and divided the meeting on the
subject, but was outvoted, and the special mention was
made, and I signed the report accordingly. lam not
aware that any alteration was made in this report, and
if it was so it was not done with any knowledge or con-
sent on my part, therefore cannot be said to be the
report of the Judges.
“Your statement that the ONLY SPECIAL notice
among pianos was given to you by the Judges of
musical instruments is ABSOLUTELY TRUE, as the
report itself will show.
“ I am, dear sir,
“ Yours truly,
“EDMUND T. BLACKET.”
“Organ Manufactory, Newtown,
“ Sydney, 1880.
“ Messrs. John Brinsmead and Sons,
“ Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in being able to
vouch to the degree of perfection to which you have
brought the art of pianoforte manufacturing. I must say
the improvements invented and patented by your firm
are of such value that the musical judges, after care-
fully examining the instruments, competing with about
70 or 80 other manufacturers, awarded your pianos the
first prize above them all. I am also of opinion that
your piano's with such simple action, simplicity of me-
chanism, strength of construction, combined with the
remarkable purity and sweetness of tone, are unrivalled,
whilst your patent action produces a touch absolutely
perfect. ~ j arDj Gentlemen,
“Yours truly,
“ C. J. JACKSON.”
ROYLE and HOGG.
BOND-STREET STORES.
Sole Agents for
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS’
Celebrated Sostenente Pianos.
Highest award above over SEVENTY other Manu-
facturers at the Sydney International Exhibition.
Highest awards: Paris, 1867, 1869,1874,1878.
Highest awards : London, 18511862,18<1.
Highest awards, gold medals everywhere.
PRICES to SUIT ALL.
Five years’ guarantee with every instrument.
INCOMPARABLE for
TOUCH,
TONE,
WORKMANSHIP,
DURABILITY,
and PRICE.
A splendid selection now on view at the
BRINSMEAD PIANO DEPOT,
Bond-street Stores.
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
D
avid
JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTHING
COMPANY’S
F or Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
’ made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits.
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND (COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
I C omprisi ng Coat, Vest. 'j
] and Trousers, in all the 6d
4 favourite colours. Well v “ gu j t-
cut and finished in the F
I best manner. I
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
/The latest shape; a use-'
! ful and durable suit
‘j for business and ordi-
i nary wear.
35s per
suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
/In light Homespuns and!
J thin Cheviots and Ban- ! 42s per
1 nockburns. for Spring f Suit.
nocanurns. lor oj
t and Summer wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
/la Choice Oriental!
* Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
’] general wear, in neat f per suit
( checks and mixtures, j
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Light and"!
| Durable, the materials 1 63g
having been well J- guit
j shrunk before being j
made up. J
D
AVID JONES* AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
Iln Superior Oriental"!
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and V
finished the same as 1
ordered clothing. )
68s 6d
per.suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
/"Beautifully light
‘ Texture, permanent in ( 38s 6d
1 colour and very dur- [ per suit
V. able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
('Special attention is in-"!
] vited to our Orient 1
j Clothing, as being j Genlemens
the best value, and [■ Orient
j most perfect in style ] Clothing.
| and flush procurable |
L in the colony. J
/"In Superior Tasmanian')
\ Flannel, thoroughly (
"1 shrunk. i
IBs 5d
The
Orient.
rChina Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
| Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d oach.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
J All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
1 Superior Serge Coats, 21s each 1
j Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
/'ln fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
1 1n Super Black Merino, 255.
1 In Blue Sergerette, 455.
(.In Black Sergerette, 455.
/"In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
In Black Merino. 30s.
Cln Super Sergerette, 555.
(Super White Duok Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
| „ in Self Colours, 8s Cd.
-> „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
I Super White and Fancy Mamlla, 8s 6d.
(.Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
/"In Superior, all Wool")
Tambary Tweed, well >■ 30s each
(, finished. j
(A Special Dress Over-')
j coat, silk trimmings, j
•’ and facings, beauti- [- 55s
j fully tight, and agree-
v able to wear. J
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theii EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys”
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
'Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Touths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
■gerette Suits.
r 7s 6d, 8s
!In neat fashionable [ Bd, 12s 6d,
; Tweeds, neatly cut 5 13s 6d, 15s
“j and well made, and f 6d, 17s 6d,
finished. 1 19s 6d per
J suit.
In new shapes, very") 12s 6d to
prettily trimmed, and 19s 6d per
thoroughly well-made. ) suit.
5s lid, 7s
ctive ,sd ’ 98 5d
LUV e \ ner suit.
f For dress wear, extra')
finished, superior (
"l material, and excel-1
I lent shape. )
/In superior Navy Serges!
complete with lan-1
1 yard, whistle, badge, '
V collar and undershirt.;
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
fin light and dark mix-'|
I tures, cut in fashion- j 21s 6d to
‘ able styles, well [-to 23s 6d
j trimmed and strongly ( per suit.
L made. j
/In fine durable Esta-!
J mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
j adapted for school and f 6d,
V general wear. J
(For dress "ear)
■ trimmed and made m - u
I a superior manner. * *
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
SCHOOL OF ARTS,
&
ytfHOMP SQjf
5
RR O R
M
OF THE
ZULU WAR
MONDAY SEPTEMBEE 13th.
GEAND OPENING NIGHT,
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13th.
m
111
■?
s
p^cke*
THIS
ehov? s \
w
A vet* 1
h&l 1
jckm,
be
Spring*
W*"*
Tea
the
ttK^ 1,1
iM
tust publish e'd
O by
EDWARD K. COLE,
KING and GEORGE STREETS.
The Second Series of
“THE ROYAL SYDNEY SOUVENIR,”
containing
21 Views of Public Buildings, Streets, and Harbour
Scenery of Sydney. PRICE, 2s, 6d.
Post free inland, 2s. Bd.; International 2s. lOd.; to the
United Kingdom, 2s. lOd.
Extract from the Evening News.
Mr. E. R. Cole, the well-known bookseller, has just
published the second series of his “ Royal Sydney
Souvenir,” which contains 24 views ef Sydney buildings
and New South Wales scenery. These views are very
choice, and exceedingly well got up.
Extract from the Sydney Daily Telegraph :
We acknowledge the receipt of 24 photographs of
Sydney, the suburbs and the magnificent harbour, issued
as a souvenir by Mr. E. R. Cole, of King-street, Sydney.
The views are well executed, and will probably show to
many friends at the antipodes the sort of places that
we, in this colony, “mostly do effect.”
Extract from Sydney Punch :
The “Royal Sydney Souvenir” has been received
from the well-known bookseller, Mr. E. R. Cole, of
George-street, and contains 24 photographs, excellently
taken, of the principal buildings of interest in and
around Sydney. As a memento of Sydney and its
suburbs it is invaluable.
Extract from the Freemans Journal :
We have been favoured by the publisher, Mr. E. R.
Cole, with a copy of a second series of the “ Royal
Sydney Souvenir.” It will by this time be generally
known that such is the title of a collection of photo-
lithographic views of places in and around* Sydney.
The first series was so well and deservedly received by
the public that it is unnecessary to pass more elaborate
praise upon the present series than to say that while
the subjects, being different, possess the additional
charm of variety, the treatment is exactly similar to
that which characterised the former collection. The
pictures (24 in number) are nicely mounted, and are
confined within a red morroco cover. The price, con-
sidering the “ get up ” of the Souvenir, is ridiculously
small.
Extract from The Bulletin :
Mr. E. R. Cole has got out a second series of his
“ Royal Sydney Souvenir,” containing views of Sydney
scenery, Ac. The Souvenir is got up in a really excel-
lent style, and will doubtless find its way in large num-
bers to friends at a distance who want to see what
Sydney is like.
The SOUVENIR contains the following VIEWS
The New Government Offices, corner of Macquarie
and Bridge Streets
George-street, looking South, from Jamieson-street
St. Andrew’s College
The Exchange
The Herald Office and Pitt-street
The Circular Quay, looking towards Pitt-street
The Circular Quay, from Blackwall Stores
The Commercial Bank and Bank of New South Wales
Avenue and Entrance to Botanic Gardens, Domain
Statue of Prince Albert, entrance to Hyde Park
Statue of Captain Cook, Hyde Park
Farm Cove and Lower Botanic Gardens
Scene in Lower Botanic Gardens
North Shore, from outer Walk, Domain
| Sydney and Darling Harbour, from Pyrmont
j Statue of Governor Bourke, Domain
Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, Domain
The Outer Beach, Menl
| Coogee, near Sydney
| Scene in Middle Harbour, Port Jackson
Entrance to Sydney Harbour, from Middle Head
Govett’s Leap, Blue Mountains
Botany Heads, near Sydney. *
EDWARD R. COLE
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
Comer of
GEORGE AND KING STREETS
SYDNEY,
New reflecting lamps for gas or
KEROSENE,
&
%
*
a
•A
\Va\
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c.,
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
JUST ARRIVED. GLOBES, &c.
J, HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
SHUTTLE
SEWING MAC HIN E.
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICH
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNTAED-LANE, SYDNEY.
Egyptian hall,
406 GEORGE-STREET. NEAR KING-STREET.
Engagement and Great Success of
JOHNNY COWAN and MAT RILEY,
GREAT VARIETY TROUPE of 13 Star Artistes.
“ THE ELECTRIC BOY.”
Scenes of the Kelly Gang Outrages.
A Suit of Ned Kelly’s Clothes.
A Man with Six Perfect Fingers on each Hand and Six
Toes on each Foot.
And many other Novelties.
Open from 10 a.m. until 16 p.m.
Admission—6d.


Miscellaneous
Ma. HUGHES AND CO.,
• 580, Gkoege-strbbt,
respectfully in rite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambswool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts, Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
380 George-street.
T| RYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the moat
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Ceach-builders" Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Faints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
or
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AX
RILEY BROTHERS’
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
SAVE ss. IN THE POUND J
Don’t fail to call at
ONB.OP the shops
ON
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES.
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET,
\ MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT
H. P. GREGORY AND GO.,
No. 11. PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER T,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Far and Co.’s First Special Prize Woed-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake's Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Bobber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality SfSesuNTBED, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do, Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Ho. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PATCTT MEJIL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
LASSETTER & CO. (L I M I T E D),
Have on view the finest exhibition of Silver-plated Ware in the Colony.
&
Over One Hundred Patterns of TEA SERVICES to choose from.
Selected from the best Ateliers in England, the Continent, and America,
NEW DESIGNS arriving by Orient Steamship Co., comprising Cruet Frames, Entree Dishes,
Biscuit Boxes, Butter Dishes, Liquor Frames, Salvers, Cake Baskets, Napkin Eings, Prize
Cups, Toast Eacks, Sardine Boxes, &c., &c. CABINETS containing Full Suite of
Table Appointments suitable for Presentations.
AGENTS for EEED & BAETON’S American Silver-plated Ware.
AGENTS for CHEISTOFLE’S Celebrated Parisian Silver-plated Ware, every article of vrhich is
stamped with the amount of silver deposited.
F. LASSETTEE & CO. (LIMITED), GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
E, HAEPEE & CO.,
SYDNEY.
BUY
'O
PRIZE
9
E. HAEPEE & CO-,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
E. HAEPEE & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
TEN FIEST PEIZES
AND THE
SPECIAL FIEST
As the BEST OF THEIE CLASS
in the
SYDNEY
INTEBN ATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879-1880.
mm
-'l.
-c,
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says r—
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
E. HAEPEE & CO.
SYDNEY.
Ed
TAR
J
E. HAEPEE & CO.,
SYDNEY.
S 1 ’" R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FOEMEE YEAES OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGEE’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—.£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
rjIHE UNIVERSAL LOCESTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FAELEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIYE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OP THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OP THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, IS. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney .—Jeyes - Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgec Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for 2i years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From G. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney .—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant. Jeves’
Purifier is unrivalled. J
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
J eyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
V*
i
TRADE MARK-
TRADE MARK.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Sold by all GrOeers and Storekeepers
BOYD'S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF AET,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o(
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality,
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
P.
E. L A E K i
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
N,
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY,
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street)»
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats,
P. E. LAE KIN, #
Wholesaik and Retail Wine and Spieit Merchant*
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
| N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
T
[HE STANDARD LIFE ASSUEANCE COM-
PANY.
Head Office
Sydney Branch
George-street, Edinburgh.
283 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE,
The next DIVISION OP PROFITS will be made as
at Isth November, 1880, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T, WATKINS,
Secretary.
lON FIEE INSUEANCE COMPANY-
■ Limited.
Chief Office—s. LOTHBUBY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
... £1,000,000
200,000
50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property ia
town and country at Lowest Bates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietor®*
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices or
John Woods & Co„ Bridge-street.
ASHIONABLE TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT,
127 KING STREET.
R. C. HAGrON has opened the above estab*
lishment with a view of supplying garments of a
superior class, and at a price hitherto unattainable
in Sydney. The business will be conducted on terms of
CASH PAYMENTS only, a great saving to the pur-
chaser, at a very trifling advance on prime cost, and for
this object he has personally selected and purchased
the finest and most fashionable designs in the market.
Patrons of this establishment may rest assured that
every attention will be given to all orders he may be
favoured with, which, combined with good workman-
ship, punctuality, and civility, hopes to command th®
attention and patronage of a discerning public.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order ... 16s 6d
Ditto Suits, to Order ... 70a od
Bliss’s Tweeds Trousers, to Order ... 16s 6d
Dicto Suits, to Order ”* 70s Od
All Garments from this establishment well shrunk
and fit guaranteed.
Ilf RS. WETNTON,
JJ - a ~ OSWIN HOUSE,
*' Begent-street, Petersham.
SUPERIOR accommodation offered in private family
residing one minute from Petersham station on the
Staamore side. Booms airy and pleasant—has Bath,
Piano, and every home comfort. Dinner at 6.30. Terms
—Two guineas per week.
VAENISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE THEATBICAL PEOFESSION AND
LADIES GBNEEALLY.
A choice variety of COMPLEXION POWDEES
on Sale, also fine PEEPUMEEY and TOILET
articles, &c., &c.
W. D. EAMES,
Chemist, 14 Osford-st.,
Near Hyde Park.
