

T H E BULLETIN
No. 2.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1880.
Price—3d
SATUEDAY, FEBEUAEY 7, 1880.
The Distress at Newcastle.
While we are attending to the deep and lamentable
distress of our compatriots in the old country we
as a community are forgetting in our pardonable
enthusiasm the poverty and misery at our own
doors. Perhaps it is that the latter has not
hitherto been brought before us, and that a foolish
pride, fostered by the clap-trapof gabbling politi-
cians,has as yet forbidden us entertaining the idea of
poverty in this virgin country —this land, which,
according to vulgar report, flows with milk and
honey and gives work to all. But facts, which
with the wise go before fancies, show that poverty
as bitter and stinging as any that ever affected
a class in an otherwise prosperous community is
endured by many of onr own people in this soi
disant land of plenty. We do not apeak of the
numerona unemployed who have been attracted to
the capital by false reports and delusive promises
—we merely allude to the distress existing among
certain members of the working class in the
provinces. We especially desire to draw attention
to the poverty and distress apparent at the Glebe,
near Newcastle, which district is now the seat of
great and (in civilized Australia) unexampled want.
Newcastle, the second port of the colony, with the
reputation of wealth snehas noother district enjoys,
has up to the present time been looked upon as the
mainstay of the colony, the stronghold of'all
that constitutes the material welfare of a country.
This town and itS outlying districts, through the
tions of designing men and the foolishly obstme-
re policy of workmen has sustained a reverse the
ost rapid and signal of which we have experience.
In every suburb —and we thus designate Lambton,
Waratah, and Wallsend—poverty of greater or less
intensity prevails among the inhabitants, many of
whom, dependent for subsistence on the coal indus-
try, have of late been deprived of employment.
Miners who have families to support (and livingis by
no means cheap in the mining towns)have in some of
the collieries earned barely 15s. per week each for
the last two months. The wages of an agricul-
tural laborer in England are higher than those
received by some ninety colliers in this, the
wealthiest district in the colonies. But nowhere
seems the blight of poverty to have fallen so
heavily as at the Glebe, a township two miles from
Newcastle. There the distress, though miniature
in scale, because the victims were few in number,
bids fair to rival that existing in some European
countries. The record of privations uncomplain-
ingly endured by families at the Glebe reads more
like a sketch of distress in the Black country at
home than the sober narration of facts concerning
poverty in Australia. Able-bodied men vainly
tramping the district in search of work; the
generous spirits of the mother failing when the
cupboard became empty and her children were
crying for food; the raw-onion-and-bread meal for
a family residing, not in England or Ireland, but
in sunny New South Wales, form a picture which
is true to fact but at which those who have not
investigated the subject and do not care to inves-
tigate it may sneer. There are evictions in Ire-
land and there are evictions at Newcastle. Those
who have wept over happy savages may now with
advantage turn their eyes to Newcastle, New South
Wales, and at the same time give their attention
to the proposed immigration expenditure. The
conclusion will be inevitable that labour
without capital is as helpless as capital without
labour, and that the importation in the. present
state of the labor market of shiploads of penni-
less and often far from energetic immigrants means
nothing but a large addition to the misery, appa-
rent and hidden, already prevailing.
The Totalisator.
Two wrongs have never made a right; and though
the end to be attained may occasionally justify
the means used, it is,not always that we are to
connive at a little present evil in order that we
may achieve some future good. Of this opinion were
evidently the majority (by four) of nineteen mem-
bers who, on Friday evening, voted for rejecting
Mr. Garrett’s ‘' Totalisator Legalising Bill,”
though they did not adopt. Mr. McElhone’s sug-
gestion that proposer and Bill should be kicked
into the street. If the totality of the totalisator
stopped with its work of lessening the evils that
attach to the nefarious blackguardism •of book-
making, we could have wished that Mr. Garrett
might have performed the lacking operation in
an opposite direction, however suspicious may be
the directing tendency of anything coming from that
quarter. Unfortunately, however, though the
evils of bookmaking might be diminished by the
totalisator, the instrument itself might remain in
perpetuity to permit gambling and gracelessness
under the cloak of legality, and for the especial
benefit of the shareholders of the “infernal
machine.” The temptation to embezzle, to cheat,
and to borrow, to take a ticket in a legal lottery,
would be greater than it is to rank among the
rabble rout of prize-winners. It is to be regretted
that we have not an opportunity of hearing Sir
Hercules on the subject.
Mr. Edwin Kelly and the Only Leon.
Watchful of whatever concerns and interests the
public, The Bulletin gives to its readers this week the
portraits of two distinguished and very popular artists,
‘Mr. Edwin Kelly and ithe Only Leon. Here are two
gentlemen who bring credit to their profession, and
add to their ability the prize of private worth. Re-
spected and supported for the style of entertainment
provided the public from the first day of their arrival
in this city, they have achieved all the success managers
could hope for; but beyond this, they have won favour
in a wider field; they have gained the esteem of all who
have had the pleasure of their acquaintance. And it is
pretty certain few pien ever entered upon an under-
taking with heartier wishes of success than did these
two gentlemen when they set about the erection of
their new Opera House in York-rtreet. Mr. Edwin
Kelly was bom in Dublin—the birthplace of histrionic
genius- and is now forty-two years of age. He wa-i
brought up at Portsmouth, and educated at St. Fault,
in the old naval township. At nineteen he was sent to
London to study medicine, and remained at St. George’ s
Hospital till ho became a member of the Royal College
of Surgeons. Not yet twenty-two years old, he started
for America, but music and the drama having greater
attractions for him than his profession, he accepted an
engagement, and made his debut at Boston. Possess! <1
of a rich tenor voice and the soul of an artist, he very
soon went to the front in his new profession, and his
career since then has been a run of unparalleled suc-
cess. He played four years at Boston, and with the troupe
there formed took Chicago, New York, and other grea t
cities hy storm. His style is eccentric comedy, aud 1m
plays to the most critical house only to add fresh
laurels to to his reputation. As Sir Joseph Porter, in
“ H.M.S. Pinafore,” (in which character he Is now
ponrt raved), he made an undoubted hit. Withhis rich,
wcT trained voice, he gave to the music all its charms,
ami with his thorough conception of the character he
gave form to the cleverest ideal picture that has been
drawn by any author for many years past. It has been
said of him that many an admiral would give half his
pay for his style. The Only Leon was bom in New
York, and is now thirty-one years of age. We give his
portrait as Rose Michon, in the opera of that name.
He is undoubtedly the most finished artist in his own
peculiar line that has ever appeared on any stage. His
stele as a female impersonator stands the severest
•chdcism; and that must be taken as the result of
downright toil and unceasing practice. He is known in
the profession as most painstaking and assiduous,
and his trmuph* in London, New York, and elsewhere
have been great indeed. He was educatedat St. John’s
College, Fordham, New York, and having a liking for
the stage, adopted it as his profession. Being lithe of
form and of great vivacity of style, the ballet seemed
designed for him. While yet little more than a mere
lad he studied under Signora Galletti and the cele-
brated Theresa Ralla, and before nineteen years of age
he led, in fomkiina costume, the best ballets in two of the
greatest opera trbnpes that ever appeared in America,
THE ONLY LEON, AS ROSE MICHON.
MR. EDWIN KELLY, AS SIR JOSEPH PORTER IN H.M.S. PINAFORE.


.a- plays bis performances were no less
, he led night after night, over a hundred of
rformers in scenes and dances that admit-
■i never been eclipsed. As leading dan sense in
. produced in New York, with a ballet num-
-250, his performances crowned all previous
He joined Mr. Kelly in 1862, and proceeding to
on, played in “ Barber Blue,” in St. George’s Hall,
this time the same piece was being played at St.
nes’s, and the famons dansense Schneider was lead-
• the ballet. The London Times, the Telegraph,
d the Standard gave the Only Leon the palm for
ace anu style. The piece ran 100 nights. We need
iOt speak of subsequent successes in America. As
managers they have been everywhere successful. In
Sydney fortune still smiles on them. Already they
have given us many novelties, and they promise to keep
up the attractions of their Opera House in this way.
If so, they will not find Sydney wanting in sub-
stantial recognition.
BRIEF MENTION.
John Hurley stand* about sft. Bin.,—a size
larger than the average donkey.
Mauy New England picanninies cry out with
owe voice, “Tom D 's the father of his country.”
John Davies parts his hair with a spirit level,
to avoid disturbing his linely-balanced cerebral equi-
librium.
John Davies pays frequent visits to Macqtiarie-
street, south. Pleased wo are indeed to see somebody
looking after Cook Ward.
A protectionist storm is gathering, and East
Sydney is to be asked to make response. We don’t feel
called upon to prognosticate.
Ex-Judge Simpson diligently does the block
still. There is but one Spark that equals him in his
devotedness to the feverish pastime.
Mr. Hayes, Secret ary to the Exchange, is about
purchasing, we are told, the whole block. Strange J We
beard be bad his eye on all George-street.
Cesar and Pompey are very much alike, es-
X>eclally Pompei, who was the other evening mistaken by
the Daily Twaddleoraph “ critic for Paladini.”
The Daily Telegraph informs its numerous
readers that “the comet lies over Pyrmout.” We
believe there is some one who lies over in York-street.
The other day, a Chinaman, who was a witness
on a paltry case, was asked how he’d like to swear. “By
lo Anstralee god,” said John. “All things to all men."
A driver named Moore stopped a runaway horse
and cart in Pitt-stroet on Wednesday. The act was
worth £5 to Schenck, the owner, and £2O or more to the
public.
Buchanan says we want protection. So we
do. But not from the canons of free trade nor from the
cannons of Bussia, but from the 1100-ton Bu-chanan of
the Mudgeoites.
In the next Bulletin will appear,for the edifica-
tion of the musical profession, a lifelike sketch of the
elderly lady who criticises for our sensational Hunter-
i.tveet contemporary.
The Town and Country Journal to-day, has
an article headed, “ Description of Lady Loftus.” How
Lord Loftus will relish a “description.” Has the lady
contributor been reading the Police Gazette ?
It is Sir Henry Parkes who is credited with the
famous saying, “Hany man of ahindependentmiud might
baspire to the ’ighest hollices of the State; hut it’s only
a honest man as meets ‘is bills and pays bee’s way.”
ack V < .lhc’>‘* ays Hos(s’s)kins arc the only
suitable hide f , igislativo wear—especially in the
t>wrl -yUe; any ruing more thin-skinned would be a
tailure. Let Mac-alone ! He ought to be a judge.
The Herald reporter, or rather pre-porter,
who so prophetically “did” the A. S. N. Co.’s meeting
the other week, may be said to have been on that occa-
sion literally “ knocked into the middle of next week.”
"Sir Henry disclaims any design upon maidens’
hearts with his jaunty step and cocked aside tile. He
says he is content with New South Wales for his prey.
David says this is a “most veracious and voracious
monstrosity.”
Hanley Bennett’s boots are made by contract.
By the way, it is not unlikely Hanley himself was turned
out on the same approved plan. At any rate his size is
tibirteeus. Mr. Dillon takes sevens. Leastways he used
o. But that was before breakfast.
The Fisheries Commission which has been
appointed to enquire into the New South Wales
Fisheries desires information as to the immigration of
fish. Does the Government intend to pass an immigra-
tion vote for the purpose ?
The plan of the “ New Guide to Classical
Beading, by Professor Strong and Mr. Deeper, M.A.,
is said to be excellent. As usual, however, the Pro-
fessor strongly condemns “ newspaper English ” and is
slipshod himself. In his compositions it’s a very wise
relative that knows its own antecedent.
The Upper Hunter star is no more plebeian. Ihe
pedigree of the late Totalisator Bill has reclaimed him
to his normal patrician element. ’Tis said he is engaged
in his lucid moments paraphrasing Pope, and last night
succeeded in hauling oil the first line thus: —“ Born in
a Garrett —got the kick out dead.
We have received from a yonng composer of
note a new waltz, entitled the “ Hoskins’ Waltz,”
named after the Minister for Lands—-a rather mournful
air, and slightly out of tune. It will be fully published
on the 31st March, and it is hoped that from the Black-
men of New South Wales it will receive More(i)arty
support.
Just so! Does the squatting M.L.A. ever
think of the responsibilities of his representative office ?
One rarely hears his eloquent tongue, save in protec-
tion of the interests of his class. The line of duty he
Would mark out for his constituents seems to be sum-
med up thus: —
Love your Member and his relations.
And always keep your proper Stations.
A good story is told concerning Camilla Urso,
the celebrated violiniste. During the passage up from
Melbourne they had very pleasant moonlight nights, and
some of tlie passengers wanted to have a dance. There
being no piano on board, they could not indulge. Oue
of the passengers (lady) remarked that Madame Urso
was very disagreeable—she wouldn’t play dance music
for them.
Hanley Bennett is a genius. When on his
usual circuit in the wheeled Noah’s ark in which he
collects the first fruits of his constituents —varying
from senna tea to sucking pigs—he invariably airs Iris
oratory. On a late occasion be took up the parable
thus; —“ What liave I done foryez ?” Then he “ stuck”
for a moment. A serene smile slowly broke over him
as he reiterated : “ What have I done for ycz ? Look
at the table and writin’ things for writin’ your tele-
graphs at the office! Why, I got that for yez !” The
ark took a double load home that day.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
A vocal society is to be formed at Petersham.
The French vignerons have had a disastrous
year.
On Monday the Victorian Parliament dis-
solves.
The report of the Melbourne Model Lodging-
house Co. is satisfactory.
The S.S. Zealandia arrived at San Francisco
on the 29th ultimo.
Last Saturday the attendance at the Garden
Palace was only 7,100.
The Melbourne Exhibition progresses rapidly.
The cupola of the dome is to be gilt.
The A. J. S. Bank purposes building new pre-
mises at Cooxna.
The new Court-house at Yass will be opened
by a ball on Ist April.
The Yass people want to connect the town
with the railway by a tram.
A man named James Hull had his foot severely
crushed by an omnibus on Saturday last.
Mr. Berry speaks at Geelong on Monday and
Mr. Service at Maldon on Thursday next.
The Dawn of Freedom Juvenile Tent 1.0.G.T.
has just held its first anniversary.
The people of Parramatta object to the transfer
from their district of Senior-Sergeant Bremmer.
The Belle, sphooner, of Melbourne, has been
totally wrecked at Ramsay Bay, Queensland.
A Presbyterian Church is to be established at
Petersham.
The total Victorian subscriptions to the Irish
Famine Fund arc .£11,328.
Mr. John Jessop has been returned unopposed
for Centre Ward, Goulburn.
The Melbourne Plate Class Company has
“ dividended ” 6 per cent.
Mr. E. W. Waters has been elected unopposed
for South Ward, Bathurst.
The luvcrcll Pastoral and Agricultural Society
is prosperous.
The Adelaide S. S. Co. have declared a divi-
dend of 10 per cent.
Exchange on London at Melbourne is 3; per
cent, at 00 days.
8. Benjamin, trading‘as S. Benjamin and Co.,
at Toowoomba, is insolvent.
The No. 7 Band and Albion Consols, Ballarat,
have struck rich gold.
At Parramatta, Aldermen R. A. Ritchie, J.
Booth and J. Scott have been returned unopposed.
The City of Sydney arrived at Auckland [at
4 p.m. on Tuesday.
The Chalmers’ centenary at Adelaide is fixed
for the 17th current.
At Adelaide £lO9O have been received in three
days for the Irish Relief.
A man named Edward Murton has hanged
himself at Carlton, Melbourne.
The Carcoar Agricultural Society hold their
show on the 15th April.
The Earl Dalhousie, just arrived at Brisbane,
brings 314 immigrants from London.
Tne last escort from Adclong took away 876
oz. of gold.
James Walmsley, who cut his throat with a
razor on Sunday at Goulburn, is dead.
A prospecting area has been granted to Perkins
and party at the Adelong crossing place.
A man named Shields has been killed by
lightning at Carlton, Melbourne.
The Marquis of Normanby has presented the
prices won at the V.R.A.’s late meeting.
The Rev. M. J. Dwyer has resigned his seat
on the Board of the Sydney Infirmary.
The Yass Freeholders and Selectors’Associa-
tion has died through want of support.
The annual meeting of Subscribers to the Syd-
ney Infirmary is fixed for the 21st instant.
At Yass the Hospital Committe are trying to
introduce Hospital Sunday collections once a year.
The Southern Insurance Company have de-
clared a dividend of ten per cent.
Mr. Alex. Cordon has lectured at Parramatta,
in favour of Denominational Education.
The Foreign Commissioners are to be ban-
quetted at the Town Hall on the 12th instant.
Mr. Greenwood will, on 2nd current, move the
abolition of Friday’s sittings of the Legislative
Assembly.
The prospects of the New South Australian
Loan are reported from London to be very en-
couraging.
A miner named Bodes, at the A.A. Co.’s
colliery Newcastle, has been terribly injured by
a fall of earth.
At Ryde, Mr. Paul Benson has been elected
for Central Ward and Mr. Tuckwell for West
Ward.
At Albury, James Casey, charged with as-
saulting Mrs. King and killing Bailiff Lethbridge’s
horse, has been remanded.
Killdary Station, Wagga, with 30,000 sheep,
has ben sold to Hastings Cunningham and Co. of
Melbourne.
So prolific is the Victorian harvest that 1,200
tenders have been received by the Police Depart-
ment for forage.
A member will be elected for Paddington, in
lieu of Mr. Sutherland resigned, on the 20th
current. The 18th is the day of nomination.
A supplement to the last Government Ga-
zette contains a list of persons authorised under
the Act to sell poisons.
“ Men may laugh and riot till the feast is o’er,
Then comes the reckoning, and they laugh no
more.”
A man named Thomas Whittock has been
brutally assaulted in Adelaide, and has given his
dying depositions.
The bridge over the Naomi, near Narrnrbi, will
be finished in a few days, two months before con-
tract time.
The Orange Hospital ta in debt. Attention
has been directed to the large number of
from other districts forced on the institution.
The Dnbbo Hospital has £6l to its credit.
Mr. M. E. Maher is president for the current
year.
During one week recently 94,000,000 gallons
of Yan-yean were consumed in Melbourne. In
one day 18,000,000 gallons were used.
The Orange Gas Company has declared a divi-
dend of 10 per cent, for the half-year, with a
bonus of 2s. per share.
The 8. A. Register is surprised that a
£3,250,000 loan should be placed on the market
and such a low minimum fixed.
Hopkins, Giekes and Co., who supplied defec-
tive rails to the S. A. Government, have had to
refund £20,000.
Judge Dobson, of Tasmania, lias decided that
a verdict on a judgment of the Supreme Court of
one colony has no effect in another colony.
The second session of the third Synod of the
Church of England in the Bathurst Diocese was
held on Tuesday. Assent was given to the Bill
for the Creation of Corporate Bodies of Trustees,
as passed at the last Provincial Synod at Sydney.
I Mr. David McDougall has been elected un-
opposed to fill the vacancy caused in the Single-
ton Municipal Council by the death of Mr. Gray.
At Orange, Messrs. Michael Casey and Stab-
back have been returned for Wellington and Vic-
toria Wards respectively.
Messrs. J. 0. Phillips, G. F. Baker, and Cbas.
Ward have, at Wagga, been returned unopposed
for the South, East, and North Wards respectively.
The Hon. Dudley Oliphant Murray, son of
Elibank, and a member of the English Bar, has
been admitted to that of Queensland.
The Artillery Band will, until further notice,
perform at the'Garden Palace on Wednesdays and
Saturdays.
The Excelsior Photo. Company ’have issued a
splendid picture of the R.M.S. City of Sydney, as
as Flagship at the Anniversary Regatta.
Nine hundred fat bullocks from the Castle-
roagli crossed the Murrurabidgee on Friday week
en route for Melbourne.
The first cylinder of the permanent railway
bridge at Wagga has been placed in the river 55
feet from the surface.
Two brothers, named Casey, have thrown a
bailiff’s buggy into the creek at Morven, near
Albury.
The new Presbyterian church at Botany was
opened last Sunday. The second opening service
takes place to-morrow.
Ten miles of fencing and 40,000 acres of
grass have been destroyed by bush fire on
Brookong Station, Wagga.
I Several expirees and pardoned communists
sailed by the Kent, their passages having been
paid by the French Consulate.
The total January collections in aid of the
Building Fund of St. Mary’s Roman Catholic
Cathedral amounted to =£ls2 12s. 4d.
At Marrickville on Saturday last Mr. F. W.
Holland, architect and surveyor, while on his way
to attend a funeral, fell down dead.
At a well-attended meeting at Botany it has
been decided to support the Public Instruction
Bill.
The portrait, of Sir Hercules Robinson, lo be
paid for by public subscription, will probably be
painted by Mr. Folingsby, now in Melbourne.
The Fisheries’ Commission is now sitting, and
will bo glad to receive any information bearing on
the subject of their investigation.
Members of the Young Men’s Christian As-
sociation are holding nightly services in a movable
tent for the benefit of the poorer classes.
The Victorian banks have reduced the rate of
interest on three months’ deposits to 3 per cent.,
on six months to 4, and on twelve months to 5.
General Grant was welcomed to Philadelphia
by a procession of 70,000 men and 25,000 horses.
The spectators numbered, it is said, nearly a
million. „
A servant of Mr. Holloway, of Market-street,
placed a lighted candle too near a bed on Sunday
night last. No. 2S.V.F. C. prevented the fire
from becoming serious. ,
Messrs. J. E. Bcgg, Jas. Henry, G. Myers, F.
Senior, J. Starkey, H. Hicks, and N. J. Macken-
zie, are the new directors of the Benevolent
Asylum.
D. J. Newton, solicitor, lias been sentenced to
two years’ imprisonment for having uttered a
document bearing a forged signature of the
Registrar-General.
Joseph Meiage, an old New Caledonian con-
vict, has been sent to gaol for three years for
stealing about =£oo from one of his countrywomen
who was staying at a Sydney boarding-house.
Mr. F. W. Poolman, of the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company, Pyrmont, received handsome
presents’from the employees on the occasion of
his 21st anniversary birthday.
The attention of the Treasurer, who wants to
raise revenue, has been directed to the fact that
in South Australia and Tasmania 10 and 12 per
cent, respectively is levied on jewellery.
On Saturday last £lOOO damage was done by
fire to the premises of Spence Brothers, Mel-
bourne. A fuse factory, representing a value of
£3,000 was burnt to the ground on the same day.
Congratulations have been exchanged between
Mr. Glover of the Cable Company and the South
Australian Chief Secretary on the completion of
the Port Darwin duplicate cable.
A very successful musical and literary enter-
tainment was given on the evening of Friday week
in St. Jude’s School-room by the members of the
Randwick and Coogee Literary Institute.
T 1 ie i datives of Thomas Wood, recently mur-
dered at Creswick, receive £4OO, the amount of
a life assurance effected three days before his
death.
The Flower Mission ladies at the Temperance
Hall will be greatly obliged to the public for dona-
tions of flowers. Last Monday many ladies had
no bouquets to take to the hospitals.
The Hebalu has heard rumours of fresh hor-
rors at the abattoirs. It says that on the 20th
December two cows which had just calved were
killed and conveyed away in the usual manner.
The special committee appointed lo investigate
the case of the man who recently died under chlo-
roform at the Infirmary, has decided that Dr,
Brown was not to blame in the matter.
Goldsbrough and Co., woolbrokcrs, of Mel-
bourne, report that the season is nearly over, and
that they have during it Sold 120,000 bales of wool,
representing £2,d00.(i00.
The Queen is to be asked to become the pa-
troness of the Philosophical Society of South
Australia, which, should Her Majesty consent,
I will bo called the Royal Society.”
Mr. Berry thinks, as might really have been
expected, that Saturday is not the most conve-
nient day for holding an election. The Jewish
community, as also might have been antici-
pated, demur to this.
A woman named Ward Las been remanded at
Richmond, Melbourne, on a charge of having cut
off the ears of a calf. The Hekald, to which
this was telegraphed, omitted to say that the calf
was alive.
The North-Western Pastoral and Agricultural
Society, Dnbbo, has £ll5 to its credit. Mr.
Ryrie is President for 18S0. It is hoped that the
railway to Wellington will bo opened before next
show.
The Berryites have decided to pay £270 for a
a bust of Sir George Bowen. The Conser-
vatives unavailingly opposed the vote, but they
now have something to pull down during the com-
ing revolution.
The Strati ilevcn, from Sydney, haring on board
a cargo of meat preserved by Bell and Coleman’s
process, has arrived in London. The beef, mut-
ton, and butter have retained their full freshness
of flavour and colour.
Alderman O’Connor has unsuccessfully at-
tempted to rescind a motion for refunding IVLr, J.
Woods =£s 55., the costs of prosecuting a man
for personation at the last election for Phillip
Ward.
Louisa Rogers, a steerage passenger on the
City of Adelaide, jumped overboard during the
passage from Sydney to Melbourne. A boat was
lowered, but a search of three quarters of an hour
was unavailing.
Warden Mowbray, of the Hodgkinson, writes
that the Woolgar rush is madness. Supplies are
dear, the rivers' are up, and 400 men are on the
ground, the deposits in which are patchy and
wide apart.
Unable to arrange for a continuance of the
Brisbane and Singapore mail services, the Queens-
land Government is about calling for tenders for a
direct service via Torres Straits, combining con-
veyance of mails and immigration.
Mr. Russell, the N.S.W. Government Astro-
nomer, says that as no large comet is expected
now, the one which has just appeared is probably
a stranger. It first became visible _at Sydney
Observatory at 8.5 p.m. on Tuesday night.
The Rev. Jas. Jefferis, LL.B., delivered a most
interesting lecture on the “ Destruction of Pom-
pei ” at the anniversary of the Balmain Congre-
gational Church, in aid of the Parsonage Land
Fund.
It has been resolved, at a crowded meeting of
citizens, that the proposed appropriation of
.£76 000 for immigration is, in the present state ot
the labour market, unjust to the working classes
and inimical to the best interests of the colony.
The annual report of the Sydney Hebrew
Philanthropic and Orphan Society is of a satisfac-
tory character. Dr. Hunter, the Society s hono-
rary physician, is to be presented with a testi-
monial.
The members of the Bathurst-street Baptist
Church have held a public meeting in commemo-
ration as well of the opening of the church as o
the third year of the Rev. P. H. Comford s pas-
torate. Forty-two members have joined tne
church during the year.
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.’s pro-
fits for last half-year are £10,493; the expenditure
was <£8,398 9s. 3d., and the receipts £18,891 Us.
lid. A dividend of .£1 per share will be paid on
Ist March, and .£3,780 has been appropriated as
the nucleus of a reserve fund.
The Herald says that, on the principle that
I the Government that is best administered is best,
there is little in the management of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society to necessitate the pro-
posed change in the system of voting at directorial
elections.
A poorly-clad woman named Torpy was charged
on Saturdhy with having stolen a pair of boots.
She admitted her guilt, but very piteously
pleaded that utter destitution, following on the
death of her husband, was the cause ot the act.
She was fined ss.
“An Old Colonist” writes to say that
the proposed protective duty of shillings
per gallon on foreign wines comes with bad grace
from an avowedlv Free-trade Ministry, and that
whenever France retaliates by a duty on wool
Now South Wales will not bless Sir Henry or his
Treasurer.
A blackfellow at Thorgomindah has been com-
mitted for trial, on the evidence of two other
aboriginals, for the murder of another blackfellow.
As in the absence of competent evidence, a bill
will not be filed, the Brisbane Courier wants to
know why needless expense should be incuried
over such a matter.
An American postal innovation, the local
adoption of which is suggested, is [the two-cent.
postal card. It has two stamps, one at either end,
and space for two messages. The sender occupies
one of the spaces and the return correspondent the
other. One stamp is cancelled at the office from
which it is first sent, and tho^other at the xetuin
office.
Tin and gold arc alleged to have been dis-
covered not far from Wagga. The supposed lo-
cality of the find is near Burke’s Creek, Pulltop.
Stuff from the lode gave 60 per cent, on assay.
Rhadamanthus is inexorable, and on Monday
fined one man for having got drunk in June, 1879,
and another for having exceeded in September,
1878.
At Washington, shooting for the Harkness
Gold Medal, under Elcho Shield Conditions, Mr.
P. J. Lauritzen has made the following wonderful
score :—BOO yard 5—555555555555555 75 : 900
yard 5—55555545555555 : 1000 yards—ss4so.>4
55555555—73. Total, 222. This is one point
ahead of Mr. Summer’s hitherto unsurpassed
register, and onlv three steps below the highest
score possible.
The prospectus of the Mortgage Company of
South Australia, capital £500,000 has been issued.
’rhe head office is to be at Edinburgh, with a branch
at Adelaide.
The present inmates of the Sydney Benevolent
Asylum consist of 87 women and 161 children.
Two hundred-and-fourteen persons received out-
side relief last week.
The Admiralty have rescinded ’the regulation
which forbade the residence of women on board
ship —doubtless an effect of the continual perform-
ance of “ Pinafore.”
An important congress of chess-players and a
problem tournament take place in America this
year. It already too late to send competitive
problems from this country.
Many of the Esquimaux are starving. The
Americans cannot catch sufficient whales, ami
have taken to killing the walrus, on which the
Esquimaux depend for support.
A complimentary dinner, Mr. Farnell presid-
ing, has been given at Eydo to Mr. J. S. Chard, of
the Survey department, on the occasion of his
leaving the district for Armidale.
The first gas lamp in the Municipality of
Wickham has been lighted by Mr. W. Sparke, the
mayor. This is the first occasion on which a
Spark lias ever been used for such a purpose.
The Newcastle people want Government to
make the junction of tho proposed railway to
Sydney near Newcastle and to pass through Lamb-
ton, Wallsend, Cooranbong, and Brisbane Water.
In the year ended 30th June, 1879, the United
States exported to Australia and New Zealand
7,040,875 dollars’ worth of domestic products.
American imports from the same countries during
the same period wore only 785,773 dollars. _ The
exports of domestic products to Australia ex-
ceeded those to China by 1,111,291 dollars.
February 7, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


The following are the weights declared for U
First King ...
st.lb.
... ft 12
Supplejack ...
w
Kavanaka
... 9 3
King Cole ...
*
Cap-a-pie
Ctunnun
... 9 0
... 8 12
Gipsy Cooper
Klustic
:i
Tooal
... 8 12
JiylluM..
... a
Wellington
. 8 11
Satirist ...
TOnmwell
... 8 10
Sunshine
... 6 1
Boswortb
... 8 10
Hopeful ...
... 6
I!
Richmond
8 8
Black Swan .
... «
?
Sweetmeat
Murtiudnlc
..8 7
8 7
Kingfisher .
Sir Andrew ,
... rt
... 6
10
ft
Rapid Bay
8 7
Hon Alpliunso
Lord Clifden
... «
ft
Homoersil
. 8 f,
... 0
8
Ills Lordship
8 5
Sultan ..
«
8
Andover
8 \
Ravenswood..
6
8
II abort
Snwnrrow
8 t
. 8 3
Then topper
Firoboll
ti
.. 6
7
7
Vulcun .
8 2
A nek laud
.. 8
7
Itoodcc
8 2
Follio ...
6
!»
Cohiinlm*
. 8 0
FurJid
6
8
Sectmdu*
.80
llriun Major
.. U
8
The l)eau
7 12
Sunlight
The Pontiff
8
4
Whisker
7 12
... 6
4
First Lord
7 12
Recherche
.. «
4
Warlock
7 10
Santa Cm?
<1
t
1 ’etren
7 lo
Warhftwk
tl
2
A vermin
7 10
Adveut.iirer
<1
2
Olivia
7 8
Fleetwood
8
•»
Stmthearu
7 8
Freemason
6
2
Filibuster
7 8
Yu i d ley
ti
o
Belludrain
7 6
M iddJe.Hex
r C
0
Falmouth
7 h
Ulan tvre
ft
10
Li 1 In.
7 8
Caructacuu
5
8
Orphan
7 ft
Clureiuca
6
7
Wool stone
7 5
Chorister
ft
7
Nellie
7 I
Keview
ft
7
Caspian
7 i
A vjilimehe
5
7
His Oriw e
. 7 t
Croydon.
. ft
n
Timothy
7 2
Victory
. A
7
Falmlns
7 2
Valettft
.N
7
Tnunii Yoss
7 2
'1 he Star
ft
7
Miilicl
7 2
Geelong
. . ft
7
Lowlmnlin-
... 7 0
TocaI
II
8
Diiunonil
• H
• I
6
Tnm Kirk
ft 11
Lftjiidkry
7
<>
DiUTiwcll
8 13
iCnnuka
7
a
Culamlu
!►
:?
KUIomn.ii
7
a
Hon wort-lt
11
it
Murli
7
a
Hi« l/oril«hip
8
U
liti.wdeu
7
X
Wollmjft-Jti
8 10
HiHho|i
7
%
Amlover
S
it
Jnjwi.il
7
•*
Viceroy
8
•i
Terriilu
7
3
Lord 1 lurry
8
8
Fan blits
7
i
Suwnrrmv
8
7
Sea Kimr
7
41
Kivertou
K
0
Fire tin 11
8 !<•
Saw arrow
... 7
13
Hopeful*
. ft in
Warlo k
7
!<
liivii.lry
.. 0 10
Seoutidos
... 7
!l
Hun Carlo*
... «; s
GlonormiHli.ii
. 7
!l
Hyllun
« a
Avurmw
... 7
0
Ibumpurtc
ft a
( Str.itli(Mi.ru ...
7
t>
Drum Major
. «
rotriai
... 7
i
Vunlley
... ft 3
Baronet
7
H
Poll jo
ft n
Bulladnuu
7
3
Kanaka
S 12
Hiw Uruoo
. . ti 13
Adventurer
o P
Cfwjiian
Zambesi
.. ft 13
« 12
Prattle
A 7
Amnus
. 8 »
Filibuster
■ 8 ?
Dollar
8 i
Baronet
8 a
Italladruru ...
8 a
First Lord
8 i
His Grace
. 8 0
Nellie
8 0
Za in lend
8 «
Gipsy Coojier
7 1*
Napfier Tandy
7 1*
WaWndi
7 1-*
Lady RIten
7 Jl
Oioniod
7 J»
lUplrttt.i
7 0
Don Alplionso
7 ft
CIietilcrBttld
7 8
lilihdc Swan
7 7
Hopeful
7 8
Orem onto
7 «
Cungoota
! ,0
F 1 euluason
6 ft
Bar One
6 ft
Aspen . ,
'I'll mult
e s
6 8
Ljoren Hon
■* 8
I wind \v a
'' ?
11 >11 ■
11...
Dim. , nr
MhsIo ll
an
\ am! • v
JCxU>.
CotUOrllm
>»
Ailvi at i rev *
fc,
Elulofclu*
!> W
ITiilitdim;
5 7
Erih'Utdumti ..
h 7
AlJBTTtU.IAM
Ct:r.
Fwiveller
ft *
( aiauiin
l> ::
Wovarialia
ft 2
Martiudale
8 11
Wellington
, 8 10
Bos worth
8 ft
Darn well
8 7
Richmond
8 7
Lord Harry
8 «
Sweetmeat
8 5
Dirraocmt
8 1
Tonal ...
8 8
Columbus
8 n
Andover
7 13
Mr. J. Jolledge, J.P., has been elected Presi-
dent; Mr. Hugh Taylor, M.L.A., Vice-President;
Mr. J. J. Taylor, Hon. Treasurer ; and Mr. l.’oev
Hon. Secretary of the Parramatta School Ar I
for 1880.
The nett profits of the Australian Gasiigbl
Company for the last half-year are .£28,680 IBf>. bv-1.
A dividend of seven-and-a-half per cent, ha b< en
declared, £8,315 added to reserve, and £1 ,<>3l I
2d carried forward.
The Presbytery of Sydney held it- us a; i
monthly meeting on Tuesday. The Rev,,,. _3
Robertson, M.A.,, who arrived by the Lnsiia; if
with high testimonials from the Free Chu ck of
Scotland, was introduced to the Court.
The Rev. J. Jefferis wants to know w ir- ; 1 ■
sponsible for the vandalism now being pci”«-tr ; - !
at the Blue Mountains. The scenery is l i.n in-
jured, money is being wasted, and excursion-'- t-;
are being deprived of shade by the cutting of 1 •
necessarily wide tracks.
The total expenditure on account of*the • '
Fund of Sydney during 1879 was £110,623 13- >3
Special votes were only given for the expend < : <t;
of £2,520 of this amount; the balance
pended by the Mayor. Shouldn’t wo have a jV
and do away with the Aldermen.
The Sydney cabmen, it. is announced, ml* not
receive an answer from tho Transit Corn mi- . - ‘U-t-
-on the subject of their request that the; unF be
allowed to charge for distance instead of for km"
when they are required to proceed beyond tie’ \
boundary, until the Suburban Borough I u■ >1
have considered the matter.
VIEW AT DARLING HAROU[?]
POTTS AND PAUL’S WA[?]EH[?].
We give herewith a view of a scene at Dai iin - ! 1 ir-
hour, including the well-known warehon ,<• •>, .fi sn.
Potts and Paul, ship chandlers and pro* i-n mcr-
chants, at the comer of Erskine and Mm o re-> s. The
change that has come over that part of t lie city ’ big
to the rapid development of old industries and the es-
tablishment of new ones, has been indeed s, ■ ng,
and it is but fair to speak of Darling Harb< - the
busiest centre of the Metropolis. In (his • iris
done the chief shipping business of the rxirt. is
the terminus, so far as trade is concerned, of 11 ‘ireat
Southern and Western railways, and the bn >. oeof
activity at all times to be seen indicates the V ityof
the Government securing greater room to ■— he re-
quirements of what at no distant date il: a the
greatest commercial centre of Australasia... With the
Pyrmont Bridge removed, or greater foe lit ies «. It:red to
shipping, the trade of
Darling Harbor would
very soon exceed its
present great limits;
and it is but just to
the enterprise of pri-
vate firms that some
tiring should be done
in this way without
delay. With respect
to the business capa-
bilities of this quarter
of the city, the ware-
house of Messrs Potts
and Paul may be
taken as a fair indi-
cation of recent yro-
gress. The firm, who
are the oldest in their
line, erected their new
building in a very con-
venient quarter, and
for its construction
adopted a plan that
makes it thoroughly
suited to all require-
ments. The edifice is
strongly built of
stone with a frontage
to Erskine-street of
nearly 90 feet, and a
depth (with front to
Day-street) of about
70 feet. Two large,
well-ligi ited windows
admits of tbe display
of their various lines
of goods, and a car-
riage way in Day-st.
facilitate tbe receipt
or removal of goods.
On tbe ground floor
are tbe offices of the
firm, and here also a e
to be seen all th;
articles within their
range of business.
To the left, on enter-
ing is the provision
department, where a
vessel may be fitted
out in ouo day or iu
even less time for a
long twelve months’
cruise. Everything iu
the way of tinned
or preserved is here found and only the re ■..••penor and
best tried brands are kept. To the right v tb- sane;
floor are all the requirements for every ’criprion c-.f
vessel afloat. An ocean-going steam , m ..j,» juat as
easily be supplied as the smallest y. - 1 ■! ;* more
substantial or valuable collection of i- and - men-
tlflc instruments is doubtless not to »- cuud in any
other house in the colonies. Compa ammuths,
&c., are here to be found in almost end’ a vet y, and
there is a most extensive assortment u; new .;al de-
scriptions of lamps, wheels, galley sto' . oars, sculls,
&c. A line worthy of special notice ■ descrip-
tion of sheaves for yachts or large ’ - *-! . Cm bush
runs revolving pins and the pulley is m: cr ' • ■ ' (o such
an extent as to give a man three times the power.
Round about the stores are coils of ah kind*; of rope
and stacks of chains and cables suffices' t“ fit out a
small fleet. In convenient parts o; the building are
stored immense tanks and casks of ...... JuL-ieut oils,
pitch, &c. On the second floor arc packages of rope,
caulking materials, &c., forming altogether perhaps the
largest stock seen in one building in this cob my. Over-
head, again, on the third floor, is the rigging loft. A
ship’s measurement having been taken, here the rigging
is prepared even to the most minute detail, and it is a
feather in the cap of colonial enterprise, nod of this es-
tablishment in particular, to And that in most cases the
best English-rigged ships get their style altered and
improved here. An extensive sail a dmit sof all
work in this line being expeditiously and completely
carried out. The very best workn -tamable are
employed, and Mr. Paul being abb to sire his per-
sonal superintendence to the work, tin utmost satisfac-
tion cannot hut be the result. The cellar, which ex-
tends from wall to wall is stored with£.VH’Ht n- JriOO worth
of pitch, oils, &c., and in Lime-strei iJj.-c ni to the
stores, is a large yard whore there Is v i y extensive
collection of anchors, weighing from 71bn o two tons
each. The firm have an extensive house at Brisbane,
and do the principal ship chandlery bus c at that
port.
Mr. W. J. Harris, speaking at Moeduv night’s
anti-immigration meeting, said tin i. ''■■■<' immigra-
tion agents at home went about wo ring beaver
hats, frock coats, and white ties, an 1 o lling fas-
cinating tales, and that he remmulo-ed one of
them standing before an audience ‘erect as a
lamp-post, solid as a Minerva, innocoi < a« *. child,
and false as lago himself!”
Tbe Herald regrets the it ■ of Mr.
Garrett’s Bill to legalise the total ;says that
Mr. Gray put the case into a nnts'u ! by saying
that he advocated the adoption of tl • i>■ 11 as ho
would advocate vaccination to preven t ,1.-e spread
of small-pox; and remarks that th - ■ members
who voted against Mr. Garrett’s p. - e ion were
law-makers working for the he. t of law-
breakers. It suggests that the lat; " i is to
say the bookmakers —should pres' -h° former
with an address,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Crown Prince of Germany was 48 on
19th October.
Sub-inspector Collopy, of the Queensland
Police, is dead. He had seen hard times in the North.
Mr. Wrenfordsley, late Advocate-General at
Mauritius, „is the hew Chief Justice of Western
Australia.
Mr. Copeland, M.L.A. for the Northern Gold-
fields, is recovering from the effects of his recent
accident.
Mr. Hull, receiver and paymaster at the Mel-
bourne Treasury has retired, after thirty-four years’
service.
M. Gabriel Rauvier, the Communist who
.superintended the destruction of the Vendome column,
is dead, aged 62.
The Governor of Western Australia wants to
go home on private affairs, and has asked to he relieved
of his position.
Mr. dames Hobbs, who has just died at Mel-
bourne. aged 88, was a member of Governor Collins’
expedition to Port Phillip, iu the Ocean, in the year
1803.
Wo regret to learn that the second daughter of
his Honor the Chief Justice died, on Wednesday, at the
Blue Mountains, aged 17, and that Sir James Martin
himself is fur from well.
Mr. Robert M. Forster, solicitor, formerly a
Member of the Assembly, and a man of very consider-
able legal attainments, peacefully died at his residence,
North Shore, ou Monday. He is deeply regretted.
By tbe death of Mrs. D. G. Jones, of the Pas-
toral Times, Deniliquin, New South Wales loses its
only female editor. Victoria has an editress, who con-
ducts a Kyuetou paper. She writes vigorous leaders
and once cowhided a man.
Sir Alfred Stephen, at Lady Loft us’ reception,
was strong in his memories of youthful days, and
attended ou bread-and-butter-less misses, ilroppiug
sugar in their coffee and honied phrases in their ears at
tho same time.
At Lady Loftus’ reception. Miss Robinson was
richly dressed in pale lavender silk, with an enormous
train, trimmed with black velvet and flounces of white
lace. Sbc wore a white straw bonnet adorned with a
graceful white feather. Mrs. St. John looked very nice
iu a quiet costume of black, and bonnet of the same
color, almost smothered in white, scarlet, cream and
pink roses. She wore her hair in two plaits, loosely
caught up.
On Monday tho Rev. John Davis, Roman
Catholic priest, died at Inverell. He was buried in the
I leal cemetery ou the following day, iu the presence of a
very large concourse of residents, and was the first
priest ordained in New England,
The Hou. John Sutherland, (lie Member for
Paddington, has resigned hi. seat. He has been in the
House twenty years, has been four times a Minister,
and is, in the words of Mr. Fitzpatrick, “ a man whom
the Legislature can ill spare.”
Lady/Loftua i? a fine-looking woman, with a
winning anile and affable manner. At her first recep-
tion, she " ore a dress of pale blue brocade, made ni
■priwtsae, with long train trimmed with white lace, and
long " bite kid gloves and satin hoots Her hair tfas
arranged in the prevailing- mode, and she wore no
ornaments.
The Rev. G, 0. Bode, incumbent of St.
Thomas’:,, ’Willoughby, North Shore, is dead, and leaves
a wife and large family. His ministerial career com-
menced in the Newcastle diocese in 1865. In 1869 he
was appointed curate at St. James’, Sydney, and was in
1875 removed to North Shore. He was a highly res-
pected and hard-working clergyman.
Some lime ago Dr. W. A. Bradford, of Warr-
uambool, was imprisoned for having run away with and
married Miss Bessie Ware, a rich and pretty ward of
the Victorian Supreme Court. Mr. Somers-Bradford,
the doctor’s brother, who is also a surgeon, has jnst
married Miss Jeanie Ware, Mrs. W. A. Bradford’s
sister, and the two brothers, with their brides, have left
for England.
Count de Casteluau, for many years French
Consul at Sydney, and afterwards at Melbourne, is dead.
He was an accomplished entomologist and was the
possessor of a very valuable collection. He had been
in low health tor some years. Owing to the state of his
domestic relations there is likely to he much trouble
concerning his property which Melbourne is very
considerable. The Count was a staunch B'mapartist and
a personal friend of the lute Emperor. BIJ ABtflc- 1 i.ee'ig
Poor Richard Rowe (“Peter Possum”), is
dead at last. Many years ago, when the Herald
was a lit tle more lively than a t present, he used to make
. its readers roar by his characteristic descriptions of his
' adventures while under the influence of the rosy god.
One of his stories, concerning an imaginary encounter
with a cow in Botany swamp, will be fresh in the
memories of all who ever read it. He came to the
colony about 1851, and was first a tutor in the family of
the late J udge Cary, and then a writer on the English-
man and other papers. Ho carried good-nature to a
positive vice, and though he had been very steady for
many years before his death, and had worked like a
slave, he died in the hospital, and was buried at the
expense of Mr. Stratum, the publisher. He leaves a
wife and four young children totally unprovided for.
The Herald, which, let it be said to the eternal credit
of the Fairfax family, is proverbially generous to its
employes, will doubtless show Mrs. Rowe that her
husband has not been forgotten in Australia; and any
subscriptions from old friends of tbe good-hearted
“Peter Possum” that may be forwarded to tho editor
t > her behalf will uo doubt be gratefully acknowledged.
SPORTING NOTES.
The prices obtained for the St. Alban’s year-
lings are considered satisfactory.
In the first-class yacht rate last Saturday, the
Magic, beat the Waitangi and Oithona.
We regret to hear that the Hon. J. White’s
fine filly Palmyra has broken her back at Melbourne.
It is proposed to send an intercolonial football
team to England, to play in the colonies before they
go home.
The brothers Jenkins will probably challenge
Reynolds and W. Trickett to a double-skull race for
£lOO a-side.
In the second-class yacht race the Harpy, with
time allowance of 8i minutes, beat the Guinevere,
Pleiades, and Meteor.
The Hindmarsh Cricket Club, who held first
position with the North Adelaide Club for tho challenge
cup, have been defeated by tho Kent Club.
Tho 24-hours’ contest between Miss Wallace
and Miss Nicholl eventuated iu an easy win for the for-
mer, who covered 78 miles to her opponent's 61.
Mr. Adams, of Tattersall’s, is getting up a han-
dicap of £5OO, to be shot for at Randwick during the
race week of the A. J.C. Autumn Meeting.
On Saturday last, the match under tho auspices
of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club resulted thus:—
Pandora 1, Lucia 2, Desdemoua 3, Authea t. The three
first boats raced well.
Laycock rows Pearce this day week in water-
men’s skiffs, and ox the 21st Solomon and Power meet
iu light skiffs. The former is in Kelly’s hands, but
Power’s chances are most fancied.
At Adelaide Walter M‘ Indoc, the well-known
Victorian swimmer, has beaten Dent, the Goolwa cham-
pion, in a one-mile match for £5O aside. The distance
was swum iu twenty-four minutes.
The Parramatta representatives beat the An-
nandale Club at bowls, last Saturday, by the small
majority of 2. The match was played at the splendid
residence of Mr. Alderman Young, North Auuaudale.
At the Honest Lawyer Hotel a match was made
last week between Laycock and Pearce for a right away
race over the champion course, in watermen’s boats,
Pearce laying £lOO to Laycock’s £6O. The event will be
decided ou Saturday next.
The following are the boats entered for the
third-class yacht race of the 8.5.Y.5., to be sailed to-
day, commencing at 1 p.m. Under 8 tons :—lone, A. G.
Milsou; Mabel, W. J. Trickett. Over 8 tons : —Harpy,
C. A. Beubow; Meteor, J. R. Fairfax; Guiueveve, J. H.
Want; Pleiades, E. W. and J. F. Knox.
Captain Dearborn, of the E..M.S. City of Syd-
ney, flagship at the Into Anniversary Regatta, has been
presentou with a handsome souvenir of the occasion.
Kelton and Ingram walk 11 miles at Maitland
to-day for £3O; at West Maitland Callaghan and J.
Martin run 150 yards for £100; and King and Boson berg
(3 yards) 100 yards for £2O. Linden and Callaghan have
a 150 yards’ spin for £lOO at North Shore on the 21st
current.
In the pedestrian contest at present going on
in the English Circus, 'Williams has completed the
longest distance recorded in Australia without a rest,
namely, 51 miles 2 laps. At eleven o’clock last night
the score stood as follows :—Williams 98 miles, M’ Kay
91 miles 17 laps.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
The Grand International Pigeon Match, shot on
Eaudwick racecourse on Saturday afternoon last, at-
tracted a large crowd. The event was a sweepstakes of
£3 3s, open to all coiners, hut limited to twenty mem-
bers; the first prize a splendid breech-loading choke-
bore and fittings (by W. and W. Scott, and imported by
Mr. Cowles, of George-street); second prize, £lO. third
prize, £5. The handicap ranged from 30 to 23 yards.
Charges were limitedito IJoz. and bores to 12. The
boundary was 100 yards, the traps were three in num-
ber, and the event was decided under the Metropolitan
Gun Club rules. The following is a record of the
shooting:—
Mr. E. B. Docker (26 yards)—10001001 3
Buchanan (26 vards)—1100111 s—oo5 —00
J. M. Giblin (27 yards)—1000000 1
James Dent (28 yards) —0010001 2
Mr. G. Hill, jxm. (28 yards)—loo, retired 1
A. Bayly (26 yards) 0000, retired 0
Grant (30 yards)—010000, retired I
John Pike (27 yawls)—110000, retired 2
James Stein (30 yards)—1011011 s—ol5 —01
P. Gannon (30 yards)—10101111 s—l
H. M. Keightley (28 yards)—110000100 3
A. Stein (27 yards)—0010000 1
N. P. Baylv (26 yards) 1012011 1
J. M. Gill (27 yards)—0111100 4
Thomas (28 yards)—0011011 4
W. Bryant (27 yards) 1110001 4
W. Meek (27 yards)—0001101 3
O. Pi’iend ((30 yards)—000010 1
Lee Lord (30 yards)—0011000 2
Captain Scaplehoru (28 yards)—1111111 7
Captain Scaplehorn, who, as will have been seen
above, was so fortunate as to kill all his birds, thus won
the match.
A sweepstakes of 1 sov. each, three birds each, at 25
yards, was subsequently arranged. There were 33
entries. Messrs. Hamilton, Thomas, Perkins, and
Jenkins killed all their birds, and tied. In shooting off
the two first named gentlemen tied and divided, after
which Mr. Jenkins beat Mr. Perkins for third money.
Sydney Cup, 1880.
Melbourne Autumn Meeting.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
Hicks and G. Stutter have run 130 yards at Par-
ramatta for .625 a side. Stutter won by half a foot.
The race was witnessed by about 500 persons. Money
changed hands- very freely. Hicks was was favourite
from the start, but lost his chance by slipping.
At Geelong races on Saturday last, the Barwon
Stakes were won comfortably by Sir Joseph, Western
Princess second, and Haidee of the Hills third. Canard
beat Philistine for the Steward’s Purse. In the Mares'
Produce Stokes Avemns led all the way and won easily,
Caspian second, and Terrific a bad third. In the Han-
dicap Monarque made all the running for a mile and a
quarter, and was then caught by Columbus and Well-
ington ; the latter won by a length, Columbus second,
Timothy third. Time, 2 min. 15 secs. Viceroy was
scratched. Trumpeter won the Steeplechase easily.
Renown second. Ace of Trumps, Electricity, and
others, also started.
Some time ago a Southern squatter who
appreciates the x>ower of the Press and owns as many
papers as he does stations, which is saying a great deal,
engaged a gentleman to “boss” the Yabber Yabber
Thunderer at so much a week. In other words, it was
mutually agreed that the latter should discharge the
many duties appertaining to the joint offices of editor
and manager. Tu his capacity of editor the pressman
found things go “ swimmingly;” but the purely business
part of his work did not proceed in so satisfactory a
manner. There was, all things considered, a fabulous
amount of money on the books. His predecessor, who
had been discharged because he had unguardedly
allowed the proprietor to make him drunk, had evi-
dently been a careless man, and our new editor, who was
as yet unlearned in the waysof Yabber Yabber, resolved
to bring about an alteration. At the end of the quarter
he sent out the accounts, but no one seemed to take
any notice. Then he sent sharp notes to the principal
debtors of the paper, who, strange to say, were all
publicans. At length Smith of the Woolpack Inn sent
back his account attached to a document showing that
L. P. Jumbuck, Esq., of the Thunderer, owed a
“ contra” of £2BO for “refreshments.” Brown, of the
Traveller’s Best, followed, but his contra was only £165
in excess of the journalist’s bill. At last the editor was
able to produce a statement showing that Mr. Jumbuck
owed the paper a trifle over £l7OO for “ refreshments.”
The accounts were neatly pinned together and a debit
note for their total handed to Mr. Jumbuck. However,
that gentleman objected to the cold merciless rule of
addition being applied to his “ sprees.” He got another
new editor.
VIEW AT DARLING HARBOUR. —MESSRS. POTTS AND PAUL’S WAREHOUSE.
THE BULLETIN.
February 7, 1880.


CALS IN NEW ZEALAND.
NEY FRIENDS AND NEW ZEA-
LAND FAVOURITES.
a noveiland, or Mauritania, is a grand country
25o r °h'p ‘ B h°w ’ ’ business. Not only can New
. He jc Vales, from the northern boundary to tho
hffi tf™*’ with all its large and small towns “*•
mes’s, inied, not show as many different companies
,! progressing ” through the country as does New
ace Zealand, but wo believe that her two principal
iot sis lands beat tho whole of tho Australian colonies
mam together for tho support given to ontertain-
i’U* monts of every variety. And yet tho public there
j s rather censorious, and will not put up with
r mediocrity, as we occasionally see from the free—
f equontly rather too free for the managers —com-
inonts made on the performances by a very out-
spoken Press. .
The following is a summary of events taking
place in tho islands as per last mail
At C -ristchurch Academy of Music, burlesque
and pantomime have been ail tho rage. Now pieces
and new scenery have been produced, and Mr.
D’Orsay Ogden seems indefatigable in his efforts
to cater for the amuserhent of the local play-
goers.
Miss Beatrice, a Sydney novitiate on the thea-
trical stage, was a member of this company, and
was making a furore in New Zealand by her
spirited acting. [At the latest dates, however, the
company had been disbanded. —Ed. B.]
Mr. Lingard has been served with a writ rela-
tive to the performance of “Pinafore,” by Mr.
Williamson’s agent, Mr. McDonald.
The Mammoth Minstrels of Messrs. Hiscocks
and Hayman, were playing at the Theatre Royal
Napier, and were to be succeeded by Lingard’s.
Lyster’s Opera Company has been playing for
tho last month at Christchurch to fair business.
The following wore among tho pieces produced
during the first week -.—“ Un Ballo in Maschora,
“ Bohemian Girl,” “ II Trovatore,” and “ Lucia.
During the holidays tho pantomime, “ The
Kaluga of the Ladyo Birds” .at the Academy of
Music, Wellington, drew good audiences. The
plot is strongly impregnated with the Maori ele-
ment, and considerable prominence is given to the
financial difficulties of the colony. The dialogue
is said to be smart and witty, and tho songs set
to the principal tunes in “ H.M.S. Pinafore
and “The Sorcerer” —arc funnily written. The
sconery, by Mr. Neville Thornton, is also said to
be remarkably good.
TTio “ Stray Leaves ” Combination Troupe have
produced a new programme at the Queen’s
Theatre, Dunedin, entitled “ Appointments,” the
main features of which are clever parodies on
“Pinafore,” the New York “Hoodlum,” and
“Irish Chinaman” impersonations of Messrs.
Forde and Taylor, and the dancing of the Misses
Carrington and Mansell. The company will shortly
be in Sydney.
Tho Hawett’s were very unfortunate in the
weather during their stay at Wanganui, and as
a consequence did not draw big houses.
Mr. J. P. Hyde’s dramatic company have oeased
oocupying the boards of Sloane’s theatre at lu-
vereargill, where they have performed for some
time past, with more or less success —generally
less. The opposition place of entertainment,
Ga rthwaite’ Theatre Royal, will be closed in a few
d ays.
A new company. Browning and Crowthsr’s
,'omio Operetta Companj, playing at Cfemam.
have been doing only fair bn inoss. The princi-
pal members of the company were Miss Grace
Fitzroy, Mr. C. H. Growtl.er, and Mr. T. B.
t o miug. A good bass and charmmg soprano,
w J i properly sentimental ;eno- lispli d their
gifts with a most praiseworthy perseverance.
Mr. J. J. Wallace has achieved a success at the
The Jee Royal in the production of “ Tho Man
fn.in / -"erica ’ >k. od there last Thursday tor the
fii nt in NeZealand. It is a thoroughly Irish
play, abounding in “ Irish situations,” and of a
most vivid turn. Mr. Wallace was to the
fore in his impersonation, and was well supported
by the company.
Mias Ada Lester has taken her farewell benefit
in New Zealand. This lady is as accomplished In
her acting as she is popular in other ways. In nor
final impersonation of the leading role in the ad-
mirable comedy of the “Honeymoon,” she was
ably assisted by the old veteram, William Hos-
Mns, who, with his usual geniality of heart, gave
his services on tho occasion. Miss Lester goes
to England via Melbourne, where she will make a
brief stay.
Chiarini’s Royal Italian Circus has folded its
tents at Christchurch and gone on its Southern
tour. Its season at Christchurch was a successful
one. WKile exhibiting the trained horse Othello
in Chiarini’s circus at Christchurch, Miss Nellie
Reid, the well-known equestrienne, was seized
with sudden faintness, and fell heavily. She was
promptly removed to the dressing tent, where
medical aid was secured. The same evening Miss
Rosa Lee, while performing her feats of juggling
on a bare-backed horse, fell to the ground with
considerable violence, but although she must have
been not a little shaken, her performance was im-
mediately resumed. Chiarini is en route for
Sydney.
In Auckland during the holidays tho Lingards
and company did a splendid business. “ H.M.S.
Pinafore” was produced on Boxing Night, when
the theatre was packed in all parts at a quarter to
eight o’clock, hundreds being turned away. The
performance of the opera, taking it altogether, is
inferior to that of Mr. Riccardi’s company. Bat-
chelder’s Panorama is doing a good business. An
old friend, Mr. Lord, conducts the musical depart-
ment. The Lorne-street Hall is occupied by J. B.
Steele, Haygarth and Co., who are running a poor
show called tho “Zulu War Diorama,” with
“ valuable presents ” as an additional attraction.
Mr. J B. Steele is the lecturer.
The Fun and Frolic Company have had a good
innings at New Plymouth, and have opened at the
Masonic Hotel, Onehunga.
A scratch company called the “ Patchwork,”
under the pilotage of Mr. Montague Brown, were
successful at Wanganui during the holidays.
“Aida” was performed with great success at
Dunedin by Lyster’s Royal Operatic Company.
The newspapers make strong remarks as to the
bad policy of producing old stock operas at the
beginning of the season to poor houses, and leav-
ing the new works to the last few nights, when
there is no chance of their repetition.
The Wellington correspondent of a Dunedin
paper says : —“ The actions of the newspapers in
which Messrs. Hiscocks and Hayman do not ad-
vei'tise, in adversely criticising performances of
companies engaged by that firm, is not calculated
to inspire the public with confidence in the fair-
ness of the Wellington Press.”
Strathleven Meat.
Wi" are able to •> ■ notice to our readers the gratifying
in t ell in ‘ I ,". i ontained in a cablegram to Messrs Brydou
and Ad-' ■ of 1; ■■ iter-street, that the meat per the
■ ’ lias neen sold at home at 7d. ner lb, all
rot : •' for He- ana mutton.
COWARDLY TREATMENT OF A
LADY.
News is to hand from Melbourne of a very un-
manly assault; on the gifted young actress Imo-
gene, who was recently in this city. The assault,
which was committed by an agent named Rogers,
appears to have been the climax to a series of in-
sults offered to, and a species of terrorism prac-
tised by this man on the young artiste, and which,
borne without murmur, no doubt depressed her
spirits and tended to render her seasons in
Sydney and Melbourne anything but suc-
cessful. The assault in the present instance
actually arose through Imogcno’s declining to
meet the agent’s extravagant demands for money.
It appears that Miss Knowlton was staying at the
Earl of Zetland Hotel, Melbourne, and that the
■defendant was boarding there. She had retired to
hcr private sitting room to dine, but not being
in the best of health, was reclining for a few mo-
ments. Rogers, uninvited, entered the room, and
sat himself at the table. Ho demanded that she
should sit up, as he said he wished to renew his
demands for fresh supplies of money. In addition
to paying him a good salary, she had lent him over
i£Bo, and yet his fast living outside required more.
She refused either to sit up or give him any more
money, whereupon he seized one of the table
knives and threatened to take her life. She was
too weak to offer much resistance, but in the
struggle that did take place the knife fortunately
fell on the floor. In the prosecution that followed
at the police court the defendant would have been
committed for trial but for the fact that Miss
Knowlton must have suffered in a pecuniary sense
from the delay. A fine of ,£lO 5s was imposed,
and the offender was compelled to find security
for his future good behaviour. Miss Knowlton,
however, not desiring to leave him a stranger
among sfo n.nger.-. paid his passage homeward, and
he proceeded by the Orient to England, en route
to America, b.. which vessel (in another part of
the ship) the lidy - ’so took passage to meet an
engagement in London. When Imogene arrived
in Sydney to play in “ La Cigale,” at the Queen’s,
the writer was asked to call on her. He found
her in a very dejected state, but could not account
for it; the misconduct of her agent, however, ex-
plains all. Imogene, who, as the accompanying por-
trait indicates, is a charming young actress, is a lady
whoso conduct and ability have brought honour
to tho profession in America. Her natural liveli-
ness quickly wins the public to her, and it is not
surprising that under different circumstances to
those she was placed in here, she should have
achieved the greatest successes in tho principal
cities of her own country. It is to be regretted
that in Australia her experiences were of the
worst.
An Attempt to Suppress “The Bulletin.”
Our humorous artist pourtrays in the accom-
panying sketch a rather amusing incident. Onr
interesting but doubtless well-moaning friend,
Mr. Frank Warden, is represented as making a
dart for one of The Bulletin lads, and it is not
our fault if a setting sun, which reveals more
than any other known thing, casts on the wall a
rather startling outline. The boy has injudiciously
asked Mr. Warden “When he’s going to baptise
again and if we could put a word into Mr.
Warden’s mouth as he is “ going” for the boy, it
would be, “ Baptise, eh? By so-and-so I’ll ”
With this picture we close our series of the
Warden engravings. We are not surprised to
hear that Frank has taken onr first engravings in
good part, and laughed as much as anybody else
over the humours of the artist. A semi-public
man, it could not be that ho should escape the
pencil of the artist who now stands ready for en-
tertaining and amusing subjects. As to Mr. Frank
Warden’s gospel work we are not going to cry
him down. His words may fall on ears that
otherwise might never hear the word of hope.
Therefore we say to our quaint friend —go along.
Learn from our pictures not to run foul of public
sentiment, but do good if you can.
Mr. James Auld, of Darling Point, has gene-
rously granted a valuable site for the proposed
local Presbyterian Church.
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
Vqn not the Australian ehildren-eolonies be likely to
miv, a tc the example set them by the parent State in
an . which we hear of in Monday’s cablegrams
iron home? The Orient Steamship Company, receiving
a si bsidy from no Government, declined to carry the
inn s gratuitously; on which the authorities in London
declared their intention of prosecuting the Company
fo f > reaki 11 g the law if it ref used. A consultation with
thciv legal adviser showed the plucky Directors that,
the n gb they were many momoyet unitedly they hadn’t
a sbi vie leg to stand upon, the law being as plain as a
pike, faff The Directors, therefore, grounded arms
and ■ übmitted. Now, it is rather heavy handicapping
on th,; finest Company that ever sent the finest ships
into • ‘ i in, hiest harbour in the world,” to compel them
to do for nothing for which Victoria is paying the
» Company enormous subsidies. Is it notalessou
to her children to repudiate their obligations to the
respective steamship companies when the parent State
ooi ■ i em so pernicious an example ? Why should we
pay ht ;1 , ■■. for what can be made by law to be done for
nothing? )f course it is true that more than one Com-
pany riiijs its boats chiefly because Government pays it
to do so.
The a lomational Exhibition has its amusing phases
and e<nuic features. In the British Court theotherday
we oh; • i . two respectably dressed countrymen bear-
ing e marks of recent arrival in the capital,
standing in deep thought and abstraction before the
very i. : . piece of tapestry representing the sacred
subject which every visitor must have noticed. After
they h.i'l t ecu thus steadfastly gazing—apparently awe-
struck for some minutes, one of our suburban clergy-
men, a, fcvquent visitor' to the Garden Palace —in search
of cab ( d for his sacred solicitude—observed their
abstrac t -u ■ and, rubbing his hands as he thought this
n spleu-it I opportunity for improving the occasion, went
u • and addressed them. “You seem to admire that
piotun . ij; \- friends,” said he, with Iris blandest smile.
“ Av. sir.'ii be beautiful; we never see nothing like
that'.’ “Ad do you know what it’s about?” con-
tinued ih; divine. “Do we know what it’s about.
You bet.' T say, Bill,” giving a contemptuous glance at
th -■ clcu yiaan, “ just you show him which is Charley
Bannesmian!”
.
A gent'u: in always shows his good breeding by
thin kin ethers before himself. We lately had the
spectacle, of a public entertainment given to a foreign
Connie ' solid', at which not one of his colleagues was
present i < chow the esteem in which they hold him,
wh. ;h induetl was sufficiently evident from their absence.
Now > i i iv • the reverse of the picture. A deputation,
headed by dr. Jennings, the Executive Commissioner,
waited on f rafessor Keuleaux, the German Commis-
sioiiir, to tick him to accept the courtesy of a public
dinner from lie New South Wales Commission, to mark
their sense i ids strenuous efforts on behalf of the Ex-
hibition. The Professor replied (by letter, asking per-
misr-i in to do so), that his brother Commissioners had
been equally zealous on behalf of the success of the
Exhibition.; ■ any acknowledgment was due, it was due
to all alike lie would be happy to accept the invita-
tion if it . l i t extended to all the foreign Commis-
sioners. ■ fame in this simple act of kindliness
than in all the seeking after popularity for the purpose
of making ■ a ital out of reports to he sent to head-
quarters
T 1 ■ is : ,, ~ta i n legislator who evidently knows on
whi«. .i , t read is buttered, and is equally well up
in tlu yt s raise a laugh at his own assurance. How
many docs t pect will think seriously of his declara-
tion c* l.( ii vayed by the highest considerations ”
in introduce . into Parliament the Totalizator Legalis-
ing Bill 5 Jo doubt Tom spoke feelingly on the sub-
ject. Up ha .omebody who had not forgotten the
little epis he before “lie” was “ Lost inMelbourne’’
(capital little tit;o for a drama ala “ Lost in London ”)
when be »<,l - up one fine morning and found tbat the
amount of ids winnings from a certain bookmaker at
Baud',, ! A idgor) bad most unaccountably disap-
peared i Wi ova make every allowance for tbat man s
dread ->f boo : .mu,kers, as the burnt child dreads the fire,
but the leg sin tor’s “highest considerations” are all
bunkum. 1 !>n-e is not the slightest doubt that if the
Bill h i , - '■ tit would have been a good thing for the
“ sliak, eu-tscr,” as McElhone called the owner or the
totalisiu; ;i ; then, of course, business would have
increa- i I . ■ ~ u extent that —but we will say no
more.
Our friend, ‘ PoUsonniere de la Halle” (Fishmongers’
Hall, of conn p) continues to make herself disagreeably
conspicuous Au every possible public occasion. Not
content with laving a seat in the front row of the Urso
concert m Wednesday evening, she must render herselt
obnoxious tun’i around her by performing the part of
fuglcwi tt» the audience advancing her chair
“ three paces, tc. -he front 1” showering her severe smiles
on theexecut mis condescendingly, and giving the sig-
nals for applause for all around her. Is some one
one not going t take the old party in tow and prevent an
untoward tern u union to such troublesome tahbyismr
Hood-winkii it; th 'public must he part and parcel of
public policy, mi ointerial and official. We are told,
with all the gun it ■ )f a public daily newspaper report,
that certain of th.- ministers paid a visit quite unox-
pectedly to tlu Island abbatoirs at a tune when
such a “ swoop-down ” was most inconvenient, when all
the men were > ugaged in the genial occupations apper-
taining to the place and that though there were many
things requiring improvement, there was loss apparent
cause for fault finding than was expected. Do any ot
these “visitiu; -usHces” expect anyone in ms senses to
believe t n statement P Are meetings of high oincials
on business bent of -uch frequent occurrence that their
movements will not ae made known by the tell-tale wire
to all whom it' may concern within two minutes after
the direction f their journey has been defined ? Let
Mr. Trea irci Wat n come within sniffing distance of
the abbal-.irs n th- line of a north-easter any warm
night, and tic best recommendation of reform he will
report for tin id, be Island abbatoirs will be to reform
them out of existence.
To read th ■ j>, ■ bed report of the city accounts it
would seem a; til hwo were in the land of Oriental
wealth and mage . ice, and that our Mayor, like some
patent Pasha of the iiaroun al Kaschid type, had only
to order, and c- ! or I king was turned into gold by some
genins of the Wap or the ring. Thousands here, thou-
sands there, tlu umu .is everywhere. Where does it all
come from High rents —answer! What do we get
for it? Au.jwei, broken pavements, of which our
tender-toed visitors will tell a tolerably tidy tale to onr
detriment; answer, disgusting, health - destroying
sewerage system and insufficient supply of had water.
Answer —corruption, johheiry, and incompetency. It is
all a question of glory for the aldermen, loaves and
fishes (for the lew , and dissatisfaction for the many.
Mr Alderman V i ~ one of the few sensible men at
the City Council table, suggests that everything re-
q aired by tilt; ly (so far as it is in tbe bands of tbe
Council) should hi submitted to public tender. A for
more tender way ~ dealing with the city funds would
be to let ali t b uity.H JWsa and supplies out by contract
—and the aldenmu. .'kTjjiise, only the latter would he
too bad a bargain ior iff? co^jpictor.
More amusing memoranda from a morning contem-
porary which to incorporate into a new edition of the
“ Curiosities of Complete Criticism,” as exemplified in
the Sydney Pross. The concert of Camilla Urso on
Wednesday night was evidently too much for the
Daily TELr.ounrH It was too classic for comprehen-
sion, and caused utter confusion to the critic’s (?)
ideas. Among't o her delicious things we road—“ The
air ‘ luflammabrs,’ from ‘Stahat Mater,’ was rendered
with an el “gat <• and grace that was (sic !) testified by
the applause with which she was greeted.” Is luflaui-
matns the ->>e i .question ?“ The applause too, testified
(? to) an rbigi.m- and (? a) grace,” &o. What would
the authors of “Th Queen’s English” and “ The Dean s
English” say b -nob Sydney newspaper English?
Again; "A piano .To, spinning song, and Turkish
march was (sic!) rendered by M. Sanret.” Can any-
body understnud this? Were the solo, song, and
march three dift a-cut things which was rendered ? Or
was the solo a spuming song and march? (There are
no capital letters, to show.) If so, what connection is
there betwei spinning song and a march ? As our
readers well i -vo solos W6ve given by M. Sauret
one by M in jnd one by Beethoven imme-
dinfeiv »f* , ’ But the most astounding things
| ceeded those to
IMOGENS, THE VICTIM OF UNMANLY TREATMENT AT MELBOURNE.
A BULLETIN BOY IN DANGER.
February 7, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


told ns are—" The air from ‘La Traviata,’ &c., which
was sung by Signor Palladini,’” —. “ . . . . iu his
usual able style, was also- the aria from * Rigoletto,’
by Signor Pietro Palladiui;” and- (‘The conoert was
brought to n, close with the duet, ‘ Night in Venice!’ by
Miss Sargent aud Signor Palladiui.” Was it ? Neither
of these three pieces were given,- nor dief .Signor Palla-
dim sing, ample intimation of his indisposition having
been conveyed by circular to every one present!
ALDERMANIC AMENITIES.
The meetings of tho city fathers, some few years
ago, used-to be remarkable for their monotony.
Such a thing as an animated debate hardly ever
occurred, and a “ scene” —in V. parliamentary
sense —was almost a moral impossibility. Formal
business, dull decorum, a kind of mutual-admirh-
t’ion principle of etiquette, and withal a keen eye
to selfish interests Seem to have been the regulai
generate* of;tho Metropolitan Municipal Council,
while its sittings wore ~ hold in the. temperary
Town Hall, Wynyard'-squave. Times have changed
since then, and the aldermen have changed like-
wise. The colossal building, raised regardless of.
expense and ai’. jaisthotic considerations, in which
the worshipful body hold'their deliberations and
lunch once a fortnight fit
seems to have developed a big. and „hold.ogotism
in tho ’ aldormanic mind, aml to have stimulated
those infirmities of temper which wCro.sup'posed
to be confined to the floor of the Legislative
Assembly. * . T
Tho “ little affair”, between Aldermen M’Elhone
and O’Connor, in a" passage of tho New Town
Hall, on Tuesday last, servos “ to point a moral,”
although wo cannot fancy it will “adorn” a nar-
rative.- Not relying with ,simple Mth .oh the
accuracy or impartiality'of oUr contemporaries,
wo have taken the.trouble to fully investigate the
rixa (dr row) from first'tcr last; and although our
conclusion exempts neither of tho “principals’
from fault? tho inexorable logic of tho facts com-
pels ms to- admit that the amiable and playful
M’El hone fpr once forgot those gentle 'f debugs
that generally influence hipi (when adleep), or lull
him into peace with alfnnanlsirul when about hall
through a post prandial smoke from one of his
favourite cutties.
K the philosopher mto asserted that truth lay-
deep in a well lived now-a-days iu Sydney, he
would say a good-deal of it lay immersed in the
Tank-stream. Not a 'single* version of the
“fracas” —as it hTis boon stupidly called —up to
tho present is correct; notono begins at the begin-
ning, or cads with an appropriate reflection.
What, arc tho facts. of tho case :* Briefly am'
positively the following : —During the sittings o;
tho Council on Tuesday, Alderman M’Elhone was
particularly gruesome. Ho snapped and growled
at several of his confreres, and made a dead (or
dogged) set to stqp business. Ho succeeded.
Out of a lengthy bnsinoss-yiapor only three items
were roughly considered. Alderman A)avics had,
however, an opportunity of ■.. making an insidious
attack on the-late Mayor, accusing him of spend-
ing a groat snip 'of civic money without tho au-
thorisation of tho Council. Slock, Sly, oleaginous
John would have carried his point had not the
chivalric spirit of Alderman O’Connor come into
active play. That fair 4 bnt foarßsss ‘*man*o’. the
people” nmdo'a (severe"attack* assailant of,
ex-Mayor Roberts’ chyractof, arid proved from
the giinutes of proceedings that Mr. Davies was
mainly instrumental, three yetfrs ago., in*prevent-
iug a thorough reform of tlm Corporation, roqt
and branch, and might, therefore, with justice bo
considered the father of a local Tammany ring.
Mr.M’Elhone rose in defence of his newly-made
friend, John Davies, a gentleman whom not loiig
girice he described as being of a scrofulo.uk canine
gpecics, far worse, than a faipiahod dingo, who do-
served to be skinned alive ! Wo can produce
gWorn testimony, if necessary, to the truth of this
amiable appreciation (not long ago) of
Jack for John. When matters had
reached this point —namely, the- fourth
motion on the paper —the majority of
the quorum felt more hungry than
angry, and made a move to the free
lunch (roast goose,,ham,pastry, cham-
pagne, &c., &c.), Mr. McElhono being
well in advance. Ho was stopped,
however, by Mr. Driver, who wished
to pour something intellectual into his
capacious mind.’ At this stage of events
Alderman O’Connor sauntered in—-his
hands deemin his trousers’ pockets, a
merry his blue eyes (alas ! soon
to be temporarily eclipsed), and that
easy, jaunty manner which comes so
natural to him. That he was in a jocose
or jocularly sarcastic mood, wo have
learned from several who were present.
It is now necessary foremark that
among tho many playful antics which
Alderman McElhone indulges in when
he unbends such as prodding his
friends with long pins and giving cay-
enne nuts to children, in order to enjoy
their facial contortions afterwards —is
a free use of slang phraseology of the
sarcastic kind. He and Mr. O’Conno-t
have often engaged iir these lingual
tilts, audit was in this view that the 1
latter on Tuesday last said to him r
“ Don’t you think Davies is big enough
to take his own part r Well, you are a
servile lickspittle. ’ ’ This is the authen-
tic text. Without a word, but with
a kind of snort, Mr. McElhone planted
his big fist well under Mr. O’Connor’s
left eye, cutting the skin and dimming
the orb abpye. The assailed reeled, but
soon recovered and made a rush at his
foe, striking out straight from the shoul-
der, and wou’l certainly have deliv-
ered one sneezer if Mr. Driver had
not intervened, and diminished the force of a i
blow, tjic fag end of which, nevertheless, made
Mr. ' McElhone see a tiny constellation of pink
stars or the nucleus of the new comet. Hereupon
a hurly-burly ensued; aldermen rushed frantically
to and fro as if a free fight wore inevitable; Mr.
Hordern, in an ecstasy of indignant alarm, saw a
sudden vision of bowie-knives and Colt’s revol-
vers ; and the Mayor, pale and trembling, was
just able to gasp a hope that they would not
murder each other. A melancholy peace was at
length effected; Mr. O’Connor left to obtain sur-
gical aid; and Mr. McElhono, after some attention
to the economic feast, retired, muttering maledic-
tions on the Council.and all belonging to It—him-
.pelf not expressly excluded.
The foregoing is a fair though brief ■account of
the occurrence, .and its moral is almost obvious.•
It is conveyed in the-old adage that “ one cannot
touch pitch without being smeared.” or “play
with edged tools without danger,to his organs, of
sensation.” • Whatever uses Providence may have
designed. Mr. McElhone for (and the mystery is
inscrutable) it is certain"that he has powers which
can not only demoralise a House of Legislature,
a Municipal Council, a yard full" of auctioneers, a
religious'meeting—but a whole community of in-
offensive people. Mr. O’Connor is reputed to be
genial’and well-mannered, and so far as we- know
he deserves that reputation. We strongly advise
him never again to bandy words, even in a jocose
vein, with SJr. MoElhone, unless wo revive tho
custom of ordering “ pistols, for two and coffee for
one at'six o’clock in tho morning.”
The Alleged Arthur Orton and Mr. Lock.
When the claimant was sentenced to a long term of
imprisomnenj, under tho name. of Arthur Oi;tou,
although ho maintained he was not that individual, a
body “was formed called “-The Tichourue. Release
Association,” Mr. Onslow, M,P., .and several other
gfeutlemen of high position in the mother cpuutry being
the chief*tigitatars on tho convicted man’s behalf. Mr.
W. H. Lock, of Melbourne, who had shown great energy
in the cause, was appointed their agent,-aud was very
successful iu gaining information and putting them in
possession of many important facts. The chief object
in view was to find the real Arthur Orton; who was sup-
posed to be iu Australia. Mr. Lock, after devoting his
time and’money for several 1 ho endeavour, at
received information the conclusion that
Orton was identical with a man whose portrait we
now give, and who has long been confined in the IV'l'n.
matta Asylum under the name of Crcswoll. Mr. Lock
camo from- Melbourne, accompanied by Mrs. Jury
(Artbn»Orton’s»sister),.to identify the man if possible.
Mrs. Jury failed to identify “Crcswoll” to her own
satisfaction, and could in fact hardly have been expected
to do so na/frr the circumstances, inasmuch as she had
not soon her brother for a quarter of a century. Mr.
Lock had soon Arthur Orton tried for horse-stealing at
Castlomaino, and being posiSbssed of a good memory for
faces, recognised the lunatic at once as Orton. Not
only this, but he affirms that the marks on Creswell’s
bqdy and his general description exactly correspond with
.certain’ marks known to have been borne by the man
wanted and with the official descriptions given of Orton.
Having*a power of attorney from Orton’s next of kin,
he ip.-Qifieuted to the (mlouial Secretary of tho day, Mr.
Fitzpatrick, a petition for the release of Cresweli; but
to this petition Mr.gPitamtriolyefused to.accede. Mr.
Eckford, M.L.A., brought the matter before the House,
but also failed to secure the attainment of Mr. Lock’s
object. However, Mr. Musticb Hargraves has at last
granted Cresweli release, and iu doing so lias enabled
Mr. Lock to reach the end for which he had so long
laboured in vain. It is understood that Mi-. Lock and
the alleged Arthur Orton will at once proceed to
England, and that the reward of T 0,500 offered for the
discovery of Orton will be claimed by the first-named.
Mr. Lock? whether or not he is right iu his pouclusiou
regarding Cx-eswell, certainly deserves every credit for
his untiring energy.
HOW TO PLAY THE PIANOFORTE.
(Written [?] for T[?] BULLETIN.)
Courteous reader, I suppose that you arc a lady
and that yon are young and beautiful, for I am
too gallant a gentleman to suppose that any lady
could possibly be otherwise than young and beau-
tiful. I suppose also that yon are anxious to add
to the charms that Nature has showered so libe-
rally on your lovely person the additional attrac-
tion of skill in the fine arts, in one of which,
namely nvusic, 1 have no doubt yon have already
attained considerable proficiency. Assuming that
I have conjectured rightly and that the pianoforte
is your favorite instrument, I will proceed to show
b
1
-re to end witl
of the key in wl
owing to its imj
of its bbing out
badly and give out sp ♦
agreeable, but that i-
the manufacturer of tk.
self, and therefore yo l oi
tention to it. Your busin
ever instrument may he before
a good one or a bad one, or wl
or otherwise. In fact the musi
instrument should never excite chf
mind, iriasmuch *as your business
away, and like a freeborn daughte-
or elsewhere set tune at defiance. ... .u.
manufacture imperfect pianos —if unprii
merchants will import them for .lucre’s s,
if fools will buy .them simply because they a,
fiaoly polished and richly ornamented, tho player
af course cannot’stop such proceedings, or in any
way alter the natural course of events. Whilst
preluding at an evening party, or before company
at any time, you should always recollect that the
majority of those who have pressed you to play
have done so more for the purpose of seeing how
you perform than fdr the purpose of hearing your
music, and, therefore, the more airs you give your-
-1 self the more thoroughly will they be gratified.
When you ’attack a piece of music be careful to
adhere rigidly to the instructions I shall now pro-
ceed to give.
When you begin to play put your foot upon the
forte pedal and keep it pressed down, or in other
words, keep the dampers off the strings and allow
the latter to vibrato freely. By this means you
will cauAe tho piano to be,heard ,above the buzz of
conversation which is almost certain to take place
whenever you begin to play. If you hit the piano
hard, and at the same time keep, the dampers up,
you will stand a fair chance, of being heard above
the talking of tho company, and even if you
should fail |to obtain the mastery you are sure to
"come in what is called in turf parlance a good
second. Lost you. should forget to raise tho
dampers at the places where tho composer, orders
them to be raised I. advise you to keep them up
the whole time you are playing, and you cannot
fail to have them up at the places where the
composer has indicated tho use of tho forte pedal.
It is quite a common thing for distinguished piansts
to play in this stylo, and cortaiiily this mode of
playing has the merit of causing the piano to bo
hoard under all circumstances. Of course some
people will object to it, and'will toll you that you
love noise and not music, but you need not trouble
yourself about the rebukes of such persons, espe-
cially while you have some of tho performances in
tho Garden Palace to sot before you as examples
worthy of being imitated. It is true that tho per-
formers I refer to did not come up to tho standard
of perfection I advise you to aim at, but they ap-
proximate it either by keeping tho dampers stea-
dily up or else by raising them very frequently
during tho rendition of long movements. And by
adopting this stylo they bring out all tho strong
and forcible qualities of tho instruments they
play into full relief.
When you strike a full chord of either crotchets
or minims, throw up your hands above the instru-
ment with a jerk, and should the-chord be fol-
lowed by a rest, or rests, put up your hand to
your head, and adjust your ringlets. Should you
have no ringlets to adjust,‘then smooth your hair
down With your ’hand, taking special care that
the movements of the hand shall be elegant and
graceful. This manoeuvre will serve to show off
the lily whiteness and exquisite shape of your
hand and arm, and being performed in strict time
that is, during the interval of tho rests will
also help to convince those who may be observing
yon that you arc a great artist, and a perfect
mistress ot your instrument. As a slight varia-
tion on this manoeuvre you might raise yourself
upright in your seat, arrange your watchguard,
alter your position on the stool, or do anything
else you like.
You should recollect that every great musician
forms his own independent opinion of the mean-
ing of musical terms and plays all movements
marked with those terms at a pace corresponding
to his interpretation of tho terms themselves.
Hence the player is at liberty to play a piece
marked adagio at a rate which .others would con-
sider appropriate for allegro movement’s, and vice-
versa. By playing passages according to your
own notion of them, and not according to tho in-
structions of the composer, or in accordance with
the indications of the metronome, yon will claim
and appropriate one of the highest privileges of
genius, namely, that of being superior to all rules.
Rebellion against the tyranny of custom is always
a meritorious feature in the instrumentation of a
great artist. Beethoven, in open defiance of Mar-
pnrg and the theorists, inserted consecutive fifths
in his harmonies, and when the impropriety was-
pointed out to him by a friend, the great man
d
b
I
I . , ...
tiuc„ /,w., ae or aha, e ca
bear the blame. Iwc advise
the originality of your mind by ko
time. Should you get a little in i
treble, or lag a little behind it, wi.
the harm 1 A mistake of a bar or tw«,
a trifle not worth speaking about. Should the
performer.of the first part bo a good musician, he
•or she will endoavonr to keep pace with you ; but
should he or she not bo clover, then the blunder
which ho or she may commit will bo his or her
own. .
You should consider yourself a great artist, and
also believe that you have a mission, hjverybody
now-a-days hat a mission, and your mission is to
tickle people’s oars and improve the morality of
your ago. As a musical artist you ought to hold
the mirror up to nature in such a way as to dis-
play to the world the spirit and body cif the time.
The way in which yon can do this- musically is to
play tremendously forte with the hard pedal down.
You know the instrument was made to be hit, so I*
advise you to hit it hard. Nothing displays the
roguery of piano manufacturers more thoroughly
than the hard thumping stylo of performing, and
hence 1 advise you to always remember when you
sit down to your instrument that one of the ob-
jects .of your mission as a musical artist is the
promotion of public morals by exposing tho
roguery of instrument makers. I have had tho
felicity of hearing some distinguished artists who
had a happy knack of causing every piano they
played on to sound harshly and disagreeably, and
I presume that tho reason they acted in this way
was a strong desire on their pari to promote public
morality and the welfare of society.
The reputation of most great pianists rests on
some peculiarity in their mode of performing
rather than on tho dulcet harmonies they elicit
from their instrument. According to report Thal-
berg used to play' some passages with his wrists,
and some other groat pianist, whoso name I forgot,
is said to have worn artificial thumbs on his
elbows and to have used them in performing.
Now, though I do not pretend to dictate to one so
accomplished as yourself, yet I would respectfully
suggest that the mode of playi,”. 'the maim with
tho toes would be a very taking
no doubt that tho toes thorns-
sympathy with tho .music, won
desirous of practising this mod
rapidly acquire voh iity of ’UtocU‘
jigs, polkas, and all other (lance i
Important Facts about [?] .
A very valuable volume by Hr. Pother-
iugall, a well-known English writer on
nelicinoa and byginic topics has jnst beam
issued from the English press. The work
lays down very clearly the laws which
govern correct living; shows how the natu-
ral decay of physical powers may be in a de-
gree counteracted, and the ailments inci-
dent to advanced life overcome or miligated.
On the question of stimulants the author
takes conservative ground. For the young
and vigorous alcoholic heveragw of all kinds
are not only unnecessary, but harmful; for
the fpelde and aged, taken in moderal e doses
-—especially just after getting into bed when
the weather is cold they may be highly
beneficial. He maintains that alcohol is
food; that It contains a considerable amount
of nutriment, and that he who drinks may
get along with less solid food thanhe who
does not. Still the habit even of moderate
drinking he regards as pernicious to mind
and body, aud justified only on the score
of necessity, when the system impera-
tively requires “bracing uj>.” One of the
most interesting chapters in the hook re-
lates to the influence of inheritance in deter-
mining mental and physical character.
Many arc born diseased, yet by careful liv-
ing congenital disorders may be partially
or wholly overcome. The author’s con-
clusions are thus summed up :
Overwork is very destructive to the body,
and, when it is mental, ‘not uncommonly
overbalances the intellect.
Overworked persons are opt to die from
comparatively trivial disease, because their
resisting power or vital force is low.
Toil in the young and growing arrests the
growth, and often lends to deformity.
Agricultural labour does not entail the
same injurious consequences upon child-
ren as are induced by labour in the factory
or the mine. . The difference in the supply
of oxygen is the probable cause of this.
Man has a reserve !of force, like the bal-
ance of a irrudent firm at the bankers.
If this is too'far drawn upon, a sudden
demand becomes a very serious matter.
Unfortunately, a man cannot estimate his physiologi-
cal capital so exactly as he can his financial reserve.
Stimulants, though a great means, are not absolutely
essential to attain physiological bankruptcy.
“ Living fast” means living beyond the physiological
income, and induces eajfly exhaustion of the force
capital. t
Loans of force may be paid by economy—by quietude
1 Inability to remember names, cither of men or places,
is one of the early indications of failing mental power.
There are mental blanks, like missing leaves iu a
volume, occasioned by the decay of power; aud these
increase as the case proceeds.
Certain physical ftilmentAl are common results of
mental strain.
Rest permits of repair, and ot more or less perfect
recovery.
Abundance of brain power, without too much sensi-
tiveness, forms the best combination tor enduring strain.
Corporeal conditions influence very materially the
mental products of the brain.
Mental pain, or misery, is the outcry of ill-fed cere-
bral centres; a sense of joyousness, combined with
energy, marks their well-being.
Liver disturbance leads to mental gloom.
Visceral and intestinal ailments affect the mind.
The habit of brooding over troubles is- useless and
pernicious.
There arc heavy ruins in the Far North of
Queensland. «
[?]SWFLL, THE SUPPOSED ARTHUR ORTON.
A SAMPLE OF M’ELHONIAN PAIR PLAT.
THE BU
February 7, 1880.


j
118 S 1 sll Uisp Uj .mO, t Ju-
ki uudci. circumstances that our
,-tunes ana imaginary misfortunes of
•flag for a moment. The climax is
gnsted with the bungling of Bung, he
to lay a napkin -i la mode. Though the
.cher overdrawn, this is the fault of the
.uui. fettles’ assumption of refined elegance, with
a sort of lardidaismia ‘‘immense,” but nothing can
exceed his reproof of Bung for his vulgarisms and
mispronunciation. But these assumed airs, natural in
their very ridiculousness, change to reality when the
real chai-acter of the man comes out as he speaks his
mind to Captain Baffler, the hanger-on of his fashionable
wife; as man looks at man, the one rises to the height
of passion, whilst the other is cowed by honest truth to
the lowest poltroonery. But “ the shop ” will out; for
immediately afterwards Tottles speaks contemptuously
of the man who will eat “ four meals a day ” on the
sponging system. But there are many little bits of the
acting displayed by Mr. Hall throughout the piece—
little traits showing the lights and shades of the char-
acter which ho pourtrays. The climax is reached
when, descanting on his wrongs, he bursts in with—
" But a man’s a man for all that Shakspeare !”
Tottles is of course o very mixed character; something
of the cad is natural to a lad with such mixed parent-
age, in spite of education i but good and proper feelings,
especially in defence of his “ Dad ” break out at every
moment. The part could scarcely be played by any
but a woman, though the idea is to be eschewed where
practicable (except in the case of disguises, as in the
parts of Rosalind, the Eton Boy, &c.) ; and Miss Wise-
man gave to the part as much character as possible.
Mr. Jerdan, Mr. St. Lawrence, and Mr. Tolaub, Mr.
Whvte, and Mr. Dillon (a grandiloquent Topham
in plush whose outburst against the intolerable tyranny
of “ Bung ’’ is in truly a Jeames-like grandiloquence of
style), all did even-handed justice to their parts. The
play was admirably placet! on the (stage: the appoint-
ments of Tottles’ drawing-room and Brown’s dining-
room, constituting elegant and correct scenes. The
farmer has rich appointments; handsome chandelier,
marble mantel-piece with lighted lamps on it. piano, and
all the little accessories of a drawing-room. Mr. Kohler
is entitled to praise for his delightful flageolet
solo and the music generally, under Mr. W. G.
Broodluirst, is agreeable to the listeners, who can remain
with satisfaction during the entre-uctes.
THEATRE ROYAL.
There has hoeu no chauge in the performimce at this
theatre daring the week, consequently there is no
necessity for our -giving any extended notice. It is
probable that “ Kerry ” and “ Arrah-na-Pogne ” would
fill the house for some time time to come were it not
that the arrangements of Mr. Lazar necessitate the
withdrawal of the favourites. For six mouths Mr. and
Mrs. J. C. Williamson kept the little Queen’s Theatre
afloat, giving it once more the leading position worthier
of its earlier Lyceum days of fame, and introducing to
us a now manager in the present Mr. S. Lazar p for
nearly six months Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson have
again—after their return from Europe—kept up the
fortunes of Mr. Lazar’s newer venture, the Theatre
Koval, and attracted thither crowded audiences. In
addition to what we said last week of “Arrah-na-Pogue,”
we may add a special word for Mr. B. N. Jones as the
true-hearted old Colonel O’Grady, full of sympathy with
suffering innocence, and ready, loyal as he is ueverthe-
theless, to speak his mind when occasion requires it;
though, as a whole, the part is incongruous to Mr.
Jones’ style of acting. Mr. H. Vincent rendered the
part of Michael Feeney as such a villain should be
shown, in his blackest colours. Mr. Vincent is a useful
member of a good stock company. Kaudall M'Cool is
nothing much of a part, and it was agreeable to see that
Mr. Douglas did not attempt to make it more than it
is. We must not omit a word of praise for Mr. Hasker
as the kind old serjeant executing disagreeable duties in
a kind-hearted manner. Mrs. Williamson made a pretty
bright chirping little Arrah-of-the-Kiss, and her songs
are of the pleasantest. The part of Fanny Power does
not give any great scope for the display of acting by Miss
Myra Kemble. It is only that of a walking lady, and the
most that can be done with it is to move, act, and talk
like a lady. In the other parts there is nothing
noticeable. Mr. Lazar bears a good reputation for
mounting his pieces well, and this is no exception.
Mr.,Crcswick appears to-night in a new drama.
KELLY ANT LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
After the operatic burlesque of “The GrandjDuchesp,”
which we noticed in our last week’s issue, the much-
talked of piece, “ The Happy Land,” rendered notori-
ously famous by its prohibition some years ago in
London (under the Gladstone ministry), and lately by
Mr. Graham Berry in Melbourne, is presented, it is
smartly written, but as n political sketch, it would be
of comparatively little interest were the characters
unknown. This is, however, not altogether the case
here. 'The amusement centres in the admirable make-
up and acting of Mr. E. Kelly* as the “ Major ” (Smith)
Minister for Education, Mr. E. Lester as Premier
Graham Berry, and Mr. AV. Ball, ns the tearing John
Woods, Minister for Bailways, and inventor of a new
break, with Mr. Dark ns the darkey, Henderson
Afrioauus. Those arc the only four “mortals” of the
piece; the rest of the characters arc male and female
fairies : and amongst the representatives of those are
Mr. Vernon Reid, Miss Emma Waugenheim, Miss Nellie
Henry, and Miss Fanny Rogers. The whole piece is a
skit on “ The Embassy ” and the rule of the “ Happy
Land ” of Victoria under its present governing body.
The affair abounds in satirical tun, and the “Woods
Breakdown” is inimitable.
MUSIC.
The Music at the Garden Palace.—The Art
Goncerts (orchestral) having been discontinued through
the intervention of Sir Henry Parkes, or the Com-
niiHBiou, or the combined action of both, the Drink
' oucerts have taken their place, and have fully
•uswered the purpose of their organisation by attracting
• ’ lily large numbers of listeners to the bars of the
<■ iterers, as well as the tables round the basin, where
i hoy imbibe the pleasant fluids, and at the same time
drink in the music as it flows in bars from the
orchestra.
The so-called “ recitals ” are still numerous, though
the projectors begin to show symptoms of feeling that
the demand for their wares, which these performances
re intended to bring into notoriety, are not equal to the
demand on their pockets for expenses. The “ concerts”
•re not given with the slightest view of benefiting art,
or of course they would have emanated from the
'ommission, who have shown such commendable zeal
' t the cause of educating the people to an appreciation
■f true art, especially by allowing free play to every
\hibitor to do just as ho pleases. Hence, we have the
ost outrageous discord possible to be distinguished
ithin our space. One day last week there were no less
•an three “ recitals,” and the band below going on at
•e game time. Any one can imagine the effect on a
nsitivc ear. Would it not be impossible to report
• ything heard nnder such circumstances ? The whole
dug is an absurdity, and a great deal too mnch has
msti made out of these public performances for pufHng
•■ os. During the past week, the principal daily
era liave been Madame Suinmerhayos and Madame
3
\
o* s owu ce.
i’s overture to
brilliancy and a
vein, can display
uo. what i§ really
| effect the instruments,
tible of producing. But
guor Giorza shows his
anat the instrument at the
irthy of his genius will be
y.jiore especially by those who
or on the Melbourne Town Gall
cllous what he can do even with
lay, the Signor gave a recital that
tat. very true lover of music. After a
Verdi’s . “ Nabucco,” including the
siero ” (Go, sweet Fap<-y), he played a
which iacludfed nearly every air from
*. -s,” including Luther's , Hymn, the
prinking Chorus, the Hataplaa, the whole of
ot music, the whole of the changeable cou-
.ti.. .s’ descriptive and grand music of the fourth act,
h the exquisite duet (which succeeds it, and closes
I tne act) between Kaoul and Valentine, the two voices
being kept up with telling effect. The master who can
come up to this in execution has yet to be heard in
Sydney, The interstices between melodies were in
keeping, the whole arrangement, with the modulative
interchanges of key being masterly. Those who were
fortunate enough to hear, and hearing, to understand,
this vwflflrous piece of artistic skill, conld have had but
one cause for regret—that we have not in Sydney an
organ on which ■ such an executant could display his.
powers. For effective combination and use of the
various stops, the production of every effect (for
general and church music) and the use of the pedals,
there is but one incomparable Giorza.
CAMILLA URSO’S CONCERTS.
The first of the Sfecond series of these concerts took
place at the School of Arts on Wednesday evening, and
the crowd that filled the hall to the doors showed that
the success o%the grefft artist is vnfait accompli , Come
when she will, remain as long as she will, Camilla Urso
Will live in the favour of the Sydney public, which is
not fickle, but, once assured of true merit that does not
need the art of puffing-, remains stedfast in its support
The reception accorded to the artist on her appearance
and the excited cheers, br%vi, and burst of euthusipstic
applause that followed each piece and the encores
evinces the true appreciation of the audience.
Having in the first series of concerts displayed her
mastery over every class and school of violin music
Camilla Ursd cho<e for this occasion pieces of digniliec
style which would exhibit the thorough musician
There was nothing in them ; they mils'
please by their own merits and the skill of the
executant. They were examples such as only a mastei
would play. Her first number consisted of two smal
morceaux. The first was an “ Adagio Elegiaque," which
was quickly followed by a “ Polonaise ” (in D), both by
Wieniawski. Delicacy of treatment, purity of tone, anc
an exquisite wailing pathos characterised Dae first ; the
second was full of sprightly brilliance, dashing attack
clearness of phrasing, and accuracy of stopping. For
the encore, Madame «rso gave a “ Nocturne,” by
Chopin, transcribed for the violin by Wilhelmi. Com-
poser, transcriber, and artist, were in accord. If not
perfectly rendered, Chopin is not to be understood ; his
romantic and poetic style are so exacting a mental
study that, though many play his pieces, few know
what they are playing.’ Here was the spirit of poetry
breathed through the artist’s executive skill and com-
prehensive genius. The next piece was the famous
“ Reverie,” of Vieuxtemps—one of the greatest of violin
masters. Now the bow of the player swept down the
strings like the bubbling-cataract, anon the sounds were
gentle as the zephyr. Rich harmonies penetrated the
heart, and the pure tones of the double octaves, all
called forth those unmistakeable signs of delight
which were evident in murmurs before the last notes.
Two encores followed ; the first the “ Chanson
Polonaise,” so charmingly interpreted at a former
concert, ami variations (evidently impromptu) on “ The
Old Folks at Home.”
Will Madame Urso deign to receive a respectful
request from enthusiastic admirers by playing at one of
her concerts the “ Nel cor pin non mi scnto,” with which
Ole Bull was wont to delight crowds .of admirers, and
thsfcplaint ive air, “ Auld Robin Gray.”
Miss Sargent was injudicious in choosing the “lu-
flamjuntas ” from Rossini’s “ Stahat Mater.” It
requires a chorus for the intervening and accom-
panying passages, and a much heavier voice than the
light soprano of this otherwise pleasing singer. It
would be better if Miss Sargent confined her repertoire
to good songs, of which “ The Goldfinch,”, by Taubart,
is a fair specimen.
Signor Palladini was unable to apj>ear (from indis-
position), and Signor Pompei, happening to be in
Sydney, took his place, and talked rather than sang the
buffo pieces, ‘‘ L’argo al Factatum” (II Barbiere) and
“ Miei Ram poll! ” (Ceuerentali): but so admirably does
this genial artist render pieces of this character that the
want of voice (which will follow advancing years) was
quite counterbalanced, and the capital rendition of tha
great duet from Ricci’s “Crispino” between him and
Miss Sargent was a thoroughly genial piece of acting
vocalisation.
There was, as usual, a* pianoforte duet by 'MM.
Sauret and Schorek, and some solris by the former, of
which I liked Mendelssohn’s ” Spinnlied” least. There
is rather a want of light and. shmle in this gentlemen’s
play ng, and the constant use of the pedal .shows a want
of appreciation of its actual ust4.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Queer’s Theatre. —The Victoria Loftus Troupe
continue to attract thither very large audiences ; but,
as;their programme is unchanged, there is no necessity
for any critical remarks on this occasion.
New Music. —It is not to the English musical firms
of Boosey, Cramer, Chappell, ami others that we are to
be longer indebted for our cheap music. Messrs.
Nicholson & Aschorberg have issued a third edition of the
thirteenth number of their “ Musical Magazine,” which
is a marvel of cheapness. It comprises thirty-two
pages of handsomely-engraved music of nearly the full
size, but more convenient, consisting of songs (one
especially written by Franz Abt), maznrka, schottische,
and other pianoforte pieces, and the price is only one
shilling. No wonder that some twelve thousand copies
have been exhausted. The magazine commends itself
to every household. The same firm has sent ns “ The
Happy Land Polka,” a light and sparkling piece, having
a, caricature-cartoon frontispiece of the celebrated
Woods Railway Breakdown and caricature ]>ortrait.s of
Graham Berry, Major Smith, and Mr. Woods (the
Railway Minister). As a piece de circonetunce, the polka
will commend itself for the passing hour.
CEITIC.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Mr. Sam. Lazar has regained his former good
health and spirits.
The Lingards play ’at Kelly and Leon’s Opera
House about Easter. They promise many novelties.
Mr. Lazar has granted the use of the Theatre
Koval for a grand concert in aid of the Irish Distress
Relief Fund.
Mr. John Bennett’s kindness has facilitated the
grind benefit which is to be given to the popular Mrs.
Bates at the Victoria on Monday night.
Creswick, the famous tragedian, appears this
(Saturday) evening at the Royal in a piece entitled
“ Escaped,” produced here lor the first time.
Mr. Dave Haymanhas received a telegram from
Brisbane, stating that Japanese Tommy hud undergone
a painful operation, and wa.-, improving in condition.
The building at the corner of Castlereagh and
Hunter-streets, used by the English Circus Company,
is to he re-opened on Monday or Tuesday by Mr.
Richardson as the Royal Amphitheatre, where many
novelties will be introduced.
The sole right to perform the opera of “ Car
men” in all the Australian colonies and New Zealand
has been purchased by the Opera House Company from
Messrs. Chouder and Sons, Paris, and all persons are
warned by Mr. Lyster against performing the opera or
any part thereof without permission.
At the Opera Comiquo, London, “11. M. S.
Pinafore” was performed by children during the Christ-
mas season. Let the Williamsons take the hint.
Cliiarini lias been sued at Christchurch for
'damages sustained by a man named Wade, whose
horses, it was alleged, had been frightened by two of the
defendant’s zebras, which had broken loose.
During a recent performance by Cbiarini’s
circus at Christchurch a lady clown took the place of
her husband, who had become suddenly indisposed.
Her repartee with the ringmaster and her local conun-
drums provoked loud laughter.
Ole Bull and Madame Essipoff bare been
engaged by M. May Strakosch for a tour through the
United States, commencing this month. Would it be
possible to extend the said tour to Australia 7 In the
pres.int day newspapers wander to out of the way
places, and so we thrbw out the hint, iu accordance
with the verbum sat sapieuli.
The Melbourne correspondent of the New
Zeai**nd Sun (Christchurch) describes Mr. Wybert
Keevc’s pantomime “ Cinderella’* at the Melbourne
Academy of Music as “ economical in wit, economical
iu sparkle, economical iu brilliancy of dialogue, econo-
mical in singing, economical in dancing, economical in
music, economical in scenery, although that which is
done reflects credit on the artist, Mr. Charles Massey-
It is dreary and provocative of sleep, and an uncalled-
for infliction on the public/’ Opinions certainly do
differ.
Charles Lewis Gruneison, muscal critic to. a.
host of newspapers, and, one of the founders of the
Royal Italian Opera at Coveut Garden, London, died iu
the first week iu November. Meyerbeer entrusted the
score of “ Le I’rophote” to him, with instructions to
produce or withhold.it as ho thought iit.*He produced
it, and thereby revived the detaining managerial trea-
sury. Prom 1870 until a few weeks before his death ho
acted as the musical critic of the Athn.eum ; and also
supplied a weekly column of musical gossip to the
Queen newspaper. He died on his birthday, aged 73.
Bice, the so-called Tiger King, Ims been billed
in Berlin by a performing tiger. The brute struck him
on the cheek with his forepaw and then fastened on his
arm. An attendant beat the tiger back into its cage
with an iron bar, and Bice walked off the stage, lie
swooned at the wings, and was (hence conveyed to an
infirmary, where he was attended to by Virchow and
the Emperor’s surgeon, but the shock to his system
was too great for medical assistance to overcome. A
female performer was bitten a few nights afterwards by
a Hon, and now lies dangerously ill. The result is that
all performances of the kind are forbidden iu the Ger-
man capital, and ought to be forbidden everywhere.
Dr. Von Bulow, the director and eomlneldr
of the Opera House, Berlin, lias resigned his post under
the following circumstances Ho had some misunder-
standing with a singer named achott, and when the
latter wont on the stage to sing, Von Bulow put his
lingers in his ears in order that he might not hear him.
Schott resented this and refused to sing with You
Bulow as conductor. The management upheld Schott’s
decision, and Von Bulow resigned. Yon Bulow is un-
questionably a great pianist, but great pianists are very
often very ill-tempered, conceited, and unmannerly;
and hence, notwithstanding Von Billow’s great reputa-
tion, we think his conduct was censurable iu a high
degree.
An Italian version of Aiiber’s “ Crown Dia-
monds” has been brought out at the National Theatre,
Florence, with great success, and with an innovation
which Italianises the opera more fully than the com-
poser of it did. Signor Gelli, of Milan, has substituted
tor the spoken dialogue recitatives accompanied by the
baud, and by doing so has made the’work palatable to
Italian singers, and the Italian public. The work was
brought out at the Opera Cojuiqtie, Paris, in 1841, and
was then all but hissed, not because of its demerits as
a lyric work, hut beoause the composer did not give the
part of Caterina to Mdllc. Damoreau, who was then a
favourite with the capricious Parisians. Since then.,
the work has often been produced in French and Ger- ‘
man theatre's, and now it is quite a novelty to the people
of Florence, who, notwithstanding the musical reputa-
tion which Italy enjoys, appear to be a little behind
the age.
A new Chinese theatre has been opened in San
Francisco, which is thus described iu one of our
American contemporaries*-*-“ The performances on the
opening night were the far-famed ‘ Fung Siang’ and the
‘Luing Ung Hie We’—plays which always draw large
audiences, ns they introduce the melodious strains of
the fish horn, the soul-stirring music of the tin-pan, the
ecstatic tones of the one-string fiddle, and the sonorous
vibrations of cracked cymbals. The audience was
transported with delight when it once again heard the
classical music of its own flowery kingdom; and as the
yells, shouts, squeaks, and groans, with the orchestral
music filled the large building with Chinese melody, all
present forgot thatthey were in a foreign land, and
grinned with joy.” This is too hard upon Johnny, hut
then literary rubbish like that quoted pleages the Cali-
fornian mob as much as the had music described pleases
Chinamen.
THE “PINAFORE” COPYRIGHT.
In the Dunedin Supreme Court Mr. M'Donald,
Mr. Williamson’s attorney, has obtained injunctions
against Messrs. D’Orsay Ogden, and Towle, of Christ-
church, aud M’Lean, of the Juvenile Troubadours, with
costs. Mr. M’Donald has lost no time in bringing the
affair to a close. Though Mr. Williamson is deter-
mined to maintain his legal rights, at the same time he
has no desire to prevent the operetta being played in
New Zealand or elsewhere, providing the necessary
permission is obtained and the author’s fees paid. Mr.
Williamson complains that those under whose auspices
the piece was performed acted with the full knowledge
that they were appropriating his property. Other
members of the theatrical and musical profession in
New Zealand are also to he proceeded against for in-
fringing the rights of Mr. Williamson.
Old Sydney Favourites in England.
Mr. Frank Towers, one of the most genial of men,
aud withal a good comedian, is manager for Mr. G. H.
Macdermott, at Newcastle, England. Frank notifies
his intention to leave England, accompanied by his
family, on November 6th for Cape Town, South Africa ;
there to stay for twelve months, and then to start for—
to use his own woyds—“ dear old Australia.”
Mr. Henry Bracy was at latest date performing with
considerable success in Offenbach’s new opera, “ Ma-
dame Favart,” which is having a very lengthened run
at the Strand Theatre, Loudon.
Miss Alice 'May (Mrs. G. B. Allen) is giving much
prominence to a rather subordinate character in Lecoq’s
new opera comique, “La Petite Mademoiselle,” pro-
duced for the first time in England in October last, at
the Alhambra Palace, Leicester Square, London.
Miss Rosa Towers, a charming and clever young
actress New Zealand bom has been performing to
good audiences in Liverpool. Like her father, she
longs for home again. The young lady writes:—
“ Father is most anxious to return to Australia and
New Zealand, hut certainly not more than I am to see
my native country again.”
Messrs. Clarence Holt and Chas. Wilmot, the mana-
gers of the Duke’s Theatre, Holbom, Loudon, had been
running the sensation play of “ New Babylon” for over
two hundred and fifty nights, mid arrangements had
been concluded to continue it up to Christmas. Both
managers have prominent parts in the presentation.
Miss Clara Thompson (Mrs. Henry Bracy), after
several ’ weeksperformance at the Globe Theatre, Lou-
don, of Serpolette in the opera hontt’e “ Les Cloches de
Comevillc, had, according to bit e advices, surrendered ■
the part to Miss Kate Munro, with a view to a little rest
and recreation. Mr. Shiel Barry still sustains the part
of the miser, which he has represented nearly six
hundred consecutive times.
Oa u,lottA Patti. —We understand that ar-
rangements have been completed between Signor De
Viva, manager of the Carlotta Patti Concert Company,
and Mr. S. Lazar, of the Theatre Royal, by which the
Company will, on its arrival, appear at this Theatre.
This is satisfactory in three points; the renowned
artiste will he able to appear in a locale worthy of her
fame; the theatre will obtain fame by having her on its
hoards, and the Sydney public will have the advantage
of being the first in the Southern hemisphere to listen
to one of the reigning queens of song.
Had You Ever a Cousin ?
Had yon ever a cousin, Tom ?
Did that cousin happen to sing ?
Sisters we’ve all by the dozen, Tom,
But a cousin's a different thing;
You’ll find if you ever had kissed her, Tom,
That a cousin’s a different tiling ;
You’ll find if you ever had kissed her, Tom,
(Let that he a secret between us),
Your lips would have been jn a blister, Tom,
For they’re not of the sister genus.
There is something, Tom, in a sister’s lip
When you give her a good-night kiss.
That savours so much of relationship
That nothing occurs amiss ;
But a cousin's lip, if you once unite
With yours iu the quietest way.
Instead of sleeping a wink that night,
You’ll be dreaming the following day.
And people think it no harm, Tom,
With a cousin to hear you talk;
And nomine feels any alarm, Tom,
In a quiet cousinly walk;
But, Tom, you’ll soon find, for I happen to know.
That such walks often go into straying,
And the voices of cousins are often so low.
Heaven only knows what you’ll he saying.
And then there happened so often, Tom,
Soft pressure of hands and Angers,
And look's that were moulded so often, Tom,
And tones on which memory lingers,
That long eye the walk is half over, those strings
Of your heart lire brought into play
By thie voice -of those fair, demi-sisterly things.
In not the most sisterly way.
And the song of a sister may bring to you, Tom,
Such tones as the angels woo,
But I fear if your cousin should sing to you, Tom,
You’ll take her for an angel, too.
For so curious a note is that note of theirs.
That you’ll fancy the voice that gave it
Has been all the while singing the National Airs,
Instead of the Psalms of David.
I once had a cousin who sang, Tom,
And her name may he nameless now,
But the sound of those songs is still young, Tom,
Though we are no longer so.
’Tis folly to dream of a bower of green.
When there’s not a leaf on the tree;
But ’twixt walking aud singing that cousin has
been,
God forgive her, the ruin of me.
And now I care not for society, Tom,
And lead a most anchorite life, •
For I’ve loved myself into society, Tom,
Aud out of the wish for a wife.
But oh, if I said hut half What I might say,
'So sad were the lesson ’twould give,
That ’twould keen you from loving for many a day,
And from cousins as long as you live.
The aim of our life would be better,
The discharge of our duty more true.
If our foresight were as good as our hind-sight
In the life work we are called on to do.
’Tis the last blamed mosquito,
Left buzzing alone,
All its bloody companions
Have shut up and gone.
Not one of its kindred
Is left hero to hum ;
So by way of extinction
I’ll mash you, by gum.
Miss Dunne recently got married. A wedding - guest
remarked that it was Dunne before it was.done, Dunne
while it was being done, and not Dunne when it had
been done. To which we may add that should it. ever be
undone (by Judge Wiudeyer in the Divorce Court) it
will he Dunne again.
ORIGINAL POETRY.
The Commissioners’ Ball.
By a Belle of the Period.
The Commissioners’ Ball! The Commissioners’ Ball!
Makes all our hearts heat with delight:
For, pretty and plain, or little or tall.
Wo shall all of us have an invite.
My poor little head’s in a whirl, in a whirl, —
They are such delicious young swells !
Aud whenever their lovely moustachios they twirl,
They call us the sweet Sydney belles.
Their accent is foreign yon know, you know,
Aud they talk so delightfully funny :
How they sigh when wo say that we really must go,—
From their dress they must have lots of money!
There are some of them dark, some so fair, so fair.
And they pay us such lots of attention;
Whilst some of them really do nothing hut stare,
In a way that I don’t like to mention.
Dear mamma often says “ Stay at home, at home
But to Italy’s court, we must travel:
Or nfeet the Commissioners under the dome,
And their compliments try to unravel.
Oh, how we all long fer the Ball, the Ball;
I ean scarcely keep quiet a minute :
They have bet I won’t dance with them all, them all,
But 1 certainly think I shall win it.
E. [?].
Sydney, February, 1880.
Nelly’s Necklace.
I have brought the string of pearls
For my prettiest of girls;
Let your merry laughter ring!
Do not reck.
The wild ripple of your hair „
On your dimpled shoulders hare,
As 1 clasp the sheeny ring
Round your neck.
Here are sixteen snowy pearls
Glad to nestle in your curls ;
Bound your neck they closely cling
With delight—
Fitting emblem of your years,
Free from sorrow, care, and tears;
Sixteen summers softly sing.
Pure and bright.!
Though your sweetest sunny smiles,
Aud your winsome girlish wiles,
Right and left you gaily (ling,
Merry Miss!
From your lips I claim reward*-
If you’ll graciously accord —
I will clasp the snowy .string
With a kiss.
Hollow!
1 stood beneath a hollow tree— *
The blast it hollow blew—
I thought upon the hollow world,
Aud all its hollow crew;
Ambition and its hollow Schemes,
The hollow hopes we follow,
Imagination’s hollow dreams,
All hollow, hollow, hollow!
A crown is hut a hollow thing.
Aud hoi low heads oft wear it ;
The hollow title of a King,
What hallow hearts oft bear it ?
No hollow wiles or honeyed smiles
OLladiel fair I follow;
For beauty sweet oft hides deceit.
’Tis hollow’ hollow, lc !.!low !
The hollow leader, oft bet i>vs
The hollow dupes who heed him :
The hollow critic wends praise
To hollow fools wJodced him ;
The hollow friend who swears by thee.
Where plenty is will follow-
But all I’ve found, like this old tree,
Arc hollow, hollow, hollow!
February *7, 1880.
THE HTTTLLETIN.


D
AVID M ‘ C A L L,
14, HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment.
SADDLES AND HARNESjp MAKEK
to
His Boyal Highness the DUKE.OT,EDINBURGH
His Excellency the Bight Honorable the EABL OF
BELMOBE
His Excellency Sir H. BOBINSON, K.C.M.Q
And
His Excellency LOBD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS.
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Brize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1809, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips. Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
Q
UE E N
T II E A T E E
Leseees
Stage Manager
Messrs. Hiscocks, Hayman & Co
George Atkins.
TO-NIGHT (Saturday) February 7. 1880.
UNPBECEDENTED SUCCESS
of the
OBIGINAL VICTOBIA LOFTUS TBOUPE
SPECIALITY AND NOVELTY ARTISTS.
HABBY LE CLAIE
T. WALTEES
P. NOLAN KELLY
GILBERT SABONEY
SAM BICKEY
CHARLES M'CABTT
GEORGE ATKINS
VICTORIA LOFTUS
MINNIE ESMOND
LITTLE KATIE.
COMPLETE CHANGE and ANOTHER MONSTER
PROGRAMME
THIS (Saturday) [NIGHT.
Doora open at 7.30. Commence at 8 o’clock. Crr
riages at 10.30.
SPECIA NOTICE —To secure your seats in Dre
Circle, book during the day at Nicholson & Ascherbei
S
CH O O
Lessee ...
OF ART
... Mr. S. Lazar.
CAMILLA URSO
CAMILLA URSO
CAMILLA URSO
CONCERTS
CONCERTS
CONCERTS
THIS (Saturday) EVENING, February 7th, 1883.
CAMILLA URSO
will play
“The Devil’s Sonata” ... Tartini (1692-1770)
And repeat
“ La Melancoub Prime
Box Plan at Messrs. Nicholson & Ascherborg’s,
George-street.
Price of Admission
Front seats, ss.
Second seats, 3s.
Gallery, Is. od.
Mythology a la Mode.
Our painters ami sculptors continue to work
At their arts as if each in his soul, were a Turk,
Reproducing' old Pagans on canvas and paper,
In marble and bronze, as if there was no draper.
Nor tailor to coven them up i n those days
When the men wore no coats and the ladies no stays—
When linen and flannel were non cst inventus,
Or proofs that the wearer was non compos mentis —
When the men all considered that helmet and boots
Were all that were wanted for every-day suits—
When a yard of pink ribbon was given each goddess.
Who made it do duty for skirt and for bodice.
The consequence is, as the connoisseur know s.
Mythological subjects are best without clothes.
Not contented with outraging all our morality
B looking on dress as a stupid formality
Dispensed with long since by all artists of merit,
They’re always contriving by some means to fey of
A name or a subject knee-deep in mythology,
Making obscurity serve as apology
Por all sorts of blunders in taste or chronology.
And as we each day have to look at no end
Of flue paintings and statues, before we commend
Or abuse them, perhaps, wo should freshen our memory
And rub it up bright with some classical emery.
Moi far from bur famed Garden Palace there lies
A doll fiction of pointings t hat none should despise.
And sculptures that stand in bold, naughty relief.
But very few know a touch e’en of the chief
Subjects placed’fore their eyes, and the catalogue’s
dumb;
And so, to the rescue I’ve resolved to come.
If this little poem but answer the purpose,
Pay all expenses and leave a neat surplus,
The author will think himself well satisfied
With himself, and the public, whatever betide.
If the rhyme be defective, the rhythm not nice.
The reason will surely be found in the price.
For three pence you rarely can dine on good venison,
And for three pence, believe me, you'll never get
Tennyson.
Mythology stands as the basis of history
Though painfully wrapped up in fable and mystery—
The standard by which critics ever abided—
By which the young student is happily guided,
Without the least fear of his faith being affected ;
And so old mythology should be respected.
Without further preface, I now shall proceed
W ith my task at the utmost available speed.
First on the list with his scythe on his shoulder
Comes Saturn, old as the hills, if not older.
“ Old Time ” his cognomen—writ on his face —
In which 1 defy you to And the least trace
Of feeling', expression, but then, ’tisn’t fair;
Perhaps you don’t know it’s all covered with hair.
’Twas decreed that a child should be born to unseat
him
To guard against which he resolved he should eat him.
And thus many youngsters were roasted or broiled.
Until in the end by his with he was foiled.
“Rhea (such was her name) saw his love for her poor
Little babes was so strong, and she couldn’t endure
The idea of having them killed by bis care;
And at length she succeeded in making it square
With five which she “'planted” and sent out to nurse,
Paying for their hoard from her own private purse.
These were Jupiter, Neptune, and Pinto (the hoys),
And Juno and Ceres, who made little noise,
For they knew if they came under dear papa’s eyes
He’d have them converted, at once, into pies.
The sequel will show the old gent, had some reason
To he on his guard against children and treason.
For Jupiter soon seized his parent’s dominions.
And gave him a few of his private opinions
Regarding the manner in which he had treated
His offspring, in language that some would call
“heated."
As his Pa was immortal he spared him his life.
But banished him straight to prevent future strife.
The old man was riled, and quite plainly he looked it,
As he packed up his traps ere he surlily hooked it.
Then Jupiter, sometimes called Jove, made it right
With his brothers, and things soon began to look bright,
To Neptune he gave the control of the water,
And Pluto (who made up to Ceres’ fine daughter)
Not being good looking, was sent down below
As king of the place where the had niggers go.
As the eldest, Jove stuck to the heavens for his share,
And made Juno his wife as he thought her quite square.
They got on very well for a time, and their child.
The beautiful Hebe, set all the gods wild;
The handsomest barmaid —unlike any other—
With her father’s own nose, and the ey&s of her
mother,
Not a bit like Bellona, her sister, whose hair
Might have been much improved by a little more care.
Like the ivy that hangs from some Gothic old gable,
Like the much fretted end of a well-worn cable.
It fell o’er her vinegar face as she trod,
With her whip in her hand, by the side of the God
Of the Armies, her brother, the terrible Mars,
Whose name is so mixed up with wounds and with
scars,
And pure vestal virgins, who seemed rather partial
To him, I suppose, because lie looked so martial.
The cook that you see at his feet was a friend
Named Alectryou. a chap ever ready to lend
Assistance in watching whilst Venus and Mars
Were doing the soft until one night, my stars !
By some sad mishap the fond pair were surprised,
And the foulest of vengeance Mars quickly devised.
He changed his old favorite into a bird,
As a little reminder of what had occurred.
Next comes Vulcan, of Juno and Jove also born.
Who received from his father much ill-repressed scorn
And contempt because ugly, ill-shaped, and deformed ;
Jove’s parental heart to him never once warmed.
But not so his temper—Jove was rather quick—
A Hibernian hint in the shape of a kick
Made Vul. leave high Olympus so speedily that,
Though he fell on his feet like a knowing old cat.
He managed to break one, which lamed him for life.
And plagued him as much as his beautiful wife.
Even Jove, with his wisdom, was oft rather odd—
Though sagacity’s self sometimes beamed in his nod.
At others his foolishness seemed so apparent.
His heavenly friends would all laugh but they daren’t.
In one of those moods ho proceeded to patch up
His rupture with Vidoau by striking a match tip
With the ugliest man and the goddess most prized,
And this was how Venus became Vulcanised.
Her birth was a myst’ry (of course), but they say
She was not made of ether; nor yet of coarse clay,
She was modelled and moulded in beauty’s true type.
Tfle Hours thought such loveliness too much for earth.
And bore her to heaven soon after her birth.
Euphrosyne, Aglaia, and Thalia attending.
Their exquisite forms such sweet gladness lending,
As only the beautiful Graces could loud.
Without the least item of dress to oifend.
_ Her son’s little hist’ry is just as obscure —
He always appeared a sly, artful, demure
Little urchin, just seven years old, and no more,
Nor no less, though for ages he launched by the score
Those arrows which wounded each heart and each
breast,
Sfor curing the owners until they confessed.
As 1 said, Cupid’s birth was a little confused.
But his very worst enemies never accused
Old grim-vlsaged Vulcan —no wonder you shiver,
To think that the dear little God of the Quiver,
More likely to spring from Triton and Syren,
Was sou of a worker in spring steel, and iron !
The Cyclops were great, ugly, single-eyed fellows,
Who hammered for Vulcan and blew up his bellows.
Till Bacchus at length made his peace with old Jove,
And Vulcan returned to his mansion above.
Interesting Exhibit at the International.
Not the least attractive or impoi taut exhibit (it the
International Exhibition is tlie Hartford pump exhibited
by Messrs. Drysdaleaud Roberts, and in full work on the
grounds from day to day. As wo desire to make The
Bulletin a useful as well as an journal,
we present herewith to onr readers a few practical illus-
trations of this remarkably simple and effective
appliance, and publish some facts in connection there-
with that we hope will lead to further inquiry. Sketch
No. 2 shows the appliance as in work on most American
homesteads. Not only are household requirements
supplied by it, but those of the farm and graziers’
paddock are i rovided iu such a. manner for regularity
and cheapness as we have hitherto had no experience
of. What it really does is to ensure a good supply o
water without la-
bour. The sketch
No. 1 gives an
idea of the con-
struction of the
windmill and the
view No. 3 shows
the automatic
pumping action.
All the parts are,
designed on prin-
ciples of the
greatest simpli-
city, and they are
guaranteed to be
of the greatest
durability. The
principle of the
affair is based ou
the fact that com-
pressed air can
be advantageous-
ly used to raise
water, and that
air can be very
economically
compressed by a
round wheel. The
machine made by
Egra Brooks, and
shown in the en-
graving, will so
compress the air
as to raise the
water economi-
cally and surely.
Appended in a
concise form is a
statement of the
advantages to be
derived from this
apparatus.
Ist. —As there
is no suction, and
the water being
raised by direct pressure of the air, which may be car-
ried any required distance in pipes, the wind-wheel may
be placed wherever desired, without reference to appear-
ance, exposure, etc., even several hundred feet from the
W 2nd.—Where water is to be raised from a deep well,
all the power used in moving' a cumbrous system
of rods, extending down fifty, or even a hundred feet
from the windmill is savrd; the only connection be-
tween the windmill and pump being a pipe for conveying
the air. . , ~
3rd—The application of power is economical, as tire
great elasticity of air prevents loss from su,dden and
violent resist-
ance at the be-
ginning of the
stroke, such as
must occur when
a plunger is sud-
denly driven into
water.
4th.—Stream is
constant, instead
of interrupted as
in the ordinary
pump, therefore
more water will
necessarily flow
through a pump
of the same size
at the same pres-
sure.
sth.—The elas-
tic quality of air
makes it possible
to use fixed in-
stead of the self-
adjusting fans on
all wheels of a
moderate size,
giving a large
gain in its sim-
plicity.
6th. —As the
fans and rudder
are fixed, instead
of hinged, the
machine is noise-
less in its opera-
tion.
7th.—The ma-
chine ia most
effective when the wheel is highest, while r. set -regu-
lating wind-wheel has a fixed limit ot speed which it
cannot pass, and f.o has no increased efficiency in gale.
gfft.—Owing to ilie Baring' ot power, and the gain at a
high speed, a smaller pump and wind-wheel c an be used
to produce any derived result. . .
yth.—The wind-wheel is so light that no heavy tiame-
work is required. , , -
Messrs. Dry while and Robert s inform us that already
the Hartford Pump is finding its way ou to all the prin-
cipal farms and stations in the colony.
In passing sentence on Charles Bamber, a no-
torious Victorian criminal, recently arrived in
New South Wales, Judge Wilkinson said that
steps should bo taken to stop the influx of
convicts.
Though the Queen will have to accept Colonel
Wellesley’s resignation of his position as aide-de-
camp, she will do so regretfully, as is evidenced by
the fact that a week after the resignation had
been handed to her no notice ot it had been
gazetted.
This months’ Australian is well worth the
shilling it costs. Mr. Philip Dale's poem
“ Dorothy ”is so pretty and pure a piece Eng-
lish, that the Herald, in cortunending the deli-
cate beauty of the poem as a whole,” might well
abstained from remarking as it did, that the vjfraes
“ have faults.”
An American V [?]dding.
There is no doubt that tb o’rector of St. Georges
Church, Leadville, U.S„ beldams to the chmrA
taht. Ho has just proved It beyond co-o,imL.cUon,
and at this moment public sentiment m Lcadulb' pro-
nounces him the ablest and most powerful clergyman
for his weight in the United States,- while a committee
of leading citizens is about to present lum wrt ii a silv ei -
mounted revolver as a testimony of respect and ad-
-111 The Rev. Mr. Withers earned this enviable reputation
a few weeks ago while engaged in marrying the woll-
known Mr. Roaring Bill to one of the most, bwitiml
and accomplished daughters of Leadville. The bride-
groom was a rtiau of most excellent reputation, having
killed three men iu hand-to-hand lights and wounded a
number of others. He was not accompanied to the
altar by any groomsman, and the bride was similarly
devoid of bridesmaids, though their plafp wa« to some
extent taken by her throe brothers. Mr. Wither, who
to »hat time had been known as an extremely pea,v-
ablemau, and was not supposed to have a particle of
lighting ability about him. bad been warned that the
bridegroom was quick-temp,bed and exceedingly
iunions, and that he would do well to ” hullo out the
service pretty considerable mild.” To this warn nig,
however, bo paid no attention, being determined to do
liis dtitv, no matter what the consequence.* might ho. .
The service proceeded smoothly until the clergyman
reached the point where he asked the bridegroom ho
took the "woman” to bo bis wedded wife. o this
Mr. Roaring Bill replied by remarking that ho was
• about to marry a “ lady,” and that any man who called
her a “woman” must bp remarkably anxious to incur
the expense of a personal funeral. PaS'iugno attention
to this remark, the clergyman proceeded, and inquire,!
if tiie bridegroom would promise to love, cherub, ami
protect the bride. This was regarded by Mri Roaring
Bill in the light of an! unnecessary asking ot foolish
* “Iu course I do,” he replied; “ what do you take*no
for ? Do you mean to insinuate that lam a plfiyin it
ou to her ? I want you to understand tlult thisyer s a <
square deal, and if you don’t just go ahead with your
marry in’ and drop this askin’ of impertinent questions,
it’ll lead to difficulties. You hear me?”
Still the courageous clergymen, heedless ot the,
brewing storm, ignored the bridegroom’s interruptions,
and read the service with cool-and steady courage.
Presently, he inquired of the bride if she would promise
to love, honour,
and obey her hus-
band. At this
point the latter
drew his revolver
and informed the
clergyman that
he was fast ripen-
ing for the grave.
“ Any more
personal ques-
-1 tions will cause
me to reply with
thisyer weapon.
I don’t wish to
make a row in a
church, but if
you will have a
scene, just con-
tinue as you have
begun, lam a
peaceable, long-
sufferin’ man,
but the holiest
i feeliu’s of this
lady’s heart isn’t
going to be pried
into by no man
without ho hears
from me.’.’
But still the
clergyman • pur-
sued the even,
tenor of his way.
One might have
imagined that he
was deaf, so
utterly heedless
was he of the ir-
regular response
that came from
the bridegroom.
The spectators
who had as-
sembled there
to witness the ceremony were making bets freely as to
whether Mr. Bill would kill him at the first fire or
whether he would mark him with a bullet for future
identification. Contrary to the general anticipation,
the bridegroom made no further interruption, either
by word or bullet, and the ceremony came to an end.
All might have ended peaceably had not Mr. Withers
determined to do his whole duty, supplemented the
ceremtmy by kissing the bride.
The first bullet missed its mark, and the bridegroom,
while pausing to adjust his aim, remarked that “ this
painful immorality on the part of the clergy must be
checked.” Just as he was about to fire the second
shot —having got
the clergyman’s
right car in line ;
the brother of
the bride sprang
on him and took
away his pistol.
At the same mo-
ment Withers
tore off his sur-
plice, and leaping
over the railing,
struck out at Mr.
Roaring Bill in
a most beautiful
as well as scien-
tific way.
A ring was im-
mediately made.
The bride climb-
ed on the baptis-
mal font and
alternately en-
couraged each
combatant with
such inspiriting
remarks as—
“ Now then, Bill,
bust him iu the
eye,” and again,
“Hooray,parson,
the eyes of the
church is upon
you! Back up
your religion like
a little man!"
The eager spec,
tutors swarmeff
into the church
and fought for good position in the pulpit. The betting
at first was on the bridegroom, but at the end of ten
minutes large odds were offered on the clergyman.
His courage was undoubted, and his pugilistic skill was
-limply astounding. His adversary scaroply touched
him, while the clergyman danced around him, now
closing an eye and now shaking the foundations of his
teeth with a smiling confidence that created the wildest
enthusiasm. In twenty minutes and live rounds he
had reduced his man to utter helplessness. Mr. Roar-
ing Bill cried “Enough!” the spectators cheered, and
the bride, descending from her perch, kissed the cler-
gyman with hearty frankness, and informed him that
she should never allow any husband of hers to come
between her and her religion.
Such was the public enthusiasm in Leadville over
the clergyman’s victory that no less than thirty lead-
ing citizens came forward and offered to be confirmed,
as an evidence of their good-will, providing the rector
would refrain from interfering with card-playing and
other usual quiet Sunday recreations. As has been
said, the admiration of Leadville is about to be ex-
pressed in silver-mounted pistols, and there is no doubt
that the prosperity of St. Geode’s Church and the
popularity of Mr. Withers are fully assured.
The annual report and balance-sheet of the
Sydney School of Arts are favourable. At
the annual meeting great dissatisfaction was ex-
pressed at the disfranchisement of 600 members
owing to an alteration which, though legal,
was made without sufficient notice, in the mode of
preparing the voters’ list.
WOMAN [?]TEMS.
Woman writes —Foetoripts.
I’rovorb in Paris —Worth makes woman.
A washerwoman's chief support is the clo + hcs' j
■ T& the wealthy chaps the girls purse up their lip -
The village belle should naturally give tone to soci,
Women are archers by nature. Their inclinations a
to bund the beaux.
Old bachelors who think there isn’t any fun in court*
ing had better get a little gal-an-try.
Japanese ladies wear hats only when it rains. It never
ruiub at the theatre. Happy Japan !
A young man whoso girl, lives some distance out of
town says his Sunday night walk includes “two miles
and one lap,'’ *
The lady who smiled over a plate of ice-cream at the
sen-ride last summer will shortly, use her smiles to
garnish >-i 11 pork.
Much :i« pretty women may admire a gallant scout,
she earns little for him when on the trail—of her best
promenade suit.
Emma Abbott doesn't speak a. word, oven to her bus*
band, on days she is to sing. He doesn’t object to her
taking part even in Sunday concerts.
Lvtcy Hooper says the Duchess of Edinburgh would,
be very pretty if her nose wore not so short. Perhaps
she has been turning it up at the lady critic.
Languid indifference of manner is now the fashion
among English ladies. It. is called the “ Bernhardt
Loll," and is pronounced perfectly Sera-phic.
Byron once sgid of a lady, whose tongue suggested
perpetual motion to every visitor, that she had been
dangerously ill, but Was now dangerously ill again.
. Madame Taglioni, the famous dahseuse, who married
Count Gilbert Volsiu in 1831, is now teaching dancing
school in Loudon. She Volsin need of funds, and went
.hack to the old. business.
' An artido' going the rounds is hooded: “Where
Women Never Go.” Wekuo\v where women never go.
They never go back on a man who behaves himself, and
seldom when he does not behave himself.
One woman in a fishing party will do more to scare
away all the llsh than ten packs of fire-crackers.
Besides that, no man wants to put the neck of a bottle
in his mouth when women are present to misjudge his
motives.
The princess dross will bo the favourite style of dress
for evening, notwithstanding the fact that dress-makers
are trying to revive the basque, ’ The secret is that
the princess dress is much more becoming and more
difficult to lit.
Elder sister (to little one, who appears to take great
interest in Mr. Skibbens) r “ Come, pot, it’s time your
eyes were shut in sleep.” Little pet; “I think not.
Mother told mo to keep my eyes open when you and
Mr. Skibbens were together.”
One hundred and thirty persons are required in Vassar
College to wait on the girls and attend to the estate.
And these are but a handful compared to the number
who wait on the girls outside the college with a view
of attending to the estate of—of their deceased fathers.
The Duchess of Montrose can milk a cow, and
recently demonstrated the fact to the admiration of the
men in her husband’s racing stable, who were less
learned in farm-yard arts than she. The English
society poets are sharpening their quills to do honour
to the act.
Strong-minded wife: “Eh, Jeames! yon are great ou
languages. What is the difference between exported
and transportedP” Submissive husband: “Well, my
dear, if yon should " n to Europe in the ‘Bothnia,’ you
would be exporto
ported!”
The ex-Rmpres
time from 10 a. m
the garden, and u :r 1 ■ -i ,
when she rel urns
nothing and wrif L'M,-.' si, a i
in melancholy th<
eyes are sunken, . .i .
“Good night *
young man stepped on the stoop. The wicked boy ot
the family had strewn banana-peels on the board, and
just as the dear follow' leaned forward to embrace the
fair one, his heels drew up and their noses came in con-
tact, with a noise that aroused the old gentleman from
his peaceful slumbers. It is hard to tell who is the most
angry of the trio. The young lady says her ci-devant
lover is a fool, while he avers that it was a put-up job,
■ and, to cap the climax, the old gentleman has forbidden
him the house, claiming that no drunken loafer can
marry into his family.
All about the Town, Sir.
Gossiping women and ill-natured men.
With scandal may cry people down, Sir;
But a very bod thing ’tis for character.
When ’tis all about tlie town, Sir.
Txtk may be false, and talk may be true,
shapes it often has flown, Sir;
llwhgives to it-s subjects only their due,
’tis all about the town, Sir.
I et this be a moral to those whose repute
c’or drink or vice is well known, Sir :
The instant they play a false card iu the suit.
It is all about the town, sir.
CONSTRUCTION OF THE WINDMILL.
THE APPLIANCE AT WORK ON THE HOMESTEAD.
AUTOMATIC [?]UM[?]ING AC[?]ON.
T±i K 151.1 .Li. Li LiLLIN.
February 7, l&BO.


CTO R I A
e Manager
THIS
THIS
... Mr. Jn
(SATURDAY)
(SATURDAY)
Mr. J. L. HA]
in his
Inimitable Impersc
ot
TOM TRUMP!
in the
Sensational and Emotio
in 5 Acts and a Prc
THE' POOR OF L<
or.
FRAUD AND ITS V
From rcarles Reade’s cejt
HakD ( AST
introducing the Orand Real)
We produce
TO-NIGHT! TO-N
the
THE GRAND FIRD
The Grand Fire S
THE GRAND FIRE
The Grand Fire S'
TO-NIGHT !
Mr J. L. HA]
as
TOM TRUMP
Mrs. J. HAL
MARIAN
Miss WISEMJ
as
PATTY.
Mr. SAM POOLE aa
Mr. P. WHITE as Hi
Mr. H. JERDAN as
Mr. J. H. RATNFORL
Miss JULIA MERTON as
Mr. St. LAURENCE as D
Miss MAYO as Is
Mr. J. TOLANO ns
POOR OP LONI
THE GREAT FIRE
TO-NIGHT!
Box-office at Elvy’s. Prices as )
ICTORIA T
Orand Complimentary BENE
Mrs. P. M. BAI
on
MONDAY, 9th in
under the Distinguished Patronai
the Right Hon. Lord A. W. F. J
and presence of Sir Alfred Steph
the Hon. Kir Henry Parkes, K.C.B
Esq., C.M.Q.; his Worship the
Esq.); C. J. Roberts, Esq. ; Jam
American Consul; W. Neill, Esq
M'Laughlan, Esq.; F. Gann
Esq.; Captain Mathieu, Comm isf
S. Levy, Esq.; Hon. Saul Samuel,
Box Plan now open at Elvy and C
J. H. RAI
Kelly and
OPERA H(
Sole Proprietors Mi
Business Manager M
TO-NIGHT! TO-N
KELLY & LEOI
COMIC OPERA CO!
RE-APPEARANCE OF TK
RE-APPEARANCE OF TH
and
REPRODUCTION FOR SIX
REPRODUCTION FOR SIX
of
Julius Eiehberg’s Com
“ THE DOCTOR OF AL
Dramatis Persoi
Mr. EDWIN KELLY
Senor Balthazar Mr. E
Carlos Mr.
Perez
Sancho
Don Pomposo «
Donna Lucrezia Miss F
Isabel Miss E.
THE ONLY LEON
Peasants, Soldiers, Police, Cit
Chorus.
Scene in Alcantara—The Housi
Act. I—Morning. A
To conclude each Evei
THE HAPPY L J
THE HAPPY L.
Box Plan now open at Mossn
Ascherberg’s.
r!n.rrin.o-#>a n+ 10
DOLPHE G A B R
SURGICAL AND MECHANP
18 WYNYARD SQ
(TWO DOOttS PROM PPAHLI
SYDNEY.
CAUTIO
Owing to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. O. and Co.
caution their patients '
ONLY ADDRESS IS I
ETH U R C
157, late 203. PITT-STREE
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEX r
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIO
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF
and MARRTAG:
COPIES OF WILLS P i
DURING THE VEJ
253 INQUIRIES WERE
Of those 172 were satisfactorily cc
20 were withdrawn for v
21 were unsuccessful or a!
81 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE
most intricate cases have met witl
AGENCIES in Great Britain
States, Continent of Europe, I
Zealand.
144 COLLARS foi
AT HORDERN’S IN PIT
s
E E
THEM!!
s
144 COLLARS FOR 3s.
114 COLLARS FOR 3
ANY SIZE, 14. 14
Forty thousand poui
SEASONABLE DR
NOW ON SALI
The most successful of our n
and the MOST GENUINE Sit
NEW SOUTH WA
£lO,OOO WORTH OF SEASONS
ALL NEW GOODS, bong)
at an enormous redr
by
ANTHONY HORDERN
HAYMARKE r
In this GENUINE SALE v
Slate and Drab Dress Linings,
Slate Holland, 6d, 61d, 71d, 81 d
Brown Holland
5d
Diapers. Old, 71 d, S.Jd,
These goods ore fully 30 to 45
cam be procured elsewhere.
£40,000 WORTH GENERA
32-ineh Al only 2|d per yard, B 1
36-inch A, 3}
B, Id Horrock’s
888, 7} Long Cloths
Customers, especially those w
country, are informed that the
quantity they think proper, not
three yards as is frequently done b
GENUINE SAL
Grey Calico, lid, 2fd, 3Jd, SJd,
50 per cent less t
Grey sheeting, 72 inches wi
at
ANTHONY HORDERN
HAYMARKE
C. W. ROBERT
£3 CASE
or
ASSORTED WINES AN]
CARRIAGE FREE by RAI
ON receipt of the above sum tl
articles will he forwarded, in f
securely packed in a case, viz.:—
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 „ PALE BRAN
6 „ WEST INDL
1 „ WHISKY
1 „ SUPERIOR I
1_ » S
Total: 15
QUALITY GUARA*
C. W. ROBERTS has much pic
he is constantly receiving the high
residents in all parts of the colony
character of the LIQUORS snpplh
FAMOUS £3 CA
INTERNATIONAL
'The Undersigned wish to atm<
visitors that they aro SOLE LES
REFRESHMENTS witliiu the
GARDEN PALA
The Drinks are of the best qv
picturesque ajxartments, are delici
YOUNG
UNION CLUI
Baylis and Forsytl
NEWTOWN, WAGGA
(Close to the Railway 1
Under the patronage of His Exc
Robinson, K.Q.C.I
T. J. BVTiNES, Ihv
* Wines, Ales, and Spirits of tlio \
lIA First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will he well sup
wholesome provender, and lie uud
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. BA
BRIER BROTHERS’ CARR
MANUFACTOI
276 PITT STREET (near B;
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufac
under their own personal supe
learnt what colonial requirements
confident their buggies, carx-iages
cannot lie beaten for durability or
seasoned timber used, and only th
men employed.
o
'O HN CUTTER, PRACT
317 PITT STREET, I
All Orders attended to with ca:
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTUI
Watch and Clo(
GEORGE-STREE
Opposite St. Andrew’s I
Medals of every description, ]\
Presentation Trowels designi
the premises.
DIAMOND SETT
DEAFNES
PROFESSOR ST
AURIST,
WILL positively terminate hii
in Sydney on the 29th of
Ho will proceed to Queensland
Tour, starting direct for Charters
sioually visiting all the principal ’
on his return southward.
R
OBE R T C
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAG
BRANCH AT NARAI
Gentlexneu residing at a distane
obtain Saddles hearing R. Cassia
can always obtain them by wxii
establishment.
KEAREY BROTHERS, CO A
BUILDERS,
290, PITT-STREET, S
Near Park-stree
c.
KOHLER, FISHMON
SALESMAN,
22 hunter-str:
FRESH FISH EVER
LUNCH and SUPPER
CHAS. MON lE. SADDLE
MAKER,
GURWOOD-STREET, WA(
Jobbing executed on the sh
WAGGA has long been celebra
of its Saddles, and it wi
who try Saddles of my manutactur
means inferior to those of any
colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
TO PICNIC part:
M. BYRNES, of the Pvrm
Licensed vic
ASSOCIATIU
OF
NEW SOUTH W;
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLII
The object of tlie Association is
CONSEEVATB
OF THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED YICTU.i
Throughout the C<
Communications may bo address
T
HE
SECRETARY or the Pi
SY DNE Y CO E 1
393, 395, 397, GEORG
THE MOST POPULAR HOT]
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, S
Rooms.
The Billiard Room lias two of ,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-claf
Fare constantly varied. Pish alw
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. Tin
men’s Dining- and Retiring Roomi
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the wee]
nightly. Meals only charged wh
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J,
JH UB E R T 1
• PORTRAIT
Photographer by appointment to
Governor.
Sole Place of Busi
12, OXFORD-STREET, HYDE
Atlas foundry and en
PANY, Hay-street, Sydne;
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—
prepared to undertake contracts fo
Marine and Stationary Engines, !
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, She
Sugar Mills, and all other desert
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with
price given for old metal.
UNS,
JIIFLES,
PRICE MODERATE. QUALIT
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunma
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSIT
The lightning
for Sawing Brackets, &
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortmi
Books’, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
February 7, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.
