

THE BULLETIN
No. 6.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 6, 1880.
Price—3d.
ST(jC
SATURDAY, MARCH 6, 1880.
Mr. Buchanan and the Dotage of England.
On Friday evening last Mr. David Buchanan,
M.L.A., made his best bow to a friendly audience
in his new character of political economist and
champion of protection. That Mr. Buchanan
should have had the worst of the argument and
the best part of the vote taken at the conclusion
of his so-called “ discussion” with the logical Mr.
G. H. Reid will excite not the least surprise on
the part of those who are at all conversant with
the ordinary character of proceedings at public
meetings, and with the manner in which such
meetings are got up. We do not for a moment
wish to insinuate that there was anything unfair
in the method of rallying the protectionists on the
occasion, but we do say that while the principles
of free trade retain their present firm hold on
the thinking population of New South Wales, a
country in which the fiscal principles of Mills,
Height, and C'oeden have not been, and are not
likely, to be seriously put on their defence, the
protectionists, whose policy is in this colony an
aggressive one, will be found in a majority at all
places, save at the ballot-box.
That Mr. Buchanan pronounced somebody or
something to be imbecile got ' TAolwut saying.
This time it is poor old England who is idiotic
and foolish because she won’t allow Mr.
Buchanan to teach her how to suck eggs, and
to feed her industries with a spoon. Eng-
land, according to the member for Mudgee, is
in her dotage. Her annual trade, we find, is only
of the value of <£600,000,000 sterling. Her an-
nual exports exceed <£250,000,000 in value, even
in these times of depression. The tonnage entered
and cleared at the ports of the United Kingdom
in a year exceeds 40,000,000 tons. During the 25
years last past the realised wealth of England has
increased 100 per cent, and is now of the value of
£8,500,000,000. Every year, at the present rate
of progress, £240,000,000 is added to the national
wealth, and during the last ten years no less than
£600,000,000 of British capital has been invested
throughout the world. And this, though in the
words of Mr. Reid, “ she has found herself
“ encountered on all sides by the barri-
“ cades of communities who have not the ability
“ to surpass her enterprise, nor the pluck to imi-
“ tate her example.”
There should be little necessity for discussing
in N. S. Wales the political theory which our friends
over the border have been kind enough to practi-
cally illustrate for our benefit. Mr. Buchanan
may point to the wretchedness of English opera-
tives and be conveniently blind to the misery
which exists among mechanics in North America,
especially in the North-eastern States. He may
point to the “ manufacturing prosperity ” of Vic-
toria, and fail to take notice of the insolvency of
protected industries—of the hard, merciless
fact that the Victorian consumer pays through
the nose to lend a fictitious support to industries
which after all only employ —let working men
mark it well —one-ninth of a man per cent, more
than do the unprotected yet thriving industries
of this colony. The influence of wealth on the
rate of wages and the purchasing power of
money is a matter to which we purpose devoting
articles from time to time.
Mr. Vicars and Protection.
Me. John Vicaes, we have heard it remarked,
spins good tweeds and bad arguments. Mr.
Vicaes wants protection, and is always complain-
ing that colonial industries cannot get along
without it; yet the facts remain that Mr. Vicaes’
null keeps going and that Mr. Vicaes’ cheques
are always cashed as promptly as notes of the
Bank of New South Wales. One can buy tweed
from the Sussex-street factory at a very moderate
price—indeed at so low a figure that many good
judges prefer Mr. Vicaes’ products to the im-
ported article ; and the continuance of this state
or things, we suppose, not only evidences the
existence of a demand for colonial tweeds but
proves that someone either gets a profit out of their
manufacture or is benevolent enough or foolish
enough to employ labor at a loss. Mr. Vicaes
tv?* P® lBoll in the world to argue
that free-trade means ruin to native industries.
” e ar ® assured that the rate of wages paid by
woollen mills in Victoria is such as would be
looked upon in New South Wales with horror ; and
viewing the matter from a workman’s stand-point,
we tail to see how the introduction to this colony
ot a system under which the price of labour would
tas m the southern colony) be reduced, and the cost
the imported article so far increased as to enable
e local manufacturer to raise his pi’ices and still
undersell his English competitor, could benefit the
Pmpioyed Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Vicaes not-
withstanding, we believe that the people of N.S. W.
wliinL i ie^r progresss under free-trade,
men has allowed our industries to develope to
within easy reach of the Victorian standard. Big
factories and crowds of work girls may be commer-
cially desirable, but they are none the less socially
calamitous. The System under which girls of poor
parents work hard for many hours daily in dingy
rooms is growing rapidly enough here, and needs
no protective “encouragement” at the hands of
the Legislature. We of New South Wales have
one of the most magnificent territories of the
earth —in size half as large again as France —and
with a population of but a few hundreds of
thousands. If as a community we yearn to help
somebody or something let us offer every possible
inducement to agriculture, the first and noblest of
industries —the calling whose followers enjoy
God’s sunshine and pure air, and become healthy
men and women. The woollen industry has shown
that it can help itself. The rate of wages which
Mr. Vicaes is forced to pay is, as already re-
mar ’ h’V- w than that current in the protec-
tionist co. and would certainly not be added
to were the millowner put on legislative stilts.
Colonial industries, tweed factories included, are
growing fast enough to please all but those who
want to employ a lot of cheap labor, and those
who, less enterprising, and it may be less lucKy
than Mr. Vicaes, have little or nothing to lose,
and want to turn things upside down as in the
South. :
High Art and Low Evidence.
We ee the Sydney Daily Telegeaph sufficiently
undignified to offer an explanation concerning the
publication by it of all the obscenities disclosed
during the hearing of the case Shepherd v. Dibbs
it would, we presume, say that the publication
in question was in the interests of public
morality. But the action of the Telegeaph in
this matter forcibly recalls a little occurrence
which took place a few months ago, at the time
the art gallery at the Garden Palace was opened.
The editor of the Daily Telegeaph went to
inspect the contents of the gallery, and in strolling
round he observed, among other pictures, the flesh-
paintings in the French court. In the light of
subsequent events it would appear that he
brought with him not the eye of an artist, or a
connoisseur of the beautiful and realistic and
withal of a lover of the pure, but the optics of a
satyr. He gazed on the pictures, and though, as
is rendered certain by his comments, they were
to his obviously sensuous imagination
—though,in a word, they were not altogether
displeasing to him privately, he yet found himself
called upon, “ officially,” to express his intense dis-
gust at the exhibition. The Commissioners, said the
Telegeaph, deserved prosecution for exposing to
public view pictures which shocked every virtuous
mind. So great was the importance attached
to this emphatic declaration that it was
considered necessary to announce in the
columns of the journal which acts as the Tele-
geaph’s Melbourne agent, a statement of the
fact that the Telegeaph had condemned as im-
moral certain paintings in the French Court. But
the Telegeaph soon found that it had made
a grand mistake, that everybody laughed
beartily at it, and ridiculed its “ Holy Joeyism,”
t d so no more was said by it on the matter.
However, having up to the present failed to dis-
cover that the people of Sydney can be moral and
still admire true art; that they can be good
without being goody, and differ from the Tele-
geaph without agreeing with the Heeald,
York-street has gone in recklessly and “ bald-
headed ” for a line of business directly opposite
to that which it tried to deal in when first it pre-
sented itself to the admiring gaze of what it now
evidently considers an immoral public. There
can, it would seem to argue, be no ob j ection to adver-
tising immoral houses in a city where people are lewd
enough H admire ideal representations of the
“human form divine.” There can, thinks the
Telegeaph, be no objection to describing the
alleged actions of alleged adultresses in a
town where the love ditties of Beranger may be
illustrated with impunity. The fact is that we
want a vigorous morning paper in Sydney—a paper
which will not bo holy one quarter and obscene the
next—which will not one day recklessly denounce the
faith held by a large section of the New South
Wales public, and on the next shamelessly trim to
those who hold that religion ; —a paper which will
tell people whether it believes in free trade or
protection—whether it does’nt mean to lot the
Heeald be an Aegus and allow itself to become
an Age. It is certain that the Telegeaph is
a “she” paper. If the editor wants a motto
he should certainly hoist “ Honi soit qui mal y
pense.”
Mr. John Henniker Heaton.
We give this week the portrait of Mr. John
Henniker Heaton, a gentleman whose name of
late has well nigh been on every tongue ; and we
are inclined to think that though known in this way
to many, he is yet largely misunderstood. Our
friend Mr. Heaton is an ambitious man, yet am-
bitious in the public good. With ample means,
and the opportunity of travelling or leading a less
useful life, he aspires to gaining public confidence
and making a name by public services. Ho comes
of a good old English family, and is a man whose
private life is without blemish. His great short-
coming is his want of judgment. Our friend no
sooner decides on a thing than he is heart and
soul in it. This want of cool calculation is the
real gauge of his character. He means well,
and is good-hearted, but he mistakes his oppor-
tunity. He is readier with his purse than much
richer men. It ought to be said now if never said
again, that struggling pressmen have darted from
the presence of rich proprietors to find ready help
from him. There are few whose journalistic
career has been so successful; and it has not
been so much good fortune as unceasing labour.
Travelling for the Town and Countey
Jouenal, he has gone without food at Cooper’s
Creek, and fallen from his horse exhausted in the
wilds of the Darling. Fifty miles of a barren
track have been no impediment to his dash on a
station for support to the paper, and that is why
in the north and the west, wherever the
tinkle of the stock-bell is heard or a sheep
or dray track found, there also is the
Town and Countey Jouenal in circulation.
Nor is it with the living alone that he has done
business. He has been chief mourner at many a
funeral, and bagged subscribers by the score.
Thus having laboured for his paper when earnest
labour was most required, who now can begrudge
him a participation in the profits, especially as he
complains of getting more than his full share of the
assualts and batteries incidental to journalistic
life? The “ Australian Dictionary of Dates
and Men of the Time” is a testimony to Mr.
Heaton’s capability in a difficult branch of literary
work, and if he has on this score alone won en-
comiums from the English Press, he can well
afford to laugh at the opposition of the scow-
bankers of the colonial Press, whose praise or
censure can be purchased for a crown. But it is
not in this colony alone that our friend has proved
his thorough capability for newspaper work.
While in London he anticipated all other sources
of information, and cabled to the Evening News,
days in advance of other correspondents, all the
leading events of the Russo-Turkish war. During
the last week the contempt of Court case has
given Mr. Heaton notoriety once more, and we
are inclined to think he is not at all displeased at
it. He is a man who has cut out his own fortune
in this country in spite of every discouragement,
and is bent on attaining even a yet higher position
than that which he now occupies. Our words
to him are these: Keep straight ahead; no
trimming.
A Fourpenny Top.
“THE STRAW THAT SHOWED, ETC.”
A long time ago, a man whose ability and force
of character have raised him to the highest posi-
tion which a colonist can hope to reach in Aus-
tralia, kept a toy-shop in Pitt-street. Then, as
now, there was in Sydney a large college, and in
those days some of the men who are now patrons
of the college were schoolboys attending it. One
of those schoolboys on one fine morning pur-
chased for fourpence a pegtop that looked as well
as and spun better than any sixpenny pegtop in
the big recreation ground attached to the biggest
school in the then little city of Sydney. In fact
the top was so cheap and so good that the school-
boy, who, we are told, bears the same surname as
the present Lieutenant-Governor, had, after exhi-
biting his purchase in the playground, little diffi-
culty in inducing a schoolmate to visit that toy-
shop, the site of which will, when the world has
spun round a little longer, and some of the best
and truest have been gathered to their fathers, be
held sacred to the memory of the ablest and most
experienced and silverest-haired administrator the
colony has yet seen. Well, the companion of the
boy who had bought the good and cheap peg-top
wanted a plaything too, and he wanted it for four-
pence. But the lady behind the counter objected
—she said that peg-tops of that description should
cost the public sixpence each. Then the innocent
youngster who had been a buyer that morning—he
isn’t a bit more innocent now than is Sir Henry—
took from his pocket the peg-top and held it up be-
tween his thumb and finger, saying—” But,
madam, I bought this here this morning for four-
pence.” Mr. Parkes was in the room behind the
shop, and hearing the conversation came out.
“ Did you say that you bought this top here for
fourpence?” asked he, taking the bauble from the
hands of the willing school-boy. “Yes,” replied
the youngster. “ Then,” quoth Mr. Parkes, “you
owe me twopence, and I can’t give you the top
until you pay me.”
Yet people say that since this little event
often in politics has Sir Henry bought a four-
penny top.
MR. JOHN HENNIKER HEATON.


BRIEF MENTION.
The Bulletin’s all-seeing eye is on the
Municipal contracts.
The 8. M. Herald is now not known as the
“leading” but as the “misleading” journal. Its
musical criticisms are simply “ gorgeous.”
We see the Eussian Duke bas returned to
Sydney. We thought he had met with an accident-
fallen from a drop, or something of the kind.
Mrs. Fisher writes Dear me; you don’t
say so; not seen my bracelet. I thought everybody
had. Well, you know—of course—but now,” &c., &c.
Mr. Bull, the rich sportsman, writes : Suppose
a poor man bets me £5 to £2O on a boat race, and he
wins, am I obliged to pay ?’ No; stick to the money.
The Telegraph informs us that “ the practice
of stealing copper and tools has been very prevalent of
late at the wharves.” We know something which has
been much more prevalent of late. Newspaper idiocy.
The John Davies sentenced at Darlinghurst on
Saturday to nine months’ imprisonment for false pre-
tences, is in no way related to our John Davies. We
state this in justice to both parties.
The judges at the Garden Palace are like
certain fish; they are always observed in shoals.
Occasionally—when they don’t know what they are
about —they get into shallow water, and are caught.
There’s no truth whatever in the statement
that Captain Hixson is lavish with his purse. Nor does
he keep a cow. He keeps a dog, we admit; but of course
the dog keeps himself.
Mr. Dillon writes; “ Nothing touches the
Bulletin in my opinion. I never take a smile without
looking at it, ’cept, per’aps, the Herald. I look at no
paper so often.”
Hanley Bennett, speaking of the Bulletin,
says : “If I could spell I’d write for it. But there I
am again. If I could write for it, how could I ‘ read
it
Eeporters have no longer free access to the
Infirmary. There are two or three little matters in
connection with that institution which will have to be
shown up shortly.
“ The Octopus” says that Mr. Crain, while
singing his first solo in Sydney, “coughed signifi-
cantly.” We wonder whom he coughed at. Was it at
“ The Octopus ?”
Every working man should read the speech
re “ Free Trade and Protection,” delivered by Mr. G. H.
Reid in reply to Mr. David Buchanan. Mr. Reid’s
speech is now to be issued in pamphlet form.
Since the Dibbs case has been on, Davie
Buchanan has been dining out. He mostly dines in his
office. Fresh bread and uncooked carrots are his favorite
dish. He is a great fellow, however, for a change of
diet; often times he has no carrots.
Although the Berry party were signally de-
feated last Saturday they polled a large absolute urn-
jority of the votes recorded. Which unfortunate fact
shows that the Conservative victory is due to the in-
equality of electoral representation.
Is it a fact that persons lodging at a certain
hotel in Wynyard square are in the habit of writing
their private letters on the gorgeously-illuminated note
paper which a generous and unsuspecting country pro-
vides for the use of members of Parliament ?
Hanley Bennett, M.P., writes that “the Sur-
veyor General, who objects to the establishment of a
land office at Qnirindi, cannot possibly have no concep-
tion of the matter beyond a ‘superficial idea.”’ We
know a man who hasn’t any conception of English
beyond a very superficial idea.
Another poor fellow gone wrong. Our es-
timable friend Hobson of the Heralu staff has gone
with the majority—get married. Then look at the
commercial aspect of the affair. Why, in business,
have another firm of Hobson and Whiting ? After all—
a good step—a good match. Many happy days!
Gately, the Melbourne hangman, is a big raw
Irishman, who “left his country for his country’s
good." When he gets into gaol—and it’s so seldom he
gets out that the event in question is of rare occur-
rence —he says he is “a Jew.” This is a libel; but
then Gately knows that Jewish prisoners don’t work on
Saturday.
It was a Mrs. Fisher who drew Foul Play in the
big sweep on the Wellington (N.Z.) Cup, and sold half
her chance to His Excellency Sir Hercules. This really
can’t be our Mrs. Fisher. She surely hasn’t anything
to do with sweeps, for two of a trade never agree. We
are quite sure, also, that she never patronises Foul Play
of any kind.
We’ve got more testimonials about the
Bulletin. John Davies, writing from Macquorie-street
south, says : “I don’t like it. What little blood I have
last issue sends to my temples. It’s dead against
humbugs. It laughs at a fellow with the smile of a
thousand faces, then flays him with the right hand of
satire, and starts him naked through the world. I
repeat—l don’t like it."
“Weary, so weary of waiting; fate, cruel fate;
to blame; strangers yet; very sad; write.—A****.”
The foregoing appears among the “ Personal” adver-
tisements of Tuesday’s Herald, and is really very
lugubrious. We feel quite sorry for him. We could
comprehend the whole matter hod the weary one said
he was waiting for three star. We are afraid he will
have to wait a long time for four star.
The following appears in a late issue of the
Manning River Times :—“ lam sincerely sorry for
bringing my wife before the last Court held at Taree,
and beg to apologise for same, and hope it will be
received in the spirit in which it is given.—Patrick
Mooney, Stock-yard Flat, February 14th, 1830.” We
have not before heard of a man apologising publicly to
his wife. But we know a man who once apologised
privately.
Captain Farrell, formerly of the Volunteers,
writes : * When I was in the army I spent half-a-crown a
year onparade sprees, Ac.; what back pay ought Ito
get ? The question explains itself. A grocer case we
never heard of. (Here is a man taken away from his soap
and candles by the call of some customer or other, and
he doesn't get a herring for it. True, he had a horse;
but of course, he hadn’t a cart, and besides oats were up,
and shaving’s scarce. He has a good case against the
Colonel; he ought to give him pepper.
Subioined is a summary of the operations of
the Randwick Asylumn since 1852 : Apprenticed under
indenture, 720 boys, 578 girls; restored to parents,
1353; died in 28 years, 199; remaining in asylumn on
December 31, 1879, 373 boys, 268 girls—total 3491.
Statistics as tc thrashing are not included in the above.
Nor is there any information regarding the wholesale
dismissal of obnoxious servants. St. Thomas, under
whose management the Asylumn is, knows that the
public, like himself, don’t believe what they don’t see.
A gentleman on the North Coast of Tasmania
recently wrote to a firm in Launceston, enquiring the
price of grain. In a few days he was startled by the
receipt of the following telegram in reply:—“Your
uncle is dead; he will be buried at Is. 6d. a bushel, bags
in, with a downward tendency." The receiver wrote for
an explanation. Prom it he learned that the clerk was
addicted to the “ what are you going to have ?” disease,
and was under its influence when he penned this pecu-
liar telegram. The firm discovered that the genius of
their employer was not compatible with strict business.
Here is a specimen of Supreme Court composi-
tion “ Gentlemen, I beg to inform you that His Honor
Sir William Manning made an order in Court, prohibit-
ing any farther evidence than has already been published
in the newspapers in the case of Shepherd v. Dibbs,
until after the conclusion of the same, —I am, sir, your
obedient servant, W. Hubert Manning, Associate.”
Questions for examination:—l. Shouldn’t the word
“has” have preceded the verb “mode”? Ls it not a
fact that Sir William prohibited “ publication” and not
“evidence”? 3. Considering the mixed state of the
Associate’s English generally, what in the name of all
that’s legal does “ same” mean ? 4. Is it a fact that
anything is considered good enough to send to the
EyESJNG News ?
PERSONAL ITEMS.
His Honor Sir William Manning has been re-
elected President of the N.S.W. Rifle Association.
Sir John Eobertson, it appears, was offered, but
declined the agent-generalship.
Dr. W. H. Eussell, of the Times, is to visit
Melbourne International.
Mr. Innes succeeds Sir James Wilson as Presi-
dent of the Tasmanian Legislative Council.
The Presbytery of Sydney have given the
Rev. Dr. Steel nine months*leave of absence to enable
him to visit Europe.
Major Anthony Cunningham, one of the few
survivors of “ Sales’ illustrious garrison ” at Jellalabad,
died at Hounslow on 2nd January.
Amongst the numerous newspaper properties
of the late Mr. Sergeant Cox were the Field, Law
Times, Queen, Exchange and Mart, County Court
Chronicle, The Country and Royal Exchange.
These are to be carried on by Sergeant Cox’s trustees.
The Lady Mayoress of Dublin is a daughter of
the late Mrs. Chisholm, the well-known “ emigrant’s
friend.” She cables that the magnificent Australian
subscriptions to the Irish Famine Fund “ make her
proud of her old home.”
Captain W. E. Shorter, Government shipping
master, who died on Saturday last, aged 71, leaves
seventeen children. The shipping office was closed and
most of the flags of the ships in harbour were lowered
as marks of respect to the memory of deceased.
The Premier of Tasmania, the Hon. E. W.
Giblin, is 34 years of age. has good parts, but is without
scruple in politics and arbitrary in power. He is a
native of Tasmania and has never been home. His
predecessor, the Hon. Mr. Reibey, was a Church of
England clergyman.
Mr. Service will probably be the new Victorian
Premier; Mr. Kerferd Attorney-General, and Dr. Mad-
den Solicitor-General. The latter is a colonial and a
graduate of Melbourne University. He represents St.
ilda, and is married to a daughter of the Hon. J. G.
Francis.
The Ulysses of the Tasmanian Parliament is
the Hon. 'J. D, Chapman, who, though old and
“ shelved,” still exercises a potent influence in Tasma-
nian politics. Family matters compelled him to with-
draw actively from parliamentary life; a well-known
bookmaker of Melbourne was mixed up in the affair.
Mr. Gresley Lukin, of the Queenslander and
Brisbane Courier, has been adjudged insolvent on his
own petition. Everyone will be sorry to hear this, for
Mr. Lukin is one of the most valuable of Australian
colonists. His newspaper properties are in themselves
very remunerative, and outside speculations in land and
mining are the cause of his difficulties.
Our old friend Peter Lalor is another disap-
pointed office-seeker. He has, for years, hod his
“oyster eye” on the Victorian Speakership, and had
Berry been victorious he (Peter) would have attained
his object. But now all the glory’s past. Peter’s
father was a member of the House of Commons, and the
son had his arm shot off while fighting for the insur-
gents at the Eureka Stockade.
Governor Weld, of Tasmania, is related to
Archbishop Vaughan. He belongs to one of the noblest
Devonshire families, whose lineage and fidelity to faith
and principles date beyond the Norman Conquest.
People will have noticed how proudly—and justly so—
the Archbishop alluded last Sunday to the fact of the
ancestor whose name he bears having been knighted on
the field of Agincourt.
Mr. W. M. Clark, wbo bas been elected for
Footscray, is a printer, and, for the credit of the craft,
we are sorry to say is an uncultured donkey. However,
he who wins may laugh, or bray, as the case may be.
Mr. J. L. Purves, the defeated candidate, is a colonial of
about four and thirty, and is one of the best speakers
and the ablest criminal lawyer practising in Australia.
He was the other day married to Miss Brodibb of
Sydney.
Sir Janies Wilson, Speaker of the Tasmanian
Legislative Council, died on the 28th ultimo. He was
the astutest politician and most polished gentleman in
Tasmania. Anthony Trollope alludes to him in his
well-known work on Australia as one of the most clear-
headed and statesmanlike men whom he met in the
colonies, The habits of Sir James were those of a man
of the world and a votary of refined pleasure. He was
a good representative of the George IV. style of gentle-
man.
Mr. Swanwick, barrister, and Mr. Baxter
Bruce, solicitor, have had a serious difference during
the hearing of a Police Court case. Swanwick slapped
Mr. Bruce in the eye, and Mr. Bruce wanted to return
the compliment by knocking his friend on the head with
a water-bottle, but was prevented from doing so by a
policeman. The affair arose through reference having
been made by Mr. Swanwick toa ‘’little affair up north.”
North Queensland lawyers in general are devoid of
principle. Mr. Baxter Bruce, Mr. Francis Philip
O’Reilly, and Fred. Cooper, barrister, are exceptions to
this.
Sir Charles Macmahon, by whom Sir Bryen
O’Loghlen has been defeated at West Melbourne, is a
real Irish gentleman and formerly held a captaincy in
the British army. He was Captain Standish’s prede-
cessor in the chief commissionership of Victorian
police, and held office as Speaker of the Assembly
under the M'Culloch, Kerferd, and Service governments.
If he can be spared from active political warfare, he will
no doubt be re-elected to the Speakership, now vacant
by the resignation of Sir Gavau Duffy, who, though im-
partial enough in his rulings, was too friendly with the
Berry Government, by whom he was placed in the chair.
Mr. E. S. Scott, one of the directors of the
Provincial and Suburban Bank, who was found guilty of
conspiracy to defraud and deceive the shareholders and
creditors of the bank, and fined £5O, is a member of
the firm of Jones, Scott, and Co., ironmongers, of
London and Melbourne, and has, in business transac-
tions which he personally superintended, always acted
in so honorable a manner that his numerous mercantile
friends will hardly change their opinion concerning him.
Mr. Isaac R. Fawcett, another of the defendant direc-
tors, is a tailor, carrying on business in Gertrude-street,
Fitzroy, and rejoicing in the support of the Civil
Service. Willis, the manager of the bank, who was
fined £250, appears to have had the whole concern in his
hands. The directors’ sins seem to have been of omis-
sion ; Mr. Willis’ faults of commission.
Mr. Francis Longmore, Minister for Lands in
the Berry Government, who defeated Mr. Thomas Shaw,
junr., the Opposition candidate for Ripon and Hampden,
is a professional politician. Like Mr. Munro, he is a
teetotaller, and like that'politioian, too, he is, as regards
language, one of the least temperate public men in
Victoria. He shaves his upper lip, and wears a Yankee
goatee, He has black curly hair “of which he is very
proud, and which he keeps carefully oiled. He has in
his swarthy countenance an eternal sardonic grin, which
was well depicted by Mr. Carrington, of Melbourne
Punch, in his splendid cartoon, “ Palling Angels.” Mr.
Longmore’s grin is such an extensive and frightful
affair that during the Russian scare it was suggested
that he should be placed at the Heads to smile at and
keep off the enemy.
Mr. Harper, -who with Mr. 8. T. Staugbton bas
been elected to the Victorian Assembly for West
Bourke, is a member of the firm of James Balfour and
Co., who have a branch in Sydney. Mr. Staughton is a
squatter, and a member of the well-known rich family
of that name, and is also an Oppositionist. Mr. Deakiu,
one of the unsuccessful (Ministerial) candidates for
West Bourke, a juvenile barrister who thinks little and
was a shining light in young men’s debating societies.
In his two last election contests he has been narrowly
beaten, and has only the mournful consolation that he
represents a great minority. Mr. Donald Cameron, who
ran in the late election with Mr. Deakin, is a journalist
connected with the Melbourne Herald. He writes
worse manuscript than any other man in the world.
He made a “ big pile ” in the Bendigo mining mania of
1871-2, but held on to his shares and now only has two
valuable possessions—a pile of scrip with calls to pay
on it and the love of the Berryites.
Sir Bryen O’Loghlen’s fondest hopes have been
rudely shattered. He is anything but a brilliant 1 awycr,
and when Crdhvn Prosecutor in Victoria distinguished
himself by a series of most terrible legal blunders, the
chief of which resulted in the quashing of the convic-
tions of Mount and Morris, of “ Carl" notoriety. Sir
Bryan was then appointed “ Land Tax Commissioner ”
at £lOOO per annum, which position he generously gave
up to contest West Melbourne, in the Berryite interest.
The patriot beat Mr. Francis, was made Attorney-
General, and, had Mr. Berry carried the recent election,
would have planted himself on the Supreme Court
bench. Sir Bryan was nominated and elected to the
House of Commons for Clare on the death of his
brother, to whose title he succeeded, but he was needy
and thought that for the present it would be better to
reign in the Hades he had helped to create than to
servre in the Emerald Isle. So he stayed in
Victoria and, figuratively speaking, sold himself on bills
to the most corrupt government that ever existed.
Berry has now gone bankrupt and dishonored the paper.
Sir Bryn, like Satan, rose but to fall.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Orient has arrived at Suez.
The Berry Ministry have resigned.
At latest dates, the Ellangowan, missionary
steamer, was at Teste Island, New Guinea.
A Chinese junk has been attacked by New
Guinea natives, who were repelled with great difficulty.
Last escort from Charters Towers brought
to Cooktown 13,000 oz. gold.
A man has been arrested at Goolwa, S.A., on
suspicion of being Ned Kelly.
The foundation stone of a new Church of
England school has been laid at Delegate.
Mr. Berry now finds it unnecessary to appoint
another Judge or an Agent-General.
Satisfaction is expressed by the leading Lon-
don journals at the downfall of the Berry Ministry.
Mr. Edward Barton, M.A., member for the
University, has been elected to the Senate.
A Licensing Bill will shortly be introduced by
Government.
The Sydney Municipal Council is indebted by
way of debentures to the extent of about £559,460.
Dcrabts are expressed as to the genuineness of
the late attempt on the life of the Czar.
Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs’ portrait, published in
last issue of The Bulletin, was engraved from a
splendid likeness by Boyd.
The Norval has arrived at Sydney with 366
immigrants, a few of whom are suffering from chicken-
pox.
The complete returns regarding the Victorian
elections give the Opposition 49 seats, and the Berryites
37.
The Elizabeth st. and Eedfern tramway shows
a net profit, after allowing for depreciation of plant, at
the rate of 351 per cent per annum on the quarter’s busi-
ness. /
Johnny Campbell, the aboriginal bushranger,
has shot at and wounded a tracker who was looking
for him near Maryborough, Queensland.
Messrs. David Blackstock and Stanley Hall
have become purchasers of the Darling Downs
Gazette.
Trickett’s likeness, published in this issue of
The Bulletin, is from a photo, by Hatton and
Patching, of George-strset.
At Mudgee the Eoman Catholics have in 12
years raised and expended £18,371 lodd on'church and
school buildings.
Margaret Inch, a woman who was staying at
tire Servants’ Home, Melbourne, tried to cut her throat
last week a blunt knife.
At a Mormons’ meeting at Auckland, N.Z.,
recently, one of the “ elders ” requested a reporter to
lead the singing. But the reporter didn’t.
It is estimated that the population of the
world is 1,421,000,000; daily deaths, 90,790; daily births,
104,800.
Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus accompanied
by the Hon. the Premier, the Minister for Justice and
Education, and Lieutenant Loftus, A.D.C. have visited
the York-st. model school. The distinguished party
seemed highly gratified with what they saw and heard.
In 1879, 30,733 live cattle, valued at 2,755,127
dol. were exported from New York. The meat ex-
ported dining the same period amounted to 43,251,221 lbs
of an aggregate value of 3,912,770 dol.
The quadruplex system of telegraphy—the
simultaneous sending of four messages on one wire—
has been successfully inaugurated on the Melbourne-
Sydney line.
Plans and specifications for a new line of
tramway from the Glebe to Charlotte-place, Church
Hill, have been completed. This will be the next piece
of tram to be laid down.
The Bank of England stock of paid notes for
five years numbers about 581,000,000. Their original
value was over £2,200,000,000, and their weight over 80
tons.
Subscriptions are being raised for the relief of
the relief of distress in the Newcastle district by means
of travelling bands and instrumental musicians, who
are making house-to-house visitations.
Hundreds of tons of old rails have been sent
to Lithgow by the Government for re-rolling. The
rollers are being turned at the iron works for the
purpose.
A Chinaman found a 25-ounce nugget at
Maytown, Palmer River. Flour is not procurable there.
On February 14th a Chinese storekeeper sold the last
oft some bad flour at £5O per ton.
Mr. Fattorini has unsuccessfully applied to
the Supreme Court for a rule nisi for a re-hearing
of his suit against his wife for restitution of conjugal
rights.
A dilapidated solicitor named Gahan was’sen-
teuced to 12 months’ imprisonment at the Melbourne
Police Court on Tuesday on a charge of vagrancy. He
had been found drunk a —Gahan.
A charge of perjury brought against Mr.
Edward Hungerford has been dismissed by the Water
Police Bench, which did not think it necessary even to
call upon Mr. Hungerford for his defence.
Mr. John Henry Challis, an old resident of
Sydney, and a former member of the firm of Flower,
Salting, and Co., has left the princely sum of £lOO,OOO
to the Sydney University, winch is the most princely
thing ever yet done by an Australian.
Sir Henry Parkes made a fine speech on Mon-
day last, on the occasion of his laying the foundation-
stone of the new Macquarie lighthouse, South Head,
and indulged in a retrospect of the progress of the
colony, which should be read by every one.
Chinese allege that they have only been forced
to “ knock under ’’ to Europeans in one point the
matter of foretelling eclipses. They look with disdain
on railroads and telegraphs, for they see no reason why
the world should be in such a hurry.
Towards the relief of the distress in Ireland
the colonies hereafter named have sent up to the
present as follows :—New South Wales, £17,000 j Vic-
toria, £19,000; South Australia, £4,500: giving the
grand total of £40,500.
Eespectable Sydneyites will not be sorry to
hear that the man Sawkins, who published an infamous
paper here, and then started an obscene journal in Mel-
bourne, has in the latter city been sent to gaol for a
mouth with hard labour.
Walter Bran, aged fifteen, who had conceived
an affection for a girl three years his junior, has
poisoned himself in Melbourne. He and his sweetheart
quarrelled, and she told him to kill himself. He took
cyanide of potassium, and died on her doorstep.
On Ist September next the terminus of the
great Southern Railway will have been taken to
Gerogery, within IS miles of Albury—only two hours’
coach-ride from the Victorian terminus, Wodonga.
This will give splendid facility for travelling overland to
Melbourne Exhibition.
It has been decided at a stormy special meeting
of members of the Sydney School of Arts, that that in-
stitution shall in future be opened on Sunday afternoons.
There is a great deal of ill-feeling over this matter, but
the step indicated is one which, sooner or later, is
inevitable.
Mr. Stephen H. Dent, late paymaster to the
Sydney Corporation, was on Monday tried for em-
bezzling the sum of £lO, but was given the benefit of
the doubt which existed in regard to his guilt, on ac-
count of the loose manner in which the City Council
books have been kept.
Joseph Wells, under sentence of death for
shooting with intent, during the attempt to rob the
bank at Cunnamulla, has made a written statement im-
plicating four others. He denies that it vvas his inten-
tion to shoot Murphy, and says he could easily have
shot him if he had wished.
Mr. William Forster has, in the course of a
lecture before the London Society of Arts, found fault
with “ the political success achieved in the colonies by
men of the worst commercial and political character.”
Mr. Forster is perfectly right as regards Victoria, and
partially so in respect to this colony.
In consequence of it having been found that
some of last Monday’s examination papers were stolen
from the printers and used by a candidate, the Civil
Service examination wall have to be held over again.
This is another Instance of bad management on the part
of the University authorities, who really ought to keep a
press of their own.
H.M.S. Wolverene, which has for the last month
or two been at Hobart Town, proceeded to Launceston
on the 28th inst., and anchored at Rovevears, five miles
from the town. The event is of interest to Launces-
tonians, who have not hitherto been favoured with a
visit from any ship of war, on account of their
wretchedly narrow and dirty river.
The Berry family have been receiving from
the Victorian Treasury annual salaries as under: —Mr.
Graham Berry, £2,175; his father-in-law, £400; first
son-in-law, £400; second ditto ditto, £260; first son,
£230; second ditto, £2OO. Total, £3,665. The third
son—Graham Berry, jun., eat. 16—is in the Treasury
on probation, training to receive a salary.
Protectionists assembled in force at the Eeid-
Buchanan political controversy on Friday night last.
Mr. Buchanan forgot to bring his argument with him,
and lost his temper on the road to the hall, but his
friends applauded him vociferously, tried to silence his
opponent, and were so numerous that protection scored
a win in the vote taken at the conclusion of the
speeches.
It is remarked by the Australasian that on
Mr. Buchanan’s own* showing his recently-submitted
constitutional motions were not consequences of harm
having resulted from the matters he complained of, but
of his apprehension that harm might result. And thus
it is that a restless, vain, meddling member of Parlia-
ment may raise more profound constitutional questions
in a single session than the actual operation of the
Constitution would give rise to in a century.
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the new
lighthouse at South Head, his Excellency the Gover-
nor made the happiest and most pointed speech he has
yet delivered in public here. “ I find,” said Lord Au-
gustus, “ that this present building was erected in 1817,
the year in which I was bom. We are, therefore, con-
temporaries, and I confess, ladies and gentlemen, that
it is not without some emotion I look forward to or an-
ticipate the approaching extinction of a light which is
coeval with myself. But, although that light may be
extinguished, the memory of the past will remain, and
I shall always look back with pleasurable recollection
on the interesting ceremony I have witnessed to-day. I
shall look to it as a happy augury of the future of this
colony, and I trust it will be the renewal of a bright era
of happiness, sunshine, and prosperity to the indus-
trious, the enlightened, and the energetic population of
this colony. (Cheers.) Ladies and gentlemen, I beg to
propose three cheers for Sir Henry Parkes."
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
To-day (Saturday) Professor Cavill swims from
Semaphore to Glenelg—ten miles.
At Maryborough, Queensland, Duncan, a long-
distance walker, has been giving some very creditable
exhibitions of his powers.
If some of the unsanctified sinners in the days
of Noah had sawed his boat, would it have put a stop tO'
the race ? Certainly it would—to the human race.
A reporter of the Syracuse Courier has been,
shown Mr. Coumey’s back, and says it is covered with
plasters. It would be much better if that gentleman
would show his back to Edward Hanlan.
J. C. Williams, who recently walked against
McKay, will at the Guild Hall* to-day Saturday
perform the feat of walking 55 miles in 10 hours.
This is Williams’ last appearance in Sydney.
Next Saturday the Highland Society of N.S.W.
will carry out a series of athletic sports in connection
with the International Exhibition, under the patronage
of His Excellency the Governor. A most successful
meeting is anticipated.
It is suggested that Messrs. Hanlan and Court-
ney pull a match for a piece of seasoned meringue pie.—
Commercial Advertiser. They could easily cut that in
two.— Philadelphia Bulletin. Each would want the hull
Xiie.
Mrs. W. Wallace, the stroke-oar of the ladies-
crew of the Californian Theatre Rowing Club, and the
best lady single sculler in California, will most likely
row a race with Grace Florence, who has quite a reputa-
tion in the East.
The homestead which the people of Ontario,
Canada, have presented to the champion, Edward Han-
lan, will be built in the most favorite and pretty loca-
tion on the island, and will command a fine view of the
lake on the west.
Glynn, the amateur ex-champion oarsman of
Scotland, and now residing in San Francisco, Cal., will
challenge the winner of the coming race between Leahy
and Hoyt. Glynn is thirty-five years of age, and held
the Scotch championship in 1866.
Manly Beach is to be the scene of a large
pigeon match to-day (Saturday.) Mr. Crook, of the
Pier Hotel, who is making the necessary arrangements,
has seemed 300 birds. The handicap will be made on
the ground.
And now we must hear from Mr. Hanlan, and
then from Mr. Courtney, and then from Mr. Blaikie, and
then from Mr. Hanlan, and then from Mr. Courtney,
and then from several patent medicines, and then from
Mr. Hanlan, and from the Hop bitters Co. To be con-
tinued in our next.
Mr. Brinsmead, of the well-known pianoforte
firm of that name, who is now on a visit to Sydney, is a
capital boxer. On Tuesday night he displayed his
powers at Foley’s rooms, William-street, before a select
company, and easily vanquished a somewhat dis-
tinguished gentleman amateur.
Th e l“°pening matches of the Port Jackson
Swimming Club will take place to-day, at E. T. Foley’s
baths. Domain. The great race of the day will be for
the half-mile champion cup. The Members’ Maiden
Race will be sure to bring out a good field, and the 300
yards open event will afford an excellent opportunity
for good swimmers to show their stamina. An inte-
resting feature in the programme is a match in which
the competitors will swim with full suits of clothes on,
and this will be followed by the feat of undressing in
the water.
The annual velocipede race for the challenge cup
offered by the Sporting Life, fifty miles, was partici-
pated in by ten amateur riders at the Lillie Bridge
Grounds, London, on [November Bth. There were
some high-class men among the starters, but the race
was less interesting than it might have been made, for
the reason that tlie best of men waited upon one
another until near the finish, At the end of forty-eight


and a half miles, A. E. Derkinden fell, having been
having been seized with cramp in the leg, and was in it
no longer. Within fifty yards of the finish, H. Osborne
dashed past W. T. Thorne, and won by four yards in 3h.
4min. 6 2-ssec.
At the Sydney School of Arts on Monday
night an entertainment was given by amateurs for the
benefit of Nat Thompson, the well-known cricketer,
who, we regret to have to say, has for some time past
been in ill-health. The hall was crowded, and the en-
tertainment, which was of a very amusing, a la Christy
Minstrel character, was a thorough success.
An extraordinary billiard match was played on
January 6, before 4000 spectators, at Sheffield. The
players were Joseph Bennett, ex-champion, and W.
Mitchell, the winner of the last two billiard tourna-
ments in London. The game was 1000 up, and when
Bennett had reached 360, Mitchell ran from 322 to 1000,
thus finishing the game off hand. He continued his
break and scored 48 more, his total being 726—the
largest in a great match on record. All but three points
were made by spot hazards.
Walter Watson and Charles Mliler fought
with gloves, for a £SO cup and purse, at a hall in Lon-
don, on Monday, November 24th. The former is
26 years old, stands sft. B|in. in height, and scales 1571 b.;
Miller, 26 years, sft. 7in., 1441 b. They fought according
to the Queensbury rules as applied to glove fighting, and
Watson won in Ih. 17min. 10sec.; he getting the verdict
on Miller’s failure to get on his feet in the allotted ten
seconds, after going down the second time in the
twentieth round. The latter, however, was dead-beat.
The winner was picked up by Jack Hicks and
an amateur, while Jim Goode and Micky Rees were the
attendants of Miller.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times he glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
he of personal as well as general interest.
“ For I AM NOTHING IP NOT CRITICAL."
-“Othello.”
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PATTI CONCERTS.
Thus fax, certainly, Madame Patti and her Company
can have no reason to complain of any want of en-
thusiasm on the part of the people of Sydney. Persons
accustomed to hear daily great artists of different de-
grees of excellence have their ears so attuned to the
beauties of art that they can appreciate every little
variation, every new display. Here, we are so used to
the faulty style, the want of training, the absence of
refinement—even when the material is most abundant —
that it requires some time before we can realise what is
really perfection in art when we hear it; we scarcely
appreciate it (for it requires refinement and cultivation
to understand these qualities), and look for something
monstrously abnormal and impossible. But, Madame
Patti, De Munck, and Signor Ciampi-Cellaj have roused
the audiences who have heard them to a pitch of true
enthusiasm —enthusiasm not due to mere local favourit-
ism ; it was a just tribute paid to true art.
The fourth and fifth concerts of the series, on Monday
and Tuesday evenings, contained some exquisite mor-
ceaux for all the executants. The opening piece for
Madame Patti was the scena ‘Ah fors’ e lui,’ from
Verdi’s ‘ La Traviata,’ |with its introductory recitative,
and the succeeding cabaletta ‘Sempre libera degg’io.’
Here, in the first aria, the Signora gave us for the first
time an illustration of the rich round lower notes of her
register, which we had not previously imagined to be so
full and melodious, and the dramatic reading she gave
■of this vocal text could not fail to satisfy and delight
the understanding. In the joyous waltz movement she
ran away with us as usual into the upper regions, where
she performed such feats of vocalisation as to overcome
the listener with admiration. The ascending and de-
scending chromatic passages, the very soft pianissimo
notes in the highest range of the staccato cadences
were marvels of perfection. How sweetly, too, did
Giorza’s piano come in with the tenor responses in the
duet passages ! It is perfectly useless for Madame to
bow her acknowledgments three or thirty times; the
demonstration is at boiling point and an encore is in-
evitable —the delightful ‘Mia Piceerella,’ so graceful,
so full of expression followed. In the second part a
sweet little canzone ‘ Una Stella,’ by Randegger—truly
a sportive * Staa’—a gem of executive refinement.
"* Cornin’ thro’ the rye, with a new run in the finale, and
Auber’s ‘ Laughing Song,’ also with novelties in the
reading, like a lot of little chirping birds harmonising
in the throat—for a second encore.
On Tuesday Madame Patti gave a touchingly effective
ballad from an unknown opera by Gomez, with a novelty
from Victor Masse’s opera of ‘ Queen Topaze,’ in the
second part a bolero composed especially for her by
Ritter—a piece of execution so marvellous as not only
to surpass anything ever heard in this country, hut also
seldom surpassed anywhere. For the encore that joyous
little Spanish piece ‘ La Calecera.’ To attempt an
analysis of Madame Patti’s singing in each of these
pieces (or, indeed, of any number of performances by
such artists given night after night) would be but reite-
ration of the same phrases, uninteresting to readers
except in places where musical criticism is valued for
its own educating purposes, even if space permitted.
In addition Madame Patti sang in a trio ‘La Gita,’ (with
Signor Ciampi and Mr. Crain); and in the duet ‘ Parigi,
o Cara’ (with the tenor), in which it was the work of an
artiste to go through the piece under such adverse
•circumstances.
Monsieur de Munck has captivated every one in whose
nature there is a spark of the divine breath of music.
His mastery of the violoncello is complete. In his
hands it is a thing of life; it breathes, and speaks music.
His first piece on Monday was a sonata (No. 6 in A
major) by Boeeherini, with a cadenza by the executant;
of the latter we may say that it was the finest of the
two portions, however admirable was the first —it was a
distinct composition, played (except towards the end)
without accompaniment, full of those ipassages and in-
tricacies, rich bowing, and sweet harmonics of which
the instrument is capable when so effectively played.
It was impossible for M. de Munck to dp more than
twice bow his acknowledgments. The ‘ Tarantella ’ of
Piatti, the Italian master of the violoncello, was ren-
dered with a colouring that the composer himself would
have enjoyed; and as an encore a lovely transcription
of a piece by Schuman. ‘ Im Volkston.’
On Tuesday M. de Munck gave us a fantasia (from
La Figlia del Eeggimento’), which showed his powers
of brilliancy, as his previous efforts had evinced delicacy
of execution. Three principal airs from the opera were
introduced, and in the finale, the air played by the
Pianist and the rich variations on the violoncello pro-
duced a very happy effect. His second piece was a
composition of his own; and it certainly shows great
modesty in an artist who can compose such true and
pure music to refrain from playing his own works more
frequently. M. de Munck, Signor Ortori (who appeared
ior the first time at these concerts), and Signor Giorza,
q 18 , 0 Played with excellent precision two movements of
“Chubert’s trio. The second was thoroughly elegant ;
ims may be said to be the first real rendering of the
on? C a “ re - Unfortunately, our public is not yet edu-
a theat 8 t a ®dard appreciating chamber music in
• T%f nor .Uiorza played, on Monday, a reverie on
nonengrm,’ composed by himself, beginning with the
wan Bong, and ending with its dying strains—the work
flat 11 n? s * spirit—and Chopin’s graceful waltz in D
been 1 , r ’ n8 ’’ °t first part of this waltz has never
fi ere 5 it was thoroughly stirring. How
guor Giorza displays, either in his solos or iu his
tj.? (which can be characterised only by
Snff W0I Y■ ‘ perfection’), the exquisite richness or the
golden liquid tones the magnificent Steinway
wtorte (lent for the concert by the agent, Mr,
~.J*ft. Barrack-street), must be acknowledged by
every unprejudiced person.
witw.+ pace tor tide portion of our article is filled
onlv J!, mentioning Ciampi, of whom we can
t n fl t our opinion as to his being the finest
ness n earc i he re—for sweetness of voice, soft-
is h Pi nehcacy of style, artistic finish of execution —
“ _^ e admit that we prefer ‘ singing ’ to
the « ?. 1S Sfraud scena from " I Puritani,” and
on e ver, were masterpieces of effective vocali-
sation. Signor Ciampi reminds us very forcibly of
Standigl, who was noted for his vibration of voice.
Mr. Crain is not an improvement on Mr. Parkinson,
who is at least modest enough not to claim any preten-
sion to be a great artist. He will be welcome to those
who do not like Signor Ciampi 1 for he has plenty of
loudness. He is a tenore robust© ; very robust (we had
almost put in the oh!) Perhaps he may do better by
next week.
Benefit For the Late Dramatic Company.
Mr. Creswick kindly consented to appear on Wednes-
day evening as “ Richelieu,” for the benefit of the now
disbanded company. As many of the members may be
for some time out of employment, this was a true act
of kindness on the part of the tragedian sure to be
appreciated. We therefore sincerely hope that his
kind intentions were rewarded by the realisation of a
fair sum to be distributed amongst the worthy children
of poor Thespis.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
One man’s loss is the gain of another, and the dis-
banding of the Theatre Eoyal dramatic'company—
whose members have been so long playing together—
has enabled the management of the victoria Theatre to
strengthen its company very materially. Miss Myra
Kemble, Miss Mainwaring, Mr. H. N. Douglas, and Mr.
H. Vincent have now migrated to this theatre, and a
good steady working dramatic combination has been
formed which should be equal to all emergencies, so as
to give us really light and agreeable entertainment for
the evening after the toil of the day, by the
production of a series of the best comedies. Every
‘ line in the profession ’is now capably filled. A com-
mencement was made on Monday, when H. J. Byron’s
very charming comedy of ‘ Sour Grapes was performed.
Byron—one of the most fertile of English writers—
has certainly matured his style of late—pruning it of
many of the superfluities which it formerly* possessed
when punning and word-play were mistaken for humour.
‘ Sour Grapes ’ is well put together, plays closely, the
characters are well developed, the interest is main-
tained throughout, and the language is careful and
vivacious.
Lydia Fane (Miss Myra Kemble) a rustic beauty,
niece to Mr. Gunn, a well-to-do farmer (Mr. Whyte) has
three admirers Lord Loraine (Mr. Vincent), the
wealthy heir to a large estate in the neighbourhood of
the farm, who has met Lydia during one of his rambles;
Sir Vane Limpet, a fine gentleman (Mr. St. Lawrence);
Marmaduke Petrel (Mr. Jerdan), whose father owns
the Grove Farm, tenanted by Gunn, the schemer of the
piece, a cross-grained fellow, who has, however, long
loved Lydia. Mr. Gunn and family come up to the Park
Lodge to see Davis the Keeper (Mr. Tolano), and hap-
pening to say in the hearing of Loraine that they re-
quire a farm-servant, the young nobleman disguises
himself, makes an offer for the situation, and is ac-
cepted—rather an unnatural beginning, as lords nowa-
days are not so fond of playing at servants, but adopt
more agreeable modes of obtaining a girl’s affections.
The efforts of the three heroes to obtain possession of
the .coveted prize form a series of vety amusing inci-
dents. Just as the ‘ farm-servant ’ —.whose white hands,
superior manners, and other indications of high birth
and breeding have already drawn suspicion on him—are
getting on so well together, the lord’s mother (Miss
Mainwaring) discovers the whole affair, comes down
like a wolf on the fold of the poor farmer, and discloses
to Lj'dia the real rank of her lover, but Lydia remains
true to her plighted word, and the matter ends hap-
pily by the news that Loraine’s elder brother (supposed
to be dead) is alive, and is of course the real lord,
which altogether alters the position of affairs ; and Pe-
trel declaring that he really did not want the girl, the
cry of ‘ Sour Grapes ’ is turned against him when he
cannot get her.
There is an aside incident of Mr. Tobias Graham (Mr.
H. K. Douglas), barrister-at-law, who is engaged to
Miss Kate Fanshawe (Miss Laura Wiseman), a shrew-
ish, jealous young heiress, being mistaken for Sir Vane
Limpet, who has been seen meandering about with
Lydia, causing a-rupture between this pair of lovers,
though the quarrel is happily ended by tha final expla-
nation ; another couple pairing off happily in the final
summing up of the events are Miuadab (Mr. J. L.
Hall) and Tilly Eibstone (Mrs. J. L. Hall) farm ser-
vants. Mrs. Gunn (Miss Julia Merton), the farmer’s
wife, has due prominence; and there are one or two
minor characters who fill up the interstices.
It is seldom that we have seen a play receive more
adequate justice on a first representation. Such a per-
formance could not fail to give the most entire satisfac-
tion, and any little faults that a critic might be disposed
to pick out forgotten in the general excellence with
which each character was impersonated, rendering it
unnecesssary to make invidious comparisons. The
acting from beginning to end being thoroughly natural.
A very pretty scene is the little bit of rustic court-
ship in the farm kitchen or servants’ room, between
Tilly Eibstone and Minedab—a charmingly natu-
ral acting. Another effective situation is in the
same act is when Eeuben (the disguised Lord Loraine)
acknowledges to Lydia that he is not what he seems,
but refuses to satisfy even her as to his real position,
fearing lest she should forsake him. Miss Kemble and
Mr. Vincent act this with great feeling.
Limpet’s absurdities keep up the amusement from
time to time, and are quite a la mode do Mr. St.
Laurence. Mrs. Gunn’s appeal to Lady Loraine in the
third act is another effective point, the denouement
being brought about by her recognition of Loraine, who,
through the insinuations of Petrel, had been dismissed
from the farm as a suspicious personage.
The scenery is effective and appropriate: and the
stage is well set for the drawing-room at Loraine Park.
The orchestra, under Mr. Broadhurst, must also be
favourably mentioned, especially the introduction of a
clarionet solo (by whom ?) in a selection from Balfe’s
‘ Bohemian Girl.’
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
The continuation on the boards of this theatre of
Planquette’s remarkably pretty ‘ Cloches de Corneville,’
now for three weeks, gives us an opportunity of
saying a few words as to the music, premising that the
general performance has much improved by reason of
continued practice. Indeed, it may be taken for granted
that the music is now as well given as it could ever be
by this company, which can scarcely long claim to be
considered one for the performance of opera on so ex-
tensive a scale. Indeed, it shows wonderful pluck on
the part of Messrs. Kelly and Leon—who attempted it.
They are neither fools nor angels; and therefore the
poet’s idea of the rushing in of the one the tread of
the other is scarcely applicable to them. The perfor-
mance affords a delightful evening’s amusement,
though certainly, improvements might have been effec-
ted. Choruses and quartets for male or female choruses
should not be in unison, and though this may be the
prevalent custom with most opera companies in the
colonies, it is none the less objectionable and destructive
of the composer’s intention.
■As in most modem have instead of the
regular Eossinian or Mozartian overture a prelude
introducing two of the principal airs in the opera— 1 The
Legend’ and the air chant, sung by Henri de Corneville,
with its changing key and waltz time, having a good
effect. With full orchestra this would produce marked
success; as it is, it is always received with welcome.
The first number is divided into three parts—a lively
chorus, 1 All Who for Servants are Enquiring,’ with
the conversation of -the country girls, a merry (alle-
gretto) air in waltz time for Serpolette with a very well-
marked accompaniment, and the country servant
wenches joining in with the repeat, 1 They say, they
say,’ the whole winding up with a full laughing chorus.
A very charming round per Serpolette follows, requiring
all the finish of a trained singer. It is not by any means
easy, abounding in semitones, though the air is catching.
One of the prettiest airs follows, the barcarole, l On
Billows Kicking,’ for Grenicheux. It was sung by Mr.
Vernon Eeid with much expression. This leads to a
duet, 1 ’Twas but an impulse,* for Grenicheux, a good
piece of music with effective modulations, and changes
of time as well a,s key, ending with a pleasing waltz —
measure. The voices of the singers do not harmonise
well in this duet, but Miss Wangenheim gave due effect
to the solo passage. Germaine next sings l The Legend
of the Bells ’ with great sweetness; her voice tells well;
and sympathises with the soft swinging refrain of the
music; the chorus has toned down since we first heard
it, but is still rather harsh. The vocal and instrumental
score of this piece is very full, and it is altogether a
charming piece of music, whose pretty bell-like refrain
dwells long on the memory. It is invariably encored.
No. 6, the baritone air, ‘With joy my heart has often
bounded,’ is a pretty waltz, partly a rondo. It is rather
a pretentious piece of music, and wants a fine voice and
good execution to make it acceptable.
An entr’acte follows, introducing a charming old
Norman chauson for the orchestra. It is a morceau of
great beauty. It is played whilst the people are wending
their way to the fair—on the road to Corneville, and
would be for more effective if the people did not come
at all, but the music were played previous to the rising
of the curtain: and, indeed, the short couplet for
Grenicheux ‘ Tho’ they may not pursue me,’ might be
omitted; it serves only as an opportunity for a
‘ front set * whilst the scene behind is being changed :
but this coidd be done whilst the music is being played,
making an entr’ act here.
The fair-scene with its couplets for the various ser-
vants —in unison passages—very pleasing bits of music
with good orchestration. Serpolette has here a great
deal of music, including the famous couplets’ • Just look
at that’ (very like a song in Carmen) the air taken up by
Henri and Germaine. Gaspard joins with all the other
choristers in the finale, which is stirring and well
performed.
But our task is not yet half ended when we find that
we have come to the end of our tether as regards space.
Leon’s acting in this act is inimitable : if betting were
not against the new act one might hazard one to the
effect that Serpolette’s representative is really
that of a woman. Miss Wangenheim, whose singing
was good, looks remarkably well in this act, is care-
fully dressed and animated. We urge everyone to lose
no opportunity of hearing the pretty Cloches de Come-
ville. It is never too late to say a kind word when de-
served: and as the company is about leaving for a time
the new theatre which the enterprise of Messrs. Kelly
and Leon brought into existence, iwe may acknow-
ledge appreciatively the courtesy and attention always
displayed in front of the house by Mr. D. Hayman, the
active business manager.
The _ clever artists, the Lingards—the ever welcome
charming Alice Dunning, with recollections of ‘ dear
Dickie’s springing up at the mention of the name—will
make their appearance here on Saturday evening. In
one point the company will possess a very great disad-
tage; curiosity will be aroused by entirely fresh faces,
excepting, of course, the Lingards themselves.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Our long notice of the performances here in last issue,
and the new entertainments at other theatres requiring
the full amount of our space must serve as an opology
for confining our remarks to the facts that the new
programme is fully equal in merit to its predecessor,
bringing in the whole strength of the double company;
and that the house is crowded every evening.
MUSIC AT THE GARDEN PALACE,
The ' entertainments ’ (?) here have been confined to
the performances of Kopf’s band, near the drinking
fountains, the artillery band, and the band of the • Bis-
marck—very harsh, very shrill, and playing very much
out of time—altogether, producing a startling con-
glomeration of horrid sounds enough to drive everyone
into the open air for relief, and to keep visitors away
from the Exhibition. Madame Lamal and Madame
Summerhayes are the occasional pianists, but the din
drowns them. Anything more disgraceful as an illus-
tration of our progress in art, and appreciation of it
than the management of musical matters by the Com-
mission it is impossible to imagine.
CRITIC.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Madame Camilla Urso have arrived in Bris-
bane, and have opened to a splendid bonse.
A magnificent ovation -will be given in Mel-
bourne to the Patti troupe,
Carlotta Patti, while on her way through America
recovered a verdict against the Dispatch Printing Co.
St. Louis, Mo., for libel.
Over 190 cantatas have been received bj the
Melbourne International commission for the opening
ceremony.
Mr. Marshall’s benefit at the Melbourne Opera
was a great success. He played * Quilp ’on the occa-
sion.
‘ Agapemone’ is described by a Melbourne paper as
being * quite of the music-hall standard, and, excepting
Mr. Walton's acting, only a grotesque farce, poorly
acted and badly dressed.’
Mr. G. B. Lewis has taken a five years’ lease
of the Academy of Music, Melbourne, and is going to
re-open the theatre with Mr. Creswick on the 6th
current.
A Melbourne paper remarks that it cannot be said
that there is a thoroughly capable management at any
one of the theatres. Consequently none of the per-
formances of a kind to evoke unmixed satisfaction.
Miss Dargon, after concluding a prosperous
season in Hobart Town, opened in Launceston on Tues-
day last in .a series of readings and recitations. She
will proceed next to New Zealand, and then “ home."
The husband of Mrs. Scott-Siddons, Captain
Chanter is his “right name” is in Melbourne "doing
the grand.” He arrived there by the Hankow in
November.
Abell and Mussket, says a South African
paper, late of Smith Equestrian Troupe, intend lec-
turing in Australia on their travels in South Africa.
They will probably commence in Melbourne in April.
The Holloway Dramatic Company, which has
been doing a summer season in Hobart 'Town, has dis-
banded. The troupe did good business, and are going
now to Adelaide.
The forthcoming Melbourne Opera season, to
commence on 12th current, is intended to be a great suc-
cess. Mr. William Lyster is far from being his own
energetic, able self; and, we regret to hear, is still in
bad health.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Horace Lingard, (Alice Dun-
ning) arrived in Sydney from Melbourne, overland, on
Monday. They are now staying at the Oxford Hotel, and
will open at the Kelly and Leon’s Opera House to-night
(Saturday), in the charming comedy ‘ Our Boys.'
That talented and industrious young artist Miss
Emma Wangenheim was given a successful benefit at
Kelly and Leon’s on Wednesday night, the piece being
Les Cloches de Corneville, Miss Wangenheim’s recep-
tion was of an even more than usually favorable kind.
Olga Duboin left Launceston early last week
for Melbourne, where she gives one grand concert. She
then proceeds to Cape colony, where, she says, she ex-
pects to perform under the ex-Empress Eugenie. In
fact Olga wants to go to Zulnland with the illustrious
Pilgrim.
A negro minstrel entertainment took place at
Manly Beach on Wednesday evening last, for the bene-
fit of the funds of the Oddfellows’ Hall. Scarcity of
space will not admit of our detailing at length the
manifold attractions of the entertainment, but we can-
not avoid giving a word of praise to Mr. J. A. Herman
for his excellent violin playing.
“H.M.S. Pinafore” is to be produced next
Monday in Hobart Town, by a Tasmanian Company.
Amateur singers, Miss Kate Hervey, and other semi-
professional songsters, will be engaged for the occasion.
The Comyany have already played “Pinafore” inLann.
ceston with pecuniary success. Tasmania is coming to
the fore as regards singers.
We have to'acknowledge the receipt of some
very fine photographs of Mrs. Horace Lingard (Alice
Dunning) representing the artist in full costume in
several characters her extensive repertoire. The
photographs were taken in New Zealand and are very
fair specimens of the art. We need scarcely say
that the features of the talented lady wear—as they
cannot fail to do—the most charming expression.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons contemplates another visit
to the colonies, and hopes to reach Sydney in June
next. She is at present at the head of a company
touring the United States. Letters received in Hobart
Town by the last Californian mail contain mention of
her separation from her husband, on whom she has
settled all her New Zealand property, matters having
been satisfactorily settled by mutual arrangement.
Miss Mary Siddous, a cousin of Miss Scott-Siddons now
travels with her; and she is agented by Mr. James
M’Mahon.
In ‘ Pinafore,’ as produced by the Wiliiamsons
at Melbourne, the First Lord of the Admiralty has been
wearing the Windsor uniform. One of the papers say
that ordinary attire would be better suited for ‘ ’board
ship.’ But then the fact remains that in Victoria
Windsor uniform as fashionable. Mr. J. J. Casey—he
used when Minister of Lands be called ‘ King Casey’—
has a Windsor uniform, and deposits himself in it on
every possible occasion. He is a most elegant looking
personage, and looked positively enchanting at the
International opening ceremony. Mr. Casey used to be
a bailiff in Victoria. He visited Paris Exhibition as a
Commissioner, and brought back a ‘ splendid thing in
bows.’ His salaams are most dignified, his smile posi-
tively bewitching, and his compliments to ladies are of
a delicate Gallicised-Milesian order.
Mr. George Lingard writes us from the
Johnsonian Club, Brisbane, giving a short account of
how theatrical people are dealt with in Quensland: * A
man named Graham Fenton, alias the Pilgrimi was
charged with having forged the name ‘ G. Lingard’ to a
cheque, and it being necessary, apparently, to prove by
direct evidence that Mr. Lingard had not himself
drawn the cheque in question, he was subpoened to
attend the Police Court. When the summons was
served upon him he was doing a very successful busi-
ness in Rockhampton. It being impossible for the
company to continue playing without his presence, he
was compelled, in consequence of his having to come to
Britbane, to break up his troupe by compromising with
them, and to pay their passages back to Sydney, several
arrangements made in advance for future performances
having of course to fall through also. On appearing at
the Police Court he was bound over to the District
Court, and had to wait in Brisbane, being compelled in
the meantime to decline two opportunities for profitable
business which presented themselves. Mr. Lingard
had never seen Fenton in his life until the latter was
brought up at the Police Court, and had not had an
account at the Queensland National Bank for some
months previously, while the signature to the cheque
was not at all like his.’ The Courier very sensibly
expresses an opinion that the Government should in
some measure compeusate Mr. Lingard.
Last Thursday night, prior to the disbandment
of the Theatre Royal company, Mr. Lazar gave a ball
on the stage which was attended by between sixty and
seventy couples. Delightful music was provided by the
orchestra, sumptuous refreshments by Cripps; and as
no more accomplished votaries of the terpsieorean art
can be found than the ladies and gentlemen of the
dramatic profession, it can readily be imagined that
there was no element of sadness in the night’s enter-
tainment save the thought that the members—a most
harmonious company—were parting were parting with
each other, and were about to say good-bye to the
kindest and most considerate of managers. Members
of the Press and other professions were present; and
so pleased was a non-professional gentleman well known
in Sydney society, with the evening’s enjoyment, that
on Monday night, after the Patti concert, he gave a re-
turn ball, which was attended by Mr. Lazar, the mem-
bers of the theatre company, and a large number of the
most influential citizens citizens. In fact, the guests
were the corps draynatique and those who are numbered
among the most intelligent and influential of their
patrons. As on the preceding Thursday night, there
was nothing to mar, and everything to add to, the hap-
piness of the proceedings; and before separating, the
guests, who had duly honoured the usual loyal toasts,
cordially drank the health of tlm whose kipd ness
to, and respect for the “ as thO' kii. -- W
every colpny to whi T ’i actr
ORIGINAL POETRY.
A Little Lampoon.
(WRITTEN BY LAMPLIGHT).
Found on the back of a free “ order ” in the ticket-
box of one of the theatres during the last Opera season.
Sir Herald caught a nice old Fish,
To make her write was now his wish.
So drenched her well with “ Carmen.”
Soon this Fish had learnt enough.
From her mouth came yards of puff.
Fulsome praise of Carmen.
“ Carmen ” may be very nice
If taken in a tiny slice
And not with Fishy finger.
Let us all cry “ hold, enough,
We cannot stand such horrid stuff,”
Nor bid the fish to linger.
Good Sir Herald take advice
You may think Fish very nice.
But we don’t like the “ fisher.”
Send your Fish to Melbourne back.
Let them not such talent lack,
A pleasant voyage we wish her.
The Attorney General.
(WITH MANT APOLDGIES TO MR. LONG GFELLOW.)
Within the grim and well-barred dock
The cringing crim’nal stands,
TIT Attorney General well in front
With briefs piled in his hands;
And the bumps upon his brawny brain
Are thick as iron bands !
His gown is black and silk and long.
His wig is like the tan.
His brow is wet—he tries to get
Convictions when he can.
And looks the pris’ner in the face
Like one who marks his man!
At each recurring Crim’nal Court
You may hear his bellows blow.
You may hear him air his eloquence
With measured speech and slow.
Like “ Wisdom” jingling a Jester’s bells
When the wine is getting low.
And the members of the outer Bar
Crowd up to the very door—
They love to see his bulky form.
And hear his pectoral roar.
And catch the legal jokes* which fly
Like chaff from a threshing floor!
On Sunday he goes to the Club
And sits amongst the “boys,”
He hears a deputation preach.
He hears his Electors’ voice
(Thanks to the electric wire!)
And his heart does not rejoice!
It sounds to him like a “ Party” voice
Shouting “ Resign and die! ”
He dares not think of Party now.
Self is his only cry.
And with his soft silk sleeve he wipes
A tear out of his eye.
Spoiling and bungling—borrowing
Onward thro’ life he goes,
(Each Goverment has such a one
And pays him thro’ the nose !)
Nothing attempted ! Nothing done !
A Pension his repose !
• N.B.—This is satiric.
Sydney Citizens!
No. I.—THE PAWNDRORER.
Whom have we here ? The Pawnbroker—mine Uncle !
Who’ll lend on aught—from shoes to rich carbuncle.
He is a man that few can do without,
The reckless debauche who wants " to shout ”
The man who has his tavern hill to meet.
Which left unpaid, he gets put in the street!
The stage-struck man who oyster suppers gives
To actresses—the youth who thinks he “ lives ! ”
The Swell whose tailor will no longer wait.
Who’s pressed by duns and creditors irate!
All rush unto the Pawnbroker, the friend
Who money on “ all valuables ” will lend.
They find him up a passage dark—all smiles.
Ready with what is worse than woman’s wiles.
The filthy lucre ! Him they hand the watch.
Trembling the while at what they’re like to “ cotch ”
From Father wild on reaching home again.
If watch is not sufficient—Albert chain
Must go to swell the balance I With what glee
They seize the gold and then—go on the spree!
The Pawnbroker with face and eyes agleam,
Knows well the pledge they never will redeem.
He knows he’s safe to get his “ shent per shent; ”
And if he should’nt—then the thing that’s lent
Becomes his own in three months from the date.
The money is advanced—a day too late,
And he the article sends to its fate —
In Auction Room the chain soon changes hands.
And ere the hour glass has run its sands
The watch is lost to the Ancestral Halls,
And known no more beneath those mystic balls!
Oh! well may that same sign be done in fresco I
And motto too— Sub hoc signo fioresco!!
GUARDS.


Mr. P. J. Clark.
To the well-known and popular gentleman with
whose portrait we this week present our readers
the amateur and the professional rowing interest
are alike under a deep debt of gratitude. Mr. P.
J. Clark, who is a native of Sydney and now
“ rising 33 ” years of age, has been an enthusiast
in athletics since his school-boy days. He first
came prominently before the Australian rowing
world on 9th November, 1871, when, at Balmain
Regatta, he rowed No. 2 in the S.R.C. Senior
Four—who finished ahead of the Parramatta crew
but were debarred from winning through " no race
having been declared by the umpire on account of
the occurrence of a foul. In 1873 and 1874, at
Balmain, he pulled stroke for the victorious S.R.C.
four. At Balmain Regatta, 1575, he was again
stroke in the winning four, and on the same after-
noon rowed a winning stroke in the four-pair
scull event. In 1876 he rowed No. 2in the winning
senior four at Balmain, and in the following year,
at the same regatta, he stroked the S.R.C. Four,
beating the representatives of Tasmania and
another crew from his own club. In 1877, too, he
won the champion amateur sculling race in out-
riggers, defeating Messrs. Bell and Arthur ; the
last-named gentleman, with Messrs. Cope and
Brett, being again beaten by him in 1878 for the
amateur championship. He has been victorious
on the only throe occasions on which he has com-
peted at Anniversary.Regatta —viz., in 1871, when
with his brother, Mr. D. A. Clark, he won the
double-scull race; in 1878, when he stroked the
S.R.C. Senior Four, beating the M.R.C.; and in
1879, when the M.R.C. Senior Four and a crew
from Launceston succumbed to the S.R.C. Senior
Four, stroked by him. In the intercolonial four
race, Victoria v. New South Wales, decided on the
Parramatta River in September, 1874, he rowed
No. 2 in the boat which carried the fortunes of
this colony, and which was brought to victory by the
dashing stroke of Mr. Arthur Fitzhardinge. Mr.
Clark is literally the hero of a hundred fights, for
in addition to taking part in the important contests
above enumerated he has won club single and
double-sculls and four-oared and eight-oared
events innumerable. He now takes a paternal kind
of interest in all descriptions of manly sport, and
in Sydney occupies a somewhat similar position to
that which was formerly filled in Melbourne by our
old friend John Conway, who used to prowl round
school and college playgrounds, looking, in his
own words, “for likely youngsters ” on whom to
exercise his coaching-up powers. Mr. Clark is an
excellent illustration of mens sana in corpore snno,
and is, in a word, a man who in his love of British
sports will always be a boy. On a recent occasion
he volunteered the statement that his rowing
weight was 12st. 21b. We presume he meant that
this was what it used to be; but we are glad to
say that in his manly form is still recognisable the
“ Jim Clark ” of old, with muscles like those of
the fighting Hercules.
Edward Trickett, the Sculling Champion.
That the keen interest which for many years
attached to aquatic matters in New South
Wales has for a little while past been on the wane,
is due to but one cause. Edward Triokett, with
whose portrait we to-day present our readers,
has so completely overshadowed every competitor
as to render all contests other than those in which
part is taken by him of comparatively little public
moment. The scullers against whom he was last
pitted were good men and true, but from Sadler
to Layoock no man ever so closely competed with
Trickott as to enable an exact estimate to be
formed of the present champion’s abilities. Since
the day that ho perfected himself in rowing he has
nevewiK-ien (Wsiuerea go= match. He bore away
i.jEajsc *.ews? . •- J
from England the championship of the world, and
it was not his fault that Sadler, who, from his
weight, could never reasonably have been expected
to be his match, was a comparatively stale man,
or that no other Englishman took up the sculls to
maintain the theretofore undisputed aquatic su-
premacy of the mother country. Trickett, never
having found a really worthy competitor,
may be said to have for some years past
rested on his oars. The only contests he has en-
gaged in since his return from England have been
with men whom he defeated with the greatest of
ease, and who either had been rowing for too
many years or had commenced too late in life to
justify the colony in reposing much confidence in
their powers had Trickett not been to the fore.
But the matter is after all one of comparison, and
it is perhaps because we have had a glimpse of the
wonderful powers of Trickett and have witnessed
the consummate ease with which he has disposed
of all antagonists, that we are now led to regard
somewhat lightly such excellent scullers and
plucky men as Rush and Laycock. It is per-
fectly plain, not only that we have no one in
the colony likely to wrest the championship from
Trickett while he retains his present “ form,” but
that there is not the smallest probability of the
much-vaunted Hanlan, the Bluebeard of rowing
men, coining to these shores. Efforts have
been made to induce Trickott to visit Ame-
rica and scull against the cracks of Canada
and the States; but, viewing the low state of
morality which pervades matters aquatic in
America —as evidenced by the disgraceful disclo-
sures made in regard to the recent Hanlan v.
Courtney match—we think that the Australian
public would not regard with a great amount of
favour any proposal for a match in which the
champion would be exposed to the risk of foul
play. It is the undoubted right of New South
Wales that the sculling championship of the
world should be contested on the Parramatta;
but as an uncontested championship would be a
empty honor, and as Trickett is ready and anxious
once more to do battle for the credit of the colony,
it may be well, if the mountain will not come to
Moses, to send Moses to the mountain. Viewed
from a public standpoint, another victory by
Trickett over the next best man would be a
splendid national advertisement, while the con-
tingency of our champion’s defeat would involve
no disgrace. We trust that Trickett will ere long
be able so to arrange his business affairs as to be
in a position to visit England and to throw down
on neutral waters the gauntlet which has fo'r nigh
four years floated on the Parramatta. Let him
only intimate that he is ready to go and the public,
we are sure, will gladly facilitate his homeward
movements. It would, too, arouse all the en-
thusiasm of a few years ago, were it announced
that the champion had once more placed himself
under the wing of Mr. James Punch, whose able
management contributed so much to the success
of the colony on the Thames. If Messrs. Punch
and Trickett now have any private differences,
these should be easily capable of adjustment.
Trickett, on a recent occasion, spoke in very high
terms of his old patron, and acknowledged the
obligations under which he lay to him ; and from
what we know of Mr. Punch we are confident that
he is too public-spirited, and that he has too
genuine a love of sport to allow anything to stand
in the way of the advancement of aquatic interests,
or of the fulfilment of a well-grounded general
wish. The champion is now at his very best, and
lot us hope that ere years force him to relinquish
the title he so fairly won, he will have one more
opportunity of convincing the world at large that
he is a better oarsman than any of his own or of any
previous generation. Trickatt’s defeat of Sadler
was a “ famous victory” for the colonial man ;
but unless our representative measures blades
with and settles the pretensions of the present
American champion, we shall in time to come, when
looking back on Trickett’s career, be more apt to
regret the glories that we missed than those which
fell to our lot.
“A Dish of Trifle.”
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Disturbing the Grave —Pinching “Oily Gammon.”
The Changeable Card —Davy B.
The Reversible Card —John Davies.
The New Card— The Leviathan Show.
The Correct Card— Mathieu.
The Straight Card— The Bulletin.
The Picture Card — “Our Artist.”
The Wom-out Card— A circus joke.
The Safe Card— The A.M.P.S.
The Slow Card— The Lands Department.
T'Uo a, 10 OT rwi 5" The man who borrows someone
The Queer Card- ( e lse’s of The Bulletin.
The Court Cards — The E. N. and T. & C. J.
Materials for a speech from the throne ; Large asphalt,
small orange-peel.
On what did night fall ?
TJis power of the Press. —The S. M. Herald has suc-
ceeded in reducing the Irish province of Ulster to a
county: vide News of the Day and Cablegram in issue of
2Sth ultimo. Could not that journal be employed to
prevent the extension of Russian territory ?
Nursery Jingles re-dressed, and now addressed to S. P. ;—
1. Hey diddle, diddle, a clause about the middle of a
wee Government Bill, which came o’ersoon. The two
Knights they laughed to see such sport, while the poor
denoms. “cuss” and fume. 2. Davy’s skill Free Trade
didn’t kill; blonde Reid he also tried to slaughter. But
Free Trade’s renown, in this young town, still lives.
AVhat will D. next be after ?
A Weather Report. —If from the West or Sowik’leomes
Rain, ford and Pool will alike be impassible, and, by the
Sea, graves now open will be filled. Oh Dear, when will
you be Done? Ask her if the subject could be Damp{i)er.
Oh, no, don’t hurt Her so.
LANFRE.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
III.— AMATEUR, CRITICS.
My dear Bean-Blossom, —
This afternoon it is not concert, bnt pianoforte
“recitals,” on divers pianos, in different courts. The
one that I find myself near is a “ Brinsmead,” played
upon hy Madame “Cecilia Snmmerhayes.” She has
quite a crowd round her, in a semicircle, and were it
not for the stout woollen cord stretched across the
“Brinsmead” stand for her protection—the crowd, or a
portion of it, are of a demonstrative, greedy, not-to-
MR. P. J. CLARK.
EDWARD TRICKETT, THE SCULLING CHAMPION.
be-repulsed nature —they would almost sit in lier lap
while she played. And she is hut a timid, well-dressed
little foreigner, with more power and executioniin her
delicate little hands than many of the not too select
crowd have in their whole body. Her dress, simplicity
itself, and yet thoroughly artistic and lady like. Near
the woollen cord stand two ladies, not sisters, and yet
so much alike in dress and style that most people think
they are, especially as they always appear together.
The one with the pretty simpering face, not strictly
intellectual or refined, hair slightly inclined to aubuMQ,
worn in a few stray curls on the forehead. Costiqne


His Excellency the Governor of Queensland
and Miss Kennedy leave for England about the middle
of March on urgent private business. They expect to
return to Queensland by the end of the present
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
Tabby, of the Herald, has had her claws cut.
At first she took fright at being left in the rear
nd unnoticed, but after her first caterwauling-
spit at the artists who are now gladdening us
with exquisite music, instructing us in art, and
giving our great Herald critic the opportunity
of displaying her ignorance, which is, of course,
better than the knowledge of European writers,
she sang a purring paean of praise and willingly
gave her paws into the hands of the claw-cutter. But
nature will out; and finding that kissing an old dame
would not go by any sort of favour, and that
nothing came of her attempt at toadying, she spit
out harmless venom again on Saturday morning.
Afraid, however, of scratching the principal, she
snarls at the agent, or management, for not sup-
plying her with the names of the encores. Who-
ever heard of a critic obtaining information
second-hand through the ante-rooms of concert-
halls or the coulisses of theatres, and then passing
it oft - as original ?
Surely it is not expected that a critic should
know or remember every new piece of music that
is published, and there is no disgrace in the
acknowledgment. But it is expected that critics
should be acquainted with things in music known
to every child. Still, the amiable tabby is no doubt
of opinion that “ where ignorance is bliss ’tis folly
to be wise and it is evidently bliss to her to be
ignorant of common things; the uncommon is what
she desires to be “ great on.” It is easily under-
stood how necessary it is for dame Tabitha to send
behind for encores when, with a long sentence
descriptive of the peculiarities of his music she
ascribes to Sir Henry Bishop the well-known
“ Where the bee sucks,” of Dr. Arne (and the
Evening Shadow of the Herald sagely repeats
the blunder): and describes—as if it were quite
new and unknown —an impressive air by Servais,
an equally well-known (by every child who plays a
dozen pieces) waltz by Beethoven —“ Le Desir,”
arranged and variated for the violoncello by Ser-
vais. Oh, Tabitha ; after that the deluge for you !
So Mr. P. A. Jennings is not to go off without
paying the penalty of greatness. He is to be
asked to receive .£lOOO for his disinterested ser-
vices on behalf of the country. Mr. Jennings
has for so long enjoyed the esteem and confidence
of the citizens of Sydney, the people of the country,
and the members of the Government, that it could
not be for honour that he has worked for the
benefit of his country by day and night. Night F
What is knighthood to him? No, a handsome
nightcap in the shape of a thousand-pound souve-
nir will be the best recompense for him as a poor
man, and the poor man’s friend ; at least so says
Mr. W. B. Campbell in a letter to the Herald. A
thousand a year either in money or its equivalen
is no bad return for the pleasant honour of am
Executive Commissionership ; it would certainly
be more lasting than the evanescent glories of a
dinner, which is forgotten as soon as it is digested.
Gratuitous services are not generally worth much,
and when we hear of extraordinary generosity in
undertaking duties solely for patriotic ends, or
out of pure love for the cause, we generally make
a shrewd guess as to what is to be the end of it.
The Herald’s telegram from Melbourne on
Tuesday says :
“ The Berry Government has resigned.—Mr. Berry
now finds it unnecessary to appoint another judge or an
agent-general—The weather has now cleared.”
We should think so. After the country has been by
a severe storm cleared of the Berry pestilence, of
a Judge O’Loghlen dispensation, and an Agent-
General Berry visitation the atmosphere must be
cleared, and the weather comparatively cool.
These political storms are not without their great
advantages.
When will people, who profess to be somebodies,
and sit in high places, and visit the dress circle
and front seats of our theatres and concert halls,
learn how to conduct themselves in public P That
Nature makes the man, manners the gentleman—
or gentlewoman ? How long will it take them to
knock off the uncouth savagery which sticks to
their descent, and be taught that the first and
most marked illustration of bad breeding is to be
offensive to one’s neighbors'? If people don’t
like music or have not the taste to appreciate the
highest display of art why do they go to concerts
to display their ignorance and be an annoyance to
those around them P On Friday night we had the
misfortune to have near us—on the. second back
row of the centre division in the dress circle, at
the Patti concerts—a little chattering monkey—
well, a girl. She was pretty enough as girls go
now-a-days, who are all paint and puff-out, with
light hair and laughing eyes : and Mr. He, who was
with her, might have been terribly in love with
her : we hated her- —for the time being—for she
kept up one incessant running stream of babble —
about nothing—spoiling some of the finest runs
and most delicate notes of “La Diva,” and
materially injuring De Munck’s richest passages.
We don’t know who it was : but if anyone will
send us her portrait wo will show her up, and
hand her down to everlasting fame in The
Bulletin portrait gallery. Such little oats
should mew at home. On Monday evening, in the
same part of the house, but two rows nearer the
front, was a biped in human form, a most asinine
donkey, whose vulgar clack (no better word) would
have been scouted as a nuisance in his own family
circle. He was one of a party of four, and the
others seemed positively ashamed of him. He had
evidently been betrayed by his womankind into
paying money for what he knew nothing about,
and his vulgar little tongue was determined to
take it out in abuse. Nothing pleased him. He
was a nuisance. Is there not means of abolishing
such nuisances where the law of good breeding is
disregarded ? Amongst other arrant nonsense, he
talked learnedly about singing at cafes chantants —
which was the last point we wanted to convince us
that he had been the keeper of one himself.
The correspondence respecting the offer of the
Agent-Generalship to Sir John Robertson has been
laid on the table of the House by resolution. It
consists of two rather lengthy letters (the second
especially so), written by the Premier to his col-
league, the V.P. of the Council, and the reply of
the V.P. to the Premier. They are in the usual
foreign Machiavellian language, euphemistically
used by statesmen ; but possessing the key to the
method we boil down the letters to their actual
meaning for the benefit of budding bureaucrats
Colonial Secretary's Office,
October 30th, 1879.
My dear Robertson,—As long as you are amongst us
I haven’t a moment’s peace of mind. Take the Agent-
Generalship and —the deuce take you—be ofi.
Unfaithfully yours.
HENRY PAUSES.
Clovelly, 22nd October, 1879.
My dear Parkes,—See you blowed first: go to blazes.
Yours sneeringly.
JOHN ROBERTSON.
“ Under the New Dispensation,” is the motto
of the new ultra-aristocratic religious society-
formed by the Government House party with his
Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus as the head, and
a well-known society tuft-hunter as the tail. Ihe
pale blue and pompadour silk, perfect at all points, with
the exception of her gloves, which are soiled and a size
too small for the hands they cover. There are two un-
mistakable signs of gentility in man or woman: A lady
or gentleman by birth never fails to wear good gloves
and boots. The friend was almost similar in style;
only, while the young matron in pompadour coquetted
with the gentlemen in attendance, the cousin, sister, or
friend, only gave languishing smiles and rolled her
eyes now here, now there, in sweet, modest confusion.
They criticised the music, and the musician, as though
they themselves were mistresses of the art, spread out
their hands to show the way in which the poor little
pianiste should play, if she only knew how, and all the
time their remarks were as out of place as they were
uncalled for—but then, to be fashionable, we must be
critical! The thoroughly well played and equally well
selected morqcaux having been concluded, these would-
be lady critics lingered to take in every item of the
brilliant little pianiste’s dress—another fashionable
trait —and doubtless they will understand that better
than “Beethoven’s” soul-stirring melodies. From the
piano “recital” they dawdle round with an exhibitor or
two, to talk on all sorts of subjects, and air their gen-
tility and gene r al urbanity to that delightful shop-
keeper. What i the charm in these young men P The
women alone Perhaps it is the novelty of
having left the p ” at home and only brought out a
case or two of show articles, along with their Sunday
suit, to air both them and themselves to boot in our
sunny Australian land—to make whit impression they
can on the girls' plastic hearts, who are not often in the
habit of receiving so many smart compliments from so
many smart young men, backed up as those compliments
o often are with a gift from the" show-case” of soap—not
soft soap—or scent. And then they are so attentive, lift
their hats so politely, bow so deferentially, and when in-
timacy ripens, squeeze one’s hind so delightfully as
they wish you * good-bye at the door.’
Yours critically.
young friends can testify. He has a large circle of
acquaintance; is a regular diner-out; can tell good
wine, and drink it with judgment. He loves to hold his
glass of good old port—always brought to table in the
bottle—between him and the light, and note how the
oily beads cling round the glass. “ A test of age, sir,”
he remarks to his neighbour, as he sips it quietly. He
leaves claret and hock to the young men, and chain,
pague to the ladies. He entertains frequently at his
club, where he is looked upon as an oracle. He is good
to his young relations when in town; if nephews, he
introduces them carefully to his set; not only treats
them to the theatre, but goes with them, enters into
their boyish enthusiasm, tones down their outspoken
admiration for the ballet girls, and between the acts
trots round with them to introduce to his lady friends;
tips them freely, gives them little lectures on dress and
deportment, neyer allows pipes or half-used cigars to be
seen on his hall table. If the young fellows are only
honest and open-hearted, confiding implicitly in him,
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
IV.— THE MODEL BACHELOR.
Bachelors are a very varied race. There is your guy
young bachelor, famous for his dinners and his select
little luncheons, as well as for his “water parties,”
where the ladies are—well, not his sisters, or his cousins,
or his aunts—but pretty, plump, bright-eyed Hebes who
figure in the “ ballet,” or are the ladies who take the
heroine’s part in some highly sensational drama, on
whom he wastes his substance, while they please his
rather fickle fancy. They, for their part, like the
butterfly, enjoy themselves and bask in the summer of
his smiles and his purse; are content, when winter
comes and our bachelor tires of their painted charms,
to warm their pretty little feet at someone else’s fire-
side. Again, there is your precociously steady young'
bachelor, living in chambers and reading hard, who
attends all lectures, eats all the necessary dinners, and
finally eats his way to the “bar." Once there, he, in
turn, gives dinners—strictly professional ones—where
the viands are good, also the wine, and only the speeches
are dry. In “recess” he makes up his mind and slips
his head into the matrimonial noose, and becomes, if
possible, a still more respectable member of Society.
But the bachelor who is to be the subject of this
paper is of quite a different type. He is a steady going.
deferring to his judgment as their ultimatum, he con-
dones a good many of their boyish escapades, and if
necessary, has been known to make all smooth for them
when they start in life. With his lady friends he is
punctiliously polite, is fond of woman’s society—when
married or very young. He makes up pic-nic parties to
the races, where he provides the hamper full of good
things, bets gloves unlimited with all the girls, allows
himself to be dragged into the saddling yard by enthu-
siastic youths eager for his opinion on the coming race;
and just as clearing bell rings, is seen- making his way
bock, not quite so dignified in deportment as " Bean
Brummel” would have liked. But no matter, he is out
for the day with the young people, and although he
frowns on a tattered gipsy who lingers near to tell his
fortune, while he says “no, no, go home, it’s the bees
place for you,” his hand is slowly coming out of hit
pocket, and his eye rests kindly on the poor hungry-
looking woman as he drops more than one piece of
PEA-BLOSSOM.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
MRS. J. C. DIBBS. MR. SHEPHERD M.L.A.
(The principal parties in the Great Slander Case).
**** “ True, the people of this great country may be hequally divided about the site of this yere light’ouse. But hi say hagain, hany henterference with the grand constitutional
principles on which light ouses are built should never (Cheers and renewed screams from the sea-gulls). But if so be —” &c., &c. —Extract from Sir Henry’s peroration at South Head.
middle-aged man, who pooh-poohs matrimony, and in
his heart is afraid of every lady in the circle of his
acquaintance; at least, of all those who verge on
middle age, whose virginal hearts are all in a flutter if
he asks them to be his partners—not for life, hut for
whist—and the consequences are, that in their confu-
sion they lose the game, and he his temper. He has
his room at the “ clnb,” his box at the “ theatre,” his
name heads a few charities, and his purse helps many
more that the world hears very little about. His
ppearanoe is always that of a gentleman; at breakfast
e is as carefully shaved and brushed as at any other
our of the day ; later on, he seems himself on ’Changes,
where he is well known, feared by a few, respected by
a D. In money matters he is careful, never dabbles in
shares or lends his name In order to float a doubtful
company; yet he is generous, as more than one of bis
money into her hand. Then he turns and apologises to
his hostess —for the day—and the luncheon being all
spread he is besieged by cries of “ sit by me, uncle; ”
“ here’s your place, sir; ” and the deeper tones of Pater-
familias, “don’t mind those youngsters, Brown, come
along-side me.” He never repents giving these fetes to
the young, and bears the burden and heat of the day
without a murmur; but in the sweet retirement of his
own library, with loose wrapper, easy slippers, a maga-
zine or two freshly cut, the windows well up to let in
the soft evening air, he draws a deep breath and thanks
his stars he is still a “ Bachelor.”
5
BXarch 6, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


head-quarters of the society are St. Mark’s
Church, and the special meetings take place every
Sunday evening. Since the foundation of the new
sect every seat in every pew has been let, and the
reverend incumbent has risen much in favour.
Mr. Tuft-Hunter, who from doing nothing on the
theatrical stage has risen to have_ nothing to do as
a nominal employe of the British Government,
with a high salary and pickings, is the “ whipper-
in” of the society, driving up all the tabbies,
toadies, and tuft-hunters of the neighbourhood
so assiduously as to render the consequences terri-
ble should an uninitiated visitor be so unfortunate
as to sit down in the first unfilled seat.
Yes, horsey Sir Hercules might do very well for
people of stable mind like our squatting squires
—birds of a feather, you know —but to dear, ele-
gant, distingue Touch-me-not Tuft-hunter, who
was not made much of under the Herculean dis-
pensation, and who had for so long a time looked
longingly back to the days when Somerset Richard,
Lord of Belmore, was ruler in the land ; there is
nothing like a live lord to make him feel happy.
It is delicious to see him behind “My lord” and
“ my lady” at vespers, his aristocratic nose high
in air, as with his melodious bass he chants (in
reply to the canticle) —which he does whether in
the service for the day or not, “ I would rather be
a servant in the house of My Lord under
the New Dispensation.”
’ There are some men who are heroes by nature
though they may not have the opportunity of dis-
playing their natural prowess in deeds of daring.
Such a man was the railway guard, Drinan, on
the Ararat and Bendigo railway, who, having to
stop his train mid-way between two stations in
consequence of one of the trucks being on fire,
and knowing that another train was careering at
full speed on the same line with only ten minutes
of time between them, during which it would be
impossible for him to move his own train onward,
snatched up the danger signal, ran for over a mile
along the line, roused the station masters to hoist
their danger signals, and at the risk of his life
continued his race up the line to meet_ the ap-
proaching train, waving his flag almost in blank
despair. His frantic efforts could not go unre-
warded. Almost breathless with excitement and
anxiety, he saw the approaching train slacken
speed. A fearful accident was averted _by the
thoughtful presence of mind and intrepidity of
one man. Of such stuff come our Balaklaya
heroes : give but the opportunity, and the man is
there. We have spoken of giving
some recognition to station-master
Richardson, for doing his duty at Para-
matta, in telling the people to alight
from the carriages when he saw ano-
ther train coming: but the page of
Australian history should record a
deed of thoughtful daring of which
a nation might be proud.
Libels seem to be flying about on
libellulline wings ; if not in little barks
s at least in little paragraphs. Im-
punity begets impudence: neverthe-
less, duty to the public sometimes
calls forexposure. The Heeald’s
evening shadow —the Echo —speaking
of the Patti concerts, says : —“ The
non-arrival of these artists (Henry
Kotten, the pianist, and Toedt, the
tenor) has by many been considered a
breach of faith.” If this is not a libel
on the part of the “ many,” we should
like to know what is. But who are
the many ? and is not the Echo the
chief of them, the organ of them,
the echo of them ? Taken in conjunc-
tion with whatappearedintheHEEALD
on the same subject, it directly ac-
cuses (by implication) the management
of a broach of faith with the public ?
One might as well accuse the He bald
or the Echo of a breach of faith with
the public in not supplying their
readers with proper criticisms when
artists come to this country.
Like everything else connected with
the management of the Exhibition the
rewards seem to be now the bone of
contention, over which many a quar-
rel will be picked. After keeping the ex-
hibitors or Commissioners designedly
dancing dreary attendance day after
day for months, because of the utter
inability of those on whom the duty
devolved to !make the necessary ar-
rangements for the selection and meet-
ing of the judges, the plan on which
the awards are made seems so utterly
preposterous as perfectly to betray
the state of brain of those who sug-
gested it. The products and exhibits of
each country are kept separate, so that as regards
the medals the International Exhibition will be
robbed of its internationality. According to this
system judges might have been chosen for each
country consisting of people belonging to that
country to award prizes only for their own ex-
hibits, and there might have been a series of small
national exhibitions entirely independent of one
another. Or each country might beg or borrow a
jury, or set of judges, from its next door neigh-
bour, on the “Scraitch me and I’ll scraitch you”
principle.
The Darling Harbour Trade.
There can be no question that the growing im-
portance of the trade of Darling Harbour will,
sooner or later, force the Government to turn
their attention in that quarter of the city.
Railway extension along the wharves is locally con-
sidered inevitable, as the maritime and produce
trade of the port is quickly centring itself there.
On this important question much requires to be
pointed out, and in The Bulletin at least a fair
representation of the claims of Darling Harbour
will be found we trust in every issue till a change
is wrought. The stores shown in the engraving
arc known as the Market Wharf Stores. They
wore built by Mr. Alexander Kethel, who holds
the property under lease from the Municipal
Council., They have a handsome and imposing
front of 107 ft. to Wharf-street with a depth of
60ft. towards the wharf. They are very commo-
qious , and built with the view to give every facility
t° r trade. They are now occupied
by Mr. A.. Kethel, Mr. H. Hyam, Mu J. H.
Knibbs, and Messrs. Hall, Prince, and Co., and
hereabouts is done the chief business of this part
of Darling Harbour. With regard to
Mr. Kethel’s Business,
he was careful, in settling about the erection of these
stores, to endeavour to meet a want long felt by
shippers of produce from Now Zealand, South
Australia, and Victoria. The little facility offered
by private wharf-owners demanded the erection of
stores where vessels would meet with ready des-
patch, and where produce in the way of grain,
&c., could bo cheaply and safely stored. On the
wharf there is a shed 200 feet by 40 feet for the
storage of perishable produce from the moment it
leaves the ship’s side; and the portion of the
store occupied by Mr. Kethel is capable of holding
5000 tons. Five large intercolonial vessels or ten
coasters can here be berthed, and here are the
usual requisites in the way of steam hoists, weigh-
bridge, &c. In this respect no other wharf in the
port surpasses the Market Wharf, and to Mr.
Kethel may be given the credit in erecting these
stores, extending his jetties, &c., of bringing
about an entire change in the attitude of wharf-
owners to shippers in this and the adjoining
colony. Mr. Kethel, besides being engaged in this
important branch of trade, carries on the business
of a wholesale timber merchant. His vessels
trading from the Northern rivers supply all the
sawmills in the metropolis, and do perhaps the
largest business in this line in Sydney. The
store adjoining Mr. Kethel’s is occupied by
Mr. H. Hyam, Produce Merahant,
who does a large and increasing wholesale business
in the hay, bran, feeding grains, and the general
forage line. He is about the largest buyers of
hay in Sydney, and speculates extensively in feeding
grains in New Zealand, South Australia and Vic-
toria. Mr. Hyam carried on business for twelve
years at the A.S.N. Co.’s wharf, and being unable
to follow the company round to the Circular Quay,
removed into the Market Wharf stores, where he
has held and greatly developed his connection.
The business is strictly wholesale, and promises
to be yet more extensive. Mr. Hyam likewise
does a good trade in hardwood in connection with
his own and brothers’ sawmills at Yerriyong,
Shoalhaven Kiver. The
'Promising Industry which Mr. Knibbs
carries on in the adjoining stores affords another
proof of what may be accomplished by energy and
good judgment, without the fictitious aid of pro-
tection. His work has already won the highest
encomiums and the highest awards at several of
our exhibitions, and he is now, judging from tes-
timonials from the most influential houses in town,
completely surpassing English and American belt-
ing in point of workmanship and durability. He
has certainly bettered the celebrated American
cement belting. Not only has his manufacture
the cement and the rivetting, like the American,
but it has also the sewing or stitching to prevent
splitting, which soon occurs with the American
make. The stitches are sunk so as to allow of a
full grip of the pulley by the belt, and at the same
time save the stitching from wear. It is this
splendid workmanship that enables Mr. Knibbs to
hold the principal portion of the Sydney trade, to
deal with New Zealand and Queensland, and, spite
of a2O per cent, duty to compete successfully
with the protected Victorians in his own market.
Mr. Knibbs still does business with Melbourne
houses. Spite of the 20 per cent, duty, carriage
charges, &c., he recently obtained his list prices
at Ballarat, and continues to do business there.
We would advise a visit to this important factory.
In closing our remarks about the Australasian
Patent Mill Bolt Works it may be noted that Mr.
Knibbs does a large business in oils and other
requisites of the factory. With respect to the
business of
Messes. Hall, Peince, and Co.
we have now to speak of one of the principal
firms in the metropolis in the produce trade of
New South Wales, and of a firm which has lately
done more for the produce interest than can well
now be calculated. Mr. Hall was, till a few years
back, a member of Anderson, Hall and Co., the
seed merchants, one of the oldest firms in the
colony. Joining with Mr. Prince, they purchased
the business of Mr. Clarke on his retiring from
tho_ produce trade, and they have since extended
their connection to almost every inland town of
this_ colony and every port in the six colonies.
Their business in the grain trade is the principal
one of this port, and in this line they have
both a foreign and an intercolonial connection of
daily increasing dimensions. In seeds and agri-
cultural requirements a good business is done,
Mr. Hall giving these departments his special
attention. Mr. Prince manages the Darling
Harbour railway produce auction business, of
which the firm does fully 80 per cent. Their
business here alone is enormous, and they may be
said to have a connection with the agricultural
interest larger than was ever enjoyed by anyone
in the metropolis. Mr. Prince has lately fought
a great battle for the farming interest, and con-
tinues still to fight one with respect to the existing
railway rates. We have no room in this issue to
speak further on this point, but in our next will
strive, with the assistance of the last-named gen-
tleman, to lay before our readers in the country a
I a fair aspect of the whole case of the railway
charges and the produce trade. We hare no fear
of the investigation or the discussion. And as
already stated, we will draw public attention to
the requirements of Darling Harbour.
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society.
A Geoup of Facts on Life Assueance.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society is the
oldest and the leading life assurance society of
Australia. It was founded in 1849, just thirty-one
years ago.
Reviewing the sixth quinquennial report, the
London Insueance Monitoe strongly endorses
the closing sentence of Mr. Black’s remarks that
“ such an institution may well be the boast of
Australasia, and the special pride of Sydney, the
city of its foundation.”
The new premium income of the sth
year, 1854, was £3,877, but it rapidly
increased to £21,597 in 1868, £41,542 in 1873, and
finally £73,142 in 1878.
This excels all life assurance business
done by any one society, not only in Australia,
but throughout the whole British Empire.
The new assurances for the last reported
year (1878) amount to £2,175,942 which is
a larger sum than has ever been obtained in a
single year by any office in Great Britain or the
colonies. How is that for high ?
All the old policies have been held on to with re-
markable tenacity. Of the 46,314 policies issued for
seventeen and a half millions there remained in
force at the close of the 30th year 35,218 policies
for thirteen and a quarter millions.
In the thirty years only 6,217 policies lapsed or
expired.
In the last quinquennial, during which the
business exhibits another rapid jump, 23,353 poli-
cies were issued for eight and a quarter millions,
and only 3,299 policies for £1,062,884 lapsed.
These features are taken by the English Press as
a most favourable indication of a very stable busi-
ness.
The management of the Society exhibits due
economy. The expenses, including commission,
have been only 15‘8 per cent of the premiums.
The cost of management during the last five
years has decreased from 16 33 in 1874 to 14 - 32 in
1878.
An enormous solid income has thus been secured
at a small cost. Of a total receipt from premiums
and annuities of 3$ millions, over 2| millions re-
main in hand.
The death claims during the3o years, amounting
to £923,232, were more than covered by the interest
on the funds, which amounted to <£946,226, so that
no portion of the premiums paid has been required
to meet the claims.
The assets of the Society, which increased from
.£1,313,853 in 1873 to <£2,638,985 at the close of the
quinquennial period, are invested to produce 6'225
per cent or nearly one per cent in excess of the pre-
vious average.
The expected mortality in respect of policies
5 Jyears and under, for the period under review
was 424 for <£158,878, but that experienced was
229 for <£37,968, leaving a difference in favour of
the Society of 195 for <£70,910.
The new offices of the Society will be ready for
occupation within two months.
How the Australian Mutual Provident Society
was formed is thus told by Professor Smith: —
“ The Rev. Canon Walsh was the instrument, the
Hon. Thomas Holt the performer, the Professor
the bellows-blower, and every man they met at
the time a chorus to Mr. Holt’s solo.”
The society is now spoken of as “standing
before the world as a life assurance institution
that has achieved unparalled success. For
stability it is unsurpassed, for the profit it has
realised and divided it is unexcelled, and for the
liberality of its business arrangements it is
matchless.”
Life assurance is now strongly recommended by
all thoughtful men. Besides being in itself a
provident step, it leads to a provident life in other
ways.
For instance, H. B. insured in 1849 for <£3oo ;
he died in 1877, and his representatives received
<£7Bl.
Policy No. 4, dated in 1849, and still in force,
for ,£250, amounted on the 31st December to
<£674.
A lady in August, 1850, purchased an annuity
of .£45, after paying for it £3OO. As she is still
enjoying her annuity, our readers can amuse
themselves by calculating the rate of interest on
her investment.
Ladies and Lizards.
From Melbourne we hear that ladies are this autumn
to be changed to lizards. Not only is lizard green to
be the fashionable colour, but a “lizard toilet” has
been introduced which, in the bright sunshine, is very
effective. The robe —bright yellow and lizard green—is
the reptile’s body, the train its tail, and a more life-
like lizard was never seen. The lizard in question was
tall and slight, or the effect might not have been so
good. In only one respect will the likeness be imper-
fect. The real lizard is a harmless, good-tempered,
inexpensive little creature, which never goes into
milliners’ shops. There is a man on The Bulletin who
has made pets of lizards. He has an inexpressible
yearning to clasp one of the new sort around the waist
and call her “ my dear little igu-anna.”
THE DARLING HARBOUR TRADE—THE MAERET WARF STORES.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER I.
OF AN ABSENTEE EMPLOYER.
“ The perfection of mechanism, human and metallic.”
You at any rate, Lancashire reader, know this
place ; the large, somewhat low room; the long
lines of looms ; the wheels, straps, and beams ; the
dimness of the dust-laden atmosphere. You know,
too, the roar of noise—how deafening, stunning*
and overwhelming it is to the stranger who may
happen casually to encounter it, yet how easily
those in the habit of working in it can make them-
selves intelligible to one another. You know all
this, and your accustomed eye recognises at once
one division of the weaving shed ” of a large cot-
ton factory; which forms, with its perfect mechan-
ism, the metallic and the human,” a most won-
derful sight to any eyes but the too careless or the
too accustomed.
There is an air of calm, leisurely ease about the
process, which might be apt to lead the uninitiated
astray, and make him suppose that not so much
accuracy of eye, delicacy of manipulation, sensi-
tiveness of touch, were required as is really the
case. Which are the most alive—the girls in the
cotton dresses, and the men in their fustian clothes
who move lightly to and fro, adjusting their work*
keeping watch and ward over the
flying shuttle ; or that flying shuttle
itself, which seems instinctwith vitality
darting with vivid, almost oppres-
sifs regularity of activity backwards
and forwards —indulging sometimes in
a malicious vagary, worthy of a
human bemg, such as flying suddenly
°, u * . fro “ groove, and perhaps
striking its fellow-worker a sharp blow
on the forehead, or in the eye? It
wouid be difficult to say—the defini-
tion at the head of the chapter forms
also the best description of the whole
the perfection of mechanism
human and metallic.”
It was during the afternoon hours of
work; the day’s labour was drawing
to a clo8e ; the great ceaseless roar
and buzz and rush seemed to grow
rhythmic, harmonious in its monoto-
noua continuity—through the thick-
ribbed panes of glass, distorted yel-
low sunbeams came streaming, golden
hazy, smoky, dusty, striking here and
there upon the face of some laughing
or languid girl; here into the eyes of
some lad—an imp of mischief—or a
youth of thoughtful and serious aspect.
That was the head over-looker who
came in, looked round, stopped the
loom of one of the said laughing* girls
fingered the cloth, remarked warn-
iftglyj Now, Sarah Alice ! this won’t
do! You must look out, or there’ll
be some mischief;” then passed on
his round, stopping more looms • ex-
amining more cloth, and then went
out of the room altogether.
A steady progression, for a time, of
the rhyth-mic toil, till the same door
was again opened, and a young man
who appeared to be of some author!
ity, stepped in, and pans 3d, notebook
andpencil in hand. This was the
second over-looker, a person who of ne-
cessity must possess a considerable
amount of intelligence, being generally,
as in this case, a working man born
and bred ; some discrimination and tact
also, since he fulfilled the duties, in
some measure, both of a workman and
superior. Besides his position aaover-
looker, ho also performed the functions of what
is known in factory parlance as “ head cut-
looker and a cut-looker is a man who examines
each piece or “ cut ” of cloth as it leaves the loom ;
notes the flaws, and deducts from the wages of the
weaver in compensation for the same. Perhaps
this “cut-looking” and over-looking may belike
criticising—they may have a tendency to produce
a turn of mind sceptical as to the merits of the
work with which the cut-looker, or the critic, has to
do. Incessant flaws, “scamped” work, broken
threads, ill-joined ends, an uneven weft, a rough
warp—the parallel is certainly a striking one;
and a long career of cut-looking, to say nothing of
criticising, may tend to make the temper quick,
and the tone just a little imperious.
The individual whose occupation was something
like criticism was a tall young man, dressed in
grey clothes, which looked in some way cleaner or
better, or different from the clothes of the others,
and a white linen jacket, which gave a cool and
airy look to the whole costume, and was far from
unbecoming to the spare, yet very strong, well-
built figure, and to the dark, handsome, sharply
cut face belonging to it.
A right workmanlike figure. There was power
and capacity—skilled power and capacity, too, in
the supple, lissome figure, in the brown hands,
long and slim, yet strong and muscular, which
looked as if they were well accustomed to do fine
work, and do it well. The loose linen jacket was
by no means new, though clean ; it bore here and
there traces of having been mended, and sat in the
easy creases and folds of a much-worn old friend
from whose shape no washing and starching can
quite banish the accustomed outline given by the
wearer’s form. Above the collar of this jacket
was a narrow line of grey waistcoat; then a white
collar, and a narrow black tie. The whole costume
was as pleasant and as becoming to look at as it
was practical, fit, and workmanlike.
The face was rather thin and rather square ; the
complexion pale. The eyes were very dark and
very steady—at the moment very quiet, though
with a touch of defiance in them which was habi-
tual ; the forehead broad and thoughtful—the level
eyebrows had a trick of contracting sharply, which
took away from the calmness which might have
seemed the dominant characteristic of the broad


Q
UEEN * S T
CONTINUED SU
of the Greai
VICTORIA LOFTUS
and
HISCOCKS’ and Hj
50 I MAMMOT)
STARS MINSTREL
THIS (Friday) EVENING
LAST NIGH
of this great PROGI
SUCCESS,
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
SUCCESS
LE CLAIR an
WATERS and
LOFTUS and
BROAVN, NE
and BEb
RICKEY and
FRIDAY, Marc!
BENEFIT
BENEFIT
BENEFIT
BENEFIT
THE PEOPLE’S FAVC
MONSTER PROGR^
Popular Prices: 3s, 2s, Is. Rese;
son and Ascherberg’s.
Kelly and
opera not
Comer King and York-
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENING
GRAND FAREWELL I
AND POSITIVELY LAST APPI
SEASON
of
THE ONLY LEO
on which occasion a monster prc
presented.
Box plan now open at Nicholson a
Kelly and
OPERA HOU!
corner King and York-i
THIS (SATURDAY) EVENI
FIRST APPEARANCE OF TH
NOWNED LINGAI
Mr. W. HORACE LINGARD, M
GARD, and their entire COM'
COMPANY,
consisting of Ladies and Gentleman
Theatres of London, Paris, and
NEW GRAND COMEDIES A
Box plan now open at Nicholson ai
The great waxwork
NOW OPEN
Opposite the Victoria Theatri
Just added, ANDREW GEOR(
Captain Moonlight, and THOMJ
Baker—the notorious Wantabadg
taken from original casts; and other
Admission, Is.; children half-price,
to 10 p.m.
DRAMATIC PEE
Will be given by
THE GARDEN PALACE DRAM
At the GUILD HAI
On MONDAY, the 22ud I]
In aid of
THE IRISH RELIEF I
H. WILL
WHEN PURCHASING F
IS DESIRABLE TO I
TENSIVE ASSORTMENT TO C
THIS DESIDERATUM CAN
TAINED at the ROYAL FUI
CADE.
THE FLORENC:
THE SARAH BEX
rp H E A T E E
Lessee M
COMPLETE TEIU
of
( PATTI-)
GRAND CONCERTS PATTI>G
(.PATTI J
Under the Management of Sign
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENE
EIGHTH PATTI CO]
A MAGNIFICENT NEW P
POPULAR SCALE OF
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.
Family Circle 2s. fid.
- Stage Boxes £3
SEATS for TO-NIGHT CAN
DAY, from 9 to 5 p.m.,
I NICHOLSON and ASCHERBE
rp H E A T R E
Under the Patronage of His Excel
the Eight Hon. LORD AUGU!
&e. &o. &c.
IMPORTANT AND SPECIAL
After an absence of several mont
Mr. SAM. EME:
Mr. Sam. Emer
Mr. Sam. Emei
Mr. Sam. Emer
will reappear on these 1
TUESDAY EVENING
in his world-wide original
CAP’EN CUTT]
In Andrew Halliday’s adaptation
work, * Dombey and Son,' entitlec
HEART'S DELK
being positive!
the Last tu
he will assume that character in tl
On this occasion he will be assis
MRS. SAM EMT
who will make 1
FIRST APPEARANCE IN
as
FLORENCE DOM
The full caste of characters will
vertised, giving the names of the 1
who will aid the occasion with the:
being set apart specially for
ME. SAM EMERY’S LAS
and
FAREWELL TO NEW SO
ICTOEIA T
Stage Manager Mr
FRIDAY and SATURDJ
March sth and (
TO-NIGHT
brow. The nose was rather long and sharp—the
month firm, and cross ; the lips looked as if they
would more readily tighten at the stupidity of
others, than part in wonder and amaze at their
cleverness —and their expression did no belie the
truth. The whole face was more clearly cut, more
decided in feature, more distinct in expression
than the faces of many—nay, of most of his class
in the same place. Perhaps it answered to a
clearer mental outline —was the distinct objective
side of a well-defined subjectivity. Be that as it
may, the figure was a manly and a good one —the
face no less so.
This young man, holding his pencil suspended
over his note-book, looked reflectively round the
room, standing erect, though the wall was just
behind him to lean upon. Walls to lean upon,
moral or material, are irresistible to some people.
His eyes fell upon the different workers as they
moved hither and thither, adjusting their work, or
stepping from one loom to another. Those eyes
presently fell upon a young woman who was stand-
ing at the far end of the room, and whose face hap-
pened to be turned towards him. Her glance met
his; they nodded and smiled to each other, and
his smile flashed across his dark face with an effect
which the smiles of fair faces and light eyes can
never have.
This young man’s name was Myles Heywood,
and the scene of his labours was the factory of
Sebastian Mallory, the largest mill and property
owner but one in the town of Thanshope, in Lan-
cashire. He was, then, clever, honest, proud to
excess, and self-opinionated, though few people
could help liking him, even when his opinions and
prejudices, with both of which articles he was well
provided, might rub against theirs. One thing de-
serves recording of him, which alone would have
shown him to be somewhat aloft from his fellow
workmen —he had no nickname; and in that dis-
trict, where often a man’s real name was quite
hidden under a cloud of bynames and nicknames,
this was at least peculiar.
Myles Heywood, after spending a few moments
looking down the shed, through the mist of cotton
fluff which made the air dim and the lungs irrita-
table, turned and went into a neighbouring room,
where they were twisting—a monotonous task—
the rapid twisting together of the ends of cotton
of twc warps, paid for at the rate of threepence
per thousand ends—a fact which had caused our
critic in the linen jacket much thought at different
times.
Out of this twisting-room into a large square
yard or court, with the engine-house and its neigh-
bouring boilers on one side; offices on another,
and the great wall of the mill on the third. On the
fourth, a blank wall and huge gates, at present
standing open, and affording a glimpse into the
dingy street.
The engineer, this warm August afternoon, was
standing in the full glow of the furnace : his face
was black, and shone as if recently it had been
anointed with oil, and grease, and coal-dust. He
paused to mop away a swarthy perspiration with
a dingy-looking handkerchief, as Myles went by,
looking clean and cool, and aggravatingly comfor-
table,
“ Hey, Myles, lad, what time dost make it? I’m
too hot to get my watch.”
“ Ten to six,” said Myles, looking at his watch.
“ The Lord be praised!” responded the engineer
piously, “ and send us a speedy deliverance. It’s
as hot as hell here of a summer afternoon, and no
jokin’. Hast had thi’ baggin P” #
* “Baggin” is not only lunch, hut any accidental
meal coming between two regular ones.
“ I don’t take baggin,” said Myles, a little con-
temptuously as he took his way to the office, where
he found a man and a boy behind a desk, on which
was a heap of gold, silver, and copper coins, and
a number of books and papers. It was Friday
afternoon —pay-day.
“ Oh, you’re there, Myles,” said the man. You
may take your wages now, if you like.”
“All right!” said Myles picking up two sover-
eigns from the heap, and slipping them into his
pocket. Then ho twisted himself over the counter
and seated himself on a high stool beside the desk.
“ By your leave. I’ll just wait here till my lass
comes, and then we’ll go home together.”
Wilson, the head over-looker and cashier, as-
sented. Myles folded his arms before him and be-
gan to whistle a tune to himself. It was the tune
of the song ‘ Life let us cherish !’ and when Myles
had nothing else to do, he generally did whistle it
—unthinkingly, almost unconsciously. While he
whistled he looked through the dingy panes of a
small window upon a prospect as dingy as the
panes.
There was nothing but a short patch of grey
looking street, and over the way the multitudinous
windows of a great foundry, from the back pre-
mises of which came loud, sonorous clangs, as of
metal striking against metal—a maddening and a
deafening sound to ears unused to it, but which,
from long habit, failed to disturb the workers in
‘ Mallory’s Factory.” It had become, not exactly
mandible to them, but part of the day’s features
as clouds, or wind, or rain. They would, to use a
Hibernicism, only have noticed it if it had left
off.
It still wanted some eight or nine minutes to the
time when the bell would ring for “ knocking off ”
work, and that interval was used by those present
to discuss with their tongues that with which their
heads happened to be concerned, for the truth is,
that out of the emptiness of the head, much oftener
than out of the fulness of the heart does the mouth
speak.
‘Hast heerd news, Myles?” enquired the lad.
The whistle ceased for a moment.
“ What news?”
We have heard say,” said the other man, as
how he’s coming home.”
“Who?”
ijson pointed northwards, over his shoulder,
with his thumb.
Oh, him !” said Myles, with again th* touch
°t _ contempt which came a little too often to his
voice. And he shrugged his shoulders—another
gesture betraying his unlikeness in temper and
temperament to those with whom he was surroun-
ded.
(( Ay, him!”
~ Is it true?”. inquired Heywood.
~ know. I’ve only heard say so.”
(( Who said so?”
, , , I believe it were one of the men at the
®Vi Mrs. Mallory’s.”
Servants’ gossip!” said Myles, trenchantly,
trying to turn up his nose. ‘ * Never
what they say. Flunkeys by trade and
rs by nature, the whole lot of ’em, or they
wouldn’t be where they are. ’ ’
a., ,I m n °ne so keen about believing everything
1 Jp ne says to me,” said Wilson, with a
offended air, “ but this seems to me so
ommon ty P r °bable. with things in the state that
ey are. Why shouldn’t he come back ?”
u "Jj why shouldn’t he ?” echoed Ben, the office
tli Pawning sense of coming pleasure in
“ m haying given Myles a poser.
« rrv! -J shouldn’t he?” began Myles.
oVi=,aHi m 2f es thre ? times as it has been said,”
“ Well?” n ’ an intelligent smile.
Noting one, keep your fingers out o£{thp pie!”
said Myles, “ and answer me this —why should
he ?”
Crestfallen silence on the part of Wilson and
Ben, till the former begun,- rather feebly:
“Well, he’s been abroad for years and years,
and when he’s a fine property like this, a-waiting
for him to step into, as it were, and a fine house,
and a fine mother ”
“ Ha, ha !” said Myles, and his laughwas by no
means one of unsophisticated enjoyment.
“ And with these things in the state that they
are,” Wilson again repeated, as if much impressed
with that state. “With these Yankees and
Southerners at it like cat and dog, and cotton go-
ing up and no prospect of any end to it yet. Mr.
Sutcliffe said to me, he says, ' Wilson, we don’t
know what’s before us yet. If I’m not much mis-
taken,’ he there’ll be a famine in the land
before this time next year.’ And I say, if a mas-
ter shouldn’t come home under these circumstan-
ces, when should heP”
“ Should ! Ought!” repeated Heywood, in sar-
castic tones ; his scornful laugh lighting his face,
and gleaming in his eyes. “ What’s that to do
with it ? I’ll tell you why he couldn’t shouldn’t,
and won’t come.”
The others settled themselves more attentively in
their positions to hear the riddle answered.
“ Because he’s proud and lazy, and likes amus-
ing himself better than working,” said Myles, with
a strong flavour of contempt and dislike in his
voice. “ Because the money’s there, and let who
may have made it, choose how they’ve sweated for
it, it s got into his hands, whether he deserves it
or not, and it’s his to do as he likes with—so he
does what he likes with it. He’s got such a mana-
ger as there isn’t another like him in Lancashire.
Mr. Sutcliffe can do anything; it’s he that has
slaved and made this business what it is—the big-
gest in Thanshope, next to Spenceley’s. He’s got
this manager, and if he chooses to think that he
hasn’t got a duty in this mortal world, except to
muddle his head with foreign politics, as I hear he
does, and amuse himself by dancing attendance on
a lot of fine ladies, and stroll about foreign coun-
tries, and stare himself blind up at pictures as big
as the side of a house, and as black as my hat, and
figures of men and women without any clothes
on ”
“Lord !” said Ben, awestruck and shocked.
“ And go rambling about, admiring scenery, and
wondering what to do with himself next—well,
what is it to us P”
As Wilson and Ben really did not see what it
was to them, but had an uncomfortable sensation
that their hitherto revered and honoured Mr. Sut-
cliffe was in some way a wronged and slighted in-
dividual, and that they ought to feel it all to be a
great deal to them, and a subject of soreness and
offence, they waited humbly for the keynote, nod-
ding their heads, and trying to look wise.
“It’s true,” went on Myles, more warmly—
it s true, he s got the big business here, which
makes his money, and hundreds of hands who
work for him, and who are, so to speak, under his
care ; and it’s true that some people—old-fashioned
idiots of course—might think that a big property
has its duties as well as its pleasures, and that a
capitalist has, or ought to have, something else to
do than take and spend his money, and never in-
quire how he got it, or what state the machine is
in that made it for him ; but what is that to us ?
If we’re going to have a famine in the land, it
would be unpleasant for a person not accustomed
to this kind of thing—all the more reason for him to
keep away. My lord likes the company of lords
and ladies, and he thinks Thanshope is only fit for
tradespeople.”
“ I bet he ne’er seenjnowt finer] nor the new
town hall, choose where he may have been !” said
Ben, aggressively.
“ And,” went on Myles, whose mouth had grown
very cross indeed, and whose eyebrows met in a
straight line across his frowning brow, “ he’s a
Tory— a Tory ; if I’d said that at first. I shouldn’t
have needed to say all the rest. A Tory, in these
times, and in Thanshope !”
Wilson and Ben laughed, butjiot quite a whole-
hearted laugh. A Tory—every species of Conser-
vative—was a poor thing, was the general Thans-
hope opinion, but they had always thought of
Tories more as harmless old women, or vulgar
“risen ” men, like Mr. Spenceley, than as any-
thing so actively mischievous and to be eschewed
as their absentee employer, Sebastian Mallory.
“ He’s ashamed of the place, and the people, and
the business that has made him what he is. And
that’s why he won’t come back.”
“ I say, Myles, who told you all this r” inquired
Wilson, deferentially.
“ That I’m not at liberty to say ; but not one of
the men from the stables, old lad,” said Myles.
“But my authority is a good one, audit’s what
I’ve suspected for years. I’ve heard of his doings.
He goes about with parsons. He’s trying all he
can to shako himself free of trade. He’ll try to do
it by marrying a lord’s daughter—that’s what
these shoddy Conservatives always and spend
his money for him, and if he says anything, she’ll
tell him it smells of cotton, and she wants to sret
rid of it.”
“ Nay, nay, now !” interrupted Ben, withfeeling.
“ But she will,” said Myles, looking as angry as
if the fair and contemptuous aristocrat stood in
person before them. “ I know. Don’t we all
know what happened to Jack Brierley’s lad, and
how ”
Clang, clang, clang ? went the great bell in the
courtyard. It was two minutes past six. Wilson
raised himself rapidly from his recumbent atti-
tude, and began to turn over his papers, calling
Ben to his side to help him. The discussion as to
the merits or demerits of Sebastian Mallory, who
certainly formed a striking instance of the theory
that les absents out toujours tort, was over ; soon
the office was filled with a pushing, elbowing crowd,
waiting more or less impatiently for the hire of
their week’s labour.
Myles sat upon his high stool in the background,
and watched, while. Wilson and his assistant paid
out the wages. It was rather a dingy looking
crowd that he saw, and was apparent to nose,
as well as to eye, by the unmistakable odour of oil
aud fluff which emanated from it. Bare-armed
girls with long, greasy pinafores, loud voices, and
ungainly gestures, elbowing their way through the
lads, and exchanging with them chaff of the rough-
est description. Small, plain, stunted-looking
men ; sometimes downright, hideously ugly and
mean-looking, and again, only sallow, pale, and
subdued by a sedentary occupation, with here and
there a tremendous massive brow ; here and there
a pair of eyes so deep and glowing as to cause a
shock and thrill to one who encountered them ;
here a mouth of poetical delicacy and sensitive-
ness ; there a jaw so strong and heavy that, com-
paring it with the eyes, brows, and mouths before
spoken of, one no longer felt cause for surprise in
hearing such aphorisms as “ Manchester rules
England,” “ What Lancashire thinks to-day, Eng-
land thinks to-morrow. ” It was, taken all in all,
an ugly crowd, but in its way a commanding one.
It might have moved the soul of a “Corn-Law
Rhymer,” a Gerald Massey, a “ Lancashire Lad
it would probably have been repulsive to more re-
fined bards and writers, and the poet of the brush
and canvas would have found absolutely nothing
hero with which to gladden his eye.
Myles, a striking exception to almost every one
of the men in the point of good looks and fine phy-
sical development, if not in point of intelligent ex-
pression, sat upon his stool; and his monotonous
whistle continued as he scanned the faces, and re-
turned a nod here and there. Many a girl looked
at him, and smiled her brightest as she caught his
grave eyes.
He was not quite like the other workmen, in
more things than beauty and a somewhat higher
j position, and none knew that better than the work-
i women. The smiles and amiable looks provoked
little answer. Myles was not rude to girls ;he
never chaffed them in the rough manner of some
of his fellow-workmen ; but, on the other hand, he
very seldom took any notice of them at all, hav-
ing little to say to any young woman out of his
own family.
They passed before him in varied array; ugly,
and pretty, and mediocre ; fair girls and dark girls,
stout girls and thin ones, tall and short, stpuid and
intelligent-looking. Here and there a pale, pen-
sive face, with a head of flaxen hair, and long, de-
licate, Madonna-like features; now a brunette,
with high complexion, and flashing black eyes, that
showed the brighter under the thick powdering of
white cotton fluff with which her head was
covered; piquante and placid, merry and melan-
choly ; but not for one in all the crowd did his
cheek flush in the least, nor once did the calm in-
difference of his eyes change, nor did his low, care-
less whistle cease for an instant. He stared over,
or between their heads, or—which was the most
irritating of all—right at them, without once no-
ticing them, until a girl, somewhat taller than the
majority of her companions, came in, and stood
waiting with a group of others near the door, until
her turn should come to go up for her wages.
Then Myles stopped whistling, and got off his
stool, remarking, half to himself, “ There’s Mary,
at last!” and applied to Wilson for the sum of
eighteen shillings, that being the amount of his sis-
ter's wages. He received the money, and made his
way through the crowd towards the door.
“ Eh, Myles, art there ?” said the young woman
“ Wait of me a minute, while I get my wages.”
‘ jThey’re here,” said he, putting the moneyinto
her hand. “So come along, lass ! Let’s get out
of this shop.”
They passed out at the door, and walked together
down the sloping street —a tall and well-looking
pair. It was very seldom, indeed, that Myles
Heywood and his sister Mary failed to walk home
from their work together.
(To he Continued.)


JMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
Tlie undersigned* having purchased all the LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS in Kerosene Lamps exhibited at
THE GARDEN PALACE,
Have pleasure in informing customers that they may
select any of the Lamps on show, which will be reserved
for them till the close of the Exhibition.
F. Lassettee &Co
(Limited).
P. Lassettee & Co.
(Limited).
Geoege Stbeet,
Sydney.
Geoege Steeet,
Sydney.
TABLE LAMPS in—
Doveton Ware
Wedgewood Ware
Ceramic China
Crystal Glass
Pate sur Pate
Bohemian Ware
Majolica
Japanese China
—o—
CHANDELIERS for—
Churches
Schools of Art
Public Rooms
. Mansions
The Drawing Room
The Dining Room
The Study
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
F. LASSETTEE, & Co. (Limited),
GEOEGE STEEET,
SYDNEY,
JNTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country
visitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALACE.
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously cool.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL
(Foot of Pitt-street),
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Mr. GEORGE BUCKHAM, Proprietor, desires to
announce to his numerous friends and the public that
he is now in occupation of the above Hotel. His first-
class retail trade enables him to offer the very best de-
scription of Liquors. Only the best brands in bottle
and on draught for sale. Particular attention is given
to the harbour passenger requirements, and the
Oriental in this respect cannot be eclipsed. Well fur-
nished, comfortable Parlour, &c.
UNION CLUB HOTEL.
Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGGA WAGGA
(Close to the Railway Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYRNES, Proprietor.
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well supplied with fresh and
wholesome provender, and be under the supervision of
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. B&.THS.
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397, GEORGE-STREET.
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables.
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
tees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
ATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
PITT-STREET.
GEORGE ADAMS
(Late of Kiama),
wishes to inform his friends and the public generally
that he has succeeded
Mr. W. J. O’BRIEN
in the above old-established Sporting Hotel, and trusts
by keeping none but the best brands of
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS,
to merit a continuance of the support so liberally
bestowed on his predecessor.
*»* G. A. purposes making important changes, so as
to afford
THE SPORTING PATRONS
every convenience and satisfaction.
Also, Gentlemen visiting the Metropolis.
N.B.—Night Porter.
G. ADAMS, Proprietor.
gYDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each;
Distributed as follows
First horse
Second horse ...
Thud horse
Starter's (divided among) ...
Non-starters (divided among)
£lOOO
400
200
200
200
£2OOO
The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over Tattersall’s Cup, their orders having
been received after the consultation was filled.
subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change on cheques and stamp for reply.
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
QUNS,
TJIFLES,
VOL VERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmakeb,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all aifections of the Pul-
mouary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
PGR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecaet,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE-STREET (opxmsite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
s Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABE AH AM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL
FOR human use, curing all kinds of Wounds, Bruises,
Blows, or Eruptions of the Skin in all parts of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, and removes Warts and
Excrescences; applied to the Hands and Face during
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes, and venom-
ous spiders, &c., and may be easily washed off in the
morning. Possesses an agreeable aroma.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL removes Lumbago.
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joints, Sprains, Enlarged
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet, Chilblains, Bunions,
Warts, and Excrescences. Prevents the consequences
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers, and such as
must encounter damps. But its most astonishing
result, and that which distinguishes it, is its power to
prevent a recurrence of the diseases it cures.
J. POTTIE,
Veterinary Surgeon to the Government of N.S.W.,
263 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The lightning fret saw.
for Sawing Brackets, &c. Price 245.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., MARKET-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortment of M'Loughlin’s
Books, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also, a large shipment of
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
4
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers ore made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS NOTICES.
The Bulletin is published every Saturday morning.
Communications should reach to the office not later
than Thursday at noon.
The usual course with regard to editorial and business
letters should be pursued.
The Proprietors of The Bulletin intend giving
provincial matters the greatest attention; hence
communications from country readers will be always
acceptable. Postal irregularities should meet with
prompt complaint.
The price per copy of The Bulletin will be 3d, and
the terms of subscription as follows, viz. 35., cash in
advance; 3s. 6d., booked. Advertising scale : —3s. for
the first, and 2s. for every additional inch, with a dis-
count on quarterly, half-yearly, and yearly advertise-
ments.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Haynes
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors* at THE
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlcroagh-street.
R
OYAL AMPHITHEATRE,
and
COLOSSAL CIRCUS,
HUNTER AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
Lessee W. H. Richardson.
Manager W. Woodyear.
GREAT ATTRACTION
THIS (Friday) and SATURDAY EVENINGS,,
March sth and 6th.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
OPEN EVERY NIGHT at 7.15.
DAY PERFORMANCE ON SATURDAY,
at 2 o’clock,
COMPANY of STAR ARTISTES
SPLENDID STUD of HORSES.
SCHOOL of PERFORMING DOGS.
Admission Pit, Is ; Stalls, 2s ; Dress Circle, 3a ;
Half-price at 9 o’clock. Children half-price.
G
O TO BRAY FOE YOUR STATIONERY,
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address; —
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
c.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER-STREET.
FRESH FISH EVERY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY and CO..
No. 11 PITT STREET.
Importers of and dealers in all descriptions of American
Machinery.
Indents executed on reasonable terms.
G
EORGE TALL, PRACTICAL LOCKSMITH
AND SAW MAKER,
PITT STREET
(Next the Congregational Church).
Saws sharpened and re-set on the shortest notice
GEORGE TALL
is the leading Practic Locksmith of Sydney, and chal-
lenges any competitor for speed or effectiveness
of work.
XTIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! I
J. L. HORDERN.
D
AVID M • C A
14 HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
L,
By Special Appointment.
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBINSON, K.C.M.G,
And
His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
RTH U R
C U B I T T.
157 (late 203) PITT-STREET, SYDNEY,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFICE.
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTED.
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS, DEATHS
and MARRIAGES.
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
2t were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS,
most intricate cases have met with marked success.
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 84s, worth £6 6s,
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORINI
ESTABLISHMENT?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS. 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and blac
cloth, 255; worth 63s
F ANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, ha
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit a
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, Cs 6d
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measm
W HITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s 4d, or 3i
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve:
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
DO NOT MISTAKE THE PREMISES—
WARSAW HOUSE,
409, GEORGE-STREET,
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
jyj” OUNTAIN- KILLED MEAT.
F. SALISBURY and Co. are doing what the Govern-
ment are dreaming of —viz., supplying the public with
good wholesome MOUNTAIN-KILLED MEAT.
F SALISBURY and Co.’s meat is MOUNTAIN-
• KILLED, and of splendid quality.
F SALISBURY and Co., the only Sydney firm
• supplying Lithgow-killed Meat and pure country
Milk. Office —George and Hay-streets.
MOUNTAIN - KILLED MEAT. Pure Country
Milk.
Lithgow-killed Meat. Pure Country Milk.
Only to be obtained—
F. SALISBURY and Co.,
George and Hay-streets.
KBAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290, PITT-STEEEX, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEWMAN,
• PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12. OXFORD-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
J.
F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) George Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
JOHN CUTTER, PRACTICAL TAILOR,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Has on hand
The largest and best assorted stock of Woollens in the
colony.
All orders attended to with care and dispatch.
R
OBERT CASS
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
I N,
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w
KERR, MAFUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
574 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD-STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
GABRIEL & CO,
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY,
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufactures are all executed
under their own personal supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, carriages, fours-in-hand, &c.,
cannot be beaten for durability or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, and only the most skilful work-
men employed.
C. W. ROBERTS’
£3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.
V CARRIAGE FREE bt KAIL or STEAMER.
ON receipt of the above sum the following genuine
articles will be forwarded, in SQUARE BOTTLES,
securely packed in a case, viz.:—
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 „ PALE BRANDY
6 ~ WEST INDIA RUM
1 „ WHISKY
1 „ SUPERIOR PORT WINE
1 „ „ SHERRY WINE.
Total: 15
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. W. ROBERTS has much pleasure in stating that
he is constantly receiving the highest testimonials from
residents in all parts of the colony referring to the high
character of the LIQUORS supplied in his
FAMOUS £3 CASE.
Try one and judge for yourself.
Kindly make a note of the Address—
C. W. ROBERTS,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
ICENSED VICTUALLER S’
ASSOCIATION
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
