

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2. No. 18.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY. MAY 29, 1880.
Price—3d.
2D|rc gullet in.
SATURDAY, MAT 29, 1880.
The Race for the Championship.
We are sure that there is not a native-born man
or woman, and we believe that there is hardly an
Australian child who did not feel inclined to
“throw up the hat” on hearing that KdwarD
llaxlax, of America, had at last, matched him-
self to row Kdwa mi Tru k e it of Australia for the
championship of the world. II axe ax has never
(lung down the gauntlet to the man who, more
fhan four years ago, defeated Sadler on the
Thames and bore away the championship to
Australia, and there has been so much hesitation
ou the Canadian’s part to take any steps with a view
to depriving our man of his long-enjoyed aquatic
sovereignity that we must, wo suppose, now he
grateful for small mercies and overlook the fact
that the race is to take place on the historic
Thames and not, as was the champion’s right, on
the Parramatta, the river into whose waters
Trice ext; first dipped his sculls. Time, which
changes alt men, will not sptr-Vlßyvj xr, an,l
we havTp'reuse m to be glad that llaxlax, who is
at least five years younger than his opponent,
has been brought to terms before the march of
year’s so far handicapped the latter as to wipe out
all possibility of the men meeting on their merits.
We do not choose, nor do avc think the
Australian community in general will choose, to
regard this coming contest from a merely sport-
ing point of view. Great as was the success of
Trickett on Ins first visit to England, and
brilliant as were the achievements of the first team
of Australian cricketers in the mother country,
the contests in which they respectively engaged
were unimportant in comparison with the battle
which Trickett goes home to fight on our behalf.
He will measure blades with a man whose aquatic
performances have rendered his name a household
word among old-world lovers of sport, who, in
Great Britain as in this country, compose the
nation. The big nuggets of Ballarat and the
Turon, the golden days of Tambaijoora, the
fascinating tales of the native wealth possessed
by this sunny land, did much for Australia; but
Trickett’ s second victory on the Thames would
—wc hope we may say will—put the names of
Trickett and of N.S. Wales into every British
mouth and prove a grander national advertise-
ment than all the lectures of immigration-agents
and ageuts-gencral, from Mrs. Chisholm down
to Mr. Forster and Sir Archibald Michie.
But we do regard the contest for the champion-
ship in a merely material light, for we all feel
that British pride in the physical powers of our
race which has prompted many a glorious
martial deed.
We are fully aware that there arc in New
South Wales numerous wealthy patrons of sport
who would only be too glad to take upon their own
shoulders the expense of Tbickett’s English
visit. But as the contest is a truly national one
all will bo ready to contribute and all should bo
afforded an opportunity of doing so. Wc are
sure that at the public meeting—which will
probably be held next week —there will be no
second opinion as to the desirableness of sending
to England not only Edward Trickett, but also
his brother William. The latter, apart from
the facts that he lias few equals as a sculler and
that his services would be invaluable during
the champion’s term of training, forms the
second man of two who, whether in clouble-
seulling or pair-oar events, would indelibly write
their names on the pages of English aquatic
history. Judging from what we have seen,
heard and read during several years past we have
good grounds for being sanguine as to the result
of the contest, w'liich will be between the best
big man and the best little man—“between
twelve-stone ten and ten-stone twelve.” Trickett
is now perhaps a better oarsman than when*
he first visited England; but, altogether irre-
spective of his rowing capabilities, avc could not
place before the world a finer or more creditable
specimen of the Australian native, lie is a man
against whom some mean people who knoiv him,
and a great many thoughtless ones who do not,
have said bitter tilings. But he is a man who
has never sold a race or betrayed a backer; and
who, whether in victory or defeat, Avill ahvays
behave in a manner which would induce Anthony
Trollope, could the latter but bo induced to
accept our champion as the typical cornstalk, to
admit that Australians are after all, “more
than tic Jirghsh themselves.”
The Blacksmith’s Bribe.
There are few acts, however evil, out of which
at least a little good does not ultimately come ;
and tliis reflection is all wo have to sustain us
under the crushing effects of the blow received
by public morality when it was announced last
week that a very verdant blacksmith hud attempted
to bribe our great and good Premier. It may
passingly be remarked that the blacksmith’.< emu*
was only one of literary judgment; foi, had
lie been a lawyer, or even an ordinarily clever man
of the world, he would, while offering L'so for
“a billet,” have had sufficient sense to say
nothing about a “ Government ” billet. lie must
have been a very foolish young man indeed to
imagine for a moment that a Premier would run
the risk of compromising whatever political
reputation he possessed for fifty pieces of gold;
but as it appears that he did suppose this, we
cannot be expected to wonder at his having
worded his letter in a manner which brought him
within the operation of the law. We don’t know
whether the precedent which the artless black-
smith sought to establish might not um.-rsc-Ac
circumstances oo considered a desirable one.
It is well known that, while the most meritorious
members of the Civil Service have little chance of
receiving advancement or even ordinary justice
when once they incur Ministerial displeasure.
tliere are in every department certain pampered
“duffers” whose sole recommendation for place
and pay is that they are friendly with men who
have votes in the Assembly—men who, in seating
their proteges at Government desks, or pitch-
forking incompetent creatures into lucrative
positions at Government penal establishments,
care for nothing but the comfort of those to whom
they extend their patronage. It is something new
for a hard-working man, bearing a good character,
to offer to pay for a position in the Government
service. This attempted “bribery” ought to
strongly suggest the immediate inauguration of
a system of competitive examinations for the
Civil Service. An impetus should be given to
ll.'s very necessary reform, in favour of which
the Premier has often expressed himself, by the
announcement that the Sandhurst cadetships
placed at the disposal of Government are to be
allotted by means of a competition under the
auspices of our University
Dr. G. Fortescue.
Wo do not purpose referring at length to the
career of the gentleman whose portrait graces the
first page of this day’s issue of The Bulletin,
for he is well known as a most accomplished and
successful surgeon—and has, perhaps for that very
reason, not come prominently before the general
public otherwise than in his professional capacity.
Dr. Fortescue was born at Falmouth. Cornwall,
England, in 1838, and was in infancy taken to
Tasmania. He returned home in 1855. and, en-
tering at King's College, London, in 1857, ob-
tained a medical scholarship at the end of his first
year’s study. He subsequently filled most of the
junior offices in the hospital, and was finally ap-
pointed house surgeon. He took the membership
of the Royal College of Surgeons in 186 ft. and the
MB. degree of London University (first division)
in 1861. but was obliged to leave England before
he attained the age entitling him to bo admitted
to examination for the one higher degree api the
College and University. Dr. Fortescue landed in
Sydney in 1862, rapidly acquired an extensive
practice, and for some years was one of the hono-
rary surgeons attached to the Sydney Infirmary.
We are not fully aware of the causes which led to
the severance of Dr. Fortescue’s connection with
the institution named, but we only echo the
general sentiment, and do not run the risk of
making invidious distinctions, when we say that if
th*i Infirmary and certain other local charities
were so managed as to admit of Dr. Fortescue
and practitioners like him giving their gratuitous
services without endangering their self-respect,
the interests ot the sick poor would be consider-
ably benefited. The Doctor, though not a
‘’sporting man” proper—for he has, it is said,
never made a bet in his life and heartily dislikes
the unsavoury associations of what is commonly
called sport—loves a fair contest of any kind,
manifests a strong feeling of the national import-
ance of physical development, and takes a not
unprofessional interest in the cultivation of the
menssana in cor pore m no. He was a capital oarsman
when at college, and having himself gone through
the training-mill, is the rowing man's doctor par
excellence. It mpy not be uninteresting for us to
state that long before Trickett went to England
Dr. Fortescue expressed to sporting friends his
opinion that the champion was in point of quality
and lasting power as far superior to the ordinary
athlete as is the thoroughbred to the “ scrubber.”
How fully his opinion has been borne out we need
not tell our readers. The public, and particu-
larly those among them who live honest, manly
sport, will join us in wishing that the genial
doctor may live to see many more such famous
victories as those already achieved by the grand
oarsman in whom he takes so warm an interest.
PEEPS IS THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE SIXTH.—A NIGHTT IN THE FAMILY CIRCLE.
We have lounged in the ‘ stalls,’ flirted in the ‘dies*
circle’ and chatted with the ‘gods.’ To-night we sit
with those who occupy the ‘ family circle,’ where 1 Can
honestly state one seldom if ever meets those ‘social
plague spots,’ the * Poricholes ’ of the stalls or the
* Formosas’ of (h? ‘ dress circle.’ Here whole families
come, well-to-do people in their line of business, happy
mothers and fathers with their growing hoys arid
girls—mother with Sunday bonnet carefully tied under
her chin, with well-filled, hag in her lap which the
youngest hoy watches far more closely than he does the
play—Avhile father, in carefully-brushed clothes and
shiny face beaming with; smiling good nature, wtp
between his girls and mbs his horny hard-working
hands in undisguised satisfaction, as he glances first at
one bright face and then at the other, and a feeling of
honest pride swells his heart to think they ore his girls.
Here, too, come tradesmen’s clerks with their
‘girls’—young men who like sitting with honest ir
homely folk and have no occasion to feel uncom-
fortable for their pretty little sweethearts. Wha.fi
though their next neighbour be stout of figure, rubicund
of visage, bright in her colors, vulgar in her dress P
She is honest or she would not he there. And if you
look a little to her left you will very likely see two broad-
shouldered, good-looking specimens of Australian
youth, Avhose spotless shirt-fronts nnd wristbands nro
the handiwork of the stout party, who, with motherly
pride in every crease of her fat, good-tempered face,
brings her ‘ gingham ’ down with a demonstrative thud
as she watches her hoys clapping nnd shouting in wild
excitement over some popular actor. And they know
quite well how she is enjoying their fun, for between
the acts they drop down by her and amuse her with a.
pantomimic by-play of what has so much tickled their
fancy, while she gets an alarming color from repressing
her laughter, till the hoys waylay the lad with ginger
beer, apples, and lemonade, nnd present the old lady with
a bottle of ‘ fizz,’ filling their own pockets with apphas-
They look knowingly at the clerk nnd his sweetheart anU
grin back intelligently to the mother, when she pokes
them with the gingham and winks at the young couplo-
She prides herself on the thought that her hoys have no
‘ gals ’ yet, hut in that respect I think her pride likely to
have a fall. And then, if she is sensible, she will take
just as much pride in their wives. Here, too, come
quiet worn-looking needle-women, two or three
together. They come from a double motive. The play
amuses them, but their faces light up far more intelli-
gently as they scan the dress circle and their ready
tongues discuss dress, material, style—in fact every
item worn by the ladies. They come alone, and almost
as a rule keep to themselves. Their business tends to
all this. They are thrown by their work bo much
among people to whom they have to be deferential that
they contract habits that cling to them through litc.
The very materials they toil at, the costly silks or
velvets color their thoughts, and as they grow old at
their work give them an air of faded gentility. The
family circle is not, strictly speaking, a demonstrative
portion of the house, nor is it always a paying part, but
nojeat-calls nor ear-splitting whistles issue from it.
The shower of tom-np play bills which frequently cover,
as with snow, the occupants of the stalls and pit, does
not emanate from the family-circle people. Their
play-hills are neatly spread before them, are much read,
folded and taken home for future delectation. They are
perfectly satisfied with themselves and look npon this
X>ortiou of the theatre as specially their own. like
‘ Mahomet’s coffin ’ they hang, or rather sit, in mid Six,
Avith a seething mass above and below them. The game
of life is played out all around them, but they are not
in it. Some of them are steady play-goers, hut as a mle
the scene shifts oftener in the family circle than in any
other portion of the house.
QUIZ.
THE PLAYS.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
Mr Dear Beak-Blossom :
I Lave not forgotten you, although it seems yon
found it necessary to jog my memory. So you ana
curious about the dramas now being enacted at the three
theatres. The names are rather startling—* Drink * at
the Queen’s, * Blow for Blow ’ at the Koyal, and the
‘ New Babylon ’ at the Victoria. Well, I will begin with
* Drink,’ in which Dampier is painfully truthful and dis-
tressingly drunk, as the French artisan. The French
call it ‘ L’Assommoir,’ which, freely translated, is * the
thirsty one,’ or more correctly the drunkard.’ In that
sunny, pleasure-loving land, where the use of alco-
hol is little known, the piece had a tremendous run.
It was a decided case of vox po puii for the dames of the
Hall, the u'.niiir, iianchifcw*, and the whole mu
DR. G. FORTESCUE.


calotte population seized on the play as their own, and
solely through their attendance and applause kept the
piece on the boards over a hundred nights. We are not
so enthusiastic, but drink is a vice that in the colonies
will scarcely bear dramatising. It is sown broad-cast
in our streets and homes, and seldom a day passes that
a< coroner's inquest is not held on some of its
victims. Dampier, like Riston, studies his
characters from living subjects, but it is not always
pleasant to witness such life-like horrors. The ‘ New
Babylon ’ is a five-act, sensational, spectacular, not too
refined drama, acted by a very mixed company; but of
the crowd wo may take three as making the success of
Hie play—Miss ‘Merton,’ ‘ Bland Holt,’ and ‘Hall.’
Miss Morton takes a most repulsive character, u half-
mad, wholly-drunk, dissipated, old hag, a mass of dirty
rags and ugliness. Hall is the Jew broker —one of the
‘ sixty per cent.’- and good all through; Bland Holt, an
old favourite of mine, is very clever throughout, more
especially as the street ballad singer. There is nothing
glaringly wrong in the piece. Of course, if you live in
the neighbourhood of the ‘ Seven Dials,’ you must not
expect the morals of * May-fair.’ I was rather amused
to watch the occupants of the dress circle. Curiosity
had brought them, and there they sat, resplendent in
dress and diamonds. Of course, every one of them had
read with interest a great deal more about the wicked
world in some of the fashionable novels of tbe day. and
enjoyed it, but on viewing tbe same, in the ‘New
Babylon,’ they felt a sort of pious horror that such
thing'i should go on before their very eyes
Not asking to actually rise and go—for that
would look us if they, knew too much they sat
on thorns, afraid to langh even though the whole house
was convulsed by some comic part well told. Vet so
intent were they on looking at the different phases of
life before them, that not a fan was unfurled the whole
evening. Between the acts they discreetly read the
‘ tEntre Acte’ —-we all know what -questionable rubbish
that contains. Now, ‘Blow for Blow,’ in spite of its
•suggestive, or rather aggressive title, is the most quiet
piece of the three, and the whole company so thoroughly
at home in their parts, so perfectly well trained, that
one enjoys un evening at the Royal. I assure you, my
dear Beau Blossom. I go to each piece more than once
and never tire. I w ish * Garner ’ had centred his inte-
rests in Sydney instead of Adelaide, for the question
naturally keeps forcing itself on us, what shall we do
when they leave us? Now no more for the present.
Should we have the good fortune to have an opt-ra
season I may write you of tenor, till then take them as
occasion offers.
From yours confidingly.
PEA-BLOSSOM.
Mr. A. H. Jacob, M.P.
Mr. Archibald Hamilton Jacob, who represents
Raymond Terrace in the Legislative Assembly of
New South Wales, is son of a well-known officer
of the Royal Bengal Artillery, and was born at
Calcutta—how many years ago we are not at
present in a position to ascertain. This latter
fact is all the more to be regretted when we come
to consider that, while a lady is “as old as
she looks ’’ a man is “ as old as ho feels,” and that
consequently the curiosity of our readers us to
Mr. Jacob's age will hardly bo appeased bv re-
garding in our issue of to-day the well-known
features of one of the most popular and useful
members of the “Commons” of New South
Wales. Mr. Jacob, who now lives at Westhorpe,
Ashfield. was for twenty-eight years a resident of
the electorate he represents, and on leaving Ray-
mond Terrace was, at an influentially-attended
banquet _ given in his honor, presented with
substantial tokens of his constituents’ regard.
He is of independent means, has contested several
elections, and has each time been returned by a
larger majority than previously. Ho was formerly
associated with Sir John Robertson as Minister of
Mines, 3ms been offered portfolios in other
administrations, and at the last moment came
out to oppose Mr. Angus Cameron for the
lumouroblo position of Chairman of Committees,
but lost the coveted distinction by one vote
—it may have been in consequence of the
fact that members had already pledged them-
selves to the gentleman who now so worthily
occupies the office referred to. Mr. Jacob is a
man whose present position is solely due to his
having ever directed his efforts to the welfare of
his fellows. On the 30th January, 1877, it was
reported that he had met with a ‘fatal accident,
whereupon there appeared in several of the news-
papers extended notices of his career, and expres-
sions of the deepest regret at his untimely demise.
However, lie still survives; and it will be the
hearty wish of all who admire a worthy man and
an honest politician, that, having perused his own
obituary notice, he may live to read those of a
great many less valuable people.
Variety!
One would think that the mimics, dancers, comic
singers, contortionists, et genus p ame, who. though
classified as ‘ variety performers,’ endeavour by all
menus in their power to take equal rank with actors who
ftadythe legitimate drama, should lie in a position to
hold their own. Heaven knows there are enough of
them, and that they are by no means backward in as-
serting their zeal or self-supported claims to distinc-
tion ! _ One wonld naturally expect from ‘ variety
artists ’ —now and again—a performance tending to
Hhow that brain and inventive power are not always
nnallied to physical prowess or special gifts, vocal or
muscular; but the regular playgoer lias the
disagreeable fact thrust upon him night after
night, that of nil uninventive people ‘ Variety ’
performers are the most shiftless. As copyists
they are unrivalled, and ns claimants of other
people’s ideas they have no equals on earth. ‘ Tahite.’
tbo-tbeatrical critic to the Australasian, is, as a rale,
veiy particular on the score of authorship, and if an
Australian writer were to ‘lake’ an old play, and
it produced under another name. ‘Tahite’
would smash him without mercy. In last Sutur-
uay week s number of The Australasias ‘Tahite*
states that a certain well-known ‘star’ in the
i of business ‘ did not do credit to
himself in his temperance lecture.’ The question is,
was the lecture unworthy of the lecturer, or vice errsa !
And in connection with this question it may be asked
iow it has come to pass that the * comedian * who has
lectured on ( Temperance.’ has also lectured on the
Tallaplione, and that theatrical critics have failed to
discover that both lectures or lectures on the same
subjects —are in print, and can be bought together with
a (number of negroic farces for a shilling in Melbourne
(it b.vdney. Ihe person who originally delivered
the übo v ementioued lectures, and made them
■"V for many weeks, is Mr. James Francis,
of. the Mohawk Minstrels, one. of the managers of a
celebrated Nigger Company at the Agricultural Hall,
Islington, London. There is a spice of pluck in ihe
acrobat who throw somersault after somersault against
■all comers, and none envies him the money he earns
when he attains the position of ‘Champion Jumpist;’
hut for the people who pride themselves on singing
song’s after the style of other people, dancing ‘ steps ’
that they never invented, and producing as original
specialities,’ worn-out. ‘ bits ’ under new names, little
can, be said without verging on the border of bad
anguage
Messrs. Royle and Hogg's Warehouse,
Bond-street, Sydney.
The sketch given in connection with thisarticle
is but another illustration of the solid improve-
ment which is going on all round Sydney, and
particularly in the mercantile centres. About
Bond-street Ihe best description of architecture
in Sydney may be found, the warehouses and
offices in that quarter being perhaps the finest in
these colonies. Recent improvements in Bond-
street have altogether changed its appearance,
and there can be no doubt that at the present
rate of going it will soon form the continuation
from George to Pitt s( reefc of large business houses,
it ought to be mentioned that no change has
occurred that has such happy augury for the
future of Sydney. What is to be found’ in Bond-
street just now is the establishment of new
businesses, or the opening of branches, by firms
of high standing in the English mercantile world.
The business which Messrs. Royle and Hogg have
established places the people of this city in pos-
session of goods they never before saw in the
local market; and arrangements have been made by
the firm with their London and continental agents
by which these new descriptions of goods maybe
supplied here at almost the very same figures
ruling in the home markets. The building, ns
shown m the engraving, is a substantial structure
rising to the height of three storeys, with exten-
sive cellarage and nil the usual facilities for the
reception and removal of goods. Each floor is
well lighted, and the interior presents through-
out a pleasant aspect. Intheroom on the ground
floor are shown the celebrated Brinsmcad pianos
that won such high honours at our International
Exhibition. They are displayed in all (lie
variety manufactured by the firm, and it must
be satisfactory for them to find that the public
of this colony are not slow to recognise the
excellence of their instruments. The pianofortes
have already a large sale, and are being sent out
in all directions. Messrs, Royle and Hogg are
now the sole agents in this colony for the Brins-
mead pianos. 0.. the upper floors maybe found
numerous samples of a new class of goods. Not
the least interesting and suitable to colonial
requirements is J. B. Tenby and Co.’s camp
furniture, which is cheap, elegant, light, and
portable. Seats, tents, etc., may be carried with
ease, and set up in a few seconds. This furniture
is no less suitable for lawns, balconies, etc.
Here on view also are some of t lie best
descriptions of bedsteads from the works of
Phillips and Co., Birmingham, the excellence of
whose work is bound to secure for them a
ready business. A splendid collection of
Page’s celebrated cricketing goods is likewise
displayed on the upper floor, and on the return
of the cricketing season these will doubtless find
sale in our retail houses. Just to hand are
cases of the famous ecclesiastical works of art
by Mayer, of Munich ahd London. It will be
remembered that these beautiful artistic pro-
ductions created quite n furor? at the Exhibition,
and that all those exhibited were bought up by
Mr. P. A. Jennings for presentation to St. Mary’s
Cathedral and other Roman Catholic churches. J
Another shipment has just now arrived. I
The figures are for flic adornment of j
churches, and are now introduced to this ,
colony for the first time. They are the most I
life-like and most chaste articles of this branch )
of art that have ever been seer. hew. Messrs.
Royle and Hogg are agents for Besson 1
and Co.’s unrivalled carnets, now in use in all j
the principal bands in England and on the Con- (
tinent. These instruments have won prizes all j
over the world against every other make. The [
firm likewise aw agents here for the belter de- |
seriptious of whisky, &e., the principal lines
being Jones’s Usquebaugh and Henke’s gin. The j
former comes to a somewhat new market, and j
has already a very large sale. A large business j
is done in some lines of provision goods, ]
Ac. Of these, special mention must be made of j
Stephens’ pickles, which, judging by present re- j
suits, will soon have the name that Crosse and
Blackwell enjoyed at home. A very important
line is that of H. L. Mullers’ gas machines, by
means of which, at a slight cost, hotels, private
houses, or towns may be lighted by gas. The
appliances are simple in operation and safe, and
are placed on the market here at a very low
price. The firm, it may further be mentioned,
do business in this colony for the well-known
paper and paper bag manufacturers, Messrs.
Davies and Royle. This house does one of the
largest businesses with the Australian colonies in
paper bags, straw boards, &c., and intends,
through its Sydney agents, to do a yet more
extensive trade. Thew are various other
agencies which Messrs. Royle and Hogg have
taken io hand, and they feel confident of estab-
lishing a first-class trade for all their impor-
tations
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Newcastle is quiet.
Ravenswood is lookin',' up.
Woollahra is beinjr reticulated.
Lancashire strikes are collapsin'.'.
Three larrikins sentenced to death.
Cloncurry goldfield is not improving.
Sydney blacksmiths are reorganising.
Mt. Lareooib rush is a failure so far.
The John Elder has reached England.
Some M.L.A.’s still act as land-agents.
More ‘ Chinkies ’ arrived. 193 of them.
A drunken Sydney man broke both legs.
Newcastle women are thrashing “ rats.’’
Western Queensland is looking splendid.
Largs farmers still agitate for protection.
Havilah station has been sold for =£Bo,ooo.
Diphtheria has almost left Hamilton, (Vie.)
Another coal-seam found at Coleraine (Vie).
So far, the Afghan war has cost =£7,154,000.
Miss Fidler has been successful at Bathurst.
Stanthorpe Masonic Ball was a grand success.
Sir Geo. Grey is ‘ stumping ’ the South Island.
The Japanese ask for a Representative Assembly.
Another ironstone discovery at Vale of Clwydd.
P. and 0. Co.’s half yearly dividend, 2 per cent.
Journeymen butchers agitate for Sunday clos-
j ing.
Earl Carnarvon and Sir Robert Peel are recon-
ciled.
j At Gundagai the Asbestos Co. have commenced
j work.
Victoria won the Chess match by an odd game in
j seven.
The Queensland black trackers arc to leave
Victoria.
Spring tides submerged some Sydney wharfs on
Tuesday.
At Mudgee, prison labour has been found dearer
than free.
Sir Robert Peel opposes Sir Vernon Harcourt
at Derby.
Palmer machine owners now decline to crush for
Chinamen.
Golden Age claim, Boorook, 3,G00 oz. silver for
the month.
The Kiama Milk Condensing Co’s share list is
now closed.
The Conglomerate (Palmer) prospecting party
have set out.
Gladstone says the Afghan war must stop. The
Afghans dissent.
The Sacred Heart Schools. Darlihghurst Road,
are going up rapidly.
Last Hodgkinson quarterly mining return—
-4879-1 tons for 64241 oz.
Seventy bushels to the acre is not an uncommon
Tasmanian wheat crop.
TheE. and A. Co.’s s.s. Brisbane left Singapore
with the mails on 22nd,
Human remains have been found on the now
railway line at Gerogery,
Typhoid at Mittagoiig, iir the family of Mr.f
School-Inspector O’Bryne.
At the Criminal Court,Darllnghurst. 1124 death-
I sentences have been passed.
i The New Zealand whaler Splendid took 80 tons
sperm in 11 months. Good!
The s.s. Geuil has passed Aden with emigrants
for Port Breton, new Ireland.
More N. S. W r . wool has gone to Melbourne this
year than in any previous one.
A successful bazaar has been held in aid of the
Church of England, Burrowu.
Last week a Haslem’s Creek grave digger got a
coffin put into the wrong grave.
Sampson has heart disease, three years’ impri-
sonment and a wife and children.
Mr. Mason. M.P., of Victoria, has settled with
his creditors and retains his seat.
The Finisterre has sailed from France with ex-
hibits tor Melbourne International.
A strike, for eight hours and higher wages, is
threatened at Victor Harbor works.
Coonamble and W r algott people are 148 miles
apart and yet converse by telephone.
Mr. Perrim-an, a N.Z. farmer, threshed from 86
acres an average of 93 bushels of wheat.
A Sydney public meeting has resolved to support
the Newcastle miners during t he strike.
Service says ‘ ; dismissed civil servants are to
have the preference as vacancies occur.”
At Shoalhaven Robert M'Paul has been com-
mitted for trial for setting fire to a bam.
Last year the N. Z. railways absorbed in working
expenses 74J per cent, of their gross earning's.
At Albury a tasteful government is plastering
the cut granite in the gaol wall with cement I
A Brimboal (Vic.) girl, in making an effervescent
drink, mistook arsenic for carbonate of soda. Dead.
Beaconsfield speaks hopefully of the Conserva-
tive cause and says the country distrusts Gladstone.
Alice Greenaway, a single woman, charged with
infanticide at Ashfield, has been committed for trial.
Melboure rents are going up. Is this owing to
the new Government or the approaching Exhibition ?
In N. S. W. Asylums there are 2,011 lunatics—
-1,208 men and 776 women. 545 were admitted last year.
French communists have celebrated the 7th an-
niversary of their conflict with the Versailles Govern-
ment.
In view of the understanding arrived at between
Germany and the Vatican, the May laws are to be
relaxed.
Armidale people keep 16th June as a holiday in
celebration of Parliament’s decision concerning their
railway.
The N. Z. Treasurer hopes, by exercising strict
economy, soon to bring the colony to a sound financial
position.
Bradlaugh's application for exemption from the
oath -has been referred to a special committee of the
Commons.
There is plenty of gold in Tasmania but miners
are handicapped by heavy taxes, horizontal scrub, and
want of trucks.
A public subscription has been set on foot fer-
tile benefit of the widow and children of the late Sub
Inspector Rush.
To save the half-castes from ruin, they must be
isolated from both blacks and whites, says*the Mart- 1
bokouuh Chiioxicm:.
Mr. E. Masters has delivered an interesting lee- I
tnre on ‘ matter and its properties ’ at the Technical col- I
lege. School of Arts.
‘ No raffles ’ on opening day, and ‘ wheelbarrows i
on hire to convey acquisitions home,’ is the motto of a I
Maryborough bazaar.
We hear that 1913 applications have already \
been received for the position of Liquor Inspector under
the new Licensing Act.
District Inspectors under the Department of
Public Instruction : Mr. M'Credie, Sydney; Mr. J. W. 1
Allpass, Bathurst; Mr. J. C. Maynard, Maitland; Mr. J,
D. Bradley, Armidale: Mr. W. MTntyre, Goulbnrn :
Mr. D. y. Hicks, Wagga Wagga. Sub-inspectors will
shortly be appointed.
The Cotopaxi, the first regularly-fitted Orient
meat-steamer, lias arrived at Adelaide. Voyage, Vs
days, stoppages included.
Commercial failures in the F. 8. during 1879
numbered 6659. with 94,149,052 dollars assets against
237,384,132 dol. liabilities.
Four Newcastle women have been fined £2 each
for assaulting ‘blacklegs ’ put on to supply their hus-
bands' places daring strike.
Dagobert Lewald, Government Analyst of Tas-
mania, has been arrested for forgery. He has hitherto
borne an excellent character.
In the Ear North of Queensland everyone has
something belonging to him named ‘ Trickett either
a horse, a dog, or a black boy.
A passing train smothers the passengers at the
Petersham station in dust. 5V hen will the asphalters
reach this negleeted district?
Jones v. Sydney Corporation. £ 10.n0o damages
claimed on account of overflow ofl sewers. Verdict for
plaintiff, one farthing. No costs.
W. M. Clark (Berryite) M.L.A. for Foots gray,
has been publishing scandalously disloyal remarks
concerning the Queen,'in his paper.
Three years for perjury. . Meiu Gott. IT did-
der ! ! I said a, foreign friend io us on hearing, a few
days ago, of Sampson's tribulation.
Queensland members hav e received notice to
hold themselves in readiness about the beginning of
July, for the meeting of Parliament.
The Hobart Town Licensing Bench is even
stronger than that of Sydney on the side of temperance.
The erring publican has no chance there.
Our insane institutions will cost the country
£72,268 for the current year. This is for 2,011 patients,
who are supervised by ft stuff of 261 officers.
The Cooma Express takes 200 paragraphs from
last week’s Bci.i.etix. This pleases us. though the
name of our paper was accidentally omitted.
The Tasmanian Main lino railway is beginning
to pay something more than working expenses. Last
quarter’s returns showed an increase of £I,BOO.
‘Why,’ asked Mr. Coonan in the Assembly on
Tuesday, ‘ are fifty draftsmen disinissed the Lands Office-
while still the district maps are not posted up V
Broughton v. Commissioner of Railways: for
£IO,OOO damages for injuries received in the Parramatta
collision. Verdict for plaintiff—£l,2oo and costs.
T. (or perhaps more properly Whisky! Jones, a
well-known Melbourne professional drunkard, has done
29 years in gaol during -D years colonial experience.
Cooktown is happy. It has two M.L’A.V. One
of them is practising as a barrister in N.Z. The other
has set up in business in N.S.W. Neither will resign.
Mr. Lloyd, Cobb and Co.’s Albury manager, who
drove Governor Weld from Albury to Wagga, has been
presented by His Excellency with a handsome scarf pin.
A Concert to celebrate the inauguration of the
Sydney Typographical Association takes place on the
evening of Saturday, sth June, at the Temperance Hall.
A qualified accountant of 10 years’ English ex
perieuee. who is master of several languages, has been
offered two pounds a week bv Sydney merchants.
Lively.
Margaret River Rush, Port Darwin, lias a
population of 406, principally Chinamen ; 15 oz.
from one dish by one party and n 13 oz. nugget by
another.
Victorian Government offers £SO reward for
convictiou of the -person who perpetrated the boax in
regard to the Xnmvsley Hall having been wrecked on
f the Crozehs.
The discovery of the sou of arc English noble-
man, lost for years to his family and friends, is tile
latest great achievement of Arthur Cubitt, Missing
Friends Office, Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Plimsoll load line saved Sir William Har-
court bis billet as Secretary of State. DerbySaceepted
tbe rejected of Oxford, and old Sam has won another
grateful heart.
Two men are to be bung in Brisbane on the 31st
A Chinaman Ah Sue for pickaxing a countryman and
Allstou, an Englishman, for shooting n man at Anunac.
No hope of reprieve.
It is said that the N.S.W. locomotive contrac-
tors, instead of getting the engines made in this
colony are Importing nine-tenths of the imiunfaetureil
material from England.
In view of the approaching visit of Prince George
to Melbourne, the Hon. F. T. Sargood places the free
use of his Balaclava mansion at the disposal of the
Victorian Government.
Johnny Campbell, the black bushranger, is in
gaol for 14 years, for highway robbery, and now (the
Queensland police are going to see whether they can't
get him hanged for rape.
Lewis Sampson will be sent to Berrima. " to do
solitary,’ like all other prisoners sentenced to a similar
term of inprisonment, unless the Executive chooses to
deal specially with his case.
The latest thing in wall-papers is the ‘ scrip '
pattern. A certain Ballarat man wagers that he can
paper the two side-walls of the local Mechanics’ Insti-
tute with worthless ‘shares.’
The Waterloo Good Templars and friends gave
an excellent concert on Thursday evening. 20th mat-
in aivl of a charitable object. The choir of the ‘ Dawn
of Freedom)' Jnvenile Lodge assisted.
Mr. John Plummer is about to take the
Graphic's collection of pictures, shown at the late
Sydney International, to Brisbane for exhibition, under
the auspices of the Q. N. A. Association,
A ball in aid of the Brisbane hospital was held
on the 25th May. Messrs. J. Guthrie and G. Raff, two
of the stoutest men in Brisbane, were elected as the
dance committee. Was this intended as a joke ?
A meeting has been held at Toowoomba, to
condemn the extension of the three trunk lines. In
Brisbane the people meet in the streets and growl on
the subject, but no united movement has been made.
A Melbourne man who had threatened to shoot
his wife was found to have a loaded ‘ sixer ’ in his
pocket. ‘ Domestic infelicity,’ says the telegram‘is
alleged to be tbe cause of his conduct.’ We guess so.
Tasmanian 300-ton barques ‘ lick creation. ’ The
Harriet McGregor’s last voyage to London was 79 days,
and the Loongana (otherwise ‘ Swift.’! recently covered
the distance from Hobart Town to Auckland in 8 days- ‘
The annual Victorian Fire Brigades’ demonstra-
tion was held at Sandhurst on Monday. Eight men
ran aireel 200 yards, attached 100 feet of hose and played
as follows : Chiltern, 56 sees., Sandhurst, No. 1,57 secs.;
Sandhurst city 57E
The Birthday Ball at < lovernment House,
Brisbane, will not bo held till the 10th Jime. The Act-
ing-Governor's lady lost a much loved relation in tbe
mouth of May, consequently is not inclined for extra
gaiety during that month,
Mrs. Hinton, wife of a Sydney contractor, from
whom she had been separated ten years and who was
proceeding against her for divorce, threw herself over
South Head cliff (300 feet high) last Thursday afternoon-
Her body was terribly mangled.
It is now said that there are no discrepancies in
the Charters Towers Municipal accounts. A local
editor.it is alleged by another local editor, ‘ showed bis
evil nature by sending lying telegrams all over the
country to gratify his paltry spite.’
A bottle put overboard from the ship West
Riding, W. 11. Thomas, master, on 26th Aug., 1878. in
lat. 4t south, long. 30 east (or 60,600 miles from Wal-
laroo, S. A., and about 400 miles south of the Cape ot
Good Hopei has been found on Warruambool beach.
Sir Henry Parke* delivered throe speeches at
Blayney on Tuesday. The first was delivered at the
opening of a Public school, and was, therefore, about
education; the second was given at the laying of the
foundation-stone of a building for the School of Art®
and the third, being at the banquet given in honour ot
the Ministerial visit, was on the political situation, sir


xi rv's educational utterances contained not hing new,
has been remarked by the Hkkai.ii that he was
• ificantly silent as to whether he had been converted
compulsory system. However, says the Heeax.d,
“ can’t have everything at once.
The Brisbane Government intend to spend
uvxxt in providing additional wharfage accommodation
sOooktown. When these improvements are completed,
I rae vessels, such as the India Steam Navigation Coy.,
will be able to lay alongside and discharge from both
hatches.
Mr Burnett, speaking at Adelaide, pointed to
fh* careers of Mr. W. M. K. Yale and the lato Hon.
Kichord Hoales as illustrating the advantages of tem-
w»ranoe. Very good as regards the latter; but the
former, though a temperate man, is an intemperate and
antrustworty politician.
Daring the hearing of the ease, BailKere v.
Ke.mcy, it came out that Dr. Beaaey had employed
uersoxxs to write his lectures and to instruct him in
.locution, to enable him to deliver them. And that he
kid been considerably bled by those who preyed upon
him and fed his vanity and fostered his love of
notoriety.
A lunatic, of whom a constable had charge,
tlxr*-w himself on the rails at Brauxtoxi just as the train
for which he and his custodian were waiting came xip.
The constable pluckily pulled him off. Tlxe lunatic had
his toes crashed; the constable (Ritchie) was struck
by the buffers and had his face and neck severely
lacerated.
Service's Reform Bill proposes to widely extend
the Council franchise; to increase the number of mem-
bers to 42 ; to reduce the duration of office to six years.
The adoption of his proposals would give 110,000 voters
for the Council instead of 30,(W0 as at present. Dead-
locks would be cured by u dissolution of both Houses.
Horry of course opposes.
In New York city a device has been invented for
transporting live stock, on foot through the streets of a
city. It consists of a pen without a floor, moxmted on
wheels, and arranged to bo drawn forward by animals.
By this arrangement stock can be moved through the
streets of a city with perfect safety to the inhabitants,
:is it is impossible for the animals to escape from the
moving pen.
We are very sori-y to see that Mr. William Fair-
fax, of the late firm of Foster and Fairfax, has found it
necessary to surrender his px-ivate estate. There is no
more energetic or upright man iu Sydney than Mr.
Fairfax and now that very adverse circumstances have
compelled him to resign the business which he strove
no hard to build up, the public can still do him a good
trim by patronising the new firm, Messrs. John Woods
& Co., whose extensive printing business he manages.
A Rockhampton bailiff named Scott was in
charge of the house of a man named Dowridge. He felt
cold and sent Dowridge with a note to the sheriff, asking
that a man might be sent to relieve him while he went
home and got his overcoat. Dowridge opened the note.
He found an acquaintance named Martin Quinn, whom*
he brought hack to the house and introduced as the
man whom the shex-iff had sent to relieve Scott. Poor
Beott unsuspectingly left the house and in his absence
so did the furniture.
Mrs. Professor Smith writes to the Herald to
the effect that the death of Miss Trollope, late Superin-
tendent of the Infanta’ Home, Ashfield, was an indi-
rect consequence of the poverty of the institution. An
additional i-T,OOO a year would enable the committee to
admit all urgent cases, and, remarks Mrs. Smith, ‘ surely
a colony that could send 128,000 to assuage the distress
in Ireland will not let it be said that while all Europe
rang with praises of its generosity, it let its own little
ones perish from neglect and slow starvation.
On Monday evening some naughty boys amused
themselves by stealthily placing large crackers under-
neath those seats in Hyde Pork on which the innumer-
ablc’conplos whisper sweet nothings iu each others’ ears.
By the aid of a slow match the crackers were exploded.
Tlxe results were surprising, for in most cases it was
some time before the victims could actually find them-
selves. Iu ouo case the joke was attended with rather
serious consequences for one of the prowlers whose
occupation it is during night to wander aboutotxr Parks
on hands and kueespwatching the unsuspecting had just
wriggled under a seat, when a cracker exploded immedi-
ately under his nose. This led to his detection, and before
extricating himself ho was treated with an additional
display of fireworks, such as he scarcely ever dreamed
of. His nose is now in a sling and he has not sat down
since Monday last.
During the salute fired at Dawes Point on Monday
last, in honour of her Majesty, Sergeant McFuddin got
in front of the muzzle of No. 2 gun, which rcsul ed in
the singing of his helmet and the total destruction of
his back hair. The major commanding fainted straight
away, and was conveyed on a portable stretcher to the
Barrack Hospital. Very luckily Sergeant McFuddin
retained his presence of mind amid the excitement, and,
gathering himself up, he shouted iu the martial thunder
of Captain Fahey, ‘ cease firin, left limber up, rear
tnra, and strike for dinner ’ome and dooty.’ A retreat
ensued which, though, rather disorderly was not attended
with the loss of a single gun. After dinner the com-
mauling officer, who had entirely recovered, comli-
mentod the men upon their pluck and manly appearance
while under lire. This is a true explana tiou of the
salute being one gun short.
Redgate and Son’s Patent Meal Works.
There has been a good deal said lately respect-
ing' the value of Redgate’s patent meal as an
article of diet, and the one opinion appears to be
that no more substantial or health-giving food
has ever been manufactured for public use. The
medical profession of Sydney, recommend the meal
especially as a dietary for children, its properties
undoubtedly imparting great vigour aud lasting
strength to the human body. Some interest may
doubtless be taken in its manufacture, and wc give
herewith a brief outline of the industry, with a
description of the works, &c. The business which
is carried on in Yurong-streethas now been estab-
lished thirty years, and was founded by Mr. Red-
£ate, aenr. The principal item of manufacture is
toe patent meal, which may bo taken as the result
of many years’ practical experience, care and ob-
servation. The principle of the manufacture is a
secret, and has been patented. Great care Is
token in the selection of the grain, and special ap-
pliances on their own design have been imported
hy the firm for grinding, dressing, Ac. In these
essentials the mills cannot be surpassed, and the
excellence of the meal cannot but bo maintained.
Hie trade in this article alone is enormous,
™d ;m increasing business is done with all the pro-
vincial towns of this colony,and likewise with all
fae adjoining colonies. The plate showing the
Australian team in the cricket field has with good
judgment and very appropriately been chosen as
toe brand or trademark ; there is stamina in both,
the manufacture of spices, coffee, «&o. is likewise
<Jam ed on to a large extent, the mills afanding
unsurpassed lor the excellence of their production
to this respect. Linseed meal also is manufactured
“ere, and of such admitted excellence that the
whole-ale druggists prefer it to the imported
which in consequence is being gradually
finven out of the market. Thus has the splendid
nsuie-s of Messrs. Redgate and Son been built up
excellence of manufacture, and with this solid
success mast always be theirs. Mr. Redgate,
jtaor., now manages the business, bnt has still the
of the experienced to aid him in ita
todher development.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Father Henneberry is on a temperance mission
at Komu.
The Rev. Dr. Kelynack is lecturing with great
success at Brisbane.
The agitation at Adelaide for religious teaching
in State schools continues.
Eighteen ministers of the Irish Presbyterian
Church died between 1878 and 1870.
DeanJCowper has now been officiating forty-four
yeare. He is a native of the colony.
At the animal gathering of the Brisbane Sunday
School Union 5000 children mitstered.
Archbishop Vaughan laid the foundation stone
of a new convent at Parramatta on Sunday.
Over 26250,000 has been promised to the Wes-
leyan Methodist Thanksgiving Fund in England.
Matthew Burnett, the temperance preacher, has
induced 3000 persona at Adelaide to sign the pledge.
It is said that the Rev. Mr. Madgwick. a Wes-
leyan minister, has resigned, and entered the Church of
England.
The Archbishop of Canterbury recently decided
that clergymen might officiate in unoonsecrated chapels
u a cemetery.
The Rev. Mr. Garnsey. of Christ Church, is a
man who occupies himself the year round in works of
charity done by stealth.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, objects to certain
bazaar money being used for church purposes on the
ground that it was the proceeds of raffles.
The Rev. Dr. Steel has from an early age been
a regular contributor to the Press. He has published
six works, one of which has been through a second
edition.
It has been decided by the South Australian
Wesleyan Conference committee that it is not desirable
to re-open the question of religious education in Suite
schools.
The Rev. Messrs. Yarrington, Gibson, Shaw,
and English are to lecture at the Maitland School of
Arts during the coming winter months. The lectures,
will be free.
The revivalists. Moody and Sankey, were at
St. Louis, L T .S., at date of last accounts. “ They had
vitalised and multiplied Christian work in the great
city manifold.”
The Wroeitos are strong in Melbourne. They
let their hair grow long, and roll it up in a mysterious
way behind then turn it up to the front with a braid,
something like a Chinaman’s pigtail.
Pew-renters at St. Stephen’s Cathedral, Brisbane,
complain that their seats are frequently “jumped” by
non-renters. Now, isn't it rather impious to apply a
mining term to an ecclesiastical matter ?
’Tis said that the disagreement between Arch-
bishop Vaughan and Dr. Bareanti, one of the ablest
R.C. preachers, has been settled, and that the latter
may he soon heard from a Sydney pulpit-again.
The first clergyman who came to Australia was
the Rev. Richard Johnston, who arrived in 1788. The
first service held on Australian soil was at Parramatta,
ixx 1791, when the rev. gentleman just named preached
iu a carpenter’s shop.
The Rev. John Ryan (R.C.), who died of con-
sumption at Carcoar last week, was only 24 years of age,
and was born at Eossmore, Tipperary. His health
broke down while he was studying at Thurles, and he
came to the colonies to seek a restoration, but iu vain.
Thirty-six years ago Australia and Tasmania
formed only a district of the Anglican diocese of Cal-
cutta. Now they form thirteen dioceses, of whiclx
Dr. Barker is metropolitan. Dr. Barker was ordained
in 1831, and succeeded Dr. Broughton, the first Bishop
of Australia, in 1854.
Rev. W. M. White, LL.D., delivered an eloquent
lecture on “ Crusades and Crusaders,” in St. Andrew’s
Presbyterian Church, off Bathxirst-street, in connection
with the Young Hen's Mutual ImprovenxeutAssociation,
on Tuesday night. There was a very small attendance,
owing to the want of publicity.
The Australian Churchman takes the Right
Rev. Bishop Barker to task for refusing a license to the
Rev. W. K. Brodribh. The matter appears to bo one of
High Church r. Low Church, Dr. Barker being very
Low Church and Mr. Brodribh ( who is a member of the
“ English Church Union”) very High.
Bishop Staunton is accompanied on his trip
home by the Rev. B. Reed, 8.A., who took priest’s
orders in Brisbane on Sunday fortnight. The recently
formed North Queensland Church Council lias now at
its disposal about £1220, which it isl expected will
receive considerable additions from his Lordship's visit
to England.
The Rev. J. B. Gribble, of Warangevda abori-
ginal mission, continues to lecture in Sydney on the
“ Aborigines of New South Wales.” Mr. Gribble is an
enthusiast in his endeavours to ameliorate the condition
of the few remaining blacks, and has a heartrending
story to tell concerning them. His lecture should be
printed and circulated.
The bells of St. Stephen’s Church, Newtown,
are a novelty. The peal comprises twenty hemispherical
bells, and they are to he mug by one person with the
aid of a mechanical contrivance, the only one of the
kind in the colony. There is a series of pedals like those
of an organ, and these are connected by wire with the
bells. The performer can produce the loudest or the
soft est strains.
There was an ordination service at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral last Sunday. The Bishop of Sydney ordained
the Rev. George MTutosh and the Rev. Augustus
Phillips as priests, and Messrs. Richard Nelson Howard,
Edward Alexander Colvin, and Joseph Best as deacons,
for the diocese of Sydney. Mr. Thomas Jonn Hyder,
by letters mandatory from the Vicar-General of Armidale
and Grafton, was ordained deacon. At the same service
Bishop Staunton, of Northern Qxxeeusland, ordained
Mr. Alfred Edwards and Mr. Allxert Cornelius Mosely
as deacons for his own diocese.
A native teacher, trained in a mission college in
the South Seas, and now labouring in New Guinea, has
written a touchingly simple letter to the Rev. James
Jefferis, of Sydney, concluding thus : —“ My elder
brother, give me a little of the good things of your
abundance, sxxeh aa that which may l>o with yon—a few
left-off slates (for schools), and a bell —though broken—
and a little paper. Send them to Aroma, in Papua, to
koep the children. That is all. Blessings on you from
our Lord Jesus Christ. (Signed) Matiha, Aroma.”
It is needless to say that Marina’s request has been
complied with.
A handsome marble tablet has been erected in
Christ Church, Hamilton, by the Sunday school teacher**
and scholars, iu memory of the late Archdeacon Innes.
It consists of xt beautifully-sculptured veined white
marble tablet on a background of black enamelled slate.
On each side cf the tablet, which is of Gothic design,
appear delicately carved roses and buds. This inscrip-
tion is surmounted witlx carved representations of £ho
ivy and the oak, and farther relieved iu the centre hyra
sculptured rose, convolvulus, and lily, the effect of the
whole being chaste iu the extreme. The inscription
reads as follows: —
lx Doting Memory
of the
VENERABLE G. A. C. INNES, M.A.,
First Archdeacon of Hamilton,
Who died 9th April, 1889 ;
Aged 42 years.
“ The Lord hath need of him.”
Had Ho asked us, well we know
Wn should cry, Oh, spare this Mow 1
Yea. with streaming tears should pray.
Lord, we love him, let him stay.
FUN AND FANCY.
A handsomely (spotted hand —Four aces.
The principal thing about an interesting baby is
its pretty mother.
There’s a follow hanging round Way’s, waiting
to see tx hood wink.
Have yon ever heard a foot ball ? No, conform®
it! We’ve felt one.
An anxious public wishes to (know who it is
raises the tide tobies.
It is a mean man who will give a cat a. bird
stuffed with sawdust.
It’s nice to see a pretty widow. That is to Bay
when she’s not one’s own widow.
Victor Hugo says woman is the conundrum bf
the nineteenth century. You’d better give her up.
The difference between the maimer of death o£ a
barber axxd a sculptor: One curls up and dyes, and the
other makes faces and busts.'
‘‘ Ho held him with his glittering eye.' ’ Barbers
do when a fellow says he shaves himself and only wants
his caudal capillary appendages curtailed.
A Tennessee man can so perfectly imitate the
sound made by two dogs engaged in fighting that he can
call a Memphis congregation out of church in three
minutes.
A local admirer of Colonel Ingersoll, author of
‘Moses’ mistakes,’ has christened his boy Ingersoll. The
boy by-and-byu will bo ‘ riled ’ to find tlxa t he hue no Chris-
tian name.
Everything in Nature indulges in amusement.
The lightning plays, the wind whistles,the thunder rolls,
the snow flies, the waves leap, and the fields smile. Even
the buds shoot, and the rivers run.
An American recently insured some fine cigars
against tiro, smoked them, and then made a claim upon
tiu- company, who paid the amount and afterwards had
the policy-holder convicted of arson.
Desirable Streets :—For an artist: Druitt; for.a
miner: Pitt; for a naturalist: Botany; for an acrobats:
Spring; for a gardener: Market; for a burglar : Bourkos
fora sportsman; Hunter; for a volunteer: Fort; for
senility: Bent; for a’bus-horse: Huy.
An enterprising American shipped some wheel-
barrows to Rio de Janeiro, and the natives filled them full
of stone and carried them on their heads. They said h.
was a capital contrivance and wondered how they man-
aged to get along so many years without it.
A Short Novel.—Sweet Margaret Fane camo up
f ixe laud from picking the red berries, and met yonxig
Paul, comely and toll, going to the market with cherries.
Stopping, she blushed, and he looked flushed—perhaps
*twas the burden they carried. W lien they passed on,
their burdens were one, and at Christmas they were
married.
A sad-looking man wont into a chemist’s. ‘ (Jan
you give me,’ he asked, ‘something to drive from my
mind the thoughts of sorrow and bitter recollections r’
And the dxniggist nodded and put him up a little dose of
quinine and wormwood, and rhubarb, and Epsom salts,,
and a dash of castor-oil, and gave it to him, and for six
mouths the man couldn’t think of anything iu the world
except new schemes for getting the taste out of his
mouth.
The New Haven Keoistee says : The sort of invita-
tion now iu use by the youngsters is as follows :-rr . ,
J inimy Sly, ,
To home - V
Saturday afternoon, October the 25. ; V
Dad in Now York, the old gal at the sewing-society.
Back Parlour. . •
P.S.—lt will lie a Hug-as-you-please. •
A Quaker Woman’s Sermon. —My dear friends,
there are three things which I very much wonder aL
Tlxe first is that children should be so foolish as to thrdw
stones, clubs, bricks, etc., up into fruit trees to knook
down fruit; if they would let it alone it would fall it sell.
The second is that men should be so foolish m to a>
to war and kill each other; it let alone they would am
themselves. And the third and last thing that I wonder
at is tluxt young men should be so foolish os to go after
the (young women; if they would stay at home, the
young women would come after them.
“The Bear in School.”
Such is the heading of a lesson in the 2nd book pi
Kelson’s ‘Boyal Reader ’ series, now used in aft
Victorian State schools. The lesson relates how in u
part of America a bear once paid a visit to a school.
‘ The bear in question,’ says a Victorian pedagogue, ‘ it*
not confined to America; he visits schools in almost
every district in the South and is usually an animal wbou
formerly a school-master himself, has been spoiled by
being di’essed in a little brief authority and made icff»
an Inspector of Schools.’ Judging by the last word uF
the subjoined ode we think it must be a case of Paddy
and the bea r: —
Beware, beware of the rugged bear.
In each Western school well-known.
For the nest of a mare he iinds with the nir
Of a King seated high on his throne—
But unlike K iug Cole, that merry old soul
Who called for his tiddlers three,
His awful frown would turn to brown
Or black the great White Sea.
Say naught to him lest his words of gull
Should cause your heart to rue,
As ho stalks through your school from wall to w;tM
Sombre, and ebon of hue.
Then gramerey for the grim bear,
And in weather fair or foul,
May Sandalphon’s ear my words never hoar
Should they rise for the good of his sowl.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A woman disappeared from Reading, Pa., loavrisg
behind her the following note: ‘My Dear Husband iJt
left in peace and joy. My body wall bo found by some-
one. Show this to mother, and give my love and a kia
to all. The lost shall be found, and the dead, arise. I
will meet yon all again. I had to do this, but dear
Lew, I had no ill-feeling against yon.’ Dear Lew was
greatly grieved until he found out that his wife vxa»
alive and well with another man in Philadelphia,
One day a woman who had a grudge agalnat
Alphonse Karr tried to stab him. She was secured and tto
knife Liken away. Karr had the knife hung over kit'
mantelpiece with the inscription underneath : * Given
by Mine. to Alphonse Karr—ib. the back !’
In ’Frisco, recently, a bridegroom was down
with the mumps on what should have been his woddtafg
day. The lady married one of the groomsmen.
The least coquettish of women knows when a mam
is in love with her long before ho has any idea of it hioiectt.
That is to say, she knows it before ho in in love.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN)
Song-Words.
Turning the leaves in an idle way
Of the book I was skimming the other day r ,
I found a line at the end of a song.
Which keeps on haunting me all day long
With its sweet and mournful melody-,
‘ Oh June, my love, hail you loved but me,
Sadder a burden could never be;
Than ‘June, my-love, had you loved but mo.’
Few words and simple; Imt, O, how much
The singer has told in that little touch;
How hard a story of chances lost.
Of bright hopes blighted and true love crossed
Is heard iu the whispered melody,
‘ O Jane, my- love, had you loved but me.
To many- a sox-row the key may be :
■O Jane, my love, had you loved hut me.’
1 don’t believe in what poets have said.
Of hearts tlxat ure broken, and lives that are dead :
'Lives well ordered will stand to their course,
And hearts of true metal ring little the worse.
But they vibrate still to tlxat melody,
• O Jane, my love, had you loved hut me :
My life xs well, but what would it be,
Sweet Jane, nxy love, had you loved hat me”
The world rolls on and years roll by.
Day-dreams vanish and memories die :
But it surges up with a restless pain.
That long lost longing ever again.
Breathed in the passionate melody,
‘ O Jane, my love, had you loved but me.
My life is well, but what would it be.
Sweet Jane, my love, hod you loved hut mo i *
JOHN BUNN.
Newcastle, May 19th 1880.
The Hands that can make Good Bread.
You may talk to me of accomplished girls
With “ hands as white as the lily;”
And of melting eyes and auburn curls.
But I think that really silly.
For when any one mentions a lady’s hands
The question pops into my head—
Not of her beauty and golden bands
But can she make good bread ?
There are hands that are skilful with pencil and brush,
In painting a landscape or face—
That can write sweet notes, ‘ and colour a brush, ’
With exquisite beauty and grace.
Perhaps you will cull me a gluttonous churl,
But, for me, I prefer instead,
A matter-of-fact and sensible girl,
AYifch hands that can make good bread.
There are hands that can play the piano with ease.
And finger the Spanish guitar ;
Can embroider and knit, and all such as these, —
Less worthy thou useful by far.
These are all very pleasing to ear and to eye.
But when you come to be fed,
Yot will find no hands beneath the sky
Like those that can make good bread.
We have trouble enough in a world like this.
But one thing lessens it much —
Brings household peace, and domestic bliss
And that is good dinners and such.
If ever you tire of the world’s busy strife.
And take a notion to wed.
Don’t fail for your life to get a wife
With hands that can make good bread.
F. E. DIAMOND.
Paddington, Sydney
Bth May, 1880.
The Shop-Girl.
Look at yon woman with dainty feet
Daintily crossing the dusty street.
Daintily dressed. I know not why
I looked in her face as she passed mo by.
Only a girl with a forehead fair
And smooth and white ’neath its clustering hair ;
But a shadow faint on its freshness lay.
Like twilight’s kiss on the face of day.
Only a girl ’neath the azure skies.
With a troubled look in her hazel eyes;
Only a. girl in the city’s snares,
A clxild in years with a woman’s cares—
Onward, unheeding the hurrying throng,
With steadfast will and a purpose strong:
On without heeding the rushing line,
Till the clocks in the steeples are striking nine.
She enters a portal with head bent low,
Where the tide of fashion will ebb and flow
Till the warm bright day hides her smiling face
And the flare of gas takes the sunshine’s place.
The shadow flits from the forehead’s snow
And the troubled look from the soft eyes’ glow.
And the smile and the jest of the dear old days *
Come back again with their winsome ways ;
For sorrow of heart, and the heart’s despair
Must hide themselves from the presence there.
The dreary work of the day begins
’Mong silks and satins and braids and pins.
Glowing ribbons and woof of gold,
Laoes costly and manifold
Must come and go at my lady’s whim,
Till the hands are numb and the eyes are dim.
And the rainbow hues of the magic loom
Take ollin shapes in the splendid room.
My lady turns from the scone away
And passes out to the fresh cool day
Where the voice of birds and the breath of flowers
Gladden and sweeten the rosy hours.
*»*»»«»
The lamps shine bright, and the glowing stare
Climb Heaven’s blue hills in their silent cars.
The rich and poor from the scene are gone.
But the weary work of the shop goes on.
Silks and xrxbbons and cloth of gold
How must be gathered up fold on fold;
Soil and rumple and careless crease
Must be smoothed away ere the fingers cease
And the sinking heart and the flagging feet
A respite find in the soulless street.
Is it a wonder that souls are lost
When bodies arc hold at so light a cost—
That the hopeless heart and the jaded limb
At times take rest in the haunts of sin.
When Christian men with unclouded eye
Watch the desolate tangled wrecks drift by-
Christian men and women who pray
That Guilt from the world may be purged away.
But stretch no hand as the young lives drop
Into the dork—from the gilded shop.
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.
The Billiard Game of Life.
1 ' Come let’s to billiards”-- Sk.ucbsi-ka.kjv.
< Joxne ye who preach and moralise
iin ovex-y thing beneath the skies
And take the common billiard hoax’d
For the grand lesson it affords.
» « * * *
Yea, reader, it does, T say-,
Remind one very much of life.
This game of billiards which we play
With all its mimic craft and strife.
The table here so smoothly- lies.
So green, so bright, to sight so gay,-
And so’s life's path to youthful eyes.
When all seems fair as summer's day ;
But there are crosses to be met,
And cannons knock us all alwiit,
And ga.ping pitfalls round are set;
From whiclx, like bankrupts, we oomc out.
But chief resemblance, ’tis that misses.
Too oft are near allied to kisses.
* * * s * *
And when our allotted game is o’er
Each player’s art is soon forgot,
Since other actors grasp tlxe cues
And our same follies each X’enews
’rill fortune's laws, or heaven knows what- -
Winds up the curious gamester and his score.
J. C.
Sydney, May, 2th 1881.


BRIEF MENTION.
Who is Mr. Romany P
More o’ Milner’s miracles.
How does make a living
‘ Our Boys ’ have won the Derby.
Foreigners laugh at our trial by jury.
Hanley Bennett’s attending night-school.
Bee how thoso Dlbbaes love one another !
Still they try to imitate The Bulletin.
‘ Old men in now coats ’ —Sydney postmen.
A good rendezvous —the now meet market.
Martin Guest was not at the birthday levee.
Another good shepherd with twelve apostles.
Sir John Robertson respects the Tel-a-cram !
Copeland’s turned contractor—for stone walls.
At the Sampson verdict the world stands aghast.
Hanley says Ninny knocks ’im into a cocked ’at.
Tho Grevillo testimonial sticks at tho Exhibition.
The Petersham People all read The Bulletin.
Once a tinker always a tinker. Even in politics,
eh?
Mr. Cunningham, J.P., is lonely on Saturdays
now.
Even tho Chinese regret poor Kush’s sudden
death.
Another 80 per cent, shop started in King-
stbeet.
Ninny Melville says he'll introduce ‘ bury ’
politics.
Sampson had no copy of his jury panel. Ergo,
etc., etc.
Look out Mr. Dillon, see what they’ve done to
Sampson.
Giorza is not going to tho Melbourne Inter-
national.
Ball wanted an appointment. Ho was dis-
appointed.
John Yeung suggests building now police courts
(oh, what?)
Melville does not dine very regularly at Govern-
ment House.
David Buchanan is in training for a son of
Temperance.
Matchmaking mothers weep over the departed
International.
Lewis Scott-does not write for The Bulletin,
lie’s too proud.
Oarllnghurst may soon be tho convent of tho
Good Shepherd.
Mr. R. B. Smith, M.L.A., is tho handsomest
man iu the House.
It’s uphill work for tho Baptist Church in Cairns.
Too many alligators.
G. H. Reid and Dr. Mackollarare the two coming
men for East Syduoy.
Ninny is to introduce a ‘ bill for the abolition of
starvation in families.’
P. R. Holdsworth of the ‘ Social Reformer, has
lost faith—not in himself.
Tho ‘l5 ’ puzzle is what now troubles Ci vil
Servants uow in office hours.
We purpose publishing a list of persons who do
not write for The Bulletin.
As the Eastern market is to Melbourne so is the
Bathurst column to Sydney.
Only one aldorninn in Petersham is allowed to
use the streets for cart yards.
The Exhibition admissions were crooked. How
a bout the cashiers’ admissions ?
Alderman Cubitt is cor-
recting Petersham Munici-
pal grammar.
John Flood, of the
Bihsrane Courier, is in
tovoi. He is one of the beet
presume a iu Australia.
‘The Vagabond’ was a
Cqjnmuuist officer and worn
his /ed scarf during his lec-
ture tour in Queensland.
Davie says he is the
greatest Shakesperiau scho-
lar and the greatest judge
of judges south of the hue.
‘ The Vagabond’ is not
writing a jioem—it is a
play. Wo are thankful.
We can avoid going to see
fhjtf, hitter, but might in a
nvyimoment have read the
former.
Bulvver Lytton says
■ No man of true birth or
bvee&ug will ever ostenta-
tiously cut another.’ We
recommend this to tho Go-
vernment House lioftus
Troupe, They canuot al-
ways a-Ford it.
Mr. Bell, the Acting-
Ooyeruor of Queensland, in
opening a bazaar, hold to
the funds of Alb
haunts’ Church, said he was
* very happy to open the
bazaar, as he believed it was
to he conducted on as honest
a, principle as iras usual
m' such undertakings. He
wished it every success, as
he believed the All Saints
people were particularly
p.oCn people. He did not
know whether they were
high church, low church, or
Jnppd church, but All
Saints was a very pleasant
church to go to, and the
silfeiug was very good.’ Mr.
Bou has probably been
reading ‘ Ready Money
Mortiboy ’ and sympathises
with, Dick Mortiboy’s sen-
timents.
A Northern newspaper
correspondent 'trusts that
*h(L rising generation of
long-tails, blackfellows and
lonigaroos will raise a suit-
able. monument on the
Mclver Plains to the
memory of the Queens-
land Ministers for L inds
and Works, and the Post-
master-General, and that
they will not forget to place
u big man kangaroo on one
side, tied to a long-tail, and
a- wild emu on the other
siTjp, with a blackfellow iu
the act of spearing it,
d§aptiug Advance Australia
backward. Mixed, isn’t it ?
Volunteer reviews wore robbed of a lot of inter-
est when ramrods were abolished.
.Sir Hercules liked horses. Lord Augustus likes
towls. Horsey Eobiusou, Fowley Loftus.
The Bathurst-street column exhibits the e®®s
emplary way in which we treat our guest.
1?®? In )" ntea °n foot to tho Eedfern Terminus ’
is tile trntnfnl boast of m Kiug-str66t clrapor.
■ Nithsd de-streot.—Discord . has fled. Peace
mgus. -. <). let a* he joyful, joyful,’ says a • perscmaU
adiertisemeat m Monday’s Herald. Now this is mi-
deservedly rough on Bland Holt, who lives in Nithsdile-
street aud has a most amiable wife.
The Poverty of the Infants’ Homo, at Ash field,
killed its late matron.
Melville says lie’s going to learn grammar, so
that the 'ouse won’t know when he’s speaking.
The old Licensed Victuallers’ Association sneers
at the new one and calls it -‘ The Dissenters.’
Lieutenant Savage of the N.S. Wales Artillery
made six or ten attempts to mount his charger at the
review on the flsth, and at last dragged himself on on by
the * fore ’ and ‘ uft ’ part of the saddle.
The man who awaited identification at the
coffee palace turned oat to be Mr. Alfred Allea.
G. R. Dibbs has been presented with the ‘ 15 ’
puzzle. He says he ‘ dropped down to it at once.’
The Agricultural Society of New South Wales
is getting very lively. At a special general meeting of
members, called for the !)th inst., the quorum consisted
°f t] , le secretary and his clerk 1 It is said that the
members’ list has dropped from 1000 to 107!
A Queensland official assignee has paid
creditors 20s. in the £ out of nn insolvent estate! !!
, 7? u hear about ‘ The National Curse ’
non t think it’s intemperance. It’s the ‘l5 ’ puzzle.
The Yass man who tried to send pigs to Sydney
alive in air-tight cases may be described as pig-headed.
A. P. Martin says the Coffee Palace and C J
Hughes are both noble institutions. The litterateur
was suffering from excess of supper the other
night and exclaimed, ‘O for a Duustone ’ —a pill
compounded iu Melbourne. Hughes at once pro-
duced a box from a secret recess, and A. P. gazed at
the enterprising man for some minutes.
Soul and Son have imported a new relish, to be
used only by parsons. It is called ‘ Brimstone Tormeu-
tatum.’
A horse which Mr. Wilson, the circus proprietor,
sold while in Melbourne, was ‘ very rough’ on its ven-
dor. The buyer, who took the animal to the western
district, found that it would never pass a public-house
without pulling up.
The captain of tho ‘ British Peer ’ used to put
ou big frills wheu his noble ship rode in colonial waters.
He offered £6O for information which would lead to the
kicking of the wag who so altered the stern name-board
from ‘ Beer ’ to * Beer.’
The Public Instruction fellows arc working sums
in simple addition. As one of them i>asses you, a mur-
mured repetition of a geography lesson greets your
oars. They have all to pass the Civil Service nomina-
tion yet, you know.
A Melbourne wit writes us statin® that Peter
Lalor’s face is the attempt of Nature to give expression
to a potato.
Aldermen Hashes, Barred, and other Peter-
sham fossils intend snuffing little Cubitt right out.
Will they!
The ‘ Red Ribbon Reform Club ’ is the latest
Temperance organisation in the U.S. The members
wear red bands round their arms wherever they go, and
—we presume —avoid bulls and beer. Such a club is
going to be started in Rockhampton.
The weekly papers, barring The Bulletin, of
course, ‘ make up in quantity what they want iu
w (e)i(gh)t.’
David Buchanan's intemperate zeal was the
Delilah that betrayed Sampson into the hands of the
Philistines.
Forster was Agent-General. Then Stuart was
appointed. Mercy’s sake, let’s have a handsome mau
for a change.
Mr. G. R. Henson, station-master at Petersham
is the most obliging man ou tho line, and far and away
the best reciter.
J. H. Murray wants to know if a testimonial is
to be got up for De Courcy Brown ? Yass. He reckons
he’ll subscribe.
A man beat his wife in .the Wagga sleeping-car
the other night. Some fellows make themselves at
home anywhere.
Morgan, of Bathurst, judge of bricks (?) at the
International, hasn’t washed his right-hand since the
Governor touched it.
The Herald says that those opposed to
Chinese immigration are ‘ larrikins.’ Plenty of larri-
kins iu business here.
Mr. Dibbs says we don’t know one fiftieth of the
fan width occurred at his arrest. How he was shep-
herded, hurley and late.
Mr. Samper, of Horwitz and Co., Sydney, now
on a visit to Cooktown, is described by the Courier as
‘ fat, fair, and flourishing.
It is rumoured that Rev. J. A. Dowie is to hold
a series of revival services on behalf of the Licensed
Victuallers’ Association.
The diver at the Circular Quay declares that he
saw tho spirit of the Hon. J. B. Wilson beneath a pro-
jecting rock under water !
A Charters Towers writer says that Teddy
O’Kane, editor of the Northern Miner, is not a liar—
he’s only a stranger to truth.
W. Gore Beverley, Deputy Comptroller of
Prisons, now in gaol for embezzlement, had a wretched
salary. The usual false economy.
A correspondent asks—‘ Which has the largest
circulation in Sydney— Town and Country Journal
or the Sydney Mail?’—The Bulletin.
The Twaddleqkaph speaks of Hanley Bennett
as ‘J. Bennett, Esq.’ Is Hauloy ashamed of his name,
or does the Twaddlegraph know no better ?
It is said that a man who was recently tried (in
Victoria, had 15 Crown Prosecutors—two ou the floor,
ouo on the Bench and twelve iu the jury box.
Dr. Beg has promised to inspect Hanley Ben-
nett’s ark. He’s been told it’s the original in which
two ancestors of Jonah’s whale were shipped.
Poor Ted Saddler was tho original lessee of the
‘ flying horse,’ now plagiarised in the Mines’ Office ;
Ted’s horse was patronised by Prince Alfred.
Dean Cowper is to lecture the Y.M.C.A. on the
Sabbath question from three lights—church light, gas-
lights and intense light, but not ‘ Bright ’ light.
The head-steward of a steamer is the fellow who
comes to you as you get to the end of your journey,
just ‘to see whether your luggage ia nil right.’
We saw Mr. B.’s manly form, encased in broad-
cloth and flue liuen, come out ou Monday afternoon to
take in the milk. He was at the levee in the morning.
A vest, with a gold-watch in its pocket, was
recently found hanging- on a Melbourne lamp-post.
Some fellow had put it there, thinking he was going to
bed.
The Council clerk at Petersham is also treasurer,
and is a check upon his own receipts. Good, good,
worry! However, we don’t grumble at the mau, but at
(he system.
Dowie has been three days in Windsor trying to
discover the jockey who wrote Bland Holt the repen-
tant letter, prompted by seeing Tommy Sturts’ death iu
‘ New Babylon.’
What queer names they
have for mixed drinks at
Broughton Creek. The
Broughton Creek Mail,
a new paper, says : “ Er-
rata. Several errors,
principally of a typographi-
cal character, appeared in
the two previous issues of
the Mail, arising from tie
fact of our ‘ reader with
other of the ‘ staff' having
been discovered to be perish-
ing. ‘Bichard,’ however, is
* him self again! ’ The double
which appears elsewhere in
this issue, in the Church of
England festival notice,
passed the reader before-
attention was called to the
error.”
The Evening News
says that a ‘most extraor-
dinarily - shaped skull, for-
merly the brain-container
of a notorious cannibal
chief is in the possession of
its shipping reporter.’ We
are so glad that the Newsv
tells us that the skull be-
longed to a deceased per-
son. Other wise, people
might have imagined that
it was the property of
But here we stop.
A letter from Mr. D.
Bryant, Mayor of San Fran-
cisco, has kindly been placed
at our disposal by the reci-
pient, who is secretary to
one of our largest insur-
ance companies. Mr.
Bryant says‘ Of all the
things you have sent me
from Australia the best is-
that beautiful little paper.
Tub Bulletin. It has all
the humour of our journals,
combined with the excel-
lent tone of the best British
publications.’
Little Nathan, resident-
of Orange, is down here for
self and Head, trying to
start a weekly illustrated
for Bathurst, to produce
portraits of the celebrities
there; but he can’t come-
across a press big enough to
give the Greville’s mouth.
(N.B. This is the Bathurst
man).
Our readers will learn
with regret that our old!
friend John Lucas will pro-
bably never again be seen in
the familiar old buggy,
drawn by his shaggy tho’
faithful steed. We are-
informed on good authority
that he (that’s to say John,
not the steed) has deter-
mined to take to bicycle
rding.
In Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne, a
poker-playing bookmaker has built a terrace out of the
proceeds of a night’s success. The house is in fact-
bmlt on a bluff.
Graham Berry is terribly thin.
And resembles a half-starved rat,
habit ® those of a man of sin.
Though his wife is comely and fat.
Says a country paper;— 1 The District Cour
will be held on Thursday next, and Mr. J. Milner
Stephen, who claims to be a healing medium, will
probably attend.'
MR. A. H. JACOB, M.P
M. HENRI KETTEN, THE MUSICAL BRIAREUS.


K
MASON, LAND AGF
* street, Woolloomooloo, S
of LAND for Sale at Waverley,
Nurrandera and Waggn Waggn.
RALEY BROTHERS. CO.
BUILDERS
290 PITT STREET, f
Near Park-sire
T P. CRIPPS, PAST!
* CONFECTION]
267 (late 255) Pitt Str
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., ,
best style.
O B E R T B U T C
(Lute William L
WINE AND SPIRIT M]
S3B GEORGE BTI
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL
R
Coctstbt Okdehs Receive Pi
(0 HA S. 11. D
GENERAL STOREIC
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD
Agent for tke Colonial Mntnal Li
/''kCULIST.— PROKBBfiOB
Oculist, (late of th
Eye Hospital) Li* WTLLL
may be consulted daily—]
2 to 4 p.m.
T EGAL.~ Mr. T. M.
SOLICITOR, has cc
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
Gr.
AND 8. PI
SAW MILLS AND TIM
10 Euskiitb Sthi
Every description of Foreign a
Doors. Bushes, Shingles, Palings,
Moulding's, Cases, Turnery, Ac., ut
ESTABLISHED
Xfl O W LEE’S P
AND
BEICTv WOEJ
CAMPEHDOWN, NBJ
Price List on applic
DOLPHB OABR
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC
18 WYNYAHD S^i
(TWO OOOHS FROM PPAHX.E
SYDNEY.
CAUTIOI
Owing to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. i
caution their patient
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS I
David m
14 HUNTER STREET,
Bv Special Appoint
SADDLER AND HARNE
to His Royal Highness the DUKE
His Excellency the Right Honor
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir H
K.C.M.Q., and His Excellency ]
LOFTUB, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Oentlemi
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 18
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Coupling
Sheets, and other req
OBE R T C
SADDLER,
WAGOA WAGK
OOUNTEI - KILL
Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGIN]
The finest displa
COUXTKY - K I I ’
EN SYDNEY
AT AfOS’T REAHONAB,
Come and see
And Jodsk fob A"o
Corner of
GEO 808 AND ENGIN
HA YMARKEI
]y[. B S. 8 P E
of the
VICTORIA LUNCHEON A 81
201 PITT STKEI
(next Victoria Thei
Knowing the Hversion which man,
men have to remaining iu town ai
close<l to have supper, has made ar
anyone giving an order early in th
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or
pleases ready cooked for them to t»
the first to THINK OP ]
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WIND<
N.B. This is not restricted to
meats, etc. cam be served and ohtaii
Suppers, Oysters, etc. a
Cleanliness, civility and cheai
Discount. Tickets, entitling- the pc
extending to any peritKl of time, foi
| be had at the cash counter.
| Note the Address—
-201 PITT STRES
milE BEST SHILLING LI
(including „ Glass of Ale
is to bo had at
H. DONALDSON’S M.EKCA
AND
LUNC H E ON IU
BRIDGE-STREI
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints,
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets cai
the bar in packets of eleven
available for any day.
Table d'hote on Sundays at 1 |
FREE COUNTER LI
COMB AND TASTE THE OLD CH
■VICTORIA PHOTOGRAI
PRICES.
PORTRAITS,
Carte i>k Visum
Cabinets
MULTIPLYING CAM!
6 Bon To its
16 Double Gems
Open from 9 a m. till E
Entrance—VESTIBULE, VICTO
PITT STREET.
Atlas foundry and eng
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney,
makers, and Shipbuilders, Irou ar
Coppersmiths turd Millwrights.—T
prepared to undertake contracts for :
Marine and Stationary Engines, B<
Quartz-crushing. Saw-mill, Sheej
Sugar Mills, and all other descript:
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Costings executed with d(
price given for old metal.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Warden Charters, of the Towers, hap* resigned.
Bret Harte is now American Consul at Glasgow.
Lady Loft us acknowledged every officer’s salute
o-i. Monday.
Victoria Wcxxlhnll, of Free Love" notoriety,
is in London now.
The late Sub-Inspector Knsh leaves a widow
and eight children.
Mr. Montague Levey says ho never donated
cigars to Mr. Dibbs.
M. Belcour is now French Consul at Melbourne,
rice M. Fauoonet, retired.
Mr. Alfred Jones, President of the lioynl Hi-
bernian Society, has been knighted.
Rosa Bonhenr has her cross to bear. It is of
the Leopold Order, from the King of the Belgians.
In the Victorian Assembly neither Mr. K.
Murray Smith nor 1,1 r. J. G. Francis have accepted pay-
ment for their services.
Joe Aarons, late of the Academy of Music, Mel-
bourne, has since his insolvency removed to a very tine
house in Victoria Parade.
■William Sauriu Lyster and the Hon. J. G.
Francis, among Victorians, liaye the largest vocabulary
of oaths at their command.
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy has now a sliockingly
■Elective voice, and can’t speak for five minutes with-
out drinking lemon-jnioe and water.
The Prince and Princess of Wales, in order to
avoid crushes, now patronise ‘ press views ’ of picture
galleries,and not the ‘private views.'
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy declines to stand for
the Imperial Parliament until he has published his
history of “ The Young Ireland Party.”
Captain William Fisher, bead of the Good
Templars in Tasmania, is a candidate for the represen-
tation of the Hnon in the Legislative Council.
Mi”.. T. 8. Mort, it is authoritatively stated, de-
rives from Bodalln estate an annual income of InIO.OOO.
VVe always sigh now when eating Bodalia cheese.
In tho yard of the debtors' prison at Darling-
hurst is a willow tree, under which G. E. Dibbs sits and
reads. He’s ‘ under the willow,’ but still he laughs.
When Sir Daniel Cooper was young be went to
Prance, but couldn’t master the language. He fancies
he am talk Good Gallic, hut his accent is execrable.
Mr. J. 8. Jones, of Market-street, and Mr. and
Mrs. Armstrong, of Bonrke-street. Harry Hills, are the
ruling spirits of the Sunday-morning free breakfasts.
D. J. McGauran. the manager of the electric
telegraph office at Albury, formerly a Victorian official,
is admittedly the most scientific' electrician in Aus-
tralia .
Mr. Barrister Davis is the sweetest insimiator
at the N.S.W. Bar. The way he has got of coaxing a
witness, especially if it be a i)retty female, is decidedly
beneficial to inflamed optics.
Dr. O'Doherty, of Brisbane, 'tis said, spent
•£3OO the other day, in consulting a London physician
)>y cablegram on u difficult case. As might have been
anticipated, the patient died.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen was originally trained
ns a railway engineer, but abmdoued that profession in
(■onseijuence of the tame of 1810. He finds that destruc-
tion is more ‘ in his line ’ than construction.
John Hennings, scenic artist, of Melbourne, is
the most delightful of Bohemians, J.is ten to him on
pictures and German poems, and you will enjoy John’s
conversation if you have a soul for such things.
Sir John o’Slum assy was at one time a draper
in Melbourne, Imtehe must have beeu a most unlikely
and unbewitching looking shopman. Imagine the burly
knight selling a dainty fichu or a pair of No. 3 boots !
Sir John is 22st.
A certain joditician wants to play John Jeremiah
Lamb in ‘New Babylon’ so os to perpetually have ‘ a
tea-pot in one hand and a jam tort.’ It wouldn’t be a
difficult study for him, but (whisi-er, St. Laurence)
‘ John never parts.’
Last year, when Queen Victoria visited Lord
Beaconsfield. she planted a tree in his garden. The
Prince of Wales planted another recently, and it is said
that Beaconsfield is waiting for the Czar to come next
spring and sow his turnips.
Cook, who is still billiard champion of England,
though beaten by Mitchell (to whom gave 200 in 1,000
up) has an Australian wife. Before leaving Melbourne
he married a very pretty girl, daughter of Mrs. Lane, of
rhe Sorrento Hotel in that city.
Mr, Fitzwilliam Wentworth, who conducts nego-
tiations in England on Trickett’s behalf, is a son of the
great Wentworth, i-j very rich, and is a most liberal
patron of manly sport. We’re glad to find that
Trickett’s interests are in such influential and capable
hands.
Dr. Hamilton, the Queensland Government
vhip, has obtained El5O damages for defamation of
character against the Hodgkinson Mining News. We
should have said that the awarding and obtaining of a
verdict are two different things. The paper is printed
too far North. 1
Mr. Henry Hallonui, C.M.G.. is at present en-
gaged on an epic poem of considerable length, entitled
’The Knight of the Order of the Bath.’ Mr. Hnllorau
turns off twelve verses a day, and expects to have it
completed in 1881. The great beauty of the poem will
be its uniform merit.
J. B. Patterson is dodging about Little Bonrke-
street investigating the ‘ Chinese Question ’ and col-
lecting facts against Chinese cheap labour. Vet the
•‘X-Commissioner bought a lot of furniture cheop a
little while ago knowing that Chinese hands and feet
and fashioned every article.
J. Edgar Byrne, of Qubknsland Punch, was
the greatest gallant of his day, but now he’s got the
Prettiest wife in Brisbane. She’s witty, and revises
bis copy. They wall him ‘Bobby Burns,’ not because
he ever had any of the failings of the great Scotsman,
oh, no!—but because he’s just as good-natured and
comical.
, At a certain Government House ball a short-
sighted volunteer officer surprised a loving couple
strolling in the grounds, and would hardly trust his
eye-glass until more decidedly convinced that the lady
vas his wife. Lothario escaped any unpleasant conse-
■pieuces by arranging wtth an heiress to elope next
morning to Europe. That heiress is now a widow.
Ward v. Derringion is not settled yet. Ward's
solicitors wrote to Derry’s ditto saying that they
xnonght ho ought to apologise, Derry's ditto wrote
* saying in effect ‘ Don’t you wish you may get it ?’
Derry’s friends are getting up subscriptions for the
j«vment of the costs of his defence, but of course this
Ma t influence Derry's ditto in writing that latter.
. Capt, E, Sodleir, whose only amusement is writ-
‘Otters to the jnipers, is an interesting old gentle-
,‘‘an of nearly ninety, with a clear head and u big
in ii' e takes a most extraordinarily keen interest
th£« , re ’ and writes a hand about os legible os
uut ot the late Dr. Long, who had trained cockroaches
periunbnlate blotting piper. N.B.— The Bulletin
u *es no “ letters to the editor.”
heodore Fink, of Melbourne, solicitor, good
tJ ' r;r d ol hterature, is in Sydney. He says
flnen* - i °‘ <l Melbourne!* now resident here look in-
havin’ nn< t explains tiie term by saying that they
loot • a much hair on their faces. Theodore doesn’t
chrer, - n * al froi “ his own point of view. He is
wish™ r y V ear<lleBS - Discontented man, who always
ls “ os for what he hasn’t got!
lieuj'r.F Tarleton, Police Magistrate and
m Snln , ® Town Marine Board, is at present
Though a layman, Mr. Tarleton has the
never ™ * n 9 t „know m <r that the Supreme Court has
TurW.-^V lfceri!llly differed from his judgment. Mr.
of them 11 8 SOu . s luLl hU good positions in N.S.W. One
r har,-o 1Q the Jerilderie Bank, of which he had
ge, when it was stuck up by the Kelly gang.
ftdiner 1)6 appointed warden at the
- P ’ Soffheim, who goes to Charters Towers,
mer.y held the position of Warden at the
Towere, but has been waiting during the last Li months
lor something to turn up. Mr. Sellheim lost his
amiable wife in the Far North. We remember the sad
event, ami hope ere long to publish in The Bti.letin a
thrilling story of the night that Mrs. Sellheim died.
The f unous litterateur, (reorge Augustus Sala,
is on hie way to Melbourne, by way of San Francisco.
He is going to represent his paper, the London Daily
Tei.eokaph, nt the big show. Mr. Sala has awfully
‘ riled ’ the Californians by something he has said which
they think disrespectful about San Francisco, and last
tiles from that city contain ‘opinions ’ of the versatile
and genial writer in question the reverse of compli-
mentary'.
The Agent-General for Queensland resigns,
says rumour, on the understanding that ho will receive
a pension. Ho deserves it. Mr. Macalister relin-
quished a lucrative solicitor’s practice when he thought
the colouy required his services, and, entering the
House a comparatively rich man, left it a poor oue.
How many politicians can say that with truth r His
health is now broken, and would preclude him from
taking any active position.
The Russian savant, Baron Macloay,■ is now in
Brisbane. He has been resident for nearly two years
in New Guinea and the adjacent islands, living with the
natives and studying their habits and customs. The
Baron intended devoting some time to the natives of
Australia, but circumstances calling him to Europe ho
will probably not do more than make a hasty excursion
to the most likely place for finding onr aboriginal popu-
lation. lif the Baron goes too far north someone will
probably live for a time on roast baron.
David Gannson, M. L. A•. of Melbourne, is the
champion stonewaller of Victoria. He once spoke for
a whole night. At the end of the time he had fully
reviewed the history of the world from the time of
Julius Caesar down, and had critically analysed every
discourse ever uttered, including all the speeches from
the throne and all the Eastern market orations. As the
hands of the clock pointed to 8 a.m. his voice sank tea
whisper. He sat down. Said he to Berry: *My dear
fellow, if I only had a bottle cf salad oil to clear my
throat I’d hang out till prorogation day. David is a
native of Sydney.
Mr. Charles Hamilton Hromby, a momlior of
the English Bar, recently admitted here, is a
son of the Episcopalian Bishop of Tasmania, but is a
Roman Catholic. When Mr. Bromby was Attorney-
General of the island he drew down the wrath of the
Bench because he expressed an opinion that the Home
Office constituted a Court of Appeal. After much
‘mauling,’ Mr. Bromby’s opinion was incontestably
! supported, and when search was made for the official
records which should have established the fact, they
were/uand to bo missing.
Earl Belmore recently had a narrow escape from
being poisoned. The Fermanagh Pahubhb’ Journal
says that ‘ Earl Belmore felt himself unwell, and went
to his family medicine chest for some cordial, when ho
in mistake took a considerable quantity of laudanum.
His Lordship discovered his error in time, and a mes-
senger was despatched for Dr. Walsh, who rode to
Costlecoole at a gallop, and was just in time to save bis
Lordship's life. Enniskillen was in an uproar lest his
Lordship's life should full a sacrifice to blunder, for he
is a great favourite in all relations of life with the
people.’ But then, you see, his Lordship Lis never been
Governor of Enniskillen.
James M‘Kean, prior to his expulsion from the
Victorian Assembly by the M'Cvdloch party, was
committed to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms. The
poor fellow, who had bellowed loudly and valiantly
before being put into ‘ the black hole,’ roared like a dove
when he found the House had determined to curtail his
‘liberty of speech.’ He become low-spirited and
whined at everything. ‘Look,’ said he to a reporter
who visited him in captivity oue day, ‘ See the wretched
meal one eats in this place.’ James, suiting action to
word, held up by the tail the half-dissected corpse of a
consumptive-looking garfish. Since then everybody has
been able to perceive that the lanky politician is very-
much like ft gartish himself.
Mr. A. D. Douglas, known in the Par North as
‘ Black Douglas,’ was iu Sydney the other day, and has
gone to England for a trip. He is an inspector of
native police, and has been so long among the niggers
that iu many respects his manner reminds one of the
aboriginal rather than of the white man. He was the
discoverer, or perhaps it may be more properly said,
the ‘ inventor' of that hideously dangerous bridle path
over the Bollenden Ker Range from Cairns to the Hodg-
kinson, known us ‘ Douglas’ Track,’ and though
adored by ‘ the boys’ -os the native troopers, who are
mostly Wide Bay blacks, tire known -he is the terror
of those cannibalistic people, the Northern natives. He
is a splendid hnshman, and tried very hard to get a trip
to Victoria in search of the Kellys.
Mr. F. ff. Swanwiok, the Brisbane barrister,
whose brother was arrested for having threatened to
shoot Mr. Griffith the Attorney-General and whose case
has caused so much comment in the Queensland
metroplis, was formerly a schoolmaster, and u successful
one, too. He Is perhnjis a little over forty and though
he has been at the Bar for but two or three years, there
is no man iu all the colonies who has so imposing a
personal appearance, from a legal point of view. His
wig, perfection; his cravat, magnificence; his face so
cleanly-shaved, bo smooth and glossy as to form a sort
of reflector. F. ff. is not a brilliant speaker, it is true.
He talks to his juries about ‘ the eternity of truth’ and
so on, just as any pedantic man mightbe expected to
do. But he has plenty of that useful attribute which
some people cull confidence and others ‘ cheek ’—not,
however, unmixed with ability of a certain order.
Mr. John Plummer, now editor of the Illus-
trated Stdivet News, wits a celebrity in England,
where he was known as ‘The Poet of Kettering.’ He is
of the real grit -commenced life deaf, crippled, poor
and unfriended, yet struggled with such energy and
such nobleness of purpose against misfortune that he
has been classed by Mr. M. D. Hill among ‘ Our Exem-
plars.' The comprehensiveness of view displayed in
his lectures on ‘ Strikes ’ attracted the attention and
secured the approbation of Lord Brcmgluun. His
poems are chiefly on what may be termed workmen’s
themes, and include the well-known ‘ Ode to Labour ’
and ‘Mary, they’ve closed the Mill’—which we shall
have much pleasure in re-pubhshing ns apropos of fhe
story of ‘ Adrienne ’ now running in The Bulletin. A 1
second edition of Mr. Plummer’s ‘ Songs of Labour’ is
now coming out, and will, we hope, in this truly demo-
cratic country, meet with the attention it deserves.
James M‘Kean, who has a longer body and a
shorter mind than any other man in Melbourne, has
again come into prominence as a member of- the
Victorian Assembly. He is a cantankerous, whimpering,
discontented creature ns a politician, and was so out- !
rageous in his conduct on one occasion that Sir Ja nies
M'Culloch caused him to be expelled from the House.
HLs principal amusements consist in carrying round a
fat black hag full of books and trying to imagine that he
is ns big a lawyer as he is a (political) old woman ; and
bringing people to his residence to show them his
library, which is a splendid one, hut, is, judging from its
owner's Parliamentary and private utterances, never
used. James has also an elaborate workshop fitted with
tnming-lathes, &c., at his house. He never uses it, it
is trne ; but the sight of it enables him to imagine that
he is a second Peter the Great. As might be expected-
of such a man, he is a violent radical. He has a hare-
lip-some people say the result of excessive talking.
He is a North of Ireland man. but is not a bit like the
ordinary Northerner. He behaves himself in the House
in a way which induces most people to believe he is a
reincarnated aboriginal.
J. Y. Mulligan, who has for some months past
had a prospecting party out in the Far North, but with-
oat success, is one of the original prospectors of the
Palmer, and, with the M’Leod party, divides the honor
of the discovery of the Hodgkinson- named after the
well-known Mr. VV. 0. Hodgkinson, now warden of the
Etheridge goldfield. Mulligan Las of late years Lad
hard times. He was not half so lucky on the Palmer,
his own field, as hundreds of those who followed in his
tracks; and when, a few years later, he went to the
Hodgkinson and began storekeeping, he gave so much
credit to unlucky diggers and met with snch heavy
losses that he parted with the last penny of one of the
hardest-earned little piles over made since the world
began. Then he thought of going to New Guinea, and
endeavoured to get up a party, but failing, went ont on
the war-path ii^ain —in tact, started to explore from
the spot at which he had left off. The Mulligan River,
which has of late been mentioned in connection with
the new search for survivors of Leichhardt's party, is
named after him ; so is Moimt Mulligan, on the Hodg-
kinson, one of the biggest and most imposing bluffs in
Australia. Mulligan is a- bachelor, and is now over (0
vears of age.


SPORTING.
TO OUR SPORTING READERS.
The secretaries of raring clubs, also the authorities
and members of cricket , raining, football and
other athletic associations (whether in tJris or
the neighbouring colonies) and spoiling men
in general, are invited to favor ns with lists of
then- fixtures and are informed that the
columns of The Bulletin will at ways be at
I hair disposal and that any acceptable line of
news sent along to this office will find, ready
publication. It is the aim of the editor to make
this journal the premier sporting record, of
Australasia. Communications should I*', as
brief as possible.
At present the public’s greatest bore is tho pro-
fessional pedestrian of a certain order. For months
past one has been unable to read the morning
paper without meeting the announcement that
Brown, or Jones, or both of them, is or are
walking,” either in Sydney or in tho country.
In tho evening paper, again, it is almost in-
variably stated that Brown is ” lively ” and that
those who hack him axe “confident” or that he
has completed so many laps and shows no signs of
failing strength save a slight limp, caused pro-
bably by the skin coming off' his industrious and
much-travelled heels. Then at breakfast next
morning we learn that Brown is “ still walking,”
and that ho “ will continue to walk,” or that hois
“one lap ahead,” and that Ids opponent is so
close behind him as to make the multitude very
excited indeed. And when we once more read
about Brown and learn that ho has finished
his walk, we sigh with relief. But our restored
tranquility does not last long : for, sue le champ,
Brown advertises that he’s ready to walk Jones
again if tho latter feels dissatisfied—that, in fact,
he’s prepared to go as far as to walk 100 miles for
£lOO aside, or that he can be backed to engage in a
48-hours’ “go-as-you-please” with any man,
white or black, residing between Cape York and
Cape Otway. Pedestrianism and pedestrians
haunt us. We meet them in the paiiers, on Die
hoardings, by day and night. A band “ processes ”
round town and drums up those ardent admirers
of athleticism whose delight it is to see Brown’s
grand finish to his 48-hours’ match. I t has hitherto
been considered that for tho sleepless man there
is no soporific so potent as trying to count a mil-
lion, or enumerating, one by one, shadowy sheep
jumping over an imaginary fence. However, we’re
ready to wager that the man who, after nosing all
the sheep in Riverina jump over a high hurdle as
he feverishly tossas about on his conch, finds that,
ho cannot obtain “nature’s sweet restorer” by
imagining that he sees Brown engaged in a “ go-
aa-yon-pleaso ” the man, wo repeat, who can’t
feel that a professional walker is tho re-inoarna-
tion of Morpheus, has no hope on this earth but
a horse-sponge-full of chloroform or an eight-ounce
dose of hydrate of chloral.
# # * # &
* # # •* #
Intelligent people in general and admirers of
athletics in particular cannot fail.after reading the
published reports of the typical Australian “go-
as-you-please” or walk against time, to enquire of
themselves what there is to admire or be a stonished
at in tho average performances of our professional
pedestrians. Those worthies, it may be safely
asserted, walk nineteen times cut of twenty for
mere gate money, and rarely have a genuine
antagonist to oppose them. We do not know, nor
do we particularly care, what were the financial
conditions under which Edwards and Baker walked
the other day, hut taking the feats achieved by
those pedestrians as a fair sample of wliat is
ordinarily done in public by those engaged in
the walking trade, wo unhesitatingly assert that
tho exhibition, viewed athletically,was a ridiculous
©no. The men each succeeded, during the space
of forty-eight hours, in covering slightly under 160
miles. We Australians consider ourselves to bo
on the field and on tho river the physical equals of
any living race. But if we are to make a fuss
over those well-meaning people who contest a “ 48-
hour a’championship of Australia,” and to parade to
an admiring world the fact that our champion
walked eighty miles, or a littlo over three miles an
hour, for two days in suecession, we shall only be
laughed at in other countries. In America, for
instance, the O’Leary belt was won by a man who,
in six days, travelled 565 miles or at the rate of
slightly over 94 miles per day. Making all due
allowance for the event first alluded to being a
walk and the latter a “ go-as-you-please,” it is
pretty clear that we have as yet not nearly reached
tho pink of perfection as regards exhibitions of
human speed and endurance.
V *** V V
The contest for the O’Leary belt would appear
to show that the endurance of tho most powerful
and lasting men is not far short of. if indeedit
does not equal or exceed, that of the trained horse.
There are few equines who under any condition
would do more than 600 miles in six days,—though
in saying tin's we must of course take into con-
sideration the facts that tho horse when he goes a
very long journey usually carries a rider; that,
were the horse left to himself, he would probably
■ot be so foolish as to attempt anything like tho
distance referred to; and that even if a horse
oonld be easily found capable of carrying a man
600 miles in forty-four hours it would be rather
more difficult to procure a rider to accompany him.
if many such enduring cattle and riders do exist
they axe to be found in Australia, the land of hardy
men and plucky, uncomplaining horses. In Eng-
land, the endurance of the horse is of course less
frequently tested than in Australia.
*** V v v
In Sydney, were a man to try and ride one horse
a certain number of miles in a given number of
hours, he would probably bo interviewed by tho
Hooretavy of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. And justly so. But when a
couple of men, or half a dozen women, attempt a
epocifiod long distance on foot, there is no one to
interfere, however pitiful tho exhibition. This, we
suppose, on tho ground that when the horse is
abused he is not a free agent, like tho tough men
and masculine women who during the past few
months have donned walking costume in various
Sydney halls. In this free country, wo suppose,
it is not reasonable that any man or woman who
keeps inside the pale of the law should be lectured
respecting the manner in which ho or she keeps the
mill of life going. But, while disputing no man’s
choice of occupation, lot ns say that if we are to
ha ve “ violent athletics ” let ua have them good,
and let them bo conducted as far as possible in the
♦pen air. Let us have plenty of walking matches
for reasonable distances, plenty of rowing and
sculling, and, among other things, plenty of
boxing.
V -v . V V
" A hundred and sixty miles in two days,” To
the non-athletic the figures may at first blush seem
bnt when one comes to reflect that in New
South Wales there axe hundreds of strapping
young workmen who without an hour’s training
or five minutes’ notice would undertake the
distance —with a fair chance of accomplishing ft,
too v, . r . ty tg uta-.’j one v. —. no i
longer entertain much admiration for the show
performances of professional walkers. Of course
we shall have some people telling us in reply that
the winner who a eonple of weeks ago tramped
eighty miles a day for two days oonld have accom-
plished more had occasion demanded; bnt this
does not alter tho fact that it is by snch perfor-
mances as those alluded to above that the pro-
fessional walking interest has of late been sustained
in this colony.
M *»» *,* « «
Tho race for the V. R. Association Chal-
lenge Cnp, to be decided to-day (Saturday),
at the southern metropolis, should prove a most
interesting contest. Now South Wales has bnt
one representative in the contest, viz., Laycook,
while Victoria is represented by Messenger and
the brothers Edwards. Tho ease with which
Layoook disposed of Messenger on the Parramatta
some time ago would appear to strongly fore-
shadow the defeat of tho son of the great English
sculler in the event now under notice, though
Messenger, after all, is neat, and by no means
stale, and may have improved, just as Layoock
may have gone down hill. But, unless we are very
greatly mistaken, it is in young Robert Edwards
that Layoock will find his toughest foeman.
Edwards is a very young sculler, but is unques-
tionably the best man of his weight ( lOst. 121 b., or
thereabouts) in Australia. He is beautifully put
together, rows in excellent style, will probably
come to the post in first-rate condition, and, if so,
will give an account of himself snch as people in
general don’t anticipate.
*.* =»,*
Triokett is making all arrangements to leave
by the Orient, the departure of which is fixed for
Bth June. He intends taking with him his out-
rigger the ‘ James Clark ’ (named after onr friend
P. J. of that ilk), and built by Donnelly and .Sulli-
van), in which he rowed against Layoock in his last
race. She is a beautiful specimen of tho builders’
skill and will prove to Englishmen that there is no
occasion for ns to import boats from England.
His object in taking the boat is not to row the
raoo in her but to ensure his having a suitable
craft to commence practice with on his arrival in
the old country.
V s , .. V *,* . V
A meeting is advertised for this (Friday ) even-
ing at Trioketi's Hotel, at 8 o’clock, for the pur-
pose of forming a committee to carry out all ar-
rangements connected with tho champion’s visit to
England.
V s v V V
Wo do not yet know for certain what has
tempted Hanlon to visit England, but we believe
that Boyd, who recently defeated Elliott, has sig-
nified his intention of rowing for The Sports-
man Cup, and that the Canadian, who is the
present holder of that much-coveted trophy, has
determined on defending his title to it for another
year. Although it is desirable that Tricketfc
should have an opportunity of meeting the “ phe-
nomenon ” sculler whose name ha* been in every-
body’s mouth for the last twelve months we
cannot overlook the fact that Trickett and his
friends would have bean much better off had they
been able to arrange for a match during the En-
glish summer. There is an old saying that a
match well mode is half won, and if this is true
then the Canadian should be a strong favorite in
England and America. The severity of the old-
country climate in No vein b with its heavy fogs,
will be mnch loss felt by Hanlan thm by the Aus-
tralian sculler ; but notwithstanding all this, Han-
lan, should he be fortunate enough to defeat our
man, will prove himself a better oarsman than his
most sanguine local fanciers believe him to be.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
At Bodalla sports the oup was won by Flanagan.
Charley Banuerinau wishes he’d gone home
now.
The race between Dean and Carver for ATOO
takes place at Wngga on Monday.
The first Moroton Bay schnappcr party of this
season took 400 lish In three hours with twelve lines.
Albury and Beeohworth have played football.
Albury> * goals, 4 behind*; Beechworth, 2 goals, 5 be-
hinds.
Mr. G. H. Hookings’ racing pony 1 Prinoess ’
broke her leg on Easter Monday at Brown’s Creek and
has since died.
The Carltons are still agitated. Geary chal-
lenges Ned Sheridan to a duel The trophy is the cause
of all the trouble.
M. Ryan, of Mount Pleasant, and W. Harvey,
of Dapto, race shortly for £2O a-sidc should the former
be conceded 3 yards in 150.
At the Wallaby drive, Woologorang, on Queen’s
Birthday, over 100 persons were present, and 400 kan-
garoo and wallaby were killed.
Last Wednesday week the Newtown Fishing
Club had an outing in the Lillie Denham. The total
take was 392 lish— average of 30 per man.
A maiden pair-oar race takes place to-day
(Saturday) at the Mercantile Bowing Club. There are
five entries, and a close contest is expected.
* Professor ’ Flynn, a well-known English ex-
ponent of the noble art, arrived in Melbourne by the
Orient to join his friend Jem Mace in tuition.
Azza Baba, the well-known Arab stallion, died
recently at Yuanbuk (Vic.) He was the sire of Sydney,
Blue Jacket, Bed Jacket, and other success ini steeple-
chasers.
Mr. J. Oolbeck, perhaps the grandest amateur
sprinter who ever wore a shoe, and whose time. 50 2-5 s.,
has never l>een beaten, died recently in Egypt from con-
gestion of the lungs.
At Maryborough Regatta on Queen’s Birthday
the Brisbane crew won the senior fonr-oaxed gig race
by a length, but were beaten by the local crews for
the champion gig race and double sculls.
George Steadman, of Dry book, won Sir John
Astley’s wrestling belt, and is now champion of Eng-
land. Sixteen entered, and George Lowden, of Pitziug-
ton, contested the deciding fall with the winner.
The Sydney Bowing Club intends holding
their annual regatta this year at their bead-quarters in
the Harbour instead of at the branch as usual. The
programme is an attractive one, and includes a scratch
eight-oax race.
Charles Rowell, the long-distanoe champion,
says that ho is in the enjoyment of thoroughly good
health, and does not often visit London, but hits taken
to coursing, and between that sport and training his
hounds he gets plenty of running exercise.
The Gympie Annual Turf Club Meeting bikes
place on Ist and 2nd July. The added money is £250,
and includes the Handicap of £7O; Queensland Plate
of £3O (for Queensland-bred horses) ; and Town Plate
of .250. Nomination, Ist June; weights, 12th June.
Callaghan, of Maitland, we understand, has
challenged Watson to run 150 yards for £5OO a-side.
As two sporting gentlemen of Maitland have offered to
hick Watson against any other man in Australia for
.2500 or £l,OOO a-side, it is presumed that u match will
bo made.
In the 50 miles’ championship walk at Lillie
Bridge for the Astley belt. Jus. Bailey won for the third
successive time and thus holds the belt outright. Q.
Mason, of Eatolifle, was his opponent, but gave in at
41 miles. Bailey kept on till ho had completed 42J
miles—in 5 h. 14 m. 22 s.
At Adelaide the totalisator is a total failure. It
is thought by some that it wull become a much greater
otn I’ Wya and meu ihgi list-betting. the Jiltig
cannot afford to lay odds with the totalistttor in the
field, racing in the end bids fair to result In a series of
matches. Where will the national pastime bo then ?
Yonng Fairbairn. brother of the well-known
Victorian oarsman, stroked the victorious Geelong
Grammar School crew in their recent race with tho
Melbourne Grammar School on the Yam- He is a
capital oar. Young Chase, son of the Rev. Canon
Chase, stroked the losers, and pulled a pdneky race.
The Daily Telegraph argues in effect that
football is not in N.S.W. extensively patronised because
hero it is a ' mere exhibition of brutality ’ as compared
with the Melbourne game. Now as a matter of fact an
average Melbourne and Carlton match is to a contest
between the Sydney clubs as is a prize fight to a spurring
match.
The 100 miles’ bicycling championship, contested
at the Leicestershire Cricket Club Ground on the 27th
March, was won by W. Phillips, of Wolverhampton,
who covered the distance in <i h. .55 min. 22 secs., and
beat H. Higham, of Nottingham, by half a yard. Two
days later, however, D. Stanton got over the same dis-
tance at the Marble Rink, CUipluuu Road, in fl. 34 min.,
and was the only man out of four starters who finished
the distance.
Sam Wttldock, late Master of the Melbourne
Hounds, is.io.ul. Sum, whoso health bad for sometime
failed him, was in his younger days a daring rider an 1 a
boon companion and fellow huntsman of the late Adam
Lindsay Gordon, Australia’s greatest p>oet. He was,
too, u proficient in tho noble art of self-defence, as not
a few of those ho leaves behind him can testify. But
uatty figure of poor Sam is gone for over from our
midst, and the firm hand which so often steadied the
impetuous bald-faced son of King Alfred at tho Essen -
don fences ha.s slacked its hold on the rein.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Muswellbrook Juno 2nd and 3rd
Coonamble J. C June Bth and 9th
Hunter River Amateur Juno 12
Northern Downs J.C June 23, 24
Cobar Annual June 24, 25
Clarence River J. C July 7. 8
Rockhampton J.C. Annual July 8,9
Hawkesbury August 25, 27
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Hawkesbury Guineas. 1881; Mares’
Produce Stakes, 1882, 1883, and
Grand Handicap Tune 1
Great Metropolitan Stakes June 1
Muswellbrook General Entry June 1
Rockhampton Port & Curtis Handi-
caps June 2
Melbourne Cup, Maribymoug Plate Juue 1
Hunter River Amateur June 2
Coonamble General Entry June 5
Northern Downs J.C. Oca. Eatery June 18
Co bar General Entry June 23
Rockhampton District Plate Hurdle
Race, and Members' Handicap July 1
Rockhampton General (Entry Inly 1
Clarence River J.C. General Entry July 5
Index to Declaration op Weights,
Coonamble and Castleragh J. C.
Handicaps May 29
Hunter T.C Handicaps June 3
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps June 7
N.D.J.C. Handicap, Flying Handi-
cap, Dolby Town Plate June 8
Eockb unptou and Port Curtis Han-
dicaps , June 15
Great Metropolitan Stakes June 23
Ha wkesbury Grand Handicap June 23
Rockhampton District Plate,Hurdle
Race, and Members’ Handicap! July 5
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances/
Coonamble and Castlereagh Handi-
caps Acceptances June 5
Hunter River T. C. Acceptances ... Juno 0
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps
Acceptances Juno 21
Rochamptou and Port Curt is Han-
dicaps and Acceptances July 1
Rochamptou District Plate,Hurdle
Race, and Members’ Handicap
Acceptances July 6
Great Metropolitan Stakes—first
forfeit ... July 14
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap Ac-
ceptances J uly 14
Answers to Correspondents,
SUBSCRIBER (Bathurst) asks : —“ What was Tim
Whiffier’s fastest time for the Rnnd-wick Three
Mile race?” 5 min. 45 secs., when The Barb
was disqualified for short weight.
X.Y.Z., Charge-street. —A 3-year-old would have
to carry 7 st. 2 lbs. in the month you mention,
and, an aged horse 9 st. 8 lbs. over 2 miles,
THE INJURED ONE.—The rule says, “ The
Committee shall have power to disqualify for
any period they may think Jit,” #c.
LIGHT-WElGHT. — Kitchener’s bodily -weight at
the lime you mention was 2 si. 7 lbs.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
The coming week, which fetches with it the Ist
of June, will bo a busy one indeed with owners of
horses, for on the day mentioned most of the prin-
cipal stakes in Australia close; and besides those
there are a couple of meetings to which attention
will be turned. On the 2nd and 3rd the Muswell-
brook programme, which has for a long time been
before the public, will be run out, and the pre-
liminaries so far got through warrant a successful
termination of events. First in order on the Ist
of June, which will be next Tuesday, will close the
following handicaps : —The Great Metropolitan
Stakes, the Hawkesbury Grand Handicap, and
the Melbourne Gup. My readers ■noil readily
understand why special prominence is given to
those important events, and I am extremely glad
to notice that the different secretaries have
studied the interests of owners so much as to
cause the different events to close on the one day,
for to an owner who lias half-a-dozen or so to
enter for each race it does away with a great deal
of labour by being able to nominate all on the one
day. Besides, owners and trainers, like other
people, are liable to forget even the most im-
portant portions of their business; but, in the
present case, and where one secretary can take
entries for all three stakes the danger of forget-
fulness, &0., is reduced to a minimum. It is
needless here to call attention to the conditions of
each stake, for they are so well-known as to need
no comment; but 1 sov only will nominate, and
with a fair share of dame fortune’s smiles I expect
to see a bumper entry for the three groat events of
the N. 8. W. and Victorian Spring year. The
conditions tell that horses can stay in and soe their
weights without being called upon to pay anything
beyond the original sov for nomination. Then
there are also to close on the same day the Mari-
bymong Plato for the coming November, the
Hawkesbury Guineas, Normanby Stakes, Ascot
Yale, V.R.C. Derby and Oaks for 1881; the
H. R. C. Mares’ Produce Stakes of 1882 for de-
scriptions of foals ; and maxes require nominating
for a similar race to be run at the Hawkesbury in
1883; and owners may as well be informed that no
entry foe is charged with the mare. There were
429 mares nominated for 1882 under the H. li. C..
when no nomination fee was asked for, and I shall
watch with curiosity for the list of foals described,
for which owners -will bo asked 1 sov. each. Then
the V. R. G. Sires’ Produce Stakes, St. Leger, and
Maxes’ Produce for ’B2, and Mares’ Produce ’B3
require at Mention on the same date, and no owner
need go astray with snch an extended notice as
tills. Besides this there is the MnsweDbrook
general entry set down to close on the Ist also, as
well as the principal handicaps to be run for at
Rockhampton, and they make up a pretty good
lot, requiring the strictest attention in one day.
The Hunter River Amateurs’ close on the 2nd.
with the Coonamble general entry on the sth.
The Hunter River, Clarence, and Northern Downs
(Dolby) handicaps are duo on the sth, 7th, and Bth
respectively; and when acceptances have been
declared for the good things of Coonamble and
H tmter River on the sth and 9th, my index will
have been concluded for the present week.
The telegraph wire has informed ns that the
celebrated horse Agent won the New Zealand
Grand National Steeplechase, but I have not the
handicap weight carried .by him to place before
my readers, nor am I in a position to offer any
further information than the scanty notice men-
tioned.
“ Falcon” in the Leader says that Mr. J. Look
has purchased a yearling King of the Ring and
Sybil filly, who although small shows plenty of
quality.
Tho racehorse The Marquis, sire of Newminster,
Canterbury, Waterford, His Lordship, and Grand
Prix, was offered for sale a few days ago in Mel-
bourne, but was passed in. Borne of the above
animals are brilliant, bnt Tho Marquis does not
get stayers, and his stock sis a rule arc not what,
are termed ‘"game,” so that Tho Marquis cannot
be said to have been a success at the stud.
The well-known Arab horse Aladdin has been
sold to Messrs. MTvenzie, of the Diamantina
River, Queensland, where he will I learn be used
for stud purposes.
I gather from the Melbourne Lead eh that a.
match has been made for a century a-sido between
Die steeplechasers Midnight and Novelist to ran
over tho Caulfield conrse, carrying 11 st 7 lb each.
My authority does not state whether the race is to
bo a jumping one or not, nor does it give the dis-
tance.
Mr. James Mitchell, of Victoria, has lost his
Kolpie-Poppet filly. Death is said to have been
caused by an injury to the spine.
The match between Pawnbroker and Frank
Hewitt, which took place a few days ago at Ade-
laide, was won easily by tho former.
Tho following are the principal prizes paid over
at the late South Australia Jookey Club meeting.
Mr. Pile. <£B43 ; Mr. 8. Martin. £417 : Mr. Haines,
£260; Mr. Filgate, £251: Mr. Hill, £125; Mr.
B. Coleman, £IOO ; Mr. C. H. Hart. £59 ; Mr.
Jackson. £54; and Mr. F. Reynolds, the breeder
of tho winner of the Prodnce Stakes, Trcvallyn.
£SO.
I was sorry to learn from a Queensland paper
the death of the well-known sire Biadensburg, the
sire of the racing mare Sunrise. Ho was bred by
Mr. E. F. Greene, of Victoria, in 1859, and was
got by Indian Warrior out of Melesina (imp.)—
tho dam of Gwendoline, Kingfisher, and the Fawn
—by Harkaway out of Potteen, by Young Black-
lock out of Brandy Bet, by Canteen out of Biggo-
tini by Thunderbolt. Indian Warrior, too, was
well bred, though not much known to fame, being
bred in Ireland, and got by Napier (son of Gladiator)
out of Jannettc by Birdcatcher out of Perdita by
Langar. Thus it comes about that old Biadens-
burg had more claims to public patronage than
most people credited him with. Had he lived till
the first of tho coming August, he would have
reached tho ripe age of 21.
I regretted with many others the death of that
grand old racehorse, and sire of many others,
Vattendon, and I would have added my quota of
condolence on tho loss of this great horse in your
last issue, but your space was too limited. Yat-
tendon was got by Sir Hercules from Cassandra,
by Tros from Alice Grey by Emigrant (Rous's)
from Gnlnare (imp.) by Young Gohanna, and was
bred by Mr. Tindall. He would have been 19 years
old on the Ist of next August. There is no name
or fame better known throughout the length and
breadth of Australia than my subject, and as a
sire he had no superior, and but very few wore his
equal. He gave the Turf of Australia such grand
performers as JavTin, Commodore, Reprieve,
Braidwood, Chester. Sterling, Respite, Sweetmeat,
Andover, Pardon, Vulcan, Geraldine, Dagworth,
Valentia, Queen’s Head, The Dean, Black Eagle,
Patriarch, Fitz-Yatteudon, Lord Burghley, A. 1,
Grand Flaneur, and others almost innumerable ;
but tho above is a fair sample, and will give a lino
from which those may judge who were not so
well acquainted with the capabilities of the old
horse. There axe a lot of his youngsters as year-
lings and two-year-olds, and they are of snch great
promise that they may even out-do tho glorions
deeds of those I have mentioned above. On the
turf “ the mighty Yatt.” was a groat performer
himself, having won amongst other big races the
A. J. C. Champagne Stakes, Derby, Sydney Cap,
and Queen’s Plate, besides running into situations
in many other big events. By thus it may bo seen
that Yattendon’s demise is a general loss, and the
whole of Australia must of necessity feel it almost,
as keenly as the Hon. E. K. Cox himself.
All tine sportsmen regretted the very sad acci-
dent which happened a few days ago to Mr. Vin-
cent Dowling at Mudgee. It appears that Mr.
Dowling, who is a rather a heavy and by no means
young patron of the turf, was riding in a jumping
race at the late meeting of tho Bligh Amateur
Turf Club, bnt by some means or other he was
thrown, and broke his collar-bone and one or two
ribs. This is not tho first accident of a serious
nature that has happened to Mr. Dowling while
riding over fences, and I sincerely hope that ho
may recover speedily.
I have to congratulate the good racing folk of
Newcastle on the great success I am told they
achieved with their late race meeting. I was pre-
vented from having actual observation of my own,
but the correspondent of The Bulletin ha*
wired that it was the most glorious success ever
know in the ‘ coaly city,’ tho weather having been
grand, the attendance ditto, and the sport up to
as high a standard as could bo wished. There can
be no doubt that the club’s now secretary, Mr.
Fleming, is in a great measure to bo congratu-
lated for such a turn of events, and I learn that the
highest encomiums were passed upon him. The
majority of tho larger prizes came to Sydney
through the instrumentality of Creswick, Master
Avenal, Jester, and Liberator. Messrs. Ivory and
Roberts being the principal winners. The almost
invincible Mr. Mayo came again as usual in for a
share of the good things with Black Swan ajjd
Maid of Australia, and the black mare has now
conclusively proved herself to be one of the
best of her sex that can be found knocking round,
for she carried 9 st. 4 lb. in the City Handicap
and won easily, giving lumps of weight away to
to such as Jester, Sunlight, Hopeful, and other
good ones. There is nothing faster that I know
of than this daughter of Maid of the Lake, and
she docs her trainer. Moore, every credit.
The Parramatta Queen’s Birthday Meeting was
as great a success as it ever will be while the club
persists in racing on perhaps the worst course in
the oolony, and a report elsewhere tolls fully of
proceedings.
Our Queensland brethren have also been wiring
in, anl telegraphic accounts will be found In


i Weatherhit
Sheet Anchor
Miss Hetty
Lottery
Morgiana.'
Priam
Miss Fanny’s d
Child of the
Mist
St. FraJicis
Tanrina
St. Patrick
Surprise
Taurus
Esmeralda
Sir Hercules
Whalebone
Peri
Waxy
Penelope
Wanderer
Thalostris
Factory Girl
Lamplighter
Spin’)? Jenny
Merlin
Spotless
Juniper
Oscar more
Fisherman
Heron
Bustard
Orville mare
(imp.)
Madnbrace
Sheet. Anchor
Bay Middlt’n m
Kose do Flo-
PI’ Dutchman
Bay Middleton
Bar belle
reuee (imjn)
Hoarding
School Miss
1’lenipotentiai y
Marpessa
Stoekwcl!
The Baron
Birdcatcher
Echidna
Pocahontas
Glencoe
Marpessa
Juliet (imp.)
Touchstone
Caouel
Banter
Lancashire
Witch
Tomboy,,
Kite
j
■
Heron
Bastard
Castrel
Miss Hap
1). ol!
Orville
liosanue
Mainbrace
Sheet Anchor
Lottery
Morgiana
D. of
Bay Middleton
Nitocris
•FI* Ihitchman
BayMiddelt’n
Sultan
Cobweb
Barbelle
Sandbeck
Dariolotta
Boarding
Flenipoten ’ry
Emilius
Harriet
School Miss
Morpessa
Muley
Clare
Phyrrns 1
Epiros
Langur
Olympia
Portress
Defence
Jewess
Colocynth
Physician
Brutandorlf
Primetta
Camellino
Whalebone
Selim
St.John (imp).
St. Nicbolos
Li verpool junr.
Amice
Daughter of
Thunderbolt
Precipitate m.
Cinderella
Boas’
Emigrant
Pioneer
Kingtail
Siiaewipe imp
Ped. unknown
U>m:u Hi.xti k O ra>* u
*t lb
Sit
lb
Kluxik Swan
0 0
Idea ..
7
0
Bulgaria ...
.7 LI
Jester
. 7
0
Lord John
7 d
Outdid
ij
12
Volunteer
7 -t
Scrubber
i»
u
Rocherolnj
. 7 i
Pride
H
10
ItoKauta ..
AmUmcho
7 u
7 a
Mi>'w»;u.>ihook
Eurokn
Uajtoic vr.
0
0
Black Swan
!* 0
True llluo
r 7
o
Lord J olm
7 .V
Scrubber ...
. 7
0
Rechcruho
7 4
Idea .,
, 7
0
Kosontn...
7 8
Pride
•: 12
Rosebud
7 2
Bcho ..
. »J
10
Avalanche
.72
I.uercti.a
. <;
10
Jester ...
7 2 iluroka.
\ LiZUKS' Mu.t,
. n
o
Rosebud
X ... 8 0
Lucretia
t 7
0
True Hln>*
A ... 7 IS
Vanity
7
&
Avalanche
... N . 7 1-
A 7 u*
Hob llr»y
. 7
0
Idea
Maiilcif AridtraU.'i
. ti
Scrubber
\ 7 !>
Lady Clifdist
. V*
12
Gun lid ...
s: i*
La.lv Mary
. *1
12
Caiuo>> ...
7\d Bismarck
TxmaiH-U.VH Stakes.
. 5
0
Luordia
7 !■
Starlight.
. 6 11
Vanity ...
Ompoo ...
lilbo ...
7 H
7 i*
7 2
Lftdy Abury . .
1. m!j CHfduu
.. H
. tt
0
J
1
a
£
A
se
s
a
a
V
o
a ■
a>
o
s
Cq
g
o
1
2
u
1
t
~
£
»
*
>-
o>
fc
a
£
3
2
X>
3
3
i
•2*
4) ;
*
aa
5i
J
pH
ft
3 i
p
Sj
w
■H
<
>
m
m
►-
be i
a 1
Bi
a
£
1
E i
5
H
Chrysolite
ir) ,rther column of the results of the different
Events. The Adelaide meeting is also as fully
old of, and in your next 1 will give tabular jusli-
of the most imixirtant winners of each
readers this week, which had been
eroUfio °I Isthmian games, the tabular x>edigrees
eftwo of the most notable winners at the different
meetings, the first in order being hirst Water (a
son of Fireworks and The Gem) who w-on the
Adelaide Cup run for at the South Australian
Jockey Club Meeting some few days ago. As will
be seen, this brother to Tojiaz has a pedigree as
fashionably put together as could well be, for on
bis sire’s side he inherits all that grand AVoather-
bit. Sheet Anchor, Sir Hercules, Whalebone, and
Waxy blood through Kelpie and Gaslight, while
nothing could be better than that produced
through Maribyrnong on his dam’s side, to say
nothing of what is brought in by that good old
mare. Chrysolite, for she is a power of strength in
herself, boasting as she does of such strains as
Bfcockwell and Touchstone. There is uotldug to
be wondered at in a youngster (for he is only 3
years old) such as First Water turning out one of
the right sort. Blood w-ill tell.
The pedigree is that of Jester, the
winner of the big event at the late Newcastle
Meeting, namely, the N.J.O. Handioax). He was
bred by, 1 think, Mr. 11. Royds, of Goulburn, and
is by Maribyrnong from a mure called Nellie
Brandon, and is now running as three years old.
His pedigree is by no moans a x>oor one, as he
possesses many g<*od strains of pretentions
blood; and although Hpiaowife is <nveu without a
pedigree, she was imported by Caxnain Lamb, and
is without doubt a clean bred one. The stud books
give her as believed to be by Soothsayer or Ben
Lodi, and out of Cutty Bark. ,
It apxioars that Banter, who won the Adelaide
Cap, oame in over weight, and a protest was en-
tered against him by Mr. Loughlin, the owner of
herd Harry, but the stewards decided in favour
*4 Banter. lam not posted up in the particulars,
out if Banter carried over weight which ho did not
declare, then according to all rule he ought to
been disqualified. When I am farther en-
ksted into the case I will say more ; suffice it for
tee present that Mr. Loughlin disputes the de-
of the stewards, and a “court job” will
Aory likely follow.
The English Derby was run on Wednesday
at Exisom Dow-ns, and was won by the Duke
SJ Westminster’s ch c Bond D’Or, by Doncaster,
■ter. C. Brewer’s Robert the Devil being second,
Meteor third.
Clarence Jockey Club Races.
MONDAY.
Tb ■ following entries have been made
Plate.— Butterfly, Yately, Yarraman, Stella,
n ’ ‘‘jhamroek, Clarence, Frederick, Althea, The
Sir Henry, Polestax, Esx>emnce, Kearsage,
wns. i Annandale, War Eagle, Young Australian.
«_, ITS Handigat.—Crusader, Zulu, Shamrock, Clar-
Mu-.unbeau, Frederick, Plevna, Polestar, Esper-
tti),’ S rUr - Butterfly, Yarraman, Black Swan, Annan-
War Ej.gle.
inn Handicap. —9; one horses as in City, with the
°* . Jr ’>zart, Althea, The Wreckhng, Yately,
cri ,A>x h” * ’ - >riaw This is the largest entry ever ro-
Parramatta Races.
QUEEN'S BIRTMDAY, MAY 24.
Patron- -His Excellency the Governor ; President, Mr.
Hugh Taylor, M.L.A.; Judge, Mr. J. S. Fameil;
M.L.A. Under the management of the Committee
of the Parramatta Jockey Club. Starter, Mr. R. C.
Dunn, Clerk of the Course, Mr.'J. Ashworth.
The 'V,-g nice and sportsmanlike people of Parra-
matta held their usual Queen’s Birthday meeting
in the Parramatta Park on Monday last, on that
t'et'if i vti/ na-fty and dangerous course the Club
boasts of, but the meetings of this Club are becom-
ing so surprisingly popular that my readers must not
be astonished when I tell them there was an attend-
ance of at least 6000. The Park is situated so con-
venient to the Railway Station to which passenger
trains, both special and ordinary, ran so frequently
that the “scone of action” requires no great
stretch of labour to reach it, and this is one of the
reasons why races at Parramatta have become
XJoprdar. The stakes, too, are always liberal,
and the management as a rule good; but
I should very much like to see the Club strike
into a now groove, and manage somehow or other
to arrange matters so as to obtain permission to
race on some other ground, for any change at all
would ho an improvement, and I feel confident
were the committee, which is influential enough
I am sure, to take the matter in hand, a better
track could bo bad for the Club’s next meeting.
There is no need to particularise the onerous duties
discharged by each official named on the race-book,
for each one did his work with a will, and although
there wore several who disputed the judge’s ruling
in the Prince of Wales Stakes, and said that Fisher-
man won, I do not think they were in a position to
see. Prom my location I had a good opportunity
of judging, and thought that Fisherman won, but
in such a close case the judge is the only one capa-
ble of deciding. Jemmy Ashworth, as clerk of
the course, looked and was got up well, and, as
may be imagined, his duties were well discharged
—though I should like to call the attention of the
committee to the fact that the stand now erected
is not large enough for requirements, and if the
Club intend sticking to the course, then an addition
is badly required. The refreshment bars, too, are
by no means big enough : and as the ‘ ‘ inner 1 ’
man is, when in complaining- form, anything but a
patient customer, he does not like having to
wait half an hour or more before he has a chance
of being attended to. Premising that the sand-
wiches (?) were not of the first order, 1 will speak
briefly of the actual running. The Handicap
junqnng race brought out six, and Get Back at
6 to 4 taken, with 5 to 2 Secret, were the most
fancied : but the former never was in it, baulking
repeatedly at the first hurdle, and the mare lay too
far off, allowing Bullocky to get a long lead and
win hy half a length. Secret, who war- ridden
with, to my way of thinking, a little bad judgment,
would under other circumstances liave won. The
slow but constant old Kingfisher was third- Half
a score carried their colours in the Plying Handicap,
and Verdict was “ sjiotted ” by the coynoscmU as
a good thing. In this they were right, for little
Jack Cornwell, riding him as a tradesman should,
won with something in hand from Love Not, Croy-
don finishing third. Southern Star took the Prince
of Wales from Fisherman, who was ridden by one
of the Emsworths with twice too much cleverness,
otherwise the verdict would have been reversed.
Southern Star’ was in front all the way, but Fisher-
man must have gained two lengths in the last half
dozen strides, so g-amely did he finish. Secret was
a good and clear third, but was not placed by the
judge. Idle Birthday Handicap saw the majority
of layers in trouble, as their doubles had all been
swallowed up, leaving Oakhill and Verdict,
the only two thought to have a show running
against them. Verdict led to the back of the hill,
where he cried a go, and Oakhill taking up the
running led into the straight, and won rather
cleverly, if not easily, from Tattoo, who ran as
gamely as anything I ever saw stripped. Love Not
ran third. Stanhope fourth, and Verdict last.
I cannot help remarking that it was a great pity
poor old Stanhoxie, who Yvas “lame as a oat,”
should have been saddled up and xidden out with
such determination in the Birthday Handicap,
when ho hadn’t a hundred to ono show, and any-
one with a spark of the humane in them would
liave felt for the hero of by-gone days. Kingfisher
(the winner of a Sydney Cup), was to be seen
struggling under a set of legs dicky enough at the
best of times, but almost pitiable to look at on
the occasion mentioned. C. S. w r on the Park
Stakes from four others, and was bought in for
£25, a “ fiver” above the upset xu-ioe, and then
Bruno easily appropriated the Two-year-old Han-
dicap from The Swallow and Flushoombe. Jerra-
wang trotted in for the Galloway Race, and wound
up the day’s sport. The “ books ” had anything
but a rosy time of it, for in addition to the right
out wagering, which will be found quoted below,
they wore * ‘ struck ” in all their doubles.
Handicap Jumping Race, of 30 sovs. Two
miles.
Mr. T. Shore’s ch g Bullocky, 0 yrs, 8 st 10 lb
(Champley) 1
. S. Smith’s bin Secret, aged, Bst 121b'... (Atkins) 2
J. J. Pearce’s ch g Kingfisher, aged, 9st 4lb 3
J. H. White’s b g Get Back, aged, lOst 71b......
(Mr.Coyle) 0
P. P. Hayly’s ch g The Hatter, 5 yrs, 9 st 7 1b.,.
(Lackey) 0
J. Yeoman’s b g Cracker, aged, 9 st 0
Betting: 6 to 4 on (Jot Back. 3t02 v. Secret.
Get Back repeatedly baulked at the first hurdle,
and wasn’t afterwards in it. Bullocky shortly
afterwards took up the running, and led all the
way, winning cleverly from Secret. Had Secret
been ridden with more judgment, she must have,
won: as it was she was only just beaten after
making a groat and determined rush.
Flying Handicap, of 40 sovs. One mile.
Mr. S. Marshall’s h h Verdict, by Kelpie—Bouquet,
•3 yrs, 7st (Cornwell) 1
J. Yeoman’s b m Love Not, 3 yrs, fi st 12 lb
(Handley) 2
W. Archer’s b h Croydon, 4yrs, Bst (Archer) 3
R. T. M’AUister b h Tattoo, 5 yrs, 7 st 7 lb
(Gurney) «
J. E. Onus’s br h Mangalalla Squatter, 4 yrs,
7st7lb (Spruce) 0
E. Thompson's bg Kildare, syrr, 7st...(Lewis) 0
W. J, Hillas’a br h Stanhox>o, aged, 6st 7 lb
(Norton) 0
W, P. Hill’s b f The Swallow, 2 yrs, 6 st 6 lb
(Campbell) 0
G. Emsworth’s c g Tarrangang, aged, 6st3 ib
(Emsworth) 0
J. Abbott’s b g Au Rovoir, 3yrs, sst 101 b 0
Betting: 2tol v. Verdict, 3to 2 Kildare and
Love Not, The favourite led all the way, and
wen rather easily from Love Not, with Croydon
third.
Prince of Wales Stakes, of 20 sovs. Ono
mile.
Mr. R. Worn’s b g Southern Star, aged, £2O
(Henderson) 1
J. Yeoman’s b g Fisherman, by The Fop, 4yrs,
£2O (Emsworth) 2
J. Musgrave’e h m Beeswing, 6 yrs, 7 «t 0 lb, £lO
(Musgrave) 0
S. Marshall’s h m Lavituu, aged, 7 st 5 lb, £lO
(Cornwell) 0
E. Jones’s g g Stranger, ogod, b ftt 11 lb, £lO
V '. (Ryan) 0
-rj. Thompson’s h g Kildare, 5 yrs, 7 st 11 Ih, £2O
(Lewis) 0
J. Smith’s b m Secret, aged, 7 st 121 b, not to be
sold (M’Cabe) 0
Betting: 6to 4 Southern Star, 3to 1 Stanhope.
Southern Star led all the way, and won by a
“ nose” from Fisherman. Emsworth, the rider of
the latter, would undoubtedly have reversed the
verdict, but “ over-cleverness ” beat him. The
judge didn’t jdaue a third. The winner was after-
wards bought by Mr. W. Archer for £39.
Birth ha v Handicap. of GO sovs. One mile a-
half.
Mr. J. Cook’s b c Oak hill, 3 yrs, fist 101 b fOreen hatch) 1
P. T, M‘Allister'e> b h Tattoo, 5 yrs, 7 st 5 lb
(Gardiner) 2
J. Yeoman’s b m Love Not, 3 yrs, 6st 10 lb
(Handley) 3
C. Roberts’s b g Shamrock, 5 yrs, 7 st... I Spruce! 0
S. Hillos’s br h Stanhoxie, aged, 6st 10lb (Morton) 0
W. Ryau’s oh g Prophet, 0 yrs, fist 101 b (Devaney) 0
Betting; sto 2 v. Oakhill, 11 to 2 Verdict, 4to 1
others.
Verdict led for the first half of the journey,
followed by Tattoo and Oakhill, but as they dis-
appeared from view Verdict fell back berten, and
Oakhill taking up the running led into the straight
and won by a couple of lengths from Tattoo, with
Love Not third. Stanhope was fourth, and Verdict
absolutely last. Kingfisher and Prophet were out
of it from the jump.
Park Stakes, of 15 so vs. Seven furlongs.
Mr. P. Scahill’s b g C. S., aged, 8 st 91b 1
J, Yeomans's b g Cracker, aged, 8 st 7 lb 2
E. M’Carthy’s ch s Acrobat, late Sunlight, aged,
8 st 7 lb 3
C. Roberts’s b g Stockings, 6 yrs 0
S. Marshall’s b m Laviuia, aged 0
Betting: 6to 4 Cracker, 2to 1 Acrobat, 4to 1
others.
C. S. won by a short head, the favourite having
swerved at the turn.
Two-year-old Handicap, of 30 sovs. Six fur-
longs.
Mr. J. Kelso’s b g Bruno. 7st (Cornwell) 1*
W. S. Hill’s bf The Swallow, 7st 51b (Campbell) 0
F. A. Taylor’s ch c Flushoombe, 6st (Hayes) 3
Betting : 6 to 4 on Bruno.
Won easily by three lengths.
Galloway Handicap, of 20 sovs. Seven fur-
longs.
Mr. R. Pearce’s gg Jerrawung, 6 yrs, fist 9lb. 1
J. Musgravo’s b in Mary Ann, 6 st 3lb 2
W. Maghie’s b in Oxjossuin, 5 st 101 b 3
A. Watson’s b m Fairy, 4 yrs, 7st 91b 0
J. Hoy’s b g Curate, 6at 61b 0
A. E. Cornwell’s b c Athol, 3 yrs, 6 st tl
C. Waterhouse’s b m Memnou, 4 yrs 0
Betting : 2 to 1 v. Memnon, 4 to 1 v. others.
Won in a common canter.
Newcastle Races.
1ST DAY, MAY 21.
Maiden Plate. Creswick 1, Prairie Bird 2, Gurnild
3. Six started. Time, 2 min. 20 secs.
The Shorts Handicap.- Master A venal 7st 9 lbs, 1;
Sunlight, 9 st, 2; Rosebud, 7st 5 lbs, 3. Eleven started.
Rosebud was favourite. Won by halt a length. Time,
2 min 20 secs.
Prince op Wales Stakes.— Maid of Australia 1,
Fancy Boy 2, Johnny Smoker 3. Won easily.
N. J. C. Handicap. Jester 0 st 4 lbs, 1; Eecherche,
7 st, 2; Avalanche, 6st 4 lbs, 3. Six started, and it was
won easily. Time, 3 min. 10 secs.
Two-Year-Old Btykes. Maitland, 8 st- 10 lbs, I;
Julian, 8 st. 3 lbs, 2; Creswick, 8 st. 10 lbs, 3. Won
by half a length. Time, 1 min. 20 sees. 5 to 4
Creswick. 3 to 1 Julian.
2nd Day, Tuesday.
Free Handicap. —Liberator, aged, 7 st, 1; Guuild,
3 yrs, 9st 31bs, 2 ; Avalanche, 4 yrs, fist 12 lbs, 3. Won
by a length. Time, 2 min. 17 J secs.
Nursery Handicap (for two-year-olds) J mile. —
Creswick, 8 st. 5 lbs., 1; Roslyn, 6 st., 2; Kathleen
Mavourneon, 6st. 91hs., 3. Ten started, and Creswick
won by nearly a length. Time, 1 min. 19 secs.
City Handicap, 1! miles. Black Swan, 5 yrs, 9 st.,
1; Master Aveual, 4 yrs, 7 st- 8 lbs., 2; Jester, 4 yrs,
7 st., 3. Eleven ran, but the Swan, who was made fa-
vourite, won easily by two lengths. Time, 2 min.
45 secs.
Flying Handicap, } mile. —Elos, 5 yrs, tl st Tibs, 1;
Rosebud, 4 yrs, 7 st., 2; Speculation, 4 yrs, 0 st. 5 lbs,
3. Won by a bead. Time, 1 min. 18! secs.
Forced Handicap. -Master, A venal 1; Sir Solomon
and Maid of Australia 2. A good race, and won by a
length. Time, 2 min. 16 sec.
Mudgee Annual Races.
MAY 21.
To-day the weather was fine and there was a large at-
tendance of spectators.
Maiden Plate, XI mile.— Mavoumeen X, Admiral 2,
Satan 3. Time, 2 min. 19) sec.
The Welter Handicap.—Perth 1, Tramp 2*
Mudgee Handicap, 2 miles.—Retrospect 1, Penrith
2, The Dean 3. Time, 3 min. 42 sec.
Welter Handicap Jumping Race. —Lord of the
Forest 1, Sydney 2.
Forced Handicap.— Songstress 1, Jaco 2.
Bligh Turf Club Annual Races.
FRIDAY, MAY 21.
There was a good attendance at the races, and the
following are the results ; -
Maiden Plate- Ninety, 1. Hurdle Race- Lord of
the Forest, 1. (Mr. Dowling, who was riding in this
race, fell and broke one of bis ribs and oollar-boue.)
B. A. C. Cup—Euroka, 1. Cassilis Plate —Mavonr-
noeu, 1, Ladies’ Bracelet -Retrospect, 1. Bache-
lors’Bag--The Admiral, 1. Welter Cur—Corrie, 1.
Flying Handicap- -Orlando, 1.
Parkes Races.
QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY.
Maiden Plate. Myrah 1, Bolding 2, Grasshopper 3.
The Brigade Handicap.— Idella 1, Florence 2,
Bolding 3.
Diggers’ Purse. —Star 1, Mickey Free 2, Creamy 3.
Hack Race. Beeswing 1, Rusty 2, Mickey Free 3.
Hurry Skerry. —Grey Momus 1.
Muswellbrook Races.
To be run for on June 2nd and 3rd.
The following acceptances have been declared: —
Murrungundy Races.
QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY.
Maiden Plate. Rob Roy 1, Peex> o’ Day 2, Dui*-
dea 3, . . , ...
Publicans’ Purse.- William Robinsons V auaeviXlo
1, Hill’s Dora 2, Gille’s Dundea 3.
Mubbungundy Handicap.“ Robinson s A aiulcville 1,
1 Kira 2, Dundea 3.
Athletic Sports at the Association Ground.
Taylor beat Lewis, on Monday last, by about 10 yds
in a four-mile walk for LAO. Tbe following is also the
finish of the Handicap Plat Race : First heat: J. War-
ren ,12 yds, 1; J. Martin, scratch, 2; E. Battye,.» yds,3.
Second heat: T. M urphy, ‘J yds, i ; W. K ilkeuuy, 1 f yds,
2- J. M. Watson, 2 yds, 3. Third heat; K. Eagles, 3 yds.
I• A Barry, 5 yds, 2. Fourth heat: F. Blnkoman, 12
yds, i ; T. Collins, 10 yds, 2. Final heat ; F. Blakeman,
1; R. Eagles and J. Warren, dead heat. A good race.
Time, 22 see.
Bathurst Queen’s Birthday Sports.
F. Yeomans won the big baudic-np, Davis being second,
and Burns third.
Narrabri Sports.
Grayson won the Grand Handicap,
West Maitland.
There was a largj attendance at the sport s. The lot-
lowing are the results ; Maiden Plate wen by Bussell;
Mile Race, by Quinlan; Grand Handicap, by Junto,
Bower second, and Frank Brown third; Quarter-mile
Race, by A. Bnrke; and the Walking Match by A.
Phillips.
There were some rabbit coursing matches at Camp-
bell’s Hill, and the sport was well enjoyed.
Hast Maitland.
The Carltons heat the Sydney Thorntons hy 83 runs.
Melbourne Hunt Club Races.
Monday.
Hurdle Race.- Nulla 1, Norma 2, Newmarket 3.
Rover, who was the favourite, fell and broke his neck.
Time, 4 min. 2 sees.
Queen’s Birthday Stakes.— Dollar 1, Diomed '2,
Prattle 3.
Open Steeplechase.- Greystanes 1, Ace of Trumps
2. Won easily. Time. 0 min. 2 sec.
Corinthian Flat Race. Don Sylvia 1, Morning
Star 2, Robbie Burns 3. Nine started. Time, 1 min. 16
sec.
Flying Stakes.—Puff 1, Haidee of the Hills 2,
Beadsman 3.
Queensland Turf Club Autumn Meeting.
FIRST DAY. SATURDAY.
This meeting commenced to-day.
City Handicap. One mile and a quarter. Major,
.syrs, 7st 2lb, 1 ; Olivia, 4yrs, Bst 2lb, 2 ; Satirist,syrs,
7 st 8 lb, 3.
Two and Three Year Old Stakes. One mile. Bal-
thazar, 3 yrs, £75, 1; Othello, 2 yrs, £2OO, 2; Decoy,
2 yrs, £2OO, 3.
Mares Produce Stakes. Seven furlongs. Waterloo,
2yrs, 1; Canary, 2 yrs, 2; Eclipse. 2 yrs, 3.
Mobeton Handicap. Mr. W. D. Brown’s ch h The
Barber, 4,yrs, 7st 0 lb, 1: Mr; J. Finuie’s b h Sydney,
5 yrs, 8 st. 6 lb, 2 ; Mr. J. Henderson’s br h Orphan, 4yrs,
Bst 81b, 3. Six started. Won by a head after a great
race. Time, 2 min. 431 sec.
Corinthian Stakes. One mile and a half. Brownie,
aged, 1; Soldier Boy, 6yrs, 2; Moth, aged, 3.
Selling Stakes. Oijc mile. Sx>ondnlix, aged, £2O, !•;
Childers, 2 yrs, £7O; Soldier Boy, 6 yrs, £5O, 3. <
Second Day, Monday.
Shorts Handicap. One mile. Satirist, 5 yrs, Bst *2 lb,
1 ; Olivia, 4 yrs, Bst 9 lb, 2 ; Viscount, 5 yrs, Bst 9 lb, 3.
Time, 1 min. 45.) sec.
Hurdle Race. Two miles. Pastime, aged, 1; Con-
stable, aged, 2; Kooralbyu, aged, 3.
Two and Three Year Old Handicap. One mile and
a quarter. Balthazar, 3 yrs, 1; Othello, 2 yrs, 2; Galatea,
2 yrs, 3.
Welter Handicap. One mile and three-quarters.
Soldier Boy, C yrs, 1; Brownie, aged, 2; Pilgrim,
aged, 3.
Sikes Produce Stakes. One mile. Canary, 2yrs, 1 j
Waterloo, 2 yrs, 2; Eclipse, 2 yrs, 3.
Brisbane Cup. Two miles. Mr. J. Wilson’s hr.g
Major, 7st 6 lb, 1; Mr. J. Finuie’s b h Sydney,
Bst 21b, 2; Mr. J. Henderson’s br b Orphan, 4 yrs,
Bst 61b, 3. Major won easily. Time, 3 min. 49 sec.
Railway Stakes. One mile. Moth, aged. £2O, 1;
Childers, 2 yrs, £5O, 2 ; Spondulix, aged, £3O, 3.
Toombul Stares. One mile and a half. Satirist,
5 yrs, 1; Suunet, late Barooua, 4 yrs, 2; Decoy,
2 yrs, 3.
Adelaide Racing Club Birthday Meeting.
FIRST DA Y, MONDAY.
Trial. Handicap. Three-quarters of a mile.
Mr. S. Martin’s bre Trevallyn, 2 yrs, 7 st 7 lb *
P. D. Cogliu’s hif Shadow, 2 yrs, (S st 9lb 2
J. E. Saville’s br o Wandering Jew, 3ys, Bst 3lb ’3
Time, 1 min. IS| sec.
Handicap Hurdle Race. Two miles.
Mr. B. Coleman’s b g Camel, aged, 10st71b 1
J. H. Hill’s ch in Miss Banter, 6yrs, 9st 101 b... 2
W. H. Ayliife’s ch g Hinton, 6 yrs, 9 st 3
Time, 3 min. 59 sec.
Adela ide Stakes. One mile and three-quarters.
Mr, T. Jordan’s b f Rivalry, 3 yrs 1
A. K. Finlay’s b c Caspian, 3 yrs 2
J. E. Saville’s br c Wandering Jew, 3 yrs 3
Park Handicap. One mile ami a quarter.
Mr. R. T. Moore’s b c Pawnbroker, 3yrs, Bst J
F. Leng’s b h Monarque. 4 yrs. 9 st 3
R. T. Reid’s bl f Pride of the Vale, 4 yrs, 7st4 lb 3
Selling Stakes.
Mr. J. Jenkins’s b g Mountaineer, aged ?
W. H. Ayliffe’s ch g Hinton, 6yrs 2
D. O’Dea’s brh D. O. D.. late Alarm, aged 3
Time, 2 min. 49 sec.
SCOUND DAY, TUESDAY.
Maiden Plate.— Shadow 1, Grum 2, Gladesbridfjo 3.
Won easily.
Suburban Plate.--Enos 1, Electricity 2, Wandering
Jew 3, Won after a great race hy a head. Time,
2 min. 56 sec.
Adelaide Ctp.— Banter 1, Lord Harry 2, Savanakaft
Banter won cleverly by a length and a half. Time,
3 min. 41 sec. Banter was well supported, although not
a favourite. Ten started.
Nursery Stakes. —Britannia 1, Delamere 2, Colonist 3.
Time, 1 min. 20!, sec.
Plying Stakes.— Miss Coy 1, Dovilshoof 2, Field
Marshal 3. Won by a length.
In Adelaide, if you go to church and patronise a
TemxMJrauce hotel you are thought a demi-god. If you
walk in the Botanical or ride on a tram-car on Sunday
a Zulu chief is nothing to you in xioiut of heathenism.
The man who, while watering Oxford-street
directed the hydrant into a Waverley ’bus, almost
drowning an intended bride and bridegroom, is directed
to leave his card with the bride’s father, 45 King-street.
At Guyndah, Queensland, it’s said, they don’t
bring Kanakas to the hospital unless they are about
to die, in which case the secretary gets them to be-
queath their savings to the institution. The Gayndah
hospital only ‘ tokos in ’ moribunds.
During a late demonstration of the Newcasthi
amazons their gallant leader armed with a potstick anfl
gridiron was heard to address her followers thus: —
“Once more into the breaches, dear friends, once more.
Or close the mines up in our husbands’ stead.
In xxsaoe there’s nothing so becomes us
As modest stillness and humility.
But when the cry of ‘ strike ’ blows in youi
Then imitate the action of the tiger—
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the bloc*,’
Disguise fair Nature with hard-fa voure;
Lend the eye u, terrible aspect
And cry, ‘To the devil with the Wad, ,


!!” rsK FURNISHING-
Ask for the
FURNISHING I
at the
ROYAL FURNISHIN
GRATIS.
It contains elaborate printed lists £
House Fnmish
which shows how for ■
FIFTEEN POUN]
TWENTY-FIVE PO
THIRTY-FIVE POU
FIFTY POUNDf
ONE HUNDRED POI
TWO HUNDRED POT
THREE HUNDRED P(
And
FIVE HUNDRED PO
you can furnish a house I
PROMPT NET <
You can
TAKE THE GUIDE IN
ami examine every article ne'e
all separately mar
PLAIN FIGU:
Any article may be rejected, and
or any single item may I
MARKED HOUSE L
W. B. CAMPB
ROYAL FURNISHLSHI
426 George-street, £
TCI O R AN D A
‘•FREETHOUC
A Monthly Illtjstrai
Devoted to Argunn
FREETHOUGHT, SPIRITUAL
CLAIBVOYAN
AND OCCULT SCI
Published on the loth of each m
the loth February
PRICE Per
Published by E. CYRII
BOX 152, G.P.0., £
The name “FREETHOUGHT’
being a word under which a \\
allowed for discussion.
Papers ha ve been promised by en
Spiritualism, &c.; and well-knov
IJT FAVOUR of it, so that the
ventilated.
Well-authenticated Pm: xomenj
Gr 0T
EENMENT
OPENING OF THE GREAT ’
WELLINGTON, Ist.
EXCURSION TICKETS for tl
at nil stations between Sydney a
the Mail Train, leaving Sydney a
the3lst instant, available for rot
Passengers from stations betwi
barks will join a special train tin
station at 7 a.m., on the Ist <3 ime,
same or following day.
. CHAS
Commit
Department of Public Works,
Railway Branch,
Sydney, 21st May, 1880.
rpo
Department of Public Wot
Sydney, 2L
CONTRACTORS
TENDERS will be received a
o’clock on TUESDAY, the 27t
willing to contract for the constn
the Extension of the South-wt
Naraudera to Hay, a distance of t
Plans, s|>ecilication, and form c
and further particulars obtained
Engineer-in-Chief for Railways i
June.
Tenders to be- endorsed ‘ Tend.
Narranderato Hay.’
The Commissioner does not bine
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. G 0(
Com mis
ÜBTRALIAN MUTUA
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED
HEAD OFFICE PITT-STI
THE OLDEST MUTUAL L
AUSTRALIA
DIEECTO:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G.,!
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-
Robert Saddington, Esq. I L
Robert J. King, Esq. S
CHIEF MEDICAL O
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P
Terrace.
ACTUARY: |
Morrice A, Black, P.I.A. (
Extract from Post Magazine i
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quincp
Society;—• . . ; ‘lt is, as a v
plete statement ever issued by a
affords an incontestable proof tha t
success it tells is the result, not of
tlcal and theoretical ability, govt
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial Would (Loud
1880, says:—‘No British Compan
with the Australian Mutual, which
of its existence, has received in iut<
than it has been called upon to pai
ACCUMULATED FUND, TH
STERLING.
rHK INTER COLONIAL I
ASSOCIATION. LIM
Or tiers 253 (late 247), C
(formerly the Mercanti
Capital; £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Share:
Sul>e<Tibed, £50,1
Dikectoes:
I*. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G.
Mr. Alderman John Young, .
8. W. Gray, Esq., M.P. I P. H
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. J E. J.
T. R. Smith, Esq. i
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No enti
or other espouse.
FIRE DEPARTMENT- Fire r
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH EIRI
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HC
in the profits.
JAMES S. 1
USTKALIAN MUTUAL
Established 1871
Capital £lOO,OOO, with pxtwer to in
BONUSES:
20 i>er cent, pm id annually for the
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, C
Manuel F. Josepffison, Esq. Willian
John Wetherill, Esq. Williax
First Fire Society estai
Colony on the Mutual Pr
PoT.rev.Hnr.TiVßja mnr babt.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Kdttcn is decidedly an air raiser.
Johnny Cowan is going- to America.
Theatrical supers are at a discount.
Qliarini is drawing immense houses.
Pepper isn't making his salt in Australia.
Barlow’s Circus is at Wagga. So is Leon’s.
Nieolini is called, abroad, the acting husband of
Patti.
Miss Marie St. Clair has determined to reside in
Sydney.
r Giorza Gushers’ are now called ‘ Ketten
Kittens.
Lingard and his handsome wife are doing well in
Newcastle.
‘The Ghost’ now walks at all the theatres
(except one.)
Ella Carrington’s 1 Stray Leaves’ Company are
at. Rockhampton.
David Buchanan says Dumpier is the greatest
Hamlet in the world.
Mrs. Bland Holt (Lena Edwin) makes everybody
wish they were the O’Lamb.
Rainer s panorama of the American war opens
at Newcastle after the Lingards.
Ghiarini’s Circus is attested before the Customs’
authorities as being worth £’20,000.
Will Adelaide suit him better than Sydney r
However, Meilhan has gone to sea..
Mr. Walter Reynolds left per last mail under
engagement to De Lias, of Auckland.
Theo. Hamilton is a teetotaller, and can’t work
up the agony in ‘ Drink’ as Dampier did.
Bland Holt contemplates building a rosidonceat
(vaogee sea side, to be called ‘ Foghomia/
Merchants arc examining the backs of their
safes since the exposure in • New Babylon.’
‘The Pirates of Penzance,’ now playing in New
VTork, give Gilbert and Sullivan £‘looo a week.
Hudson’s Surprise party, who are eu route for
Melbourne, had a capital reception at Wagga.
Ou and after July next every American mail
will bring out novelties for the Queen’s Theatre.
‘ Driven from Home,’ Wills’ new drama at the
Court Theatre, Loudon, has proved a dismal failure.
(Xn dit, D Orsay Ogden and Miss Beatrice have
taken the Melbourne Opera House, to follow the opera.
Rumour is false when it states that little Collins
iS'tt) play the part of a Nihilist Chief in the new drama.
Greville has taken with him to Melbourne a
sketch of our beautiful harbour, ‘so as he cun fish
nrit.’
Captain Jack and his mustang, also a tribe of
real Indians, arrive shortly under engagement to Copt'in
and Co.
“The great Vance’ has broken up his Variety
Company, and .returned to his old line at the London
Music Halls,
Miss Myra Kemble magnificently dresses every
character she plays, an example to many of the ‘ stars’
who visit Sydney.
Gilbert and Sullivan won’t let the ‘ Pirates (of
Fermmcc ) come to Australia,; the/ say we have too
many here already.
A local paper says that the Rockhampton
people are anxiously awaiting South’s appearance as
Perkin Middlewick.
Mr. Dampier s season at the Queen’s Theatre
closes early in July. The management have had a Very
successful time of it.
Dampier was all for ‘ Drink ’ last week. Now
he is 4 All for Gold.’ Some people snv it’s the same
tiuug on 4 Ghost Day.’
‘ Drink’ has been successfully produced at the
Royal, Melbourne. Theo. Hamilton and Mrs. Bates
take the leading parts.
A troop of Zulu Warriors is performing at St.
.lames’ Hall, Piccadilly. The niggers and the entertain-
ment are both very tame.
Sims Reeves is bringing out his son, Herbert
Reaves, as a professional singer. Young Reeves, it is
said, has a glorious voice.
Patti had to pay her ex-husband one million
francs before the Marqnis would allow her to sing in
Paris. It’s time to pity Patti.
The ‘ Australian Blondin,’ who walked across
Middle Harbour on a wire rope two years ago, is per-
fottniug in the Temira district.
Grattan Riggs, the Irish comedian, appears in
about a month at the Victoria Theatre, under the
management of Copplu and Co.
J. L. Hall says there are too many comedians in
‘ New Babylon,’ and does the block, whistling his uever-
old favorite ballad ‘ The one-horse shay.’
The Susarions, of whom our clever contributor,
* banfrs,’ spoke a few weeks ago, have dissolved.
Every man wanted to piny juvenile lead.
The Queensland National Association are ar-
ranging with Mr. L’Estrauge, the aeronaut, for balloon
•ascents during July Show in Bowen Park.
F. C. Burnand, the irrepressible, has knocked
HP ft burlesque ou the beautiful play of ‘ The Hunch-
back.’ It is called ‘ The Hunchback back again.’
The celebrated German Reed Company are about
to visit America for the first time. There is a proba-
bility that they may extend their tour to Australia.
The Lingards did an immense business in New-
castle, and re-opened on Monday for another season.
Their next appearance of importance is in Adelaide.
Miss Lydia Foote—the best May Edwards of
"The Tieket-of-leave Man’-—is about to rush into the
cares of management at the never-paying little London
Olympic.
Mr. F. G. Hiscocks, of HLscocks and Hayman,
will.proceed to England in August next, taking .with
him the Mammoth Minstrels Jand other Australian
novelties.
G. R. Ireland, for many years a popular actor
keeps ithe Dramatic Club Hotel in Melbourne. Mrs.
Ireland is well liked and respected] by everybody in
Melbourne.
George Coppin’s grand speaking voice is ad
mired by all his professional brethren. Marshall can-
not find words to express his wonder at its glorious
tininess of tone,
It is the amateur actor who is most painfully
aware of the existence of a pair of arms. Do his level i
best and he can’t hide them from the audience, and we
wish he wouldn’t.
The Juvenile Troubadours opened on Saturday
week at the Academy of Music, Adelaide, and had a
crowded house. They are excessively clever children
and are a decided success.
Another old celebrity has departed from us.
Miss Laporte, known for years as Mrs. George Sims,
,Australian Robson) died on Wednesday, Ifhh May,
at the Hyde Park Asylum.
Stuart O’Brien, one of the best of Australian
stock actors, lias married a widow, one Mrs. Morrow,
who keeps a suburban hostelry, and now ‘soothes and
comforts his declining years.’
'I he burlesque writers have not shown respect
even to Charles Reade’s great moral drama of ‘ Drink.'
A parody, entitled * Another Drink,’ is dra wing crowded
bouses at the Dondon Opera Comique.
George Loyal and Lulu, so well known in the
variety world of Australia, are now with Cooper and
Bailey in America. He does the great cannon act,,
winch has created quite a sensation.
Pinafore is still all the rage at Adelaide, and
the management have crowded houses nightly. Mr.
Kiccardi, who as Sir Joseph Porter made such an
immense hit, is in the town, and rumour says engaged
<cr play the part, but Williamson takes it off his hands
although, o» dit, Kiccardl is on full salary. If so this is
‘bully' for Kiccardi, hut hardly so good for the public, as
Williamson, however good an actor, is nothing out of
the ordinary (very ordinary, some think) ns a singer.
•John Bryant, the small man, so well known as
the advance courier of Mr. Dumpier, is specially en-
gaged to play the light comedy parts with J. J. Wallace,
of the People’s Theatre, Melbourne.
The Loftns Troupe and Mammoth Minstrels
were to have opened in Adelaide next week, hut a hit of
sharp practice on the part of the American E;igle (Bay-
liss) prevents them from doing so for a time.
Bancroft, a good delineator of military swells
better known as the husband of the bright Marie Wil-
ton, has had to undergo much chaff through an-
nouncing himself in the play bills as Sidney Bancroft
‘ Esq.’
Miss (Leah) Bateman has handed over the reins
of the management of Sadler’s Wells -which she trans-
formed—a la Phelps' from a low music hall to a
Sluikespenan Temple to the gifted and ever popular
Mrs. Herman Yezin.
A new entertainer a la Maccabe. Fleming
Norton has now possession of the Egyptian Hall, and is
drawing London. He calls his Show ‘ Mr. Perkins’ Pic-
nic,’ which we remember witnessing years ago when he
gave it as an amateur.
A testimonial, purchased for 600 guineas, has
been presented by the dramatic profession in England
t° Mr. Edward Ledger, proprietor of the Eka. for his
noble defence of the stage and its votaries against those
who tried to drag l it in the mire.
A new theatre, to be called ‘The Yoriek,’ is
Icing erected at St. John’s Wood, Loudon. Hamlet
i tell us that he knew Aorick well. It remains to be seen
if Yoriek will know Hamlet. St. John’s Wood, ns we
remember it, was hardly a Shakesperian place.
Charles B. Hicks, of the original Georgia Min-
strels, had a ticket sent out to him from America. He
has gone, and Horace Copeland, another of the black
people, has also left. The hitter is said to have been
supplied with plenty of funds by a white hulv of
"V ictoria.
Theo. Hamilton resides at Stutfs Hotel, and
on Sunday evenings holds nlevee, whieh is much affected
by the talented young fellows of Melbourne. Theo is
grand company. They delight to gird at him in argu-
ment, but he holds his own with rare ability and
consummate good humour.
David Buchanan says that Mr. Dampier, in
whatever he does, is always interesting ami attractive,
and frequently great. He is a scholarly and highly
cultured gentleman, with fine discrimination, sound
judgment, and very correct taste. Which is the
politest thing we ever knew David to say.
The world-renowned Moore and Burgess Min-
strels, after drawing crowds for nearly twenty years to
their burnt-cork entertainments, are verv nearly played
out. They now give very little nigger business, but
make ft grand classical ballet and sensational aerobcitisin
the leading feature of their programme.
Says Greville to Higgs
By the sowl of the pigs
You’ve taught me to drink lager beer.
And I do not deny
When a gossoon is dry
That it’s good -but, oh! Grattan, it’s dear !
The great Crystal Palace, Sydenham, is goino to
rack and ruin owing to the insolvency of the company
which for so many years kept it brilliantly afloat. This
sail fact ought to bring tears into the eyes of the Lon-
doners. who were all so proud of the place, the Palace
being the only place of amusement which surprised the
Americans and satisfied the French.
Captain Mathieu was at the Queen’s the other
night, and appeared highly delighted with ‘Drink.’ The
ne\t day he sent a large box to Miss Rose Dampier con-
taining a wonderful assortment of lollies, such as none
but a French cook could make, and a morocco hand-bag
embroidered with a rose and stamped ‘R. IV They
know now to do these things in France.
Greville, of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, was
here last week carefully studying the representations of
Drink’ at the Queen’s Theatre, and taking notes of all
Mr. Dampier’s stage arrangements and business, and
the alterations made and effects introduced by him.
All these will la- reproduced in Melbourne. This is
rough on Dumpier, who paid it a night for the play
and went to great trouble in altering and expense in
producing it.
To-night a new drama will be produced at the
ee , n ™,T heatre ’ entitled < The Nihilists, or Russia as
it is. This has been written expressly for Mr. Dampier,
being founded on incidents derived from the Russian,
and is stated to bo a life-like picture of the Russia of
to-day, depicting princes and peasants, nobles and Nihi-
lists, the Winter Palace and the Mines at Siberia. The
oath and secret working of the Nihilists are given,
everything except their pass-word, which the author
would not reveal. Love, sentiment, and adventure will
lie ponrtrayed in ‘The Nihilists,’ in the novel sta"e
atmosphere of the Palace, the secret Chamber, and the
Mines of Irkoutsk—everything being a study of what
happens every day in the empire of the Czar. ‘The
Nihilists’ may have a long run.
Darrell gave Brisbane £ Hamlet’ one night last
week. Madame Legrande was taken ill during the day
ami was unable to appear, so that Miss Lillie Marsh
reached the height of her ambition and played Ophelia.
Darrell was a slavish copy of Montgomery spoiled by
Dan-ell’s voice. Lillie Marsh was really ‘good.’ Her
business was irreproachable, the prompter was never
heard, and her men hair flowing uncontrollable down her
back, was very fetching. .Certainly her voice and figure
were against her, but remember, such a girl was more
likely to be the daughter of old Polonius than was Miss
Ashton. Our correspondent, however, says that he is
not responsible for Hamlet's taste, ‘By the way,’ he
adds, * will not somebody whisper to Miss Marsh that
her audience would like her better if she would uml;
and not a.vimc i
Adelina Patti takes one real meal on a day when
she expects to sing in the evening. At 11 o’clock she
is served with meat and eggs, but very rarely vege-
tables ; Bordeaux and seltzer-water accompany these
subetantials. Then she takes a nap two hours long,
after which she goes out driving. When she returns
she sits down and practises, ‘in preparation for the
combat,’ os she herself says. Just before leaving the hotel
for the opera-house she takes a little coasoaoac, hut no
dinner. After the performance she eats a substantial
supper. Patti herself seemingly believes that she owes
the preservation of her marvellous voice to this course
of hygiene, for she adheres to the latter in the most
minute particulars, and nothing would probably induce
her to abandon it. She never, without exception, utters
a word on any morning until she has drunk her cup of
chocolate. That done, she then tries her voice by sum-
moning the maid with the full force of her lungs. ‘
Garner’s Theatre, Adelaide (late Willis’ Rooms!
was opened on May 17th under Wybert Reeve’s manage!
ment. The place has been beautifully decorated, and
is described by the local papers us bein>r perfect in its
appointments. The play on opening night was ‘ George
Geith,' Mr. Reeve taking the title role. Miss Ada Lester
appeared as Beryl Malazone, Mrs. Gordon as Mrs
Geith, Miss Emma Fisher as Matilda Malazone, Mrs!
Ryan as Mrs. Bemmidge, Mr. Vane ns Dick Elsenham!
and Messrs. Gladstone, Forbes, and Harry Power filled
the other parts. The performance was a complete suc-
cess ; (and when the curtain fell Mr. Reeve announced
that during the season ‘ The Woman in White,’ ‘Man
and Wife,’ ‘ All for Her,’ and other plays, including ‘ A
Game of Speculation,’ would be produced. Mr. Gordon’s
scenery was the theme of universal praise. The drama
was followed by ‘ Little Toddlekins,’ in which Mr. Reeve
appeared as James Robinson Brownsmith. The orchestra
was led .by Mr. Day.
Henry Ketten, the Marvellous Pianist.
Leaving to our contemporaries the y/, idious task
of presenting to their readers the pr „rait of Henry
Ketten, this grand master of art' te. in their own
classically dull prosaic style/'ve present to the
public his physiognomy, and at the same time en-
deavour, with the aid of our artist’s pencil, to give
some idea of his marvellous powers. We leave the
sketch to speak for itself.


The Bulletin.
The success of The Bulletin is unex-
ampled. Over 10,000 copies were printed last
week
Nearly every agent in Sydney has ordered
double numbers of this issue.
The sale of The Bulletin at the Railway
Station rose in three weeks from 24 copies to 300.
Wallace of King-street sells more copies of The
Bulletin than of all the other weeklies put
together.
There are seven agents for The Bulletin in
Oxford-street alone.
Let anyone ask Cole, Haddock, Clarke, Barker,
Pierce, Fox, Penny, Schneberger, Spragg, Adams,
Berghoefer, or any other newsagent, how The
Bulletin sells.
One boy alone sold 250 Bulletins in a day last
week.
“Garden Honey ” got a complete winter outfit
on one day’s sale.
Ours is the only paper which is bought by the
half-dozen to be sent to friends.
3d. is a ’bus fare; 3d. a drink ; and 3d. a
Bulletin. Those who “ cultivate literature on
a little grog ” should remember this.
There is more than one man in Sydney who
wavers between giving 3d. to The Bulletin
aiul putting it on the church plate. Usually the
newspaper wins ; when it’s the other way, he who
hesitates is lost.
Tho prodigious rise in our circulation shows that
The Bulletin is sent about the country by
.-•■iendly supporters. Wo employ no canvassers.
iV r e undertake to double onr present circulation
in one month. Will our friends still continue to
send on their copies to new people with a word in
our favour ?
Something after this style “ Take this paper.
It has woke up Sydney already. Tho older
journals here are upside down, and are likely to
continue so. Send on your name. The young
follows who run The Bulletin say it’s only a
shadow of what they’ll make it.”
The Pressmen of Sydney say The Bulletin
has got the inside running of all the other news-
papers. And the Pressmen ought to know.
Already there are proposals for incorporation.
But you can’t graft a young oak on to a clothes-
prop.
The Bulletin is enlarged to-day. By way of
commencement.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs Interviewed.
One of our reporters had an interview last
Wednesday with Mr. G. R. Dibbs. Our repre-
sentative found him perusing The Bul-
letin, and, as sketched by our artist, the great
man was quite at ease in a rustic seat under the
shade of a willow tree, which stands in the centre
of as neat a little garden as can be found anywhere
about Sydney. As onr reporter approached. Mr.
Dibbs raised his eyes, and exclaimed “ Ah ! Bul-
letin, what are you in for? Libelling John
Davies ?”
“ No ; come to see you. I thought you were iu
prison. ’ ’
Mr. Dibbs : So I am, but I read my paper, The
Bulletin. I see,you say it’s my paper. Sit
down. That paper of yours must go. It’s the
only one the warders try to steal. They know
they can’t be put in gaol.
Reporter: I’m glad to hear you say that about
The Bulletin. Our next issue will contain
Mr. Dibbs: Stop. Never mind about your
next issue. If I’ve had one Bulletin this week
I’ve had sixty. They’ve been sent to me from
Sydney, from Gonlbnrn, from Bathurst- —from all
parts, in fact. Well, you see I’m here. What do
you think of my quarters? Come up stairs.
Reporter: This is grand. Why, you’ve got
everything here —but a sofa. A couple of easy
chairs, a desk, library, gas-stove, and a cosy bed-
room.
Mr. Dibbs : Yes ; and I think I must start a
wholesale provision store. Come here. And Mr.
Dibbs drew our reporter over to what acted as a
larder. This little room was stored with the good
things of this world —all sent as presents. In a
fine catch of achnapper too at the Heads that
morning Mr. Dibbs had been remembered, and he
assured our reporter he had supplies enough in
that particular line to do him over next Good
Friday.
Mr. Dibbs: Here are cigars, the very best.
Some good soul sent them.
Reporter : You are looking well, Mr. Dibbs. A
hundred times better than you looked after that
Chinese strike.
Mr. Dibbs: You’ve got me there. You ran the
Evening News against me, you beggar, that
time.
Reporter: But you fought well. It was about
the best battle we ever fought on the newspapers,
and there was not one on the staff that did not
think a good deal more of yon when it was over.
Mr. Dibbs: How’s that ?
Reporter : I can scarcely tell. The fact is you
were a big opponent, fought well, and didn’t cave
Now, Ninian Melville
Mr. Dibbs: Hold on. Ninny’s not in this.
After all, I don’t suppose we differ very much
about the Chinese.
Reporter : Except as to price.
Mr. Dibbs: Well, now, joking aside, do you
ve alwa y s paid my men higher than any
other employer in Sydney ? And I never gave a
nn fftail a day’s work anywhere.
Reporter: I’ve heard that. However, it’s really
j * ac t you stand high with the anti-Chinese folk.
y a gain it’s because you make a good fight.
V p r ' ; Well, the Dibbses——
Reporter : Always come out right. But how do
Tu- anm . se y° arse lt here ?
, Mr. Dibbs: First of all, lot mo tell yon, I never
opt better in my life. Then every day I have
u-vi a ,^ eyee - Here is my book; I’ll ‘keep it
fuie alive. Nearly full, and look at the names.
te down The Bulletin under Sir ’s
name.
j. J® e P° r ter: I’m glad of that. If time hangs
aavy on your hand get the new American Novelty
Company puzzle.
Mr. Dibbs : You mean the “ great 15.” I saw it
a moment and had it right off.
uowf } °i^ er - : Y° u arc one in ten thousand. Well,
trail • kuainess, We are about giving yonr por-
thii ln , HE Bulletin. I want to know some-
ia mg of your history.
menf Vu kbs: Well, I’ve been a member of Parlia-
that’ ■ lreo y eara > an( i now I’m in gaol. I think
aj ,_ a en °ngh to damn any man. Do you want
ttn .V more?
Ihf>i? K,r^r: now, what about the arrest?
dkm-?' c , re was some fun and a good deal of
Mr rvI 1 ! con<^uc t in it. You saw our sketch ?
•ome-f • : sketch was good. There was
ativ\.a 1111 lu ar rest, but there was something
feel f OUa 8,3 We R- But I tell you this, I do not
°r mysolf, I feel for Sampson. That man
never volunteered his evidence ; I dropped on him
by accident. What he swore [But
here our iuterviewist catches sight of a judicial
wig.] However, it's not all over yet.
Reporter: Well, about the arrest ?
Mr. Dibbs: I’m afraid the public will hardly
credit what I teU them about it. I could not pay
the verdict, and knew I must come hero. But I
have a family of eleven children, the youngest not
three years old, and Mrs. Dibbs is in feeble health.
I wanted to see them settled at a place near Penrith
where they were to stay. I was very busy there
getting up bedsteads, &c., wheu I got word by
telegram that three friends were coming up to
see me.
Reporter: Three friends?
Mr. Dibbs : (lighting another cigar and laughing)
Yes, three friends who were desirous of my presence
in Sydney. I worked very hard to get affairs
straight; never harder. And I said to myself,
“ I’ll do my work at any cost, and then go.” The
telegram said they were going to seize the fur-
niture.
Reporter : The household furniture ?
Mr. Dibbs : No, but a large package of personal
luggage. _ Well, I told the friend with whom I
was staying to be ready after tea to drive me to
Emu Plains so that I might, receive my guests —
the officials with Nepean water and whisky and
their master with something else. The party,
however, did not arrive.
Reporter : What then occurred ?
Mr. Dibbs : Well, I returned to Penrith, and
next morning the herdsman wont back to Sydney.
Reporter: Ah, they all say he has the‘better
part of valour.
Mr. Dibbs : Maybe. However, at 9 a.m. on
Friday the bailiffs caught sight of their man and,
made for the house to arrest him. But the
time was not come. A back window Is often use-
ful. I said, I'll give these fellows the double back
and finish up. I struck off under cover for South
Crook station, and doubled back past Penrith in
the train. ‘ -
Reporter: Wh era did you go to
Mr. Dibbs : Emu Plains. There I got a horse
and returned to the house. I was fairly at work
again when I espied a friend afar off making once
more for the house. This time the banks of the
Nepean offered a good cover, and there was a
prospect of a good swim. The fellows, however,
went off the scent and travelled to Penrith to
watch for me at the station. course I had
passed up some hours.
Reporter : What then occurred ?
Mr. Dibbs : One of them returned at 11 p.m. I
could have got away, but, instead, wont out to
him. “ What do you want? ” I asked him. “I
want you,” he said (and here ensued the incident
which was depicted in The Bulletin some time
back). I asked the fellow if he could fight. He
said he could ; aud I asked him if ho thought ho
could tackle me. He replied that he might, but
he’ rather not. Well, I told him he was a sensible
man, and made him come inside and have some
whisky.
Reporter : Did he stay that night ? sleep
there ?
Mr. Dibbs : Towards morning ho got a wink, I
think. I had his coat off half-an-hour after he
was in the house. I never saw a fellow arrange
from time to time so well. He worked like anigo-er.
The other bailiff turned up in the morning,
and I had him working the same way all day
getting the house ready. I’d never have got the
work done but for them.,
Reporter; Where was your particular friend all
this time ?
Mr. Dibbs: Safely at a'clislance. ~AtTo'ur'o’clock,
however, he drove up with another politician and
a shipbuilder from Newcastle. They demanded
immediate delivery, and pushed on another bailiff
to seize mo. They offered their buggy—a hired
one. I advised one of the officials to keep them
away, lest they should have the spectacle of a
member of Parliament with lopped ears. Picture
to yourself the scene.
Reporter : There are not two opinions about the
affair.
Mr. Dibbs; However, I quietly drove iu at
seven o’clock. There at the station the three
were waiting, and they proceeded to Sydney with
us, occupying the adjoining seats in the triumphal
car.
Reporter : Yon don’t say they still followed
you ?
Mr. Dibbs : You may not believe it, but they
took cab from the Sydney station to Darlinghnrst.
Reporter : They could not have played a better
card for yon.
Mr. Dibbs : They followed up to the very gate.
One of them begged to know from the warder
whether he was sure I was safe. “ Officially safe ?”
he urgently inquired. “Yes, officially safe P” re-
peated tho other over his friend’s shoulder.
“Oh,” replied the official Italian, poking fun at
both of them ; “ I don’t know what you mane by
officially safe ; but if you mauo that Mr. Dibbs is
not to go New Babylon to-morrow night or prow
about Elizabeth-street, thin I can say I don’t
think he’ll be there. May I ask who ye arc ? Oh!
numbers of Parliament! Thin are you going in ?
No! not just now; very good. Well, jintlemen,
good night.” That, continued Mr. Dibbs, is what
took place at the gate.
Reporter: People outside have had some inkling
of the whole affair. Such conduct is most un-
English, and has, I believe, completely alienated
public sympathy from them.
Mr. Dibbs : Their presence was a danger to them
and to myself : and had I fallen on them and sent
one or both to the Infirmary I believe the verdict
would have been “Served them very well right.”
Reporter : These particulars are known for the
first time. They will see the light in The
Bulletin.
Mr. Dibbs : Well, I believe you’ll do a public
service. Now, you’ll stay and have a bit of dinner,
won’t you? 1 never had better servants than I
have here; good cooks and respectful fellows.
One of them is young Thunderbolt, who promises
me when he’s released in a few weeks, he’ll fill
a situation I’ve got him through a friend of mine.
Here’s tho tea, however, and you’ll not get better
at tho Coffee Palace or at Spencer’s.
An hour was spent in chatting on various mat-
ters, and the interview terminated. Several gen-
tlemen were arriving as our reporter left. One
promise Mr. Dibbs asked him to give. It was that
he should see one or other of The Bulletin
people at least once a week, and that at dinner.
The promise was readily given. It will be
religiously kept.
Mr. W. Wilkins, Under Secretary of Public
Instruction.
We present our readers to-day with the portrait
of Mr. William Wilkins, Under Secretary of Public
Instruction and late Secretary to the Council
of Education. Mr. Wilkins was born in tho
year 1826, at Lombard-street, London. Having
completed his early studies 'and choosen the pro-
fession of teacher, he entered the Battersea
Training College, then presided over by Dr. Kay
(since known as Sir James Kay Shuttleworth),
and on the Doctor’s retirement continued under
his successor, where he made rapid progress in his
studies and attained a high degree of efficiency as
a scholar and teacher, afterwards holding high
position in reformatory, industrial, and day-
schools. In consequence of the Committee of
Council having framed certain regulations known
as-the “Minutes” of 1846, Mr. Wilkins, with
several others, was summoned to the first Govern-
ment examination of teachers held in England,
which was conducted by Inspectors Mosoiy and
Thurtell, and succeeded in being one of the four
who took first places. In 18-19, his medical adviser
having recommended a drier climate as beneficial
to his health, he selected New South Wales in
preference to other colonies in which positions
offered, and being appointed Head Master
of the Fort-street Model National School by
Earl Grey, he arrived in Sydney in the year
1851. The Earl’s unpopularity in the" colony at that
time was for Mr. Wilkins by" no means an advan-
tageous circumstance. On his arrival ho took
charge of the Model School, there being then
but two or three trained teachers in tho
colony, the salary being low and the profession
itself commanding but little respect. He imme-
diately inaugurated tho pupil-teacher system, still
in existence, and which has provided for the colony
a stuff of trained teachers, many of whom have
since risen to the highest rank in the service. In
1854 Mr. Wilkins paid a special visit to the Hunter
River district, by direction of the National Board,
to report upon the schools in that locality. The
examination and classification of teachers, with a
graduated scale of payments according to ability,
and the appointment of Inspectors of Schools for
the first time in Australia resulted from this visit.
In the same year he was appointed one of three
commissioners to visit and report upon the primary
schools of the colony receiving aid from the State.
The commissioners reported many very serious
defects in tho system then existing, and recom-
mended several improvements, most of which
have at different times been embodied in
the Acts and regulations since framed. In
the year 1857 Mr. Wilkins (then chief inspector
of schools) suggested to tho National Board the
advisableness of establishing non-vested schools,
and the adoption of this suggestion caused a
great increase in the number of schools in the
colony, and particularly in the out-lying districts,
and brought the means of education within the
reach of thousands who otherwise would have
been deprived of it. In 1867 Mr. Wilkins was
appointed secretary to the Council of Education.
He held office until the dissolution of that body
on 30th April last, and on the next day (Ist of
May current), was gazetted Under-Secretary of
Public Instruction. Mr. Wilkins is the author
of a series of school reading books and a geography
of New South Wales, which are now in use in the
public schools of the colony. We congratulate the
Executive upon the appointment of a gentleman
to tho office of Under-Secretary w hose Ion"- ex-
perience as Chief Inspector under the National
Board and Secretary of the Council of Education
coupled with his great powers of organisation’
discipline, and general administrative ability has
eminently fitted him to discharge the onerous
duties of his office.
Parkes objects to be called ‘ the Honorable.
He says that if the public knew that clerks in official
correspondence addressed any member of the Ministry
as the Honorable Mr. the whole service would be
covered with ‘ insufferable ridicule.’
Trust the children ! never doubt them.
Build a wall of love about them.
After sowing seeds of duty.
Trust them for the flowers of beauty.
This is all very well; but did you ever trmrt. a youngster
with a shilling to pay school fees while Chiarini’scircus
was about ?
History repeats itself. Says Mbbcuki-us
Aulictjs (a Royalist paper) for 23rd March, 1684 :
If the Upper House and the Lower House
Were in a ship together ;
And all the base committees.
They were in another;
And both these ships wore bottomless.
And sayling on the inayne,
Let them all go to Jerico,
And ne’er be seen agnyne.
KB. W. WILKINS, UNDER SECRETARY OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
MB. G. E. DIBBS IN CAPTIVITY.


rp h
Lessee ...
E A
TEE
Business Manager & Treasurer
Stage Manager
ROYAL
Mr. Samuel Lazar
Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Mr. Geo. Worde.
ELEVENTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LYSTER and GAKNEE’S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY - .
Enthusiastic Reception of Tom Taylor’s Brilliant
Comedy
NEW MEN AND OLD ACRES.
THIS EVENING, and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
Grand production, with all the original scenery and
effects, as produced at the Royal Opera House, Mel-
bourne, of Tom Taylor’s brilliant comedy, in three acts,
NEW MEN and OLD ACRES.
Characters by Messrs. George Warde, Edwin Shop*
herd, Frank Cates, William Farreu, jun., Henry Lem-
mon, and Frederick Marshall; Miss Blanche Stammers,
Mrs. Marion Stammers, Miss Dora Santou, and Mias
Annie Taylor.
Scenery designed and executed by
Mr. GEORGE GORDON and Mr. A. C. HABBE.
ACT I—THE ANCESTRAL HOME OF THE VAVA-
SOURS.
(George Gordon.)
ACT 2—AMONG THE RUINS.
(George Gordon.)
ACT S-THE HOME OF THE BUNTERS.
(A. C. Habbo.)
Prices of Admission.—-Drees Circle, ss. Stalls, 3s.
Family Circle, 25.; Pitt, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and Co.’s, 321 George-atreet,
where seats may be seemed for the Dress Circle six
days in advance.
Doors open at 7; overture at 7.45. Carriages can be
ordered at 10.30. '
A S O NIG HALL-
Under the business management of Mr. H. N. Montaga.
SECOND SERIES
of
KETTEN RECITALS.
In order to afford increased accommodation to vic-
tors, the
SECOND SERIES OF PIANOFORTE
RECITALS
by
HENRY' KETTEN,
will he given
at the
MASONIC HALL.
By Special request,
That wondrous piece of music the
NEW CAPRICE,
by
HENRY' KETTEN,
which has created such a furore iu all the Capitals of
the world, will l>e repeated - 1
EVERY EVENING. 'A
The
NEW CAPRICE.
Every Evening
NINTH RECITAL
THIS (Friday) EVENING, May 28,
An ENTIRELY NEW and VARIED PROGRAMME.
TWELVE NEW PIECES
not previously played in Sydney by
HENRY KETTEN.
NOTICE.
In consequence of the Hall being required on THUiw>
DAY for the Annual Masonic Banquet, there will be o *
Recital on that evening, this being the only interrup-
tion in the scries.
NINTH RECITAL. THIS (Friday) EVENING,
May 28.
TENTH RECITAL,
SATURDAY EVENING, May 29.
Doors open at 7.45; recital to commence at 8.15.
Carriages may be ordered for 10 o’clock. ,
The doors of tho hall will lx? opened for the ndml*“°*
of visitors BETWEEN EACH PIECE ONLY.
PRICES OP ADMISSION;
Reserved soots, se; entrance from York- street'
BaloonyKchiiir seats). Ss. I Entrance either from
Bock seats in hall, 2s. 3 euce or York-streets.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.-PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER VIII.
AFTER-THOUGHTS.
44 What, ails thee, Myles f” asked his sister, as
ho came into the kitchen.
44 Me? Nothing, lass. Hero’s your straps.
The new one has lew3 a kind of inauguration, but I
reokon it will have done it good more likely than
harm.”
What dost mean ?” she asked, staring at him.
44 Oh, nothing?” said ho with a slight laugh, as
ho leaned against the mantelpiece with his hands
folded behind him, lus favourite attitude.
* 4 Hast changed my book, Myles ?” inquired Ed-
mund.
44 Eh. 1 olean forgot it,” replied Myles, with a
start. 44 I’m very sorry. Fact is, I was called off,
and 1 never thought of the Ixxik again.”
44 Well, it doesn’t matter,” answered Edmund,
who was in high good humour at his mother’s ab-
sence.
Mary also seemed less constrained, though noth-
ing would have induced her to own that she was
glad her mother had left them. She moved about
more freely, and as she passed to and fro. “ put-
ting things to rights,” she was heard to sing
snatches of no less a song of praise than the 4 Old
Hundredth.’ And when her household work was
done (for Myles’s adventure had not taken long,
and it was now barely eight o’clock) she brought
her work, and sat down with her brothers ; and
though there were shadows brooding over them all
—darker shadows, and deeper, than they imagined
they formed a very happy trio.
Mary especially felt happy and contented. She
was devoted to her brothers loved Edmund with
a mother’s and a sister’s love combined, while she
looked upon Myles as her ideal of all that was good
and manly. He had given her no cause to think
otherwise. With regard to her own merits she
was humble: but let any one impeach in the
slighost degree those of Myles or Edmund, and she
became fierce, proud, and resentful. Something
n Myles’s mien to-night disturbed her. she knew
not why.
’* Wilt have thy pipe, lad? It’s tboer: I’st got
it in a minute.”
* 4 No thank yon, Molly. I don’t care about
smoking to-night.”
44 Did iver any one see sioh a chap ?” said Mary,
eooretiy filled with pride in him. 44 He ne’er
drinks, and he ne’er hardly smokes, and he ne’er
does nowt disagreeable.”
44 He hasn’t a redeeming vice,” said Myles, ironi-
cally, watching her fingers as she plied her needle,
and forcing liimself to speak. though he did it half
mechanically. What was she making? he asked.
“A shirt. ’ ’
44 For whom?”
4 ‘ Why, for thee, lad !” said Mary, with a laugh
and a look at him ; and Myles returned the look
with a smile, and instantly became lost in a long
train of reflection.
Edmund and Mary loved him, and looked up to
him as to a superior being, as the centre figure of
their lives, and the person around whom clustered
thoir hopes, fears, and loves. Beyond them, out
of their circle, was Adrienne Blissct: was it in
the nature of tilings that she could ever behold
him with eyes like theirs ? No, pever ; because she
was itfetmeted and they were ignorant. Well, was
adoration the best thing for man? Was it not
better to adore ? Could there bo any shame in the
adoration of a woman like Adrienne ? He decided,
no. It was not the giving up of independence—it
was the bending of a superior being which, when
that attitude was self-elected, was the highest in-
dependence. Ho was all secure, safe, assured.
Nothing would over change the love of those two
for him: outside there, where Adrienne was, all
was stormy, cloudy, feverish, uncertain: ho knew
not what she thought of him —what feelings or no-
feolinga her gracious manner might cover.
44 Can she ever be like another woman to me r”
ho thought. 44 It is impossible. If it were possible
I should be a clod.” For what ho had done coun-
ted for nothing with Myles ; he was not one of
those heroes who will thrash you half a dozen
fellows, twice as big as themselves, and then re-
quire to be reminded of such a trifle.
He was not quite sure, oven now, that he felt
tmmixed satisfaction in the deed. To thrash a
cowardly bully, who seemed unable to express him-
aelf without the assistance of copious volleys of
oaths, was one thing, and Myles contemplated with
some complacency the fact that he had done it.
But if any evil consequences should ensue to
Adrienne!
After a moment he re-assured himself. Ho did
not believo that Sponceley know her name. Ho
had not mentioned it. Myles would have died
rather than utter it himself in that company—
that would have been a easting of pearls before
swine, of which ho was naturally incapable.
If Mr. Spcnoeley chose to prosecute him he
would own himself guilty and Like his punishment
—anything rather than drag her name into the
discussion ; but he doubted much whether Spen-
Ooley would wish to draw public attention so
pointedly to the fact that ho had been flogged by a
workman in the billiard-room of his own club.
That would have been to expose his own brutal
insolence and violence, and to hint, moreover, at
some discreditable deed in the background which
had called forth the attack. Myles began to won-
der how that beautiful sister of his, whom he had
spoken to that morning—could it bo that morning ?
—would receive her brother. Then his thoughts
wandered off again to Adrienne.
At any rate, I can’t face her yet. I must stay
quiet awhile until it lias blown over. Perhaps, as
ihe’s bo very quiet, and goes ont so little, she’ll
not hoar about it; and then I ooold call, and not
mention it, and it would all pass over.”
A knock at the back-door aroused him.
Mary lifted her head, and cried, 44 come in ” but
after a pause the knock was renewed.
“ 4 It’s Harry,” observed Edmund. 44 Thou mun
open to him, Myles, or he’ll go on knocking for
half an hour.”
4 Ay, poor lad, I suppose he will,” said Myles,
going towards the door, while Mary maintained
absolute silence, continuing her work.
Myles soon returned, accompanied by a young
jriafi, slight Bind delicate-looking, pale-faced and
fttir-obmplexioned, whose calm, open countenance
was pleasant to look upon, despite a certain vague-
ness in its expression—not a want of intelligence
or anything approaoing vacancy, but rather as if
something escaped him and left him apart from
other people.
“Good evenin’, Mary—evenin’, Ned,” ho said
ip the very softest and gentlest of voices.
* Brt down, Harry, and have supper with ns,”
said Myles; and when he spoke Harry Ashworth’s
infirmity became apparent.
Myles had to go close to him and speak, not very
loudly but very slowly and clearly. Ho was almost
deaf, in consequence of a fever be had when a boy
of twelve. He wa« twenty-five now and the w*a.k-
ness increased each year: it was probable that in
a few more years ho would be stone-deaf. He waa
a frequent visitor at the Heywoods’, and a great
friend of Myles and Edmund; Mary and he had
little to say beyond the words of greeting and fare-
well.
There was a certain constraint this evening im-
mediately after his entrance, on account of what
had happened in regard to Mrs. Heywood, but this
constraint was dissipated by Harry himself.
“ I hear your mother has gone,” ho remarked.
Myles assented in a grave sort of way.
Mary’s cheeks flushed, and she did not raise her
eyes from her work.
“ She thinks of being married soon, then ?”
11 1 expect so,” said Myles.
41 Ah,” said Harry ; and then without any em-
barrassment changed the subject.
44 We may expect changes soon, Myles, Ireekon.”
44 What changes P” asked Myles, who had come
close to Harry, while the latter had placed his
chair beside Edmund’s sofa.
4 ‘ The master’s coming back—so I hoar.”
44 Oh, him !” said Myles, again trying to turn up
his nose and again failing to do so.
Harry laughed, and Mary remarked :
44 Eh, but I could like to seen yon chap. He
mun be some and clever.
44 Molly thinks ho must be clever,” said Myles
to Harry, who nodded.
4 ' I don’t see why he shouldn’t be, choose how.
1 think you’re a bit hard on him, Myles. We know
no harm on him.”
44 Yes, we do. We know he’s neglected his
has in csss and his property. He’s sis-and-twenty
if he’s a day, and he’s never looked in upon us
since he came into possession. He’s a gawnless
chap—he must be.”
4 'Well vre’st see that when he comas. Have
you heard os Mr. Lippineott, his health’s failin’,
and he’s ordered abroad ? They say he can’t live.”
Mr. Lippineott was the sitting member for
Thanshope.
4 ‘ Nay. I heard nothing of that,” said Myiea,
reflectively. 44 Then suppose he dies, we shall
have a fresh election.
4 ‘ Ay: and I have heard,” pursued Harry, not
without a twinkle of humour in his eyes, 4 ‘ as it’s
possible Mr. Mallory may stand, if Mr. Lippineott
resigns or dies.”
44 What I” ejaculated Myles. 44 And who is to
oppose him?”
” Spencoley—Bargaining Jack.”
4 ’ Why, Myles, thou’d be hard set to know who
to vote for,” said Mary, innocently.
Myles suddenly recovered his presence of mind,
and shouted to Harry :
44 You’ve hoard wrong, hid. Mallorys are all
Tories, and always have been—it’s bred in the
bone; and Bargaining Jack reckons to bo a Con-
servative too. so far as he’s anything. Conserva-
tives manage better than us. They would never
fan two candidates in Thanshope—in fact, they
only run one for the look of the thing. They can’t
get the wedge in here. ’ ’
4 ‘Well, I have heard too,” continued Harry,
as how Mallory is a Radical—a Liberal choose
how.”
44 That I’ll never believe till I luive heard him
say it himself, said Myles,” decidedly. 44 And
from all I’ve heard. I think you’ve been misin-
formed. Harry.”
44 Well, perhaps I have,” said Harry, peaceably.
44 It doesn’t matter to me which way it is.”
Nor did the others appear to take much interest
in the subject, for it dropjtcd, and Mary began to
get supper ready.
At that meal the conversation was carried on
almost entirely between Harry and Myles. Harry
was a spinner in receipt of a largo wage. He was,
as has been said, a pleasant, comely-loooking young
man, and if not very robust, did not look unhealthy.
Many of his friends wondered why he did not
marry; for he was turned twenty-five. He and
Myles and Mary Heywood were beginning to be
looked upon as drifting into the old maid and
bachelor ranks.
At all times, early—terribly early—marriages
are the role in Lancashire; but in those halcyon
years of plenty and golden prosperity preceding
the American Civil War, they had been more
numerous than ever.
After supper, Edmund, stretching out his arms,
said in a muffled kind of voice :
44 Eh, I say, it is some and hot here. I wonder
what it’s like outside.”
4 ’ Why, the air’s pleasant enough on the Town-
field,” said Harry.
44 1 could like to feel it,” remarked Edmund.
I’ve not been out these three days.”
44 Well, oomo along and take atom,” said Myles,
good-naturedly, well knowing that Edmund’s
motive for suggesting such a thing at that time
was that the dusk was rapidly gathering : there
were fewer people about, and he was less likely to
be observed.
Edmund jumped at the offer, and Myles, giving
him his cap, and taking his own, drew his brother’s
arm through his, shouting to Harry :
44 Wilt come with us, or wilt stay with Molly ?”
44 I’st stay and have a pipe till you oomo in,
if Mary’s no objection,” said Harry; and Mary,
by way of answer, pointed to a china basket on the
mantelpiece, in which stood half a dozen neatly
made 44 spills.”
These spills were a mystery to the household.
Mary gave it out that she liked to have them.
They looked tidy-liko, and did for lighting pipes ;
but it was a well-known fact that Edmund did not
smoke at all, that Myles preferred to light his pipe
with a coal or a match, and that the only visitor
who enjoyed the privilege of smoking in that
kitchen was Harry Ashworth. Yet no one ever
suggested that the lighters wore kept in stock for
Harry’s benefit, though Edmund had been peri-
lously near doing so once or twice. Had he or any
one else uttered that theory, it is impossible to
imagine what Mary would have said—possibly
nothing at all, for she was, in practice at least, a
strong upholder of the theory that 44 silence is
golden.”
The two brothers went out, leaving the door
open, and a waft of the somewhat cooler outside
air penetrated to the kitchen. The gas was not
lighted ; the fire had burnt low ; the room was al-
most dark. Mary could no longer see to work,
and sat, with her head thrown a little backwards,
in a high-backed, red-cnshioned rocking-chair.
The clock ticked : everything was very still. It
was Harry who spoke first, in his soft voice.
44 Warm and close, this here weather, Mary.
44 Ay,” said Mary, 44 ’tis.”
44 How does Ned get on ?” he asked; for though
she did not speak very loudly, she spoke deliber-
ately, and he appeared to hear easily.
44 He feel’s th’ heat aboon a bit,” replied,
Mary.
44 Ay ! ■ I dare say.”
A pause, while Harry puffed away at his pipe,
and Mary offered no further obsrrvations on men
or things,
44 1 took a long walk o’ Sunday —yesterday’,’
observed Harry at last.
44 Did yon ? Where to ?”
44 Roet o’er th’ moors to th’ top o’ Blaofcrigg.”
44 It’s to’ far. Thou’rt none strong eno’ for skjh
like walks.”
44 Yea, but I am. I set mo down on th’ heather,
and listened wi’ all my heart, and I thowt I heard
a bird singing.”
44 Happen a lark r” said Mary, after a percepti-
ble pause.
4 " Happen. I should ha 4 gone to church in th’
evenin’, but I can’t hear—nowt distinct, that’s to
say—and I'm a’most inclined to tliiuk that I didn’t
hear yon lark, but only thowt I did, from memory,
thou known.”
44 Ay,” assented Mary.
And when I go into church, and hear the organ
buzzin’ and th’ voices till mixed up wi’ it, and
can't make out what it is, it fair moithors me;
same as when I look up, and see th’ parson speak-
in’, and don’t know what it’s about.”
44 Ay,” said Mary, laconically as ever, but this
time there was the faintest possible vibration in
her voice.
And there was another long pause, while Mary’s
eyelids drooped. He did not see that—it ■was too
dark : and had he seen it, ho could not have known
that those eyelids were sore with repressed tears,
which burnt them, and which she would not allow
to flow.
44 Sometimes,” his voice broke in again, 44 1 get
discontented. I’m main fond o’ music, as you
know, Mary.”
“lAy, I know thon art.”
44 And it troubles me above a bit sometimes as I
should be deaf, for it just takes away my greatest
pleasure. Sometimes I wash I’d been blind in-
stead.”
No answer from Mary, till Harry, in a hesitating
voice, said :
44 What dost think, Mary ? Is it very wrong to
have such thoughts P”
44 No, I dimnot,” replied Mary. 44 1 call it very
nateral. If I was deaf, I reckon I should make
more noise about it than you do. I wonder what
them chaps is doin’. It's time they was cornin’
in.”
44 Don’t thou go out. I’ll find ’em, and tell ’em,
for I mun be goin’ too,” said Hairy, rising.
Mary had begun to poke the lire violently, and
now let the poker fall with a loud rattle, as Harry
without her knowing it, had advanced close to her
so that her elbow struck against his outstretched
hand.
44 Dole tak’ the’ fire-irons !” said she, impa-
tiently. '* I conna think what ails ’em. Good
neet to you, if you mun bo going,” she added,
shaking hands with him, and, as soon as ho was
gone, lighting the gas.
Presently her brothers came in. The house was
locked up. Mary wont to bod, followed by
Edmund Myles Mas left by the dying-out kitchen
tiro, with a book on the table which he never
opened, but sat still far into the night, living
through some of the strange hours of still, silent,
yet vivid, rushing, mental life which come to all of
us sometimes in our youth, and which are like no
other hours in our experience.
(to be continued.)
Colonial Produce.
.Station Products, Live Stock, and
Wholesale Butchers’ Meat. —Best mutton
tallow (firm) at from £26 to .£‘29 per ton;
ditto beef, =£2s 10s to =£27 10s ; station or mixed
lots, £lB to £25 ; sound shankbones, £(5 to £lO ;
N.S.W. wattle bark, £3 to £4; Tasmanian, £5 10s
to £0 ; large sound horns sell per 1000 at from
20s to 30s ; small to medium, 10s to 15s ; wool per
lb—scoured, 15d to Is lOd ; medium fleece, Ifid ;
greasy 7d to 10d ; sheepskins (scarce) medium to
prime. 5d to 7d; pelts or short wool, 2id to 4d;
heavy hides (wanted) 3;d to 41 d ; light and dry,
4d to 4Vd ; medium, 3d to 31 d ; horsehair, tail, Is
to Is 4d ; mane, 8d to lid; mixed, 9d to Hid;
large horse hides, each, 6s to 8s ; yearling, 4s to
7s fid ; calfskins, Is fid to 4s; large kangaroo, Is fid
to 2s : small, 5d to Is. Mr. John Bridge has made
some considerable sales in this line at satisfactory
values. At Homebnsh, Ac., tho late improvement
in live stock is well maintained. Fat cattle aver-
age per 100 lbs for from medium to prime at 12s
to 15s : inferior, 9s to 10s ; host milch cows, each,
from £9 to £ll 10s; good, £7 to £8 10s ; poor,
£2 10 to £fi 10s ; fat calves, 25s to 39s ; medium,
16s to 24s ; poor, 5s to 15a ; sheep, 7a fid to 11s ;
lambs, 7s to 15s fid; pigs (alive) per lb, to 3id.
Mr. William Inglis reports extensive dealings in
this branch at top values. At tho railway sheds,
Ac., large lots of beef and mutton and in carcase
have changed hands at fair prices. Messrs. Wells
and Smith Brothers have sold most of the prime
country killed from Orange. Beef in carcsae per lb,
Id to Lfd ; forequarter, :,'d to l -,d; hind quarters,
lid to Ifd ; mutton in carcase, Id to lfd : pork,
2fd to 3-£d ; salt beef in tierces, each, at from £2
10s to .£3 10s ; corned pork, ditto.
Horse-feed, &c. —At the railway auction sales
of Darling Harbour the supply keeps pace with
the demand. Most of tho hay, straw, Ac., ar-
rived from Blayney, Spring Hill, Perth, Bre-
woongle, Campbell fields, Bathurst, Newbridge,
Locksloy, Windsor, Spring Grove, Moss Yale,
Liverpool, Menangle. Wallendbeen, Clarendon,
Marulen, Pioton, Richmond, Cross Roads, Goul-
bnrn, Ac. Oaten hay of best quality is some-
what scarce. Messrs. Dent and Hoskins and
Wells and Smith Brothers sold some large parcels.
Wheaton hay is dearer, and Mr. William Inglis
got high rates. Clear straw is steady: -Messrs.
McMinn and Co obtained good values ; lucerne of
best quality is scarce. Summary of auction sales
is thus: —Prime oaten hay sold per cwt for 5s lOd,
5s 7d, 5s fid, and ss; good lots, 4s lid, 4s 9d,
4s fid, and 4s 4d; inferior, 3s 3d; good wheaten
and oaten, 4s. fid; inferior, 3s 4d; best wheaten,
4s 9d and 4s fid: clean straw, 3s Id, 3s, 2s lOdand
2s 9d; inferior, Is 9d; best lucerne, 4s and 3s lid;
medium, 3s fid: maize is falling in value: best
per bushel, 2s to 2s 3d ; oats and Cape Barley, 2s
to 2s fid; malting barley, 3s to 4s fid ; best Hunter
lucerne, £3 15s to £4; medium, £3; inferior £2.
Vegetables.—During four weeks, imports of
potatoes are 3,981 tons; for tho twelve months up
to 27th April, imports amounted to 22,249 tons.
The previous year they were 23,219 tons
Best Warnambool per ton, £2 15s; ditto New
Zealand or N.S.W. (Sutton Forest) £3 ; Victoria
and Tasmania onions, £3 to £3 10s; pumpkins
per dozen Is fid to 2s fid.
Wink. —Port Macquarie, Hunter and Albion
per gallon, now common to good, 2s fid to 4s; old
(2 to 5 years) 5s to 12s.
Dairy Produce, Poultry, Ac. —Snporior
Illawarra or Sutton Forest butter in keg, per lb,
Is ; fresh roll by rail, Is to Is fid ; cheese, 4d to
7d: bacon ditto; hams, 7d to 9d; lard, 4d to 5d ;
honey, 3d to 4d: beeswax fid to lOd; Income
feed, 4d to s|d : good leaf tobacc (scarce), lOd to
Is ; manufactured. Is fid to 2s 3d ; millet brooms,
per dozen, 8d to 10s ; case eggs (scarce) Is lOd to
2s; fresh, to 2a 2a fid: fowls, per couple, medium
to best, 3a to 4s fid; ducks, ditto; geese, 5a fid to
6s fid; hen turkeys, ditto; cook turkeys, 7s fid to
11s; pigeons, 2s; sucking pigs, each, 3s fid to
7s fid.
Timber, Firewood, Ac. —Best cedar in log,
per 100 superficial feet, 15s to 16s; good, 12s to 11s;
inferior, 10s; pine log, 6s to 7s; hardwood iu log,
southern 6s, northern 7a; beech in log, 11a to 12s.
Firewood: Billet, per ton, 9s to 11s fid; bundles,
lls to 13s ; foot lengths, 12s to 14s, Post and
raffs, per 100, from £2 10s to .£4; palings, 9 g £ 0
16s. Messrs. Dent and Hoskin report an active
trade.
Flour and Grain Report.— No change haa
occurred in this trade. Best superfine brands
Adelaide flour, per ton of 2000 lb. net, from ,£H
2s fid to illl 10«; good country Adelaide, New
South Wales, or Victoria, <£lo 12a fid to AH.
common to medium, £lO to <£lo 10s. Best Ade!
laide wheat, per bushel, 4s fid to Is 8d ; New South
Wales, Victorian, or Tasmanian ditto, 4s 5d to
4a 7d : medium, 4a 3d to 4s 4d; inferior,
Bran, best fresh, Is ; pollard, lid. Bakers charge
31 d per 2 lb. loaf for beat unadulterated broad.
J. A. M'CARROLL.
144 Sussex-street, 27th May, 1880.
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G, Wallace, King-street Clarke, Pitt-street
K, Callaway, King-street Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-fit. J. L. Borghoefer, Pitt-st.
George Hill, George-streefc Sohnebergor, Oxi'ord-st,
Noah ~ Spragg A Adams „
J. W. K. Clarke ~ Lapbom ~
E. K. Oole ~ G. Barker, Sussex-street
Gordon A Goteh ~ Thorsby, Erskine-Btre.fi;
—■ Sandon ~ J. Walton, Railway Station
Oolliss, George-fit. west J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
E. Turner, Brickfield Hill —• Pierce, William-street
W. Johnson, 351 Elizabeth- J, Wit hers, Park-street
street South
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
.Vhki dale — Narrabri—
H. Mollom O. Haussmxm
Ashpield— Newcastle —
W. J. Banks Hale Williams
Balm.un - — F. Alcock
W. J. Small Newtown—
Bathurst— E. Bray a
H. Bridges North Shore- -
Bega— Deacon A Sob
O. Welby Nicholson Bros.
Bodalxa — Orange—
W. Brock E. Lessclls
COOTAMUNDEA— PARRAMATTA—
J. Percival G. W. Green
Echcca— J. Keevo
G. Fosdyke Petersham —
Forbes — —Thompson
E. Chapman Port Macquarie—
Germanton— J. J. Fean
T. Brown Kvde—
Glen Innes— K. Young
F. Marshall Scone—
Goulbcrn— M. F. Asser
J. Walsh Shoalhaven —
Qtxnedah — —Wicks
Fitzgerald Singleton—
Lambton — J. P. Quinn
J. Firth VYagga Waoga—
Lismore— C. H. Daniel
Jones L. S. Joseph
Maitland (West) — Wattle Plat—
C. W. Clarke L. Grim wood
Morpeth— Wellington (n.s.w.)—<
James Maher W. Booth
Mcdgeb— Young—
W. Hall O. F. OU
INTERCOLONIAL:
Melbourne— Brisbane—
Manders & Co.
W. Yard Gordon & Goteh
C. Muskett, Bourke-st.
C. J. Bird, ~ Stanthorpb (Q.)—
Nath. Levi, Spencer-
street Railway Stn. J. F. Williams


Melbourne international
EXHIBITION, 1830.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
EXHIBITION OF WINES.
The increasing importance of the Australian Wine
Industry has induced the Commissioners for the Md-
bonrne International Exhibition to make special pro-
vision for the reception and storage of Wines in the
new Permanent HuiMiucs in the Carlton Gardens. No
effort will bo spared to make the Exhibition of Wines
national in every respect; and as the various Wines-
will be submitted to Jurors who are acknowledged
experts, it is particularly desirable that Australian
Vigncrons should avail themselves of the opportunity
offered for testing their Wines by the standard of the
best Continental Vintages, many of which are to bo
represented.
Special facilities will be offered for the Sale of Aus-
tralian Wines in various parts of the Exhibition in order
that the Exhibitors may place their exhibits before
the Pnblic as well as before the International Juries of
Experts.
Copies of the Regulations for the Exhibition of Wines,
and Forms of Entry, can be obtained gratis nt the offloe
of the New South Wales Commission for the Melbourne
Exhibition, LB Maoquorie-street.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM.
Secretary to the Commission.
ME LBOUEN K INTERNATIONA h
EXHIBITION, 1830.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
Tho Commissioners appointed under the Great Seal
of the Colony of New South Wales, for tho purpose of
taking such measures as may be necessary to secure tho
representation of the Arts, Manufactures, Products,
and Inventions of New South Wales, at the Interna
tumid Exhibition, to be opened in Melbourne, on the
Ist of OCTOBER, 1830, invite the co-operation of tho
Producers and Manufacturers of New South Wales in
the work of securing the fitting representation of the
Colony of Now South Wales.
All charges incurred in the conveyance to and from
tho Melbourne Exhibition, and in the fitting display
thereat of such articles us shall appear to the Commis-
sioners to be worthy of exhibitioe, will be borne b/
the Commission.
The Commissioners will be prepared to receive, at
their Stores, in Sydney, articles intended for Exhibition,
from the loth of MAY to the 15th of JULY.
In order to give the the opportunity
of making adequate arrangements, forms of application,
which may t-e obtained gratia at the Commissioners'
Office, 123, Maequuric-street, should be sent in without
delay.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM.
Secretary to the Commission.
Office of the Commission,
123 Macquarie-street, Sydney,
O T I C E OF REMOVAL
THOMAS BROWN, STATIONER,
(Late of Caatlereagh-street),
Respectfully thanks the public for past favour,, and
wishes to inform them that he has removed to those
extensive premises 271. Pitt-street, two doors from th
School of Arts, where he will be enabled to execute all
orders entrusted to him with despatch, and in thi best
style of workmanship, in his business of a stationer,
lithographic, and letter-press printer, bookbinder, and
account-book and paper-bag manufacturer. Having
purchased an entirely new plant of machinery, printing
and lithographic presses, type and lithographic stones
(some of which are the largest in the colony), all new
material, and engaged the best workmen in each brunch
of the business, together with his long experience in all
branches, hiving extensive premises, enables him to
make his manufactory second to none. It will always
be bus his motto, ‘ Small profits and extensive trade
CiKNTEAL HOUSE AND BUSINESS
J AGE N C Y,
28f» GEORGE STREET, opposite HUNTER STREET,
In conjunction with mv well-known LAND and
ESTATE AUCTIONEERING BUSINESS, which has
been so successfully established and carried on by my-
self for a number of years, I have, in consequence of the
numerous applications daily made at my rooms by new
arrivals and others desiring to rent or lease various kinds
of properties, determined, at the solicitation of many
clients, to undertake the LETTING and LEASING of
DWELLING-HOUSES, HOTELS. SHOPS. FAC-
TORIES, FARMS, Ac., as also the COLLECTION of
RENTS, in Trust and otherwise.
To enable me to carry out more successfully this ad-
ditional branch of my business, I have engaged the ser-
vices of a Gentleman who has had great experience, ex -
tending over many years, in the Letting of Houses,
Collecting of Kents, and (reneral Management of House
Properties, who will, under my own special supervision,
attend solely to this department.
I feel certain that Owners and Trustees of House and
other Properties will derive a considerable advantage,
and save themselves a vast amount of trouble and an-
noyance, by entrusting their interests to my care. My
extensive intercourse with all classes of society gives
me peculiar facilities for obtaining good and respectable
Tenants for all Properties placed in my hands to Let or
Lease, and my great experience will considerably aid me
in the selection of tenants.
Having a thorough and practical knowledge of all
matters connected with Building, I shall be able to
©Sect a considerable saving upon repairs and alteration*
when necessary.
My terms for Leasing, Letting, or Collection of Kents
will he strictly moderate.
The attention I Live hitherto given to my present
business, and th« success that it has commanded, will,
I feel snre, be a sufficient guarantee for the cure this
branch of business will receive at my hands.
Leasing and Disposing of tho Goodwill of Hotels.
Trades, and Manufactories will receive my closest at
tention. and I need not say that all Business passing
through my office will be conducted upon the strictest
business principles, with a view to the mutual interest
of oil parties concerned.
W. PRITCHARD,
AUCTIONEE R, VALUA T O R, Ac.
289 George-street,
Sydney,
Opposite Hunter-street.
JJOMES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a email advance upon me
amount now going' to the Landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN'
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
L‘4 CASH.
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of L 2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous ti»
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build oe
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE*
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
age cy t ffi; \ Beattie-etreet, Balmain, near Dick's
Hold.
I c TO KIA
T II E A T K E.
gjgge Manager
HOLT'S NEW BABYLON
....Mr. James H. Bain ford.
tfITH BOUND AFTEB BOUND OF LAUGHTER
and
CHEEK UPON CHEEK OF ENTHUSIASM.
Vfo on Saturday inaugurated the FOURTH WEEK
of
HOLT'S NEW BABYLON.
HOLT’S NEW BABYLON.
SIXTH WEEK.
greatest success ever achieved.
HOLT'S HOLT'S HOLT'S
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Babylon
Last New Bibylon Last
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Babylon
Nights. New Babylon Nights.
New Bibylon
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Bibylon
Last New Babylon Last
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Baby km
Nights. New Babylon Nights.
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Bibylon
New Babylon
New Babylon
Last New Babylon Last
New Babylon
New Babylon
New Bibylon
Nights, New Babylon Nights.
New Baby km
New Babylon
New Babylon
HOLT'S NEW BABYLON.
THE COLLISION on the ATLANTIC
is the best piece of mechanism and painting over
produced.
TATTERSALL'S, w ith its SALE of HORSES.
t’EEMORNE. with its Dancing Platform.
OOODWOOD, witti its Grand Races.
The THAMES EMBANKMENT
and the
SEVEN DIALS, BY NIGHT
are pictures of
REAL LIFE only to bo seen bv witnessing
HOLT S NEW BABYLON.
New Songs. New Songs. New Songs.
Press only acknowledged. No free list.
QUEEN’S THEA T K E.
Lessee Mr. M. Hegarty.
U NPHECEDKNTED SUCCESS
of
AIK. ALFRED DAM PIER.
LILY and ROSE.
'THIS (Friday) EVENING, May 28,
By Bequest
HAMLET.
An entirely New Drama
TO-MORROW (Saturday) NIGHT.
Admission Dress Circle, Jls; Stalls, 2s; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherbergs.
LIDDY, Business Manager.
t
H I A ' R I N 1
ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS,
and
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
HAYMARKET RESERVE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
MATINEES,
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AFTERNOONS,
at half-past 2.
Enthusiastic Reception!
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of this
M AGNIPICENT COMBINATION.
Pronounced by the Press and Public
The BEST CIRCUS
WHICH HAS EVER VISITED
AUSTRALIA !
The spa cions Pavilion crowded to overflowing on
Saturday evening, and hundreds turned array, unable to
Kliia admission.
The Proprietor begs to announce that a constant suc-
cession of Novelties will l>e presented, introducing
NEW and TALENTED ARTISTES.
WONDERFULLY TRAINED HORSES,
ZEBRAS, ROYAL BENGAL TIGERS,
&c., &c., &c.
Prices of Admission :
Dress circle (chairs),4s ; stalls (carpet seats), .‘L
Ss, Children under 12 years of age, half-price.
Special rates for Schools when corning in body.
Pit,
ICKNSED VICTUALLERS’ ASSOCIATION.
GRAND ANNUAL BALL.
Under the Patronage
of
THE WORSHIPFUL the MAYOR of SYDNEY.
This PLAIN and FANCY DRESS BALL, under the
auspices of the Licensed Victuallers’ Association, will
take place at the Masonic Hall, York-street, on the
evening of MONDAY, June 14 next.
Tickets—Gentlemen’s, Xos.; ladies, 10s. <3d., may lie
had of the Treasurer, Mr. Sebastian Hodge, Commer-
cial Hotel, King and Caatkreagh Streets; of the Secre-
cy at the KO3-.il Hyde Park Hotel; and of the
•Wowing memlters of the Council: —Messrs. J. Apted,
White Lion. Riloy-street; T. CuiTtin, Pfohlert’s Hotel;
C. Kelsey, Garden Palace Hotel: J. E. Kelsey, Queen’s
Arms, Oxford-street; Rowell, Oxford Hotel, King-st.;
Y. Shannon, Willow Tree, Liverpool-street; F. Smith,
hurrungong Hotel; E. Tremaia, City -Anns, Stanley-
Htreet; W. Walter, Shakespeare Hotel, Devonshire-
* tr eet; and Alderman J. D. Young, Three Crowns
hotel, Chnrch-hiH.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, ALFRED PARK.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, June 1 and 5.
THE GREAT
-1-HOUES GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE TOURNAMENT
For Youths under the age of Twenty.
Twelve entries have been received,
TWELVE STARTERS
Twelve starters
Twelve starters
Twelve starters
Twelve starters
Twelve starters.
.RECTAL NOTICE.—-On Friday Evening, previous
®»e commencement of the Tournament, there will be
l‘-MILE WALKING HANDICAP, open to all comers.
prize, a solid silver cup: second prize, a silver
1,"" h- Entrance tee, ss, will close on Tuesday night,
Il£| c I) at Sword’s Hotel, King-street.
W. H. BICHABDSOK, Promoter.
Wji. EDWARDS, Manager.
O
-\\r P. W E L C H,
Tf d PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIPE
BLIND MANUFAC T ÜBEE A IMP OET E R.
HAS REMOVED TO
315 P ITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outvie Venetian.
Jf.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted intho Pirst Style.
Oriental Blinds.
gE I NS M E A D PIANOS.
NOTICE.
Wo have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from
Mr. W. H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE
REPRESENTATIVES for New South Wales,
Messrs. ROYLE and HOGG, to whom all applica-
tions for sub-agencies must ho made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
"OH N
, BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Prin-
eij>al Towns of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Solo Agents.
Bond-street Stores, Sydney. " 1
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG-
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD ANT)
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
gained highest and special honours at the principal
previous International Exhibition.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and HOGG.
"OHN BRINBM EAD*"S?AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
are without a rival.
Sole A cents ; ROYLE and HOGG.
SONS’
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best work-
manship and material.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and HOGG.
OHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices from 14 guineas.
Sole Agents. ROYLE and HOGG,
SONS’
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a five years guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
ULC E T O R GAN HARMONIUM H.
D
The Instruments exhibited at the Garden Palace,
and which have been awarded
THE FIRST PRIZE,
tire now on SALE
at
HOYLE AND HOGG'S
BO N D STR E E T STOR E S.
.
y jy* 4? ever y °* °. r tl,at
breathe a fmjrrnnco.
[SWEET SCENTS
1 LIGN-ALOE. OPCPCNAX.
\LOVE-AMONG-THE-RCSES.
FRANGIPANNI.
P AND A THOCf
* i ur th*** V*
I
■®°hd StT 6 ®'”
T
HE OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEEOUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEEOUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS.
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
Ac.
&c.
3-1 CL A R ENCB STRE E T ,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMPORTER.
VV.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
BEARD’S GRAND PIANOS,
have gained the _
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent:
W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
non-competitive,
hut unsnrpassrd.
Agent:
w. H. PALING,
G,
W. BELLA CO.'S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
over nil others
Sole Agent:
W. H. PALING.
AUNG and COMPANY’S RENOWNED
PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE,
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBUIION,
W. H. PALING.
352 GEORGE STEEE.
JOHNSON BROTHERS’ TASMANIAN
JAMS.
Tlif‘ displacement of English-made Jams by
those manufactured in the colonies is the work
of a few years past. Very little of the former T
J poods are now imported, and the Australian H
makers are endeavouring to outvie each other K
by brilliancy of labels, &c. A new feature of the K
A trade has been introduced by Johnson Brothers, E
of Tasmania, making up stoneless jams from
what are known ns stone frnit. Housewives, as
M a rule, do not find the quantity of kernels, in a
tin of ordinary plum jam to be eitlier useful or
ornamental,
E Therefore Meessrs. J. B. P
have just forwarded O
JAMES KIDMAN U
S the First Shipment of the abovementioned, N
which, together with Gooseberry. Cherry, I)
Raspberry, Black Currant, &c., &c., &c., kinds. S
are now on sale at all his Establishments, at
J. K. hiving completed arrangements with his
friends in the Ilia warm, Sutton Forest, Menan- T
gle, Pioton. und Camden Districts, fi'r an unlimi- W
P ted supply of the very best quality, is now 0
receiving the same, and is selling at a less price
than charged wholesale, viz.,
K 3lb for Two-shillings.
whereas the
Market Price
I is H
Ninepcnce (od.) per 11'. I
C JAMBS KIDMAN, L
the C. K. House, I
158, Oxford-street, N
E Campbell land Castlereagh-sts., Hayniorket. G
The Great Northern, 178 Lower George-street.
S.
The Model Grocery Emporium,
George and Market-streets-
nHF STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT,
COLLAR, AND CUFF FACTORY,
10 0 KING STREET, UPSTAIRS
(entrance in right-of-way).
A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
ORDERS EXECUTED
with
NEATNESS AND DESPATCH.
GENT.’S WHITE SHIRTS
in three qualities.
CRIMEAN SHIRTS,
excelling all other makes.
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALLY GIVEN TO
THE TRADE.
All work done at the above Factory is under
the superintendence of a gentleman of
20 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
in
AMERICA.
fJ|HE GREAT WAXWORKS* EXHIBITION.
NOW OPEN, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-
street. Just ARRIVED, from New York, THE
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE WORLD—Miss Millie
Christine, the two-headed Nightingale, a Lady with two
heads, four arms, four legs, and one body.
Admission Is, children half price.
Open from K» ft.m. to 10 p.m.
ME
SON
c
B
The Annual MASONIC BALL, in connection with the
tobert Burns Lodge. 817 E.C., will be held at the
bisonic Hall, on the 3rd June, 1880, nuder the distin-
nished patronage, and in the presence of
ohn Williams, Esq., J.P., R.W. D., Grand Master E.C.,
and the Most Excellent G.S.R., A.M., E.C.
)r. William G. Sedgwick, K.W.D., Grand Master S.C.
’he Right Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney, Wor. Bro.
Fowler; and
'he Imperial Commissioner for Holland, Mynheer J.
De Groot, P.Z.N.
The YOUNG AUSTRALIAN BAND will play choice
music on the occasion.
Tickets (of which there area limited number only)
can be procured from the Committee at the following
prices Double, 255; Gentleman’s, 15s; Lady’s, 12s
Address, G.P.0., Sydney.
Commutes.
C. Hellmrich, Esq.
G. H. Lovett, Esq.
C. Artlett, Esq.
Thos. Read, Esq.
H. Passmore, Esq.
T. Fairweather, Esq,
T. Nurtbun, Esq.
W. H. Vosper, Esc;.
E. Q. Grace, Esq.
J. W. Nixon, Esq.
W. Marshall, Eeq,
W. Ellis. Esq.
J. G. Carter, Esq.
T. Rickett, E-sq.
R. S. Randall, Esq.
F. Armstrong, Esq.
J. Spencer, Esq.
Edward Richards, Esq.
F. Kirby, Esq.
A. Smith, Esq.
, j W. Ness, Esq.
[ C. Peters. Esq.
T. Nicholson. Esq.
I John Hurst, Esq.
| W. H. Needham, Esq.
I E. Moon, Esq.
HAMILTON JACOB, I Hon,
WILLIAM COLLINS, > Secs,
EVAN JONES, 800. Treasurer,
U Huater-streflflh


lONS, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate. viz.
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, RD, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure. Bls, worth £0 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 25s ; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes. 10s Gd, half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to tit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS. Men's and Boys’, Os 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRT’S, ready for use, 3s -Id, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the promises—
WAR S A W HOU S E,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
|JUE.ST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OP THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“ The Now Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the tirst place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonics.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Gr
O U N D R
CONSOLIDATED
Y
S
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crashes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRT’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell Hate Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To he obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
TO BRAT FOR YOUR STATIONERY
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address: —
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseiabr,
Newtown Road.
BOYD'S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will he produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
2K2
JJIFLES,
J^EVOLVEES
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Fr;4‘-|T'AT. OrXMAIVET?.
in OEQuaEsriuiL- teeotal hotel.
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
FIRST PRIZE.
Pi
■M
m
Patent
Safety Lamps
V r 1,1 and nut
door use, burn,
kerosene without
?lass cluu mey
eighteen ho«tg
V','- . oa® pennv
Liglit equal to
NIXE CiNI) IBi
Size of lamp is
inches high.
Price (ready f or
use) -10 s. 6,1.
Packed free { of
steamer or rail
<m receipt 0 f
stamps or nioner
order.
The
EXHIBITION
T O P
sinus on a piece
of thread in an*
position.
Is. each.
Bs. Od. dozen.
The
exhibition
CEMENT
mends every,
thing. Priee-
-Is. per bottle; U
post Is. Od.
That extraordinary and amusing trick “The Finger
through the Hat.” as performed at the Exhibition—
a capital joke. Price, 3s. Od., with instructions
do it. Post free, 4s. '
The Copying Pencil, as shown at the Exhibition, Copies
letters, marks linen. Is each, by post 18 stamps.
The Alligator Glass-cutter, Knife-sharpener, Cork-
screw and Tin opener—ls each, by post 18 stumps.
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and amusing games and
tricks at
HAILEY & KERR’S NOVELTY EXHIBITION,
508 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Police CourtL
For ONE MONTH ONLY, prior to B. & K.’s visit to
Melbourne.
REDGATE’S
TJSHT MEA
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
(sold l»j- all tirom-s and Storekeepers.
I
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stam"
the following words on the steel slide of every machim
they ship their sole agents in Australia :
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you IJ
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any awardat tie
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
ha s the largest sale of any Machine iu Australia, audu
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE Y'EARS.
Reduced Price List: —
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, »■
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and Now Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
W T N Y A K D - h A N E, SYDNEY.
“T isnot the clearness or condition alone of BuU^
■ Ale that preserves this brand first in public
mation. Common hitter crude beers are made ver /_ fl (c
but no other brand has tuc same mellow vinous
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great D 1
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are t
fore cautioned against *— J — ~ y ~ ‘— cflbe
extra profit represent
equal in quality to the Bull Dog.
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John
and J. F. AncnirutD, Sole Proprietors, at
Rclleiis Office, 107 Cafif.irc.igb ,-:trccs
■WINTER NECESSITIES.
OA I, VASES
For the Dining Room,
For the Drawing Room,
For the Breakfast Room,
&<?., Ac.
HEATING STOVES
(For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of ini pro veil American
Manufacture.
Jjl IRE I R
Nickel-plated,
N S
And will not rust.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
-o-
F E N H E E S,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces
“ Of the
Latest designs.
THE SYDNEY GARDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured for the 18 SO Season.)
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjl U E AUSTRALIAN
(Now in its Fourth Volume),
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH MONTH,
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE OP THE DAY.
ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOTYPES.
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clippings, Reviews,
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertisements,
TIME TABLES FOE FERRIES, MAILS, TRAMWAY, AND
’BUSES.
Almanac, Phases of the Moon, New Lectionart, &c.
Send 12 Stamps for Specimen Copy, and then Subscribe, if approved.
THE THIRD VOLUME JUST COMPLETED.
E. CYRIL HAVILAND, Publisher and Proprietor,
No. 1, LITTLE GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
JHE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL.
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DALVEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
£jOACH AND HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Me. P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
*** Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
Nathaniel cohen
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that he has taken the
ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL,
at the comer of
GIPPS & MACQUARIE STREETS, SOUTH,
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Como and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Oir in the Ram-keg.
T7IOE ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
CJ. ROBE R T S’
* SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
tis per bottle.
Pare West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
Metropolitan stakes consultation,
1880.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£3OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usual
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
F. F. JCNES.
lauers-u-.’sCl'ab, Sydney.
