

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 27.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1880.
Price—3d.
%ht §ullctm. ■
SATURDAY, JULY 31, 1880.
Gnawing the File.
Ilf that exceedingly suggestive apologue of the
ancient iEsop, which unfolds the impotence of
the viper’s teeth on a file of steel, there lies a
moral beyond that which the venerable raconteur
meant to convey. The malignant and the men-
dacious not only, as a general rule, exercise their
organs of mischief in vain, but they damage
them, and consequently impair their own future
powers of mischief. There are men in the world
—men in this quiet city—whose very impotence
in wrong-doing is one of the safeguards of society,
just as there are everywhere dastardly black-
guards who would become sanguinary criminals
if they had only the physical courage to be down-
right wicked. And so, in a figurative sense, it is
with those reckless political bravos who stun
people’s ears with their idiotic bowlings and
offend the moral sense of a community by their
profligacy in slander. It is fortunate that they
are only gnawing files— only blunting their means
of mischief —only exposing themselves to con-
tempt or detestation through the very impotence
of their malignity.' Let the reader dwell for a
moment on the exhibition Mr. David Buchanan
made oi himself at the Masonic Hall on Monday
last. Not content with asserting his own opi-
nions—whsch he had an unquestionable right to
do —he must in one of those berserker out-
bursts of fury habitual to him, vilify every
man—every party —every institution—he thinks
hostile to his views. The Press of Victoria, with
the exception of the Protectionist organs, and
that of New South Wales without any qualifica-
tion whatever, were honoured with the worst of
the farrago. Why this lavish expenditure of
“froth and fury ?” Because the Sydney friends
of the Hon. Gbaham Bebey anil the Protec-
tionist proselytes of Mr. David Buchanan
wished to present a congratulatory address to the
former? Surely they might—as they had a
right—send a whole roll of illuminated parch-
ment to him without blurting out false accusa-
tions against those who are imbued with Free
Trade principles, and without slandering the
Press that he has so often used for his own selfish
purposes—to satiate his vanity or puff his pro-
fessional pursuits. Bail as he would liot in
language as he did —ho could not humbug
a third of the sturdy men who formed
his comparatively small audience. Those
who went away while the rhetorical hurri-
cane was at its height showed their disgust ;
those who interrupted him expressed their
unbelief; and of the few who applauded him it
is not too much to assume that one-half did not
understand the drift of “Orator Davids
argument. His glorification of the inramous
Victorian Black Wednesday—his defence of the
offer of a judgeship by a moribund and beaten
Government to a fanatical partisan Sir Bryan
O’Loghilen, of Clare election notoriety his
blatant admiration of Mr. Be-BY s character in
all its phases —and his insolent attack on
the Press and people of the colonies form a
sufficient bill of indictment against him, not
merely as being an addle-pated politician, but a
disingenuous political opponent. He was,
however, only gnawing a file. We would not, in
fact, have gratified his love of notoriety by giving
him this notice gratis had we not a suggestion to
make to him, and one he ought at once to act on.
He likts Mr. B eb by and believes in Berry ism ;
he is in his own estimation a “great barrister,”
a powerful advocate; and he is politically a
mighty master of palaver. Why should ho not
betake himself for guid and a’ to the more con-
genial atmosphere of Melbourne, and there don
wi« and gown, or mount the stump as his fancy
listeth ? Here few will miss him, while many will
sing “a poean of obi days” —something about a
bottle of moss—on his departure; while therehe
will be received with enthusiasm, and listened to
with admiration, no matter how fooli-bly he may
talk, or how grossly he may lP*el his political
adversaries. This is good advice and honestly
given ; but, as it is offered gratuitously, we fear
it will not be received graciously. David will
probably gnaw his file till it reaches his gums.
Vested Interests.
It is universally admitted that the first and most
difficult task of the political reformer consists
in the annihilation of those abuses which have in
the first instance excited his patriotic or philan-
thropic zeal; this done, their replacing by more
liberal and progressive institutions is a com-
paratively easy sequence. Putting on one side
the natural attachment of a people to old tradi-
tions and venerable prejudices, the difficulty here
referred to is much enhanced by the opposition
received from the holders of vested interests in a
pre-existing state of things. So great is this op-
position, and so seemingly hopeless the task of
annihilation, that most social reformers advocate
the formation of a distinct community as the
only means of bringing into play the new princi-
ples of their schemes of amelioration. Thus
Plato in his “Republic,” and the generality of
experimental constitution-makers. Hence it
will be obvious that, in the race of progress, a
young colony endowed with the privilege of
making its own laws, though it may find many
obstacles placed in its way by causes incidental
to its youth, has in its unhampered freedom of
motion and virgin political soil, one great com-
pensating advantage over older countries. Should
the guidance of its destinies be entrusted to
capable hands, care will be taken to make the
most of this advantage, but we think it would
be a difficult matter to show that such has been
the case with the colony of New South W ales.
Prom its inception to the present hour the
scheme of our polity seems to have been defective
in this one all-important particular. Our politi-
cians, and those who had the early direction of
fhe colony’s future, quite ignoring the capabili-
ties of the state they were called on to found,
wholly occupied themselves in framing laws to
regulate the passing day. They cast no states-
manlike glances over the “ coming of years,” and
the natural consequence was that the progress of
the colony was left to a vegetating process of
scif-dorelopement. It were well if the error had
stopped here. But the oversight was chronic
and prolific, evolving a series of kindred errors in
its train. From. being indifferent as regarded
its bearing on the future, legislation came to be
characterised by a pronounced tendency to raise
up certain classes with vested interests, whose
object it necessarily became to resist any attempt
at progress. We leave our readers to call in
review for themselves the two familiar types of
the kind of purblind legislation to which we
allude, which has induced a state of things
destined to be a pregnant source of those old-
world abuses which it is everywhere the object
of the philanthropist to reduce to a minimum.
Its effects are becoming daily more apparent,
and this peril of the future will continue to
threaten so long as legislation is carried out in
utter despite —or ignorance, perhaps —of philo-
sophic principles ; while laws are made simply as
matters of present expediency, and while avowed
policies are repudiated in favour of any measure
or scheme calculated to catch the veering blast of
the popular approval of the moment.
Sunday Freedom.
The members of the School of .Arts.who auda-
ciously desire to obtain access to their own Bead-
ing Room on Sunday afternoons are about to
make another effort to force their way through
the ranks of Sabbatarian “self-elected saints”
who have blocked the doors. Some three months
ago, at a crowded meeting, a resolution in favour
of opening the room from two o’clock till dusk
on the first day of the week was considered and
adopted, but was rescinded by a majority of
forty-two at a subsequent meeting, after the
introduction of a number of new members, most
of them youths, who voted to order. We shall
be interested in noting what will be the outcome
of the renewed onslaught on behalf of freedom.
It is idle to plead the force of the musty Mosaic
commandment on the side of the “lock-out” in
a colony where the Government takes money for
Sunday travelling, where the ferry boats.and
omnibusses ply for hire, where Parliament has
insisted on the opening of the Public Museum
and Library, where Monday’s newspapers are m
active preparation, and where the clubs, coffee
palace reading rooms and public houses have
their thousands of occupants on every Sunday.
If any desire were expressed to compel the
“Sunday sufferers” to partake of the
reading-room “ Abominahtion ’ there would
be reason in their opposition, but when
they are asked to enjoy their holiday as
they deem fitting, and leave others, every way as
good and orderly as themselves, the satisfaction
of a similar liberty it does seem the highest of
self-righteous Pharisaism for them to insist on
“ laying on men’s shoulders these heavy burdens
which are so grievous to be borne.” Macaulay
remarks that the Puritans stopped the cruel
sport of bear-baiting not so much out of regard
to the suffering of poor Bruin as from their
abhorrence of the evident pleasure the miserable
spectacle afforded the uneducated masses ; and it
may safely be asserted that the School of Arts
Puritans are less concerned for the mistermed
sanctity of the Sabbath than for utilising a
toothsome and luscious opportunity of tyran-
nizing over their fellow members.
The Hon. James Hoskins, Minister for
Lands.
“ To know your own times, and adapt yourself to
them,” wrote a philosopher in petticoats, some
ten months ago, “ is the secret of success in every-
thing from governing to advertising. Now-adays
a statesman has no chance unless he is sensational;
a musician none unless he is noisy ; a government
none unless it is feverish, startling, and extrava-
gant.” These are words that should find an echo
in the mental empyrean of the seer of Chelsea,
Magister Thomas Carlyle. The restlessness, the
frivolity, and the impudence of the age may arise
from a disregard or neglect of those moral land-
marks which steadied the characters of our grand-
fathers; but to some extent they spring from
the great inducements—-the splendid prizes—the
attractive rewards —which the last quarter of a.
century has offered to young ambition and natural
j cupidity. In an era of gold and diamond dis-
coveries, mechanical inventions, “striking oil,”
and international exhibitions, people would hardly
be human unless their hearts throbbed with those
passions and emotions, which the hope of making
a position in the world—of securing a front seat in
the arena of social conflicts —ordinarily inspires.
We are not writing a homily or inditing a goody-
goody lecture. Theses of that kind are in better
(because more saponaceous) hands than ours at
those temples of journalism where the
“ golden solvent ” transmutes intellectual medio-
crity into a kind of burnished literary respectability.
Without straining for a “ moral,” or attempting
to put too fine a point on the tendency of onr
reflections, we venture to assert that our times
offer many incentives to honourable ambition,
and hence we need not be surprised that “ men of
thought and men of action ” should be in the very
yan of our public life, although they may have
started on their career without much of the world’s
wealth and still less of its potent social influences,
but who have, nevertheless, by intelligence, energy,
and perseverance, made their mark. Go-a-head-
ism has a more intelligible signification for most
young men in these days than “ ilxcelsior.’ They
seem to cry always —
*« The chiefest action for a man of spirit,
Is never to be out of action, from which springs
Honour and guerdon! ”
Take an instance. There is the Honorable James
Hoskins, in the bureau of Lands, as true a type of
thesuccessfulimmijjrantas we wot of. He—flushed
as a boy at the dawn of a prosperous future —
1 marshalled his hopes and fears in subordination
to a bravo resoluteness, took passage (while yet a
[ young man) on board a ship bound for Australia
went to the diggings, where to dig he was not
ashamed, but to which he had a natural physical
repugnance. He may not have satisfied his con-
temporaries as to his eligibleness for the rough life
of a miner, but he seems to have very quickly
secured their confidence in him as a politician.
Successful auriferous gnomes, like mine host of
the Hanging Keck, Louis Jamison, formerly of
Nundle, Dick Taylor (otherwise Ralph), of Hang-
ing Rock, Bill Madden, aud others, topographically
acquainted with the “ convincing ground” and
the undulations of the golden vale of Oakenville’s,
have more than once joked about him as a digger,
using an uncouth phraseology to express their
coarse opinions; but they believed in his mother-
wit, his native pluck, his bold out-spokenness, his
natural eloquence, and his stubborn adherence to
principle. In those days he never wavered. He
became at first the literary exponent of the miners’
grievances; his tact and undoubted talent soon
widened the circle of his fame and influence; he
was quickly looked up to as a coining man ; and,
when the time came, he was put into the position
of all others that he aspired to—that gave him an
THE HON. JAMES HOSKINS, MINISTER FOK LANDS.


Amusements
SCHOOL OF AETS.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. L. M. Bayliss.
SECOND WEEK
AND
FIRST CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
M’LEAN’S
JUVENILE T R O F B A D 0 U E S
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT,
MILKY WHITE,
To conclude with
THE TWO BAILIFFS;
or,
MARRIED BY MISTAKE.
Introducing Entirely Original
SONGS AND DANCES
Never before produced in Sydney.
The most select picnic of the
SEASON.
OUR BOYS’ CRICKET CLUB.
SECOND ANNUAL EXCURSION TO FERN BAY,
On SATURDAY, 14th August.
DANCING, CRICKET, FOOTBALL, &c.
The popular ALBION BAN D engaged.
Steamers from foot of King-street 1.30, 2.30, and 3 p.m.
Refreshments on tbe Ground.
Single Tickets, Is. 61. Double Tickets, 2s. 6d.
W. MOYES, Hon. Secretary.
gT. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL.
ANNUAL HALL, 1880.
PLAIN AND FANCY DEESS.
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
WEDNESDAY, 4th AUGUST.
Under the distinguished Patronage and in the Presence
of His Excellency the Right Honorable
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS, G.C.B., &c„ Ac., Ac.
9
COMMITTEE;
Chairman —P. A. JENNINGS, Esq., C.M.G.
His Honor Mr. Justice
Faucett
His Honor Sir W. M. Man-
ning
The Hon. Sir John Hay.
K.C,M.G., President of
the Legislative Council
The Hon. Sir J. Robert-
son, K.C.M.G.
The Hon. Sir Geo. Innes,
M.L.C.
The Hon. Sir J. O’Shan-
assy, K.C.M.G.
The Hon. E. K. Cox,
M.L.C.
The Hon F. M. Barley,
M.L.C.
The Hon. Wm. Macleay,
M.L.C.
The Hon. Saul Samuel,
G.C.M., M.L.C.
The Hon. James White,
M.L.C.
The Hon. N. Fitzgertld,
M.L.C. (Victoria)
W. C. Browne, Esq., M.P.
W. T. Coonan, Esq., M.P.
John Dillon Esq., M.P.
George Day Esq., M.P.
M. Fitzpatrick, Esq., M.P.
Daniel O’Connor, Esq, M.P
C. E. Pilcher, Esq M.P
Colin Simson, Esq M.P
R. B. Smith Esq, M.P
Hugh Taylor, I sq, M.P
Colonel Richardson
M-ijor Richards
Captain Murphy, R.A
The Mayor of Redfem
The Mayor of Woollahra
The Consul for Belgium
The Consul for Denmark
The Consul for France
The Consul of Sweden and
Norway
J. Milbonrne Marsh, Esq,
W.P.M
T. H. Browne, Esq, J.P
John Barlow, Esq. J.P.
P. Boland, Esq, J.P
Charles Cowper, Esq, J.P
J. J. Curran, Esq, J.P
J. T. Fallon, Esq, J.P
Timothy Hart Esq J.P
P. Higgins, Esq, J.P
Patrick Hogan, Esq, J.P
John Hourigan, Esq. J.P
John Hughes, Esq, J.P
William Hughes, Esq, J.P
Harold Maclean, Esq J.P
P. MacMahon, Esq, J.P
J. J. Moore, Esq, J.P
Gerard Phillips, Esq, J.P
W. E. Plunkett, Esq.‘ J.P
W. Pritchard, Esq., J.P
John See, Esq., J.P
Patrick Stanley, Esq., J.P
Harrie Wood, Esq,, J.P
Mr. Alderman Playfair
Mr. Alderman Roberts
Dr. Alston
Dr. Clune
Dr. Fortescue
Dr. Gilhooley
Dr. Milford
Dr. O’Connor
Dr. Power
Dr. Roberts
Dr. Tucker
Professor Gurney
Edward Bennett, Esq
E. Barton, Esq., M.A
W. B. Dailey, Esq., Q.C
G. C. Davis, Esq
C. G. Heydon, Esq
R. B. O’Connor. Esq., M.A
T. C. O’Mara, Esq
J. G. O’Ryan, Esq
F. E. Rogers, Esq., M.A.
G. B. Simpson, Esq
F. L. S. Smythe, Esq. M.A
J. H. Want, Esq
J. L. Watkins, Esq., M.A
Joseph Leary, Esq., M.P.
A. Lynch, Esq., M.P.
R. P. Abbot, Esq
A. J. Brady, Esq
William Cope, Esq
E. G. Ellis, Esq
C. A. Farrell, Esq., M.A.
B. A. Preehill, Esq
P. Gannon, Esq
P. J. Honrigan, Esq
G. E. R. Jones, Esq.,
M.A.
D. L. Levy, Esq
H. H. Makinson, Esq
John M’Laughlin, Esq
F. M’Carthy, Esq., M.A.
T. J. Ryan, Esq
G. J. Sly, Esq., LLD.
Sydney Want, Esq
John Williamson, Esq
L. Aarons, Esq
Max Ascherberg, Esq
J. C. Blanchard, Esq
Johu Bridge, Esq
Thomas Butler, Esq
Robert Butcher, Esq
Sidney Cohen, Esq
T. Coonihan, Esq
G. S. Coveny, Esq *
J. J. Calvert, Esq
W. J. Cotton, Esq
John Crowe, Esq
W. H. Cuff, Esq
Ernest Davis, Esq
William Dolman, Esq
F. Donnelly, Esq
James Downey, Esq
W. A. Duncan, Esq
K. Elvy, Esq
Francis Fahey. Esq
E. Fennelly, Esq
Johu Flanagan, Esq
J. P. Garvau, Esq
C. A. Goodchap, Esq
L. J. Harnett, Esq
T. AV. Harriott, Esq
J. J. Hayes, Esq
George Hill, Esq, jnn
AV. H. Hinton, Esq
E. J. Hollingdale, Esq
Sydney Jacobs, Esq
G. E. Labertouche, Esq
P. Lacey, Esq
James Larkins, Esq
P. R. Larkin, Esq
Hubert Loughnan, Esq
James Madden. Esq
H. Macgnire, Esq
i David Marks, Esq
i F. Macdermott, Esq
| M. M. M’Girr, Esq
J. A. G. M‘Hale, Esq
| W. H. M’Cnrthy, Esq
William M’Donald, Esq
John M’Donald, Esq
Frank M’Donald, Esq
H. Neville-Montague, :Esq
E. L. Montefiore, Esq.
M. Molony, Esq
P. Mulcahy, Esq
B. Mulroney, Esq
J. G. O’Connor, Esq
Thomas S. O’Connor, Esq
F. O’Doud, Esq
Thomas O’Neil, Esq
AV. H. Paling, Esq
George Peapes, Esq
J. R. Peebles, Esq
Frederick Riley, Esq
Predeiick Riley, Esq., jun
R. W. Robertson, Esq
T. V. Rudd. Esq.
AV. H. Seward, Esq
William Shaw, Esq
R. P. Simpson, Esq
J. B. Slattery, Esq
A. G. Smyth, Esq
Signor Stetfani
J. J. Taylor, Esq
G. W. Thornton, Esq
John T. Toohey. Esq
James M. Toohey, Esq
WILLIAM HUGHES,) Hon.
T. M. SLATTERY, ) Secretaries
T. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL.
ANNUAL BALL,
WEDNESDAY, 4th AUGUST.
GENTLEMAN’S TICKET, 20s.
LADY’S TICKET, 10s.
May he had from Messrs. Elvy and Co., Nicholson and
Ascherberg, W. H. Paling, Peapes and Shaw, M. Moloney,
J. J. Moore, E. P. Flanagan, T. J. Chapman, G. Hurley,
W. H. Hinton, J. J. Curran, Robert Butcher and Co.,
George-street: P. R. Larkin, W. M Douald, T. Curley,
D. O’Connor, Ryan and Demneado, John Barlow and Co
F. Smith, Brickfield-hill; B. Mulroney, Oxford-street;
the Exchange Hotel, Petty’s Hotel, Pfhalort’s Hotel.
Moloney’s Imperial Hotel, the Royal Hotel, the Oxford
the Metropolitan Hotel, Punch’s Hotel, Giblm’s Cafe,
Bowden’s Hotel, M’Grath’s Hotel, Burrangoug Hotel:
J. P. Garvan, North Shore ; J. J. Taylor, Parramatta
P. Stanley, B. Fennelly, Bourke-street; J. Q. O’Connor.
Jamieson-street; L. Moss, Parrott Brothers, W. H.
M’Carthy, Hunter-street; J. C. Blanchard, Paddington:
John Honrigan, T. H. Browne, Victoria-street; E. J.
Hollingdale, W. J. Cotton, F. Fahey, King-street; W.
Hughes, William-street; J. T. and J. Toohey, Standard
Brewery; P. M’Mahon, Macquarie Bond ; B. Gaffney,
Market-street; John Crowe, P. Mulcahy, Botany Road;
John Bridge, Circular Quay; James Madden, J. A. G
Machale, York-street; John Murphy and Son, Parra-
matta-street; Timothy Hart, Glebe Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES. > Hon.
T. M. SLATTERY, J Secretaries.
Amusements
J H E A T R E
Lessee
ROYAL
Mr. Samnel Lazar
TWENTIETH WEEK and CONTINUED
SUCCESS
of
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS) EVENING, and until further notice,
The performance will commence at 8 o’clock with
Maddison Morton’s screaming Fare,
BETSY BAKER.
To be followed by
a new Comedy, in three acts, adapted from the French
of M.M. Heuneqniu and Najae, authors of the “Pink
Dominos,” entitled
BETSY",
By F. C. Burnand.
Mr. Alexander Birkett Mr. Edmund W. Marshall
Mr. Adolphus Birkett Mr. Arthur Gamer
Captain Redmond M'Manus Mr. G. S. Titheradge
Richard Talbot Mr. Frank Cates
Mr. Samuel Dawson Mr. Frederick Marshall
Mrs. Birkett Mrs. Marion Stammers
Mrs. M'Manus Mrs. George Gordon
Madame Folenta Miss Annie Taylor
Nellie Bassett Miss Alma Stanton
Grace Peyton Miss Nellie Playfair
Bqtsy Miss Blanche Stammers
Stage Manager ... Mr. Frederick Marshall.
Doors open at-7.15.
Overture at 8.
Prices of Admission. —Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls,
3a ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co.’s, Georgo-street,
where seats can be secured six days in advance.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Q
U E E N’ S
THEATRE
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Business Manager, Liddy.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
Last Two Nights,
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY,
of the
VICTORIA LOFT US TROUPE.
Complete Change of Programme nightly.
Special engagement of the
CHAMPION SKATERS,
The WYBURD BROTHERS & Mdlle. DELA CROIX,
in the great MOA BROTHERS’ ACT,
Hurdle Racing, Jumping, &c.. in Roller Rkates,
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
of
Waters LE CLAIR
Kelly Sarony
ATKINS M'Carthy
Rickey Kennedy
Butler Rn* sell
LOPTUS ESMOND
Katie Dnbois.
LAST APPEARANCE OF GENERAL FRIENDS.
Admission-Dress Circle, 3s. Stalls, 2s. Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
Q
UEEN’S THEATRE.
LIDDY’S BENEFIT,
FRIDAY, JULY 30.
Mr. HARRY LE CLAIR, the Celebrated Artist, in new
Burletta, Jenny Lind.
Messrs. A. J. CAMPBELL and OWEN WESTFORD,
Burlesque Opera Artists.
The Full QUEEN’S DRAMATIC COMPANY, in New
Comedy Drama.
Where there is Fire there is Smoke.
Mr. JAMES MAAS in an extremely Comical Sketch.
Messrs. JEFF DE ANGELIS and HARRY LESTON,
in an Eccentric Comic Sketch.
The WYBURD BROTHERS and SISTER,
Champion Skaters.
Mr. SEBASTIAN HODGE and hisSaxophoue.
The whole of the LOPTUS TROUPE will
positively appear for the last time.
Double Orchestra, under Herr Kopff and Professor
Blakeney.
Two Brass Bands, the Victoria and City.
200 Performers in all.
Prices as usual, but purchase your tickets at once, as
all {persons holding tickets will he admitted half-an-
honr before the general public.
QUEEN’S THEATRE-
Lessee ... M. Hegarty. Business Manager ... Liddy..
SATURDAY. JULY 31.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY
OF
R. R. LEWIS’S DOUBLE COMPANY
OF
GEORGIA JUBILEE SINGERS,
in an entirely new Sensational Drama, entitled
POMP.
Supported by the full strength of the Queen’s Star
Dramatic Company. Entirely NEW SCENE BY and
Mechanical Effects.
ERA HOUSE.
O 1
Lessees
Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and Greville.
POSITIVELY
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON!
MR. J. R. GREVILLE
in
COMEDY AND BURLESQUE.
THREE CHANGES OF PROGRAMME.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 31.
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY,
SATURDAY AND MONDAY,
3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th August, 1880,
Grand Operatic Burlesque,
LA G A Z Z A
LADRA!
Dramas:
‘THE JACOBITE,” “CHECKMATE,” AND
“NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.”
Thursday, 5th August, Farewell Benefit of KATE
FOLEY.
Saturday, 7th August, Farewell Benefit of Mr.
GREVILLE.
Monday, 9th August, Complimentary Benefit to Mr.
DODGE, Acting Manager, and
POSITIVELY LAST NIGHT OP THE SEASON,
Full Particulars see Gigantic Programmes.
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s.; Stalls, 2s.; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
E
GYPTIAN HALL,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ELECTRIC BOY,
Greatest Living Wonder of the Present Age,
Scenes of the Kelly Outrages,
and the
Greatest Variety Combination in Australia.
Admission—6d
D
R
UIDS’ PIC-N
AT CHOWDER BAY,
ON MONDAY NEXT, the 2xp AUGUST.
I C
ENTRANCE for 150 Yards' Foot Race received at
2^vS 0^ ,s J reeinasoil ’ fl Hotel, up till 10 o’clock THIS
THURSDAY EVENING.
J. MITCHELL,
Secretary.
opportunity of developing those sterling (if some-
what stubborn) qualities which have enabled him
to hold his own among the foremost public men in
the community—without meanness, on the one
hand, or M’Elhonoism, on the other —and reach
one of the highest offices in the country
by the irresistible force of a clear mind, a
resolute will, and an unwearied perseverance.
What is the use of giving biographical particulars
of such a man—the artist of his own fortunes
from boyhood to this hour; of one who could
stoop to conquer, but who having prevailed over
the first embarrassments of his life in the colonies,
never crept by any unworthy by-ways to place
and power ? It is neither a biography nor a eulo-
gium that is needed of such a man, but just a
thread of narrative to guide the reader through
the leading items of his interesting career.
James Hoskins was bora in London in 1823, and
received a fair rudimentary education in private
schools. So far as we have been able to gather,
he was intended for commercial pursuits, and for
some years discharged clerical duties ; but with
mind ever active and stimulated by the promptings
of an honourable ambition, he seized the earliest
opportunity that offered to gratify his longings.
When the fame of Australian gold-discovery
reached England, he determined to join the
great exodus as soon as he could, and his
desires in that respect were gratified in 1853. His
experiences as a miner wore chiefly acquired in the
Northern district, where with varying fortunes he
worked for five or six years. The qualities
heretofore mentioned gained him enthusiastic
friends and supporters, and he was returned to
Parliament as representative of the Northern
goldfields iu 1859. His thoroughness and ability
won no mere lip-service; those who opened for
him the doors of the Legislative Assembly supplied
him with the means of living without any sacrifice
of his independence. He soon made his powers
felt in Parliament; and, although circumstances
induced him for a short time to accept some
humble Government'employment, as occurred in
the case of the great David Buchanan (and almost
contemporaneously), he soon returned to that scene
where he felt he must ultimately rise to eminence.
His first Ministerial beatification was accomplished
under the leadership of Sir Henry Parkos, in 1877,
and he became Minister for Lands in December,
1878, an office which he now holds, and which ho
has done much to bring into order and efficiency.
He has been personally assiduous in the discharge
of his duties, fearless in reforming the abuses of
his department, and ever anxious to satisfy the
just demands of the public. The vigour of his
administrative conduct has made him many
enemies, but it has won for him a very gratifying
measure of popular respect. He is a moderate
Liberal —sensitively avoiding extremes, and main-
tains a freedom of action which has been often
censured as tergiversation. He has changed
sides frequently, but he has always had the man-
liness to avow the change, and give his reasons
for making it. As a speaker he is careful in ar-
ranging his arguments and elaborating his con-
clusions, but he is decidedly heavy. A little more
fancy, with a spice of humour, would greatly re-
lieve the tedium of his formal utterances. It is,
however, as a reformer of abuses that he will
make himself felt both in Parliament and out of
it. He has got a firm hold on the confidence of
the electors North and South, as is evidenced by
his triumphant returns for the Northern Gold-
fields, first, in 1859 ; for Patrick’s Plains in 1872 ;
and for the Tumnt in 1874. If his health should
not fail him, the brightest laurels of his life are
likely to be won hereafter. His portrait, a
faithful likeness, faintly indicates his mental
potentialities.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORT OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIII.
INITIATION.
Sebastian and Hugo drove away from the fac-
tory, accompanied by Mr. Sutcliffe, the manager
and head man of the business. Arrived at the
Oakenrod, Mallory and his manager retired to the
library, and there plunged straight into business.
An hour, two, three hours passed, chiefly occu-
pied in expositions from Mr. Sutcliffe on the
nature of the business, its principles, and the
method of carrying it on. Sebastian’s part con-
sisted chiefly in listening, naturally; but every
now and then he interposed with a question—
questions so much to the point, and showing such
discernment and discrimination, that Mr. Sutcliffe
who had at first begun his task with some con-
straint and great dryness of manner and tone,
brightened very visibly every minute; his tone
grew warmer, his manner more animated, his eyes
flashed now' and then. Thus the interview went
on, until Mr. Sutcliffe, laying down a bundle of
papers, whose import he had just explained, took
up another bundle, and was beginning—
“ These refer to the ”
Hut Sebastian interrupted him.
‘ Excuse me, Mr. Sutcliffe. Suppose we lay.
aside business for to-day. I want to ask you some
other questions. With such a manager as you, I
have no fear of things going wrong.”
Mr. Sutcliffe smiled.
‘‘Judging from what I have heard and seen of
you, Mr. Mallory, you will soon be in a position to
manage your own business. You must not feel
offended when I say that I have been most agree*
ably disappointed—surprised is perhaps rather
the word.”
Sebastian smiled a little.
I am a fearfully indolent fellow, I believe,”
said he. “ I take a lot of rousing; but once set
me to plod at a thing, and I continue until I under-
stand it—at least, I think so.”
“ That is a very modest way of describing your
ready comprehension of details which must be as
strange to you as those wo have been discussing.
But that’s neither here nor there; you wanted
some other information ?”
“ I suppose you are pretty well acquainted with
the different parties, social and political, in the
town, and with the characters, at any rate, of the
leading people ?”
“ I must say that I certainly am.”
“ Well, to begin with, I wish yon would tell me
what character is borne by my own concern and
the management of it ?”
Mr. Sutcliffe looked up, an almost startled ex-
pression on his face.
“ That is a delicate matter,” he began.
“ Yes, I suppose it is. But I am sure you will
be frank, with me. I drew my own conclusions
from what I saw and heard this morning, and I
want to find out if your account agrees with them.
Xo matter how disagreeable it is.”
Your works, then, bear a very high reputation
in many respects. Your hands are as decent and
as steady a lot as any in the town, take them all
in all. Things are generally peaceable. It is
looked upon, and with justice, as an increasing,
thoroughly prosperous concern. Our goods, both
yarns and cloths, have got a name. I like the men
who are under me, and I think they like me—
Wilson, and Heywood, and the others. I think
I have succeeded in keeping things right; but —”
“ Well?”
“ There are some misunderstandings about
yourself — some prejudices. They don’t like
absentee owners here, and that’s a fact. Bnt I’m
sure that impression will soon be effaced, now
that your are here yourself. If yor $how them
that you don’t mean play ”
Sebastian shrugged his shoulders.
“ Mon Diev.! There does not seem to be much
question of play. I never saw anything so oppres-
sively in earnest as everyone here seems to be. It
is stamped upon almost every face you meet. Cer-
tainly I am not in play.”
“ Then they will soon find that out, and respect
you accordingly.”
“ But that is not all you were going to say ?”
“It may seem a small kind of complaint to
make ; but it’s better to let you know the truth at
once. There certainly is a feeling against Mrs.
Mallory.”
Sebastian looked up in surprise.
Against my mother ? What has she to do with
it?”
“ A feeling that she is not sufficiently liberal in
her ideas, and that she would, if she could get the
authority, interfere unduly in matters which, with
the utmost respect to her, she does not under-
stand, never having had occasion to study them.
I am bound to say that though I never had any-
thing like a dispute with Mrs. Mallory, yet that is
my own impression too, and that is one reason
why I rejoice at your return. You are now the
final authority.”
The murder was out, and Mr. Sutcliffe’s shrewd
eyes watched the young man’s face attentively.
He did not look angry, did not look even annoyed
but rather thoughtful for a moment. Then he
said:
“lam glad you mentioned it. Of course that is
not a topic for discussion. As you said, my pre-
sence will make all the difference. Is that all
about my own works?”
“ I don’t think there is anything else.”
“ Who are the leading men here?”
“So far as money goes, there are a good many
big men here. Mr. Spencely is reported to be the
richest, and I believe report is right.”
“ Spenceley! What about him ?”
‘ ‘ He is a spinner: does an enormous trade.
They say he has been speculating rather too much
lately. He has a certain influence in some quarters
but it is an influence that will die with him.”
“ How so ?”
He has only a son and a daughter, and the son
is probably the biggest blackguard in the place ;
he will never have any influence. The daughter,
I hear, is rather an eccentric young lady.”
“Oh!”
Mr. Sutcliffe went on:
“ The son, I believe, is a very black sheep. It
was only a week or two'ago that he insulted some
young woman—in a small place, you see, these
things make a good deal of noise—in a most
abominable manner ; but he was punished for that
by the girl’s sweetheart—at least that is one of
the tales, I don’t believe it myself; but one thing
is quite certain, a young working-man followed
him to his club that very night, and gave him a
good hiding in the billiard-room. No one, I don’t
think one soul, was sorry for him. The feeling
was so dead against him that he did not even pro-
secute.”
“ I have heard some account of it. But don’t
you know who the young man was who did it.
Mr. Sutcliffe smiled as he said :
“In my own mind, I believe I could lay my
finger upon the man; but as I thoroughly respect
him for what he did, and should be sorry to get
him into trouble, I shall keep quiet about it.”
Sebastian looked at him.
“ I believe the man was one of your own work-
people—Heywood, a fellow I have known from the
time when he first came as a half trimmer.”
“ I have seen the man. You think it was he.
Why ?”
“ Partly because I was passing the club-door at
the very time of the row, and saw him come out of
it, looking rather dangerous, with a couple of
straps in his hand; and, secondly, because when
it has been discussed, which you will easily believe
has been pretty actively, he has looked em-
barrassed, and has kept perfect silence upon the
subject.’’ ,
Sebastian nodded.
“ Miss Spenceley is a great friend of Mrs.
Mallory,” went on the manager. “But that’s
neither here nor there; only they are about the
biggest people, in a money point of view, in the
place. There are several other families some-
thing like them. Then there’s Canon Ponsonby,
the radical parson, our vicar, a very fine old gen-
tleman ; you will like him. He is respected by all
who are themselves worthy of respect, be they
churchmen or dissenters.”
“ Naturally the feeling here is radical?”
“Tremendous; and North, almost to a man.
Lots of these working-men know what’s coming ;
and it is coming upon them too, like the very
devil. They’ll tell you they know the cotton must
run out soon, or run up to such a price that we
can hardly get it. But if they have to do with-
it, or with Surats ”
“ What is * Surats ’ P”
“ Indian cotton; abominable stuff to work.
Havn’t you—but of course you havn’t —heard of
the weaver who put up the prayer, O Lord ! send
us cotton; but not Surats !’ But if they have to
work Surats, they’ll stick to it that North is right
and South wrong; and they’ll clem rather than
have anything to say to Jeff Davis ?”
“ How soon do you think distress will begin?”
“ I think we shall have to shut up shop by
Christmas. It’s of no use talking much about it
beforehand. All I can say is, there’s a time com-
ing which will prove Lancashire once for all, her
rich and poor alike; and show them up to the
world in a light as fierce as that of the midday
sun. We shall get to see the stuff we’re made of.
And there’s half past five ; I must go.”
“ Won’t you dine with us.”
“I have another engagement, thank you. To-
morrow, at the same time, Mr. Mallory, we will
resume the discussion, if you feel so inclined.”
“ I shall expect you. Good evening.”
He was left, leaning against the mantlepieco, to
reflect upon what had passed.
A tap at the door was followed by the entrance
of his mother.
“ Have you finished at last, Sebastian ? I have
had no opportunity to tell you that I am expecting
a friend to dine with ns to-night.”
“ Who may he be?”
“ She is Helena Spenceley, a very great favour-
ite of mine. If my son will spend all his time
away from home, I am obliged to find some kind
of a substitute, you know.”
“ Any relative to the young man who recently
distinguished himself by earning a thrashing?”
“ He is her brother. He is away from home
now. Yon must not judge Helena by him. Poor
girl ’ She has a sad, unhappy home. I believe I
really have been a friend to her.”
“ Yes, of course.”
“ I hope you have no engagement ? ”
“ None at all.”
She retired, after casting a comprehensive glance
around the papers which strewed the table.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Potosi made the quickest trip on record.
“ Carlton Palace” is the name chosen for the
Melbourne International.
The Archbishop of Canterbury is now called
“ Esau,” since the Edwards case.
Boring operations will shortly be commenced
at the Gisborne (N. Z.) oil springs.
A vast improvement is loudly called for in the
choral services of the Sydney churches.
The Mercantile Luncheon Booms, Bridge-street,
are still in full swing in spite of all opposition.
It is estimated that 9900 miles of new railroad
will be constructed in America during 1880.
Two brothers of Skerritt, the murdered in-
former, have joined the Victorian police force.
The Catholic population of the diocese of Goul-
burn has increased from 16,000 to 24,000 in 12 years.
Ned Kelly was shearing on Bell’s station, near
Invercargill, in the season of 1876. At least so the
Bruce Hekald (N. Z.) says.
It is notified as a sign of the advancement of
things in Aramac, that a pieman and a barber have
established themselves there.
Mr. John Bright condems the infliction of capital
punishment and says that a gallows is an unseemly-
object in a Christian country,
A new local industry in Canterbury, N. Z., is
grain poisoning. One firm advertises that all grain
poisoned by it is guaranteed to kill sparrows.
We are glad te be able to state that Mr. J. Hen-
niker Heaton is improving in health, and that he has
now every prospect of an early convalescence.
Messrs. Brunker and Wolfe, of Sydney and
Maitland, announce by advertisement in this issue the
completion of their fine stores at Circular Quay.
Mr. David Warby announces in our advertising
columns that he has succeeded Mr. Moore as pro-
prietor of that well-known hostelry, the Liverpool
Arms.
We have the authority of the Suburban Tele-
okaph for stating that Mr. S. C. Brown “is the most
independent politician that ever entered the Legis-
lature.”
Woodstown, of which such sanguine anticipa-
tions were entertained some time ago, is all hut de-
serted. The population has migrated en masse to
Temora.
There are more than 1,000,000 horses in Aus-
tralia including New Zealand. The number of horned
cattle is more than 7,259,000, and of sheep about
61,000,000.
The City and Provincial Licensed Victuallers’
Association is an established success. Seventy new
members were enrolled last Monday’. Mr. H. Donald-
son is the honorary secretary.
A Chinaman who had been bitten by a deaf
adder at the Centennial Claim, Beacousfield, Queens-
land, was made to drink sis bottles of brandy. His
wound was scarified and he recovered.
Since Gately migrated from Melbourne the au-
thorities there are nuable to find an efficient flogger. A
prisoner, named Upjohn, volunteered, hut was dis-
missed for not being sufficiently brutal.
The widow of the late Mr. MacGahan, the well-
known war correspondent, is engaged upon a Russian
translation of the poems and stories of Edgar Allan
Poe. Mrs. MacGahan is a Russian lady.
Johann Sutter, in whose field the first Cali-
fornian gold mines were discovered now finds himself
at the advanced age of 79 in very indifferent circum-
stances. Sutler is living in a Moravian colony in
Pennsylvania.
Messrs. D. Fullerton, F. Hayman and E. Wat-
son have each received a cheque for one guinea from the
City and Provincial Licensed Victuallers' Association,
for assisting a member of that body when he was
assaulted by a gang of larrikins.
The Queen’s Theatre —The great event of the
season at the Queen’s will be Liddy’s benefit, which
takes place on Friday evening. All the best available
talent in the city have volunteered their services, and
a capital programme has been arranged for the
occasion.
The Brooklyn Bridge, now nearing completion,
is without doubt the boldest undertaking in the way of
a bridge structure ever attempted. Its total length is
5989 feet, and its width 85 feet. The central or river
span is 1595 feet, being 600 feet greater than the now
oldest span.
A well-informed Melbourne correspondent pre-
dicts that the present unsettled state of Victorian
political affairs will end in a fusion of the Opposition
and the adoption of the Radical platform, with the pro-
vision that both parties will suspend hostilities until
after the Exhibition,
Ghiloni’s Waxworks. —This exhibition is be-
coming exceedingly popular, no less among the citizens
than among visitors to Sydney. The figures are pro-
duced with marked fidelity to nature, and surpass any-
thing of the kind ever seen here. The Kelly gang
group are j ust now the attraction.
The “ Temora agony ’ ’ is being piled np. Great
numbers of men are leaving Sydney without money for
the field. Two newspapers at least are on the tapis—
the destinies of one of which will be guided by a well-
known Sydney man, and those of the other by Mr.
Hawkins, of Wagga, whose advertisement appears in
to-day’s issue.
The Chief Justice, when at Blenheim, N. Z., was
considerably astonished at having a medical certificate
handed up to him signed “ G. Cleghoru, his x mark.”
Before the judge had time to recover from his surprise
at finding a reg stered medical practitioner unable to
write, it was explained to him that the doctor had bro-
ken his arm.
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball, always one of the
most select and enjoyable affairs of the season, is fixed
for Wednesday, the 4th of August. The hon. secre-
taries, Messrs. T. M. Slattery and Wiliam Hughes, are
using their bast efforts to make the result alike satis-
factory to those present and to the deserving charity
the hail is intended to benefit.
We regret to haVe to announce the sudden death
of Mr. Walter Hampson Cooper, well-known throughout
the Australian colonies as a journalist and playwright.
The melancholy event was not unexpected, but that fact
does not tend to lessen the regret which the clever and
gonia 1 , though unfortunate, gentleman’s demise occa-
sions amongst those who knew him best.
A number of the most prominent Berryite
electors have waited on Mr. Berry and indicated some-
what dictatorial that there must be no alliance with
Mr. Service and Sir John O’Shauassy, and that the first
act of the new Government must be the reinstatement
of all persons dismissed by the present Government.
Mr. Berry heard what they had to say, but made no
prom ses.
Mrs. Greer, who was shot by her husband in the
dress circle of the Opera House, Melbourne, last week,
is progressing favourably ; ami M. Soudry, her alleged
lover, will, it is thought, be able to leave the hospital in
a few days. Though Greer’s attempt at suicide was not
immediately successful, his condition is such as in the
opinion of the doctors, admits of no chance of his
recovery.
The admission into the British Parliament of
Mr. Bradlaugh and his ultra-advanced opinions has been
very happily illustrated by Mr. Henry Wise, one of the
best amateur artists and caricaturists in Sydney. He
has completed a very striking large cartoon en-
titled “ The Thin End of the Wedge.” A Urge figure
of a naked man is driving with a mallet (labelled “ Nor-
thampton ”) a wedge into the door of the House of
Commons which is just bursting open. The lion and
the unicorn (the British) above the doors stand with
tails erect in a state of intense agitation. The whole
situation is capitally delineated.
Miss Kate Field describes George Eliot —in an
interview in the Gazette of Baltimore— as having an
interesting face, and looking “like a horse.” Of Charles
Dickens, Miss Field said that “ he actually resembled a
dog. What kind of a dog shall I say 7 Well, a mastiff.
He was strong, and at the same time he was gentle.
George Eliot resembles a horse, in that she has high
cheek bones; and when looking on her one is struck
with the fact that her capacity for work is almost un-
limited. She is about five feet three inches high. Her
disposition is very lovable, and she is much liked. She
is the most retiring and bashful woman I ever saw.
She is geherally abstracted, always thinking, and her
voice is no loader than a whisper.”
The solemn consecration of the Bishop-elect of
Abila, the Bight Eev. Dr. Fraysse, was celebrated on
Sunday last, in St. Mary’s pro-Cathedral, with all the
pomp and circumstance which the Roman Catholic
Church loves to throw around her venerable liturgy.
The infrequence of the event caused it to be regarded
with a peculiar degree of interest, and though severe
strictures (apparently not undeserved) were
passed on the conduct of the parochial clergy in making
a charge for admission, the temporary Roman Catholic
centre was crowded on the occasion. The new Bishop
was well supported by his brother clerics of the Marist
institute, who evidently appreciated the honour shed on
their order, which already contains several members
holding the episcopal dignity. Dr. Fraysse bore his
new honours with a befitting grace, looking, when
attired in the episcopal robes, with mitre, ring, and
glittering crozier, every inch a bishop. He has a dig-
nified and courtly bearing, with a not unpleasing voice,
well adapted to the singing of the Gregorian chant, and
a countenance which, while strikingly intelligent, is
singularly sweet and winning. An impressive thanks-
giving vesper service was held in the evening, at the
mother-church of the Marist mission (St. Patrick’s), at
which the reverend Prelate officiated.
We have much pleasure in drawing attention
to the objects of the “ Anglo-Australian Investment
Finance, and Land Company (Limited),” the share list
of which is advertised in our columns to close posi-
tively on Saturday, 31st instant. In their undertaking
of Finance business which does not come within the
scope of Banking institutions, this Company will, no
doubt, meet a want long felt in this city, with advantage
to the public and profit to its shareholders. In the
matter of investments it cannot, it appears to us, take
up a more lucrative line than that which it professes to
do in the purchase and re-sale of city and suburban land
and erection of buildings. The operation of the city of
Sydney Improvement Act, will in itself open up an
excellent field for monetary enterprise. We notice that
the company proposes to issue a portion of its share
capital in Engl and and to borrow money at the low rates
ruling there. We have often thought it very kind of
English capitalists starting companies at different times
for the employment of their spare capital amongst us ;
indeed, as Miss Alice Liugard said in speaking of kisses,
“ we are ready and willing to take an awful lot of them,”
and we have no reason to doubt that they will look
kindly upon one started here under such favourable
auspices. The first directors are known to be thorough
business men, who have been successful in their own
affairs, and may be expected to do similar good service
for a company in which they appear to have invested
largely. The manager whom they have secured is no
stranger to Sydney. He is known to the oldest citizens
as in banking circles here from 1842 to 1851, in which
latter year he went to Tasmania, and subsequently to
Victoria, where he rose to the high position of manager
of the Union Bank of Australia at its Melbourne branch.
He has since been engaged in banking in New Zealand.
It is, therefore, a good thing for the new company that
its management will be in the bands of such an old
experienced banker. We wish the company every
success, and as a local enterprise, it is the more deserv-
ing of support.
The M. R. C. Ball.
At the Exhibition Building’, Prince Alfred Park, on last
Thursday, 22nd instant, the Mercantile Rowing Club
held their annual ball. The largo hall was brilliantly
lighted and the decorations were beautiful, appropriate
and effective. Each of the pillars supporting the gal-
leries were wreathed with evergreens, surmounted with
laurel-bound medallions with white ground and the
letters M.E.C. in scarlet. The rendezvous were easily
found by familiar places on coloured glass globes. En-
tering the ball-room one seemed to have passed through
the portals of fairyland and to have found the mil-
leninm, or that happy Utopia where all differences —
political, national, theological and otherwise —had been
superseded by general content and happiness. Paddy
from Cork, forgetting all about Home Rule, was no
longer obstructive, and Mr. Parnell was probably fancy-
ing how pleasant Home Rule would be if presided over by
a charming maiden in a bewitching peasant costume by
his side. A kilted Highlander had for his partner a
gipsy; a policeman and a hospital nurse were busily
seeking a vis-a-vis for the first set of Lancers; a
Turkish lady lately escaped from the harem appeared
unveiled before a Christian eye; while an Australian
cricketer looked melancholy and out of season. A
Scotch lassie hailing from the North Shore wore a very
short kilt. La Reiue Blanche from the same locality
was inconceivably attractive and fascinating. Two
sisters well known in George-street, one as Git ana and
the other as a tambourine girl, were for figure, facial
beauty and elegance par excellence the most admired
pair present, and (this opinion was amply testified by
the numbers who sought them as partners. A Daughter
of the Regiment was dressed with an accuracy seldom
seen, and her dancing and elegant bearing were the ad-
miration of everyone. Among the male costumes the
most picturesque were those of a brigand chief, Robin-
son Crusoe. Fritz (Grand Duchess) and the “Sun,
Moon and Stars.” There were a number of dilapidated
volunteer uniforms present, and several other fancy
costumes were rather ingenious. One wore what looked
like a pair of red suspenders over a white shirt;
another, with a wig and top-coat, called himself a bar-
rister ; and a number of lean and badly-nourished
jockeys were by no means an acquisition to the festive
scene —to use a turf expression, they were “nowhere.”
We cannot help regretting that the presence of some
males dressed in female costume should not have been
generally noticed. One of them at least behaved in
anything but a lady-like manner. Such personations
are obviously most objectionable, and it is surprising
that that they should for a moment have been at-
tempted. Dancing was kept up till half-past four in
the morning with unflagging energy, and the M.R.C.
ball of 1880 was pronounced by everyone present to
have been a most enjoyable assembly —a triumph of
good management.
Reign of the Fire King.
There have been heavy draughts on the funds of
insurance companies, the muscles of the firemen, and
the Botany swamps since our last appearance, owing to
the outbreak of that very indiscriminate element —fire.
The first has drawn a thicker veil over the Victoria
Theatre than the green curtain ever did upon any of
the numberles plays that had been produced during the
forty-two years the house had been open to the public.
The Old Vic. has long been a term of endearment which
will now only recur at the promptings of memory. It
was the oldest theatre in Australasia, except the little
house which stands in Camphell-street, Hobart Town.
Like its relict, the Victoria has had many narrow
escapes from destruction by fire, but at last it has suc-
cumbed to the inevitable. On Thursday night, about a
quarter of an hour after the performance of the Grattan
Riggs Company, flames were discovered in the vicinity
of the stage, and before a few minutes elapsed the whole
building was ablaze. The fire brigades turned out very
rapidly, but for some reason the manual engines, which
are scarcely ever of much use in combating with such
a huge body of fire, were the first brought into play, and
very little attention was paid to the steam engines.
Even when the first steamer got into play some delay
ensued before the steam could be fully utilised, in con-
sequence of the non-provision of ladders —a mistake
which one brigade always makes. They seem to pos-
sess no proper appliances in this respect, or if they
have them they are not manned. In the force of this
drawback one fireman climbed np to the roof of the
hotel in front, |with the hose on his shoulder, and in
doing so was much applauded by the immense crowd.
We believe that no less than fifteen fire engines were
present, only one cf which was a steamer. The want
of a salvage brigade was also noticeable, because furni
tore was bundled out of the threatened buildings in a
very nonsensical style much to its detriment. The
front buildings were saved, and very little damage
caused on the Fitt-street side. At the back of the now
gutted theatre there was more damage, and W. B.
Campbell’s furniture warehouse being actually on
fire w is only saved by Superintendent Bown and one of
Mr. Campbell’s men. Had these individuals not shown
so much promptitude the Royal Hotel, possibly, among
other valuable buildings would have been destroyed.
The theatre was leased by Mr, Bennett, who loses
£6,000 above his insurance. The owners, Messrs.
Josephson and Moses, are also losers to a considerable
extent. Mr. Campbell lost £1,700. The other losses
are covered. On Saturday, just before midnight,
Boake’s photo, studio, above the warehouse of Gordon
and Gotch, the newspaper agents, was found to be in
flames. The whole building, with that to the south,
occupied by Mr. Keid as a carpet establishment, was
destroyed. Messrs. Phelps, Davis and Burfleld had
offices over the latter building. The following were
the insurances:—Messrs. Gordon and Gotch’s building,
the property of Mrs. Simmons, Woolloomooloo, United
Insurance Co., £2000; stock. North British, £1000;
Norwich, £1000; London and Lancashire, £2000. Mr.
Reid, building, the property of Mrs. Plomby, insured in
the Australian Mutual, but for what amount could not
be ascertained; stock. Northern Insurance Compang,
£100; Victoria, £1000; City Mutual, £100. Messrs.
Albery and Co., stock. Royal Insurance Company.
£7000; Liverpool, London and Globe, £2500 ; Victoria,
£1000. The building is the property of Mr. Stone, of
England. The grertest complaint against the brigades
which arose out of this fire was that the volunteer bri-
gades did not bring out the steam engines, but con-
tented themselves with using the almost useless hand
pumps. Those who saw the effect of the streams from
the two insurance steamers will appreciate this when
we say that there are four or five similar engines in
Sydney. A disastrous tire also occurred at Mr : John-
son’s wool-scouring sheds, Waterloo, early on Wednes-
day morning, resulting in the loss of several thousands
of pounds worth of wool. This latter conflagration is
attributed to incendiarism.
The Jeweller’s Art in Sydney.
A visit to tho establishment of Mr. T. M.
Alcock, 673 George-street, Haymarkefc, which is
shown in the accompanying engraving, will give
some idea of the high state to which the
jeweller’s art has been brought in Sydney. The
establishment, which is situate directly opposite
the Post and Telegraph Offices at the Haymarket,
stands prominently out from among the other
business places by reason of its elegant appear-
ance. The front is in the Bond-street style, the
woodwork being of ebony, and the windows ar-
tistically arranged s» as to produce a very bril-
liant effect. The windows, wherein are displayed
some of the best specimens of tho art, present a
dazzling appearance, and an inspection within tho
shop only adds to the effect produced by this ex-
terior display. There are some splendid show
cases rising from floor to ceiling, in which are
shown some of the best description of ornamental
clocks, presentation cups, salvers, goblets, &c.
In various small cases are shown the goods for
which Mr. Alcock’s establishment has won special
prominence. There are diamond rings, diamond
earrings, and diamond sets, pendants, Ac. These
are the grandest specimens of the jeweller’s art to
be seen in Sydney. A pair of diamond earrings
worth 230 guineas is shown, as also a pendant for
450 guineas, and rings 200 and 250 guineas each.
The diamonds are imported and the goods
made up by experts employed on the premises.
This .description of jewellery is made for sale
and for the large houses. Presentation cups,
masonic and other jewellery, are also produced in
the very highest style, the work in every branch
in fact being altogether of the better class.
Mr. Alcock has just recently imported largely
of Nichols and Neilson’s celebrated gold watches,
Waltham’s, and silver hunting chronographs,
which latter are quite a new thing in these colo-
nies. The mechanical portion of the business is
carried on at the rear of the premises, where
several men are employed, and the work is under
the immediate supervision of the proprietor. On
the premises is one of the finest safes _yet sent to
this colony —a solid steel article, weighing 2.V tons,
made expressly to order in England for the estab-
lishment. Mr. Alcock has learnt his profession in
this city, and has built up in eight years a splendid
and still increasing business.
The Bulletin will shortly develop a rival in
Melbourne. The Babylon, the new organ, is to be
published by two news agents, two newspaper runners,
and a christianised boot-black.
The Flowery Land has given birth to another
heathen in the shape of James Edward Neild, of New
Place, the theatrical critic of the Australasian. His
effusions are extremely flowery—for instance, his criti-
cism, re-published in our last, on Miss Leonora Simon-
Ben; —“To Miss Leonora you would delight to listen in
a pleasant arbour looking out upon a fair garden of a
summer’s evening. Her voice would be in harmony
with a clear primrose sky, purple hills, deep green
woods, a pebbly stream,” and so on acl nauseam. Is this
the outcome of elomosynary ginger, oh Doctor .
Marcus Clarke is known amongst Melbourne
literati as “ an intellectual filter,” or in other words,
a literary Autolycos, on account of his predatory
nature. Lately, however, his offences have been few,
and everybody thought that he had reformed. bu fc
Marcus is at his work again. In Saturday week s
“ Atticus," in the Leader, he dishes np a stale joke on
the celebrated subject of the tortoise, which originally
appeared in Frank Buckland’s “Curiosities of Natural
History.” It is curious that this par. should appear
immediately under a scathing remark by the writer on
a literary blunder in a Kyneton paper, in which the
provincial writer attributed the well-known lines—
" That a lie which is half a truth is ever the blackest of
lies,” &c., &c.,
to Tupper instead of to the Poet Laureate. OClarke!
Clarke! Remember Quia evstodiat, &o.
Zincke, who has just been returned for Bcech-
worth, it is said, will not call for sugar, but for tin.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Andy Lynch has got married.
Pigott is a sure card for Canterbury.
Mr. T. Moser is still in delicate health.
The Victoria Theatre belongs to Judge Joseph-
son.
The Rev. Father Connolly has died in Auckland,
N.Z.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton is slowly improving in
health.
At least one suburban mayor doesn’t know a 7
from a 9.
Dr. Kenealy has left his family very well pro-
vided for.
Captain Long bought the Exhibition prize
pianoforte.
Mr. W. Trickett is the champion candidate for
Paddington.
They are great on Japanese slippers in Mac-
qnarie-street.
Mr. William Buzacott, of the Rockhampton
Bulletin, is dead.
There is no front to Mr. Wolstenholme’s new
house in Marrickville.
The Pope has sent a costly work of art as a
present to the Sultan.
If Tom Slattery goes in for the Lachlan, won’t
the Government have a time ?
What constituency will have Betsey Baker now
that his own one is abolished ?
Mr. Cane intends to start his photographic
studio on the old spot in a few days.
Willie Strachan is the best dressed man in
Melbourne, and a good commission agent.
Tarplee, of the Herald, has left for Melbourne
to “do” our southern friends’ International.
The coffee palace No. 2, is full of civil servants
every day, and yet everything is cash. Selah!
Archbishop Steens, of Auckland, N.Z., cele-
brated his 70th birthday on Independence Day.
Tolano (Joe’s father) leased the Victoria for
some years, but it wasn’t burnt down in his time.
M Jules Joubert is back from Melbourne, and
says he intends to make ours tne boss Court there.
A report of the Bailliere-Beaney irial in pam-
phlet form is being largely distributed in New Zealand.
A Mr. Baker, in the N.Z. Native Office, has
become heir to a baronetcy and £6,000 a year. Happy
man !
“Mrs Brown” was at the Theatre Royal on
Monday evening, and “filled” a chair in the dress
circle.
Admiral and Lady Stirling, so favourably known
on the Australian station, are now at Vancouver’s
Island.
Edgar Byrne, of Queensland Punch, used to
teach the northern gins to read the Sydney Moauura
Hebald.
Anyone who wishes to see “ Conrad and
Lizette” has only to visit the Petersham Council.
Chambers.
Pat. Agnew is, or was, a great swell in Collins-
st reet. His wife used to be equally noted on the lawn at
Flemington.
In last Australiasian Professor Richard A.
Proctor devoted a couple of columns to analysing the
“ Fifteen Puzzle.”
Mr. John Bennett has purchased a large estate,
“ Mortlake,” on the Parramatta River, for the benefit
o! the race —human.
Mothers are getting their daughters—those left
from the Sydney mert-market—ready to start for Mel-
bourne International.
The secretary for the Sydney Commission at
Melbourne has a duke for a cousin, and is the son of a
late colonial Governor.
It’s a pity the testimonial mania doesn’t extend
to animals or their benefactor. Mr. E. A. Dempster
would reap a rich harvest.
Lady Smith, wife of the Acting-Governor of
Tasmania, and daughters, are at Manly. So is the Vic-
torian Crown Prosecutor.
Mr. Cripps, late of Rockhampton, and brother
of Cripps, the caterer, has taken first honors in medical
examinations in San Francisco.
John Halfey is a sharp business man— very suc-
cessful in his ventures — and has for a wife one of the
handsomest women in M elbourne.
That missing valuable lace veil, Mr. De Little-
gold thinks, might be found in Biisbane. He would
like to be allowed to go and look after it
The retui n ball to the Mayor of Brisbane was a
great success. It was opened by the Acting-Governor
with Miss Sinclair (the Mayor’s daughter,!.
How poor and vain political life is? Sir James
M’Culloch, Once the “ observed of all observers,” now
walks among the throng like an ordinary n^ortal.
Mrs. Austin, the donor of <£6000 towards the
Melbourne Hospital for Incurables, now intends
to build the institute entirely at her own expense.
Lieutenant Nobbs, of Parramatta Junction, has
a pair of ducks he calls the Earl and Countess of Gran-
ville. Hence his penchant for the name in lieu of
junction.
The Vice-President of the Executive Council is
director of a new Fish Company. One of the advan-
tages of having a marine residence, especially near
quarantine.
Milner Stephen is not quite original in Sydney.
A certain psychological clerk in the G.P.O., not in any
way connected with correspondence, claims a share of
his miraculous power.
Mr. J. G. Tanner, for many years clerk to a
large proportion of the members of the inner bar in
Melbourne, has been appointed associate to his Honor
Mr. Justice Higinhotham.
The politest and least sincere, though most
oleagix ons, foreign naval officer we have ever had here,
is in great trouble just now. A woman is the cause and
a court-martial the effect.
At the late M.R.C. Ball a banker’s daughter
dressed as “Dear Little Buttercup” and a young tar
(wo presume Kalph Eackstraw) danced beautifully,
lovingly andconstantly during the evening and appeared
inseparable.
One of the most fascinating men at the M.R.C.
hall the other evening was a prominent officer of one of
the banks, who went as a Greek fisherman. His
“ weeping ” moustache and smart appearance took the
fair sex by storm.
The Judges of the Supreme Court quarrelled on
Monday before Court opened. They each wished to
shirk work after a month’s spell. Wiudeyer with his
usual bashfulness sat however in Banco. Oh ! Shades
of Stephen and Martin!
A wise Solomon was “Charley” for not yielding
up his shop to the tender mercies of the Salvage Brigade
on the night of the fire at the “ Vic.” What a lot more
smoke there would have beeu if that crowd had got in
amongst the pipes and tobacco!
Someone condoled with Mr. Thompson Moore
the other day in Collins-street, Melbourne, on his de-
feat for Mandurang, and asked him to what he attri-
buted his failure. “ To the fact that the beggars didn’t
vote for me,” said the philosophic Thompson.
Mr. Bibbs will appear in the Insolvent Court
to-day (Thursday) on habeas corpus. Ho conducts his
own case against three learned counsel. He is still
happy in gaol and is turning out napkin rings and
candlesticks—the latter for churches, we’re told.
M. Sondry, who was shot on Saturday night last
at Melbourne Opera House, was attached to the French
Commission at Sydney International, and arrived by the
Ehin. He speaks good English, but, from all accounts,
holds his tongue in that language in certain cases.


Wo understand that the editor of The Atjstra-
£as arranged with that talented poet,
Philip Dale, (the author of Dorothy) for another poem
of the same class entitled Lady Lillian. The M. S. is
now in his hands, and it will appear in the September
number.
Mrs. W. C. Wentworth, relict of the “Australian
patriot,” died at Norwood, England, on the 11th instant.
The deceased lady was in her 75 .h vea . The event
will no doubt interfere with Mr. Fitzwilliam Went-
worth’s expressed intention to visit Australia at an
early date.
It is whispered that certain proceedings for
recovery of damages will shortly lie commenced by
persons who feel themselves aggrieved in consequence of
unjust innendoes that have emanated from the wicked
winds, suggesting complicity with the recent Qnirindi
ank robbery.
In the course of a money-lending case that
recently was heard in the Birmingham County Court
ifc was calculated that the plaintiff had been paying
interest at the rate of 40,000 per cent.! Old “Shixty
f*®** Cent thinks that, after all, he has only been wast-
ing his time in Sydney, and that he may as well retire to
—Brummagem.
..Touching that missing lace veil, De Littlegold
thinks that with the aid of a new eye glass, and the
necessary funds to proceed to Brisbane, he might drop
across it. Anyhow, he would like to drop across—
“ The girl that does it wear.
Be she dark, he she fair”—
He’s not particular to a shade or two.
“ Dead Sea fruits ” might have been the witty,
if not bitter, exclamation of a former respected manager
of the “Vic.” who, according to the Herald, “yethoids
a firm and enviable position in the kindly appreciations
and the memory of even latter-day play-goers, and still
lives in Sydney to enjoy the fruits ‘of his well and
frequently-earned successes.”
Mr E , who displayed so much presence
of mind in connection with the late railway collision at
Parramatta, was called upon again a few days ago at
the Coffee Palace to further demonstrate his coolness
by suffering the effects of a cup of hot coffee being
poured down his back without uttering a word of re-
monstrance. He is a “ cool card.”
The agent for a celebrated American Watch
Company gives most epicurean dinners and lunches at
Petty’s. They are very influenthlly attended, and
have been the means by which the oracle has been
worked. The watch man is of Pope’s opinion:—
" The shortest way to men’s hearts, I find.
Lies through their bellies, or I mistake mankind."
When the 8 o' clock train reached Akh field the
other morning, a leading tobacconist who resides in
that delightful sxthurl* entered a smoking carriage, and
exclaimed, with an air of disgust, “ Pouah ! Smoke!”
whereupon a passenger remarked, “ Well, that is good,
too, from one who has made his fortune out of to-
bacco.” Perhaps he didn’t smell any of his own
"weed.”
In contrast to several asedy-looking uniforms of
the British service, at the MB C ball on Thursday,
which looked as if they had seen service in monj-a haid
fought campaign on the plains of Moore Park, was that
of a German officer. He was attired in the strict regu-
lation dress a nd in physique and general bearing was
par excellence the most military-looking character in the
building.
Sydney for the past few weeks has been graced
by the presence of one of Victoria’s splendid daughters
of Judah. Her appearance has everywhere elicited the
most constant admiration, and the Sydney susceptibles
have abandoned themselves to an unparalleled period of
constancy. Alas that rose so choice should ever be
plucked from our midst!
We were surprised to see our friend the ex-
clerk of the Lands Office wearing his hat in the front
row of the dress circle, Victoria Theatre, the other
night. Some of the lady members of the company
were not slow in coming to a certain conclusion. What
would his friends in England say if they heard that
their tall boy had deteriorated so much since his ar-
rival in the colonies ?
The Jersey Lily (Mrs. Langtry), according to an
American paper, has a rather pretty mouth, an exceed-
ingly heavy chin, a long badly-moulded nose, irregular
eyebrows, and rather thin hair, combed so as to show an
ill-shaped head. Her forehead would hardly be worth
mentioning, were it not for the artful way in which it is
partly concealed by a thick band set about two inches
back from the roots of her hair.
Mr. Malleson, one of the oldest-established,
best-known, and most-re-pected solicitors in Melbourne
is now on a visit to Sydney. Notwithstanding the ex-
tent and lucrative nature of Mr. Malleson’s practice he
has decided on removing to the old country, with the
view of joining his brother in business. Mrs. Malleson
has long been regarded as the leader of fashion in
Melbourne. She patronises Worth.
The belle of the M.R.C. Ball last year was
Polly, a dark beauty, and if indeed Polly hath
such roguish eyes and winning ways there is little need
for wonder that wise men are often fools. This year a
fair beauty did much damage, “La Rjinc Blanche."
possessing a pretty face with a serene and dignified ex-
pression, tho’ from the twinkle of two bine eyes there
is little doubt that some of Polly’s charms lay hid
beneath the calm exterior.
Much surprise has been created in London
fashionable jircles by the announcement that a mar-
riage had been arranged between the celebrated Baroness
Burdett-Coutts and Mr, Ashmead Barlett, the member
for Eye. The Baroness is 63 years of age. and consider-
ably older than her intended husband. Mr. Barlett was
elected in the Conservative interest at the late general
election, and is one of the new members of Parliament.
[The report has since been denied by the Bareness.^
Great excitement existed at a certain house at
the North Shore the other night, during a dance, when
it was thought that a young lady had eloped. Her
distressed friends vainly sought through the grounds
and all parts of the house without success, and at last
the search was abandoned. Fortunately, however, she
was discovered tbenextday. safe at home, having it is
supposed taken offence at what she considered the re-
missness of a gallant naval officer, who has since left
Sydney.
A scene which is unprecedented in the history of
the N.Z. Parliament occurred on the second reading of
the Maori Prisoners’ Bill. Sir George Grey stood np
on the floor of the House one hour waiting for the at-
tention of the Premier, the Hon. John Hall, who was
correcting Hansard proofs. The confusion between
the members of the House was beyond descripfion-
We of Sydney regulate matters properly in this direc-
tion. No member is ever supplied by Hansard with
proofs of a speech.
It is stated on the best authority that an eminent
firm of drapers in George-street does not offer any remu-
neration to the fair demoiselles who make a trysting-
ploce of the entrance to the fashionable emporium
indicated. Young ladies in their right senses, it was
thought, were not likely to burden themselves with the
irksome task of standing at a shop-door—for hours
together sometimes—acting as mere decoy-ducks for
others, without fee or reward. Snch, however, it seems
is really the case, —the decoy business being entirely a
private speculation for their own behoof.
The Herald sub-leader writer says : —*• Crimi-
nals evidently overlook the fundamental fact that to
Bucoessfulv cope with the concentrated energies of so-
ciety, end to elude the detection and punitive mesh
which has been woven by the cumulative ingenuity of
generations, requires,” Ac., Ac Shade of Samuel
Johnson ! When the same party wishes to inform his
Senders that a criminal has been found guilty and sent
to gaol, he enphuisti-ally speaks of his having been
"detected and sequestered.” It is said that, “inebri-
ated with the exuberance of his own verbosity," this
genius fell down the office stairs the other night.
Since the advent of the present Governor the
Hebrew element that used to be so conspicuous by its
presence at Government House seems to be decidedly
on the wane for want of that patronage which it
lormerly received. That Lady Robinson had a strong
predilection for the chosen race was obvious to those
who attended receptions, balls and other entertainments
at the vice-regal abode One family at least were never
absent, and the attention showed them was generally
recognised as an amemle honourable for a certain un-
fortunate blunder. Lady Robinson, too, had a remote
strain of Jewish blood in her veins—and was by ne
means less pleasant on that account.
An amorons gentleman of Darlinghnrst, one
of the jeunessc dorte, who drives fast horses, fell in love
with a variety actress who dances exquisitely. She en-
couraged him with one solitary crocodilian smile, and
the young man sent her bracelets galore and other
jewellery too, including even a choice gem from his
extensive collection of diamonds. She has gone away.
So, too, has the jewellery; and now he hears for the
first time that his love is married—that she was mar-
ried when he gave her the tokens of affection !
A somewhat unseemly fracas took place last
week at the North Shore Bowing Clnh’s shed, between
two members, one the son of an ex-Coionial Secretary,
the other a sub-lleutenant in the Naval Brigade.
They fought, scratched and rolled about the landing
stage, being several times within an ace of falling into
the briny deep, which perhaps would have been a good
thing for both of them, as it might have cooled their
“Rufus” got his cheek scratched aud
"Charlie”* his nose barked. They have both been re-
quested to apologise for their ungentlemanly conduct,
and for the damage they caused to the boardings of the
wharf. The origin of the “ mill" was the choice of
boats.
A fund has been initiated for the purpose of
publishing a second volume of essays selected fr. m
those which have appeared in the " fcusayist” oo'uma
of the Australasian during the pest nine years.
The success which attended the anther. Mr. Richard
Birnie, M.A.. in the publication of his first volume of
essays has led his friends to hope that the subscription-
list for the second series will receive a hearty response.
Mr. Birnie, who is almost an octogenarian, is a sen of
the late Sir Richard Birnie, the cehhn-ted London
police-magistrate, and is cleverer than his father, but in
a different way. He is one of the most learned men and
certainly far and away the beet conversationalist we
have in Australia. is the literary “lion” ef Mel-
bourne.
A certain officer holding- a good position in the
Civil Service, d ning the other day at a leading res-
taurant, and who would be witty if he could, was asked
by. the attenduait waitress if he required anything to
dnnk. She, in reply to his queries, suggested milk,
among other, beverages. Whereupon he who hails
from the South remarked. “ Allow me to tell you that I
am weaned. The waitress, scanning his noble fea-
tures, replied. Oh, you don’t look like it 1" Did he
really mean to insinuate that he was a calf P
Peter Lalor is now Speaker of the Victorian
Assembly. Mr. Bent, on the nomination having been
made, denounced Lalor in unmeasured terms as a man
whose political life and associations had been disgraceful,
and (alluding to the new Speaker’s connection with the
memora ,le Eureka Stockade affair) on whose head a
price had been set. Mr. Service expressed his regret
at such language having been used by his colleague, and,
evidently no. wishing to fan the political flame, indulged
in some vain hopes concerning the new Speaker's future.
Every lover of respectability and fairness must regret
that so fierce and politically unscrupulous a demagogue
should have been selected to sit in the place “ where,"
in the words of Aytoon, “ good men sate before."
Miss Adelaide Neil son, the actress, is torment-
ing her admirers by keeping a secret. She is about to
retire from the stage. and she is about to get married.
Both intentions she boldly avows. But she will let
nobody know who is the happy man. Three people—
herself.the bridegroom electaud their confidant—know;
nobody else knows. The New York interviewing re-
porters ore quite frantic with their failure to get the
news. She rather likes seeing them and telling them
that she will tell them nothing.
Rockhampton is a city favoured by the gods.
She has been dreading the day which was to separate
her from her great literary luminary, A. L. Bourcioault.
He has been meditating seeking fresh hat
Rockhampton could not part with him, so she started a
brewery, and A J-.B. is to “boss” the concern. But
“ Bouce ’’ will have to alter his style to suit his new
business. That profonnd, austere look of his won’t do
for the beer trade. Another thin? he will have to alter,
and that is bis complexion. Fancy a man with a conn*
tenance that speaks.of “ midnight oil ” soliciting orders
from ruddy-faced publicans! That won’t suit their book
—no, not by a jngfull. His heavy cavalry stride will have
to be given up for a more jovial swagger. Any ordinary
man would find he had a Herculean task to make these
changes in himself, but A. L. is no ordinary man. Go
on and prosper, Bourcicault. Bivalves, literature, and
malt liquor!—Truly, “one man in his life plays many
ports.”
James Gordon Bennett they say, is abotit to
start a chain of two-ceut. morning papers, extending
across the continent fjom New York to San Francisco,
which are to have the benefit of the Herald telegrams
and correspondence, and tote under the general man-
agement of John Bussell Young. There is nothing
improbable in this. The New York Herald, which has
probably a larger and better business than all the other
New York papers combined, has its own special cor-
respondents everywhere, spends enormous sums in
special despatches and only realizes in full the return
for these expenditures wit hin the comparatively limited
area where it, can be distributed ou the morning of
publication. Outside of that, the Herald’s news be-
comes the capital of local papers A chain of Heralds
in all the principal cities across the continent could all
avail themselves of the enormous expenditure of the
parent paper, and could in each city, with the advantage
thus given, distance all competitors and concentrate
the business just as the Herald has done in New
York, while in return, the income which they would
yield would permit even more lavish expenditure for
news. There would be little risk in this.
A few days ago. in one of our popular schools, an
interesting y oung gentleman of ten summers handed by
mistake to his teacher, instead of the expected exercise,
the following tendered die. intended for a more charm-
ing destination. After the nonplussed instructor re-
covered from his surprise, tbe impassioned young Romeo
received touching proofs of the trntb pf the saying that
“the course of true love never did run smooth.” We
are indebted to an occasional contributor for the follow-
ing copy, which is verbatim et littcratim .—“July 19,1880.
My dear- Gerty yesterday (Sunday) morning after we got
out of church I was in a hurry and could not wait to
speak to you and I think you thought, thit I was not
speaking to you and I was very angry with myself.
In church I pretended to be laughing at a girl and your
sister thought I v\as in earnest and when Amy looked
at me she laughed but I would not laugh at her but I
would turn away and pretend to laugh at somebody else
but I was not laughing at anybody Amy (at least I
think so) thought I was laughing at some body I loved
(sic) but I was not and when I came out I happened to
run against Amy and I said look out but she turned
round and pussed a face at me and I thought she was
jealous of me. A few more words Hear Gertrude say
yes or no will you be my sweetheart if you think proper
say so and tell nobody but me wait for me at dinner
time after school and tell me. If you will you will
oblige y ours truly . excuse the bad writing
as l am in a hurry.” We cau vouch for the genuineness
of the above. It’s really too good to be lost, so we
print it. but we must really say that the master is a
cruel and unromantie man.
On a wild night twenty-three years ago—on the
20th August, 1857 —the ship Dm bar and 118 souls went
down at the North Head. One man alone-Johnson,
who is now lighthouse keeper at Newcastle, and who,
strangely enough, was the rescuer of the only man
saved from the ill-fated Cawarra—was washed from the
ship into a cleft in the rocks where he lay next day-
awaiting death from exposure. There were ten
thousand persons on the Head and tbe one man from
among them who volunteered to descend the face of the
cliff and rescue Johnson from his awful position 300 feet
below was Antonio Woolier, a young Swede who, as
indicated above, succeeded in his perilous undertaking.
During the past quarter of a century Woolier has
had more than his fair share of the world’s ups and
downs. He has, we hear, commenced business os a
storekeeper at Tern, rain partnership with Mr. Bennett;
and diggers, who are never slow to show their appre-
ciation of pluck and who never forget a brave action,
will doubtless see in our short narrative an additional
reason for giving what support they can to the new
firm.
“ Let by-gones be by-genes. Fare thee well,
if for ever. Strangers yet.” —Vide “Personal” adver-
tisement. Says a northern poet:—
So, farewell, Maud,
I’m going abroad—
I hope you won’t miss me, and say I’m a fraud;
For I really intend
To be ever your friend.
And shield, like a brother, your life to the end.
Don’t deem me untrue.
For, my daisy, for yon
Pd suffer and slave till the moon was bine;
But the marriage cord
Is an incubus, Maud,
That I’m not disposed to accept, my adored!
Mr. P. B. Walker.
In continuation of our series of portraits of the under-
secretaries and other gentlemen of similar position in
the various departments of the Civil Service, we give
to-day the portrait of Mr. Philip Beliingsley Walker,
Assistant-Superintendent of Electric Telegraphs of
New South Wales. Mr. Walker is the sixth sou of the
late Eev. James Walker, M.A., of New College, Oxon,
who, it will be remembered, was for some years the
head-roaster of the King’s School, Parramatta, a posi-
tion which he occupied with distinguished ability. Mr.
P. B. Walker was bom in 1841, at Charlton Kings,
Cheltenham, Gloucester. He left school at an early
age, and in 1855 was appointed to a clerkship in the
Government shippingoflice, the duties of which position
he discharged wiih credit to himself. There was not,
however, much chance there of advancement, and his
inclination leading him to architecture and civil
engineering, he embraced the proiesuon and studied
under the tutorship of Mr. Weaver, C.E, late Colonial
Architect. At the end of two years he had acquired a
very fair knowledge of the groundwork upon which to
build his future professional career. Just at this time,
however, electric telegraphy was being established in
this colony, and to it Mr. Walker now directed his
attention, believing that therein would I* found a still
wider field for the exercise ot his ability and the attain-
ment of his desire to achieve distinction in the domains
of science. In’185She succeeded in obtaining an appoint-
ment in the Telegraph Department, and has remained
there ever since, advancing steadily by Lis own unaided
efforts from one position of trust ana responsibility t<*
another, until the present time, when be stands next in
rank and official status to Mr E. C. Cracknell, the General
Superintendent of the Department. A thorough know,
ledge of the practice of telegraphy was soon obtained,
and Mr. Walker sought to combine with it the theoreti-
cal laws of electricity. He applied himself most assidu-
ously, and with great success, to the study of that branch
of the science: and, although his time has been largely
occupied in the periormance of his more active dnties,
yet he has devoted everj available moment to the
acquirement of an intimate knowledge of each new
development of electricity,—and in recognition of his
ability in this field, he was invited to deliver the
lecture upon the subject nt the opening of the
Technical College in connection with the Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts in 1879. In this paper Mr.
Walker very ably traced the history and progress «f
electricity to its latest achievement. But it is not to his
official duties that Mr. Walker has confined his efforts.
He rendered valuable assistance at a time when such
assistance was indispensably neceessary as Honorary
Secretary of the New South Wales Bifle Association,
and took n prominent part in the movement which cul-
minated in this colony being worthily represented at
the Philadelphia rifle match for the championship of
the He was a memler of the late volunteer
force for eighteen years, and now holds the position of
captain in the Torpedo and Signalling Corps attached
to our present system of defence. He has been Presi-
dent of the Chess Club and the Chess Association for
many years, and has contributed largely with his pen
and his purse towards the advancement of these so-
cieties in onr city. This liberality has been backed up
by good play on many occasions; for, besides having
taken part in fonr intercolonial contests with Victoria,
Mr. Walker had the honour of winning the only game
that, was was won from the champion player daring the
match for the cup in 1874. The success
which Mr. Walker has won is what unflagging energy
and ability always command.
ME. P. B. WALKEE.
PORTE AIT OF A GEHTLEMAK.


Hotels, &c.
C'iOACH AND HORSES HOTEL,
J MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Kailway Station.
Mn. C. SHEATH EE, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry. . ..
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
'1ARLTON CLUB HOTE
J 199 Elizabetu-St., Hyde Pabk.
H. Oliphant Paton, Proprietor.
Healthiest position and most comfortable Hotel in
Sydney. Private Suites of Apartments.
Detached BAR; BATHS, STABLING, &c.
Hot Coffee. Rum and Milk, &c., from 4.30 a.m. Table
d'hote 1 p.m. daily.
Id on parle Francais.
A
RTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
bv Mr AET1S. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A S.N. Co for thirteen years, this alone
will he a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find aU
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock s beet
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Sc., of the Best Brands
Omuibusses pass the Hotel every five mmutes.
J. E. AiiT1d 9
Proprietor.
Australian wine.—carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace Pints ui
3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d doz.; quarts, 1 and 2 doz. cases,
21s doz H. S. BIRD and CO., Agents, Circular Quay.
w
H I S K Y
FRAUDS.
READ PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
ROE’S *»* FIVE-YEAR-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Recommended by the Faculty.
ROBERT PHILLIPS and CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales.
HE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co , of Glasgow and Islay is
f-ist becomia" a favourite in nearly all the Bn ish
For liiiritv strength and flavour it caunot he
excelled! and the analytical report certifies to its 1aemg
®Aver.yme spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
of the finest Scotch -whiskies only ; it m
thoroughly matured and can be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.
' Agent for New South Wales and Qu^emla
B
ASS’S PALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
ALE
Tim undersized have been APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS for the above Celebrated Bottlers, and are in
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
z
LRAOE MARJS.
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
T
Is selected with great cope from the best of
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
M
ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (first Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours : 9 to 5; every evening. 7 to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c., and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED •■on PERSONAL and other
SEC URITY : repayable by instalments as follows:
£10 by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £1000.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers nimble to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
money. money.
M
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage Of properties in sums from £5 to £500,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system. ...
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
movket, three doors from A Hordern and Sons.
T CANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of sec nil
ments to suit convenience of borrowers
LOAN OFFICE. 96 Castlereagh-streot
King-street. Established 1859.
next corner
ADELAIDE TOWN BRANDS Superfine FLOUR,
sacks, halves, and quarters; Hart’s, Magarey s,
Duffield’s, and Dunn’s; ADELAIDE Country Brands
superfine Flour, various; VICTORIAN and N. S.
WALES Flour. BEELBY and CO.
Auctioneers and Commission Agents
JOHN BRIDGE.
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, .Grain, and Metal Broker.
N. MEIKLEJOHN AND CO.,
• Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney. ■
Regular consignments of Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS; PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial snipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
C.
T. B U R F I T
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
359, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET. SYDNEY.
T.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
P.
W. CROWE & CO., STOCK. STATION
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
•1 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
W
N.B.—We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
■ELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows : —
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station —on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 Gecrge-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour —every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY,
Horses and Vehicles
K
EAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
Dayid M ‘ c a l l,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDIN BURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFT US, K.C.M.G. , , „ x _
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870,1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
s.
G
A S S O
N
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Harbis-steeet, off Geobge-stkeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber In the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Tobacconists
T
HE GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
M
E
E S E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
Hotels, &c.
mHE COMPAGNONI PALACE
■JL CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chtSf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compaguoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKIIAM,
Manager,
June 30,1830.
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at .
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395,397 Georoe Street.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill ot
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let hy the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
. Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 s 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room ... ••• 27 x 27 xeet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leadjng papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, er-c., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen. Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj 'n
a most complete maimer, and quite capable of meetu-g
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied to order sn the
shortest notice.
c.
J. ROBERT
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
S’
T
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
HE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
mHE BEST SHILLING LUNCH IN TOWN
J- (including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE
T7 I C T O R I A HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel and made extensive
alterations and which will be fitted up iu the most
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
bran ts of Wines, Spirits, &c„ aud conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
PubllC ‘ GEORGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
O YAL EXCHANGE HOTEL,
CORKER KING AND GEORGE STREETS).
R
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Rooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
N.B.—Pic-uics, Balls, Parties, Clubs, & c., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWARD PERKINS.
Nathaniel cohen,
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him aud those who don’t)
that he has taken the
ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL,
at the corner of
GIPPS & MACQUARIE STREETS. SOUTH,|
Aud trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers iu the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Gir in the Bnm-keg,
COLONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, Ac. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
Legal
M
U. A. GODFREY,
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—53 Eltzabeth-btreet.
S
HO K TEE & FITZGERALD,
Solicitors,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
And
Macquarie Street, Dubbo.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 169 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards __
bede christie,
* * Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under the Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sydney.
BOBERTS HABB'S, AND WESTON.
LIoENSEb S'GIVEYORS, L AND AGENTS.
ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt with.
Pnn Maps compiled to latest date. Olhce—Royal Blue
House; Chambers, 130. Pitt-street.
•jg LACHMANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
2 6 7 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskinb Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, ore., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POTTERY
P °
W L E R ’ S
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY,
Price List on application
gTl 6N0RA
L. P. F A B R I S,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlinghurst.
M 1
SS SLISB SHERWIN,
(Prom Tasmania),
TEACHER OP THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
SKINNER. AND GO., IS KING-STREET,
• BKASSFOUNDERS, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFiTTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap.
J" p. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
2G7 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Halls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
BUTCHER & CO.,
Robert
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
538 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
AGENT, 241 Palmer-
• street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
of LAND for Sale at Waverlsy, also Allotments in
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga. _______
HAS. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
HO MAS PLAYFAIR,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
103 GEORGE STREET.
J LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
•COTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
blankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
• WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Grocers, &c.,
Comer of York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Our Prices Current for Groceries, Ac., giving lowest
■market quotations, is issued the first of every month,
and circulated gratis throughout the colony. Store-
keepers who have not received our Circular will do so
by forwarding ns their address.
FALLERDING AND SON,
• 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Practical
Chronometer Watchmakers, Jewellers,
and Opticans,
Importers of every description of English, Swiss, and
Waltham machine-made Watches —
In Gold and Silver.
The “Liver” Telescope, the cheapest and most port-
able Telescope for the bush —Price, £1 Is.
Illustrated Catalogues post free on application.
Sole agents for V. Kullberg’s Ships Chronometers,
which were awarded first prize at the International
Exhibition.
A DGLPHE GABRIEL AND CO.,
"SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfaklkrt's hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are mode to
■mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE. J
I.
G, LEVY,
TOBACCONIST,
169 Oxford Street,
Choicest Brands
of
TOBACCOS AND
CIGARS.
Tobacconist
NOVELTIES
received by
Every Mail.
PRINCE,
* TOBACCONIST,
149, KING STREET,
Begs to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain a really first class article in TOBACCO, CIGAES,
&c., at his establishment.
Just received a fine assortment of "WALKING
STICKS in all the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149, KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre EoyaL


SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Geelong Winter July 31
Adelaide E. C. Winter steeplechase August 6 and 7
TattersalTs Spring August 11
Hawkesbnry August 25 and 27
Parramatta , August
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 4, 7. 9,11
Sydney Turf Club September 18
Northern J.C Sep. 23 and 29
Melbourne Hunt Club Oct. 2
Wollongong Annual October 7 and 8
Narrabri October
V.E.C. Spring Oct. 30, Nov.2,4,6
Q.T.C. Spring Nov. 6 and 7
Murrumbidgee Spring Nor. 22,23. and 24
A.J.C. Summer December 27
Tattersall’s Annual January 1, 1881
y - E -C January 1, 1831
V.E.C. Autumn ( .
__ (. March 3 and 5
Hawkesbary March
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Brewarrina M_P. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
TattersalTs Spring entries Aug. 2
Tattersall’s Mares Produce Stakes, 1SS3.
Nomination of Mare Aug. 2
Sydney T.C. Juvenile Stakes Aug. 2
A.J.C Summer December Stakes Aug. 2
Hawkesbnry General Entry Aug. 2
Tattersall’s M. P. Stakes, 1882—description of
foals 2
Wagga Gold Cup, Hurdle Eace, G. S. Handi-
H. E. C. Claret Cup Aug. 2
cap, Town Plate, and Steeplechase Aug. 10
A. J. C. Spring General Entry Aug. 13
Sydney Turf Club General Entry Sep. 1
Wollongong Handicap Sep. 11
Mel bourne H. C. General Entry Sep, 16
A.J.C. Summer Cup Oct. 14
V.E.C. General Entry Oct. 14
Tattersall’s Cup 1881 Oct. 26
Wagga General Entry .’ Noy. 16
V.E.C. New Year’s Day Meeting General Entry Dec. 10
A.J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration op Weights.
Tattersall’s Spring Handicaps Aug. 6
•Hawkesbnry County Purse, and Flying
Handicap Aug. 17
A.J.C. (Spring) Hurdle and Steeple Aug. 24
Hawkesbnry Turf Club and Members Handi- #
cap Aug. 26
A.J.C. (Spring) Epsom and Welter Aug. 30
A.J.C. (Spring) Shorts and Squatter's Sep. 6
A.J.C. (Spring) Suburban and City Sep. 8
A.J.C. (Spring) Members, Waverley, and Free Sep. 10
Sydney Turf Club Handicap Sep. 14
Wagga Cup, Hurdle, G.S. Handicap, and
Steeplechase Sep. 23
Wollongong Handicaps Sep. 25
Wagga Two Years’ Old and Fifing Handicaps Nov. 22
Wagga Mile, and Town Plate Handicaps Nov. 23
A.J.C. Summer Cup Handicap Nov.
Tattersall’s Cap Dec. 1
V.E.C. New Year’s Day Handicap Dec. 16
A.J.C. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Aoceptances.
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Metropolitan Stakes host forfeit Sep. 3
Wollongong Handicap, non-acceptance Oct. 4
Wagga Cup, G. S. Handicap acceptances Oct. 20
Wagga Hnrdle and Steeple acceptances Nov. 16
Wagga Town Plate acceptances Nov. 24
Tattersall’s Cup non-accept Dec. 13
Training Notes.
Jfo’rwiTHSTAifDiNO that Saturday mornings generally
show the E and wick habitues some good work, tho on-
lookers on last Saturday morn were by no means nume-
rous ou the convincing ground, besides which there was
not the expected amount of fast work indulged in. The
first to show a really strong flutter was Bruno, and ho
put in twice round, the last turn being run in 2 min 25
secs, and it may be expected that the performance found
favour with a great many. Although it provided no
work for “the watch," the gallop between St. John
and Hopeful was a taking one, and both having done a
good strong twice round were much fancied on pulling
up. Stratheam, by himself, did twice round from the
sheds, the last time having it “ all on,” and as he ac-
complished the entire distance in 2 min 22\ secs, which
was the fastest of the morning, his friends were some-
what elated at what was shown them. This gallop had
the effect of fetching “The Demon’s” sou greatly into
favor for the Metrop. Five of Fennelly’s young ones
did slow lengthy work, winding up with a fast brush
home over half-a-mile, and then came Mellie and Ee-
membrance. This pair were sent twice round, winding
np with a good strong mile, in 2 min 2 secs, and
although not at their “ top," the daughter of Antonia
appeared to hold the Derby winner very cheap at the
right end. Bathurst did a strong twice round alone,
and covered tho ground in capital style. Eosinante
was the next to extend himself running over a fast
mile at the end of twice round in a very con-
vincing manner. Lorton and Master Avenel next
appeared, and together, very wide out, they got over
2i miles at good working pace, the performance being a
good one. Eetrospect and the Admiral bursted homo
after going two miles, and then the “ dangerous ones,"
Auckland and Thorntopper, pat in an appearance. They
did once round at a strong pace, increasing the dose at
the- next essay, and as both finished with a lot in hand
in 2m 25s they came greatly in favor. Sapphire, by her-
self, was then treated to a good useful once round, and
she was followed by the Pontiff and Democrat going
together over 2\ miles, the last half being done in 2m
23s. The time, as will be seen, was not fast, but still
the gallop was a good one. Creswick, looking well, did
nothing out of the common, but Dover and Sweetmeat
were treated to three times at a ding-dong pace all the
way, and both pulled up well. Fisherman then put in a
strong once round. Moneta, Shipka, Mr. Cornwell’s
lot, Geraldine and Bertie, Julian, and Allsopp’s young
ones did unimportant work, and the big guns, Chester,
Martindale, Sunlight and a lot of others again worked
on the tan. We don’t know why all the trainers do not
vise the course proper for it is “ good going " enough
for anything, but as usual some people are never satis,
tied. Avemns had Friday for a companion, and they
did a mile at their best in 1m 51Js, Friday having
far tho worst of the gallop, finishing os usual very badly,
and he has few, if any, friends.
Football.
The Wallaroo 1st fifteen beat the 1st fifteen of Alma
Mater by 1 goal and 2 tries. The game was very hotly
contested.
Cent niry to expectation the Balmain representatives
defeated the Warataha by one try. The game was played
at Moore Park.
The 2nd Glenheada scored a big victory over the 1st
fifteen of Cook’s Eiver, winning by 3 goals and 2 tries.
A drawn game was played between the Eedfem and
St Leonards Clnbs.
One goal and I ties was the resnlt in favor of the 2nd
Bnrwood players in their match with the 2 id Eelfern.
The Parramatta and Yass 1st fifteens pliyed a drawn
game at Yass on Saturday last.
A dispute caused an abrupt termination to the match
rot ween the Albion (Miitland) and Newcastle Clnbs.
Both sides were in error.
Sporting and Athletic Kems.
Tatfcersall’s Spring Handicaps are due on Friday
next.
A Schnapper Fishing Club lias been formed at
Pyrmont.
Mr. Andrew Chimside, jun., has returned to
Australia.
The racehorse Diomed has gone to the stud at
Balranald.
Napper Tandy is being trained at Brighton and
Mata at Plemington.
We hear that the Glebe Bowing Club netted
over £30 from their late ball.
J. Thomson and M. Ryan are to run on the 14th
August, 125 yards, for £10 aside.
Miss Lucy won the President’s Cup at the
Oamaru (N.Z.) coursing meeting.
A lawn tennis and a stating championship have
lately been instituted in England
There is no truth in the rumour of a sculling
match between Messenger and M’Donald.
Solomon and Power, the scullers, have not as
yet been able to come to terms respecting a match.
Rumor hath it that Mrs. Trickott, family,
servants, maids, etc. go to England in the next Orient
steamer.
The name of the scull-mater to whoso finished
workmanship we drew attention in our last, is Heal and
not Head.
Return , tickets for the overland route to Mel-
bourne will be issued from September till January at
five guineas.
We hear that the Mercantile Rowing Club are
thinking of erecting a branch club house adjoining the
new Lunatic Asylum.
The Mercantile Rowing Club show their usual
dilatoriuess in getting an eight oar crew together for
the Association regatta.
The proposed Otago Tattersall’s Club are justly
of opinion that the provisions of the Gaming and Lot-
teries Act are too stringent.
How peculiar that the “ knowing ones” backed
Laycock when racing Pearce, notwithstanding that
Pearce showed far greater pace.
Tom Brown has a lot of crews schnapper fish-
ing at Cape Hawke, but none of his shipments of smoked
fish have yet reached the market.
The Avoca Annual Race Meeting takes place on
this Thursday and Friday, and on Saturday will come
off the Geelong Winter Meeting.
Joe Goss and Paddy Rvan were to have fought
in Canada on the 18th of Miv, but Goss was non est.
Since then Ryan has beaten Goss.
At a one-mile race, on skates, at St. George’s
Hall, Wellington, the distance was covered in the re-
markably fast time of 5 min 2 secs.
The Hon. John Lord President of the Tasma-
nian Jockey Club, bis given 5 > sovs for a race to be ran
at the next Tasmanian Race Meeting.
The Great International Handicap Pigeon
Shooting contest will come off 8th and 10th September
at Randwick. Entries are now called for.
In the match Derbyshire v. Australians on 17fch
May, Spofforth secured 8 out of 10 wickets in the second
innings at a fraction under 8 runs a wicket.
There was no “ football under Victorian rules”
last Sa tnrday. fib© attendance at the match, University
v. Wallaroo, was the largest yet seen on Moore Park.
At the second meeting of the Wangaratta Cours-
ing Club, Evil Eye and Elsie divided the Wangaratta
Stakes, and Volunteer, by Windermere, won the Popov
Stakes.
The coming season will bo a remarkably busy
one among rowing men, and it is expected that a larger
number of colts will compete than on any previous
season.
Mr. George Cutts is about to leave N.Z. for
Svdney with the view of purchasing a successor io old
Traducer for the Canterbury Middle Park Stud
Company.
The Junior Gig Race at the M. R. C. Regatta
will probably bring together a better field of junior
rowers than any race hitherto. Four crews are already
in training.
Barney Keating and Howell met on the Associa-
tion Ground to decide a race for £20. The “ talent”
put their pieces on Howell, and made him favourite, but
he never was in it.
The International (Victoria) Regatta Committee
intend giving £ JK) as a prize for yachts belonging to
any Australian Cmb, and there will also he two other
prizes of £100 each.
The racehorse Adventurer, who has been backed
to win the Grand and Metrop. for a lot of monev,
wrenched one of his hocks a few days ago and had to be
thrown out of work.
On next Monday entries for the following will
close at Tattersall’sSydney T. C., A. J. C., and
Hawkesbnry Clubs. They will all be found fully
described iu the Index.
The fight so long arranged for the middle weight
championvhip of America and 2,000 dols., between G.
Rooko and Donovan did not come off owing' to the
intervention of the police.
The "Waterloo Cup (Victoria) wj,s won by Mr. S.
Borgies* ns Springwater; the Waterloo Purse by Mr.
Collier’s Sunny-side; and the Waterloo Plate by Mr.
Thompson’s (jun.) Buxom.
For a stake of .£50 F. Blakeman beat Collins in
a foot-race on the Association Ground, last Saturday.
The winner was the favourite, odds of 5 to 4 being laid
on him, and the distance 15) yards.
At the Murrumhidgee races, on Wednesday week,
Goldenhocks won the principal handicaps, and h is since
coma into favour for the Hawkesbnry Grand. Fair Play
won the Selling Race, and Colonel the Flutter.
Old Fred.” the celebrated “in-backer,” laid
£30 to £2) on “ The Bare,” a few nights ago, in a billiard
match at Tattorsall’s, but he lost. Fred, says now that
it is not a good thing to back “ The Barb ” when out of
condition.
The go-as-you-please contest for an hour and a
half between the two pods , Seymour and Agar, for
£100. comes off on this coming Saturday night, in the
old Exhibition Building. There has been no betting,
but we think that Agar can win.
The Evening Lteb says Mr. Gaden is a
finished oarsman. They’re right, for once, although not
as “ Clio’ would have it. Mr. G idea certainly proved
himself a “finished” oarsman in the eight-oar race—
half-a-mile from the winning post.
The regatta in connection with the Telegraph
Department takes place early in October, and promises
to be a good one as far as the number of competitors is
concerned. Mr. P. B. Walker, w th his usual liberality,
has offered a prize of the value of £10.
That very promising boxer, Nod Hurley, was
tendered a benefit a few evenings ago at the Lighthouse
Hotel. There was a great muster of “the Fancy,” all
of whom expressed delight at the exhibitions of skill
snotvii by the beneficiare and Dave Ingram.
White, the Isew Zealand sculler, who visited
Sydney to compote a* the last Balmain Regatta, and
who, it may be remembered, accidentally lost his start,
says that the experience no gained in rowing matters
was worth the expense of the trip alone.
“ True Blue” writes about football, and says
sections of the Press have misrepresented the Rugby
game “with a wearying, unwavering, reckless, tortuous,
egotistical pertimeity, that is as unfair as it is incom-
prehensible.” This is rough on " Loatherstocking,”
I &c -
A match between the Royal Engineers and the
Civil Service at Chatham Kuglaudoa 17th May last.
Mr. H. W. Benny-Tailyour, a well-known b«t, got
•Dl runs innings an I carried his bat out. His i> mugs
expended a little over 5 ho its and a half and he scored
at tno rate of one a minute.
Tho following is a list of the principal winners
at the late Waterloo Cup Co arsing Meeting:—Mr.
Bnrgiss, €500 and silver collar; Mr.' F. Tiller, £300;
Mr. J. Eobertson, £5); Mr. E Montgomerie, £5); Mr.
Caller, £75; Mr. W. Buchanan, £30; Mr. Wheaton,
£75; and Mr. J. Clarke, £30.
H. Ireland, the hoathuilder, is building two
fonr-oar outriggers, we presume to be on hire at his
shed If so. we congratulate him upon his enterprise.
While aiding to bring about a better state of things
among those who are not members of rowing clubs and
non amateurs he will be amply repaid fox’ his outlay.
The B inks Rowing Club will, it is anticipated,
start with over 100 members; the preliminariei are
almost complete and a site will shortly bo fixed upon for
tho club premises, so that we may expect to see their
colours shortly on the water. The oncers of the
various banting institutions only are eligible for mem-
bership.
We have not had the pleasure of hearing Mr.
Teeoe as Himlet, but wa admire his taste as a student
of is hat spear e and congratulate him on his sue ;ess as
stroke oar. We would that all of our amateur athletes
could boast of Ins literary accomplishments and that
many of our students would imitate his example in not
sacrificing the physical to the intellectual.
After criticising in detail the chances of each
horse nominated for the Christchurch Jockey Club
Handicap, to be run in November next, “Sinhad”
fancies Mata, Fishhook, foul Play, Maritana. Betrayer,
and Piniiro amongst the top division; and Hilarious,
Vampire, and Holderness among the light weights.
Acceptances are duo on the 1st of August.
The last race between Hanlan and Courtney, in
the presence of 5). 00' spectators, is said to have resulted
in a fiasco. The statement that Courtney deliberately
sold the race is freely made, bnt we hesitate to believe
that in tho face of the last supposed exposure, and in
the presence of so many of his countrymen, ho could
have had the deliberate impudence to publicly proclaim
himself a villain.
Several N.Z. racing men have fixed their head-
quarters at Wanganui; among them are Mr. E M'lver,
who has Grey Mourns, Loch Lomond, Balmoral, Maria
Stuart, and two or three young-tors located there.
Mr. Keith has engaged Albert Lvford as tr liner and in
his establishment are to be found Souk ir. My Dream.
Adi, Hard rimes. Venture, and a couple of two-year-
olds. Mr. S. Horsfall has also his stables at Wauganni,
where are to he found the two Australians King Quail
and Eatcatcher.
The Maryborough races camo off on Friday and
Saturday, and resulted as follows:—Queensland'Plate
Othello; Foal Stakes, Othello; Flying Handicap,
Canary, Sunset, Flemingtoa ; Champagne Stakes, Moor-
land ; Turf Club Handicap, Orphan, Warhawk, Bal-
thazar. Orphan won after a dead heat Corinthian
Cup, Doncaster; Two and Three Year Old Handicap,
Canary, Othello ; Farewell Handicap, Doncaster, Bal-
thazar, Euclid; Town Plate, Warhawk, Balthazar,
Sunset. Mr. B. B More'-oa, at the conclusion of the
meeting, became the purchaser of Othello.
Notwithstanding tho amount of “ taffy ” and
numerous inducements held out by the “powers that
be” of the Christchurch, Dunedin, and Auckland jockey
clubs the Governor, S r Hercules Eobinson has definitely
decided to establish his racing stables at Wellington
(tho seat of Government ), where he is now having a
building erected. Wellington is famous tor being the
most miserable racing town in New Zealand, only one
meeting a year being held there, and the stakes offered,
excepting the Cup, are exceedingly small. Let ns hope
that Sir Hercules will alter this state of things'
Our N.Z., correspondent writing under date 2 r >th
July, says:—“lam reliably informed that Mata and
Caraballo will proceed to Australia by the first boat
under the care of that well-known trainer and jockey
Bob Eay, who will ti'aiu them for their engagements
Mr. Valleree (of the firm of Vallore and Mason), will
also accompany the horses. Ourrepresentatives cannot
complain that they are badly treated in any of the
big handicaps, and should they come to the post fit and
well, with the aid of Eay on the saddle, will beat more
than beat them. Mr. Harry fuller has been selected by
Mr. Hareford to take charge of his team during Eay’s
absence.”
It is reported that Edward Hanlan having had a
sovere attack of gastric fever will not be able to meet
Trickett as anticipated—
Our Trickett’s own trick of rowers to lick
By Hanlan the sculler was mimicked,
But that mystic trick we hear made him so sick
That he’s ever since been physicked—
Here we regret to say—though our readers may possibly
congratulate themselves—the poetic muse metaphori-
cally dropped us. It was our iuteution when the
Collapse ocoon-ed to explain that Hanlan’sindisposition
was occasioned by mixing tho gas Canadian with tricks
Australian and whether intentionally or not it scarce
matters a jot. He found by the mixture a gastrick which
saved him a race with Ned Trickett.
The practice which seems to have become
prevalent with our regatta and rowing club committees
of handing orders on tradespeople to the winners of
amateur races instead of presenting them with the prize
is a dangerous one. We are willing to admit that the
competitors might occasionally be allowed to choose
their own trophies, but then the purchase should be
through the committee. It is manifestly absurd to
erect the present barrier around the amateur when the
very means are voluntarily placed within his reach to
render it useless. A prize is advertised “of the value
of £25,” the winner or winners obtain a general order
to select goods to that amount, and the order when
presented to the regatta committee is cashed. There is
nothing to show that tho amount has not been handed
in payment of a tailor’s bill, or that the prize may not
assume the shape of a four post bedstead, or a month’s
groceries. We do not say that such things actually do
occur, but the practice which makes it possible is
certainly a very bad one. The prizes should be paid for
by the committee direct, handed personally to the
winner, and if possible they should be in existence at
the time of the race. Wo should not then have tho
anomaly of a youthful aspirant, the winner of a maiden
race, supplementing the amount of his prize—verv often
by treble the sum—and be seen staggering under tho
we ght of a gorgeous mass of inferior silver plate, while
the legitimate oarsman contents himself with the usual
modest reward, and what the true amateur treasures
most—the honor.
One of the Now Zealand sporting’ writers has
published an account of a visit he paid to the stud farm
of the well-known N. Z. sportsman, Mr. Eedwood, which
is sitnat -d at Spring Creek, Blenheim, and from this we
cull the following, which no doubt will prove interesting
to Sydney readers. Inter alia, he says :—“ In the first
paddock, revelling in English grass, were the brood
mares, Walnut, Fair Puritan, Puriki, and Fair Agatha.
All these are in foal to Cassivelannus; but f was sorry
to hear that Wainui had lost her Traducer foul a few
hours after its birth. Close by were Toi Tot (not in foal),
Constance (slipped to Cassivelannus), Waieti, wbo looks
sound and well enough to be put into work again (not in
f. al). Shrovetide (in foal to Cassivelannus), Sprit.sail
(stinted to Aloany), and Mata’s dam, Eaupo, the very
ideal of a broodmare. In another piddook wereagroup
of yearlings, five in number, and comprising a filly ont of
Wainui, another out of Toi Toi, and a third from Con-
stance —all by Maroro; a gelding by Korari, out of
Eglantine, and another by Lillipee out of Fair Puritan,
made up the quintette. I rather preferred the daughters
of Toi i oi and Constance A little further down the
p uldock a very racing looking yearling colt by Totaia
from Pu iki wis keeping the venerable Ssybirdeompauv,
who is not oy any means so young as she w.ia. A brown
filly, by Albany out of Moss Eose, was close by, in foal
to Cassivelannus. Close to the stables were six recently
weaned foals. Of these five are fillies, those out of
Countess, Shrovetide, and Constance being, as well as
a chesnut colt out of Sky ini, by Puriri. and it must be
confessed do credit to t ieir sir--. The other two are
fillies by Tradncer out of Toi Toi and Wiieti, and if
these should never race a yard they will, from their
breeding alone, be most valuable. They are ls>th very
aristocratic-looking young ladies. I was introduced to
whac mu-t ceitainly be considered the pride of the
Spring Creek young stock. This is Eaupo’ssou. Matatn, j
oy Maroro. He is a ch.snut colt, rising two, and one
of the grand tsr, and most symmetrical youngsters ever
bred in New Zealand. He has rather the appearance
of Papipa, while some ray that lie bears a close
resemblance to the English Blair A hoi. I am
i .firmel that his ha f i.rother i f Traluoar excels
him in matter of good looks. i ne latter is!
owned by Mr. E. Cutta. The next in ter vie-veil was a
throe-year-oal liily by Daniel u'Route out of Constance, '
Anteros, Eama, LUlipes, Diuphir (a Traducer—Maria
Theresa colt) recently purchased at the Middle Park
sale, and a handsome son of old Waterwitch, Norseman,
who was rather unfortunate in tho pad racing seasntt.
An inspection of those well-bred youngsters in workfor
the Christchurch Derby concluded a pleisant visit.
The same gentleman also visited the farm owned by a
Mr. Murph-. close to Mr. Eedwood’s. His little stud
are descended from the old Sir Hercules mare Polly,
formerly known as Plover. This ancient dame, who is
now twenty-five years old. is still alive and wall. Her
eldest living daughter is Malvina, by Kiomedes.
Malvina was a rattling good animal in her time, and
made the running for Papapa in Lurliae’s Canterbury
Cup year Hercules, bv Eavonsworth, was another of
o'd Polly's ■■ 'als. Mr Murphy also owns other valuable
thoroug aired stock.”
STAGE GOSSIP.
Old Day doesn’t act now.
D’Orsay Ogden is in Sydney.
Darrell’s benefit was a bumper.
Fred. Marshall is a splendid swordsman.
An Opera has been written on Boccaccio.
Harry Rickards talks of coming out again,
John Levison is an execrable w ird-twister.
Gus. Wangenhoim h isn’t ha 1 a slow lately.
Bayliss was too late to get the Opera House.
J. J. Welsh hates clap-trap one-horse dramas.
Bland Holt expects to be back for Christmas.
The Zoalandia panorama has loft for England.
J. H. Yinson is not dead, but in San Francisco.
Dave Hayman and wife are still the pretty pair.
They have a Kelly Gang panorama in Adelaide.
Jim Eainford says he’ll never act again. Again,
eh'! ’
The Burwood proscenium isn’t pulled down
yet.
Mr. Fred. Marshall was bom on Guy Fawkes
Day.
Ketton returns to Melbourne during Exhibition
time.
Eistori and Eossi were both recently playing j n
Borne. 8
George Bowden is the oldest prompter in Aus-
tralia.
Marie Antoinette has been translated into
Dutch.
Whore is E. D. Davies now—little truthful
Teddy ?
{ the opera hauso is called “going up*
The Opera House in Melbourne is in the
Market.
Barf or d would have a big welcome back to-
Sydney.
Never judge a comedian by his “Tobv
Twinkle.” J
The Turk’s Oriental Exhibition is still in New
Zealand.
Albani was hissed in Milan. She had doubled
the prices.
Baker and Farron’s playbills are tobacco adver-
tisements.
Nell, the California Diamond, is studying sin",
ing in Italy. J ° °
Nothing is a success in Eockhampton without
Dan Briggs.
The Eistori played at the Vic: the Herald-
forgot that.
The Ju venile Pinafore will revive the life of the
old Queen's.
The Juvenile Troubadours ought to have new
pieces written.
D’Orsay Ogden doesn’t yet know which theatre
he will honour.
i_ Hayes, the Eoyal stage-doorkeeper, would not let
the Fnnce pass.
She has dared to say that Garner is not perfect.
This is madness! *
Mrs. Scott-Siddons is still giving readings in the
States of America. B
Fairclough the unlucky, has made a successful
opening in Adelaide.
Emilie Melville plays in the “Pirates of Pen-
zance in San Francisco.
Mr and Mrs E. J. Eoborts have been perform-
mg at Wagga with success.
What on earth will John Bennett do without
his many exits at the Vic. P
Several “one-horse” shows are performing at
various small towns in N. Z. °
The lease of Kelly and Leon’s Opera House i»
about to bo purchased for £i tOo,
Offenbach has now written a hundred works for
the stage—operas and operettas.
There is a treat in store for some people in
Sydney. The Georgias are back. A
The Dramatic Season proper at the Queen’s
Theatre terminated last Saturday. queens
No one would take old Doorwyn to be the tree
on which such lovely blossoms grew.
• aad Jj6 P n t'pera House estate, will it
is said, pay about Os Sd in the pound.
Lingard says a dead sot has been made against
himselt and charming wife in Adelaide. "
Douglas kneels down every night, and
prays— tor a season of legitimate drama. “
“Tho Happy Land” satire has been produced
with great success in Wellington, N. Z. I Oa
As a net result of 3fJ performances in America
Mr. J. K. Emmett (Fritz) got £10,152. ’
Whore was Tiddlo winks ” during the groat
lire ? His massive form was not to the fore. S ° aI
m T^ m r n S , I)iorama ? nIjr did fai ri.* in Dunedin.
(N.Z.) The place is overdone with these shows.
Sam Poole is back in Sydney, and is forming a
travelling cooxpmy. including his wife, MiJTalty
Hegarty has clapped a tenner a week on tho
render the yueeu S', Things are looking up since the
Wybert Eoevo sailed for Melbourne this week
Lewis* 6 ' 4 t0 aUUia * f ° ta ° AcaUeuj ->' tor Alphabetical
Theatrical matters are dull in Dunedin and
money^ t ° a aul1 clever shows would mako
Nfcd Holloway has aooepted the management of
6 1110111IO a “ d VOfjr hk ’ & commences with
A prompter who patches up a drama from tho
iaa C thie d 86llii * CCW W1Cllout tko author’s permission,
Tno Juvenile Pinafore Company who appear at
IM^aduhs.^ 111 AU8lUt “ Umo0r5J
Miss Mane Carandini took a benefit in Dunedin
(JS previous to her departure for Australia. I here
was a big house.
Uratcau Eiggs saved several articles belonging
to Mr, and Airs. Harry Emmett Iroin iho huruiug
Victoria .theatre.
Mr. Hoskins and Miss Colville propose open
ing in a season of legitimate drama at Sydney after
concluding in N. Z.


Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS -St ami unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indivest.ou, dyspepsia. sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and Is 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disea-e CROUP, aa
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping oough, the hack
ing comrh of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma, la 6d, 2s 6d, and 4s
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine.” >.eing the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAQE.” Can alwavs be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s tid and 10s.
N.B,—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OIN TMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
CENTRAL PHARMACY,
U 78 (Late 84) KING-STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pare drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
T S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
tf • Registered.
* THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from ail noxious drugs, viz., Podophyliin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, Ac., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-etreet, Sydney,
Be careful not, to get imitations.
IIUKE NO MORE PILLS
JL but try
RANDEESON’S
PODOPtlYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then trv Kanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a lew doses of Randeraon’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ? •
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RAND EPSON'S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer Irom Biliousness ?
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, l«eing the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any of your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
63" Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors.
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 Georgo-stre t.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales,
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull tho
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
loug deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
i article of the kind tu>fox - e which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot uelie-.e in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house cau now ho
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
I The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
| ana miraculous cures, are
| THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
I hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
■ casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
! JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
And immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephsou’s Australian Ointment ?
Who wonld suffer from External Sores when tho same
may be cured by using Joeophson’s Australian Oint-
ment?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by apphing constantly for a few days Joseph-
sou’s Australian Ointment ?
Who wonld suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by appi>ing Josephson’s
Australian Ointment 7
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephsou’a Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who wenld suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands tmrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who cau at once bo
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to bo still pro-eminent over anything
of tho kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is gnaranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold bv all oheiu sts and storekeepers, in pots, la.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Whj. es.ilj by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW * COMPANY.
Warehouses
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Aro Solo Agents for
BRINSMEAD’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
Prices —From Fortj-four Guineas.
Guaranteed for Five Years.
Highest Award above all others.
FAT7LTI.E88 AND UNSURPASSED.
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Solo Agents for
ALPHA OAS MACHINE,
For making gas in private houses, largo estab*
lishments, stations or towns.
No Trouble.
Simple and Effective.
half the cost op kerosene.
OYLE & HOGG,
BOND STREET STORES,
SYDNEY,
Are Agents for
SMITH'S AMERICAN ORGANS.
Unequalled and Indispensable.
EOYLE & HOGG,
Brinsmead Piano Depbt,
BOND STREET STORES,
Sydney.
Fifteen drawing - room suites
FOR SALE,
At the ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
INSPECTION INVITED.
No.
Crimson Sattee Suite, 9 pieces £21 0 0
Green figured Silk Settee Suite, horsehair n
stuffed j u 0
Leather Diningroom Suite horse hair stuff. 27 0 0
Settee Suite, covered in satin cretonne ... 20 0 0
Crimson figured Silk Suite horsehair stuff. 22 0 0
Settee Suite, covered in blue honeycomb or n n
silk and horsehair stuffed ) M
Green Silk rep Settee Suite, horsehair >25 o q
stuffed i
Cabriole Suite, covered in crimson rep, 91 1ft 0
articles > 10 10 u
Sette Suite, covered in cretonne 19 0 0
High-low Suite, in green and gold silk, 1
horsehair stuffed W
Maroon striped rep Cabriole Suite, 9) 1f . , A A
articles . ,bA. „ ) 16 10 0
Cabriole Suite, covere<l in green and gold 1 „ 1fl n
silk (horsehair stuffed) u
Green striped rep Drawing-room Suite, 91,, 1A n
articles ,J U 10 0
Chairs
Same as above, with two Easy-ohairs 11 10 0
A VERY HANDSOME INLAID Drawing-room
Chiffonier, with sloped Secretarie, &c., now on view.
W. B. CAMPELL,
Royal Fnruihhiug Arcade,
42b, Oeorge-street,
Sydney.
LUCAS’ PUL VERB NATURALA
(REGISTERED),
The Safest Cure that can be used for all Diseases of the
Eyes, guaranteed to be free from all poisonous qualities.
Who would suffer from Sandy Bliirbt when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by one
packet of Lucas’ Pulvere Naturala, 3s. 6d. per packet?
Soli by all Chemists and Storekeepers. Wholesale at —
TAYLER and CO’S.,
17 5 PITT STREET.
Ketten has accepted 6'> per cent of gross takings
to appear shortly at the Towa Hall, Adelaide. This is
Jimmy Allison’s spec.
A lady named Garretta, with educated pigeons,
ia the latest novelty in Paris. Mdmllo. (Jaretta visits
New York next month.
The lady “ Zazel ” who gets fired out of a cannon
and created such a sensation in London, is appearing
with Barnum in New York.
Wash. Norton and Edwin Kelly were members I
of the minstrel troupe that appeared in Ordway Hall,
New York, on August 30, 1858.
At latest accounts Mr. J. S. Willis was making
rapid progress with the work of re-decorating the
Christchurch Theatre Eoyal, N. Z.
Dickie Lingard and a strong dramatic company
recently played in Chicago. Da'ziel, her husband, is
running a chocolate concern in ’Frisco.
Mdmlle Granville “ the woman with the iron
jaw." has been playing wph a big show in Baltimore,
Washington, and other American towns.
The Victoria Theatre was the best paying theafcri-'
oal spec, in Australia, and shoals of letters of sympathy
are flowing in on Mr. John Bennett, the lessee.
Our old friend Nat Austin is first clown and
equstrian director of Cooper and Bailey's big show.
Batchelder is still retained as the leading leaper.
The Marian Willis Company are still on the
hoards at Ballarat. A new lady, Miss Carlisle, not
unfavorably known in Melbourne, has joined them.
Jane Combs, the greatest frost of a “ star” that
over appear-d in Australia, is playii g leading lady
in a dramatic company “ on the road ” in America.
George Darrell sailed for Melbourne on Tuesday
taking with him his uncompleted M.S. of the thousand
pound play and the good wishes of his many friends.
Mary Loduski Young, who appeared in Aus-
tralia two or three years ago, has been playing “lead”
In a new piece called “ The Kerry Gow” in America.
*■ Overton and Dillon are rehearsing duets for the
next Pant mime. Otto Fisher says that there is good
hard ‘‘timber” in their voices. He ought to know.
Cheevers and Kennedy have parted. Cheevers
Is in England. His late partner Kennedy is now with
the Loftus troupe—our informant cf last week was in
error.
E. S. Gillon. the N. Z. agent of the Dramatic
Authors’ Protection Society, is once more to the fore.
Old De Lias, (“Shylock”) of Auckland, is the last
victim.
Chas. E. Yerner, an old Australian friend, has
arrived in America. When last hoard of, he was so-
journing in Philadelphia, and contemplated having a
play written.
Theodore Loyal (circus biz) has arrived in San
Francisco from Australia, after an absence of three
years. He was at latest performing at the Bella Union
in that city.
Very little loss, comparatively speaking of
course, was sustained bv the burnt oat artistes at the
Vic Fortunately Irish dramas do not require elabor-
ate wardrobes.
Miss Ella Carrington’s Stray Leaves Company,
after a most successful tour through New England and
Qmeus’and, open shortly in Sydney—probably at the
School of Arts.
The Loftus Troupe have reorganised for a trip
in the North &c., co n aoncing widi Brisbane. Butler
and Russell, with Jas. Maas, Saliie and Jeff D’Augolis
are of the party.
A good many people deprecate the manner in
which Opera is being put on the boards at Melbourne.
Kigolletto has bees presented by the weakest members
of the Opera troupe.
Miss Blanche Stammers, as Betsy, looks like a
doll fresh from the civet cat. Surely Miss Taylor ought
to have played the part, instead of the insignificant role
she fills in the comedy.
Gerald Dillon worked like a hero at the fire and
deserves special recognition from those whoso property
he did save, and from those whose property he risked
his life to try and save.
Bland Holt has got “ Ned Kelly’s horse ” on in
“New Babylon.” "Bab.” is now a one horse affair.
Ned Kelly appears to have had as many horses as
Byrne hod pairs of boots.
“ A “ comedy,” says Mr. H. J. Byron, the well-
known actor and dramatist, “ is like a cigar. If it’s
good every one wants a box; if it’s bad no amount of
puffing will make it draw."
Among the passengers by the Te A nan from New
Zealand, on Monday, was Miss Carrie Godfrey, formerly
of the Froli ines, who is understood to be about joining
Simonson’s Opera Company.
J. H. Haverley is now the greatest impresario
in America. Ho owns twelve large shows—operatic,
dramatic, minstrel, concert, &o. Ha also organizes
long-distance walking matches.
Vincent who plays the Spaniard so well in New
Babylon, has accepted an ongigemeut with Allison of
the Theatre Royal. Adelaide, such engagement to com-
mence after the run of the piece named.
The Dillon and South Company are still doing
well at Rockhampton. They havo lately produced,
among other pieces, “The Serious Family," “The
Sightless Bride” and “The Detective.”
It was not an opossum skin which was used in
“Pygmalion and Galatea.” hut a genuine bear skin
rug. Strange that it should be imagined that there is
but one animal (the opossum) with fur on.
Kelly and Leon have purchased from Mr.
Williamson the right *o perform “Pinafore” in New
South Wales in all places except Sydney and Newcastle,
which privilege will cost them £2 per night.
Mr. and Mrs. Hurt, Mr. Barker, and “La
Petite Louise ” (Miss Hart) The Happy Honrs Com-
pany, havo been playing at Napier. N. Z., with much
success. They were about to visit Auckland.
Miss Rosa Towers and her father, Mr. Frank
Towers, who are both well-known to Sydney playgoers,
are now playing a very successful season in Cape Town
in “ Pinafore ” and La Fille de Madame Angot.”
Theatrical authorship is not a bad thing in
Frauce. In the last six years Dumas fils has had from
the Theatre Francais, £8,8 >0; Victor Hugo, £8,400 ;
Emile Augier, £7,700; and M. M. Erckmann-Chatrian
£2,720.
Taking your manuscript home every evening—
having your " star ” part in skeleton and collecting the
parts from the corps dramatique when studied, is the
only way of ensuring the existence of only one copy of
your play.
The family of which Fred, and Edmund Marsha 1
were youthful members, travelled in England as the
•‘Children of Momus,” and one day the father was
greeted in the street by an urchin with “ There goes old
Momus! "
Mr. Charlie Browne, the well-known ladies’ man
an I leading juvenile of the Queen’s Theatre, has
acoepte I an engagement under the Coppio and Greville
management. These managers thoroughly understand
their business.
The leading theatrical and sporting journal of
America, the Nyw Yoke Clipphk, quotes from The
liPCLKPiN in mostly every issus and honestly acknow-
ledges where the information is obtained. Other
journals please note.
Recipe for a theatrical presentation. Buy your
owu gold watch, ri g locket, or whatev r the article is
to he, and get a few friends to present the some to you.
The true state of affairs need oidy be kuwwn to those
“ behind the scenes.”
A panorama of the Australian colonies and New
Zealand, fainted in Hobart Town sorao years ago by
Mr John Frv, scenic artist, was exhibited a week or
two ago in Wellington, N. Z, A bird s-eye of Sydney
comprises one of the scenes.
Hero is a suggestion and novelty for onr Sydney
managers. A travelling company in America called
“The flihernian Picnic Party,” furnishes its patrons
with refreshments in addition to the .usual per-
formances. House crammed nightly.
George Dvrrell talks about returning from Mel-
bourne to buill a g'gantic temple of the drama at the
Temora Rush. He a vers that genuine diggers are the
best patrons and the beat judges of the drama extant.
George is always going to do something.
J. C. Williamson has been negotiating for the
night of producing “ The Piratqp of Punzauce,” bn*
G.lbert and Sullivan, reckoning upon the singular
success of “Pinafore,” have tixod the price of the other
purchase at a figure so high as to bo practically prohibi-
tive.
The stage of Niblo’s Gardens, Now York,
where the Mastodon Minstrels recently appeared, was
got up in a gorgeous manner. It represented the
intoriorof a Turkish pitace and is reported as “glitter-
ing with barbaric splendour and ornate with silver and
gold.
Veteran William Hoskins has been playing a
round of his favourite characters in Wellington, N.Z.,
supported by the B/ronic Comedy and Burelesque
Company. Old Willie is good enough for half a dozen
more “farewell benefits previous to his*departure for ;
Australia.”
G. Dillon disclaims any likeness to Emmett (the
Hyperion Curlist). Dillon says that his attitude is the
lean - on-stick-legs-at-half - past -three- position, while j
Harry claims no right lexeept the curl) Dillon is deter-
mined to protect his right even if he has to descend to
pla> ing Horatio.
Now’s the time to pick and choose. The
Queen’s company id e, and after a short dose of ‘black
business,” further enforced retirement—the Brisbane
“Pros” near the end of their engagements, and in
Mol bourne a host of artistes doing the block—and no
“ghost” walking.
Madame Adelina Patti’s 22 performances at the
Gaieto produced the large sum of b55,OOU francs (£2 u 200),
the joint share of which coming to the diva, and Id.
Nieoiini was 108,000 francs (£802')). M. Merelli’s net
gain may be estimated at about 15 *,000 francs (£6000),
not a bad one in two months and a-half.
Of the numerous songs heard in the London
drawing rooms lately the best are "Mv love my own.”
by Francis Hueffer; “ Tally ho,” by Alfred Miles ; and
“ Water Fairies,” by Franz Aut. The hist mentioned
is a cantata for female voices—two sopranos and a
contralto. “The Silver Cloud,” also by Abt, is a good
number,
Mr. Simonsen got into hot water at Waimate,
N.Z. There was a miserable attendance, the pro-
gramme was curtailed in conseq-.ence and the curtain
fell about half-past nine. Numbers in the hall thought
there was an interval of ten minutes. The management
sentoneof the “supers” on. who ejaculated-—it i* pre-
sumed as an apology for the abrupt termination of the
performance—“ I’he show’s over!”
Liddy's benefit is fixed for Friday, 30th of July.
The beneficiaire has wt 11 deserved the compliment
tendered to him and the whole of the musical and
dramatic profession and several Sydney amateurs,
have offered thnr services either to appear
or purchase tickets. We hope !or and expect to see a
bumper house.
The Pall Malt, Gazette, in a notice of a
burlesque, speaks of che dances common to entertain-
ments uf t his class as “ those extraordinary contortions
which consist in showing how long a very tight-laced
woman can continue to hop from one leg to the other
with her knees turned in, varying the motion by an
occasional kick-out sideways.”
A loading theatrical journal in London pub-
lishes the following paragraph: Baker and Farron’s
show, although funny, was anything but remunerative,
and I think they did a very silly thing when they went
to law to compel Wiliuot, manager of che Duke’s Theatre
to keep it on. Of course the judge decided against them.
They should now drop “ Conrad and Lizotte,” and go to
the music-halls.
The Rev. Thomas Kemmis lectured on “ Charles
Dickens” for the Petersham Literary and Debating
Society. The admission was by invitation, ergo, the
room was full. The lecturer this time was thanked for
the subject he really did speak upon. The last lecturer
was thanked for Nineveh, although the date he persist-
ently repeated referred te the destrustiou of Potnpre-ig.
The Duchess of Newcastle is now Mrs. Tom
Hohler. »he is the daughter of che celebrated banker,
Hope, and after eighteen years of a miserable union
with a worthless duke, casts off her weeds, and weds
her late husband's private secretary. Tom Hohier is a
splendid-looking fellow. He has a tenor voice,
attempted the stage, bat failing to become a Mario, has
succeeded in being the husband of a duchess The
Duchess, who resides in Baris, is very popular in French
society.
The interesting Mdlle Marie Biere, the heroine
of the last cause celebre (she shot her lover, was tried
for her life, and was duly acquitted), told Dumas the
other day that since her release from prison she had re-
ceived three offers.- one from a lady of the Faubourg
St. Germain of £8.000 provided she would go into a con-
vent ; one from an English journalist (?) of his baud in
marriage; and one from an American showman o' a
considerable salary, if sho would consent to be exhibited.
Dumas advised her to refuse all three offers, and wait.
In Melbourne “ The New Babylon ” is trans-
lated to the Princess, and for extra attraction in the
race scene are engaged to appear Frauzin, the bicyclist,
and a Mr. Suproil with his troupe of trained dogs. At
the Royal the “artful one” has produced “The Fly-
ing Scud” in opposition introducing a Tattersail’s
scene wherein are altered for sale the bona fide real live
horses lately owned by the national martyrs Kelly and
Byrue. The animals were purchased by Coppin and
Oo, at a cost of £130, and are made the stars of the pro-
duction. Poor old colonial Drury, it stands simply as
the shadow of a mighty name ! Ned Kelly seems to
have had as many horses as Byrnes had pairs of boots.
A two-act comedy, announced as having been
written by Mr Marcus Clarke, has just been produced
at the Bijou, Melbourne. The story, we are told “is
the very old and often-used one, of a young woman of
simple manners putting on the disguise of worldly
wisdom, in order to win the affections of a man who
prefers town-bred artificiality to rustic artlessness.
She succeeds, ns a matter of course, and so the play
ends.” Mrs. Clarke played the principal character very
prettily, with Mr. Joyce as the explosive old man, Mrs.
Wooldridge as the matron and Mr. Stoneham as the
country squire.
The Duke of Edinburgh (saya The World),
played on Saturday night. May 22, at the Albert Hall,
the violin. obligato in Gounod’s “ Ave Maria” to Mario
Roze’s soprano solo. It seemed that although
accustomed to face the public, his Royal Bighuess was
at flr-t a little nervous, and his bow seemed slightly to
tremble; but as he went on his wings unfolded, and he
went to wort boldly. Mario Roze, in a gold, brocade
dross and diamond eyes, sang, rivalling the intonation
of the violin, and an encore was the unavoidable conse-
quence. After his performance the Duke packed his
two fiddles (a Guarnerius father and a Guarnerius sou)
in the famous leather case, locktd it with his key, and
was off agaiu to Ireland, to help where help is needed.
“The Shanghraun” was first played on any
stage at Wallack's Theatre, San Francisco on Saturday
November 14th, 1871, the original cast being as follows :
—Conn the Shanghraun. Mr. Dion Bouoicaut; Captain
Moliuenx, Mr. H J. Vlontague; Robert Kfol iott, Mr.
J. B. Polk; Father Dolan, Mr. John Gilbert; (lorry
Kinchclla, Mr Eiwnrd Arnott; Harry Duff, Mr Harry
Beckett; Sergeant J mes, of the Forty-first, Mr. W. J.
Leonard; Mangan, Mr. Josephs; Reilly, Mr. E. M.
Holland ; Sullivan, Mr C. E. Edwin; Doyle, Mr. Peek ;
Donovan, Mr. Atkin; Claire Pfolliott, Mias Ada Dyas;
Arte O’No.ale, Miss Jeffreys-Lewis; Mrs. O’Kelly,
Conn’s rnoth-r, Mme. Ponisi; Moya, Miss lone Burke;
Bridget Madigan, a keener, Mrs. Seftou; and Nancy
Malone, a keener, Miss Haisdell.
A sensational play in three acts written by J.
J. Ultling, a New Zealand pressman, entitled the
Kelly’s; or Retribution ” was produced in Wellington.
During its production a member of the Legislative
Council, Mr. Waterhouse, asked whether the Govern-
ment would interdict a performance of so immoral a
tendency ; to which Mr. Whitaker replied that the
Government had no power under the existing law, bat
would introduce legislation on the snbjdct. In the
Lower House, Mr. Hamlin asked the same question, re-
ferring to the <act, that in Sydney a similar play was
interdicted by the G >vernmant. The Premier said the
interdiction in Sydney was under the authority of a
special statute. No such law existed here. He be-
lieved such performances wore objectionable, and would
• submit a measure to prevent them.


Public Companies
T
HE CITY BANK, S Y D 1? E Y.
Pai'.l up Capital, i-2 10,000.
With power to increase to 1500,000.
Reserve Fund, £50,000.
DiRECTORS:
Hon. JAMES WATSON, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman
HUBERT GRAY, E*q.
Hoa. GEORGE THORNTON, Esq., M.L.C.
JOHN ALGER, Esq.
EDWARD WRENCH, Esq.
Auditors :
H. C. D’Ardier, Esq.
Robert Wisdom, Esq , M L.A.
Mvnager:
Wil iam Neill.
S •ICBETART:
Ed nund Rouse.
Accountant:
Thomas T. Orton.
Solicitor :
W. W. Billyard, Esq.
Head Office, Pitt Street, Sydney.
City Branches:
King and Sussex Streets. | 99 Oxford Street.
Country Branches:
Young
Bathurst
Kiama
Carcoax
Coo tarn undra
—
Agents:
London —The London Joint Stock Bank.
Scotland — i he Commercial Bank of Scotland.
Queensland —The Queensland National Bank.
Victoria—The National Bank of Australasia, and the
City of Melbourne Bank.
Tasmania—The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land.
New Zealand—The Bank of New Zealand.
Soath Australia; —National Bank of Australasia, and
the Commercial Bank of South Aistralia.
Western Australia —The National Bank of A ustralasia
India —The Chartered Mercantile Bonk of India,
London, and China.
China — 1 he Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
New York—The Agents of the Bank of California,
Laidlaw and Co.
San Francisco—The Bank of California.
Valparaiso—Banco dd Valparaiso.
Batavia—Netherlands-Inlia Commercial Bank.
Venice —S. A. Blnmenthal and Co.
This Bank adopts and transacts all usual banking
business within the colony, and with any of the
places above named.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION; LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEOSGE-STEEET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £100,000, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony. •
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the protits.
JAMES S. BRAT, Secretary.
fJIERRIBLE ACCIDENTS
Are continually happening, and
FRIGHTFUL MUTILATIONS
and
LOSS OF LIFE
are recorded as the result of accidents in every issue of
the dailj press.
The best investment to provide against
ACCIDENTS OF ALL KINDS
is to take out a Policy with the
AUSTRALASIAN ACCIDENT ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION
(Limited).
CAPITAL—.£100,000.
OVER 300 CLAIMS ALREADY SETTLED.
Head Offices —256 Pitt-st.. corner of Park-st.
RICHD. TAYLOR,
Secretary.
T
HE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COM-
PANY.
Head Office George-street, Edinburgh.
Sydney Branch ... 233 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The next DIVISION OF PROFITS will be mode as
at 15th November, 18S0, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T. WATKINS,
Secretary.
T
HE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—283 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T. WATKINS, Manager.
T
HE NEW SOUTH WALES FISH CO.
(Limited).
Application for SHARES can be made to any
Director, or to the Secretary.
WILLIAM BRYANT,
Mears’ Chambers, near Trickett’s Hotel.
JUSHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Neab the Victoria Theatkk.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 ! !
J. L. HOEDEEN.
Public Companies
[1HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporate ! by Act of Council, 1853.
Fail-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £170,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq.. Chairman.
George A. Murray. Esq. Jeremiah B. Rundle, Eeq.
William B. Walford, Esq. William A. Long, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wauosirocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Red fern 1 Glebe.
London Office —18 King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ &c.
THE BANE UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
I1HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIJAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £110,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, E-q.
MANAGER:
F. A. A Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 537, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helena.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H, Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills neg diated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
A XJSTEALLAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital —£100,000, with power to mcaeaseto £1,000,000,
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. William Hezlet, Esq., M.P.
First Fire Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part of their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonus out of Profits
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liability.-
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums,
Damage by Lightning and Explosions by
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest bates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office —144, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evening News).
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Qoodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER :
Dr. W. F, Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
, Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society :— . . ; ‘ It is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, hut of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by soond judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any ago can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STEELING.
IORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
' ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £100,000.
RESERVE FUND ... £80,000.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
J18 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
THE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
with unlimited liability, and special Acts in each
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued.
Directors in Sydney :
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman.
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Life business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer :
A. Roberts, Esq.
M. W, 8. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Hoad Office for Australasia—62 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Jjl I F T H
BON MARCHE
bemi-Innual DRAPERY
SALE,
96, KING-STREET.
Special Inducements offered during this sale of pur-
chasing NEW, GOOD, CHEAP, Fashionable, Season-
able, Reliable, Durable Drapery at unheard-of Prices.
The Stock has been brought down to Home Costs. All
departments throughout the house have had a thorough
revision, and the goods REMARKED and REDUCED,
in order to clear out our Large Surplus, Good, Clean,
New Stock.
TEN PER CENT,
additional allowed on all purchases during this sale.
SPECIAL NOTICE
is directed to the following, and we respectfully ask
Ladies to carefully peruse the quotations and state-
ments made in reference to this sale :—
FACT No. 1.—This is a genuine Sale of First-class
Goods, at Home Cost.
FACT No. 2. —All our Goods are New, Fashionable,
and Reliable, from the best Home
Houses.
FACT No. 3.—We have reduced and re-marked all
to Home Cost.
FACT No. 4. —In addition to the above, we shall allow
on all purchases 10 per cent, during
this sale.
FACT No. 5.—Is a very startling one: our Jackets,
from 4s lid to 25s, represent the cost of
the materials from the looms. 15 per
cent, also will be allowed on these.
FACT No 6. —A very superior lot of Jackets, ranging
in prices from 25s to 45s. On these a
discount of 20 per cent., or four shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 7. —Beautiful Jackets, of bearer, diagonal,
cashmere, and silk, trimmed fringe,
hngle. silk, velvet, and fur, of the new
long fashionable shape now so much iu
vogue, reduced prices from 45s to 90s.
A discount of 25 per cent., or five shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 8.—Ladies’ and Children’s Ulsters in every
kind of cloth and latest cut and style,
commencing from 3s lid to 30s, npon
which a discount of four shillings in
the pound will be allowed.
FACT No. 9. —Mothers and heads of families should
not lose this opportunity of obtaining
beautifully made English costumes for
their children, all sices—prices ranging
from 5s lid to 23s. A discount of fonr
shillings in the pound will be allowed.
NOTE A FEW of the PRICES in the following
departments:—
Ladies’ Chemises
that were Is lid,
now Is 3d
Ditto, handsomely
trimmed, that
were 4s lid, now
2s 9d
Slip Bodies that
were Is lid, now
Is 3d
Trimmed ditto that
were 2s lid, now
Is lid
Bargains
in the
Undercloth.
ing, also
10 per cent,
allowed.
We guarantee that
all
Garments
shapes.
Infants’ shirts that
were 9d. now 6d
Infants’ Bibbs that
were 6d, now 4jd
Infants’ Night-
gowns that were
2s lid, now Is lid
Bargains
in the
Baby Linen
Every
article
procurable.
Ladies’ Night-
gows that were
3s lid now 2s lid
Ditto ditto hand-
somely trimmed
that were 5s 9d,
now 3s 6d
Ladies’ Drawers
that were Is lid
now 3s 3d
Ditto ditto trim-
med, that were
4s 6d, now 2s lid
are well made and
good
Infant’s monthly
Gowns that were
2s lid now Is lid
Infants’ Robes
that were 9s 6d,
now 5s lid
Infants' Squares
that were 9s lid
now 6s 9d
French and English
Bonnets that were
30s now 20s
Ditto that were 15s
now 12s 6d
Ditto that were 20s
now 10s 6d
Feathers, Flowers,
Rufflings, Hosiery,
Stays.
Bargains
in
Millinery
latest
fashion.
Bargains
in
Ribbons,
Scarfs, Lace.
French & English
Hats thatwere28s
6d now 18s 6d
Ditto that were
20s now 14s 9d
Ditto that were
12s 6d now 6s Hd
Laces, Gloves, Pa-
rasols, Sets and
Collars
Fashionable Dress
Stuffs that were 2s
9d now Is lldjd
Beautiful Soft Pnre
Textures that
werels 6d now Is
French Melton
Cloths, Bieges &
Sergerettes that
were Is 1-Jd now9J
Winceys that were
5Jd now 3,d
Bargains
iu
Dress
Materials.
An
Additional
10 per cent,
allowed
on
purchases.
The
DRESSMAKING
Department,
under the charge
a competeteut
artiste.
GOOD TASTE
and
MODERATE
PRICES
are the
Leading Features
Sheetings that were
7Jd, now 5|d
Sheetings that were
Is 3d, now 10|d
Blankets that were
6s lid, now 4s 9d
Blankets that were
20s, now 14s lid
Quilts that were 4s
6d, now 2s lid
Quilts that were 10a
6d, now 6s lid
Bargains
in
Sheetings,
Blankets,
Quilts,
Ac.
Towels, Glass
Cloth, Jack Tow-
elling, Kitchen
Towelling, Dinner
Napkins, Table
Linen, Hollands,
Calicos, Flannels.
Diapers, Lace
Curtains, and
Tablecloths, all
offered at prices
a little over
MANUFACTURERS
COST.
LEADER and STARK confidently invite examination
of the abovementioned Goods. It will give an idea of
the value theyare offering during this their Fifth Semi-
Annual Sale. They, of course, cannot mention every
article in Iheir large stock in an advertisement, and
therefore solicit inspection. •
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING-STREET.
Tailors, Brapers, &c.
PEAPES AND SHAW
TTo-ro,
Real Russian leather purses, card cases, and ladies’
bags, in all sizes, the most beautiful assortment
that ever came into this market
Th« new Passementerie Trimmings
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collarettes
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool mufflers, fine, fleecy, and
warm, the largest and choicest assortment in the
, city, imports d direct from Germany
Ladies’ Warm Winter Hosiery i The most complete
Ladies’ Warm Winter Gloves and cheapest assort-
New Kid Gloves, old Gold CuS | ment in the City
All the above goods are only just opened out and
marked off, ex S.S. Orient.
EAPES AND SHA W’S
Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from 30s to 5 guineas
Peaces and Shaw’s Flora kid gloves, “ two-button,”
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for single beds. 10s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for double beds, 21
“ Come and see them, comparison is the test test.”
Stout Saxony flannels—Is, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d
Real "Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, 2s 9d (not
imitation)
Peapes aud Shaw’s umbrellas—ladies’ 6s 6d, gent.’s 10
6d, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter overcoats for gentle-
men—20s, 25s, 27s 6d, 30s, 35s, 42s
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s ulsrers, 27s 6d to 55s
GEORGE STREET, GEORGE STREET,
EAPES AND SHAW’S
DEESS MATERIALS,
6’d, 71(1, 8’d, 10L Is
Broche and Pompadour, for trimming, from Is lid per
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s 6d, 3s lid
4s 6d, 5s 6d
A beautiful assortment of rich coloured silks and robes
for dinner, evening, and wedding costumes.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT,
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful garments, is lid 2s 3d,
2s 6d, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto. Is lid, 2s 3d, 2s 6d,
2s 9d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto ditto, 4s lid, 5s 6d, 5a
9d 6s Gd
Wedding trousseaux, from ,£20 to £100
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The new “ Bon Ton ” stays, in whiot and black
The new “ Ladies’ Sealskin Cops,’’ from 12s 6d to 30s
Ladies’ winter merino hose, plain and fancy, Is, Is 3d
Have Opened:—
JACKETS AND MANTLES.
14s 6d to 5 guineas.
George-street.
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street. George-street.
|EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.,
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d., 16s. 6d„ 21s., 25s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac partem,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
JgJCONOMT IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
W Y N V A R D-S T R E E T,
Corner of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter he known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
wln-re
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the host material, ami will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 10 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and Sec—then judge for Yourselves.
2riONS’ Black Cloth Walking 1 Coats and Pagete,
■i 18s, worth 50s; D. B. Frocks, 38s, worth 50b.
409, George-st
ZIONS' 15s TROUSERS to measure, fashion-
able materials, Cheviots, Bannockburns, Adder,
Ac., 409, George-st.
IONS r 188~6d TROUSERS, West of England,
to order; 100 patterns to select from, cash only
409, George-st.
ZIONS’ White Linen SHIRTS, 3s 6d, ready for
1 use ; Crimean, 3s lid; Crape, 4s lid. 409, George-
st reet.
ZIONS, bostand cheapest Tailor for CLOTHING
1 to measure on shortest notice, at lower charges
than any other house. Large assortment fancy
woollens to select from. System of self-measurement
with samples free to all parts. 409, George-st.
ZIONS’. Black SUITS to measure, 80s,
worth 6 guineas. The Tailor, 409, George-st.
ZIONS’ Black Dress Saits, our own make, large
stock to select from, 40s, worth 80s. 409, George-st.
ZIONS’ Black Dross Trousers, to measure, 21s,
worth 42s; ready-made 12s, worth double. 409,
George-st.
ZIONS’ Tweed Trousers to measure, 15s, worth
25s; ready-made all wool, 9s, worth 18s. 409,
George-st.
ZIONS’ Tweed Suits to measure, 100 patterns
I choice woollens to select from, 55s. 409, George-
street.
ZIONS’ Overcoats —Ulsters, Munster, Chesters,
Ac , 15s. worth 42s; come and look. 409, George-st.
rvIONS’ Bedford Cord Trousers, 10a, worth 35s ;
fj best material for riding, &o. Warsaw House, 409,
George-st.
ZION S’ Tweed walking Coats, beautifully made,
fashionable styles, 16s, worth 2 guineas. ‘109,
George-st.
(NURE YOUR CHILBLAINS bv SOUL’S
J matchless PAIN-KILLING CREAM fl«) if they
are not broken; or if broken, buy LUBIN’S GLYCE-
RINE aud CUCUMBER, price Gd.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Pitt-street.
OUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, von will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S. 117 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.


Mr. Walter Bradley.
We give the portrait to-day of Mr. Walter Bradley, the
senior partner of the well-known firm of Messrs. Brad-
• lev, Newton and Lamb of this city. Mr. Bradley was
horn at Hackney, near London, on the 9th November,
1836. He is the sou of Mr. George Robert Bradley,
H.M. Royal Mint, London. He went to the private
school of Mr. James Stephens, M.A., in the same
locality, and afterwords to St. Nicholas, (now called St.
John’s College), Hurstpierpoint, Sussex. In 1851, when
but eighteen years of age, he came to the colony in the
ship Waterloo, with Captain Green, who with all his
officers was subsequently lost in the ill-fated Dunbar.
Mr. Bradley on his arrival here found himself in the
position of having to cut out his own fortune,
and connecting himself with several large auc-
tioneering firms, he steadily advanced step by
step • from one position of trust to another.
In August, I860, he started in business as an auctioneer
in the premises in George-street now occupied by the
Bank of Austra lasia The present splendid business of
the firm is the development of that undertaking. In
1874 Mr. Bradley went on a tour through Egypt,
Europe and America. While in England he arranged
for the importation, at his own expense, of a variety
of English song-birds. This he followed up by estab-
lishing the Zoological Society in 1879, and in recogni-
tion of his efforts he was elected president the follow-
ing year. Mr. Bradley has taken great interest in civic
matters, and has none the less interested himself m
the affairs of the borough in which he resides. He
was elected three years in succession Mayor of Rand-
wick. and is now an alderman of the Council of that
municipality.
BRIEF MENTION.
Query; Qnirindi.
Wagga now has a pawnshop.
Which is Ninny’s next dart ?
Walter Coonan is safe for Forbes.
A shaved upper-lip denotes piety.
The Warren is not appropriated yet.
Gas gets worse in Sydney every brew.
A Fire Brigadier-General is required.
Burwood is great on music and drama.
More photographic galleries burnt down.
The real Forlorn Hope—Lucas’ re-election.
Pigs annoy the “ fruit king ” in Petersham.
Photographers’ assistants are at a discount.
Joubert says exhibitors all want first prizes.
They have a Glee Club on the Eyde steamer.
What always hangs about paries ? A green wood.
They still sing hymns going home to Parramatta.
Solomon, tobacconist, is as wise as his
Kidman still fattens the prisoners and paupers.
Lady missionary collectors swear at Petersham.
Milner Stephen is known as “ the Doctors’ red
rag.”
The closed tram-car is now called the “ baker’s
cart.”
Parramatta should be re-christened Taylor-
byme.
They are railing Captain Cook
in
Laundresses are more impudent
than ever.
The unlicensed cafes sell coffee
now —royal, eh ?
Found—Blaxland’s medals, and
Blazland’s temper.
Canterbury wants • to know
what Lucas has done.
Ritntnell has no branch estab-
lishment at Stanmore.
Camphin is a big, big D, but
Dr. Barker is a big D.D.”
*- If you want some fun ask Boyd,
the photographer, “ How’s the Dutch-
man ?”
Acting sub-inspector Larkins
refused a testimonial. They’re too
cemmon.
The Dutch John o’Croats has
left for Land’s End. This will be a
gruel joke to some one.
Some one connected with the
Newcastle Herald says his baby is
both “Short and Siceet.”
Captain Johnstone, of Annan-
dale, is the richest and most liberal
man in the district— (mea culpa, kc.)
Nobbs wanted Parramatta
Junction called Nobbsville, but got
some one else to propose it, and
lost!
Shakespeare says, “ Joy’s soul
lies in the doing." The souls of our
M’s.P. invariably “lie” in the promise
to do.
A shaving match is on the tapis
between two George-street barbers.
John M‘— is to be interviewed
on the subject.
There was a “ distinguished
foreigner ” who shot tame ducks for
wild ones. Some people would like
to shoot him now.
The young man who was offered
a razor for sale on the Pyrmont
Bridge at 12 o’clock the other night
now keeps early hours and takes the
bus home.
The latest by H.M.S. schooner
Conflict, from New Britain is, that
the natives are ready to bnry the
hatchet as soon as the missionaries
supply them with guns.
Two men of very different pro-
portions stand forWindsor—-“ Hookey
Walker” and Harry M'Qnade. Mr.
W. is thin as a lath, and “ Harry Mac
weighed" 20st. D'ye see the fun?
The Hobart Town Mercury
is thoroughly salivated and cannot
therefore stand anything “spicy.”
Yet its magpies and canaries refuse
to forget their old tricks, and convert
and utter our short articles without
acknowledgment.
The business-manager at the
Depress office is a heretic and a Free-
mason, his cash-boy being a Hebrew.
This is an awful state of things 1
The collector, however, an unassum-
ing youth with fiery hair, is strictly
orthodox, and saves the credit of the
establishment.
Until recently several bank ma-
nagers and accountants in the Sydney
hanks were puzzled to find out why so
many errors occurred in the exchanges
•«ud balances every Friday. Strange
to say Thursday is now the day on
which these blunders occur, and it
has been discovered that the excite-
ment caused by the publication of
The Buli-etin is the cause. More
than one manager has given positive
orders to thel*nnk messenger to “ go”
for the Bulletin boy when he appears
at the door.
This is how a Bathurst editor bewails his hard
late“ The representatives of the local press were very
qrneJy ‘ snuffed ont' from responding, the call being
* at __J r ° !n t, * le chair for the Herald's representative
«> perform that task."
An Astounding Fact. —The Australian Mutual
Provident Society pays all its liabilities in the way of
deaths, &c., and best part of its working expenses ont
of the interest on the reserve fund I
A protest has been entered against holding the
mu ting to consider the S ihool of Arts’ S .inday ques-
tion on Saturday nig’tn, 11-t.h August, os proposed, or
‘ ny Saturday night, it beinv an inconvenient time
f or hundreds of the members to attend.
Mr. W. H. ArieU sent ns a tin of preserved
plum-pudding—an article which should be a godsend to
pio-nic parties and to residents in certain outlandish
and uncivilised places we have lived in. It is very nice
pudding—or rather, it was.
The champion bad-language man of Sydney is
the minister of the gosp«i v, ho advertises The
Bulletin every Sunday evening ,iom his pulpit in
terms which are too indecently vulgar to quote.
At the Victoria fire the firemen dressed them-
selves in the best bonnets and hats of Mrs. Spencer’s
pretty daughters and wenfftm to the roof of the build-
ings, returning the articles, which could have been
saved, covered with mud and filth.
The Petersham Municipal Council has both a
11 o’ or and a Gelding. It is Hughsed to be done Brown ;
a Paling to fence with all questions; a Cuhitt _ to
measure its missingfrierds; a Barrell lor Jits liquida-
tions ; and a Pile already made.
The Parley case has not been reported on by the
police.
Jonbert’s secession ruined the Agricultural
Society.
Parmer and David Jones have had more narrow-
escapes.
The larrikins had an ex-sp&ncer- ive supper at
the fire.
There is no School of Arts between Sydney and
Burwood.
Nobbs has been hoarse ever since that christen-
ing party.
Solomon wouldn’t allow the police to sample
his stock.
The Corporation clothes’-line. —Suspending a.
West coat.
A score of men are praying for * ‘ no !work ’ ’ at
Paddington.
Working out cube measure —falling down in
George-street.
Mr. Pigott’s requisition for Canterbury is being
largely signed.
That girl in the jockey’s dress at the'.ballhadn’t
many partners.
Spiritualists are now allowed to use only
“ medium ” pens.
Who’s for Wagga Wagga? Has no one cast a>
leary eye upon it P
The main street of Petersham is known as the
Slough of Despond.
Mr. Jennings won’t be responsible for D’Avig-
dor’s eccentricities.
We wonder why any man should be called
“ George the Fifth.”
John Davies says he is certain to be returned
for Sydney. Q. E. D.
Twaddle’s latest addition to the English lan-
guage is “ reportorial.”
Rev. T. Kemmis and Rev. J. D. Langley do the
most washing in surplices.
A cathedral (to hold 14) has been opened on
Warded Boad, Marrickville.
Sydney firemen carry feather beds and throw
pier glasses out of the windows.
Ngt yet bom —A printer who doesn’t adversely,
criticise another printer’s work.
The “Vagabond” stands for [Wollongong.
Hasn’t had enough butter of late.
Small-pox is afloat: it will soon bo ashore if
greater precautions are not taken.
The police enjoyed the cigars and liquor as well
as the public in the Victoria Hotel bar.
Foley’s Baths have lost their air of sanctify,
since Frank Warden went soaping up north.
At St. Peter’s Church, Woolloomooloo, four
able-bodied men take np the offertory each Sunday.
The acrobatic training of Mrs._ Spencer’s son-
in-law, Mr. E. Walhalla, made him invaluable at the
fire.
How many of our mayors and magistrates can’t
write or read ? How many can only read print ? Ar d
bow many sign their names with the twenty-fourth
letter of the alphabet ?
It is authoritatively stated that
Sir John O’Shanassy has met Mr.
Berry ami stipulated that an altera-
tion in the Education Act should be
the price of a coalition. The terms
were positively rejected by Mr. Berry,
who observed that their acceptance
would lead to the break-up of his
party.
Oily Gammon says the Minister
of Works is a worker and not a
hrower. Remarks of this sort are ill-
advised, as they provoke invidious
comparison. Now we say, for instance,
that Oily is a blower and not a worker.
Somebody we know, however, had
better “ buzz round and wake up
snakes” at Mudgee, for all that.
Overtures have been made for
Ned Kelly’s armour by a Sydney jour-
nal. In connection with this it may
be mentioned that the .reporter of the
same paper—who has since given a
really excellent account of the Temora.
rush—armed himself, on setting out
from Cootamundra last week, with
a pair of revolvers, n- rifle, and it is
said, n bowie knife. He has returned
safely, having neither killed himself
nor anyone else.
In one of our Northern town-
ships a C. of E. parson performed the
following business in one evening
quite recently:—At three pm. he
preached to some lately-sentenced
prisoners ; immediately after he took
an active part in several pigeon shoot-
ing matches; subsequent to these he
invited a few worthies to shoot the
stray pigeons round the parsonage;
then, after immense destruction, he
took a nip, donned a white vest,* put
his spectacles on again, and attended
an invitation hall given by a real live
Lieutenant-Colonel, where our sport-
ing paison led off the first set, and
“tripped the light fantastic,” as well
as tripping himself up at an early hour
on the following morning.
A northern squatter engaged a
married couple. Then a dispute arose
which ended in the wool- king kicking
out the man and telling him to go to
—heaven. They accordingly went to
Tambo, 70 miles distant, and were ar-
rested for “absconding from their
hired service.” The unfortunates
had to walk the entire distance to
Ellangowen, which occupied five days.
They were brought up at the Court,
and the wife was discharged, her hus-
band being remanded to Tambo, 110
miles off. On being arraigned at the
latter place the man was at once dis-
charged. The squatter is a wealthy
man, the man is of course poor, and.
has no redress for having been dragged
through the bush with his wife for
nearly a month.
Business is bad in New Zealand.
One Dunedin bank which carries on.
business in a gorgeous pile in the
city's centre, has on its ledgers at
least a hundred accounts |the happy
proprietors of which never get over-
drafts and never have cash balances
exceeding £5. In fact down there it's
a very common practice for n fellow
to draw a cheque for £2. suddenly
recollect that he has only £1 at credit,
and after borrowing 25s. from hi*
nearest “uncle,” to rush to the big
financial Institution in order that his
“credit” may not be damaged, and
that the majesty attaching to the
ownership of a bank account of any
kind may be properly sustained The
general manager receives £2200 per
annum, and the clerks ail rrtnnd the
building an average of about £10 per
month. They're working the bank
with very young Scotchmen, “City of
Glasgow ” men chiefly just now ; and
s6 long as “ screws” keep up to their
present splendid proportions, not a
single bank clerk will object to the
importation of Chinese cheap labour.
Answers given by a certain rev. gentleman,
formerly of Oriel College, Oxford, on his cremation
for B.A. degree Question—Mention the names of the
prophets referred to in the New Testament P Answer -
There are four prophets mentioned. The two tua.
MB. WALTEB BKADuEY.
THE VTRTV-'- SAVING ” THE PEOPEETT.


Auction Sale
——
JJALF-ACEE AND QIJAETEE-ACRE SITES.
The WOOD GREEN and STRATHFIELD ESTATES
are being subdivided
FOE AUCTION SALE,
ON THE GEOUND
SATURDAY. JULY 31st.
W THESE PEOPEETIE3 are situate at EEDMYEE,
BUEWOOD,
and known as the Estates of the late D. NICHOL and
JAMES E. WOODWAED, Esqrs.
*** The advantage in purchasing in these Estates are: —
1st. Boulevard frontages, 100 feet wide, well formed and
planted with trees.
2nd. Contiguity to the Eedmyre and Burwood stations.
3rd. Character of the surroundings, elevation, and
aspect.
4th. Salubrity of climate, richness of soil, stately trees
on the ground.
5th. Main road frontages all round and through the
estates.
6th. Very wide streets, and exceptionally large blocks.
TOEEENS’ TITLE.
TEEMS.—10 per cent, deposit, 15 per cent, in 3
months, balance in 2 years at 6 per cent.
THE AUCTIONEERS strongly urge INSPECTION.
No Suburban Land is offering equal to these Estates.
THE AUCTIONEEES’ INSTRUCTIONS ARE—
1st - To well and judicieusly subdivide the Land into
LARGE BLOCKS.:
2nd. To absolutely sell the whole of the Land, and to
make the terms of payment easy.
3rd. To give the purchasers the right to secure large
areas by taking consecutive Blocks.
LITHOGRAPHS OBTAINABLE AT THE BOOMS.
HAEDIE and GORMAN, Auctioneers.
Publications
FJ1HE PACIFIC WEEKLY.
No. XII,
NOW READY.
THE PACIFIC WEEKLY
FOR THIS WEEK CONTAINS:
NOTES OP THE WEEK:
Short and Pithy Paragraphs on Current Events.
TOPICS OF THE DAY:
Mr. Buchanan and the Sydney Berryites—The Lands
Act Amendment Act—Victorian Politics —Mr.
Gladstone’s Turkish Policy—Ill-cooking Women,
&c., Ac.
CLUB GOSSIP (Bv Cain) :
The Public Works Department.
COLONIAL CELEBEITY,
No. XII.
The Hon. A. H. Palmer.
COEEESPONDEN CE.
THE EEIGN OP MUDDLE,
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.
LITERATURE AND ART.
UNDER THE CHANGING SKY”
Ac., &c., Ac. Ac., Ac,
PRICE 6d.
To be had of all Booksellers and Newsagents, and at
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T
E M O E A
TELEGRAPH.
A NEWSPAPER under the above title, with an entirely
New Plant, will be issued on the new Goldfield at
Temora the first week in August.
A11 communications to be addresed to the undersigned
at the temporary office, Hoskins-street, Temora.
SAMUEL HAWKINS,
Manager.
July 24th, 1880.
Anglo-austbalian investment,
FINANCE, AND LAND COMPANY (Limited).
TEMPORARY OFFICES—-Corner of Wynyard and
George-streets.
Applications for shares will be received only up to
SATURDAY, 31st instant.
Prospectuses and all information on application to
FREDK. COOK, Manager,
27th July, 1880.
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
George-street, Sydney,
' 26th August, 1880.
I BEG to acknowledge the receipt of Five Hundred
Pounds from the City Mutual Fire Insurance
Company, being the amount of my claim in full, and to
thank the Directors for their prompt Settlement.
W. B. CAMPBELL.
B. M O D I N
GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Stdnet. 602,
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, Ac.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Business Announcements
O O L.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES, 1880,
HARRISON, JONES, & DEVLIN,
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS.
Sydney,
Have much pleasure in announcing that their
NEW WOOL STORES
Are ready for the reception of THE PRESENT SEA-
SON’S CLIP, and offer advantages unobtainable else-
where, being brilliantly lighted, and so Capacious as to
give Buyers ample space to examine properly every lot
of Wool, however small.
We are Now Erecting a very Capacious and WELL-
LIGHTED BUILDING, Close to our present Stores,
capable of storing about 13,500 Bales Wool, which, in
addition to our
PRESENT ENORMOUS STORAGE,
will entirely obviate any possibility of a block, through
the great rush of Wool arriving daring the few weeks in
the heaviest part of the season, caused by the exten-
tensions of our railways.
VALUATIONS
are carefully made by ns of every lot of Wool before
offering for sale, no lot being sold unless
PULL MARKET RATES ARE OBTAINED.
The FORWARDING AGENTS at all the Railway
Stations will receive Wools consigned to us, and
PAY CARRIAGE.
Parties Desirous of Shipping their Wools to the-
London Market are placed in the best position to secure
the Lowest rate of F REiGHT, &c., and
LIBERAL ADVANCES
Are Made Upon Wool shipped by ns to our Agents in
London.
ACCOUNT SALES are rendered and proceeds paid
over seven days after each sale.
WAY BILLS will be forwarded on application.
HAEEISON, JONES. & DEVLIN,
SYDNEY.
BEUNKEE AND WOLFE,
AUCTIONEERS,
SYDNEY and MAITLAND.
Agents for the Sale of Stations, Stock, Wool, Tallow,
Hides, Grain, &c.
Onr new Stores at the Circular Quay are now com-
pleted, and ready for the reception of all Station.
Produce, Grain, &c.
Onr charges are strictly moderate, and "all account
sales rendered with despatch.
T EYE S’ PEEFECT PUEIFIEE
(Patent.)
NON-POISONOUS ! NON-CORROSIVE !
AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and
DEODORISER OE THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from [a few of the numerous Colonial Testi-
monials to hand:—
From Dr. Dansey—Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid
for household purposes, and ghould be patronised by
all classes of Society.
From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M.A., Ashfleld—For a
lotion and gargle for my throat I could not desire any-
thing more affective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Per-
fect Purifier.
From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylums, Sydney—
Jeyes' Perfect Purifier has no equal as a disinfectant
and purifier.
From J. L. Newton, Esq., M.D., Mudgee—Jeves
Perfect Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfec tant,
and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
Prom Mr. H. Meads, Sydney—My child had sore
oyes for 2i years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in one
week.
From C. A. Laurence, Esq. (Stephen, Laurence, and
Jaqaes. solicitors), Sydney—For destroying aphis and
all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise
as a disinfectant, Jeyes’ Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL,
Pitt-street.
Wholesale only from W. N. PALMER flatc MOSS and
COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney,
Sole Agent for Australia for Jeyes’ Sanitary Comx>ound
Company (Limited), London.
Agents wanted for the Country.
The kelly gang.
To be seen in the
WAXWORKS EXHIBITION
Life-size Figures of EDWARD KELLY, DANIEL
KELLY, STEPHEN HART and BYRNE.
Also, numerous other Figures.
Now open, opposite the Victoria Tbeatro, Pitt-street
Admission, Is; children, half-price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
IJIHE GREAT AMERICAN
GATE
PUZZLE.
THE MOST INTRICATE IN THE WORLD t
IT EXCELS ANYTHING YET PRODUCED !
For Sale at all Stationers, Toy, and Novelty Shops.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
Mrs. mar t i n.
Teacher of Dancing.
Private lessons given at her Academy, 374 Pitt-
street.
Af A 0
That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(corner of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuffs.
T,
Proprietor, DAVID H. WARBY.
• A U T I O N.
THE UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND CAUSED
BY THE QUALITX
of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other mannfacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN T A G.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN RAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping 1
TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
The following steamships belonging to the ORIENT
STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY (LIMITED), and
the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY,
will leave SYDNEY at 12 o’clock noon on the under-
mentioned dates for Melbourne, Adelaide, and London,
via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES.—
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Fares to London. £16 to 60 guineas.
Suez Canal dues 8s in addition.
Passages from Loudon can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars apply to V. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO..
Joint Managers of the line, or to the Agents in Sydney,
GILCHRIST, WATT, and CO.
Government Advertisements
General Post Office,
Sydney, 20th July, 1880.
TELEGRAPH Office will be opened on the
26th instant at
Ibohbakks Railway Station.
SAUL SAMUEL.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 30th June, 1880.
ON and from the 16th proximo, the Post Office
at present kno wn as “ Queen Charlotte’s Vale ”
will bear .the designation of “ Apsley.”
SAUL SAMUEL.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 15th July, 1880.
POST OFFICE MONEY ORDERS.
IT is hereby notified, for general information,
that His Excellency the Governor, with the advice
of the Executive Council, has entered into arrangements
with the Imperial Postal Authorities for the extension
of the Money Order System to the German Empire
from the 2nd proximo.
SAUL SAMUEL.
Lama, and Sabbacthani. Question--Give a short account
of the parable of the Good Samaritan ? Answer —A
certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and
it came to pass as he went that he fell upon stony places,
whereupon thieves sprang up and choked him. Ques-
tion —Write what you know of Oliver Cromwell ?
Answer—-Cromwell on his deathbed is reported to have
said, “ Oh! Cromwell, Cromwell, if you had served
your God as you have served your King lie would not
have deserted you in your old age."
Mr. B. C. Boake has been singularly unfortunate
of late —twice burnt out, on the top of severe domestic
affliction.
Some of our country acquaintances are like un-
boiled lobsters. In shaking hands they never know
when to let go.
A man carried the beautiful statue from the
stairs of the Victoria Theatre safely, and then smashed
it down on the pavement.
Superintendent Roberts, of the tramway, has
had to remove his prize fowls. The barrister up-stairs
doesn’t like their language.
The Western Suburbs Horticultural Society had
a big display on Thursday last. The exhibits covered
a table fully four feet square.
Two boys have been fined in Sydney for stealing
finger-beer. Even the cup which doesn’t cheer and
doesn’t inebriate is dangerous.
Sixteen sewing machines were stolen in the
George-street fire. One was captured in Lower George-
street, wrapped in a tablecover.
The Banks wish someone Would decide the
doubtful question whether cheques should be stamped
or not. The Act says nothing about it.
One old gentleman (called the Bore) with a limp,
will insist on entering the railway carriages marked
“ Ladies,” and telling all about Ketten.
A woman named W alsh was found dead in her bed
at Christchurch, N.Z., from the effects of drink. She
was in the habit of drinking two gallons of whiskey a
week.
The Postmaster-General has in certain cases to
get a Governor’s warrant before his clerks can deliver
to himself certain letters. This is the perfection of red-
tapeism.
An old woman filled the skirt of her dress with
Mrs. Spencer’s eggs, and was doing an egg- zit, but a rap
on the knuckles dropped one side of the skirt and she
unhatched.
They have found a lot of English liquor labels
in South Australia, intended for colonial stuff, and are
horrified at the discovery. Of course this was never
done in Sydney.
A J.P. in New Zealand said, on the Bench,
“ that being an unpaid magistrate he did not consider
himself bound to strictly adhere to the law. They don’t
say so here, but
Clause Pump is the name of a Deniliquin hotel-
keeper. His wife .irowned herself in the river because
she didn’t approve of her husband. Pump, going into
business as a publican.
The gentlemen’s waiting-room at the Eedfern
Bailway Station is the most disgraceful place in the
building. Dark, dirty, and small, kitchen furniture,
and free from all disinfectants.
Mrs, Spencer would have kept her door shut
and saved her belongings but for the order of a polioe-
man, who told her to take down her shutters and open
her doors. That’s where the guiding hand was required.
“ Thus shall it be done unto the man whom the
king delighteth to honor.” Money-lender, who has
been twice through the Insolvent Court, has been
elected treasurer of a house of worship—not in Sydney
Of Peter Campbell, the “ bush missionary,” the
Pastoral Times says:—“ For some reason or other
this gentleman is not the most popular individual that
we have heard of." We always thought Peter was
beloved of the nation.
The one N.S. W. protectionist journal advertises
some more protectionist “nuts” for free-traders to
crack. It also advertises that it wants a respectable
man to take a nice sinecure as compositor, reporter anc
reader. “ Three single gentlemen rolled into one.”
They say that the Government of are
about presenting the secretary of the Agricultural
Society of that colony with £300 for his services as
secretary of the court at the late Exhibition
here. They say, too, that another fellow did the work.
Rumour says that a well-known resident of
Surry Hills, a “Knight of the Cleaver,” is to be asked
to contest the next election for Cook ward. Should he
consent the odds are said to be a “ side of beef to a
turkey’s gizzard” that he beats the “chicken
assassin."
In the midst of a general conflagration a
Japanese householder can only insure immunity for his
property by promptly offering a bribe to the firemen.
When this is done, the latter are perfectly reckless as
to the destruction of other property in carrying out
their contract.
“ The old order changeth and giveth place to
the new." A Chinaman has actually been elected
Deputy Sheriff in New York. Why, no Maori ever got
beyond the rank of a native assessor, a major of militia,
or a policeman, in New Zealand; and in Australia no
aboriginal ever got beyond being a policeman.
When the Western Champion commenced its
career the proprietors announced their price at Is per
copy, and argued that anyone ought to be able to afford
as much for a newspaper as for a nobbier. The hotel
keepers at Blackall have, however, reduced the price of
their drinks 50 per cent. The Champion t is now only
sixpence.
This explains the condition of things at Charters
Towers. Says the Northern Miner “ If Dan ,
alias ‘one of the bone and sinew’ who raises a howl
about the goats, saved the money he and others like him
spend in drink, he would be able to pay the milkman
and raise his children above the condition they are
now in."
The following notice appears in the Aramac
paper:—“Notice! Notice! Zulu War! Three hours
ana a quarter after the appearance of this advertisement
all pigs found on my premises will be lynched,, guillo-
tined, shot, massacred, or otherwise* destroyed, in
consequence of serious injury done to my goods and
chattels.”
Amongst the now pledged abstainers secured to
the temperance cause in Adelaide by Mr. Matthew Bur-
nett are a woman 91 years of age and a man aged 77.
That is pretty late in life to start afresh, but it is a
powerful argument in favor of the irresistible Matthew
to bo able to say that a person yielded after holding out
for 91 years.
Why arc the unfortunates who happen to be
“run in” to the George-street watchhouse invariably
hustled out on the pavement every morning to be gazed
at by a jeering mob, who d dight in witnessing their
discomfort ? Could not “ Black Maria” be taken into
the yard, whore prisoners might enter, and not be made
a public show of ?
There have been presentations and testimonials
without number to officials in the Garden Palace, but
none have reached the gigantic proportions of that
which came off on Monday, the 19th instant, when
some officers presented one of their number with a very
large and handsome tin Maltese cross. David, who
was much overcome by the spokesman’s neat and
touching remarks, thanked the donors and adjourned
for beer.
In the recent case of Lea v. Linsley, over the
non-acceptance of a bull sold by the former gentleman
to the latter, Mr. Bull, solicitor, acted for the defend-
ant. The two bulls got mixed up very queerly—and
awkwardly, Joo —in Mr. Liusley’s plea. Mr. Bull, his
numerous friends are glad to hear, has since consoled
himself by getting married. Mr. Want was in favor of
the bul 1 , but Linsley didn’t want the other bull and so
bolls of all kinds were not wanting.
This story comes from Adelaide, and is evidently
an old “yarn” adaptedWhen H.M.S. Ealeigh
lately steamed into Port Jackson some of the junior
officers, who had been informed of what was in store for
them, had a board prepared, and when the big ship
swung to her moorings the inhabitants on the wharf,
whose mouths were just shaping themselves into
“ What do you think of," were chagrined to read in
great glaring letters on the ship’s side—“We think a
•soon deal of tour hasbor,"
More Eatanswill. —This is what that most
respectable journal, the Wagga Advertiser, which
never quotes anything but the Herald or the Argus,
says about its local contemporary :—“ Wo have not yet
reached that low ebb which would allow us to follow the
meanderings of the Express writer through the crooked
channels of his cynical brain. We have not yet sought
to gain our knowledge of the English language through
the medium of a slang dictionary. Non-con versant as
we are, and intend to remain, with the ethics of
Petticoat-lane, it is not within our province to retaliate
in kind upon him who seeks for adjectives in ‘ butter'
and ‘ soap,'" &c. &c. Yet there was a time when Wagga
editors used to dine together.
There is an article in last Pacific Weekly
about “ Eatanswill Journalism,” and in it it is pointed
out that the Age, which now compares Mr. Service to
Satan and accuses him of being a sycophant and a bully,
a hypocrite and a juggler, a Quaker and a Jesuit and a
Scotchman, was equally severe ou Mr. Berry in 1869,
1870, and 1872. It denounced him “a traitor," “an
apostate,” “ a rat,” “achameleon,” a “liar by nature,"
“ an either side renegade,” “ a trimmer,” “ one of those
bad bargains which those who make regret only once,
that once being for ever,” “ a slanderer,” and “the
choicest specimen of a class, the existence of which is
the greatest blot on our political system. ” He was ac-
cused of having mode two “ politically infamous ”
appointments of members of his own family, in order to
hush up a charge of immorality which was brought
against him, and he was pronounced wholly unlit to be
intrusted with the control of the public funds, while
his compulsory resignation of the office of Treasurer in
the Duffy Administration was described as being “ such
an indication of infamy as will render it advisable for
him to retire from Parliament altogether, for a time at
least.” In connection with the above we want to know
the name of the man who went down on his knees to
Garrett, one of the members for Geelong, and ilnplored
him to withdraw his motion for the production of the
report of a certain select committee.
The Approaching Wool Season.
Thebe can be no doubt tbat the approaching wool
season in respect of its effect on the trade of Sydney
will be the most important yet experienced. The dis-
cussions in the newspaper press some time back as to
the value of this port in comparison with that of Mel-
bourne, for the sale or shipment of wool, have resulted
in a manifest advantage to Sydney. It has been pretty
clearly shown that on the average, taking into consider-
tion the difference in the quality of the wool sold in
each market, higher figures are obtainable here, while
we have the additional advantage now of improved
shipping facilities and greatly increased storage accom-
modation. The fact is the wool trade of Sydney, rapidly
increased after the great draught by our railway
extensions, demanded extra facilities and increase of
storage accommodation. It is creditable to the firms
engaged here in the business that they have not been
slow to meet the demands made upon them. Commo-
dious new warehouses or stores have been erected near
the ships’ side at the Circular Quay; the old stores,
always equal to the trade of the past, have been altered
and enlarged ; and in fact everything has been done to
attract to this port all the wool grown in our own
colony, and to ensure for Sydney a continuance of the
maritime supremacy she has always enjoyed. No firm
in Sydney can have surpassed Messrs. Harrison, Jones,
and Devlin in their efforts to meet the expected in-
crease of business at the approaching wool season.
They recently erected at a cost of £50,000 one of the
most extensive wool stores to be found in the colonies.
The stores are situate in Macquarie Place, within a
stone’s throw of that portion of the Circular Quay
where all the ocean steamships are now berthed. They
are of such lofty grandeur as to first attract the eye from
among all the other splendid private and public
edifices observable from the water. They are
built of Pyrmont stone, and rise to a height
of six storeys. They have a frontage to two streets,
with copious drayways for the receipt or removal of
wool. The plan adopted in the construction is one that
is dictated by experience in the trade. Powerful steam
lifts operate on every floor, and the drays can be loaded
or unloaded with great despatch. Each storey gives
a clear floor space of over 10,000 feet, and the ventila-
tion throughout is perfect. One great feature intro-
duced is a thorough good light to ensure a proper dis-
play of the wool intended for sampling or for sale.
There is perhaps no edifice of its size in the colony
where such a splendid light has been obtained, and the
proprietors look forward on this account to very im-
portant results in the approaching sales. Storage room
is provided for about25,000 bales. The firm, however,
have found that even these new capacious stores might
be unequal to demands made upon them, so they are
now erecting a very capacious and well-lighted building
close to their large stores, ensuring further room for
about 14,000 bales. This obviates all possibility of a
block. The firm have forwarding agents at all the
railway stations to see to the immediate and careful for-
warding of wool, paying carriage, &c., direct to Sydney.
With regard their sales the firm have originated the
principle of making careful valuations of every lot of
wool before offering it for competition, and no lot will
be sold unless the full market rates are obtained. Ar-
rangements have been made for the direct shipment of
wool to London whenever required. At the local mar-
ket every arrangement to ensure good competition has
been made, and both the wool-grower and the buyer
are certain to reap advantage from all that has been
done in this way. These active steps indicate a move
towards making Sydney the greatest centre of the wool
trade of the colonies. The further the northern and
western lines are extended the greater will be the in-
crease of the trade. Queensland will send more wool
to Sydney this year than ever before. Increased attend-
ance of buyers and better prices may be exnected from
this centralising of the wool trade of the two colonies.
It is satisfactory to find our Sydney firms leaving
nothing undone to make this change a permanent ad-
vantage to all concerned.


Business Announcements
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, "W. H. A ~R.TFT.Tj, 343, & 345, Kcnt-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
pi INTERNATIONAL 1880. — GEO.
BENCEAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2, 7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of 1J, 2, 3,
and cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
iALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
m
m
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLETEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
TDT Hr,CWERNW1ENT OBSfjty/V^
F. % SojSf J
Q O U N D RY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Ooundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDKY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
Minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl,Tiaving sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GO UNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen nnd Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
~ , . 175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
IVOTICE. —We desire to notify that Mr. J. H.
vn * 8 now the only authorised
ADVERTISING AGENT in City and Suburbs
for The Buklktin.
_ HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
Bvujjtis Office, 21 July, 1880.
Business Announcements
p E I N T IN
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THE BULLETIN.”
J.
M
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
N,
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
D,
SLATTERY AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
G R O C EE S,
705 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
P. M A H O N Y,
AGENT, ETC.
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL PRODUCE, Ac.
E. LARK!
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES-
48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spibit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
E
X ZEALANDIA.
r A 'i
Fifteen Cases j N. Co., ! One Crate Puzzles,
I S - J
Consisting of
NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOTIONS, TOYS, 15
Puzzles, Articles of useful invention.
Books, &c., &c.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank).
Depot:
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
c
OUNTRY - KILLED MEAT.
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
OOUNTEY - KILLED BEEP
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see,
And Judge pob Youbselvks.
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
FOR SALE, or TO LET, on the BELLINGER
RIVER,
95 ACRES of LAND, on which are about 7 acres
of bearing Vineyard, comprising a choice selection
of grape vines, together wifh comfortable DWELL-
ING, Cellar, &c. Also, a 52-ACRE FARM, direct
opposite vineyard; all of which is rich alluvial
soil, and situated between the Townships of Fern-
monnt and Boat Harbour, all navigable water
frontage. The above is situated in one of the
healthiest country districts on the Northern Coast.
For particulars, apply to J. P. SCHOLER, <%,stle-
reagh-street, or to J. MARX, Sunk., Bollinger
j River.
MAW’S AND MINTON’S well-known
TESSELATED PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS,
HEARTH TILES. WALL LININGS, new and elegant
designs.
Also,
Some very cheap encaustic tiles, for verandahs, baths,
conservatories &c.
BKILBY and CO.
Business Announcements
HE AUSTRALASIAN GENERAL
PRESS AGENCY,
134 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
The want of an institution for the Distribution of
LITERARY- WORK, NEWSPAPER CORRESPOND-
ENCE, and reliable and authenticated TELEGRAMS has
long been felt by Newspaper Proprietors in the different
centres of Population in Australia; hence the establish-
ment of the above office, with a permanent staff of W riters
and Reporters of long experience, training, and acknow-
ledged ability. The Management will always be ready
to supply to their constituents the latest news of the
day, whether by telegram or otherwise, on the most
reasonable terms, and at the same time will undertake
to secure to their constituents
ALL OBTAINABLE ADVERTISEMENTS
at ruling rates, furnishing together therewith (or as by
arrangement)
ACCOUNTS with PROMPT PAYMENTS,
Reliable and trustworthy Leaders on the prominent
questions of the day, together with articles on general
subjects, will be furnished with the utmost promptitude,
the Management being desirous of bringing the Country
Press into close and complete communication with
Sydney, and through the resources of Sydney,
WITH THE WORLD!!
The Management are pleased to be able to state that
they have secured great facilities for the immediate
supply of important
FOREIGN TELEGRAMS
and Local information, and therefore have confidence
in soliciting the patronage and co-operation of the
COUNTRY AND INTERCOLONIAL PRESS.
A PRESS READING ROOM will be established in con-
nection with the agency at the above address where Coun-
try and Intercolonial Papers will be provided for the use
of constituents, and for reference by the general public.
Newspaper proprietors are, therefore, requested to supply
files.
Proprietors of newspapers will be kind enough to
communicate with O. L. Grattan & Co. at earliest
convenience, resting assured that any confidence given
will meet with attention, and be followed by satisfactory-
results.
MESSES. GRATTAN A CO.,
The Australasian General Press Agency,
124 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Mr. P. HURST, having been in the principal
hoot factories on the Continent, is placed in a position
to import and sell the best makes in boots at a lower
figure than any other house in Sydney. Gent’s boots —
French calf, hand-sewn, warranted, 10s. fid.; ladies’
high-leg satin boots, 6s. fid. Call and see the price and
the style.
P. HURST,
494 George-streot.
II
OMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
J24 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of JE2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
IN
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law (costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
ATEST INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPARATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE A BERTRAM, Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto „
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON, Toronto „
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, Ac.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other aerated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
Ac., Ac. ,•
FIRST PRIZE (International Exhibition) Soda
water Machinery, rated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
SMITH AND HAMILTON.
4 3 GLOBE BUILDING,
SUSSEX STREET NORTH.
JpIRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards."
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTEPvMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-strsct, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Easiness Announcements
M
ADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEOEGE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and last ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest te be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Eates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are
One month, 5s. ; Three-months, 12s, 6d.; Six months
25s.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THEEE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHOET PEEIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Eesidents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Eailways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from MADDOCK’S LIBEAEY
shall be Carried by Eail at ONE-FOUETH of usual
parcel rates. A card of eountry terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Plain English, by John Hollingshead
Doctor Digby’s Letters from France, edited by
Lady Eastlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. Lefanu
Keata: What’s in a Name, by E. D. Girard
Memoirs of a Cynic, edited by Wm. Gilbert
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesworth
The Duke of Albany’s Own Highlanders, by James
Grant
Mary Anerley: A Yorksh e Tale, by E. D. Black*
more
Protection and Bad Times, by G. Baden Powell
Honor Carmichael, by Miss Duff
The White Month, by the Author of “ Cartouche”
Poor Zeth, by Author of “ Grandmother’s Money”
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Prince Consort, vol. 5, by Sir Theodore Martini
Haworth’s, by Francis Burnett
Our Australian Cousins, by James Inglis (“ Maori”)
For Her Dear Sake, by Mary Cecil Hay
Moths, by Ouida
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Eice
Three Eecruits, by Joseph Hatton
An Australian Heroine, by E. M. Prior
England Under Beaconsfleld, by P. W. Clayden
Boughing it Van Diemen’s Laud, by Edward Howe
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C.
Crawford
On Duty; A Bide through Hostile Africa, by
Parker Gilmore
No Belations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Memoirs of Madame de Eemuset
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
Story of Barbara, by Miss Braddon
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
Queen of the Meadow, by Charles Gibbon
In Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Grant
Sweet Spring Time, by Catherine M. Macquoid
Eoyal Windsor, vols. 3 and 4, by W. Hepworth
Dixon
A Sword of Damocles, by Theo. A. Sharp.
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
w
INTER GAMES.
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Eegulation Size.
TENNIS BALLS, Eegulation Size cemented and cat-gut
sewn.
BACKET BATS, all prices.
FEISQUBTTE, or LADIES’ CEICKET.
All of Jeffries’ and Mailings’ manufacture.
GILBEET’S MATCH FOOT BALLS.
OUOITS, all sizes made to colonial pattern.
BOXING GLOVES, INDIAN CLUBS BOWLS.
SINGLESTICKS, Foils, Head and Face Masks, and all
the requirements for Stick and Foil play.
Presentation CEICKET BATS and BALLS.
SIDNEY COHEN,
IEONMON GEE,
408 GEOEGE STEEET.
y irom
■ every flower that '\j> >
breathes a fragrance. 9^
SWEET SCENTS]
LIGN-ALOE. OPOPONAX.
LOVE-AMONG-THE-ROSES./
FRANGIPANNI.
AND A THOUSAND OTHERS.
f . $'/.
l v vj* 2*. 6 d. each; or three / A
V N Of. tit a case,7s. <
Sj-eoaa st.e* V "
T O BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTEE STEWAET has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
J MITCHELL.
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANT,
HAY STEEET
and
DEUITT STEEET,
Sydney.
Best Newcastle Screened Coal
Mountain Coal
NntCoal...
22s. per ton.
12s. per 4-ton
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
11s. per 1-ton.
19s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
Cut Wood, 12 and 9 in.
,, ,, ,, 6-in. ... ... jvn. IA/U.
Blacksmiths’ and Engine Coal, at Lowest Eates.
The above prices are Cash on Delivery within the
City boundaries.
Correct Weight in all cases guaranteed.


Miscellaneous
M A - HUGHES AND CO.,
580, Geoege-stekkt,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambs wool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts. Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Eegatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
330 George-street.
RYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Bnggy-bodies. Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks
&c., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
IJIHE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
OF
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AT
RILEY BROTHERS’
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
SAVE 5e. IN THE POUND
Don't fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
oir
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
WILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringor, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac,
S. [HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
A
MESICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITI-STREKT,
Impor e a of a 1 Descriptions of
MACHINES Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass ined)
Rubier and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum parkin l-
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. tincl G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
qualify OSAhaotesd, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices,
LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED),
Have on view the finest exhibition of Silver-plated Ware in the Colony.
C'V.
ft
Tv.Kl
fj
Over One Hundred Patterns of TEA SERVICES to choose from.
Selected from the best Ateliers in England, the Continent, and America.
NEW DESIGNS arriving by Orient Steamship Co., comprising Cruet Frames,"'Entree Dishes,
Biscuit Boxes, Butter Dishes, Liquor Frames, Salvers, Cake Baskets, Napkin Rings, Prize
Cups, Toast Racks, Sardine Boxes, &c., &o. CABINETS containing Full JSuito of
Table Appointments suitable for Presentations.
AGENTS for REED & BARTON’S American Silver-plated Ware.
AGENTS for CHRISTOFLE’S Celebrated Parisian Silver-plated Ware, every article of which is
stamped with the amount of silver deposited.
F. LASSETTER & 00. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
E. HARPER & CO,,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. HARPER & Co.’s
Manufacthbes
were awarded
TEN FIRST PHIZES
AND THE
SPECIAL FIRST
As the BEST OF THEIR CLASS
in the
STD NET
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
o
«1L at (L _ JL eflufe
FRIZ
-r
t
rr%f
R. HARPER & C0-,
SYDNEY.
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Evhttiition Judges’ Report says:—
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER & CO,,
SYDNEY.
£v(D)
BUY
lUBfll IIMIIIl
m
JSRIZE
R. HARPER & CO.,
8YDEEY,
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made atd Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 71,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGERS MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER'S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sola by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —<£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co,), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-atreet, SYDNEY.)
T HE UNIVERSAL lOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have you not hoard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other. ’
Sold on Easy Terms—TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited. • °
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO. '
NTER NATIONAL
SYDNEY, 1879—80.
EXHIBITION
ALDEESON and
LEATHER—
Sole Special 1st Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c.
Harness, Strap, and Bag
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing
Splits, Levants, &c
Patent Enamel and Japanned
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings
Morocco Roans, Levant, and Book...
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
SONS’ AWARDS.
MANUFACTURES-^
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, &c Special 1st
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
Paris, 1878-9 —Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers. Bronze ditto
1851 —80 Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STEEET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
w.
P- WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B-—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blinds.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PATENT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
V4
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Sold hr «U Grocers and Storekeepers;
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE 1
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stomp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE TEARS.
Reduced Price List:—
No. 1.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANB, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very tine,
but no other brand has tut, same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the pa -ate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of au
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Office* of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Gr
HNS,
R
IFLES,
R
EVOLVEES
PEICE MODERATE. QUALITY GU ADAM TEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Ors maker,
*11 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
ST1EPVATER, GUNMAEEE,
107 CASTLEEBAGH STREET.
Country orders promptly attended to.
