

THE BULLETIN
No. 1.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1880.
Price—44.
®| n §wllcint.
SATUEDAY, JANUARY 31, 1880.
A MATTER OF PUBLIC CONCERN.
To-day we send broadcast throughout the colonies
the first number of The Bulletin. That it
goes to an appreciative public ■we have no doubt.
Excellence is the passport to success in colonial
life, and The Bulletin bids to win. The aim of
the proprietors is to establish a journal which can-
not be beaten —excellent in the illustrations which
embellish its pages and unsurpassed in the vigor,
freshness, and geniality of its literary contribu-
tions. To this end the services of the best men
of the realms of pen and pencil in the colony
have been secured and, fair support
The Bulletin will assuredly become the very
best and most interesting newspaper published in
Australia. With our first issue begins a new de-
parture in journalism. We give to the public
what is dictated by the result of twenty years’
experience on the colonial Press. The substance
of the daily weekly is
gathered by tne average reader in a few moments.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more than
half of what is printed in the publications of the
day. It is only the other half which will be
found in The Bulletin.
“THE HAPPY LAND.”
When a statesman, or a man who calls himself e
statesman, sinks so low in the world as to fear tha
effect of a caricature, it is quite certain that his
reign is nearly at an end. The moribund dreads
the gnat because he has no longer strength to
move or brush it away, but the hale man shifts
his sofa, draws the curtains, or moves away from
the place where its hum is heard, without giving
a second thought to the insect. The Victorian
Premier has, by interdicting the performance of
the “ Happy Land,” shown that as a statesman he
is at his very last gasp. For this stage play is
not of a significance itself that need worry him at
all. It is in the first place an old, old piece,
seven-years-old good measure, and seven-years-
old satire, like champagne of which the cork
was drawn last week, is flat, vapid, worthless. It
is seven years at least since the “Happy Land,”
a satire on Gilbert’s weak play of the
“ Wicked World,” was produoed at the
Court Theatre in Sloane-square, London. Its
motive was slavishly copied from Gilbert’s piece,
wherein the fairies insist on having a couple of
mortals as specimens of the race, and, speedily
tiring of their bargain, let them go, not without
suffering a little in their company. The sole idea
of the burlesque was concentrated in the notion
of sending as specimens of mankind the three
Ministers most unbearable in the world of
London, Mr. Gladstone (Premier), Mr. Robert
Lowe (Chancellor of the Exchequer), and Mr.
Ayrton (Commissioner of Works). To show
these three as types of ordinary humanity was
so great a joke that all London laughed, not in
contempt of the men thus caricatured, but at the
incongruity of the idea; for Gladstone is as
grave as Minerva, and about as comical as Lady
Macbeth ; Robert Lowe is not much more
humorous than a polar bear ; and Ayrton, a
cockney of pure blood, is the most stolid of all
the John Bull race. Therefore the idea of setting
these people to do a breakdown in the presence
of fairies in order to show the manners of con-
temporary mankind, sent all the English folk into
a simultaneous simmer of laughter, and frightened
Mr. Gladstone, until, after standing the carica-
cature for a day or two, he interdicted the bur-
lesque. It hardly seems credible that a younger
and more unscrupulous man should take fire at
the same touchpaper, but Mr. Berry has shown
his fear of the will-o’-the-wisp that frightened
Mr.- Gladstone, and has interfered with the
revival of the burlesque, simply for fear that he
should be shown capering on the stage as the great
English statesman was. The interference with
the liberty of the subject ruined Mr. Gladstone,
and it seems likely to ruin Mr. Berry. The Vic-
torians do not shout for “ bread and games,” as
the old Romans did ; but they will probably
resent this interference with their mirth from a
man who has already stepped between them and
their bread and butter.
THE PRESS SNUBBED.
As it is hardly likely that the Sheriff would on
his own responsibility have excluded reporters
from the gaol on the occasion of the execution
of the Wantabadgery bushrangers, it may fairly
be assumed that the action alluded to was solely
a result of instructions received from the Colo-
nial Secretary. Sir Henry Parkes, now a pro-
fessional politician, was once a pressman him-
self, and not only a pressman, bnt a newspaper
proprietor. In the good old days, when there
was as yet “no such a person” as “Sir Henry,”
the present Premier was editor of the Empire.
Home news then came by clipper instead of by
steamer, and when the arrival of the mail was
expected, plain Mr. Parkes, with an eye to pro-
curing and publishing the news in advance of his
rival, used to “camp” at the Empire Office for
days together and to sustain his energies with
bacon, which he was wont to cut into rashers and
fry with his own fair hands. We don’t happen
to know whether he retains his old love of bacon,
but we do know that he doesn’t .take the same
affectionate interest in journalism, or at any rate
in journalists, as he used to take. In Sydney the
Press is now treated by the Government and the
Governor as if it were the most impotent and
useless of all institutions. The public are fully
cognisant of the shameful job whiqh it was
sought to consummate in connection with 'he
Parramatta .
railway colli-
sion enquiry,
and which bad
that enquiry
been open to
the Press,
could never
have been at-
tempted. But
while this and
a few other
things of a
similar kind
are within the
knowledge of
the commun-
ity at large,
people in
general have
hardly awak-
ened to the
fact that Sir
A. Stephen,
whose name is
assoc iat e d
with one of the
most unjust
acts ever per-
petrated in the
name of law —
the Mudgee
e x ecution—is
still in some
regards Go-
vernor of the
colony, and
that his bane-
ful political
influence is
still paramount atHGovernmfnt House. The
Herald, which has of late been a deliciously
‘ bizarre ’ farrago of piety and pruriency,
is apparently the guide, counsellor, and friend
of Lord Augustus Loftus in all matters
affecting public morality, and in ail concerns beam
on the relations between the authorities and the
Press. Darlinghurst Gaol is at present well man-
aged. How it used to be managed in days gone by,
and how the Press was the power by which the cor-
ruption and flagrant abuses within its walls were
remedied, is shown in another column. The Press
represents the public and fair play, and for the
public interest it is well that it has open to it, as
on the present occasion, sources of information
over which the Governor and Ministry have no
control. Lord Loftus, who now knows
that his decision in the Wantabadgery case
is a thoroughly unpopular one, and who
too, must now see that it is impossible to justify
that decision by any process of logic known out
of Russia, has utterly thrown away all chance of
being regarded as a successful viceroy. Whatever
he may have been in times gone by, it is evident
that he is now altogether destitute of judgment.
He gracefully chose the sewerage question for his
first public after-dinner speech in Sydney, and
his first important public act has thoroughly
borne out the impression formed of his character
bv those who listened to his maiden oration ix
New Souih Wales.
AN UNTIMELY GRAZE.
Just as Mr. Buchanan begins to agitate for
Protection the news of the successful voyage of
the Strathleven comes to render Protection for-
ever impossible, in this colony at least. For we
want to send our beef and mutton to the English
market, and the proof that we can do so will
send the price of every bullock up to £l5 or so
in the course of a very few months. But if we
are to send shiploads of meat for English mouths
we must, if freight is to be cheap and prices highj
be prepared to take ship -loads of English goods
in exchange. Ships cannot come out in ballast
to take frozen meat back, nor can Englishmen
pay as heavily in coin as in kind. If they can
pay with the fruits of their labour for the pro-
duce of our paddocks they will buy freely and
pay liberally. But if we will take nothing but
gold we must pay the premium in malt or in
meal to get it. The new market opened to us
by the success of the Strathleven trip will be
gigantic if we do not seek to interfere with the
natural course of trade, but if we choke it in its
birth we may kill it for ever.
CAMILLA
URSO.
It is not often
that out of the
very numerous,
violinists (o r
rather fiddlers)
that appear sud-
denly on the
world’s stage as
“ artists,” and
then as quietly
vanish from the
scene, an occa-
sional genius
stands forth
from the crowd
to astonish us
with his unriv-
alled superior-
ity. A Paganini,
De Beriot, Elms
Sivrai, Moliane,
Vieuxtemps.Ole
Bull, Wieniaw-
ski. David, Joa-
chim, De Kont-
ski, and others
of later date,
are a few in-
stances of as
many decades.
If then, this
talent is so great
a rarity amongst
men, how much
more seldom do
we find such
artists among
the weaker sex ?
The violin is
not an instru-
ment which a
woman propos-
es to conquer,
unless she has a
great artist’s
soul. At this
moment, but 4
great names in
four times ten years occur to us as shedding|lustre on tL®
art they professed. It is about forty years ago sine®
Therese Milanolo, the Italian, startled the world by he 1
daring flights of bowing, her exquisite purity of tone-
It is over twenty-five years ago since I saw the infantile
Neruda i child of twelve years of age, on the large stage
of Koniugsberg Theatre, afterwards at Berlin, Vienna,
and other European capitals, her fragile form swayed
by the genius of music, as, drawing the bow across the
strings, she held audiences spell-bound, rapt in amaze-
ment at ths wondrous power which awakened such
sponsive echoes in the breasts of those capable of
appreciating them, as we find amongst the peoples of
the old world. She now is the great Madame Norman-
Neruda, first in the ranks of musical art, in highest
celebrity. Of that dainty, delicate little artiste, Jenny
Claus, full of tender sympathetic romance, we know
something her.-. And now —Camilla Urso.
Camilla Urso, bom in France, is of mixed Italian and
Portuguese par ntage. Her father, Salvator Urso, was
a good Italian - msician, and her mother migrating from
her own conipvy settled with her husband in Italy, as
a teacher of singing. From this musical combination,
sprang the musical soul of Camilla Urso. Subsequently,
the musical couple went to France and settled in Nantes,
where Camilla was bom. In this town arrived the cele-
brated Apollinaire De Kontski, the Polish violinist, to
give a concert. Camilla Urso was at the time six years
of age. He heard the little one, who had been taking
lessons on the violin from her father, and was delighted
with her wonderful talent and correctness of execution.
She continued practising diligently, and shortly after-
wards made her public debnt at a local charity concert,
playing De Beriot’s celebrated “Air Vario.” Hence-
forth her fate was decided; so great was her success
that she was crowned with a wreath of white camelias,
and there could be no doubt of her taking rank as a
marvellous artiste.
But Camilla’s father was a sensible man; he knew
better than to allow the future of his darling to be
destroyed by injudicious flattery of newspapers and
friends. He knew that something more was wanting—
study, earnest study, and patient and continuous
practice. He determined to place his daughter in the
Conservatoire de Musique of Paris, and, despite almost
insurmountable obstacles, succeeded after a persevering
struggle of nine months; Camilla was admitted at the
age of seven years, one of the nine successful candidates
out of seventy-six. She was the first girl admitted,
and paved the way for several others on whom the boon
was subsequently bestowed. De Beriot, director of the
Conservatoire at Brussels, visited Paris and heard the
child; he was so delighted that he offered to take her
to Brussels and give her a complete musical education,
but the plan wes frustrated by the poverty of her
parents. She made a provincial tour with them,
realising a considerable sum ; and she then returned to
her studies. Each year she gained more and more
honour at the examinations, and at the end of the pro-
bationary period of three years she went to New York
with her diplomas, under engagement to an entrepre-
neur, who, however, turned out to be a penniless ad-
venturer, and she without a knowledge of the language
had to seek an existence. But she was not allowed to
remain idle very long, and three.concerts which were
given under the auspices of that great and good canta-
trice, Marrietta Alfoni, who was then in the city, laid
the foundation of her future fame. In 1853, she
travelled with the great artiste Henrietta Sontag,
Countess Rossi, who treated the young girl with great
affection. ,
Private troubles had shut Camilla Urso from the
artistic world and the public for seven years, but not
from study, and she appeared in 1873, a finished and
brilliant artiste. In 1865 she returned to the scene of
her studies, which opposition had tried to keep closed
against females, the Conservatoire of Paris, and played
Mendelssohn’s grand concerto with Pasdeloup’s magnifi-
cent orchestra, arousing a furore such as had been
seldom previously witnessed. Between America and
Prance the next few years were passed, triumph heaping
on triumph At length the great trial ground :c;- the
support of futistg.—Land'in v.«a V taalnd in’ 1871} and
here she [Jilted at the memorial t mcert for hlendels-
shon in Sydenham Palace, essaying the Composer’s
Concerto. Rondon gave the final stamp of acknowledg-
ment to her genius, and Camilla Urso then returned to
the States. She has spent her time since then princi-
pally in travelling.
CRITIC.
Long Odds and Sharp Ends.
Were the brewers of Sydney very thankful to
the Legislative Assembly for defeating the minis-
terial project of taxing colonial beer, or to the
Ministry for withdrawing the remainder of their
scheme, and for thus depriving them of the op-
portunity of airing their grievance in public ? We
think not. At least it appears so from the S. M.
Herald the other morning, which had a para-
fraph wisely informing its readers that ' ‘ the
rewers of Sydney are making strenuous efforts to
to induce the Government to postpone that por-
tion of their tariff proposals relating to the im-
position of an excise duty on colonial beer,”
apparently in happy uignorance of the fact hat Go-
vernment had already withdrawn the whole of that
portion oj their tariff scheme the evening previous
on the defeat of one clause of their measure. The
fact is that the paragraph in question had ap-
peared in the Echo on the previous afternoon, but
with that excessive care which characterises the
management of the two papers, it had been trans-
ferred to the following day’s paper as an
item of fresh news with a refreshing obliviousness
of the contradiction of the intelligence contained
in another column of the same paper. Sleepy
Hollow occasionally eclipses itself.
The way in which the breakfast tables _ of
some of our well-to-do “cits” are supplied
with fresh eggs, when the article is scarce, was
recently very amusingly exposed; At a little “ At
Home ’ ’ the other evening in a pretty suburban
villa, the conversation happened to turn on poul-
try, when little Pickle, “that boy of ours,’’ the
pride of mamma, who is always allowed to_ sit up
whenever there are visitors, whom he conjointly
astounds and annoys, burst in with his little anec-
dote : “ Oh, we have two chickens come into our
yard every morning, and ma always shuts ’em up
till they have laid eggs, and then lets ’em out.”
Imagine the feelings of mater-familias! her
triumph at the bright genius of her darling was
complete : did she join in the exuberant explosion
of mirth which followed the announcement ?
Humbug—thy home is Sydney! Is it not won-
derful in what quantities the compound is mixed
and swallowed ? Whether its effects are those of a
narcotic or soporific, whether it is a drug or a con-
diment, is a question that has baffled the most as-
tute enquiries of the philosopher to determine ;
but it so tickles the palate, and is so pleasant to
the taste that, unlike other sweets, it does not
surfeit, and the more it is given the better it
is relished. Those who administer the dose know
that it is “ humbug ” they are swallowing ; and
those who tell of the administration know better
than either of the others that it is all “ humbug ”
together, and that they are pandering to it. Yet
each one carries out the fraud with a smile and a
bow, as though it were common honesty, and all
shake hands with themselves and each other,
knowing that there is really no deception. At a
late public entertainment to a late public official,
we are told with all the unhesitating solemnity of
a piece of daily news, that the visitors formed tw
ranks to salute the guest as he passed along, and
this without a word to show contempt for the per-
fect snobbery which would in a free and indepen


'dent"country turn a respectable citizen, whom a
plain, honest greeting from his (would-be) ad-
mirers ought to satisfy, into —an ass, to be satis-
fied only with the brayings of his braying brother
quadrupeds.
The maudlin sentimentality which would fill our
country with brutal bushrangers by making heroes
of them when caught red-handed, and then regal-
ing their admirers by detailing incidents that would
make them appear as martyrs for whom a niche
in the temple of fame or a paragraph in a page of
history should be reserved, ought certainly to re-
ceive every possible check at a moment when the
love of vagabondage at the public expense appears
to be on the increase. Though the notorious
Scott or “ Moonlite,” has paid the penalty of his
crimes, there are not wanting those who can sym-
pathise with his fate as undeserved, even if they
do not actually condone his offences; and the sub-
joined, which we supply on the authority of a cor-
respondent of the Melbourne Herald, may
show how little it takes to make a bushranger,
armed against the lives and property of others :
‘‘ I was a fellow-prisoner of this Captain Moonlite
in the Pentridge retreat, but regained my liberty
before him. I well remember his last remark to
me on the day I left. ‘ Jack,’ he said, ‘ when I get
out the first coin I get hold of I’ll spin up ; IF it
comes down a head, I’ll turn bookmaker ; if tails,
I’ll take to bushranging.’ That it came tails the
events of the last few days will demonstrate. But
what a glorious future would have been his had it
only come a head ! Truly, ‘ there is a divinity that
shapes our ends, rough hew them as we may.’ ”
‘ ‘ Long looked-for come at last ?’ ’ Mr. W. A.
Long, one of the members for Parramatta, who
had been in Parliament for about three years, was
wasaccidentally Colonial Treasurer for about three
months, and who—till recently—scarcely allowed
his voice to be heard three times, has found his
tongue, taken heart of grace, and put his hand to
the ploughshare which is to cut down the vigour
of the present Ministry. Mr. Long having had
opportunities of hearing something about the wine,
beer, and spirit traffic, set himself to the task of
checking the present Treasurer’s desire to raise
the revenue out of ardent spirits, sparkling wine,
or frothy beer. On these points Mr. Long in-
tended no doubt to enlighten the colony by long
animated lucubrations. His aspirations being
nipped in the bud by the untimely death of one of
Mr. Watson’s fiscal children from physical atrophy,
Mr. Long —still determined to achieve fame —dared
the other evening to be (in the Treasurer’s
opinion) impertinent enough to ask the pertinent
question of how he was going to balance his books
or his accounts, or, in every-day words, to make
both ends meet. Had Mr. Long been longer a
Minister of the Crown, he would have known that
that class of people declines to be thus catechised,
and that the first lesson in the Ministerial catechism
is how to teach members to mind their own
business.
That New Zealand is making great headway in
spite of many impediments (derivatively, but
placed in its way) by impracticable ministers, ob-
stinate members, and turbulent Maories, is ac-
knowledged. But even to this fact we find an
occasional exception, as, for instance, at Taranaki.
This happy valley does not appear to be a marvel
of go-a-headitiveness, and the blessings and uses
of railways fail to be thoroughly appreciated by
the natives, as we learn from a paragraph in a
loc xl paper which tells us that a rather amusing
incident occurred on the Plymouth-Inglewood line.
Tie <ru ' i-d of a train, perceiving a lady waiting at
on f o' the «tfcfei9Lr&, which was not «n ordinary
stooi ing place for any tram, except when specially
requested, evidently waiting to get in, gave the
signal for stopping the train. To his surprise,
however, he found the lady was not an intending
passenger, but merely wished to know “ if he could
oblige her with change for a pound.” The change
was very hurriedly and expletively given.
The Member for the Murray, Mr. Barbour, is
evidently going in for a clean shave of some very
objectionable practices in connection with the
tender-system of the Government. Pursuant to
notice, Mr. Barbour moved the other evening—
“ That, in the opinion of this House, all goods,
materials and labour required for all departments
of the public service exceeding ,£IOO in value be
contracted for and submitted to public tender. 2.
That the system of personal security for contractors
be discontinued and cash securities be adopted. 3.
That the tender board should meet on the day
tenders are called for, open the tenders in the pre-
sence of the tenderer, and announce the lowest
tender as either accepted, or to be referred to the
Engineer for report.” But for this last little flaw
in h motion (for Engineers are not necessarily
judges of the quality or value of beef, sugar, lime-
stone. or red tape), Mr. Barber would perform a
good operation in thus scraping from the Civil
Service chin a very untidy appendage. We know
that it is a very tender part, and that the subject
is a very tender one; but, Mr. Barber’s
motion would inflict a hard cut on those who some-
how or other do profit by the present system of
government supplies and tenders for contracts,
however much they may disclaim doing so. As all
that is fair and above board should be supported
by every one of honest intentions, those who are
the loudest to deny the possibility of manipulating
the tender-taxes, should be foremost in supporting
a resolution which prevents its possibility.
Even Biblical History repeats itself. There are
sceptics who, incline to doubt the rod-serpent
of Moses swallowed the other rod-serpents, whilst
they strenuously object to the idea of fat kine
being swallowed by lean ones, even as pictured in
Pharoah’s dream. Bnt something of the kind has
happened at Buckley Springs, near Bombala (says
the Herald of that township—a chronicle not to be
doubted by the most hard-headed or hard-hearted
sceptic), where a Mr. John Field came across a
black snakes even feet in length and thirteen inches
in circumference. The snake was scotched and
killed by Mr. Elliott, who was startled at its un-
ususal size, when lo ! on cutting it open another
live snake, a veritable tiger, five feet long, was
found s eeding on its inside. The voracity of these
creatures is a remarkable fact in philosophy ; and
this is O ’ ly another instance of another remarkable
phase i f philosophy that we daily see exemplified
of creatures feeding on their kind.
If the talented bibliographer, the blind Isaac
Lissa- ii, father of Lord Beaconsfield, were alive,
he would be able to include in a new edition of
“ The Amenities of Literature,” some of the
yag: i sof our Sydney Press. Here is what calls
it -elf a'e ding daily paper—the Echo —circulat-
ing one of the most stupid of jokes in relation to a
mistake supposed to be made by some one Parting-
touising the phrase “ nectar fit for the gods,” into
a “ necktie that would not fit any god.” The sup-
posed j ke is a very old Millerism, and has for
years be n gang the round of every newspaper
printed in English. The real joke lies in the Echo
tailing the story with all the gravity possible, and
insta- cing it as an example of the ignorance that
pr n vls amongst the wealthy people of San Fran-
cisco. Simplicity, thy name is Echo !
There are fishermen —such, for instance, as those
whom Masaniello led on to the conquest of Naples ;
there are fishwives, such, for example, as the bon-
nie fishwife of Glasgo’; and are fishfags—
women of troublesome demeanour and voluble
vulgarity of tongue, at a very certain age, who,
having lost any charm which the “ female form di-
vine ” may have once possessed, every atom of
amiability and every particle of amiability that
may once have been part of their common hu-
man nature, avenge themselves on Society by
making themselves indecorously and unpleasanly
conspicuous on every possible occasion. Some-
times such beings manage to obtain a sort of semi-
public mission; then they become simply unbear-
able, and should be looked after by Mr. Seymour
or someone as public nuisances. Such a one it was
our lot to encounter at an entertainment this week.
She had come there on some sort of semi-public
duty, evidently, by her self-important demeanour,
and some unfortunate wight or whiting had
through some error or other ensconced himself in
the seat appropriated to her by lot. The insuffer-
able tongue wagged as could only that of an ill-
bred fishfag, which not even the sensible remarks
of an attendant gentleman could pacify. This was,
however, effected more easily by the contemptuous
sneers with which her waggeries were regarded.
What does it mean ? is a question that cannot
fail to be asked by some few of the 35,000 mem-
bers of the Mutual Provident Society who take
sufficient interest in its proceedings to read in
the daily papers the account of the meeting on
Wednesday. Incidentally to the advertised objedt
of the meeting respecting the election of auditors,
another proposal was covertly introduced by the
chairman relating to an alteration in the mode of
voting for directors, an alteration that would lead
to the disfranchisement of two-thirds of the mem-
bers. The Hon. Thomas Holt proposed an
amendment to postpone the subject till after the
annual meeting. According to the Evening
News this amendment was carried by 27 to 26
votes. Thereupon (we learn) the chairman put the
question, “ Shall the by-law be amended? The
majority voted in favour ” —of what ? According
to this lucid report, the amendment and the origi-
nal motion were both carried. And the Echo re-
ports still more briefly. At the carrying of Mr.
Holt’s amendment by one vote, we read that
‘ ‘ The chairman then put the question whether the
19th by-law (the one in dispute) should stand as it
was or be amended, it was negatived by a
small majority.” What, in the name of common
sense, was negatived? The “ Should stand as it
was ?” or the “be amended ?” And then, yester-
day morning, comes the Hekald,, throwing
more light on the subject by flying in the face of
both the evening papers, and saying that Mr.
Holt’s amendment was negatived ! We cannot
stand this : we can make every allowance for
newspaper reporters in the mad-dog-days amid the
attractions of the Garden Palace pretty girl exhi-
bition ; but as paying members of the Society we
do want to know what does all this mean ? News-
papers—ah ! you know, are things—ah you know
—no fellah ah—can be expected to understand.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“ For I AM NOTHING IP NOT CRITICAL.’
—“Othello.”
In this department of our Bulletin it will be our aim
to supply our readers with candid, impartial, and
judicious criticism of our general amusements, con-
veyed in terms if occasionally severe, yet couched in
language that may admonish hut which cannot offend.
We shall studiously avdid hypercritical ftmlt-firidihg,' |
petty abuse, or insufferable flattery—believing all three
to be equally pernicious to improvement in art or to the
elevation of the standard of public taste to the height
at which we would like to see it in the colony. We are
far, very far indeed, from that at present, and this we
owe in a great measure to the injudicious style of criti-
cism adopted by the Press of Sydney, especially the
daily journals. We believe in encouraging talent —and
native talent particularly—by stimulating praise, or
gentle admonition where required, instead of crushing
out its aspirations by withering and malevolent abuse
because it does not at once blossom into the perfect
flower of genius. We desire to exterminate nothing,
and to set down nought in malice; to hold as it were
“ the mirror up to nature,” though, in so doing, we
may have to be cruel in order to be kind. Many a bud-
ding artist has been brought to an elevated position by
a kindly word. But where pretence and assumption,
allied to ignorance or vulgarity, attempt to sway or
coerce the public taste, and to force on it the meretri-
cious for true art, then must the sharp knife of pruning
criticism be whetted for operation. No one knows his
defects, or the impossibility of being at all times equal
in point of excellence, better than the true artist, and
he will he always ready to receive merited reproof
without murmur if dictated by no personal animus.
But the public does want to be informed as to what is
good and what is bad in our public entertainments; to
have some correct guide for the formation of taste on
the one hand, and to see how far the critic’s judgment
accords with its own on the other.
Hypercriticism, with its peculiar (almost slangy)
scientific phrases, its assumption of learning, is espe-
cially to be eschewed. The public does not care for it,
nor is it useful. Very learned critiques are well adapted
to a public scientifically educated in the subjects criti-
cised, and then it should he only in the columns
devoted especially to such subjects, for these have their
own particular circle of readers to whom the style is
familiar, and by whom it is relished; it is “ Caviar to
the general.”
Having promised thus much, we shall not on the
present occasion devote too much space to a con-
sideration of the entertainments now being offered to
the public; they scarcely afford scope for critical
analysis.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The premier theatreof the colony— as regards its
conveniences, not its age—demands precedence, and it
is satisfactory to find that Mr. and Mrs. Williamson
have returned to their legitimate husinessinstead of
continuing to play in the nonsensical pantomime which
was far beneath their talents. After another week of
“ Struck Oil,” which will always remain their stock
piece, ever sure of success, two dramas were produced
on Saturday evening last, and have continued to draw
crowded houses during the week. Mr. Williamson’s
portraiture of “ Kerry” is so well known that it needs
no further recognition; the character of the Irish ser-
vant is one of the most faithful sketches ever presented
on the stage, and can be the result only of the most
careful study, and certainly not of any merely passing
assumption of the part. When Mr. Douglas is careful
there is no more useful general actor on the stage, and
as young Gerald Desmond he was careful. Maggie
Moore made a lively little Kate, and Miss Myra Kemble
(who re-appeared here after some absence) was effective
as Blanche without having, however, any special promi-
nence in the character.
“ Arrah-na-Pogue” is the second piece of the evening ■
it is not new now. Every playgoer knows the story, and
knows its absurd hut sensational improbabilities, as they
exist in all Boucicault’s plays. As might be expected,
Mr. Williamson’s idea of Shaun the Post resulted in an
admirable delineation of the character in his own way,
but it was in some points different from that of many we
have seen in the part; it was a happy mixture of love,
trust, fidelity and humour; but, here and there, both
with him and with Maggie Moore as the witchy little
Arrah, there were occasional glimpses of John and
Lizzie Stofel which were unmistakably non-Irish. The
cast was less effective than is usually the case wdth this
company. Perhaps one of the best bits of acting was
the Old Serjeant of Mr. Hasker. The prison scene and
interview between Shaun and Arrah were very effective.
Miss Kemble wanted more force in this act. Both plays
are likely to run for some time.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
The pantomime of “ Amphibio,” with the story of the
opera of “Lurline," —“ De Maiden mit Nothings on,”
as Hans Breitman describes the young lady of German
mythical literature, in his story of the Ritter Hugo Von
Schwillensaufenstein”—has continued to hold its own.
in papular favour for over five weeks, and deservedly so
It is well constructed though the localiser has dono
nothing to improve the original. It is in reality an ex-
travaganza, and adheres closely to the story without the
nonsensical giants, dwarfs, and such-like monstrosities.
There are some clever things in it, though the singing is
not of much account. Mr. Hall’s Seneschal, an imported
character, is full of fun and genuine comicality. Count
Collimanco is another importation into the piece, hut it
gave the opportunity for the display of Miss Lydia
Howard in a ne plus ultra costume, almost faultless,
very becoming to her fine figure, and in Bishop’s song of
“ Bid me discourse,” not so faultlessly executed, the last
note being unnecessarily high, and consequently out of
tune. One of the best things in the piece is Mr. St.
Lawrence’s make-up in black-all-over-with golden-hair,
a la Sara, the Kicker, whose pas he imitated marvel-
lously well. We were quite unprepared for Mr. St.
Lawrence’s capital idea of the comic. Mrs. Hall is a
dapper little moony-spoony Eubert. The “ Moral Ballet”
is a novelty, and, as far as it goes —in number —is very
amusing. Scenery excellent, especially the chromo-
tropic effects of the finale.
This evening (Saturday) Comedy resumes her sway,
“ Our Dad” being the piece announced.
MUSIC.
From amidst the rubbish given by jingling misses
and others under the name of music every hour in the
afternoon—not for art purposes, but with the object of
selling pianofortes—we extract one or two items. Far
too much has been made generally of these show
“pianoforte recitals;” some of the players are as far
removed from being “ musicians ” as the organ-blower
is from being a Commissioner. A concert on the
orchestral platform last week was unique; it was to
test the Steinway pianoforte exhibited by Mr. Bechet,
of Barrack-street —a really magnificent, brilliant-toned
instrument—one of the very finest we have heard in the
Exhibition, where there are some good ones and much
rubbish. Signor Giorza’s rendition of his own fan-
tasia on “Un Ballo in Maschera” was masterly, exhi-
biting not only the delicacy and force of the player’s
style, but also every technicality oi which pianos and
piano-playing are capable. The weavings of the four
vocal parts in the “ E Scherzo ” were the true result of
masterly skill. Miss St. Clair’s singing of “ Out on the
Eoeks” and that inimitable trifle by Maloy, “Clo-
chette,” were evidences of true artistic skill wedded to
that lovely contralto voice “rich and rare,” breathing
pathos in the one song, naive merriment in the other.
The duet between Signori Giorza and Ortori, from
Verdi’s “ Lombardi,” was played with the true spirit of
artists. This was really a concert worthy the con-
noisseur’s attention.
A duet played on Wednesday afternoon by Madame
Summerhayes and Miss Lottie Hyam (one of our fore-
most amateurs), on two Bechstein grands—lovely-toned
instruments, exhibited by Mr. Ezold, of Oxford-street
—was also a well-developed morceau demanding atten-
tion. It was Thalberg’s “Les Hugenots,” and it was
difficult to say which was most to be admired—the
clear, rippling, delicate runs of the treble, or the full,
powerful harmonies of the bass, as played by Miss
Hyam—each player in turn taking up the melodies.
Light or shade were admirably observed, and the two
players were together at the finale as though the two
instruments were played with one pair of hands.
CAMILLA UESO’S CONCEETS.
Sydney, having at length something offered to her in
the way of music worthy of support, has been true to her
old reputation for love of the art, and, judging by the im-
mense enthusiasm displayed throughout the first series
of Camilla Urso’s concerts—an enthusiasm culminating
in a furore and a perfect ovation —has evidently thrown
aside the listless carelessness that has arisen from the
many worthless exhibitions of music we have had to
endure. Night after night, after the first report of the
artiste’s great superiority had been communicated from
month to mouth, has the School of Arts been crowded,
and scores of late visitors have had to endure the morti-
fication of disappointment in being unable to gain ad-
mission.
Ardent admirers of the Art as we profess to be, and
always anxious to do full justice to the merits of its
really great exponents, it may readily be imagined with
what regret we have to acknowledge that the many
claims on our space in this our first issue, positively
forbid our noticing these entrancing performances at
length. Suffice it to say that Madame Urse is a player
’fiofc only ffiich as we have never previously had here, but
one who is to be placed On the pedestal in the. front
rank of fame with the matadors of the art of Violin
playing. Not only has she overcome every technical
difficulty of this most difficult of instruments, but she
plays with a charm of her own, a warmth, a passion,
and at the same time a delicacy that breathes forth the
pure soul of the artist. In her style of playing she has
some of the peculiarities of De Kontski, to whom
she has evidently been an eager listener, catching
some of his manner by inspiration. This is seen by the
sudden upward elevation of the bow at the termination
of a piece and in the ultra-fineness of the softest or
pianissimo passages, which die away in the faintest
whisper. Her intonation is very perfect; it is almost
impossible to detect a note out of tune. The har-
monies are purer than are heard from the majority of
players, and there is a feeling in her bowing which goes
to the heart and makes even classical music delightful
to the uninitiated. She is at home in every school of
violin composition, Wieniawski, De Beriot,
De Kontski, Spohr, Mendelssohn, and the more modem
players are rendered with the due execution that per-
tains to each style.
With this general enunciation we must content our-
selves this week without enumerating the various
pieces performed by the artiste, and the double encores
she received each evening.
Miss Jennie Sargent’s singing is a very agreeable in-
termezzo between the instrumental pieces. The lady
has a very sweet causabile (or singing) voice; it is
small, of limited compass, but the training has been'so
admirable that Miss Sargent’s vocalisation gives
infinite pleasure as an instance of what may be done
with even a small voice by good musical training. She
is not without faults—witness the hurry of taking the
run in “ Lo! here the gentle lark,” as if with the view
of covering a natural defect; and yet the result of her
singing is to leave an agreeable impression with the
listener. Bishop’s song, just mentioned, however, loses
much of its effect by the want of a flute obligato. Sig-
nor Palladini is essentially a a concert singer, and by
his execution of the gems of his repertoire will be
likely to remain the favourite he is with the Sydney
public.
Monsieur Sauret is a pianist with very easy fingering
and of a bold and brilliant style; and Herr Bcnno
Scherek is an admirable accompanist. Altogether, a
more agreeable concert-party could not well have been
devised; everything appeals tp the good taste of the
public; and it is satisfactory to know that the success
of the first series was so pronounced as to induce Ma-
dame Urso to postpone her departure for a month in
order to give us a second series.
MISCELLANEOUS ENTEETAINMENTS.
Kelly and Leon’s Opera Housd.— After the usual
first part “nigger” business and several interludes, a
capital little piece of absurdly amusing badinage, being
a burlesque on Offenbach’s “ Grand Duches,” was played
in the usual Kelly-and-Leon-vigorously-mirth-moving
style. Leon’s make-up as the amorous Duchess was
simply inimitable, and the music was arranged so as to
suit him. The comic words to the sentimental air
“Say to him” formed a delicious contrast, and Leon
was sure to take advantage of it for some of of his by-
play. Kelly’s General Boom was in the pompous style
that suits him so admirably. Mr. Vernon Eeid sang
fairly as Fritz. A most laughable effect is produed by
the singing of “He’s a jolly good fellow,” and “We
won’t go home till morning,” by the roysterers on the
wedding night of Fritz and Wanda. To-night the fam-
ous “ Happy Land,” forbidden in Melbourne, is to be
produced.
The Loftus Trottpe at the Queen’s Theatre are
proving very successful. We have tried to find out in
what particular is exhibited the talked-of vulgarity that
excited so much abuse in Melbourne and New Zealand.
We fail to do so. Either the reports were exaggerated
for rival purposes, or, with a knowledge of Sydney taste,
the performance has been toned down. The female im-
personator, Mr. Harry Leclair, is very clever; so are
the male dancers, Wallers and Kelly, so are the two
Irish comedians, Eiekie and McCarthy; of the rest we
need not say anything on this occasion.
CRITIC.
A deputation from Dubbo last week directed
the attention of the Minister of Railways to the slow
progress being made in the construction of the Orange-
Dnbbo line. The Minister attributed the delay to floods,
and said that after all the contractors would be only two
months late.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Habbe, the famous scenic artist, is in Sydney.
The Williamsons have made £6OOO clear in
in Sydney.
The Williamsons will shortly play Pinafore at
the Royal in Melbourne.
Miss Dargon is about to give readings in the
country districts of Victoria.
Eistori writes that she purposes re-visiting
Australia within twelve months.
Miss Azella should go on the stage. She is
such an excellent “ walking lady.”
The only clever fellow in the English Comedy
Company, now in Adelaide, is Marshall.
Mr. Edwin Kelly’s photo, as the Admiral in
“ Pinafore,” is to be found in every drawing-room in
Sydney.
Mr. George Darrell’s new drama, “The
Eorlom 'Hope,” takes well at the People’s Theatre,
Melbourne.
Mr. Gamer and his London Comedy Company
take the (place of the pantomime at the Melbourne
Opera House.
Mr. George Coppin is about floating a Theatre
Royal Company in Melbourne, the management to re-
main as at present.
The Lingards appear soon at the Academy of
Music in the new (piece called “ Stolen Kisses.” It is
sure to be a sensation.
Mr. Habbe says the Sydney Exhibition
building architecturally surpasses anything in the
Southern Hemisphere.
The Kelly and Leon. Troupe give the Sydney
public “ Les cloches de Comeville,” the great London
sensation, in a few days.
Mr. Walter Cooper, who is suffering from
heart disease, has had to go to gaol for disobeying, or
rather failing to comply with a maintenance order made
at the suit of his wife.
Garnet Walch’s pantomime” Babes in the
Wood ” draws well at the Royal, Melbourne. The
scenery by Hennings is splendid. Bland Holt makes a
great hit in the harlequinade.
Mr. J. E. Fulton, late manager for Professor
S. Baldwin, has been exposing his former master’s
tricks to a Melbourne audience.
“Pinafore” has been produced at Bega to a £5O
house. Gilbert and Sullivan could surely never have
even dreamt of such an occurrence.
Lillywhite telegraphs to Boyle and Co. that
numerous arrangements for matches have been made
for the Australian Eleven in England, Ireland, and
Scotland.
Eoberts, who came out with the English
Comedy Company, is stage manner at the Melbourne
Opera House. The pantomime is “ Robinson Crusoe ”
—it ought to be called “ Roberts on Crusoe.”
Mr. Habbe’s picture, the Battle of Trafalgar,
'in [the pantomime at the Melbourne Opera House, is
tip-top.” Mr. Gordon’s scenery is, if anything, but a
little less attractive. The pantomime goes well.
It is reported that a marriage has been
arranged, or at any rate, would have been arranged had
circumstances permitted, between the theatrical critic
of the Herald and Mr. John Social Notes of the same
paper.
Proscribed in Melbourne, “ The Happy Land,”
which Mr. Berry has rendered famous, is to be pro-
duced in splendid style by Messrs. Kelly and Leon at
their Opera House. New South Wales is now the home
of the liberty of the subject.,
Antonella Carrozza, the circus rider, who was
implicated with Pietro Cardinali in the murder of
Captain Eadda, hut was acquitted by the jury, on the
ground that she acted under fear of Cardinali (whose
mistress she was), has reappeared in the Politeama at
Rome before the most (Crowded audience ■'which ever
assembled there. She and Carluccio, the clown, who
had been first selected to murder Eadda, were loudly
cheered.
It is with very deep regret that the public in
general, and the members of the theatrical profession
in particular, hear of the insolvency of Mr. Henry
Burton, the circus proprietor, whose name t is insepar-
ably associated with the earliest days of more than one
of the colonies, and is throughout Australia “familiar
as a household word.” We join in the generally-
expressed hope that brighter times are in store for this
well-known, honest and respected pioneer of “ spangles
and sawdust.”
“Lulu” has at last accomplished his flying
trick at the London Aquarium, and the feat is really
remarkable. The gymnast lies at full length on an
inclined plane, and is shot clean across the building,
describing an arc, nearly touching the roof, and finally
falling into a carpeted net spread near the stage. Lulu
has no wings, and the means of his flight are, of course,
mechanical. But the feat of being shot over a hundred
feet has never .been tried before, and is, perhaps, the
nearest approach to “ flying ” we are likely ever to
attain.j
George Eignold is having a successful season
at Drury Lane, London. A little while ago he was the
recipient of such tremendous applause at the end of his
grand triumphal entry into London, that a third appear-
ance was necessary. Just as he was about answering
the compliment, a friend standing at his horse’s head
challenged him to ride before the curtain, instead of
bowing his acknowledgments afoot. “ Done,” cried
George, “ clear the first entrance.” Away scampered
the supers, male and female, and on dashed the king on
his charger. “ Nothing,” says an enthusiastic reporter,
“ could exceed the horsemanship shown by Mr. Rignold,
as he backed his I steed off the stage, through the
narrow entrance, looking neither left nor right for a
guide, while the shouts of the large audience were
simply deafening.” Handsome George is not above
making the most of an episode of this kind. It has
already been been chronicled in half-a-dozen journals,
and will go the round of the provinces before done with.
THE ANNIVERSARY REGATTA.
The Anniversary Regatta, a very lengthy report of
which is at the last moment unavoidably crowded out,
was a grand success, and was attended by his Excellency
the Governor and most of the beauty and fashion of
Sydney. The event for first-class yachts was declared
“ no race,” owing to the absence of a rounding buoy at
Curl Curl, and it was blowing too hard to admit of the
second-class yachts going over the course. The third-
class yacht race was won by the Mabel, 7 tons (W. J.
Trickett), and the champion belt for all comers, in out-
riggers, was appropriated by Laycock without difficulty,
M'Leer second. The senior fours (amateurs) was a
splendid race, and fell to the Sydney Rowing Club
(Arthur, stroke); and the double-sculling race termi-
nated in a victory for J. Trickett and Reynolds, the
brothers Jenkins second. H. Pearce won the water-
man’s race, and the boys of the Yemon’s port watch
beat their shipmates of the staiboard watch for Mr. C.
J. Roberts’ prize prize of £5 55.. The unfinished races
will be sailed to-day, commencing at noon.
THEATRICAL NOTES FROM NEW ZEALAND.
January 30.
Lyster’s Opera Company have done a good business in
Dunedin and Christchurch, and leave next week for
Wellington. They will not come on to Auckland unless
a good subscription list he got up, as there is no
intermediate town they could play at, and there seems
to be some difficulty in coming to an arrrangement with
the proprietor of the the theatre.
Mr. J. Macdonald, Williamson’s agent, is coming on
to Auckland to protect his principal’s Pinafore interests.
Some litigation is expected.
The Ricardi Opera Company are playing in the Theatre
Royal, Auckland, and announce H. M. Pinafore for to-
morrow night. They are not likely to hold together
under present management, but there is some talk of
engaging them for an Australian tour, Mr. Macdonald
being, it is understood, open to treat with them. Musi-
cally, they are considered the best Pinafore company in
the colonies.


SOME NOTES ON THE EXHIBITS.
As my might 'have been expected, the carriage ex-
hibits at the International have attracted great atten-
tion Never before have there been gathered together
such a splendid variety of vehicles and such a grand
display of first-class workmanship. The competition
between the colonial builders is very keen; the compe-
tition with respect to vehicles suitable to colonial re-
quirements remains entirely among them, as the foreign
manufacturer qas been, we are inclined to think, “ closely
run” in the style of his productions. Each week we
propose to give a concise descriptive account of colonial
exhibits, and, beginning with the vehicles, we deal with
the first we inspected, namely those of
MESSES. KEAEY BEOTHEES.
This firm, whose extensive'fmanufactory is in Pitt-
street, exhibit an elegant cut’ under buggy, with patent
two-bow top, fixed with patent cushioned axles to pre-
vent concussion or noise, and patent gutta percha step-
ping which renders an accident almost impossible. It
is fitted with a turn-out seat, which can be changed
into a single seat. It is stoutly made and very
elegantly upholstered and finished. The same firm
exhibit a cut-under sociable with folding top, capable
of accommodating six persons—a very elegant and
strong piece of workmanship which soon sound a
purchaser in Mr. Williamson, the solicitor. The
appearance of the vehicle is elegant, and the
make-up altogether capital. The firm also exhibit
one of the famous country Hampshire buggies
to be found in this colony and in Queensland wherever
a wheel can go. They are made to back, of the
best timber to last; rubber straps are provided, and
the new patent sliding brake. The trimming is done
with stout coloured buffalo hide. They are described
as the cheapest vehicles in the building. Keary
Brothers, who are also large importers of vehicles, get-
ting them made on a special plan at the great manufac-
turing centres of England and America, exhibit samples
of their recent importations in the way of a Townsend
phaeton, a coal-box buggy, and an American tray buggy.
They are very well made, and present some new features
that our Sydney manufacturers ought to look to.
Messrs. Haining and Schimel’s exhibits came next, as
our reporter inspected them. Their exhibits are not
numerous but are most creditable specimens of the
soundness and thoroughly practical character of the
colonial manufacture. Both partners give to the busi-
ness their own personal supervision, and are present to
gog every vehicle pass from the timber shop to the show
room. They base the success of their factory on the
wonderful durability of what they turn out; and on
this point they have very many most satisfactory testi-
monials. The firm exhibit a fine C spring and Concord
buggy, of capital finish throughout. It is built of the
cest seasoned timber, and sits on a bed sa strong almost
as a solid 'sheet of iron. The brakes are fitted with
mathematical accuracy, and the fittings are all that
could be required. A Victoria phaeton is also exhibited
by this firm, and is a very fine piece of workmanship in-
deed. In it are combined all the latest improvements,
and the very best skill in wood and iron. The upholstery
and finishing Iwould be a credit to any establishment.
Altogether the firm, who, by the way, stand quite on an
equality with any others, with respect to patent safety
manufactures, have made a good show,
O’Brien Brothers exhibits are not less splendid speci-
mens of colonial manufacture. All the coach builders
give this firm credit for producing one of the grandest
little exhibits in the building, in the shape of a Queen’s
phaeton. The shop this vehicle came out of wants no
teaching in the art of downright good workmanship,
nor perhaps in artistic design and good taste. This
phaeton is a perfect little picture, and as people go past
they fesl fully inclined to bound into the seat, it really
is so attractive. The (hood is nicely shaped, deep and
well forward; the seat is well thrown find most elegantly
upholstered, and there is plenty of leg room, no cramping
between the seat and the dashboard. The body is
soundly made of the best seasoned timber, and the
vehicle, though light, altogether very strong and dura-
ble. Tha firm also exhibit a single-seated Concord buggy,
a good upstanding vehicle, well made and of good finish.
The price is fixed cheap. O'Brien Brothers also exhibit
a very fine four-in-hand drag or sociable mounted on
eleptic springs with English fore carriage. The driving-
seat is high, and the break-power most effective. The
body of the carriage is fitted with high circular backs,
and twelve people can be accommodated. The trimming
are in blue cloth, and altogether the turn out is a
splendid one, winning high enconiums from the very
best judges. It might be mentioned that the very
handsome drag used on the show ground by Mr. Terry
was manufactured by Messrs. O’Brien, and gives, after
some years’ use, every satisfaction even now.
A “HEAVY WET.”
CLEANLINESS AND GODLINESS.
To begin in shipshape fashion, I’ll write the two
first fines, as singing them in my studio would be
mere selfishness: —lBBoth Hymn,
All ye who’d like to be clean and holy
Should patronise our good friend Foley.
Disguised as a reporter I strolled into Foley’s
baths on a recent Sunday afternoon, for the pur-
pose of witnessing Mr. Frank Warden’s public
baptism of three or four females and half-a-dozen
other persons, whom I took as belonging to the
third or neuter sex; Having all the appearance of
a low hireling of a corrupt and venal press I was
of course, politely escorted by St. John junior to
the best position for seeing and hearing all that
took place, and I now mean to give a few particu-
lars that haven’t yet been printed in the papers.
If every one presentpaid a shilling for admittance,
the caterer for Sunday amusement would have had
a .£5O house, or thereabouts; but they didn’t—not
by a few. As I never work on the Sabbath, and
do as little as I can help on other days, I took no
notes ; but, as well as I can remember, the am-
phibious devil-dodger and soul-saver commenced
by saying that he was a “ hot member,” who
could be very rough on the profane, and that,
however much it might look like one, the cermoney
was not a pantomime, but a very solemn and
blessed afiair indeed. The explanation came as a
new evangel to the worldly-minded, who had evi-
dently made up their minds for something of a
very different kind. But the fun came in after-
wards for all that. Mr. Warden went on to review
his own career, showing how he grievously offended
one of his parents at the early age of five years,
and how he subsequently fell by little and little,
until he became a “wanderer, an outcast, and all
sorts of other things. He might have been even
a member of Parliament, had it not been for the
merciful interposition |of a friend who washed
him, converted him, and “ called” him into clover.
Having quite comfortably debased himself with
The pride that apes humility, ]
he set to work in quite a business-like manner,
ranged his “ candidates” for cold water against
the shore side of the bath and questioned them, as
if they were looking for seats in the Assembly.
He explained to them the utter uselessness of
baptism by sprinkling, adding that not even a
douche bath from the inch-and-a-half nozzle of a
steam fire-engine would be sufficient to wash away
a single sin, original or pirated, and clearl proved
that salvation was to be attained by nothing less
than a “header” or a “dip.” Whilst he was
speaking, a heathen retriever dog had a swim on
his own account, much to the delight of the lar-
rikins whose legs dangled from the edges of the
platform. Having been previously immersed him-
self, Mr. Warden was satisfied with a shower-
bath which fell like “ property” hail in a theatre
over his long waterproof coat, after which he
descended the steps and walked out until the
purifying element rose some few inches above ms
knees. He evidently didn’t know how to swim,
and hadn’t yet acquired sufficient grace to enable
him to walk upon the water. Having with some
difficulty adjusted his inky garment, which would
insist on swelling out like a balloon, he waited
patiently until a rather good-looking young
lady took to the water like a duck, but
it didn’t seem to agree with her. Though
a tall and powerful man, Mr. Warden
had some trouble in getting her head under, and
a passing spectator, ignorant of the rite that was
being performed, would have taken his Bible oath
that a grievous wrong was being perpetrated on
her. Saving Danny Mann and the Colleen Bawn,
it was the nearest thing to wilful murder I ever
had the pleasure of witnessing. With her sins had
departed all the colour in her face and the oil in
her hair, and she would have almost frightened the
life out of his Satanic Majesty had he seen her as
she ascended the stairs close to where I stood. I
at once noticed that she looked very very wet,
and fearing she’d shake herself after the fashion of
the noble animals we import from Newfoundland, I
sided out for a bend and gave her as clear a berth
as I could. But she hadn’t a shake left in her,
poor thing! and required to be assisted to her
dressing-room by an experienced Christianness,
who, I may here state, trotted out and brought
back the remaining female candidates. To guard
against being invidious, I won’t name the order in
which they appeared, but one of them was singularly
blest in the possession of a pair of feet peculiarly
well adapted for swimming, as well as for the
extermination of cockroaches and for other purposes
to which I needn’t more particularly refer. In the
cases of at least two of the ladies the immersion
was by no means complete, and some who were
anxious that their salvation should be assured
cried in one instance “ That’s not fair !” and in
the other, “ Let her have it again !” ; but their
fears were groundless, as I subsequently learned
that the fair ones were half saved before. The
male candidates looked very serious, indeed, as
they walked towards the dusky Aquarius and
allowed themselves to be thrown across his manly
bosom, preparatory to being ducked and redeemed.
Some resisted involuntarily, but they got it in the
end. It was very touching to observe how lovingly
Mr. Warden passed his hand down the faces of the
dripping caididates, though one would think a
towel or a sponge would have been just as effi-
cacious. If it were a case of Confirmation, one
could easily understand “the imposition of hands.”
When he came to deal with a coal-black Ethiopian,
a titter ran round the bath, and some of the very
profane were heard to say “ He’s got all his work
cut out for him now ! And so he had ! If he was
no lighter in conscience than in complexion at the
conclusion of the ceremony, his future must be a
dark one ; as, when it was over, a piece of charcoal
would have made a white mark on his forehead. I
noticed that Mr. Warden tried very hard to get at
the reporters and induce them to keep the disturb-
ances dark ; but they didn’t, and more shame for
them, because Mr. Warden is a very holy man,
and I hope he’ll make a good thing out of the series
of nautical dramas he purposes producing in Mr.
Foley’s theatre.
The Man in the Bottomless Pit.
The Drama at Newcastle.
Newcastle folks have had no lack of amusements
during the last week or two, but these have not been
patronised very extensively, which, say our wiseacres,
is owing to the scarcity of ready cash in the popular
pocket, induced by the bareness of trade and the influx
of persons to Sydney to see the “World’s Show.’ The
Clara Stephenson Company played to starvation houses
till they were forced to take to the outlying district.
The leading lady, Miss Clara Stephenson, however,
came back, and took a benefit, thinking to draw
by presenting to the public, as the bill said, an “ entirely
new play, by Dion Boucicault,” which Miss Stephen-
son had purchased for £lOO. Here, then, was a hit
to be made, but it turned out a miss, and f pal-
pable one, too. “ The Wife’s Victory,” allow me, who
am an authority on the subject, to say, is not from the
pen of Dion Boucicault. The conceited playwright
never wrote anything half so good as this i>lay, which
contains noble sentiments couched in beautiful language
—the only fault being that the situations are strained,
and the “talk” of the characters too dramatic and
too-tragedy-like to suit the spirit of comedy of this
class. This dramatic production is the work of a
talented old gentleman in Eockhampton named Eobi-
son, who has a great fund of natural wit and poetic
idea combined with a large knowledge of dramatic
literature and literary things in general. This veteran
litterateur (who, like the violet, has long wasted his per-
fume in the desert air) now edits the Daily Northern
Argus in Eockhampton. This journal is the property
of the reputed brother of Dion Boucicault, and it was
while doing the literary butchering for the print that
Mr. Eobison wrote “The Wife’s Victory.” He gave it
to a local company to play, and never got a penny out
of the representation, but abundant compliment and
praise. Now it has come down here, and I suppose that
like “ Struck Oil” and other dramatic pieces, it will be
produced on the stage and please audiences, while the
author’s name remains in obscurity, ’cept to the thea-
trical clique. The only connection then between the
writer of the play and the prolific Dion is that the
former is employed by the brother of the latter to
scribble for his journal. “By way, private and under
seal,” I might state that it is intended to carry “ The
Wife’s Victory” further than Newcastle; but more of
that anon. Hudson’s Surprise Party have come and
gone, having done “ good-bye ” here, but they appear at
our theatre for another short season prior to showing
in Bathurst. At present Dr. Lyne, the prestidigitateur,
is performing to small houses; and the debris of Bur-
ton’s Circus is amusing one part of the public in an
out-of-the-way place.
FOOTLIGHTS.
Australian Eleven v. N. S. W. Fifteen.
This match was commenced on Saturday last
and was brought to a termination on Wednesday,
the Eleven, whose luck was splendid throughout,
winning by 75 runs.
Subjoined are the scores :
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
First Innings.
P. S. M‘Donnell, c Massie, b Garrett 36
W. L. Murdbch, b Tindall 99
G. Alexander, c Gregory, b Coates 1
W. Moule, c and b Gregory 3
C. Bannerman, b Tindall 14
F. R. Spofforth, c Sheridan, b Chizlett 9
J. M. Blackham, c and b Geary 40
J. G. Bonnor, b Coates 16
J. Slight, c Garrett, b Coates 11
H. F. Boyle, c Bullen, b Garrett 11
G. E. Palmer, not out 13
Byes .. 16
Total ... 269
Bowling Analysis.—Tindall, 256ba115, 73rpos,
31 maidens, 2 wickets ; Coates, 164 balls, 52
13 maidens, 3 wickets ; Gregory, 48 balls, 2J> runs,
1 wicket: Garrett, 88 balls, 30 rapa. 7 uiaidensq
2 wickets; Geary, 104 balls, 38 runs, 9 maidens,
1 wicket; Chizlett, 92 balls, 28 runs, 11 maidens,
1 wicket.
Second Innings.
M'Donnell, b Garrett 2
Alexander, c and b Gregory 14
Murdoch, b Garrett t 8
Moule, b Garrett 0
C. Bannerman, c Davis, b Tindall 52
Blackham, c Geary, b Garrett 1
Slight, b Gregory .*. 4
Spofforth, b Garrett 3
Boyle, hit wicket, b Tindall 23
Bonnor, c substitute, b Geary 34
Palmer ,notout 2
No balls 2, leg-byes 2, byes 6 6
Total 153
First innings 269
Grand total 422
Bowling Analysis.—Gregory, 32 balls, 45 runs,
5 maidens, 2 wickets ; Garrett, 144 balls, 65 runs,
9 maidens, 5 wickets, 1 no-ball; Tindall, 60 balls,
11 runs, 10 maidens, 2 wickets; Geary, 44 balls,
14 runs, 4 maidens, 1 wicket; Chizlett, 16 balls,
8 runs, 1 no-ball; A. Bannerman, 8 balls, no runs,
2 maidens.
NEW SOUTH WALES FIFTEEN.
First Innings.
A. Bannerman, c and b Alexander 15
A. Geary, b Spofforth 6
T. Garrett, 1 b w, b Spofforth 21
Davis, b Spofforth 8
Webster, b Palmer 21
E. Sheridan, c Boyle, b Spofforth 0
Moses, b Spofforth 1
E. Tindall, c Bonnor, b Palmer 7
H. H. Massie, c Boyle, b Spofforth 35
Allen, b Spofforth 27
Powell, b Palmer 2
Dave Gregory, not out 53
Bullen, c Doyle, b Spofforth 1
Chizlett, c and b Spofforth 8
Coates (absent)
Leg-byes 3, byes 4 7
Total 213
Bowling Analysis.—Spofforth, 211 balls, 106
runs, 22 maidens, 6 wickets ; Alexander, 152 balls,
48 runs, 15 maidens, 1 wicket; Boyle, 40 balls, 11
runs, 3 maidens; Palmer, 104 balls, 41 runs, 13
maidens, 3 wickets.
Second Innings.
Garrett, c Blackham, b Alexander 1
Bannerman, b Palmer 30
Sheridan, c and b Boyle 18
Geary, b Spofforth 2
Massie, c and b Spofforth 0
Allen, b Alexander 17
Gregory, c M‘Donnell, b Alexander 0
Davis, b Alexander 0
Webster, c and b Boyle 18
Tindall, b Alexander 0
Moses, not out 2
Powell, c and b Moule 2
Coates, c substitute, b Boyle 3
Bullen, c Blackham, b Boyle 0
Chizlett, c Bonnor, b Moule 0
Leg-byes 2, byes 5, no-ball 1 8
Total 134
Bowling Analysis.—Spofforth, 96 balls, 40
runs, 6 maidens, 2 wickets, 1 no-ball; Alexander,
136 balls, 38 runs, 21 maidens, 5 wickets ; Palmer,
76 balls, 29 runs, 9 maidens, 1 wicket; Boyle, 60
balls, 9 runs, 9 maidens, 4 wickets; Moule, 24
balls, 10 runs, 2 wickets.
ORIGINAL POETRY.
BETWEEN THE HORNS OF A DILEMMA.
’Twist woman and wine
Man’s lot is to smart;
’Tis wine makes his head ache.
And woman his heart.
THE HEARTLESS BRIDE.
She loved him, but she knew it not,
Her heart had only room for pride;
All other feelings were forgot
When she became another’s bride.
As from a dream she then awoke.
To realise her lonely state.
And own it was the vow she broke
That made her drear and desolate.
She loved him, but the sland’rer came,
With words of shame that all believed;
A stain thus rested on his name.
But he was wronged and she deceived.
Ah! rash the act that gave her hand.
That drove her true love from her side.
Who hied him to some distant land.
Where, battling for a name, he died.
She loved him, and his mem’ry now
Was treasured from the world apart;
The shades of thought wera on her brow.
The seeds of death were in her heart.
For all the world, that thing forlorn.
Could any woman be and live
A casket with its jewel gone—
A bride who had no heart to give ?
H.N.M.
THE JOY BELL(E)S OF THE PERIOD.
Now girls attend, while I discourse
On womankind and fashion,
And if I do not please, of course
You won’t fly in a passion.
Nature does not treat all the same.
You cannot all be Graces!
But Fashion knows her little game.
And paints your silly faces.
To one, a face like Hebe sweet,
A blushing, beaming beauty.
Who smiles on all, and at whose feet
Men vow both love and duty.
Her hair is short and very light.
And curls to admiration.
Her dress is held back very tight.
Almost to aggravation.
For when she tries to take a skip.
Her kicking strap won’t ler her.
And but for paint she’d bite her lip
Whilst grumbling at her fetter.
In sixteen-button gloves, my dear.
Her hands and arms are hidden.
Her hat just shades one little ear,
And her walk is a la “ Siddon” (s).
And as her feet go pit-a-pat.
As round the “ block” she ambles.
Her little heels go click-a-clack
To tell folks when she rambles.
At supper time she only flirts.
And sometimes sips champagne, dears.
Her partner says it never hurts
A pretty woman’s brain, dears.
Fashion and Cupid have agreed
They cannot reign together.
While Fashion can the women lead
With patches, paint, or feather.
Cupid, who loves you all the same.
Laughs at your painted faces.
And frowns at Fashion s futile game
To change you into Graces.
E.B.
Sydney, January, 1880.


WANTABADGERY BUSHRANGERS.
THE CLOSING SCENE.
EXECUTION OF SCOTT AND ROGAN.
INCIDENTS OF THE TABLEAU.
STRANGE INTERVIEWS AND STRANGE
REVELATIONS.
THE PAST AND REESENT OF DARLING-
HERST GAOL.
To that happy and fortunately large section of
the community which never visits a gaol even for
curiosity sake, the friendly stones which interpose
their weight between the confinees of Darlinghurst
and law-abiding citizens are so familiar as to form
more often the subject of joke than of reflection.
There are, however, times when even those who
think they have never drawn near the line which
divides the free citizen from the imprisoned felon
must pause as they pass what may almost be called
the great historical prison of New South Wales, to
moralise on the unhappy fate of those within its
walls, and on the narrowness, in some places, of
the figurative partition which separates the crimi-
nal from the mass of his fellow-men. Those who
have, while going by Darlinghurst Gaol at mid-
night, heard the watchwords, “ Twelve o’clock
and all’s well,” passed from sentry to sentrv and
from tower to tower meet
ere the first echo died away,
away, and ere the cry of
the warder was taken up by
his comrade further along
the grim black wall, have
thought that, weird to them
as were the sounds which
at such an hour reverber-
ated through the great
square, there were others
on whose ears they fell more
weirdly and more solemnly
still. That there were near
them men to whom the
“All’s well” of the sentry
conveyed a bitter taunt—a
reminder that they were no
longer members of society :
that perchance the wind
which swept theough the
cold corridor bore with it a
cry that told some restless
convict that his Christmas
box was to be a coffin, and
that this New Year was to
be his last— a cry that
trans- formed the Father
Christmas of the wretch’s
dreams into the sullen hang-
man, and told him that that
which even in his waking
hours seemed at times a
hideous dream was a stern
reality. A voice which told
the passer-by that though
individuals could be merciful
society would be just—that
there was no merry Christ-
ifias for the condemned, and
that the ordinary felon’s
new yoar meant not merely
year nearer the grave as
aid the freeman’s: biit a
year which came only to be
wasted a yearwhich was
born but to die.
The impression formed of
Darlinghurst from outside
is not an erroneous one. But
time was, when instead of
the rigorous discipline, the
enforced industry and un-
varying order which now
prevail within the walls of
this, the most populous pri-
son of Australasia, were
existed a free-and-easy sys-
tem having for its main
features insubordination,
filth, and idleness. The wife
of more than one former
Principal Gaoler used to
keep a store within the walls
and sell to prisoners, in
either wholesale or retail
quantities, necessities and
luxuries of all descriptions,
’rom butter to tobacco. As
the gaoler was entrusted
with the safe keeping of all
money and valuables which
were in the possession of
prisoners at the time they en-
tered his establishment, he
was able to determine to a
nicety the amount of credit
which could safely be ex-
tended to guests by his
better half. The advan-
tages which would accrue to
society were it possible for
every man’s grocer also to
be his banker are too ob-
vious to need recapitulation.
Nor need any great pains
be taken to point out how
pleasant it would be if
traders in general could,
a'ter completing a bargain
and receiving their money
’ customers to at once return the i
goods and pay for them over again. The pri-
,f s 11 employ their spare hours in
making cabbage-tree hats, which they “sold” to
t. £ a ?. offices To enable them to conduct
ii -making operations on a larger scale than would
ave en possible, the Governor’s wife
• f , or to supply the prisoners
1 v / roj n her store. Many confinees
~ r y °. ar , ln^< ? night, and so extensive was
private business noctnmally transacted that,
viewed at night from the sandhills behind it,
Darlinghurst appeared illuminated. Occasionally,
at the instigation of the estimable lady referred to,
mr-f W n ( GrS ’ .'T ho themselves were for the most
i, ( c ° n ™ts, made a clean sweep of all the
info “ fif ce an d either gathered them back
ATra p. ie , w hich they were re-sold by
' mcipal Gaoler, or took them home for their
ii. ~8 6' Sometimes the warders indulged in
what they appropriatelyjcalled a “ frisk.” “ Frisk.
ail f VlBl tmg all the cells and searching the
E- 1 i Ilera tor money, which when found was di-
vided amongst those who took part in the expedi-
+Vl - ' nt after enduring a long time this state of
igs, which on the whole must, especially when
compared with the present system, be considered
o ,’ave been very pleasant for the prisoners and
eir Keepers, came to an end. During one memo-
raoie frisk” a £5 note was found in the pos-
session of a prisoner. The governor of the gaol
accidentally heard of the occurrence and demanded
tnc money from the finder, a man named Desmond,
i whose services as a collector he failed to recognise
iby allowance of the ordinary commission. Des-
mond was enraged, grew suddenly virtuous, and
reported the appropriation of the money to the
visiting justice: but as the latter happened to be a
•sleeping partner in the business and was on excel-
lent terms with the gaoler, nothing came of his
complaint. Then a meeting of warders was called
by Desmond, for the purpose of considering the
outrageous conduct of the principal gaoler. An
earnest debate followed, and it was finally decided
that a man who used to write for Dr. Lang’s paper
“The Press,” and who had been in gaol on more
than one occasion, should be invited to take up
his free and flowing pen in the interests of truth
and fair play—otherwise on behalf of the warders.
A series of letters to “ The Press,” on “ Doings
in Darlinghurst,” then appeared. The matter
was brought before the authorities, a board of
inquiry was appointed, and most horrible disclo-
sures were made. The gaoler was dismissed:
most of the warders who did not share his fate
were transferred, and Captain M‘Lerie, with a
more efficient staff, took charge of the establish-
ment, which had previously been ruled by one of
the most corrupt bodies of men ever banded to-
gether by accident or design. Since then things
have been less easy for prisoners andless profitable
for warders.
It is related that, “in the old days,” the
visiting justice to whom I have referred in con-
nection with the story of Desmond, the warder,
took two prisoners out fishing. They decamped,
and left the justice, with the deputy-gaoler, to
pull themselves back in a heavy boat. A few
days afterwards, a convict was sent from the gaol
to the mother of one of the escapees, who resided
in Clarence-street. He requested her, on behalf
of the principal gaoler, to induce her son to “ come
home ” to Darlinghurst, assuring her that, if the
runaway did so, some of his “time” would be
taken off. This happened so recently as 1850. A
handsome young woman, named Robertson, was a
prisoner in gaol about the same time, but as she
was on remarkably good terms with an official, she
stayed in Darlinghnrst beyond the period of her
sentence. Owing to jealonsy on the part of a
warder, the matter was reported, and the woman
was ordered to be sent to Parramatta Gaol. She
was accordingly given into custody of a trooper,
and the pair set out on their journey, but the very
least that can be said is, that they took a long
time to reach the beautiful orange-groved city.
ARTISTS IN HEMP.
A man named Green was the executioner who
first officiated at the present Darlinghurst gaol.
He had been a flogger in the employ of the
Australian Agricultural Company at Port
Stephens, was by nature hideous, and was ren-
| dered still more repulsive by the fact that he bore
: on his face the remains of a terrible gash inflicted
on him by a man whom he had flogged and who
one night attempted to murder him with an axe.
He had a keen love for his profession, and on one
occasion while dmuk forced his way into the mess
room at the barracks produced a piece of rope,
and informed the officers that he had received in-
structions to
HANG THEM ALL AFTER DINNER.
He was once locked up with another man in a cell
at the comer of Bathurst and Kent-streets. The
constable in charge of the watch-house heard a
curious noise in the room, and on proceeding to
ascertain its cause found that Green was endea-
vouring, apparently not without success, to
strangle his companion with a handkerchief.
Green was a thorough brute, without a redeeming
trait. He was succeeded by Elliott, a little man
whose character afforded, according to all ac-
counts, a somewhat interesting study. He would
sit down to prepare the rope for the execution of a
criminal, and having spent hours in rendering it
soft and pliable by means of manipulation and
grease, would hold it up and remark to the war-
ders in an oily, self-satisfied way, “ Dear me!
That’s as nice a bit of stuff as ever I used.” It
is related that when a reprieve was granted to a
convict for whose execution preparations had been
made by Elliott, the latter coiled up the rope
and flung it to the floor, exclaiming, “ That’s the
THIRD TIME I’VE BEEN HUMBUGGED.
He had a habit of joining most heartily in the
prayers on the scaffold, and struck devotional at-
titudes so effective and earnest that they might
have been borrowed from the kneeling figures in
the well-known painting of “The Pilgrim Fathers.”
Elliott was as a rule rather decent in his attire,
and when requested by the sheriff as a matter of
form to appear respectably clad on the morning of
an execution, used to reply promptly, “Yes, sir,
—all right, sir, you’ll not
KNOW ME FROM T 7 PARSON! ”
—for whom, it is said, he was more than once
mistaken by persons whose powers of observation
were temporarily dimmed owiog to the distressing
nature of the circumstances under which they met
him. There never lived a hangman more fond
than Elliott of recounting his professional ex-
ploits, or of parading compliments alleged to have
been received by him from the sheriff. He died,
whereupon Bull, an old Imperial convict, was in-
stalled as executioner. There were so many can-
didates for the vacancy that Sir Charles Cowper,
it is said, used to carry the letters of application
about in his pocket, and whenever button-holed by
an aspirant for Government employment, used to
produce the papers and ask, “ How can you ex-
pect me to find a billet for everybody ? At least
fifty people want the hangmanship.” Bull, when
congratulated on having managed to secure the
post in the face of such keen competition, re-
marked, “ I don’t see that I hadn’t as good a
right to it as anyone else, considering I’ve been
about 30 years in Government. I was at Darling-
hurst Gaol when they (the prisoners) used to fight
dogs on a Sunday morning in the north-east corner
and play pitch-and-toss in the south-west corner.”
These interesting sports, it may be mentioned,
took place at a time when prisoners used to leave
the gaol for an airing, commit robberies in the
neighbourhood, and sometimes be chased by the
local police to the door of the gaol, where stolen
property was frequently recovered. Bull met his
death in a rather remarkable way. A man named
Kelly was about to be hanged, and when at the
gallows, suddenly turned round, exclaimed “ You
—— dog !” and kicked the hangman so savagely
that he died a few months afterwards from the
effects of the injury received. Kelly, having had
his revenge in advance, proceeded, with humour
truly Hibernian, to recite the Lord’s Prayer. He
however made further resistance, raved wildly,
and swore that he would never die. He did not
understand the mechanism of the engine of death,
and instead of expecting himself to fall through
the floor, had an idea that the executioner was
going to throw him over the railings of the scaf-
fold. So, with the rope round his neck, he planted
himself firmly on the drop and sat down, assuring
the hangman that
“ HE wasn’t GOING TO SHIFT.”
This was a “ fatal mistake,” for the floor suddenly
gave way, and Mr. Kelly speedily “ reached the
end of his tether.” Bull’s assistant, one Francks,
a brutal-looking man of German extraction, be-
came chief executioner on the death of his prin-
cipal. Francks had been several times convicted,
and was a deserter from the United States ship
Kearsage (the conqueror of the Alabama) the gal-
lant crew of which vessel were well rid of his
company. He was a drunken creature, and in
disposition did not in any way belie the portrait
(taken from an authentic photograph) which my
friend the artist has drawn. Francks was some-
times “ loud ” in his dress, and occasionally went
so far as to affect a silver-
headed cane and a hand-ker-
chief scented with patchou-
ly, the fumes of which mixed
themselves with those of the
colonial beer and tobacco he
so plentifully consumed. He
had been in the States and
had developed a vein of Amer-
icanhumour.Hewas inavery
wretched condition when ap-
pointed hangman, and was ad-
vanced the money necessary
to provide him with clothing.
He donned his new suit on
the morning of the first exe-
cution for the conduct of
which he was personally res-
ponsible, and looking up and
down at himself, ejaculated
“ GEE SSI KIN DO A ‘ KILL’
NOW.”
When someone reproached
him with his office, he re-
marked “ Never saw such a
country as this. People must
be a lot of scoundrels here.
In America any citizen 11
hang a murderer.”
“ NOSET BOB,”
the present chief execu-
tioner, resides in a quiet
part of Paddington, where
he has one of the neatest
of cottages standing in the
middle of as well-kept a
patch' of garden as is to be
seen around Sydney. The
nremises are his own free-
h )ld. He has an annual
salary of .£l5O, payable
monthly, and in addition
to the income attached to
his post in the Civil Service,
he derives from hones ttoil,
now r in one shape, now in
another, “ bright shillings ”
which enable him to very
live well and also to pro-
vide against a rainy day.
By those of his neighbours
whose minds are not nar-
row as to prejudice them
against a man on account of
his occupation, he is well
liked and even respected,
for not one of the families
whose fine houses adjoin his
snug little property and
there aie some fine houses
jwhich so closely adjoin it
ithat you could fillip a
penny into their grounds
from the hangman’s door
—are more_ reputable, or
happier, or intrinsically bet-
ter than that of the much-
Ireaded “ finisher of the
law.” In regard to the ap-
propriateness of the title,
nore here- after. When I
.dsited Howard, it was, for
several cogent reasons, at
fight. I found him sitting
it his front gate, in the
)osom of his family, and in
die company of a personage
vhom I afterwards dis-
covered to be identical with
lis assistant. This latter
'entleman, by the way, kept
ne company during a certain
soach ride to Mudgee, on a
recent occasioninvolving the
sudden decease of a black-
ellow, whose crime—speak-
ng relatively, at any rate
—lay chiefly in the fact
hat he was a black-fellow,
md whose misfortune it
was that in Sir Alfred
Stephen, instead o in the more humane Sir
Hercules Robinson, there happened at the time
to be vested the Royal prerogative of mercy. The
hangman lit his pipe as I passed, and exhibited
his features, or rather his deficiency of one of
those useful and sometimes even attractive ar-
ticles. “ Does Mr. Howard live hereabouts ?” I
asked. The awful functionary rose to meet me.
“ Good evening, Howard,” I said. “ Good even-
ing, sir,” said the finisher of the law, with his
pipe in his mouth and his hand on his hips. That
js how I introduced myself to the sheriff’s deputy.
However, our conversation was, owing to the pre-
sence of other people, a merely formal one, and we
soon parted.
I had previously had one conversation with the
hangman, but as he has a bad memory for faces
and apparently does not recollect voices at all, he
did not recoraise me. Perhaps the defectiveness
of his recollection as applied to the soft tones of
the human voice may be attributable to the pecu-
liar nature of his profession and to the non-exercise
of his faculties in the regard alluded to, for when-
ever he hears a voice in whose owner he takes a
deep official interest, a choking sensation gene-
rally renders the latter incapable of further arti-
culation and precludes all chance of the hang-
man’s gaining further experience concerning him.
When next I visited the executioner he received
me most courteously and invited me to enter his
residence, the inside of which is in keeping with
its neat exterior appearance. We passed up a
path over-arched by vines laden with ripening


grapes, which the “ doomsman ” showed me by the
flickering light of the candle he carried to guard
against my tripping over the steps. He was proud
of his grapes and of the flowers further down the
garden, and was, he said, sorry that none of the
former were ripe at the time of my visit. No one
bnt he and his two youngest boys were at home ;
the rest of the family had “ gone to the play.” He
sat down in his little parlour and we conversed
across a round table on which lay the Bible. He
informed me that he was a believer in religious
education and that it was his custom to insist upon
his boys reading from “ The Book,” every night
before they went to bed. He was satisfied with
their progress at school. So well was he satisfied
with it that he made one of the youngsters read me
a passage from St. Paul to the Ephesians. When
requested to take up the book and exhibit his
literary ability, the boy began to turn over the
leaves as if in search of a familar passage. His
sir objected to this and shut the book, ordering him
to read out the “ first thing he came to.” It ocur-
red to me that the hangman’s nature was com-
pounded of numerous queer things, and that when
his mind was formed a great many extremes had
met. It would, I thought, have been comical, and
likewise relieving, had the “first thing” the
youngster came to been —“ Thou shalt not kill
or, “ Whoso’ sheddeth man’s blood,” &c. Either
words would have formed a good text for conversa-
tion, and in fact have afforded an excellent pretext
for broaching the subjects on which I wished to
hear the mild and religiously-inclined man’s views.
Though there was no such luck, we were not
long in making a commencement. I informed him
that I was a newspaper man. He at once compre-
hended the situation, or thought he did, for, after
all, it wasn’t exactly the same thing. I found him
to be a strict official. “Yes,” he said, “he was
aware that the sheriff didn’t intend to admit many
people, if, indeed, he allowed anyone bnt the gaol
officials to witness the forthcoming execution.
Then the following colloquy occurred :
Eeporter : You see, Howard, there was so much
trouble over the last execution that the sheriff, it
is rumoured, isn’t going to let in any reporters at
all to this one. Now, if I can’t get in I want you
to give me all particulars.
Hangman : Can’t give you any information with-
out permission from the sheriff. You know, sir,
I’ve been very badly treated by the newspapers.
The Evening News was too severe on me. In
fact, I was thinking of taking a libel action against
the News, which is largely circulated among my
friends. Sir Alfred Stephen and Sir Henry Parkes
offered to back me up in it, but I let the matter
drop. I thought it was best to do so. Their
article did me a lot of harm in my business. I used
to work for a great many people who now don’t
employ me. However, I’ll tell you what I’ll do.
If I ask for a couple of admission tickets they’ll be
given to me and even if the sheriff’s not able to
spare you a ticket, you may come in as a friend of
mine.
Eeporter ; I’m very much obliged, indeed;
Hangman : Yes, sir; and if you’ll just give me
your address, I’ll get a henvelope and put the card
in it when I get it, and I’ll just come to your door
and ring the bell, and hand it to the servant and
go away .
Eeporter : It’s really very kind of you.
Hangman : Do you know, sir, that I never put
a rope round a man’s neck in my life ! I never
pulled a bolt either. I’ve a man to do it for me.
I stand there, d’ye see, and I pulls his cap over his
face and I walks round him to see that the knot’s
nice and comfortable. Then I looks at the sheriff
to catch the wink of his eye, and then I tips the
wink to my mate, and he pulls the bolt and lets
the man down. It’s not afoot that I over hung 1 a
man —never, sir ; never !
Eeporter: People have formed an altogether
false impression as to your character. But you’ll
perhaps be kind enough to explain how it was that
you came to take your psesent billet.
Hangman : Well, sir, the truth was that I was
liquoring a little too much at the time, and I took
the situation without thinking, like. But I don’t
care. I’m not ashamed of it. I can lay my hand
on five hundred pound and I’m worth a thousand.
I can pay the passages of my dear children, God
bless them, on board the best steamer that leaves
Sydney. I can go away if I like but I’m not going
till it suits me.
Eeporter: People certainly consider your position
a queer one.
Hangman ;It may be queer to outsiders. But
here I am. I’ve got a good cottage and twelve
pound ten a month. I’ve got as good a garden as
there is anywhere —I’ve got the prettiest garden
in Paddington —the biggest cabbages and the finest
flowers. If you ever ceme down in the day time
I’ll give you as many as you like; I can’t see to
pick ’em now. Just you fetch down your lady any
day and whether I’m at home or abroad all you’ve
got to do is say I sent you and you’ll be given the
finest bouquet out.
Eeporter: You seem quite satisfied with your
position.
Hangman : Why shouldn’t I be, sir ? Faring up
my children well. I send ’em to school every day,
and the children belonging to the first gentleman
in Paddington—aren’t neater, nor cleaner, nor
more mannerly. They always says “ thank you ”
and “ if you please ” when they gets anything or
wants anything. Here’s a girl for instance —how
old d’ye think she is ?
Eeporter: Eighteen, probably.
Hangman: No, indeed, twelve year old, sir, —
twelve year old. Yes, sir, that’s my daughter,
only twelve year old.
Eeporter, after making a low obeisance : Do you
think both these men will be hanged P
Hangman : Well, I don’t know. Moonlite’s sure
to go, but I don’t know as Eogan will.
Eeporter : I hope Eogan’s reprieved.
Hangman ; Well, poor unfortunate devil, I hope
he is. w
Eeporter : Then you don’t particularly want to
hang them both ?
Hangman : No, indeed —would you ? I don’t
get any more for doing the work. It’s a lot of
trouble to me, I can tell you. I spends all the
in preparations, for if anything goes wrong, here’s
the man as gets the blame. I’ve never had a
mishap yet and I hope I never will have.
Eeporter: What do you mean by a mishap ?
Hangman; Well, d’ye see, it wouldn’t, for in-
stance, do to put the knot under the chin. If you
did that there’d be the chance of scratching the
man’s neck and drawing blood, and if there was a
single drop of blood the Press ’d be down on me.
Eeporter : What preparations do you allude to ?
I never thought there was any particular trouble
about hanging a man.
Hangman : Oh, ain’t there ! I tell you there’s
a lot of trouble, ine night before, I fixes all the
things as I remember, and then I takes my pipe in
my mouth and I walks up and down and says to
myself—‘ Is there anything more ’ —and if there’s
anything more I thinks of it. It doesn’t do to get
flurried, for the day you gets flurried that’s the
day as ycu makes the mistake. And then when I
sees the people walking in I thinks again and
makes sure that everything’s as nice and ready as
akid glove.
Reporter : What do you think of Scott as a man ?
Do you, think he’ll be afraid of yon ?
Hangman: Well, it all depends. If him and
Eogan have to stand up together and swing to-
gether, I think he’ll not be much frightened ; but
if he loses his mate —that is to say if Eogan’s let
clear—he’ll think they’re putting hard lines on him,
and he’ll not be the same man. There’s a lot in
company.
Eeporter : Have you ever seen Scott ?
Hangman: No, never. I always gets their
height and their weight, but I don’t go near ’em
till their time comes. Of course, when I’m at the
gaol I might see ’em from a window, when they’d
be at exercise; but if that happened they wouldn’t
see me. I’d not care about it being said to them
that the hangman had come for ’em. The warders
daren’t tell ’em anything of the kind; besides,
they’re too kind to do it. But some of the prisoners
might, if they had the chance.
On the wall of the cottage there were pictures of
various kinds, hung in the artistic manner which
might have been expected of their owner. Over
the fireplace was an American caricature—the sub-
ject, a couple of coloured people making love ; im-
mediately behind the gaunt, frowsy, little-eyed
executioner and pasted on the tastefully executed
advertising almanac of a well-known softgoods
firm, was a copy of Gainsborough’s masterpiece,
“ The Blue Boy.” Prom time to time, as I grew
tired of studying the countenance of my host, I
glanced at the graceful picture behind hun, which
at last seemed to beckon me away. Who, looking
from the face of the common hangman to such a
figure as that in the picture which upset all the
theories of Sir Joshua Eeynolds could help feeling
how true is the saying that “ blood will tell ?”
Then the reporter and the hangman, after visit-
ing an adjacent hostelry, parted in the manner
prescribed by the rules of polite society.
WHY ALL THE REPORTERS WERE NOT PRESENT.
The fact that the Press, as a body, was unrepre-
sented at the execution, and that the Metropolitan
journals, with the solitary exception of The
Bulletin, had for information to rely on the
reverend gentlemen, privileged medical men, and
“distinguished foreigners,” who, for reasons
ranging from a sense of duty to a love of science
and Tomnoddian curiosity, put in aa appearance at
Darlinghurst at the fatal hour of nine, is due
chiefly to the kind interposition of that most re-
spectable journal, the Herald. Hunter-street,
with her sham morality, her ghastly fun, and her
drivelling pathos, didn’t want to be there, and was
successful in procuring the promulgation of a
ukase excluding the representatives of the secular
Press from the gaol on the occasion. However,
“ palm oil, the almighty,” prevailed, and it fortu-
nately happens that The Bulletin, having been
represented at the closing scene of the Wantabad-
gery drama by an artist and a reporter, is now
enabled to present to the public information which
less enterprising and fortunate papers have been
unable to obtain.
It is not my intention to recount at length the
circumstances which led up to the scene wit-
nessed in Darlinghurst Prison at nine o’clock a.m.
on Tuesday week. The caree rof Andrew George
Scott, an utterly unprincipled man of good birth,
excellent education, and of high but ill-applied
ability, is well known to the public, before whom
his name has been for years, as that of a crafty
criminal. He was a man dangerous to society and
utterly incapable of reform, who only lived to ex-
emplify the power which education lends to the
habitual felon. Some years ago, when convicted
of the Egerton bank robbery, he called Heaven to
witness his entire innocence of the crime in
question. Before his execution he went so far as
to admit that he had received the stolen gold, bnt
continued to aver that he had borne no part in the
actual robbery. He lied to the last. A great deal
has of late been said concerning his engagement to
Mrs. Ames, a Victorian lady, who after his con-
demnation was unremitting in her efforts to obtain
a reprieve. Scott, some days before his execution,
remarked that her case was “ only another illus-
tration of the old, old story—that she was the one
woman who understood a man whose every action
was misinterpreted by the world.” It would, to
the general public, rather appear that the reverse
was the fact, and that the unfortunate woman
whose mind was centred on the unworthy object
just pass id away was the one person on this earth
who being intimately acquainted with Scott, failed
to form a true estimate of his character.
In November last Scott and his companions,
Eogan, Nesbitt, Wernecke, Williams, and Bennett,
stuck up the Wantabadgery station, between Gun-
dagai and Wagga Wagga, under the pretext that
they had been refused food. While they were
still at the station, to the residents of, and visitors
to which Scott behaved in a most unceremonious
and brutal manner, four constables from Wagga
Wagga appeared on the scene. These the bush-
rangers forced to retreat, but the police having
been joined by a detachment of four Gundagai
constables, under the command of senior-sergeant
Carroll, returned to the attack. A fierce fight
ensued, resulting in the death of Nesbitt and
Wernecke, the wounding of Williams, and the
surrender of the rest of the gang. During the
engagement constable Bowen, a man who had dis-
tinguished himself in a previous encounter with
outlaws, and over whose remains the Crown is
erecting a handsome monument, was mortally
wounded. Scott, Eogan, Williams, and Bennett
were, after a lengthy trial, found guilty, and sen-
tenced to death. The three latter bushrangers
were recommended to mercy by the jury, but the
Executive resolved that the extreme penalty of the
law should be carried out on all four criminals.
The Governor, in the exercise of the Eoyal pre-
rogative, reprieved Williams and Bennett on the
ground of their youth and that they had not pre-
viously been convicted. Eogan, who during the
fight evinced a great amount of trepidation, and
who was subsequently found beneath a bed, was
excepted from the vice-regal clemency, on what
grounds the public are even now at a loss to dis-
cover. He took no active part in the conflict, as
did the two men whose sentences were commuted,
and is clearly shown to have been the means of
restraining Scott from carrying out his threat of
hanging Mr. Beveridge, a visitor to Wanta-
badgery. But notwithstanding these facts and
the able and persistent manner in which they were
urged by Eogan’s solicitor, Mr. E. B. Smith, after
the conviction, the Governor adhered to his
decision.
THE LAST SCENE.
Precisely at five minutes to nine the convicts
were, on the demand of the Sheriff, Mr. Cowper,
handed over to the hangman by Mr. Bead, the
Governor of the Gaol. Scott’s face paled at the
sight of the executioner, by whom his arms were
at once tied with whipcord at the elbows in an
unusually secure way. Eogan, resistance on whose
part was evidently not anticipated by the execu-
tioner, quietly submitted to the process of pin-
ioning, and was led by the assistant hangman to
the drop. Howard, the principal executioner,
followed with Scott. Eogan, who was of the
Eoman Catholic faith, was attended at the gal-
lows by the Eev. Father Eyan ; Scott, the son of
a Church of England minister, and once a lay
reader himself, was in the spiritual charge of the
Eev. Canon Eich. The rest is soon told. Eogan
had, through Father Eyan, requested his com-
panion in crime not to make a speech on the gal-
lows. Scott had consented to this on the under-
standing that the execution was to be witnessed
by as few persons as possible. However, though
the Press as a body was not admitted, fully forty
persons were standing in the court-yard. When
he came out to die, Scott’s heart seemed to fail
him. He appeared to endeavour to look uncon-
cerned, and muttered mechanically, “ What are
all these people doing here ?” He tried to smile,
but his upper lip quivered like that of a dog at bay.
Eogan simply looked dazed, though in his cell in
the hours immediately preceding that fixed for his
death he had been comparatively cheerful, buoyed
up as he was by the hope of mercy in the next
world. The executioner took from his pocket the
white cap and rapidly drew it over the head of
Scott, who at the instant turned to Eogan, shook
hands with him, and said, “ Good-bye, Tom.” The
cap was then drawn over Eogan’s head, and the
rope placed round his neck. Then the executioners
stole softly from their victims’ sides, the assist-
ant hangman threw his whole weight against
the lever, and in a second Andrew George Scott
and Thomas Eogan, with their necks broken, were
hanging in Scott died instantly ; Eogan’s
frame quivered>Weral minutes after he fell.
Amongst those who witnessed the execution,
there were very few indeed whose eyes were not
from first to last riveted on Scott. He was the
central figure of the awful drama. The portrait
herewith presented differs very materially, from
those printed at the time of his trial, but it must
be remembered that the latter were drawn from
photographs taken a considerable time since in
Victoria, while the original of The Bulletin
picture is a sketch taken in the gaol after Scott
was shaved, and after he had been some time in
prison. The removal of his beard so altered his
appearance that it was difficult to recognise him.
The man’s moustache and beard formerly con-
cealed, to some extent, the defects of a mouth
which—especially when viewed in conjunction with
the keen eyes so capable of expressing concentra-
. tion, and the semi-aquiline nose that denoted so
much decision—betrayed the possession by their
owner of about equal amounts of treachery and de-
termination. But just as those who in more bar-
barous times used with the eyes of enthusiasts to
see halos of glory hovering round the head of
persons dying in never so good or so bad a cause,
so he who, having no direct interest in an accused
or condemned man, witnesses a trial or execution
easily discerns in that man traits which, under
other circumstances, would have remained undis-
covered. In the words of the Hon. W. B. Dailey,
when defending another Scott (the notorious Sussex
street murderer) “ Once get a man accused of a
Crimea, and people will be ready to believe him
guilty. Place the most honest and pleasing face be-
hind the rails, and it at once becomes a face that
expresses every passion.” It is no flattering tri-
bute to Moonlite’s memory to say that many men
with worse faces and no better minds are walking
about our streets, visiting our drawing rooms, and
dining with the highest of our citizens—that men
are daily doing all these things who are no better
in principle than was Moonlite, from whom they
differ in few respects save that they lack his animal
courage and outrageous vanity, and have not by
the force of circumstances been impelled to crime.
“ The only redeeming point in Scott’s head,” says
the phrenologist who, after the execution, took a
cast of his skull, ‘‘was his slight benevolence” —
in other words, I presume, a spice of charity. But
the criminals charity does not seem to have been
of that order “ which covereth a multitude of sins.”
THE SCENE ON THE SCAFFOLD
was a really terrible one. In Scott’s pale face —all
the paler and more ghastly by reason of the fa«t
that he had not been shaved for a day or two —
there was, notwithstanding the man’s evident de-
termination to “ die game,” a fixed appearance of
utter helplessness and despair. Those who have
spent much time in hospitals and have had frequent
opportunities of observing moribund patients, will
have noticed how powerfully the appearance of a
dying man is affected by the presence or absence
of a day’s growth of hair—how terribly haggard a
countenance otherwise placid becomes when the
wan cheek is contrasted with the dark stubble of
the neglected chin. I have seen many men hanged,
but must confess that though I have heard of con-
victs behaving “ like cowards ” on the scaffold I
have never yet seen a “condame” within five
minutes of the tomb comport himself otherwise
than in a man which induced even the least nervous
spectator to wonder at his coolness. I have now
seen men expire under almost every variety of cir-
cumstances, and have learnt that death by the
hand of the executioner is the most terrible of all
spectacles. It is awful to witness the dying
struggles of the brawny miner whose limbs have
been shattered by a blast, to know that those
struggles are unavailing, and to see the life of the
man who not long before was a Hercules, quickly
borne away on the fast-flowing current' of arterial
blood. But however unnerving the sight of a
fatally-wounded man may be to the ordinary spec-
tator, that indescribable, livid ashen pallor which
comes over the criminal as he faces the hangman
is still more sickening and awe-inspiring. One’s
glances involuntarily wandered from Scott to the
hangman and from the hangman back to Scott.
The convict’s wasted frame, his sunken eyes, his
white face, the helpless, doubled-up appearance
given him by the pinioning of his arms, were, as he
stood beneath the beam and for a second regarded
■with a kind of absent-minded and dreamy, yet keen
curiosity, first the dangling cord which was soon
to bind him to the grave, and next the perfidious
trap-door on which he stood, enough to strike
terror into the heart of even the man who could
shake hands with Death in any other form. And
if Scott’s face was terrible to look on—if over his
features came that strained, grave-like stare, that
hopeless look which I have seen almost blanch the
cheek of a black man as the hangman seized him
—the appearance of the executioner was still more
fascinatingly horrible. The creature looked what
he lives to be —a human ghoul, a fiend incarnate.
Were he to hang a million murderers no one from
among them would or could ever compare with
him in bodily hideousness. No frontispiece to
“ Paradise Lost ” ever contained so vivid a repre-
sentation of the Evil One, no nightmare ever pre-
sented to the dreamer a spectre so hell-like. One’s
recollection was instinctively brought to bear upon
all the villains of one’s reading and experience.
Beside the fleshy hangman, the ideal Fagin seemed
in bodily appearance an ordinary man —when com-
pared with the grim man butcher, Mephistopheles of
the night, and Gabbett of Marcus Clarke’s “ His
Natural Life ’ ’ dwindled into gentleness of mien.
One without lengthy experience of criminals and
unfamiliar with gaol albums, could hardly
dream that such a being could exist in human
shape—that he could have had a mother. No
man in Australia, so far as I know, can in point of
brutal appearance be placed beside the execu-
tioner, except Gately, the Melbourne hangman. I
do not say this merely because, when looking at
the men, I was aware of the terribly re-
revolting nature of the men’s occupapation.
In the ape-like figures of the pair there is a
marked resemblance, both being six feet high,
broad-shouldered, long-armed, flat-footed, and
sinewy. Gately has a facial angle of fifty, and
has a nose. Howard has no nose, and has, on ac-
count of that fact, a facial angle of ninety.
But if the executioner, to the pallid lookers-on
at the convict’s misery, seemed hideous and un-
earthly, what must have been the wretched bush-
ranger’s feelings when for the first time he found
himself confronted by the man who was to
slaughter him ? Who could not help trying to put
himself into the culprit’s position as he walked
the few paces intervening between his cell door
and the drop ? Who among the spectators failed
to ask himself the question —“ If so hideous to us,
what must he be to his prey ?” If Hades be net a.
a thing of a future state, but of the earth —if the
supreme punishment be after all the unquiet con-
science, the racked brain, the terror-stricken soul,
the fear of the Unknown, then must it be admitted
that even in this world Scott expiated every offence
it were possible to commit against humanity.
After seeing Howard he could afford to smile at
King Death, who looked over the hangman’s
shoulder.
There is no sound more appalling than that of a
body falling from the drop. The noise has often
been described as a “ dull thud,” and it in some
measure resembles that heard when one standing
at the edge of a shallow shaft listens to a heavy


pick being struck into underground clay. First
comes the rattle of the trap ; then, almost instan-
taneously, the dull fatal sound caused by the
straining of the rope on the beam. It is a sound
from wliich there is no echo, and which is in-
variably followed by a silence so profound as in
itself to suggest death.
Have you ever, in a dream, fancied that you
were falling from a great height ? Have you ever,
in your waking hours, found the rung of a ladder
give way as you were descending a shaft hand
over hand; or, while in a small boat, seen your
craft’s nose, which but a moment before was out
of the water altogether, dive suddenly into the
gulf between two great shark-inhabited rollers ?
Some such feeling as that, only intensified a thou-
sand times, must be experienced by the wretch as
the hangman, to use a hackneyed phrase,
“ launches him into eternity.” His arms are tied
and can grasp at nothing ; his feet suddenly lose
their support; his hands only are free, and
“clutch at themselves.” He must feel as if it
were all a horrid dream, and—years being at such
a time crowded into a second —as if he were falling
thousands of feet without having the hideous
sinking feeling which made his heart jump and
then stand stiff, relieved by the touch of a single
material object. I knew a man who suffered from
what is familiarly called “ smoker’s heart,” a
malady resulting from the excessive use of nico-
tine. In the middle of the night—we were in
camp together—he sometimes uttered a loud
shriek and remained motionless until a hand was
aid upon him. He told me that he “ felt his heart
stop beating, and that, though in an almost per-
fectly conscious state and alive to what was going
on around him, he thought that he was falling,
and was unable to speak until touched by some-
one. So it must be with the man who drops from
the scaffold; he feels himself falling, not six or
seven, but ten thousand feet. At last his fall is
broken —he comes to the end of the rope. The
hand of Death is laid upon him and he wakes—in
the other world.
Just as the nerves of one who for the first time
witnesses a severe surgical operation are sustained
by a knowledge of the fact that the operation is
necessary, so in the same way one who keeps in
view the crime to be expiated by a convict can,
though he never before witnessed death, look at
an execution unmoved. I say this as a generality.
On cool reflection I could not in my heart find a
great deal of pity for Scott, considered as an indi-
vidual convict who had forfeited his life to the
law ; _ but on the other hand I could not help con-
trasting his case—the case of a man who had
never actually shed blood—with that of the two
men who on as sunnay a morning a few years before
had from the same scaffold, amid the execrations
of the whole continent, been sent to their last
account. The gentlest woman in New South
Wales, had she been fully cognisant of the details
of the crimes committed by Nichols and Lester
could have looked on and smiled at their agonies
as they stood on the scaffold—could have scoffed
at their hypocritical cant. They had over and
over again entrapped unsuspecting men, butchered
them for the sake of their few shillings and their
clothes, tied stones to their feet and thrown them
into the deep. Scott’s crime was a bad one, but
beside that of Nichols and Lester what was it ?
Scott was not wanting in animal courage, but he
wa s a braggart. He had by degrees become an
Ishmaelite. He owed his position solely to him-
self, for when once a man commits a crime society
is hardly responsible for its indirect consequences.
But I do not for a moment believe he was of the
stuff of which murderers are made, or that he ever
coolly meditated bloodshed. There are many cases
in which threats that when uttered were in all
probability unmeaning and thoughtless have been
fulfilled:, and in which, also, those threats have
bC^ft'brought up in evidence against accused men.
In the same way many men who have carried arms
out of bravado, have forfeited their lives by using
those arms in unguarded moments. Had the
bushranger who not long since stuck up a bank in
Gippsland carried a pistol instead of a pipe case,
he might easily have involved himself in more
serious trouble, however innocent his intentions in
regard to life might have been. The law can do
no more than take a man’s life, but the force of
the idea was irresistible that either Nichols or
Lester were punished too little, or that Scott and
Rogan were punished too much.
ZU.
SPORTING NOTES.
Adelong has beaten Gnndagai at cricket.
,£764 was paid in prizes at the Newcastle race
meeting.
T. Ray, of Ulverson, England, heads the pole-
vaulting—lift. 2iin.
The English Derby next year is to be run on
Wednesday, May 26.
King and Dayman have arranged a 24-hour
match for ,£25 a-side.
Hanlan says he will row Courtenay if he will
guarantee to appear at the scratch.
H. Woods and B. Foster are matched to walk
24 hours for £3O aside at Goulbnm.
Twelve horses have accepted for the Annual
City Handicap, and thirteen for the Cup.
Count Lagrange’s three-year-old colt Rayon
d’Or won £17,000 in eight races last year.
Baker won the pedestrian contest at Brisbane
Exhibition Building by covering 98 miles in 24 hours.
The race between Power and M‘Leer, last Satur-
day was so hollow an affair as not to be worth describing.
Sir Thomas Elder is raising some young atocx
by Gang Forward to compete for the Derby and other
English races.
Three hundred thousand eggs from California
have been sent to stock the waters of France, Ger-
many and Holland.
The first bowling match of the season (between
the Annandale an Parramatta Clubs) takes place to-
day, at Annandale.d
Henry Cohen has been fined in Melbourne for
promoting a sweep on the Melbourne Cup. In the
course of the evidence it was alleged that a Mistake had
been made m the draw.
The Bathurst Jockey Club has ceased opera-
tions and will hold no more races, unless the pub-
lic take the matter up.
Beaudesert, the Middle Park Plate winner, has
been purchased by Lord Alington from Lord
Anglesey. Price, £7,000. ■ ° rCl
The spirited Murrumbidgee Turf Club are
arranging a programme for their Autumn meeting
on the 17th and 18th March.
(On Saturday, 24th current, J. Power nf TMm,
and G. Solomon, of Sydney, row over Trl’ if • ’
course in light skks ° VCr the cha “* lon
A great race of six days’ duration in California
between men and horses, resulted in favour of the
nags, and as the horse Pinafore covered 559 miles
it must be accepted that the horse can outlast
man. But nothing can run as long as Pinafore
Alderman Playfair has promised a valuable
sterling silver trophy of unique design for competition
by rowing club fours on next Anniversary Day.
Miss Maria Wallace, who was third in the late
female tournament in this city, accepts Miss
Nicholson’s challenge for £5O aside, for a 24-hour
contest.
At Hill End, on Anniversary Day, the local
cricket club beat Sofala in one innings with 29 runs to
spare. On the same day the Burrowa Cosmopolitans
heat Murrnmburrah by 124 runs.
The following is the handicap for the Grand
International Pigeon Match, to be shot off to-day: —
E. B. Docker 28 yards, Woorana 26, T. M. Giblin 28, J.
Dent 28, G. Hill jun. 28, A. Bailey 26, J. Hamilton 30,
J. Pike 27, J. Steen 30, F. Gannon 30, H. M. Keightley
28, A. Steen 27, N. P. Bayley 26, J. M. Gill 27, J. D.
Dougall 28, W. Meek 27, W. Bryant 27, O. Friend 30,
Lee Lord 30, Cambridge 28.
The famous stallion Australian, aged twenty-
one, by West Australian, dam Emelia, died on the
Alexander farm, Kentucky, U.S., recently. Aus-
tralian was the sire of Spendthrift and a host of
other racehorses. His pedigree embraced the best
blood of the English racer.
A 48 hours’ go-as-you-please match has been
arranged between old Williams and the Scotchman,
M‘Kay. The event commences on 2nd February,
at the English circus. The “ old ’un ”is not
thought to have any chance against the “ bonnie
laddie.”
Maribyrnong won the gold medal for blood stallions
at the International, Kingsborough second, Priam third.
Towns’ Egalite took first prize for blood mares, Lee’s
Jessamine second. In draught stallions Towns’ Muir
Lad and Davie were first (with gold medal) and second.
Onus’s Young Tom third,
Mr. Cowles, gunsmith, of George-street, in
order to show the value of the guns manufactured
by Scott and Sons, of Birmingham, gives a £75
prize gun to be shot for at the low value of £4O.
The terms are : —“ A Handicap Sweepstake of 20
Members, at £3 3s. First prize, the gun and fit-
tings ; second prize, £lO ; third prize, £5 ; balance
of sweep to pay for seven birds each shooter, and
all birds used in shooting off ties to be paid for by
the shooters using them. The handicap to range
from 80 yards downwards, and no one to be placed
at a shorter distance than 23 yards.” Intending
competitors are to communicate with Mr. T. Gib-
bin, Mr. Cowles, or Mr. H. P. Mostyn.
Tom Cannon, the famous English jockey,
rode four winners at Newmarket on October 10.
The same week Fred Archer, the first of English
jockeys, won five out of thirty-two mounts.
Endeavours are being made to arrange a 50-
mile match for £5O aside between W. Taylor and
M'Dermott, of Tamworth. It is to be hoped that
the event will be decided in Sydney.
Parramatta Races.— Selling Stakes.—Robin-
son Crusoe, 1; Bullocky, 2; Union Jack, 3.
Pony Handicap.—Kate Kelly and Alice Haw-
thorne, dead heat; Colt Foal, 3. Midsummer
Handicap.—Balthazar, 1 ; Croydon and Jacko,
dead heat for second place. Im. 47 4-10 s. Trial
Stakes.—Woollen, 1; Partner, 2; Flushcombe, 3.
Park Stakes. —Stranger, 1; Miss Lynne, 2; Swin-
dler, 3. Anniversary Handicap.—Jaco, 1: Thorn-
topper, 2 ; Drum Major, 3. Time, 2m.47 s.
Handicap Galloway.—Lady Chester, 1; Beeswing,
2; Mary Anne, 3. Forced Handicap.—Geelong,!;
Lavinia, 2.
The following are the nominations for the prin-
cipal handicaps at the Albury annual races:—Albury
Cup—H. Hoystead’s Coongoola, 4 years; J. Evans’s
Narrabri, 3 yrs; A. M’Donald’s Bonnie Bee, aired; W;
Skelton’s Eclipse, aged; A. M'Kenzie’s Transit, aged’.
C. Berkley’s ch g Pilot, aged; A. Stewart’s Nolo, 6 yrs;
A. Stewart’s Jackey, aged; J. Ilitfe's Albyn, 4 yrs; J.
Iliffe’s Kildare, 4 yrs; T. Coffey’s Innisfail, 3 yrs; T.
Coffey’s Bonnie Eose, 4 yrs; E. Baynes’s Grace Darling,
aged; J. J. Keighran’s Amateur, aged; J. Morrisons
KK, 4 yrs. Albury Turf Club Handicap—H. Hoystead’s
Coongoola, 4 yrs; J. Evans’s Narrabri, 3 yrs; A.
M’Donald s Bonnie Bee, 3 yrs; J. Townsend’s Eevenue,
6 yrs; W. Skelton’s Eelipe, aged; JA. M’Kenzie’s
Transit, aged; C. Berkeley’s Pilot, aged; A. Stewart’s
Yolo, 6 yss; A. Stewart’s Jackey, aged; J. Iliffe’s
Albyn, 4 yrs; J. Iliife’s Kildare, 4 yrs; T. Coffey’s
Innisfail, 3 yrs; T. Coffey's Bonnie Rose, 4 yrs; E.
Baynes’s Reform, 3 yrs; J. J. Keighran’s Amateur,
aged; J. Morrison’s K.K., 4 yrs; J. Morrison’s Rawdon,
5 yrs.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ ENTERTAINMENT.
Some of the most ingenious mechanical contrivances
ever seen in this city are now on view and on sale at the
establishment of the American Novelty Company, in
Market-street. They were intended to arrive in time
for the International Exhibition, and be exhibited as
specimens of American ingenuity, but coming to hand
late, they are now exposed for sale in the ordinary way.
They comprise miniatures of every known descr ption
of steam engine, and the style in which they work is
perfectly astonishing. There are four-inch locomotives
complete,four-inch saw-benches and pumping appliances,
&c. Better models for our public schools could not be
obtained. With these little appliances working under
steam more could be explained to the juvenile mind in
one hour than in a month under other circumstances.
They are, strange to say, only a matter of a few pence.
There also various mechanical appliances, worked by
springs, which travel round and round a room, and form
most pleasing and instructive toys for children. The
Americans, furthermore, show their good sense by pro-
ducing a variety of other toys, quite new in design, by
means of which the opening intelligence of the child is
encouraged and its constructive powers developed.
Quite gladly we 'recommend a visit to the American
Novelty Company.
Scene at the Garden Palace.—The Bull
Bog Ale Exhibit.
Perhapsjno exhibitors at the Intemational'Exbibition
have with respect to practical and available space come
more prominently before the Australian public during
last six months than Messrs. J. R. Cattell & Co. They
represent, with [their London correspondents (Messr s
W. Leedam,'Crowe & Co.), a number of the largest an •
wealthiest manufacturing firms in Old England. Their
exhibits are perhaps the most numerous and the best
adapted to colonial requirements that we know of, and
it is satisfactory to find as a result of Messrs. Cattell
and Co.’s business ’cuteness and enterprise, that while
some other large firms complain of the Exhibition being
so far without profit, they have now opened their English
constituents a new and active market. Many of the
exhibits are new; others not well represented were
affected in sale by the push of American agents, but
having now been shown in open comparison with other
articles, the .English manufactures have whipped every-
thing. 4V e speak of actual sales, so let this be repeated
to people who are croaking about England’s manufac-
turing decline. In Australia there is a splendid new
field; let the English manufacturer but come out of his
shell, get respectable colonial firms to represent him,
and there will be an end to flimsy importations. The
accompanying engraving is from an actual photograph ;
it shows what kind of a display has been seemed by the
firm. The accidental placing by other exhibitors of
some splendid biblical figures in the rear of the Bull
Dog Ale Exhibit has served to make the view more
attractive. This splendid brand of ale is brewed by the
famous brewers, Messrs. Bass & Co., and bottled by
Messrs. E. Porter & Co., London. The bottling is
carried out on a principle known only to the latter flrml
and it ensures the delivery of the ale in the soundest
condition in the hottest as well as the coldest climate,
For brilliancy and delicacy of flavour, and all the
qualities for which the finest English ale is renowned,
this brand cannot be surpassed. Age improves it, and
the public shows its appreciation of the finest malt
liquor and its invigorating character by purchasing the
Bull Dog Ale in preference to any other.
FUN AND FANCY.
A yacht can stand on a tack without swearing. A man
can’t.
Next to a clear conscience, for solid comfort, comes
an easy boot.
Mosquitoes are wrapping their little drills in buck-
skin and laying them away for next yenr.
Nero, Pompey, and Csesar are common names for
dogs, but wouldn’t Agrippa be more appprpriate ?
PROEESSOr : “ Can you tell of what parents the great
Napoleon was bom ?” Student : “Of Cors-i-can.”
“ That puts a different face on it,” as the swindler said
when he raised a cheque from £4 to £4O.
Hanging is a capital punishment—that is, the kind of
hanging that is done on a plump and pretty girl’s arm.
What is the difference between a pretty girl and a
nightcap ? One is bom to wed and the other is worn to
bed.
• The button on the back of a man’s shirt collar pro-
btbly needs talking of as much as any other inanimate
thing in the world.
Customer (to proprietor of hat store): “ What is the
price of this style, please ?” Hatter : “ This tile, sir, is
worth twelve shillings.
The Telephone is making sad inroads upon good man-
ners. The politest person generally begins conversation
with a rude shout of, “ Hello! who are you p"
The worst case jof selfishness on record is that of a
youth who complained because his mother put a larger
mustard plaster on his younger brother than she did on
him.
Trickett and Hanlan.
The following is a copy of a letter addressed by
Mr. E. Trickett to Mr. W. Fleming : —“ Sydney,
January 29, 1880. —W. Fleming, Esq.—Dear Sir,
—I have to acknowledge receipt of yours of 28th
instant, enclosing letter from Mr. Hanlan for my
perusal, and requesting to be informed what steps
I intended taking regarding it, so that you could
write by the outgoing mail to-day. As you are
aware, for some time past I have been anxious to
meet Mr. Hanlan, and as he says in his letter that
he intends going to England this year, I prefer
going there also and rowing him on the Thames.
I cannot state positively that I will be able to carry
out this desire on my part, as it is dependent upon
the disposal by me of my business ; but I tbinlr I
am justified in saying that I am likely to arrange
matters within the next few weeks to enable me to
proceed to England. Of course I must know
whether Hanlan is going there, otherwise my
journey will be a fruitless one, and I shall be put
to great expense. I therefore request that, as soon
as he is in possession of this letter, which yon have
kindly promised to forward to him, he should wire
me his intentions, and I shall reply to him as soon
as I receive his telegraphic message. It must, how-
ever, be clearly understood that if Mr. Hanlan
rows me for the championship of the world on the
Thames, it must be for the usual amount of stakes,
over the course between Putney and Mortlake, and
subject to the new rules of boat racing; in fact, on
exactly similar terms and conditions on which
champion sculling matches are rowed on that river,
I may add that, as soon as I dispose of my business,
I shall wire Mr. Hanlan that I will row him on the
Thames during this year, about the time of the race
for the Sportsman’s Challenge Cup. I return
herewith Mr. Hanlan’s letter; and am, dear sir,
yours faithfully,
“ (Signed)
E. TRICKETT"
In connection with the above it maybe mentioned
that the reason which chiefly actuated Mr. Trickett
in taking the determination announced, is that he
considers that he is now at his very best, and that,
should any change take place in him within the
next year or two, it will not be in the way of
improvement. Iranian is a much younger
man, and likely in the ordinary course of events:
to retain his present form for some years to come,
As Hanlan shows no particularly strong inclination
to visit Australia, Trickett, the present champion,
is willing, should circumstances permit, to row him
on the neutral waters of the Thames or Tyne, and
for once and all test the great question of supre-
macy. It is considered desirable, as the proposed
contest is of an international character’ and one
affecting the whole rowing community, that a re-
presentative amateur oarsman should accompany
Trickett to England in the interests of New South
Wales. It is probable that Mr. P. J. Clark, the
well-known captain of the Sydney Rowing Club,
will be the gentleman selected, and that a meeting’
to consider the matter will be held within the next
few days.
INCIDENTS.
At a recent race-meeting in the Far North
tin ee horses a bay, a black and a errev—started for fiir*
President’s Cup The finish was S Lcittg one-tto
nags ran neck and neck to within half a dozen yards of
the post. ‘ The grey horse wins!” screamed Hozen
bushmen “ No, no ! the black, the black !” thundered
another half score, whose voices were instantly drowned
m the yells of those who fancied the grey. “ h/”
ejaculated the President, straightening himself no
against the rads-he had been sampling Yengarie mm
“5? u re all « bkoys ! TheUic-piebaU’s™/
There were only two hansoms on the rank—a
gaily painted one, commanded by a smart native nnd o
“patent safety” which had see/betterlT/s Twofat
persons, m Pmafore costumes and Bebe bonnets,
past the shabby vehicle and entered the stylish C ab
Ladies, said the driver of the latter vehicl/-/ was
I m^ rst on rank; let me grie a
lift. Yes, was the reply, “ when von o-af a
cab.” “ Begorra,” observed the Hibernian Jehu ” and
its your own two sweet selves that should be the last
to object to anything ugly.” e last
Diggers are apt at giving nicknames. In one
of the most recently discovered fields there are some
females who can hardly be called women “nd“!
certainly not ladies. One is known as “ Scrub //ke/”
because she has a red nose. Another, “The
handled shovel, owes her appellation to the fact that
she is tall. A shanty-keeper who has a playful habit
of breaking brandy bottles over the headsofher
customers, rejoices in the nameof “Gentle Annie ” and
the gait of one fat creature is so deliberate as to entitle
%V opmlol i?i tlie u diabitants, to the sonbriqueot
of the Murrumbidgee Barge." But in that pari of
the country everyone has a nickname. The chlSmhm
sister of a civil servant who volunteered to g
her brother to the wilds in the
wh ?i l drat she made her appearance in Mulligan!
street, a blue and white dress. Now the seekers nf SSi
irreverently allude to her as “ The Speculi H en ° > g
A stray aboriginal the other day presented
himself at the residence of the charitable Bishon Bnrt
and applied in a general way for as S “ Lt °FoK
given him, and after he had eaten, he “requisitkmJd“
as a civil servant would say, for boots. which
tbp?wf 9 ° n a W / teamer > and lie and she—
? ever m et before-had been two days at sea
!n at ieast one respect their tastes diverged as rileW
as the poles, for he enjoyed ham and exurs in
weather and she—well, she liked fresh airbetter But
there was still between them that ineffable sometW
m common She was fascinating and he was susee/
tible. He popped the question” after eight-and-fortv
hours acquaintance, but she hung her head and replied
n °fi ~ Answer me, my love,” said he softlv Sho
raised her tender eyes, and, as the ship rolled hearihr
ejaculated the single word “bucket." It nWtTlot'
and reminded him, among other things, of Push's well'
known Kiss me, darling. I’m going to /rick.”


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Blayney-Murrumburrah Railway Surrey
is rapidly progressing.
Thomas Parson, a man of independent means,
has committed suicide at Geelong.
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co.’s report shows
net profit for the half year of =£3,000.
Mr. Alfred Barker, a S. A. colonist of 36 years’
standing, has died of heart disease.
The s. s. Seine has arrived at Port Darwin from
Banjoewange with the duplicate cable.
The annual salary list of the Sydney Corpora-
tion represents .£15,253.
A man named James Donnelly has been killed
by machinery belting at Scott’s Mills, Burrowa.
In Melbourne an engine driver named Simpson
has poisoned himself with carbolic acid.
The Temperance Demonstration at the G-arden
Palace on Monday was a success.
The Cape Hawke Hotel, Forster, has been
burnt down.
A new rush with good prospects, has taken
place near Murchison, Victoria.
Mr. Giblin, the Tasmanian Treasurer, has to
get a deficiency oi £55,000 out of 110,000 people.
Sir J. M. Wilson, President of_ the Tasmanian
Legislative Council, is very ill.
News of the arrival of the Aconcagua at Suez
and of the Cuzco at Plymouth has been received.
During a recent fire at 94 Campbell-street, a
constable burnt his whiskers off. How romantic!
There were 396,000 males and 315,000 females
in the colony in June last.
The Heeald devotes a long leader to advocat-
ing public provision for the higher education of
women.
Lady Augustus Loftus heldjher first reception
on Thursday.
The Manning River oyster beds are closed for
a year from 23rd January.
Second Lieutenant Houston, of No. 6 Battery
Volunteer Artillery, has retired on his rank.
To-day post offices are established at Jeirj
North Berry Jerry and Wallandry.
From Charters Towers £6OO has been remitted
in aid of the Irish Famine Relief Fund.
Dr. Morgan has been returned unopposed for
Belmore Ward, Newcastle.
The Bank of Australasia is building a new
establishment at Albury.
The export of coal from Newcastle for the week
ended 23rd Jannary was 17,990 tons.
A man named William Wilson has been killed
in a fight at Adamstown.
The Loyal Hope of Cowra 1.0.0. F., have
opened their lodge with a grand banquet.
A stand up fight has occurred in rhe Victorian
Assembly.
Mr. James Mair, P.M., of Armidale, has been
appointed warden of the Peel and Uralla district.
Professor Stanich goes on a tour to Queens-
land this month. He will, however, continue to
make Sydney his head-quarters.
A new picture, by the French artist Sehanke.
has been bought for Melbourne Public Library at
a cost of £1,200.
Beer brewed at the 801 l Brewery, Wellington,
has been tasted by a large assemblage, and pro-
nounced excellent.
Jones and Co., of Parkes, have cleaned up their
second crushing of 59 tons for 117 ozs. 3 dwts. of
gold, dividing at the rate of £3O per man per week.
As Bowen, a youth named Dirke Stueben has
been drowned in a lagoon while endeavouring to
recover a duck.
The New South Wales Government are protest-
ing against the English postal rates proposed by
Victoria.
A boy named Fordham has been washed against
the piles at Kenny’s baths, Brighton, Melbourne,
and drowned.
Burrowa must be a lively place. “Sectarian
differences ” prevent any response being made to
the appeal in aid of the Irish Famine Relief Fund.
45,000 feet of spaced out of 100,000 available
for Victoria at the Melbourne Exhibition, have
been applied for.
A shock of earthquake was felt in some of the
Northern districts of South Australia, on Sunday
night last.
A determined case of garrotting has occurred
at Goulburn. An elderly man named McDonald
was robbed of £3.
At Bulli a petition against the continuance of
assisted immigration in the present state of the
labour-market has been adopted.
During December last 4393 ozs. gold and 434
tons tin were sent to Melbourne from Launceston,
Tasmania.
In 1879 the Bischoff (tin) and Beaconsfield
(gold) Mining Companies paid between them in
dividends £150,000.
It is proposed that there he in Sydney a Super-
intendent-General of Fire Brigades, with complete
authority at fires.
The yield of the Band and Albion Consols for
the week ended 26th January, was 273 oz. of gold
from 235 tons quartz.
Senior-sergeant Lenthall has been presented by
the inhababitants of Albury, where he has done
duty for eleven years, with a purse of sovereigns.
A petition has been hawked about in Auckland
by naturalized Germans urging the German Go-
vernment to establish a “ protectorate ” at Samoa.
Some of the Melbourne lemonade-makers sub-
stitute sulphuric for citric acid in manufacturing
their beverages.
Over £70,000 worth of new silver has been dis-
tributed in Melbourne and £25,000 more is ex-
pected next week.
The Rev. W. J. Cox, lecturing in Adelaide, has
said that the Blue Mountains surpass the Alps
in grandeur.
A man named John Dyson, who tried so get
up a bushranging gang, has been arrested at
Broadmeadows.
A State railway carriage is being built in Vic-
toria in anticipation of the visit of the Prince of
Wales.
The death of Captain Stubbs, of the Victorian
permanent artillery causes much regret. He was a
good officer, and was illustriously connected. Some
time ago he lost the sight of one eye through an
accident.
Mr. Longmore is going to “ Black Wednesday ”
some more Victorian Lands Officials, and (so he
says), to save £lO,OOO.
The s.s. Egmont struck a reef near Cooktown
at midnight on Thursday week and had a narrow
escape.
It is rumoured in Queensland, but hardly be-
lieved, that Mr. Morehead and others intend to
secede from the present Government.
The Queensland National Bank directors re-
commend a dividend of 10 per cent, transfer
=£20,000 to reserve and carry forward =£5,000.
The Newcastle School of Arts has £4BB to its
credit. Mr. E. B. Wallace is President for the
current year.
A Victorian railway guard named Swan has
been injured by the accidental discharge of a re-
volver.
The Postmaster-General and the Minister for
Justice will probably attend the opening of the
new public offices at Orange.
A Newcastle firm is about to despatch the ship
Antipodes direct to London with wool and other
cargo.
The ship General Butler discharged 4-00 tons
ballast and loaded 1650 tons coal at Newcastle, be-
tween the 10th and 19th January.
Plans of the proposed water works at Newcastle,
by Mr. Norman Selfe, have been laid before the
local Council and adopted after a long discussion.
During the last two years 2737 vessels, with an
aggregate tonnage of 1,307,336 tons, have cleared
out of Newcastle, N. S. W.
The body of Mr. Yabsley, who was drowned
through the capsizing of the Vesta, has been re-
covered and buried at Coraki.
The new gaol at Goulbum is to cost £50,000.
The difference between the lowest and highest
tender for its erection was about £30,000.
In Auckland, a blacklog has had the im-
pudence to sue a victim for £2OO, the amount of a
promisssry note for money won at cards.
The Deniliquin school board have disagreed
■with the Council of Education on a matter of
finance and have resigned en masse.
Applications from persons willing to compete
for a junior clerkship in the Sydney branch of the
Eoyal Mint will be received until noon of Ist
March, 1880.
Nine men belonging to the ship Excelsior, at
Adelaide, have during a ball deliberately assaulted
their officers with belaying pins. Eevolvers were
used. The men have been arrested.
Mr. David J. Newton, solicitor, of Sydney, lias
been committed for trial by the Water Police
Bench on a charge of having forged the name of
the Deputy Begistrar to a deed of assignment.
The Brisbane Cotrieb, in view of the partial
failure of the wheat crop on the Downs, advocates
the suspension of the wheat duty in the interest of
flour mill owners.
At Balranald, on Thursday week, Mr. Charles
Given had his little finger bitten by a brown snake.
He chopped the finger off, drank brandy, and is
progressing favourably.
Mr. George Higinbotham—“ Honest George ”
—has declined to stand for East Bourke. He is
tired of politics, and was at last election beaten
by a man who raises cabbages.
It is now anticipated that there will, in con-
sequence of Te Whiti’s decreased power amongst
the Maoris, be little difficulty in taking possession
of the Waimate Plains.
Both parties in the Victorian Assemblv desire
to bring the session to a speedy close. The situa-
tion in regard to the elections has been fully dis-
cussed by the Ministry.
The hat store of Yeomans, the well-known
Melbourne political agitator, has been burnt
down. _ The fire involved the Academy of Music
to a slight extent.
Boused to action by the recent cases of
strychnine poisoning, the Victorian brewers are
consulting analytical chemists as to the best means
of cleansing bottles.
The Eevenue of the Port of Newcastle for the
week ended January 23, was £1063 14s. 9d. The
value of the exports from Newcastle for the year
1879, was £1,347,763.
Great distress prevails at Newcastle among the
colliers. The fact affords a splendid opportunity
to Government for pushing ahead local public
works.
The people of Newcastle have at a public meet-
ing decided to urge their claim to return two
members, and to petition Parliament in support of
their claims.
At Narrandera, a little girl while taking off the
lid of a kettle had her eyes scalded by the steam
and fell into the fire, burning herself in a shocking
manner.
From a private letter it appears that Mr Par-
nell’s tenants intend to make him reduce their rent
considerably. His agent has refused to sanction
this.
The annual contribution of sheep owners to-
wards carrying out the provisions of the Diseases
in Sheep Act of 1866 has been fixed at 7s. 6d. per
thousand for the year 1880.
The Victorian “ Inspectors of Public Houses ”
are to be “ done away with.” “ Inspecting public
houses ” though apparently paid for in Victoria, is
the favourite amusement of many Sydney residents
Last October a woman-servant named Smith
lost herself in the bush at Ben Lomond. The
skeleton of the unfortunate creature has just been
found.
George Thouars, who stuck up Holy Plains
station, and afterwards surrendered hmself, says
that he bailed up the place on the impulse of the
moment when ordered off.
Archbishop Vaughan says that bazaars give
scope for the exercise by those interested, of their
artistic, inventive and attractive qualities. Especi-
ally of the latter, we should say.
At the annual meeting of the Goulbum Hos-
pital Captain Zouch was elected president. There
is a balance of £214 to credit together with £9OO
on behalf of the fever ward.
We have it on the authority of a Mr. Hewlett,
“ lately from London ” that the drunkenness and
vice of Sydney far exceed that of the big city first
named.
A man (28) named William Thomas |Coult-
hard, at Yass, has accused himself of having in
1878, at Everton, Liverpool, England, poisoned his
wife with prussic acid, through excessive jealousy.
He says he afterwards fastened lead to the head
and feet of the body and threw it into the Mersey,
and asserts that his wife’s vision now appears to
him nightly. He seems to be in his right senses
and adheres to his statement.
£7500 has already been remitted from Melbourne
in aid of the Irish Famine Fund.
Mr. Thomas Reals, butcher, of Lochinvar, has
been killed by being thrown from a cart.
The main channel of the new metropolitan sewer-
age scheme will, according to Mr. Lackey, run through
Paddington and Woollahra.
The receipts for 1879 of the Australasian Wes-
leyan Missionary Society were £15,220 7s. 5d., and they
were balanced by the expenditure.
The Assembly, after discussing Dr. Bowker’s
motion, has decided to leave question for the site for
the new Infirmary in “ statu quo.”
The members of the Huon Island Guano Co.
have filed their schedule; liabilities £10,093, assets
£21,318.
Mr. Moorhouse, a new arrival at Wagga, and
said to be related to the Bishop of Melbourne, has been
severely injured through the shying of his horse.
Some very important discoveries of gold-bearing
quartz have been made on the Sebastopol lines of reef.
There is great excitement at Ballarat in consequence.
Mr. Walker, of Dumbleton, Mackay, has been
drowned. He was one of the most popular of Queens-
planters.
Mr. Thomas Dalton, of Dalton Bros., of
Orange, was on Tuesday last married at the latter place
to Mrs. Aheme, late of Queensland.
Captain Fentiman, of the P. andO. Co.’s serice,
has died at Melbourne. His funeral was largely
attended.
The owner and editor of Brisbane Punch,
“ Bobby Byrne,” recently on a visit to Sydney, has lost
considerably by a fire in Brisbane.
The Government are again considering the
A.S.N. Co’s demand for £5OOO compensation for loss of
property sustained owing to the extension of Sussex-
street from Margaret-street to Grafton wharf.
A fishing boat, containing three men, named
respectively H. Fraser, Chas. Jones, and Phil, a mate of
the steamer Williams, left Newcastle for Port
Stephens about a month ago on a fishing excursion, and
have not since been heard of.
48 tons of stone from Nos. 3 and 4 Lady Mary,
Gympie, have yielded 92 ozs. 9 dwts. retorted gold: 146
tons from the Golden Crown reef 132 oz. 13 dwts.; and
138 tons from the Glanmire p.c., 120 oz. 9 dwts. 18 grs
(retorted).
The A. S. N. Co.’s balance-sheet shows a profit
of £16,249, from which the directors recommend the
payment of an 8 per cent, dividend. The ship property
is valued at £380,624, and the freehold and leasehold
property at £214,594.
A reward of £25 is offered by Government for
information leading to the discovery of the parents
of a female infant, 10 days old, found on the veran-
dah of the Globe Hotel, Albury Road, Wagga, on
13th December last.
Dr. R. 0. Rutter, of Parramatta, is the oldest
medical man practising in the colonies. He is 80
years of age, and is in full possession of all his
faculties. He was banquetted on Thursday week
by leading residents.
On Thursday evening the children of Mr.
Robert Ritchie, of 516 Kent-street, played with
matches. Two fire brigades attended Mr. Ritchie’s
residence, which fortunately was not much dam-
aged.
Bishop Bugnion and his Mennonite followers,
who are to be “ assisted ” to Queensland, do not
appear to be very desirable colonists. Their
religious doctrines, it is stated, are not favourable
to hard work.
The recent tidal wave and hurricane at Fiji
di<) great damage. Several white residents and
many natives were drowned. The Stanley, 113
tons, with 150 return islanders from Queensland,
had to keep her passengers under battened hatches
for 30 hours at a time. Over 50 subsequently died.
We are assured by the very best possible autho-
rity on the subject that the Herald’s statement
to the effect that the bushranger Rogan used
brutal language to his mother and sister on the
first occasion on which they visited Darlinghurst,
is utterly without the slightest shadow of founda-
tion.
Mr. R. S. Scott, one of the directors of the
Provincial and Suburban Bank, has been charged with
attempting to leave the colony while out on bail. Mr.
Scott explained that he was going to Launceston on ac-
count of the illness of his mother, and succeeded, in
spite of a counter application, in having his original bail
renewed. .
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bishop Barker is ruralising.
The Hon. Thomas Holt is worth £500,000.
The Hoskins monogram is R.A.T.—ready and
true.
Jem Fisk’s widow now.boards with her former
coachman.
Mr. John Russell, of the firm of P. N. Russell
and Co., is dead.
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy is about retiring from
Australian political life.
Mr. S. C. Brown seems inclined to be the Hon.
William Forster’s friend. Save me, &c.
Captain Mandeville, of the Cerberus, is so ill
that he is not expected to live.
Dr. Andrews, of Brisbane, died suddenly on
Friday week while playing chess.
Admiral Hoskins is to have the forthcoming
vacancy at the Admiralty Board.
The 18th January was fixed for M. Taine’s in-
duction into the French Academy.
On the scales Hanley Bennett turns thirteen
stone. Other clowns turn somersaults.
James M'Kean has the longest body and one
of the shortest minds in Melbourne.
The Governor of Darlinghurst gaol is a baronet
Few know this, but it’s a fact, nevertheless.
Mrs. Malleson is one of the leaders of Mel-
bourne society. Her husband is a rich solicitor.
The best private collection of paintings in
Victoria belongs to Mr. Lynch, a Brighton solicitor.
Joe Thompson, “ The Leviathan,” has one of
the most gorgeously furnished houses in Mel-
bourne.
Mrs. Fischer, wife of Dr. Carl Fischer. M.D.,
of Macquarie-street, died in England in November,
of heart disease.
Mr. John Hurley fears to face another election
at Hartley. His constituents are sick of his
“Jesuitical” nonsense.
Captain Harvey Spiller, formerly of the New
Zealand Volunteers, carried off the prize of the
season at Brighton—Mrs. Ralston, a young widow,
with a jointure of £7OOO a year.
Mrs. J. R. Dickson, wife of the ex-Colonial
Treasurer of Queensland, has died owing to the shock
to her system caused by the accidental discharge of a
revolver. The weapon was kept in the house as a pro-
tection against burglars,’who of late have been very
daring in Brisbane.
Several Sydney policemen have rows of houses.
This is the only instance of any real benefit from
intemperance.
To the Rev. Father Bucas, who has just left
Mackay, the Catholics have given £5O in sovereigns, and
the Protestants a gold watch and pencil case.
Captain and Mrs. St. John and Miss Robinson
are in Sydney on a visit. Sir Hercules and Lady Robin-
son regretfully finding it impossible to accompany them.
Mr. Angus Mackay finds Sydney journalism
more profitable than Victorian politics. He will
probably not seek re-election at the hands of the
Sandhurst voters.
Sir John Robertson drinks P.B. Before he
does so he bathes his eye-lashes with the liquid.
The clearness of his honest blue eye tells the result
of twenty years’ practice.
It was the graceful “Australie,” daughter of
His Honor Sir William Manning, who presented
to his Excellency the petition from the ladies of
Sydney on behalf of Rogan.
Thyra, Duchess of Cumberland, has had her
little daughter baptized by the somewhat abrupt
name of Maria Louisa Victoria Carolina Amelia
Alexandria Augusta Frederica.
BRIEF MENTION.
J UDGE W indryer is studying tlie law.
The Evening News thinks Scott was mad.
Vice versa.
Some men are bom to guzzle. Now Ben James
lives in Sydney.
City photographers say Lord Loftus’ photos
are dead stock.
Love by telegraph is the result of having
female operators.
The Bulletin is in no way connected with
the Sydney Morning Herald.
The Bulletin is to give special attention to the in-
terests of the Licensed Victuallers.
John Lucas’s buggy has a U spring on one side,
and on the other, where he sits, a W.
Was Scott’s adieu to Bogan, “ Good-bye, Tom,”
premonitory of a start on a different journey ?
The Evening News now says that agitations
for mercy are “ discreditable.” It wasn’t so last
June.
A Bulletin compositor says that to read a
joke or a funny paragraph out of the Herald or
the Echo is to eat a wedding breakfast out of a
coffin.
Westwood and Frank Warden have gone into
partnership. Few men ever can get on without a
confederate.
“Squarson” is The Bulletin word for a man
who leaves the pulpit for something more con-
genial. Mr. Curnow or Mr. Greenwood, for
instance.
The Italian exhibits at the Garden Palace, or
it may more accurately be said, the Italians them-
selves, continne to be a source of feminine
attraction.
An Irishman was asked to equally divide four
apples among three people. “ There’s two for you
two, and two for me, too,” said he. That’s the
principle on which the Governor has dealt with ihfi
bushrangers.
“We must agitate,” exclaimed Tom White
recently—“ we must agitate, or we perish.” And
then he gently agitated it with a spoon, and pretty
soon it did perish, all but the sugar.
Where, amongst the distinguished company at the
complimentary ball to Captain Mathien, were the repre-
sentative commissioners, and why was the ball remark-
able for their absence ? Where was “ good papa
Davenport,” where the little Oscar Meyer and all the
restof them ?”
Business capacity, wherever found, deserves,
due recognition. We are not inclined to go to press
with the first number of The Bulletin without
thanking Messrs. F. T. Wimble and Co. for the business-
like way and the dispatch with which they supplied all
necessary material for the production of this journal.
The order was given on one day, and Mr. Franks had our
office complete on the next. The first number of The
Bulletin will, we trust, reflect no discredit on the
splendid assortment of printing material which Messrs.
Wimble and Co. have now in the city.
The curiosities of Herald literature have this week
shown themselves in criticism. Speaking of Camilla
Urso’s playing, the critic rhapsodizes on the exquisite
tones in which (in a fantasia on “ Faust,”) Marguerite
was wooed in the “ Salve dimora!” This will be news
to those who heard the piece and who know the opera,
for the “ Salve dimora ” was not introduced at all, and
if it had been it is not the song in which Marguerite is
wooed by the wicked Faust. It was the “ Dammi ancor ”
that was played. The former air is addressed to Mar-
guerite’s house, the latter to the damsel herself. The
next day the Herald, in noticing the Steinway piano-
forte, says that the originator of the factory (Steinweg)
lived in Hanover. Another blunder—he lived in the
Wallmarkt, Braunschweig. But to cap all, the oldest
paper caps everything yesterday by giving a vote of
thanks to the chairman of a meeting that has not taken
place. Jumble! thy name’s S. M. Herald !
The Levee and Lady Loftus.
The beauty and fashion of Sydney were keenly alive
on Thursday to the necessity of appearing their very
best on the occasion of the first reception of Lady
Augustus Loftus since her arrival on Monday. The
opportunity of gaining ascendancy at Government
House was one not to be lightly lost sight of; so from
an early hour matrons and maids, in carriages and cabs,
were arriving at the vice-regal residence, to be ushered
into the presence of the lady who is expected to con-
duct the stately ceremonies of the position occupied by
the representative of royalty. The coteries of dowagers
and dames who represented the various knots with
which Sydney society is tied together—often, very
loosely—were in a flutter of expectation as to some sign
of special satisfaction from the sparkling eyes of the
distinguished lady. But in vain! Her ladyship had
not had time to talk with toadies or to be kotooed to by
tabbies. With her grand presence she courteously
curtsied to all the comers with equal elegance, and
glanced at each with the same sweet smile. Toadies
and tabbies were all equally disconcerted, and anxiously
await the next move on the visiting-cards of the
Governor’s wife.
THE LICENSED VICTUALLERS.
The recent contest over the proposed excise duties on
colonial beer and tobacco points to the necessity for
watchfulness in the interests of colonial enterprise. It
ought particularly to be a signal for the formation of the
licensed victuallers of the colony into a compact and in-
fluential organization. We need hardly say we speak in
behalf of respectable trading and traders. Now the
Licensed Victuallers’ Association aims at protecting the
interests of the general body, by improving the charac-
ter of licensed houses,securing the respectability of licen-
sees, and meeting whenever required the undue hostility
of ill-advised, though perhaps well-meaning opponents.
Recent occurrences have tended to swell the ranks of
the association, but there are hundreds of country hotel -
keepers who, indifferent to their own interests, have not
yet respondod to the general invitation to join. It may
be just as well to point out that these are essentially
days of trade combinations, in which unity is strength,
and the weak go to the wall. And what applies to trade
in general bears with equal force on the several branches
of the licensed business.
7
January 31, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


T
HEA T E E
FINAL PEEFOEMA
of
Miss MAGGIE MO
and
Mr. J. C. WILLIAA
and
Positively their Last 6!
The
UNPRECEDENTED SI
of
ARE AH-N A-POG
and
KERRY
Can be confidently class
THE GRANDES
Night’s
ENTERTAINMEI
ever offered to the Sydne
THIS (Saturday) EVENING,.
The performance will commence
drama of
KERRY.
KEEEY Mr. J.
KATE Miss M
To conclude wit!
Dion Boucicault’
WOELD FAMOVS IRISH
with
NEW ELABORATE SO
painted from authentic sources b;
AERAH-NA-POGI
SHAUN, THE POST ... Mr. J.
AREAH-NA-POGUE ... Miss IS
: as
PERFORMED BY T
with great succes
IN DUBLIN,
and
FOE FOUR MONT
at
THE ROYAL ADELPHI THEi
Incidental to the Drama, Miss Ma
the original song, composed expi
G. W. Hunt, Esq., of Londi
“SHAUN, DEAR, MY
and will give a stirring rend:
“WEARING OF THE (
received everywhere with e:
The sole right of producing “A
the Australian colonies has been put
Williamson from the author, Dion I
Box Office at Nicholson and As<
street.
SPECIAL.
The performance will commence a
’clock precisely.
ICTOEIA T
Stage Manager ... Mr. Jam
THIS (SATURDAY) N
THIS (SATURDAY) N
OUR DAD. OUR I
OUR DAD. OUR I
OUR DAD. OUR I
OUR DAD. OUR I
“THE ONLY STAR COl
Mr. J. L. HALL,
Mrs. J. L. HALL,
Miss OCTAVIA LANE,
Miss LI
Miss
Mr. H.
OUR DAD. OUR I
Box-office at Elvjr’s. Prices as us
K
ELLY AND
OPERA HOUSE
Comer of King and York
THIS (Saturday) EVENING
First appearance of the charming
Miss NELLIE A. HE
who has been engaged especially a
peuse for the charact
SELENE,
in the
Prohibited Victorian I
THE HAPPY LAI
The Happy Land
The Happy Land
Box Plan now open at Nicholson i
s
CHO O L
O F
Lessee
a
CAMILLA XJRS(
DOIPHE G A B E
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC
18 WYNYARD SQU
(two docks from pfahles
SYDNEY.
CAUTION
Owing to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. fl
caution their patients tl
ONLY ADDEESS IS A!
ETH U E C
157, late 203, PITT-STEEEI
MISSING PEIENDS AND NEXT
PEIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOL
CEETIFICATES OBTAINED OF !
and MAEEIAGE
COPIES OF WILLS PE'
DUEINGTHE YEA!
253 INQUIRIES WEEE 1
Of these 172 were satisfactorily coi
26 were withdrawn for va
24 were unsuccessful or abi
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE E
most intricate cases have met with
AGENCIES in Great Britain a:
States, Continent of Europe, Ai
Zealand.
144 COLLARS for
AT HORDERN’S IN PITT
E E THEM!! 1
144 COLLARS FOE 3s.
144 COLLARS FOE 3s.
ANY SIZE, 14, 14i
Forty thousand poun
’ SEASONABLE DBA
NOW ON SALE.
The most successful of our me
and the MOST GENUINE SAI
NEW SOUTH WAI
£40,000 WORTH OF SEASONA]
ALL NEW GOODS, bought
at an enormous reduc
by
ANTHONY HOEDMRNf
HAYMAEKET.
In this GENUINE SALE we
Slate and Drab Dress Linings, 1
Slate Holland, 6d, 6*d, 7*d, B*d,
Brown Holland,
sd.
Diapers, 6Jd, 7id, Sid, ]
These goods are fully 30 to 45 p
can be procured elsewhere.
£40,000 WORTH GENERAL
32-inch Al only 2Jd per yard, B 1:
36-inch A, 3|
8,4 d
888, 7i
Customers, especially those wl
country, are informed that they
quantity they think proper, not i
three yards as is frequently done by
GENUINE SALI
Grey Calico, lid, 2fd, 3Jd, Sid, 4
50 per cent less tb
Grey sheeting, 72 inches wic
at
ANTHONY HORDERN s
HAYMAEKET
Horrock’s
Long Cloths
C. W. ROBERT!
£3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND
V CARRIAGE FREE by RAH
ON receipt of the above sum th
articles will be forwarded, in S'
securely packed ina case. viz.: —
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 „ PALE BRANI
6 „ WEST INDIA
1 „ WHISKY
1 ~ SUPERIOR P
1 „ SI
Total; 15
QUALITY GUARAN
C. W. ROBERTS has much plet
he is constantly receiving the highe
residents in all parts of the colony i
character of the LIQUORS suppliee
FAMOUS £3 CAE
Licensed victualler,
association
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIPPE.
Tlie object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OP THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397, GEORGE-STEEET.
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables.
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
J HUBERT NEWMAN
, PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His _ Excellency the
Governor.
Sale Place of Business :
12, OXFORD-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
Atlas foundry and engineering com
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shisbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
QUNS,
T3IFLES,
JJEVOLVERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL. J
THE LIGHTNING FRET SAW
for Sawing Brackets, &c. Price 245.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., MARKET-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortment 'of M'Loughlin’s
Books, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also, a large shipment of
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
ft
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS NOTICES.
The Bulletin is published every Saturday morning.
Communications should reach to the office not later
than Friday at noon.tl ‘
The usual course with regard to editorial and business
letters should be pursued.
The Proprietors of The Bulletin intend giving
provincial matters the greatest attention; hence
communications from country readers will be always
acceptable. Postal irregularities should meet with
prompt complaint.
The price per copy of The Bulletin will be 4d, and
the terms of subscription as follows, viz. :—4s., cash in
advance; 4s. 6d., booked. Advertising scale :—3s. for
the first, and 2s. for every additional inch, with a dis-
count on quarterly, half-yearly, and yearly advertise-
ments.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Haynes
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at The
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-street.
JNTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country
visitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
EEFEESHMENTS within the
GAEDEN PALACE.
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously cool.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
UNION CLUB HOTEL,
Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGGA WAGGA
(Close to the Bail way Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Eobinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYENES, Proprietor.
Wines, A es, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A Firs' -c ass Cook kept.
The STABLES will he well supplied with fresh and
wholesome wivender, and he under the supervision of
careful gr-‘ >s.
S. BATHS.
O’BEIEN S AEEIAGE AND BUGGY MANU-
FACTOEY,
371 PITT STEEET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
JOHN CUTTEE, PEACTICAL TAILOE,
317 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
All Orders attended to with care and dispatch.
w.
KEEE, MAFUFACTUEING JEWELLEE,
Watch and Clock Maker,
574GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE.
DEAFNESS.
PEOPESSOE STANICH.
AUEIST,
% A/"ILL positively terminate his Professional Season
V V in Sydney on the 29th of FEBEUAEY.
He will proceed to Queensland on a Professional
Tour, starting direct for Charters Towers, then Profes-
sionally visiting all the principal Towns in Queensland
on his return southward.
ROBEET CASSIN,
SADDLEE,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BEANCH AT NAEANDEEA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles hearing E. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
KEAEEY BEOTHEES,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDEES,
290, PITT-STEEET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
C. KOHLEE,
FISHMONGEE and OYSTEE SALESMAN,
22 HUNTEE-STEEET.
FEESH FISH EYEEY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPEE BOOMS.
CHAS. MONIE,
SADDLEE and HAENESSMAKEE,
GUEWOOD-STEEET, WAGOA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
WAGGA has long been celebrated for the excellence
of its Saddles, and it will be found by those
who try Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no
means inferior to those of any other maker in the
colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
TO PICNIC PASTIES, &c.
ME. M. BYENES, of the Pyrmont Ferry, wishes to
intimate to persons getting up Picnics and excur-
sions, that he has added a new steamer (the Princess) to
his fleet of steamers, and is now prepared to supply
large or small Picnic Part es with Boats at Seasonable
Bates.
The beautiful Steam Yacht “Fawn” having also
lately been apded to the above fleet, is now available and
is specially adapted for hire by private parties for fish-
ing or other purposes. The “ Fawn is splendidly fitted
up, and has every convenience for a few days’ trip, there
being a first-class stove, with cooking utensils, on board.
The yacht may be inspected, and full particulars ob-
tained, by applying to
M. BYENES,
Lime-street Wharf,
Sydney.
IJIHE GENUINE YIEGINIAN TOBACCOES.
Warranted manufactured by that renowned firm
CAMEEON and CO., EICHMOND, VIEGINIA,
WHOLESALE DEPOT.
In Stock, the most beautiful smoking
NAVY B’s, s’s, 4’s; AEOMATIC and GOLD LEAF
CABLE, fiat and P pieces.
Eeally splendid Manufacture.
Eaven, Negrohead, Cut Gold Leaf, Cut Mixture,
Cut Eaven, &c. , Cigars of every descrip-
tion. Pipes in large variety.
Cork Pipes, &c.
The above Tobaccoes, Cigars, Pipes, &c.. Wholesale
and Eetail, at Cash Prices, lower than any other House
in Sydney. Trial solicited.
Good Cigars, ss. per 100. Shag Tobacco, 2s. per lb.
The American .Flag, i. e., the Stars and Stripes, de-
notes the address —
C. LOUGHNAN.
VIEGINIA TOBACCO WAEEHOUSE,
619 George Street, Haymarket.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL
FOE human nse, curing all kinds of Wounds, Bruises,
Blows, or Eruptions of the Skin in all parts of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, and removes Warts and
Excrescences; applied to the Hands and Face during
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes, and venom-
ous spiders, Ac., and may be easily washed off in the
morning. Possesses an agreeable aroma.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL removes Lumbago,
Ehenmatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joints, Sprains, Enlarged
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet, Chilblains, Bunions,
Warts, and Excrescences. Prevents the consequences
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers, and such as
must encounter damps. But its most astonishing
result, and that which distinguishes it, is its power to
prevent a recurrence of the diseases it cures. _
V J "POTTLE,
TETEEINAEY’SUEGEON
To'the Government
263jElizabeth-street, Sydney.
8
January 31, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.
