

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 46.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1880.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
BATHED AY, DECEMBER 11, 1880.
The Melbourne Conference.
The results of the recent Conference in Melbourne
have shown that the South Australian Premier
was perfectly right when he wrote that it was
easier to dabble in magnificent theories than to
give practical effect to them. The actual achieve-
ments of the Conference may be reckoned as nil*
True, agreements have been arrived at for facili-
tating the border trade between Victoria and
South Australia, and New South Wales with South
Australia. But it is quite plain that these arrange-
ments could equally well have been effected by the
interchange of a few letters written in good faith,
and without any ridiculous Machiavellian finesse.
For the rest the Conference has resolved itself into
a series of dinners, more or less digestible, at
which the envoys have reciprocally entertained
one another, at the expense of their respective
colonies. The consultations have also been rich
in magnificent theorizings, but on the other hand
the Conference has served to revive old discordances,
and to expose the probable futility of attempting
great things at the present time. But, after all,
although the Conference has fallen somewhat
ridiculously short of the splendour of its preten-
sions, we are far from thinking that it has been use-
less. To disclose obstacles is not to create them.
There is all the more chance of surmounting difficul-
ties when their nature is accurately ascertained.
Regarded as what it really resolved itself
into—a preliminary meeting—the Conference may
be regarded with approbation. The more com-
prehensive council by which it is intended to
supplement the one just held, will be able to
address itself to business with a clearer under-
standing of what is possible and practicable than
it would have started with had the Melbourne
consultation not taken place. The feasibleness of
Federation appears at first consideration to
have been shown to be more remote than had
been conceived prior to the conflict of ideas which
the Melbourne Conference evoked. But it seems at
least possible that the effect will not be to relegate
Federation to the indefinite future. A Federation
of whish the basis shall be an assimilation of
tariffs and excise duties has been clearly shown
to be unattainable at present. But that fact
should not be allowed to block the way. On the
contrary, the recognition of such an insuperable
stumbling-block should merely set people thinking
whether it would not be possible to get round it—
leave it standing—and yet reach Federation
after all. It would be possible to approach
very near to Federation without a Customs
union. It is very satisfying to notice that,
although there has been no formal declara-
tion of this conviction, the members of the
Conference have practically shown that the fact
has been appreciated. The list of subjects which
they have drawn up for the consideration of the
larger Conference to be held shortly affords
evidence enough that there has been no despair.
A Federal Court of final appeal would be a slice of
real federation of first-rate value. A Federal
Council to deal with questions affecting all the
colonies in general, as proposed by Sir Henry
Paekes, and supported by Mr. Mann, of
South Australia, would be a machine embodying
the vital principle of the complete process. No
matter how circumscribed in power, how fenced
round with limitations such a Oouncil might be,
it would be worth inaugurating. Its existence
would help to educate public opinion to recognise
the value of federal machinery, and as an in-
stitution elevated above the reach of the smaller
sort of local influences, there would bo an
inevitable tendency to turn to it at all important
crises, and to enlarge its scope and powers A
gradual and natural growth of that kind would be
infinitely more valuable and enduring than any
comprehensive paper constitution with which it
might be invested to start with. Paper consti-
tutions are notorious bad wear. The business of
the next Conference will be to evade difficulties
while accomplishing possibilities. _ The repre-
sentatives of the several colonies will best
prove their loyal desire to aproach Federa-
tion by avoidance of subjects upon which
agreement is known to be hopeless, d hey will be
under no obligation to enter upon such discus-
sions as the one started by that organ of Victorian
spread-eagleism, the Melbourne Age. The
” of Victoria to Eiverina, as advanced by
that journal, and the cool indifference of N.S.
Wales to any sort of Federation, as retorted by
the S.M. Herald, will alike be exasperating
matters best left alone, and not at all essential.
Of course, if Victoria is resolute to do nothing
which would tend to extinguish her individuality,
there can be no advance towards federation; for
the very essence of Federation is the merging of
petty local spirit in a national sentiment. The
more nearly a genuine Federation is approached,
the loss important it would become whether this
or that district were geographically attached to
one colony or another. Where a common
good is aimed at, it is ridiculous to
suppose that one party to the arrangement
should bribe another to consent to accept
a share of thejadvantage. There exist plenty of
grounds of difference, insuperable at present.
The business of the representatives at the coming
general Conference, supposing it meets as intended,
should be to keep as clear as possible of these
insoluble topics and concentrate their energies
upon such as seem to admit of common agreement.
The less the Conference has to do with splendid
theories, the more it is likely to accomplish. Let
it but create a germ embodying the vital principle
of Federation, and it will have done well. However
small and insignificant such germ may appear it
will contain within itself the elements capable of
indefinite expansion. No work could be more
patriotic. Here is an actual danger in these
colonies growing up in a mutual rivalry which
occasionally borders upon antagonism. As they
grow stronger, and develop into maturity, what
were childish squabbles and tussles things to
raise a smile—may become the contentions and
combats of adults. No animosities are so easily
exasperated as those of people of identical race
and speaking one language. The colonies are yet
too weak, and their differences too small, for
violence. But their affairs will grow in magnitude
with their own growth, and their differences gam
bitterness by keeping. The sister colonies of Spain
on the American Continent are to-day clutching
each other by the throat, and employing the
resources and energy which, combined, would make
them a prosperous and powerful nation, in drag-
ging each other to ruin. No devotion can be mis-
directed, no endeavours can be premature, which
seek to render a like fate impossible for the sister
colonies of Great Britain in Australasia.
The Coming Man.
A very cursory glance down the list of successful
candidates for the new Parliament will suffice to
mark some widely divergent types among the for-
tunate ones about to exercise legislative func-
tions. The most noticeable of these, because the
most largely represented, is that particular type
possessing no peculiar characteristic whatever ; a
class composed of mere dumb figures, subject to
the force of circumstances —the helpless creatures
of a popular whim. This, of course, is a neces-
sary consequence of unrestricted manhood suf-
frage, and one that furnishes the strongest argu-
ment against an institution which, in a model
community, would be an unquestioned boon. But
apart from this insignificant element, there are
other and more pronounced types, individualised
by a little too much character for an ordinary un-
sophisticated taste. It should never bo forgotten
by those who wield the power of the franchise in
a young colony like this, where a vigorous public
spirit has yet to form, that the national character
is widely tinged and deeply impregnated with, and
by, that of its political rulers. The most super-
ficial student of the growth of the world’s great
commonwealths will readily recognise the force of
this remark. The public, therefore, cannot go
far wrong in critically weighing and carefully con-
sidering the various sides of the various reputa-
tions whereby different public men are individual-
ised and known. We, of course, are quite aware
that when opportunities arise to give practical
effect to the judgments which should thus be
formed, electors are too often deterred by the
shallow cry of “measures, not men,” the din of
which parrot-like declamation engenders a momen-
tary stupidity from which the sufferers only
emerge when too late. With all due compassion
for such weak-minded people, we would yet like
to point out the egregious fallacy of tiis notion.
To our mind it is apparent that thoroughly suit-
able men should be the first object of the elector s
search, in the confident hope that legislators of
that class alone will provide thoroughly suitable
and statesmanlike measures adapted to the
colony’s needs. The late elections afforded a rare
opportunity for the due exercise of this discretion.
With no measure before the constituencies embody-
ing any broad principle, wo would think that a clear
field might be given for the display of those per-
sonal qualities of talent, principle, and energy
which promise results of a satisfactory nature when
the time arrives for their practical operation. The
outcome of the elections generally conclusively
shows that this has not been done. It is
patent that, judging men on their individual
merits, a cultivated. public opinion would
have revolted from a blind support to one invested
with the supreme guidance of the State, who—were
it for a moment possible in our intelligent commu-
nity—would so far contemn the general com-
mon sense as to conceal the absence of
any definite policy with a series of mock
oracular deliverances as meaningless and
xapid as the murmurs of some idle stream. We
might also bo perhaps justified in supposing that
a country comparatively new to Parliamentary
institutions would be proportionately trammelled
with those inconvenient and venerable prejudices
which sometimes exist against conferring high
public charges on individuals who privately have
only succeeded in signalising themselves by
uniform financial failure, and too often as a con-
sequence morally, in such projects as they may
have undertaken. But supposing, merely for the
sake of illustration, that oven in this fair colony
of New South Wales —where the purity and
serenity of public life are only equalled by those
of the perennially blue ether overhead —social
failures and consequent venial moral lapses were
so far condoned by the popular will as not to
incapacitate a politician from investiture with the
charge of responsible offices, and with the
guidance and formation of this young country’s
national character, wo fancy that evidence of an
overbearingly autocratic disposition, oven iti this
spoiled master of the people, would meet with a
slightly modified obsequiousness at their hands
when appealed to for general approval. If
to this bo added a wild attempt on the part of the
ideal one to recover lost ground by stirring up
class differences, and by an endeavour to introduce
the most repulsive feature of the vilest old-world
social abuses to gain an uncertain class support,
then we think that that particular politician will
have abundantly and effectually proved the danger
of retaining him in a position of public responsi-
bility, with all the attendant moral weight. All
the intelligence and principle among the country’s
representatives would be found uniting to form an
opposition sufficiently public-spirited to check the
evil influence, so baneful to the national character.
The youth and promise of the country would bo
ranked in opposition to the fraud. And if an
honest and capable loader of ability and integrity,
such as the result of a late election for Gundagai
has returned to Parliament in the person of Mr.
William Forster, were forthcoming to weld
and shape the disaffected forces, the days of
political charlatanism and Brummagem statesman-
ship would at last be definitely numbered. Le Jour
viendra.
Dr. Sydney Jones.
The public, not only of this colony but of every
civilised state, feel a natural desire to know some-
thing of their distinguished men. Nor is the
feeling to be lightly estimated. The human mind
over yearns for its ideal representatives in Art,
Politics, Law, and Science. If the key-note of
the divine psalm of life, whoso verbal embodi-
ment lies in the single word “ excelsior,” did not
elicit a corresponding tone in the affections of
mankind, the world would soon become a peopled
wilderness. We live, move, and progress through
our aspirations as well as through our sense of
social obligation ; and hence wo are ever in finest
of those approaches to proximate perfection which
wo dimly recognise in the best of our contem-
poraries. It is in this sense wo interpret the
poet’s hackneyed but evor-fresh assurance that
“ the lives of groat men stUl remind ns we can,
each in our own sphere, render our individual span
of earthly existence “ sublime,” at least in the re-
spectful regard of those whom by our conduct
we edify. It is no vain myth—no grim
classic sarcasm —that mid-day expedition of
Diogenes in search of an honest man. He did not
find one. His disciples—the aspirants after the
ideal in all ages—fail also ; but the quest still
continues, and will continue omne per oevum. We
have endeavoured, in these columns, not only to
present the facial lineaments of some of our
worthiest -or most distinguished fellow-citizens,
but we have added a few biographic particulars to
illustrate each portrait. It will be noticed that
wo have followed no stiff classification of subjects ;
wo have looked to type in preference to class.
This freedom of choice, selecting a subject hero
and there, has the merit of variety, and prevents
monotony. The theme of our curt notice to-day—
Dr. Philip Sydney Jones—has been selected for
Eictorial representation and verbal mention, not
ecause he is in any sense signally distinguished.
As a public man, he is not known; as a per-
DR. SYDNEY JONES.


fessional gentleman of high attainments, he
has won and secured confidence and esteem.
So far, he is in no sense typical, but as
the representative of a number of young
Australian medical practitioners, he presents
himself in a new phase to his admiring
fellow countrymen. The colonial heptarchy
in the Southern Seas will one day have a great
medical school of its own. The uniform charac-
teristics of its soil, and the salubriousness of its
climate, should, under fr.ir conditions, especially
the observance of sanitary laws, conduce to
sound health and longevity. Still the topography
«f diseases in the colonies has neither been ade-
quately studied, nor its chemical and pharmaceu-
tical resources duly investigated. Both will bo
done when the active native-born mind devotes
itself to these pursuits. We have already a
beginning—a cluster if not a constellation—of
“ bright particular stars.” Of Dr. Sydney Jones'
career we need say very little. Hia extreme sen-
sitiveness would be possibly shocked if we dwelt
on his collegiate course or his after success. He
is tho eldest sou of tho late Mr. David Jones,
meroor, &c., of Sydney, a truly worthy citizen.
Dr. Jones is still a comparatively young man, but
not so robust as his triends and acquaintances
desire. He takes his professional stand as a con-
sulting physician, and meets the due reward of a
patient and enlightened master of hia profession.
Mr. R B. Smyth and his Triumphs.
Only about twice since The Bulletin started
has anyone dared to tempt us. In one case, it
was a pretty woman, and it was nearly A-dam fall
over again. In another, it was a Judge—not in
this oolony, though—who wanted us to use our
influence with the Government to keep him
“there.” Threats of adverse verdicts were use-
less, and we remained uncompromised. The latest
instance of temptation is the case of a legislator.
We have been “glancing” at Mr. E. B. Smith
for some time. The eye of The Bulletin has
been upon h’m in his late trip to his constituency.
We were prepared to put in a neat little paragraph
recording Mr. Smith’s success. Mr. Smith was
evidently under the impression wo would not do it
well enough, so on Wednesday we were furnished
by that gentleman himself with a paragraph that
would meet all requirements. We have, however,
thought our own paragraph ought to be inserted
as well; so we put them side by side, leaving onr
readers to judge which is the more suitable.
[thk itjbpirhd paragraph.]
Oarfrieul Mr.E.B, Smith,
M.P. for the Maoiety, has
returned to Syun- y from
the scene of lua triumphs.
On his arrival • n the Mac-
leay he met with a splendid
reception at C'-ery town-
ship in the district—the
inhabitants turning out en
Jitaase to join in the general
welcome to Mr. Smith, who
had faithfully represented
them in Parliament for the
lost eleven years. At each
place triumphal arches
were erected, and illumi-
nated addresses presented
to him. At the Nambucca
and Uellenrer Hi vers, Mr.
Smith received similar ova-
tion* from his con ti n ns,
each place vte ng with the
other to do him ho no nr.
He was banquotted at the
Macleay, Nambucca, and
Belleug.tr Bi-ors, respec-
lively—at each of which
places the magistrates and
leading residents attended.
This, coupled with his re-
turn to Parliament un-
opposed, most be very
gratifying to Mr. Smith,
as well as to his numerous
friends in Sydney.
[OUE PARAGRAPH. ]
That wretched politi' at
coxcomb, K. B. Bn.ych—
Burdett Smyth, we mean
—is back in Sydney again.
Prior to his leaving for the
Maoleay he had arranged a
series of splendid recep-
tions at every township,
and he informed the Syd-
ney newspapers that he
would do his own tele-
graphing. Arrived in the
distr.ct, be journeyed from
town to town according to
programme, and knowing
the exact locality of each
triumphal arch, approach-
ed them all with becoming
majte y. Not a single ad-
dress or testimonial that
had been arranged for was
missed, and no J.P. or
poundkoeper of recent
creation was absent. At
the Nambucoa and Bel-
linger Eivera, Mr. Smyth
received similar ovations,
also as per programme-
each place vioing with the
other in their adulation of
the great legislator. Mr.
Smyth was banqueted sll
round, and it cost him
nothing. All this, coupled
with Mr. Smyth’s return
to Parliament unopposed,
must bo gratifying to a
largo number of friends
who hang round E.B.8. for
hia favours. It is wholly
inexplicable to the general
community.
The Late Miss Mary Doble.
Miss Mart Dobie, the young lady who was so brutally
murdered at Opunake, N.Z , on z6th November, was the
third and youngest daughterof the late Major Herbert
Maync Dobie, of the 30th Native Regiment, Madras
army, and sister of Mr. Herbert Dobie, of the Railway
Department, Auckland. Her mother is sister of Mr.
Locker, editor and proprietor of the Graphic, who was
some time since married to a niece of Alfred Tennyson
The unfortunate young lady was an enthusiastic artist,
and from her pencil came most of the sketches of N.Z.
scenery which have of late appeared in the journal
above-named. She was also an accomplished amateur
actress, and much commended for her graceful imper-
sonation of Lydia Languish in “ The Kivals," at
Auckland, a few months ago. On the day ou
which she mot with her dreadful death she went out
for a walk towards Te Ngamu, and. not returning, a
search party was organised and bonfires lit along the
coastline. But her bod v was soon found, the throat cut
from ear to ear and life extinct. Walter Stannard, a
newly-married man, a horsebreaker, who had passed
that way about the time of the murder, was arrested on
suspicion, and blood found on his Clothes; but circum-
stances conclusively proving his innocence, he was
discharged. Subsequently Tuhi, a Maori, was arrested,
and he at tho inquest confessed the crime.saying, “ It was
done by me.” When the coroner asked: “Do you really
know what you have sold? Do you know your position ?"
Tuhi replied, “ I know I killed the woman. It was a
great sin of mine. I know it is.” The prisoner, who is
a fine-looking young man of 20, and was the calmest
person in court during the inquiry, has since made the
following statement:—“l saw deceased coming; I tied
my horse in the flax, and went towards her. She gave
me sixpence and fourpence; the threepenny-pieces and
halfpenny referred to and paid Coffey is correct. I
caught her with tho right hand, and stabbed her with
the left. I dragged her to the flax bush, and stabbed
her again; and, seeing her still living, dragged her to
another, and out her throat, when life was extinct.”
The following is the murderer’s letter to his friends:—
“ Salutations to you all who remain over there 1 Great
Is my love for yon all at this time. You will not see
mo again. I have given myself for food for the birds of
heaven. This is all the adieu. A long love cannot
return me to the house. Where is the fear ? We were
in tho first sunny days overtaken by sin. This is all.
To To Wharengaro: Let not your minds bo troubled
about mo. I have sinned—murdered. On no account
lot tho thought return to me. Cry not at all. With
the great priest is the thought for me. This is all.
To To Wharengaro: Come here, and see me; and take
away with you the horse. Come by yourself. Let not
the others come with you. This is all. It is finished.
From your son, Tuhoaata. Written for me by Mr.
Huruthouse." Tho medical evidence went to show
that the ill-fated lady had been subjected to no worse
indignity than death.
The Opera.
One of the most successful productions of the Opera
Company now performing at the Theatre Royal, was
the “ Crown Diamonds,” which was given on last Mon-
day ami Tuesday nights. As the season wears on the
nightly audiences ore becoming larger, which directly
evidences the appreciative support that the Sydney
public is ever prepared to accord to thoroughly artistic
performances. Auber's romantic work has not been
very frequently performed here, and iu addition to its
intrinsic beauties, as far as Sydney audiences are con-
cerned, it has not yet become quite divested of the ad
ventitions charm of novelty. The first night of the
performance was marked by excellent acting, but there
were a few defects iu the scenery and stage appoint-
ments, which were subsequently remedied, and Tuesday
night’s rendition of this opera was one of tho best to
which the Sydney public has ever been treated. The
soft rich melody of the overture gave scope for the
orchestra te show that its recent improvements were
not made in vain, and their opening performance en-
couraged pleasant anticipations of what was to follow.
The characters were judiciously cist, the principal
pirts being allotted to Midatne Rose Hersee as tho
Queen, and Mr. Beaumont us Eurico. Madame Hersee's
singing was equal to her repiiMtion, and her imperso-
nation of the spirited young Portuguese Queen was a
piece of finished acting, and elicited the continuous
plaudits of the audience. The pari, of Enrico demands
a sustained effort on the part of the performer, a de-
mand to which Mr. Beaum >nt responded by throwing
into tho character the enthusiastic dan of n trne
anist His apostrophe to the storm iu the opening
air, ” Roll on, roll on," was rendered with tolling effect.
In tho second act, also, the Queen’s solo in the ca«tle
was excellently rendered, and would alone have been
sufficient to stamp Madame Haraeo as a thorough
ar'i-ta. Miss L imbert was also noticeable for her in-
telligent impersonation of the part of Diana; while
Mr. Vernon, in the character o e her soldier lover, dis-
p'ayed hiririonic and musical abilities of a high order.
Mr. Templeton w.v up to his usual form, doing excel-
lent service throughout the whole of the performance.
Mr. Howell contributed largely to the merriment of
the andienoe by his fussy imp trtanoe as the Minister,
and his efforts were deservedly applauded. An efficient
and well-trained chorus adds considerably to the suc-
cess of each night’s performance, ami the orchestra is
likewise thoroughly up to the mark. Where the prin-
cipals understand tbsir bu iuess those invaluable aids
never fail to ensure complete succens, and the recip-
rocal assistance which is given on all sides is tho lend-
ing cause in making the present performances what
they are. Where all the constituent parts are perfect
the whole oannot be imperfect The company’s reper-
toire appears to be a very extensive one, and in addition
to the works that have alreadv been given, the season's
programme contains a good deal of pleasing variety.
Hitherto a very liberal patronage has been accorded by
the public, and as we always like to see snoc-ss crown-
ing the efforts of those who work conscientiously to
obtain it. we hope to see tho attendance sustained
throughout the whole season.
The Hawkesbury Election.
The result of the Hawkesbury Election demonstrates
what urgent need there is for the • ‘bliteration of sec-
tarian considerations from tho politics of this country.
In this contest, and it is to be feared in many others,
the abler candidate has been rejected solely through
the effect of the "'religions” cry. All through the cam
paign Mr. M Quad*) proved himself to be a man of large
and progressive ideas, and a very able debater. At no
time was this more manifest than at the nomination,
where this gentleman handled all the leading questions
of the day in a much abler manner than they have
usually been treated of late. Tho effect produced by
his speech on the more intelligent electors was very
satisfactory; in fact, tho verdict of the unprejudiced
was distinctly in his favour. Yet, against these proofs
of superior fitness, and in face of the fact that never
was there a period when able, outspoken candidates
were more required—numbers went blindly to the poll,
and put their veto on Australian talent. Mr. M Quade
was not defeated on account of his views on the Educa-
tion question, for they were in harmony with the general
opinion, nor on the Land question, nor < a Free Trade
and protection, for he proved himself far and away a
much abler exponentof popular opinion on these points
than his antagonist. His misfortune was that his fore-
fathers worshipped at a shrine different from that at
which his opponent was supposed to worship. The
mistake was in supposing that either Mr. M’Quade or
Mr. Bowman —especially the latter —worshipped at any
shrine at all. The flat had. however, gone forth from
the Sydney head centres in favour of Mr. Bowman, and
a handfnl of Sydney conspirators, and not tho electors
of the Hawkesbury, made the choice. This kind of
thing cannot long stand. There is bound to be
a revolt against snob proceedings. Some really definite
political policy mav soon bo put before the country, and
on this will men be tried. The day that this state of
things comes about will see rancorous old-world notions
at a discount, and wretched old-world bigots euchred
by a solid patriotic Australian party.
Miss Josephine Deakin.
We present our readers this week with a portrait
of Miss Josephine Doakin, the brilliant Austra-
lian soprano, who, while a member of the Caxan-
dini troupe, won such laurels during their New
Zealand and Tasmanian tour. Miss Deakin is the
daughter of the late Dr J. F. M. Doakin, of
H.M. 70th (Queen’s) Regiment, who was attached
to tho staff of Sir John Lawrence during the In-
dian Mutiny. She was born in the Peshawur ter-
ritory, but at a very early age came to this colony.
She gave early signs of musical and vocal powers
of a high order; and, having selected the lyric art
for her profession, went through a course of
studies under several well-known professors. The
late Mr. W. S. Lyater passed very high enco-
niums on her singing at a private rehearsal at
the Victoria Theatre, and encouraged the young
artiste to go further with her studies towards the
close of last year. Miss Deakin accepted an en-
gagement with the Carandini troupe, and travelled
with them through New Zealand and Tasmania.
Her success on her first tour was pronounced, the
New Zealand Press being particularly enthusiastic
in their praises. The troupe arriving in Mel-
bourne, they decided on a rest, and Miss Deakin
came to Sydney. Several friends have now de-
cided on arranging for a concert in her behalf, at
the Masonic Hall, on an evening to be announced,
and tho public will therefore have an opportunity
of judging of tho capabilities of this latest Syd-
ney candidate for lyric honors. The portrait is
taken from a photo, by Newman, of George-streot.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Another wedding at the Synagogue on Tuesday.
Mr. Gorman gives a four-days’ picnic to the
Hawkesbury shortly.
The Mayor (Mr. Fowler) gives his last luncheon
at the Town Hall, to-day.
A well-known Bulli man is shortly to be
married to a wealthy Camden lady.
A young gentleman with a scriptural name
marries the daughter of a wealthy suburban resident
shortly.
A well-known young lady, living in Bonrke-
street, Surry Hills, is engaged to a wealthy Queensland
squatter.
At the ball given to the officers of the Wolverene
at Adelaide on Friday night, there was a very fashion-
able attendance. The vice-regal party were present.
The picnic given by a number of bachelors to
ladies (principally from Glebe Point) at Pearl Bay, on
Saturday last, was most enjoyable. Another affair of
the kind is spoken of.
One of the pleasantest entertainments ever
given on ship-board in Port Jackson was tho ball given
by Captain Peter, of the ship Duchess of Edinburgh,
on Saturday night. The spacious poop and main deck
were covered in with flags, and pots of large ferns and
evergreen plants and colored lamps changed the ship
into a veritable fairy glen for the time being. About
100 guests were present. Nearly all the ladies wore
handsome dresses. The captains of the ships Glenelg,
Trafalgar, and Sophocles were present. Captain and
Mrs. Peter may be congratulated on the success of
the affair.
The daughter of the Hon. Mr. Busby will be
married to-day (Thursday), at the Cathedral, to Mr.
Donkin. The ceremony will take place at 230 p.m.
There wiT be eight undesmaids. The bride’s dress is
very rich. It is composed of rich white satin d'Athens,
handsomely draped and trimmed with old point laco,
headed with trails of bridal flowers ; tulle veil and
bridal flowers iu the hrir. The costumes of the brides-
maids are no less attractive. They arc comprised of
the new fabric M tdras muslin, of the palest tints of
maize— del. pink, ami salmon, two of each shade,
gracefully draped and trimmed with point d alcncon and
festooned with bows of corresponding satin, with lace
scarves encircling the neck, and fastened with rich
damask tnd bla-h roses ; white chip-huts to correspond
will be worn. The bride’s mother will wear a charming
toilette composed of tho new shade of myrtlegreeu
pros de Naples, richly embellished with variegated moss
rose buds trailing along tho draperies; bonnet of
elegant design to correspond. Included iu the bride’s
trousseau is one chaxming costume composed of del
chsniUe. spotted illusion gauze b irJerei with del satiu,
on which is a hand-painted bonier of tho Virginia
creeper—a most simple but elegant design. The whole
of the bridal outfit is from Messrs D Jones and Co.’s
estabH-hment, and is one of tho richest yet fabricated
in this city.
POLITICAL POINTS.
They say that Ronse and O’Connor sold one
another.
Bourke is disfranchised. Cobar has a member
to itself.
Soapy says he is a bigger man since he was
defeated.
Cassin, of Mudgee, will have a seat in tho next
Ministry.
More than one Vagabond thought of contesting
the Wollombi.
Sir John Robertson and Mr. Alex. Stuart have
beea much together of late.
Mr. Farnoll ridicules the bombastic attitude of
Sir H. P. at the Conference.
Mr. Garrett is to be banqueted at Picton, by his
constituents, on an early date,
Messrs Copeland and Proctor wore entertained
at a banquet at Uralla last Monday evening.
Mr. David Buchanan’s Mudgee election cost
that gentleman £2 Ids., which sum he has paid.
Longmoro has been re-elected president, and
Mirams secretary, of tho Victorian Reform League.
Mr. William Forster has definitely stated his
intention of returning to tho colony at an early date.
There is bnt one interpretation from the last
municipal elections. Only a respectable man wanted for
the Mayoral chair.
It is understood that Mayor Holborow’s eligi-
bility to sit for Argyle will bo contested ou the ground
of his being a volunteer officer.
The Age suggests a “ redivision of the Austra-
lian continent,” and asks that “ our claims to Eiverina ”
be carefully considered. Ha, ha I
Alderman Taylor, who was beaten by a very
narrow majority at Balmain, entertained a company of
fifty friends at luncheon at Compagnoni’s on Monday.
Mr. C. J. Eoberts occupied tho chair.
There will be no immediate move for the re-
organization of the Opposition after tho assembling
Parliament. The now year, however, it is believed,
will see the formation of a vigorous Opposition.
Mr. David Buchanan assigns his return to his
electrifying address. “ Why. men, it carried every-
thing before it. What's that lying rag got to say noo.
And. my boy, I*ll pull tho * faltharals ’ off that powdered
darling that was put in at the top of the poll by your
East Sydney lunatics," &c., &c.
The vacancy caused in the Queensland Assembly
by the resignation of the Hon. John Douglas, member
for Maryborough, will be contested by tho Hon. B. B.
Moroton (a son of the Earl of Dncie), Mr. Palmer, on
old and wealthy Maryborough resident, and Mr. Win.
Keith, editor of tho Wide Bat News—who, by the
way, has been most favourably received.
Let no voter ever again say, “My vote can
make no difference in the result." Our gonial friend,
Harry Levien, now one of the members tor Tamworth,
was beaten by Eokford, at Wollombi, a few years ago,
by one vote I and in the recent election, Burdekin
polled 821, Levien 820. How would it have been if
Tamworth hai returned but one member ?
Mudgee is regarded as a Government borough.
It has outdone itself by returning three men who are
certainly no friends of H. P. Mr. Terry’s inde-
pendence is well known, and as to Mr. David Buchanan,
the Government will find him demanding at the first
sitting of the House an explanation of the Proctor
affair. Mr. Louis Boyers will range himself with the
new Opposition Party.
Tho <£4o deposit clause is disliked by every con-
stituency. It is considered a handicap, and altogether
out of harmony with the spirit of tho times. It is
noticeable that not one single indigent candidate has
been affected by tho clause. Those who have lost their
£4O oould afford to pay that amount fifty times over
without feeling it. Many good men, with low purses,
might have been deterred from contesting an election.
Twenty years ago no one would have roared more londly
against such a provision than our present Colonial
Secretary. But then he was plain Mr. Henry Parkes.
Then, he spoke of the ” 'orny-’anded sous of toil; ”
now of the Constitootion.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
There are slightly over 7,000,000 Jews in the
world.
Mrs. Baeyertz has concluded her evangelistic
mission at Adelaide.
The new denominational schools at Darling
hurst will cost £4OOO.
The Society of Friends have opened their new
meeting-house at Bockhampton.
A branch of the Church of England Temper-
ance Society has been established at St, Mark’s, Dar-
ling Point.
Tho new Sacred Heart Schools will be opened
on Boxing Day by tho Hon. W. B. Dailey. Archbishop
Van glum will be present.
Fisher, the “ Nunawoding Messiah,” has been
defeated in a contest for the Lilydale (Vic.) Council,
and bas lost his deposit.
The Catholics of Brisbane are going to in-
demnify the publisher of the Australian in the matter
of tho recent action Lukin v. that paper.
Tho Rev. R. Rogers, a highly-respected and able
Congregational minister, died at Newcastle on Thurs-
day last of pneumonia. At his funeral next day the
clergy of all denominations were represented.
Each Sunday the congratulation at a certain
Glebe Point church is becoming less. A second
petition, inviting tho parson to “ shunt,” is being
hawked round ; but, like a sensible man, he takes lo
notice of it.
The committee of the Victorian Branch of the
Anglo-Jewish Association have decided to take steps
towards convening an Intercolonial Jewish Conference.
The boards of management of the various congregations
axe invited to join in the movement.
At a meeting of members of the Church of
England interested in religious instruction being
imparted in State schools, the Bight Bev. Bishop
Barker said ho hoped the public would resist the
secularisation of the country, and remarked that ho
did not quite believe in tho professions of Sir Henry,
who once professed to be a strong supporter of Denomi-
national education.
The Victorian Presbyterian Assembly are going
to roast the Eev. Charles Strong, of Soots Church,
Collins-street, Melbourne, for an article on the subject
of “The Atonement,” written by him in the Vic-
tobian Review. There will be plenty of fun over this
affair, for the Assembly numbers among its members,
not only the keenest and most scholarly debaters
also the bitterest sticklers for dogma to be found
The celebrated Ewing case was on^
That highly-respected and able clergyman the
Eev. James Jofferis. LL.B . of Pitt-street Cong’rew
tional Church, finds himself compelled, by the starcbvf
his health, to take a lengthened holiday. He has lout-
borne up against the attacks of bmmorrhnge in tb*
lungs, caused, iu tho first place, by an accident and ku
tensmed by constant preaching, but his medical ad
visera have now imperatively warned him against
ther work. Mr. Jefferis, who, with Mr*. Jefferis ami
some of his children, sails for Europe by the Bokhara
on the 18th instant, preaches a farewell sermon on fir„
day evening.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
China strengthening her navy.
Duloigno has been transferred.
Russia friendly with the Powers.
Further reinforcements gone to Ireland.
The combined fleet has been dispersed.
Agrarian outrages still increasing in Ireland.
Leitrim has been proclaimed a disturbed district.
Aconcagua’s mails via Naples delivered Deo. 1.
All British troops to be withdrawn from Caa-
dahar.
Benefit proposed for Trickett sport-
ing men.
Importation of arms to Ireland by Fenians
increases.
Vessels, with 5,000,000 bushels corn aboard
ice-bound in the Eric Canal.
Ross defeated Trickett by three lengths, and has
challenged Layoock for a match for £2OO aside.
Pall Mall Gazette attributes continued
depression in Victoria to continuance of political strife
North German Bank aiding a project to estab-
lish a line of steamers between Hamburg and Australia.
Parnell, at a monster land league meeting at
Waterford, accused the Government of conspiring
against the rights of Ireland.
The Irish in New York propose to engage and
send to Dublin the beat American lawyers, for the pur-
pose of defending Parnell and it hose indicted with
him.
Mr. Scudamore, who was appointed to look into
the question of Turkish finances, has been dismissed hr
the Porte for serious personal irrvgnlarities. Woman
at the bottom of it, probably.
Parnell has unsuccessfully applied for a further
postponement of his trial, to enable him to attend Par-
liament. It is understood that Government originally
postponed his trial so that defendant might not be pre-
vented from attending the House.
THE LAST MINUTE.
The Wagga postmaster charged with embezzling
The Colonial Secretary of Queensland is about
to visit Sydney.
The funeral of the late Mr. Jamoa Punch takes
place to-day (Thursday).
In the Dibba divorce case, it is understood
eight of the jury were for a verdict for the petitioner.
Entrances for the Pyrmont Regatta will be re-
ceived between 8 and 10 on Saturday night at Bunch’s.
Mr. Charles Huenerbcin loaves for Melbourne
on Friday, per Bodondo. He gives u piano recital at
the Exhibition on the 16th instant.
A Maitland man, who wildly tried to imitate
The Bulletin, has succeeded —in getting himself mulct
in the sum of 10s., damages for libel.
The Imperial Band gave another performance
at the Cook statue on Tuesday evening. “ The Bine
Alsatian” was played in very fine style.
The fact that Mr. J. C. Dibba has to pay the
heavy law expenses of hie wife reminds us of the
legend that the first woman was made from the rib of a
man.
| |The son of a woll-to-do contractor of Upper
William-street south loads to the “hymeneal altar " at
bur wood, to-day, the daughter of a well-known resident
of that suburb.
A certain well-known cricketer, irate at some
remarks passed by the members of the Eleven at Leeds,
threatens to put a head ou Boyle. Alas I that our
Boyle should so soon come to a head.
A well-known artist has lately been employed,
at the request of certain admirers of the bon. member
for Monaro, in executing that gentleman's portrait.
He calls the occupation “ drawing the Badgery.”
The fifteen selected in Melbourne to play against
the Victorian eleven are—Baker, Benjafield, W. H.
Cooper, Coulthard, Edwards, Elliott, Figgis, Horan,
Mackay, M'Shane, Menzies, Mic. winter, Masgrove,
Tobin, and Waliington ; emergencies, Rickman and
Scott.
It now appears that the Gospel Tent has not
been disposed of to Cole, the circus proprietor, for a
side-show. It is said, though we doubt it. that the
terms oould not bo arranged. We are desired to make
this correction, so it is clear that The Bulletin is read
by tho T.M.C.A., for whose salvation there is conse-
quently now some hope.
The condition of Mr. Norton, P.M., of Dubbo.
continues to improve. He is thoroughly sensible, and
his wound is apparently healing fast. His right side
and arm are still paralyzed, but it is said tho arm ba*
shown slight signs of sensibility. He is also able to
articulate. In what port of the head the bullet i»
lodged, at present Heaven only knows.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A diamond drill goes to Young for two months,
to prospect O’Meally’s Flat and Spring Creek. Mrs.
James M‘Arthur, of Camden Park, died last Saturday.
ln two years over 50,000 oz. of silver have been oh-
tained from one claim at Boorook. Payable gold has
been found Jit Mount Perry, Burnett district. The
Swan diamond drill has, at Stawcll, attained a depth o'
520 feet. A paddock of dirt washed up at the Bight-
mile digging, near Albury, returned sixteen ounces.——
Queen’s Birthday Co., Dunolly, for the lortnight, 687
oz. from 650 tons stone. Snb-inspector Fitzgerald.
who has been trying, with some success, to pacificate
the blacks of the Far Nor* h, has discovered a new
navigable river seventeen miles nonhcf Ccoktown.
Messrs. Guyon Bros’, pottery works at Albury are
assuming large proportions. At Glastonbury (QJ
Government has appointed a postmaster at a salary oi
P 6 per annum, and required him to find two sureties ox
£ICO each. Butter is so cheap in Auckland that it is
boingshipped to England as “ grease.” Already between
four and five hundred kegs have been sent away. ,
Victorian Customs official has been suspended for having
forwarded an anonymous letter of complaint to toe
Audit commissioners. Mr. Howitz, the clever Jnei-
boume caricaturist, who was lately dismissed from
Lands Office, has commenced practice as an artist, an
is now modelling a bust of the late Hon. J. T. Smith.
The first number of the Gladstone Obsebvxb
issued on Ist current. At Newcastle, a seam
named Lovell gallantly rescued ti drunk en worn an tr
drowning. A steam dredge, 800 tons, built by Sm "~y
and Co., for £29,500, was launched at Brisbane on-mu-
lt was no mud “ The Octopus.” to reuu^
the charitable grants. The pro rata redactions
Victorian Civil Service salaries ore not to be pr«»
on this year; a comprehensive scheme of reiorm
prepared during recess. Several senous charg '
irregularity and unofficial conduct hove been p ,
against Mr. Fesenmeyer, Assistant Auditor-Gen
S. A. Large quantities of schrapper and^Si lu , u n a
are being cast ashore en the lea dies near niadulh*.


Sea-gulls and fisherman-jacks are also there in hundreds.
-Sub-Inspector Brennan, on the occasion of his re-
moval from Quaonbeyan, is to be presented with a
handsome gold watch. Constable Gorman, who dis-
tinguished himself at Wantabadgery, has been recom-
mended for promotion bv Judge Forbes. Trial crush-
ing of five tons from Milburn Creek realized 12oz. 51wt.
igrs. A new goldfield has been proclaimed at Bool-
hoonda. Mount Perry district. Norton Goldfield,
Gladstone, gives most encouraging prospects—last
crushing 4 to 7 oz. to the ton. Two black boys
employed on Katherine Station hive been murdered
by wild niggers tea miles north of Katherine. A party
is going on tbe offenders' tracks. Aki ng-flsh weighing
Wlbs jumped on thesponson of the s.s. Queensland dur-
ing a recent trip north. The French Communists
have started a democratic journal in Auckland c died
the Patriot Mr George Mlnfie, one of the best-
loiown of N.Z. printers, is dead. Last Clermont
.escort brought ISOiJo* gold.-—-More police stations
are being formed in the Mitchell district. At
Ball arat thejheus are suffering from diphtheria, A new
reef with splendid prospects has been opened next to the
Lady Mary, at Maytown, Palmer, by Ch rles Weiss.
Powerful machinery is being erected at the Ida p. c.,
Maytown. Capital is coming from Victoria. A
Victorian digger says that the Chinese have cleaned out
the gold from Port Darwin, and that in his opinion the
Mongolians will starve by hundreds when rain next
comes on. Provisions are scarce, and he and his m ites
had to travel two days on Gibs of flour. The plant of
the Hodgkinsom Mi .vino News has been conveyed from
Thom borough to Kingsborough, where a newspaper is
to be established. The proprietor of a shooting
gallery accidentally shot a man named Baker in the ribs
on Friday last, at Temora. The pair were practising.
20 tons silver lev! from Eaveuswood h ive been shipped
to Swansea. Four “gentlemen larrikins ” have been
committed for trial at Melbourne, for wounding a
Chinaman. Date Gympie crushing^;—l£>o tens
North Glanmire, 2320 z.; 44 tons London Extended,
Wloz. 61wt.; 31 tons N.Z. Tribute, 450 z. Ifilwt.——
Latest Towers crusbiags:—Div Dawn Extended, 174>zs.
lldwts. ; Just-in-Time No. 5 8.. 6S ozs. 12dwts 18grs.
from 50 tons ; Queen No. 2 S. W., 719 ozs. 18 dwts.
For having filselv imprisoned his billiard-marker, the
landlord of the G.N. Hotel, Newcastle, has been mulct
in £2l and costs. Nearly every woman living on the
coast where the Eric the Red was wrecked has anew
sewing machine. Many of the men have secured
revolvers, and one man, it is said, got a new buggv.
Three idiots, members of one family, were, ’ast week,
committed to the asylum by the Bathurst bench.
Mr. Jeremiah EoUe, an old resident of Clermont, is
dead, aged 73. William Hall, who got the splendid
crushing at Gympie the other day, gave £5O to the
local hospital. An experienced miner, who has just
returned to Gympie from Temora, says that there are
few better fields for the working man than Gvmpio.
The DJnferee blacks are again very troublesome.
The Golden Crown Co.’s last crushing—l2s tons 19
owt. stone for 17700 z. XOdwta 18gr. bar gold—is the best
of the year at Gympie It carries a dividend of 6s. per
cent, per share on 20,000 shares.—Great Cobar Co. have
partially suspended operations, owing to the scarcity
ot water. A boy named Wavling has been drowned
at. Wagga, First brick of Liverpool town-hall laid
on Monday by Dr. Kirby. Peter Felix, o mvicted of
the Stanthorpe murder, had, while loaded with chains,
to walk through the streets of Newcastle from the
watch-house to the Sydney steamer. A new gold .field
has been opened at To Aroka, in the province of Auck-
land, N.Z Hundreds are flocking there. Mesmerised
is the word for drunk in a N.Z. town. The Beuevo-
lent Asylum at Christchurch. N.Z., is to be closed.
A man at Christchurch, N.Z,. namcyl Mathesou, has
been fined £5 for breaking another’s nose. The Mos-
giel Woollen Factory (N.Z ) has declared a dividend
of 10 per cent, and carried forward £5900. A valuable
seam of block lead bos been discovered near the White
Cliffs, N.Z. An insane solicitor named Edward Pear-
tton has committed suicide at Wellington, N.Z. An
old Wellington (N.Z.) merchant, George Crawford, aged
70, is dead. During October no less than ninety-one
persons died of heart disease in Sydney. Denis
M/Kenzie, a shearer, was bitten by a snake at Mount
Napier, near Hamilton, Vic. Coma ensued, but the
man recovered. He was treated with injected
ammonia, Ishower baths, and large doses of coffee.
The wool clip in the Western district of Victoria is 25
per cent, in excess of that of last year. Burglars
broke into the premises of Mrs Pearson, pawnbroker,
Newcastle, and stole £lOO worth of jewellery. —Wil-
liam Sampson committed for trial for attempting to
out his throat, at Newcastle. Splendid specimens
have been obtained from the 90-foot level of the Hibor-
uian reef, Temora -, and rich finds of nuggets are agai n
reported from Hayes and Buckley’s claims. A big
patch also struck in Tynan’s P.C. Howard Smith
aud Co. have bought the Kornoowarra, and James
Paterson and Co. the Taramnng, from M’llwraith and
Co. The price of the two steamers was £49,200.
The Victorian Government are issuing a new two-
leutny stomp.———£looo worth of silks has been stolen
from a Customs shed at Melbourne.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
There is heavy fighting in Samoa.
’ A Reformatory for boys is wanted.
Dibba insolvency case further adjourned.
Beer raised a penny per pint at Melbourne.
QcrxBNBLAifD Punch, the model comio paper,
•at again.
For picking an oyster from the rocks yon may
be fined heavily.
Rule nisi for a new trial granted in Lyons v.
Hoffnung and Co.
Two blind men fell into a quarry at Liverpool
and were killed.
The “ official screw ” of the Mayor of Sydney
is .£l,OOO, with an upward tendency.
A company is to bo formed in Scotland for the
cultivation of tea in North New Zealand.
Another ohild—at Waverley this time—killed
by the explosion of " unloaded” firearms.
S.A. pays us .£47,000 annually in lieu of duties
which are to cease when arrangements are perfected.
Thomas Hall, a railway employe, was run over
by a train at Darling Harbour last Thursday, and killed.
Grapes in Sydney, at Christmas Is. lb. ; at
Adelaide, samo time. Is. per cwt. Speculators wanted.
The city water supply is, if possible, to be aug-
mented by pumping water, now beneath the sand,
to the surface.
The general committee of the Kenny Hill
cheme meet to-day (Thursday) at the Town Hall,
to transact important business.
The So rata, while on her passage to Melbourne,
«.,« obliged to anchor in Rivoli Bay. Her pumps were
out of order. She has resumed her voyage.
For the purpose of retaining the Sorata work
in Melbourne, the Victorian Government granted the
use of the Williamstown Graving Dock free of charge.
The ‘‘Jolly Dog” Club opened the new room at
Comuagnoni’a with a champagne luncheon on Tuesday.
Tbs room is a splendid one, about the finest in the city.
The Victorian Customs officers at Wodonga are
how very vigilant, but they only inspect ladies luggage.
The better-looking a woman is the longer they detain
Vibort, late postmaster at Sandhurst, charged
with larceny, was defended by Mr Purves. The jury
were unable to agree, and defendant was farther reman-
ded.
The single crop of oranges in one of the pnn-
oiwal Parramatta orchards was this year sold for £6OOO
cash, purchaser bearing the cost of package and re-
moval.
The Newcastle Directory and Almanao for 1881
has inst been issued. It is full of useful information,
correct and reliable, and will prove of great service to
tUe'mercantile public.
It is now pretty certain, from accounts fur-
nished by Captain Schwartz, of the schooner Leslie,
that the Biuguiuville natives recently poisoned the
orew of a wrecked vessel.
Higgins and Co., railway contractors, of Mel-
bourne insolvents, repudiate their indebtedness of
£23,000 bo the Provincial Bank, on the ground that they
were partners with the bank.
A convocation has been completed between
N.S.W. and S.A. for the non-collection of Customs
duties on the border between the two colonies for two
years from Ist January next.
The Katu Fowra and Harlow natives say they
are going to avenge the murder of Captain Ferguson,
and that they are determined to spare not even the
women and children of Bougainville Island.
Fiji is going to borrow .£150,003, to be spent on
various schemes “ of a remunerative character,” in-
cluding immigration and the purchase, at a cost of
£35,000, of a yacht for the High Commissioner.
The reward for the discovery of Temora gold-
field is to be distributed thus:—Maloney and pirtv.
Murray and party, C 15); Alex inder E >«s, £150;
Moore and party, £15); Parker and party, £l5O.
The Pull Court has upheld the convictions of
Sauui'ers, tried at Darlinghurst, for • igomy ; Webster,
convicted of perjury at Tim worth; and Richard
Webster, for having attempted to suborn a witness.
“ A maiden mit nodings on ” paraded the main
street of femora at 3.30 the other afternoon, the while,
(to use the elegant language of a local editor) “tilling
the circumambient air with filthy expletives of the choi-
cest kind.”
The sister of Fitzpatrick—the constable who had
the first dispute with the Kellys, resulting, as they say,
in their taking to the bush—called on K ite Kelly, while
in this city. She asked for assistance, bat it was not
given her.
It is now stated that Nod Kelly married, imme-
diately prior to the police murders, a womvn who is
now an inmate of the hospital at Melbourne suffering
from the effects of a snake bite She is described as a
good-looking woman of modest demeanour.
Mr. Alston’s tender, ,£2t,020. for the founda-
tion of the new Sydney Infirmary, has been accepted.
Lord Augustus Loftus, as patron of the institution,
will lav the foundation-stone in about six weeks’ time.
A public luncheon takes place on the occasion.
Largo quantities of Boarke wool are on route
for Wellington and thence to Sydney, Wright, Heaton
and Co. have agreed for Fisher’s Thulagoona clip of
one hundred and sixty tons. Fully five thousand
bales are stored in Boarke and Brewarrina awaiting
teams.
Messrs. Cables and Anderson, whose tea ware-
house was totally destroyed by fire at midnight last
Sunday, have only been in the country a few months,
and have had very hard luck. They were wrecked near
Adelaide and flooded out in Melbourne; now they are
burnt out in Sydney.
The Intercolonial conference has adjonrnod till
13th January, at Sydncv. The several colonies have
agreed to contribute £20,000 in equal proportions to
stamp out phylloxera at Geelong. Joint legislation on
the Chinese question has been agreed to. The Border
Duties’ question has yet to be discussed.
A com ding to Kate Kelly’s statement to a
Bulletin reporter, the lives of Lieut. O’Connor and
his black trackers were several times at the mercy of
Ned Kelly and hi* gang Frequently the coloured men
and their white chief passed within a few yards of the
bushrangers, and all the time were covered by the rifle.
Last Sunday afternoon, Mr. Ninian Melville,
M.L.A., preached a funeral sermon at Lambton, on the
occasion of the burial of a miner named Dorritty,
taking for his text, “ When a man die. shall he live
again ?” The discourse was attentively listened to, and
nt its conclusion, £25 10s. was collected for the widow
of deceased.
A man of gentlemanly exterior was charged at
the Central Police Court on Tuesday with having
affixed to a post a piece of paper, on which wore
written some statements defamatory of the character
of a Oeorge-street lady, whom, by the way, It is alleged,
he has been annoying with libellous cards and letters
for some time past. Defendant, who asked for and
obtained a remand, fainted on leaving the dock.
Mr. John Bros explains that the epidemic
among the schnapper south of the Heads is probably
caused by the discharge of the nbattoirrefuse, saturated
with carbolic acid, into the sea. The offal, says Mr.
Bros, and the city sewage, too, must sooner or later be
treated by lire, the only purifier. He adds that, if
there are not engineers in the colony capable of dealing
with this matter, it should be seen about in England
or the Continent.
Mr. Charles Loring Brace, the well-known
American author and philanthropist, has just published
a pamphlet, in which he argues that merchant-vessels
should be unmolested in time of war. and advocates the
entire inviolability of private property on the seas. If
this could be adopted as an international law, it would
be a good thing for the colonies, which, in the event of
Great Britain being engaged In any conflict, would
suffer most from their commerce being interrupted and
destroyed.
Captain Murray, of the schooner Loelia, two
whites belonging to his crew, and a Solomon Island
native have been murdered at Port Webber. The cap-
tain had been trading with the natives, who refused to
pay. and on going to the chief’s hat to demand a settle-
ment was nt once shot, the two other whites being also
killed by clubs and spears. The Islander soon after
shared the fate of his companions. Captain De Hoghton,
of H.M.S. Beagle, who subsequently visited the place
and offered a reward for the murderers, could obtain no
information.
Messrs. Hudson Brothers’ Palace Dining Car,
perhaps one of the most elegant and convenient pieces
of car-architecture seen in these colonies, was inspected
bv an influential party of gentlemen last Tuesday. A
journey toLithgow was decided on, and while the train
was travelling at high speed the guests were entertained
at breakfast and a dinner. The latter was got up in
first-class style, and consisted of nine courses. It was
much enjoyed. Messrs Hudson Brothers wore much
complimented by the speakers for their enteiprise,
which had now made railway travelling in this colony
endurable.
The Cooktown Herald, which, by the way,
is at present ran by a publican, is breathing Are just
now on the subject of the New Guinea massacres, and
Exeter Hall snivelling. Cooktown, says the paper, has in
a couple of years lost 60 men and £15,000 worth of pro-
perty through the N. Q. niggers, who will never recog-
nise any argument but slot, rocket, shrapnel, and
the yardarm. As England doesn’t seem to care how
many massacres take place, the Cooktown people have
decided on drawing the attention of the French Consul-
general to the fact that there have boon Frenchmen
murdered in New Guinea. PH. Baillien has communi-
cated with his commodore.]
Sub-Inspector Fitzgerald, a couple of friends,
and eight nigger troopers recently had a “ peaceful ” in-
terview with the Cane Bedford blackfellows. At day-
light the troopers, well-armed, surrounded their quarry
and ent off their escape to the hills. The blacks tum-
bled pell-mell into the sea, and were pursued in a boat.
First an old grey-headed man, completely exhausted,
was caught and hauled in; and then, nearly three miles
from the shore, were found bravely swimming a father
and son, the latter but eight years old The little fellow
went to sleep: the man continued in a state of abject
terror, his jaws opening and closing spasmodically. It
will bo long before the darkies understand this sort of
thing.
The Brooker Island niggers number about 1000,
and make periodical raids on all the adjacent islands
and on the New Guinea coast whenever they can sur-
prise the whites, of whom they are known to have killed
at least 100 in three years. Among the victims were
Rodlich’s party, 20 men. in the Retrieve and Ida;
then C E- Irons and his mate; Ingham, Isles, and
party; the Saddle P. Caller and party of nine men ;
Pride of the Logan's crew, A. Drew, Mulholland,
Govicr, and Chinese; the jnnk with seven Chinese;
to say nothing of the parties recently butchered. A
clean sweep ought to be made of Brooker Island, on
which are congregated all the greatest and most rant-
derons scoundrels of Islanders, Papuans and Kanakas.
Norfolk Inland let loose would have been nothing to it.
There will be a big slaughter there shortly—it not by
men of-war. then by the Cooktown and Palmer Eivor
people.
At Jiadara, five miles from Albury, on Tuesday
morning, » swagman named Wilkinson who had been
kindly given free lodgiags a night or two by Martin
Mem. a German wine-shop keeper, and his widowed
daughter. Mrs. Pumpa, entered the latter s bedroom at
three o’clock, and asked her for “her ° r
Mfe.” She gave him h»»., whereupon he shot her, first
in the breast, then in the temple and the Angers, with
a revolver, and finally struck her over the head. Then
he wont into Menz’s room, murdered him, and finished
up by sotting the house on fire. Mrs. Pumpa, though
terribly wounded, escaped to a neighbour's house. The
legs and arms of Menz’s corpse were burnt off; tho
head was unrecognisable, and the entrails were pro-
truding. Tho prisoner was naught asleep, and hand-
called Wheu he found himself manacled ho used
terriule threits against the police.
The Victorian Review —a very excellent
periodical in many respects, and none tho worse
because its gifted editor so rarely adorns its pages with
his immortal effusions—has at, last, (possibly wishing
to rival 11 Philip Dale” in tho Aostralias) broken out,
into poetry. A Mr. J. Like contributes u poem called
"The Minah Bird,” in which, considering that Minnh
rhymes to Dinah, China, Orient Liner, and other
equally expressive phrases, and that tin r 'fore, a wide
margin was allowed him, he don't shine so ' rightly as
we could have wished. One Minah (Villikins) brought
another Minah (Dinah “ his joys to share in the
hawthorn-scented air, ensconced in greenwood tree.”
We must ask pardon for (o lowing on Mr. Lake's verse,
hut our apace (and our patience) is limited. Then ho
trolls out this original stanza; —
“ Wondering at his happy life,
I, too, longed to have a wife,
Like his, so sweet, and fair.”
Could Lake, we wonder, be a nona d« yuerrn (or Moaden ?
Poets ought to be at a premium in Victoria.
The Western Submbs Musical Society gave a
successful concert in tho Bnrwood School of Arts on
the Ist instant, and both the members of tho society
and its energetic conductor, Mr H R. M'Loan, are to
be congratulated on tho progress and efficiency mani-
fested in the performance. On the occasion referred
to the tirst and principal part of the concert consisted
of Birch’s Operetta ” Merrte men of Sherwood Forest."
This work has been very frequently perform'd in Syd-
nev, and we expect our readers are familiar with it, but
we doubt If, so far as the chorus is concerned, it has
been better rendered than was the case at Bnrwood. Of
course there were faults which wo could enumerate,
such as pianissimo passages being snug mezz forte, and
occasional unsteadiness, particularly noticeable in the
chorus ” To the Rescue,” but these can he easily over,
looks*! in a young society, from which we hope at some
future time to hear groat things. Of the solos, tho
bass song of the Holy Palmer, sung by Mr. P. Jones,
was perhaps the most correctly rendered, excepting
those allotted to Robin Hood, and sung by Mr.
Parkinson, who, by tho way, always sings correctly
and tastefully. Tho beautiful “Miserere” was
also well rendered, but a little more earnestness
would have added to the effect. The young lady
who sang the part of “ Marion ” possesses a voice
of excellent quility, and sings with correetnivis and
taste. We look forward to this lady taking a pro-
minent pvrt amongst our soprano vocilists. The
orchestra were well up to their work, except in one or
two instances, such as the leading cornet being fre-
quently very much out of tune; and the loading violin
ooovsionally she we I a want of firmness in stopping,
gliding, as it were, from one note to another, and thus
spoiling tho distinctness which should characterise
orchestral music. The second part of the concert
consisted principally of vocal solos and duets, in which
Miss M. Harvey and another lady took part in a very
effective and pleasing manner.
TO CORRESPONOENTS.
«*’ A Subscriber: ” Much obliged. Tour wish
shall be complied with. “ Charlesß.”: “Immense"
—really clever. “Anonymous” (Newtown): Talk
“straight" to tho offender next time. Subject is ono
we don’t care about touching. “C. H W.”: Send
ns something which not merely n few people can appre-
ciate, “J.M.": Thanks. “H.W.": Hardly of
public interest. " Aral urn ’’: A private matter, isn’t
it, to some extent ?—“ K O. H.’ : Much obliged—in
next issue, perhaps.—“ Anonymous ” (re “ Boun-
cer "); Send us something interesting and funny if you
can; not merely spiteful. But if you must write spite-
fully, let there be sufficient wit in your production to
take the sting out of it. Touch a man with a needle,
not with a broom-hnndlo. “B.T.M": Very good
indeed, but hardly suitable now. “Juno Junior:”
Thanks. “Maori:" The Williamsons played in
Pinafore in Sydney last November and December.
“ A Subscriber:’’ We don’t undertake to publish every
scrap of information of tho kind which reaches us.
However, if on any noteworthy occasion you take the
trouble to send os a lino, we’U gladly avail ourselves of
it.
BRIEF MENTION.
A faded plant—Franklin’s.
Starch again out of our flag. Three lengths
The far Northern platform—Territorial separa-
tioru
The Illustrated London News published
engravings of the Kelly outrages.
The portrait of ‘‘The Champion Liar of Aus-
tralasia” is now on view in tho city.
The City Fire Brigade takes a benefit at tho
Queen’s on Tuesday night. Good programme.
“ Low-neoked pettiooats” are advertised in the
Daily Tbleobafh of Wednesday. What neckst ?
In Brigham Young’s diary, just published, he
says he looks back to the year 1857 with grateful emo-
tion. Ho was only married four times that year.
The directors of tho Bank of N.S.W. gave their
clerks a large spread last Saturday—a bank quit, in
fact. They are leaving the temporary offices for tho
new ones.
The eyes of the country on tho Bine Mountains
have been so far picked out that you can hardly pluck a
fern in that looaUty without running the risk of a
prosecution.
One of the Bulli publicans, a rejected M.P.,
who advocated putting a poll-tax on Chinese, has of
late been taken for a Mongolian, being constantly at-
tired in Chinkio costume.
Tho jury could not agree in the Dibbs divorce
case. However, the public have made up their minds,
this time, after reading tho evidence, oral and docu-
mentary.
The Melbourne Herald is tho latest journal
which takes a lesson from us. It now not only en-
deayora to follow our stylo, but cnbsour matter withoat
acknowledgment. Our contemporary "cabbages
wholesale.
In the Daily Gazette of Ist December appear
lists of vessels in Newcastle, and expected to arrive at
Victorian, Queensland, and Engjish ports, actually re-
vised up to the 20th November. The mercantile .public
congratulate the enterprising management on this feat.
Fact not generally known: The min in charge
of the tramway points in Elizab«th*ntreet works 18
hours a day. ’The overtime may be very nice for tho
pointsman, but suppose—we only say suppose in these
days of Windeyerism-ha goes te sleep some night
through sleeplessness P
Forster, of tho American Bv% Boorke-street,
Melbourne, is the greatest artist in drinks Australia
possesses. He was specially retained the other day to
prescribe for the Australian Eleven.
Motto for the Australian Eleven
Score a win.
And collar tin.
‘‘l’m sure,” said Mr. Shrill Happilando to Mr.
De Saxe, “ that there are many spirits hovering about
your residence." "Yes.” rejoined Mr. De Baxe, I
dare say there are; and let mo tell yon they are not the
only hoirv nothings loafing about my premues that 1
Object to” Shrill then took his leave.
Mr. W. Tarleton, of the Freeman, is or”* of
the smartest sub-leader writers in the L - :s
game to wager any amount of “ refreshments that ho
San cause tho editor of any journal to appear more
times at the bar of the Criminal Court than any other
journalist in the Antipodes. If this be true, it is time
someone should be muzzlin’ this Tarleton.
Mr. Charles Bright’s lecture on Sunday last
(in reply to the Kev. A. C. OLlliesl, entitled “ Abortive
attempts to harmonise science and legend," attracted a
large and enthusiastic audience. We wonder how it is
that the “ wnufliebusters " headed bv Siren tteoparquos,
haven’t yet prosecuted Mr. Bright for selling tickets of
a liuiasiou to his church en detail lusteail of on proa like
other ecclesiastics.
The Groat Northern Railway has some carriages
the seats of which, constructed on the same principle
as the stalls of horse-boxes, answer the saoio purpose—
viz , they prevent the passenger from changing position,
kicking, or lying down The management, retain these
prison vans the whole journey. leavinghehind at various
points on the road several comfortable saloon cars.
Our sporting contemporary, the Protestant
Standard, suggests that Archbishop Vaughan should
“ sell all ha has and give tho proceeds to the poor.'*
The outcasts of Palmer-street have been howling at Dr.
M’Quven for the last ton years to do tho same. The
rev. doctor, however, don't seem to see it. There are.
we suppose, two interpretations of tho Scriptures— one
for himself and one for his opponents I
The emerald streamer, “ Darliaghurst Hall,”
which fur some mouths past has been exorcising tho
minds of the Svdnev amateur inspectors of public
hoardings, is now explained. It refers to “ a bazaar in
aid ot the Sacred Heart new schools, on New Year’s
Day, to be held in Dvrlinghurst Hall, adjoining the
S tored Heart Church.” A bbarrs ad. fora bazaar. How
many inches shall we tack on, Mr. Leonard?
Mr. M. M'Gircistho beat writer in the Antipodes
of those notices in leaded pica commencing. “We beg
to remind our subscribers.” It is not true, however,
that he is about to join an American [taper.
It is a remarkable faot that the names of the
candidates who were first and last on iho poll for East
and South Sydney respectively form sentences. Thus,
tho three first for East Sydney—Reid Heuwick, Dan gar;
the three lowest on tho poll—Roberts* lees —Josophson.
Tho throe first for South Sydnev—Davies withers
Carter. We hope this won't oo.»e off It will also bo a
matter for much regret should Hordern steel Wheeler
The doctor of the So rata has got apparently a
dorry on Derrington. of tho Pout Adelaide. News.
That journal is a “ weekly,” about doublo tho size of a
fly-paper, and about half as ©loan. Derry hints jlf is a
Good Templar and a J.P. Ha employs lady comps., is
groat on bogus ads., writes one half Iho nows himself,
clips the other, and is making such a good thing out of
it that a consultation of the whole family is called when
a now pair of ton and sixpenny pants is on tho tapis.
She was a little girl with a had black oya, which
had been given her by a rough-louking felluw in the
dock. Sho entered the witness-box, and tho gallant
clerk stood up to administer the oath. “Do you
know,” enquired Mr Marsh of the juvenile
” who made this world?” T' • -swor came after a
little hesitation—"Aunty.” I own,” promptly
exclaimed the W.P.M. ; and tl .1 gave tho culprit
before the court a mouth by wiij o encouragement.
Tho humorous clergyman of tho Chtfch of Eng-
land, par excellence, officiates at a sea side suburb. For
two years in succession he has gravely announced from
the pulpit that “ next W.duotGay will be Good Friday
and when he’s “stack up'* for a sentence, which often
occurs, he usually says: '* Well, my Christian friends,
yon might as well expect—you might—you really might
—might as well oxnect to get fig* off a gum-tree.” This
oharacteri-dicalb-Australian simile never fails to '‘fetch*
the congregation.
Tho talented son of an ox-C. lonial 3 jerotary
was the other evening in tho cabin of a Lane Cove steamer.
Two young ladies, who evidently prided themselves on
their conventual ** Frinch,” commenced to loudly ad-
mire, in the polite lingo aforesaid, the flowing beard
and azure eyes of their solitary male companion.
When the steamer stopped and a French friend of the
male passenger came on board and opened tire with
” Comment pi vaT" tho girls didn’t sp:ak either Bag.
lish or French.
“ The public are hereby informed that the Rev-
Peter Campbell is in no way connected with the New
South Wales Bash Missionary society.—By order of the
Committee. Joseph Palmer, secretary.’‘ This odvt.
appears in the dailies. However. Peter returns tho
compliment by informing the public that the N.S.W.
B.M. Society is "in no way connected ’’ with him. He
is still, however, among the profits, and will l>o glad to
receive all contributions dropped into his collection-
box at the Q.P.O.
Says Dr. M’Guven—" If Mr. Harley had not
sufficient quiet for week-day reflection, let him take
the Sunday. The Museum may be a ver r suitable place.
Among the ‘ stuffed monkeys and pickled snakes.’ where
ho has been wont to * rise from nature up to nature s
God,’ laud to see for some time past 'the beauties of
nature,’ he will be in suitable oomp-nv for such reflec-
tions *’ And yet the PBonwrAHT &rAo<«iv«n. r corre-
spondent of that journal remarks, '* supported Mr.
Harley in his early days,**
The other day a man named Stephen James
M'Culloch was ordered by some Melbourne magistrates
to pay ss. per week towards the maintenance of a for-
gotten responsibility. The reporter for the local paper
entered the putative father’s name as "8. Jamas
M'Culloch.” But tho over-vigilant compositor trans-
mogrified it into " Sir Jamos M'O'illooh” The knight’s
time is now pretty well employed in meeting the banter
with which be is availed. For, you see. 6s. per week
is a very low tariff for a knight.
We are glad to see that M-. Alderman Green
has been re-elected. Such an orator '©have been lost
to tho Connell would have been a municipal misfortune.
Here is an extract from an impassioned oration made
by him, sometime last March, on the subject of horses
wandering in Moore Park :— ** Which if e hargooe as
tho ’orses ortenter to bo theer. which I hargoos as they
orter. then wot ’e hargoos and wot I hargoo don t settle
whtv-r them ’orses is to go to. *E bargooV «o- This
alderman will always be Green in our memory.
The late case of Annie Martin at tho Melbourne
Hospital
When doctors differ the patient diea—
That is a rule, ’tis said;
When nurses’ and snrgeons’ passions rise
Tho patient lies in bod.
While the worms ore eating her body away.
Crawling about her in light of day 1
• • •
An " Inquiry” *s held, and tho public learns
She died a natural death from bams,—
With a rider—Oh, eternal shame I—
•• Nobody in the least to blame 1”
“ Philip Dale ” in this month’s Australian,
fairly surpasses herself. She contributes a copy ot
versos called "To My Wife,*’ which certainly is one of
the most remarkable productions that ever even eman-
ated from her planchette. She remarks, sorrowfully,
” I yearn for the touch of thy dear d-.od hands; —
It is over tho same weary story.”
Now, in this last line is embodied a capital point, and
this the sly young lady seems to bo awara of, for she
concludes tho next st«n«a as follows :
“ I crush my bauds in the dark cool leaves,
And my wcaryful story repeat”
And so she dues I Still harping on her wife, poor young
thing. She (Philip) singe—
" Like a star she has silently floated away
To the sound of an infinite grace.”
In the minds of the proi-aic there would, perhaps, be
some astronomical doubt as to stars ” floating away,"
but while forgiving the talented poetess this little abase
of poetic license, wo must confess ourselves completely
at a loss to understand what she moans by “the sound
of an infinite grace.’’ She then continues with the
following magnificent burst: —
I call to the rooks, they reply in my tones.
With an echo half caught from above
From above, —but not from her angel voice.
•Ah love I Ah love! Oh! mv love.’”
This is the kind of thing that Shrill Happilando “ molts
in pnro delight” over. Well, we rather admire it too.
Why can’t someone sot those verses of Philip’s to music
—and then get Cyril to sing them with a trombone
accompaniment ?
At tho conclusion of the service at 3t. Darling-
burst’s, last Sunday evening, the Bov. Tobias Blank
wig about fo give out a hymn, when Mr. Timbers, the
antiquated curate of tjiar fashionable oh arch, who had
evidently sunk into the arms of Morpheus during the
eloquent <iis.-ertat.ion of his learned friend, rose sud-
denly and said aloud-” Let us pray I” The incumbent
gazed on bim for ft moment in astonishment,'and then
uaid—" We will sing th» 439th hymn.” We believe


that the curate will officiate next Sunday in a thick
green veil.
What kind of burglary is that in which there is
a sleeping partner ?
The Leader (Melb.) is offering a prize of .£IOO
for the best colonial story.
John Davies says he’s going to be Mayor this
year. If not, he’ll be greatly Harrissed.
The Hume electors did not apparently consider
it their duty to support anything in Bond.
John M'Laughlin is elected. _ No Gannon we
mean gammon —will be his legislative motto.
The hospital at Temora is a tent, and the interior
of it resembles a baker’s oven in good going order.
Mr. G. R. Maclean is again “on view” at the
Protection to Colonial Industries Society’s rooms!
The person who is the most indignant at the
result of the Inverell election is Mr. G. R. Maclean, J.P.
The Townsville Herald has had thirteen
editors in two years. Thirteen into twenty-four, let’s
see
There are some people who are shying at the
Arabian box-trick. N.B.—This is a typographical
error.
We are glad to see that, as Christmas is coming,
the ratepayers have again provided themselves with a
Carroll.
At Mittagong it is still necessary to tender the
exact change; otherwise, your coffee may cost you half-
a-crown.
Anxious enquiry. Teachers want to know when
their life assurance augmentation, due last June, is to
be paid.
What’s in a name ? Brown has defeated Browne.
Blood ought to tell, but aristocracy has this time been
whipped.
The sooner Hanley Bennett starts his night
school the sooner may the Evening News be expected
to improve.
“ Sweets to the sweet—farewell,” observed the
grocer’s apprentice when he was " sacked ” for stealing
barley sugar.
“ Thou art gone to the grave but we will not
deplore thee,” would be a fitting motto for an elegiac
on Ned Kelly.
Kate and Jim Kelly paraded Woolloomooloo and
Surry Hills, on horseback, the other day, followed by
an admiring crowd.
It looks bad to see a young lady leave her seat
in church on hearing a peculiar whistle from the out-
side of the building.
Dr. Dey, from Glasgow, the advertising parson,
has arrived at the Victoria Parade Congregational
Church, Melbourne.
Frank Leslie’s Illustrated News (Sept. 4)
gives New South Wales the credit of possessing Glen-
rowan and the Kellys.
Another Butcher in the City Council. However,
we do look for something sharper in a butcher than in
the intricacies of a Maze.
“ I’ve come all the way from Tamworth, and
I’ve got no work to do,” is a solo we may shortly expect
to hear sung by Hanley Bennett.
“ Your sister stopt hear 2 weaks ; please send
me 4 ginnies, as I am pushed,” wrote one of our legis-
lators to a gentlemen up north.”
Mr. de Saxe, of Parramatta haunted-house cele-
brity, refused to sit up all night with a well-known
spiritualist—for obvious reasons.
The editor of the Express sees “ a cloud on
the political horizon no bigger than a man’s hand.” No
spectacle-maker need apply at that office.
The South Australian Advertiser is called
“Granny” by the profane. We have heard of an old
woman in the same line of business in Sydney.
Robertson, who had the beast arrested in
Moore Park the other day, says he “ has another in his
eye.” It is to be hoped he will soon get rid of it.
Mr. O’Ryan, the barrister, has lately returned
to Sydney from contesting Balranald. He brought
with him his brief bag. Contents —one svusage roll.
An officer of the Permanent Artillery, who was
once in the navy, lately remarked, anent certain dirty
floors in barracks, “ These decks want holy-stoning.”
The Evening Grammar says that the Solomon
Islanders will be “wiped out” if not “ more careful.”
This is good! “ I’ll knock you down with a feathah ! ”
Westland, N.Z., has lost all its lawyers but one.
What can one lawyer do in a place ? Two can make a
living, but a limb of the law, if solus, is bound to
starve.
The pig which was “ got-up ” with lamp-black
by its owner the other day at Auckland for show pur-
poses is now described as being “ not so black as he’s
painted.”
“Solidified smoke” is one of Miss Braddon’s
new expressions. We recommend it to the critics who
comment in the Hevenin’ Hekker on John Davies’s
speeches.
The Department of Public Instruction has hired
a large rambling wooden house at Balmain for the
public-school teacher there, who is a single man, at
£IOO a year.
The Glebe Point man who wants to thrash the
editor of The Bulletin is informed that the editorial
office has no door. The approach to the place consists
of a chimney.
It is stated that a well-known legislator was,
when the Exhibition was running, found by an acquaint-
ance to be very curiously inspecting a small exhibit. It
was a tooth-brush.
The shadow of a pillar of the Congregational
Church was cast last Tuesday on the classic pictures in
Clarke’s window. But then J.R.F. always was an admirer
of the simplest costumes.
On Thursday, the News had a par. after its
own heart. It was headed —“Shocking News from
Coonamble. —By Electric Telegraph.—Wife Murder,
Suicide, and Eire.” [I ! ! !]
When a well-known Melbourne doctor came
back recently. Garnet Walch (or his ghost) thus ac-
costed him —“So you’ve been a-hroad, Bean-e y ?” The
assault case was dismissed.
At a house at the corner of Liverpool-street and
Glenmore Road the stable boys amuse themselves by
pelting passers by, under cover of the darkness.
There’ll be a row some day.
In Blackall predatory pigs wallow in the Muni-
cipal waterhole, and sheep are slaughtered and bones
burned in the streets. This must be the Hygeian city
so long dreamt of by savants.
At Port Douglas they have got a new punt, and
old “puffing billy,” the dredge, has got a new cog-
wheel, and those stirring events help to keep the editor
of the Gazette in good humour.
One Franklin was lost in the Arctic regions.
There is another Franklin knocking around, who, if he
is lost at all, will chance to be found in a situation
bearing a warmer temperature.
The latest German police regulations impose a
fine of two shillings upon anyone who practises on a
musical instrument with the windows of his house open.
Here is a hint for our Corporation.
John Plummer says he is one of the earliest
Anglo-Israelites. These try to persnade the world that
they are Jews. After business transactions with some
of them, we won’t argue the question.
When a certain Sydney shipwright read the
Marine Board’s report on the Susanne Godeffroy, he
indignantly exclaimed, “ What! that ship rotten! She
was as solid as paint could make her.”
Sir Henry Parkes lost a dog in Melbourne, and
promised a “ very handsome” present to the finder. A
navvy found the dingo, and Siren Reeparques gave him
a splendid photo, of the N.S.W. Premier.
A new musical society is being started in
Woollahra. The founder and vice-president of the late
Musical Union remarks : “ Rabbi Davis says there’s no
hell, but he never was a member of the Woollahra
Musical Union.’*
The following advertisement appears in the
Argus : — “ A meeting of publicans in Tarraville will be j
held at the United Methodist Tree Church to-night,
8 p.m. All members in the trade are earnestly invited
to attend.” Ye gods !
Charters Towers has arrived at a “ high pitch ”
of civilization now. It has got a luxurious hearse valued
by the Northern Miner at £lOO. If it could only get
a big gaol and a few hangings, it might manage to do
without a Municipal Council.
The lady superintendent of a certain benevolent
institution works very hard to get washing for her
charges. Linen, it is said, is always returned within
three weeks. This arrangement pleases everybody but
the fellow who has only two shirts.
At a tea-meeting at Adelong the other evening a
worthy J.P. acted as chairman, and in the course of the
evening gravely announced that the next item on the
programme was ‘‘a solo —by the choir.” True religion
and good English don’t always go together.
The height of ugliness, A lady on a station in
the Burnett (Queensland) district was sitting sewing in
the verandah with a parrot on her shoulder when a
black gin appeared in front of the house. The bird
dropped down dead with fright. This is a fact.
When the election returns were announced at
the telegraph office at Gunnedah, the crowd was
saluted from several points with showers of eggs.
Friends and foes alike received a share ; even the suc-
cessful candidate did not escape. N.B. —The eggs were
fresh.
A District Court Judge once delivered a lecture
to a prisoner thus :—“ God has endowed you with health
and strength, instead of which you go about stealing
fowls.” Now, God has endowed Triokett with health
and strength, instead of which he goes about getting
fouls.
People still keep crowding into Glenrowan to
see the remains of the hotel where the great fight with
the Kelly gang took place. The latest and best-
patronised exhibit is a piece of old charred bone, which
is shown to inquisitive visitors —as “ a bit of Dan’s
foot.”
While David Buchanan was speaking at an
electioneering meeting at Eylstone a poor fellow in
the crowd dropped dead—from heart disease, the
doctors said. However, some mean people want to
make out that Davie, the champion politician on the
occasion referred to emulated Samson—and used the
same weapon.
The Singleton Argus says that to reject
Mr. W. C. Browne, after nine years’ faithful service, is
a disgrace to the district of Patrick’s Plains. This was
a complete fluke, however. Hundreds did not vote,
thinking their old member secure from any chance of
defeat.
About 1500 deeds are delayed in the noting
branch of the Bands Department. People all over the
colony are waiting for them, and the deed-engrossers,
who have to keep themselves and families respectable,
are not earning day-laborers’ wages. It is time Parlia-
ment met again.
“ Any letter for me ?” asked a young lady of the
female postmaster in a bush town. “No,” was the
reply. “Strange,” said the girl, as she turned away.
“ Nothing strange about it,” muttered the f. p. to her-
self —“you havn’t answered the last letter he wrote
yon. Ha, ha!”
While the editor of the Burrangong
Chronicle was away electioneering, his devil, at the
instance of some local residents, issued a “poster,”
hearing on its face some most extraordinary statements
concerning one of the candidates. The editor now
explains that he is “ not to conscience answerable ” for
the effusion.
The leading article in Tuesday’s Herald,
which deals particularly with the Age’s proposal in
regard to the “rectification of boundaries,” and
generally with the question of federation, bears the
impress of the Premier, is a fair statement of the posi-
tion of our colony in regard to Victoria, and should be
read by everyone.
The Herald says that at the Jewellers’ Picnic
“ The Press,” “ The visitors,” “ The ladies,” and “ The
chairman” were drunk. More work for the lawyers.
Here is gratuitous libel, and this is a Christian land.
It the committee only follow the matter up they’ll
assuredly obtain from Himter-street sufficient to pay
for their next picnic.
“ Not very long since, Mr. B , a butcher, of
Cook’s Biver, asked a certain lawyer what he should do
if a dog stole a leg of mutton out of his shop. The
lawyer replied * Charge the owner of the dog the price
of the mutton.’ ‘Well,’ said the butcher, ‘give me
2s. 6d., for it was your dog.’ * Not so fast,’ replied the
lawyer; ‘ first hand me over 6s. Bd., my professional
fee for advice.’ The butcher very reluctantly put his
hand in his trousers pocket, and ‘ faulked out.’ ’ This
story is at least 200 years old, and yet "a subscriber
sends it to os as original.
The Threepenny Harchbrushup naively
remarks—"lt is told of Marshal Bemadotte, after-
wards King of Sweden, that he had an unaccountable
aversion to being bled." Dr. Beg says he has remarked
the same peculiar phenomenon in his parishioners.
An aspirant for suburban “ municipal honors ”
made up his mind to get the athletic vote by a qrand
coup. He announced that he was about to present the
local cricket club with a new flag. This, when it came
to hand, was found to measure nine inches by seven.
The late disgrace cast at Melbourne Hospital,
in which the wounds of a female patient remained so
long undressed that they became filled with maggots,
has again called attention to the necessity for having
a high-class medical officer resident at each hospital.
Any corpulent person who wishes to die soon
and to make a graceful, genteel, sylph-like corpse,
that won't want squeezing into a coffin a, la Joseph
Culland's child, should take anti-fat. lodide of potas-
sium is one of the active ingredients of the mixture.
In the late libel case in Queensland, Lukin v.
the Australian, the Chief Justice spoke of the de-
servedly high position in the community held by the
editor of the Courier. What would Chief Justice
Martin and Judge Windeyer have said in such a case ?
Before the election, Sir Henry Parkes spoke of
Mr. Eeid as an “ unknown " man. However, when the
Premier found himself compelled to make a virtue of
necessity, he congratulated the electors, and said that
G. H. B. would be a supporter of his, an ornament to
the House, and so on.
A writer calling himself “ Truth ” says he “ has
lately resigned charge of one of the most important
schools in the city.” We should like to know which he
calls the “ most important,” as the only resignations
we have heard of have been those that others deem of
very little importance.
North Queensland is now the only place where a
newspaper man can get substantial justice done
him in a libel action. It’s the only place, besides, in
which newspapers can talk “ straight and fearlessly.”
If anyone doubts this, let him read the Northern
Miner (Charters Towers).
As we have said before, “ long-sleevers,” or
pints of beer, are now known as “ Bishop Barkers.” It
is in the light of this explanation that the following,
received by a Burwood parson from his churchwarden,
reads suspiciously:—“ Reverend and Dear Sir, I am
sorry that I could not attend the meeting last night.
1 I spent the evening with Bishop Barker.”
Interviewed by Mr. Redpath, at the House of
Commons, the following brilliant dialogue commenced
the conversation: —“Well, Mr. Parnell,” said Mr. It.
“what do you think of the situation?’ Mr. Parnell
showed his American blood by asking. “ What do you
think of it yourself ?” Wonderful man !
At it again. The Friday Lynch, in alluding to
thedeath of Mr. Waller, at Petty’s, remarks that “some
hours prior to his decease he was discovered lying half
way out of his bed," and “ he was then > breathing
stentoriously.” Such a journalistic “ bull * as this is
extremely harassing to the aesthetic reader.
Mine Host : “ Now, Jack, you’d better bank
that money in both my name and yours, so that you
can’t be drawing cheques without my consent; it will
prevent you throwing your money away on those town
pubs.” Bushman : “ All right, old man, let sgo and
bank it that way.” A fact. — Queensland Punch.
A certain country candidate who stood for Par-
liament, and was beaten, had to run round on the morn-
ing of the nomination borrowing " fivers ” and notes to
make up the £4O, to be repaid after the election.
Luckily for the lenders, he did not lose his deposit.
The rumour that he refused to refund the money is not
true.
When Joe, the Fijian murderer, was told that
he was not to be hanged, but to be imprisoned for life,
he merely nodded. But when he was informed that
thenceforth he could have no tobacco, he evinced great
concern. This wns after he had “ earnestly listened to
the exhortations of the reverend gentleman ” for several
weeks.
The Herald publishes a private telegram that
“ frontages ” at Suva, the mangrove swamp which Sir
Arthur Gordon wished to make the capital of Fiji, have
been sold at £lOOO an acre. We don’t believe that the
“new chums” whom Mr. W. K. Thomson took down
in the Wentworth with him are such fools as to invest
in this way.
Rum again! The Daily Tellathttmper, in
reporting the new phase of the Arabian box trick, says :
“At the Central Police Court on Friday morning, be-
fore Messrs. Ridge and Withers, a most extraordinary
charge of stealing a child’s coffin was preferred against
an undertaker named George Shying, junior, by Joseph
Cnlland, who summoned him for stealing a child s coffin
valued at 10s. Messrs. Roberts , appeared on behalf of
the complainant, and Mr. Williamson for Cnlland.
When there is a chance of putting the cart before the
horse, they never miss it 1
Thns the morning Trumpeter : —“ The Cor-
poration, having regard to the public safety, are
strictly enforcing the recently-framed by-laws for
regulating the street traffic against all such offenders
in this respect." When a commencement is made upon
those aldermen and M’s.P. who seem to think they
have only to make laws and not to obey them, we shall
believe the Corporation to be in earnest.
It is related of the late Sir Redmond Barry that
when a discussion arose at a meeting of the Victorian
Royal Society whether the light refreshments pro-
vided shotMd be served before or after business, his
Honor, who had listened to the weary wrangling with
ill-concealed impatience, at length arose and said, “ Sir!
in this matter our course must be a compromise. The
matter has been settled by the poet Virgil in the
‘ Georgies.’ Yon remember he says:—
Te veniente die, te decedente.
The society must have its tea twice."
Prince Louis of Hesse, widower of Princess Alice,
is to marry in a few weeks Princess Marie of Prussia,
the daughter of Prince Frederick Charles, and widow
of Prince Henry of the Netherlands. By the time, how-
ever, that this paper reaches Windsor Castle, the
Princess Marie will not merely have a husband in posse
but one in Hesse. We cheerfully give our consent to
the union, and trust, in the absence, from unavoidable
circumstances, of the otherwise inevitable electro-
plated butter-dish, that they will accept the vile pun
we have perpetrated above as an expression of our good-
will.
The Australian Star (Adelaide) is responsible
for the following“ Professor Pepper put a lot of gun-
powder into a flame, and lo! the gunpowder did not
explode. Then, instead of the gunpowder, he took a
canary. * You (will kill that canary,’ remarked a by.
stander. ‘Kill it. sir? Nonsense. I have been nine-
teen years at this business, and do you think you know
more about it than Ido ? ’ * Well, lam not at all sure
you will succeed.’ ‘ Science,’ replied the jolly old bird,
« never fails ; ’ but in less than half a minute the canary
was scorched and dead. It is just as well the canary
was not a pound of gunpowder.”
The Morning Mackat innocently remarks :
" Webber’s opera, ‘Her Freischutz,’ was repeated last
night at the Theatre Royal by Lyster’s Opera Company,
and was very much enjoyed by a large audience.” We
knew a man named Webber once, but he was a butcher.
Is it possible he could have written an opera lately ?
The same journal also states of a convicted prisoner—
" He got his desserts at the Water Police Court yester-
day.” Mr. Lynch himself sets a bad example in his
leader on the Moy Mow case by stating that “ There
are occasions, however, when it is impossible for the
losers not to participate in the meriment.' ’ But, enough.
Let us take a spell after all this spelling!
A Carcoar man was last week severely shot in
the thigh by his mate, who had mistaken him for a
native bear, However, this is not the first recorded
instance of a similarity having been found between
man and our minature, eucalyptus-munching Bruin.
The two sons of a well-known Victorian squatter were
out shooting one day and bagged a bear, which they
brought home. Mrs. Panic, the wife of a well-known
breeder of racehorses, whose lord has an extraordinary
proboscis, was on a visit to their station, and was,
much to her disgust, playfully asked by the younger of
the two juveniles whether she didn’t think the bear’s
face reminded her very much of Mr. Panic’s P
“My son, that man was sent out of England
for felony. He again committed crime here ;he has
been thrice convicted. Then he kept a low public-
house. Then he got religion, and became respectable,
and bought a newspaper, and is a Member of Parlia-
ment. Go thou, and do likewise.” This might be
said of a certain individual south of the line. The
man’s career reminds one of Mark Twain’s story con-
cerning the “ bad little boy who never went to Sunday-
school; who commenced life by stealing jam and sub-
stituting tea therefor, and heartlessly remarking that
it would “ make the old woman snort!’’ and who in the
long-run became a millionaire and a member of the
Legislature.
I. J. Josephson explains. He says that when
he found on the day of election that a dead-set was
being made against the Premier, he (I. J. J.) instructed
his supporters to plump for Parkes, which they did —
and that’s how he parted company with the £lO. We
are glad to have heard this—are rejoiced to hear that
at least one man who always tells the truth has been
able to induce others to keep their promises. Mr.
Josephson’s followers were certainly more faithful
than those of Mr. Moss, who at one place had a com-
mittee of thirty-two pledged to support him and yet
got—only one vote! There are thirty-one heartless
scoundrels somewhere —possibly thirty-two, for Mr.
Moss may have voted for himself.
A correspondent wants to know the author and
meaning of the lines —
And o’er the hills and far away.
Beyond their utmost purple rim.
Beyond the night, across the day.
Through all the world she followed him.
They appear in Tennyson’s “ King Arthur.” We
believe the renowned "Knight of the Round Table”
failed on one occasion to settle with his landlord, the
result being the remarkable steeplechase so beautifully
described above by the Poet Laureate. This gentleman
gets a guinea a line for stuff which no other man would
have the cheek to offer an editor, unless protected and
backed up by a battery of Gatling guns.
The following is as true as the first chapter of
Genesis—and almost as entertaining. The other even-
ing at a public meeting there was a gathering of the
inkslinging class. When the proceedings terminated, a
well-known representative of the Morning Cook, in a
fit of recklessness, asked a thirsty emissary of the
Evening Jumble to take a drink. That budding
Junius having demanded and swallowed the longest
possible beer that could be drawn for threepence, the
Herald man bade him adieu, and (having carefully
secured his change) departed. When he was gone, a
wag who was lately elected for West Sydney, remarked
that the Lyre reporter reminded him of the purchase
of the wine and milk in the Ist verse of the 54th
chapter of Isaiah—“ he was without money and without
Price.”
In the early davs of Tasmania, wool used to be
burnt for manure. An ironmonger, name Hopkins, who
came from Yorkshire, saw his opportunity, and em-
braced it. He induced the farmers to cart their wool
to Hobart, and sell it to him at one penny per lb. He
shipped it home, in the grease, and as it took twelve
months to get an answer from England, he was enabled
to purchase another shearing before the result of his
first venture became known. Everybody has heard of
the late Henry Hopkins, of Hobart, and of his re-
puted wealth, but everybody does not know how he
began to amass it, and how he was the pioneer of that
trade which has been the great support of these colo-
nies; which has made many wealthy, introduced
civilisation into the far interior, and ornamented our
cities with palatial stores.
The daughter of a. well-known Sydney gentleman,
living in a fashionable suburb, advertised for a house
and parlour maid. Among other applications, she had
one from a young person who gave very good refer-
ences as to efficiency. The young lady decided to give
this one a trial; and, as they were having a small din-
ner party that evening, she thought it would be a good
opportunity to prove the girl’s ability. During the
dinner, all went well till the third course was finished,
and then the new parlour - maid was seen edging
stealthily towards the young mistress. Coming, after a
little more edging, to within coo-e-e, the servant askea.
in an audible whisper, whether she should bring in the
"chazeorthe puddins next?” When, after dinner,
she was strongly rebuked, she gave out, as a kind of ex-
cuse, that she had been “ out of work ” for a twelve-
month, and must have forgotten the “course oi
things.”
It is well known (and this is not an advertise-
ment) that Mr. Searle. of the Central Markets, has
embellished that endroit with a most magnificent show-
case, containing immortelles and other ornaments dear
to friends of departed persons who have " adminis-
tered” the estate of the deceased. Well, the othe:
day, a tall, gaunt fellow in a suit of shoddy biacx,
and with a crape “twister" on his “gossamer oi
some eighteen inches in depth, called at the snop,
and, button-holing Mr. S„ called him outside. Fomv
ing to the show-case, he said, 1 d „„i> a
a few of them things to chuck around the oldgai s
tombstone. She was put under last Monday- W hai
the damage for the lot ?” " You can have the case to
£250,” replied the genial florist. " What! _ ® b
the bereaved husband; “Why, I could go mtoap-
for that.” And he walked away slowly, shrilly whist 5
the few first bars of the “ Dead March in Saul.
THE LATE MR. JAMES PUNCH.


Sanderson's podophyllin lozenges, for aIT
bilious complaints, indigestion, &c. They impart tone
and vitality to the whole system, removing morbid, and
sick headache, giddiness, shooting pains, and nervous
affections, and in all cases of liver complaints, indiges-
fe-on and costiveness, speedy relief is insured. Parents
will find Kanderson’s Lozenges very useful where
children are requiring a mild aperient. There is
no disagreeable taste, : ni all the little members of the
human family prefer lozenges to pills. Try them. Sold
by all chemists Is. a box. Edward Kow & Co, Pro-
prietors, Sydney.— Apvt.
The Bflletin post free to any part of the
colonies Theue Shihlisos per quarter in ackanoe.
The Reteree.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
A grand benefit to Trickett is being organised in
London.
W. Plunkett and J. M'Clerken row in light skiffs
Saturday next, Dec. 11—£25 aside.
Mr. A. G. Jones has promised =£loo for a gold
cup for the Murrumbidgee Turf Club.
A six-days go-as-you-please commences at
Adelaide at 1 o’clock on Easter Monday morning.
The triumph of Maud S. is, it is said, but a tem-
porary one. Her owner has ordered a new watch.
Bungendore gained an easy victory over Qnean-
beyan at cricket. Scores: 142 and 37 respectively.
The totalisator worked well during the Christ-
church meeting, and added considerably to the benefit
of the club.
Benson, the great turf fraud, was said to be
lying seriously ill in Portsmouth Convict Prison when
the mail left England.
Mrs. Trickett altogether denies the assertion
that she is about to proceed to England for the purpose
*f joining her husband.
The Australian eleven are practising for their
match with fifteen of Victoria, which takes place on
10th, 11th, and 13th current.
In a walking match at Islington, England, the
feat of walking 340 miles in 70 hours was accomplished
by Howell, the English pedestrian.
The greatest distance walked without a rest was
performed by Peter Crossland, of Sheffield, who went
120|- miles 240 yards, in September, 1874.
Billy Winchoombe, formerly well-kuowu to the
Thames (N.Z ) as Harry Maynard, alias “ Cabbage Bill,”
is now the champion light-weight pugilist on the Pacific
slope.
The R S.Y. Club’s match for third-class yachts,
which was to have been sailed last Saturday, was post-
poned for a week, on account of the unfavorable
weather.
The Western District Racing Club’s meeting
takes place at Hamilton, Victoria, on 15th and 16th
current. Diamond and Mesalliance are at present
favourites for the handicap.
In re the paragraph on this subject in our last
issue. Mr. George Biiley, playing for the Derwent
club against Break o’ Day, in Tasmania, carried out his
bat for 227. F. Bennett, playing on the same side,
•cored 132.
The Melbourne long-distance tournament was
won by Baker, of Sydney, who travelled 307 miles;
Ewan (N.Z ), second, with 306 miles j and Seymour, of
Sydney, third, with 286 miles, Ewing got over 268 and
Harris 248 miles.
The 48 hours go-as-you-please at Adelaide, on
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday last, was won by
Edwards, who completed 172 miles ; Craig, second,
with 147 miles; and Gibson third, with 134 miles.
Edwards goes to N.Z,
Jack Fowler, the noted English light-weight
pugilist, is, it is said, on his way out to meet Larry
Foley. Now Larry, it's time to leave off theatricals,
and go to bed early. Get into condition, old man, and
we’ll back you " for our shkin."
Laycock rows Hanlan on the 17th January.
Wallace Eoss, perhaps emboldened by his victory over
Trickett last Saturday, has offered to row Laycock for
£2OO aside. However, we hope that the latter will not
think of entering into any more engagements until his
match with Hanlan has been decided.
Luke Blackburn, this year’s king of the Ameri-
can turf, has already won nineteen out of twenty races
this season, and has earned upwards of 35,000 dols. He
is by imported Bonnie Scotland, is named after the
present Governor of Kentucky, and was bred by J. and
A C. Franklin, of Gallatin, Tennessee.
Adelaide Park Races :—Hurdle Race.—Miss
Banter, 1; Sultan, 2; Peer, 3. Handicap.—Aurora, 1;
Silver Thread, 2; Don Carlos, 3. Steeplechase.—
Charlie, 1. Nothing else got round. Momalong fell,
and injured his rider. Flying Handicap.—Silver
Thread, 1; Struck Oil, 2. Hugo, Momalong’s jockey,
has since died.
In the go-as-yon-please tournament, Edwards,
the pedestrian, a contemporary reports, “ went away ”
at the rate of six miles per hour. In Bathurst, recently,
Edwards accomplished a still greater feat. He “ went
away" from that city at the rate of twenty miles per
hour —but that was in the train, while a bill-sticker
wept upon the platform.
The holder of the winning ticket in Abbott’s
(Auckland) £5OOO sweep on the Melbourne Cup was
James Pemberton, a gum digger at Whangarei. He
spent his last £5 in tickets, and then bartered the
winning number to Mr. Davis, of the Kamo Hotel, for
two drinks. Whether Mr. Davis took full advantage of
this sharp piece of bargaining has not transpired.
On their arrival at Melbourne the Australian
cricketers were accorded a very hearty welcome. After
breakfasting at the Oriental, they met their friends at
the Town Hall, where they were duly “ addressed,” and
Mr. Murdoch presented with the gold hat sent by the
Otago Cricket Association. In the evening, the Major
gave a dinner, to which were also invited the leading
citizens.
Aa our readers know, the first race between
Trickett and Wallace Eoss was won by the former by
three lengths. However, as a foul occurred, the
referee decided that the event should be rowed over
again. In the second contest, which took place over
the Thames champion course last Saturday, Boss turned
the tables on his Australian opponent. The time is
not given.
Ah intercolonial hand-ball match between this
colony and Victoria is arranged for next January. A
committee has already been chosen, and the matches
will be for one, two, and three-handed, and extend over
three days. One of the events will be for the
ehampionship. On Saturday, |a match for £lO aside
will he played at the Bising Sun Ball court between
M’Halo and Hawthar and Walsh.
Concerning the V.R.C.’s champion race on New
Years Day, "Augur” says that Flaneur looks such a
certainty far the big prize that the fielders do not care
to lay against him. First King would have friends
were he a certain starter, but Mr. Wilson may have to
fall back on Progress, who looks like one that could
stay for a week, though judging from Grand Flaneur’s
Cup victory, he too can go a long journey.
Subjoined is a statement of the results of the
first Temora race meeting, held on Friday last: —Maiden
Plate; Taurus 1, "-nowden 2, AthosS. Diggers' Purse :
Prince 1, Who’d-ha’-thought-it 2, Tallboy 3. Temora
Handicap: Only Mavis and Deserter ran. The race
resulted in an easy victory for Mavis, who carried sst
121 b. Hack Selling Race: Forester 1, Sequin 2, Slim
Jim 3. Plying Handicap: Vanity 1, Minnie Warren 2,
Snowden 3. This was a grand race. Vanity won by a
head.
In a match between the 16ft. dingies, Ouida
and Httie, last Saturday afternoon, the former, sailed
by Carmichael, easily beat the Ettie (sailed by Wilson).
The course was twice round Shark Island from Port
Macquarie. In the match for 22ft. boats the S'ren (P.
Williams), Florrie (N. Johnson), and Eosetta (Clark),
started. The course was round the Manly buoys, tack
to Fort Macquarie, and then round Fort Denison back
to the starting point. On the way down the Florrie
and the Eosetta alternately held the advantage, but
after the turn homewards the contest lay between the
Siren and Eosetta. the latter running ahead and win-
ning easily after Fort Denison was passed.
The Australasian warmly advocates the in-
stitution of a grand annual steeple-chase meeting at
Flemington, and says that as the V E.C. committee
have a very large surplus in hand there would be no
difficulty on the score of funds. It goes in for the for
mation of a first-class steeple-chase course, and says
that the added money to the principal race should be
WOO sovs. at least, with proportionate amounts for
second and third. Such an event (says the Acsteala-
I*:), would induce owners to breed horses specially.
and would soon attain a prestige second only to a
Melbourne Cup. The editor concludes by remarking
that some of the funds should be spent on a winter
steeplechase with one grand stake worthy of the colony
and the reputation it enjoys for possessing the best
jumping horses in the world.
Warren Smith, the American sculler, whilst
practising on Bedford Basin, near Halifax, the other
day, was pursued by a shark, which several times tried
to seize the boat in its jaws. The shark and the
sculler got away in good style. Smith slightly in ad-
vance, the shark making a good second. Smith occa-
sionally looked at the shark in a nervous way, and
began steering wildly. The shark at the first half-mile
made a spurt, increasing its stroke to 137 to the
minute, while Smith madly forged ahead in had form.
At the three-quarter stake the shark came over to
Smith’s course, and plainly endeavoured to foul the
latter’s boat. At the end of the first mile it became
evident that Smith was more anxious to win the race
than to exhibit any particular kind of stroke. The
shark practised the celebrated “ git thar stroke, but
its steering was bad, going all over the course. As
they approached the shallow water, the 8 , r k,
noticed to hold up its fin, signifying that it had a stitch
in its side. Smith was pretty sick, too, but he was
bound to win the race.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Bracelets are taking the place of rings in the
matter of engagements.
It took the Prince of Wales a whole year to
learn how to waltz, and even now he holds his legs as
stiff as pokers.
The father of Mrs. Langtry, the “ professional
beauty,” is said to be in serious financial difficulties in
Jersey, of which he is Dean. „„„
Mrs. Sam May, of 5 Devonshire-strcet, Old Kent
road, London, has given birth to four living children,
—three sons and one daughter.
The Princess of Wales disapproves of the ex-
travagant taste of the time with regard to dress, and
has appeared no less than eight times in the same
costume.
In Switzerland the authorities have power to
dissolve marriage when it is shewn “ that the continua-
tion of the common life is incompatible with the nature
of marriage.”
At a fancy dress ball in Auckland, a lady
appeared in a handsome white dress, across the front of
which was a large sash, whereon was written in
large letters of gold “Forlorn Hope.” Cause unknown.
Will fans ever attain a proper size? Two ladies
in one of the boxes at the opera the other evening
flourished immense iventails, and every time they fanned
themselves the footlights flickered. In fact Rose
says the draught has given her a terrible cold.
In the recent vitriol-throwing case in Paris,
Madame de Tilly proved that she was not al*ogether
deficient in humour. She told the chemist she wanted
it "for cleaning brass,” no doubt thinking she would
take a little of the “ metal ” out of the features of her
rival.
Sarah Bernhardt had some magnificent toilets
made for her American tour. A ball dress for
“ Camille ” is of white satin, with camellias embroi-
dered in pearls. For the “ Sphinx," a yellow satin
skirt, jet-covered cuirass—two ravens upholding the
skirt.
At Newcastle, on Tuesday night, a married
man, who had bolted from Lambton with somebody
else's wife, and who was just about to decamp by the
steamer, was “ spotted ” by his mother-in-law, who hit
out straight from the shoulder, and knocked him half
senseless into the sponsons of the vessel. Good girl 1
Now, there’s what they call kissing under the
mistletoe. Who wants to kiss a girl if she knows she
has to let him. and knows he’s got to do it and everyone
looking on to see Fair play ? No, sir! That takes all
the life out of it. The way to do it is to catch her off-
hand, and take the gathers out of her dress, and pull
her ribbons to pieces, and knock her back hair down,
and hear her say, “ Oh!" and then go away to a rather
secluded place and think it over yourself.
“ A Kiss, said young Charles,
Is a noun, we allow;
But tell me, my dear, is it .
Proper or common P”
Lovely Mary blushed deep and
Exclaimed, “why, I vow,”
I think that it is both
Proper and common.”
A strange affair is being inquired into by the
police of Dunedin, N.Z. On a recreation ground there
were found a woman’s dress, brooch, earrings, and a
letter signed “ Mary Prescott," addressed to her
family, in which the writer says:—“ In consequence of
friends having been false to her, she intends doing away
with herself." The things were found alongside the
water’s edge, and have been identified ns belonging to
Mary Prescott, aged 20, who recently quarrelled with
her lover, and threatened to commit suicide.
At Barmen, Germany, out of 706 young men in
their twentieth year, upon applying the customary
military tests, 455 were dismissed as permanently dis-
qualified, and 127 were relegated to the reserves, only
124 being eligible as recruits for the Line and the Guard.
The chief cause of rejection was constitutional debility,
and large numbers of these pallid youths were married
men with one or two children. The military authorities
think of recommending the prohibition of the marriage
of youths liable for army service until they reach the
age of 23 or have completed their term of service.
“Lady Hamilton,” who, two years ago, took
apartments in Paris at £7OO per annum, but who neither
paid for them, for the magnificent carriage she hired,
nor the endless purchases which the carriage enabled
her to carry away on credit, has been brought before the
Court and-proved a swindler. It was a=certained that
her name was to be Horsfall; that she had several
times been in the hands of the English police for simi-
lar swindling in England; and that she had been mar-
ried in Boulogne, not to the cousin of the Duke of
Hamilton, but to a bootmaker named Allen. She
was condemned to five years’ imprisonment.
The Duchess of Marlborough refused to marry
again, accompanying her refusal with the solemn
declaration that her husband occupied so much of her
heart she had no room for another. The lovely daughter
of Curran refused to marry after the execution of her
Satriotic lover, Robert Emmet, and at last, “ like a lily
rooping, bowed her head and died." Recently there
has been a more touching instance of this womanly
devotion. One morning, forty years ago, a Miss
Elizabeth Cook, residing in the suburbs of New York,
was dressed in her bridal garments ready for the
marriage ceremony. A disagreement arose with her
lover at the last moment, and they parted, never to
meet again. The lady, all those forty years, kepi her
pangs of sorrow secret from every ear. Recently she
died, and as she lay in her coffin, she was dressed
precisely askhe would have gone to the altar. There
they were —the silken garments, veil, wreath, and
shoes. The saddest of all was the shrivelled wreath;
but perhaps its faded beauty best suited the winter of
her life, and best illustrated the dead hopes of forty
years ago. Every article, even to the linen, hod been
religiously preserved. This melancholy romance of
''one heart is the romance of many, but the world knows
nothing of them.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER VI— Continued.
Into this crowd stepped the tall figure of the young
workman ; his face white, half with exhaustion half
with emotion ; his lips set, his deep-set eyes glooming
beneath the pain-dr own brows. He looked neither
right nor left, of him, but, leaning against the wall,
plunged his hands into his pockets and waited There
was a kind of network of railings before the door
through which the people hod to pass in single file, to
prevent their all crowding in together, and Myles, like
the rest had to wait his turn.
Most men have to go through one or two mauvaia
guarfs d'heure in the course of their lives, but few can
have suppassed in bitterness the minutes which Myles
Heywood spent, waiting his turn, before the door of the
committee-room. Someone recognised him, spoke to
him, and said she had never expected to see him there.
He answered mechanically and composedly, but felt his
face grow fierily hot; and then a little push from behind
warned him to move on, and ho obeyed it.
He entered the large room in company with several
other people, and there were more than a dozen gentle-
men seated round the table in the middle of the room.
But from the moment in which he entered and saw a
face raised, a pair of eves fixed in pitying astonishment
upon him, he felt as if he were alone with one man, and
that man Sebastian Mallory. Strange to say he had
never rememberc 1 had scarcely been conscious of the
fact, that Malle; .vas one of the most important mem-
bers of this very committee. He knew it now—realised
it with heart and brain aud consciousness, as the face
of his rival
“ Flashed like a cymbal on his face,”
and for a moment the sense of degradation, of humilia-
tion, burned and scorched him, and he felt almost mad.
Almost —but no ; reason was still the stronger. The
rememberance of his own utter destitution, the distinct,
imperative call of sichnoss and hunger, the clear know-
ledge that there was no alternative prevailed. He did
not turn round and walk away. He remained, but how
he dragged his feet towards the desk of the man who
was asking questions, he knew not. How he answered
those questions remained also a mystery to him. The
gentleman heard him, noted his address, and said he
would see the case was inquired into. Myles felt no re-
sentment at the idea of his statements being thought
to require investigation; whether because his pride had
been once for all laid low, or whether from sheer weak-
ness or dulness of sense, he did not know. He was
turning away and wondering when the inquiries would
be made, and how much longer he would be able to hold
out, when Sebastian Mallory, for the first time remov-
ing his attention from the writing in which he had ap-
parently been engrossed, said composedly :
“ There is no need to trouble the visitor to inqmre into
that case, Mr. Whitaker. I can vouch for the truth of
every word of it. I should recommend you to write a
ticket and pay the sum required at once."
Then he turned to his writing again. Mr. Whitaker
said:
“Ah, that is all right, then,” and immediately took a
ticket and began to write.
Myles felt as if everything were reeling around him,
and himself with the rest. He caught at the top of a
chair by the table and steadied himself, feeling as if he
were some one else, some strange, alien, degraded
being —one of the beggars of whom he used to read in
advanced periodicals, that they ought not to be relieved
by private, miscellaneous almsgiving; but should all be
ticketed and classified, and strictly watched and over-
looked. It was as the bitterness of death, and must be
borne unmoved, standing composedly and decently.
All the time he still supported himself by the back of
the chair, unable, from very weakness and dizziness, to
move. The gentleman who sat in it rose, and looked at
him from a pair of keen, stern, steel-grey eyes.
“You look ill, young man,” said he. “Come with
me, and I will show you where to get the money.”
“ He took the ticket in his hand, and, taking Myles’s
arm, led him away through a side-door, into a small
sort of anteroom. Here he bade Myles sit down, and he
took from a cupboard some wine—red wine, which he
poured into a gloss and gave to Myles with a piece of
“Take that,” said he, "and drink the wine, or you
will be ill, before you get home. You have fasted long.
You should have come sooner. How long is it since you
had any food?
“ About thirty-six hours, I think,” said Myles, looking
at him os ho took the gloss in his hand. It was Canon
Ponsonby, “ the radical parson,” the man who ought to
have been a prime minister, but who, os Rector of
Thm-nhope, earned more love than falls to the lot of
most prime ministers, charm they never so wisely.
His stern face softened as he looked upon the figure
before him,
“ You have a right spirit,” said he. I know your
name and who you are. Your sister attends the parish
church. Yon ’’
“ Attend no church at all. I’m a free-thinker.
“ Are you. I don’t think you will ever solve your
riddle by free-thinking. But shake hands. I wish you
were one of my flock.”
“ If anything could make me one of a flock, it would
be that you are the shepherd, sir,” said Myles, finishing
his bread and wine, and feeling a warmed life in his
veins and at his heart,
“Seel” said Canon Ponsonby, "here is the weekly
allowance to which your ticket entitles you. I)o not
trouble to call at the office. Good morning.” He took
the young man’s hand. " I have long known of you. I
am glad to have seen you. God have you in His keep-
ing T”
Strangely moved and grateful, Myles silently clasped
the noble old man’s hand. Ho could not speak. Canon
Ponsonby showed him out by a side door, so that he
avoided that dreadful crowd round the entrance. He
was in the street again, with the white ticket, and some
money in his hand. After what Canon Ponsonby had
said to him, he had ceased to feel that dreadful agony
of shame, but he felt utterly crushed, and reduced to
the most perfect insignifle mce.
pursuing his homeward way, he turned over
the money in his hand, and remembered that ho must
buy some food with it! Food! for himself P When be
had gone through that age of anguish, as it hod seemed
to him, he should take the coins which had been so
hardly earned, and buy bread with them, and eat them !
It struck him as being absurd —as if one had used a
steam-hammer to crush a midge withal.
Nevertheless, he went into a shop, and bought some
bread and cheese, and was carrying it home, still with
the same sense of congruity between the means and the
end. But, as he passed a doorstep, at the end of a street,
he beheld a little girl sitting on it, and crying bitterly.
“ Little one, what’s the matter?” he asked, stopping,
and looking down at her.
“ I’m—so —hungry !” said the child, with a sob be-
tween each word, as she looked pitionsly up into his
face, and held a thin little pinafore, soaked with tears,
in two small tremulous hands.
“So hungry!" he said, stooping over her with the
sense, that perhaps, after all, he had not gone through
the furnace to find nothing at the other side. “Hast
had no breakfast ?”
“Nay, none at o’.”
“ How’s that ?”
Here a thin, clean-looking, poorly-clad woman, with
a baby in her arms, came to the door.
“ Come in, Sarah Emily,” For shame o’ thisel, to ait
bawlin’ on th’dur-step. Thi’ feyther’s gone to see about
suramat to ayt. Come in, and hold thi’ din.”
“ I’m—so—hungry I ” was the only answer.
“ Ne’er heed her, lad!” said the woman to Myles.
“Mymeaster’s gone to th’ committee to-day. We've
had to come to that, and we’ll likely get sum mat to
ayt afore neet.”
“ Nay, but it’s very hard for a bit of a lass to wait so
long,” said Mvles. “If you’ll trust her to me. I’ll give
her some breakfast. I’m just going to get my own.”
“Eh, thank you, you’re very kind,” said the woman,
her voice suddenly breaking, as she looked at him, and
then turned aside again.
“ Come, my lass I ’* said Myles gently, and he took the
open-mouthed Sarah Emily in his arms, and carried her
to his home.
In the kitchen, he seated her in Mary’s rocking-chair,
explaining briefly to his sister that the child was
clemming, and must be fed, and then he cut her some
bread and cheese, and watched her with an intense and
altogether unaccountable interest while she ate it. He
felt almost light-hearted. If he had not, so to speak,
walked up to the cannon’s month this morning, little
Sarah Emily mightj have been [sickening, with hunger
■util eventide.
"Good I good I" she cried, when she had oaten as
much as she could.
And she laughed at him, while he slowly ate something
himself. ,,
*■ Look here, ’ ’ he suggested; ‘ ‘ do you think you could
find your way from your home to this another day • ’
“ Eh, ay ! It's none so far," said Sarah Emily.
"Then, if you come every morning —every morning,
mind—I'll give you something to eat always, eh ? " he
“ But I can ayt such a lot, when I’m hungry,” said
Sarah Emily bashfully, putting her forefinger into her
mouth. .
•‘Nevermind! There’ll always be something. Wilt
oome ? ”
“Eh, I will so! ” said the child, clapping her hands,
jumping upon his Knee, and kissing him.
Thus was the bargain struck.
There is this day, in Thanshope, a dark-eyed young
woman, of some twenty-four years, who has a husband
and some young children. When the little ones clamour
for breakfast or dinner, she is in the habit of reproving
them, by telling them that they don’t know what real
hunger is; and, as an instance iu point, she is given to
relating the story how she sat on the doorstep one day
in the “panic,” crying with hunger, and how the tall,
pile-face, young man with kind eyes picked her up, and
carried her home, and gave her food ; andhow either he
or his sister welcomed their hungry little visitor daily
for
“ How long mother ?’’
“Three months, child; every day—eh, they were
kind; they were so."
“ Is he alive now mother ?”
“ Ay, for sure he is, and ”
But the dark-eyed young woman always makes a
ra+her long story of it,' and freely intersperses remarks
and comments, wh'ch, though doubtless interesting to
her family, might not bo considered of value by the
public in general.
Two days later the postman brought Mvles a sum-
mons to attend at the Central Offices of the Relief Com-
mittee thit day, as he was one of the successful candi-
dates for the clerkship, and the announcement that his
salary would bo twenty shillings a w y>k
Thus the worst, materially, was tided over; but the
bitterness of the cup he had drank that terrible morn-
ing did not lightly pass away.
CHAPTER VII.
A PAUSE.
When Myles began his work at the Committee Office,
one conspicuous member of the L \dies’ Committee was
temporarily absent. Adrienne Blisset was then occupied
in learning the condition of her own affa irs, and found her-
self soon in a totally different position from any she
had ever expected to fill—very rich, as it seemed to her,
and a person of great import ance; and, what was
strangest of all, with Sebastian M illory coming and
going, fulfilling his duties ns executor, and explaining
everything to her. She repeatedly told him that she
could not believe it; it was impossible—there must be
a mistake. All that money hers to do as she liked
with, and she had not earned it, nor worked for it I
“What an idea you have of working for everything
you get I ” he exc'aimed suddenly one day. “ Do you
carry it so far as to demand a service from every one to
whom you accord a sign of favour ? "
“Really I don’t know what you mean,” replied she
“ I only know that I have got, you tell me, between six
and seven hundred a year, and I have done nothing to
deserve it.”
“ No. I suppose you have to deserve it now, by using
it properly,” said lie sedately.
That was in fact the amount of Adrienne's means, and
it was natural that it should appear to her ns wealth
unbounded. She had also Stonegate on a lease, which
had yet somewhat over two years to run. And when she
had learnt all this, and that she really was the mistress
of such means, with the only drawback that there was
no one to share tiiem with, no one to consult with—
herself alone, and her own pleasure and convenience to
study; when she had grasped these facts, and begun to
feel rather sad and lonely, she returned to her work one
morning in a black dress, looking rather thinner and
paler than she had dona before. The people with whom
she had become acquainted in her work, and who had
heard the reason of hor absence, came round her,
and, though not openly, congratulated her, hoped she
would now take a recognised place amongst them, asked
if they might call, and so on. And ns she somewhat
vaguely and sadly answered these efforts at friendship,
she looked up, and saw some one pass the window. It
was Myles Hey wood, going to his work.
Adrienne’s name had become well known in Thans-
hope during the last three months. It was but a
provincial town, and everyone seemed thoroughly
acquainted with everyone else's affairs. Mrs. Mallory
had been much annoyed at finding Sebastian “ mixed
np,” as she called it, with Mr. Blisset’s affairs, and,
above all, with those of Miss Blisset. She had had to
explain it as well as she could to certain friends who had
asked her who this Miss Blisset was, and what it all
meuit. ,
Sebastian, she said, was so very good-natured; she
feared ho would be imposed upon some time! Did she
know Miss Blisset ? Certainly she did. in a way ; but
as for being a friend of hers, certainly not! Sebastian
hod consented to act as Mr. Blisset’s executor out of
pure goodwill and kindness, because the man was so
much to be pitied, and seemed to have absolutely no
friends. That was ail.
But despite Mrs. Mallory’s efforts, it got known that
her son and the young lady who had lately come into a
fortune, and who was reported to be both charming and
accomplished, wore very great friends. Helena Spence-
lev took rather a malicious pleasure in upholding this
theory iu Mrs. Mallory’s very presence, so that lady
would have boxed her ears with pleasure, if one could
box the ears of a person who would have one hundred
thousand pounds some day.
Thus Miss Blisset and Mr. Mallory were already
talked about in a certain set, and Adrienne’s duties had
made her name and herself familiar to another and less
distinguished public-to the working-people of Than-
shope. She had been a notability amongst them before
her sudden accession to wealth and friends; she was
doubly well-known to them now. She was busy and
pre-occupied, thought Myles as he sat at his desk in the
second office, and saw her almost daily pass the window
on her way to the Ladies’ Committee-room. She was a
lady of property, sought after and busy, and he was a
clerk on a high stool, to whom she scarce spoke a word
from one week’s end to another.
Those years of distress brought about some strange
acquaintances, and led to some unusual events. Though
everything appeared on the outside to work so smoothly
there were active emotions stirring amongst the
members of that Thanshope Relief Committee —
emotions quite unconnected with the wants of those
for whoso benefit they had assembled themselves. The
circumstances were exceptional, and it was only excep-
tional circumstances that tho«e particular people could
have not only met, but continue! almost daily to meet,
and come in contact with one another. Gradually
circuinst >nce< drew them together—gradually, as they
met, the half-forgotten, smouldering feelings of love and
hate, contempt and pity, sprang into life and activity
again, and emotion stepped to the front, and all these
things acted and reacted one upon the other, till every
story was modified, every life received a bend this way
or that, a change in the even tenor of its way.
[to be continued.]
A BALLADINE.
She was the prettiest girl, I ween,
That m jrtal eyes had ever seen ;
Her name was Annabel Christine,
Her hair was curled with bandoline.
Her cheeks were smoothed with vaseline.
Her teeth were brushed with fine dentine,
Her lace was washed in coaline,
Her gloves were cleaned with gasoline,
She wore a dress of grenadine.
Looped over a skirt of brilliantine.
Her petticoat was bombazine.
Her foot was shod with kid hotline,
Her wounds were healed with cosmoline.
She sailed away from Muscatine
In a ship they called a brigantine.
She flirted with a gay marine
Till they reached the Republic Argentina,
Where they were married by the Dean,
And lived on oleomargtne.
'• Apnea A ; naworth ” sends a poem com-
mencing :—
Paint o’er my fancy there is stealing
A sense of bliss, as when is ptaling
Some lofty sTain of music, fll in?
My soul with deep and rapturous thrilling.
And Heaven to my gaze seems oping,
As from a dreary cheerless groping
For something longed for, vague, ideal,
I turn to grasp, and And it real;
The fragrance of the sweet wild roses
A glimpse of paradise discloses.
We have been there, Aggie. The first oyster is always
the best.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled iu style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest.'
and Trousers, in all the 09 „ r ,,
favourite colours Weill-
cut and finished in the **
best manner.
J^AVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
(The latest shape; a use-i
ful and durable suit I 35s per
for business and ordi- f suit,
nary wear. )
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban- 42s per
nockburns. for Spring ’ Suit,
.and Summer wear.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suita,
(In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for f 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures, )
J^AVID
JONES AND
COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials I
having been well V
shrunk before being I
made up. J
63s per
suit.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
{
In Superior Oriental
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and
finished the same as
ordered clothing.
68s 6d
per suit.
JJAVID
Orient
Serg Suits.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
!
Beautifully light in
Texture, permanent in
colour and very dur-
able in wear.
38s 6d
per suit
■OAVID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for-
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
fSpecial attention is in-')
Ivited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and Orient
most perfect in st\le I Clothing,
and flnsh procurable |
in the colony. J
fin Superior Tasmanians
3 Flannel, thoroughly f , aa
i shrunk. C Boa
fOhlna Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Pine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
■( All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
!In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
fin fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
< In Black Merino. 30s.
(, In Super Sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
_, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
fin Superior, all Wool")
■J Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(. finished. J
A Special Dress Over-h
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- >•
fully tight, and agree- 1
able to wear. J
65s
JONES AND COMPANY.
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SEEING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
Tlje same quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
'PIMPOBIUM
OF FASHION.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J B. Y O U D A
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
L E,
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Jnst below Liverpool-st.)
THE
STANDARD
AMERICAN
SHIRT and CLOTHING
FACTORY,
Corner of
WYNYARD STREET
AND
WYNYARD LANE,
SYDNEY.
Excellence & Economy
Combined.
A PERFECT FIT
GUARANTEED
OR NO CHARGE.
LATEST
English and American
STYLES.
White Shirts to Order
A Speciality.
A Trial Solicited.
To a Discriminating
Public.
The Standard American
Shirt and Clothing Fac-
tory, in seeking a portion
of the patronage of this
community, tho Proprie-
tor defems it an incumbent
duty to announce the
basis upon which its
business will be con -
ducted.
The heavy expense en-
tailed on other firms
George, Pitt, and K
streets being avoided—
having secured a most
desirable and commo-
dious premises at the
comer of Wynyard-street
and Wynyard-lane, easy
of access, at a much less
rental and expense—
enables this firm to exe-
cute all orders at 40 per
cent, less than any other
tailoring establishment,
while at the same time
the materials used are of
the best quality, the work-
manship and style not to
be excelled, and the fit
perfect or no charge
made. The exhorbitant
prices charged for ordered
garments having become
burdensome, patrons will
no doubt readily avail
themselves of this wel-
come relief in the estab-
lishment of a first-class
Tailoring Emporium,
where excellence, style,
workmanship, and fit are
guaranteed, and economy
secured.
Laces,
Hosiery,
Corsets,
Fancy Goods,
Millinery,
Underclothino,
AND
Household
Drapery.
Spring Millinery for Christmas. Dressmaking on the
premises.
Cut paper Patterns, all garments. Illustrated sheets on
application.
J. B. YOUDALE.
JIASHIONABLE SCARES AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP, .
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 1 !
J. L. HORDERN.
T
HE BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
BST All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing rom other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
~ ~ ~ ~ Baby Innen
, ~ „ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ ~ ~ „ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
J^ONDON
16
TAILORING COMPANY,
PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure —
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
„ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES LINDSAY.
JJON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.-—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Eooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 63s; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
_ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
. other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS. —Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4Jd
to 8fd; French Percales, from 9jd
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
■lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to ltd; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 6s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
„ all prices.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT AND CLOTHING FACTORY,
Corner of
WYNYARD STREET AND WYNYARD LANE.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d„ 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED,
EXCELLENCEWTIH ECONOMY,
T adies will be much interested
JU WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B|d PER
PAIR; np-town shops CANNOT TO UCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
■piIEST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for •
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
"The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style,of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, wot
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
• Sydney.
OMES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the roost advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,,
i undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
enced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
aiu during the past six and it is impossible
mt the present chance can ever recur after the working
at of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the _
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Diet s
Hotel.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66
li
ACE CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
A N N I X
B R O T H E R S’,
mm
m
mm
11
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THK
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOR
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
—o—
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may he
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
—o—
Note the address;
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the servicis of Mons.
Marriette, late chof de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne. . .
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of onr Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI'S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omuibusses pass the Hotel every fire minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
rjIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 Qeorge-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, gpo., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Room s
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order eu the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
T
ATTERSALL’S HOTEL.
TERRA RA,
PATRICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagong),
Proprietor.
WT None but first class ALES, WINES, & SPIRITS
in STOCK, ,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCOCK’S FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and BUGGY always in readiness.
tar Commercial Travellers and Visitors to SHOAL-
HAVEN supplied with Private or Public Conveyances
on re - dpt of telegram or letter. Also a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “ Bulletin ” Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’S
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cu.-,es, 12s. fid. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
Quarts Pints Bulk
s. d. s. d. s. d.
....SO 0 17 6 12 6
....21 0 12 6 8 0
....16 0 9 fi 5 0
....12 0 7 6 4 0
.30 0 17 6 12 6
.21 0 12 6 8 0
.16 0 9 6 5 0
.12 0 7 6 4 0
c. WALKER
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
DERATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
RED WINES
Bungundv
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No. 2
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WINES.
Muscat
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Vin Ordinaire
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
OALCLIFP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FUR THE TON—224olb.
not, not onl, in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honcsl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried It, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS. LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 30 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1
ton—224olb. net—deliver-d in town:—
18s. Best douhle screened 4
17s. Ditto single ditto f
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines.)
235. Ditto double-screened >
225. Ditto single ditto S
CoalcUff.
Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, Ac., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAKD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WADES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mr. C. SHEATH ER, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
* H ■■
-fir
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to tlie quantity of tallow used andtlie wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will niahe 100
cubic feet of gas. , . . , ~
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, wTiich is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. Tliis Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO,
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office—24 O’CONNELL STREET.
FOS T E R
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
s 7
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully co npared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of tbis favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
lea«t 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
R
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
<
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEOEGE STREET,
NEAR KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
'dvoA
(fa
UCCCM
4*
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o,'Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Priuoo of Wales.
Prize Medals London, 1851; NewYork,lBs3; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repufi.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the lull extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jalichs-Platz, No 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPIN6 MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BEP
“ I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“Analytical Chemist.”
Agents;
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
R. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Rood, Paddington
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peato and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blaof
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
S
Q
C*3
ffi
se
&
<5?
in
■cj
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
5«
IT isnot the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made fine,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous chamc
ter the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
nualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers refewd to «
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTEIiL. ana
CO., Sole Agents.
RAD£ MAR
'//
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
s selected with great care from thei best of thebrew
ngsof the celebratfd firm of ARTHUR OOTNaBtw
md CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J B CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER ."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
De Marsha is at Berlin.
Sara Bernhardt is a Jewess.
The Simonsons have left for N.Z.
Ashton’s Circus is about to visit Inverell.
Beaumont talks of retiring from the stage.
Burton’s circus has been performing at Dnbbo.
Catherine Lewis is singing in “ Cinderella ” at
Booth’s Theatre.
“ Virginius ” is to be produced, under Keogh’s
management, at Ballarat.
The Davis-Holloway assault case comes off at
Adelaide early this month.
De Belleville has been playing “ Marat ” in
“ Ninon" at Baldwin’s, 'Frisco.
MaggieOliverhas seceded from the Opera House.
She says it’s “ not good enough.’’
Mr. Fair dough baa been giving successful
recitals at the Albert Hall, Adelaide.
Sarony has paid ,£3OO for the exclusive right of
photographing Bernhardt in America.
“Actor, manager, and author too.”. Humph!
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Miss Pomeroy has achieved a great success as
Cymbeline, at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
On dit that the “ Royal Middy ” is to be pro-
duced at the Opera House at Christmas time.
Bandmann and an array of talent appear in
Goulburn on Tuesday night, en route for Melbourne.
The Mercantile Dramatic Club play “ The
Tioket of-Leave Man" for a Masonic benefit shortly.
The Williamsons sailed for Tasmania on Friday,
the 3rd. They open at Hobart Town on Boxing Night.
Rear-Admiral Carr-Qlyn doesn’t know whether
to retain or give away the fortune poor Adelaide Neilson
left him.
Dr. Tanner, the champion faster, has been
lecturing. But the result is a logical one—thin
audiences.
Madame Hersee proved herself to be a charm-
ing comedienne, as well as a brilliant songstress, in
“ Crown Diamonds.”
“ Crown Diamonds,’’ says a musical friend,
ought to rank with “ Maritana" in point of popularity
with the Australian public.
Voltaire, the ventriloquist, is at Haydonton,
slowly improving. A little assistance from the pro-
fession would not come amiss.
OldNubbs, in “ Pink Dominoes,” was played by
Mr. Stirling Whyte, at Ballarat, for his benefit. His
drunken scene is a caution to tipplers.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons is travelling through the
Black Forest on horseback, with a party of fifteen.
She opens her season in Toronto, Canada.
The London Comedy Company are having an
excellent run at Newcastle. “ Betsy Baker" and " The
Serious Family" have drawn large audiences.
The Mercantile Dramatic Club tender a benefit
to Maggie Oliver at the School of Arts on Monday
night. The lady is about to leave for Hobart.
Philadelphia can boast of a circus with the
smallest elephant in the country, and a fat woman with
the biggest calf on record. P.S. —We bar one.
Mr. William Shakespeare, the renowned tenor
singer and composer, succeeds Professor Maofarren as
conductor of the Royal Academy of Music, London.
Arthur Hell,.whom every one remembers as the
husband of Jeauie Winston, has come out as a full-
blown comedian in “ Malin’s Opera Company," N.Y.
Miss Genevieve Ward is about to produce iu
London a version of one of Lord Beaconsfield’s earlier
novels. None of them have hitherto been dramatised.
The Sydney German Band had an interview
with Herr Bandmann, and tried to persuade him to join
them, as they say he blows a trumpet (his own property)
excellently.
Madame Lembricb has again increased her
reputation as an artist. A voice of such extensive range
and sweetness has not been heard in England for
many a long day.
Can it be possible that Tom Garrett has taken
to the stage as a super ? If not, what the was he
doing the other night in the chorus of the last act of
“Der Freischutz ?”
Eubenatein’s opera, “ Nero,” has been a great
success. After the representation of the opera at
Hamburgh the composer was enthusiastically called
nine times before the curtain.
The police failed to prove the charge of infanti-
cide preferred by them against Ella Carrington and
C. H. Taylor, of the “ Stray Leaves ” Company. Both
defendants have betn discharged.
This is the sort of exclamation we hear from the
front during the hot weather, when a thirsty super, is
swallowing a potion from a property bottle Holy
Moses, it’s full of cockroaches ? ”
Billy Emerson is making London smile in his
big sentimental ballads, “Mother, I have got the
measles," “ Father, curl your crutch around me,”
Uncle’s got my watch to-night.”
Offenbach left very little money, having lost
nearly the whole of his fortune during his management
of the Parisian QaU6. The failure of Sardou’s “La
Haine” alone cost him -100,000 francs.
Wybert Reeve is essentially a “furniture”
actor. He can “juggle” upholstery with anyone.
When directing pieces he invariably informs you that
he " stands he ah," and that you “ stand ovah the ah."
Mrs. Cordner-Miles leaves for a trip to Europe
shortly. She proved last Sunday, at the Church of the
Sacred Heart, that her voice still possesses that rich-
ness and volume which has ever rendered her vocalisa-
tion so attractive.
Thompson’s Diorama did a grand business in
Queensland. The gifts are the draw. “W. H.” has
spoilt the gift show market. No show that cannot
give away a coal mine or a few dead friends can hold its
own in Australia now.
A balloon contest is announced to take place
from the Crystal Palace, London, between a member of
the Balloon Society of Great Britain and a member of
the French Academy of Aerostation. We should
know the result shortly.
In his fire scene in “ Back from the Grave,” at
the Melbourne People’s Theatre, George Darrell
rushes into the burning building in his shirt sleeves,
and immediately afterwards emerges with a black coat
on, enveloped in flames.
Madame Rose Hersee, after leaving the opera
troupe here, goes, via Honolulu and ’Frisco, to New
York, giving concerts en route. She opens in opera,
under engagement to Max Strakosch, at a salary
of eighty guineas a week.
Some musical friends and admirers give Miss
Josephine Deakin, late of the Carandinis, a con-
cert at the Masonic Hall shortly. Miss Deakin is the
latest Sydney candidate for lyric honours, and a bril-
liant career is predicted for her.
In the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergan, which
is performed at intervals of ten years, when the villager
who til s the principal part in that solemn and even ter-
rible performance of the “ Crucifixion ” becomes too old
for that rule, he re-appears as Pontius Pilate or Judas
ilscariot.
The Burwood musical and vocal treat of last
Wednesday week is to be repeated at Ashfield this
(Thursday) evening. The society has an overflowing
treasury, and the Civil Service must look to its laurels.
Much of this success arises from having an enthu-
siastic representative on the station.
At Brisbane, the other night, when Juliet
announced to Romeo that she “ would no longer he a
Capulet! ” an unsophisticated individual in the
audience was heard to say to his friend, “ I say, Charlie,
what the dooce is a cappolet ? ” “ Oh, it means a hac-
tress; she is giving up actin' to marry that cove
Romeo!"
At a performance given at Protesina by Mr. and
Mrs. Bancroft, there were thirty-eight clergymen pre-
sent, including one archdeacon, one prebendary, and
three rural deans." If David could dance a breakdown,
clad only in a pocket-handkerchief, wo don’t see why
modern divines shouldn’t visit the theatre if they are
decently dressed.
Mr. John Victor, junr., of Ballarat, has been
making great progress in Italy, and was at latest dates
fulfilling an engagement at Piacenza. He is said by
the Italian papers to have a remarkable faculty for
the interpretation of the higher comic operas, and in
his voice are combined large range, great power, and
unusual “ agility.”
The stage of the new Theatre Royal, Brisbane,
is 52 ft. 6in. deep. The seating capacity of the house is
as under ;—Dress-circle, 350; stalls, 250 ; pit, 750 ; total,
1350. Mr. Thynne has not yet finally decided what he
will open with, but he is in communication with
several artists of acknowledged talent. The inaugura-
tion is fixed for the second Monday in February.
Mr. James H. Rainford is once more in
theatrical harness. On Saturday and Monday, the
18th and 19th of December, he shows for a two
nights’ complimentary benefit, tendered to little
Florence and Ida Murray, at the School of Arts,
as that hapless victim of juvenile deviltry, Uncle
Harry, in the comedy of “ The Imps—Helen’s Babies.”
The two li*tle Murrays’ clever performance of Budge
and Toddie could not be better supported.
The latest is that “ Pollard’s Tasmanian
Juvenile Pinafore Company " intends going on the war-
path in Australia. Of course, they’re not all little
Pollards, for that would be too much to expect. Miss
Pollard, who, we believe, was a member of the family,
was, and probably still is, a charming amateur vocalist.
She it was who set the hearts of all the Queensland
sugar-planters going by her coy rendition, in Mary-
borough, a year or two ago, of such ditties as, “ See
how it sparkles,” &c.
At the Glebe there is an amateur dramatic
company who call themselves the ** ShaKoepeare.”
The other night it fell to the lot of one of their num-
ber to embrace Miss Maggie Oliver, who had kindly
given her services on the occasion. But when the
time came he got shy, and in his confusion com-
menced to rehearse part of the afterpiece. Some
people are never satisfied. You can’t make them happy
anyhow. We had something about a shy young man of
Townsville in our last.
Edwin Booth spent the latter part of September
in Paris with his wife and daughter. He thinks
Coquelin’s acting in “ L’Aventuriere ” admirable.
Coquelin scored a great success in London, when play-
ing at Holingshead’s Gaiety with Sara Bernhardt. Poor
Sarah keeps her coffin in her bedroom, and it’s about
time she made arrangements for the final exit. A more
eccentric woman never lived. They say that a Mel-
bourne manager is negotiating with her for a visit to
these colonies, after her American tonr.
Signor Rosnati has re-appeared at the Teatro
del Verme, Milan, as Ricardo, in “ Un Ballo in Mas-
chera,” but did not score a success. It was before an
enthusiastic audience of Milanese students that the
Signor first publicly displayed his then fresh and mag-
nificent voice. But time works wonders. A man who
drinks two bottles of claret, eats two pounds of maca-
roni and cheese and a whole turkey at a meal, to say
nothing of making violent love to ten girls at one
time, can’t be expected to sing for ever. O Ffemte,
you naughty boy!
Abraham Israel was burning with dramatic
fever. He lounged about the stage entrance till he got
the post of super. His friends, overwhelmed with joy
at the consummation of their dear one’s hopes, pro-
mised to rally round him (in front) on the night of his
first appearance. Seven stalls were paid for and filled
up by an anxious family awaiting the advent of the
coming man. He came, silent, but not alone, for he
carried a musket. Second act, ditto; third, the same ;
but when the fourth arrived, and he had made no
speech and received no applause, his father suffered
agonies. Just before the curtain fell, the rising genius
still as dumb as door-nails, the author of his being,
driven at last to desperation, awoke the echoes with:
‘Abraham, my son, if they vill not let you spheek,
fire your gun!”
Cole’s circus has been a most wonderful success
at Auckland, and is, according to all accounts, the
“ boss ” travelling show of the Universe. The turn-
out. to use the words of the management, “ is a modem
revival of the splendours and marvels of the Roman
Circus Maximus of the elder Tarquin, Julius Crnsar, and
Augusta, without their barbarities, but transcending
them in elegance, variety, and perfection of training.’
The circus has attached to every department a wonder
or a novelty. The docility and intelligence displayed
by the six trained stallions is said to be astonishing;
the wit of the three clowns spontaneous and original;
and the trapeze and equilibrium business of a kind of
which we hod hitherto had no experience. There are —a
man who uses his hands and feet with equal dexterity;
horses which play at see-saw; camel races; dancing
elephants: beautiful ponies that waltz to perfection;
seven battoute leapers, who somersault over six
camels and an elephant placed side by side; and a
man who “ caps" this by jumping over the same ani-
mals with the elephant placed on a pedestal. There
are scores of fair women and brave men of the eques-
trian and gymnastic orders; and a lion-tamer, who
first tantalises his fierce-looking charges with raw beet,
and then puts his head in their mouths. Then there
are a big troupe of Apache Indians in full worp-aint;
a male and a female dwarf, aged 31 and 33, who weigh
511 b and 621 b.; accomplished linguists, musicians, and
swordsmen; Dr. Granville, “ the living skeleton,” a
mnn of extraordinary height, who weighs only 601 b.,
having a natural head, but arms and legs like broom-
handles; Master Woods, who plays simultaneously
seven instruments, and is a whole concert in himself;
a wonderful magician ; an educated pig, who is an ao-
oomplished arithmetician and an inveterate card-
sharper; a great boa-constrictor, who could swallow
the whole museum without winking; a clever negro
company; and a man who, if allowed, will write re-
ports for the newspapers. Finally, it’s said that Cole
has, so far, told no lies in his circus hills.
To test a man’s sobriety—ask him to pronounce
•‘.veterinary surgeon.”
It’s the man who gets drunk and falls into the
mud that makes his mark in this world.
A larrikin enjoying a pot of beer with a friend
in a tavern the other evening was overheard to say,
•« Well, Bill, I can stand the Bornean gal ” but Fried-
cheroots I cannot.
When a Chinaman presents himself for enlist-
ment into the regular army they pull one of his teeth
to see if he is a brave fellow. Once in a while they
find one who can grin over it.
A preacher at a Sunday school excursion de-
scribed Heaven as an eternity of picnics. Several young
men who have lugged baskets weighing nearly a ton
each, and climbed trees to put up swings, have left
church.
A child’s epitaph reads thus :
She was not smart, she was not fair,
But hearts for her with grief are swellin';
All empty stands her little chair,
She died of eatin* water-melon.
In cases of strychnine poisoning, insert a straw
in the stem of a tobacco-pipe which is in use, and then
draw it across the tongue of the poisoned animal.
With human sufferers the remedy is the same, but the
dose of nicotine should be larger. The best way to
extract the nicotine from a pipe is by pouring spirits of
wine into the bowl and letting it run out of the stem.
But it does not matter how the nicotine is procured, so
long as it is procured soon. A copious shower-bath of
iced water, if possible, should be also given.
Introduce tie to your neighbour, and aak him to
subscribe.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Anthony Trollope tells a story which he spoils
by spinning out and otherwise ill-treating it. The cir-
cumstance of which he speaks really did occur in
Western Victoria a few years back. A gentleman and
his wife, a most excellent and affectionate couple,
stayed one night at an hotel, hardly so big as the great
White Horse at Ipswich, but still large enough to miss
one’s way in the dark without the neecessary local know-
ledge. After going to bed early, the husband woke with a
griping pain, which even “ a little brandy, my dear,”
did not relieve. The wife proposed a mustard poultice,
“ which I’ll go to the kitchen and see to, for you can
never trust hotel servants, you know, my dear,” quoth
the .lady. As she was returning the candle blew out. "No
matter,” said she, “ I can find my way as well in the
dark”—which she did. bearing the while the medicine
prepared on her own dainty handkerchief. She reached
the bedside, and found the poor fellow asleep. "So
much the better,” softly murmured the charming doc-
tress. The necessary dispositions were made and the
plaster applied—yon see I am telling the story as deli-
cately as possible. The sleeper became galvanised into
life at once, and roared and kicked like a cranky race-
horse. “Gracious me!" thought the lady, “that’s
never my husband’s voice—and besides, I never heard
him use such dreadful language as that." Here she
bolted —this time, luckily, into her own room, and found
that she had put the mustard plaster on the wrong
man. The lady was the charming Mrs, , but it
really wouldn’t be fair ,
Hugh Taylor says the times are out of joint.
“Oh, deary!” cries Leary. “I’ll make ready my
battery,” sings gallant Tom Slattery. “ Again back
with honour,” shouts blithe Dan. O’Connor, “ The
Devil,” says Greville. “ I would have been peppered,”
thought little Jack Shepherd. “To what was it
owing ?” now muses H. Cohen. “No resentment I
harbour,” ejaculates Barbour. “ They’ve put the right
man in,” roars David Buchanan. “ Hoo-ray!” cries
Day. “’Twas sartiu!” says Barton. “Of me my
Mudgoe never tires,” softly murmurs little Beyers.
Mr. J. W. Meaden, the draper-bard, author of
the libretto of the Melbourne Exhibition Cantata, has
broken out in a fresh place. He has now written what
he calls—“ Prologue to the International Temperance
Conference, Melbourne, 1880.” He begins with—
“ A thousand flogs are waving
In the golden sunlight fair.”
This is the kind of thing that runs all through the
;>iece. It is written in eight-line stanzas, and Mr.
! flea den rhymes when convenient. Here, however, is a
specimen of the lackadaisical which would have done
credit to "Perdita ”
“ We’ll weave our votive garland.
In this dewy dawn of time,”
In fact, it Is “clime” and “time ” and “ shine” and
“ twine ” and "divine ” all through. Mr. Meaden hath
truly much to answer for! We will venture, good-
naturedly (though we are not sure whether we shall be
thanked for it), to give Mr. Meaden a little advice in a
roughly-extemporised stanza: —
But then, who ever before heard of a teetotal poet F
Moore’s melodies should be consulted on this subject.
An Indian friend vouches for the authenticity
of the following :—“Not many years ago there lived in
a province in India a prince whom we will call Eami-
chuuder Eoa Appa Sahib, who had for prime minister a
favourite named Babujee Moonjee. Now this Minister,
not being at all times too discreet, committed some
crime, the punishment of which was death. The Prince,
exceedingly shocked, gave orders, unknown to the
culprit, for an immediate execution ; but feeling some
compassion on account of the fondness he bore him,
ordered the executioner to fulfil, if possible, his duties
without giving to the criminal any previous intimation.
It was known to the executioner that Babujee Moonjee
was particularly fond of playing skittles, and acting
upon this knowledge he proceeded at once to the royal
playing 'ground, where he found him of whom he was
in search. Holding in his hand his formidable sabre,
he watched his opportunity, and as Moonjee was in the
act of throwing his ‘ cheese ’ he by one dexterous
stroke cut off the offender’s head. The unfortunate
man, dropping the ‘cheese,’ caught in its place his
head, threw it at the pins, and, knocking them all
down, cried, in a feeble voice, * Nine, by !”
Dr. Neild is the critic of the Australasian-
He is noted for his impartiality. When a pretty
tress arrives in the city, and is billed to P u
tor drives round to her hoi el, and says, uoy a
me ?” “If she says, “I ad ire you, Doctor, the
ORIGINAL VERSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Complaint.
Of all the ills with which a man is curst,
A shrewish wife is sure the very worst—
Who makes the home a scene of constant strife,
Nor helps to smooth the weary path of life.
’Tis difficult from looks to tell a scold.
She may look pleasant, and be far from old.
And jet belie her looks, and fret and growl,
Masking her beauty with a constant scowl.
When worn and tired of fighting with the world,
Your flag of battle for the day is furled.
With weary steps you stumble home to rest —
Ere morn you think outdoor warfare best.
In fireside conflicts laurels are not gained,
When there you triumph, you the more are paiaed ;
Your flag of truce scarce hoisted o’er the field,
Ere fresh disputes the wordy weapons wield.
Methinks a woman’s tongue is like the wind,
A balmy breeze that soothes when she is kind —
A gently wooing, soltly-kissing breeze.
That sighs among, yet scarcely stirs, the trees.
But when she’s crossed —a bitter piercing gale,
Before which reason’s lost and senses fail.
Which argument seems powerless to resist,
And opposition only to assist.
Perchance it blows a fiercely scorching wind,
From whose attack you fain would shelter find,
Which wilts and withers every flower that grows.
And heat and dust through every crevice blows;
When at its worst, whirling with sudden veer.
It strikes iEolian harps which charm the ear,
Or by its force dissolves all clouds in rain—
And quiet and happiness unwonted reign.
THE SANDFLY TRAGEDY.
A sad, sad story comes over the sea,
And our hearts are aghast with grief
As we read of a human butchery.
By the hand of a ruthless chief.
From perils which make the stoutest quail,
A survivor escapes to tell
How innocent men (’tis a horrible tale)
And a hero bravely fell.
No overreaching kidnapping crew—
No faithless trader died,
But British tars, good men and true,
Our country’s boast and pride.
No ignorant savage this crime decreed,
But a fiend with a heart of stone,
A wretch who has triumphed in bloody deed—
King Billy is too well known.
Impatient we wait for old England’s guns
To smite the treacherous foe,
And avenge her cruelly-murdered sons
With a swift and trenchant blow:
To teach him that pigs will no longer pay
For the slaughter of human life,
And that Justice, too, with her reckoning day.
Will follow the cannibal’s knife.
Exeter Hall, St. Andrew’s Day, 1880.
B.
Wagga, Wagga, 30th Nov. 1880.
INTAGLIOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To F. M.
Two women, one petite and fair,
With steel-grey eyes and brownish hair;
A face and form of dainty mould,
Eetiring, quiet and never bold—
A face that when the sun does shine
Glows with a loveliness divine.
The other —tall, a grand brunette.
With eyes like sloes, hair black as jet—
Lips ruby-red, and teeth that gleam.
Of Orient pearls a double seam.
She 'midst the music’s merry strains
Commands innumerable swains;
And her proud beauty at a ball
Takes ever precedence of all.
To boast, in sooth, is her delight.
That she e’er reigns the Queen of Night.
* * * » »
Two diamonds —one, the purest gem
That ever graced a diadem;
A lovely stone, so pure and bright.
So soft, so faultless as to tint.
That when it flashed in the sunlight,
It rivalled Phosbus with its glint.
• • • • *
The other—large, and lustrous, too.
Its colour of a straw-like hue;
A stone that like a meteor gleamed
Amidst the sombre veil of night;
A stone that a beacon seemed
Amidst all artificial light.
• m • * *
With diamonds as with women, then,
(This metaphor is for yon men)
Which love you best ? —The pure white stone.
Sweet in its purity alone.
Or that straw-tinted carbon spark,
Which glows so bravely in the dark ?
Come, which now love yon best of them ?
For me the white’s the chosen gem.
“Make Believe.”
Loose your arms and let me go.
Do you think you con deceive f
Think you that I do not know
This is only “ make believe P”
You have loved me far too well
In a now departed day.
For my instincts not to tell
When that love has passed away.
I have loved you far too much
Not to feel and not to miss
All the rapture from your touch,
All the heaven from your kiss.
All this tender, fond embrace,
All these kisses long and sweet.
All these smiles upon your face
Cannot blind me, dear, or cheat.
In the place of diamonds pure
Is a cunniug counterfeit;
But I am a connoisseur,
And am not deceived by it.
Where does love go when it dies—
All its ecstasy and pain—
All its thrills and all its sighs—
Who can answer, who explain ?
Like the perfume of the flowers —
Like the sunshine of a day—
Like the sands of Summer hours—
Love doth live and pass away.
Do 1 blame you ? Nay, not so;
Love must perish when it will;
But 'tis sometimes sad, you know.
When for one it liveth still.
Loose your arms and set me free;
I would rather sit and grieve
All alone, than seem to be
Blinded by your “ make believe.”
Mellifluous Meaden, why don’t you be heedin’
The tip which we give you to-day.
For sure, now. your lyrics will bring no spondulix.
Your own is the measure to pay!
If poetry yon lack, you do not “ huckaback,”
Of ribbons yon hove more than your share;
O’er rhymes don’t be puzzlin’—look after the muslin !
Give corsets, not verses, your care !
Away with the lyre—look after the buyer;
Strike bargains and let the harp lie ;
No more epics heed, but look after the “ greed,”
For ever eschew poe-sie!
No more hanker arter a prize for cantata,
Or sling us your rhymes in a book;
For to tell you the truth, poor poetical youth.
You came to the fore by a fluke !
HANLEY BENNETT.
Songs of the Stage.
THE SOUBRETTE.
“ The fortunes of war during the last day or
two have left several well-known characters on the
field of battle. Tamworth has placed poor Hanley
Bennett at the bottom of the poll. Not even hi*
“ polite ” letter-writing has availed to save him from
defeat.” — News.
Great statesman! can the news be true
That Tamworth will no more of you ?
O Hanley! here indeed is food
For one with thy vast eloquence
To rate against the ingratitude—
The lack of simple common sense —
Of those —great man! —so oft elected,
Who have thee cruelly neglected.
No matter, since to thee is given ,
The mental gifts which spring from Heaven •
In thee the gems ©f genius shine.
Fair oratory’s bom in thee;
And in thy letters so divine
A second Chesterfield we see I
The time will come when thou onqe more
With Melville in the House shall roar.
And questions ask of M’Elhone,
And o’er selectors’ troubles moan.
Meanwhile, play not? the shy recluse
While’neath the legislative ban j „
Chase from thy teeming brain the ‘‘bines,
Assert thyself, most mighty man!
Let this the whole world understand —
Ay, trumpet it defiantly—
There’s but one Hanley Bennett, and
Neglected genius! thou art he!
Pretty, piquant, ever charming.
Even when she seems alarming.
With a boot-jack or a broom.
Bent on cleaning out a room;
Sometimes fairy, sometimes slavey.
Left at home to mind the haby;
Always with her sweet eyes glancing
All around, with looks entrancing.
Comes our witching chambermaid,
Making on all hearts a raid.
With twinkling feet that trip along
To sweet music from some song.
Oft she greets ns laughing, dancing.
Every act and scene enhancing;
One night sighing, one night singing
A bright melody so thrilling.
Told in dashing, gay attire,
That we feel our souls on fire.
Thus she charms us, one and all,
While she's dreading next day’s “ call."
* ♦ » • *
For, at home, a dear one’s dying, _
Fleet and fast from this earth flying.
’Tie but a child, and yet who knows
The mother’s anguish or her throes P
The curly head that seeks her breast
Has found e'en now eternal rest.
Up on high a soul is hieing
To a world which knows no sighing.
• * • • •
Soft—no sound, the curtain’s falling—
Not on her, but on her darling. —
CHOU EOUOE.


Notice.
The fact that this issue of The Bulletin is printed ou
white paper is due to our having used up all the
flue tinted paper in the colonial market. We believe
that our readers prefer tinted paper, but shall be under
the necessity of continuing to use white pending the
arrival from England of direct shipments arranged for
some time ago and now overdue.
I have analysed an original packet of laepmg,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pnfe
unooloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting 1 , which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it ns being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore Staicee, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
notice appears in the paper stating that "Miss Evan-
geline St. Evremont’s impersonation of Gwendoline de
Montmorency in Bilpost Karutbill’s society play of * Be-
linda, the Bloodless,’ was marked by a delicate appre-
ciation of the divine art, which alone would suffice to fix
around her beauteous brow a halo of histrionic glory.”
But if the artiste happens to say, " Well, I can’t say I
do Doctor,” she gets—a a—hem ! —jalap—we mean
gruel.
Surely the idiotic toadies who delight in giving
to places in this new and free country, where all men
are equal, the so-called “aristocratic” names of the
Old World, can learn to draw the line somewhere. We
sr s getting our railways peppered all over withjugly, un-
meaning appellations of the “ Granville ” order—at the
instigation, no doubt, of the same admirable class of
people who, a few years ago, tried to change the
time-honored name of “ Manly Beach " to “ Brighton.”
If a trader likes to call his marine residence
" willow-jones ” or " aloe-thompson ” (with a “p,”
mind you), we can’t help it; but we are bound to
protest when a neighborhood (whose beauties consist
solely of a big factory chimney and a “ Hemsley’s
shirts” advertisement), is named “Merrylands.”
There can be no objection to the idea of calling
places after our public men—as, for instance, Parkes,
Robertson, etc. ; in fact, we might even tolerate some
malarious baskwoods swamp being named after Judge
Windeyer or John D ivies. Of course there is always
one proviso—that if the friends of a public man with a
very ugly name, say Muggins, wished to perpetuate his
memory at the public expense, they should scarcely
have the privilege of doing so. And, by-the-way, why
shouldn’t we change the name of our colony, just as the
Tasmanians did ? What sense or what glory is there
in the title "New South Welshman ?’’ Were we Welsh-
men pure and simple we’d feel that we had nothing
particularly to be ashamed of; but the idea of christen-
ing the best colony in the biggest island of this earth
after one corner of a decayed principality, savours of
the ridiculous. Once upon a time, by-the-way, some
ingenious person, probably the editor of the Echo,
proposed that we should call our country “ Cook
Land.” However, the bare surname of the illustrious
Samuel cooked the project. If we can’t get anything
pretty enough in the Saxon, let us turn to the Latin,
which Samuel may not understand.
Here is the substance of a paragraph from one
of the da>ly papers:—“Thomas Williams, a railway
officer at Newcastle, forgot his spectacles, and at the
polling booth struck out the wrong name. He de-
manded a second ballot paper, which was refused.
He declined to put the original in the ballot box, and
destroyed it. He was committed for trial. Now
William», being a Government officer, is presumably a
respectable mau and not a criminal. The action for
which he is being prosecuted shows that he prizes the
franchise. Yet he is “committed for trial,” while
hundreds of scoundrels guilty of deliberate impersona-
tion, and dozens of members of Parliament who have
winked at their offences go scot free. The commital of
Williams is distinctly tyrannous, and we look with
interest for Mr. Wisdom’s opinion on the subject. We
have swallowed too many camels to have an appetite
for gnats. V.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
People are complaining 1 of the poverty of
Government House, the paucity of invitations, and the
scarcity of food.
It is rumoured that De Vivo, the Italian entre-
fi-eneur, will assume the reins of the Opera House, vice
Mr. W. S. Lyster, deceased.
A little girl passing through the Fitzroy Gardens
the other evening said she saw “ a man with no clothes
on and a goat with no feathers’’—meaning, of course,
Diana and the stag.
George Collins Levey gave a ball and supper the
other day at Windsor. George gets wild when people say
he lives at Windsor; East St. Hilda sounds better in
the ears of the aristocratic C.M.G.
It is now the correct thing for a lady to wear
short sleeves at supper and put her elbows on the table.
At least this is the conclusion arrived at after inspect-
ing certain people at the Governor’s mahogany.
Some festivities took place at the Austrian res-
taurant last week, the casus belli being the formal en-
gagement of Baron Willdner, leader of the Austrian
Band, to Miss Meyer, the daughter of a wine-mercha .t
iu Lonsdale-stveet. Melbourne seems to he the home
of matrimony as well as money.
Notwithstanding the vigilance of the authori-
ties, a duel has been fought to the bitter end not a
hundred miles from a celebrated township. The
dueHlsts were Austrians; both received nasty
wounds, and were carried from the hill on which the
combat took place to the house of a friend iu the town,
where they are now suffering a recovery.
An entertainment was given the other evening
by some strict church people to friends, children in-
cluded. One child enquired of her mother what they
were going to do. “ Oh, croquet, in the afternoon, then
tea, and Bible reading and prayers afterwards," said the
lady. “Well, I suppose," remarked the child, “the
evening is to make up for being naughty in the after-
noon."
Jack Woods, of tar-brush and continuous-
brake notoriety, has invented a portable hairdresser’s
•-hop. On Saturday last, at a dinner given to the Inter-
colonial rifle team, this worthy tar, sitting between two
gentlemen, commenced capillary operations by comb-
ing and brushing his hair. His neighbours, who were
not entomologists, did not appreciate the proceedings.
They preferred jugged hare to combed ditto.
“ He who by his biz. would rise, must either
hast or advertise," is the wholesome advice given by
that great American moralist, Josh Billings. The effi-
cacy of this means of publicity has reached a climax in
Melbourne. The Abgcs will appear next Saturday
with sixteen pages, composed almost wholly of “ ads.,”
whilst the other dailies teem with advertisements.
These are bouncing times for Australian newspaper
proprietors.
It has justly been remarked that some outward
notice might have been taken by the Opera House
authorities of the decease of Mr. W. S. Lyster, who
for so many years managed the theatre in question. On
the occasion of the first performance after his death
the manager’s box, for instance, might have been draped.
But no, there was no difference made, and the only
change consisted in the sad feeling that the handsome
face and familiar form of William S.mriu Lyster would
be seen no more.
The Earl and Countess of Ellesmere, the sou-
in-law and daughter of our Governor, patronised the
Exhibition the other day. The Earl looks like a con-
sumptive linendraper, whilst his better half is chiefly
remarkable for being very fond of jam-tarts. The aristo-
cratic couple were neatly dressed. His lordship is the
third earl of the name, acd succeeded to his title in lobA
He married in 1868, and has eight children—fonr sons
.and four daughters.
An old rrentleman who has travelled a great deal
in America and Africa as n missionary lately arrived in
Melbourne, and has been recounting in public some of
his experiences. One incident is w©rthy of note. He
had made himself acquainted with the lansruage of a
-tribe, to whom he commenced preaching. One day, in
the course of a sermon, he uttered words meaning, as
he thought, “ We are all sinners." The blacks stared
and smiled. The interpreter told him he had mispro-
tnjunced a word, and had informed his audience that
they were ail “ crocodiles."
The prodigies again. Dark-eyed Kosa, of the
Bijou, is busily training her pets for the forthcoming
Christmas pantomime. Her troupe of jonngsters
filled a side box at the Bijou the other night. They are
lively little creatures, and although they have not yet
•reached their teens, assume the airs and bearing of tfie
blase professional. We certainly think that the
wonderful talents of these children are wofnlly mis-
applied; the sad results of such a distorted education
will cling to them as a curse through life,
Herr Emanuel Semper, the sculptor, is a tall
TThlan-like German. His Statue of Justice at the new
Law Courts is the only true sculptural work ot art
Melbourne contains. Herr Semper works principally
with his thumbs, and the boldness of effect he
produces can scarcely he surpassed. A grotesque head
he has just completed for a Sandhurst fountain is
ludicrous in the extreme; it has been suggested that
the Austrian Government should purchase a duplicate
for the Carlton Gardens, and from the mouth of the
head allow a gratuitous and continuous stream of
lager beer to pour, in order that Melbourne may be
educated into the sublimities of Austria’s national
beverage.
The Daily Telegraph’s musical critic is
somehow “ mixed up” in musical matters. He declares
that the Marche Hongroise of Kowalski is nothing
more nor less than a crib from the March Radecsky.
Kowalski, irate at this criticism, threatened an action,
but eventually resolved to test the verdict of the people
on the question, and played both marches at the Inter-
national last Thursday afternoon, the result being that
the March Kowalski proved to be no more like the
March Radecsky than "Pop goes the weasel” re-
sembles " Rule Britannia." A young and genial solici-
tor, of Melbourne, noted for his talents and good looks,
intends writing a nigger sketch, the plot to be taken
from this episode. Kowalski and Ketten are to be
introduced, the tableau being lager beer and swords.
The best speaker of all the Foreign Commis-
sioners in the Melbourne International is Mr. Pickering,
the representative of the United States Governmert.
He is a cultured American, and is possessed of only
the slightest soupfon of his national twang. In reply
to the toast of “The Press,” at M. Belcour’s dinner,
the other night, Mr. Pickering mentioned how, when
Benjamin Franklin resolved upon marriage, he called
upon the good old mother of his intended to ask her
sanction in the matter. “ What are your prospects ?”
asked the parent. “Oh ! I intend starting a printing
press,” replied Benjamin. " A printing press ?” ex-
claimed the mother, “ what do you mean, sir ? Why,
do you not know that there are tvs> already in
America?”
As a result of the foreign element in Melbourne
we have an establishment of several intercolonial cafds
and restaurants. At the American cate (opposite Nis-
sen’s) one egg-nogs with a friend (not hob-nobs).
Higher up the street is the Austrian Restaurant, re-
splendent with its national coat-of-arms on the window,
and the presence of members of the Austrian Band, who
hang about its neighbourhood. Further on is Busch-
mann’s (a German institution), the favored resort of
Bohemians, literary and otherwise. In Drummond-
street is the Italian Club Restaurant, where one
can revel in macaroni and Parmesan cheese, whilst
scattered over Melbourne may be found Frenoh,
Spanish, Dutch, and Chinese Cafes, restaurants and
" eating houses."
The hardest worked “Exhibition Commissioner”
at the International is undoubtedly Monsieur Jules
Joubert, who represents the spirit of New South Wales
at the Exhibition. George C. Levey promenades the
avenues as it the structure had been erected for
the sole purpose of exhibiting his noble proportions.
Mr. Twopeny, of South Australia, dons an eyeglass and
a stick, and is the most urbane of commissioners ; his
polite style of inviting strangers into his court is a
feature of the Exhibition. Monsieur Joubert is think-
ing seriously of adopting the lazy-going style of his
Exhibition brethren, and thinks of ordering an eyeglass,
a stick, gaiters, and the other belongings necessary to
make up a “ lounging gentleman ’’ of the period.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
December 3.
Last Saturday afternoon the Australian Band,
under the conductorship of M. Caron, gave a grand
musical performance in the Exhibition building. The
attraction proved great, foe nearly everyone was there.
The Exhibition lias become a favorite rendezvous on
Saturday afternoons, and the people go to promenade
and see one another and leave the inspection of exhibits
for less exciting occasions. The authorities still adhere
to the absurd custom of reserving a certain portion of
the hall, where seats are provided for those few who
care to pay an extra shilling and luxuriously enjoy the
music. The concluding number of the performance
consisted of the International Anthems. The Austrian
and Russian anthems arc like beautiful hymns “ wooing
our thoughts to prayer.”
A number of young ladies present wore very
becoming toilettes. Miss E. Gray’s was much admired,
being composed of a brown velvet polonaise over a
fawn colored silk skirt, richly trimmed with cream lace
and a large hat to match.
Miss Wilkie wore a costume and toque to match,
of peacock blue. Miss Morphy looked handsome in a
ruby-colored dress and large hat, trimmed up in front.
Miss Taylor wore Madras muslin, trimmed with pale
blue silk, and a lace hat.
Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Bruce were dressed in
black, the latter wearing a charming little coronet all
glittering with beads.
I saw a few attempts to introduce the Tam
o’Shanter and Leonardo da Vinci hats, but the wearers
looked sadly conscious of their unenviable conspicu-
ousness.
There is to be another flower show at the Ex-
hibition on the 17th and 18th inst.
The Melbourne jewellers and other shopkeepers
are trying to prevent the sale of jewellery, &c., at the
Exhibition, as it is likely to ruin their chances of trade.
They say truly enough that the exhibitors enjoy unfair
advantages, having neither rent nor municipal taxes to
meet.
On Wednesday the Strauss Band gave their
final general performance at the Exhibition. In future
they will only perform on special occasions.
Your Premier, Sir Henry Parkes, and Mr. Wat-
son, the representatives of N.S.W. at the International
Social Congress which is being held in this city, enter-
tained the other delegates at dinner at Menzies’ Hotel
on Monday evening.
An entertainment was given the same evening
by Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Levey, at their residence, East-
St. Kilda. The Foreign Commissioners and a large
number of ladies and gentlemen were present. A
marquee was erected on the lawn,which was most taste-
fully decorated with flowers and the flags of all nations.
M. Belcour, Consul Commissioner-General for
France, gave a dinner onJSaturday evening, at Menzies’
Hotel, at which the French Consul stationed at Sydney
was present. There were about six guests, and the
dinner, which was served in French fashion, was a
perfect success.
Mr. W. J- Clarke has issued cards for another
musical matinee, to be given in the Town Hall, on the
l<3th December.
The marriage of the eldest daughter of the
Hon. T. F. Hamilton, at Gisborne, on November 25, is
still a topic of conversation. The bride had twelve
bridesmaids, daughters of wealthy and influential citi-
zens ; and the bridegroom, Mr. Fletcher, gave the
bride a tiara, necklet, bracelet, &c., of diamonds
The other presents were marvels of costliness and ele-
gance. The church of Gisborne, where the marriage
took place, was beautifully decorated with flowers and
ferns, and arches of flowers were placed along the road
traversed by the bridal party, while children scattered
flowers in the bride’s path.
The Hon. T. F. Hamilton’s son, Mr. Jack
Hamilton, was also married, at Brighton, on the 29th,
to Miss Grant, daughter of the Hon. J. M. Grant. The
wedding was a very quiet one. The bride and bride-
groom went to Gisborne for their honey moon,andwere
given a most enthusiastic welcome by the residents.
The Earl and Countess of Ellesmere, who ar-
rived by the mail-steamer Bokhara on Tuesday, are
guests at Government House. The Countess is a
daughter of our Governor, the Marquis of Normanby.
Thanks to the Phylloxera Committee, it is now an
established fact that Irishwomen lose none of their
naive simplicity by residence in the colonies. A laborer
named Phil. Locks, employed on a vineyard in the Gee-
long district, died the other day from the effects of a
snake bite. The body was placed in an outhouse, pend-
ing a magisterial eaquiry. Meanwhile, the owner of the
vineyard was callel to town on business, and left his
wife, who hails from the Emerald Isle, in charge of
affairs, when the Phylloxera inspectors, who were
foing their rounds, called and asked to see the master,
.earning that he was away, they were about to leave,
when it suddenly occurred to the wife to ask their bum-
ness. With the natural quickness of her race, but
having a confused idea of things generally, she ex-
claimed, “ Oh, be gorra! if it’s poor Phil Locks you
want to see, I can oblige ye. Walk this way." And
without more ado she led them into the out-house, and
in the presence of the astonished inspectors drew the
covering from the face of the dead mau.
The Australian cricketers arrived in Melbourne
on Thursday, and after being feted all day, were en-
tertained in the evening at a dinner given by the Mayor
in the Council Chamber of the Town Hall. Mr.
Murdoch, the captain of the team, is engaged to be
married to Miss Fletcher, a charmingly pretty
daughter of Captain Fletcher, of Sandhurst. Her
sister was recently married to Mr. Robertson,
“ Cymbeline ” was produced at the Royal on
Saturday night, Miss Pomeroy appearing as the
heroine. We consider that her rendering of this
character is better than either that of Kosalind or
Juliet.
Ladies of doubtful complexion will learn with
mixed emotions that Mr. Edison has perfected his
electric lamp for household purposes, and as there
is now a likelihood of its being brought into general use
the reign of powder and cosmetics which the gas-light
favoured is doomed. The urgent demand for a sub-
stitute naturally agitates the feminine mind.
“ The Danites,” a most sensational drama from
the pen of Joaquin Miller, is being produced at the
Opera House, with Miss Annie Mayor in the principal
rOle. Her enunciation is well marked, and so excel-
lently distinct that many actresses would do well to
study her.
Several notices have appeared in our papers of
the grand marriage that is shortly to take place in your
city. Report says the bride elect is young and pretty,
and that she is to be attended by no fewer than twenty
bridesmaids. Competition seems to have been opened
up in this direction.
It has transpired that the wonld-be burglar
who was found under a bed at Miss Fanny Crewe’s
residence, in Hawthorn, the other night, was the lady’s
cousin. It is quite a romantic affair; for he is much
attached to Miss Crewe, whom be wanted to marry.
However, the lady woo'd have nothing to do with him,
she having heard he was dissipated. He was brought
up before the city bench on Wednesday, and sentenced
to two years’ imprisonment with hard labour.
This recalls the memory of a burglary that was
attempted in Melbourne many years ago, when the
capture of the thief was also effected by a lady, who
was then a well-known society beauty. Capt. Standish
declared that the offender, who was found in the lady’s
room, “ was a burglar of exquisite taste." This sounds
French, but then the captain has plenty of Gallic
blood in his veins.
Dr. Blair gave a lecture in the Alfred Hospital
on Wednesday—its subject, “ A Class for Training
Nurses.” A great many ladies attended, for numbers
are interested in the work.
Madame dela Sicotiore is giving lessons in dress"
making at 5 Collius-street. She is a teacher of the
School of Arts, Sydney, and the inventor of the only
system possible for making one’s dresses perfectly with-
out any knowledge or experience, and without fitting
troubles. She professes to teach the entire system,
without possibility of error, for a fee of five guineas,
and advertised a lecture for Friday afternoon, at the
Athenreum, on this subject.
The Bishop of Melbourne has given the last of his
series of lectures on the “ Spiritual Life in the period
of the Judges.” The lectures have been a great treat
to numbers of people, and were always we) I attended.
A bazaar was opened on Wednesday evening in
the Assembly Hall, St. Kilda, by the Bish > >, in aid of
the Christ Church enlargement fund. Tin- stalls pre-
sented a very attractive appearance, the fereat display
of crewel work being particularly admired.
The new summer costumes exhibited in Robert-
son and Moffact’s window arc for the most part trimmed
with spotted material.
Mrs. Crooke, of South Yarra, gave a very enjoy-
able ball on Wednesday evening. The officers of the
war vessels attended, and Miss Morphy was the belle
of the evening.
The latest administrative act of the Berry
Ministry deserves mention, even in this column.
They have violated the sanctity of private correspon-
dence by opening, in the General Post Office, letters ad-
dressed to citizens. Yet oven this infamous proceeding
is not original, for Clark, the disloyal Commissioner
of Customs, who has initiated the system here, is but a
copyist of the great Tory, Sir James Graham. The latter
began the same kind of espionage in London during a
period of incipient rebellion in Ireland, and, despite the
gravity of the occasion, was met by a howl of execration
from the whole British nation, and utterly ruined as a
public mau. Here we manage things differently.
Expediency, not principle, guides the masses, and there
seems no general sign of that outburst of honest indig-
nation which one might expect. Should Mr. Clark open
the envelope which bears this I hope the contents will
please him.
Mr. Folingsby, the well known artist, has been
staying at Sorrento. He has a portrait of the late Sir
Redmond Barry in hand, which is pronoimced by those
who have seen it to be an excellent likeness.
Miss Dobio, the unfortunate young lady artist
who was cruelly murdered in New Zealand last week,
had come out specially to take sketches of colonial
scenery for The Graphic.
There were 91 lady candidates present at the
University examination held on Thursday and Friday
in the orderly room, Grattau-strect, Carlton.
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Clarke haye issued cards of
invitation to a garden party for the 11th instant, to be
given at their residence Rupertswood, Suubury.
One of our colonists, famed for his free and easy
bon vivant qualities, as well as for his great wealth,
entered the bar of—well, not the principal hotel, with a
fifty-guinea fowling piece, exclaiming to the host,
“ What do you think of that P” Boniface admired it
very much, and handed it to a man who was having a
refresher, asking his opinion. It was duly sighted,
and balanced in the hand in the masculine critical stylo.
“ It’s a real beauty, and, old man,” said he, slapping the
millionaire’s shoulder, “if you want to raffle it, put me
down for a fiver!”
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF Us.]
Strength predominates over skill in aquatic affairs
at Brisbane.
Mr. E. B. Sheridan, sub-collector of Customs
at Maryborough, abdicates next. Le roi est mart.
The trees in the Acclimatization Society’s
grounds are all shedding leaves. Bemays has resigned.
Kid is the popular dish at more than one public-
house on the road between Townsville and the Towers.
There is a Christian near Maryborough who
rejoices in tke name of Christian Song-of-the-Bird. He
ought to be a swan.
Keith, of the Wide Bay News, is going in as
member for Maryborough. Then the News will surely
come out as a daily.
The circulation of the Brisbane Tei.f.okai-h
is over 30,000 a week now. A vast increase since
Tearaway Jack’s time.
John Hurley is going to address the electors of
Maryborough. He thinks he has a show. So he has
—of being at the bottom of the poll.
The likeness between Edwin Kelly and a mem-
ber of the staff of the Teleueaph is so great that it is
almost impossible to tell “ tother from which.”
One of the banks in Brisbane, well known for its
liberality in the screwing up line, has now its money
being hawked about by financial agents (?) on mox-tgage.
The other day, some of the “right sort”
amongst the insurance fellows in Brisbane proposed a
picnic all round, frenx directors down to office boys,
with the hopes of making an “ annual.” As usual,
somebody bucked, and it tumbled through. Lookwood,
of the Queen’s, said "he was always sick at sea.”
Little Nixon, the dapper swell secretary of the Queens-
land, would not co-operate because he was not asked to
start the idea, and it is said that a chairman of a
company (who has a lot of letters after bis name) said
the idea was "rotj” yet he is always about at swell
picnics.
Bandmann’s description of Sandgate, the
favorite watering place of the Brisbane upper ten : —“ In
the evening mosquitoes, then flies; and in the morning,
sandflies.’’
Morton Tavares and his charming better half
will benefit in Brisbane on December 10. Fact is
Morton finds a benefit now and again keeps his delivery
connection together.
A bank manager recently left Brisbane for the
sunny South, having faithfully carried out his instruc-
tions to wind-up everybody. No address, ns plate, no
purse of sovs. to that man.
Rumor has it that a certain gentleman, now
everything, but once a full-blown merchant, was behind
the scenes as an imp'/essario in more than one theatrical
venture of late in Brisbane.
Stewart Bolton sings Ralph Rackstraw’a music
well. In fact, Kelly has got more out of the Brisbane
Stock Company than he would have picked up at heavy
salaries for tip-top artistes.
It is not generally known that one of the
Queensland papers is edited by a lady, and a lady with a
large family, too. She is a Liberal in politics, and
wields a graceful and facile pen.
The Brisbane prospectus of the New Zealand
Accidence Assurance Co. contains a clause especially
interesting to ladies. I’d like to print it, but then
what would Mrs. Grundy say ?
Les extremes touchent. Maryborough possesses
the hardest-working and the laziest clergymen in the
colony. Alas I the former is leaving Maryborough at
the end of the year for England.
The resignation by John Douglas of his seat in
the Queensland Parliament will make room for a much
worse man. Heaven defend Queensland from any more
of the Humley-Lill Moyd-Borehead sort!
The Courier says that whatever the effect
might be on the insurance offices, a really destructive
fire would do more for the improvement of Brisbane
than is in the power of the Municipal Council.
Falstaff, a commercial traveller in Queensland,
boasts of having forty-two pairs of boots and shoes,
eighty-flve shirt-collars, and a collection of coins. He
once had an aviary, but the birds all flew away.
As the country positively declines to go to ruin,
the chief clerk in the Customs, at Brisbane, hence-
forward declines to recognise the Fourth Estate.
Freddy says they are too “ demned impertinent."
One of the proprietors of an Ipswich paper is a
descendant of Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd. And ye*
he confesses he has never read a line of the Ettnct
Shepherd’s poems. Surely he is worse than a Hog.
Tom Hutchins, the auctioneer of Maryborough,
is said to possess, among his other curiosities, Die
identical weapon with which Sampson slew so many
Philistines. He finds it useful at election times.
It is a characteristic of the Speaker of the Queens-
land Legislative Assembly that he is always hankering
after “ a good thing in metals.’ There are people who say
ho would be a richer man to-day if he had not metalled
so much.
A certain Fire Insurance Co. has had to pay a
few hundreds—over fire—as half of the law expenses in
a recent action brought by another company against it.
So much for defending a claim, and not settling it on
the quiet.
The most enterprising publican in Brisbane was
besieged last Saturday with offers of assistance to
Laycock. He called a meeting to do the thing properly,
and the “ assisters ” stayed away. They always do that
in Brisbane.
The great Duke of Wellington was often called
Conkey. There is a sou of his in Maryborough, at least
there is a MacConkey, and well-known as a Conkeyroc
of Kanakas, having persuaded, about 200 of them to be
baptised into the English Church.
Emma Wangenheim has been cordially received
in Brisbane. The only anxiety on the part of her
admirers is to ascertain whether she is as good with the
pencil as her progenitor, and as truthful to nature. If
she be, why then they will always be popular.
There once was an Alderman Tinker.
He had a glass eye—such a blinker.
A great mau was he —in fact, a J.P.
And aspiring to be, some day, an M.P.
But for all this, an ’nmble lay preacher.
The extremes of journalists also meet at Mary-
borough. Short and Long, Shrimp and Giraffe, ore the
familiar cognomina of the respective reporters of the
two papers in that town. The long one has left, and
his towering form now graces Flinders-street, in Towns-
ville.
Alec Andrews had to play Captain Corcoran at
half an hour’s notice, last week, in Brisbane. He got
through very well, indeed, and the general opinion was
that had he had a proper opportunity to study the part
and score he would have come up to Lester, who
played it so long.
The great Foote-race at Ipswich is over, and
the Scotch-plaid has been beaten all to pieces by fat
Foote. The people around Ipswich have certainly put
their best foot foremost, and they may new be said to
govern loth houses of the Legislature, seeing that they
have one foot in each —a sort of two-foot rule.
Bob Wilson is a “ rum ’un.” His latest develop-
ment is a sort of cross between Exeter Hall and the
"poor blacks," and the Rev. Feter Campbell, bush
missionary. Bob is hourly expected to " take to the
bush” himself. If he should do so, an enterprising
Queensland “ bung" will follow in his track—with cold
Johns.
A frightful newspaper war has been cai’riod on
in Brisbane by two cricket clubs. A partizan of one
club said something to the effect that the bowling of
the other would be “ jam ’’ to him if he were in. Such
insulting language and coarse vituperation caused the
other side to rush into print, and there has been a
regular Pinafore chorus of "He said Jamme ’’ ever
since.
Jack Hamilton and “ Black Douglas” are having
it out about nigger atrocities before a Commission in
Brisbane. There doesn’t seem much chance of a verdict
either way beingarrived at. Hamilton is a Government
“ pet,” and a*’ lamb,” on his own account. Douglas is
the personification of mildness, except when ‘ nigs ’ are
about. He’s a smart little man, and a dead shot with
the Martini-Henry.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, aud fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
he glad to receive authentic information in this regard
Great pressure on onr space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.


Public Companies
10MMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office— 39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.Q.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannon bar, Carcoar.Cusinb, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Duugog. Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gnudagui, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murruriiudi, Murwillumbah (Tweed Kiver), Muswell-
hrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dafcy, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of bouth Australia, the
National Bonk of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bonk, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bonk.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Gotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionole de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore: The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bonk of India, London, and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and Chinn.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdole, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
•ranting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
The intercolonial life and fire
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital. £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shores of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P
P.’ Higgins, Esq., J.P.
E. J. Rubie, Esq.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
lasses of insurable property. ___
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
aw as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
a the profits. _
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary,
[NDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
:he cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
or Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
(orrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
nvestors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
in Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
iffices, 171 York-street.
’ WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior
BUILDING
LAND INVESTMENT AND
COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
rnias, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
ham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
allowing liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 36e. per Mouth.
£lOO do. £lO do, do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
treet WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accep FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
Public Companies
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esq.
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket 1 Redfem [ Glebe.
London Office—lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
Ac,, Ac.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other prodnce shipped to England for sale.
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrioe A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that tho tale of singula!
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.'
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
ioenwall fire and marine insur-
-1 ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLO Y D AND CO.,
I T
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition op 1880
18 AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
Peapes and Shaw’S
BEAUTIFUL NEW GOODS FOE SUMMEE.
PE APES and SHAW beg to call the attention ot
Ladies to their stock of
SUMMER GOODS,
comprising NOVELTIES in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Our representatives in London and Paris have supplied
us this season with some of the CHOICEST GOODS we
have ever had the pleasure of SUBMITTING to OUR
PATRONS.
SUMMER CLOTHING FOR GENTLEMEN.
MODERN CUT, SUPERIOR FINISH, and UNSUR-
PASSED for STERLING VALUE.
PEAPES and SHAW'S WHITE MILITARY
DUCK COATS,
Stand-up collars, patch pockets, beautifully made,
Its 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SUPERIOR SILK SAC COATS,
all pure bright silk, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S FINE BLUE SERGE SUITS,
admirably suited for Tourists or Business Men,
37s 6d the suit.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILKY ALPACA SAC COATS,
the very thing for office wear,
12s 6d, Us 6d, 17s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILK PALETOT DUST COATS,
extra well-cut and finished, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 25s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S CLIFTON TWEED SUITS,
fashionable patterns, light and durable,
42s, 45s, 50s, 55s, 63s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S MILITARY DUCK VESTS,
and Navy Drill ditto, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
LIGHT SUMMER TWEED PALETOT OVERCOATS,
27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 35s, 42s.
CHRISTY’S HATS J
CHRISTY’S HATS t
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS fL
‘Li
f- A Large Shipment just received.
| Newest Shapes in HARD FELT,
■■ from 5s 6d each. Drab Shells, Silk
Hats and Helmets, all the latest
Fashions.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
STYLISH FRENCH
MILLINERY,
PER STEAMERS
MONTHLY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
GLOVES,
TWO-BUTTONS, at
HALF-A-CROWN f-
PAIR, ARE
UNRIVALLED.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
f JUST OPENED.
SPANISH and LANGUEDOC
LACE, in OLD GOLD, CREAM
WHITE, and BLACK
SILK and CHENILLE MAN-
TLES
NEW SILK and CASHMERE
YISITES
POMPADOUR SATEENS
HELIOTROPE and SILVER
RIBBONS
OLD GOLD BROCADE RIB-
BONS
SILVER and GOLD FRINGES
and CORDS
THE NEW SILK DRESS
LACES
CHENILLE TINSELLED
SCARVES
NEW BALL SKIRTS and
COSTUMES
NEWEST WHITE, TINSEL-
LED and COLOURED RU-
CHINGS
BLACK SATIN PARASOLS
TRIMMED SPANISH LACE,
at 9s fid, 10s fid, 11s fid, 12s fid,
15s fid
JET NECKLETS and BRACE-
L. LETS.
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Bucket an d Dav y,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos., Biemingham.
ADVT
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TAN G Y E STE AM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY",
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Grabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
w
N
i
m.
22
Mm
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
mi
m
A£ KNOWLEDGES TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MANUFACTURED BY W.DAVIES&C?COULBURH.N.S.W
GEORGE BARR,
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2\d. PEE GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
iffh
H
tl
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURED IN THE COLONY.
Mm
JUST ARRIVED
JUST ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, Ac.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, Ac.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
GALVANISED lEON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—63I GEORGE STREET.
W.
P. WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Clinreh.)
Outside Venetian,
N.B Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
11 MM t
Oriental Blind,


Business Announcements
W.
H. PALI
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
N
G,
RSSSS
mu
%
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A PEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
F.At,TOlJ(^§oXj.
-ikCHftONOM e rt x Watch Makers.
JRrf and Opticians.
I I'fl iv^ rcHt b CAf
AMS.
** C ABftf tOV I
X2b hunter SrR Efr A !
SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
I
Tobacconists
The genuine
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
E ’ S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
:*nr2
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sc
A
Manufactured by
T. S AY W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
rji H 0 S. J. DOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSPINISHERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, <Src.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE,
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathnrst-street, Sydney,
I
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their solo agents in Australia; —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
ur a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon yon by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and look and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-BANE, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
mat
Ml
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can he obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu.
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
APOTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by)..
W. D. EAMBS, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
A P
A
mivwcfnu T*
KSEKfReAMES
( W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,600 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
g I M S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PARKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Aus-
• tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
fjl O BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Baud Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart's Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill-, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE NO MORE
but try
RANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE P
Then try Eanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do yon Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and he cured by
EANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOLTS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time P Von
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•a* Remember this, and always keep a box of hia
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales,
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
[ that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
ia now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the sxieedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE.
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph,
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extract s of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free fr»m any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it ia represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is fid each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINQHAM, Chemist.
Tp • H Y S I C.
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout
Chronic Rheumatism, Malign mt Diarrhoea, Piles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &o. Hours of Consultation — 10 to 12
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.
A RECOMMENDATION IN YERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation ;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those wbo’ve felt, alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your p >wers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population ;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination,
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation,
Then—friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “Farmer’s Friend,”—ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station,
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s fid bottle.
Oltf c&t Cricketing;
Depot In the Colonies.
AVT
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
P
SYDNEY COHEN. Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
E I N T IN
Of Every Description
G
AT EEDUCED BATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO.. 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of "THE BULLETIN.”


T
0 ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES,
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS.
Proprietor.
J STEDMAN,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices, from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JOHN
BRTNSMEAD AND SONS
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
a five years’ guarantee given with each instrument
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
RINSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD and SONS.
JOHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
Professional Addresses
MR. JOHN BENNET T..
ADDRESS:
Box 502, General Post Office, Sydney.
MR. & MRS. ARTHUR GARNER.
ADDRESS;
Theatre Royal, Newcastle, for a week.
M
M
M
R.
Z
R.
S. LA
ADDRESS:
Professional —Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,*' Queen-street, Woollahra
R~ J, R. G R E V I L L E
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
R. L. M. B A T L E S S.
___ ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh- street,- permanently,
MR. FRF D. M A R SHALL.
ADDRESS;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MR. A R M E S BEAUMONT.
ADDRESS:
Oxford Hotel, during the Opera Seasofr
M
R. W. H. L
ADDRESS ;
Post Office Hotel, for a week.
E A K E.
M
R. SAM. HOWARD.
ADDRESS :
Opera House, York.street.
Madame rose hersee.
ADDRESS :
M
Oxford Hotel, during the Opera Season
N
R
H.
CENT.
H. V I
ADDRESS:
St. Kilda Cottage, 99 Palmer-street, till Christmas.
M
D
R. J. DO
ADDRESS:
Melbourne, till the 10th instant.
Hobart Town, from the 14th instant
G JS.
MISS FLORA ANSTEAD.
ADDRESS :
Melbourne, till the 10th instant.
Hobart Town, from the 14th instant.
M
ivp-
R.
R
E. FA
ADDRESS:
Theatre Royal, till Christmas.
EMMET,
& MRS. HARRY W.
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS: .
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, from Dec. 20ta.
1880, until erd of March, 1881.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
E. A L F R E D L T S T E B.
ADDRESS:
Hodge’s Commercial Hotel, during the Opera Season^
Mr. r. b. w I s B m a n.
address:
Opera House, York-street, till February. —
MR. EDMUND HOLLOA AV
ADDRESS:
Opera House, York-street, till February. —.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS : ..
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanency- —
MISS MAGGIE OLIYES-
ADDRESS s , tor a
Crown Hotel, Elizabeth and Qoulburn street®,
week.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
I WHOLESALE & RETAIL IMPORTERS if MANUFACTURERS.
•
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested. |
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
! - ■ -
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
OUE CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But for Cash —We Seel for Cash.
Only those who have visited onr establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
T
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
Our Stock is always
New,
For every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establishments.
I
x
1
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGUKES.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6/6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best bigb-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
All GOODS Masked in PLAIN FIGURES.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
1
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
ROWING BROTHERS’ TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MARKKI) IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
COWING BROTHERS,
MEN'S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, &c..
Trading under the names of
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court),
AND
J. E. GOWING, 332 George Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BROTHERS’ SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivalled FOR PRICE AND QUALITY.
DOUBLE TEXTURE
T'WILLED SILK
NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS,
POKE’S PARAGON FRAMES,
FOR
SUN
OE
EAIN.
—
12s. 6d.
1
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s, lid. Military Front SHIRTS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very best value in the Sydney market.
■\7f7"HAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
▼ T own goods and paying cash for them ¥
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible i alue ?
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ? . , ..
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has'just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for resell
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double —Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s. with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enamelled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot real—Patent
Sanitary Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors Toilet Sets,
single and double, iu all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards—Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials - An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames—Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre. Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
machii goods of every description—Ladies Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets —Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Glohes-Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new pattems-A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match—Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
Weights, Ac., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMSTOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Separate tables being laid ont with
SPECIALTIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASOL
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
ALW A y s
\\sto
SP-
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AHD should always be used
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ae.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint. Marble Work, Plate, Ae.
And for every purpose of washing and eleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Vietoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beau-
tiful MILLINERY BONNETS from 12s 6d, MIL-
LINERY HATS from Is lid, CHILDREN'S COS-
TUMES from 3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d,
Ladies’ Corsets from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from 4|d per pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves,
Fischus, Baby-linen, Underclothing Ike., cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully, requested to
give ample time iu placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
00 KING STREET,
FUN AND FANCY.
Sheet music.—Snoring.
Irish Disturbance Bill —William of Orange.
Love makes many a good right arm go to waist.
The half-way to perpetual motion The tongue
of a monthly nurse.
The Czar got married because he had just
escaped a blowing-up.
To reduce household expenses—Let your wife
see you kiss the servant.
Leonidas was one of the original deadheads.
Ho held the pass at Thermopylte.
“ Order your statue before you die,” is the
newest style of American advertising.
How to beep yourself dry—Eat freely of red
herring and salt beef, and don’t drink.
To a gentlemen in want of sedentary employ-
ment-wear a pair of feather breeches and hatch eggs.
A very genteel Petersham girl says she’s not
subject to bilious attacks, but is frequently “ Wil-
liamons."
A London druggist has this cheerful invitation
in his shop window—" Come in and get twelve emetics
for one shilling.”
A well-kmown society woman says that she
“finds it so pleasant to go to the Jertafiioal garden
and sit on a rusty seat.
A coloured preacher in Georgia makes his
garishioners work out his salary on his farm when they
ave not money to pay it.
He found himself, on commencing dinner, beside
an empty champagne bottle. Said he to the waiter,
“ T didn't order extra dry.”
“ Do you like your portrait ?” enquired a lover
»£ his sweetheart lately. “ Boake-coo,” she replied.
They are now married, and she jokes no more.
Joke (by a Civil servant). The height of
aggravation—The German band playing “ Home, sweet
Home,” before your office, on the first of the month.
“ Mr. Smith,” said a lady at a fair, “ won’t you
please buy this bouquet to present to the lady you love.”
“’Twouldn’t be right," said Mr. Smith, “ I’m a married
man.”
Bright little child to lady visitor : ‘‘Pa’s hid
mamma’s diamond earrings.” “ Indeed ! Where has he
put them ?” “Up the spout, and he says they’ll stay
there.”
“ We bend the knee, but not the elbow,”
is the motto of a Temperance Reform Club. This is
supposed to refer to a dexterous habit of drinking out
of the bung-hole.
Many a woman dusts billiard chalk off her
husband’s coat, and a big tear stands in her eye as she
flunks how late he works nights at his desk by the
whitewashed wall.
The Temora Herald’s compositors are not in
“ form ” just sow. Says that journal in its last issue :
<« Nothing can be more delightful than to see other
people’s dirty liver washed in public."
A nobleman who was in the habit of speaking to
soldiers in an affable manner was amused when a
guardsman said to him in a hearty and genial way, “ I
ike you, my lord. There’s nothing of the gentleman
about you."
A goat society has been formed in Londen, and
au exhibition took place at the Alexandra Palace.
Amongst the exhibitors was the Baroness Burdett-
Coutts. A kid dinner was given, and on the menu card
Hie soup was termed Billygoatawney. This is a fact,
and no “ kid.”
A pretty actress is seated at dinner between
two physicians. Pirst physician, gallantly: “We medical
fellows stand in no danger of going hungry since we
have a duck between us.” Pretty actress: “ But
don’t you see, the duck is perfectly safe, since she is
between two quacks.”
Little Bobby’s mother was a handsome widow.
She was beloved by Thomson. One day T., encountering
Bobby, said, “Ah, isn’t your mother a lovely creature,
» regular spanker ?” “ Don’t know about the loveli-
ness,” remarked the young ’un, “but there is no
mistake about her being a spanker.”
Synaltcpha is the cutting off a vowel at the end
of a word before another at the beginning of a word, as
“ ishaway we hare in th’ army." Ecthlipsis is the
cutting off the letter “m ’’ before another word, as
«« We won't go ho’ till morning.” Orasis is the con-
traction of two syllables into one, as “ T’ll d’ylight
deeh’pear.” Diteresis is the revolving one syllable into
two, as “ P’ he’sha jolly good s’of fellow."
A certain individual belonging to the House
other than that of Lancaster, and who goes in for
slaughter as much as Nero did, became enamoured of a
handsome young lady. To obtain an introduction he
contrived to be the bearer of a pretended message to
her. He visited her house, and appeared before her in
a state of oleaginous ostentation, and opened the con-
versation thus : “ I suppose you are surprised at my
visit ?” The young lady replied in the affirmative.
“ Well," said he, “ I have come to tell you that I am a
desperate man, and that I love you.” The lady looked
at him for a moment, and then remarked that she
believed lunacy was hereditary in some families, and
thereupon opened the street door. As there was
“method in his madness,” the supplicant made an exit,
and instantly repaired to the shambles, where he cut
the throats of four pigs. Alas, pork creature I he has
since relieved his feelings by inditing a monody. Here
It is s— ....
And thou didst steel my bleeding heart.
And thus did rob me of my pluck ;
For thee I felt of love the dart.
And like a pig straightway woe stuck.
Oh ! thou fair and false deceiver.
At my suit you chose to mock ;
Know that I, then, with a cleaver
Will chop my head off on the block.
AN ICEBERG IN AUGUST.
“ What shall I give yon, my love, my own f”
Said the enraptured youth to his Indy fayre.
“ Bangles and bracelets for your white arms,
Or jewels to twine in your golden hair ?
A shawl from the looms of the fervid East,
Or satins or silks from those of France f
What shall I give you, my love, my own t”
And he turned upon her his tenderest glance.
And the maiden’s eyes they brightly shone
With the light of joy and of love and of truth.
And her breath came quick as her ear drank in
The honeyed words of this ardent youth.
Round her slender waist he had placed an arm.
As he toyed with the curls on her sunny head.
“ What shall I give you ?” repeated he.
"Not quite so much taffy,” she archly said.
" The man who stands behind you will
You for your husband take ?”
Thus said the preacher to the bride.
Who gave her curls a shake.
And answered pertly, as she gave
A sly wink at her sister,
“ That’s w’at I’m in this tussle for—
That’s jist my racket, mister !”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Jamea Punch died worth .£40,000.
“ The Bobs ” they now call David Syme.
Darling Point Church is to have the next
fashionable wedding.
A prominent New Zealand M.H.R., Andrew
Richmond, is dead.
During the stay of Mr. and Mrs. Des Voeux at
Auckland their infant died.
Captain Robertson, signal-master at Port
Chalmers, has been drowned.
Sir John Coleridge succeds Sir Alexander Cock-
burn as Lord Chief Justice of England.
Mr. J. M. Clark has been elected Mayor of
Auckland. Peacock would not stand again.
M. Soudry has left for Paris, taking with him
about £lOOO which he won on Grand Flaneur.
There is a big scandal at Goulburn. A member of
Parliament is the man at the bottom of the affair.
The Prince of Wales plays whist so well that he
could always earn his living by it in the London clubs.
The new Governor of New Zealand, Sir Arthur
Gordon, held receptions at Auckland and Wellington.
A cousin of the Hon. Thomas M'llwraith, re-
cently from Scotland, now edits the Rockhampton
Bulletin.
Mr. James Blackwood, for many years a
member of the Y.E.C. committee, is dangerously ill and
not expected to recover.
A further sum of ,£lOOO, which will be raised by
personal canvass, is required for a statue to his Honor
the late Sir Redmond Barry.
Superintendent Hare, who was' wounded at
Glenrowan, has so far recovered that he was able to
attend church the other Sunday.
Mr. Des Yoeux, the new Governor of Fiji, who
Las been knighted for his services in the Bahamas, is at
Auckland, awaiting a steamer for Suva.
The veteran Nat Thompson has purchased the
business for some years conducted by Mr. James
Turnbull, tobacconist, in Oxford-street.
Mr. Beardsley, agent of the Pacific Mail
Company at Auckland, having resigned on account of
dll health, will be succeeded by Mr. Gamble.
The leading lady of the Burwood Dramatic
Society’s concert has bade adieu to the amateur stage.
She assumes the role of a bride in a few days.
G. P. Grace’s death is attributed to the fact that
he overtaxed himself seriously at the great Anglo-
Australian match, and wouldn’t take a rest afterwards.
D. C. F. Moodie, the pugilistic scribe, is again on
the war-path. He offers to walk Edwards, the pedes-
trian, from Adelaide to Melbourne—for the glory of the
thing.
Miss M. E. Braddon has written 39 novels. She
lives at Lichfield House. Richmond, England, and is
married to Mr. John Maxwell. The cradle is still
unoccupied.
A silver tea and coffee service was last week
■presented to Mr. R. Little, the Crown Solicitor, by the
solicitors of Queensland, on the occasion of his depar-
ture for Europe.
Professor Reuleaux, the German Commissioner,
has been thrown out of his buggy at Melbourne and
•greatly shaken. His secretary, who was driving, had
one of his arms broken.
Mr. W. E. Forster is described as appearing in
Parliament nowadays gaily attired, amongst other
things, in a light-hued waistcoat, a blue tie, and pic-
turesque striped trousers.
Baron Schwatika and his companions in the
recent expedition discovered that Sir John Franklin
really did make the north-western passage and sail his
vessel over the North Pole.
Assistant-Surgeon George Evers, who was
present on the decisive field of Waterloo as a newly-
gazetted hospital assistant, has just died. He was the
last of the “ Waterloo doctors.”
The Victorian Commissioner of Customs means
to further prosecute Mr. Robert Cornish for smuggling,
notwithstanding that gentleman’s assertion that the
sealskin jacket in question had been previously worn.
Mr. R. C. Bagot, the secretary of the V.R.C.,
when appointed to that post twenty years ago, knew
nothing about racing, and his great success as a race-
course entrepreneur is due altogether to his organising
ability. Individually he takes not the slightest interest
in the sport; never bets, or gives a tip, or cares one jot
who wins or loses. He is a mere working machine, and
nothing more; o,nd being this, is perhaps the reason
why he has done his work so well.
The Age, which has already two editors and
one leader-writer members of the Victorian Assembly,
and one leader-writer in the Government, and which,
moreover, is about to shunt its ex-editor, George
Collins Levey, into the important post of Government
Printer, is now moving heaven and earth to get another
special member of their staff appointed Public
Librarian. Here is journalistic nepotism with a
'vengeance. IVhat can be expected of a Civil Service
■controlled by such men as David Syme and Graham
Berry ?
I heard a story of Mrs. Brassey the other day,
(says the correspondent of an American paper) that
smacked somewhat of the nouvelle dlite in other parts
of the world. Visiting a fashionable upholsterer’s one
afternoon, she saw a carved ivory chair. It was a rare
work of art in its way, and, as a single specimen, would
have graced the drawing room of any well-appointed
house. Mrs. B. asked the price. “ Three hundred
guineas,” was the reply. “ 111 take it," answered Mrs.
8., “but you must make me eleven more to match it.
I want a dozen.”
At Wellington, N.Z., a N.S.S. sailor was hand-
ing out Mr. Proctor’s belongings from the steamer to
an hotel runner, who acknowledged receipt after the
manner of his kind “ • The sun—right!’ ‘ the planets
—right!’ ‘one carpet bag—right 1’ A pause. ‘Bill,
■where’s the bloomin’ moon?’ To which Bill replied,
«Oh, we shoved her in the for’ard hold.’ And then the
runner went off contentedly with the sun, and the
planets, and the carpet bag. However, the moon turned
np before the lecture was delivered.”
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts (says a home
paper) drives occasionally in the park with Mr.
Ashmead-Bartlett, who is undeniably ahandsome young
fellow, has rather an aristocratic bearing, wears a thick
moustache, and is, besides, an excellent whip. Looking
from behind, the Baroness appears little older than her
intended husband-it would be absurd to write lover.
Lady Coutts is upright and fragile, and therefore if her
face is not seen, her figure looks almost that of a young
woman. This is an advantage when circumstances
make it desirable that the evidences of infirmity should
be hidden so far as is possible, in order that the dis-
parity of age between the two should not appear so
great. That the incongruity is already painfully
apparent none can deny who have seen them together.
■On the face of the Baroness age has set his seal. The
marks are distinct and ineffaceable.
For absolute, pure, undiluted, and complete
journalistic balderdash, commend us to our con-
temporary, the Daily Davies. The subject, however,
which they have chosen this time for a thick coating of
“ bunkum wash” is, under existing circumstances, one
that requires to be treated with an exceptionally light
hand. Referring to the death—lamented by all—of
Mr. James Punch, the writer certainly treats ns to an
amount of gush, which would be ludicrous were it not
almost indecent. He says. “Hundreds, as they heard
the tidings in the street this morning, shed tears that
spoke their deep grief, and the well-known hostelry was
besieged by inquiring friends, who could not realise the
unexpected news.” It would be ungenerous, of course,
to suppose that the writer of this poor stuff possessed
a more than ordinary affection for the popular hostelne
lately presided over by the deceased ; but all we can
say is that if he supposes that any man’s relations would
be otherwise than fittingly impressed with his
laohrymary flight, he labours under an ordinary
Evehino News error.
The News says that “ Albert Hall” has again
been sworn in as Mayor of Adelaide. Now, Albert Hall
happens to be the name of the city hall. Mr. Edwin
rhomas Smith, M.P., brewer, has been re-elected may or
this year.
Mr. L. Byrne, of Queensland Hansard, well
known to Sydney and Victorian pressman, proceeds to
England from Brisbane as secretary to Mr. George
King, and shorthand writer to the Steel Rails
Commission.
It is not generally known that the Duke of
Cambridge, years ago, made a morganatic marriage, but
such is the case. His wife, “ Mrs. Fitzgeorge," lives
at Droitwioh, Germany, and is a short, stout person in
no way remarkable.
We were the other day told by a Goulburn man
that one of the main reasons for the popularity of Mr.
Teece, M.L.A., is found in the fact that that legislator
invariably attends at once to every communication he
receives from a constituent.
A Napier “ gentleman,” Mr. Badcock, recently
purchased the stud horse Aide-de-Camp for £225;
offering it for sale a few days later, and the highest bid
being only £5O, the owner was so disgusted that he
went out and shot the animal. Shade of Lindsay
Gordon!
Prince Bismarck, being weighed the other day,
was shocked to find that he had lost about 101 b since
last season, his present weight being about 2381 b (Ger-
man)—no bad figure for a man “ who reads much, who
is a great observer, and who looks quite through the
deeds of men.”
The late Lord George Paget put up his billiard
cue in his club at London, and bade his friends good-
night, saying he would not see them again. When
asked it he was going away,he answered, “Notexactly ;
I’m going to die." The next day he was a corpse. His
death was natural.
A curious meeting occurred on board the steam-
launch Era, on the 15th ult., when Sir Arthur Kennedy
stepped on to her from the Cotopaxi. A mutual recog-
nition occurred between him and the coxswain,
they having been wrecked together in the steamer
Forerunner twenty years ago, and never having met
since.
Said Mr. J. Kingston in the paper read by him,
last week, before the Social Science Congress, on
“Comparative Geography, or Victoria’s Advantages” :
—“ Having seen how tramways turn cities into mere
railway stations and spoil all the town for other traffic,
we may hope to see London’s example followed, and
the tramcars restricted to the suburbs and suburban
roads.”
Bill Hall, of Gympie, who for many years has
worked hard at his reef, situated between the Sunburst
and Alliance claims, has at last got his reward. The
other day he banked SOOozs. in specimens, and after-
wards got £5OOO out of a crushing. Tho locality was
tho scene of a rich find by a miner named Dodd in the
early days of the field.
It is announced in a Rockhampton paper that
“ tho manager of the City Bank, Sydney, has been com-
mitted for trial for embezzling £5000.” This, of
course, refers, not to Mr. Neill, the general manager,
but to the officer lately in charge of a town branch.
We noticed, too, in an up-country paper, a statement
to the effect that Mr. George Raff had died suddenly.
It should have been “ Mrs.” George Raff.
“ When I was fighting for my seat in the House,”
Mr. Bradlangh says, “I received at least threescore
letters threatening my life. I put them all in the waste-
paper basket, although one or two of the communica-
tions were works of art, and were decorated with skulls,
cross-bones, bleeding hearts, and daggers. There is,”
he adds, “ always a fair proportion of lunatics who, in
times of excitement, write strange letters to public
men.”
Mr. Norton, of Dubbo, who was shot in tho
head by Mrs. Wilkie, is still alive, and able to eat
drink, and converse briefly. The local doctors, in the
first instance, gave it as their opinion that the unfortu-
nate gentleman could not possibly live; but as he has
survived so long, we, while iu no way desirous of re-
flecting on the Dubbo medicos, must confess that we
should very much have liked to see Mr. Norton get
the benefit of the services of the most accomplished,
surgeons.
The Hon. William Highett, M.L.C. of Victoria,
died on Monday last. He was born at Weymouth,
Dorset, in 1807, and, arriving in Tasmania in 1830,
became engaged in banking business. He was the first
manager of the Union Bank of Australia in Victoria,
and subsequently took an active part in establishing
the Bank of Victoria. He first took his seat in the
Victorian Legislative Council in 1856. He died rather
suddenly, of inflammation of the lungs followed by
paralysis.
A few years ago a certain talented Victorian
barrister, now deceased, whom we will call Mr. 8., had
sent to him from Fiji a boy named “ Warrie,” son of o
Fijian chief. The youngster was sent to school, and in
the course of a few years proved to be a most intelligent
lad. One day he remarked to one of his master’s sons,
“ Me wonder how it is Missa G. (another lawyer) so rich
and Missa B. so poor ?" Young B. said he really didn t
know. “Me got it,” replied Warrie ; “ when Missa Q.
him go down cellar, him takem out bottlem wine,
drawem cork, takem glass, corkem bottle up, putem
bock. When Missa B. go to cellar, he drawem cork,
drinkem all! ”
Tennyson was 71 on the sth August. A few of
his intimate friends, including Browning. Matthew
Arnold, and James R. Lowell, called on him at his
London residence. King-street, Mayfair. Browning
recited a congratulatory ode.
Lord Beaconsfield, when he was the Disraeli of
only 28 years, was a remarkable-looking young fellow.
He hod a pale, almost delicate face, and jet-black hair
clustered in cnrls on a marble brow, beneath which
flashed strangely-brilliant black eyes.
Says a N.Z. print:—“Captain Barry intends
leaving for New South Wales, in order to identify
Cresswell, who is now in the lunatic asylum at Parra-
matta, and who may have to be taken to England in
connection with the Tichborne case.”
The young swell who came out by the Orient
on her lasttnp, and who said he was ‘‘the scion of a
noble Irish family,” was in reality a bank clerk named
Newman, who, after marrying a girl for her money,
cleared off three days after the wedding with £l5OO.
A Goulburn official was on Thursday publicly
horsewhipped by the son of a resident for having, so it
is alleged, made remarks reflecting on the character of
the assailant’s sister. The father of the lady had in the
first instance inflicted corporal punishment on the
offending civil servant.
Mayor Robertson, of Ballarat, justly remarks
that the old Scottish custom of the person taking an
oath holding up his right arm and pointing to Heaven
as he said, “ I swear by my God ” —would, if revived, be
far more impressive than the slovenly kissing of a
dirty, twine-tied, greasy book.
Dr. Paterson, late resident surgeon of the Rock-
hampton Hospital, charged with embezzling the funds
of that institution, has been tried and acquitted. He
was defended by Hon. S. W. Griffith, Q.C., and Mr.
Pope Cooper, Mr. Murray Prior acting as Crown Prose-
cutor. The verdict was received with loud cheers.
Dr. Piercy, formerly of the Australia, and who,
it will be remembered, revealed to the newspaper
world the true character of Dr. Slade’s sex, enjoys a
fine practice at Coonamble. The doctor and his bril-
liant wife are very popular, and two or three stations
with some thousands of sheep have been offered them
“ if they’ll only stay.”
Lieutenant-Commander Bower, of the Sandfly,
who was murdered the other day at the Solomons, was
one of the smartest, and quite one of the most well-read
and intelligent officers in her Majesty’s navy. He was
of quick, subtle, and inquisitive mind, loved his pro-
fession, and would have met, in all human probability,
with rapid promotion had he not been cut off by so
untimely a death.
Mr. George Bancroft, tho American historian,
who, although 85, is still in good health, celebrated his
birthday recently. During the day a large number of
personal and moat intimate friends called and congratu-
lated him upon the happy event, and lie was also in re-
ceipt of numerous letters and telegrams from loving
friends in all parts of the country.
Mr. Senior, boss of the Queensland Hansard,
had a dinner given him by his staff the other night.
Mr. Groom, the member for Toowoomba, sent a compli-
mentary telegram to the chairman saying that “ as a
press production the Queensland Hansard could not be
excelled iu any portion of the British dominions.”
How flattered Mr. Senior must have been at such praise
from a man of Mr. Groom’s political convictions.
In the “ fashionable smuggling case ” at
Melbourne, wherein Mr. Robert Cornish and Mrs.
Ingles were charged with having illegally landed a
sealskin jacket from the Cotopaxi, the bench decided
that Mrs. Ingles had no intention to defraud the
Customs, and dismissed his case against her. The
bench, being divided in opinion with regard to Mr.
Cornish, were unable to come to a decision with respect
to him.
Mr. Whatham —he wasn’t a “ Mr. ” until he
got the money—a letter-carrier at Grafton, and late of
the head office, has dropped in for £40,000, through his
wife. The happy man now swears that he’ll hang round
town and get level with his late boss, the superinten-
dent of the mail-branch, Mr. Australia Day, who makes
the poor carriers “ gee-up ’’ considerably.
The first native grammar published in the
aboriginal tongue was compiled and edited by the late
Rev. L. E. Threlkeld. This work was intrinsically
a curiosity, apart from the difficult and abstruse subject
of which it ably treated; the whole of the work con-
nected therewith—type-founding, printing, binding,
etc. —being done in the colony. The book was turned
out from the old Herald office, then in Lower George-
street, and when completed, was sent by the author to
the first Crystal Palace Exhibition, in 1851, where it
attracted no little attention as a highly-creditable
specimen of tho mental and mechanical industry of the
young colony. Another work has since appeared on
the same subject, compiled by the Late Rev. W. Ridley,
of which a copy still exists in the Public Library. This
latter work is a collection of information privately
received from the author of the previous work, with
matter already published by the latter, to whom the
whole credit of the arduous undertaking under notice
is due. This work was preceded by a translation of
the New Testament, also by the Rev. L. E. Threlkeld,
into the aboriginal dialect, for the use of future
missionaries, and of the natives reclaimed from the
savage state by his zealous ministrations. Mr.
Threlkeld was one of the earliest and most useful
laborers in this uninviting field.
Mr. James Punch.
Probably no man ever in these colonies “ slipped the
cable ” that temporarily binds us to this " hither shore
of time" more generally respected and more deeply
regretted than the late James Punch. In him were
blended many amiable and many vigorous qualities: he
was genial and generous, shrewd and energetic. While
attending to his responsible duties as the proprietor of
an almost historic hostelry he devoted his leisure time to
promotion of one of the most healthful of open-air
exercises—aquatics of all kinds. Bom at Brisbane
Water in 1838, one of a family of ten, he began at a very
early age to “ paddle his own canoe,” and before he had
reached his fifteenth year could handle a scull with skill
and effect. It would be superfluous to record his series
of victories on “the unstable wave,” from his first
triumph, in 1856, at the Balmain regatta, to his last at
the Woolloomooloo regatta, in 1863. His keen eye first
discovered the special physical capabilities of Edward
Trickett, and he backed his foresight by taking the
latter to England in 1876, who won there the Champion-
ship of the World. Those who remember the most
active part of Mr. Punch’s life will readily testify to
the modesty which characterised him when he won—
the noble spirit he displayed when he lost. He was, in
a word, a true man and a worthy citizen, and we shall
not soon “see his like again.*’ To these remarks we
need only add a few memorial lines from the pen of a
“mutual friend,” who knew and respected the late
Mr. Punch:—
A correspondent of a Roman organ says :
“ A Turk, a Jew, or an Atheist
May be elected, but not a Papist.
Let us then sing:—
The sentiment is good, all cry the Cath’lics, to a man;
It’s certainly a pity, tho’, the couplet doesn’t scan.'
A New Zealand gentleman and his pretty
daughter were staying at a certain fashionable city
boarding-house last week, and so was a “ gay Lothario ”
(we are compelled to use it), who numbers In's conquests
by the score. However, the comely housemaid got
jealous, and in consequence of what she told the N.Z.
girl’s father the latter waited for Mr. Lothario in his
room, produced a six-chambered Webley's self-extracting
revolver, and gave him his choice between dying and
becoming a Benedict. As the youth had never before
been married, he chose a marriage and not a burial
certificate, and submitted meekly to the parson, who
had been “ ordered ’’ for 8 p.m., and who was waiting in
the next room. When the time came for the bridegroom
to say “ I will,” he looked towards his prospective
father-in-law, but seeing that the old fellow had his fore-
finger on the Webley, he recognised the fact that his
gay life had terminated, and jerked out that “he
would."
The Daily Telegraph, which on Saturday
last published for the edification of the community the
Slaintiff’s bill of costs in the late libel action, Moy
low v. the journal named, and decided iu favor of the
Mongolian, made some pood points in the leading
article of which the little bill referred to formed the
text. It showed that plaintiff, to recover £25, had
actually had to spend over £125; that plaintiff’s
solicitor had charged in the first place £6O more than
he was entitled to ; that, as in most other cases, a large
number of “attendances” charged for had probably
been performed by junior clerks or errand boys; that
the lawyers charged £l3 Bs. 6d. for copying depositions
which Government had supplied to them for £2 135.;
and for “attending taxing plaintiff’s costs ” plaintiff’s
solicitor charged £2 2s. “So that,” remarks the Tele-
orai’H, "if a solicitor wishes to make an extra
guinea or two he has only to make exorbitant charges,
and then apply for payment for helping to strike them
out.”
The following lines were written on the wall of
a certain hotel in Sydney :
“ I would not be a daisy,
No floweret would I be,
For daisies do not drink pale ale,
Nor yet get on the spree.
But I would be the weathercock
Upon a ship’s caboose,
For then in every port and town
I’d be always on the loose.”
Underneath, in another hand was the following :
“ I would not be a weathercock
To turn and twist about,
Be never asked to have a drink
Or make one in a shout.
But I would be a wool-press,
That would be my delight,
For then, whenever I was screwed.
Why—l’d be always tight."
At Gympie, the other week, was witnessed the
queer spectacle of a hen sitting on a litter of pups about
five weeks old. At the time the pups were born the old
hen commenced clucking to the pups, and when they
would not respond to her call she flow into a terrible
rage, and attacked their mother so fiercely as to cause
her to slink away. She then collected the pups under
her wings, and after they had grown disgusted with
prospecting unsuccessfully among the feathers in
search of milk, she got up and began scratching up
choice morsels of food from the ground, and endeavored
to instruct them to partake of the delicacies. The
pups, not comprehending this peculiar method of
feeding, refused the worms. This so enraged the hen
that she again flew at the mother, and caused her to
whine most piteously. The next day the same strange
behaviour was indulged in, and was continued until the
parent actually compromised with her. Since then, the
bitch, pups, and hen all go together, the mother
supplying the milk, and the hen “ doing a stroke ” in
the full belief that when scratching up the “ uncon-
sidered trifles ” she is fulfilling her parental duties
towards her family.
M'Kean, of the long body and short mind, while
speaking the other evening in the Victorian Assembly
on the Land Tax question, quoted Scripture in support,
of his “ arguments." He pointed out that in the First
Book of Samuel, chapter 8, verse 17, wore found the
words “ He will take the tenth of your sheep, and ye
shall be his servants.” Whereupon an hon. member
irreverently interjected : “ Were they store sheep ? ”
However, the long lawyer couldn’t see the joke and
went on: “Now, surely, when the children of Israel
were quite willing to give 10 per cent, for a king, the
landowners of this colony could give If per cent, to
support the Government. (Laughter). The principle,
moreover, was canned out by the children of Israel,
for, in the 21st chapter of Kings, 7th verse, ho found
that “Jezebel, wifeof Ahab, secured Naboth’s vineyard.”
(Laughter). That such a wretched political kmg.iroo
should quote Holy Writ, is almost enough to bring the
Bible into disrepute. Mac’s mixed scripture recalls the
story told about the Oxford undergraduate who, being
called upon to pass the necessary formal examination
from the Scriptures, was asked, “ What were the two
occasions in which the dumb animals are recorded as
having spoken ?” Balaam’s ass, of course, was easily
got off, but in answer to the question, “ Now the
other,” he replied, “The whale, when the whale said
unto Jonah ‘ almost thou persuadest me to be a
Christian.’ ”
MISS JOSEPHINE DEAKIN.
His keen blade cut the limpid wave,
His strong arm braved the billows’ roll.
And sped his skiff to victory’s goal,
Where Honour crowned the skilled and brave.
Alas, that arm is cold and low,
The tried and trusted oarsman’s gone;
The eye that ever friendly shone
No more can thrill us with its glow!
Still higher thoughts of hopes divine
Send solace in this hour of grief,
To sorrow gives a kind relief—
For gleams of light supernal shine.
Greville’s ousted from his eyrie
By a man named Arthur Ryrie!
G. will now have on his hands.
For enacting benefactor
To the purchaser of lands—
To th’ aspiring works’—contractor.
Ample time! Yes, ample leisure
For the collaring of treasure!
Ample time for rustics “ tapping;”
Ample time for “ spirit rapping;"
Ample leisure to be writing
Things, in papers, that are “ biting."
Darts for enemies that need ’em —
Awful stingers—did they read ’em 1
Edward, therefore, you may bet
May be very useful yet—
Useful to those that admire him—
And—a-hem I—those that require him.


iGLASS 0 N ’ S'
STEAM COACH ANT) WHEEL WEIGHT
WORKS,
Haebis-steeet, off George-stkeet,
and
Adjoining tho Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would bog to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of'.
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. Q. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and tho varkms
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris.street, near Railway Bridge.
rjHEISTMAS PRESENTS.
TO PURCHASERS.
CHEISTMAS GIFTS.
PAY ONE VISIT to
A. J. HUFTON,
C 36 GEOEGE-STBEET SOUTH,
Where you can get A VAEIBD ASSOETMENT of
WATCHES and JEWELLEEY to choose from, at
moderate prices.
P.
E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Eetoil
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 7SO GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of tho Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Haymarket.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
X> HELLYEE,
ELECTEO-PLATEE AND GELDEK,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLEEY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by tho above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., roplated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STEEET
(Near Hunter-street).
TATTEESALL’S CUP. — Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee—-£l. First,.
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. AU net. Letters only,,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,"
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-
■treefc, Sydney.”
E W
ZEALAND.
To Tourists and others Visiting New Zealanr.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAE AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TAEAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed EOTQMA-
HANA TEEEACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GAEDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to '* The
Manager," at Ellerslie, the fullest infoimation will bo
immediately supplied.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWBEA
AN D ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Eotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel. Tarawcra,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. I have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. E. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able jficdieiual qualities, whilst tho Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-meutioned place) are such that
every person possessing the menus ought to visit. T-u®
internal arrangements of the various hotels havebeen
mode to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.E.C.S., L.M., Edm.
EW ZE. ALAND.
The Hotel par excellence in New Zealand is the
ALBERT HOTEL,
QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND,
E. J. DAVIDSON (late of the Star Hotel), Proprietor
Tourists visiting Auckland should first write and secure
accommodation at THE ALBERT.
Apartments en suite for ladies and families.
Superb accommodation in each department, and all the
et«ceteras of a high-class hotel.
fJIHE GREAT LAND SALE.
CURL CURL HEIGHTS,
MAJiLY,
UPSET PRICE—2s 6d PEE FOOT.
In order to meet tlio convenience of intending buyers,
the auctioneers have made arrangements for a
SPECIAL STEAMER,
to leave. MANLY at half-past 6, for Sydney, so as to
allow intending purchasers to thoroughly inspect the
property before the sale, and not to be too harried in
their bidding.
LITHOGRAPHS ARE NOW READY.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
Auctioneers.
rjl HEA T E E ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Manager Mr. A. Garner
Acting-Manager for Opera Company...Mr A. B. Lyster
L YSTEE’S RO YALIT A LIA N AND E NGLIS H OPE R A
AND OPERA B jUFFE COMPANY.
Conductors... Chas, Van Ghelo and Hurcourt Lee.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, Decembers,
For the last time,
DER PREISCHUTZ.
FRIDAY EVENING. December 10.
For the Inst time,
THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.
SATURDAY EVENING, December 11,
For the last time,
MARITA N A.
Dress circle, 5s ; stalls, 3s; upper circle, 2s ; pit. Is.
Doors open at 7.30 —overture at 8 o’clock.
Carriages may he ordered at 10.30.
Box plan at Elvy and Co’s., George-street, where seats
can be secured.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
FAUGH-A-BALLAGHI
GLORIOUS SUCCESS
of the
PRODUCTION OF THE SEASON.
Mr. LEAKE as the KERRY GUW,
Mr. LEAKE as the KERRY GOW,
Mr. LEAKE as the KERRY GOW,
Original Effects, for the First Time on any Stage.
DAN O’HAUE SHOEING the RACEHORSE.
THE CARRIER PIGEONS.
THIS EVENING,
the thrilling Irish Drama, in 4 acts entitled,
KERRY GOW; or, THE EVICTION.
Denny Doyle, a true Son of Ireland ... Mr. Groville.
ACT 1. —Drew’s Farm House, County Kerry,
Old Irish Pillow Dance. The Arrest.
ACT 3.—The Prison. The Rescue.
ACT 3.—THE LOUGH.
Destruction of the Bridge. Terrible Fate of O’Drivo.
ACT I.—THE EVICTORS. The CARRIER PIGEONS.
The Kerry Cow Triumphant.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
A Grand Complimentary Benefit in aid of the City
Fire Brigade on TUESDAY, Dec. It.
rjIHE OSBORNE WIRE AND TWINE
SELF-BINDING HARVESTERS,
AND THE
NOB COMBINED REAPERS AND MOWERS
are the best in the market.
£
%
\
•3
■
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Sole Agent.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
READERS OF “ THE BULLETIN ’
recollect that
HORDERN’S,
PITT STREET,
is still
TH CHEAPEST SHOP
for all kinds of
SILKS, SATINS, AND CARPETS.
Witness the splendid
CHRISTMAS SILKS, at Is. lld„
now being
EXHIBITED IN MY WINDOWS,
211 PITT STREET,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
T
HE GREAT PROMENADE
is
KING-STREET.
FOR LADIES
See the Bon March* s Pompadour Prints at 3Jd per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marche Wool Beiges at 5Jd, 7{d, per
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth art 7Jfl
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this aeosan
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in onr windows —
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STRESS.
Notice to Advertisers.
From this date the charge for advertise-
ments in The Bulletin will be Five Shillings (55.) per
inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin and
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of Thk Bulletin is
now guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per month.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
wo find it necessary to go to press much earlier than
formerly.
Our advertising patrons • are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
SATURDAY, 11th DECEMBER.
CURL CTTRL HEIGHTS,
MANLY.
IMPORTANT LAND SALE.
OVER 50 CHOICE OCEAN VIEW LOTS,
NEAR THE MAIN PITTWATER ROAD,
JUST BEYOND THE LAGOON.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have received
instructions to sell by public auction, ON THE
GROUND, Curl Curl Heights.
A SPLENDID SUBDIVISION, comprising over 50
choice building sites, situate jnst beyond the
LAGOON, fronting WIDE ROADS, and
COMMANDING MAGNIFICENT VIEWS
OVER THE OCEAN AND ALONG THE COAST
LINE.
THE UPSET PRICE WILL BE 3s 6d PER FOOT.
TITLE. TORRENS' ACT.
TERMS. CASH.
FREE CONVEYANCE TO THE GROUND.
HE GREAT LAND SALE AT BOWEAL.
THE FAMOUS “GIB" PROPERTY.
THE NEW TOWNSHIP OP
“GIBRALTAR’’ and “NORTH BOWRAL."
FARMS and COUNTRY BLOCKS,
VILLA SITES and HOMESTEAD AREAS.
will be SOLD AT BOWRAL,
BY AUCTION, ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
DECEMBER 18.
at 3 p.m.
%* TRAINS WILL LEAVE DAILY, AS FOLLOWS:—
9.40 a.m. and 7.30 p.m.
Special on Saturdays, at 7.56 a.ra.
THE ESTATE to be offered includes some of the
BEST PORTIONS of the well-known
WINGECARRIBEE FREEHOLD,
for many years owned and occupied by
FREDERICK L. TOOTH, Esq.
NO OTHER LAND LIKE THIS
IN THE WHOLE DISTRICT.
ELEVATED SITES,
GOOD AGRICULTURAL LAND.
CLIMATE INVIGORATING,
LOTS OF ENGLISH FRUITS.
3000 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL,
and within easy driving distance of the
CHARMING ILL AWARE A SCENERY.
Lithos. mav be obtained from
Mr. G. MORRIS, BOWRAL,
and
HARDIE and GORMAN, SYDNEY.
T
HE CLOSING LAND SALE OF
TEAR 1880.
THE
ST. JOHN’S WOOD
FOR UNRESERVED SALE,
ON THE GROUND,
by
BATT, EODD, AND PUEYES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD,
IN AREA ABOUT 40 ACRES, -
SUBDIVIDED on an entirely NEW PRINCIPLE,
which ia certain to meet the approval of the public.
SALE ON THE GROUND.
BOXING DAT, 27th DECEMBER,
by
BATT, EODD, AND PUEYES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD is situate
wAlmost opposite that well-known property, RE-
GENT’S PARK, but is nearer to both the AUBURN
and BOOKWOOD Stations, and is a portion (the very
pick) of the
CHISHOLM ESTATE.
«3T Without exaggeration, the SOIL, SITE, and
ELEVATION excel those of any LAND within many
miles of Sydney.
«3* A RICH BLACK SOIL ridge, well grassed, and
with good specimens of both box and turpentine (sure
indications of the RICHNESS OF THE SOIL), and
COMMANDING most clear and extensive views of the
surrounding scenery.
BATT, EODD, AND PUEYES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD.
«ar THE ESTATE is now being subdivided by Mr.
Licensed Surveyor BIN3TED, and Lithos. will be
ready in the course of a few days.
tar THE ROADS are all being propely formed, and
the Reserves as well as the allotments will be pegged
ont and numbered, and signposts erected at the corner
of each street, so that the public will have NO DIFFI-
CULTY at the time in viewing THE ESTATE, and
identifying the several lots.
THE TITLE is FREEHOLD AND GUARANTEED.
TERMS. TERMS. TERMS.
£3 DEPOSIT ON EACH ALLOTMENT, and the
BALANCE BY 24 MONTHLY INSTALMENTS, AT
ONLY 6 PEE CENT. INTEREST.
N.B.—IN LIEU of discount to CASH PURCHASERS
the VENDORS will giro FREE DEEDS, and to all
OTHER PURCHASERS will convey at a cost of £3 3a.
in payment of the fall purchase money.
LATE THEATRICAL
Colo’s circns gives two shows a day.
Smythe is to the fore working up the New
Zealanders.
Proctor commences lecturing in Auckland on
December 13.
Professor Hasolmayer opened at Dunedin (N.Z.)
under E. W. Cavy,
Miss Maggie Knight is engaged to play with
Marshall at the Gaiety.
Jane Coombes is at the head of a travelling
company in the States.
George D. Chaplin’s address is 2-15 West
Eleventh-street, New Fork.
Miss Rosaly Merz, the well-known soprano, is
about to settle in Adelaide.
The Simonsen Opera Company commenced
the N.Z. tour at Invercargill.
Edwin Browne’s play, “ The Phccnix,” is one of
the present attractions in America.
What a treat if they wore here —Billy Sweat-
nam and Billy Emerson on the “ ends."
Salsbury’s Troubadours, at latest, wore one of
the Alexandra Palace attractions, London.
Clara Wheatleigh is playing in the States with
Agnes Robertson (Mrs. Dion BouciCault)'.
The Soldene Opera Company were to appear at
the Park Theatre, Brooklyn, on November 8.
Val Vose, the ventriloquist, was lately in
Washington, playing with a variety company.
M. Henri Ketten was to commence his season
at Dunedin, N.Z., in the Garrison Hall, on the 4th Dec.
Theatrical matters in San Francisco have been
very unsatisfactory to both managers and actors
lately.
Amy Stone, who was in Australia some years
ago, heads a company in America called “ The Cigarette
Party.”
Thorn and Darvin, the illusionists, are doing
light business in America. They were last heard of at
Cleveland.
Charley Reed, late of the “ Froliques,” is play-
ing at the Adelpbi, ’Frisco, in a sensation drama, "A
Terrible Test."
The Lingards have been re-engaged by De Lias,
to play at Auckland daring the Christmas and New
Year’s holidays.
Adam Forepangh, the American circus pro-
prietor, says he has the “ largest show on earth," and
challenges Baruum.
Signor Majeroni recently played De Carojac,
in “The Banker’s Daughter," at the Opera House,
Cleveland, America.
Harry Braham and Lizzie Watson have been
claying with their usual success at the Metropolitan,
Edgewaro-road, London.
Johnny Gonrlay, who is one of tho most promi-
nent members of Rice's Surprise Party, is a universal
favourite in American towns.
A lady named Miss Adele Belgardo recently
played "Hamlet" at Nible’s, New York. She
achieved a moderate success.
Old De Lias, while in Dunedin, N.Z., gave 6s.
6d. to the Benevolent Institution 1 He must surely
have enlargement of tho heart.
The New York Dramatic News, says An-
toinette Link will probably be a member of the new
Strakosch-Hess English Opera Company.
The latest: William Horace Lingard has “ filed
his shovel” in N.Z. The first meeting of his creditors
takes place in Auckland on December 14.
No loss than five or six “Humpty-Dumpty”
troupes are travelling in America What about Nick
Roberts’ company paying Australia a visit.
Ella LoFere (once a member of Simonson’s Opera
Co., and more recently of the Loftns Troupe) is playing
in opera at the Tivoli Gardens, San Francisco.
Clara Stephenson and Johnny Hydes have
formed a company to play on the West Coast (N.Z.)
during tho Christmas and New Year holidays.
What has become of that clever negro comedian,
Harry Kelly ? His name is familiar enough to all
theatre-goers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Dick Stewart and family had very strong oppo-
sition when playing in Boston. Annie Pixley in
“ MTiss,” Clara Morris, and a host of standard attrac-
tions.
Onr Auckland correspondent writes ns that the
Theatre Royal there has been closed for some weeks.
It is to be re-opened by the Lingards for the approach-
ing Christmas holidays.
Baker and Farron are announced in the Clipper
to return to New York in December to play for a
season. Australia next, we suppose, with new plays.
Let us hope they have the latter.
The New York Dramatic News, in a leading
article, thinks that within a generation from now,
Shakespeare will be consigned to the library and school-
room, and be banished from the stage.
The Lingards again played “Pinafore” in
Dunedin, and were “ slated " by the Press. Signor
Morley, who was engaged far Ralph Eaokstraw, was
not a success, comic opera not being bis/orfe.
Mr. H, V. Murdoch, of Upper Hutt, Welling-
ton, N.Z., has written a pantomimic play, entitled,
“ Harlequin Nobody; or, the Dwarf of the Enchanted
Forest." It will shortly be produced at the theatre
there.
At latest accounts, Harrington, Cummings,
John Gilbert, Lottie Elliott, and Zitellu (late of Simon-
sen’s Froliques), hod been engaged to appear with a
ilramatic and specialty company, in Virginia City, Ne-
vada, America.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) City Council couldn’t
•stand Lottie Wilmot lecturing on Sunday evening in the
theatre there, and pa ssed a resolution expressing strong
disapproval, also regretting that they had no power to
interfere with the theatre being used for snch a
purpose.
Poor old Johnny Hydes does not appear to be
in clover in N.Z. He, in conjunction with his company,
lately gave a performance in Christchurch to an audience
of two. Nothing daunted, the play was carried on to
the entire satisfaction of tho company and the two
spectators.
The play, “Si Slocum,” recently produced in
New York to immense houses, is drawn from life in
California, and in it there are a Chinaman, a negro, an
Irishman, a Dutchman, a horse, a bear, and a dog The
Deamatic News says the latter was a great favorite
with the gallery gods, who insisted upon his appearing
before the curtain after every act. This play (!) would
surely knock the Sydneyites silly.
Onr correspondent writes that Grattan Riggs is
doing good business at the Theatre Royal, Christchurch
<N.Z.), producing his best pieces. He opened in “ Shin
Fane,” in which ho has so many opportunities of dis-
playing tils powers as the representative of the Irish
)*easant. The principal support is accorded to the
"star” by Mrs. Walter Hill, Miss Bessie Vivian, Miss
Hettie Lambrette, Mr. J. Musgrave, Mr. C. Burford,
and Mr. J. F. Kennedy. “The Irish Detective" was
one of the latest attractions.
The New York Dramatic News says of Levy*
the comet-player, who recently figured at a high-class
concert there : —" Levy played a conple of pieces, slur-
ring the high notes altogether, apparently unable to
reach them. He also cracked his notes very badly twice,
and otherwise gave evidence that his lip is failing him.
He is now no longer the player that he was, and must
take second or third place. Theodore Hoch is im-
measurably his superior. All judges agrae to that."
The Alice Johns Dramatic Company wound up
their Launceston season very queerly. A quantity of
stage property, &c., was detained at the Oddfellows’
Hall for rent due, and about midnight on Nov. 24 a
constable arrested two supers who had broken into the
place and were trying to pass out the hypothecated
goods. The men stated they were acting under the
order of the manager, Mr. Harry Simmons, and there is
little doubt that they were ignorant of tho illegality of
their proceedings. However, they were locked up and
got seven days each. The company did not fill up all
the gaps between them and their creditors before
departing.
The Lydia Howarde Opera Company commenced
their New Zealand tour at Dunedin, in the Princess
Theatre, playing to payable business. The company
includes Mdlle. LolodeGlorian, Miss Blanche Leopold,
Miss Minnie Murielle, Miss Ada Sinclair, Miss Clara
Mansell, Miss Grace Hathaway, and Miss Lydia
Howarde; Messrs. George Leopold, Harry Power,
F. W. Fisher, J. Marshall, Eugene Mowry, and Paul
Carter. The repertoire comprises “Robinson Crnsos;
or, The Pirates of Palm Bay,” "Les Cloches deCorne-
ville,” “Ivonhoo,” “ Girofle-Girofia,” “The Doctor of
Alcantara,” “Nemesis,” “ Chilperic," “ Naphthania;
or, Aladdin the Second,” “ Trial by Jury,” and “The
Sultan of Mocha.” At latest dates the company were
at Christchurch, meeting with fair success.


Business Cards
LLegal-J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS.
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the EvEHisa
News Office,
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
KEAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
G.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Steeet,
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POTTERY
F O
W L E R ’ S
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS. GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVEKPOOL-STBEBT-
Pomphlots gratis.
S. MANDERS & CO.,
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-streot East
Melbourne.
E.
O
N,
MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-street.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN Mc M INN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &e.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks's Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
Money
ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED up PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ „ 0 7 6
20 ~ ~ 010 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
©pened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Costlereagh-street,. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marino and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Shoepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Provisions, Oilmen's Stores, &c.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880-
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
3ENCRAFT and 00. were awarded Four First Prizes
< l for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Solo Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
In tins, 2,7, 14, and 231hs each, and in casks of li, 2,3,
and frj cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345. Kent-gt., 3 doors north King-st.
QHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS' CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
■COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. chuechwood,
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
080,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN DT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins. 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
Oo U N D E Y ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the loaf crushes the small cells which con-
■tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot bo
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY'S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as con be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
•adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet. Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
Commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
over since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nores used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-streot, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
w
H. ARIELL,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kest-stbket, neae Kino-steeet.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Beucraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Tcilotand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sanoe.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
F
LOUR
SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Peed.
M A ! Z
E N A
FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCLAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
■sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
’ TAMES PEMELL AND
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
CO.,
BUSSEX-STREET,
NEAE THE HATMAEKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEOEGE-STREET SOUTH. SYDNEY ?
OPPOSITE THE EAILWAT STATION. ;
"* i Silk-drossed, Superfine, Pine, and Good Seconds) ®
5 FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,, -I
3 (Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com. Barley, Gate. »S
< Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,!®
■» (Potatoes, &c. 1 •
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED). _
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES-Vienna, 1573, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MI2DAL, Pans, !• <o.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of—
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, Goorgc-street
J. G. Honks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-stroet
Sargent and Collie, Macqnarie-ploce
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 53, Margaret-street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
or THE
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
CHRISTMAS AND NEW Y E A R’ S PRESENTS:!
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Mothers, Sisters, Brothers, Lovers, Wives
Husbands. Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., &c,, and all who wish to gratify those they love with a
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHRISTMAS or NEW YEAR’S DAY, but who “ really don’t know
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS’
PALACE SHOW ROOMS,
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from every civilized country under the
sun, including:—
WORK BOXES,
JEWELLERY,
ALBUMS,
OLEOGRAPHS,
SCRAPS,
BRACELETS,
JET ORNAMENTS,
STATUETTES,
MANTEL-PIECE ORNAMENTS, ILLUMINATED ALBUMS, SEALSKIN
PURSES, RUSSIAN LEATHER GOODS, POCKET BOOKS, DRESSING
CASES, LADIES' COMPANIONS, OPERA GLASSES, FANCY PERFUMERY,
STATIONERY, TRAVELLING BAGS, WATCHES, CLOCKS, CONCERTINAS,
TOILET SETS,
PHOTOGRAPHS,
C. de V. FRAMES,
VASES,
CHINESE GOODS,
INDIAN „
FANS,
PORTFOLIOS,
GERMAN TOYS,
FRENCH TOYS,
LOVELY DOLLS,
FROM Id to £3.
WORK BOXES,
Ac., Ac., Ac., Ac.
And you cannot fail to make a selection, and your friends happy ! BUT NOTE THIS PACT,
THAT OUR ONLY ADDRESS IS
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangiugs,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Load, Glass, Brnshwore,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Venders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Lute 273). GEOBGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
JJJ URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Shoot
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (Hat and
rolled) |
Paper-hangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
White and Red Load
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushwaro
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Gilt Moulding
Paporhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE. ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
T HARVEY.
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hxr and Eng t m: Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the largo stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
JJENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
AH Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under otter may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Laud, and General Commission Agent.
jgj CLAEKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHURST.
TEAMWAY TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
00TS1 BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
G7O GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS. JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
USgr NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
$7O GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
REMOVAL.
npHE undersigned have removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises iu
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.


Miscellaneous
JJEYSDALE AND EOBEETS
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IEONMONGEES, IRONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Kims, Spokes, Hub
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &o., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES
■ WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
'I
Of /ypURABl
*
&
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
f-cmplete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:— * ‘Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GRIGORY AND CO.,
N*. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
MACHINER Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices,
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINE T EM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDBR LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST BATES.
YORK STREET.
E M E D Y
'OUTUf CIIHIIHC
"’•13
*«n« ruTin
i'.! niiitiBi
ill
jii, I |ii
'ill 11
J
FOR IMPURE WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filter, which is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Hite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, Ac. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe—a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAYIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
Non-poiaonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society, From Rev. Geo. Woolnmigh, M. A., Ashfield: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney: —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for 2ft years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney .—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled. _ „
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER -(late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND~'co'
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Ho. „ Nos. 1 and 2..
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. J apan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PJlTEMT MEJlL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
R. HARPER & CO J
PRIZE
ADVT
!>
'#
V c -
%
%-
w
X£-
(3^<
>. —
C?
%
TRADE MARK-
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
told by all Grocers and Storekeepers*
MM
2J&5
PITT STREET SYDNEY
kTWEED
SUITS
'MEASURE
iltS.Ss.
&
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
5,ooofatterns' d choose from
diagoh,
ALLWOOL
T « ai>
Km
H L SUMMERFIEID
PITTSTSYONEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
A1BUET WINES,
Bed Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Winks:
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors.
John Haynes and J. P. Archibald, at the Utnoe
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up."
R. HARPER & CO.,
m
PRIZE
IS
SYDNEY.
s
I N G E B ’ S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
fany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
RICES—.£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —5s. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE
UNIVEBSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
& PAIN
AND
MARTIN
WITH
*
389
SOLI
o
W K
Agents
*
Request
Street
George
3
Farmers
KOK
Hornsby
to examine
SYDNEY.
*
Hornsby’sX
STRIPPERSyfe,
Anglo
Australian
STRIPPERS
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest
a
& 189
York St.
Our HORNSBY*S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own - specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to secure
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
The Leading House In tl&e Agricultural Implement Business*
