

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 48.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1880.
Price—3d.
§«l(etk
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1880.
The Fate of Leichhardt.
In offering a reward of one thousand pounds for
the discovery of any traces of Leichhardt and
his party, that may lead to the solution of the
mystery of their fate, the proprietors of this
journal hope that their action may be the means
of publishing to the world what would be the last
and most interesting chapter in the history of
Australian exploration. In February, 1848, the
lost explorers left Canning Downs—then an out-
lying station —and have never since been heard
of. It is almost impossible that any survivors of
the party may yet be found ; but there is strong
probability that, once on the right track, some
remains of the unfortunate men will be discovered.
Truly we have here no climate of eternal winter
such as preserved the records of Franklin and
his comrades; but something may have escaped the
hand of time, or the scorching touch of bush fires,
to help us to guess what their end was. On his
last expedition Leichhardt’s intention was to
strike Gulf waters, and from thence to make
westward across the continent to the settlement
of Swan Elver: and that he partly fulfilled this
intention is pretty evident from the discovery of
one of his marked trees on the lower Flinders.
From this point it would not be at all likely that
he would have followed his old course along the
shores of the Gulf. Any change that he made
would therefore have to be inland ; and it is
upon the dry plains of the interior that he doubt-
less met his fate. The author of the “ Dominion
of Australia” has drawn a vivid picture of the
final catastrophe, through an unexpected flood
coming after a protracted drought, and catching
the party in low country. This, of course, is only
conjecture, and it is not very far within the
bounds of probability. Every year, however,
deepens the mystery; the country which was
probably the scene of their deaths is getting
rapidly settled: private parties, run-hunting,
have crossed and re-crossed most of the unsettled
portions—and still nothing has been found. This
may partly be accounted for by the fact that if—
as is most likely—the explorers perished of thirst
when pushing across a dry stage, succeeding
parties would have little time on their hands for
looking about when traversing the same waterless
expanse ; and unless their path actually crossed
the scene of the disaster, they might pass within
a short distance of it without discovering any-
thing. Again, it must be remembered that the
stunted, crooked trees of the interior would
not long retain any marks cut upon them,
and marked trees are invaluable clues to
the searcher. Thus it will be seen that many
difficulties lie in the way of accomplishing the
work for which we offer this reward, but as it may
be the means of stimulating our pioneers to a
closer scrutiny of anything remarkable that
comes under their notice resembling a white-
man’s traces, we hope to clear up this episode in
Australian history. At different times, influenced
more or less by floating rumours of the discovery
of white men's relics, discovery parties have
been sent out by the N.S.W. Government, but
nothing has resulted from their labours, and
we are still as much in the dark as ever. At
different times, too, we have had persons coming
forward and asserting that they have seen
half-caste children amongst the blacks, and
have heard old native men give description of
strange animals they saw years ago and tell legends
of white-men appearing and perishing of thirst, or
at their hands. All these yarns have little weight,
principally because the same tales exist amongst
the natives in all par s of the continent, and
Leichhardt and his men must have been killed
over and over and over ngain in as many different
places if the different native stories are to be
believed. Perhaps the well-known case of the
unfortunate man Hume was the most extra-
ordinary specimen of this class. Hume boldly
asserted that he had seen Classen, a survivor of
Leichhardt’s party, had conversed with him,
and vainly tried to induce him to return to
civilization. He was given a passage to Port
Darwin, provided with horses, and allowed time
to verify his statements. After killing some time
on the overland telegraph line—then in course of
construction—he returned with a story —generally
discredited—that he had visited the tribe of which
Classen had become a member, had possessed him-
self of documents relating to the expedition and had
been robbed of them in the steamer. His ultimate
fate is well known and he is—with reason—looked
upon as an impostor. Since then the old story
has cropped up in different forms, but always
without any reliable proof to back it up. And
Leichhardt’s fate is as much a riddle as ever.
Leichhardt had with him bullocks, mules, and
horses ; if the supposition that thirst caused the
loss of the party is correct it would account for
the non-survival of any of these animals. If the
party perished at the hands of the blacks it is
more than probable that some of the mules or
bullocks would have lived long enough to have
been found by pioneers pushing out looking for
country. What we hope to fihd after the number
of years that have elapsed we scarcely know ? It
may be that through all chances and changes a
diary of Leichhardt’s remains ; it may be that
even at the last gasp care was taken to guard the
records of the camp from the many dangers of
destruction to which they would be liable. Of whp,t
inestimable value would not such a relic be ? And
we trust sincerely that some such discovery may
yet be made. Of course, no information that
Leichhardt had gleaned would—geographically
—be of any importance to us now: the interest
would centre in the account of the causes that led
to the complete destruction of the band, if com-
plete it was; and that we can scarcely doubt.
Thirty-two years ago Ludwig Lbighha rdt left,on
this ill-starred journey. Men have been born and
lived, and died since then, and yet against all
probabilities we have at times a picture in our
minds of a lonely white-haired man, bowed with
age and grief, whose fading memory will not suffice
to recall the language of his youth : across whose
brain only at times dimly flits a notion that he
was once superior to the degraded savages whose
camp he has shared through so many weary years
of waiting and hoping. That this picture with its
sequel of the white men arriving at last and
carrying him—half unwilling—back to the life he
has almost forgotten cannot now be realised we
know ; but we have not given up the hope that
the survivors or survivor of the party left some
message for their fellow men ; nor that the desert
will be made to give up its trust, even though it
has jealously guarded it through so many years.
But when all that speculation can suggest has
been said the mystery remains unsolved, a fact
little to the credit of Australian enterprise and
Australian sensibility. Leichhardt is the
Franklin of Australian exploration.
The Hon. Charles Moore, M.L.C.
To the student of political philosophy no fact is
clearer than that the prineiphs of rational liberty
were chiefly developed and defended in continental
Europe from the thirteenth to the seventeenth
century by the sturdy burgesses of the principal
commercial centres. The Hanseatic League is a
permanent testimony to the pluck and intelligence
of the merchant-traders and industrious artisans
of those days. The townsmen, led on by their
resolute and enlightened magistrates, men of their
civic choice, resisted the armed barons, and se-
cured for many centuries the triumph of right
over might. The annals of the Italian Republics
in the Middle Ages, and of the Free Cities of Ger-
many at a period nearer to the great religious
convulsion of the sixteenth century, gleam with
records of heroism and self-sacrifice on the part
of merchants, shopkeepers, and those whom we
now freely classify as ‘‘business men.” If this
manifestation does not appear so distinctly in the
growth and expansion of English freedom, it was
nevertheless an important factor in it; and it
is mainly to the vigorous and decided conduct
of a vast majority of the citizens of London that
the Commonwealth was established ; that the
principles of Constitutional Government were
evolved, and a splendid career of national progress
initiated. The representatives of civic bodies have
done the world good service in the past; the
traditions of their deeds emblazon the pages of
history now and for ever, and stimulate men to-day
to imitate their actions —to emulate their virtues.
People in the Australian colonies do not seem to
properly appreciate the value of municipal insti-
tutions, or pay due respect to those who from time
to time direct them. This is a mistake. The
Town Hall (of every capital city especially) should
be a good school for training practical legislators.
Those so trained may not be as glib of tongue and
skilled in fence as professional politicians, and
hence may be less able to blarney and deceive the
crowd, but when such men as Messrs. John
Sutherland, Charles Moore, George
Thornton, and Richard Jones, to omit others
less known, turn their thoughts from municipal
matters to the “ higher politics,” they soon show
“ the mettle of their pasture.” These ideas
have crowded on our mind, and seemed
to suggest the train of thought that
should permeate a pen-and-ink sketch of the
gentleman whose portrait adorns our first page
to-day. The mercantile career of Mr. Charles
Moore is too well known to need more than a
passing allusion. His energetic and high-toned
character attracted the attention of the citizens of
Sydney many years ago, and a wide-spread desire
was _ felt and expressed that he would devote a
portion of his time to the affairs of the city
long before he could be induced to come
forward. When he entered the arena, he at
once determined to be a bold and uncompromising
athlete. Many readers will remember the spirit
in which, some thirteen years ago, he set about
the improvement of that splendid public reserve
which now bears his name, and which now
elicits expressions of admiration from all strangers
who visit it. But the whole of Mr. Moore’s
aldermanic or of his official life during his
mayoralty was not devoted to the Park chiefly
or exclusively. Far from that being the case,
it was through his timely efforts that several
reserves were secured to the citizens, the site
for the Town Hall granted, and that fine
sweep of road on the northern side of Moore Park
formed. He presided over the deliberations of the
Council with dignity and firmness. The confidence
he won from his brother aldermen is sufficiently
indicated by the fact that he was thrice elected
Mayor—without a break in the period of his civic
rule—namely, in 67, ’63, and ’69. His liberal and
refined hospitalities while he held office are not
only well known to the people of Sydney,
but to many in Queensland, Victoria, and
Tasmania. No representative man from any of
the colonies, or from Europe, was ever allowed to
depart without partaking of his hospitality, and
the princely manner in which he entertained
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh reflected the
highest credit upon the city. He has been for
several years an intelligent and zealous magis-
trate. To say that a man of such antecedents as
his is not worthy of a seat in the Legislative
Assembly is not merely to ignore civic merit, but
to cast the slur of an insolent contumely upon it.
His defeat at the late city election was the out-
come of political organizations, with their mani-
fold deceits and dodges; but his position on the
poll sufficiently indicates the respect and confi-
dence in which he is held by hundreds of his
fellow-citizens. That a journal so high-toned and
so generally logical in its conclusions as the
Sydney Mail should throw a shadow of sus-
picion on either Mr. Moore’s fitness for a seat
in the Upper House, or on his claims—to wit, his
public services —to Ministerial recognition, is
much to be regretted, because the imputation is
unjust, and unjustifiable even as a joke, improvised
to give Sir Henry Parkes annoyance. Setting
aside some hah-dozen members of the Legislative
Council, who is the other that possesses in a
degree the qualities that should enter into the
composition and surroundings of a senator than
Mr. Charles Moore ? He has tact, great
experiences of life as seen in various social
spheres ; he is a man of independent means, of a
bright commanding appearance, and devoted to
the land of his adoption. His honour is unsullied
—his political principles progressive. If such a
man as this is not worthy as well as fitted to be
called to the Upper House, then let vapourera
flourish, and the old partisan game —promotion for
political services—be played to the ignominious
end! We may mention that Mr. Moore retires
from business at once.
Mr. Charles Bright.
Mb. Charles Bright was born in Yorkshire in
1832, and received his education in Doncaster and
Liverpool. Emigrating to Australia in 1853, he
first turned his attention to tho goldfields of Bal-
larat ; but, returning to Melbourne in the follow-
ing year, he joined the reporting staff of the
Argus. His abilities as a pressman were quickly
recognised, and he rapidly rose to the position of
editor of the Examiner, the weekly that pre-
ceded the Australasian, which post he held for
five years. He was also for uhree years editor of
Melbourne Punch. In 1866, Mr. Bright was ap-
pointed Australian secretary to the London and
Lancashire Insurance Company, an office which
he retained for eight years, resigning it only when
he had elected to devote himself exclusively to
the lecture platform. During the whole of this
period he contributed largely to the leading
columns of the Argus, Age, Leader, and Aus-
tralasian. In the year, 1869, having been
asked to write a series of articles on Spiritualism
for the Argus, and therefore deeming it neces-
sary first to investigate it, he was, unexpectedly
to himself, forced to acknowledge the truth of its
claims. It was in 1872 that Mr. Bright first be-
came known as a Ereethought lecturer, and his
fame grew rapidly: and from that time he has
THE HON. CHARLES MOORE, M.L.C.


lectured continuously, chiefly in Melbourne,
Dunedin, and Sydney, but for short
periods in various other towns. As a
public lecturer, Mr. Bright is in the
very first rank. Still in the prime of life —he is
gifted with a voice clear, resonant, and penetrating
as a trumpet, that reaches the farthest extremity
of the largest building. Well read in all branches
of literature, and with the knowledge of the world
necessarily belonging to an old and observant
pressman, he has a facility and aptitude of illus-
tration which render his lectures interesting and
enlivening. In addition to these talents he has a
large fund of quaint humour, and a remarkable
tact in catching the public taste, and in over-
coming prejudice. His lectures are carefully
prepared and delivered extemporaneously from
notes. Eloquent is perhaps hardly the term the
ordinary listener would apply to Mr. Bright’s
delivery, for he carefully eschews all flights of un-
meaning disploy, and all long and uncommon
words, and confines himself to plain, sterling,
understandable, Saxon English. But eloquent he
is in the true sense of the term, for while his
words flow in a smooth, unbroken current, his
addresses are worked out with great art, and
clothed in much wealth of idea. Abuse or vitu-
peration he never descends to, logical argument
and occasional ridicule being his only weapons of
offence, and his moderation in dealing with
opponents is perhaps the most unorthodox of
his characteristics. While strongly convinced
of the truth of the Spiritualistic philosophy
Mr. Bright, with regard to the motive power
of the Universe, takes his stand with
the Agnostics of the Spencerian school,
with, however, apparently decided leanings
towards Pantheism. But he does not make these
matters a subject of much prominence in his
lectures—insisting rather on the claims of hu-
manity as a field for the exercise both of the
emotions and the intellectual gifts. To aid
humanity in developing its latent possibilities for
good, is, in his scheme, of more importance than
searching after the Unknowable. Satisfied that
if there is a God, He must be supremely good,
he is content with clearing away superstition, and
giving fair play to man’s better nature. Social
reform, therefore, is of more consequence than
undemonstrable speculations: and it is chiefly
because they interfere with this, that he is eager
to root out the dogmas of less enlightened ages.
A stationary religion enforced upon a progressive
race, he regards as a logical absurdity; and, though
of all the ‘ * religions ’ ’ of the world, one is no better
and no worse than the other, yet to the extent
that they are mere matters of faith, and therefore
interfere with man’s duty to himself and his
fellows, they are immoral and prejudicial to the
happiness of mankind and the due progress of the
world. True religion is the search after truth
and happiness—and faith, simply as faith, can
have no place in it; therefore, when God in
Nature, by the revealments of Science, declares
one thing, and God in the Bible, or any other
book, declares another, it is manifest that
both cannot be true; and, if we reject the
evidence of our senses, we abrogate and pros-
titute that reason which, if not given for our
use, we had much better have been without.
Whatever may be thought of the tendeneies of
Mr. Bright’s work, there can be no question as
to his earnestness in it; and those whose notions
of moral rectitude are circumscribed by their own
petty, narrow-minded sphere of mental survey
must surely declare themselves incapable of
adjudicating on the value of evidence if, in the
face of the facts of his life, they deny that Mr.
Bright is subordinating his own interests to what
he conceives to be the public good. What really
does contribute to the public good is, of course, a
matter on which probably no two men cordially
agree in every point; but Mr. Bright’s view of it
is that of all things it is necessary to clear away
the crude ideas of less-enlightened ages, in order
to facilitate the general acceptance of a broader
and more rational religious and social polity, and
the pursuit of this end he regards as a mission
whose eacredness is as the inverse of its popu-
arity.
Hon. William Forster, M.P.
[Special Cable Message.]
LONDON, Dec. 20th, 1880.
To the Editors of The Bulletin.
Hon. William Forster left England for Sydney in
the P. and O. steamer Deccan on 1st December.
DANIEL COOPEE.
Mr. J. H. Want’s Yacht “Guinevere,”
Winner of the Heaton Trophy.
We present our readers with an excellent picture of
Mr. J. H. Want’s yacht “ Guinevere,’’ winner of the
Heaton trophy, valued at fifty guineas. The race was
fully described in our columns last week, and it only
remains to give a description of the yacht and her per-
formances, and- to compliment Mr. Want, who is a
thorough yachtsman, on his success. The " Guinevere,”
10 tons, was built by W. Langford, and launched in
April, 1879. Her first race was lost through her being
oversparred and bearing too much canvas, with 4 tons
less ballast than she has since carried. The next race,
she (after alterations) won was the first prize at Balmain
Regatta. She came in first at the Anniversary Regatta,
but through allowing time to larger boats, only took
second prize. Her next race, E. S. Y. S. Cup, she won
easily. This she followed by winning the Prince Alfred
Yacht Club Cup, and came in first in several other
races, losing the prizes in some by heavy time handi-
cap. In 1880, she sailed very badly, and suffered defeat
on two or three occasions, having while still out of trim
tackled the then new 15-tonner “Oithona.” She only
scored one win that season—the Commodore’s Cup,
E. S. Y. S. A careful search, when too late, disclosed
the fact that about half a ton of her lead ballast had
been shifted by some knowing person and planted right
up in her eyes along the stern head, which had, of
course, thrown the boat right out of trim. This being
remedied she started the season of 1881 by winning the
Ist prize at the Double Bay Regatta, easily defeating a
large field of yachts, including the Oithona and Harpy.
Their defeat brought about a match for £lOO between
the Harpy and Guinevere —ocean race—in which,
though leading most of the way, she was defeated
through the wind falling to nearly a dead calm. The
second-class yacht race, in which these two latter boats
entered, as it appeared to try their merits and without
any chance of beating the 15 tonner Oithona, resulted
in the big boat winning, Guinevere next, and Harpy
last. From this time a good deal of interest was shown
as to which boat should win Mr. Heaton’s trophy,
and when the largest entrance of any race sailed dur-
ing the last ten years was started great interest was
taken. This race she won easily, having placed, with
this last occasion, seven handsome and valuable tro-
phies on her owner’s sideboard.
The sketch depicts the yacht in her cruising trim,
and havi ag been taken when underway gives a faithful
representation. She is always sailed by her owner, and
manned by an amateur crew and Andrew Blomgren,
who is in charge of her. The names of the crew are
as follow:
J. H. Want, owner
H. C. Doyle
Chas. Kilgour
E. P. Simpsoa
Gavin George
V. Brown
W. Anriow
Andrew BlorneroH (man in charge).
Musical and Dramatic.
THE OPERA.
This week concludes the opera season at the Theatre
Royal. The present company was accorded a most
favorable reception, and public patronage has been well
sustained throughout the season. Indeed, the nightly
audiences now are larger than at the commencement,
which affords an irrefragable argument in favor of the
marked success attending the company’s performances.
The only new piece in which they have appeared since
our last report was Lecocq’s opera-bouffe “ Girofle-
Girofla,” which was produced on Monday night, with
Madame Rose Hersee in the dual character of the
twins. This character gave Madame Hersee abundant
scope for the display of the dramatic talent which she
combines in a very large degree with her sterling mu- -
sical abilities. After marrying the wealthy Maraschino
to avert the commercial ruin of her parents, she is
afterwards obliged in order to save them again from
the deadly wrath of the ferocious Turk Moorzook, to
impersonate her sister and become his bride. In the
character of the twice-wedded girl she makes the very
most of the amusing dilemma in which her parents and
the two bridegrooms are placed, playing her part with
a peculiar ease and adroitness, and rendering the music
incident to her part in her usual finished style. Her
charming rendition of “ See how it sparkles,” elicited
a rapturous encore, the audience apparently realising
the fact that some time must elapse before that
captivating norceau will be given here in such
an excellent manner again. We must wait
for Emilie Melville. Mr. Beaumont was fairly
successful as the nervous, brainless Maraschino,
though the part did not seem quite congenial to him.
It is by no means the one in which his powers
find a full scope for their display. Mr. Vernon was very
amusing as the henpecked and impecunious Don Bolero,
his impersonation of this character being one of the
greatest successes of the season. The music attaching
to this part is not of a very difficult class, and affords
little scope for the singer; but, nevertheless, Mr.
Vernon showed his capability by putting it forth to the
best possible advantage. Mrs. Fox, as his shrewish
wife, gave him material support, and made herself very
pleasing to the audience throughout. Mr. Templeton
was very good as the bloodthirsty Moorzook, and his
ferocious threats were uttered in a manner which
might cause a much more courageous man than the
funny old Bolero to feel a disinclination to thwart his
wishes. Miss Lambert was not half so successful as
the page as she was in the character of Mademoiselle
Lange in “La Fille de Madame Angot.” She dressed
the part badly, and altogether failed to convey an
adequate idea of the role which she had to sustain.
Miss Bessy Royal, as Paquita, failed to entirely throw
off the funereal deportment which she adopted in
“ Carmen,” and her success in the character of the
page’s sweetheart was somewhat marred in consequence.
She was in good voice, however, and her singing was
quite up to the mark. The chorus and orchestra were
well up to their work, and the piece went very smoothly
throughout.
At the performance of “La Fille de Madame Angot,”
on Saturday night, a new tenor made his first —and, so
far, last—appearance. We would very much like to
congratulate Mr. Cecil Burt on his success, if he had
achieved any, as a Sydney debutant always has our
heartiest sympathy; but the faint and brief glimmer of
this star upon thel musical horizon affords us no justi-
fication for so doing. Mr. Burt lacks the very first
essential to operatic success—a good voice—and, con-
sequently, no amount of training would be likely to
materially benefit him. His performannee of Pomponnet
elicited no other feeling among the majority of the
audience than regret to see him in the part which had
previously been sustained by a much more competent
man.
On Saturday night, “ Maritana" was repeated, for
the benefit of Mr. Beaumont, and a crowded audience
assembled to do honour to this favourite operatic
veteran, whose long connection with the lyric stage is
now about to terminate. It is unnecessary to go into
detail about the performance beyond saying that Mr.
Beaumont again assumed his favouri'e role of Don
Ceesar, and acquitted himself with his usual ability.
THE MESSIAH.
The performance of the Messiah—or rather a selection
from the oratorio—at the Garden Palace was the best
we have heard in Sydney for many years. We speak of
it as a selection advisedly, for the “ cuts ” were many,
and some of them were those of the most telling
choruses in the work: the choruses, “ And He shall
purify,” “His yoke is easy," "Let all the Angels,” and
other omissions are certainly the most difficult in the
oratorio: bnt that is no reason why the two societies
should not have attempted them. Seven rehearsals
ought to have been quite enough; besides, nearly
everyone knows the Messiah, and it should have been
an easy matter to have given it more fully. The
choruses were, as a whole, done well, though occasional
unsteadiness was manifest, and a disposition to “ bolt"
in the fugue passages, was also noticeable—especially
in the soprano part of " For unto us.” The tenor solo
parts by Mr. Armes Beaumont were sung with a
power and earnestness worthy of them—the declama-
tory style of “ Thou shalt break them ” being especially
fine. Signora Link took the soprano solos in splendid
style. The florid and jubilant " Rejoice Greatly " was
beautifully rendered, while the grand air, “I know
that my Redeemer liveth,” so suggestive of the most
solemn and touching recollections, was magnificently
gives, and was most impressive, being sung with a
religous fervour which culminated in something like
a shout of triumph at the conclusion of the crescendo
passage, " For now is Christ risen ’’—falling with a
lovely diminuendo on to the words, “from the dead.”
This solo quite carried away the large audience, who
demanded a repetition. “He was despised” was very
feelingly and truly rendered byJMiss Lambert; but she
was not so successful in her first solo, “ O, Thou that
tellest.” Mr. Fairfax was in fine voice, and sang the
solo allotted to him correctly and with spirit, but it
was noticeable that in “ The tempest shall sound” the
music was too high, and it was with difficulty that ho
managed to sustain it throughout. Apropos of this,
we may mention that the pitch of the music was nearly
half a note above “ concert pitch.” It appears that the
wretched apology for an organ in the Garden Palace
stands at this pitch, and that all the orchestra had to
tune up to it. It would have been far better to have
done without the organ, for it was most unfair to the
singers, soloists particularly, and no doubt had a great i
deal to do with our favorite singer’s failing to
render his solos in a satisfactory manner.
CONCERT AT ASHFIELD.
On Wednesday evening last the Western Suburbs’
Musical Society repeated their performance of Birch’s
operetta, “ The Merrie Men of Sherwood.” The per-
formance as a whole was not nearly so successful as the
previous one at Burwood. No doubt the room and the
scanty audience had a great deal to do with. The Odd-
fellows’ Hall is not suitable for concerts of this class;
for irrespective of its defective accoustic properties,
it is small and has a dingy appearance suggestive of
fleas ; and then the seats have no backs to them, so that
all things considered, people are not much to blame if
they prefer the comfort of their homes to the discom-
fort of such a place, even if a rich programme of good
music be provided for them. With reference to the
performance, our remarks on the last concert hold
good. The choruses were all good, but were marred by
the orchestra, which could not be kept in either time
or tune. People should not be allowed to play in
public until they can do so in tune, and especial care
should be taken before a performance commences to
see that all the instruments are in tune. We cannot
say that such was the case in this instance. Of the
solos. Maid Marion sang well, as did also Will Scarlett,
Robin Hood, Friar Tuck, and the Holy Palmer,
especially the latter, who possesses a bass voice far
beyond the average quality, and only requires study
and experience to take a good place as a concert singer.
It would have been well hod the other solo parts been
given to the singers already referred to instead of
being given to the gentlemen, who, however good they
be in filling up a chorus, should not try solo parts.
AIDS TO VOCALISATION.
Pkopessor K. W. Goekgs, of Riviere College, Wool-
lahra, has recently issued a work, entitled “ Practical
Studies for the cultivation of the Voice," which will
soon become popular if originality of design and
skill in the execution of his plan merit success.
The exercises begin from the easiest conceivable
lesson, ascend by regular gradation to more
difficult effects, and finally close in aids to
approximately perfect vocal ornamentation, but all this
is done so simply, and by such a perfectly inductive
method that the effects will be obtained almost imper-
ceptibly. A complete system founded on the true system
of vcc.il art is contained in this musical volume. Nothing
is left out. Let any lady or gentleman qualified for the
task just test the pages devoted to ornamentation—
appogiatura, turn roulade, and shake—and they will
come to the conclusion that Professor Goergs has issued
a volume which is well calculated to cultivate the
human voice, to corrects its defects, and develope
immature powers. The work is published by Mr. J. N.
Fischer, 525 George-street.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
More troops sent to Ireland.
Russia and China again friendly.
At Moscow, 400 students arrested.
.£lO,OOO subscribed to defend Parnell.
Goschen returned from Constantinople.
Duchess of Westminster dead, aged 46.
Greece floating a loan for war purposes.
Anti-Jewish feeling increasing in Berlin.
All meetings prohibited in Queen’s County.
Healy and Walsh, Land Leaguers, acquitted.
A Dutch expedition to the North Pole is being
organised. 6
The Londonderry Orangemen have burned Par-
nell and Biggar in effigy.
Australian refrigerated meat luncheon on
board Orient great success.
Protestant church at Ballinahurch forcibly
entered and completely wrecked.
An unsuccessful attempt made to murder Bra-
hano. Prime Minister of Eoumania.
The Marquis of Lansdowne vigorously ejecting
tenants despite Land League threats.
Mr. W. W. Hughes, donor of £20,000 to the
Adelaide University, has been knighted.
Affairs in Ireland being so unsettled, the
Empress of Austria will not hunt there this season.
The man Herbert, who went from Melbourne to
receive a legacy, and who murdered his wife’s sister,
has been hanged.
Proposed line of French mail steamers for
Australia will be ready in two years. At first monthly,
then fortnightly.
The English Telephone Company have been
beaten by the English postal authorities in an action
by which they thought to establish a monopoly.
In order to frustrate the Land Leaguers, a
supply of arms is being obtained from England for
distribution among the opponents in the west and
south of Ireland,
The Hon. W. M. Evarts, Foreign Secretary of
the United States, has been instructed to inform the
British Government that it is thought to be expedient
that there should be immediate reforms in Irish affairs,
and that pacification should be prosecuted in a kindly
and considerate spirit. Congress, it is stated, is
likely to endorse the policy of American interference
in Irish affairs. As might have been anticipated, this
has caused an intense sensation in England.
The 2nd Grenadier Guards (Household Brigade !,
which have not left England from time immemorial,
have beeu ordered to Ireland. 300 Metropolitan police
constables have also been sent over.
Turkey demands that Greece be compelled to
cease arming. The Turco-Greek question cannot be
settled without European intervention, and much
depends en the attitude assumed in the matter by-
France.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Salt water is now being used for watering our
streets.
The result of the recent University examination
will be made known next week.
Hope, for alleged postal embezzlements at
Wagga, has been committed for trial.
Classes for technical instruction are to be
formed at the Newcastle School of Arts.
Crown-street Public School had a grand break-
up yesterday. Full particulars next week.
Two poor fellows, both honest, hard-working
men, recently died in London of starvation.
P. and O. mails will, during the new year, leave
Melbourne Wednesdays, and arrive in London Tues-
days.
The four East Melbourne youths charged with
having injured a Chinaman have been tried and ac-
quitted.
Large numbers of N.Z. workmen are arriving
at Newcastle by every steamer. They say that N.Z. is
in a deplorably depressed state.
By stinting certain districts, and in other ways,
the weekly consumption of water in Sydney has been
reduced from *1,000,000 gallons a week to 30,000.000.
The Colonial Court of appeal will be an alter-
native one, so that the apellant will have the option ■ if
carrying his cause to a Final Court in the colony, or to
a Final Court in England.
Tuhi, the Maori murderer of Miss Dobie, says
he killed her because, after he had taken from her the
few shillings she was carrying, she threatened to toll
the soldiers of his conduct.
At a court-martial held on Monday on board the
Wolverene, several offenders against discipline were
convicted and sentenced to various terms of imprison-
ment, and most of them also to dismissals.
At last there is a prospect of a respectable zoo-
logical collection being formed in Sydney. Govern-
ment has consented to put £lOOO on the estimates, and
to give pound for pound on all subscriptions and dona-
tions.
A magnificent album, containing 56 exquisite
photographs of N.S.W. scenery, is to be presented to
Her Majesty the Queen by our Government. The
pictures are by the artists attached to the Government
printing office.
Mr. M’Credie, one of the able inspectors under
the Council of Education, and formerly head master of
the Burwood School, has been presented with a testi-
monial by the residents of that suburb.
Lovers of “the weed” should pay a visit to
Noake’s, in George-street, to see the artistic display
he has just effected at his shop to attract the public
eye. About the neatest and most enticing exposition
seen in the colonies.
Henry Wilkinson, charged at Albury with the
murder of Martin Henz and Mary Pumpa, has been
committed for trial. He said he should apply for a
change of venue, on grounds to be communicated to the
Colonial Secretary omy.
The Commandant, Colonel Richardson, held his
annual inspection of the N.S.W. Artillery last week.
He complimented Colonel Roberts on the efficiency of
the men and the first-class order in which he found the
stores, &c., at the Heads.
Boyd, the well-known and much-imitated photo-
graphic artist, has just produced a picture that eclipses
all his previous efforts in point of faithful portraiture.
The photo, is that of the Rev. James Jefferis, who sat
for his picture prior to leaving for England.
The Bazaar held at Manly on Friday and
Saturday last, in aid of the funds of St. Mathias’s
Church, was a decided financial success, the takings
being nearly £3OO. The ladies who presided at the
tables worked energetically, and deserve every credit.
A very rich leader has been found in Bourke
and party’s claim at Lower Temora. The vein, which
is Sin. wide, is perfectly studded with coarse gold, and
cannot be broken without crushing the pieces te sever
the metal. There is the greatest excitement about the
matter.
The Newcastle Almanac and Directory, also the
Nautical Almanac for 1881, have come to hand from
E. C. Knaggs and Co., 9 Hunter-street, Newcastle.
Both contain information alike interesting to the
mariner and to residents on shore, and are exceedingly
well printed.
The New York Gazette of Fashion says :
"We have never known any article of the toilet which
has received such universal commendation as Murray
and Lanman’s Florida Water. It is certainly the most
fragrant and lasting of perfumes. To sprinkle your
carpets with it is now the height of fashion. It
certainly adds very much to the enjoyment of your
guests.”
On Monday last Richard Carter, a sawmill en-
gineer from Parramatta, called at the office of the New
Zealand Accident Company, 81 Pitt-street, and received
two months’ compensation for an unsuccessful attempt
to stop a circular saw with his left hand. The accident
happened only on the previous Thurday, and consisted
of a deep gash almost severing the thumb and forefinger
from the hand.
The cause of the wholesale destruction of the
schnapper along the coast, is still very uncertain.
It is quite evident that the mortality among the fish
cannot be caused wholly either by the presence of
creosotised offal, or of stinging blubber, or by the use
of dynamite. A careful anlaysis of dead, dying and
healthy fish, and the appointment of a commission are
called for.
At the Court of Quarter Sessions, Darlinghurst,
the following persons were convicted of personation,
or attempts thereat, at the late West Sydney election :
—Thomas Mills, Charles Bastable, Charles Burfitt,
Edward Cuthbert, Edward Barnes, and Francis Chebert,
The defendants were for the most part either fined £5O,
or six months in default, or bound over to appear for
sentence when called upon.
Religion v. Music. We were at a “ concert ”at
which the elite sang Gounod’s “ St. Cecilia.” Two f cl-
ones from the “ hupper suckles ” mistook another
passage for the “ Credo,” and stood up. All the con-
gregation—we beg their pardon, the audience—followed
suit, like a flock of sheep ; bnt it was hardly orthodox
to go in for such extensive applause when they sat
down again. Kemmis and Hayden, teach your flocks
better manners.
The estate of Mr. Wm. Fairfax was on Saturday
last released from Court by the Chief Commissioner
at the written request of his creditors. Those to
whom the late firm of Messrs. Foster and Fairfax,
printers, were indebted, have received twenty shillim-s
in the £; and the trustees of the late Mr. James
Reading, from whom the business was purchased in
1877, have been paid in full out of the amount received
from Messrs. John Woods and Co., who now carry on
the business at 13 Bridge-street—the printing office of
this journal.
A very enjoyable reunion was held at Hook's
Freemasons’ Hotel last Thursday evening, 16th instx,
in the form of a banquet given by a local literary
society to members and their friends. The pro-
ceedings were of the most pleasant and gratifying
nature, being agreeably diversified with music and
song. Among the visitors, we noticed Messrs. Fitz-
gerald and Farrell, LL.B., solicitors, and Mr. Alderman
Butcher. We can safely say that, judging by the
evidences of talent and ability given by the various
members who spoke during the course of the evening,
this particular society may claim to take a leading
place among the kindred associations with which
Sydney abounds.
THE OLD, OLD STORY.
At St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Each bird in its nest
Had gone to rest.
The lamps in the distant town
Were shimmering vaguely “ between the lights,,’
As, on one of the sweetest of Austral nights,
The golden sun went down.
And as the rays of gold that gleamed
In the sky began to fade,
A figure, diviner than painter e’er dreamed,
A lady, whose beauty like holy light streamed,
Down the dusty road came—like an angel she seemed—
In lavender silk arrayed.
Now, the most unsusceptible mortal below.
Be he husband or bachelor, lover or beau.
However religious he is, you know.
When he sees such beauty as this,
Feels at once how hopeless it is to try
To put all worldly and wicked thoughts by.
For the fickle mind follows the wandering eye
Into dreams of infinite bliss.
But I followed this vision of beauty to church.
To seek for salvation there—
Though, alas, need I say, ’twas a fruitless search
While I looked on that lady fair.
For instead of thinking of things on high,
Of the deeds which the angels do,
I thought of the angel that sat close by.
Of the saint in the neighboring pew.
I thought not of seraphs, who white-robed stand
And sing hallelujah airs,
But I gazed en the seraph at my right hand.
Whose beauty exceeded theirs.
I heeded not sermon, nor psalm, nor hymn ;
The gas grew dull, and pale, and dim.
And the preacher’s eloquence flat.
As I watched that gently-heaving breast.
Which the lavender silk so closely pressed.
While a torrent of hair, like a storm-wave’s crest.
Tumultuous burst in wild unrest
From under the lavender hat.
No sculptor e’er modelled more perfect form,
Glowing with loveliness, youthful and warm;
The exquisite curve of the graceful arm
Would an archbishop craze, or an anchorite charm,
And quicken their blood to flame —
No pale blush-rose
That in garden grows
Could such dainty shades of pink disclose
As those delicate cheeks, in their calm repose,
That put the flowers to shame.
What earthly good is a sermon, or text.
When a man is demented, insane, perplexed
By a form of such faultless mould ?
The text was forgotten, the hymns unsung.
The sermon unheeded, and on the tongue
The words of prayer grew cold.
The hill-top was covered with pine and fir.
The moon rose over the hiU:
But all my thoughts were fixed on her,
And I feel her presence still.
And all day long, and every night.
When my head on its pillow is laid,
I think of the vision that dazzled my sight.
That thrilled every vein with a strange delight—
Of that being unearthly, celestially brigh t.
In lavender silk arrayed.
A. F.
Sydney, 22nd December, 1880.
Heat versus Science.
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
Heat, heat, heat —
In boudoir, bar-room, and street.
Flushing the sewer with streams of death.
Sapping the life with its scorching breath.
Robbing youth of its bloom of health.
Ageing the millionaire “rolling in wealth,”
Parching the flocks and the golden grain.
Sweeping o’er valley, mountain, and plain,
Gath’ring the sheaves of its myriads slain.
Toiling not, sowing not, but e’er getting gain.
Where art thou Science! so gifted and great.
To check this thief at the garden gate.
To gather the waters and spread the rain.
And hallow the world of toiling man ?
Shame ! that with “fossils” and “ bones” you play.
While health and wealth are passing away.
This is your work—notjto “dream” and “foresee”
Of marvels in “ matter" that never can be.
CURRENTE CALAMO.
Sydney, Dec. 22,1880.


SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Mrs. A. Metcalfe, of North Shore, gives a
picnic to-day (Thursday).
Dr. Louis Henry, of Melbourne, will shortly
marry a Jewish lady of Sydney.
The accomplished and handsome daughter of
one of the new M.L.C.’s is about to become a bride.
It is currently reported that a young doctor
living at Darlinghnrst will shortly lead to the altar the
daughter of a bank manager.
Burwood and its vicinity is greatly exercised
concerning a report that a well-known retired sea-
captain is about to marry again.
‘ The youngest heir to a late M.L.C. is, it is
understood, engaged, or about to be engaged, to a
Ballarat belle, well known in Sydney.
An heiress, who was married at Melbourne the
other day, had just jilted a rising young barrister, who
is a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly,
Mr. William E. Mort, son of the late Thomas S.
Mori, of Darling Point , was married on December 15,
at Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, to Theresa Agnes, the
charming daughter of Mr. Robert Douglas, Brisbane.
A marriage has been arranged between Mr.
Harry Moses (son of the popular ex-Member for the
Hawkesbury) and Miss Alice friend, the handsome
and accomplished daughter of Mr. W. S. Friend.
Mr. J. N. Perrier, editor of the Central
Australian, Bourke, and formerly of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, was, on Dee. 20, married at St.
Peter’s, Wooloomooloo, to Miss M. A. Thornton, of
Summer Hill.
A marriage has been arranged, and will take
place on the 29th inst., between the son of Mr. Joseph
Thompson, J.P., of Sydney, and the daughter of Mr,
E, Webb, M.L.A., of Bathurst.
A marriage will take place in a few days between
tb ■ daughter of a wealthy, hospitable squatter in the
Wellington district and a well-known left-handed
crii i-ieter who has more than once considerably aidedin
pulling our matches out of the fire.
We understand that a matrimonial alliance is
about to take place between a Government official
holding a good position in the Harbours and Rivers
Department and a charming and accomplished eldest
daughter of one of our leading solicitors who resides at
Burwood.
It is not true that the fascinating young Jewish
ladr of Wynyard Square, whose portrait in conventual
costume we have all seen and admired, is going into
seclusion. She last week engaged herself to an opulent
young Hebrew who came to Sydney—mark this, ye
protectionists!—in search of a wife.
Ihe first of a series of dinners in connection
with the Officers’ mess, Victoria Barracks, took place
on Friday evening last. Amongst the guests were His
Grace the Duke of Manchester, Colonel Scratchley
Major Le Patourel, Lieut. Loftus, A.D.C., and Mr.
Garlett, Assistant A.D.C. With the exception of
Lieut. A. Le Patourel, the oflicers belonging to No. 2
Battery, Dawes Point, were conspicuous" by their
absence. The dinner was a very enjoyable one.
At the flower show in Ashfield the other night
there was a very poor show indeed. The finest flower
wa ' 4 “little old lady” of 13, who was seen demurely
perambulating round with a large card on her back,
denoting tint she was “ For Competition.” As no one
was found to compete with her, the card was taken—
the prize accordingly awarded. Two young ladies in
white attracted as much attention by their modest and
unpretending demeanor as by the simplicity and
beauty of their dresses. Burwood belles did not
attend in large numbers.
lae Chief Justice of one of the Australian
Colonies, an able man who has carved out his own
fortune, and risen from the ranks, but who is so un-
lucky as to have a brother-in-law a confectioner
r -oeutly paid most marked attentions to the daughter
ot his Excellency the Governor. The girl didn’t object
by any means, but Lady J., while admitting that “she
had n.. animosity to the poor little man,” observed
that “we must draw the line at buns, my dear.” Miss
J. has been sent home—“not well,” you know. The
sad case is one not of a Way we have, but of a Way we
won’t have.
The ball given by Mrs. C. Read to her pupils
and their friends, at her Assembly Rooms, on Thursday
evening, 16th inst., was a decided success. Notwith-
standing the warmth of the weather, dancing was kept
up with great spirit till a late hour. Most of the ladies
present wore very pretty and becoming costumes.
Amongst those most admired for their beauty and
tasteful simplicity were dresses of pure white worn by
three sisters. They were composed of some thin Indian
material, trimmed with Languedoc lace; the tight-
fitting corsage finished at the throat with a ruffle of
lace and knot of silver flowers, displayed to advantage
the elegant figures of the wearers. A young lady from
MaC'iuarie-street was attired in a very pretty dress of
pale blue, which harmonised admirably with her golden
hair. A most remarkable dress of brocaded grenadine
looped over cardinal silk, worn by a French lady
received a fair share of admiration. It certainly was
nique.
The ladies who attended the bazaar in aid of St.
Thomas’ Church on Saturday, at Manly Beach, did not
let the opportunity pass for displaying pretty toilettes,
some of which were exceedingly effective. A sparkling
brunette from Bathurst wore a striking dress of cardi-
nal aud maize. A kilting at the bottom was alternate
pleats of both colours, hood-lined with cardinal, and
toque to match. A necklace of shells wound closely
round the neck had an extremely neat aud pleasing
appearance. A doctor’s daughter, who lives close by
and who presided over a stall, was attired in a very
pT'itt} costume. It consisted of pale cream lace over
some thicker material, the lace being looped and
draped most eifectively, and trimmed with lilac bows.
The hat worn was of white satin with white feather’
A handsome dress was worn by a pretty girl who has
been recently living an the North Shore. It was of a
rich claret colour trimmed with silver braid, in rows
Her sister wore a dress of cream llama, with trimming
of gold cord and buttons. The hood was of yellow silk
gathered in, and looped with gold cord and tassel!
A cap of network and gold coins completed a very pretty
costume. A beautiful dress was worn by a tall and
ex tremely fair young lady from Newtown. It consisted
of a ticket body of cream coloured satin, with skirt of
pal - green, drawn and gathered, and prettily trimmed
with lace. An uncommon dress was that of a bank
manager’s daughter—it consisted of a jacket body of
dark green velvet, with sleeves and skirt of a lighter
shade. Another costume, worn by a tall yoiuw lady
wim daintily pretty. It was of white llama, trimmed
with au extremely neat lilac check, the sash and part of
the rrimwings of the sleeves being of the same
material, and ornamented with a row of black buttons
at back and front, which looked very effective A
white feather matched the white satin of which the hat
was trimmed. A ladylike dress was of fawn-coloured
cashmere. The sleeves were made with the upper part
of satin the same shade puffed, the bottom part of the
under sleeve being trimmed with silk cord. The bottom
of the jacket body was piped with satin, and the hood
was satin, tying in front with cord and tassels.
There is a humane butcher, who whistles
“ Pinafore ” airs to the animals, and makes them want
o be killed,
A specimen sign board now on view at the
establithment of Messrs. Palmer aud Weekes affords a
pleasing evidence of the high order of work that our
colonial artizans are capable of turning out. The
design is entirely new in sign-painting, and it is worked
out in a manner which reflects the highest credit upon
the firm that has produced it. The dimensions of the
board are twelve feet by five feet, in the middle of
which is a splendidly-executed imitation-marble tabet
tor the name, and surrounding it upon a neutral ground
al ” some of the most elegant designs it Italian scroll
work that are to be seen in the colony. At each end is
an emblematic figure one, representing the genius of
painting, and the other of sculpture, and on other parts
ot the board are figures represeutating Italian Grecian,
aud Egyptian art. The effect of the combination is
pleasing, and altogether the work is ot a
kind likely to add considerably to the reputation of the
firm of Palmer and Weekes, the excellence of whose
work is already pretty generally known and appreciated.
POLITICAL POINTS.
A good Lyne.—The member for the Hume.
Morehead ia the new Queensland Postmaster
General.
It ia pretty certain that Berry and Yale will be
unable to attend the conference at Sydney.
The Herald congratulates Mr. Cameron and
the House on that gentleman’s re-election as Chairman
of Committees.
It is said that had a certain defeated candidate
been elected for Mudgee, the Parliamentary caterer
would have resigned. j
David is going to be a nuisance to Parliament,
j He wants Protection from the House, and the House is
equally anxious for protection from him.
There are now two John Smiths in the Legis-
lative Council. The first Hon. John is a learned
Professor of the University; the other is—father-in-law
of Sir George Innes.
Shave your upper lip and look holy. Have a
long face if you would win favor among snufllebusterian
electors. They rejected George Pile at Canterbury
because he looked too jolly.
Parkes’ strength lies in the unconcealed hatred
of the Roman Catholic members towards him. If they
would only have the goodness to vote with Sir Henry,
a strong Opposition would at once be formed.
Some of the unsuccessful candidates at the late
election are very wroth, and blame the newspapers for
working against them —
“ Men may laugh and riot till the feast is o’er;
Then comes the reck’ning and they laugh no more.” i
Mr. Buchanan has introduced three bills dealing '
with the punishment of contempt of Court, the assimi-
lation of the law of challenge on trials for misde- 1
meanour to that in force on trials for felony, and the
amendment of the law relating to divorce and matri-
monial causes.
When Melville and Turner the “ stumps ” were on.
They said “ WeTl oppose young Cameron ! ”
“ ’Twould be,” they said, “a thousand pities
To make him Chairman of Committees! ”
Yet when the House with Angus sided.
The great Northumbrians both subsided.
Andy Lynch was addressing the free and in-
dependent electors of Carcoar recently, and there was
same interruption. Sa\ s Andy, “ Now, gint'emin,
shure I know there’s a lot of yez has opinions quite
perverse to moine, bud fwhat of that ? Shure it’s
plain to be seen that ye are bound one way, and I’m
bound the other, bud aren’t we all stroivin’ to reach
the same <;aol /
The Graftonites have decided by 57 to 46 not to
change the seat of government, even temporarily, from
Sydney to their town. Had the proposed new method
of “ working the oracle ” — i.e., assembling all the M.P’s.
in the district, paying their expenses and telling them to
“ judge for themselves as to the wants of the locality,”
been adopted, every other district would have had to do
the same, and it’s hard to toll what that kind of thing
might lead to.
The Assembly has commenced its snubbing
early. The two great touch-nothings, Mr. Eoseby and
Mr. Abigail, were nominated for the Refreshings t
Committee, but the House would not listen to the
proposal. This is the first snub of the season. But
the worst of it is, you can’t snub some people. The
next thing we’ll hear of will probably be the Northern
Toper, the member for , being nominated for
the presidentship of the Temperance Union.
M‘Elhone, who is in the confidence of the
Colonial Treasurer, says that the new members of the
Upper House were nominated on this plan Each
member of the Government had the honor of selecting
or nominating a peer, and it resulted in Sir Henry
Parkes naming Charles Moore ; James Watson naming
L. W. Levey (because Abe Cohen nominated Watson
for Young); Sir John Robertson naming Pat. Higgins ;
Hoskins naming John Bales (at the request of Sir John);
Wisdom naming Philip Gidley King; Baker naming
Lucas ; Lackey naming Onslow ; F. B. Snttor naming
John Smith ; and Sir George Innes naming W. H.
Suttor. Dick Hill was nominated by the whole Cabinet
as a sop to The Bulletin.
Fearful Fixes.
No. I.—NOT IN POLITE SOCIETY.
A and B, the former an elderly merchant, the latter a
young man who has fallen in love with one of A’s
daughters, and who, though friendly with the father,
knows that he is looked upon with extreme disfavor by
Mrs. A, with whom he is only slightly acquainted, meet
very late at night in an hotel. Ais thoroughly—well,
“ horizontal,” and B, who happens to be sober, under-
takes to see him home. After arriving at A’s house,
and landing A on the top of a very steep flight of door-
steps, B hears the patter of bare feet in the hall,
and a voice which he recognises as that of Mrs. A,
whom he perceives through the window to be attired
in Ithe “ snowy robes of night.” The natural delicacy
of B’s feelings prompts him to avoid facing the lady
under the circumstances ; besides which he of course
knows that at least a portion ot the blame in respect to
her husband's condition will inevitably fall on him and
further impair his matrimonial chances. On the other
hand, he knows that should he release A from his grasp
and “ clear," the latter will probably take a “ header"
down the steps and break his neck, or trip over the
entrance step.
Query: What should Bdo under the circumstances ?
Answers will be published in our next issue.
[We shall be glad to place our columns at the disposal
of any correspondent to whom a “ fix" may suggest
itself, l
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Outis We gladly avail ourselves of the
information. “ M.T.”: Thanks for your copy.
“ A Subscriber ” (Adelong): Ever so much obliged for
the information. “Thalatta”: Crowded out.
“ Jones ”: Much obliged for your kind letter.
“A. M. E.” : Next time. “ Fraudie ” : Hardly in our
style. Bead the paper and try again.——“Violet" :
In the first place you have not given us the address of
the college; in the second it is not our custom to give
descriptions of the kind on such occasions. “Love’s
Bequest ’’ : Under consideration. “ Dispute”;
America, of course. “J. D. B.” : Glad to hear from
you again. “Grand Flaneur": Next issue.——“W.
H. B.”: We publish one of your items and will consider
the rest. “ J. J. Kelly Too late. “ Bugby CC.
Eeceived, unfortunately, too late.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Canon Moreton will in future labor in Penrith.
The C. E. Record attacks the English Church
Union in this city.
It is proposed to build a large Roman Catholic
Cathedral at Auckland, N.Z.
A C.E. clergyman was shot dead while attending
the wounded in the last Afghan battle.
Bishop Lamaze, of Eastern Oceanica, left
Sydney for New Caledonia last Friday.
At all the fashionable churches in London the
clergy have abolished eternal punishment.
The T. M. C. A. are going to distribute tracts
on the subject of Lord’s Day Observance.
A Catholic Apostolic Church has been started
at Wellington, N.Z. Highly ritualistic, &c.
His Lordship Bishop Barker, on Tuesday morn-
ing, ordained several clergymen at the Cathedral.
The Rev. A. Taylor. Wesleyan minister, has
applied to the Bishop of Dunedin for ordination.
Five missionaries recently sailed from London
to join the English Presbyterian Mission in China.
Sir Francis Lycett has given <£soo towards each
of ten Wesleyan chapels to be erected in London.
The able and eloquent Mr. Grimm has a large
and increasing congregation at St. Paul’s, Balmain.
Canon Smith has returned from England, and
been enthusiastically received by his parishioners at
Bathurst.
Archdeacon Edwards, speaking at the Otago
Anglican Diocesan Synod, contended strongly for pay-
ment by results.
Father Ignatius, head of the Protestant mission
in Hereford, writes to the papers, recording several
apparitions in Wales.
The Irish Presbyterian Church comprises as
its adherents well-nigh one-half of the Protestant
population of Ireland.
A new and powerful organ, by Bindlev and
Foster, of Sheffield, has been erected in St. Peter’s
Church, Cook’s River.
The Wesleyan Advocate accuses Bishop
Barker of proselytising in the public schools by means
of his authorised teachers.
The Mormons are erecting the largest temple
known in America or elsewhere, at an enormous cost.
The work was begun twenty years back.
The Irish Church has since the disestablishment
raised £ LOGO,OOO. The average income for 1227 incum-
bents will be £2lO, and for 211 curates, £l2O.
The Rev. Dr. M'Callman, Presbyterian minister,
died at Adelaide on the 16th Inst. He had lately
visited Melbourne for rest and medical advice.
Mr. John King, C. of E. coloured missionary to
the South Sea Islanders, has arrived at Rockhampton
and is visiting the Kanakas employed in that district.
The third anniversary of the ministry at
Watson’s Bay of the Rev. W. Bradley was celebrated
on Tuesday week at South Head Congregational
Church.
The Pope’s new journal, the Aurora, started
at Rome in the beginning of 1879, has now a large circu-
lation. It is contributed to by personages at the
Vatican.
The Weekly Advocate thinks that the break-
down of Mr. Jelferis’ health is attributable to the de-
mand such a charge makes on a man preaching Sabbath
after Sabbath.
Rev. R. L. King, formerly of Moore College,
Liverpool, has been appointed to succeed the late Rev.
E. Rogers, in charge of Holy Trinity Church, Sydney.
Another injustice to a poor clergyman.
The Anglican Church Society of New South
Wales being in difficulties a church member has
generously undertaken to contribute £lOO on condition
of nineteen others subscribing a like amount.
The Rev. Samuel Farman, M.A., vicar of St.
John’s, Essex, two distinguished Oxford men (names
yet withheld), and Dr. Lutterkorth, of Zurich, the well-
known author, are the latest prominent ’verls to Rome.
The Rev. Thomas James, of Collingwood, Vic-
toria, will, for some weeks occupy Mr. Jefferis’ pulpit
at Pitt-street Congregational Church. Mr. James is
one of the ablest preachers of his denomination in
Victoria.
St. Luke’s Church, Wallsend, was on Sunday
week opened by the Bishop of Newcastle. The build-
ing is a handsome stone structure, in close contiguity
to the old weatherboard edifice which has done duty
for twenty years past.
The current number of Frbethought contains
an excellent phototype likeness of the late John Tyer-
man. It also has an article, by Charles Bright, inter-
esting alike to Christians and Freethinkers, entitled,
“ A few Bible contradictions.”
Mr. Alfred Wyatt Edgell, one of the most con-
sistent followers of ” Father Ignatius,” the eccentric
restorer of monastic institutions in the Anglican Church
in England, has thrown up his vows of celibacy,
became Lord Braye, and got married.
“Drunkenness.” says the Catholic Presby-
terian, is the most malignant social cancer in Scotland,
beyond all comparison, the most stupendous, outward
hindrance to the Gospel. Whisky is the most
successful proselytiser for the sect of the non-church
going."
Said a well-known Pitt-street Congregational
man to a Bulletin reporter, the other day, “ The fact
is our Ministers see the tendency of the ave is to free-
thought—freedom of opinion,—and thev are with the
people; they preach it—they must preach it. They go
with the world.”
The Rev. Stopford Brooke. M.A., well-known
for his life of the Rev. F. W. Robertson, of Brighton,
has severed his connection with the Church of England.
He delivered an explanatory sorin'm on Oct. 17, in
which he stated his reason to be that he no longer
believed in miracles.
The New Hebrides Mission, to which the Rev.
Dr. Steele gave himself up with such ardour, is to have
the Rev. T. Neilson again in the field. He returned
from England by the San Francisco mail with the Rev.
Mr. Nish, of Melbourne, one of the most popular of
Victorian clergymen.
The Methodist Episcopal Church of Ohio abso-
lutely prohibits the use of tobacco among its minis-
ters. Smoking and chewing had become very preva-
lent among the ministers, hence the resolution. The
use of tobacco is not prohibited us a medicine; but yet,
as the resolution states, “ ministers must not smoke or
chew in public" because of evil example.
The Presbyterian in this city is publishing
from week to week an interesting epitome of the pro-
ceeeings of the Pan-Presbyterian Council of Phil-
adelphia. The papers are very able and interesting,
and have a practical bearing on the social life of every
I people. The Presbyterian deserves credit for its
enterprise in getting these special accounts for its de-
nomination.
A large and enthusiastic meeting of members
was held at the vestry of the Orthodox Synagogue, on
Sunday, the 19th instant, for the purpose of obtaining
the services of a qualified Jewish minister for that con-
gregation. The Eev. A. D. Wollinski, a gentleman of
the highest attainments in his profession, at present
officiating at Leeds, England, under the jurisdiction of
Dr. Adler, Chief Eabbi, was unanimously elected to the
office.
The N. S. W. Independent for this month
contains an article by “ S.F.L." on Capital Punishment,
of the abolition of which the writer is in favor. The
subject is a well-worn one, but it must be confessed that
the article now alluded to pretty clearly points to this
conclusion—that one cannot be an orthodox Christian
and an advocate of capital punishment too. We
specially invite the attention of our readers to
“S.P.L.’s” article, and to the second editorial in the
same issue.
The Sydney Presbytery begins in January its
visitation of the charges within its bounds. This is
the process : The Presbytery notify a congregation the
date of their visit, the whole working of the church is
inquired into, the relations of the minister to his
people, &c. The result of the examination is declared a
“ finding,” and this is read to the people on a conve-
nient Sabbath by a minister specially sent for the pur-
pose. who will also add words of advice if needed. Not
a bad plan.
What has never been witnessed in England will
be seen next year—namely, a Pan-Anglican Wesleyan
Conference. There will be a great assemblage of Wes-
leyans from all parts of the world—notably from the
United States, where the Methodist Episcopal Church
and the various offshoots of Methodism occupy the
first position in point both of numbers and wealth.
The social success of the meeting will be greatly en-
hanced by the fact that Alderman M‘Arthur, M.P., a
most influential member of the denomination, will be
Lord Mayor of London. Mr. M'Arthur has spent tens
of thousands in building Wesleyan chapels.
BRIEF MENTION.
Bullet-headed —Mr. N orton.
“Cameron’s charge”—Six hundred.
A currant event. — The Christmas pudding.
The latest Eush.—Michael off home. Query ?
It is generally considered that Mr. T. Dibbs is
Alright.
The very man for a “puisne” judgeship—
Windeyer.
All Cubitt’s “ missing friends” turned up at the
Petersham banquet.
Nearly all the Deloitte family live at Snail’s
Bay, which is in consequence quite a Deloitteful place.
Patterson is the only Commissioner of Eailways
who has posted the caution “danger” inside the Vic-
torian carriages.
The pious Petersham man who says that “ The
Bulletin is a hun-godlee pa-per which cor-rupts the
hinnooent minds of the young men and maidens leading
them from the paths of tea-meetings and righteousnes,”
is informed that if he calls at this office he will be
presented with a pair of blue spectacles, which will
enable him to see things in a different light.
Dr. Garran, of the Herald, has a very fine dog
which, as Sir Isaac Newton’s used to do, always lies
beneath his table while the genial doctor “ lies" above
it. Well, the other day, the sagacious quadruped,
whose name is Toby, was temporarily left in charge of
the thunderbolt manufactory. Toby sorted in a manner
peculiarly his own the editorial copy, turned over the
inkstand, and ate a great portion of the “leader.”
Aged three years.
Conundrum : If a seaman, for getting drunk, is
sentenced by court-martial to 18 months’ imprisonment,
what punishment should be inflicted on the Solomon
islanders p Another conundrum : Why should the
people of New South Wales pay for the support in
Darlinghnrst gaol of men sentenced by naval officers
who afford the trading population of this country no
protection, but chiefly spend their time in playing
lawn-tennis and hunting heiresses ?
“ Silverleaf,” in the Evening Crumpets, in
the course of a tale, writes: —“ The repast now before
me was enough to tempt an anchorite. Black bream
from the creek hard by, mutton chops, of coarse, eggs,
boiled and poached, crisp bacon, toast, and snowy,
home-made loaves, with tea and coffee, whilst honey,
butter, and scalded cream completed the dainties.”
The only course in this rntnu that exercises us is the
“of course.” We should think that when Sil. wrote
the story he was in a state of “ comma.”
We are copying the Chinese. On Friday morn-
ing last, at the corner of Pitt and Bridge-streets, an
able-bodied corporation laborer, armed with a bucket,
was carefully picking up loose bits of road-metal,
walking several yards with each stone, and making
them into a little heap. We are told, but can hardly
believe it, that he afterwards spent half-a-day in wiping
the “ gibbers” with his handkerchief. And yet our
aldermen, after visiting Melboure and other civilised
places, come back and say they havn’t seen anything
particular.
Verily, there has been grief and vexation of
spirit in the decorating department of St. John’s
Church, Darlinghnrst, this Christmas. It appears
that the lady members of the family of a conspicuous
churchwarden have positively refused to give any
assistance in making the church assume the festive
appearance usual at this time of the year. It is
rumoured that those engaged in the decorations have
decided to leave the sittings of this family “bare and
unadorned.” For it is written: “And a man's foes
shall be they of his own household." —
A rather ambitious exponent of Shakesperian.
characters, whose “mamma” says he is the best
amateur in Sydney, was jerking out the soliloquy, “To
be or not to be,” at an entertainment in a suburban
hall recently. “ Mamma” had a front seat, of course.
In the midst of the soliloquy, an unappreciative sailor
in the audience interrupted the budding Bandmann by
requesting him to close his “ tater-trap.” The end
came very soon. “Mamma”—whose parent first saw
light in Tipperary—plugged the “ tar” with her parasol,
and the “ tar ” very ungallantly plugged her in the eye
in return. Finally, both were ejected from the hall,
and the play went on. Moral: Never interfere tvith a
fond mother in the execution of her duty—applauding
her own boy.
The poet-lanreate of the Australian Maga-
zine is favoured with "another communication from
Spirit land. In the December number Phillip Dale
warbles sweet nonsense to his wife—or somebody’s wife
—we are not clear on the subject. But it was not well
rapped out this time —the true version came through to
The Bulletin office. We can’t say much for the
rhythm, and the lines seem to have corns; but never
mind. Pass the beer, Arry !
The Sydney Telegraph authorities are trying
an experiment of providing the messengers with light
tricycles instead of ponies. It is hardly likely that
horseflesh-loving young Australia will permanently
agree to this. However, when the Telegraph boys
tire of the novelty, the machines should be utilised in
economising the police vote. A constable could, if
provided with a tricycle, fly round and do three heats
instead of one. The exercise would develop the muscle
and keep down’obesity, which is the prevailing com-
plaint in tl e “ foorce’' just now.
There is a young man at Waverley who lives
about eight kilometres (Russian) from the Post Office.
The young man in question is a bit of an artist, or, as
some of his friends say, a “ dab” with the brush. He
can paint anything, from a picturesque waterfall to a
three-rail fence. He was trying a new brush on Mick
VERSICLES.
Advice to members—
Talk but little, Angus, and
You’ll be loved throughout the land.
Study grammar- classic lore.
Pair off with t%ad nun no more.
“ Joe,” would you cause a great sensation.
Then make a speech on education.
Doctor Boss, don’t be cross.
Or get out of patience;
Use all your “ nous” when in the ’ouse—
And don’t neglect your patients!
Keep ’em well in calomel.
Dear legislative brother;
Post ’em t wice a week advice—
Or else they might reeowf.
Billy Teece, be at peace
With man, and get no “ tear” on ;
Above all, Billy, don’t be “ silly”—
Always “ keep yer ’air on.”
Get a good grip, Tom, that’s our tip
Get a good grip now, get a good grip!
For Grafton you are in, John See ;
For Grafton mind be “ graften” be.
Here’s a chance, Abigail, to show West Sydney whether
You’re as well up in politics as in shoe-leather.
John Davies, yon are not the slighted bit witty
So sit still by Carter and try and look pretty. ’
Come Murrumbidgee hero, ne’er say die,
“ Like Douglas conquer, or like Douglas die.”
“ There is a plant that never Withers—”
Except in one position;
Lord! how you’d bloom, George (lot’s of room, George)
In the Opposition!
Be sure don’t flinch,
Now, Andy Lynch—
You know your duty, do it!
Sit close to Dan,
He is the man
Who’ll gaily pull you through it.
Now, Mister Poole, just mind, and you’ll
Your seat for ever keep;
Make it apparent you're not transparent—
Be silent now and deep !
The less you speak of truth or lies -
The more they’ll think you very wise !
“ For I cry out in anguish, and borrow
Odd shillings from men who can spare, •
And I laugh and rejoice at their mourning.
When their friends say they’d better take care.
For the radiance and splendour of morning.
When the sun on three halls shines in glory,
I go with the same old coat in my hands.
It is ever the same weary story.
In the noon of the day, when the sun’s great power
Has thinned the ranks of the cabs in the street,
I crush some lumps of ice in my teeth,
For a drink I dare not repeat.
Pass the beer again, ’ Arry!


Quinn’s fence, at Bondi, the other day, when Mick
came home suddenly and painted the artist’s eye—
black. The bill for arnica and raw beef-steak came to
2b. 4d.
‘Under the Verandah,” in Melbourne, is al-
f 1 thing of the past. Stock-brokers, book-makers,
and others must “ move on.” The verandah is ruined.
Poor yEgles I
Adam was the first conditional selector. He
didn’t make his concern go, and had to clear out
without compensation for improvements. However,
he was not the last to do this.
"By Jove! I made an awful mistake in my
critique last night,” said a Telebanger reporter to a
f ™ n( l this week. “ Oh, never mind," remarked the
other, “ nobody ever reads ’em.”
The editor of the Inverell Times, who, up to
the time of the election, was constantly abusing the
member for the district, has suddenly become very
quiet. Perhaps he has croaked I
Ned Webb, a little time, you hide a;
There’ll be a fly—and you’re the spider.
’Tis but a rubber; when Fitzpatrick
Wins a single, you’ll get a trick.
At a suburban musical performance the other
evening there were 50 performers, and 64 auditors
inside and about 100 larrikins outside. " Four-and-
twenty men, and five-and-thirty pipers.”
The Holy Howl plaintively observes ; “We
should like to see some of our friends who owe us
money—or their cheques.” This is what might he
termed, in sporting parlance, “ the straight griffin.”
When the American papers reported that, in
the race with Trickett, Hanlaa, from start to finish,
pulled “ straight as a rush,” a son of the sod ex-
claimed, “ Shurely that can’t be our Mick Rush I”
When Mr. G. R. Maclean was at Kangaroo
Camp, near Inverell, he promised bridges, &c., without
number, in the event of his being elected. Q. R. now
says he’s “ going to keep quiet for a couple of years."
_ One of our amateur fishermen ascribes the
disease in the schnapper to Head-poisoning, caused by
the great weight of sinkers lost by the members of the
Nimrod club when they get upon a shoal of leather
jackets.
The Grafton ladies are noted for their slowness
in walking. They take over an hour to walk from
Darling-street to Johustone-street, Balmain, but then
they have a large hill in front and a nice gentleman
alongside.
Appointments are now made by lovers through
the medium of the asphalt pavements: “You did not
keep your appointment, Katie, last night. If you do
not come to-night I will have to renounce you. Yours,
Bookmaker.” The above is written in chalk.
Is it true, or is it not true, that the porridge
(or hominy) given to certain children at Randwick
Asylum on a recent occasion tasted strongly of kero-
sene ? And is it, or is it not true that some of the
youngsters on refusing to partake of the artistically-
flavored dish were locked up until they obeyed their
keepers’ command to “ surround the ile ?’*
A Wellington (N.Z.) man, who went on board
the Wakatipu, in order to meet an absconding debtor,
who owed him £2 10s., failed to find his man, but
succeeded in “ collaring” a portmanteau, umbrella, and
walking-stick belonging to his friend. The debtor, who
had not even a change of linen for the voyage, sent
over a draft to cover the debt by the return of the
Wakatipu.
The Sydney Box Thick.
The still-born babe, he had the “face,”
To doable-np in a cherry case.
He put the cherry case 'neath the ground.
And by the “ beaks ” got flned'a pound.
Some say the sentence was too mild —
But then ’twas only a still-born child !
" How can you rob a thing that’s dead ?”
That’s what the prisoner’s lawyer said.
We have received a copy of the Hodqkinson
Independent, published at Kings borough, N.Q. A
melancholy story attaches to the appearance of this
journal. Two towns “ lived in beauty side by side,” on
the Hodgkinson—Thornborough and Kingsborongh.
At the former place drinks were a shilling each; at the
latter sixpence. Well, the shading place is almost
dead; but the sixpenny place is robust and now has a
paper. Moral
Rockhampton, the citv of “ Sin,
sweat, and sorrow,” is without public
baths.
The four jurymen who held out
for Mrs. Dibbs were all bachelors.
Moral—but this is a case without a
moral.
Mr. Croft, the late accountant
in the Lands Office, went down to the
steamer to meet the prisoner Evans,
and was so affected that he shed tears
—of joy.
The man who used to “ illus-
trate ” Philip Dale’s poems now
advertises, “Collie pups for sale."
Dog-selling is, after all, but a natural
transition from doggerel.
That bank manager’s defalca-
tions were occasioned by unsuccessful
speculations in Victorian mining
stock. Rumour, however, says he is
not to be prosecuted.
A rather sensational mainten-
ance case will shortly come before the
public of a town not 100 miles from
Tumut.
The correspondeut of a contem-
porary wired as follows“ Mr. Mel-
ville did not speak.” What could
have been the matter with him ?
On the arrival of Evans, the
Lands Office defaulter, by the San
Francisco boat, several of his late
confreres met him at the wharf, and
walked up to the police station.
In order to prevent the breed
dying out, the Government have de-
termmed to make a close season for
Irish landlords. All true sportsmen
will rejpice at this decision.
The day following the Sans Sonci
picnic the following suggestive ad.
appeared in the Evening Jumble :
“ Lost, Tuesday last, half cameo ear-
ring. Reward, 426 Kent-street I”
A vellum-bound copy of “Dust,”
from the defunct Temora Telegraph,
adorns the sanctum of the editor of
the Temora Herald, and a special
edition of “ Brevities ” from the
Herald is the vade mecum of the sub-
editor.
This is how our friend Bailev,
of the Temora Herald, gets level
with his local contemporary :—“ A
digger, observing a certain mining
reporter on horseback, remarked that
the object resembled a pair of tongs
across a dog.”
The nation that the some people
wanted to join Turkey against Eng-
land— Indig-nation. The nation that
really conquered the Sultan—Con-
ster-nation. The only nation that
can really settle the Turkish diffi-
culty— Extermi-nation. So says a
home paper.
At Temora, the serio-comic
drama, entitled, “The Two Oba-
diahs,” enacted in real life, is the
topic of the day. The first act, com-
prising Jeurnalistic Amenities,’*
closed a little while ago. The second,
representin g “ Reconciliation, or
Christian Forgiveness," now graces
the boards.
This is the unkindest cut of all. The “ artist ”
of the Penny Shrill, in delineating the counterfeit
presentment of a man he “ don’t want to know,” has
positively executed a startling portrait of the “ spirited”
editor of that journal.
A well-known, {boisterous member of Parlia-
ment who was travelling in the train to Homebnsh the
other day got “wrapped up” in a newspaper, and
was carried on to Rookwood. He then got out near
the cemetery and commenced to swear. And then all
the grave-diggers made tracks for the nearest newly-
dug graves, and buried themselves for a while till the
storm was over.
Here is the paragraph about which Ihe trouble
occurred between Bobby Byrne, of Queensland Punch,
and a Queensland M.L.A., the other day:—‘‘Did you
hear of the innocence of ’s better half ? He got
home in the dignified stage one night, and she asked
him what made him so late. ‘Supply, lovey. We
voted away to-night a hundred thousand pounds.’
* Did you really,’ she replied, * and how much of it will
be for us ?’ ” Of course this was merely intended as a
joke.
A Lands official, who holds a number of shares
in the Great Cobar Copper Mining Company, is nearly
demented at the want of water in the district, and the
consequent depreciation in value of the scrip. Re-
cently he has given up drinking the fluid himself.
Some solid facts —only we won’t put ’em under
the orthodox heading:—Tom Butler, of the Freeman,
can never write a leader without he has his slippers on,
his coat off, and is smoking a cigar. “Micky,” of the
same journal, cannot pen one of those masterly epistles
commencing—“ It being close upon the period at which
we strike our annual balance ’’—without he is puffing a
real Cork clay, and has his pith helmet on.
This is a fact. A gentleman met Mr. Tarleton,
of the Freeman, the other day, and said “ Very good
number last week —very good, indeed.” “Ye-es,”
rejoined the eminent legal star. “ Very good that
par. of ‘ The Flaneur’s ’ about Riley, eh ?” pursued the
gentleman. “ Sir,” said Mr. T., hastily, “ I never read
anything but my own articles." ‘‘That accounts,
then ” began the friend, —but then he stopped. He
had remarked the blndgeon-like knob of Tarleton’s
umbrella.
Says the Inverell Times “We were filled
with feelings of the most profound astonishment the
other day, upon opening a letter, to find that it con-
tained a year’s subscription in advance for our paper.”
Yes, some people will subscribe to anything.
At last! Oh, at last!” Mr. Justice Windeyer
has done something clever. He decided in the matter
of Creed versus Creed in the Divorce Court last week.
Nobody else could do that.
The Penny Cook, jealous no doubt of the
efforts perpetrated by Alfred’s laureats, has, we strongly
expect, engaged one of them ; for he sings the follow-
ing couplet;—
“ And folks curl their lips and with sneeringest
sneers
Ask, • Could a Tram Co. have dared to do as he
dares?’ ”
Now we don’t mind saying that we should like to know
the author of this brilliant flight. The poet is re-
quested to call for an order.
From the Herald “ Notice. Anyone found
marrying my wife, Martha Lewis, will be prosecuted
by her husband. William Ah Lyer.” This is rather
confusing. If the lady is “ Mrs. Ah Lyer," how con
she be “ Martha Lewis ? ” Then, again, what prosecu-
tion could be instituted against the other husband?
We suspect Mr. William Ah Lyer’s notions of the law
are somewhat vague and obscure, but perhaps he was
afraid to consult Gassy after perusing Mow Moy’s bill
of costs. Of course every man’s wife’s his wife until he
is divorced from her, and every man’s house is also his
Castle. It does not follow, however, that everybody’s
lawyer should be his Castle, too,
A man whom we shall call Smith, living on the
Punchbowl Eoad, dropped across a snake the other
• £ ave him chase. The snake ran into a hole,
and Smith grabbed him by the tail just before he disap-
peared altogether. Smith stuck to his hold on the tail,
but he couldn’t manage to pull his snakeship out.
But it appears the snake had another hole about six
feet away, and immediately behind where Smith was
standing, and the reptile, evidently bent on taking a
mean advantage, sneaked up out of the second hole, and
made over to Smith, who was still holding on bravely
to the tail. Suddenly Smith felt himself attacked in
the rear. He did the distance home—three-quarters of
a mile—in 3 mins. 22 secs., and his wife used all the
salt and brandy in the house to get the poison out.
A Pennsylvania paper contains the subjoined
aniendc honorable, which ought to satisfy any reasonable
bemg Amende Honorable.— We yesterday spoke of
Mr. Hamilton of the Chestnut-street Theatre, as a
Mr- H- having complained of our remark, we
willingly retract, and here state that Mr. Hamilton of
the Chestnut-street Theatre, is • nothing ’’’ This re
caHs the story of poor B. C. Aspinall, who one night in
the Victorian Legislative Assembly spoke of Mr James
Balfour, a personofthe “snufflebnster" order, as “the
hon. and reverend gentleman.” Mr. Balfour, much
incensed, instantly arose, called Mr. Speaker’s attention
to Mr. AspinaU’s expression, and demanded that it
should be withdrawn. “ Very well,” ejaculated the
great wit, the honorable and irreverent gentleman,
then. *
An old Melbourne gentleman, the other day got
a note m which the writer requested a brief first and
final interview before she left the colony for ever.
Certainly time and place were suspicious, but amor
tuuat, &c. He got to the trysting place and leisurely
paced backward and forward, awaiting her who had
fallen a victim to his fascination. Suddenly two men
stepped from behind the bush with the ill-omened
words, “ You’ve got a watch on yer—hand it over ”
“ Surely,” he remonstrated, “ you would not rob me or
use violence—of course you know me. lam no longer
young.” “ Come. come, none of that-we know you
well enough. Turn out your pockets smart A word
in your ear—w-e’rc Mary Anne /’’ That worthy citizen
(says -dSgles ) returned to his home with open eves
and empty pockets. J
“ A new chum” named David Hay is making a
tour through Canterbury on foot, with a wheelbarrow,
in which he carries his mpedimenta. He thus explains
his preference for this singular mode of progression
First of all is its cheapness. Was there ever a
Scotchman yet who was not mindful of the ‘ bawbees ? *
Well, I have no lodging to pay for, because I carry mr
tent with me, strapped to one of the spokes of my
barrow I cannot stand upright in this tent, but it
keeps the dew and ram off at night. I transform my
vehicle into a kmd of bed by taking the wheel off and
spreading out its waterproof cover on the ground • then
wrapping my rug round me I defy all changes of
wither The weather, however, allow me to say, is in
this land so unexpectedly genial that really not much
defying of its changes is called for. It is a highlv-
favoured land in that respect.” J
Ettie Hart, sister of the youth-
ful bushranger burned at Glenrowan,
is now a barmaid at Buckley’s Robert
Burns Hotel, Lonsdale-street, Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Skillian remains at
Greta with her youngest sister, and
waits for the time when her husband
will come out.
At a tea-meeting, the Mayor of
Balmain shook hands with the local
Parliamentary representative. It is
somewhat refreshing to notice that
Mr. El kington has since announced
that he has a large consignment of
honey soap on hand. However, honey
soap qui mal y pense. Lewis didn't
write this.
On Saturday a row occurred in a
harbor steamer between two aider-
men, whom we will call Jones and
S v lfch ' o The former called the latter
a liar. Smith, who is three score and
ten, declined to return the compli-
ment, whereupon the irate Jones, a
man of forty, pulled off his coat and
Knocked him down. Good shot I
Some captains are connoiseurs
in stewardesses apparently. We call
attention to the following advertise-
ment. which appeared in Saturday’s
Penny Vortex Wanted, young
stewardess, must;be of amiable dis-
position. Captain Westcott, G.P.
Office.” Phen I ■ [This is the nearest
approach to a whistle we can raise on
such short notice.]
It was at the Stannifer. He
was a Murrayite “on principle,” and
his interest was centred in a beer,
barrel. So arming himself with a
stout stick, he attended the polling
place and shouted “Hoorah for
Murray!" He is now in receipt of
10s. per week from the Accidental In-
surance Society, and sticking-plaster
is not to be had for miles round.
The other day, a mad prisoner,
named Basto, at the Water Police
Court, in a stace of excitement threw
his gloves on the solicitor’s-table.
Whereupon an advocate tried them
carefully on, but in a few moments
returned them to the prisoner, saying,
“ Much obliged, but they don’t fit.
These are small thirty-sixes; I take
large thirty-sevens.”
Archbishop Vaughan, in his
address at the Jesuits’ College, said
that the rising generation ought to
be steeped in a “ strong brine of
Christianity.” Charles Bright said, cm
Sunday evening, that “we have had
enough of this salting in the past.
What secularists desire is to take
their children * fresh ’ from the
teachings of Nature."
A little while ago a detectivt
named Kelly was fatally wounded ie
Dublin by a man who was caughn
"red-handed,” bearing a still-smoking
pistol. A jury was shortly afterwards
empanelled to try the assassin, and
each of their wives received by post,
the same evening, a neatly-made
widow’s cap. The murderer was ac-
quitted—on the ground that his vic-
tim’s death was owing, not to the
shot, but to the incompetence of the
surgeon who treated him.
A country mayor was giving evidence, the other
day, before the Victorian Legislative Council, and was
asked the ruling gradient of a particularline. Replied he,
“Gradients, is it—gradients! I don’t understand
gradients, but I’ve heard talk of them I"
YACHT “GUINEVERE,” MR. J. H. WANT, WINNER OF THE HEATON TROPHY.
MR. CHARLES BRIGHT.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Stems.
Hosmer scaled 9st. 8 lbs, Laycock 12 st. 81bs.
Spinniugdale is worth watching for forthcomin g
events.
The Oharlier shoe is what is wanted on slippery
streets.
Hanlan took .£6O to £4O on Hosmer, against
Laycock.
Fred. Archer, the famous English jockey, is
worth £50,000.
An old N.Z. steeplechase horse, Kildare, has
broken his neck.
N.Z. cricketers are forming teams to play against
the Australians.
Gleam is greatly fancied for an outside show for
Tattersall’s Cup.
Among the Americans, Hosmer is known as
“the lightning boy.”
The next Australian team will include Evans,
Massie, and Hiddleston.
Sweetmeat and Pontiff will be very formidable
iu the Tattersall’s Cup.
Trickett’s first question when he comes back —
“ Where are my friends ?”
Downes, of the Warwick C.C., is the coming
bowler for New South Wales.
Princess and Duchess have not accepted for the
Tattersall’s Handicap at Grafton.
The acceptances for Tamworth Christmas races
promise a good field for each event.
The Belvidere club disposed of the second
Warwicks for ten runs on Saturday last.
Retrospect had more to say than Creswick in
one of their morning gallops last week.
Rosinante did a splendid gallop lately, and has
been much fancied by the knowing ones.
Seale and Wearne are the likely men to be left
out of oar team of thirteen in Melbourne.
Luland, of the Warwick C.C., and Richardson,
of the Belvidere C.C , are coming batsmen.
A well-known N.Z. jockey (Matthews) says the
Auckland racecourse is the best in Maoriland.
E. E. Jones negociated his Consultation No. 1
successfully. He has started Consultation No. 2.
Hesperian should win the Summer Handicap, and
will probably be first favourite for Tattersall’s Cup.
A champion pigeon-flying race from Christ-
church to Dunedin, takes place on New Year’s Day.
Nolan, the Australian jockey, is again to the
fore iu N.Z. He has ridden a lot of wins this season.
The Northern Jockey Club meeting will take
place about May. A good programme is being arranged.
Strathearn is pleasing the touts in the morning
gallops. This puts him into favour for the Summer
Cup.
For Tattersall’s Cup, Hesperian, Sweetmeat,
The Pontiff, Black Swan, and Chesterfield are most iu
favour.
Wten the mail left, Betrayer and Foul Play
were hot favourites for the Auckland Cup, to be run on
Boxing Day.
Boyle is making arrangements for a visit to
Australia of a team comprising the cream of English
professionals.
Jarvis was not successful in the Melbourne
match ; he relieves Blackham occassionally as
wicket-keeper.
Mr. E. Tidy, the well-known pigeon-shot and
holder of the championship gold medal, died last week
at Sandhurst.
Black Swan and Secundus, at West Maitland
and Braidwood, at South Coub, have been astonishing
the touts by their gallops.
‘’Go-as-you-please” contests• are very much
encouraged in England. Eowell, the English champion,
is eclipsing all previous performances.
The racehorse Melbourne died of thirst at Ben-
deua station, in the Warrego, as he would not drink
brackish water. Poor old Melbourne !
Woodlands, Dexter, and Bothwell are scratched
for the Town Plate at Wallsead Christmas races. Sir
Solomon is also scratched for all events.
An old N.Z. sport, Mr. H. Stafford, has joined
the majority. Of late years, owing to his ill-health, his
colours have not been seen on the course.
Sir Modred, Virginia Water, and Le Loup are
favourites for the big N.Z. event, the Dunedin Cup, at
100 to 15 each. It is to be run in February.
“ Sinbad,” of the Christchurch press, says the
Australasian has made a slight error as to Mata’s
breeding. He is by Dead Shot out of Eaupo.
Young Edwards, the coming Victorian willow-
wielder, is in his nineteenth year. He learnt his cricket
at South Yorra. He is a first-class footballer.
Mr. C. W. XJmphelby has been presented with a
handsome testimonial on the occasion of his resigning
the secretaryship of the Melbourne Bowing Club.
The Hamilton races brought a harvest to the
“ books.” The favourites did not win. Lexicon won
the Handicap, Too Late the Hurdle Eace, and Exile the
Cup.
The Parramatta races on Boxing Day promise
to be successful. There are five events on the card,
including a two-mile hurdle race and a mile and a-half
handicap.
Several colts that were brought to Auckland
from Sydney by Ned Perkins run at the Summer meet-
ing to be held there on Boxing Day, and Ist and 3rd of
January.
At Roma, on December 9, Joseph Julian, of
Koma, and Edward Bradley, of Charleville, raced 100
yards over five 3ft. 6in. hurdles, for £lOO aside. Bradley
won easily.
P. Butler’s Luna, 7st 61b, won the Oamaru
(N.Z.) Handicap; Adamant, 7st 61b, 2; Libeller, 7st
I2lb, 3. The Australian horse Eandwick won the Pub-
licans’ Handicap.
“ December 15, at her residence, Shark Island,
Mrs. E. C. Laycock, of a son.” Good news for our
representative during his hard training for the big
event in January.
At Ipswich, C. M’Anamy and W. Summerville
tan 150 yards. The former won by a couple of yards.
The other day M'Anamy beat Linden, of Ipswich, over
the same distance.
Chesterfield is still fancied for the Summer Cup.
Eapid Bay has been backed to win a large amount.
Black Swan, Hesperian, Creswick, Eetrospect, and
Sweetmeat are also heavily backed.
In his race with Blackman, says a London
writer, Laycock may be said to have hardly slid at all.
He did not slide an inch further than old Bob Cham-
bers used to slide upon a fixed seat.
In the match Petersham v. Botany Excelsior,
E. P.oberts, for the former, made the grand score of
116, and not out. This is the third match he has played
in. his average being 188 runs per innings.
The Warwicks are organizing a strong team to
meet the Illawarra C.C, at Wollongong on Boxing Day.
The match will be interesting, as our Southern
brethren are anxious to retrieve their lost laurels.
Boyd’s match with Hanlan for £2OO a-side is
not yet finally arranged. The date will probably be
before the end of February, but it is not decided yet
whether the race will be rowed on the Thames or the
Tyne.
The forthcoming handicaps are so r open that
nearly every starter will he backed. The “ books ” are
jubilant, the task of “getting round” not being so
arduous as usual. The double-event betting is very
brisk.
The individual who sold for two drinks his
ticket in Abbott’s (Auckland) sweep on the Melbourne
Cup, which drew the winning horse, has received half
of the prize, £450. The other £450 went to the lucky
Boniface.
A foot-race tournament is to take place at Lith-
gow on the 31st December, 1880, and Ist January, 1831.
The first prize is £lOO, and the entrance-fee one guinea.
Entrances closed on the 15th instant, with a very satis-
factory list.
The bowling green on Cook Park is no w approach-
ing completion. It is an excellent site, commanding a
fine view of the harbour, and is easy of access from
town. It is certainly an improvement upon the hitherto
neglected park.
The friends of Mr. Joseph Rigg, the genial
secretary of the Warwick C.C., will be glad to hear
that he is fast recovering from the effects of his severe
accident. Ere long, his kindly voice will be heard on
the cricket field.
Notwithstanding the snarling of some of the
English sporting papers, Soule, the Hop Bitters pro-
prietor, got together an influential committee for his
regatta. Among them Messrs. Gulston, Horton,
Goldie, and Chambers.
Are Messrs. Cape, Fletcher, and G. Murdoch
of the Albert C.C. first or second players ?—They play
in the first-class matches of both teams. Boiscoe,
Callachor, and Eaton play with both elevens of the
Carlton C.C., and Downes bowls for any eleven of the
Warwicks.
Writes a correspondent: “ The Pine Ridge
Eaces came off on Wednesday week. The Handicap was
a well-contested race, the Bank nag being only beaten
on the post by a head. However, he is expected to
give a better account of himself at Mrs. Cook’s on
Boxing Day.”
Nat. Thompson, the veteran cricketer, is now
bidding for the support of his friends who are lovers of
the weed. He has purchased a tobacconist’s shop in
Oxford-street lately conducted by Mr. Turnbull, and
will fight his battles o’er again while he dispenses most
excellent mixture.
The weights for the Three-year-old Handicap,
1 mile 3 furlongs, to take place at Eandwick on Boxing
Day, were declared last week. Carmen seems to have
the best of the three-year-olds, and Black Swan,
Kamilaroi, Milbrodale, and Eosinante are favourably
weighted in the Free.
A handicap race in connection with the Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, for boats of the 19 and 18 feet
class, took place on Saturday. Four minutes a foot
was the handicap, and the course was from moorings in
Farm Cove round Light-ship and Sow-and-Pigs, round
flag-boat, round Fort Denison, and back to the flag-
boat. The entries were—Desdemona, 19 ft.; Alert,
18 ft.; Bacchante, 18 ft. ; Lucia, 19 ft. Lucia came in
first, Desdemona second, and Alert third; but the
time allowance gives the victory to the Alprt, the Lucia
being barely two minutes ahead.
Roberts, of the Petersham C.C., made 116 not
out on Saturday, bringing his average up to over 200
an innings this season. This, with his first-class
wicket keeping, ought to recommend him to the notice
of the Selection Committee for the next Intercolonial.
Mr. C. Beal is deputed by the Association to
look after our representatives during their stay in
Melbourne. The team are going in for hard work, and
practise from 9 till 4, one hour being allowed for a cold
lunch on the Melbourne ground. Eleven p.m. is the
hour fixed for bed; any member found missing will
incur a heavy penalty. The scorer is not included.
The Mercantile Rowing Club Race for clinkers,
single sculls, came off on Saturday, and resulted in a
victory for Ives, who had to pull much harder in his
first heat than in the second. His opponents, Messrs.
Hanson and Fitzgerald, were doubtless the next best
men in the race. It is probable that several private
matches among the nine-stoners will be the result of
this contest.
Athletics will receive an impetus by the presence
in Sydney of William Miller, the champion wrestler,
and Professor Meunier, the champion swordsman of
Victoria. The latter is also a musician, and possesses
a splendid tenor voice. He sang Weiss’s “ O Salutaris”
at St. Mary’s, on Sunday, with considerable power and
effect. He is the father of Miller, and looks very like as
if he had once been the splendid man his son now is.
Some of the home journals pump Tip very high-
class indignation about the greed of the Australian
Eleven for gate money, yet the Dr. and Cr. account of
Lord Harris’s Australian tour stood thus: —Expenses
only, £7OOO and etceteras. About £5OO a man and all the
prestige belonging to the gentleman players. By the
way, the M.C.C. lost about £5OO over their speculation.
The entries for the Pyrmont Regatta, which is
to take place on Boxing Day, are considered very
satisfactory. The Waitangi, Oithona, and Daphne are
entered for the Yacht Eace ; W. Trickett, Pearce, J.
Laycock, and Power for the All-Comers in wager
Boats; and T. and H. Jenkins, Eeynolds and W.
Trickett, Pearce and Lynch, for the All-Comers’
double sculls.
The Australasian's London sporting cor-
respondent says that Hosmer’s slide is enormous—that
when he gets forward he looks like a ball. He went
steaming ahead in a most extraordinary manner for the
first half-mile, but Laycock stuck calmly and delibe-
rately to work and rowed him down. The Australa-
sian’s representative also says:—“My opinion of
Hanlan is that, pitted against an ordinary man, his
beautiful action takes so little out of him that he wins
easily, but if once pressed hard by a real good one he
will lose his form, and then would at once go all to
pieces.’’ If this is correct then Laycock, who has com-
pletely “ bust up” every man he has met in England so
far, is just the oarsman to try the Canadian.
Ned Sheridan made 22 against the Warwicks on
Saturday week at Newtown. As he re-entered the
pavilion, after acknowledging the customary applause,
he remarked with a melancholy tone, “And yet they
won’t pick me in the Intercolonial.”
Politeness is a pre-eminent quality in our
cricketers. The simple words “ Thank you” were
heard 95 times in five minutes one afternoon this week
on the Association Ground. This speaks volumes for
the respectability of the surroundings.
The ratepayers of the Darlington and Glebe
boroughs are practising for their annual match, which
is now fixed to come off on Anniversary Day instead of
Good Friday. A good working committee has been
appointed to make the necessary arrangements.
The Petersham C.C. defeated the Botany team
by two wickets and 160 runs. For the winners, Eoberts
116 and not out, G. Seale 23, A. Loveridge 22, were
the principal scorers, while P. Murr and G. Seale
obtained four wickets each at the cost of a few runs.
The Inverell race meeting was only partially
successful. The attendance was meagre, and the racing
not up to the standard. Chumpkins won the Maiden
Plate and the Handicap; the latter after a most excit-
ing struggle with Barber who was beaten on the post.
It is now definitely known that Trickett was
not in form in his match with Hanlan. His defeat may
be ascribed to the fact of his being overtrained, rather
than to Hanlan’s superiority. After this it is not
desirable to hear any statements impugning the
honesty of our champion.
During Laycock’s race with Hosmer, a tall
youth went about the steamer, and “ collared ” all the
available cash at 2to 1. The odds were brought down
to 6 to 4, and he was ready to go on, but the Britishers
began to think a bit when they were told that the
capitalist was Jack Thompson.
The match, Warwick v. Newtown C.C., resulted
in a victory in the first innings for the former club.
The Warwicks commenced their second innings, and
when time was called had lost only six wickets for
more than a hundred runs, Luland, Dennis, and
Oatley obtaining double figures.
The University and Alberts played a one-day’s
match on Saturday last, on the Association Ground.
The result was a victory for the Alberts, for whom
Crane got top score. He has a peculiar though not
ineffective style of batting. Powell made top for the
University club ; he is getting back his old form.
Fred, Ironside’s Guide Book for Cricketers is
now published. It is an excellent work, being a com-
pendium of all the great events which have taken place
in connection with Australian Cricket, including the
performances in England of the present Australian
team. A number of remarkable facts concerning
cricket are published for the first time, as also the rules
of double and single cricket, with appropriate explana-
tory remarks by the compiler. It is neatly got up, and
as a work of reference will be invaluable; every club
should have a copy.
Grand Flaneur is still first favourite for the
Champion Eace to come off in Melbourne on New
Year’s Day. It looks a certainty for him on paper,
but there are many who fancy Progress’ chances,
though the easy way in which Grand Flaneur disposed
of him in the Derby and Cup ought to be a convincer.
A match between the Lome and 2nd Petersham
Clubs took place last Saturday, on the ground of the
former. The game resulted in a win for the suburban
team by 31. The Petersham Club made 62 runs, Baker
being top score (28). T. Gelding and P. Dawes trundled
with great effect —the former obtaining four wickets
for 13, the latter four for 17.
Rush has no intention at present of tackling
Hanlan, or of selling his business at Eocky Mouth.
He has an idea of challenging Laycock when he returns
to Australia. Where did the Herald get the news ?
Still, however, we can pardon Hunter-street this time.
Eush is so ambitious and hot-headed, and has so india-
rubber-like a recollection, that one could readily believe
anything of him in this line.
At the Manhattan Athletic Sports held on Sep-
tember 18th, L. E. Myers ran 250 yards in 261 secs. He
also on the same day ran 100 yards in 10 secs., and then
repeated the performance. On Monday September 20th,
he ran 350 yards—according to some timekeepers in 39
secs: according to others it was a fifth longer. The
difference is not. material, as nothing better than 40 sec.
has previously been recorded.
Boyd did not enter for the Hop Bitters Regatta.
It is said that he is so satisfied with his recent experi-
ences that he is very unlikely to enter any regatta, or
to make any match in future, unless quite sure of the
calibre of intending opponents. He is perfectly inde-
pendent, has a flourishing business and money besides,
and is in a far better position socially and in every
other way than many a haughty gentleman amateur.
A meeting of Laycock’s supporters was held at
Punch’s Hotel on Monday evening last —Mr. J. Thomp-
son in the chair. The total sum collected amounts to
£365, of which £347 had been remitted. It was decided
to make no further collections, the race having been
made for £5OO. It was stated that a letter had been
written to Laycock, and that news might be expected
from him or the editor of the Sportsman before the
date of the race.
The first trial heat of the Hop Bitters Contest,
won by Laycock, with Hawdon second ; time, 15m. 335.;
distance, 2| miles. Second heat, Wallace Eoss won
easily, Eiley second; time, 16m. Bsec. Third heat,
Hosmer first. Smith second; time, 16m. 55sec. Fourth
heat, Trickett first, Nicholson second; time, 15m.7sec.
Second day—The first trial heat won by Eoss, Hosmer
second; time, 16m. 22sec. Second heat, Laycock first.
Smith second. Laycock won this heat easily. Trickett
started, but failed to secure a place, although he claimed
second position on account of an alleged foul, but it
was not allowed. Trickett was first favourite at sto 4.
His rowing was a great disappointment, his form being
inferior to that displayed in the race with Hanlan.
The deciding heat between Boss, Laycock, Hosmer, and
Smith, was rowed over the Champion course from Put-
ney to Mortlake, four miles and a quarter, and resulted
in an easy win for Laycock; time, 26m. 43sec. Wallace
Ross was second, Hosmer third, and Smith fourth.
A foul occurred between Laycock and Ross, and the
latter claimed the first prize, but the umpire decided it
in favour of Laycock. The prizes were—lst, £500;
2nd, £3OO ; 3rd, £160; 4th, £4O. From all accounts, it
would appear that the foul in question was a deliberate
one on the part of Boss.
The sporting papers of England seem to have
made a dead-set against our representatives. All the
accounts of Laycock’s victories are one-sided; unfortu-
nately it had to be recorded that he won his races.
Hosmer and Blackman had him at their mercy during
the first mile by all accounts; but the Australian’s
persistence rewarded him with victory. It is quite
evident that he was rowing his own race at any time
during his contests. As Elias himself says, “ j don’t
lick ’em —I let ’em lick themselves.”
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
A httle boy was nearly thrashed to death at a
Sunday-school at Hobart, by a son of the Eev. In-
cumbent’s, for a trifling fault.
Archdeacon Davenport, of Southern Tasmania,
has been very lucky in mining speculations. He has
“ ever so many ” Bischotf shares.
The drapery establishments in Hobart are dis-
missing assistants, wholesale and retail. “ Oh ! ye,
visitors!” is the cry, “ come, and be fleeced !”
A true specimen of Australian “ blowing.” The
very latest—Victorian Press on Melbourne as the great
wool terminus of the Australias. Later still—another
Press — in reply.
William Tarleton, Coroner, Police Magistrate,
Master Warden, &c., of Hobart, is brother to the late
Vice-Admiral Tarleton, recently deceased, who sank
the big iron-clad in the Channel.
Alderman’ Watchorn, of Hobart, retires from
his hostelrie at Christmas. He is a wealthy and
worthy boniface, upon whom Dame Fortune has smiled
and every card has proved a trump.
What a change ! This year, “ The Honorable
James Eobinson, ML C.” Next year, plain “Jimmy
Eobinson, landlord of the Eoyal Oak public-house,
Liverpool - street.” “ Oh! what a falling off was
there!”
Young lawyers in Hobart Town keep the gas
burning in their offices all the evening. It looks well,
and quite warrants the expense. They needn’ c stay in
the offices, but can look after the midnight “ Hoyle ”
elsewhere.
Martin Simonsen has been in Hobart Town with
his opera company, doing good business, though the
attempt at a subscription was almost a failure. The
wind-up was a brilliant triumph. The three daughters
were a great success.
E. N. C. Braddon, M.H.A. (and brother of Miss
Braddon, the novelist), has gone back to his free-
selection, and is already looking forward to the next
session of Parliament and Hobart Town gaieties. The
newspaper scheme don’t come off.
The Rev. Mrs. Murphy, Lady Superioress of the
Presentation Convent, Hobart, is dead. She was the
Bishop’s sister, and introduced the order into the
colony twenty years since. It has spread wonderfully
under her guidance and direction.
The Attorney-General of Tasmania (the Hon.
J. S Dodds), and the Minister for Lands and Works
(Hon. C. O’Eeilly), were blackballed at the Tasma-
nian Club last week. Only old Imperial officers, bank
clerks, and impecunious strangers find entrance there.
Alice Johns and Harry Simmons fled from Tas-
mania. “ Where are they p” ask lots of their admirers
across the Straits. They left their scene-painter and
a supernumerary in gaol for attempting an unauthor-
ised entrance into the hall, where some properties,
seized for rent, had been deposited.
A handicap match for a racket is being played
at the Hobart Town Tennis Court. The first ties have
been played, and the second ties are :—Mr. John Mac-
farlane and the Hon. A. Dobson; Messrs. T. M. Evans
and S. S. Travers; Eev. J. C. Mace and Mr. C. Poynter;
Mr. Justice Dobson and Dr. Holden,
Solomon Bleay, official rope-tier in Hobart,
hasn’t had a job for some years. He ekes out a living
in the marine store line, but would dearly like a billet
elsewhere, where there was more business. He says
that at present it is all kicks and no ha’pence. He
is a most accomplished and experienced artist.
Alderman Addison is the “Gatehouse” of
Hobart. He was suspected of being the “ghost"
whose pranks annoyed the residents lately, as the white
object several times disappeared in the Alderman’s
garden. Curiously enough, too, the only man con-
nected with the phenomena was Neviu, the Town Hall
keeper. The Alderman was not re-elected last week,
and is municipally in bad odour.
Frederic Pedder. Superintendent of Police in
Hobart Town, has only been a year or so in that office,
but he has already effected great improvements in the
rank-and-file of the force. He has the advantage of a
long legal training, having spent nearly twenty years in
one of the first lawyer’s offices in the city. Mr. Pedder
will never set the Derwent on fire, but he has quite
enough “ go” in him to prevent other people doing so.
When a certain Sandhurst artist was in Hobart,
he persuaded the theatre people, in a weak moment, to
let him do them a new act-drop. It was a fearful thing,
but John Fry’s river scene had been removed, so it had
to be put ud with. A fortnight ago the theatre had to
be done up, and the opportunity was taken to put Fry’s
drop back in its place. The Sandhurst man’s canvas
has been used as a back scene, his chef d'oeuvre having
been painted over altogether.
TASMAN.
The Royal Furnishing Arcade.
This week is given the exterior view of this well-known
and highly-favoured establishment. It is now about
five years since the late proprietor (Mr. W. B.
Campbell) succeeded in obtaining possession of these
extensive premises. He was then carrying on, at 784
George-street South, a business which, through his un-
tiring efforts, had grown so large that it was neces-
sary to do something in order to meet the requirements
of his constituents. The present premises being so
centrally situated and in every respect convenient for
carrying on the business, were at once secured. It was
with great labour the business was removed, but nearly
everybody knows with what success. It will doubtless
be remembered by most of our readers that in Septem-
her last Mr. W. B. Campbell retired in favour of his
four sons, who are now carrying on the business in the
same systematic manner as did their father. Theirshow-
rooras look magnificent,—the goods displayed have been
selected with such remarkable judgment and good taste,
and are so placed that is a pleasure to look at them. But
this is not all. Every article is marked, and marked in
such a distinct manner, that, in walking through, a
visitor can examine and judge for himself. It appears
that the whole success of the establishment is
based upon the pure legitimate mode of doing business.
Nothing can he more straightforward than buying and
selling for cash, and marking everything in plain figures
at the lowest nett cash price. The consideration with
which Messrs. Campbell Brothers treat their customers
is worthy of special remark. The attention of persons
desirous of purchasing Christmas presents is directed
to their upstairs show-room. Special arrangements
have been made for this festive season; and
the establishment, “ which will bo open on Wed-
nesday evening until nine o’clock as usual,” will also
be open on Thursday and Friday evenings until the
same hour, specially for the convenience of visiters
and the sale of Christmas goods. To those about to
furnish, it may safely he said—Go, and judge for your-
selves ; get a copy of the House-furnishing Guide; and
make a careful visit of inspection. You will not be
pressed to buy, for that is against the rules of the
establishment, bnt that you will buy, is, we think, most
probable. The Arcade has proved a great boon to the
colony, thanks to Mr. W. B. Campbell who
has also done good service in the training of hi/
sons, and grounding them in the same good business
principles as he himself possesses.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS’ ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, NEXT
ROYAL HOTEL. (SEE ADYT. ON PAGE 12.)


Tailors, Drapers, See.
JJAYID
JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTHING
COMPANY’S
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s iTomenade suits.
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen's Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAVLD
Orient
Bae Suits,
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Sac suite,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(The latest shape; a use-
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- ’ suit,
nary wear.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban- 43s per
nockburns. for Spring ' Suit,
and Summer wear.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat j per suit
checks and mixtures, j
JJAVED
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAVID
Orient
Walking suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Berg Suits.
JJAVID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Bummer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Specially Light andV
Durable, the materials 1
ha% n; been well y
shr n< before being sml ‘
made up. J
JONES AND COMPANY’S
'ln Superior Oriental']
I Tweeds, cut in the |
latest style, and '>■
finished the same as
. ordered clothing. J
68s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Beautifully light in'
Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
colour and very dur- ( per suit
able in wear.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
shrunk.
("Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient (
Clotidng, as being' Geulemens
the best value, and J- Orient
most perfect in st ■ le I Clothing,
and Hush procurable {
„ m the colony. J
'ln superior Tasmanians
Flannel, thoroughly f lgg - d
{China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
!In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
in Super Black Menno, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
("In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
7 In Black Merino. 30s.
(, In Super Sergerette, 555.
(Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
>t „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
(In Superior, all Wool')
■J Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
C finished. j
r A Special Dress Over-'i
8, J
x t yovnai x/i too v/» ui
coat, silk trimmings,
and facings, beauti-
fully li-ht, and agree-
able to wear
‘J
JONES AND COMPANY.
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPUING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their F.XCFLLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Ladies will be much interested
Wri'H THE HAKGAINSand NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN'S
(the “ Hordern ”of the oirv i. LAOIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEAhANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
READERS OF “ THE BULLETIN *
recollect that
HORDERN’S,
PITT STREET,
is still
THE CHEAPEST SHOP
for al! kinds of
SILKS, SATINS, AND CARPETS.
Witness t he splendid
CHRISTMAS SILKS, at Is. lid.,
now being
EXHIBITED IN MY WINDOWS,
211 PUT STREET,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX XXXXX xxxxxxxxx
Money
M
0 N E Y.
MONET,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening. 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY’ TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, Ac., Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ „ 0 7 6
20 „ „ 010 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
jyj" ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY’, 760 George-street. Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
T OANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
1 J moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-srreet. next comer
King-street. Established 1859,
rjiHE
OSBORNE WIRE AND TWINE
SELF-BUS DING HARVESTERS,
AND THE
NOB COMBINED REAPERS AND MOWERS
are the best in the market.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Sole Agent.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEOKGF-STREET,
(over Peate and Hnreourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
i I N T IN
Of Every Description
REDUCED RATES
A T
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax,).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.'
Tailors, Drapers, Sec.
JB. Y O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND OBITER A L DRAPER,
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below TJverpool-et.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making- their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
fTHOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
' comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
, ments, &c
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, UICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
J variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25sto 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices ; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS,
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTM- NT, from the
first houses in Loudon and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
] variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other fabrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures, The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
- ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to BJd; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9fd
to ISd ; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d ; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to ltd; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain ; British Cambrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
2"s. We have in stock upwards
- of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
k all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
'S'
‘ A C E CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of thccity),
ivites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
P LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
RADE. LOVELY PATIERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
ud OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
3 lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
JjJT AN NIX BROTHER S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOE
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address i
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET,
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 61, 2s 61, ss, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9i 3- 9d 4s 9d
OE POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Out Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESKNFS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
MILLINERY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
JfjXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STKEET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d , 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TEOUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrank
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED,
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
T
HE
BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIEST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) geoegk btbeet,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Estabmshbd 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s fld
•a - All goods well made, well shrank, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business os a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Will be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing rom other Houses,
Go then to M. Q.’s for your Millinery
h »» m ,i Baby Linen
, ~ ~ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ ~ i, ~ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
I^ONDON
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-stroet),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d,
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
„ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed,
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
ON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is «’ne to the following statements :
First. —AH our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturer*.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goode.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.


Hotels, &c.
OCCIDENTAL HOTEL.
VVTNUKD SUUARE,
SYDNEY, NE1V SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club H oose Hotel, Okakge.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c. w -
E 0 B E E T S,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
J C. W A L K E E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
JBEATED WATEE3, GINGEE BEES,
and
COEDI AL MANUFACTUREE,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &o.
T
HE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies' and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chM de cuisine of the Union Clab
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
June 30,1880.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
/COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSIER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor wis an officer in the
service of the A S.N. Co. tor thirteen year's, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has ore of Alcock’a best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
IHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, Ac-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leadjng papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, gfC., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed E oms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook's Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all tilled up in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and ou most reasonable
terms.
T
n a
HOTEL.
TTEK BALL’S
JL TEREAvA,
PATRICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagong),
Proprietor.
W None but first class ALES, WINES, A SPIRITS
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCHCK’S F JI, U-SIZEU BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and B u GO Y always in readiness.
Commercial Travellei e and Visitors to SHOAL-
HAVEN supplied witb Private or Public Conveyances
on receipt of lelgram or letter. Aso a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “ Bulletin ” Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel
N
E W
E A L A N D.
To Tourists and others Visiting Nkw Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEaR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARAWERA
(Wairoa). in the viciuity of the far-famed ROTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
Ou receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “The
Manager,’’ at. Eberslie, the fullest iuioimation will be
immediately supplied.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF TTrE WATWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NE W ZEALAND).
BY Dr. ECCLkS
Lake House. Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot, Springs) also Like
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose oi inv estimating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. 1 have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned ny Mr. R. Graham, and have to
thank him ai d his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. 'J he Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
medicinal qualities whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mentioned place) are such that
every person possessing the me ns ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels have been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M 8.. Cantab; P R.C A, L.M , Edin.
Jj - E W ZEALAND.
The Hotel par excellence in New Zealand is the
ALBERT HOTEL,
QUEEN STREET. AUCKLAND,
E. J. DAVIDSON (late of the Star Hotel), Proprietor
Tourists visiting Auck’and should first write and secure
accommodation at THE ALBERT.
Apartments en suite for ladies and families.
Superb accommodation in each department, and all the
et-ceteras of a bigh-c ass hotel.
O ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Wester*
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gent l emen. Comfort, cle mliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. O COUSINS,
Proprietor.
l-l—' f
/ii
II
SOLE MANUFACTUEEES :
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
£8 MACQUAEIE PLACE. SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY:
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
„i the “O?* effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. ; is
durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
a . n , coai a ?<3, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
cubic feet of 'gas t * le °l tallow Uh °d and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of taliow will make 100
nm! 0 !!!*' particulars, apply at tho Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of onr contract.
a JK ? 1, C<>- also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
It Prevents all rattling It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
1579.®> lt C ° r^B This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
The. Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
The Name of M. MOSS & 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office—24 O’CONNELL STREET.
F O S T E li.
m
km
The BEST ALE and S TOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
owr
//hj
Sole
Proprietors,
ow
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should he carefully r o "pared, as Drue quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, iu favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
R,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
CNear Hunter-street).
fJIHE
GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
a/r
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o[K\x. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals:—London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
18b2; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. R*qm .), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili) 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
• not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARTA FARINA,
Jiilichs-Piatz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. EABONE, PEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNTARD SQUARE,
SY DNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuuooloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Kart, Theodor Staiger,
“Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES. William-street.
R. S. TIQHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington
rO H N A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
JUNIPER
TREE
G I N.
This celebrated Futeh Gin may now be o hiinel of
all storekeepers ai d respect a ‘le botelkesp -s. One
trial will pi< \ e it si perior to the common we ,k unma-
tured Gin now so largely command.
&
rd
31
.Q
PI
&
n
ih
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for ita PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—(J tl a a tATH,
2 -RTiiGF STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clear £8 .1 c > di on alone f Bull Dog
Ale that prescr\e. tf i- hrv d lirst in pj! lie esti-
mation. Common hitter 'rude heeis are made very fine,
but no other brand has u c same n el'ow vinous charai -
ter, the fulness on fhe palate, aid the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C< n -aimers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the l ommoD bters referred to as
equal in quality to the Bnil Dog. J. E, CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
m
y/.
iRAOL Mark
B
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with ere t care from the best of the brew-
ings of the releluat d flr nof ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. B CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
No pantomimes in N.Z. this year.
The Martinetti family are in New Orleans.
Proctor drew immense houses in Napier, N.Z.
Cole’s circus is taking all the loose cash in N.Z.
Emilie Melville, the dear little woman, has got
very thin.
Lottie Wilmot is lecturing in Christchurch,
N.Z., with great success.
Sara Bernhardt’s great ambition is to play
Lady Macbeth in English.
Lydia Howarde and an opera bouffe company
are playing in Christchurch.
Miss Horan, Miss Adelle, and Messrs. Overton
and Craig are well liked in N.Z.
A blood-curdling announcement—“An enter-
tainment of a pleasing character.”
Hesford, Tyrrell, and their company have been
playing to good houses at Gympie.
Loyal, the gymnast, has been astonishing San
Francisco at Woodward’s Gardens.
Grattan Riggs recently played “ Uncle Pete” in
the Octoroon, at Christchurch, N.Z.
“Professor” Bruce, a travelling mesmerist, is
on the war-path in the Southern districts.
Hawley and Buislay, the gymnasts who were
with us some time ago, have gone to Paris.
Charles Raymond, one-legged pedestal dancer, is
one of the features of English music halls.
Woodyear’s (late Burton’s) circus played for
three nights to crowded houses at Forbes.
Among those who came to Australia with the
Musgrove Opera Company is Fred. Mervin.
Professor and Madame Haselmayer have been
engaged by Mr. R. W. Cary for a N.Z. tour.
The Lydia Howarde Opera-bouffe Company play
at Wellington during the Christmas holidays.
Charles Harcourt, the well-known English
actor, has died from the effect of an accident.
The “ Confederate Diorama ” was unfolded at
Wanganui, N.Z., for a few nights to fair houses.
Lydia Howarde has been giving New Zealanders
the celebrated aria, “ Lo, hear the Gentle Lark !”
Frank and Rosa Towers were at Cape Town in
November, and hope to reach Melbourne in March.
At latest dates George Riguold was playing
Henry V., at Bristol, with in all respects excellent
results.
Chalet, the ventriloquist, had a benefit in
Wellington, N.Z. He left for San Francisco by the
last mail.
The Byronic Comedy Company recently played
at Wanganui, N.Z. “ The Kellys ” was one of the
attractions.
Modjeska’s chief forte is falling on the stage.
She falls like a snow flake, without an effort, a sound,
or an accident.
Walter Reynolds will probably bring his com-
pany from N.Z. and follow Mr. Dodge at the Theatre
Royal, Hobart.
New Zealanders say that the menagerie in
connection with Cole’s circus is the best travelling one
they have seen.
M. Leloir, a young man just out of his teens,
has made a brilliant ddbut at the Comedie Francaise,
Paris, as Harpagon.
Simonsen’s Opera Company produced “ Pina-
fore” at Invercargill, N.Z. Splendid business was done
at this small town.
Signor Motley and his pupils recently produced
“ Lucrezia Borgia” at the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin,
N.Z. Poor houses.
H. F. Towle, the well-known tenor, played the
defendant in “ Trial by Jury,” at Christchurch, N.Z.,
under Lydia Howarde.
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson fishing at New
Norfolk, Tasmania, for a fortnight. They open in
“ Struck Oil ” on Dec. 27.
“ Sinbad the Sailor” is to be the name of the
Melbourne Theatre Royal Pantomime, with Nelly
Stewart as principal attraction.
Alice Dunning Lingard had a crowded house on
her benefit night in Dunedin, N.Z. But then, all
theatre-goers like Mrs. Lingard.
Frederick Buckstone, son of the great comedian,
is dying of consumption. For 20 years he has struggled
for a living ns a landscape painter.
Lingard and Searell produced “ The Wreck of
the Pinafore” at Dunedin, N.Z., and the local press
slated most of the company unmercifully.
Ketten drew immense houses at the Garrison
Hall, Dunedin, N.Z. He visits all the principal towns.
He opens at Christchurch on Boxing Night.
Miss Myra Kemble is engaged for the forth-
coming dramatic season by Mr. James Allison, as
leading lady at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
It is said that Mr> and Mrs. Lingard go to
America after the Christmas season in Auckland. They
did big business in Christchurch and Napier.
John Bryan has filled seventy-two pages of
foolscap in writing his life. He has been two months
at it, and says he has only got the skeleton of it yet.
Thompson’s Mirror of the Zulu War was shown
for five nights in Goulburn to good houses. The
Massive Chief proceeds to Newcastle for a fortnight.
There are at present playing in various parts of
America a Mr. Walter Montgomery, a Miss Jessie
Gray, a Mr. Frank Weston, and a Mr. Fred. Marshall.
Ketten’s agent is active in N.Z. He has
already visited the principal towns, and made necessary
arrangements for the marvellous pianist’s appearance.
The Victoria Loftus Troupe are playing to good
houses in Cooktown. They are the first company that
have gone on to Cooktown from the South for many
months.
Mrs. G. W. B. Lewis produces “ The School for
Scandal ” at Melbourne Bijou for the last week before
Christmas. Doubles are the rule, to save expense,
actors, managers, and the audience too being the
victims.
Miss Josephine Deakin’s concert is fixed for
next Wednesday, at the Masonic Hall. The charming
soprano will be supported by the leading vocal talent
in Sydney.
Mr. W. J. Holloway and family, the Misses
Alice and Constance Deorwyn, and the Theatre Royal
Company support Miss Louise Pomeroy during her
provincial tour.
At the “ genteel comedy evening” given on
Separation Night by Morton Tavares and wife, assisted
by Brisbane amateurs, the audience was good in quality
but not in quantity.
The Juvenile Troubadours drew only fair houses
whilst in Townsville, where they played for a fortnight.
They are now at Charters Towers, where, we learn by
wire, a good run is promised. Big business was done
on opening, they intend giving a pantomime on Boxing
Night,
At Melbourne Theatre Royal Mr. Hoskins se-
lected The Hunchback for his Benefit. Louise Pomeroy
appeared as Julia. The lady tenders Mr. Hoskins a
grand testimonial.
Mr. W. H. Thompson now says that there is
only one thing in his possession that he will not give
away at the Zulu War Diorama. It is a late acquisition
of which he is very fond.
Mdlle. Charbonnet, the prematurely young
•pianiste, is a constant visitor at Government House,
Melbourne. Le Patourel is angry at the snubbing
Mademoiselle [receives at the bands of the Akops
critic.
At one time, in Melbourne, the Victoria Arcade
was chiefly patronized by the Georgia Minstrels. It was
continually a case of arcades — not amho— but we forget
the Latin for “ several.”
Playbills announce that on Boxing Night the
Gaiety will open with “a comedy written by the late
Charles Dickens Esq., entitled ‘ Quilp.’” Now what
the Dickens is meant by this ?
A Miss Abbot, of New York, allows her agent
to advertise her as a special attraction by reason of her
ability to kiss a male member of her troupe on the
stage with exceptional feryor.
ALondon critic says that Salsbury’s Troubadours
are not overflowing with talent, and that no doubt they
will soon find their proper level in some more congenial
place than the theatre! Rough !
At the Melbourne People’s, Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner is supported by Mr. Hamilton’s company and
numerous other professionals on the occasion of her
benefit, when she will play Lady Macbeth.
Mr. Emmet plays Dick Swiveller in “ Quilp,”
Miss Melrose, Little Nell; Miss Maggie Ford, the cele-
brated Marchioness; Mrs. Seagrave, Kit, and Miss
Bella Sutherland (from London), Sally Brass.
Our new Bijou Theatre, the Gaiety, can hold
over £l3O nightly. It is as pretty as the Prince of
Wales, London—at least, so says a dramatic critic who
recently arrived here from the second Babylon.
Teresa Tua, of Turin, a young girl of thirteen,
bore off the first prize as a violinist at ti, e Paris Con-
servatory last year. She has been offered 40,000 dollars
for a five years’ tour through the United States.
What an awful slip ! Sally B. had a special
wire sent to the American Press: “ Sara Bernhardt
left Paris to-day. Nearly everyone in the station
kissed her,” and they went and printed it hissed her.
The success of “Pinafore” is bearing fruit.
A new operetta on a nautical subject, entitled “Billee
Taylor,” by Mr. E. Solomon and Mr. H. P. Stephens,
was recently produced in London, and met with
favour.
M. Jules Meilhan has composed a Mass which
will be publicly performed (for the first time) at Adelaide
Town Hall on Christmas night. The local press, judging
from a rehearsal, speaks very favorably of the com-
position.
When the mail left Proctor was lecturing at
Auckland, N.Z., with his usual success. The great
astronomer will spend Christmas holidays at the Hot
Lakes. His N.Z. tom- has been a success from every
point of view.
Professor and Madame Haselmayer, at latest
advices, were playing at the Princess Theatre, Dunedin,
N.Z., to payable houses. The Professor has many
personal friends in Maoriland. At latest, he was about
to visit Timaru.
The tyranny of the N.T. Custom officials in
seizing Bernhardt’s wardrobe is causing a flutter. Had
the actress been in the burlesque line, she might have
sent all her clothes by the mail with the outlay of a
twopenny stamp.
The Melbourne Polytechnic, late Novelty, is to
be opened on Christmas Eve under the title of the
Duke’s Theatre, by Mr. Sam Emery, who produces a
romantic drama, assisted by all the available talent.
Good luck to him.
Cole’s advance agent passed Tasmania on the
14th inst. in the Arawata. The show proceeds to
Adelaide, thence to Melbourne, Sydney and ’Frisco.
They do not play in Tasmania, as they do not think
they could pay expenses.
A circus manager wanted a new name for his
show. A wicked undergraduate suggested “mono-
hippie aggregation" as good, and the circusman had
got three towns billed before he was informed that
“monohippic aggregation” meant "one-horse lot.”
Sara Bernhardt is the champion thin woman,
and her attenuated figure forms a stock subject for the
Parisian jesters. It is said that she once hid herself
behind a riding whip, and that one evening an empty
carriage drove up to the theatre, and she alighted from
it.
“ Billy Wilson” was lately acquitted at the
Wanganui Supreme Court of stealing 255., while another
member of the Georgias (Clarke) got eighteen months.
Billy made a funny face which “knocked ” the jury.
That’s how he got off. He was congratulated by the
judge I
Miss Clara Spencer, under the supervision of
Barlow, is practising daily with a view to entering the
sawdust arena. It is said that she will shortly appear as
“ Mdlle. Clarissa Trevelian, the peerless and dashing
equestrienne, in her graceful acts and daring feats of
equitation.”
Millis and Croft’s Froliques, consisting of Miss
Patty Holt, Fred. W. Millis, ventriloquist, R. Croft,
pianist and vocalist, George Roney, comic vocalist,
and Ameer Tom Tit, dwarf, open at the Apollo Hall,
Melbourne, on Boxing Night, under engagement to
Mr. Jas. Kitts.
Everybody admires Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis as a
most capable actress and a nice woman. But the
Melbourne people don’t understand why she takes a
girl’s role (Lady Constance) in “ The Love Chase.”
She may be able to manage her face, but her figure is
decidedly rebellious.
Of the people who severed their connection with
Chiarini’s circus in this country, Maffit and Lazelle,
Jennie Watson and F. Sylvester, with a troupe of
trained dogs, are travelling with St. Leon’s circus;
Bartolo and Boss (agent) are with Burton’s; Siegrist
is in Sydney, waiting for Cole.
Says a Dunedin (N.Z.) paper:—While the
farce was being played at the Princess’s Theatre, the
other night, a scene representing the front of a house
fell on Mr. Lingard. The Butterman did not seem the
least abashed at the incident, quietly remarking, after
the laughter had subsided, “ that every actor could not
* bring down a house.’ ”
The English courts of law will be called on to
decide a case that will be of interest to dramatic writers.
Messrs. Herman Merivale and Grove, the authors of a
very successful play called “ Forget Me Not,” have
applied for an injunction to prevent Genevieve Ward
from performing the piece, on the plea that one charac-
ter has been omitted from the cast.
Lydia Howarde had a successful benefit in
Christchurch. N.Z. The programme comprised one
act of “Chilperic” and “H.M.R. Pinafore,” Miss
Howarde playing the title role in the first piece, and
Josephine in the other. One of the features of the
performance was the Ancient Order of Druids in full
regalia in the Druidical scene of “ Chilperic.”
Last Friday, it was observed that the sun shone
brighter in Sydney. That was because of the arrival
of Miss Nellie Mansell, the charming variety actress.
On Monday last, there was a misty ring around the
gleaming orb. That was because Miss Nellie had left
for the Macleay, where she is going to “ star ” in the
song and dance business, or in Lady Macbeth, we forget
which.
Miss Pomeroy, in Melbourne last week departed
from the classic realms of Shaksperian drama and
assumed the role of the heroine in an Americanised
version of “ East Lynne.” Her impersonation of Lady
Isabel is spoken of as less satisfactory than as Madame
Vine. Mr. Carey was Archibald Carlyle, Mr. Hoskins
Lord Mount-Sevem, and Mrs. Edouin Bryer Cornelia
Carlyle.
The report that Mr. Boucicault was dead is
untrue. Though always Dion, he never dies, which
may seem peculiar, but he is a very steady man ; and
the same remark applies to his companies, not one of
which is Boozy-co. [The above paragraph is curtailed.
The author’s copy went on like this for about half a
column, but we do not really think it safe at this
festive season.)
A San Francisco paper writes :—“ Emilie Mel-
ville, the lovely favorite of our audiences, filled her
part with a delicacy and a charm quite her own. Her
voice seems to have gathered a fresh tone, due to her
long rest, and her numbers, though not calculated to
show off her full power, were exquisitely rendered, the
brilliant waltz introduced in the second act making up
for the deficiency.
This comes from Albnry, and we need hardly
say it appeared in the Penny Bennett:—“The Drama.—
Herr Bandmann appeared the other day at the Exchange
Theatre, in company with Miss Beaudet, in some
Shakesperian impersonations. By the way, this gentle-
man is not the Bandmann who created such a furore a
few years ago, is he ?” It won’t be long before Daniel
is back again in Albury—with a crow-bar.
Mr. J. J. Kennedy, a stock actor well-known in
Sydney, is making rapid strides in the profession in
New Zealand. Writes a Christchurch journal:—“ As a
comedian he possesses many good points, and as an Irish
comedian he is particularly good. His Fe'ix O’Cal-
laghan, a role in which the public of Christchurch first
made acquaintance with him, produced so favourable
an impression on those who witnessed it, that he at
once established his reputation with them.”
Grattan Riggs’ season in Christchurch, N.Z.,
was not a financial success. Says one of the local
papers;—“ It is a peculiarity of this artist that, judg-
ing from the characters which he has played here—he
never repeals himself. Each impersonation is ab-
solutely distinct from every other, and each has been
carefully studied till all appearance of study has been
removed, and every action and word is spontaneous.”
At latest, Riggs and Company were at Wanganui.
Cole’s mammoth show did capital business in
Wellington, N.Z. Unfortunately, the first advertised
performance hod to be postponed in consequence of the
tent being blown down. Onr correspondent advises all
sawdust shows to fight shy of windy Wellington. It is
rather an extraordinary coincidence that just about
twelve months ago Chiarini’s circus visited the town,
and also had their tents blown down. When the last
mail left, the “ congress of living wonders ’’ was in
Christchurch.
The Simonsen Opera Company Commenced their
Dunedin season of twenty-four nights on the 14th. The
following are the principal artistes : —Madame Fanny
Simonsen, Miss Martina Simonsen, and Miss Eugenie
Dehaes (soprani), Miss Leonora Simonsen, Miss Carrie
Godfrey, and Miss Jane Douglas (contralti). Signor
Pietro Paladini, Signor Bianchi, and Mr. A. Crain
(tenori). Signor Riccardi (baritone), Mr. Ernest St.
Clair and Mr. H. Wentworth (bassi). Mans. Martin
Simonsen is the conductor.
Miss Eva Davenport, who so successfully played
Josephine with the Kelly and Leon company when
“ Pinafore was first produced in Sydney, was given a
complimentary benefit at the Mechanics’ Hall, Laun-
ceston, the other evening, and met with a capital re-
ception in the character mentioned above. The local
papers speak very highly of the performance. Miss
Davenport is now continuing her vocal studies under
the tuition of Madame Lucy Chambers in Melbourne.
She was. we hear, engaged to play the Queen in the
in the “ Royal Middy” in Sydney at Christmas, but the
arrangement with the Sydney management fell
through.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
December 17.
Last Saturday morning Mr. Macmeikan and
Miss Langwill were married in St. Paul’s Church by
the Rev. Amos Brazier, who came all the way from
Lancefield to officiate at the ceremony. The bride
wore a very handsome white silk dress, trimmed with
brocade, and a white wreath and veil. Her sisters and
the bridegroom’s sister were the only bridesmaids.
They were becomingly attired in white cashmere
trimmed with pale blue silk, and wore forget-me-not
wreaths and long tulle veils. Mr. J. Macmeikan was the
best man. The bride’s eldest brother, Mr. Archibald
Langwill, well known on your side, was unfortunately
prevented from being present, owing to an attack of
that unromaHtie complaint, measles. The bride re-
ceived a number of pretty presents, and in the after,
noon the happy pair left for Beaconsfield, where they
are spending their honeymoon.
The same day the Australian Eleven com-
menced their match with fifteen Victorian players, on
the Melbourne Cricket Ground. There was a large
attendance. On Monday afternoon the game was
resumed. The Grand Stand and Reserve were crowded.
The ladies tried to wear summer costumes, but the
weather was so bitterly cold that many had to assume
seal-skin jackets, fur tippets, and other winter luxuries.
Mrs. W. J. Clarke’s garden party was a great
success. The weather was all that could be desired.
The guests were conveyed to Rupertswood by special
train. After a splendid luncheon out-door games were
resorted to. A marquee was erected for dancing, where
a band was provided. The ladies discovered a real
fortune-teller in an artistic little grotto, who made
them happy or miserable as the case might be. Later
in the afternoon a concert was given in the hall at
Rupertswood, at which Signora Boi>ma, Miss Christian,
and other artists assisted. His Excellency and Lady
Normanby, the Earl and Countess of Ellesmere were
among the guests, who were numerous. The cos-
tumes were very tasteful. The young ladies appeared for
the most part in white embroidered muslin dresses or
Madras muslin over sateen, and exquisite little toques
or lace hats to match. Others wore handsomer cos-
tumes of silk and velvet. Some of the married ladies
had very elegant dresses.
The cricket match on Saturday slightly inter-
fered with the attendance at the Exhibition, for the
returns only gave the total 8031. The last of the
series of performances by the Australian Band was
given on this occasion.
A Melbourne evening contemporary published
Professor A. S. Hamilton’s opinion of the physical,
moral.and intellectual causes of the unparalleled success
of the Australian Eleven! lam sure the cricketers
are indebted to the phrenologist for a great deal of
foreign information on the subject.
About 6000 persons visited the graving dock on
Sunday to see the Sorata. The agents arranged that
sixpence should be charged for admission on board,
and £63 was collected, which is to be handed to the
Melbourne charities.
Lovers of music looked forward with pleasure
to the performance of Mr. Charles Packer’s oratorio,
“ The Crown of Thoms,” which was given in the Town
Hall on Monday night—under circumstances, however,
that must have been very trying to the author, to say
nothing of the public. It appears that the Strauss
Band was at first engaged to perform. But this
arrangement fell through, and at the last moment
another band was improvised and engaged to take their
place. But the performers refused to play unless pay-
ment was guaranteed. This matter was, I believe,
arranged even while the audience were awaiting im-
patiently in the hall. Miss Rosina Carandini (Mrs
Palmer), the leading vocalist, had only the previous
day suffered sad domestic affliction in the loss of one
of her children, and sang under most sorrowful
necessity. The musical critics incline favorably to-
wards the work, and express a desire for a second
performance.
A large congregation assembled in Scots’
Church, Collins-street, on Sunday morning. The Rev.
C. Strong was attentively listened to. He has quite
got his people’s sympathy in the late attack made on
his orthodoxy.
On Monday the female prisoners were removed
from Pentndge to the Melbourne Gaol. They are a
fearful set of women. Most of them can trace their
crimes to the effects of intoxication. They nearly all
have dark hair, which fact goes a long way to prove the
assertion of a late writer, that crime is most frequently
committed by dark-eyed, dark-haired, dark-com-
plexioned people; and supports the Darwinian theory,
for no one has ever yet seen a white monkey.
On Tuesday afternoon Mr. W. J. Clarke’s
matinee musicale was held in the Town Hall, which
was crowded by a fashionable audience, including His
Excellency and the Marchioness of Normanby, and the
Countess of Ellesmere. The singers were Mrs. Palmer,
Mrs. Cutter, Mrs. Cotterell, Miss Lucinda Blackham,
and Miss May Hill, Mr. Charles Turner, Signor Verdi,
and Mr. Moroney ; Mdlle. Charbonnet and Mr. Buddee,
pianists. Mrs. Cotterell sang Blumenthal’s “ Love,
the Pilgrim,” a most exquisite song. Mrs Cutter sang
“ The Eastern Gate,” by Berthold Tours. Mrs. Palmer
gave “Never Again” with much pathos; and Mr.
Turner sang “The Message” with good effect. He has
a very fine tenor voice. Lady Normanby and the
Countess wore black silk dresses. Mrs. Malleson wore
a dark green brocade, trimmed with old gold, satin and
lace bonnet to match. Mrs. W. J. Clarke wore black
and cream ; and Mrs. Cutter black velvet and cream,
and a cream togue to match.
On Tuesday Mr. W. J. Daly, the Commissioner
for New Caledonia, gave a pic-nic to about 300 guests,
including the Foreign Commissioners and representa-
tives of foreign and intercolonial Courts. The party
went up the Yarra to the Survey Paddock, where
luncheon was laid out in tents. A band was provided,
and dancing took place in a marquee erected for the
purpose.
This has been a week of school sports and
speech days. On Tuesday, the Presbyterian Ladies’
College held its annual distribution of prizes in the
Athenaeum. Sir James M'Culloch occupied the chair,
and distributed the prizes. Mr. Budd’s distribution
of prizes took place the following Thursday, and the
same day, at the Convent of Mercy, Nicholson-street,
quite an imposing ceremony took place on occasion of
the annual speech day. The pupils took part in scenes
from four plays in four different languages—French,
Italian, German, and English. The whole of the English
play, “ The Crusaders before Antioch,” was given.
The young ladies acquitted themselves most creditably,
and gave proof of their proficiency in the different
tongues. A selection of music was also well rendered,
and Miss Petty, who danced a Spanish dance in
costume, evoked enthusiastic applause.
On Wednesday morning', Mr. George Young, of
the firm of Scott and Young, was married at St. Peter's
Church to Miss Phoebe Linniker. Despite the cold
showery weather, the bridal party assembled in the
church looked their best, and seemed determined not to
mind the rain. It was a quiet, pretty little wedding,
only immediate friends being present. The bride
wore peacock-blue sdk trimmed with lace and a pretty
little bonnet to match, and looked very charming. Mr.
George Young is a very fine looking young man, and is
nephew to Mr. Joshua Young, an old resident of your
city, at present in England with his family. The bride
and the bridegroom left in the afternoon for Dromana.
In order to try and prevent the sale of goods
at the Exhibition, the gate-keepers have instructions
not to let anyone pass from the building carrying a
parcel without making inquiries as to the contents.
An exhibitor, ignorant of this new rule, was going
out, bag in hand, and was immediately examined by the
vigilant keeper as to its contents. He refused to give
any information at first, but finally permitted the bag
to be opened, when it was found to contain a couple of
letters, two or three newspapers, and a pipe.
Lady Haberton has set on foot in England the
subject of dress reform, which is now agitating all
classes of society. Her ladyship’s mode is not generally-
regarded with favour, however, for it nearly resembles
the Bloomer costume; but the necessity for reform
from the present tight fashion is recognised. English
women are the only ones who wear their skirts so
unbecomingly and inconveniently arranged.
The excitement about Washington Rivers has
not yet abated. His name is mentioned in connection
with the Bread and Flour Store. At a meeting of
the shareholders held on Monday, in the Athenaeum,
he appeared in his true character, and received a volley
of abuse from the shareholders.
The latest fashion plates show us that nothing
but the large Dolmans and Duchesse pelisses are to be
worn in the way of mantles during the coming season.
Plush will be the material most in vogue for trimming.
Mdlle. Sara Bernhardt’s dresses for her Ameri-
can tour are still talked of. Her ball dress for the
“Dame aux Camellias” is composed of ivory satin
with the train embroidered with camellias in white satin
silver and pearls, and it is fastened to the shoulder with
a diamond agrafe. There are two deep flounces of
camellias on the skirt, resting on a lace background.
The bazaar in aid of the Hospital for Sick
Children takes place next June.
Numbers of complaints have been made about
the uncomfortable accommodation provided by the
University for the lady candidates at the late matricu-
lation examination. It was fearfully hot weather, and
candidates were obliged to assemble in the orderly room,
Carlton, which is roofed with iron, and utterly unfit for
the purpose. The result of the examination will not
be known until the 2tth.
Some lady and gentlemen amateurs have been
acting “ Our Boys” at Hamilton for the benefit of one
of the local charities. The piece was creditably
rendered. The artists are residents in the Western
district, welt known in Melbourne, and gained favorable
mention.
Melbourne has passed through a period of Con-
ferences. What with the Intercolonial, the Social
Science, and the Young Men’s Christian Association
conferences, to all of which have been sent delegates
from the other colonies, it has been a remarkable era
in the history of the country. I wonder if all this
learning will counteract the tendency of the age, which
we learn from colonial statistics inclines to crime
of an unusually horrible nature. Everything happens
in cycles, and I hope this cycle is well nigh finished,
for unfortunately the victims have mostly been
women.
“ A new way to pay old debts” had a ludicrous
illustration at the County Court the other day, when a
broker, well known at the Corner ns “ Billy,” brought
an action against a publican to recover £B5 which he
won in a sweep. The publican, being the stakeholder,
refused to “part” without deducting some £26, the
amount of an old debt. The broker was non-suited,
and the publican, in mining phraseology, “ collared all
the plunder.”
People here have not escaped the general rage
for collecting articles of vertu. In many houses quaint
old china adorns the walls, and all sorts of curious
bric-a-brac is found in the salon, but the queerest illus-
tration of this mania for relics is to be found at the
residence of one of our wealthy bookmakers, whose
pet possession is the monumental headstone of the
convict Maloney, who was hanged in Tasmania
many years ago for more crimes than could be
counted, and was buried in the old prison ground
at Port Arthur.
The Y.M.C.A. has an organ. This is a little
yellow curl-paper, published monthly, and sold to the
unwary purchaser at one penny per copy. It contains
twelve pages of reading matter ; so the price in any
other publication would be considered moderate. To
say, however, that “ Monthly Notes ” would be dear at
nothing would be but to give a feeble idea of the utter
ridiculousness of the production. But, as usual, with
feeble efforts of amateur journalism, there is a con-
siderable amount of venom mixed up with the silly
platitudes of which the hand-bill mainly consists. The
paper is published at the “ Words of Grace” office,
and, we believe, conducted by a Mr. Walker. That this
gentlemen’s appellation is guiltless of the prefix of
“hookey,” we are quite willing to believe, but that he
is “ Gen. Sec Y.M.C.A.” we have on the authority of
his imprint. Mr. Walker must, we take it, be a person
of great importance among the Young Christian
Crumpet Crunchers, for when going away to Melbourne
he takes upon himself to write a validictory paragraph.
So as to hand this effect down to posterity, we print the
item entire: —“We regret to record that for a week
prior to the General Secretary’s departure for Melbourn e
he was laid aside (sic.) by illness, but we trust the change
will restore to him his wonted vigor. During
Mr. Walker’s absence ftom the Tent, his work
there was undertaken by Mr. John Kent.” Then later
on we have this truly Christian announcement-
one that we are sure hardly anyone but Mr. Walker
would print:—“ Mr. John Tyermau, the Infidel lec-
turer, died in the Receiving-house, Darlinghurst, on
the 27th of November.” Monthly Notes recommends
young men where to board, quotes Henry Ward
Beecher, and has a leaded article (a stick-and-a-half),
in which it howls for money. In another it states
that the work the Y.M.C.A. tent is doing in Sussex-
street is “truly evangelistic.” Ladies are earnestly
thanked for their help “ in collecting subscriptions for
the carrying on of this blessed work. But in seeing
the effects of this truly missionary enterprise, they
have a reward far higher and more pleasing than any
acknowledgments of ours.” Let us hope they will be
of the same opinion. And yet they don’t seem to
“gee” after all. The Y.M.C.A. has an overdraft for
£l2O, which it can’t reduce, and in the issue of the
Notes from which we quoted, a report of a Board
Meeting of the Association states: “ The Board
learned with regret that the editor would be unable to
fill the position after the close of the year, and re-
quested that he would aid in finding a suitable suc-
cessor.” It would evidently seem from this that the
amount of notes brought in by his Monthly does not
suit the taste of the noble Christian who has hitherto
been editing, with such marked success, the splendid
publication we have noticed.


PEPPER AND SALT.
It is said of Hanley Bennet that when the late
poll was declared, he gazed scornfully down on the free
and independent crowd below, spat on the returning
officer’s boots, and exclaimed—
You common cry of curs !
You jumped-up sous of cooks,
I despise you all, and
For you, the electorate, thus I turn my back !
There is a world elsewhere.
Something of a like kind was once said about Corio-
lanus, which, of course, proves that the minds of all
great men run pretty much in the same groove.
Mathematicians and other maniacs assert that
figures can’t lie, and that they are, in fact, a sort of
inanimate mixture of George Washingtons, electio-
neering agents, and general-utility correspondents.
All right, only let some sane person add up the fol-
lowing figures, which are clipped from the Herald’s
account of the recent rifle-shooting. First of all.
Private Slade made 6 out of a possible 5, which is
pretty fair work for a son of temperance any day. And
then we are told Trafalgar Nelson made 5562453234, the
total of which is 38 ! Sergeant Board, however, im-
proved on even this, with 4435535354, which, strange to
gay, makes 37. Possibly, however, the marker was
hungry, and ate part of Board’s score, but this can
hardly be the cause of Sapper Day’s affliction. Sapper
Pay made 4243422235, and these make a total of 34!
Nine other scores are messed up in a like unaccountable
manner, but the climax of our country’s degradation
■is reached when the Herald’s trusty scribe informs us
the wind “ chopped round and blue from the sou-sou-
west.” Drink! oh, that cursed drink! Why ever did
Frank Warden leave us ?
People talk about Milton, Pope, and Byron, and
some say, also, that there’s plenty of the poetic vim in
S. H. Banks and Kendall, but for real tragic, dramatic,
soul-stirring lines, commend me to the party who built
up the libretto of the sprightly “ Carmen.” Here’s a
sample. The tenor, Don Jos<i, is endeavoring to dis-
cover a new excuse to choke off his tailor, when his girl
suddenly appears on the scene, after having tramped
fifty miles bareheaded, and not splashed her snowy
extremity covers with a single splash. Don Jos<? starts
back three bars to the left, three more to the right, and
then bursts forth in the following tender, melting lines
—lines such as Catullus, or the sweet butcher-bard on
-the Botany-road alone could dream of: —
Don Jose : Ah, tell me how my mur-r-thur is !
His Girl: Yes, I’ll tell you how’s your mer-ther.
Don Jose : ’Tis well, but ah! tell me how’s my muthah ?
His Girl: Yes, now I’ll tell youhow’s your mertha!
This thing goes on for about 700 bars, after which the
future Mrs. D. J. explains that the old lady is hearty,
and her only anxiety now is to see her son, or some of
bis money. Some further conversation occurs about
the fowls, and the scarcity of the mangling trade, and
little Billy’s sore toe, and then the two skip off to give
the bull-puncher chap a show to enquire after his
respected mnrther also.
In one of its critiques upon “Carmen,” the
Tea-meeting Gazette lets out as follows:—“Con-
siderable annoyance in the early part, and ridicule
combined with pity in the latter part of the evening,
were afforded by two visitors to the dress-circle, who,
as they used their opera-giasses, flourished a hat or a
stick in the other hand, gesticulated freely, and talked
loudly.” This remarkable sentence appearing to be
rather beyond our comprehension, we empanelled a
jury of twelve University professors to determine its
meaning. The learned gentlemen, after having con-
centrated their intelligence upon it for a considerable
time, were unable to agree. They said they could quite
understand the possibility of the visitors “ affording ’’
annoyance to the dress-circle, but they stuck fast at
the ridicule combined with pity. We then all formed
ourselves into a deputation, and waited upon Dr.
G—r—u begging for an explanation from him,
but that learned discourser upon muffin scrimmages
grew pale as he looked at the puzzle, and when we
sternly demanded its solution he turned his face to the
wall and wept. Not to be baffled we bailed up eight or
ten reporters and submitted it to their combined
Intelligence, promising to have a long beer smuggled in
to the first one who should unravel it. This stimulated
each to struggle manfully for victory, but as the hope-
less nature of the task presented itself despair settled
upon every countenance, and they pleaded piteously to
be let off. We yielded, and after setting them at
liberty headed towards the sanctum of Mr. C. On
eeeing us approach Samuel endeavored to make a hasty
exit through the window, but a dozen strong hands
just had time to grab him by the heels and haul him
back. In the gentlest of accents we entreated him to
tell what the passage meant. He candidly admitted
his utter inability to satisfy us, but promised that
if we would withdraw in peace he would see about
having a temperance movement originated in the office
the very next day. We withdrew.
Dr. Beg writes to know who was the first
special war correspondent mentioned in the Bible.
I’m rather weak on Scriptural conundrums myself, but
to the best of my belief it was Mrs. Jacob. At least
her front name was Lia, and that’s near enough for a
guess when the thermometer’s up to 90. Ask us some-
thing easy. Doctor.
After a careful study of the subject both on
land and sea, I come to the conclusion that, rotten as
the state of Denmark evidently was during the days of
Hamlet, still it had the advantage over Sydney so far
as concerned its water f upply and corporation, because
Laertes says in the fourth Act, “ Too much of water
hast thou, poor Ophelia.” A man from North Shore
became so excited on hearing this speech at the
Queen’s on Thursday night that he jumped up and
roared ont, “ Get her to send a tank to the Shore, boss
—shillin’ a cask, and a sure fortune.”
Touching the same Ophelia, there is another
matter which I think Detective Camphin and his gang
should immediately see to. Her most gracious Majesty
the Queen observes Ophelia’s clothes “ spread wide—
(she probably wore a crinoline)—and mermaid-like
bore her up,” sufficiently long enough to enable her to
sing a comic song, give a few short recitations, and
windup by warbling, “I’m called little Buttercup,”
and half the second act of Pinafore. Now some one
was evidently on the bank listening, and he should at
once be called upon to explain why he didn’t get a pole
and fish Ophelia ont—or at least why he didn’t scoot
about until he found Professor Van Hammer or John
Bennett.
John Shepherd says, “Man’s inhumanity to
woman makes countless pickings for the Divorce
Court people, and frequently gets a lady a second hus-
band.” Go up to the top, John. You remind us of
Robert Burns in his palmy days.
Some of these days a musician will arise with a
level head and supply a long-looked for necessity in the
shape of an oratorio containing 250,000 solos for every
voice, and it will then perhaps be possible for a con-
ductor to ladle out 20 or 30 to every soprano in his
crowd, and get through at least three rehearsals with-
out being scalped, and having all his able-bodied
relations cursed back to the seventh generation.
Harmony, thy name isn’t woman—no relation even.
It was midnight —dark, dreary and tempestuous,
and strange sounds were heard, and strange lights were
seen in the neighbourhood of Billy Goat Swamp on the
Moore Park reserve. The curlew screamed its wild
unearthly scream, and the vampire bat hissed and
hooted as it rushed through the air; corpse lights
flickered here and there; skeletons rattled their bones
around, and weird, demoniac laughter broke the silence
of this awful hour. Murderers hung from every paling
on the Park plantations; the sheeted dead arose, and
squeaked and gibbered on every side; the lightnings
flashed and the thunder rolled, and it seemed as if the
day of wrath was about to burst upon us. On the banks
of the pond a circle of murderers’ skulls was seen ; their
ghastly forms lit up by sulphureous fire; and in the
centre of this, pouring hell’s-bane, toads’-eyes, and the
thumbs of strangled babes into an iron pot, crouched
the form of Gregory Board. A bullet mould was in his
hand, and as he cast each missle the earth quaked, the
ghosts shrieked, the murderers kicked; all Nature
trembled to its inmost core, and the fiend himself
appeared, made a few lunars behind Board’s back, and
then asked three times in fearful tones for the present
address of Rabbi Davis. Next day the Rifle Association
Matches began; Board never missed a shot; the magic
bullets plugged a bulls’ eye every trip, and the shootist
± 2 t- 11 to the earth writhing in fearful
agony, whilst the Herald reporter unbuttoned his
shirt, and anointed his throat with a pint of Walker’s
wnisKy. , the misguided marksman had evidently sold
his soul for a copper medal and fifty shillings in silver.
ou °, ar V see her every afternoon: sometimes
eftener with another professional “ blockist”
herself. She is undeniably handsome, elegantly
aressea, wears diamond jewellery—and her father is,
salary" 8 ’ & merc k ant s clerk, and £2OO per annum
We are indeed pleased to welcome Mr. Lewis
Scott to the musical world once more. Mr. Scott sang
all the principal chorus solos in the Garden Palace
“ Messiah,” and sang them with such a vim that his
very spectacles seemed to sing along with him. He is
a 40-horse power, bock action, horizontal, chronometer-
movement tenor, and when Lewis gets his bock up on
Handel, fog-horns and earthquakes are not to be named
in the samejstreet with him. Mr. Scott was the original
Adam in the Creation, and his musical education was
blasted into him at the Royal Academy of Strathbogie,
where he passed as No. 1 R.A.M. of the first quarter.
He made nis first appearance the same year as the
Colorado beetle, the piece being Mozart’s sublime
oratorio, “ Der Shoosterwoosterhoofemfoofem, or The
Man with the White Hat,” aad as there happened to
be a sober man reporting that night, the Herald next
day contained the following notice: —“ The principal
feature of the evening (after Mozart) was the Mbut of a
Mr. Lewis Scott, a most young and pleasing tenor.
Mr. Scott possesses an exceedingly melodious person,
and a very handsome voice, and he wades into his parts
with all the heaven-inspired confidence of a man who
holds four aces. In his bravura singing there is a
certain pin lento, or rather a poco poco dc !>h ccaroo, which
is artistic in the extreme ; the delirium jromens of his
appogiatura on the B flat reminds the hearer of Julius
Ccesar in his best form, and the dolce far niente of his
upper register produces upon his audience what Schu-
mann calls a sort of umberliedorgoostenbrunzckraft which
fills every soul with feelings of the strongest emotion,
and raises it up to the celestial arcana of the most
mellifluous melodious melody. His fine aria in the
first act, which describes the soothing effect of Mick
Simmons’ tin tag tobacco, was given in the most bril-
liant manner possible; the beautiful recitative in which
he tells Johanna, the soprano, that the Osborne wire
and twine self-binding harvesters are the best in the
market, was rendered con amove, whilst the concluding
scena, “And Don’t You Forget It,” was simply a gor-
geons triumph of the vocal art. We predict a brilliant
future for Mr. Scott in the operatic world—especially
if he’s not cut off by the present heavy frosts.” There
will be more Scott to-morrow.
I have often wondered why in a city so favoured
as Sydney there is not a single literary club, or a place
(excepting the public-house bar) where pressmen may
meet and improve each other by a little intellectual
friction, or by exchanging opinions and tobacco, and
discussing the various interesting topics of the day,
such as the Dulcigno question, or “ Where do yon buy
your shirts ?” and other matters of a like importance.
All other Australian cities of any consequence have
their different places of literary resort, but we would
not be true sons of Sydney if we were not behind the
age in everything. As it is never too late to mend,
however, I now beg leave to propose that a society be
at once formed, having for its immediate object the
furtherance of the social welfare and comfort of jour-
nalists in general; the promotion of literary help and
convenience in every form; and the establishment of a
sort of payment-by-results system of cheap, protective,
co-operative inebriation. Dr. M'Guven will oblige by
seconding this motion, and subscriptions will be re-
ceived at this office until further notice. Produce and
trade materials of all kinds will be most welcome,
except in the matters of antibilions pills and tomb-
stones.
George Wheeler was in love with his wife a
sister in San Francisco, but could discover no pretext
for getting rid of his wife. Delia Tilson, the sister,
was made very unhappy by the complication, for she
returned his passion, and also had a deep regard for his
wife. At length, she was found dead in the house.
She had been choked to death by George. His cool
account of the murder was as follows“ She asked me
to cut her throat. I told her I could not bear to see
her blood, but I told her I could choke her. She said,
< Very well,’ and sat in my lap, when I placed one hand
on her mouth, and with the other grasped her throat,
and she, throwing her head back on my shoulder, died
like a child. She struggled but little. At first, she
looked into my eyes, and I, kissing them, told her to
close them, which she did, and thus she passed away.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Baroness Burdett-Contts is old in years,
but young in ducats.
Man proposes, and woman often wishes that he
would not be so long making up his mind to do it.
A woman cannot become a successful lawyer.
She is too fond of giving her opinion without pay.
A well-known galvanist at Ballarat, aged <1»
was the other day married to a buxom bride of 70.
The Princess Louise is said to be unable to
sleep. The poor lady must go to church occasionally.
The spots on the sun do not begin to create the
disturbance produced by the freckles on the daughter.
If you want to make a bridegroom feel comfort-
able, just send in a cradle among the wedding presents.
A newly-married couple were sitting in a tram-
car, when she said. “Georgie, ain’t you glad? We’re
relatives now.”
Grade’s first experience in eating a peach.—
“ I’ve eaten it, cloth and all, mamma. Now, what
shall I do with the bone ?”
Miss Sicer, who lately married Mr. Miles, of
Her Majesty’s First Life Guards, is clearly not a
superstitions woman. She had thirteen bridesmaids.
Fourteen female missionaries have gone out to
work among the Utah Mormons. It is hoped they will
not all marry the same man, and so contract their
usefulness.
It is believed by a great many very wise people
that the Catholic idea of Purgatory was first acquired
hy seeing a man sitting with his wife and two sisters in
a milliner’s shop on opening day.
Some one having propounded the query, “ What
invention would most benefit the community at large ?”
a suspicious married woman replies : —
“ A glass so framed that when the husband’s out.
The wife at home can see what he’s about.”
A couple of lovers recently went together from
Eipon, and telegraphed back to the girl’s parents,
“ May we get marned ? Please wire consent imme-
diately, as ceremony will be performed this evening
anyhow.”
Professor Cavill, the celebrated swimmer,
devotes certain mornings and evenings of the week for
the ladies, at the Lavender Bay baths. Costumes after
the English, American, and Continental styles are
provided.
“ You see,” said a lively old bachelor on being
advised to get married, “ yon see I can’t do it, because
I could not marry a woman I didn’t respect, and it
would he impossible for me to respect a woman who
would consent to marry me.”
The first hat of a new fashion for ladies is not
the result of any particular design. One is finished
plain, and then sat down upon by the head milliner.
Whatever shape it may take under pressure is adopted
os the style, and becomes the pattern for others.
The faculty a female seminary has issued
orders that no pupil shall have more than one male
visitor per week, The smart girls invite their young
men to call on Sunday, so that when their fathers come
on Monday the old gentlemen find themselves barred
out.
If at a dinner party you happen to upset a glass
of claret over your fair neighbors white satin dress,
smile pleasantly, and say, ‘‘Ah, it is always a sign of
wet weather when the glass falls.” You will be for-
given, and in all probability be invited by her papa to
dine with him on Sunday.
She read all the books of science ;
Her fingers were covered with ink;
She hooted at marriage alliance ;
She talked of the missing link.
She quoted savans and preachers
Of greater and less renown—
Platonic in all her features,
She got sweet on a circus clown.
A lady, who says she is young and hand-
some, writes :—“ The man for me to love is vastly
my superior—a man who will compel my spirit to bend
its knee to his ; who will compel my soul to stand still
and shine on him, as Joshua commanded the sun; who
can tr simple my will to the dust," etc. She would have
no difficulty in finding such a man —one who will not
only command her soul to stand still, but who will also
command its owner to get up first in the morning to
light the fire, split sticks, and carry up the coal, and
whoso language will make her hair stand on end when
he comes home and finds dinner fifteen minutes late.
There are lots of men who will bend her spirit for her,
and also make her bock bend over a wash-tnb while
they go down to the bar-parlor and discuss the best
method of saving the country from the hands of its
political enemies.
Woman’s “No.”
London Truth offered a prize for the best letter, the
subject to be the refusal of an offer of marriage. The
result was an inundation nearly filling the editor’s
office. Here are samples, beginning with “ Portia,”
who took the prize :—
Dear Me. , I am very sorry ; I appreciate yon
immensely, but I cannot give the casket without the
gem. Portia.
Dear Mr. Caliban, —In declining the honour of an
offer from you, I am constrained to own, in justice to
my judgment, that I only refuse such a one because I
have accepted such another. Miranda.
Friend ever, husband never. A. S. P.
No, thank yon. Sweet Pea.
Dear Mr. , Take back your offer. I cannot send
a refusal to you, the friend I so value and esteem.
Lanark.
No, dear; mother says I mustn’t. Poor Polly.
Dear Sir, —In declining a proposal which I trust you
will believe I appreciate as the highest compliment you
could possibly have paid me, I beg to assure you, in all
sincerity, that upon a review of my own demerits, it is
my belief that my refusal of your offer of marriage is
the best and most unselfish return I can make you.—
Believe me, dear sir, yours sincerely. Pink Domino.
Mt Dear Edwin, —There is nothing in the world I
value more than your friendship. You suggest to me
the adoption of a course by which 1 should moat
certainly lose it. How cruel! how unkind ! But the
strength of my regard makes me invulnerable to
temptation. I am too much yonr friend to marry you,
and such I hope always to remain. Ever your sincere
friend, Angelina.
Dear Sir, —You chanced to state accidently in a
recent conversation that your digestion was not good.
This being the case, I feel it would lie unwise for me to
accept the proposal you have just made, for amiability
of temper and chronic dyspepsia, as 1 know too well
from my dear father’s case, are utterly incompatible
one with the other. A man with a bad digestion can,
alas ! never make a good husband. Yours, sympa-
thetically, Sarah Acton,
Such a figure,
And such eyes.
Waist no bigger
Than a fly’s;
Soft pale hair
Done in curls.
Tint so fair.
Was this girl’s!
Gloves of yellow,
Sewn with black;
Smiles—ah, well, oh.
No great lack
Of the prettiest airs and graces,
On the prettiest of faces.
* * *
Chaps are sighing,
Chaps are dying
To be speaking
To this vision.
With precision
Boots went patter;
Glances killing
Were thrown at her.—
Was she willing
To be joking ?
Was it fun
That she was poking ?
* * *
’Midst the sunshine
Did that one shine.
In her “ bee line ”
Big swells drifted
Spellbound seeming.
Hats were lifted
With beseeming
Grace, that quite
Spoke folks polite.
• * *
Still she glided
On, all smiling:
Quiet she bided:
All beguiling.
She cared not for highest rank.
She cared not for manly beauty;
If he’d riches in the bonk.
She had to grab —that was her duty !
Duty laid down by her pa;
Duty taught by “ dear mamma!”
• * *
Yet, alas! it was a pity,—
She really was so awful pretty I
THE JOURNALISTIC GHOUL.
A white-tied Goth, o’er-brimm’d with gall;
One half a dunce —a partial fool;
A soorner of the dead withal —
This is a journalistic ghoul!
A mau who has no charity,
Benevolence; and yet one who’ll
Mock at a widow’s agony—
This is a journalistic ghoul!
A man, who, ’fore a corpse is cold.
Invokes damnation on the soul;
A lib’ller of the dead—behold!
That is a journalistic ghoul!
A man who loves a luscious “ spread,"
Who o’er a few dull fools does rule;
A mau who desecrates the dead—
This is a journalistic ghoul!
But when this “holy man” does die.
He’ll sink not in “ Oblivion’s pool,”
His mem’ry will suggest the cry—
“ He was a journalistic ghoul !”
V.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Christmas Carol.
The long day is nearly ending;
Ev’ning shadows are descending;
And the rippling waves are blending
With the sun’s prismatic ray;
And the moving kine’s bells tinkle;
And the distant gaslights twinkle
In the city far away.
As the golden sunset’s dying.
At a table seated, sighing.
Is a weary mortal trying
Some gay bagatelle to weave;
But the current, so resistless
Of his thoughts makes his soul listless.
And his fever’d brain’s so restless
That he can’t his task achieve.
And so from his part-writ story
He doth gaze upon the glory
Of a balmy Christmas eve.
Far away out in the distance.
As he gazes, the existence
Of a picture seems to rise;
And familiar forms and faces,
And familiar spots and places
Seem to float before his eyes.
And all breathless as he gazes.
E’en from out the summer hazes
That do float above the bay.
There, quite plain upon him dawning.
Is the land that he was bom in—
Sixteen thousand miles away.
*******
**•*»•♦
Dull and leaden is the sky,
’Tis the cruellest of weathers;
With a lavish hand on high
Hurls the Snow Queen her white feathers.
Flutt’ring, falling, without a sound
On the hard and frozen ground.
In the shade of gables darkling.
Gleaming, glist’ning, ever sparkling;
Floating stoutly, lightly hither
Whirled upon the breezes thither —
Slowly, but surely, the great white cloud
Weaves for the city an ample shroud.
*******
The Ringers are about betimes.
All pealing out their stirring chimes ;
Despite the muffling of the snow
On ev’ry breeze these sweet sounds flow.
From out the belfry of St. Paul,
From Westminster’s historic fane.
There thunders forth the rhythmic call.
To welcome Christmas once again.
O Christmas! thy sweet name is dear
Alike to peasant and to peer.
The rich rejoice on thy great day
And gaily feast in grand array.
And those who dire misfortunes rue
Endeavour to be merry too.
“ We’ve starved the whole year thro’,” they say—
“ What harm to starve another day ? ”
*******
It is a pinched and ragged form
That slowly totters through the streets.
Shielding an infant from the storm.
Beseeching alms from all she meets.
“ ’Tis Christmas Day,” you hear her say
To the passer-by with low-bent head,
“’Tis Christmas Day—in God’s name, pray,
A trifle for a crust of bread! ”
But heedless, with averted gaze.
Each one she meets, goes on his ways.
She lingers, till in tone of scorn
A harsh voice bids her to “ move on.”
She “ moves on ” till her strength gives o’er
And—dies outside the work-house door.
*******
There’s a sound of merry prattle.
And the knives and plates do rattle.
And the blazing coal does show
A real honest Christmas glow.
There are gathered round the spread
Full a dozen pleasant faces,
And there’s bean demurely said
Just the briefest of brief “ graces.”
And there’s “ grandpa” in the “ chair,”
With his ring of silver hair;
And dear “ grandma” on his right,
In a state of high delight.
There’s the trencherman-in-chief —
“ Pa ” —who’s carving at the beef;
And “ mamma’s ” upon the scene.
Looking happy as a queen.
Then there’s “ Mary,” the new bride.
With her husband by her side;
And “uncle,” whose great hobby
Is to “ shepherd little Bobby.
There’s the baby, “ good as gold "
Just a year and one week old,
Who is crowing on the knee
Of his “ aunty Emilee.”
There’s the pudding with the holly.
And oh, don’t it just look jolly!
There are custards, too, if course.
And the blazing brandy sauce ;
There’s the jingle of the forks,
And the popping of the corks.
And the clinking of the glasses.
And the smiles of lovely lasses :
There are crackers —jokes—and after
There are roars and shrieks of laughter;
And the little beaux give kisses
On the sly to little misses :
All are happy, all are gay
On that jolly Christmas Day.
*******
*******
When the final picture faded.
Then the morning sun was high.
As the scribe with gesture jaded
Started— woke —and heaved a sigh.
For still in his head were ringing
All the Christmas chimes, and they
With the dear-loved voices singing.
In his ears were mem’ries bringing.
Of his home so far away.
Sydney, December 22,1880.
LOVE.
It is to be all mode of sighs and tears;
It is to have your boots well blacked.
Your face clean shaved and shirt immaculate;
It is to be all made of faith and service,
Eeady to walk seven miles to a picnic
And carry a basket heavy as a keg of nails;
It is to be all made of wishes, —
Wishing her mother was blind as a bat
And took no note of the flight of time ;
It is to be all humbleness, all patience.
Willing to wait three mortal hours
While she sews on a button or a bow.
Changes a basque for a polonaise.
And a polonaise for a basque.
Asks her sisters and cousins and aunts
And all the females in the house
If it wouldn’t be better, after all.
To wear her wine-colored silk.
With purple flowers at her waist,
And the hat with the ostrich-feather—
And this is love!


Public Companies
fJIHE AUSTEALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esn.
William B. Walford, Esq. I William A. Long, Esq
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostroeht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Bedfern | Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ Ac.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
.£300,000
.£llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay. K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens,
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
_ SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.6., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq*
Robert J. King. Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER;
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons-
ACTUARY: 1 ’ SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singulai
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’ „ , _ ,
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G, A. LL O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch : 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
I [The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY" F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
A.
G. CHURCHWOOD
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per Id.
630,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
ork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb. ,
(utton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF FANCY GOODS,
Ex Orient steamships LUSITANA and LIGURIA.
PEAPES AND Shaw are now making a Grand Display of
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the SEASON, as follows
Public Companies
Commercial banking company of
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act ol Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Eeserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; K.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq. j J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green, Assistant
Branch Inspector. . , _ ~ ,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office — 39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Toul, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Waxes. —Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bmgera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewamna, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Qmrindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcanma,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodkum, Yass,
Young. With the following ~
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalfcy, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide. ... , , .
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool; The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland,.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore ; The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China. . ,
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India* Australia* and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bonk discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon. _______
[E MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
■ proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
T
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
HEAD OFFICES; 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors:
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higjtfns.
T J Chapman, Esq., J.P. I E. J. Ruble, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMBN C.— Fire risks are taken on all
k 'PRI^MIU MS^O N BOTHFIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit. JAMES S. BRAY.
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 Yort-etceet. WILIIAM JAEEETT ,
Manager,
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices. 171 York-
Btreet WILLIAM JARRETT.
Manager.
E
T
O BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery iu stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
"athurst and Pitt Streets.
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOE
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
NOVELTIES,
FOE
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
AND
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAMES
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES’FANS FOR DRESS OR PROMENADE
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND ROULETTES
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES —A “NOVELTY”
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OF GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&c. &c.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED
“FLORA” KID GLOVES
Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
COSTUMES
Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CHARMING
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Do you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman r
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messes. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
ADVT
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMP
IEBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranks, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
m
h
N'
m
*
&
m
WAUGH
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC
.XSSSS^P'Sm&'T^
E
zi
mm
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2£d. PEE GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—
-631 GEORGE STREET.
THE LAEGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTUEEE IN THE COLONY.
T. B U E F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STKEET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
USTEALIAN WINE.—CAEMICHAEL’S
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 ana
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
Kearey brothers,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
TATTERS ALL’S CUP—Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee £1- First,
£200: second, £B5; tliird, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. ‘‘ Senior Wrangler,
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-


Chemists and Drug-gists
lAKE NO MORE PILLS
hnt try
BAN DEKSON’S
PODOPHITLIN LOZENGES. .
Do you SUFFEE from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDERSON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any‘of your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any pulling advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from jiain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
aU-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Hoft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph,
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can nave immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Wno would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free frem any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
I
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING MACHINE.
- ;
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
>jr a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS,
Reduced Pkice List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, €4. ,
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANE. SYDNEY.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Business Announcements
A L I N O.
W. H -
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
0
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST? RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all tiie various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Soulleto's, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell. & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
A Ww
GB. MOD I
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER.
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms. Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
i
*yi r< *r * v»\.» t/~vi v»m» irvxfcrvo. j
Hr\ V* 'A . • lift
TJ/J" URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plato
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Paperlmngers’ Canvas ;
(1 hree qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-prestriiug Oil
Resin. Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED
All orders promptly executed by Hall, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STRKET WEST.
E.
0
JN,
MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
AJS'D
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT
AH matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near Kimr-st.)
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
. Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters. Pillows,
Sheets. Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-street.
Tobacconists
E
S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett's Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Poet Office.
2*02
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4 DELICIOUS.
Sc
so yJi
4s:
Manufoctured by
T. S A YW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
fjl H 0 S. J. BO W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
LEON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS 0F ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed,
107 Bathurst-stieet, Sydney,
c
HRISTMAS PRESENTS.
I
\
S'
N*
/V
•■V'*
A. J. HUFTON,
636 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
AN ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
VISIT
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INVESTMENTS.
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand P anos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Che>nest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Jus.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
Chemists and Druggists
m
m
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
I t OXFORD STREET,
Near Hide Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by),
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Pounders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
ALL
APOT
am® Ew
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
PACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
fi IM S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PARKES,
•m GEORGESTREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
fJIHE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3|d per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marche Wool Beiges at 5Jd, 7jd, 9|d per
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth act 7Jd
per ynrd.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing thas season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows —
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.


p O A L C L I F r COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ■)
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened j
225. Ditto single ditto >
Coalcliff.
Newcastle.
SmaU coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK.
247 George-street.
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, EOYTiE and HOGG.
rOHN
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
Prices, from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
SONS'
T OHN BEINSMEAD AND
O t SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a five years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
B
BINS MEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies musk
JOHN BEINSMEAD and SONS.
SONS’
"OHN
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
Professional Addresses
E.
JOHN BENNETT.
M ADDRESS :
Box 502, General Post Office, Sydney.
M
M
A
E.
E. S. L A 5
ADDRESS ;
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
E. J. E. GEE VIL L E.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
M
E.
L.
M. B A Y L E S S.
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Me. feed. maeshall.
ADDRESS;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
ME. AEMES BEAUMONT
ADDRESS:
Oxford Hotel, dnring the Opera Season.
M
E. SAM HOWAED
ADDRESS:
Opera House, York-street.
Madame eose heesee
ADDRESS:
Oxford Hotel, during the Opera Season
M
H. H. VINCENT
ADDRESS .-
Kilda Cottage, 99 Palmer-street, till Christmas.
M
E.
J. D O
ADDRESS:
Hobart, Tasmania.
D G
M
ISS FLOEA AN STEAD,
ADDRESS :
Hobart, Tasmania.
M
E. E. F A E I
ADDRESS :
Theatre Royal, till Christmas.
e y.
M
E. & MES. HAEEY W. EMMEI
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, from Dec. 20tl
1880, until end of March, 1881.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Me. alfeed lystei
ADDRESS:
Hodge’s Commercial Hotel, during the Opera Season
ME. E. B. WISEMAN
ADDRESS:
Opera House, York-strcet, till February.
IL EDMUND HOLLO WATi
ADDRESS:
Opera House, York-street, till February.
M
E.
M.
S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS .-
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses alice and Constance
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
Me. and MBS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu Was).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
H
ILIPS T U A E
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
T,
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
We are in a positon to sell tinder all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
,—
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys' and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
Our Stock is always
New.
For every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents' Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10 6.
Onr immense pur-
chases enable ns to
undersell all other
establishments.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6/6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12 '6,
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10 6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6 —best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15.6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
■ ; j ITn " " i
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
Onr Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
G
ENT.’S SILK UMBRELLAS AT ENGLISH COST.
J. E. GOWI N G,
Having bought (for cash) a Large Consignment of GENT.’S SILK UMBRELLAS considerably
under Manufacturers’ prices, has marked the same at English cost.
GENT.’S DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED SILK UMBRELLAS, Foxe’s Paragon Frames,
12s. 6d. (English cost).
GENT.’S TWILLED SILK UMBRELLAS, for sun or rain, 12s. (id. (English cost).
J. E. GOWING’S TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Gsods at the very lowest
quotations.
J. E. GOWI N G,
MEN’S MERCER, OUTFITTER, HATTER, &c.,
332 GEORGE STREET,
Half way between Post Office and Hunter Street.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSOAP.
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly ” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
alway s
... a
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL. Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jit) packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value ?
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has'just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUSof securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double—Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enamelled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot rail—Patent
Sanitary Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors—Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards —Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials —An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames—Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
mache goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets —Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match—Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from—Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Separate tables being laid out with
SPECIALTIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
NG STREET
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
K
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Yisites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks's Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon MarchJ system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
Deadlocks —false curls.
Dead issues—Old papers.
A black reviver—A negro evangelist.
A man who opens oysters does things by halves.
“Ghastly jolly” is now fashionable London
slang.
Trusting to chants—Expecting to get to Heaven
by singing.
The Kurds have made their whey into Persia—
15,000 of them.
Why is it that the circus elephant never kills
the clown or the lemonade man ?
The bob-tailed horse spends his whole existence
in lamenting his lack of terminal facilities.
It is said that King Alfonso’s palace had hang-
ing in the front-window a sign inscribed, “ Boy Wanted.”
A daughter came.
People are cautioned against eating raspberries
and strawberries in the dark. It’s unwise, and besides,
it is cruelty to insects.
The average age of a hog is only fifteen years.
This always consoles us when we see a man spreading
himself out over four seats in a railway carriage.
Physicians now say that the telephone is in-
jurious to the ear. We presume it’s the strain of
listening and hearing nothing that does the harm.
How time changes ! In the good Old Testa-
ment days it was considered a miracle for an ass to
speak, and now nothing short of a miracle will keep one
quiet,
“ My fren’s,” said a colored preacher. “ a
man’s character is like a fence —yon can’t strengthen it
by whitewash, though you may cover up the places
where it is worm-eaten.”
Loudly bawls the stage stump-speaker
While the scribe is taking notes.
And the hungry office-seeker
Scents afar the smell of oats.
Eev. Dr. Hall said that every blade of grass was
a sermon. The next day he was amusing himself by
clipping his lawn, when a parishioner said, “ That's
right, doctor; cut your sermons short.”
A distinguished lady recently deceased had four
husbands, who share one memorial tablet. It is pro-
posed to put on this a text from : “ Therefore in the
resurrection whose wife shall she be ?”
There’s death in the teapot, there’s death in the jug*
Try a drop of cold water—death lurks in the mug;
No drink unfermented from danger is free.
There are death and disease in milk, water, and tea.
Grinagin came out of a dentist’s shop the other
day, and, with a ghastly smile, informed his dearest
friends that he had just lost a tooth through forceps
circumstances. And none of them will speak to him
now.
Teacher—“ Suppose that you have two sticks of
candy and your big brother gives you two more, how
many have you got then?” Little boy (shaking his
head) —“ You don’t know him; he ain’t that kind of a
boy.”
. The European Concert.
“ Dulcigno ceded by the Porte,”
That tune the East wind bore us ;
O concert, grand pianoforte.
How op-Porte-tune your chorus!
A boy lately put a revolver in his hip pocket be-
fore being spanked, and the old man danced about and
waved the stumps of two fingers in the air and bellowed,
while the boy howled for six rags to tie up the places
where the bullets dug furrows in the backs of his legs.
Br the Irish Mail.
In suits of m ail, so rumour states.
The landlord dwells within his gates ;
Grim justice does but pay a score—
For years black mail the tenant bore.
The Eoman Catholic bishop of B is a most
energetic cleric. He performs as much duty as most
priests. He received the other day the confession of a
little boy. At the close, said his right reverence :
“Well, have you anything more to tell me ?” “ No,”
said the lad deprecatingly, “ but I’ll have more next
time 1”
The polished stove which warms the room
Is blackest when its bright;
The head and limbs and mind of man
Are loosest when he’s tight.
Although a man’s name’s “ Early,”
When he’s dead they call him “ Late ” ;
Although a youth is scarce sixteen,
His “score’s put on the slate.”
Sandy and Donald; or, the Sugar Bag
and the Jumbucks.
(ALL THIS IS SOLEMN FACT).
“ Sandt ” and “ Donald,” two squatters on one of our
Western rivers, being neighbours, travelled their sheep
to a Southern market and camped together for company.
Sandy’s sugar-bag gave out on the road, and rather than
buy more he worked on Donald, thus : —The quart-pot
would be filled and boiled, tea put in, and Donald would
draw his away from the fire, and put in the sugar.
Sandy would pull his pot away, too; and, after tasting
the contents, would exclaim in the most natural way
to his mate —“ I say, Donald, wnd ye mind my mixin’
my tea wi‘ yoors ? I've made mine ower sweet.” Donald
(who was for a time deceived) would, when his tea had
cooled, remark, “ Faugh ! I must hae forgotten to sugar
my tea a’thegither.” But Donald “ dropped ” to
Sandy at last, and “ had” him beautifully. Travelling
together, as they did, Sandy proposed that they should
kill a sheep “time about” for joint consumption.
“You kill ane o’ yoors the-nicht, and it’ll be my turn
next time,” says Sandy. “Oh, that’s fair enough,”
says Donald; and he killed a sheep. But when the
mutton was short, Sandy kept out of the way till
Donald had killed another sheep out of his own flock.
At supper-time, up rode Sandy. “ Man, Donald, that’s
real good o’ ye ! Te ken it was my turn to kill this
time. But, never mind ; we’ll put it a’ richt. I’ll kill
twa sheep runnin’.” “ Oh, verra weel,” says Donald.
Meanwhile over two hundred of Sandy’s sheep got
boxed with Donald’s flock, and they agreed to “ let ’em
rip” till they were drafted at the end of the journey.
Upon Sandy’s absence from camp when the mutton
was low for the second time, Donald "dropped” to
Sandy’s little game; so, instead of killing one of his
own sheep, he killed one of Sandy’s. As usual, Sandy
was most profuse in his apologies. “I’m real sorry,”
said he, “ that I wasna’ in camp in time to kill. An’ I’ll
tell ye hoo we’d better manage noo. Ye can jist mak’ oot
a bit o’ an accoont o’ the half o’ the mutton we’ll use
oh the trip, an’ I’ll pay ye for it when we sell the sheep.
“ Terra weel," said Donald. By the end of the trip, Don-
ald had killed nine of Sandy’s sheep and two of his own.
Sandy, on drafting his sheep from Donald’s flock, found
that there were nine short. Scratching his head, he
muttered to himself, “ That’s maist extraordinary! I’ll
coont them again.” But the result was the same.
He rode up to Donald, and said, “ Gracious me, Donald,
what’ll I do noo ? There’s nine o’ my sheep short.”
“ It’s an awfu’ loss, man,” says Donald; "ye must hae
lost them afore they got boxed wi’ my sheep.” “ I
canna tell,” said Sandy, “but losin’ nine sheep’s
terrible.” “ What aboot the half o' the mutton ?
We’d better settle up afore we part," remarked Donald.
“Eh ! what’s that ?” ejaculated Sandy. “ Oh, I could-
ua think o’ payin’ for the mutton noo. Man, I’ve lost
nine sheep, I tell ye! Na, na. Gude day !’’


The Fate of Leichhardt.
ONE THOUSAND POUNDS EEWAED.
The Proprietors of the Bulletin have much
pleasure in announcing that they are prepared to
pay a sum of One Thousand Pounds for the
first conclusive and substantial proof of the place
where Dr. Ludwig Leichhardt, the Great Aus-
tralian Explorer, met his death —subject to the
following conditions : The information to be
clear and unchallengeable. The same to be kept
absolutely secret until communicated to and
published by the Sydney Bulletin. All relics
or objects recovered and produced in support of
the evidence offered to be handed over to the
Proprietors of the Bulletin, who will undertake
to present them to the Australian Museum.
The sum of One Thousand Pounds has been
deposited in the Australian Joint Stock Bank,
Sydney, to pay the reward above offered.
USg’T Further particulars in the leading article.
Some hard swearing by a female witness in a
recent Melbourne divorce suit is accounted for by the
petitioner promising to marry her when he was
unhooked.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A puisne judgship going begging.
A. District Court judgeship offered to three bar-
yister s and refused.
King Malietoa, of Samoa, is dead. A fierce civil
wa r is raging in the islands.
Charles Bright lives at Stanmore. They now
call the railway station the Freethought platform.
T ft mes M‘Kean, the Anak of limb, if not of
intellect, has gone over to the Swedenborgian Church.
Dr. Hacann, an old Rockhampton celebrity, has
returned in charge of the immigrants per Scottish
Prince.
Mr. George Lansell, the Sandhurst Quartz-
vritiz has cleared £lOO,OOO in four months out of the
<}arden Gully.
pphe infant daughter of Signor Riociotti
flaribaldi (son of the Italian liberator), died at Mel-
bourne last week.
There is nothing to report about the Bartlett-
tts hymeneal demonstration except that the fair
one is a month older.
M r Bwen M'Coll, Parliamentary Librarian at
-uuMlington, N.Z., is dead. So is Mrs. J. Nugent Wood,
N.Z. authoress.
M r H. C. Russell, 8.A., Government Astro-
nomer, has been unanimously elected president of the
g.W. Institute of Surveyors.
fpr. Antoine Mousse, physician to the Beech-
nnth’ (Vic.) hospital, has beenldrowned while yachtimr
at Sandgate, Moreton Bay, (Q.)
m We are glad to notice that that talented young
frtist, Mr. s. Begg, formerly of The Bulletin, is fast
coming to the front in Melbourne.
m Colonel Scratohley and Colonel Roberts pre-
ceded to Newcastle last night, for the purpose of
inspecting the battery that is being built there.
Henry Kendall’s new book, “ Songs from the
Mountains,” has been withdrawn from circulation hy
Maddock. Mr Ninian Melville is said to be libelled.
Mr. George Lukin, late Under-Secretary for
Mines, has been appointed Warden and Police Magis-
trate at Gympie, the former appointment being dis-
continued as a separate office,
M. Belcour, the French Consul at Melbourne,
will give a dinner this week to pressmen. Monsieur is
a model Consul; his dinners are the best in Melbourne,
and are always mt-nud at Menzies’.
Prof. Reuleaux has fallen out with his secretary
at Melbourne. The St. Kilda Road this time. The
Professor was sadly mashed up. The buggy was
squelched, and the secretary scared.
The value of the testimonial to be presented by
the Victorian police to Captain Standish, their retired
Chief Commissioner, is 300 guineas. The present will
probably take the form of a silver casket.
For an act of great bravery and self-denial at
the wreck of the Susanne Godeffroy, on 26th Sept, last,
Robert Robertson is to receive the silver medal of the
National Shipwreck Relief Society of N.S.W.
Mr. Norton, the Dubbo P.M., continues to
improve in health. The exact whereabouts of the
bullet in his head is still matter of speculation. Ho
can converse rationally and walk from one room to
another.
Lord Normanby is having a hard time with the
Victorian Legislative Assembly about his household
expenses. It is complained that he does not entertain
—particularly that he never once asked Sir Henry
Parkes to dinner. •
Writes a London correspondent:—“ Mr. James
Kingston (J. H. of the Melbourne Argus) has made a
decided hit with his * Australian Abroad, Branches
irom the Main Routes Round the World.’ Second
series—long quotations are given from it in the reviews.
His stories rival Bret Harte in realistic humour,
though not in style. Hnmouristic sketches, however,
are not the main object ot the book, and Mr. Kingston’s
-grave prayers are well worthy of study.”
Mr. Henry Daw, manager of the Newcastle
nd °^, New . Zealand, was on Friday last
presented hy his friends with a handsome solid silver
Christchurch! on the 6Ve ° f Ms de P arture for
It is a singular fact that in the la st letter the
«r 8 ■ Dobie ever wrote, she expressed
a 1 a “ now bere doing about and doing
all sorts of things, but my mother says I’m too daring,
and if I go on something will happen to me.”
~ John Donnellan Balfe, the distinguished
asmaman journalist and politician, to whose illness
reference was made in our last issue, is dead. Mr.
isalfe was intimately associated with Daniel O’Connell,
of ’4B I6S Gavan Dlltf y and others in the Irish troubles
The staff and contributors of the Courier and
Queenslander gave a farewell luncheon to Mr. Gresley
Lukin at Sandgate on Saturday, when a handsome
illuminated address was presented to him. Mr.
Lukin’s future movements are, it is understood,
uncertain.
At Corun College, Woollahra, on Thursday last,
the boys of the upper school presented Mr, J. Wheat-
croft with a handsome silver ice-bucket and dessert
basin, as a token of their regard, on the*eve his depar-
ture for the Rockhampton Grammar School, of which
he is to be Principal.
One of the employes of Messrs. Lassetter and
Co. the other day received a cable from England,
intimating that by the death of his uncle he had
succeeded to a fortune of £15,000, It is a curious
coincidence that the lucky man had been in the habit
of sending The Bulletin to his rich relative.
The Queen drove to Abergeldie to attend the
gillies ball. Says a smart London writer:—“ This
ostentatious favouring of the thistle partakes some-
what of the nature of a n insult to the rose. I remember
reading somewhere that the day would come when
England would dispense with sovereigns altogether.
England has only been able to boast of half a sovereign
for a long time.”
Mr. James Tyson, the well-known squatter, is
the richest man in Australia. He is, in fact, said to be
worth more than any other five men in the colonies
put together. Nothing less than ten millions would
represent his wealth, which is being continually added
to from an income of about £500,000 per annum. This
is the “ straight griffin.”
The height, or depth, which flunkeyism has
attained in London is illustrated by the faat that a
“ Horgan of Serciety” announced that it was about to
publish “a pretty picture of the Baroness Bnrdett-
Coutts at breakfast on hoard her yacht the Walrus.”
Another journalist suggested that the companion pic-
ture should be “Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett in his Morning
Tub.”
The “ boss ” of one of the rooms in the Harbours
and Rivers Department, when going to lunch the other
day, fell down that part of the building known as
“ Jacob’s Ladder,” and sustained rather severe injury.
He had to appear next day with his arm in a sling, and
a shade over his eye. Somewhat unfortunate, just at
the time a man is meditating entering the holy state of
matrimony.
Mr. John O’Connell Bligh, Warden of the
Gympie Goldfield, who died suddenly the other day,
was, it seems, in the habit of taking chloral hydrate,
which is believed to have caused his death, as he
expired three hours after taking a dose. He had been
in the service 30 years, having been appointed to the
native police in 1850. At the time of his death he was
46. Mr. Bligh was a grandson of the Governor of that
name, and a nephew of the late Sir Maurice O’Connell.
His life was insured for a considerable amount.
The Express takes Mr. Darley, Q.C., severely
to task for having, in the course of his speech in the
Dibbs ease, referred to Jesus Christ as “ one of the
noblest, greatest, and best of the human race.” [For
this quotation the Express authorities, and not we,
are responsible.] “Apparently,” says the Express,
“Mr. Darley would class the Redeemer of mankind
amongst the leading philanthropists who have made
themselves famous at different periods of the world’s
historv. Such is the Christian belief of some reputed
Christians.”
The following “ telegram in cipher,” published
by a London paper late in October, is the latest about
the Coutts-Bartlett affair : —Special Wire : “ Them
arria gesol ongt alkedo fha sco meo ffo nth estr ictq
titw asqu iteq uietan dwi lino them adek now nfo rsom
eti me. Thi srum ouri scur ren tint hebe stci rcles.”
A certain Collins-street (Melbourne) medico has
signed the visitors’ book at a favourite watering-place
hotel, and some wag has drawn in the Observatory
column, right opposite the signature, a fine duck with
a large open bill. Everyone allowed three guesses.—
Another visitor, unlike Jeptha, has several daughters,
whose names, as written, respectively are Eudora,
Mabel, Ethel, Olive, and Eloisa. Go on. sir. There
are Amanda, Malvina, Euphrasia, and Thomasina still
left, besides a host of others equally nice-sounding.
Mr. Charles Feshney, senr., the well-known
timber speculator, with his son and daughter-in-law,
were drowned near Cardwell last week by the upsetting
of a boat. The only survivor of the party was a
Kanaka, who saved his life by swimming five miles.
Mr. Freshney had just left Maryborough for the John-
stone River, where he had important interests in the
charge of his son, who was a promising young man,
married but a few months ago. By the way, the
Kanaka kept Mrs. Freshney afloat for a mile, but then
became too exhausted to hold on to her any longer.
Those who know “ J. J.” (alias “ King” Casey)
and G. C. Levey, of the Aoe, will be amused at the fol-
lowing dialogue between them, taken from Melbourne
Punch :
J. J. C. —“ Avec pain et distress. Monsieur Levee, il
faut que je condemnez votre Fransaise il est tres
mal ”
G. C. L. —“Vous —er —surprise/ moi—Je toujours
prfnsee que votre —er —Fransaise —tres shs —er."
J. J. C. —“ Monsieur Levee, pardonnez moi; mais les
crowned tesed tetes de I’Europe avait ecoutez moi
parlez Fransaise avec boocoup de satisfaction, voila
testimonials.”
G. C. L.—“ Chezmominez ! Et moi—er—aussi, voila
mes testimonials—er.”
J. J. C.—“Taisez vous, domestique!’’
G. C. L.—“ Mose sautant! et avait il vien a cet! Oh.
chezmominez! ”
Captain Murray, N.S.W. Artillery and detach-
ment, returned to-day from Newcastle. He was relieved
by Lient. H. Le Patourel.
Mr. Philip Muskett, son of the well-known
Melbourne bookseller, now deceased, of that name, has
obtained the medical double at Edinburgh.
Mr. Gordon, of the firm of Gordon and
Shepherd, architects, Wagga, was drowned on Sunday
evening while bathing in the Murrumbidgee.
John Dillon, Esq., of Murrumburrah, was the
gentleman who, by mistake, entered the Assembly and
sat on the front row of the Opposition benches with
the air of a man who had been returned with a trium-
phant majority.
Mr. Hayter, the Victorian Government statist,
has visited Newcastle. The local daily alludes to him
as “ the famous Victorian Free Trade advocate.” We
have never heard this before, and we are pretty certain
that Berry hasn’t. Mr. Hayter, it will be remembered,
went home with the embassy as secretary to the “ head
sugar-loafer.”
Mr. E. A. Scarvell will shortly be admitted as
a partner in the prosperous, respected, and old-
established firm of Want, Johnson, and Want,
solicitors, which will henceforth be carried on under
the style of Want, Johnson, Scarvell, and Want. Mr.
R. C. Want, the senior partner of the firm, proceeds to
England, where he will reside permanently for the
purpose of acting as the home agent of the firm, which
will, in all probability, be entrusted with the N,S.W.
Government business.
Prior to his departure for England for the pur-
pose of studying his profession, Mr. W. H. W. Neill,
one of the medical students at the Infirmary, and son
of the manager of the City Bank, was presented by his
fellow-students with a valuable and appropriate testi-
monial. Mr. Edward Haynes, the senior medical stu-
dent, who made the presentation, referred to the zeal
and industry with which Mr. Neill had applied himself
to the profession, and expressed the hope—which he
felt was certain of fulfilment—that their fellow-student
would rise to a creditable position in the profession.
They say that Archbishop Vaughan is a demon
with the gloves, and that, by way of exercist, he matu-
tinally dons the mittens with his coachman e
hope this is true, for we have in view a capital light-
weight divine belonging to another denomination; and
then there’s Canon Tom Smith, of Bathurst. ,Vhat a
pleasant evening could be had by a select party at
Larry Foley’s!
Mr. G. H. Reid, senior member for East Sydney,
had his first brief at the Quarter Sessions on Tuesday.
He defended an elderly woman named Henrietta
Thierry, for stealing a watch and chain, and was, by
reason of a most eloquent and exhaustive address, the
means of procuring a verdict of acquittal on the ground
of insanity. Mr. Reid is to be congratulated on his
success in this his maiden attempt in criminal juris-
prudence.
We presume that the editor of the Brisbane
Observer must be in the habit of having discredit
thrown on his statements when he finds it necessary
to put at the end of a paragraph supposed to describe
the rough-and-tumble between Byrne and Swanwick,
that his version of the matter was testified to by three
reliable witnesses. This looks very like going about
calling out “ I am not a liar ” before anyone has accused
you of falsifying facts. The Courier and Telegraph
had nothing about reliable witnesses. Were the three
reliable witnesses Swanwick himself and the two whips
(we mean political whips, not horsewhips) ? Qiu
s’ercase »’ accuse . ,
Mr. W. Ridley writes to say that our statement
to the effect that the information contained in the book
of his father (the late Rev. W. Ridley) on the aboriginal
language was derived from the late Rev. L. E.
Threlkeld and his works, is incorrect. Our cor-
respondent points out that his father spent several
years with the blacks, and also received much informa-
tion concerning them from white residents in N.S.W.
and Queensland, and that “ any one comparing the two
works will see that not one of the dialects of which Mr.
Ridley compiled grammars is identical with the dialect
in Mr. Threlkeld’s book. Mr. Ridley’s first edition was
published in 1866. Subsequent to this (in 1874) he
received a copy of Mr. Threlkeld’s work, and in his
second edition (1875), in giving a comparative table of
fifteen different dialects, he included several words from
the book of the latter. This is acknowledged by him on
page 120.”
INTERIOR VIEW OF THE GAIETY THEATRE. CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY


T
HE CLOSING LAND SALE OF THE
TEAK 1880.
FOR UNRESERVED SALE,
by
ST, JOHN’S WOOD
ON THE GROUND,
BATT, RODD, AND PUEVES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD,
IN AREA ABOUT 40 ACRES,
has been
SUBDIVIDED on an entirely NEW PRINCIPLE,
which is certain to meet the approval of the public.
SALE ON THE GROUND,
BOXING DAY, 27th DECEMBER,
by
BATT, RODD, AND PUEVES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD is situate
opposite that well-known property, RE-
GENT’S PARK, but is nearer to both the AUBURN
and ROOKWOOD Stations, and is a portion (the very
pick) of the
CHISHOLM ESTATE.
Without exaggeration, the SOIL, SITE, and
ELEVATION excel those of any LAND within many
miles of Sydney.
tgr A RICH BLACK SOIL ridge, well grassed, and
with good specimens of both box and turpentine (sure
indications of the RICHNESS OF THE SOIL), and
COMMANDING most clear and extensive views of the
surrounding scenery.
BATT, RODD. AND PUEVES.
ST. JOHN’S WOOD.
cjr THE ESTATE is now being subdivided by Mr.
Licensed Surveyor BINSTED, and Lithos. will be
ready in the course of a few days.
&W THE ROADS are all being propely formed, and
the Reserves as well as the allotments will be pegged
ont and numbered, and signposts erected at the corner
of each street, so that the public will have NO DIFFI-
CULTY at the time in viewing THE ESTATE, and
identifying the several lots.
THE TITLE is FREEHOLD AND GUARANTEED.
®ST TERMS. TERMS. TERMS.
£3 DEPOSIT ON EACH ALLOTMENT, and the
BALANCE BY 24 MONTHLY INSTALMENTS. AT
ONLY 6 PER CENT. INTEREST.
N.B.—IN LIEU of discount to CASH PURCHASERS
the VENDORS will give FREE DEEDS, and to all
OTHER PURCHASERS will convey at a cost of £3 3s.
in payment of the full purchase money.
BOXING DAY,
DECEMBER 27, at J 2 o’clock.
On the Ground,
THE NEW MARINE TOWNSHIP,
NEWPORT.
THE HEAD OF PITT WATER,
WITHIN EASY DISTANCE OF MANLY,
THE PORT of the MAGNIFICENT HAWKESBURY,
THE RHINE of AUSTRALIA.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have received
instructions to hold a SECOND SALE on the
GROVND, NEWPORT,
on
BOXING DAY,
DECEMBER 27,
at 12 o’clock,
of the UNSOLD ALLOTMENTS
of the
NEW MARINE TOWNSHIP of NEWPORT,
which has been laid ont on a grand scale, having
STREETS 66 FEET and 32 FEET in WIDTH.
The ALLOTMENTS have each 66 FEET FRONTAGE,
and are from 200 to 500 feet in depth.
The Government have secured a splendid block in
the TOWNSHIP for a PUBLIC SCHOOL.
A CENTRAL SITE has been reserved for POST and
TELEGRAPH OFFICES.
NEWPORT possesses the following advantages :
%• IT IS NEAR a beautiful OCEAN BEACH,
at the head of a lovely bay, between romantic
headlands.
. *»* It has extensive frontages to the deep waters
of PITTWATER LAKE.
V THE LINE of STEAMERS for BRISBANE
WATER and the Hawkesbury start from the
NEWPORT WHARF.
*** THE SCENERY is beautiful in the extreme,
the views from the adjacent mountains are
most extensive, the vegetation superb.
*** IT WILL be the head centre of YACHTING
and FISHING PARTIES.
AS A PROOF of its prospects, it may be mentioned
that although the HOTEL (now an accommodation
house only, until a license is got for it) has only been
occupied ONE MONTH, yet the tenant has made
APPLICATION for 12 additional rooms, and offered to
contribute to the cost of the same.
ATTEND THE SALE.
LIBERAL TERMS.
£5 deposit on each lot, balance 20s. per month.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW READY.
T
HEA T E E
ROYAL
Lessee... ... ... ••• ••• ...Mr. Sami. Lazar
Manager Mr- X. Garner
Acting-Manager for Opera Company... Mr. A. B. Lyster
LYSTER’S ROYAL ITALIAN AND ENGLISH OPERA
AND OPERA BOUFFE COMPANY.
Conductors... Chas. Van Qhele and Harcourt Lee.
THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 23rd,
Benefit of
MISS ELSA MAY,
Balfe’s Romantic Opera,
SATANELLA.
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 24th,
LAST NIGHT OF THE OPERA SEASON,
THE CHIMES OF NORMANDY.
CHRISTMAS NIGHT,
SATURDAY, December 25th,
GRAND SACRED CONCERT
by the entire strength of the Opera Company,
to consist of selections from
The Messiah,’’ “ Stabat Mater,” “ Elijah,” and other
works of great composers.
Dress circle, ss; stalls, 3s; upper circle, 2s ; pit.ds.
Q
BEEN
THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
Successful production of the sterling Drama in 3 Acts,
DRIVEN FROM HOME.
THE WAIF MR. H. H. VINCENT,
supported by the full strength of the
QUEEN’S STAR COMPANY.
Act 1. —The Banker’s Office—The Foundling Hospital.
DEAD IN THE SNOW.
Act 2.—lnterior of the Sawmill.
DOOMED! RESCUED!
Act 3.—The Churchyard.
Villany Unmasked—Reparation to the
DRIVEN FROM HOME,
concluding with the original local afterpiece
THE IRISH VOLUNTEER.
Patrick M‘Guffin(of the Pinchgut V^R^GRE V!LLE'
Incidental duet—Miss Lilian Forde and Mr. Greville.
MARY MAGEE,
which had a run of 50 nights in Melbourne.
Special engagements for the grand Christmas Pantomme
P JACK THE GIANT-KILLER.
Miss KATE FOLEY as JACK
AMY CHAMBERS as PREMIERE DANSEUSE,
LIZZIE DIXON, as COLUMBINE,
Everything new, and regardless of expense.
MADAME ROSE HERSEE, prior to her de-
parture for America, can accept ENGAGE
MENTS for Concerts and Oratorios. Oxford Hotel,
Sydney.
(} A I E T I __J H E A T R E
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Sow
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayfe^'
GRAND OPENING NIGHT
of this
ELEGANT AND MODERN THEATRE
BOXING NIGHT
MONDAY, 27th DECEMBER, 1880. ’
Engagement of the favourite and popular Comedia
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL, °
and production for the first time in Sydney of tl
dramatised version of Charles Dickens’ lUe
OLD CURIOSITY SHOP,
on which occasion
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL
will appear as
QUILP,
supported by a strong and efficient coxnpany
New and authentic scenery by
MR. W. J. WILSON.
Doors open at 7.15. Performance at 8 o’clock.
Omnibusses will ply from all the principal suburbs
Box office at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s music store
George-street, where seats may now be secured. *
Prices of admission.—Private Boxes, £2 2s; Orchestra
Chairs, ss; Stalls, 3s; Balcony Stalls, 2s; Pit, is. ' ;
For full particulars see daily papers.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
O TOURISTS AND OTHERS VISITING
NEW ZEALAND.
T
The Auckland Route is the shortest, safest and best
route to the wonderful Hot Lake District. The STAB
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland (in close proximity
to the Wharf and Railway Station), offers special and
advantageous inducements to travellers. This magnifi-
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnished and replete with
every appurtenance and appliance of a really first-class
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do well to inspect the
suburb accommodation obtainable only at “ THE
STAR,” before deciding where they will locate them*
W. A. CLARKE Manager.
ADAM CAIRNS Proprietor.
jy/J"R. ADOLF SCHWENGELER,
FROM FRANERFELD, SWITZERLAND,
LATE OF WILCANNIA, DARLING RIVER,
s requested to communicate with the Swiss Consulate,
Sydney.
Any information respecting him will be thankfully
received.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
F
OWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET.
Brickfield Hill.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STEEET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accotmt
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Snipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
J.
S T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MAN UFACTURING CONFECTIONER-
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
sn the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands. '
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
Important testimony
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sms and Pabkes,
Sirs,—lf it is any benefit to yon, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlorge-
men of the Liver and Spleen, withal’ the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer, and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, hut my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Das
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S. v\ .
October 27, 1879.
SIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies on receipt of Gash and ro
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
s
JOHN’S WOOD.
T.
BOXING-DAY.
SAALE ON THE GROUND,
DECEMBER 27, at 3 p.m.
As the SALE DAY is a PUBLIC HODIDAY, FREE'
TICKETS will be issued to those wishing to afford their
families the Pleasure of an Excursion.
AMUSEMENTS for CHILDREN on the GROUND.
Refreshment Tent will be open from 12 o’clock until
5 p.m.
Conveyances will ply all day to and from the station
and the estate.
BATT. RODD, and PURYES.
s
T. JOHN’S WOOD.
«*THE SPECIL features in this subdivision are—
1. THE RESERVES, which are on a LARGER and
MORE LIBERAL scale than in any Estate
EVER OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC.
2. ALL the ALLOTMENTS throughout the Estate
are of UNIFORM DEPTH.
3. ALL FRONTAGES are to WIDE ROADS or to
the RESERVES, which in themselves (75 feet
wide, and bounded on each side by roads 40 feet
wide) make the total width no less than
«a-ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-FIVE FEET.
4. SITE, SOIL, and ELEVATION unequalled.
5 WITHIN EASY WALK of two RAILWAY
STATIONS.
•3-BONAFIDB SALE—ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT
RESERVE.
THE AUCTIONEERS with confidence place this
ESTATE in the MARKET for UNRESERVED SALE
anticipating from the public the same liberal support
that has been accorded to them on ALL THE LAND
SALES they have held during the year now closing.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
Race nights. race nights.—
The ODDFELLOWS’ HALL, TAMWORTH, is
to let for the 27th, 28th, and 29th December, 1880. For
tall particular, apply to the
Hon. Sec. Tamworth Amateur Dramatic Club.
SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Direct special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS—
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
A fine blend of Indian and China teas
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed ...
Finest Indian pekoe
Superior coffee
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s
2s 6d
3s
4s
Is fid.
724 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
In three months, says the Acting-Warden,
20,000 ozs. of gold have been obtained at the Margaret
rush, Port Darwin, chiefly by Chinese. A new gold-
field, Boolboonda, Wide Bay and Barnett district, has
been proclaimed. It is seven miles from Tenningering
and four from Mount Perry station. John Jones, a
drayman in the employ of Mr. J. W. Power, Rock-
hampton, was kicked in the abdomen by a mare and
died shortly afterwards, leaving a large family utterly
unprovided for. A numerously-signed petition is
about to be presented asking for the release of Mr,
William Hightteld, late civil engineer in the employ of
the Queensland Government, now undergoing a
sentence of twelve months’for alleged embezzlement.
Mr. Angus Bell, of Inverness, Mackay, the other day
caught a rat measuring no less than 2ft. lOin. from nose
to tail. It and others had been decimating his poultry.
“Paterfamilias” writes to the Brisbane Tele-
graph protesting against the proposed breaking up of
the Brisbane Volunteer encampment, and the employ-
ment of a special train on Sunday, and suggesting that
the men should refuse to follow the colors. The sale
of Sir Henry Parkes’ estate. Blue Mountains, realised
£2,380. In all, thirty-five lots were sold, prices
ranging from £lO to £5l 10j. per acre. The Camp-
belltown Herald comments strongly on the alleged
fact that from a poor man who had given his son a
good education the sum of £3OO was demanded by way
of premium for the youth’s admission to the (profes-
sional branch,[probably of the) Works Department.
Mary Anne Towns, a dipsomaniac, committed suicide at
Echuca, by hanging herself with a clothes-line. She
was well connected and of superior education. At
Dnngog, 40 tons of stone from the Golden Spur, No 1,
West, yielded 540 z Bdwt 6grs, retorted gold.
A man named Joseph Jolly has been committed for
trial at Bourke, for having attempted to bail up a
publican and an ex-policeman. Jolly alleges that the
whole affair arose out of a drinking bout. The rail-
way has been opened from Townsville to Reid River. A
great spread was given by the Municipal Council and
the contractors. A call of the Victorian Assembly
will be made for the 11th January to discuss the second
reading of the Reform Bill. At Geelong, a young
man named Thomas Chapman, a commercial traveller,
has been arrested on an information laid by Fanny Bel-
proud, who avers that Chapman is her husband and
deserted herself and family in 1873. Chapman, who is
married, denies ever having seen the woman before,
and both are equally positive. An attempt will be
made to prevent the contemplated disbandment of the
Victorian Permanent Artillery. A Melbourne firm
engaged in the machinery business, which has been in
the habit of passing invoices under their value, has
been fined £l5OO by the Minister of Customs. A boy
of 10, named Screen, died at Lambtou on Sunday week
of sunstroke. The Tasmanians say that the two
International Exhibitions injured them greatly—
stopped the usual influx of visitors. -The Kiandra
water supply' is going to be a good thing. It is said
that there is a mountain of gold there to be washed out.
The cartoon in the current number of Melbourne
Punch represents Graham Berry being bucked off a
refractory horse, ticketed “Liberal Party," and is
entitled “ A very safe seat! Don’t you feel well, old
man?” Sharks just now are particularly numerous
at Rockhampton. Three gentlemen out for an after-
noon’s fishing caught 12 in a short time, and after
amputating their tails let them go. Men employed on
the Maryborough-Gympie line have been getting into
“ the horrors ’ ’ owing to the villainous drink sold to
them. A girl was admitted into the WaggaWagga
hospital suffering from centipede poisoning. She killed
the centipede with a broom handle, and afterwards,
when using the broom, became inoculated with the
creature’s venom. Rockhamptomites hope to have
their bridge finished by Ist January, and to get Sir
Arthur Kennedy to perform the ceremony of opening it.
The old [chief Mauga, of Pago Pago Island, South
Pacific, is dead. An impecunious newcomer not long
since obtained a temporary loan from one of the Auck-
land banks by depositing his watch, chain, and fowling-
piece. Michael Rush is not going to row Hanlan ——
Dr. Nicholson, at Benalln.has Ned Kelly’s scarf, which
he took off him (Ned) at Glenrowan. It is made of
green silk, trimmed with gold braid. and gold fringe at
the edges. Here is a line fo~ the -arrikins, While
the Potosi was passing Gabo Island on her way from
Melbourne, a shower of large drops of mud fell over
her, marking her from stem to stern with spots of
yellow olaj: At Wellington, N.Z., about 0000 acres
Xsf -Waimatd vifiUhliWkl averaged £6 13s. 7d. per acre.
About 2000 acres sold on deferred payment averaged £7
2s. 4d. All off -ed was-; sold. A meeting of the pro-
prietors of licensed vehicles has been held at Newcastle,
to protest against the present exorbitant license fees.
At Gunning the other day, a boy of only 81 years
was married to a child of 67. Excellent beer is now
being made by Mr. Simpson, who recently started a
brewery at Hay. At Dubbo, a publican named
M’Cauley was, while galloping through the street,
thrown from his horse and killed. At Temora,
Banks’ 104 loads averaged 4dwts. ; 90 loads from the
Golden Bar averaged 12dwts. —-The tin prospects at
Vegetable Creek are increasingly brilliant. A man
named Charles Goodall was drowned in the Brisbane
docks while bathing. The item of £7OO, for gas and
water for Government House, Melbourne, was debated
in the Legislative Assembly, and was only carried on
the understanding that it was not to appear on the
Estimates again. The new light on Otway Reef will
be lighted for the first time on the 17th January. Let
us hope that it will signalise the victory of Laycock.
who rows Hanlan on that day. It has been decided
at Adelaide to form a club of non-commissioned
officers and privates of the Volunteer force.
A Goulburn man named Wiles, who had cut his foot
with an axe, chewed tobacco, and plugged the wound
with it. He is now lying in the hospital very ill of
blood-poisoning. Patrick Quinlan, aged 35, a married
man, was killed in Harris-street by falling from a lorry,
which passed over him. Water is so very scarce at
Cobar that many families are leaving in consequence.
-Logic, a Queensland black, has been remanded on a
charge of having, in 1878, murdered Cornelius Mul-
holland at Frugana station. Very bad Logic. Mr.
J. L. Young, for many years a leading schoolmaster at
Adelaide, has now retired, and been presented with a
Eurse of 336 sovs. It is reported that the N.Z.
rewers have taken the principal prizes for ale and
porter at the Melbourne International. A bullock
was choked the other day near Mount Gambier by
allowing a snake to enter its windpipe while feeding.
—Mrs. Basset, mother of the young woman who says
she is Ned Kelly's widow, denies the truth of the
statement, and says her daughter was never near Greta.
Detectives Mahoney and Considine were charged,
at Melbourne, last week, with having accepted a bribe
to compound a felony. However, the case for the
prosecution broke down most ignominionsly. W.
Galbraith Reed, lare postmaster at Cobing, has been
sentenced to 18 months for embezzlement. The Bank
of Australasia has arranged for the country members of
its Victorian staff to have three days’ holidays, in
r.rder to visit the Melbourne Exhibition, making some
money allowance for expenses. For stealing a child
of. :>) years, an old offender named Thomas Burrowes
was. at Melbourne, last week, sentenced to three years’
hard labor. The Bonk of New Zealand lately intro-
duced £17,000 in silver coin to Wellington. £l5OO
worth of securities have disappeared mysteriously from
the Bank of New Zealand at Levuka. They are supposed
to be mislaid, not stolen. At Goulburn. a boy of
seven has been ordered to the Vernon training ship.
The youthful debauchee spent his time near Tumut in
smoking, drinking, and stealing. He refuses to eat
whilst in custody without first having his pipe and
tobacco, and the prison authorities indulge his wishes.
A Melbourne man, Thompson, tried to cut his
throat at Cabbage Tree Flat, in the Amberley district,
N.Z. Mr. M’Mullen, of Moreton Park, has lost his
grand imported stallion Sampson by death. The
animal cost £BOO, The bellicose detectives in Mel-
bourne have been fined two pounds each. -E. T.
Smith, the Mayor of Adelaide, has not, to alleviate the
poor, issued tickets for soup, but for “five bob”
each. There has been a deal of sly-grog selling at
Wallerawang. Mr. Frederick Davenport, M.P., of
Brisbane, was recovering, according to latest accounts.
Mr. A. K. Smith, M.L.A. for East Melbourne, is
dying of diabetes. Mrs. G. B. Lewis fainted on the
stage of the Bijou Theatre, Melbourne, through the
work arising out of pantomimic preparations. Baley,
the youth of 15 who was sentenced to death at Bris-
bane for criminal assault, has had his sentence com-
muted to three years’ imprisonment. At yesterday’s
meeting of the Corporation, motions to reduce the
salaries of various officials were for the most part nega-
tived. A successful entertainment was given on
Tuesday night, by Members of the Lyceum Dramatic
and Musical Society, assisted by other lady and gentle-
men amateurs, in aid of the widow and family of the
late Mr. John Tyerman.
The Gaiety Theatre.
We give a sketch this week of the interior of the new
Gaiety Theatre, which may fitly be described as one of
the most handsome, cosy, and elegant theatres in the
colonies. What a change from the old Guild Hall!
Here we have an edifice with its interior constructed on
the most advanced lines of theatrical architecture,
fnrnithed up to the highest London and Parisian stvle,
and—here is the most important feature—so fitted in
respect of ventilation and means for escape in case of
fire, as at once to give it almost the leading place among
all the histrionic temples of the Anstralias. The citi-
zens are indebted for this to the skill of no archi-
tect, but to the enterprise of a theatrical man who
simply knew his business. Mr. L. M. Bayliss has now
for Sydney an edifice which has been designed on plans
dictated by many years’ managerial experience in
England, America, and on the Continent, and
by experience also gained in large theatrical
ventures in an adjoining colony. The Gaiety,
as is pretty well known, has a lofty and hand-
some facade. Its situation is Castlereagh-street,
near Park-street, close to the railway and suburban
tram termini at Park and Bathurst-streets. It has a
frontage of 76ft., with a depth of 160 ft. One of the
main features of the place, with the advantage of
which a person is immediately impressed on entering,
is that the select parts of the house are on the ground
floor —in accordance with modern Parisian and Ameri-
can notions. The main entrance, which is by way of a
handsome hall and brilliantly furnished vestibule, leads
to the orchestra, chairs, and stalls. It is richly
carpeted and embellished in fine style, and commands
from the door a splendid view of the whole house. The
passage is wide, and would admit of four or five persons
passing at a time. The orchestra chairs, as here ar-
ranged, are preferable to any circle. The seats are of
the new Bayliss pattern, arranged on a different prin-
ciple. They are reached by wide passages: in fact
there is here, as in other parts of the house, an entire
absence of cramping, and persons may move from
place to place with the greatest ease and freedom. The
same remarks apply to the stalls, which command a
fine view of the stage. The pit, which' is set out
on a splendid plan, has its entrance on the other side
of the house, and the rise from front to back is arranged
so that on the most crowded nights a grand view of
the stage is always to be had. Overhead are the
balcony stalls. Here, as elsewhere, there is no
cramping—this principle being, in fact, the most
important consideration in the whole interior arrange-
ments. The four private boxes are unique in their
style and appointments. They command a splendid
view of the stage and of the whole house, and are
furnished most artistically. The Gaiety proved
itself, during the last few hot days, to be the
coolest edifice in the city, and it is most undoubtedly
the best ventilated theatre in the colonies. The
upper portions of the walls are studded with windows,
and these, operating with arrangements at the base,
give a complete system of ventilation without the
slightest draught. Adjeining the main building, and
connected with the stage, are sixteen dressing rooms,
showing that if Mr. Bayliss is a strict disciplinarian
with regard to the profession, he is also solicitous for
their health and comfort. Near the stage also is a 40ft.
scene dock, admitting of an unencumbered stage. The
lighting is by gas operated upon by electricity. The
decorations were executed by Messrs. Lyons and
M'Ewan, Castlereagh-street; the furnishing and uphol-
stery hy Farmer and Company; woodwork by Cook
Brothers; and the gas-fittings by A. Keating. The
scenic artist is Wilson, whose talent with the brush
has never appeared to better advantage. Space pre-
cludes further remark descriptive of the theatre. Mr.
Bayliss has been joined in his enterprise by Mr. John
Solomon, and the firm is now known as “ L. M. Bayliss
and John Solomon.” In many essentials of the interior
decorations and arrangements, the excellent taste of
Miss Mary Gladstane (Mrs. Bayliss) has been employed
with manifest advantage. The opening performance is
fixed for Boxing-night, when “ Quilp” will be produced,
with Mr. Fred. Marshall in the title role and supported
by an excellent company of artistes. The scenes will be
paintings from actual life in London, and will include a
picture of the very house made famous by Dickens as
“The Old Curiosity Shop.”
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters ‘connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.


I INTERNATIONAL • EXHIBITION, 1880
SWALLOW and AEIELL were awarded two First
prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
jNTEENATTONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. - GEO.
BENCE AFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’S Superior Eefined
XEEACLE and GOLDEN SYEUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of li, 2,3,
and 64 owt. each. Sole agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
£JHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ COBPOEATION STOEES,
HAY STEEET, HAYMAEKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTEY STOEEKEEPEES LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
•p] CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
[Legal.J
S
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEKEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Q. AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
OBEE T BUTC H E R & C 0”
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
V
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWIGK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
JH A R V E Y,
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
J T IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition op 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
of the
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEA E’ S PRESENTS!!
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Mothers, Sisters, Brothers, Lovers, Wives
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., Jtc., and all who wish to gratify those they love with a
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHRISTMAS or NEW TEAR’S DAY, but who “ really don’t know
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HOllDERN AND SONS’
PALACE SHOW ROOMS,
J
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from every civilized country under the sun, 1
INCLUDING
FANS,
ALBUMS,
BRACELETS,
OPERA GLASSES,
DRESSING CASES,
FANCY PERFUMERY,
ILLUMINATED ALBUMS,
RUSSIAN LEATHER GOODS,
LOVELY DOLLS PROM In. TO £5,
SEALSKIN PURSES, POCKET BOOKS,
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIOS, WATCHES,
STATUETTES, OLEOGRAPHS, JEWELLERY,
LADIES’ COMPANIONS, CLOCKS, CONCERTINAS,
JET ORNAMENTS, MANTEL - PIECE ORNAMENTS,
TRAVELLING BAGS, SCRAPS, STATIONERY, VASES,
WORK BOXES, FRENCH TOYS, GERMAN TOYS, PURSES,
TOILET SETS, PHOTOGRAPHS, CARTE DE VISITS FRAMES,
CHINESE GOODS, INDIAN GOODS. MIRRORS, TOILET GLASSES, '
DRESS HOLDERS, NECKLETS, IN K-STANDS—TOGETHER WITH A VERY
FINE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER GOODS TOO NUMEROUS TO PARTICULARIZE.
Arid you cannot fail to make a selection, and your friends happy ! BUT NOTE THIS PACT
THAT OUR ONLY r ADDRESS IS
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only),
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 10th December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS POE GOLD-MINING LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
HUNTUB AM) MAOLEAY MINING DISTRICT.
No.
Name.
394
395
396
397
398
■too
401
402
403
M’Fedries and others
Cradick and others
Driscoll and others
Williams and others
. Carey and others
Cowan and another
M’lntyre and others
Somerville and others
404 I W. Rudge
405 ! J. Driscoll
Chefdeville and another...j
Scott |
C. Scott and another |
407 L.
408 C.
409
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10th December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS POE GOLD-MINING LEASES.
\TOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
131 Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER. *
Locality.
Area.
County of Clive, parish of Rockvale 20 0 0
County of Gough, parish of Arvid 20 0 0
do do 20 0 0
Application
No.
Veg. Ck. 3X0
313
321
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 11th December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING LEASES.
THE Lessee of the undermentioned Gold-mining Lease is hereby called upon to show cause, within
thirty days from this date, why the lease should not be cancelled, for non-observance of the con-
ditions thereby imposed. E A BAKER .
Peel and Uealla and Hunter and Macleay Mining Districts.
Name.
i Portion'
No.
63-36 j T. J. A. Clarke j 56 g.l.
Locality.
Area.
a. v. p.
Lady Lizzie Reef, co. Gloucester psh. Bindera 2 0 0
Date of Lease
10 June, 1878
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10th December, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING LEASES.
WTO TICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee executes and takes delivery of the undermentioned
3l (fold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date, it will bo declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
Name.
Portion
i No.
Bathurst Mining District'.
Locality.
James Rutherford 179
Oakey Creek, comity of Georgiana.,
a. r. p.
8 0 0
Application
No.
Tnmkey 368
TRAMWAY TICKETS. |
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES,
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
.
POSTAGE S
1
(Opposite Court-house),
DAKIIN6HUEST.
WH. A R I E L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT.
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-strekt, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Pencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
L O U E SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal. PiS Feed.
M
AIZ E N A
FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
SYDNEY MEAT-PEESERYING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES —Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. lames Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Marga«ct-street.
S. G
STEAM <t
LASSO N ’ S
1 CH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
HaBW.-STREET, off Geobqe-stbeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
| R, LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
ADVT
JUST ARRIVED
aaAiauv xsnf
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS. ART? i.L t*F TTSFFT
INVENTION, c i.NC’i o-OODB, A. - .
TOY S a spe-jialiti r rr«£eEJ 'igfeTrillion We ar«
Manufacturers and ini f.orters.
flea/’quarters for TEA’'L « !•;STENT If.r Men
Oilin' - -, Gifts*, <'
,/OOTHACHE TINCTURE —insta ’ 'aneous relict
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of ea
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian,Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
I
W/
ap y j eWelle r\V w/\rcq p/\ fjt
■<jl ■> NjADE JO <-**
pt/\iN f\»cn syoci\, islevn/ de^icn!^.
WATCHES, PRESENTS, JEWELLERY.
Our new goods for this festive season are worthy your
inspection; please call —read the PRICES yourself,
and secure best value for your m> mey at
334 GEORGE STREET. 334
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies woidd do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from I2s fid, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES front
3s lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s fid. Ladles Corsets
from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4.)d per
pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fisohus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, &c., cheaper thn’t any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
%’KING STREET.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
223 BOUKKE STREET, 'WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 UVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.


Miscellaneous
ETSDAtE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street, ~
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, lEONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laees, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &e., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks.
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
GIBBS’
•Automatic •
a
Silent ’
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS.
Corn-shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Waxnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &e
S. HEBBLE WHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
PAINT
THE WORLD.
HE
BEST
LN
r.
-0
eture^j
20
*
a
DWMai
BONN
3*
LS
c°
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., 4 gal., and -} gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
remplete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us“Woollahra. August 20th, 1880,—I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about lamontljs ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
V- BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
\ AFRICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Imperters of all Descriptions o
MACHI NER Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880 •
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER'S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
WM. TAYLER $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■ -
gANDER LAZARUS' AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE. CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET.
POR IMPURE WATER.
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be’patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield ;—Por a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes' Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney: —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
IP , „ nr,, IT If/i/f/la Cn/luau • TVTbod com oirno 01 imora onrl Toroa* Pnrifiar onrarl Tinv -J-n
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for 2J years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Lawrence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Eetail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Watek Filter, which is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Hite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only ,is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe—a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JEYES
PERP E C T
PURIFIER (PATENT),
Miscellaneous
c
LIFFORD, LOVE- AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peabeiry
Do. „ Nos. 1 r,
RlCE—Saigon V,
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET.. BRISBANE.
REOGATE’S
PATEIT MML
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
PRIZE
Cocoa
or-
« %-o
%
''wmm
. s%w
%^‘t;
%
%
/
3<
2&
X
<3>
%
'P
R. HARPER & DO.,
M.UI y
m
u
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old by all Grocer* and Storekeepers!
■s
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL v rvfif'
iTWEED
Id TWEED^^SUITS
t oou se|^BPmeasure
los&tf. T fft\T
#il B KS&SP
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
SoOOFATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROM
HLSUMMERFIELO
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND
PRIZE
ALBUEY WINES.
Red Wines: '
C 0.’3
Burgundy
Carhinet
Shiraz
Malbec
Whits Wines :
Eeisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS;
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors*
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Against the world
E, Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney-
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
%
BT«A
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Eeport says:—
“Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
R. HARPER & CO.,
tj i n fj
ill’ll ®
mm
IMustarD
®,3
SYDNEY.
gINGES’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FOEMEE TEAKS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T H E UNIVERSAL LOCESTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not seen it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company's Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389
SOLI
Agents
George Street
roa
N
Hornsby
SYDNEY.
<9
Anglo
Australian
o
STRIPPERS
o
$
The
Very
& PAIN
Rtqiiet
Farmers
to examine
Hornsby’s
STRIPPERS "
Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest
Our HORNSBY'S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the hading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to secure
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials duritig the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We hav&Ube Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
WITH
*
AND
*
*
187 & 189
York St
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
The Leading House in the Agricultural Implement Business.
