

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2. —No. 21.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1880.
Price —3d.
The Bulletin.
Saturday, june 10, 1880.
Rum Versus Religion.
According to Byron the choice of a man in
search of consolation lies in certain cases be-
tween “ rum ami true religion,” and this is the
alternative which a number of enthusiastic cold-
water people are at the present time striving to
force upon the community. Mr, Dimond, the
occupant of a valuable property in William-
street, was the other day an applicant for a pub-
lican’s license. The J.P.’s representing the
ultra-temperance party “ rolled up” in force to
vote bald-headed against the granting of the
application, and the consequence was that Mr.
Dimond found himself defeated by a narrow
majority. However, some days later he again
pressed his application, and as the other side
had scant notice of the renewal of his attempt
and had not thoroughly drummed up their
forces, he succeeded in gaining a preponderance
of magisterial votes. Now, so far as appears
from the evidence, there ■ no reason why
Dimond should not have a license except it be
that his house is not far distant from a church.
llis case in sonfe respects is a second edition of that
of Bogan, the persevering but unlucky applicant
who wishes to carry on business somewhere in
the same district, and to whoso affairs we made
reference last week. On finding that they had
been overreached by Dimond the opponents of
the application waxed furious, and they have
since twice visited the Colonial Secretary to urge
his interference. Wo have not the slightest
.sympathy with those who profess to represent
the Temperance party in this particular matter,
inasmuch as we consider that, they are altogether
exceeding their duty in thus endeavouring to
utterly ruin a first-class hotel property. We are
heart and soul with those who aim at suppress-
ing the odiously immoral houses whose keepers
have so long held undisputed sway in Sydney;
and though we consider that in this regard
much still remains to be done we are not at all
inclined to go to the other extreme and aid in
establishing the supremacy of the Becksnifllan
confederacy who object to an honest man buying
a glass of beer and a cigar on Sunday or on any
other day of the week. We are glad to see that
Dimond has got his license, and hope he will be
allowed to keep it as long as he behaves himself.
As to the strategic means by which he succeeded
in gaining a majority in the count of judicial
noses there is little to say. Anything is fair in
love or war, and it is needless to remind his op-
ponents that they have on this occasion been
beaten with their own weapons, and that “ what
is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.”
It’s merely and literally a case of “ Diamond cut
diamond.”
Australian Aborigines.
To some extent those who during the last few
months have been bringing more prominently
under public notice the sad case of the Austra-
lian aborigines are acting the part of Job’s com-
forters, for they arc directing attention to an
evil which is utterly irremediable and amenable
only to palliative treatment. The Australian
aborigine is a doomed man. The “civilised
black,” as we of New South Wales know him, is
a wretched creature. Ho is madly fond of drink.
His future was blasted before his birth by the
vices of tho white man, whose fault it is that
the aboriginal race is infected with disease tran-
mittod from father to son from generation to
generation. Drunkenness and degradation are
at all times pitiable sights; but just as they are
the nioi’e terrible when associated with' the
painted faces, the grating blasphemy, the vulgar
tawdriness which too often characterise unfortu-
nates of our own race, so the aborigine’s appear-
ance, as he wanders along the streets which were
°nce his hunting-grounds, is lent an additional
melancholy by the tattered finery in which ho is
arrayed. The poor inebriated wretch struts
along Gcorge-street, imitating, with the panto-
mimic ability which is one of his few mental
gd'ts, tho deliberate gait of tho policeman who
once wore the rags which cover his back, or ( lie
’’tilted walk of the volunteer who has given him
a cast-off hat. Ho coughs, and everyone per-
j lves lie is in consumption. He holds out
ns hand for money and laughs, and everyone
knows that the coppers will he changed for beer;
evei’yonc perceives that the black man’s laugh is
a drunken chuckle that his bright eyes are lit
up by the white man’s fire-water and the fierce
flame which in the pale-face would produce
the hectic Hush of pulmonary disease. Heaven
help him! his gaiety has no parallel save the
ghastly jokes of Dickens’ dying clown or the
mad laughter one hears in a lunatic asylum. In
the country districts the blackfellow is the same,
and in Victoria his case is no better. The
Queenslander has taken his part as against the
bloodthirsty scoundrels, officered by white men,
and known as the “native police.” In the
northern colony there are two classes of blacks
between whom there runs a distinct and appre-
ciable dividing line. In the south of Queensland
the average blackfellow is just as depraved and
miserable as in New South Wales, for the few
who survive come into contact with “civiliza-
tion”; but in the Ear North things are other-
wise. When the Palmer goldfield was opened
the blacks were at first by no means hostile, and
some white men gave them bread ; hut they com-
menced to spear horses, and then the white man
gave them lead. Since then there has been open
war between the races, and there is hardly a man
in North Queensland whose motto is not “See a
nigger and ‘pot’ him.” TheMdacks have been
murdered by thousands, and, wh'eilu i-> on the
Palmer, Hodgkinson, Gilbert, Etheridge, or
Coen fields, to say nothing of the pastoral dis-
tricts, (he white settlers' poliev has been one ol
extermination. Blacks arc brought up from
VV ide Bay and Rockhampton to do duty
as troopers, well mountcl, armed with snicleiv,
and taken out regularly on slaughtering expedi-
tions by white officers. In several far northern
districts it is by no means uncommon for
residents to ask the native troopers to procure
young blacks for them ; and the writer has fre-
quently seen a long string of native police filing
into a township*-—some of them carrying in front
of their saddles black children from two to ten
years of age. Anyone in the troopers’ company
•A day or two before would have witnessed a
wholesale massacre of human beings —a re-
lentless violation of women. lie would have
seen the brains of (he infant dashed out against
a tree after its mother had been murdered. This
is not fiction, hut is the statement of one who
not three years ago saw in a Queensland scrub
the unburied corpses of men, women and chil-
dren who had been murdered by officers of
“justice” and left for the crows. In North Queens-
land the blacks are never allowed within a town-
ship. The whites hold possession of the valleys,
and when the hungry black descends from the
range in quest of food —perchance to spear a
horse or bullock —ho is shot. And what is hap-
pening in Queensland now once happened every
day in New South Wales. It is too late to talk
of preserving the aboriginal race. It is and
always was Utopian to try and Christianise it.
Rum and European clothes have ruined the
people who half a century ago were temperate
and naked. The aboriginal race is moribund.
All we can now do is to give an opiate to the
dying man, and when he expires bury him re-
spectably.
The Measure of Punishment.
“ What course was open to me, your Honor ?” is
a question frequently heard from convicted
prisoners in the docks of the criminal courts.
And often the unfortunate fellow can tell how
after hi- first offence against the law, and when
his expiatory term had expired, ho left his
coll with deep-set resolutions to return to the
paths of honesty, and so qualify himself in time
to re-enter society. But Society, relentless to
its fallen ones, refuses to recognise him or allow
him the opportunity of retrieving his false step.
No employment is given him, and no friendly
hand is outstretched to assist. Perhaps ho has a
family ; and perhaps, though a criminal, a tender
heart. lie cannot see his children hungry. He
therefore commits another offence, and is now
fairly launched on his downward career. Surely
if society is afraid to imperil its purse or ivspoe-
tabiluy with people ot this class it might at least
not too hastily close the door on their exit from,
its pale. Due discretion tempered with mercy
should influence its. decisions as to his first
punishment. Let us illustrate what we have
said. The other day, at the Central Criminal
Court, two cases appeared for adjudication. In
the one, Joseph llassett, against whom eight
previous summary convictions were recorded,
received a sentence of twelve months’ hard
labour for illegally pawning. In an almost
analogous case, Henry Richardson, against
whom “ nothing was known ” previously, received
a precisely similar sentence, for stealing a pawn
ticket for a ring !
Judge Meymott’s Case.
Great results usually come out of small causes,
and probably the serious charges against Mr. Dis-
trict Court Judge Meymott are no exception to
the general rule. It is said that shortly after a
certain barrister began to go on circuit hi the
Northern Districts, he extended a speech in
defence of a prisoner at Glen Innos to an unusual
length, apparently with the intention rather of
annoying the Judge—who had sharply rebuked
him during the hearing of the case—than of
benefitting his client. At the conclusion of the
speech, His Honor, in summing up, said, “ Well,
gentlemen of the jury, you have hoard a very
lengthy address from the learned counsel for the
defence —an address extending over three-quarters
of an hour; but, gentlemen, if there is anything
in it, beyond its length, I leave you to judge.”
It is said that the barrister in question picked a
quarrel with the Judge that night at the hotel,
and promised to bo even with him some day.
Time will tell whether there is anything in the
serious charges now brought forward against
Judge Meymott beyond their length and the
novel mode in which it is proposed to obtain
evidence to convict him. As previously stated,
we know nothing whatever of the rights of the
case. Wo are just as ready, pending the investi-
gation, to believe that Judge Meymott is slan-
dered as that those who accuse him are proceed-
ing on good grounds. All wo want is that the
Judge, who starts under a heavy handicap, shall;
have a fair field. .
Mr. Richard Driver, M.L.A.
It is alike with feelings of pleasure and regret
that we to-day give our readers the portrait of *
Mr. Richard Driver, M.L;A., engraved from a 6
photograph taken some time prior to tho com-!
inencement of Ms present illness, which it is only,;
too much to be feared cannot but result fatally. P
Mr. Driver is a native of New South Wales, and l }
is the son of parents both of whom are Aus-tf
traliar.s by birth. He was born at Coolah ,*
near Liverpool, on 26th September, 1829, and is v
consequently 51 years of age. After passing"
through his school education he served his
as an attorney’s clerk with Messrs. Nicholls aud*j.
Williams, solicitors, both of whom have since been#-
distinguished, the former as member of Parliament's
and Auditor-General in the first
Ministry—that of Mr, Donaldson —the latter
Crown Solicitor. He was admitted as an attorney
of tho Supreme Court in 1856, and has for a good”’*
many years occupied the responsible position of'” 1
solicitor to the Corporation of Sydney. At air*?
early period of his life he took a lively interest iff-ji
politics, and became an enthusiastic admirer of
Wentworth, and a firm adherent to the party
Mr. Cowper. He was returned to Parliament
West Macquarie in 1860; lias since represented*
Windsor and Carcoar : lias during his twenty*
years of Parliamentary life taken an active part 0
in discussions on many of the questions of tliiA
day ; has occupied with credit the position of I
Chairman of Committees in tho Assembly, and-.s
was Minister for Lands in tho Parkcs Ministry in*
1877. He has ever been an enthusiastic admirer,<j
and staunch supporter of all descriptions of manly,,,
sport, and for years past has acted as judge or
umpire in every important aquatic event on the* 1
Parramatta. He took a leading part hi the move-**
ment to recognise Trickett’s services on tin#-’
occasion of our representative sculler carrying off-3
the English championship from tho Thames, andte
his familiar face and voice wore missed by all wlk*q
were pi e sent at the meeting on Friday
last to wish Triekatt success on his seconcL
errand.
MR. RICHARD DRIVER. M.L.A.


PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE SEVENTH-A PAPER ON DRESS.
BY QUIZ
Dkess is a enbjoct that one must needs approach 1
daintily, look at mieoscropically, ’pull to pieces homeo-
path! rally and write np very dispassionately. Now, our
evening entertainments, especially our theatres, give
♦ ae a wide and varies I picture on the the subject. Take
a crowded, fashionable night at the “ Victoria,” when
there is a rash for the dress-circle and st ills, for the
Opera is popular if questionable or the "circle ” and
“stalls ” would not be so crowded. On such a night
the “ belles ” of the past, present and future, are to bo
seen in all their bravery. I notice one anxious mother,
with a whole bevy of daughters, closely scanning the
adjacent sofas to see if any girls outshine hors. She
need not alarm herself, for one of her daughters, I
notice, wears diamond ear-rings; round her slender
throat a massive gold collar, from which hangs a locket
blazing with diamonds; on her thin, unformed arms,
are bracelets also studded with diamonds. She is
mry young and her childish figure looks weighed down
by jewels that would have better become her mother
or even her grandmother. If mothers only knew it,
there is beauty in youth that needs no adornment.
Nature supplies with no niggard hand all the jewels
that youth requires, but that flimsy, changeable dame
called “ Fashion,” refuses to recognize them and prefers
to paint her rose while yet in the bud. There are plenty
of Australia’s fair daughters around ns and the many-
hued costumes strike mo os slightly incongruous with
the wearers. White, and white alone, is remarkable by
its total absence. There are plenty of pompadour girls
and pinafore girls, girls in silk and girls in satin, but
girls in white—none. The one color that essentially
belongs to youth they eschew. True, the elaborately-
trimmed dresses they wear are far more costly and so
are their mothers’, the only difference being that while
youth in satin has her pretty neck and arms covered,
mamma in precisely the same material has a liberal
display of her plump bust and arms. With hor it is
evidently neck or nothing. The principal head-dress
among the young to-night is a '■ bauble ” they call a
“cap.” My grandmother wore cops, so did my grand-
father, so also did my baby sister, but none of these
could be called a cop of the “period." Now, girls hide
their abundant hair and deform their pretty faces by
appearing in a “ grogram,” either fitting them as
eyes no bitter tears have been forced when wintry winds
have blown keen through the street arab’s scanty
clothing and the cruel frost chilled his bore feet as he
limped olong. Our commercial gentleman, nursed in the
lap of luxury, know no want that a well-lined pocket or
indulgent parents could gratify. When old enough he
probably steps into his father’s large house of business. |
What other men struggle to obtain, he finds ready
waiting for him. His natural aptitude for business fits
him for his posh ion. Naturally, as he grows older the
business becomes in a measure his, or it on the other
hand he has been placed while young in another “ firm.”
he has now become a partner and leading man in the
business. As fortune favors him, so he can afford to
stretch out ft helping hand to others, for education
makes men liberal-minded to one another and many a
stranger coming to these very shores, has, although
fitted in every respect for business, found it almost
impossible to gain a living because he was a stranger.
To inch our wealthy educated commercial men have
been good friends. They have received them kindly,
read their letters, not sent thorn away with empty
promises, but have recommended them to other
merchants and through their energy placed many a poor
friendless clerk in a good berth and even then, looking
them np now and again with a friendly shako of the
hand and a few hearty words kindly spoken, shewn them
thej" are not forgotten. Such are onr commercial men
in Australia.
Mr. Grattan Ring’s.
On the fourth page of to-day’a issue we print a
portrait of Mr. Grattan Riggs, the clever come-
dian who on Tuesday night last iotrolueel him-
self to the Svdney public at the Victoria Theatre
as “ The Irish Detective.” In next issue we hope
to bo able to say more concerning Mr. Biggs and
the performances by which in the Spates and
Victoria he has earned so high a reputation.
Trickett’s Departure for England.
Trtckett took his departure far Melbourne
over-land, en route to England, on Saturday last,
to fulfil his engagement with Ifanlan, the great
Canadian champion. Many of his friends met
at his late hotel—now Hunt’s International—to
drink his health and success in bumpers of
champagne. A ’bus with fonr splendid greys,
placed at lus committee’s disposal by the Sydney
Omnibus Company, then conveyed him and many
of his well-wishers to the Redfern Railway
station, where numbers liad congregated to wish
him bon voyage Vociferous cheering was the
signal that our champion had taken his seat in
the train, and that it was about to start. The
whistle went, and while the air resounded with
loud and continued cheering. Trickett’s handker-
chief waved farewell to his wife and friends. On
his arrival at Parramatta Junction a large num-
ber also had gathered to give him a parting cheer.
Ho was well received at Melbourne, and bv wire
we learn that preparations were being made to
give him a welcome at Adelaide on the
Orient’s arrival. We were glad to notice
that amongst those wh* were present at last
Friday evening’s meeting was Mr. James Punch,
and we are pleased to learn that Mr. Punch
is making arrangements which will in all proba-
bility enable him to he in London on the date of
the race, 15th November. With Trickett, Laycock
(and possibly someone else) to the fore, and Mr.
Punch in attendance, the rowing interests of this
colony in England can be safely left to take care
of themselves.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
More publican*’ transfers refused.
Plenty has broken out at 8 wan Hill.
Parliament w ill prorogue on Tuesday week.
An art {Tillery is to be established at Adelaide,
Yakoob Khan will probably bo re-instated at
Cabul.
Larrikinism is increasingly troublesome at Mel-
bo rime.
Sampson’s conviction has been uphold by the
Full Court.
The Assembly has decided against abolishing
imprisonment for debt.
The Italian exhibits for Melbourne International
have sailed from Europe.
'ldie Cobar Copper Company pay wages to the
amount of £65,000 a year.
Lunatic Lascar sailors are frequently brought to
Australia by Eastern ships.
A bowling, croquet, and frisquottc ground is to
bo established at Surry Rills.
The Chilians have captured Arica, defeating the
Peruviana with immense loss. ’
The English team won the Wimbledon trophy,
the Scotch second and the Irish nowhere.
Cooma Magistrates regret that they have no
stocks wherein to place certain defendants.
Judge Meymott has been gran toil leave of absence
pending investigation of Mr. Dillon’s charges.
Fruiterers and greengrocers object to tho Cor-
poration’s proposal to impose fees for hawking.
The English, French, and Italian fleets have
sailed for Beaika Bay why, is a mutter of spocnlation.
A Sydney constable has got himself into official
hot water through flirting with a female prisoner in
court,
Tho broken tubes of the diamond drill at Moore
Park cannot bo extracted. A fresh boring is necessi-
tated.
Sir John O’Shanassy says there is “ a perfect
understanding between him and tho Victorian Oppo-
sition.
Tho Legislative Council is after all the groat
constitutional safeguard. It has rejected Tom Garrett’s
anti-plumping danse.
Tho Licensed Victuallers' annual hall (plain and
fancy dress), held at Sydney Masonic Hall, on Monday
night, was a grand success,
Martin Hogan, a selector at Carahost Station,
Wagga, has leou found dead with a bullet-hole through
his breast. Murder is alleged.
The Pull Court declines to grant a new trial in
re City Bank e. Sir O. W. Allen—tho well-known ca-so
arising out of the Treeve frauds.
Three cases of alleged small-pox were discovered
on board tho s.s. Norfolk, at Wellington, N.Z., after she
had been cleared by the health-officer.
No one regirds the Service Ministry as likelv to
hive a long life. The only question is—what will hap-
pen after the sentence is pronounced P
The accounts of the secretary to the Tasmanian
Executive Commissioner are said to be in an nusatig.
factory state. Mr. D’Avigdor has filed his schedule.
At Adelaide, P. J. Sparkman. an importer’s
employd has committed suicide—in consequence, it is
alleged, of deficiencies in his accounts. He was engaged
j,o be married.
Mr. O. R. Dibits, it is confidently assorted, will
shoytly endeavor to move from Darlinghurst to Parlia- •
merit houses. The morning papers say that the project
is not feasible.
The ultra-Tomporanoo party is wild at a license
having been granted to Mr. Dlmond, of William-street,
Sydney, whose application was brought forward with’
out dno notice.
The Agk says that Deakin is hound to bo in the
next Ministry. Considering that Bymne has worked
two of his newspaper staff into the Assembly already,
he may perhaps succeed with his latest pet.
Several members of the Alderaon Family, with
Miss Katie Fairfax and a driver had a narrow escape
from sodden death on Sunday morning last, owing to
their buggy capsizing on tho Elirabeth-street tramway.
Kerry asserts that the celebrated Black Wed-
nesday Gazette (suppressed) did not contain a green-
back notice or n notification of the disbandment of the
police. Bat he’s “ not game "to produce the Gazette
in question.
The corporation is ’cute. It doesn’t send depu-
tations to the Colonial Secretary, but the Mayor asks
Sir Henry and Sir John to come down and have a glass
of wine with him at, the Town Hall, and tells them
everything in a sociable way.
In reference to the paragraph concerning Mr.
Tom Kennedy which nopears in “Stage Gossip,’’ wo
are now informed that Mr. K. has not personally em-
barked in the bills and paste business, but is inspector
of bills, &c., for the city of Melbourne.
There is an estimated deficiency in rovenno of
£390,06?. Government intend te meet this by reintro-
ducing the (Stamp Duties’;Bill in a new form and sub-
mitting export taxes of Jd per lb. on greasy and *d per
lb. on washed wool, a tax of 6d per head on horses and
homed cattle, and a royalty of 6d per ton on coal.
“ The Chivalry of Labour” is the title of an
address to be delivered at tho School of Arts, on the
22nd, by Mr. John Plummer. It, will contain personal
reminiscences of John Clare, Gerald Massey. W. C.
Bennett. Ruth Wills, John Askham, William Belling-
ton, and other working-class poets.
Edison, so it is said, can get sfi2So worth of gold
out of a ton of tailings at the cost of £l. He has em-
ployed agents to buynp millions of tons of tailings for
him which it was thought had yielded every available
speck of tho precious metal. So it’s likely he will soon
be a Croesus indeed.
The Insttravck and Banking Record, re-
ferring to the Quiriiidi robbery, says that as the sym.
pathios of the public im to ne districts are so much in
accord with outlawry, bank directors will be con-
sulting the interests of their shareholder* by closing
outlying branches in dangerous country.
The purely cask system, the only way in which
full value can l>e given for monev. was established by
the proprietor of the Royal Furnishing Arcade alont
four years ago. and it means prompt payment for
goods without discount or rebate of any kind. It is
refreshing to note that some of the leading houses of
Sydney are following this good example.
Tho Webtkrn Champion, a squatters’ organ,
published at Blackali. in the far West of Queensland’,
is rearing on its hind legs with indignation at the
Queenslasdek for publishing a series of articles on
“ How we civilize the blacks.” Borae people are as
averse to the truth as others are to cold water. How-
ever, all the squatters don’t go with their champion.
The Warworks in Pltt-street continue to bo an
attraction. One of the finest specimens of the art ever
seen in Sydney is the figure of the " Double-headed
Nightingale,” who is now astonishing tho world in
America. She is the greatest human marvel alive,
consisting of two beings with but one body. The
heads are separate, as likewise the four arms and four
legs. The model at the waxworks haa just been
received from New York.
Tho Birthday Ball at Brisbane took place on tho
10th ; a bachelors’ ball follows, and the Mavor gives a
ball on the 25th. Then tho members of the Queensland
Club (says our correspondent) are getting up a swell
picnic to Qresley Bukin, the editor of the Cockier and
our Commissioeer to the Svdney Exhibition, at which
the public are annoyed. They say the affair is to be
too exclusive, so I suppose it will be followed by a
monster turn out. Lukin is one of the most popular
men up here.
A Victorian “reverend” gentleman named
George T. Atterbury alias George J. Cosnock. was
arrested a week ago hy tho Auckland police on a charge
of imposing upon private individuals in that town. It
seems that in the peaceful garb of a clergyman he
arrived at Auckland a couple of month* since, and took
up his resident at a hoarding-houso there under the
name of the Eev. (>. J. Cosnock. Ho lived on the
proprietor for seven weeks on tho " cheap,” represent-
ing that, he oxjiected money daily from Australia made
himself very amiable with several clergymen, whom ho
victimised, and also lecamo acquainted with a young
lady and induced her to,consent to marry him, but for-
tnnately laffore the event came otf ho was recognised
by a Eev. T. K. Long, who had known him in Victoria
as a married man. with a wife and child. ‘‘Atterhnry”
was to have lieen brought up to answer to the charges
alleged against him on tho day the last Auckland mail
left.
The Queensland Attorney-General (Beor) has,
inter alin., two sets of papers under consideration!
Their contents interest the public. A young fellow
named Boechcroft, “• a remittance man,” and who stated
that ho had been a medical student, had ieen till lately
knocking about Mackay. Feeling ” seedy,” he applied
to a local medico, who gave him a prescription, which
Baochcrol't had dispensed at the chemist's. Immedi-
ately after swallowing the draught, he cried out that ho
had been poisoned; and from that time till his death,
which took place some forty hours later, he suffered
excruciating agony. A post mortem examination was
held, and the stomach witli its contents forwarded to
the analytical chemist. The other case. The ship
Noumea, loaded with over 90 kanakas, was wrecked on
the Sumara reef; seven or eight hoys were drowned,
and the others had an almost miraculous escape. Tho
inquiry showed that great ill-feeling existed between
the captain and mate, and that somebody neglected
his duty moat criminally. No arrests have been made
—yet.
Two men wore judicially murdered at Brisbane
the other day. The one—James Klsdale—an Irishman,
had. immediately after indulging in a “'feed of fighting,
rnm,’' shot his mate near Aramac. The other was a,
Chinaman vyho, in a most cold-blooded manner, had
pick axed his "pard.” Elsdale was a lino handsome
yotrug fellow with no appearance of a murderer He
was self-possessed to the last. Ha acknowledged that
he had shot the man and that his sentence was just,
hut he frequently explained during his incarcera-
tion that he had never intended to hurt, mnoli less
murder the man. Tho crime had 1 non committed while
he was mad from the effects of had liquor. I Velieve
him (says our correspondent). He was accompanied on
to tbo platform by Father Fonhey. His last words
were, *• Lord, have merer on my sonl,” The refrain,
” Lord have mercy on his soul.” was repeated by the
little group of scientists and pressmen who had
assembled at tho place of execution. Tho Chinaman
was attended by one of his countrymen, a missionary.
He appeared dazed, stupifled. ns though Ids soul had
quitted his body before he left his cell, and he was
evidently uaoonscious of his josition and surround-
ings.
Tho report in tho Ditbbo Express that Cnrr-
Boyd obtained JtlO for a black hoy has created quite an
agreeable surprise in Queensland. The floatation of
more than one company is spoken of in the Queensland
metropolis, having for its object tbo overlanding of
mobs of niggers to New South Wales. Xn Queensland
a black boy or girl 'a value is only AT. Lest our readers
should doubt our assertion, we take tho following
” commercial ” item from *• How we Civilize the
Blacks” in the Qceenseander :— *• In the neighlour-
hood of a northern town where the blacks are ‘ hod*
a small laxly of troopers, under the direction of a white
officer, were sent to punish them. They returned,
bringing down the main street a naked black girl
captured by them. Her appearance attracted quite a.
[ crowd, and a local storekeeper offered her captors a,
i pound for their prize, Tho bargain was concluded, and
the captured girl handed over. Her purchaser took hep
home to hxs wife to lie trained up as a servant. But in
the evening the troopers oarue for her, an<l, carrying
her to some ridges isjhirid the main street, kept her
through the night for the gratification of < heir passions.
, I' l tho morning they turned her loose Lu the vicinity of
her purchaser’s house.” If the Judge had visited the
; hack tranks of tho sister colony,-bin sensibilities would
have l>ecome blunted, ami ho would not ha.veexpressed
his horror at finding that aboriginals were bought
like a borso or a sheep.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bt. John’s, D.irlinghurst, is becoming “ High."
St. Patrick « E. G. Church, Toowoomba, waa
totally destroyed by lire at 3 30 a.m. on Saturday last.
Bishop Short has laid the foundation-stone of
a scholastic institution for the training of clergy men
at Adelaide.
The use of the International Exhibition building
has been asked for in connexion with tho approaching
Sunday-school centenary celebration.
In spite of public opinion the Mormons have
founded and opened a church in Chicago. As yet they
are silent ou tlie subject of polygamy.
Eer. James Jefferia. L.L.8., of Pitt-street, took
| Part in the opening services of the College Park Con-
gregational Church, Adelaide, on Sunday last.
The Eight Eev. Dr. Moorhonao, Anglican
Bishop of Melbourne, will, in October, l>egin a series of
lectures upon Spiritual Life in the P.u-iod of the
Judges."
The Eev. D. Allon has been nominated by the
committee of the Congregational Union of England and
>V ales to till the office of chairman next year, which will
be the jubilee of the union.
Several religions bodies at Adelaide ask for
Scriptural teaching iu State schools. Tho Minister
said he would lay the matter before his colleagues, but
could not promise any change.
Eev. James Jefferia, L.L.8., speaking at
Adelaide, contrasted the illiberal spirit shown there
with the extreme Ulierality exhibited towards him by
Anglican ministers at Sydney.
Archbishop Vaughan is determined to put a
temporary roof ou St. Mary's new Cathedral. He nays
that if the Catholics put their shoulders to the wheel
service can be held in tho new building in three years'
time,
A paper on “ The Past and Future Work of
Sunday Schools," by Mr. John Plummer, will l>e read
by Mr. Walker at the forthcoming Sunday School Con-
ference. Mr. Plummer is to address the Bathurst Good
Templars on the 22nd.
Pope Leo XIII. completed his 70th year on
March 2nd. His Holiness was elected to the Papacy,
in succession to Pope Pius IX , on February, 20th,
1878, and crowned on March 3rd following. Ho is the
238th pontiff of the Church of Eome.
Archbishop Vaughan, at the annual meeting of
the E. C. Christian Doctrine Confraternity, last Sun-
day, proposed that the present large pro-cathedral
should Uj converted into a school.house and handed
over to the Marist Brothers. His Grace said tliat
thirty gentlemen iu Sydney were prepared to advance
£lOOO each, at nominal interest, fur the completion of
tho cathedral.
Tho pow-ronting system which has lately been
introduced into the Eornau Catholic chnrobes in
Queensland has not been received with favour by the
congregations. But tho clergy seem determined to
stand by the innovation. In a northern seai>ort town
the other evening the officiating priest assisted to expel
from the church a young man who was either in arrears
or refused to pay his pew rents.
The Chhech ok England Messenger (Vk?.),
points out that the office of Metropolitan of Australia
is practically in alieyance in the colonies, and suggests
that instead of one province ami one provincial Synod
as at present, the whole of Australia should be divided
into two provinces, eastern and western, each with a
provincial synod -Sydnev to he tho metropolitan see
of the eastern, and Melbourne or Adelaide of the
western.
The great Napoleon attended a Chinese banquet
in Paris, and, iu accordance with. the customs thereof,
drank hot water. This regal example appears destined
to live in the emulation of modern mouarchs, for the
Daily News of tp-day is advertising “ Bilin Water -
the Eoyal Table Water." And yet, Bilin is a small
town in France I
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
THE COMMERCIAL MAN
Has many characteristics and springs from many classes.
There is your clear-headed, money-making Scotchman,
whoso natural genius to tarn pence into shillings and
shillings into pounds has raised him from a very
obscure station to the management of some largo firm
In the city he has lived, in from his youth. His
position as a commercial man paves his way into
good society. He Incomes a steady diner-out at great
men's tables and occasionally, though not t io often,
gathers them round his own mahogany, where they
fare sumptuously and drink freely. Another class is
your self-made man of business, who his risen gradually
in the social grade by his own efforts, from acting as
errand boy to sweeping out the shop, lightening his
labors by stolen games at “ Pitch-aud-toss ” on the
pavement occasionally, rather unceremoniously
changed into a game of foot-hall, in which he plays the
thankless part of the ball and his master's heavy foot
administers the kick. By dint of saving and tnrning
his little hoard to account with always the fixed idea of
making the most out of everything, he rises steadily in
his master s favor. Ho even sometimes ventures to
give advice, and, having a clover h-ad, keeps moving
on nntil, with hands deep in his pockets, be stands at
his shop door, a straw between his Ups—calculating, with
hia shrewd eyes to. a fraction the worth, financially
speaking, of the goods going from and coming to his
produce store. Woo betide the clerk in his establish-
ment whose whole time is not his master's-does he
not pay them for that P Tour self-made business man
Is generally a hard, hut still conscientious master
Perlians underneath his glossy waistcoat there Inrks a
pettv of feeling jealousy, for here are his mid dependants
speaking and writing grammatically whilst he, with al|
his wealth, can with difficulty sign his name to the
cheques he is so proud to pay them with. Although
rough in speech and action, ho is kind in his way to the
little street arahg who almost live in thegntters, where
he himself once played. Many a copper from his
capacious pockets finds its way into their grimy little
paws and if there is one charity that he subscribes to
more largely than others, it is that for homeless
children. Then again, there is your commercial gentle-
man, who has been liberally educated, whoso youthful
days have known no struggle for bread; from whose
tightly as a skull-cap. made of any bright satin that
least suits their complexions, or else they put on a huge
crumpled satin “mob-cap.’* I have seen one or two
girls to whom these large caps gave an air of inno-
cency—but then nothingolso could have done it. Others
again with nez retrousse, saucy blue eyes and dimpled
cheeks, wear a tragic “Jane Shore’* or a “Marie
Stuart, ’’ or else they dress their hair like South Sea
Islanders, wear shells in their ears, shells round their
necks and I am not sure that they would not adopt the
whole costume were fashion only to lead the way. In
fact, so many barbaric innovations have been intre.
I need into a lady’s toilet that it is not at all unlikely
that a “ Zulu" shield will become almost more neces-
sary than a fan. A girl already wears six or eight rows
of Roman pearls tight round her throat like a “dog
collar,” combs her hack hair to the top of her head,
twists it down the front parting and ties it down with
mock pearls, parts her front hair on one side, brings
her curls down on her temples like sailors’ love-locks,
or else she frizzes it like a West Indian nigger,
fashion has lieoome so csu'iji’iiiitfl in her demands, that
her satellites scares know how to clothe themselves
scantily enough to please her. The tout-ensemble is
sometimes laughable enough. I might describe the
toilets 1 letter if girls would not put on those parti-
colored wool articles called “clouds." There are
nights when Iho whole circle sits under a olond,
when the daintiest costumes are lost and the fair
wearers sit swathed like so many mammies, although
scarce a breath of air is to be felt—probably because it
is the fashion.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My Native Rose.
My native Eose, sweet native Hose,
How can we ever part I
As the streamlet to the ocean flows -
So beats for thee my heart;
Thy beauty rare, that winning smile.
Will charm where’er it goes,
Bnt ah. he true to me the while.
My own sweet native Eose.
My native Eose, sweet native Bose,.
When I am far away.
Say, as each day so swiftly goes
For me you oft will pray.
Nav, never donht my heart is thine.
And will Ik> till life’s close—•
Look up aud say that you are mine.
My own sweet native Eose.
E. B.
Sydney, 7th June, 1880.
The Drunkards Burial.
The evening stars
In their misty cars
Had brought the twilight from Eden’s bowers.
To fold the leaves of the fainting flowers;
And the broad sun went
To his pnrple tent
And drew the curtain
With hand uncertain.
And night came down
Like an angry frown
On the forehead of a friend.
Where years had seen
The angel sheen—
Of joy and mercy blend.
*••»««»
Take him ont —the stars are dim.
They care not to shine on a thing like him.
Drag him down stairs—
No matter how rough
Who is there cares
For such profitless stnlf!
• **»»*»
Out with him now.
Let the kind air
Lift from his hrow
The dark matted hair.
Wipe the foam from his clammy Host
And cover the stare of the eyes’ eclipse.
Who cares for him P
No eye is dim,
No cheek is wet
With the tears of regret.
Why do you stay
Looking so blank on the dew-drenched cluy I
No one will pay,
Tho’ we lingered to pray,
Not so much as a stitch of a shroud.
That’s for the rich man, haughty and proud—
Coffin and hier
They, too. are dear
And he will not start,
Tho’ the ravenous worms should enter his heart.
Scoop ont a hole
Awar in the meadow along with mole.
Or down in the brake
Where the lizard and snake
Hiss as yon pass
Thro’ the thick-tangled grass—
Stop not to lengthen it, double him up
We have already had trouble enough.
Another lone bark
Has put off in the dark
For the islands of rest.
And another green sod
Has been turned on a breast
In which dwelt the spirit of God.
And ho who would find by grave-stone or bast
The urn where his dust
Is renosiug.
Would search hut in vain
For tho link in tho chain
Which was lost in the earth o’er him closing.
O[?]cCAS HUCHAN.
Suprc.no Court.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
The Afghan war has cost over £20,000.
J alee Favre left three children and £30,000.
2,000 Swedes have just emigrated to America.
Lost Charters Towers escort brought 11,932 oz
gold.
For 1,000 years no new bridge has been built in
Bo no.
Desertion from the British Army is dimin-
ishing.
Another mummy has been found—on the Mnl-
gruve.
Du tin. § 1879, 57J1 assisted emigrants arrived in
N.B.W.
There were twenty-flve insolvencies in Sydney
last week.
A diamond of 237 carats has been found at
Kimberley.
Dr. Vans Dunlop has left £70,000 to Edinburgh
University.
Exeter Hall, London, has been purchased by
the Y.M.C.A.
All foreign Jews have been ordered away from
St. Petersburg.
The additional estimates for 1830 amount to
£101,562 16s. Bd.
In Congress there arc 67 old Union soldiers and
61 Confederates.
Chinese on the Pacific Slope are refused letters
of naturalisation.
Avonfc thirty million sheop will bo shorn in
N S W. this year.
There are 8,000.0(10 acres of land open for se-
lection in Queensland.
The coalfields of Western Japan, it is estimated,
eon tain 820 million tons.
King Theban is ill, and is trying to get well by
sacrificing a number of virgins.
Railway revenue suffers to the extent of £5,000
through t he Into miners’ strike.
The South Australian Yacht Club has on its
list 103 members and 17 yachts.
A Chinese storekeeper on the Palmer had 92 oz.
gold stolen from his saddle-pack.
Tho R. C. bishops have been appealed to in the
matter of the Shaw-Paruell fend.
A quartz battery is to be erected on tbo Mtd-
gravo. 19 reefs are being worked.
The City and Provincial Licensed Victuallers’
Association numbers 100 members.
Bailor County, Ala., has a girl of 15 hardly
as big as the ordinary two-year-old infant.
There are 7,208 male and 12 ‘ ‘ female China-
men ” in this colony, so say the official returns.
In the new House of Commons there are 355
Lilicrals, 207 Conservatives, and 61 Home Bnltrs.
Thompson’s reef. Palmer River, first crushing,
61 tons for IQJ oz 12 dwt., or 2 oz. 13 dwt. average.
A single order for 100,000 doors from England
is occupying tho time of a Chicago establishment
The German Government proposes to levy a
tax npon advertisements in newspapers. Happy
country.
Scissors, still made in Sheffield by a tedious
hand process, axe now made by one stroke of a die in
Connecticut,
Lord Byron’s Bible was recently sold at auction
lor a largo price, owing probably to its remarkable
state of preservation.
50,090 men and worn >u are employed in Phila-
delphia in the manufacture of clothing, and 20,000.000
suits are every year.
A living child of throe years has gradually
become petrified in the U.S. The disease is supposed
to arise from defective nutrition.
At Temora rush, near Wagga, there arc 2,000
men. Alluvial sinking is from &to 75 feet. Water is
scarce, but otherwise prospects ore good.
Up to last Monday 15,700 feet of floor space
and 1,837 feet wall space in Melbourne International
had been applied for by Sydney Exhibitors,
Latest Towers crushmgs:— Bt. Patrick Block,
353 02. for fortnight; North Australian -No. 1. 93 tons
lor 107 oz.; Brian O’Lyun, 212 02. for a fortnight.
In the U.S. there are 15,000 carriage manufac-
turers, who employ upwards of 100,000 hands, and pay
ont 25 000,000 dollars to 30,000,000 dollars annually for
labour.
The English malt duty is to be replaced by one
on beer; spirit licenses ore to be raised ; and a penny
in the £ is to be added to tho income-tax, which will
then stand at 7d.
This year 400 blankets were sent to tho blacks
on the Warrego, 350 to Wilcannia, and 250 to Brewer,
rina. How many really reached the blacks’ shoulders,
and how many wore sold for grog ?
On Longfellow’s birthday, the 27th of January
the exercises in many American schools consisted
mainly of recitations from the poet’s works. A similar
compliment was paid to Mr. Whittier.
In N.S.W. there are 39.918 holders of one acre
and upwards. There ore 635.616 acres under cultiva-
tion, and the total area of holdings is 20,579,079) acres
and 2,112,524-’ acres (leasehold).
Tho Sunday law is being enforced in Louisville
city. Newspaper offices ore shut tm, and firemen and
telegraph operators are restrained from active service.
The object is to make tho enactment odious.
The late Council of Education, during its four-
teen years'existence expended £2 3 W,263. The staff
of teachers on 31st March last was 2,067, the enrolled
pupils were 101,531, and the average attendance 00.090.
During one fortnight there have been recorded
in the Times the deaths of 25 ladies whose united ages
totalled 2205 years ; and of 21 men whose united ages
were 1816 years an average in each case of about 88
years.
N.Z. cereal yield for last year was 21,424,051
bushels; potatoes, 119,523 tons; total area under
«rop, exclusive of grasses, 913.761 acres; total number
of holdings, 23,129 showing heavy all-round in-
creases.
Hie native population of the Sandwich Islands
is now 59,000. Half a century ago it was 159.000. The
old story—the white man’s vices. The beg inning of
the end dates from the visit of Captain Cook and
civilization.”
Two Wright's Creek (N.Q.) miners recently had
their camp “ gritted” by the niggers. They afterwards
came npon the latter, one of whom hod ;x>ssessed him-
-selfof the camp concertina and opened the bellows
to inspect the interior.
To our Readers.
Owxno to unusually severe pressure on ora 1 at all
times limited space, we are at the,lost moment
reluctantly compelled to omit from this issue
extended notices of town amusements, including
an article on Chiarini’s big show: a great part
( ** OTl1 ! Melbourne, New Zealand, Brisbane, and
Adelaide correspondence: some capital verse, and
many other items of in ten*!. We cannot too
strongly impress on those who may favour ns with
contributions tho necessity of sending in “copy ”
—not later than Wednesday morning, if pos-
.Kihle—aa oommunicationH which reach this office
fata- are likely to be crowded out.
How They Pound a Capitalist.
A weak-kneed, slab-sided, tiudorgrown, off-shoot
of humanity with a strong admixture of idi icy and
cunning marked on his frontispiece has of
late been exorcising the knowing ones of Brisbane.
This specimen of inanity, whom wo will call
Dealey, was, self reputed, of fabulous wealth, and
he soon earned the enviable mruhriquet of the
“imbecile capitalist.” The first of the talent to
unearth the 1.G., id est, imbecile capitalist, was
Jim Thynne, of the Queensland Theatre Hotel:
hugging the newly-found gold mine to his breast
whilst he communed secrefcely with himself
in the purloins of the theatre, ho (Thynne) was
observed to wear a supercilous smile, to jingle his
‘' threepences ’ ’ violently and take his fluids
closer and with greater relish. Of nights, the
wily Thynne could be seen on the kerb opposite
the fa-cade of his mansion tracing imaginary
buildings in the air; ho would thou re-enter his
“drum” and lavishly treat himself to another
“ thrumsworth,” after which a taciturn reserve
and his downy couch. Anon the mystery was
solved. To a bosom friend did the generous
Thynne confide the startling intelligence that the
imbecile capitalist had volunteered to furnish the
wherewithal to erect a new and classic d.-amatio
temple for hie, Thynne’s ©special advas.t tge and
behoof. Thousands were to 60 expanded on the
enterprise, and the I. C. had other thousands to
lavish on equally sure speculations. ’Twas to
Sam Howard, the comedian, that Thynne in the
fullness of his heart conveyed the startling news.
Enough, time passed, and the erstwhile solemn
and oleaginous Bam was noticed strangely to
rejuvenate, to curl his raven moustache and talk
airily of retiring from the profession tor
loftier and more remunerative operations. He
grew recklessly extravagant, was known to have
purchased sixpenn’orthof bait and shared the hire
of a dingy for a day out. He chuckled in corners
and strolled jauntily down Queen-street three
times doily, winking his dexter ogle at a certain
vacant block. At length his happiness bubbled
o’er; it needed vent and to a friendly pro did Samuel
tell the tale how that the I. C. had determined to
erect him (Sara.) a gorgeous coffee palace and
temperance hotel in a central position in the main
street. ’Twas to George Darrell that the unctuous
Howard betrayed confidence, and the imbecile
capitalist was incontinently handed over to the
tender mercy of the mighty piay wright. Eitreku!
The vision of years to be realised! “Darrell’s
Australian Dramatic Company ” for the produc-
tion of Australian plays, by an Australian author,
illustrated by Australian artists. *‘ The most
magnificent speculation, sir, of the age, probable
profits two to five hundred per week ; look at
Bonoicault, sir, averaged for his share £BOO per
week for thirty consecutive weeks with “ The
Shanghraun you know the play, sir, ah cer-
tainly yes ; and ah, you’ve seen “Transported for
Life,” eh ! three or four times—all, yes, a man of
taste. Well, sir, compare the two plays—oh I see
yon comprehend—the results are clear, the venture
a dead certainty, a huge fortune in two or three
years.” Who could withstand such a torrent of
inferential facts ? The I. C. tremblingly pulled
forth his pass-book murmuring—“ Havel balance
sufficient or shall I realise on one of my planta-
tions? How —how much will be required, Mr.
Darrell, to enable me to secure an interest in
thisjjtraly patriotic and colossal venture ?’ ’ Realied
the tragedian loftily—“ One thousand down and
two thousand more the day the company sails for
Europe will entitle you to one half the net profits
for the first throe years. ’Tis a gift, sir, a perfect
gift, were it not that of late I have squandered a
thousand or two. my own brother, sir, had I one,
should not stand in the spec.” No more was said;
but that night the eminent actor-author, in the
“ nunnery scene,” was remarked to kiss Ophelia
in the wrong place and play facetiously with
Yorick’s skull, whilst he dashed the massive gold
goblet from Horatio’s hand with an oil* of disdain
that smocked of untold wealth and a lofty dis-
regard of unoonsidered trifles. Later on, at the
Union Club, the author of “ The Forlorn Hope ”
was to be heard enquiring of one or two returned
tourists the best hotels in London to stop at, and
the probability of being “ put up ’ at the Carlton
or the Travellers’. Matters matured and the day
of deposit arrived. The I. C. had promised to
produce to each of the heneficiares a thousand
down. Strangely enough the same fixture and
hour were chosen for the interesting ceremony.
In solemn conclave met the throe, Thynne,
Howard and Darrell. In the mind of the latter
lurked a latent suspicion that all was not well;
the blood of all the Howards rose indignantly at
the mere suggestion of a “do,” whilst o’er the
mobile countenance of Thynne chameleonic
changes flitted at the horrible imagining, lime
waned, tumblers leaked —“ Where’s Dealey r” was
asked with bated breath. “ Fill them again, and
yet again—mine’s whisky, mine’s the same.”
“Dealey, you’re wanted,” was the cry, but still
no Dealey oamo.” And so the shadows lengthened,
and so three men departed their several ways,
blessing Dealey after their respective peculiar
styles of bios phemy. Darrell the tragedian, vowin g
to the last “ that he knew all along it was a sell,”
returned to Sydney the next day to write a
thousand pound drama for Jimmy Williamson :
Howard the comedian mournfully resumed his
duties, putting up for the night the farce of
“Caught a Tartar”; whilst Thynne the burly
purchased a new and heavy pair of dumpers, and
is practising muscular activity with his right leg,
as he sadly awaits Dealey’s return.
Eedoatb’s Patent Meal.— lt is an excellent article
of diet, and will, no doubt, lie much more extensively
used as it becomes better known. There is 11 growing
impression that the people generally eat too much moat.
Those who prefer that their diet shall lie largely of
vegetable substances, will find in Bedgatc’s Patent Meal
an agreeable variety.”— Sidney Morning Herald. “ It
is a most wholesome and nutritious article of food, and is
specially adapted for family use The article is largely
coming into general consumption."-— Evening News.
The verv great side already obtained for Bcdgate’s
Patent Meal shows that it is extensively known, and
that its merits are justly appreciated. In any case
where it has not been tried we can confidently recom-
mend it as a most palatable and nutricions article of
diet. It is pot up in nett and portable bags, and is sold
by all grocers and dealers at a marvellously cheap price.”
—Weekly Advocate. •* Red gate's Patent Meal: This
meal is now tieooming a household requisite in all
places where it has l-eon tried. It is pretty well known
in the Western district already, and we would strongly
urge its use 'cry generally.”— Western In defer-dent,
Bathurst, There has 1-een n good deal said lately res-
pecting the value of Bed gate's Patent Meal as on article
of diet, and the one opinion appears to be that no more
sntotantial or health-giving food has ever been maun-
factored for public nee. The medical profession of
Sydney recommend the meal especially os a dietary for
children, its properties nndcmirtedly imparting great
vigour and lasting strength to the human body. ” The
Australian team in the cricket field lias, with good
judgment and very appropriately, been chosen as the
brand or trade mark—there is stamina in both."— The
Bulletin, May 28.
FUN AND FANCY.
Forced politeness-—Bowing to necessity.
A digger is a man who indulges in vein hopes.
An infant is the primer of humanity bound in
more rocker.
Flattery is like cologne water, to 'be sniffed at,
not swallowed.
A recent discovery is a telephone talked to
death by a barlier.
The waves of a woman’s handkerchief have
wrecked many a man.
If ever a man needed to travel for his health
it is the Czar of Russia.
Capt. Anderson, commander of a Chinese gun-
boat, has married a Mongolian lady nt Shanghai.
Lore plea«es more than marriage, for the rea-
son that novels are more interesting than history.
“ Och, for the hot days of summer,” said Pat-
rick. “ won mesilf and Biddy kin enjoy cream-atoing to-
g.-thcr,”
“ Heaven lies about ns in our infancy.” soys
the poet. Yes and our neighbours lie about us when
we grow up.
Women put their fingers to their mouths when
they are thinking because they can’t talk and think at
the same time.
Artemus Ward once commenced a lecture thus ;
“ Ladies and gentlemen. I jjossess a gigantic intellect,
hut I haven't it with.me.”
’The French have a saying that is good to import
for circulation in this country. It runs: “The snails
and their wives have always a happy household, and the
reason may he that, monsieur and nmdame never inhabit
the same honse.” There is a di-al of moaning in this
brief sentence.
LATE SPORTING.
Coursing. —The proposed intercolonial 16 dog
stake, at 50 gs. each, has fallen through.
Thomas and Blakeman have been matched to
rnn 160 yards, for £BO. The event will take place
at the Association Ground on this day (Saturday)
week.
Next Friday and Saturday, will take place nt
the Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park, the
best long-distance walk over contested in Sydney
—between J. W. Taylor and W. Baker (24 hours)
for .£lOO aside. We believe this to be a genuine
contest.
An exciting billiard match took place at the
Coffee Palace Hotel, on Thursday night last,
between Messrs. Nesbitt and Davie—two well-
known players. The game was 650 up. The
players kept well together for some time, but
Nesbitt by a series of grand breaks of 91, 50, and
smaller ones, secured a win.
It is the intention of Lord Augustus Loftns to
present the A.J.C. with a challenge cup and whip,
to be run for at the coming meeting. This will
necessitate an addition to the programme, as the
conditions under which the above prizes are given
require the race to be ridden by amateurs only, at
welter weights, over a mile and a half. We are
glad to notice thatorr Governor is likely to follow
in the footsteps of his distingnishod predecessor.
Colonial Produce.
Station Products. Live .Stock , a vn Whom-
sale Butchers’ Meat. The reduction in
freights to London has caused an active export
enquiry. Best mutton tallow per ton £27 to £2B,
ditto beef £26 to £27, station nr mixed lots
£l6 to £25 •. sound shankbonos £4 10s to £9 10s ;
New South Wales wattle hark (scarce) £4 to
£5, ditto Tasmanian £6 5s to £7 5s ; large sound
horns per 100 sell at from 20s to 28s, small to
medium 89 to 18s 6d ; wool per lb (scarce) —
scoured fleece 21d to 24d, ditto skin 14d to 20d,
washed fleece medium to good 16d to 18d, good
to superior ISd to 24d, inferior 13 to 15d, greasy
wool 7d to lid; sheepskins, medium to best 6d to
7gd, short growth or pelts 4<d to 5Jd ; heavy hides
dull) 3Jd to 3J, medium 3d, best light and dry 3Jd
to 5d ; horsehair, tail Is to Is 3d. mane 9d to lid,
mixed lOd, olean oowhair 9d to lid, dirty lots 7d,
stumps sd: large horsehides (scarce) each 5s to
7e (>d, small to medium 3s to 4s 6d ; calfskins Is
to 2s 6d, yearlings 2s 6d to 7s : large kangaroo
(scarce) 2s to 2s 6d, small to good 4d to Is 6d. In
this line Mr. John Bridge has made important
sales. In live stock at Homehnsh. the several
metropolitan yards, &c., there has been an over
supply, and prices are barely maintained. Prime
fat cattle average per 100 from 10s to 13s, inferior
to medium 8s to 9s 5 best milch cows each from
£9 to £ll, medium £6 to £B poor, £2 to £5 : fa:
calves 19s to 30s, good 14s to 18s 6d, inferior 4s to
to 12s 6d ; sheep 7 s to 10s 6d ; lambs 6s to 12s *>d ;
pigs (alive) 3-ld to 45d per lb. In this branch Mr.
Joseph J. Roberts and Messrs. Ellis and 00. re-
port large dealings. At the railway sheds and
Glebe Island an average amount of business has
occurred in wholesale butchers’ meat at fallowing
rates Boef in carcase per lb_. good to best Jd to
Id, fore "d to Id, bind lid; mutton IJdto 2d ;
pork 4d to 4i)d ; salt beef in tieroes, medium to
prime, £2 to £3 ; pork in barrels ,£2 to .£3.
Messrs. Wells and Smith Brothers sold extensive
lots at vo y full rates.
Hobsefked. —The Government statistics end-
ing Maroh 31st last show that the yield of maize
for this harvest shows the enormous yield of
4,70. ,856 bushels, wh ch cannot command a paying
price to farmers by the consumption of this o. lony,
and the limited export demand of Victoria, New
Zealand, etc. As before said, some trial ship-
ments ot grain and likewise of manufactured
m .i. e meal should be sent to London t) t- 0 the
market pr ictlcally. Best maize, per bushel. Is 5d
to Is lid ; good. Is 8d : medium, Is 6d to Is 9d ;
Cape ba ley or feed oats, Is 9d to 2s Id ; malting
barley, 4s £0 ss. Messrs. O Doud and Co. have
effected some extensive sales. Huperior Hunter
lueerone, suitihle for oowkeepors, is scarce, at
from £4 to .£4 10s per ton ; medium, £3 to £’3los;
inferior, £l 10s ; oaten or wheaten, Hunter sorts,
£3 to £4. Messrs. J. N. Meikle mention largo
dealings at top values. At Darling Harbour an
average supply of hay, straw, chaff, etc., came to
marker*-, chiefly from the Goulburn and Bathurst
districts, Blayney,Locksley.Brewongle,[Moss Vale,
Crossroads. Ma'*ulan, Piofcon Campbeltown,
Meuangle.{Penrith, Bowral. Liverpool, Richmond,
Windsor, M nigra ve, Now Bridge, etc. —oaten hay
was 1 iwer. Mr. William Inglis and Messrs.
M'Minn and Co.effected some good linos. Wbeaten
and oaten hay was cheaper. Messrs. Dent and
Hoskin sold considerable parcels at frill rates.
Wheaten hay was unchanged. Mr. C. R. Bodwell
placed large lots. Btraw was steady at late prices.
Messrs. Wells and Smith Brothers and Ellis and
Co. made some first-rate sales at top values.
Lucerne in best quality is in demand. Summary of
auction sales is thus -.—Prize oaten has sold, per
cwt, for 5e 9d, 5s 7d, 5s 5d and 5s 2d ; good, 5s and
4s 8d ; common, wheaten, 3s 6d; clean straw, 3s,
2s lid, 2s 9d, 2s Bd and 2s 6d; medium lucerne,
4 s.
Vegetables.- —lmports of potatoes for the
week are only 500 tons, or only one-half of the
usual quantity entered for the last three months ;
good keeping potatoes have advanced in price—
best Circular per ton £4, ditto Sutton Forest or
New Zealand £3 10s, and Warnmmbool £3 to £3
5s ; Tasmanian or Victorian onions £3 : Victorian
carrots £3 to £4 ; Swedish turnips £2 10s ; pump-
kins per dozen 2s to 3s 2d. Messrs. M’Minn and
Co. mention very large dealings at top prices.
Wine. —In consequence of the proposed reduc-
tion of wine duties in Great Britain winegrowers
ase careless about selling beet sorts as a large
export enquiry is setting in. Best new Albury,
Hunter, or Port Macquarie per gallon 2s 9d to 4s,
ditto aged lota sto 12s. Messrs. O’Doud and Co.
report a brisk market at our quotations.
Dairy Produce, Poultry, Ac.—Sutton
Forest or Hlawarra in keg is dull for good to supe-
rior at from lOd to Is per lb, fresh roll lid to Is
3d : cheese and bacon 4d to 51 d, bams 6d to 9)d ,
lard and honey 3d to 4d, lucerne seed sd. leaf to-
bacco good to best lOd to Is, common 6d to Bd,
manufactured tobacco Is 4d to 2s ; beeswax 9d to
Is, millet brooms per dozen 8s to 10s, common
case eggs Is Id to Is 2d, fresh ones Is 3d to Is 6d ;
fowls per con pie* medium to good 2s 9d to 4 s 6d,
ducks 3s to 4s. geese 5s to 6s, hen turkeys ditto,
cook turkeys 7s to 11s, pigeons 2s to 2s 6d : suck-
ing pigs each 4s to 10s. Mr. Beaforth Proctor
reports extensive sales.
Timber and Firewood. —For these two ar-
ticles the prices of last week apply to the present
one, and supplies arc large. Messrs. Dent and
Hoskin mention an average market.
Flour and Grain.' —A steady trade occurs at
late values. There has been a large demand for
the extra-fine flour manufactured from choice
samples of Adelaide and N. 8. Wales wheat by
Messrs. Blair. Lyons, and Co., of this city, for
which bakers freely pay £lO 10s per ton. Quota-
tions ; Best town brands Adelaide flour, per ton,
£ll 2s Od to £ll 10s; ditto N. B. Wales, Victo-
rian, Ac., £lO 12s 6d to £11; outside lots, £lO to
£lO 10s ; best Adelaide wheat, per bushel, 4s 6d
to 4s 8d ; ditto, N. H. Wales, Victorian, Ac., 4s 5d
to 4s 7d ; inferior, 4s to 4s 4d; fresh bran and
pollard, in large lots, Is—small parcels, Is 2d to
Is 3d. Bakers charge 3)d per 2 lb. loaf made from
best flour.
J. A. M'CARROLL.
144 Sussex-street, Juno 17,1880.
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
O. Wallace, King-street
R. Callaway, King-street
J. Qleeson, 719 George-st.
George Hill, Oeorgo-stroet
•*— Nash i,
J. W. R. Clarke ,,
E. R. Cole ,,
Gordon & Ootch „
— Sundon ,,
— Colliss, George-st. west
E. Tumor, Brickfield Hill
W. Johnson, 351 Elizabeth-
street South
— Clarke, Pitt-sireet.
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. L. Berghoefer, Pitt-st.
— Schneberger, Oxford-st.
Spmgg A Adams „
W. Lapham ,.
G. Barker, Sussex-street
— Thorsby, Erskine-street
J. Walton, Railway Station
J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
• — Pierce, Willimn-stree
J. Withers, Park-street
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
Alexandria—
O. - Robbins
Arm i dale —
H. Mallam
Ashfield —
W. J. Banks
Balmain—
W. J. Small
Bathurst —
II. Br.dges
IJfiOA—
O. Welby
BODALLA—
W. Brock
Carcoah-- -
J. A. Moss
COOTAMUNDRA — .
J. Percivnl
Cow FA —
E. Stevenson
Bchrca—
G. Fosdyko
Forbes —
E. Chapman
Germ Anton —
T. Brown
Glen Innes -
F. Marshall
Goclbcrn-—
J. Walsh
Gunnkdah —
— Fitzgerald
Lambton—
J. Firth
Lismorb—
— Jones
X.r-THRPOOL- -
0. A. Scrivener
Maitland (West)—
C. W. Clarke
Morpeth—
James Maher
MuDGEE —
W. Hall
Narrabri—
O. Haussman
N AMMAN DEB A —
W. Young
Newcastle—
Hole Williams
F, Alcock
Newtown —
E. Bray
E. Sheridan
J Arnold
North Shore—
Deacon & Son
Nicholson Bros.
Orange—
K. Lossolls
Parramatta—
G. W. Green
J. Recvo
Petersham—
— Thompson
Port M acqdaeih —
J. J. Fenn
lln»i—
R. Young
Scone-
M. F. Asscr
SnOALHAVEN—
•— Wicki}
Singleton—
J. P. Quinn
Waoc.a Waoga—
C. H. Daniel
L. 8. Joseph
W attle Flat—
L. Grim wood
Wellington (s.s.w.) —
W. Booth
Young—
«. v. on
INTERCOLONIAL.
Mblboctirv —
Manders & Co.
W. Yard
C. Muskett, Boxurko-st.
C. J. Bird,
Nath. Leri, Speneer-
Htroer Railway Stn.
D. Lazarus
Brisbane—
Garden & Gotoh
W. Whelan
BlANTHOnPB (Q.)—
J. V. Williams
THE DRESBMAKER’S LOVER.
Only this one dear boon 1 art,
That yon will give me your address,
That in yonr smiles I yet may basque
And gain new life at each caress.
The blushes mantle in your cheeks,
Deny me not, it’s dread foulard,
I’ve pressed my snit for days and weeks.
And sent yon letters by the yard.
Oft at yonr feet I've knelt and prayed.
But yon have cut me short and square 5
It lace with yon, hut I’m a frayed
You will not make np to me fair.
It’s sashy pole has grown my face,
Though all things look most navy bine;
I’ll collar mine, or I will face
Whatever evils may torn.
My Wife.
Mr little wife is ont beyond the bam,
I see her parasol behind the fir,
And here am I inditing verse to her
Ere she return.
That pretty bird is happy there conceal’d
This fragrant chamber smiles a peaceful smile —
What Joy to sing the Joys of home —the while
My joy’s afield I
My spouse is miid—she’s meek its any nun,
And yet her spiritual calm is such—
Bomehow one’s always feeling she is much
Too good for one.
She thinks I’m wise and handsome—'tis her creed.
I wonder am I either I On my word
Sometimes I’ve wonder’d “ at my bonnie bird ”
Think so indeed I
Perhaps ! for she my homage ne’er repels :
Perhaps 1 might have loved her half a life.
Perhaps- had she hut been the little wife
Of some one else.
Bat why should I complain of cross or cares ?
While entertaining her (who won’t complain)
It may be I an angel entertain —
And unawares.


BRIEF MENTION.
Brigham Young, jun., is ill.
Bright’s disease —Spiritualism.
The .£l3 puzzle— Mr. ’s assets.
John Hurley’s constituents are Hartley tired cf
him.
You pan got at Gorus’ the photo, of any M.P.
dead or alive.
Wanted, apartments, where there is no balcony,
piano, or bath.
Yon can’t boat the Bnrwood railway station for
slips and slops.
“No news is good news. The Sydney dailies
are very pleasing papers.
Mac’s face will scrub, but it “ won’t wash.”
He has not shaved since the 7th inst.
A certain Sydney parson keeps his wine in the
vault of his church. Snjirn vino veritas.
How wild it would make a cannibal to go hunt-
ing and catch nothing but David Buchanan !
A Medical Note.- —The Reform Club say they
have the most jovial Sir John in Sydney.
One of the “ anointed” followed in the wake of
the Loftus Family to the Circus the other night.
Raikes established Sunday schools —to reform
young rakes probably. Similia similibits cur ant ur.
You sharpen a knife on a turkey hone, but yov
sharpen a member of Parliament on a M‘El-houe.
Mr. Alderman Withers has been paying a visit
to Melbourne, and we didn’t miss him. Strange !
A feast of reason—a chop. A flow of Soul—
Australian Relish. (This is not an advertisement).
Mr. David Buchanan declines to go and sc-
Mr. Oampier’s “Only a Fool.” He says it’s too per-
sonal.
The peaks of the railway porters’ caps present
fine ■ chances for an 3' enterprising advertisemen
agent.
A fashionable photographer says “ You’ve got
the beauty here for a good picture, but not quite tin
style yet.”
A Fact.—His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftu-
says—” D the Bulletin people—they’re worn-
than Bulgarians.”
There’s a Sydney solicitor who has passed the
temperance Rubicon so of ten that his nose has now
passed the rubicund.
When yon have done using your “15-puzzle”
send it to the hospital patients. We may as well get
rid of them somehow.
The Express is getting lively. It now treats
its readers to a column of police-court news. Shocking
this, fora clerical journal.
An aspirant for municipal honours mentioned
yesterday to a friend that his daughter plays • hai
nigh every night for my hedidcatiou.”
Lord Augustus has 100 little “chookies” cut
now, and has given orders —officially—for the separation
of the bantams from the brahmapootras.
Lucas, the Canterbury skeleton, invites tenders
for a new suit of clothes. The work will be let out in
allotments, and must be done in the colony.
You neeln't buy a first-class railway ticket
Ton get a second and go iu the other place. It’s al
the same when you get to your destination.
The resonance of the bounding emblems of
eternity is now supplanted by clashing music of th
spheres. To be brief - hoops ore out, marbles iu.
Mr. H. P. Hook presented only 13 trophies t<
members of the Carlton C. C. on Tuesday evening
The number will probably be increased nest year.
John lias always been first in every good
work.’cept once but that was a prize fight, whm he
was oal3- second. It’s no matter if ous of the men
died.
The dignity of the Crown of England has indeed
fallen when a mountebank from Adelaide considers h*
his a mission to vindicate its honour by caning a
rebel.
A temperance lecturer lately produced as a
“shocking example” the ease of a late resident o
Maul.v, who by drinking rum lost a great deal of Pitt
Water.
It is sail that a well-known Sydney medico has
presented an herb-doctress, yclept* Scotch • with
an elegant set of false teeth iu recognition of her
abilities.
A lady who was married the week before last
for the first time, at the tender ago of forty, still signs
her letters with her maiden name. She's so used to it
she sa3 s.
The one opinion of Tom Garrett since (and doe-
fore; his late Camden speech is that ho is a thorough-
paced political humbug.
Larry Foley the other day thrashed two men
who were each half as heavy again as the “ pug.” This
is what science does for a man.
Quito by accidoat the portrait of a Japanese
circus-rider appeared iu a Sydney weekly last Saturday
iu mistake for that of the late Russian Empress. The
Russian Consul is furious.
Canon O’Reilly said last Sunday “that the Jews
had no country and no God.” However, the reverend
gentleman didn’t make an 3'allusion to the money pos-
sessed by- Hebrew citizens.
“ Nature, fortune, the crimes of mankind, and
iho highly developed art of the newspaper reporter
prevent life iu California from sinking into staguatioi
and toroidity,” says the Australasian.
At Hughonden, a town of some importance on
the Funders, they still adhere to the good old custom I
<>f keeping their culprits chained to a lug in the open
air. It saves the expense of a watch-house.
Washington Soul spells “ combs” with an “ e.”
O 1113- prophetic Soul! The oul3 r ” Combes” with an
"e” that we know of is our friend of the Asstmljv,
and he is Combes with au “ i ” —to the dollars.
The Victorian Government have issued a mani-
festo to the effect that if any civil servant be brorght
up on a fraud summons he is to be instantly dismissed.
Extravagance amongst the craft is a thing of the
past.
Hotel and boarding-house keepers arc informed
by the police that an expensively got-np and in -
diamon led iudi'iduft). a pawnbroker’s assistant, and a
■nymph du parr whom ho calls his wife, arc on the war-
path.
Mr. Pitt, the poet—the old gentleman—is eccen-
tric. He was told of the death of a young lady -a
quotation at once. Next da 3- he was told that his friend’s
sheep had got the fluke quotation again : unfortunately
the same one.
Gately, the Melbourne executioner, was put in
gaol the other day f< r being drunk and disorderly. The
next day the leading article of a certain scmTih us
“religions” newspaper did not appear. What a
curious coincidence!
A certain exiled Pole of swarthy appearance,
with a tierce, dark moustache, and clothes to match, is
the terror of unsuspecting little milliners who return
home at 0 o’clock iu the evening via Georgc-street. He
is not a very greasy pole.
Men think themselves very clover, but any
fellow who believes he is much smaller Gian his wife
can undeceive himself b 3 up early mud seeing
her strike a bargain about a big “ vegeteo-malhi” with
the Chinese vegetable merchant.
Marcus Clarke, the well-known Melbourne
author, now brings his lunch to town iu a piece of
paper. It generally consists, so t bc.v say, of a sheep’s
tongue and pig’s trotter. Marcua makes David Blair’s
latest lampoon serve as a lunch-tin.
A draftsman in the Survey Ofiiee (temporary
staff) after being warned several times for coming late,
bought an alarm clock from the American Novelty
<lompnny, and then took it back and complained that
it awoke him in the morning with its infernal racket.
It s said that during the visit of the first team
of Australian cricketers to the old country an athletic
young ejurate belonging to Canterbury was so carried
away by the game, that in the service bn the following
Sunday ho exclaimed “ Hero eudetli the first
innings!”
Mr. Pitt, in responding for “ The Army ” the
other evening, said that ho couldn't allow the toast
to pass, as his mother’s father bad been a soldier. It
is now said that Mr. Pitt wants to respond for the
Navy on the ground that he was ouco saved from
drowning by an old sailor.
Ho was a .short-sighted young clergyman. rather
vain of his personal apjearance. and he was in the
■eading-desk. He rend, “And the Lord gave unto
Noah a wife.” He turned over, hut the leaves stuck
together, and he solemnly continued, “ Aud he pitched
her without and tarred her within.”
In Melbourne, now, when one fellow wants to
‘ slate ” another he first tries the newspapers, and if
they won’t accept his “copy” he gets his prose, or
•erse, as the case may ho. set up and ) tinted on a slip
‘ for private circulation.” A great many pt jplo are
icing “privately circulated” fust now.
An InrTian doctor has commenced the practice
>f his profession as an oculist in a condiment and
oickle short in William-street, His “ modus operand! ”
Consists in drawing down the lower lid of the patient's
■ye and spitting therein, while repeating a verse of the
Koran. It is to he hoped he does not indulge in entry
until after these operations. i
A jocose young man in tho Lands Office liras at
a fashionable hoarding-house in Macquarie-street.
Seeing that the milk his landlady was pouring into his
coffee was of an inferior quality, ho remarked in a
melancholy tone, “ Hav’ut you got any mTk that
is more cheerful than ibis'” “What do yon mean
by that-” asked the landlady. “Why, this milk
seems to have the blues,” responded the jocose young
man.
The Inspector of Asylums has omitted one item
of statistics, i. c., the number of lunatics created by
insane endeavours to understand our Land Laws.
Ministers, laud agents, clerks, selectors,'and solicitors,
have gone crazy over tho endeavour. Mr. Alexander
Oliver has assailed a Hercules of difficulty, but his
digest of land laws will, if it drives the anther mad, do
the country a service, and save many a poor'creature a.
''ever of anxiety iu showing him how to work our Lends
fifteen puzzle.
When a man who's fond of late suppers comes
in and eats the lace collars and cuffs that his wife has
carefully put in stare a before going to bed, and then
goes up and tells her that the “ picgl'd cabbashes”
were nice, it’s time for him to go to John Alexander
Howie and take the pledge.
*' MiUo ton nerves d’enfer ! Venire Saint Gris !
Qvcllc jnlirfille I ’ exclaimed a fashionable foreign relic
of the International to his impudent, swarthy, staling,
lon .-moustached friend in George-street the other
movum .. “On/,” sweetly responded the charming-
girl, “ti lies homines i'jnoninfs! ”
A wild white fellow rut on the Bareoo. who
linen t Keen a white woman for eight vears, and to
whom the photograph of a Indy was seat a month or
two since, writes thus:—"l say. Boh, what kind of n
head-aear is it they use i ■» Svdnev now ? i never
thought they 'd wear nightcaps in the daytime.”
Ho was the from the Green Isle, and had giver
fno evidence for the plaintiff. “Now, sir,” said Mr.
Julian Salomons, who was for the defendant, “areyon
net known in your district to he a great eh -;i a
great rogue ? ” “No,” said ihe witness, in a charac-
teristic whisper, “ I'm known to he a Christian.”
An old story revived.—Tenders were called in
New Zealand for a, public work, Chinese being excluded
from the compotificn. The work tell to"one John
M'Callum, who, to the committee's great surprise,
proved to ho a Mongolian. John explained that he
knew ho d have no show unless they thought he was a
Scotchman.
Man to street arab. whose face is so covered
with scratches as to look like a railway map;—
“Been fighting with the cut, oh?*’ "JSo. Fellow
spoke disrespectful of my sister said he'd hot she wan
cross-eyed, so i sailed in.” “Is your sister cross-
eyed I-” “ Huvn’t got no sister: it was the principle of
the thing what I licked him for.”
There are throe or four skittish, high-coloured
young damsels to he seen daily perched on a con-
spicuous balcony of a conspicuous house in George-
street, wafting kisses and salutations to any and every
passer-by. They are most impartial in the distribution
of their oscalatory favours aud fly at anything, from a
prince to a bus boy. Of course, the “precise” affect
to lie scandalised; but, as the French say. “everyone
to his taste.” Those young “ smiiers” appear to have
read the classic legend, and to intend this as a colonial
version of “ Ulysses and the Sirens.” Of course wo
always do as Ulysses did, and pass on.
Go and see the bulldogs at Cattell and Co.’s in
George-street and then say whether there is not n canine
aristocracy. To possess such a pair and lead then,
down the block is now our highest and only ambition
In fact the hope that it may occur one day is the one
grand reason for our continuing to live.
.Camden laid eggs are advertised for sale in
” ilham-slreet, Woolloomooloo.
Honolulu policemen, says a correspondent, have
fine times. Bart of each constable’s outfit is a little
stool which ho carries a out with him when walkin'
and sits down on when he has nothing to do. The
policemen go to sleep in the way of traffic, and when
on a dark night yon happen to fall over one of them he
gets up aud arrests you for insulting conduct.
” -To Howard. —Tho above reward will be given
for such information as will lead to the conviction of
the person who, on the night of Saturday, 14th inst.
partly destroyed my dingy skiff. Suspicion points to
a character that hangs out in a certain hay. He is
man’s image iu infamy—a nameless thiug’iu human
shape. ’ This forcible notiefe “hangs out” at Eydo.
Botany to Petersham in 45 minutes is the
latest teat iu Jehnisru. This was performed on Satur-
day afternoon by six well-known young Betersbamites
who were out for an airing in a one-horse carriage (?)
he horse (a hired one) is since reported to 1 o hors dp
combat, and now if you question these young gentle-
al:out the affair they only sorrowfully reply
What sort ?” and charge the subject.
It is said that smoking on tramcars is in future
to he strictly prohibited, otherwise there will he no
room for the smoke from the motors. Swearing is also
interdicted, that is to say on the part of passengers,
uot officials. No person iu a state of intoxication will
henceforth be allowed to enter in or upon tho trail wav
premises, tut full li erty is given drunken people to get
under the said premises, so far as is practicable.
Tho Mid-winter Holidays—Popular Resorts.—
For Dr. McGiibon, Boyan Eiver. For O Gammon
Lsq., Blandford. For tho seamstress. Tacking Point"
lor the sailor, Taree. For the skipper, t argo. For
'ho gardener, Grafton. The Billiard-marker—Canon-
ar. The average loot! aller, Bnlli. The shepherd,
Lambtou. The spinster, Singleton. The quarry mam
Hylestone. Man mas prospecting, Maitland, The
draper, Appin. The grocer, Sngarloaf Point. Under-
-kers. Albnry. Firemen, Coolah. School singers.
So-fa-Ia
Dr. Kelynack has beou lecturing in Brisbane.
At one of his lectures lately he descril ed a man
who “ courted the grandiloquent, which was as precious
o him as a golden nugget, Ho put all his g< ods in his
hop window, and talked familiarly ot Aristoile, Mil-
on, Bacon, and others; and with a little poetry and a
uperabnndance of brass flan ed I efore his audience
like a sun when he was only a rushlight, and got credit,
for being an orate r when iu truth he was only a prater.”
ihc Queenslander quotes the passage, and expresses
sympathy for Mestou! Too rough, that.
A J.P. residing not ICO miles from Sydney re-
cently signed a summons calling upon a u agistrate he-
ouging to the sane bench to answer the following
c< niplaint: -That he had in a street mentioned asked
complainant for the amount of a disputed account,and
fold him he would summon him if not paid, which,
would put him to further expense which lie would be
sure to have to pay, thereby insulting him and provok-
ing him to commit a breach of the peace. On the case
eiug heard the complainant admitted owing an ac-
count. that no one was present when he was asked for it.
ind that perhaps defendant had told him that he would
give him another week. The case was dismissed with,
ill 3s. professional costs.
George Milner Stephen is a perfect cure. This
was how ho cured Captain Broombeld of gout;—The
gallant captain, suffering severely, was sitting in a
chair. “Mr. Stephen stooped down and breathed into
wadi of my knees, and then made a pass across them
as if driving away the disease), saying, ‘gone.’ and
gone it was. After lunch, tho same day, I raced Mr. J.
dope down the stairs of the loyal ’Hotel and lack
again, taking two steps at a bound.” "V\ e have nothing-
more to do with the cure. Every one will regret to
hear that “after lunch” two gentlemen should so
imuse themselves. It looks lad, and unkind people
might le inclined to think our friends were tco far
” “that is, almost hey cud even George Milner's
skill.
4 ho following item, which wo cull frem the re-
port of a committee appointed by the Morris County
(New Jersey I Board of Freeholders to re) ort as to the
esr means to ho adopted to lessen the attractions of
he State Hotel, is commended not less to our clerical
•t aders t hau to the would-be reformers who areagita-
ing against a lot of lazy hulking- fellows being sap-
or! cd at the expense of the State, to enter into com-
>6l it ion with the lal our of free men —(wo are not
■esponsiblo for the logic of the argument of the
igitalors). “It is further suggested that a minister of
he Gospel should le employed, or otherwise obtained
o ho d frequent aud protracted discourses in the gaol,
aul that the prisoners 1 o locked in their cells os much
d their tin e as' their health will admit of; that the
character of their food be diminished iu quality, and
ill with the view of making tho prison a place of
unnishmeut.”
TLn works of Charles Dickens are being' trans-
lated into Russian, and the Emperor does enjoy reading
about Piekiwiekski and SamiuivellersJtolf.
Where's the fellow who doesn’t forgot stuffib-
bliug into bis room ono night, sitting down on the edge
of the bed and remarking ” Feet wet, tight boots, a
sore on one hand an’ a felon on t’other, and no hoot-
jack in z’honse. Sing got to i e dill’rent. E’ther I nrns
get married, else .get a bootjack; wichall Ido?” -*- s
with men, so it is with cattle. They may bo and pos-
sibly are lovely and beardifnl in their ’lives ; but in then*
death the}' are divided.”
MR. GRATTAN RIGGS. THE IRISH COMEDIAN-(SEE PAGE 2.)
RE-APPEARANCE OF THE “KIAMA GHOST.”
The Blacksmith, the Premier, the Kiama
Cheat and the £50.
(See THE BULLETIN of June 5.)
When Sir Henry found the spectre the tricks of office
knew
tic turned aphis nose still ’rgbor, and became so scotty
—whew !
That ho ’ollcrcd fora “ peeler” to “run in ” this vulgar
cuss.
Win ed insult the dignity of a “hempercr” like
” hus.”
the peeler,” with alacrity not equalled here before.
‘Kan in” the simple blacksmith and chained him to
the floor.
thus did this bleeding country for the blacksmith find
a post.
And kicked him pretty freely to spite the Kiama
ghost.
We ask yon gentle readers and matrons one and nil
For i our tears and lamentations for blacksmith Thomas
Pall.
But in the awful stillness, in mid-hours of silent
night,
Arc seen the eyeless sockets of u form of silvery
white,
On Sir ’Enery ever scowling, wit h a mocking ha. ha, ha !
” I know you, I know 3011 —I’m the ghost from Kiama !
I’ll be with you at midnight for all eternity -
In your Led at the new office there’s plenty room for
me,
I’m but Waiting, I’m but waiting, for a year or two at
most.
And then, old man, I'll show yon what it is to “ check”
a ghost.
My vengeance, dire vengeance. 011 yon ere long will fall
If you dou’t at once a billet give to Blacksmith Thomas
Ball.
It is said. Tint who’d helieve it? —that the knees of
’Envy Parties
Most violently quivered when the ghost made these
remarks—
That a pallor quite unusual o’erspread his classic nose.
And that he searched for precedent, to see if he might
propose
To the 'Ouse a bill or measure for driving back again
This accursed Kiama spectre, this creation of his
brain—
But the ghost cleared out quite suddenly after
promising to call
Once more about a billet for Blacksmith Thomas Ball-


The undersigned have been APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS for the al>ovo Celebrated Bottlers, and aretu
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
mHEEE YEARS BEFORE SEPARATION OF
-A QUEENSLAND FROM NEW SOUTH WALES.
\ poor Woman, mother of four children (the eldest,
seven, the youngest two years old), was placed in Tarbtov
Creek Lunatic Asylum, and died there. The little ones
were sent to Sydney, their father meanwhile earning P.
living 1 in the new colony as best he could. In his old
age, fortune smiled upon him, and lie recently visited
this city in search of his children, securing the servioew
of the undersigned for that purpose. IN LITTLE
MORE THAN ONE MONTH all the CHILDREN,
of whom nothing hod been heard for OVER TWENTY-
FIVE YEARS, were traced and identified by
ARTHUR CUBITT,
Missing Friends and Private Inquiry Office,
157 Pitt-strect, Sydney.
T O H N BE
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
BUY your PAPER BAGS from the Maker. Flour
confectionery, fruit, grocers', drapers’ bags,
wrapping papers, twine. Ac., at the lowest pricesv—
THOMAS BROWN, Stationer, Printer, and Paper-bag
Maker, 271 Pitt-street. two doors from School of Arts
(late of Casfloreagh-street).
"10EC0RAN FUNNEL WASHING
J MACHINE. COPYRIGHT ACT of IS7O.
By sections 10 ami 11 any person who shall, without
the consent in writing of the proprietor of the copy -
right thereof, apply or sell, or expose for sale, any such
design, or fraudulent imitation thereof, shall forfeit for
every such offence a sum not exceeding £5).
PUBLIC NOTICE.
CORCORAN’S FUNNEL W ASHING MACHINE
(Registered).
Mr. GEORGE BARR is appointed my solo Agent
and Manufacturer of the above Washing Machine, and
he will conduct all business connected therewith. AH
orders will receive prompt attention.
June 7,183 J. JAMES CORCORAN.
With reference to the al*ovo, I am prepared to execute
orders for any quantity. Storekeepers desirous of act-
ing as agents please communicate,
GEORGE BARR.
G 29 and 631, GEORGE-STREKT, Sydney.
Importer Glass, China, and Earthen Ware, Manufac-
turer of all kinds of Tinware and 1 Galvanised Ironware,
and Manufacturer of Stoneware, Stone Filters, Ac.
POTTERY; CAMPEEDOWN.
MAW’S n.nd MINTON’S well-known TESSELA'JUJD
PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS, HEARTH TILES.
WALL LININGS, new and elegant designs.
Also.
Some very cheap encaustic tiles, for verandahs, baths,
conservatories &o.
BEILBY and CO.
B
ASS’S P A L E
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
A L E
1> G E.
A
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Mr. P. HURST, having boon in the principal
boot factories on the Continent, is placed in a position
to import and sell the best makes in boots at a lower
figure than any other house in Sydney. Gent’s boots-
French calf, hand-sewn, warranted, 10s. 6d.; ladies’
high-leg satin boots, 6s. fid. Cali and see the price ah«l
the style.
P. HURST,
484 Goorge-streot.
N
O
T
0
TB.
Mr. PATRICK DIMOND respectfully bogs U
acquaint his friends and the public generally that he
has opened a flrst-clcss Hotel, corner of
WILLIAM AND DOWLING STREETS,
And trusts by strict attention and civility to merit «
fair share of public x>atronnge.
Wines. Spirits, Beer.*, Ac., best brands.
c
H O T E L,
OLONNADE
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
,T. SHARP, Proprietor,
lespoctfully bogs to acquaint bis friends and the
niblic that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
leers, Ac. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors flt
r ery moderate prices.
Tatters all’s spring meeting,
Saturday, 14th August, 1880,
bandwlck racegoerse.
The HURDLE RACE, a handicap sweepstakes
of.’! sovs for starters, with 50 sovs added; socoud ho'rß**
10 sovs from the prize. About 2.’ miles. Entrance,!
BOV.
The TRAMWAY HANDICAP, of ‘2 sovs for
starters, with 50 sovs added; second horse 10 sovs from
the prize. J mile. Entrance, 1 sov.
TATTERSALL’S SPRING TW T O-YEAR-OU>
STAKES, a sweepstakes of 2sovs each for starters, with
60 sovs added; colts and fillies 7st 711> each; second
horse 15 sovs from the prize. ‘ mile. Entrance. 1 sov.
The NOVEL SELLING RACE of 75 sovs, the
winner to Isa sold immediately after the race, for 125
sovs; weight for age. 71b allowed on each reduction of
25 sovs on selling price, down to C 25; surplus by sale,
if any, to be divided between owner and club. 1 mite
1 furlong. Entrance 1 sov.
TATTERSALL’S AUGUST HANDICAP, »
handicap sweepstakes of J sovs each for starters, with
SO added, for three-yeifr-olds and upwards ; sweep to go
to second horse. I - ; mile. Entrance 1 sov.
Entrances to close to the Secretary, Tattcrsall’s Club,
on or before Monday, 2nd August, at 4 p.m.
Handicaps to bo declared on or before FRIDAY, Cth
August.
A. J. C. Rules.
JAMES PERRY, Secretary.
IN THE PRESS -shortly to bo published:
Important popular Treatise on the Land Laws,
By ALEXANDER OLIVER, Esq., Parliamentary
Draftsman.
Messes, john woods & co. bog to announce
the early publication by them « f Mr. Oliver’s
ALPHABEITCAL DIGEST, or HAN DV-BoOK to the
LAND LAWS of New South Wales. In this work the
whole body of the Statute Law will be simply and
methodically arranged, according to subject matter.
Explanatory Notes, and References to the Decided
Cases, as well as to the New Regulations and Forms,
•tcoompauy each section ; and a, plain but complete
Summary of the Law, prepared expressly for tho»)
interested in laud dealings with the Government,
together with a Copious Index, and various useficl
Appendices, aro added. As a large demand is an tic i
paled, the price will bo very low.
Printing and Publishing Ofiioos,
Id Bridge Street, Sydney, June 11,18£0.
STAGE GOSSIP.
It’s Miss Marion Stammers’ bonnet that kills.
Wybcrt Roovc wants an opening at Newcastle.
Tho lady critic celebrated her 58th birthday last
week.
“ Shy lock,” in Auckland, is hard up for a scenic
artist.
The Queen’s Theatre finds employment for 70
people.
Frank Wade, agent for the Georgias, is back in
'Frisco.
“ Drink ” ran for only eleven nights in Mel-
bourne.
Henry Ketton is an enormous success in Mel-
bourne.
Melbourne reporters have boon interviewing
Ketten. (
The Kelly and Leon party open in Melbourne
shortly.
Camilla Urso is drawing crowded houses at
Dunedin.
Joe Emmett is in (a lunatic asylum in America.
Poor Joe I
A bumper house for Beaumont’s benefit at
Melbourne.
Nat. Salsbnry's “ Troubadours” go to England
-this month.
Lance Lonton has now an engagement where
(ho ghost walks.
Tho Melbourne Exhibition orchestra will hold
1000 performers.
Dampier opens his first season in Brisbane on
Monday, June 28.
Tom Rainford has returned from his “ Pinafore”
tour and looks well.
George Gardner has become a member of the
Virginian Minstrels.
Loftns Troupe played to tho largest audience
known in Newcastle.
Edmund Holloway and wife secede from tho
Queen’s Theatre shortly.
Mrs. Hardingo-Britten is lecturing at San Fran-
cisco. and making monej'.
Henry Browne, an American comedian, purposes
visiting Australia shortly.
Mr. W. G. Carey, of tho Grattan Riggs Com-
pany, is a native of Sydney.
Mr. James Kitts still refuses admission to dead-
heads. More power to him.
Rumour says that Ogdon will bo the next lessee
of Melbourne Opera House.
Mr. Dampier departs next Tuesday for Brisbane.
May good luck follow him I
Tom Kennedy, the Georgias’ business manager,
is bill posting in Melbourne.
They don’t take kindly to “ Drink” in Mel-
bourne. This is paradoxical.
Rose Herseo made a great hit as Marguerite in
Melbourne the week before last.
At last advices Mrs, Scott Siddons was giving
dramatic readings in Washington.
Williamson, say the N.Z. papers, is arranging
to produce “ Pinafore” in Maori-land.
Mr. Hiseocks, of Hisoocks and Hayman, takes
tome aboriginals with him to England.
Dramatic business is still the order of tho night
at the old Queen’s. Long may she reign.
Coppin, Greville and Hennings expect several
novelties out from America and England.
George Loyal and wife are in Chicago doing
well, and will pay ns a visit again shortly.
Miss Christian has been singing with much suc-
cess at a concert in Melbourne Town Hall.
Hudson’s Surprise party are doing capital
business at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne.
Mr. Dampier, when he returns to Sydney, will
produce a drama written by Mrs. Dampier.
The principals in “Juvenile Pinafore’” at tho
Bijou, Melbourne, change every night now.
No one can be fashionable without going to
Proctor’s lectures. All R. S. Smythc’s doing.
The Mammoth Minstrels left for Tasmania on
Tuesday, June 15th, and do a four weeks’ tour.
Sam Rickey, well known as a member of tho
Loftns Troupe, is in Melbourne in a very bad way.
A Children’s Pinafore Company, consisting of
eighty youngsters, has been formed in Launceston.
It is very easy to recollect an actress’ age. Got
it once fixed on your mind and you’ve got it for ever.
The row between the Melbourne Theatre Royal
and tho Daily Telegraph has not yet been made up.
Miss Emily Soldene, the famous opera bouft’e
actress, wants to make her permanent home in Sydney.
Loftns Troupe open a four weeks’ season (under
Hegnrty) at Kelly and Loon’s Opera House on the 26th
June.
Tho irrepressible Stephen Masaefct (“ Jcems
Pipes ”) was travelling through South Africa when last
heard of.
Tho poultry which appeared so successfully in
“Never too Late to Mend ” have retired to a country
residence.
Sam Slater, so well known as fruit and book-
seller at the theatres, is still travelling with tho Wil-
liamsons.
Mr. H. H. Vincent has made a decided hit in
Melbourne as the Spaniard in Bland Holt’s “ New
Babylon.”
Dick Thatcher left on Monday, June 11th, for
England, per Orient, as advance agent for the Mammoth
Minstrels.
Harry Edwards, one of tho good old times, is
now heavy and character actor at Wallaek’s Theatre,
New York.
Greville appeared at the Vic. on Tuesday. It
is a number of years since we saw this gentleman last
in our city.
Emmett, the author, is engaged in writing a
new drama, entitled “ Marriage of late, or how to live
upon Love.”
Bayliss, with tho Juvenile Troubadours, are
-doing well in Adelaide with “ Pmbehind,” a parody on
“ Pinafore.”
Mrs. Bates has announced once more her do-
parture for America. This kind of thing’s getting
monotonous.
Signora Coy. always so jiopular hero, won great
laurels daring the opera season which has just closed
at Melbourne.
Two daughters of Madame Simonson make
their debut at Melbourne Town Hall on the 10th of
July in concert.
Butler and Russell, two very clever Variety
boys, just arrived from San Francisco, have joined the
Loftns Troupe.
Dampier in Richard on Saturday night will, it
Is said, bo a gorgeous tight. His armour alone cost
a small fortune.
Ananias was the first man who got out a circus-
poster. Cliia.riui knows this, and tries to keep as near
facts as possible.
A Mr. Edwin Browne, with Miss May Firman,
arrived at Auckland by last Pacific mail, under engage-
ment to De Lias.
Mapleson’s Concert Company, with lima Do
Murska and Marie Rozee as prime donne, are reaping a
golden harvest in the English provinces. Signors Leli
and Huslui are to the fore, and John Hill conducts.
Jos. Maas and Jeff Da Angelis, the two
stars for the Queen’s Theatre, open at that house on
Monday, J tine 21st.
Mr. David Leo’s organ recitals at the Mel-
bourne Town Hall continue an attraction of the great.
Southern Metropolis.
The wife of a distinguished Melbourne littera-
teur is shortly to make her re appearance on the stage
at the Academy of Music.
Mrs. Fairclough is a sister of Mr. Thompson,
the clever leader of the Victoria Thoatro orchestra.
She was married in India.
Madame Patti and her company have been ap-
pearing to crowded houses at Geelong and Ballarat,
and are again in Melbourne.
George Chaplin is seriously ill in hospital at
British Columbia. Ho has written to a friend here
despairing of convalescence.
An old “ burnt-cork ” friend, Filly Emerson, is
one of the principals in Haverley’s Mastodon Minstrels.
Billy takes a lot of rubbing out.
Mr. Craig, the rising young artist who has
travelled round the colonies with the Lingards, has
now seceded from the company.
Lydia Howarde, Emma Rogers, and Sam Poole
went to Ipswich (Queensland) with “ Pygmalion” and
the “ Waterman.” Biz only fair.
“ The Pirates of Penzance” has been produced
in S;iu Francisco, under the personal superintendence
of Mr. D’Oyly Carte, with Emilio Melville as Mabel.
Baker and Farron arc a success in London.
“ Conrad and Lizette ” had been running a month when
the last mail left, and there was no sign of its with-
drawal.
George Giddons (who played lead to “ Little
Nell the Californian Diamond” in Australia), at
latest advices was playing at the Criterion Theatre,
London.
Mr. J. W. Dodge, manager for Miss Dargon
(and husband of Miss Flora .Instead) is now business
manager for Coppin, Grevillc, Hennings and Co. at the
Victoria.
Foley, the theatrical agent, late Circus man, is
doing a,' starring tour up Wellington way. Iteceipts, 16s
first night, 7s the second night. Better times in store,
we hope.
Mr. George Darrell will shortly produce in
Sydney his latest dramatic success, “The Forlorn
Hope.” a drama that achieved a run of seven weeks in
Melbourne.
Miss Lillian (better known in Australia as Tilly
Andrews) at latest advices was playing good parts with
Danid E. Bandmann’s company at Baldwin’s Theatre,
San Francisco.
Wo are glad to hear that Mr. Arthur Gamer has
reorganised the Comedy Company for another year,
and not allowed petty speculators to rob him of some
of its members.
Mr. Theodore Martin, who has been made a
K.C.8., for his services in writing the life of the late
Prince Consort, is married to Miss Helen Fancit, the
great Shakesperian actress.
Thompson’s “ Great Confederate Diorama” and
Lieut. Herman, ventriloquist, after doing big “ biz.” at
Invercargill, were workingtheir way through the small
towns to Dunedin, at latest reports.
Miss Eleanor Carey ia playing principal to
Daniel E. Bandmann in ’Frisco. This charming actress
also appeared with Bandmann at the Queen’s Theatre,
Sydney, in 1808, during his engagement.
D’Orsay Ogden and a dramatic company open
at Warruambool, Victoria, in a few days, and play a
week. The residents subsidise Ogden and want to see
him and Miss Beatrice in their best parts.
George Rignold was recently lessee of flio
Eoyal Connaught Theatre, London. He was playing
“Amos Clarke” and “Black Eyed Susan.” The ven-
ture was an artistic but not a pecuniary success.
The Aretlmsa Dramatic Company, at the latest
dates, still retained possession of the Theatre Koyal,
Wellington. Parliament nt present sitting there makes
Wellington the best show town in New Zealand.
The Lin cards have announced their intention of
playing in N.Z. with a small company, including Miss
Melrose. “Onr Boys,” “The Vestal,” and “The
Liugard Sketches” being the chief attractions.
“Blondin” (Alexander) has removed Ids al
freeco show to Ipswich, and continues to do well.
Nothing can touch a canvas show with popular prices
in Queensland, or for that matter, anywhere else.
The Dillon and Pender Company were, accord-
ing to last accounts, playing to good houses at the
Theatre Eoyal, Eoekbampton. Their latest produc-
tions were “ The Sightless Bride” and “Engaged.”
Little Miss Julia Simmons, the Admiral of Mrs.
Lewis’ Juvenile Pinafore Troupe, is a daughter of a
Jewish cabman of Sandhurst, and has more than an
average share of the dark Oriental beauty of her race.
If you are acquainted with any “ pros.” (writes
our Brisbane correspondent) who are anxious to shine
as “ stars” for the honor and glory of the thing, you
might send them along, and we will give them a show.
Mr. William Hoskins, Florence. Colville and
Company, are still running the Theatre Eoyal, Christ-
church. Simonson’s “ Froliques ” are drawing large
houses ftt the same town in the Oddfellows’ Hall. They
next visit Wellington.
Miss Marion Melrose, the charming soubrotto of
the Liugard company, was on Saturday last, at St.
Philip’s Church, united in the bonds of holy wedlock
to Mr. Harry Emmett, the rising “juvenile” of the
New Babylon company.
- Dr. Torrance, of Melbourne, reports that the
“infant Mozart” (Ernest Hutchinson) is making
steady progress with his musical studies, and that bis
admirers are to soon buve an opportnaity of judging
how rapid that progress is.
Madame Carandini and covnnany have been
“ concertising ” at Riverton and Invercargill, N.Z.
Mr. Sherwiu tried to “ have ” the people at the former
town by advertising one price and charging another at
the door. It wouldn’t take.
“ One Word,” a speciality drama, in which Mr.
Jos. Maas, Miss Sollie, and Mr. Jeff Do Augelis will
make their bow before an Australian audience, was
written by Mr. Meader, who, it will be remain bered,
was n the colony with the Salsbury Troubadours.
Williamson has obtained an injunction to pre-
vent the Pollard Pinafore Company appearing. Mr.
Pollard is a professor of music in Hobart Town, and
is by the way, father of Miss Pollard, whose charming
voice a year or two since was so much admired in
Queensland.
Coppin has the gout, Allison the “ needle,”
consequent on the success of the opposition Theatre—
Greville a new cadi— Bennett a new exit from the
“ Vic” —Darrell the best spec of modern times—and
Jimmy Williamson throe inches extra ronnd the waist;
cause, a plethora of cash.
Mr. Harry Corbyn, theatrical agent, lately con-
nected with Wilson’s Circus in India, and more re-
cently manager for Mr. H. E. Harwood, has arrived in
Sydney, and is located at host Howell’s. Corbyn is one
of the smartest of the craft on the road ; he is here on
the look out for novelties for India.
During the performance of “ Man and Wife,” at
the Queensland Theatre recently, three members of the
shoddy aristocracy vacated their seats and left the
auditorium. Wilkie Collins dramatised was too much
for their delicate sensibilities, and the “tak’ her onycr
lap, mon,” of Bishoprigg’s caused their sudden exit.
James Cook, a clown, well known in Europe and
America, died in Now York recently. His real name
was Pat Kay, and ho was Irish by birth. He refused
the last rites of his church, saying Masonry was a good
enough religion for him. and as he had lived in the
Order, he would die in it.
When Madame Legraiulo was being sold as the
Octoroon, at Brisbane, the other night, an excited
Warrego man called out that ho would "see” Jacob
M'Closky’s twenty-five thon. and “ shoot” him another
live. Zoe looked hopeful till she saw Sheppersou
assisting to eject her would-be purchaser.
Says the S. F. News Letter. :—Urso, daring
her Australian tour, has been showing a managerial
acuteness and peculiar fitness for the show business
worthy of the groat Barnaul. It is said that, when
fiddling did not pay, she turned the versatility of her
company to account by exhibiting little Sanrot as Tom
Thumb.”
A poor follow, named James Ball, died in March,
at the early age of 215. Ho used to go about England,
allowing people to break, with a big hammer, heavy
stones on bis stomach. That receptacle is usually held
sacred by Englishmen, but James Ball, to satisfy the
morbid cravings of the crowd, contracted a tumour and
died in poverty.
Dr. and Mrs. Piercy (Miss Augusta Dargon)
were thrown out of their buggy last week at Coon-
amble, owing to the borses having taken fright at the
strains of a circus baud. Their vehicle capsized, but
the oc.cnpants, we arc glad to hear, sustained no in-
jury beyond a severe shaking. Miss Dargon will hence-
forth have a great dislike for “ sawdust.”
Emile Sanrefc (brother of Urso’s pianist) has
been appointed director of Professor Kellok’s Conser-
vatory at Berlin. He is a most accomplished violinist,
and the Berlin papers say that “ such faultless stopping
and passages of thirds and fourths as he displayed has
not been beard in Germany, not oven from Sarasatc and
Wieniawski,”
Rpberts, of the London Comedy Company,
who. has severed bis connection, will, with his wife
Mrs. Clara Lemore. sail for England in September. This
capital actor and jolly good fellow will, we hear, resume
his old position as stage manager of the Alexandra
Theatre, Liverpool. Prior to their departure from
Sydney the Roberts’ do the provinces.
George Darrell “ spells” in Sydney for a time
prior to the production of “The Forlorn Hope,” which
play run seven weeks in Melbourne, and, doubtless,
will be a big “ go” hero. It will, we hear, be Darrell’s
farewell in Sydney, as he intends proceeding shortly to
England to arrange for the introduction of an “Aus-
tralian Dramatic Company,” with his own drama of
“ Transported for Life.”
The clerical-looking, good-hnmourod gentleman
with gold specs, seen in Georgo-street very frequently,
is neither a High Church incumbent nor a Roman
Catholic priest. It’s needless to say that lie’s not
Canon O’Reilly. His name is Mr. Edwin Shepherd, he
belongs to the London Comedy Company, and his
speciality is ecclesiastical parts, in which we hope yet
to see him.
The Exhibition to bo hell in Brisbane nest
mouth promises to be the most successful which has
yet been held under the auspices of the National Asso-
oiatiou. Over forty exhibitors at the Sydney Exhibi-
tion have already applied for space. L’Estranga will
make an ascent with bis balloon. Alexander will per-
form on the high rope and Harris on the trapeze.
Several side shows will also be present.
On the morrow of Miss Yanzandt’s debut as
Mignou in Palis Madame Patti sent the young lady a
note ; “ Dear little Friend, —One line only to tell yon
how much we were all under the charm (he other
evening. Yon sang like a dear little angel. With very
best love, I remain your affectionate Adelina Patti.”
While the young Mignou was reading Madame Patti's
letter, a card of warm congratulation arrived from -
the Marquis do Cam.
Poor little Benedict Taoagni, who was the mid-
shipmite in the Children’s Pinafore Company, in
London, has jast died of acute rheumatism. His clever
performances had elicited commendation from, among
others, the Prince and Princess of Wales. During the
delirium consequent upon his illness he continually
sang snatches of the “Pinafore” music, the last
audible sounds he uttered being the childish version of
“ For he is an Englishman.” lie was bnt six yours and
a halt old.
The Governor and his hidy wore present at
Mdlle. Legrande’s benefit at Brisbane the other night.
Of eonrse Darrell, who was idle at tiio time, could not
resist such a chance to “strut” before vice-royalty.
He appeared as a super, at the auction scene disguised
as a mulatto, fair board and eyeglass, and they gave
him a lino. He assured the auctioneer that that young
man had not left home jet. The gods recognised his
voice and gave him a call, bnt George was “not on.”
Neither the Governor nor Darrell appeared the second
night.
Byron’s new comedy, “ The Upper Crust,” con-
cerning the production of which at the Folly Theatre,
Loudon, we read an elaborate criticism in the latest
number of the London Daily Telegraph, was some
time ago offered to Messrs. James and Thorne, of the
Vaudeville, but as the piece did not contain equal comedy
parts for the actor-managers named, it was not accepted
by them. Each “ cut his nose to spite his face,” for the
piece is a splendid success, and, to use the words of the
Whitehall Eeview. “ ranks amongst the author’s most
entertaining works.”
Mr. R. J. Roberts and Miss Clara Lemore (of the
London Comedy company) have published the pro-
gramme of their entertainment entitled “ Merry
Moments,” which will for the first time be submitted
to a Sydney public at the School of Arts on the evening
of Thursday next, 34th instant. They only stay one
evening in Sydney, and then commence their travels.
Madame Screibor acts as piauiste. The flattering nature
of the English press notices with which this talented
lady and gentleman accompany their prospectus would
in itself ensure them a bumper house, apart altogether
from the local reputation they have made for them-
selves under Mr. Garner’s management.
The last oast at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
with the greatest John Mildmay of his day—and for
the matter of that any other day—poor Walter Mont-
gomery, was as follows :
Mildmay Walter Montgomery
Hawksley George Darrell.
Potter G. H. Rogers
Dnnbilk ... H. Stewart
Gimlet ... '. John Dunn
Markham Captain Humphreys
Langford Gladstone
Mrs. Sternhold Adelaide Bowring
Mrs. Mildmay Marion Dunn.
Tho Marian Willis Combination Troupe have
leased the Academy of Music, Ballarat, after a very
successful tour through N.S.W. and Victoria. Mr.
Keogh purposes visiting Melbourne and returning to
Sydney with a strongly augmented company. Tho
troupe at present comprises Miss Willis, Mr. J. F.
Keogh. Mr. J. Wharton, the Misses Nellie Edwards,
Kate Vernon, Julia Featherstone, Marian Saunders,
and Messrs. J. P. O’Neil. A. J. Byrne, E. Huntley, W.
Haines, W. H. Medns, Tom Barry, C. Laurie, and C.
Ryder. In Ballarat they have been going in for tho
sensational and emotional—performing ‘ Shanghranu ’
• East Lynne,’ &c., their version of which latter piece
is described as being entirely new.
Our correspondent at Auckland writes as fol-
lows in a letter dated Bth J line“ Fairclough’s Shake-
sperian season concluded a few evenings ago, and,
taking it altogether, was a success. An American
actor. Mr. Edwin Browne, arrived hero from ’Frisco by
tho last mail-boat, and made his debut on Saturday
evening (sth) at the Theatre Royal before a well-filled
house. The piece chosen for representation was one
of those American “ hash ” melodramas called “ The
Phoenix.” which has no plot, bnt a number of double
entendres, slang, and impossible situations. Mr. Browne
is a fair character actor, and t hat is all that can be said
about him. In the more serious parts of the piece—
where ho ponrtrays earnestness -he is a positive inflic-
tion on the audience. The ports were distributed as
follows, Walter Reynolds and E. D. Haygarth playing
the best: —Phillip Schnyller, W. Reynolds; Tom Cran-
shaw, J. B. Steele; Moses Levi. E. D. Haygarth;
O’Keefe, J. O’Brien; Elmes Wright, A. Thompson;
Lowers, J. A. Patterson; Sadie (a flower girl) and
Coralie Yorko (an actress) Clara Stephenson Kitty
Blake, Grace Hathaway ; Clara Schnyller, Marie Wil-
ton Royal Keeve (a Bohemian) and Dick Ralston (a
detective). Edwin Browne. The Lynch Family of Bell-
ringers arrived here to-day and open on Saturday.


Blair Athol
Epigram (imp
V
*
J3
£3
X
<
5s
<
o
X
3
o
ci
2
u
O
Caprice (imp,
Mrs. Crof
Stoctwell
Clink Bonny
Chant ieleer
Ellerdale
Kingston
Defenceless
The Pvirao
Minister
The Mersey
r Bird catcher
Echidna
Glencoe
Marpessa
FInmph.Clinker
Cervantes mare
Gladiator
Plenipot’ary m.
■Sir Hercules
Guiocioli
Drone
Kiss
Liverpool
Otis
Tomboy
I'esaue
Partisan
Fawn
Slane
Garcia
Whalebone
Defiance
Cain
llidotto
Humph.Clinker
Cervantes mare
Pantaloon
Festival
Tadmor
Brunette
Elia
Coral
The Baron
Pocahontas
Melbourne
Queen Mary
■
I. Birdeatcher j
Whim
(
Laaercost
D. of
Vonison
Queen Anne
Defence
D. of
Melbourne
Pantalonade
Birkenhead
D. of
SPORTING.
Index to Racks to Come.
Northern Downs J.C June 23 and 21
Warruamlool June 23 and 25
Cobar Annual June 21 and 25
Victoria Amateur Turf Club July 1
Clarence River J. C July 7 and 8
Rockhampton J.C. Annual July 8 and 9
Hay J.C July 13
Deniliquiu 1 nly 21
Hawkesbnry August 25 and 27
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 4,7, 9,11
Tattersall's Spring August 14
Parramatta August
Northern J.C September
Narrabri October
Q.T.C. Spring N<>v. ti and 9
Murrumbidgee Spring Nov. 22. 23, and 24
V.R.C. Spring Novomler
A.J.C. Summer December 27
Tattersall's Annual January 1, 1831
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Northern Downs J.C. General Entry Juno 18
Wamiamlool General Entry Juno 22
Cobnr General Entry June 23
Deniliquiu June 30
Rockhampton District Plate Hurdle Race and
Members’ Handicap July 1
Clarence Eiver J.C. General Entry July 5
Brewam'mv MP. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
Tattersall’s Spring entries Aug. 2
A.J.C. Summer Cap Oct. 14
A.J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration of Weights.
V.A.T.O June 19
Great Metropolitan Stakes J une 23
Hawkesburv Grand Handicap June 23
Meltioume Cup Jane 23
Rockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Race, and
Memliers 1 Handicap July 5
Deniliquiu July 10
Tattersall’s Spring Handicap Aug. 6
A J.C. Summer Cnp Handicap Nov.
A.J.O. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Clarence J.C. and City Handicaps acceptances June 21
Rockhampton and Port Curtis Handicaps
acceptances July 1
Rockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Race, and
Members’ Handicap acceptances July 6
Great Metropoiitan Stakes—first forfeit July 14
Ha wkesbnry Grand Handicap acceptances July 14
Deniliquiu acceptances July 20
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Answers to Correspondents.
J.S.B. auk* ; —“ What is the fattest time done over
the champion course, Putney to Mortlalce
(England), in outriggers, and who hy ?” The
following are the fastest recorded times; — Hig-
gins, 23 min. 2 sec.; Hoare, 23 min. 16 sec.;
White, 23 min. 13 sec.; Chambers, 23 min. 15
sec,.; Kelly, 23 min. 23 sec.; Renforth. 23 min.
13 sec.; and G. Tarryer rowed from the Aque-
duct to Mortlalce in 22 min. 55 sec., which is the
fastest we know of.
Carcoar. —The person you mention is said
to he a good trainer, but to Mr. Allwrt Corn-well
belongs the credit of having prepared, him for
his principal winning races. Air. Wilson did
not win a race with him.
Subscriber, Grafton.—Gremorne is by Yattendon
from Camel Bessy by Camel from Hipped Bessy
by St, John from Bessy Bedlam by Emigrant.
We know of no Cremorne by Conrad.
P.M.U. asks : —“Did Johnny Smoker ever win a
Tattersall's Cup at Randwick; if so. in what
year?" Yes, Johnny Smoker won Tattersall's
Cup in 1372, carrying Gs‘. 7 Ihs.
Myall Creek. —The Stochcell yon ask
about was by Yelverton.
J.W.X., Trunkey.—lt was R. Skipper who walked
600 miles in 12 consecutive days. This feat was
performed 50 years ago.
X.Y.X. —The hand counts 12.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
Both the Hunter Eiver and Bendigo mootings
have been got through since my last. The
racing at each fixture, I am told, was quite np to
expectations ; and as the results are to bo seen in
another column, they need no further reference
here. Between this and the following Saturday
three meetings as my Index shows are sot down for
decision, and each one is anxiously looked for.
Oa the 23rd and 25th tho D ilhyand Warrnarabool
sporting folk will bo holding high carnival, and on
the 24th and 25th tho sportsmen of Cobar will bo
enjoying themselves in a like manner, but with
tho exception of to Dalby no Sydney turfites have
been enticed away. The information is so slight
that reaches me from either of tho three places
mentioned, that I am unable to tell anything
further than is shown in my Index. The general
entry for Dalby closes on this Friday, and a simi-
lar duty is asked for on Tuesday in connection
with the Warrnambool meeting ; while on Wed-
nesday tho minor items on the Cobar programme
require to be entered for, and as far as “ meetings
to come ” and “ closing of stakes ” are concerned
they do not make up a big list. The imposts for
the Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting are
duo to-day (Saturday), and on Wednesday will bo
issued the weights for those all-important stakes
—the Hawkesbnry Handicap, Groat Metropolitan
and Melbourne Cup. With 89 in tho first named
and 82 in the Metropolitan. Mr. Scarr has no easy
task to got through, and Mr. Barnard will find a
great amount of labour in allotting the imposts
for the 109 tht are entered in the Melbourne Cup.
The appearance of three such handicaps as these
under notice will stir tho at present dull racing
affairs of Now South Wales np considerably, and
the betting world will, I hope, undergo a change
also, notwithstanding Mr. Terry’s futile
attempt to crush it. Acceptances have to bo de-
clared on Monday for the two principal handicaps
to bo run for under the auspices of the Clarence
River Jockey Club, and that done, owners have
nothing further to attend to until the coming week
gives me another opportunity of offering a re-
minder.
The members of the Murrumbidgee Turf Club,
nt a meeting held a few days ago. resolved to hold
their Spring Meeting on the 22nd, 23rd and 24th
of November, thus changing the fixture so as to
follow tho big V E C. carnival instead of preced-
ing it as hitherto. No doubt tho last throe or four
meetings have entailed a loss, and when such a
state of things exists any change at all becomes a
necessity, but it remains to be found whether or
not tho alteration is a judicious one. It was also
found necessary to reduce the amount of added
money, and such a decrease in the stakes as ,£*375
must have a telling effect on the number of en-
tries, Tho Cup itself will bo subsidised by only
200 sovs. (rather a big decrease) and a cup valued
at n century ; and altogether the added money for
tho three days will amount to ,£1.185. one attrac-
tive item on the card being a Maiden Plate of 100
sovs., distance 1} miles. I hope that tho altera-
tions will not materially affect the club in regard
to entries, and I certainly expect to see the
changing of dates meet more with the views of
horse-owners and others than those they have
been altered from. Most of those horses who will
have been racing at the Spring fixture of the
V.K.C. ought certainly to have a try at Wagga ;
and besides these there will be others from our
own side who will not pay the sister colony a visit,
so that a big entry may reasonably be expected.
I remember when assisting at tho last Spring
meeting of the M.T.C., the almost general cry out
from visitors to the grand stand who paid their
10s. for admission not being allowed to go on to
tho lawn in front of the stand, and being com-
pelled to stay either in the saddling paddock or go
on the stand, unless they happened to be members
of the club. This, I thought at tho time, was a
great mistake; and I would impress upon the
members of the club, if they wish it to become
popular, to at once do away with such a rule, for
in time it must have a damning effect npon club
interests. Tho M T.C. is the only body I know of
who have such a rule in force, and it stands to
reason that people will not pay 10s. admission if
they are to bo exoluded from the lawn. Tho
drafting rail is bad enough in itself, but tho other
case is without parallel.
Tho pei'formances of tho Queensland bred colt,
Canary, by Epigram from Caprice (both imported),
by Caraotacna from Miss Croft, by the Prime
Minister from Tho Mersey, are of such a high class
that he may well claim to being one of tho best
colts of his year. Ho was bred by Messrs. Bell
and Son, of Queensland, and is in tho same stable
as that grand colt Waterloo, who so narrowly es-
caped winning the Champagne Stakes at tho late
A.J.C. Meeting, and, grand colt as ho is, it is a
great pity that ho has not been entered for the
Hawkesbnry guineas and tho A.J.C. Derby, to be
run for in the coming August and September. His
sire, Epigram (imp.), is by Blair Athol, and all
horsey men well know what a grand line of blood
that means ; and as Caprice (imp.) is by Caraota-
ens, who combines strains of Venison and Whale-
bone, tho pedigree is a fashionable one on both
sides, and shows Canary to bo a rare bred one.
Epigram was a judicious choice to make as a sire,
and ho will yet rank among the most important
sires of the day. Tho following tells fully of his
breeding;—■
Mr. P. (Ire t ton’s b o Isonomy by Sterling from
Isola Bella, has again landed the Ascot gold enp,
a weight for age race, carrying 9 st. 5 lb., beaming
Chippendale, 4 years, Bst 10 lb., Znt, 4 years, Sat.
10 lb., and others whose performances entitle
them to the name of racehorses. Thus is the
second Ascot Gold Cup won by Isonomy, and that
ho has been a good performer the following few
wins will servo to show ;—He won the Ascot Gold
Yaso, Gold Cup, the Goodwood Cup, Brighton
Cup,Great Ebor Handicap at York, and Doncaster
Cup. He also ran second to Parole in the New-
market Handicap, to whom he conceded two years
and 8 lbs., but he was not placed in the Cezar-
witch Stakes at Newmarket won by Chippendale.
His tabular pedigree will appear in my next.
The A.J.C. have advertised a day’s racing for
the 27th December, the Hawkesbnry Club having
decided to abandon their usual fixture of that date
in favour of the A.J.C. This innovation on the
part of the premier club will resolve itself into an
annual affair, and being as it is much more conve-
nient for horses to race at Randwick than of at
Clarendon, the day’s sport will no doubt take well.
There are half-a-dozen events put forward made
up thus : A Three-year-old Handicap of 200 sovs.,
a snmmor Cup of 200 sovs., li mile ; Selling Plate
of 100 sovs., Two-year-old Plate, 5 furlongs, of
100 sovs.; A Free Handicap of 100 sovs., 1 mile
and 3 furlongs ; and a Selling Plata of 100 sovs..
11 mile ; and it will bo seen that altogether 800
sovs. are given by the Club. This is one of the
best programmes I have seen for some time, and as
three races are exclusively for two-year-olds, while
two others admit them with ullages, thoyonngsters
have at last attracted the attention to their wants
that they richly deserve. The Summer Cup, over
a mile and a half, ought also to attract a big
entry, for there are comparatively few horses who
can stay a two-milo journey to what can be found
to last the distance of the Summer Cup. The con-
ditions of the December Stakes tell that the win-
ner of the Maribyrnong Plate will be penalised to
the extent of 7 lb., while a winner of any race,
except a handicap, will have to carry a penalty of
4 lb. The Index points to particulars not men-
tioned above. I regret, however, with many
others, that a Hurdle Race or Steeplechase is not
included in the list for jumping races, ought
to attract attention from most race clubs, more
especially the A. J. C.. I think if the Selling
Race wore expunged from the programme and a
Hurdle Race substituted it would moot with the
views of a great many.
The thoroughbred mares Sunset and Princess
of Prussia have been sold to Dr. L. L. Smith, but
I have not yet heard at what figures they were
disposed of.
Speaking of the entries for tho Hawkesbnry
Handicap “ Augur” says, “ Yenom, wbo was dis-
qualified by tho V, R.C. for 12 months, has been |
nominated.” If this really bo the case the
Hawkesbnry officials might at once see to it, and
have the name of Venom erased from the list. !
The yearling sisters of Robinson Crusoe and
Petrea have been named Aureola and Gladys.
Tho Australasian says that 614 mares have
been nominated for the Mares’ Produce Stakes of
ISB3, 57 being from Messrs. C. and A. Finlay, 52
of whom have visited King Cole.
The following extract from The Australasian
quite justifies tho view I took of the action of tho
Adelaide stewards in the recent Banter case, and
fully bears out the opinion I expressed on the
subject:—■“ Mr. J. E. Savill, who trained Banter
for the Adelaide Birthday Cup. writes to say that
there is no truth in tho report that Kildnff did not
weigh out with the breastplate. Ho says that tho
lad weighed out and in with exactly the same gear,
viz., saddle, saddle-cloth, and breastplate, and
that tho last-named article weighed only 4oz.
instead of 14oz. Ho adds, “ Whether Kildnff
had a drink or not I cannot say for certain, but I
know ho refused one from Mr. M'Donald just
before getting up. His extra weight was obtained
by walking half a mile to the starting post through
long grass, and by being out some time before the
others in heavy rain. No other jockey walked to
tho post, and none came ont so soon. Lord Harry,
Caspian, and Savanaka stayed under the saddling
shod until the shower was over, and wore all hate
at the post.”
I learn that tho well-known filly, Lady Emma, by
Yattendon from My Fancy, and a yearling daugh-
ter of Rapid Bay and Gipsy have been purchased
for Sir Hercules Robinson ; and if my informant
has given mo tho straight “ griffin,” I am sure no
follower of the turf in Australia will regret to
hear that tho very popular ‘‘spots” have been
carried to victory in Maori Land.
Trevallyu has received a good deal of support
in Melbourne for both tho Derby and Cup, some
thousands having been booked to him.
Tho Adelaide papers are responsible for saying
that it is very likely tho Adelaida Racing Club and
the South Australian Jockey Club will amalgamate.
There has for somo time been an amount of
jealousy between these clubs, and it.is to be hoped
for the interests of tho turf that the “ hatchet will
be buried,” and all past grievances consigned to
oblivion.
The New Zealand correspondent of The Aus-
tralasian says that the well-known Viotorian
steeplechaser Lone Hand was purchased a few
days ago to the order of Corrigan the steeple-
chase rider. His price is not given, but I suppose
ho “ wont very cheap,” and wo may again see this
big grey ” running down ” his fences and adding
fresh laurels to those already earned by him in
Victoria. He was a groat failure in New Zealand.
Tho full list of entries for the Maribyrnong
Plate to bo run for in November next, and the
V. R.C. Derby for 1831 are to hand and there are
126 in the former and 123 in the latter. They are
to be found in another oonmn, and a magnificent
lot they make up, all the principal studs in the
colony being represented ; and if our neighbours
are not satisfied with their Melbourne Cup entry,
tho splendid array shown in tho two and three-
year old races I have mentioned must compensate
for what is supposed to bo omitted from the big
handicap of the V.R.C. Our horse owners and
breeders have liberally supported both these
stakes, and the snceesses we of N.S.W. have
achieved in the Maribyrnong Plates of late years
have acted no doubt as an incentive for others to
try to “ go in and win.”
By cable I have tho results of tho Alexandra
Plate of 1000 sovs., which was won by Prince
Sothgkoff’s br. o. Thnrio by Tibthorpe or Crandono
from Verona; Mr. J. Holdaworth’s Ruperrabeing
second and F. Gretton’s Westbourne third;
Isonomy, vho was entered, not being a starter.
The winner, a five year old, carried 9st 61b, while
the second and third, being a year younger, wore
weighted at 9st each. The absence of the Ascot
Gold Cnp winner may have been caused in many
ways, accident perhaps, or Mr. G ret ton probably
looked npon Westbourne as being capable of
scoring a win, and so scratched Isonomy. Thnrio,
so far as I can gather, won only once during last
season, Ruperra twice, and Westbourne three
times, one of tho victories being the Derby at
Newmarket.
In their proper places will bo found the mares
named for tho Queensland T.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes of 1333, and also the subscribers to the
Q.J.C. Derby for 1381. In the former there are
3t and in the latter the miserable number of 16 ;
and if the turf in Queensland is to receive only
such wretched support as this, then there must be
a very sorry look-out for its future. Messrs.
Allen, A. and P. McDonald, and J. Williams are
all good .supporters, comparatively speaking, of
tho Sires Produce Stakes, but they are not repre-
sented at all in tho Derby—l don’t know why
—and Messrs. J. P. Bell and J. Finnic with three
each are tho principal nominators. lam sorry to
see such scant support given to Mr. Dawbarn’s
club, and to young races in particular, I certainly
expected something more substantial. For tho
St. Legor of 1332 I have a still more unhealthy
state of things to tell, for tho meagre entry
of 14 is all that one can notice. I may mention
that Maribyrnong, Malta and Speculation sub-
scribed to the Sires Produce Stakes, but no mares
were nominated for them. To the Derby and
Leger spoken of the club add 150 sovs. each, and
snrely neither stake can bo said to have received
anything like the support they were entitled to.
Tho entries will bo found elsewhere.
Fred Archer was retained to ride Bond Or in
the English Derby, so that tho English “ crack ”
jockey has had another throw in.
I take tho following remarks from tho English
correspondent of the Leader, and as I haveoften
hoard complaints made by jockeys to the effect
that they have been unable to obtain from some
owners what is duo to them, I think it would be
advisable sooner or later for the various clubs in
Australia to take a hint from what I have ex-
tracted. I quite agree with the remarks under
notice—that there are arguments for and against
such a motion; but I think something, however
trifling, ought to bo done in the matter. Tho ex-
tract rnns thus : —“ At the same sitting tho mem-
bers took into short consideration a motion put
forward by Mr. W. G Craven, ‘ making jockeys’
fees payable with stakes.’ As it will again come
on for discussion, I need hardly allude to it, only
to remark that there are arguments for and
against such a motion becoming law. Un-
doubtedly jockeys have just cause of complaint,
inasmuch as if their accounts are paid at all, they
are, as a rule, compelled to wait till tho end of
the year for their rifling fees, as well as their
travelling expenses, when these are allowed. And
too frequently they are never paid, as ‘ owners ’
spring up, pass away, and are no more hoard of
ere the close of tho year, and their accounts stand
as bad debts in the jockey’s ledger. No man can
show more of these than tho so-called successful
and leading jockey, of whom and of whoso transac-
tions it may truthfully bo said ‘ All is not gold
that glitters.’ But on tho other hand there are
men upon whom the law would fall heavily. There
are trainers and jockeys who are also owners of
racehorses. It is well known that a rider rarely
thinks of charging a trainer or a brother jockey
for his mount unless it be a winning one, whilst
trainers have always salaried jockeys in their es-
tablishments, the very conditions of whoso en-
gagements prevent them claiming the usual foes
for riding.
I noticed in last week’s Australasian tho in-
formation that tho Australian Jockey Club Spring
Meeting will take place on the 4th, 7th, 9th and
11th of September. To my knowledge I have.
never yet seen the dates mentioned advertised in
any New South Wales paper, and I think it pecu-
liar, to say the least of it. that wo should have to
go from home—to the Australasian, for in-
stance —for any information concerning the A. J.C.
The Press of Sydney demands—and have a right
to —all the information that is to bo afforded by
N.S.W. race clubs ; and I for one strongly pro-
test against any particulars being forwarded to
Melbourne a week earlier than we are
favoured with them. I would like to hear
some explanation given as to how the infor-
mation I have mentioned was obtained. Things
will come to a pretty pass if our racehorse owners
have to watch the Melbourne papers for anything
closely connected with the A.J.C. I look upon
such a proceeding as a great slur upon the sport-
ing Proas of N.S.W.
Black Swan has been scratched for her Clarence
River engagements. The bad form displayed by
her at Muswellbrook is assigned as the cause, and
as she lias had a long turn of hard work, she no
doubt requires a spell.
I hear that the following rule has been passed
by Tattersall's Club, but it appears rather unin-
telligible, and I will try myself and fathom it in
our next; —“ That the committee bo empowered to
admit or reject a member as a visitor on payment
of bis admission fee, namely, one guinea, for the
meeting only, and that the said member should
not have the power to vote at any special or
general meeting, nor have any interest in tha
funds of the club, but bo shall be entitled to all
the privileges of the club. The committee shall
of themselves have power to make such by-laws
as they shall deem necessary for the management
of the club.”
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
An English yacht, tho Latona, won I,oooguineas
last season, besides cups, &c.
Many horses have died lately in Melbourne
owing to the presence of drake in their fodder.
Londoners hare an impression that Trickett. without
Punch or Kelly, will not have such an easy time of it
next November.
Scott, the Gympie runner, although beaten by
Blakeman. has laid his victor £39 (o £2O for another
match, to take place in a few days, over 200 yards.
Tho 43-hours walking tournament at Bathurst
was won by Dewar, who covered 151 miles 10 laps,
Evans being second with 130 miles, Keegan third with
130 miles.
Mr. E. E. Jones, the well known Sydney motal-
lician, has signitied his intention of giving a. 10-gntuea
trophy to be mu for at the coming Autumn Meeting of
the Bathurst Club.
Boyd, of London, was, when the mail left,
training for the Internationel Regatta in Providence,
Rhode Island, Elliott was going to Rochester to train.
He boat Boyd's time in February last.
John William Oakden, 19years of age, tho cham-
pion 800-yards shot of England, clmllemres any man iu
tho world to shoot 40 shots, distance 50° yards, at a
target four feet in diameter, with an eight-inch bull's-
eye, or he will give eight points outof 80 shots for L‘259
a-sido and a 100-guinea, challenge cup. Ho will give or
take £5O expenses to any part of the world.
T. Elmes, formerly one of tho most popular of
Cobb and Co.’s whips, but now a boniface doing a snug
little business, has accepted a challenge to ran Charley
McLeod, the well-known pastrycook. Both are Bris-
bane men, and between them weigh 33 stone The dis-
tance is 100 yards. . It wasn.t first pro)K)sed to make it
a go as-you-plea.se match, but Tommy objected on the
ground that Charley might roll tho disiauce, and thus-
save his wind.
Mr. W. Strickland, champion blindfold draught-
player, at Glasgow lately played ten games simul-
taneously against as many opponents, and that, too,
without seeing either boards or men. After playing
alsjut a couple of hours, he called out Ihe position of
the pieces without a mistake, and on the game being
finished, he repeated all the moves made in ten games
(a total of nearly 459 moves); and thou, the crowning
feat of all. gave every move backwards. The score
was four wins to Strickland, three wins to his opp>-
nents. and three games drawn.
Frank Smith’s stableman was “ taken down” a
peg a few days ago by Charlie Bannermau. Tho dis-
tance was 100 yards, and the stakes £lO aside. Banner-
man was the favourite at; starting, and won by a few
inches only a F ter an exeitiug struggle. Albert was very
certain that he could vanquish his op(>onent, and so
ware his friends; but this would-be chdnipion has at
last known what it is to be a loser. Some grumbling
was indulged in, but we would remind Albert that a
good loser is not an uncommon thing, and the generality
of the spectators at the match wore of opinion that
Albert is not as good a runner as ho flunks. It is not
now likely that he will challenge Bob Watson.
N.S.W. Coursing Club.
A committee meeting of this Club was held at p he
Royal Hotel on Monday afternoon last, Mr. W. R. Hill
being iu the chair, to arrange matters in connection
with the coming Woodstock Meeting for the 3rd of
July, and a meeting in August. Mr. M Cnlloeh was
appointed judge for the Woodstock Meeting, an I Bur-
gess slipper. 'lhe following programme was then
drawn out for the August meeting:—Metropolitan Cup
for 18 all ages at ten guineas each, winner £BO, runner
up £4O, and two dogs £l5 each. New Plnmpton Stakes
for 16 all ages at 5 guineas each, winner £4O, runner up
£29, two dogs £7 19s. each. Woodstock Leper for an
unlimited number of dog puppies at £3 3s each. The
meeting will take place on the Bth and 10th August,
nominations on the 12th J uly, and the draw on ihe Bth
of August.
Football.
TOXTETH v. COOX'S BIVER.
A match took place Detween the first fifteens of these
clubs last Saturday, the 12th instant, nud resulted i*
an easy victory for the former, who befit their opponents
hy 1 goal and 10 touchdowns to nil. For the Toxteth.
A. M'Namara, M’Dennott, John M'Namara, and
Elphinstoue (captain), played well, more especially
Elpliiu stone, who, hy making some go si runs during
the afternoon, obtained several touch-downs. Ouille
(captain) (, Hughes and York did good service for Cook's
Eiver.
2nd Wakatah v. Eedfkkn Ist.
These clubs met on Moore Park on Saturday, and the
Waratahs being well represented scored IJ goals and tv
similar number of tries to nil. The teams were made
up thus :• —Waratahs —Alien, Eutler, Blackstone,
Cooper, l>mce, Declouet. Eaton, Fuller, Healey,
James, M‘Donald, Small. Trelaw, Bennett, and Colic.
Redferu —Flauuagau, Coglau, North. Enssell, Brown,
Eobertsoa (2), Saunders. Peacock, Cameron, M’Auley,
Primrose, Munday, and Hudson.
A i!soma r. 2nd Newtown.
The Aforma defeated the Newtown team on their
own ground, on Saturday afternoon, by 1 goal and a
try. Beil, C tmpbell, nud Piddington did good service
for the winners, and Allen. Kennedy, and Sedgwick
deserve special mention for the losers.
Kino School v. Bxmwoon.
The former team won by six goals and eight tries.
Parramatta v. Newtown.
This game resulted in a win for the representatives
of Parramatta by two goals and two tries. The contest
was at Parramatta.
Wallaroo v. Newcastle.
The “marsupials” visited Newcastle on Saturday and
played a match against a team of the players of the
” coaly city.” Contrary to exueotatious the visitors
were defeated tty one goal and two tries to nothing.
The visitors who were “takendown” were entertained
at dinner in the oveviag by their conquerors, at the
Great Northern Hotel.
The Parramatta team defeated the Newtown repre-
sentatives, at Parramatta, on Saturday last, by two goals
and two tries.
The King's School first fifteen played the Burwood
first fifteen, at Parramatta also, and the former team,
a very superior oue, were declared the victors by
six goals and eight touches dowa.


Handicap Hurdle Eaco.
St.
I>.
Nimrod
... 11
0
Transit
... 10
9
Ooshiwk
... 10
4
Twiliffhfc
... 10
0
Fire Kin?' ...
9
12
Foung Alfred
... 1)
10
Handicap Flat Race.
Transit
St. 11).
... 9 7
Messllanco ...
::•/ S
9
Xo'in™ Alfred
5
Svmhot
... 7
7
Black River...
... 7
5
Gossip
... 7
3
Fitzpatrick...
... 7
0
Handicap Steeplechase.
St,
b.
Qroyat-ftnos ..
... 12
7
Q'limliy
IVillsrht ...
... 31
0
... 10 10
Fira Kinsf ...
... 10
7
Fictitious ...
... 10
fl
Telearaph ...
... 10
0
Dtindas
... 10
0
ijins-it Western
... 10
0
7th Jane.
E. T. 13
st.
lb.
Royal Saxon
9
9
Gazelle
9
7
Sparkle
9
4
Monaco
9
4
Spectrum
9
4
I >an<J v
9
0
Fish Oh
9
0
Fair Maiden
iruartl, Handioappor
9
0
st. lb.
Erie
... 7 0
Silveresa
... 7 0
Eclipse
... 0 7
Pilgrim
... a 7
Anie Lanria...
... 6 5
Winifred
... 5 13
Too Late
at. lb.
... 9 8
W ait-a-While
... 9 5
Little John...
... 9 0
Lady Ripoa
... 8 10
Compa*s
... 8 9
Fish Oh
... 8 7
great Northern Champion Pigeon Match.
The conditions of a sweepstakes nndor the above
beading have been put forth by several well-known
fe-rldonts of Ounnedah, to l>e shot for on the 2nd aud
grd of July, and they run as follows .- —
A Handicap Sweepstakes of 3 sovs each, for all
shooters. 9 birds each; maximum distance, 30 yards;
minimum, 23 yards; winuer to recive 50 per cent.,
gecond 20 percent., and third 10 per cent, of money
subscribed. Hurlingham Rules.
Nominations, enclosing 1 sov. to be in hands of tho
Secretary not later than Wednesday, 23rd June.
Handicap declared in all papers on Saturday, 26 h
June. Acceptances, with 2 sdvs, to bo paid on or
before 9 p.m., Thursday, Ist July.
The conditions are pretty liberal, and ought to entice
good entry.
Bowling.
Mr. T. C. Hinchc.liffe won the Champion Gold Medal
played for by the Annaudale Bowling Club. It will be
presented to him in a few days.
Foot Race for £5O.
p. Blakeman defeated J. Scott on Sat unlay last, on
the Association Ground, over a distance of 175 yards,
for the above-mentioned sum. Scott was not satisfied
with his defeat, and immediately afterwards a second
match was made.
Raymond Terraco Races.
Town Plate.—Whitefoot, Avalanche, Elos, Eosalind,
Nemo. Sunlight.
Publicans’ Purse.--Whitefoot, Nemo. Fancy Boy,
Councillor. Avalanche. Stranger, Rosalind, Elos.
Flvin * Handicap.—Goldsborough. Jauitress, Forest
Maid, Elos, Fly, Whalebone, Avalanche.
Menangle Annual Races.
Trial Stakes of £7 10s., one auda quarter.
Mi'. S- Marshall’s b b Verdict. G vrs, 9st 21b ... ... 1
S. Harding’s br c Annidale, 2 yrs. sst 91b ... 2
J. Martin’s b tn Lucinda. 6 yrs, 9st lib 3
This was a splendid race. Time. 2 min. 30 sees.
Second Race. —A hoc) race of £6, for all hacks to be
approved of, once round the course.
Mr. E. Hughes’ Birdeatcher, Sst 101 b 1
11. Walker’s b m Gipsy Cooper, 7st 71b 2
g m Miss Modesty, 9st 3
Third Race Mentuigle Handicay, of 10 sovs, with a
sweep of 10s. each for stirters. miles.
Mr. S. Marshall’s b h Verdict. Bst 121 b 1
8. Harding’s Annidale 6st 91b 2
J. Martin's b m Lucinda, 7st 131 b 3
Fourth Race. —A Hack Race of 2 sovs, for all hacks to
be approved of. once round, catch weights.
Mr. H. Walker’s Miss Modesty 1
E- Hughes’ Albrian 2
Payten’s Polly 3
Fifth Race —Welter Handicay, of £5, amateur riders.
One mile.
Mi - . T. Vardy’s Union Jack, lOst 71b ... 1
J. Martin’s b in Lucinda, list 2
E. Hughes’ Birdeatcher, 9st 71b 3
Sixth Rice.—A Hack Race, of 2 sovs, once round,
catch weights.
Mr. Giifoil’s Tyqne 1
P. Ward’s Sagarloaf 2
J. Windsor's Black Swan 3
Five started. A good race.
Warrnambool Winter Meeting, 1880.
Hunter River Amateur Races.
SATURDAY.
The Hunter River Amateur Races took place to-day.
The weather was beautifully fine, and attendance large-
Short Handicap—7 furlongs.
I). F. M’Kay’s Scrbber, 6st 10 lbs ... ... 1
George Elos, Ist 2
F. Dorrington’s Lucretia 3
Time, 1 min. 31.) secs.
Galloway Stakes.
Johnny Smoker 1
Jasptros 2
Flower Girt S
Time, 1 miu 37 secs.
Lilies' Mils.
H. L. M'Dongall’H Satellite, 13 st 1
George Sefton’s Allies, 10 st 3
John Birry. juu.’s. Councillor, 11 st 3 lbs ... 3
Time, 1 min. 5 secs.
Trot Handicap—3 miles.
A. Sporke’s Charlie. 210 yards 1
H. ,1. Gordon’s Old Bloss. 410 yards 2
J. Clift, jud.’s, Darkie, scratch 3
Six started. Time, 10 min. 37) secs.
Turf Club Handicap—l mile and a quarter.
John M lore’s Speculation, 6st 10 lbs ... 1
H. MKiv’s Scrubber. 6st 2
George Sh oesmith’s Elos, 7st 3
Time, 2 miu. 15 sees.
Soiling Race—l mile.
John Bull 1
Jasporess 2
Detective S
Wou by two lengths.
Hack Race.
Johu Bull 1
Grov Paddy and Charlie were afterwards matched
•or £lO aside, over a distance of three miles, and the
former wou easily.
Toowoomba Race Meeting.
FIRST DAY—TUESDAY.
Maiden Stakes.—Othello, 1; Decoy, 2; Sunset, 3.
lime, 2 min. 14J sees.
Cliff, r d Plate.—Major, 1; Olivia, 3; Balthazar, 3.
lime, 2 min. 13 secs.
two and Three-year-old Stakes.—Waterloo, 1;
kehpse, 2; Brisbane, 8.
Cricket.
National Cricket Club.
At the annual meeting of the members of the above
'tin a very satisfactory report was road, and Messrs. J.
J~* rr °n. H. Martin, and G. Richardson were delegated
B U at a .' d iwraugomeiits for the Club's annual dinner.
' Martin received a trophy for the best hatting
erage, and H. Evers for the highest bowling average.
AuaTRALJAS Eleven v. Eighteen op Melton.
• ■ l his match terminated in a victory for the Austra-
UAaa »y 1 wickets and 1 run to spare.
Aittualian Eleven v. Yorkshire.
ia<t v "■ UB f r ' l h.ias followed up their victories by defeat-
bo* I * W’kshire with 5 wickets to spare. Spoifort h
Was tK T® 11 ’ Boyle’s holding was good, and M‘Donnell
the i 8 “i~hest scorer, 47 runs being credited to him in
<jj Australian first innings, 65; second,
Ina 153- Yorkshire first innings, 55; second,
"Mi total, 155.
The Ascot Gold Cup.
The Ascot Gold Cup, value 1000 sovs given from the
fund, with 200 sovs for the second, and 100 sovs for the
third, added to a sweepstakes of 20 sovs each hft •
three-year-olds, 7sts lb ; four, Bst 10lb ; five. 9at 91b;
six and aged. 9st 5 lb; mares and geldings allowed 3 lb.'
About 24 miles. 32 subs.
Mr. P. Grafton’s b c Tsonomy, by Sterling—lsola
Bella, 5 ys, 9st 31 b 1
Lord Bradford's br o Chippendale, by Rococo^
Adversity, 4 yrs. 8 st 40 lb 3
Count F. de Lagrange’s cho Znt, by Flageolet-
Regalia, 4 yrs, Sst 101 b a
The Alexandra Plate.
_ „ .. liondon. June 12.
The race for the Alexandra Plate of 1,000 sovs, was
run yesterday at Ascot.
The Alexandra Plate, of 1000 sovs. added to a sweep
of 25 sovs each, 15 ft., fonr-vear-olds to carrv 9st; five.
9st 61b ; six and aged. 9st 71b; mares and and geldings
allowed 41 b. About 3 miles
Prince Sothsrkoff’s >, r c Thurio. bv Tibthorpe or
Cremome—Yeron 5 vrs. 9st 6lh 1
Mr. J. H. TTonldsworth’s ob c Bnperra, by Adven-
turer—Lady Morgan, 4 yrs, 9st 2
F. Oretton s b c Westbonrne, by Oxford or
Duke—Whisper, 4 yrs, 9st 3
English Shooting.
Sparrow Shooting AT BIRMINGHAM.
Tlie following match was sh >t at Brownbrook
Gronnns on April 4. The conditions were : — lf 07. of
shot 19 cards ri-,e, and to vards boundary. Mr Collins
a l ?? °l\'>ono-it 10 dead birds. The match was
at I>l hird* followtnar woro mndn :
Collins—onu. oiiio. lOTio, non, iono moi
-,? 11 ? 1 - 11011 10101 1,111 01111,’ 00011!
00101. 11110, 11001. 10110. 01011. 10111—68.
Miter —lOlll 00011, oono, oom, 10m loiio
I’ ioU^ 1 ,!?, 1 , 111 000,11 lom > lim . 10111.’00001!
10011, 10111, 10111, 11100—63.
Billiards.
The French Championship.
Messrs. Slosson (the American champion) and
7 l i? 1 a nx 4’ r<,n ' s h champion) have played the much
talked-of match for the above championship and £2OO
aside. Thn game was 4,000 up, and Vignaux won by
882. Tho largest breaks wore —Slosson 1,103, and
Vignaux 800.
Esousn Billiadds.
In an exhibition game of 1.000 up Mitchell has. with
200 start, for a second time defeated Cook, winning on
tho last occasion by 25 points, having run out with a
break of 338 (102 spots). Cook, who was in good form,
made breaks of 13t, 347, 115, 73 and 83. At one
period of the game Cook was upwards of 400 in ad-
vance.
Victorian Racing Club.
Thk Maeibtenono Plate.—-A sweepstake of
SO soya, each, h. ft., or 5 sovs. if declared and
paid before 4 p.m. on the first Monday in October,
ISSO. with 500 added. For two yrs. old—colts,
Sst. 10 lb ; fillies, Bst 5 lb. The second horse to
receive 200 sovs., and the third 100 sovs. out of
the stake. Five furlongs. The half forfeit to he
declared and paid to the V.P.C. secretary before
10 a.in. on the day before the race, or the nomi-
nator wn’ll be liable for the whole stake (126
subs.).
J. Fitzroy’s b or hr c Ringdove, by King of the Ring—
The Dove
b or bp f S uvenir, by Fireworks or Angler—
Mi z pah.
T. Watson’s Hr c , by Lotbair—Flora
J. Mitchell’s b g Victory, by Glorious—Needle,
h f Hoop, by Glorious—Croquet
H. J. Bowler’s br c .by John Bull—Snowflako
ch c , by John Bull—Formosa
8. G. Cook’s b f Semiramide. by King of the Rxn<*
Zenobia “
P. Dowling’s ns b c Santa Claus, by Glorious—Cather-
ine Scyton
P. Glenister’a ch f Pilgrimage, by Kelpie Young
Emilv
A. Chirnside sblor br f ,by Bethnal Green—Sauce-
pan
H. Phillips’s I) c Pell Mell, bv Panic—Miss Melbourne
J. O. Inglis’s hr f Rhea, by King of the Ring—Norma
G. Pyers's h c Plying Jib, by I’be Ace—Foam
b o Aoo of Hearts, by The Ace—Fair Nell
D. S. Wallace’s ch c —— by Proto-Martyr—Gaslight
F. Tozer’a b f Little Lady, by Panic—darn bv Mariner
F. F. Dakin’s br o Darbin, by the Fear- -Lurline
J. Wilson’s b o Merman, by King of the Ring—Mer-
maid
W. Branch’s b f Royal Maid, by King of the Ria"—
Maid of ail Work
b o Baltic, by King of the Ring—Seaapray
J. Morrison,s bl f—by Bethnal Green-Ispahan
J. Wagner’s b o ,by Bethnal Green-Colleen Bawu
J. J. Miller’s b c Bayswater, by Proto-Martyr—Maid
of the Like
R. Howie’s hr c KoMuoor, by Piscator—Topaz
b c The Duke, by King Cole— Frnn Frou
b o Asteroid, bv Goldshorongh —Sweetlids
b c Erichthoneus, by Maribrynoug Para-
chute
F. M'Ginnis’a br c Nelson, by Kelpie— Britannia
br c Heron, by Angler—Starlight
T. Jones’s hr o—, bv Angler—Badinage
R. Hunter’s br c —-, by Tim Whiffler (imp) Secret
b o-—-, by Fireworks—Paper
br f——. by Napoleon—Miss Angler
borbr f ,by Tim Whiffler (imp.)— Parisi-
onne
ch f .by Napoleon—Miss Childers
H. Haines’s bf Queen Mary, by King of the Kin"—
G’adstono w
T. Chirnside’s b f Relief, bv Hawthomden—Hope
« h fWerrihee.br Kelpie-New Warrior Mare
br f Mowerina, by Bethnal Green—Phiz»i»
br c Atlantic, by Goldshrongh-Fairy Queen
Whi* ri ' Ulnt ’ by Kia * of tho Riujr —The
ch f Billilha, by Fireworks—Thyra
ch f Enropa by The Drummer—Victorina
br f Vindex, by Yatteudou— Stockdove
M. Jacob’s b f—, bv King of the Ring—Milkaon
W. Pearson’s b f Spite, by Peer—Calumny P
H. Horloy ns ch c Primus, by Proto-Martyr—Discre-
tion
J. Leek’s b or hr f Her Majesty, by Kiug of tho Ring
Sybil
A. K. Finlay’s ch f ,hy Fireworks—The Gem *
J. Whittingham’s b f Declamation, by Tim Whiffler
(imp.)—Talkative
b c Nautilus, by Pises tor—Coquette
. t,, V. 8 , M i y Tj °A’ d ’ bv ,T l i o Peer—Minnie Warren
A. Elmslie she Cavendish, by The Steward—Young
Quebec ”
J Lloyd’s br c Cunnamuila, by Maribyrnong—Jessa-
mine
L. L. Smith’s h c ,by Irish King—Mobile
br or bl o— —, by Bethnal Green— Tattoo
cb o .by King Colo—Miss Alfred
J. Q. Reid’s^ id c Crosar, by Proto-Martyr—Qoeea of
S. Gardiner’s hr c ,by Tubal Cain—Pauline
D. Wallace’s oh c iNuoious, by Proto-Martyr Gas-
light
A. Saqui’s hr or hi o— —, by Panic—Gipsy
C. T. Rohort’s hr c ,hy Julian A i enal—Tiara
W. Rite’s h o ,hy Yatteudou —Holie
T. Ivory’s ch c Blue Jacket, uy Birharian— Marchioness
ml/
E. M’Carthy’s hi or br a ,by Malta— L’Africaino
F. Wentworth's hr c Ourdouyx, hy Fireworks Onyx
or e Mistletoe, hy Rapid Bay—Parasite
T. Rutledge’s h f Moueta, hy Yatteudou Montana
(imp.)
W. A. Long’s h c Rupert, by King of the Ring—Musidora
ch c Colleutor, hy Juiiau Aveuel—Queen Bee
b I Gladys, hy King of the Ring—Mischief
b f Aiueolu, oy Angler—Chrysolite
g or hi t Johanna, hy Maribyrnong —Joca&ta
J. White’s b c Gloucester, hy Fireworks—Sylvia
h c Moumoutli, hy Yattendon—Lady Cbesier
br I Etua (laic Rosetta), by Maribyrnong—
Alpaca
J. Mayo’s b c The Qom, by Ko 1 pie—lda
A. M'Donakt's b f Lotitia, by Glorious—Miss Wasp
8. W. Knight’s be ,by New Holland—The Rose
E. de Most re's hr f—-, by Angler—Cocoannt
b or hr f —, by Fireworks—Ragpicker
bf—, by Angler—La Mousse
br f , by Fireworks—Art Union
br o , by Marquis—Beatrice
br o , by Yattondon—Luna
b c ,by Maribyrnong- Lady
ehoYosemite, by Hawtbornden—Prudcntia
b c ,by Marquis—Sour Grapes
H. C. Whitens bl c Faust, by Kingstorough—Ariel
b c Valentine, by Hawthomden—Mabel (imp.)
ch f Marguerite, by Kiugsiorough—Aveline
J. Eales’s ch o Crown Prince )by Kelpie—Queen’s Head
W. Archer's bl cCarnival, by Goldshorongh—Seabreeze
M. Feunoily schc Woolsorter, by Goldshorongh—Loup
Oarou’s si-ter
T. Chimside’s f Spiauingdalo, by Maribyrnong—-
Sappho
b f Stella, hy Marihvrnong—Signora (imp.)
br f Primrose, by Goldshorongh— Corisande
E. Lee’s br c Somerset, by Maribyrnong—Keepsake
b c Roxburgh, by Kings(erongh—Phosbe
b f Sbipka. by the Marquis—China Rose
J. E. Savill she Whirlwind (late All Serene), by Coun-
tryman-Serenity
W. R. Rounsevell’s bf Henrietta,byConn’ryman— Miss
Harriet
oh c King-o’-the-Hill, by Talk-o’-the-Hill—
Wongalere
C. L. McDonald's t> o The King’s Own, by Talk-o’-the
Hill —-Majesty
b c The Israelite, by Bine Gown—Tin finder
T. Walker's br or ro c The Moor, by Tregeagle— Miami
Sir T. Elder’s l> o Advance, by Gang Forward—Etta
- (bnp )
ch c Shy ock, l>y Gang Forward—Jessica
eh c Lord Byron, by Gang Forward—Adela
(late Ada)
b e Prince Albert, by Gang Forward—Conceit
(imp.)
ch f Cyclone,by Gang Forward—Typhoon (imp.)
b f Excelsior, by Gang Forward—Azema (imp.)
b f balbec. by Gang Forward—Palmyra
W. Pile’s br ro c Spectre, by Tregeagle—Apparition
ch f Annie Firmin, by Wmlerlako —Instep
b f Adventuress, by Winlerlake—Norma
J. Hart’s b f Lavinia. by Talk-o’-the-Hill—Nancy
C. tl. T. Hart’s b f Merry Maiden, by I'ritou—Frivolity
P. B. Coglia’s brf ,by lalk o’-the-Hill—ldeal
br or ro { ,by Tregeagle— Hoyden
R. T. Reid’s b f , by Fireworks—Sunrise
br f ,by Fireworks—Troy
T. Jordan's br f Spree, by Triton—Levity
R. Love’s h o Topaz, by Countryman—Cameo
R. Holland’s b or br g——, by Blue Oowu—lthaca.
SPRING MEETING, 1881.
The Victoria Derby, sweepstakes of 25 sovs. each,
sft., with 510 added. For three year-olds—colts, Bst
101 b; liHies, Sst 511>. The second horse to receive 100
sovs. and the third 50 sovs. out of the stake. One mile
and a half. Forfeit to lie declared and paid to the
V. Secretary liefore 10, a m. on the day before the
race, or the nominator will be liable for the whole
stake. (123 subs.)
J. Fitzroy’s h or br o Ringdove, by King of the Ring—
The Dove
b or hr f Souvenir, by Fireworks or Angler—
MLzpah
J. Mitchell’s o g Victory, by Oiorioua—Needle
R. Campbell's bl or br c ——. by Traducer—ldalia
b c , by Traducer—Hammock
H. J. Bowler’s br c , by John Bull—Snowflake
ch c ——, by John Bull—Formosa
R. Johnson’s blc Yorkmiuster, by Lipidist—Melesina
P. Dowling ns b c Santa Claus, by Glorious—Catherine
Seytou
P. Oleuister’s ch f Pilgrimage, by Kelpie—Young Emily
A. Chimsido’s bl or brf , by Bethnal Green-Sauce-
pan
H. Phillips’s he Pell Mell, by Panic—Miss Melbourne
bo Commotion, by Panic—Evening Star
C. M- Lloyd’s b c Chuckster, by Infidel—Little Nell
C. Da.is’s be Duustau, by The Gondolier—Qiace Dar-
ling
J- O. Inglis’s br f Rhea, by King of the Ring—Noma
O. Pyers’s b c Flying Jib, by Tho Ace—Foam
b c Ace of Hearts, by The Ace—Fair Nell
D. 8. Wallace’s ch c , by Proto-Martyr—Gaslight
F. F. Dakin’s hr c Darebiu, hy iho Peer—Lurline
James Wilson’s b c Mermaid, by Kiug of tho Ring—
Mermaid
W. Branch’s b f Royal Maid, by King of the Ring—Maid
of All Work
b o Baltic, by King of the Ring—Seaspray
J. Wagner’s h c , by Bethnal Green—Colleen Bawn
J. J. Mi.ler’s b o Bayswater, by Proto-Martyr—Maid of
the Lake
R. Howie’s br c Kolunoor, by Piscator—Topaz
b o The Duke, by King Cole—Frou Frou
b c Asteroid, by Goldshrougb—Sweetlips
b c Ericthoneus, by Maribyrnoug—Parachute
P. M’Qiuuis’s br c Nelson, by Kelpie—Britain
br pjHerou, by Angler—Starlight
T. Coker’s br or bl c The Cockney, by Tim Whiffler (imp)
—L itona
T. Jones's br c , by Archer —Badinage
R. Hunter’s br c , by Tim Whiffler- Secret
b c , by Fireworks —Paper
br f , by Napoleon—Miss Angler
borbr f —-, by Tim Whiffler—Parisienno
ch f , by Napoleon—Miss Childers
b £ , by Napoleou—Mary
T. Chiruside's ch f Werrihea, by Kelpie—New Warrior
mare
hr f Moworiua. by Bethnal Green—Phizgig
br c Atlantic, byjGoMsoorough— Fairy Queen
b f The Truant, oy Kiug of the Ring—The Waif
ch f Billilla, by Fire wor ks—thyra
W. Pearson’s h f Spite, by Peer -Calumny
bl c , by the Professor—Dolphin
bl or br o , by Lamplighter—Victoria Cross
H. Horley ns cho Primus, by Proto-Martyr—Discretion
J. Leek's b or or f Her Majesty, by King of tho Ring
Sybil
A. K. Finlay’s ch f , by Fireworks—The Gem
S. Mahon’s or c ——, hy L >thair—Flora
J. Whittiugham’s b f Declamation, by Tim Whiffler
(imp.)—Talkative
be Nautilus, by Piscator—Coquette
b c My Lotd, by The Peer—Minnie Warren
ch c Prince Imperial, by Napoleon—Princess
Royal
J. R Crookc’s ol c , by Napoleon—Pauline
H. Haines’s b f Queen Mary, by King of the Ring—
Mary Gladstana
A. Elmslie’s b c Cavendish, by The Steward—Young
Quebec
J. Lloyd’s br c Cunnamuila, by Maribyrnong—Jessa-
mine
C. B. Fisher’s ch c William Frederick, by Hamlet—
Housemaid
L. L. Smith’s ch c , by Irish King—Mobile
br or bl c , by Bethnal Green —Tattoo
ch c , by King Cole—Miss Alfred
J. C. Reid’s bl c Cassar, by Proto-Martyr—Queen of
Trumps
S Gardiner's br c , by Tubal Cain—Paulino
A. Selmau’s ch f Edith Aveuel, by Proto-Martyr—Lady
* Aveuel
D. Wallace’s ch c Nucleus, by Proto-Martyr—Gaslight
A. Saqui’s br or bl o , by Panic—Gipsy
W. Kite’s b c , by Yatteudou —He.e
be , by Gemma di Vergy—Bonnie Bello
VV. G. Hill’s b or br c —-, by Rapid Bay—Caress
P. Wentworth’s br c Sardonyx, by Fireworks—Onyx
br c Mistletoe, by Rapid Bay—Parasite
T. Rutledge’s b f Monota, by Yatteudou —Montana
(imp )
W. A. Long’s b c Rupert, by King of the Ring—Musi-
dora
ch c Collector, by Julian Aveuel—Queen Bee
b f Gladys, by Kiug of the Ring—Mischief
b f Aureola, by Angler—Chrysolite
gr or bl f Johauua, by Maribyrnong—Jocasta
J. White’s b c Gloucester, by Fireworks—Sylvia
b c Monmouth, by Yatteudou—L idy Chester
br f Etui (late Rosetta), by Maribyrnong—
A paca
E. do Mostro s nr f •, by Fireworks—Art Union
br c , by Marquis—Beatrice
br c , by Yatteudou —Luna
b c ———, by Maribyrnong—Lady
ch c Yosomito. by Hawthomden—Prudentla
b c , by Marquis -Sour Grapes
b c , by Fireworks—Sunshine
J. Bale’s ch c Crown Prince, by Kelqie—Queen’s Head
M. Penally's ch c Woolsorter, by Goldsbrough—Loup
Qarou’s sister
be Jester, by tho Jester (imp), Illumination
T. Chirnsid»'« sr f Spiuuiugdalo, by Maribyrnong—
Sappho
b f Siviia, by Maribyrnong—Signora (imp.)
hr f Primrose, by G jldsmoi'gh -cor.sanoo
E. Lee’s hr c Somerset, by Maribyrnong—Keepsake
b c Box burgh, by Kings borough—Phoebe
bf Bhipka, by the Marquis—China Bose
J. Mayo’s b o The Gem, by Kelpie—lda
Sir T. Elder's ch c Lord Byron, by Gang Forward)
Adela (late Ada)
I c Advance, by Gang Forward—Attn (imp.)
eh c Shylock, by Gang Forward —Jessica
b c Prince Albert, by Gang Forward —Conceit
(imp )
bf Cyclone, by Gang Forward (imp.)
b f Excelsior, by Gang Forward—Azema (linp.^
E. O. Blaekmore's b f , by Emulation—Vibration,
W. Pile’s br ro c Spectre, by Tregeagle—Apparition
ch f Annie Firuiiu, by Wiuterlake —instep
J. Hart’s b f Lavmia, by Talk o’ the Hill—Nancy
C. H. T. Harr’s b f Merry Maiden, by Tritoai-*-
Fri.olijy
Q. Bennett's b c , by Triton —Alberta
P. B Cogliu's bor ro f ——by Tregeagle—Hoyden
B. T. Eeid’s b t , by Fireworks —Sunrise
br f , by Fireworks—Troy
T. Jordan’s br f Spree, by Triton—Levity
b c Impudence, by Tregeagle—Modesty
J. E. Saville s b c Whirlwind late All Serene) by
Conn try in an —Serei ity
W. B. RounseveU's b f Henrietta, by Countryman—
Miss Harriott
br f by Talk o the Hill—ldeal
ch c King o’ tbo Hill, by Talk o’ the Hill—•
WonguLro
C. L. Macdonald's b o The King's Own, by Talk o’ the
Hill- -Majesty
b c The Israelite', by Blue G< wn—Tin-nder
T. Walker’s br or ro c Tbo Moor, to Troseogl-i —Miami
Queensland Turf Club.
Sikes’ Produce Stakes, 1833.
W. Allen’s Dowager—Canterbury
Fawn —Canterbury
Bet —Canterbury
J. Finnie’s Fair Helen —Newlxdd
Black Rose—Newfiold
Magnolia—New no Id
India —Newoold
Hon. J. P Bell « Ad. enturor—Epigram
Liquid—Epigram
Caprice—Epigram
Entente —Epigram
Wheatsheaf—Melbourne
Ada—Melbourne
Foxglove—Melbourne
Olive—Laurea e
A. and P. M Donald’s Adventure —Talk o" the Tal
Moonbeam —Talk o’ tho Vale
Recluse— Talk o’ the Vale
Idea—Talk o’ the Vale
Pa'-onrite— Talk o’ tho Vale
Bru ane—Talk o’ the Vale
Saturday—Talk o’ tho Vale
Hon. A. U. Brown's Petunia—Feuimm
Georgina—Penman
Lady Constance—Feuman
Jewess—Feu man
Light o* tho Harem—Feuman
N. W. Brown’s Wave—Feuman
Lady Hercules—Feu man
J. Williams' Belle ot the Bull —Epigram
First Flight—Melbourne
Atalanta--Melbourne
Louisiana—Meh ourno
Daphne—Mol bo urn e.
Dkrbv, 1881.
Hon. Berkelman’s Speculation, oh c by Speculation*—
Liweilla
R. Ross’s Fleetwood, br c by Speculation—Linnet
Tarangnubah, be by Speculation—Satauella
Q. A. Turner’s Wheel of Fortune, br f by Qolda-
boroagh—Brown Duchess
J. Finnie’s Lady I own, bf uy Mari..yriiong—Telopom
Silver Hair, br f by Fireworks—Auk
Rosehill, br o by Newbold—Fair Helen
Hon. J. P. Bell’s b o by Epigram—Wheatsheaf
b c by Epigram—Emeute
b f by Epigram—Legend
J.C. Smyth's Blue Bell, br f by New Holland—DeCrfaot
mare
J. W. Johnston’s b c by Yatteudou—Lady Hootoa
Petrel, by Old England—Storm bird
N. W. Brown's br o by Feuman—Wave
ch c by Feuman—Wiudermere
R. Ross’s b o Spectrum, by Speculation—Corinne.
THE RACE FOR THE V.R.C. CHAMPIONSHIP.
(To the Editor of THE BULLETIN.)
Sin. —In the second and third paragraphs of the
sporting news on pane 6 of your paper, dated June5th,
you accuse Sidney Edwards and myself of having a
“ preconcerted arrangement ” to fonlLaycock, and also
say that both of ns •* had been cautioned on at least
one previous occasion against, fouling.” You make out
that the Edwardses tried to get a race unfairly, bnt I
challenge anyone to say that any of the Edwards family
ever uid a dishonest action or that Sydney Edwards or
inysell were ever cautioned about fouling. The foul!
between E. Laycock and S. Edvards was:—At the
start of the race all the competitors wont olf at their
greatest pace to got to the corner at the .inaction first
and take the inside rowing. ibis corner is about a
mile from the start. Sydney Edwards was. when near
the bond, a length ahead ot Laycock, and as ho had
been drawing away from the latter from the start,
thought he could with safety take the course round
the corner, Laycock seems to have livened up, and
came on 8. Edwards before the latter had time to get
out of the way, and 1 oth went into the I auk. Laycock
did not lo-e more than two lengths by the collision.
The other foul was bet ween Laveock and myself, and
was brought about purposely by Layci ck (Laycock him-
self said so in Bourke-streot). Alont two hundred!
yards from the finish Laycock was leading me by about
a length and a half. Laycock wis in the middle of th$
stream and I was on the Saudridge Laycock’s—ride,
(Now my only fault was being on the Sand rid go side
in-dead of on the north side.) I put on a spurt anil camp
nearly lev*! with the leader, wiieu Laycock steered at
almo-1 right a mlos for his proper position in the river.
As The Leader writes“ This move comjdetely
chocked the Victorian, who was forced dose into thi>
bank, and in endeavouring to free liimselt knocked a
piece out o c the Jade of his scull.” The Leader says
it was my fault, as I was not on my right side. X send
you The Leader and The Acstkalasiajj. with the ac-
counts of the race. The former paper, in the rowing
notes by “Melbourne," writes ; —*• Many people are a
great deal too ready to attribute dishonest motives to
professional oarsmen when they happen to make mis-
takes. It is easy to stand quietly on a-steamer and
criticise senders when they arc doing their utmost to
pet ahead of each other and rteer sa'ely at the same
time. Let those who are so ready to make ungenerous
remarks without really positive grounds oh n m places,
and wo should see if nearly a H ot them wou'd not urnish
ns /as reasonable grounds for making statements of a
disparaging character. ’ I believe that the competitors
both on Saturday an I Monday each and a 1 , went to wia
if he could. Starting six nbreiist on the Saturday
simply meant inevitable foldings. The competitor*
knew it. and they took fheir chance and started to-
gether at th ir own request. I do not mind sayingthatt
Laycock is a much faster sculler than I am, but I must
also ray that the Melbomners are the fairest people
under the sun.
Hoping you will publish this, ns your articles have
done my brother and me a ertvt dr al of h irm,
I am, } ours respe tfullv.
EOBEET ED W A ED 3.
Melbourne, Bth June 1889.
(To the Editor of THE BULLETIN.)
Sir, I observed in the S. M. Hehai.d, dated 14th
inst., that the A. J.C. have issued a programme tor (ho
Moxiug Day Knees, and althoi gh it compraes six evenM
there has not been a thought bestowed on the owneie
of jumping horses, yet two of the six races are re-
stricted to two-year-olds. I sincerely hope to see an
al'eration in the bill of fare either by making seven
events or substituting a Hurdle Race or the Sell,
iug Plata or one of the two-year-old races. 1 think
that the seven events would take well, as the day is a.
h >liday. The earlier the races begin the more iikeli-
hood there is of a large attendance. If a Hurdle Race
lie subsii'utod it will give jumping horses a chance of
paving tin ir way, and to the outside public it would
o ntaiul v 5 >e tha most attractive racejof the day. lit
c< n sio -I nay add that the VR 0. hav issued a
p o ramme 'fseveu events for New Year's Day
Tr e i g that the powers that bo may deem ihe above
worthy of consideration.
NIMROD.


w.
225
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
Bourke-street, Wooltoomooloo.
D,
Kearey brothers, coach and buggy
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J.
It’.
CEII’PS, PASTRYCOOK
CONFECTIONER,
AND
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pie-nies, &e., catered for in the
best style.
Robert butcher & c 0.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
533 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
Cl MASON, LAND AGENT, 227 Bonrke-
street, Woollooinooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
Of LAND for Sale at Waverley, also Allotments in
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
£1 HA S. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGQA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Info Assurance Society
MR. A. GODPR F E Y.
SOLICIT© R,
(Also of the Supreme Court, Queensland.)
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Orrics-53 Elizabeth-street.
CHOETEE & FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOUS,
60 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
And
Maoquabik Street, Dttbbo.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Q AN D S. VRKD D B V.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
Id Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors. Sashes, Shingles. Palings, Laths. Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Xj'l OWL E R 1 S POT T E R Y
AND
PRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
HOMASPL A Y F A I E,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
T
103 GEORGE STREET.
D MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
• WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Grocers, Ac.,
Corner of York and Wynyord Streets, Sydney.
Onr Prices Current for Groceries. &c., giving lowest
market quotations, is issued the first of every month,
and circulated gratis throughout, the colony. Store-
keepers who have not received our Circular will do so
■by forwarding ns their address.
Cl ALLERDING AND SON,
* 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Practical
Chronometer Watchmakers, Jewellers,
and Opticans,
Importers of every description of English, Swiss, and
Waltham machine-made Watches—
In Gold and Silver.
The ” Liver” Telescope, the cheapest and most port-
able Telescope for the bnsh —Price, £1 Is,
IT! net rated Catalogues post free on application.
Solo agents for Y. Kullherg's Ships Chronometers,
which were awarded first prize at the International
Exhibition.
DOL P H E GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from ffahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which ore mode to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Go. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m • c a l l,
11 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Bv Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OP EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
XOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870,1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
T N. MEIKLEJOEN AND CO.,
* Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards qualify.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
S,
HS A M W E L
• CARRIAGE MAKER.
Little Flinders Street, Mm-nornsE,
Calls special attention to his Patent Two-wheeled
Brougbain, lately exhibited at the Show-rooms of
Messrs. Haining and Schimel, Coachbuilders, Castle-
reagh-street, imported by the agents to the order of
J. Harris, Esq,, M.X J ., of Sydney.
Orders for similar vehicles received hy the agents,
DRYSDALE and ROBERTS,
307 G sorgo-street.
w ILL lAM BEDE CHRISTIE,
Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under tho Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
11 Bridge-street, Sydney.
T CANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
1 I moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Ccvstlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established IHSJ.
CE NTR A L PHAEM A C Y,
78 (Late 81) KING-STREET.
DIS PENSING ES TA BLI 3HMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist,
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY', Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Fotmders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above linn are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines. Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Costings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
W PRITCHARD’S HOUSE, BUSINESS,
• HOTEL, & GENERAL AGENCY.
FOE THE LETTING AND SALE
Of every description of
BUSINESS PROPERTY
By Auction or Private Contract.
ESTATE AND LAND SALE ROOMS—
-289 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hcktee-st.)
N.8.-—A Register kept (free of charge) of ail Proper-
ties To Let or Businesses for Sale.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Anc-
tioneors. Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows: —
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station —every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
Ac., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
Ac., at their Saleyanis, GJ9 Gecrge-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. 1
WOOL. Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour —every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—O 99 QEOEGE-BTREET. SY'DNEY.
He nfr e y an d c cl,
(Established upwards 35 Y'ears,)
Manufacturers of Double Aerated Soda Water,
Lemonade and Tonic W a tors, Liqueurs and Cordials,
By Appointment to His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh, and His Excellency
Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.
Supplies to the interior of the International
Exhibition and all the principal Hotels, CafOs,
Club Houses, and throughout Sydney. Goods for-
warded to all parts of tho Country, either direct
or through any Merchant.
English Porter or Bottled Stout in bottle or bulk.
METROPOLITAN BREWERY,
129 Castleeeagh-stkeet, Sydney.
R. LAE K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parmmattn-stroef),
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Baxley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spiuit Mbechant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SY'DNEY'.
N.B,—Orders >w poet punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarkot.
QOUNTEY - KILLED MEAT
Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
Tho finest display of
COUNTRY-KILLED BEEP
IN SYDNEY',
AT MOST REASONABLE TRICES.
Come and eee.
And Jcdsb foe Yourselves.
Corner of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO
PRICES.
PORTRAITS:—
Cajbtk db Visite 10/- per dozen
~ „ 7/6 p>er half-dozen
Cabinets 25/- per dozen
„ 17/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA
0 Bon Tons S'O
13 Double Gems 2/6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance-VEST! BULE. VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET.
jgiASHIOXABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOK GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victokia Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! !
.1. L. HOED K R N.
rjl H E OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
HARNESS,
Ac. Ac.
3 4 CLARENCE BTRE E T,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMPORTER.
PO K AND AGAINST
“FREETHOUGHT”:
A Monthly Illustrated Journal
Devoted to Arguments on
FREETHOUGHT, SPIRITUALISM, MESMERISM,
CLAIRVOYANCE,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Published on the loth of each mouth, '<beginning with
the loth February, 1880.
PRICE—On, Per Copy.
Published by E. CYRIL HAVILAND,
BOX 152, G.P.0., Sydney.
The same “FREETHOUGHT” has been chosen as
being a word under which a wide margin may be
allowed for discussion.
Papers have been promised by eminent men AGAIN ST
Spiritualism, &c.; and well-known writers will argue
IN FAVOUR of it, so that the subject will be well
ventilated.
Well-authenticated Phenomena will find a place in
its pages. The latest and best instructions as regards
holding of seances, mesmerism, &c., will be given.
Notices of public mediums and speakers, arrived and
o arrive in the colony, with reports of their doings,
will be published, and everything will be done to make
“ Freethocght” a vehicle for thought in its freest
sense.
15 THE 15
GREAT PUZZLE
15
BUY" AT THE HEAD-QUARTERS,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.’S
DEPOT,
408 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND
MARKET-STREET,
15 SYDNEY. 15
Metropolitan stakes consultation,
1880-
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ... ... 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usua
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
latteraoli’s Club, Sydney
Melbourne intekna t i o n a t
EXHIBITION, 18S0.
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
EXHIBITION OF WINES.
The increasing importance of tlie Australian Wine
Industry bos induced the Commissioners for the Me),
bourne International Exhibition to make special pro-
vision for the reception and storage of Wines in the
new Permanent Buildings in the Carlton Gardens. Xi,
effort will bo spared to make the Exhibition of Wines
national in every respect; and us the various Wines
will be submitted to Jurors who are acknowledged
experts, it is particularly desirable that Australian
Viguorous should avail themselves of the opportunity
offered for testing their Wines by the standard of the
best Continental Vintages, many of which are to be
represented.
Special facilities will be offered for the Sale of A ns-
tralian Wines in various parts of the Exhibition in order
that the Exhibitors may place their exhibits before
the Public as well as before the International Juries of
Experts.
Copies of tho 'Regulations for the Exhibition of Wines
and Forms of Entry, can bo obtained gratia at the office
of tho New South Wales Commission for tho Melbourne
Exhibition, 123 Macquarie-streot.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM,
Secretary to tho Commission.
ELBOUEN E IN T ERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION, 1880,
NEW SOUTH WALES COMMISSION.
Tho Commissioners appointed under the Great Sea
of (ho Colony of Now South Wales, for the purpose of
taking snch measures os may be necessary to secure the
representation of the Arts, Manufactures, Products,
and Inventions of New South Wales, at tho Interna-
tional Exhibition, to bo opened iu Melbourne, on tho
Ist of OCTOBER, 1880, invite tho co-operation of the
Producers and Manufacturers of New South Wales in
the work of securing the fitting representation of the
Colony of Now South Wales.
All charges incurred in tho conveyance to and from
tho Melbourne Exhibition, and iu the fitting display
thereat of such articles as shall appear to the Commis-
sioners to bo worthy of oxhibitioc, will be borne by
the Commission.
The Commissioners will bo prepared to receive, at
their Stores, in Sydney, articles intended for Exhibition,
from the 15th of MAY to tho 15th of JULY.
In order to give the .Commissioners the opportunity
of making adequate arrangements, forms of application,
which may be obtained gratis at the Commissioners’
Office, 123, Macquario-strect, should bo sent in without
delay.
CHARLES E. HOTHAM,
Secretary to the Commission.
Office of tho Commission,
123 Macquarie-streot, Sydney.
JJOMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can iu a few
years realists
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(tho most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4 CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during tho past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after tho working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
jyj R S. 8 P E N G E B
of tho
VICTORIA LUNCHEON & SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre),
Knowing tho aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining iu town after the theatres are
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in tho evening or day can
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever lie or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take homo with then*.
THE FIRST TO THINK OP IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW!
N.B. This is not restricted to suppers, hut cooked
meats, etc. can bo served and obtained at ax y time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as usual.
Cleanliness, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling tho possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for Five Shillings, may
be had at the cash counter.
Note tho Address —
201 PITT STREET.
PECTORAL CHEERY BALSAM-
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organa. This is the best known PKEVENTIVi*
FOE THAT fatal DISEASE. CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRO>-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, tho Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling iu the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
460 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney-
Jjl O R
ALL DESCRIPTIONS 0 ?
MEDICINES
GO TO
SELF E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION)’
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drags, viz., Podophyllin, Caloiue
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digeßticin
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, P re T®“
ing or removing headache, giddiness, Ac., arising!™
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. D'w
require no change of diet, ami tho most delicate
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. 8. ABE A HAM,
At the Laboratory.4sl George-s tract, Sydney.
Bo careful not to get imitations.


AGE
CHANGES
14-15
— :!2 |
16-17
— 101
18-19
— 219
20-21
— 1:1:1
22-2:1
— 105
24-2.5
— 102
20-27
— 07
AGE
tllAJTCES
28-29
— -15
30-31
— 18
32-83
15
31-35
— 8
36-37
2
38-39
— I
1 000
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mrs. Macpherson is giving’ cookery lessons at
Rockhampton.
Prince Leopold will ho made a duke and peer,
with the title of Duke of Albany.
The Earl of Scarborough was fatally injured on
April 19th. He was thrown from his drag.
Tho Mayor of Brisbane gives a ball on 25tli June.
Five hundred invitations have been issued.
Professor Proctor writes to a friend in Sydney
saying that he will visit this city very shortly.
Mr. Thomas Hungerford, late member for Nor-
thumberland, has been bauquetted atLambtou.
The Rev. Dr. Steel has been advised to consult
several leading aurists during his stay iu tho mother-
country.
John Bennett ruralizes in a splendid
house and grounds at Burwood.
Baron Maclay attended tho execution
of a Chinaman at Brisbane the other day.
After the celestial had been done to death,
the Baron with great gusto carved a square
patch of skin from over the muscles of tho
breast of the dead man. He said he intended
to seud it to Professor Rouleaux, of Berlin,
“ who wanted to know if the cellular tissues
are the same as those of the European.”
Nice people, those Prussians!
Jerry Moore, the bookseller, now in
Ireland, is, we are sorry to say. out of his
mind. He is a shoemaker by “profession.”
Betook to the literature business, however,
'and commenced selling books from a barrow.
His stand was at the old burying-ground
the site ot the Town Hall. Jerry bought
hooks at Heydou's night auction, where
there was never much time spent in tracing
ownership. His early profits were usually
5)0 per cent., especially on lawbooks, when
The barristers of the old days were greatly
iu need of libraries. Ho was a shrewd man
of business, industrious aud frugal, and
built his fortune on a solitary five shillings.
He had printed for the schools of this colony
many useful hooks, aud his sheet almauao
has been issued in increasing thousands for
over a quarter of a century.
Hartmann, tho Russian Nihilist, of Moscow ex-
plosion notoriety, is being interviewed by New York
reporters.
President Grcvy is a great patron of chess, and
has given immense prizes for the encouragement of the
game iu Paris.
A man may cat himself into society in Sydney,
but ho sometimes has to swallow a blackball, aud that
at his own club.
The London World says tho Queen’s health
and spirits are most unsatisfactory. She suffers from
constant headache.
Henri J. Hart, so thev say in Melbourne, visits
America shortly to try aud find a new kind of drink iu
place of “Schiedam.”
James Stephens, the Fenian Head Centre, is in
Chicago collecting subscriptions—on behalf of the
Irish Famine Fund he says,
Herr Znkertort, winner of tho International
chess match at Paris, has been matched for £lOO against
M. Rosenthal, tho French champion.
Martins Clarke, it is said, means to prosecute
David Blair for libel published anonymously m a pam-
phlet, entitled “ Martial iu Melbourne.”
The son of a well-known Sydney merchant, on
his way out from England, has been blackballed (iu
advance) by the Union Club. Not for Joseph.
A young gentleman, a clerk in one of the banks,
with more paint than colour iu his face, aud the scion of
a well-known family in this city, has gone to Melbourne
-rather suddenly. Arthur Cubitt has been communi-
cated with. Tint he thinks it will be hard work to find
him. Cabmen and tailors have gone into deep
mourning.
Mr. Charoner, an old S. A.
colonist, and formerly one of the
proprietors of theS.A. Advertiser,
is dead.
Among the seventeen success-
ful candidates (out of fifty-seven
examined) who presented them-
selves at the recent surveyors’
examination there were four over
Cft3in high.
Mr. C. R. Scrivener, who
passed first at the recent survey ex-
amination, entered the office as a
cadet, then passing first class. He
is the eldest son of C. A. Scrivener,
who has been several times Mayor
of Liverpool, and nephew of Dr.
Scrivener, Prebendary of Exeter.
Twenty-five years ago, we ire
told, there wis a art sh. on Geelong
raoe-oonrse.between the horses Van
Troup and St. Patrick for £3)O
aside. The former carried the
Ballarat and the latter the Geelong
money. The betting was he ivy and
the excite neat tre nenlons. Po >r
San vYaldock, master of the Mel-
bourne hounds, who died a week or
twobick, put his last shilling on
St. Patrick and lost, hit fie wn a,
g )01 loser ind laughed at his e upty
poeiets. The hit wn sent round
by so ue good-n it nr el sporting men
in order to pay Sam’s expenses back
to BiUarac. A largo su n was col-
lected and handed to him. Sin
th inked the gentlemen, and con-
cluded by saving to one of tho
company, “Now, then, double or
quits; sndlau death!” (To went
the coin. “ Head,” cried Sam.
Down it came, a tail. “Lost, by
Jove, Jack!” said Sam, “better
hick another time. Good night,
gentlemen.” And now *'i i>. Sam b i, s
said his last “Goodjuight, gentle-
men,” those who line.v 111 n will
respond “ Better i-mk. o’u «iinwi”
Carlyle’s health, which has
been very nr ■ • v
months, is now fully recovered, and
he is busily engaged in ins literary
labours. His work at present in
hand is the preparation of his autobi-
ography, which will be completed
during the coming summer.
Iu the list of distinguished visitors at Now York
from London is Marwood, successor to the hangman
Cal craft. The Press seemed disposed to make a “lion”
of him.
Lord AugustusLofbus goes driving every Sunday
afternoon. i>* •• auvn la ■. .< are shocked, and besides,
yon know, people say His Fxoellency can’t be
religions.
General Loris Melikoff. the militarp dictator of
-Russia, is the son of an American merchant, and began
ms military career as an officer in a hussar regiment iu
Petersburg.
Mr. John Fraser. of Maitland, lias boon appointed
honorary corresponding member of the Societic Ethuo-
graphiqno, being the first Australasian resident ohtain-
lug that high distinction.
The Hon. W. B. Dailey has bolter health now.
Ie is finishing., on the heights overlooking Rose Bay,
u l' uis i°u that commands a magnificent view of the-
arbour -better than any yet sketched.
■Professor Reuleanx. we learn, lias arrived iu
and is giving many interesting and most inflii-
*? 1 Tr-at tended public lectures. He is full of praise
Australia in general and Sydney iu particular.
Young L in the Harbours and Rivers De-
partment is one of the best amateur boxers iu Sydney.
He took the champion belt at Dublin University in
1874 against all comers with the gloves. He his init a
few eyes in mourning since be came here.
Those who know Dr. Boaney best now insist
that tho recent action, Bailliere v. Beaney, was
only iv “put-up job” between the doctor and the
publisher—in fact, merely a part of tho regular
advertising system of this most enterprising of medicos.
Mons. Lucien Henry, a distinguished French
artist resident here, known by his medallion, “The
Empire of the South ” in the Exhibition aud by several
busts of public men, is about to give a coarse of lectures
on “Art and Design.” Let us all leant to draw aud
paint and wo shall be saved! That is what artists
always say. If we could draw, quarter aud haug
some of our politicians tho country would bo iu better
case. But M. Henry’s lectures are sure to he in-
teresting.
Canon Duckworth, of Westminster Abbey, one
of tho handsomest men and most popular preachers in
London —and that’s saying a good deal has, so says
report, just run away with a lady. On this subject
Truth says :
“ The Fleet lost a gun but a year or two since,
Aud loud was the wonder and long:
But now it’s the Church iu her turn has to wince.
For a ‘ Canon,’ ’tis feared, has gone wrong.
“ How sad! for tho worldlings will banter and scoff,
Aud mock that such scandal should be :
For a, ‘ Canon ’ should certainly never ‘ go off,’
Unless he’s fired into a ‘ see ’ ’ ”
One of tlio sensations of last week was the
marriage of one of the barmaids of a leading- hotel 1o a
gentleman recently arrived from the Emerald Isle.
The fascinating bride had three or four “ offers ” diming
the lost month, but the Irishman did the “collar”
after seeing Her only a couple of times. He has taken
his prize home by the s.s. Orient. One of tho discon-
solate suitors is lamenting a ring which ho parted with
in a soft moment. He threatens to run “amuck”
amongst the empty porter bottles at tho back of the
hotel, to relieve his “bottled-up” feelings. Love is
blind.
Things are getting rather “ mixed” iu Brisbane
just now (says our correspondent). The other day. 45
members of the Johnsonian Club assembled at a
banquet to bid God-speed to one of their members
Ernest Favenc. He was leader of the Transcontinental
Expedition, and is once more going West for a short
spell iu search of a haven where there is no rum or
newspaper offices. Tho guest was much affected. At
Government House he is known as E. Favenc, Esq.; by
readers of light literature iu general and accounts of
exploration trips in particular as “ Dramiugo ”; and by
his familiars as “the pard.” It has been “ very heavy
weather ” in consequence of his approaching departure.
There is a clerk in one of the Banks in George-
street who is 6ft 101 inches in height and only weighs
six stone avoiMupois weight. He possesses most extra-
ordinary digestive powers, and can assimilate almost
anything, from Kid man’s cheese to a Cambridge sausage.
Queensland owns him.
A well-known musician of this city, as the giro my
even mists fall, smokes on his balcony, a d indulges,
meanwhile, in the reprehensible practice of expectorat-
ing into the street. The other evening he noticed a lady
passing his door just after he had committed his usual
sin. She suddenly stopped, seemed to make a note of
the house, and walked back. A few minutes later, she
returned, accompanied by' a gentleman. Tho pair
approached the house, both looking up at the balcony.
Our friend hastily concealed himself behind a server.
To his horror, tho man knocked at the door. “ Now,”
thought he, “that confounded fellow is going to roll
into ihefor that beastly habit of mine. I guess I’ll clear,
and leave tho old worn- nto settle things.” He hurried
into the backyard and waited anxiously, cooling his i
heels for about fifteen minutes, lie-entering the house i
he met his wife, of whom he asked, “What did those
people want?” The reply startled and relieved him. I
“ Why, it’s your brother. He and Mrs. have been
looking for the house for some time. Thev did not 1
know you had moved from - troet.”
D. G. F. Moodie, of Adelaide, who attempted
to cane A. T. Clark, M.L.A., of Williamstown, for
slandering the Queen, is the man who a week or two
ago swam Professor Cavill from Gleuelg to the Sema-
phore. Ho is editor of the Portonian, an Adelaide
journal. A uewsjiaper editor should never try to fi«g
anybody iu the manner affected by Moodie. Ho should
wait till he’s hit.
Yonng- Gardiner,the Berryite salary-grabber who
was returned for Carlton at tho last election, is captain
of the Carlton Football Club, and appears to have de-
veloped his physical at the expense of his moma
powers. Ho is a political fool aud has only two legis-
lative principles—hatred of respectability and love o-
his Parliamentary screw. The only speech he Inis yet
made iu the Assembly was on the Payment of Members’
Bill, and was as follows: —“ Upon this question of pay-
ment he felt, perhaps—” when he was interrupted by
the Speaker and told to talk about the adjournment and
not about the general question. It is remarked by a
\ ietoyian journal that there was much pathos and
force in his one sentence.
Lively times in San Francisco. Charles de
1 Young, journalist, one of the proprietors of tho
| San Francisco Chronicle, shot tho Rev. J. M.
| Kalloch, a Baptist minister, and severely wounded him.
j Kalloch was the working man’s candidate, and was elec-
ted Ml. or wh in lyii g between life and death. He re-
covered. De Young still opposed him fiercely, and
Kalloch’s son, also a Baptist minister, determined
on revenge. He assailed De Young iu his own office, and
fired four shots at him, the last taking effect and killing
the unfortunate man on the spot. De Young attempted
at the fifth shot to use his own revolver, but expir' d
iu the act. Ho was hut thirty-five years of ago. He
was a most determined man and a “ dead ” pistol shot
and would probably have killed Kalloch had the latter
not ‘ caught him on the hop.”
Sir John Robertson manages h’s deputations
well. It doesn’t matter what you've come about Jack
is with you; he’s one of the deputation right off. But
towards the close he gets to finding out hitches and
flows, and winds up by something after this stvle—
‘ Well this business must be done. If I can do it,
I will; stake your dollar on that; but if I can’t, I can’t
—how could you ? Ha! ha! ha!” The deputations ol
course withdraw covered with confusion, and Jack
pulls tho bell-rope—if it’s not broken. If it is, he
mostly puts his thumb to his nose and stretches on
his fingers as if taking solar observations. Then be
turns to the reporters, whom he has carefully kept in.
aud laughs again. “Ha! ha! ha! That’s got them!
They wanted to fix me. But they didn’t citch this old
bird with their sanguinary chaff. Read over there
what you’re going to make me say.” The reporter, of
course, reads over his notes—something totbis effect—
“Bir John Robi 1 tson agreed with the deputation, and
thanked them on behalf of the public for bringing the
matter before him. He had long been of the same
opinion as themselves, and would see to the required
sum being p’aced on the .” “ What stuff is
that you make me say. I'd have those fellows here
again iu a week if that appeared. Here, say this—“ The
Minister listened attentively to the representations of
the gentlemen who formed the deputation, hut re-
gretted that he conld not agree with ail they had said.
He was once of the same opinion as they were, hut it
had all been knocked over since then. All he could do
would bo to submit the matter to his colleagues and let
them know the result. The deputation thanked the
Minister fov his courtesy and then withdrew. Ha! ha !
ha! ” etc., etc.
Mr. Car -Boyd, who gained the action for dofr-
ination of character at Huh bo the other day, is not
unknown in Queensland. He got £2OO damn ares because
J. Brown, of Caniumhav. hail said to him, “ You are the
in >st notorious scoundrel in the world : I wonder you
dare to walk the earth.” The Queensland men say they
have oft«u •* wondered” at a good many things, hut
they never said so. Carr-Boyd is known in Queensland
ns the “ Pot-jostler.” We remember having seen a
portrait of him hanging in the Queensland Pr w uoltice-
It represents a long, thin, cadaverons-lookiug man,
dressed in moleskins and Crimean shirt. In his belt
are two navy revolvers, and. a snider is by his fide.
The while he is carving a stick of tobacco with a
butcher’s knife. The whole thing is too bloodthirsty to
he reproduced in these jmges. It is true that Mr-. Boyd
gets the credit in some quarters of having discovered
the remains of the Fronts; but men who know, yon
know, say that Frank Scan- was the real discoverer,
and that “Pot-jostler' was led to the place by a blue
gin. By the way, it is not out of place here to ask
Carr-Boyd what became of the Pronts’ pocket-book
containing memos, rc the country they had passed over,
etc.? Did ho ever get it ?
On Queen’s Birthday (the annual “ blanket-day”
of the Wide Bay blacks) two darkies (Jimmy Clear, aud
Sir Charles Fitzroy), who bossed tho ceremony, called
upon the assembled niggers to sing ’• God save the
Queen.” Two or three accordingly struck up, in a
rusty baritone,
“ Confounder po-o-oli(ics,
Fitsiuterna viticks ;
Gostavo hooray the Queen.”
Then they sang the beautiful anthem—
“Fa-la-lar Fa-la-lur,
Slapuiag whore war gain
Wh —wh —gen —wh—wh—gen
Shollv dawgserwee.”
After which Sir Charles anil Jimmy requested silence
and respect for the chair, made short speeches about
Victoria Rex, called for throe cheecs, and gave two,
and then ordered a general dispersion.
M'Elhono has sent his razors to be
ground.
There died at Prahran, Melbourne,
the other day, a young man named William
Stanford, who for some years was an inmate
of Peutridge prison. He had been more
than once convicted, but iu his nature there
were blended a strange mixture of artistic
ability and criminal propensities. While in
Peutridge he sculptured t he beautiful foun-
tain which now stands in the Melbourne
Parliamentary Reserve, aud alter his release
(to Detaining which the work referred to
and the influence of Mr. L. L. Smith greatly-
contributed) ho carved the monument which
marks the spot where are deposited tho re-
mains of poor HattieSheppaid, the actress.
While iu Peutridge. Stanford had great dif-
ficulty iu getting his implements made and
sharpened, and had to coax prisoners to aid
liiui by curving for tliem Jittlo ornaments in.
l one. One day he required hot water to
prepare clay but the cook struck, and bis
work was tetarded for three weeks On one
occasion he cleaped from gaol, and an hour
afterward - stuck up a man whom be robbed
o his clothes and horse Ho rede off to
Stcphen-street, and sought out an old sw et-
heart of his. Another girl was jealous, and
gave information to the detectives, and he
was re-arrested. He was a puzzle, aud his
De formed a curious romance.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Lacies in England are now wearing sc mted pet-
ticoats with tho penurne (in solid) quilted o 1.
Heliotrope is the now color and is exactly tho
shame of the llower from which it takes its name.
Two of the daughters of Longfellow, the poet
are pursuing the Har>urd course of study for women. *
The nine men sad and sorrowing widows of ho
beloved Br gham nave not yet taken steps to beauu. v
1 is long-neglected grave. J
Now this table, it will be seen, tells ns that one-half
ot a woman's chances of marriage are gouo when she
has completed hsr twentieth year.
Six of Brigham Young’s daughters have boon
excoiumnnica. ed rom tho Mormon faith for li-yiim t>
recover 1,000,000d01s stolen from them by the executors
of their at her s estate, tlaa apostles Carson ami Voting.
A Laplander does not have to go into monrairw
when his wife dies. Ho can marry while the bodv ~
still in the house, and have a second wife to ride to the
grave with him. This makes things warm aud conven-
ient.
At some fashionable halls in England, lately,
the dresses were very short, iu many instances quite
clearing the ankle, iu older to show the ornaments of
void worn thereon, after the fashion of tho antique pic-
turcs.
An American belle lately created a sensation at a
hall iu a cream satin dress painted with trailing sprays
of ivy leaves aud bouquets of forget-me-nots ; very long
cream kid gloves, with satin shoes, and an immense
white satin fan.
The daughter of Spotted Tail
is studying in a Government School
for Indians, She has lately married
the half-breed interpreter employed
at the barracks, and when sent to
do some scrubbing the other day,
her lordly husband interfered. His
wife was of royal blood, heTemarked
—the daughter of a chief— aud he
wanted her to learn only what the
white ladies do.
Miss Kogera* a cousin of Rd.
Cobden, was the prodigy in the last
examinations at Oxford University.
England, outstripping all the other
students, umleaud female, iu Greek
aud Latin. Her knowledge iu other
branches fs quite as wonderful. She
has been appointed lecturer in
Somerville Hall, cue of .the Oxford
buildings for female students.
The other afternoon in Georgo-
street a child left the care of its
mother aud iu attempting to cross
the street narrowly escaped being
run over. Tho mother rushed in
among the vehicles and giasjing
the child without ceremony gave
it a severe beating. Sobbing it was
heard to say. “ 1 wish now I had
been tunned ever aud k lied dead.”
8110 had quarrelled with her
•nld bald-headed lover, and. in dis-
missing him, said: “What is
delight'ul about you, my friend, is
that 1 have not the trout le-.f send-
ing you back any leeks of your
hair. ’ His reply was; "Had you
given mo a lock of you own, you
would not have known whose hair
yon were sending.”
The Franco-Hongrois Insur-
ance Company iu Pesth has engaged
a. lady doctor, the Countess Vilma
Hugoumiv, who obtained her doctor-
ate in Zurich, to examine female
applicants for life insurance.
Queen Victoria is the owner of
a silver gilt casket iu which are
lockets containing locks of hair of
Ihi 1 teen odners who fell at Isan-
dnla. Each locket is < npraved with
an “ In Mi moiiam ” and the name
<f the offi-or together with the
duteof his death. The souvenir was
ordered by the Queen.
‘Hero is Mr. Finlayson’s table showing to a very
ovcjpv i a s chances of marrying are for
' ei T j-eu life. Guls who read it will clour y
mnvf 'i happiness is better than gold tim. is
'■i l i lmbU: than money The calculations were matte
r 1;, ::’ < ’ a f, os ’ i bnt tor the sake of greater perspicuity
"fc cubage the denominator to 1,000. Of 1,000 married
women, taken without selection, it is found that the
nmuber married at each age is as below. Or if (by
arithmetical license) wo call a woman’s chances of mar-
riage in the whole course of her life 1,000, her chant e - in
each two years will be shown iu the table:
A French lady, having lost her husband, married
bisbrother. She kept the pertrait of the firs* in the
dining-room, and when a guest asked her if it was a pic -
ture of one of her relations, she replied, “ Yes: my poor
brother-in-!:’wI” >cr!«. rap.
BON VONAGE, TRICKETT.
RAILWAY PORTERS NOW COMPLAIN THAT THEY HAVE MUCH DIFFICULTY IN CILLECTING TICKETS. WE WONDER WHY?


QU E E N’B T
Lessee
79th (And LAST NIGHT
of
MR. ALFRED Dr
LILY and BOf
TO-NIGHT (FRIDA 1
GRAND REVT
of
Charles Reade’s Favon
IT'S NEVER TOO LAT
With all the original Cast, 800
Effects,
Tom Robinson
Boy Josephs
The English Farr
The Model Prif
The Waterfol
All scenes that were the thome
Don daring the last successful
SPECIAL NOT
P ATU R D AY , J
FARE WELL BEN EFIT, and
MR. DAM PIE
And at special request of Mr. D
admirers, the Managemenl
FOB THIS NIGHT
RICHARD II
Richard ILL
Box plan now open at Nicholsoi
Prices as usual—ls., 2i
LIDDT, Bi
gOH O O L O ]
TO-NIGHT,
ARTHUR BKETC.
author of
Mrs. Brown on the
“The Brown Paj
&c., &0.,
will have the pleasure of
The Original
MR S. BRO
to Sydney Frier
THIS EVENII
Mrs. BROWN has been i
Mr. SKETCHLEY to a
over 5000 time
Everybody is involuntarily seiz
labia Laughter at Mrs. Brow
Reserved Seats
Second Seats...
Back Seats and Gallery
Doors open at 7.30, to oormnr
Carriages may be ordered for
Special Notifx
Mrs. BROW!
having had a little talk with’
committee of the SCHOOL O
ALL the MEMBERS of that
tion ’ ’ to pay a visit to the 4 4 ai
or his 44 genteel assistants,” fr<
be able to obtain Tickets to list
Mrs. Brown’s; Adv«
AT GREATLY REDUCI
N.B.—Please don’t toll this 1
gCHOOL OF ARTS, ]
A LECTURE on the “ T
By
Mr. ISIDORE MTERS, of the M
On MONDAY EVENIN'
Rev. A. B. Davis in tb
Front seats Is, Back seats 2s. B
7. commence at 8 o'clock. Tickets
all the principal booksellers.
gCHOOL OF ART
FOE ONE NIGHT <
THURSDAY, 24t
c
H
I A R I
ROYAL ITALIAN (
and
PERFORMING A*
HAYMARKET REI
EVERY EVENING, a
MATINEES
WEDNESDAY and 8A T URDA
at half-past 2
THIS (Friday) EVENK
Another complete change c
FOURTH WE:
and still
Enthusiastic Race]
TRIUMPHANT 8U
of this
MAGNIFICENT COMI
Pronounced by the Prosf
The BEST CIRC
WHICH HAS EVER
AUSTRALIA
The Proprietor hogs to annonnc
cession of Novelties will l>e presen
NEW and TALENTED
Twenty First-class
WONDERFULLY TRAIN
The School of Perform
ZEBRAS, ROYAL BENG
&e., Ac,, &c.
Prices of Admiss
I>re°<i circle (chairs). 4» ; stalls (i
2s. Children under 12 years of age,
Special rates for Schools when o
I7IGYPTIAN HALL and PAL.
li GEORGE STREET, near
Proprietor
Business Manager
Lecturer
GRAND OPENING
SATURDAY, JUN
and Every Evening until ti
The Wonderful Afghans and Ea
arrived direct from India per mail
MurrellousOriental Necromancy.
Illustrations of the Zulu Wax. T
many other novelties. The beet
witnessed in Sydney.
Doors open at 7 o’o
Admission—One 8h
G
RAND 34 HOURS’ WAI
MENT.
Between
J. W. TAYLOR AND W
for RlOO,
COMMENCING FRIDAT
at 10 p.m.
Prior to the above, there will be i
AB-TOU-PLEABE CONTEST, o
First prize, £5 ; second, £2 : third
started at R o’clock sharp. Entran
bands of Mr. F. WILKINSON. P
p.m. Juno 24.
fJIHE GREAT WAXWORK
NOW OPEN, opposite the Viet
street.. Just ARRIVED, from
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE W
Christine, the two-headed Nighting
heads, four arms, four legs, and on«
Admission Is, children half price,
10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
rjIHE STANDARD A ME]
COLLAR, AND CUFF I
100 KING STREET,
(entrance in right-of
A PERFECT PIT QUA]
ORDERS EX ECU
with
NEATNESS AND Dlf
GENT.’S WHITE 8
rp H K A T B E
Lessee
Business Manager 4: Treasurer ...
Stage Manager
FIFTEENTH WEEK and
BUCCKBI
of
LYSTEB and GARNER’S LC
COMPANY.
THIS (Friday ) EVENT!
POSITIVELY LASI
of the most successful Comedy
the South era Hemisphere,
FRIENDS,
SATURDAY, Jtu
Hymn’s World-renown*
OUR BOYS
with characters represent©*
LONDON COMEDY C
including
Messrs. Arthur Garner, G. S.
Oates, and Frederick Marshal
Stammers, Alma San ton, Mrs. i
and Miss Annie Taylor.
Prices of Admission.—Dress
3s ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elry and (
street, where seats may be seen
Circle six days in advance.
ICTOEIA T
Messrs. COPPIN, HENNING
have the honour of announcu
taken the above popular place o
short season, and will have th<
dneing severed novelties new to
commencing
THUS (Friday) EVENTNi
with
IRELAND’S COME
GRATTAN RIG
in hts great speciality and prote
THE IRISH DETEi
in which he sustains six diffie
Arthur Tracey (the Detective)
Michael Dooloa (from Galway)
Hans Hpielraan (a German glazier)
Top Corn Jnice (an aged negro) ..
Clam Bonp Merchant ...
Mrs. Moldoon (a frnlt vendor)
Matteo Maziettz (an Italian Todi
JOHNNY LEMONS ... Mr..
supported by some
principal Members of the 1
Melbourne.
STAR COMPAN
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER X.— Continued.
She had had to part from her good old triend,
and that had cost her the pain which parting
brings to those who know they will not moot
again.
In Paris, Adrienne hod had lessons in democracy
from a young universal genius whose talents were
too vast to stoop to an ordinary walk of life. He
lived in a garret, and planned schemes of a perfect
republic. Adrienne had not felt much grief on
parting from him.
A monstrous learned professor, who lived at
"Bonn, in a BchlafroeJc, slippers, and spectacles,
had taught her a little store of Greek and Latin.
But her greatest teacher hod been a strange, ab-
sent-looking professor, in Berlin—a man of litera-
ture and philosophy, who had been very fond of
.'her, and had given her freely of his very best.
Her uncle Mr. Bliseet, looked upon this as a
providential circumstance, for he fonnd when she
came to him that she had no tyro to deal with, but
one already instructed in philosophy and its ter-
minology.
“ And what did ho eayP How did he receive
yon?” asked Myles eagerly.
“ I was chilled,” said she, as I sat opposite to
him and saw his pale, impassive face, and watched
how he raised his eyes now and then from the let-
ter. He gave me no reply that night; told me
nothing ; did not intimate whether he was pleaded
or displeased to see me, but ordered a room to be
prepared for me ; and the next day he told mo
that my father had asked him in Ids letter to give
me a shelter until I was able to find some em-
ployment bj' which I could support myself. My
uncle said that if I could endure to live buried
alive with an old man, and work hard at a seden-
tary employment, ho would give me a home and
pay me a certain sum every year. I accepted his
proposal gratefully, and have never repented it;
and I trust he never will. either.”
There spoke the true Adrienne Bliseet.
“ And yon are happy here?"
“As happy as I expect to be. It is a groat
deal not to be miserable.”
“ That’s what our rulers appear to think wo
working men onsrht to feel,” said Myles, sardoni-
cally, his thoughts for the moment flying off at a
tangent,
“ Are yon bitter against your rulers?” asked
Adrienne, tranquilly.
“I am bitter against some of them—a pampered
eet of rich men, who never had a care in their
lives, but don’t mind how many other people have
to bear. There are some, now—Bright, and
Gobden, and the like—for them I’d die. There’s
that in their faces which says they have not a
mean thought, nor a desire but for our good ; but
the most of them ” —he shrugged hie shoulders —
■” those lily-handed politicians who call themselves
."Radicals in these days, and plan how to prevent a
working man from getting hie beer, brit have half
a dozen sorts of wine at their own tables, and go
mincing about at public mootings, talking lightly
«f trials that would make them cringe if they had
to face ; talking about ‘ supply and demand ’ and
how to improve the condition of the lower orders
—isn’t that the phrase? Much they know about
the lower orders, and how to improve them! They
don’t know what ails them yet.”
He laughed sarcastically.
“ It is true they ore a somewhat emasculate
type,” said she ; “ but I don’t see what right you
have to blame them much. It is the working- I
man’s Own fault that they can do no more for 1
him.”
“ His own fault 1” he echoed incredulously.
“ Now don’t eat mo up please ! 1 wonder if yon
and I differ essentially in first principles on this
subject. Yon have thought about it, haven’t
you F”
“ Ay, I have. I’ve plenty of reason to think
about it, when 1 see such fellows os Frederick
Spenoeley and young Mallory living on the fat of
the land without having lifted a finger to get it,
or proved by a single act that they merited it.”
“ Mr. Mallory,” said Adrienne, slowly, you
say yon have seen him : hoe he come home?”
“ No. I meant to speak figuratively. I don’t
see him ; but I know it is so. If 1 don’t know
him, I know the likes of him ”
“ Bnt—but what abont him?” she asked, still
with the same slowness and a kind of hesitation.
“ What has he done wrong?”
“ He has done nothing ; that’s what he has done
wrong,” said Myles. “Well, he’s coming home
soon ; we shall see how he breasts the storm —for
we are in for a storm sooner or later. Bnt don’t
you think, Miss Blisset, it must make a man think j
to see these contrasts—a man who has the least J
bit of a power of thought ?”
“No doubt. And what conclusion have you
come to in the matter ?”
“ The conclusion that it’s a crying injustice.”
“ To whom ?”
“ To—well, to jmt it broadly, we’ll say to the
working-man—but I mean to those in general who
work very hard, and get very little.”
“ In what way?”
“ Miss Blisset! Where is the justice of follows
"like that having that money without either rhyme
or reason ; and of fellows like ”
'‘You,” suggested Adrienne, demurely.
“ I don’t mean me in particular, but my class in
general, earning from thirty to sixty shillings a
week —the very best paid of us—in payment for
hours and hours of close, hard work.”
“ I suppose it is not the work you object to P”
“ No. I like work. I should be lost without my
work.”
“ The property which those young men enjoy
has been earned with trouble as great, or probably,
from an intellectual point of view, greater than
your weekly wages.”
“ But not by them.”
“ Suppose it had been earned by yon, and you
wished to leave it to your only eon, whom yon had
educated with a view to his inheriting it, and the
law stepped in and said you should not, but should
leave it amongst a number of working-people
whom yon had never seen or heard of—how would
you like that ?”
“ Bat thxit is an exaggerated view of the case.”
“ I don’t see it. I don’t believe you have ever
considered the subject fairly. And answer me
this : suppose the average working man becomes
possessed of that money, or part of it —money
which he held not earned —money which had be-
come his by a Incky chanoe; do yon think his nse
of it would be worse, or as good as or better, than
the nse made of it by those two of whom we are
epeaking P Do yon think it would do him a real
and permanent good ; increase hie self-respect,
lessen his self-indulgence, moke him steadier,
soberer, more inwardly dignified, worthy, ana
honourable P”
She was looking earnestly at him, and Myles
irowned, the words driven back from Iris tpa. .
I>id be know one man amongst his fellow-work-
men on whom the possession of such money wonld
have snch an effect F Would it hare such an
effect upon himself f The generalities of the
writers who eried up the working-man and his
wrongs seemed suddenly to grow small, and to
shrink into the background.
"Oh,” went on Adrienne, " I don't think yon
working-men know in the least how noble your
work intrinsically is. You only see that others
are outwardly better off than you, and you clamor-
ously demand a share of that wealth. You don’t
see how disastrous to your best interests snch on
acquisition would be.”
Myles had started up feeling terribly humiliated.
“ You think so ill of u* 1” he exclaimed. You
could come and see us yesterday, and talk to my
sister as if she had been your sister —and now you
reproach us in this way. Good-bye I’ ’
Stop !” said she, laying her hand upon his
arm, and looking earnestly into his face. “ How
wild and impatient you are ! Think a moment!
It is not of yo-u lam speaking. Ho you know any
other working-man to whom I could epeak in this
way ?”
Rho paused. It was true ! Perhaps Harry
Ashworth might hoar those words and bear them
—he knew of no other who would do so: and
while he was stung and tortured by what she said,
he felt a bitter consciousness that it was time.
But he stood still and waited to hear the end.
" I am speaki-g to you with a purpose,”
Adrienne went on in the same tone, low and qniot
but full of vehemence. “Since that night when
you stepped forward in my defence, I have thought
much about you—very much. I have studied yen,
and you do not know how well-need I am to study-
ing people. The more I have studied you, the
mo T ’e I have felt that you were both generous and
high-minded—and terribly hot-tempered.” she
added, with a smile, which Myles thought must
have charmed the temper of a ravening wolf.
" Just think what yon, a workmen, might do by
setting an ©sample to your fellow.workmen. Take
the right side. You are too good for the common-
place career of an ordinary * intelligent working
man.’ for a blind submission to trade-union rules,
and for an obstinate resistance to yonr masters,
just because they are your masters, or because
your union bids you resist them. Don’t be a tool;
use your reason ; consider the why and wherefore
of things. Be answerable to your conscience alone
for all you say and do. Help to show your fellows
that all improvement in their condition must arise
actively from within, and not be received passively
from without—you know that, and own it, don’t
you ?”
♦ TO BB OONTTNrBtI.)


The intercolonial i
ASSOCIATION, LIM
Hea» Offices 253 (lato 347), (
(formerly tiia Mere anti
rnnitftl: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Sharei
Subscribed, £5O,
Directors t
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.Q
Mr. Alderman John Young,
g, W. Gray, E+q.. M.P. I P. H
<r J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. ) E. J
T. R. Smith, Esq.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No eni
(W other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire i
Masses of insurable property.
premiums on both fie
tew as any office in the colony.
life and fire policy.h
(n the profits,
JAMES S.
A USTEALIAN MUTUAL
Established XK
fAPTTAL— £IOO,OOO, with power to i
BONUSES:
90 per cent, paid annually for th
DIRECTORS
Hou. John Sutherland,
JUaane! F. Joseph son. Esq. Willia
John Wetherill, Esq. Willie
First Pi eh Society bsta
on the Mutual Pi
P( MoY-HOLDEBS BACK PAR'!
mi as a Cash Bonus
mYhey tear.
Policy-holders aro perfectly ft
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for
premiums.
Damage by Lightning as
Has laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement fc
Piro insurance at lowest bates.
WALTER Cl
Head Office —l 44, late IS4, Pi
hut one north Evening News).
THE LIVERPOOL AND
GLOBE INSURANCE (
with unlimited liability, and sp
colony to enable the Company t
Directors is Std;
Edward Knox, Esq., C
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | W.
Town and country risk* at lowc
Life business in all its I
Principal Medical 0
A. Roberts, Esc
M. W. 8. CLARKE, M.A.[ Revs
Hoad Office for Australasia—63 P
Australian mutual
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED ]
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STR
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LI
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTOR
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.Q., A
John E. Qoodlet, E»w., Deputy-C
Robert Saddlagtou, Esq. I Is»
Robert J. ICiug, Esq. 8.
CHIEF MEDICAL OF
®*. W. F. Mackenzie, L.H.C.P.
Terrace.
ACTUARY j
Morrioe A, Black, P.LA. j J
Extract from Post Magazine
eemtjer, 1370, on the sixth Quiuqn
Society:— . . ; •It is, as a w
plete statemoot ever issued by a
uflords an inooutestable proof that
success it tells Is the result, not of
tioal and theoretical ability, gove;
inant ami pnidence.’
The Commercial World (Lonch
XSiO, says:—‘No British Compo.ni
with the Australian Mutual, which,
of its existence, has received in inte
than it has boea called upon to pay
ACCUMULATED FUND, TH
STERLING.
JflfiElßLE AC
Aj*G eontinniilfv KnnnAr
jt/T ADDOCK ’ S SELEi
381 GEORGE STI
SYDNEY.
This Library will bo found to oont
newest works i
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOL(
which aro received immediately o
and fast ocean etea
Arrangements have been made
publishers for full supplies of <>'
interest to l>e sent as soon as publ
In addition to the above
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTE
Subscribers may join at any d
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for On
Magazine (exchangeable as oftei
One month, 3s. ; Three mouths, ;
25a. 5 Twelve months, £2 2a.
To Heads ov Families,— Those
a larger supply of books than one i
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two s<
taken from the Library at once for
Books or Periodicals may iu all
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydskt—-Subsc
for SHOE C PERIO D 9. Visitors
may even join for a Fortnight, anc
advantages of yearly members.
To CottsTßT Residents,— Spec:
mode for the benefit of Country Sn
taking a parcel of fro m Throe to 'X
and the Commissioner for Railway
arrange that Exchanges from MAI
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE
parcel rates. A card of country i
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST i
BOOKS now in circulation:
The Story of Barbara,, by Miss
A Piuk Wedding, by E. M. Jej
Memoirs of Madame Kemersat
Life and Writings of Thomas 1
Magnum Eonnm, by Charlotte
Sunshine and Storm in the Eas
The Greatest Heiress in Engla
The Letters of Charles Dickon
The Root of all Evil, by Floroi
Young Mrs Jardino. by Miss 1
Cousin Henry, by Anthony Tr
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Ora
The Seamy Side, by Beeant am
Lily of the Valley, by Mrs. Raj
Russia and England, by 0. K.
Moths, by Onida
Royal vola. 3 and
IHxnu.
Life of James Hepburn, Earl o
rick Schiern ; translated fr
Rev. David Berry, F.S.A.C
Four Months in a Sneak Be
Bishop
No Relations, by Hector Maloi
Three Recruits, by Joseph Ha
An Australian Heroine, by R.
For Her Doar Sake, bv Mary C
Exploration of the World, bj
High Spirits, l>eing certain Stc
by James Payn
Probation, a novel, by the a
Violin
Young Mrs. Jardine, by Mrs. ]
A Doubting Heart, by Annie I
Sebastian Strorae, ft novel, by
Under Which Lord ? by E. I
A Woman’s P»t,ienco, by Mrs.
Vivian, the Beauty, by Mrs. E
A Lady’s Life in the Rocky
bella L. Bird
Donna, Quixote, by Justin M‘o
The Greatest Heiress iu Engla
Heriot’s Choice, by Rosa F. C
Confidence, by Henry James, j
&c. &c. &c.
MADDOCK’S SELECT
SBl George Street S,
Open from 9 a.m. to d p.m.
<| f every Hover that
• broKi’ei « fnurniDr
SWEET SCI
LIGN-ALOE. OPCI
LOVE'AMONO-THE
l\ FRANQIPAf
tP WU * TIiOGOAHD &TRI
V4* ‘M. tk/. a r**A ;or thre*
-&OnJ
jyj E. C. PE
TOBACOONB
149 KING STJ
Boge to inform hia Friends and th
obtain a really first class article in '
&0., at hia establishment.
Just received a fine assortm
STICKS hi ail the latest novelties
Observe the Add
149 KING STI
Opposite the stall entrance of t
JJUEST - PEIZE SEWIN'
At the Sydney International Ex
1880. after a contest extending over
severest tests vet applied to Sowin;
tralia, the J udges hive endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THI
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST
for
SEWING MACHE
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL PE
ou every point.
READ THE AWA
“ The Now Dav is Stewing Machin
departure from the ordinary style (
possessing all the advantages of si
machines, and in addition an incref
with the greatest simplicity of com
tion in number of working parts, w<
to the first place in awards."
Volumes could express no more t
by SHEER MERIT in conipetitii
WORLD, the opportunity being fu
Samples of work, and illustrated C
post free to any part of the ooLouie*
Pull instructions gratis, and a li
system.
Every Machine gnaran
c
B. O. HOLTEEMANN
Solo Agents,
671 Qeorgo-street, and 21 ]
Sydney.
AELTON CLUJ
199 Eltzabbth-St., H
H. Olxfhant Patoh, P
Healthiest position and most coi
Sydney. Private Suites of
Detached BAE ; BATHS, S'
Hot Coffee, Rum and Milk, 4c., ft
d’hdte X p.m. daily.
let an parFran*
T SAUNDERS'S WELL-K:
MOW HOTEI
Park and Castlereivgh-i
BUM AND Mil
From live o’clock in the mon
Soda and Milk, or the pare fl
THE COUNTER LU
aa usual from 10,30, with a glass of
treble X or a glass of Marian's ale, f
Country visitors or permanent lod
modated with a good table, woll-ve
and a private drawing-room upstairs
Charges very moderate.
aIHE BEST SHILLING LU
- (including a Glass of Ala i
ia to bo had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCA
AND
LUNCHEON EC
BEIDGE-STREE
Soup, Pish, En trees, Joints,
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can
the bur in packets of eleven
available for any day.
JJ I L E t BBC
A-fiß THB
I
l
CHEAPEST D]
IB
AUSTRALIA
THE BOYS’ 8
ABE K«PBCIAX
CHEAP AN D
Tey UtJ Pm
B'OK
B L A >T K R
AJSB
(fr V B ECO
RILEY BROTHERS
Oxr.’OßD St
fIIMEtJB St
Pitt St-ebi
ATEST EXHIBITI
ONE HUNDRED EXHIBITI
Purchased at a Sacrifice from Exl
otherwise, arc now exposed for sa
THE ROYAL FURNISHI
to he Bold at ai
ENORMOUS REI
from the former asked
Under the excitement of Sales 1
prices have been obtained for Exh:
Prudent pnrchaHera will not fail
of the opportunity now offered fi
inspection before laying: out their
Nearly everybody seems deeiron
Eeehercbe Souvt
of onr
Great International E
itnd no such desirable opportuni
hitherto offered
The leading feature of ti
ECONOMY,
which can only be faithfully carrii
Prompt Net Cash 8y
House* are here Furnished for it
Also for £3.1, jfeßS, and for i£o.


■WINTER NECESSITIES.
£1 OAL VASES
For the Dining; Room,
For the Drawing; Room,
For the Breakfast Room,
&e., Ac.
HEATING STOVES
> " Public Schools,
Churches,
■ x Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
itfx
r< >
3M
IRE IRONS,
Nickel-plated,
And will not rust.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
FENDERS,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces
Of the
Latest designs.
Department of Public Worl
Sydney, 2Is 1
rjV3 CONTRACTORS
TENDERS will bo received at
o’clock on TUESDAY, the 27tli
willing to contract for the constru
the Extension of the South-wo
Naraudera to Hay, a distance of a
Plans, specification, and form ol
and further particulars obtained,
Eng#ieer-iu-CT)ief for Railways o
June.
Tenders to he endorsed ‘ Toude
Narrandera to Hay.’
The Commissiunerdoes not bind
lowest or any tender.
OHAS. A. GOO
Comiuiss
lONS, PRIZE ME!
ESTABLISHED TWENI
Whose success is attributed to his 1
in catering for the million at si
PRICES as to enable every vrorkiu
and fnsluonahly, wuilo those with
disposal can wear so many oxtr
reasonable rate, viz. ;
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure. 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS. 6:35, v,
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measu
Who will not avail themselves
ETTING 'MEASURED at ZI
ESTABLISH ME!
DO U BLE-B RE AST 8U PE K FINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, :35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fat
cloth, 25s ; worth G3s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, a
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUI
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLf
SILK COATS. Men’s and Bovs’, !)i
CRICKETING T’ROUSERS.TSs Gi
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready I
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wii
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS W
A TRIAL WILL COI
Do not mistake the promises—
W A R SAW II C
409 GEORGE STR
THE ONLY ZIONS IN
4 DEL AIDE TOWN BRANDS
sacks, halves, and quarters
Dutfielcl’s, and Dnuu's; ADELAI
superfine Flour, various; VIOT
WALES Flour. BEILBY and CO
M
A. HUGHES
580, Geoege-stk
respectfully invite Gentlemen :i
WINTER UNDERCL
to pay them a visit before g(
Special Lines in
Crimean and Flannel Undershirt
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Uud
Lambswool Undershirts and Dra
Flannel. Merino, and Artie Drat
White shirts. Military Fronts. 3s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collai
Crimeans, Crimeans, ;3s 6d six foi
At M. A HUGHES A
830 Gcorgo-strc
RYSDA L E A N D
397 George Str
7(3, 73, 145, 147 York
33 Pitt Steei
IRONMONGERS, IRONMEI
IMPORTERS
CTOR
FOURTEEN DAYS ONLY
IL & K.’s visit to Melbourne.
Prior to
O
iW-
UlM;
t)
\i
cb
o
i—i
o
■<j
SHOWER
ILmBIOwi
See One Hundred capital
Tricks.
LAST 11 LAYS.
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
FIRST PRIZE.
KERR’S
Patent
Safety Lamps
for in and out
door use, burns
kerosene without
glass chimneys.
Price (ready fop
use)—10s. 0d.
Packed free fop
steadier or x'ail
on receipt of
stamps or money
order. J
Last 11 days of
The
EXHIBITION
CEMENT
mends every,
thing'. Price—
Is. per bottle; by
post Is. (Id. J
Conjuring and
sleight of hand
tricks. Soa them.
The
EXHIBITION
TOP
spins on a x>iece
of thread in any
X>osition.
Is. each.
8s. lid. dozen.
— <t i..iMi,5juf, trick “ The Pingep
through the Hat,” as xjcrformed at the Exhibition ■(
acayiital joke. Price, Os. (id., with instructions bow/Y'
do it. Post free, 4s.
The Copying Pencil, as shown at the Exhibition, copy
letters, marks linen. Is each, by post 18 stamps.
The Alligator Glass-cntter, Kml'o-sbai'iieuer, Cork-
screw and Tin opener—Is each, by post IS stamps.
Hundreds of NOVELTIES and amusing games and
tricks at
BAILEY & KERR'S NOVELTY EXHIBITION
508 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
Note.— Opposite Central Police Court.
/Sj
That extraordinary and
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Solti by all Grocers anti Storekeepers.
M P R O V E L HOME S II DITLE
LOCK STICH
SEWING M A C H I N E,
To x'reveut fraud and decei'tion, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their solo agents in Australia :—
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your x>urchase,
or a, Worthless Imitation may’ be forced ivpou you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only band machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a xn'oof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
Xilete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTARD-T, ANE, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. ( ominon bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has im. same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the x'aDtc, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale, Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit rex>resent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY; Printed and Published by John HatneS
and J, P. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at The
IIuli.i.’I;k Office, io7 Cast! Lava; h-screet
THE SYDNEY GARDEN PALAC I
(Manufactured for the ISSO Seaso
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEOR
rp II E A U S T R j
(Now in its Fourth Volu
PUBLISHED Ist OP EACH
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLE
| THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE
[ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOT
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clip
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertised
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS, r
’BUSES.
The great northern hotel.
(Late “ La Flore Australienue”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLAGE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above ] >rem isos as a tirst-ciass Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
Nathaniel cohen
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that he has taken the
ROYAL ALBERT HOTEL,
at, the corner of
GIPPS & MACQUARIE STREETS, SOUTH/
And trusts, by a strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Gir in the Rum-keg.
c.
J. ROBERT
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure IVlndia Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
£jOACH AND HORSES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within throe minutes of the Railway Station.
Me. P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
*»* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
