

THE BULLETIN
No. 7.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 13, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13, 1880.
“The Glorious Palladium.”
Sometimes one has to pay pretty dearly for the
proud privilege of being a subject of Great Britain—
of having the figurative protection of her unfurled
flag, and of experiencing the peculiar technicalities
of her legal enactments. The case of Mr.
Frederick Harvie Linklater, barrister-at-
law, is a striking instance of what a man may
suffer in order that the pure impartiality of our
legal code may be tested. On some information
or other —we neither know nor care whence
derived, whether well-founded or unfounded —Mr.
Linklater is arrested on a charge of bigamy
and brought before the Police Court Magistrates.
After considerable delay in hearing the case the
Magistrates consider the evidence —furnished, if
We mistake not, simply by something said or
written by the defendant himself —sufficient to
warrant a committal, and bail not being forth-
coming, the accused is sent to gaol. On
the committal warrant of these Solonic Magis-
trates the ultra - Solonic Attorney General
decides to put Mr. Linklater on his trial;
but the police, the principal witnesses, know-
ing that the case must break down, as they
have not any evidence, set to work to procure
some —in vain ! Time after time the case is post-
poned, and Mr. Linklater is sent back to gaol
to meditate on the mutability of mundane matters
and especially on Shakespeare’s well-founded
allusion to “ the law’s delay.” Nay more, though
it is one of the British safeguards against injustice
to accused people that in criminal cases a wife be
not allowed to give evidence against her husband,
yet the lady against whose claim to the title of
Mrs. Linklater there is not a tittle of evidence,
is by some legal fiction or artifice inveigled into
giving evidence against the accused. And thus,
notwithstanding that the first words she utters
after she has kissed the 800k —which act completes
the ceremony of compelling her testimony before
there was time for an interposed caution to pre-
vent her —are (in answer to questions) that she is
Elizabeth Linklater. But when the detective
force take a case in hand they have to complete it
at all hazards or be disgraced in the attempt.
At length, when it is found impossible to procure
evidence to sustain the indictment, and the case
is postponed from sitting to sitting, with a similar
result, Mr. Linklater, after passing five months
in Darlinghurst gaol, is set free on his own recog-
nizances to appear at any time if called upon, 'a
vivid example this of the glorious palladium of
British law and injustice.
One other point: the unfortunate Mr. Link-
later would no doubt have preferred gaol
to freedom, even had he been able to find
bail, because in prison he could at least hold
communication with his wife in the presence of a
warder, a satisfaction which would have been de-
nied him outside unless he cared to subject himself
to penalties for contempt of court. For, though the
law does not prevent an accused person’s doing
everything in his power to clear himself' of a
charge, or holding communication with his
own wife as his nearest and dearest of kin, yet by
the same legal fiction he dare not hold any inter-
course with a witness!
In common with every loyal subject enjoying
the privileges of the British Constitution, we de-
sire to see the majesty of the law vindicated; but
we also' wish that the law be carefully ad-
ministered and that the liberty of the subject be
not trifled with Or trampled on to satisfy police
purposes. It is surely not too much to demand
that the evidence of guilt shall be sufficiently
conclusive to warrant a committal or an indict-
ment without the result —on one side or the
other—of an evident miscarriage of justice.
Government Economy.
Just before the members of the Legislative As-
sembly vindicated their “sacred trust,” as
guardians of the public purse by cutting down the
allowances of certain officers of His Excellency’s
household, and nipping off a few paltry proposed
departmental increases—a work in which is dis-
played the wildest, most reckless extravagance,
and the most perfect disregard for everything
is fail-, was brought to a close. Our
readers will have noticed that in last Saturday’s
Herald appeared what purported to be a sort of
review of a new “ Illustrated Railway Guide
Hook,” now being issued by Government. The
guide-book in question Is splendidly printed, ex-
pensively illustrated, and, best of all, is the means
of furnishing the public with a pb-v .-aphicaJly-
~-“ct view of Sir Hen r\ Pai magnificent
on the Blue Mountains, iHerald’s
nceming the guide-book in quest ion is
a mysterious, semi - jocular style,
ins no comment whatever on
on at first blu-h, are un-
As every one knows that the
Herald is unvaryingly mild in its demeanor to-
wards those in power, and that it never attempts to
jump on any but those unfortunate people who,
having failed in life, may be compared to squeezed
oranges, it may be well if we on the present occa-
sion ask our readers to look a little deeper into
the mystery of this “ Railway Guide Book,” and
make a commencement where the Herald —that
funny paper—leaves off.
Putting aside the fact that it is a good and
praiseworthy thing for ministers and other grandees
to advertise their private properties in publi-
cations which a vulgar and prejudiced commu-
nity pays for, and which some unreasoning people
in their ignorance consider should therefore
be devoted solely to the advancement of
the interests of the State, we desire to ask
whether, everything counted, the issue of this
“ Railway Guide Book” may not fairly be expected
to involve a loss to the country of many hundreds
of pounds. We may also be permitted to enquire
whether it is not true that the great bulk of the
expenditure incurred in this matter was strictly
unnecessary, and whether, even in the event of its
being admitted by all that the existence of New
South Wales as a thriving colony depended on an
artistically-drawn and carefully-engraved picture
of Sir Henry’s mountain residence being pub-
lished at th|s expense of the consolidated revenue,
the very same result could not have been brought
about by the disbursement of judiciously-laid-out
tons instead of extravagant hundreds. the
“Railway Guide Book” was taken in hand
the wood-blocks used at the Government Printing
Office were supplied by engravers who, if they
had not all actually learnt their trade in the
colony, had for many years been established here.
But a sweeping change has lately been brought
about, and, in place of a system which secured
the performance of engraving at an economical
rate, and the even, distribution of -work among
the trade, ah expensive monopoly has been created
and fostered. Work has been taken out of the
hands of several men and given into the hands of
one, who nevertheless employs those by whom the
work was formerly executed, and makes a heavy
profit on their services. In short, the same people
continue to do the work, but while they get a great
deal less for their labour than formerly the
Government pays more than ever—twice as much
as is necessary fpr the work, in order that a capital-
ist may enjoy undisturbed monopoly. The Govern-
ment have been spending a vast amount of money
in order to produce a book which is only prima facie
evidence of the carelessness or the wilfulness of
their administration, and which, had they supplied
any of our large advertising firms with the
necesssary information concerning the railways,
could perhaps have been produced without cost to
the State, or at most by a public expenditure of a
couple of hundred pounds by way of bonus’. Many
hundreds have been wasted in costly experiments
bearing on the production of pictures by mechanical
means; and many hundreds more have been thrown
away in other directions over the issue of this book.
We trust that the whole matter will ere long be
properly ventilated, and that, if the Government
must go into Business, they will devote the im-
mense resources of the State Printing Office to the
production of a readable daily newspaper! The
“Railway Guido Book” is only valuable as a
flimsy memorial of a huge job. We strain at gnats
and swalloW camels.
Mr Robert Burdett Smith., M.P.
Pew of his contemporaries have been more successful
in public life, and there are, too, few whose future is more
replete with promise than the gentleman whose portrait
(a striking likeness) graces the first page of this day’s
issue. Prom the biographical facts we have gathered
of Mr. Smith’s career, it appears to have been one of
unceasing industry; nor does the high professional and
political status to which he has attained relax any of
that energy and zeal which first led to well-merited
pre-eminence. Humanly speaking, the best years of his
life are before him.
Mr. Smith received the rudiments of his education
at Mr. Cape’s school, where many of our most distin-
guished Australian-born public men were educated;
and afterwards at St. James’s Grammar School. He
subsequently read classics under Dr. Mac Kean, LL.D., a
ripe scholar, and afterwards took a course extending over
two years with Mr. Sheridan Moore, formerly Head
Master of Lyndhurst College. Having selected the
legal profession as the one most congenial to the
promptings of an active mind, he was articled to Mr.
William Roberts, sometime M.P. for Goulburn, and a
man of keen and varied intellect. Mr. Smith was ad-
mitted an attorney, fee., of the Supreme Court, on the
31st of October, 1863, after having passed an examina-
tion for which he was cordially complimented by the
Board of Examiners. He at once began to practise on
his own account, and was from the very first successful —
zeal, assiduity, intelligence, and suavity of manner
having secured him a large body of clients. He entered
public life on the occasion of the great meeting—the
hugest ever organised by Australians—held at the Vic-
toria Theatre, to express sorrow for and condolence
with H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh, on the mad
attempt made on his life. Mr. Smith spoke at that
meeting, and made such an impression on his hearers
that he was afterwards elected President of the Austra-
lian Patriotic Association, an office which Re held for
two years. The Captain Cook Memorial found in him
an enthusiastic promoter. He becafeie honorary secre-
tary to the Committee, and remained “ one of the few ”
who persevered in the undertaking till their object was
attained—till the memorial statue of the great navi-
gator—the first historic name in the annals of Australia
—was raised and unveiled on Hyde Park. |
A wider arena of usefulness than the courts of law
or the platform of the A. P. Association opened before
Mr. Smith. He was elected to represent the large con-
stituency of the Hastings in 1869, and has never since
lost the confidence of the electors. Like Mr. Suther-
land at Paddington, he is evidently the •* fixed choice ”
of the voters, and has already been four times returned
by them. On entering Parliament, he gave an indepen-
dent support to Sir James Martin, but never ceased to
watch the interests of his constituents with vigil-
ance.' At the general election of 1874 he carried off
the wreath of victory over a man of great ability—a
native of the electorate—by a majority of 325, and at
the last election headed- the poll by over 1,000 t proof
positive not only of the confidence he won, but of that
he to this day maintains. His stout maintenance of the
right of the people to three members, while the first'
Parkes Electoral Reform Bill was before the House,
secured him such an expression on the part of those
he served as seldom falls to the lot of a public man—
he was returned unopposed in 1874, and received a series
of ovations—cavalcades, headed by bands of music and
banner-bearers, dinners, balls, and picnics, which abun-
dantly demonstrated his popularity.
As a practical legislator Mr. Smith has given many
proofs of disciplined zeal and ability. He carried reso-
lutions, on four different occasions, in the House of
Assembly, in favour of adequate representation—three
members—for the Hastings, and also a Bill through all
its stages for the same purpose, but which was lost in
the Upper House at its second reading on the ground
that it was piecemeal legislation. The way he persisted
in forcing this Bill through the Assembly, in the very
teeth of the Robertson Government, not only proved
that he was a good debater, but a skilled Parliamentary
tactician. His efforts to simx>lify the practice and pro-
cedure in Equity have been adopted, as also his saga-
cious amendments in the Audit Act, by means of which
money votes are not allowed to lapse at the end of the
financial year. To him we are indebted for the Further
Law of Evidence Amendment Bill, and much valuable
assistance in general legislation. At the last general
elections, (1877) Mr. Smith was re-elected without
leaving Sydney; and when it became probable that the
electorate would be divided, he was asked by both sec-
tions of the residents to re-represeut them. He has
been three times appointed a member of the Com-
mittee of Elections and Qualifications, and was last
(and probably will be this) year its chairman. Four
most important cases, involving weighty questions of
constitutional law, namely, those of Messrs. Combes,
Buchanan, Fitzpatrick, and Sutherland came before the
Committee last session.
Mr. Smith’s disinterested patriotism found its freest
outlet in his efforts to raise a statue to the illustrious
Cook. The magnificent success that attended those
efforts was attested on the day of unveiling the memo-
rial amidst the grandest public assemblage that ever
congregated in Sydney. The programme of that ex-
hilarating day’s proceeding was planned by Mr. Smith,
and its arrangements carried into effect under his con-
trol and that of an excellent committee. So impressed
were those m(sst interested in the movement that he
was presented, at Government House, on the 22nd
July, 1879 the Lieutenant - Governor -presiding
on the occasion—with a silver statuette (a tiny
imitation of Woolner’s bronze Cook), which bears the
following inscription :—‘ Presented to Robert Bnrdett
Smith, Esq., M.P., by the Qook Statute Committee, in
appreciation of his long and invaluable services as
honorary secretary and chief promoter of the movement
for the erection of a national monument in honour of
the illustrious discoverer of this territory. Chairman,
the Hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G., M.L.C.,
Lieutenant-Governor, Sydney, New South Wales, 1879,’
Mr. Smith has rendered valuable services as Exhibition
Commissioner since the opening of the International
Exhibition. He has been twice examiner in law for the
admission of attorneys for the Supreme Court, is a
magistrate of the territory, a patron of literature and
art, and a gentleman entirely devoted to the moral and
material progress of his native land. We say to him in
conclusion —Prospere precede et regna!
Gaol Gospel.
They are very particular on the score of religion
at H.M. Gaol, Darlinghurst, and the attendance
in the Chapel at each of the various services is
good, if compulsory. Each prisoner is examined,
or rather questioned, on his arrival at the gaol as
to his creed, and it is not sufficient that a man
should belong to any well-known sect, but that that
sect must also be known to the warder who acts as
examiner. One instance of the tyranny exercised
by this Jack-in-Office was exhibited some little
time ago, on the occasion of the admission of the
late Captain Moonlight and Co. into the establish-
ment. The gallant Captain was “ stuck up,”
contrary to the usual order of things, by the
examining warder, when the following conversation
took place:—
Warder: “Age?”
Captain Moonlight: “ Thirty-four.”
Warder; “Where born?”
Captain M.: “ County Down, Ireland.”
Warder ; “ Profession ?”
Captaiji M.; “ Bushranger.”
Warder : “ What ship did you come out in ?”
Captain M.: “ Flying Dutchman.”
Warder ; “ Religion ?”
Captain M.: “ Atheist.”
Warder: “Oh, come yer know, we can’t have
anything of that sort here! Yer must be some-
thing ; let’s say Church of England.”*
And Moonlight was straightway disestablished.
And talking of religion, a change in the ministry
would be a great boon to the institution. Canon
Rich is much too great a gun for the post he occu-
pies. _ His language is so mildly insipid, and to the
majority of his congregation so entirely and abso-
lutely incomprehensible, that nine-tenths of the
audience invariably take to having fits (of a sleepy
character), while the balance, including an occa-
sional warder, retire in a hurried and precipitate
manner, and in most instances not too gracefully,
to attend to urgent private affairs. Even when
the hearers do catch some portion of the reverend
gentleman’s discourse, it is to be feared that the
effect is not all that could be wished. On one
occasion the learned Canon had sought with much
ingenuity to “ point a moral and adorn a tale”
by certain references to the life of Richard Baxter,
and on coming out of the chapel one of the pri-
soners was overhead to ask another, “ I say, Jack,
who was Richard Baxter?” To which the other
replied (he was a “ long-timer,” and having served
his country in gaol for the larger portion of his
existence, was generally referred to in such mat-
ters) : “ Oh, don’t yer know ? Why, he did seven
years here while I was in, in ’62 V/
This was Rich with a vengeance!
[*This was very rough on the Anglican Church ; but
it is necessary to remember that the warder was a real
Roman Catholic and wanted to “ cook ” the gaol statis-
tics to suit His Grace Archbishop Vaughan and to
upset the little games of *the Revs. Zachary Barry and
Wazir Beg).
MB. ROBERT BURDETT SMITH, M.P.


The Great Slander Case.
The case Shepherd v. Dibbs, for slander, which
was terminated on Wednesday night by the return
of a verdict of £2OOO damages for the plaintiff has,
as well by reason of the high social position occu-
pied by several of the parties principally inte-
rested as of the extraordinary amount of glaring
perjury obviously committed during the protracted
hearing, and the discreditable nature of the reve-
lations made, attracted a larger amount of public
attention than perhaps any other cause of the
kind ever decided in New South Wales. It is
estimated that the costs carried by the verdict
will amount, at a moderate computation, to
£l6OO, so that everything considered, the unlucky
defendant stands mulcted perhaps in a sum of at
least £5OOO. As the public have been made but
too fully aware of the details of this cause celehre
it will be sufficient to say that the suit arose
from the fact of Mr. G. R. Dibbs having stated to
several persons that Mr. Shepherd, M.L,A.,
had had improper relations with Mrs. J.
C. Dibbs, defendant’s sister-in-law, in the
office of plaintiff, who, it appeared, had
acted as Mrs. Dibbs’ solicitor in the matter of
certain negotiations with Mr. J. C. Dibbs, her
husband, from whom she has long been separated.
The fact of Mr. G. R. Dibbs having given utter-
ance to the statements complained of was fully
proved, and Mr. Shepherd, though admitting that
he had on more than one occasion transgressed
the laws of morality by visiting a certain in-
famous house in company with disreputable
women, denied that he had ever been there with
Mrs. Dibbs, or that his relations with her in his
office had ever been any but those which might
properly exist between lawyer and client. Mrs.
Dibbs corroborated Mr. Shepherd’s testimony
in regard to all matters of which she and plain-
tiff had mutual cognizance. On the other hand,
one Lewis Sampson (who, it may be stated, was
formerly very friendly with Shepherd, but had a
serious disagreement with him about financial
matters in 1878) swore that he was the actual
witness of improper conduct on the part of Mrs.
Dibbs and Shepherd in the latter’s office, and that
his attention had been drawn to the conduct in
question by a Mr. Wilton, -who at the time was in
Shepherd’s employ as a clerk. Wilton, who was
called as a witness, denied the truth of Sampson’s
statements in toto, and this denial was no doubt
one of the most powerful factors in bringing the
jury (whose verdict was a three-fourths one) to a
decision. The fact that James Lee, a cabman,
who came forward to swear that he had on
one occasion driven Mrs. Dibbs and Shepherd to
an immoral house, identified another female wit-
ness and not Mrs. Dibbs as the woman he had
driven, also produced a great impression on the
court, and materially damaged defendant’s case.
Efforts were made to show that Mrs. Dibbs and
plaintiff had been improperly intimate in Mel-
bourne, but these failed. The names of several
residents of Melbourne were imported into the
case, which was, as already stated, replete -with
evidences of the grossest perjury, and with indi-
cations that witnesses had been bribed and other-
wise tampered with. Mr. Darley, Q.C,, plaintiff’s
leading counsel, made a most powerful address to
the jury, and His Honor Sir William Manning, in
summing up, made observations tending to dis-
credit the evidence of several witnesses for the
defence. More than one prosecution for perjury
in connection with the case has already been
initiated. Mr. M. H. Stephen, Q.C. (who was un-
able to remain till the end of the trial), Mr. Davis,
and Mr. Buchanan, instructed by Messrs. Dain-
trey and Chapman, appeared for the defendant,
Mr. G. R. Dibbs ; Messrs. Manning and Pilcher,
instructed by Messrs. Cannon and Laughlin, were
associated with Mr. Darley in the conduct of
Mr. Shepherd’s case.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Bowker is going to be married.
Captain William Kobertson has heen appointed
warden of the N.S.W. marine hoard.
Lord Normaribj is on a visit to Portland,
Victoria, where a regatta was held on Thursday last.
The Jennings testimonial and banquet promise
to be financially successful.
Dr. Harman Tarrant has been eiected to the
honorary surgeonship at Sydney Infirmary rendered
vacant by the retirement of Dr. Cox.
The Eorke’s Drift hero, Major Chard, has
been presented by the Queen with a handsome diamond
ring.
It is stated by the San Francisco Bulletin
that the Marquis of Lome and Sir Johu Macdonald,
Premier of the Dominion, will shortly visit Australia.
The domestic relations of Mr. Berry and like-
wise those of his successor, Mr. Service, are rather
mixed.
Mr. Ramsay, the new Victorian Minister of
Education, is a native of the colony and was educated
at the Scotch College.
The Eight Rev. Bishop Selwyn arrived from
Norfolk Island by the Gnnga on Wednesday. He is
en route to Auckland.
Mr. Fisher, who defeated Mr. Casey for
Mandnrang, is a barrister, and was formerly a school-
master. He is an energetic man, and altogether very
much like our Mr. Buchanan.
Mr. Henry Burton, late proprietor of Burton’s
Circus, recently married a Brisbane widow possessed of
considerable means. Let us hope that widows may be
more profitable investments than circuses.
Tavares the actor, having won his suit against
Holland the money lender, emphasised the occasion by
dressing in a brown holland suit, and promenading in
front of Holland’s office. What a funny dog you are
Morton Tavares!
Mr. Hector Munro, manager of the Moe
(Gippsland) branch of the Bank of Australasia, has
been presented by his directors with a handsome gold
watch in recognition of his bravery on the occasion of
the attempted sticking up of the hank.
Captain J. W. Brown, for 22 years in the
service of the A.S.N. Co., has been appointed Govern-
ment shipping master at Sydney in place of the late
Captain Shorter. The selection has given every
satisfaction.
It may not be generally known that Mr. Chap-
man, the newly-elected Mayor of Newcastle, is one of
the smartest pedestrians in the colonies. Some three
years ago he easily defeated Jim Dutton, one of the
• crackest ’ runners in that athletic establishment, the
Government printing office.
Sir Henry Parkes has been proposed as a can-
didate for the seat on the senate of Sydney University,
vacated by Mr. William Forster. A good many people
say that the nomination is a result of political spite,
Mr. Forster having forfeited his seat through prolonged
absence from the colony.
The Hon. F. M. Innes, lately appointed Presi-
dent of the Tasmanian Legislative Council, vice Sir
James Wilson, is a man of very high intellectual
culture, but untried political principles. He was twice
President of the Tasmanian Council of Education, and
the speeches he delivered at two of its annual meetings
were of the most dignified and ornate description. Mr.
Innes is one of the best speakers in the House, hut his
style is somewhat too severe aud efeseie lor ordiscrj
purposes. The Presidentship of the Council will he a
godsend to Mr. Innes.
The Hon. Charles Meredith died last week at
Launceston. Deceased till latterly had been a member
of the Tasmanian Parliament, but since June last he
held the post of Police Magistrate in Launceston.
Twice he had heen Colonial Treasurer, the last time
when the Eeibey Ministry held office, and had ever
taken a warm interest in the welfare of the colony. He
was champion of the so-called popular cause, and was
beloved by the people. In 1853 he had a station on the
Murrnmbidgee, and two years afterwards he married
one of the most gifted of colonial authoresses, whoso
numerous works on colonial life attest her literary
worth. Next to E. P. Horne’s writings on life in the
colonies, those of Mrs. Meredith are said to be the most
reliable and practically valuable.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
At Orange a railway goods clerk has been com-
mitted for trial on a charge of embezzling 4s. 2d.
The new Victorian Ministry were sworn in
and entered on their official duties on Friday last.
In Melbourne the number of depositors in the
Savings’ Bank has in two years increased by over 4,000.
Strong efforts are being made to secure the
reprieve of Wells, the Cunamnlla robber.
It is now unlikely that the re-election of any
of the new Victorian Ministry will be opposed.
Modetsky, who tried to assassinate the Czar,
was tried one day and hanged the next.
It is now pretty well settled that the Inter-
national Exhibition is to close on the I7th inst.
Sixty miners at Tucker’s Creek are making
from rations to wages.
Dp to date £22,000 has been remitted from
this colony in aid of the Irish Famine Relief Fund.
Mudgee residents object to the employment of
prison labour on public works.
Henry Whitton, a collier, has been killed at
Bulli by a fall of earth and stone.
Government are letting in small contracts the
work of carrying out the improvements proposed at the
Circulay Quay.
“Eucalyptus,” who has failed to supply his
name and address, has heen awarded the prize for the
Melbourne Exhibition Cantata.
Numbers of Charters Towers miners, dis-
appointed with the Woolgar rush, are arriving at George-
town.
The annual assessment of the Sydney Corpora-
tion is stated at £1,436,765, giving at Is. iu'tho £ a rate
of £71,830.
Blacks on the Einesleigh, Etheridge district,
North Queensland, have made a raid on a station and
driven away 200 fat cattle.
The British Board of Trade returns show an
increase in imports for February of £4,562,500, and an
increase in exports of £3,750,000.
An Adelaide constable, whilst pursuing a band
of larrikins last week, burst a blood vessel and dropped
dead.
Eliza Lucas, convicted of murdering her hus-
band at Echnca, has had her sentence commuted to
imprisonment for life.
A splendid copper lode, five feet wide, thirty
feet from the surface, and expected to yield 15 or 16 per
cent., has been found at Cow Flat, near Bathursto
Wells, convicted of the Cunnamulla bank rob-
bery and the wounding of Mr. Murphy, by whom he
was arrested, is to he hanged on Monday next at
Brisbane.
It has been resolved by the Grand Lodge of
New South Wales to form a fund for the support and
maintenance of widows and orphans of Freemasons in
this colony.
The Rev. Mr. Coller, a pupil of the Rev. C.
H. Spurgeon, has been appointed Baptist minister
at Newcastle, and purposes dividing his time between
the local congregation and that at Wallsend.
F. B. Hann, butcher, has received a verdict for
£6OO on a contract for the supply of meat to the gaols.
The difference in the amount for the carcases was caused
by the stock tax.
Greasy fleece grown on the Hon. G. Hi Cox’s
Mudgee Station has averaged 16|d in London. Which
price is equal to any obtained by Mr. Cox during the
last eight years.
The famous confederate cruiser Shenandoah is
no more. She recently founded off Socotra with most
of her crew. She was at the time the property of the
Sultan of Zanzibar.
On the Palmer recently a Chinaman took
advantage of the twilight to sell 6oz gold to a hank
manager. The latter found next day that he had lost
£l3 by the transaction.
A tiger-shark fourteen feet in length was
hooked by Mr. W. Smith, of Woolloomooloo, last
Friday. It dragged the boat from Garden laland-to
Bradley’s Head before it gave in.
On Sunday last the foundation stone of a new
E.C. convent and school was laid at Blayney, by the
Eev. J. E. Tenison-Woods. The collection realised
£765.
Six and three-quarter millions of tons of water
were consumed in Sydney last year, showing an increase
over 1878 of 787,000 tons. The weekly average consump-
tion was 31,891,324 gallons.
A well-known officer in the Survey Department
amused himself by having a bonfire in Margaret-street
the other day. He put a lighted pipe in his coat-tail
pocket.
At last meeting of the Trades and Labour
Council Mr. T. White drew attention to the fact that
at a large meeting held in Manchester last October it
was represented that at Newcastle, N.S.W., there existed
a great demand for miners!
In the Times obituary of 15th January, the
deaths of six persons whose united ages amounted to
528 years, were recorded: In the same obituary were
also recorded the deaths of 14 persons whose ages
averaged 73 years and 6 months.
Prisoners at PaiTamatta Gaol on Sunday last
objected to the quality of the bread supplied to them,
and an outbreak was expected. Matters were, how-
ever, made smooth by the substitution of good bread
and biscuit.
Stamped registered letter envelopes are shortly
to he introduced by the Post Office Department, and
will be sold at 4d. each. All registered letters must,
however, be handed to an officer of the department
and receipts obtained for them.
Nine selections, containing 4,000 acres, have
been taken up between Cairns (North Queensland) and
the Mnlgrave Eiver. The day is not far distant when
this fertile district will rival Mackay in the production
of sugar.
Sir John O’Shanassy, at a public table recently,
hazarded the opinion that commercial travellers when
old became billiard-markers. Mr. Norris, a ‘commer-
cial ’ present, corrected Sir John, and said that w»m-
ont travellers turned members of Parliament.
A man was found drowred in the tank of the
Dobroyde (Ashfield) Church on Saturday night last.
A large sum of money was found on him. He had evi-
dently been in the water for several days, and during
that time the sexton had heen using the water.
A representatives’ dinner in connection with
the seventh annual session of the Protestant Alliance
Friendly Society of Australasia was held on Tuesday
night at the Protestant Hall. The gathering was well
attended. Alderman Lees presided.
Lcrd and Lady Augustus Loftus and suite
visited Sydney itiat aa4 witnessed the striking oj three
of the large silver exhibition medals. Two of these
were presented to His Excellency and Lady Loftus re-
spectively, and one to Sir Henry Parkes.
According to Mr. Lackey, the only impedi-
ment in the way of commencing the waterworks at
Bathurst is the want of power to resume certain land.
This power will, it is hoped, shortly be given by Par-
liament.
A meeting of the parishioners of St. Thomas’s,
Balmain, will be held on Monday evening next, to
further consider the question of erecting a parsonage,
enlarging the church, and paying off the existing liabi-
lities thereon.
The Sydney Coffee Palace Company, limited,
whose operations have so far been wonderfully success-
ful, have secured extensive premises fronting Lower
George and Pitt streets, and intend establishing
another hostelry on the model of their Upper George-
street place of business.
The latest addition to the Sydney Masonic
lodges, of the N.S.W. constitution, is the Oxford, No.
22, consecrated on Tuesday night last. Br. Calder is
W.M. An elegant supper was laid at the Cambridge
Club Hotel on the occasion of the installation of
officers.
At Wattle Flat, near Bathurst, Joseph Poison
has, while suffering from insanity caused by drink,
butchered his two children—a girl and a hoy of 12 and
9 years respectively—with an adze. Another child, a
boy of two, was found lying beside the body of his
murdered sister.
It is said that £500,000 worth of butter is sold
annually in Sydney. A large and influential deputation
(introduced by Mr. Eoseby, M.L.A.) representing
the butter interest of the Southern coast of the colony
has asked the Corporation to establish a central butter
market with proper accomodation. The matter is to he
considered.
Mr. Dailey made a most eloquent speech in
the Council on Wednesday night in opposition to Sir
John Eobertson’s motion that the Public Instmetion
Bill be read a second time. Mr. Dailey, however, re-
marked that * he had no hope or expectation that any-
thing he hod felt it his duty to urge against the measure
would either arrest its passage or materially alter its
provisions.’
The first quarterly luncheon given, on Tuesday
last, by his Eight Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney (Mr.
E. Fowler), was a very extensive and splendidly-catered-
for affair. 300 guests, including the Lieutenant-Gover-
nor, the Premier, the Vice-President of the Executive
Council, and the Speaker, were present; also the
foreign and colonial commissioners, and many leading
citizens.
Mr. Clarke, of Lassetter and Co.’s, in his re-
cent lecture at the School of Arts, pointed out a very
important fact in the interest of householders. He said
that every parcel of colonial kerosene underwent a bona-
fide Government test as to its safety in, use, while as re-
gards the American there was no such test —no guaran-
tee whatever. Mr. Clarke contended that in the light
of the recent lamentable accidents this fact ought to he
remembered by every householder.
“ The League for the Encouragement of Colo-
nial Industries ” say that Mr. Buchanan's arguments in
the late discussion were * able and unanswerable.’ This
intimation, conveyed in the hold, genius-stamped hand-
writing of Mr. G. E. M’Lean, will no doubt act as an
effectual salve to the sore caused by David’s miserable
failure in the slander case, and tone down the irritation
which induced the Mudgee philosopher to insult the
judge during the hearing.
Constables’ evidence is generally an exem-
plification o f the powers of the human imagination.
In Brisbane recently an. active and intelligent constable
swore that a Mr. Wildash occupied on a certain night
an impossible position, and covered as much ground as
a man eight feet long. In Rockhampton esprit de force
goes even further. The Argus tells us of two constables
there who managed to swear to part of a conversation
which took place half-a-mile from the one, and further
from the other. This extraordinary power of hearing
was develox>ed in order to permit the swearers to sup-
port a brother policeman’s evidence.
Another big bungle at the Town Hall I It ha?
been discovered that a trifle of £4,500 is, or was until
recently, due to the Corporation for work done for
Government and private individuals., Concerning this
little amount, according to the city auditors, there was
no record in the ordinary books of account. However,
everything now appears to he lovely and serene once
more. Aldermen Roberts and Playfair, who it was in-
sinnated by a certain oleaginous person, had had work
done for them at the city expense, are clearly shown to
have paid their accounts long before the present affair
cropped up.
The new venture is making great headway.
In other words, the Sydney Coffee Palace is a great
success. Everything about this affair is new to Sydney.
It meets a public want in a new way; it is an hotel on
new principles; its interior arrangements are new; it is
new, too, in point of promptness and attention on the
part of those in attendance. We should have heen sur-
prised had we heen told such an efficient and suitable
staff of waitresses as are to be found at the Coffee
Palace could have heen got together in this city. Mr.
Hughes has in reality proved himself another Victorian
who has come over to teach ns something. The Palace
can hardly meet the demands made upon it. There can
he no question now that it is a commercial success, and
a great convenience for the public.
The cash system is daily being more
•generally adopted in all branches of trade in Sydney,
particularly in the furniture line. Mr. W. B. Campbell,
of the Furnishing Arcade, who introduced the system,
finds it to work admirably, putting business on a right
basis and tending to improve trade. Mr. Campbell
recently pointed out in the newspapers that the pur-
chaser was really the gainer by the cash system. He
instanced the fact in this way: A man who went to
some houses with £lOO cash to purchase £2OO worth of
furniture really got very little more than could have
been supplied at the Furnishing Arcade for the cash
payment. An enormous commission, hacked up by
heavy interest on hills, was charged at the house where
the purchaser got credit and fancied he was being easily
treated. It therefore is a fact that the Furnishing
Arcade, while of benefit to its proprietor, is at the same
time doing no small amount of public good.
The photographic art has reached a high point
of excellence in Sydney, which of all Australian cities
certainly ranks foremost in this respect. As proof of
this we ask our readers to take a look in at the studio of
Mr. Boyd, George-street. There, at the present time,
may he ,ggen the best specimen of photographic art
ever exhibited in Sydney. The portraits of all the
foreign commissioners are shown, grouped in the most
artistic style, and the likenesses and positions are most
natural. How the grouping has heen done must be left
for Mr. Boyd to explain. The work in this respect is
that of an artist of no ordinary ability, and
Mr. Boyd well deserves the enconiums passed upon him
by gentlemen who, coming from the home of art, may
well be considered connoisseurs. We would like Mr.
Boyd to place the picture where ft may he seen by the
public, so that the Sydney people may know what
artistic talent they really have at their command.
Mr. Service, the Victorian Premier, has had a
brilliantly successful meeting at Maldon. His Govern-
ment propose, for the prevention of deadlocks, to enable
the Upper House to take out questions of public policy
from the Appropriation Bill, and deal with them sepa-
rately ; to cut up rangy country into small blocks and
let them to the highest bidders; to consider the irriga-
tion question; t« place the control of railways in the
hands of a board instead of a minister ; to continue subsi-
dies to local bodies; to reduce salaries of all civil ser-
vants hereafter appointed to office ; to abolish pensions
ans render life insurance by civil servants compulsory ;
to facilitate the carrying out of Sir John Goode’s scheme
in regard to the navigation of the Yarra; and to ren edy
as far as practicable the injustices of the late Govern-
ment- The established protective system, except as it
affects miners atad farmers, is not to he interfered with;
the Eduaation Act is not to be altered; and settlement
is to be encouraged.
Writing about the recent political discussion
between Messrs. Eeid and Buchanan, the Australasian
commends Mr. Eeid as the champion of a good cause,
and pertinently remarks: —* When such a discussion
takes place before an average audience the protectionist
advocate has every advantage, as his arguments recom-
mend themselves to the majority of the listeners, while
the arguments of those who maintain the cause of free
trade require a certain degree of mental training and
breadth of view to insure their acceptance. The benefits
of free trade are general, universal, all-surrounding like
the air we breathe, but, like the air, they are not
capable of presentation in a gross concrete form which
may impress the imagination of the common crowd.
Mr. Buchanan seems to have improved to the utmost
the advantage of his position. He regarded it as re-
lieving him from the necessity of employing anything
like argument, or of substantiating his case by anything
that could by any strain of language be spoken of as a
proof.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
The Oxford and Cambridge University eight-
oar race takes place on the *2oth current, at about
7.30 a.m.
There is likely to be a foot race between J. C.
Martine and Callaghan. Should the match be arranged
a good contest may be expected.
Attention is drawn to the splendid programme
of athletic sports provided for the Highland Society’s
meeting in the grounds of the Garden Palace this (Sat-
urday) afternoon.
The New South Wales eight-oar representative
crew for the coming match with Victoria are being
coached by Mr. F. J. Clark, and have wonderfully im-
proved in form. A steamer is to leave Circular Quay
on two or three evenings a week to witness the crew’s
practice, and later on a scratch crew will give our eight
a trial.
The fourth match, of the season between the
Newtown and Carlton clubs was commenced last Satur-
day on the Newtown ground. Carlton went in first and
put together 156 runs with the loss of 7 wickets.
Sheridan scored the odd 56 by first-class play. Davis
scored 29 and Wearel 27. Play will be continued to-day
(Saturday).
Edwards, of Prince’s Bridge, has finished the
eight-oar racing boat, to be used by the Victorian crew
in the international contest on 10th April. The craft is
56 feet long, 2 feet in beam amidships, and has a depth
of 9 inches on berth. The boat is splendidly finished,
and the builder says that in addition to superiority in
weight and workmanship he has effected a saving of
nearly £3O on the price of the imported article, besides
duty.
The Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta was in every
way a success, thanks to the exertions of Mr. J. E.
Myers, the secretary, and Mr. F. Thomas, notwith-
standing that the breeze was rather light for the sailing
crafts. ‘ Lottie ’ won the 24 ft. open boat race, beating
‘Victor’ and others. The maiden gig race was
won by H. Wilkinson’s crew as well as the double scull
race. * Orient ’ won the 22 ft. handicap race, although
the * Syren ’ sailed by the well-known amateur, Mr.
J. Myers, came in first with nearly the handicap
allowance.
The Victorian Fifteen have beaten the Austra-
lian Eleven, by one wicket and two runs. The scores
tor the first and second innings of each team were—
The Eleven, 202 and 66 respectively; The Fifteen, 166
and 104. In the Eleven’s first innings Slight made top
score, 40; Palmer being next with 31 not out. Murdoch
and Bannerman made 25 and 24: M'Donnell, 19; Jarvis
(the Adelaide representative), 21; and Boyle, 16. The
latter topped the score in the second innings of the
Eleven with 24. In the first innings of the Fifteen,
Horan made the splendid score of 62, Terry being next
with 29, and in the second innings Groube scored 55.
Horan and Waters, the not out men, scored 9 and 7
respectively. Horan should really have been got into the
team by some means or other.
At the Port Jackson Swimming Club’s first
series of matches last Friday, Mr. W. Wynne, the
president, rather easily won the half-mile champion
race, open to all comers, Barron second. E. Harman
won the divinglfor distance event, with about 48 yards,
and the 59 yards race in clothes, open to all, was carried
off by A. Bloomfield. G. Kohler took the prize for
undressing in the water. G. H. Kohler won the
50 yards swimming on back, beating A. J. Espie.
The men’s race, 300 yards, was won in splendid style by
H. L. Mater, J. Lord second. Sand G. H. Kohler third.
P. Symonds won the 50 yards race for hoys under 14;
G. H. Kohler, jun., beat Stephens, the only other com-
petitor, in ‘running headers;’ and F. Tullidge was
awarded the prize for * rescuing a drowning person in
the shortest time and in the most satisfactory manner’
—for notwithstanding the fact that the other com-
petitor, F. Bloomfield, was the quicker, the judge con-
sidered Tullidgo’s style to be best. Lieutenant von
Hammer, the Club’s instructor, performed some excel-
lent feats during the afternoon, and was loudly ap-
plauded.
J. M. Watson, the Melbourne pedestrian,
raced J. G- Martin—well known in the North—on the
Eandwick road on Satnrdayflast.'lOO yards for £2O a side.
Robert Watson of Scone was Martine’s coach, and old
Steve Poster fostered Melbourne- Watson. Mr. Lamb
was referee. The betting was not very brisk, Martine
being slightly the favorite. A magnificent race took
place, hut although the majority of spectators con-
sidered that Martine reached the tape first, the referee
decided a dead heat: and it was agreed to have a runoff
last Monday. At the run off Martine had it all his own
way, and a short distance off the tape was leading by a
yard or more; when suddenly a man who had been
backing Watson and keeping his side clear rushed over
at Martine and stooping threw him off his legs. He
was picked up bruised, cut, and bleeding. A lump of
flesh was cut out of his elbow, another junk from his
anMe, both knees frightfully cut, and his right arm
numbed by (he hard metal road. The stakes are still
held by the stakeholder, who refuses to pay them over.
Legal proceedings are about to he taken against the
perpetrator of the villainous act.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Chiarini’s circus has finished its Melbourne
season.
Mr. W. C. Dillon and his wife, Miss Edith
Pender, are playing at the Queensland theatre, Brisbane.
Herr Wagner has just recovered from a severe
attack of influenza.
Hudson’s Surprise Party were to play at Mary-
borough, Queensland, for three nights, commencing last
Saturday.
The Patti troupe give two concerts at Bathurst
next week.
Mr. Leamy, of the Froliques, has a financial
dispute with Miss Lottie Elliott, the pretty skipping-
rope dancer.
The English circus, which lately had its head-
quarters in Hunter and Castlereagh-streets, plays at
Wagga on 15th,lfith, 17th, and 18th current.
Mr. B. Fairclough, the tragedian, is now play-
ing in Port Mackay, but intends proceeding to Sydney
via Brisbane towards the close of this month.
The composer Verdi is considering a libretto
on the subject of Othello, on which he will compose, if
satisfied with the theme, a striking opera.
Camilla TJrso declined performing at T°°*
woomha after leaving Brisbane, as she required a gu 4 * -
rantee of £lOO. Her expenses and £5O were guarantee
by some musical townsmen of Toowoomba; but th e y
thought £lOO was too much for the violiniste to ask.
H.M.S. Pinafore was performed last week ir
Launceston and Hobart Town by amateurs who obtainc
Mr. Williamson’s consent before production. Tb
affair was a success.
M*Lean T s Juvenile troumbadours, after a
cessful tour through New Zealand, have sett)
George’s Hall, Melbourne. On Wednesday*’
in * Conrad and Lyiette.’
Mr. Williamson and Mr. Sam
quarralled, the former gentlem an a’
returns of receipts furnished by f
recent season at the Royal were T
counted the attendance on one r
Mr. Lazar for the proportion *
represented by the alleged
The amount actually in dr


was held that a case had not been made out by Mr.
Williamson; and that there was no proof that defendant
had received the money or the money’s worth, or that
plaintiff’s returns were more accurate than Mr. Lazar’s.
Lyster’s new Italian and English Company
commenced the new season at the Opera House, Mel-
bourne, in ‘II Trovatore ’on Wednesday last. Signor
and Signora Coy are among the ‘ stars ’; so is Mr.
Edward Earley, just returned from Italy. Signor
Yenosta, Mr. G. Verdi, Mr. 'Armes Beaumont, Mr.
Templeton have also been engaged.
A correspondent asks : —‘ Suppose a female
* hoss-marine,’ who has two seats reserved for her at
the Patti concerts brings with her every evening a caput
mortuum in the shape of a tall, ugly, thick-set person,
is it fair for that man, who isn’t supposed to belong to
the Herald staff, and who certainly obtains admission
free, to run down the diva on his road home in the rail-
way carriages ?’
George Darrell opened on the 3rd inst. at the
Theatre Eoyal, Adelaide, in a play written by himself,
entitled the ‘ Forlorn Hope.’ Among the performers
are Miss Marie Gordon, Miss Jenny Watt Tanner, Miss
Kate Arden, Miss Maggie Knight, Messrs’ W. J. Hol-
loway, Frederick Thome, Herbert Flemming, Hans
Phillips, J. O’Brien. ‘The Forlorn Hope’ is sensational
in the extreme.
On Friday last, prior to the departure for
Melbourne of Mr. William Creswick, who intends, after
completing a four weeks’ engagement in the city last
named, to proceed to England, a number of gentlemen
met at Molony’s Hotel and presented the eminent tra-
gedian, through the Hon. Geoffrey Eagar, with a token
of regard in the shape of a gold watch and appendages
and a purse of sovereigns. Mr. Creswick feelingly
replied.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Horace Lingard and Com-
pany are much hurt by and express intense surprise at
statements which have appeared both in the southern
and Sydney press concerning the circumstances under
which they left Melbourne. Mr. Lingard assures us
that he made no secret of his intention to leave,
and that, far from departing ‘like a thief in the
night ’ or ‘ sneaking away ’ to a steamer, as has been
represented, he and his wife and company left in broad
daylight and in full view of the world. He further
states that there was not the slightest reason why he
should * sneak away.’ He is under bonds to appear and
answer Mr. Williamson’s complaint against him re
‘ Pinafore.’ He expresses a strong belief that he will
be able not only to show that he has a right to play the
piece in question but to prove that Mr. Williamson has
title to the copyright; and he appears determined to
test the validity of the statements made in the Argus
concerning him by an action for libel.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
NOTICRS TO MANAGRRS, ENTREPRENEURS, ETC.
Msmagers desirous of hamg their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed m The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members op the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
imes to receiv# communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to then- whereabouts, their successes
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest. y
“FOR I AM NOTHING IF NOT CRITICAL.*
” —“Othello.”
theateeeoyal
The Patti Concerts.
In a summary of events such as ours, we have neces-
sarily to collate our notes, and to give a collective
° f T r entS ra ? er tban a detailed or analysed
notice. The concerts m order subsequent to our last
notice are the sixth, seventh, and eighth, at each of
which new beauties were displayed. The ‘ Una voce
poco pa (from Rossini's ‘II Barbiere’) gave some or-
namental passages inserted in the roulades of the final
™Tir e u lent ’-^ P if?? lens of tbat exquisite staccato which
is Madame Patti s great vocal feature of eminence be-
yond comparison with any other vocalist. For the
encore Ames pretty ditty, ‘Where the bee sucks,* I
wasabnght, taking, characteristic rendering. ‘E Strano
(the Jewel Song’) from Faust, after the ‘ King
of Thule )—a shower of ornaments. The final duet of
this concert— L Estasi ’ by Alary)— with Sig. Ciampi.
was a gem of elegant singing, the two voices blending
together in sweetest harmony. On Friday there were
two novelties—' The last rose of summer’—not the verv
o^peoP l6 ’ 3 version of hundreds of years back, to which
‘The Groves of Blarney’ and other words have been
adapted—but the variated edition of Flotow in his
‘Martha,’ and never before have those sweet phrases
with a sweet terminating cadence, produced greater
effect. But the great piece of the evening was a
Tarantella composed for Madame Patti by Bevignani
in which the composer seems to have tried how he could
puzzle the artiste into something beyond human per-
formance, but evidently to have failed in the attempt.
Such difficulties of vocahsation it is almost impossible
to imagine iwonderfu! in themselves, the perfect ease
with which they were overcome is still more so. Every
ornamentation ever seen in any vocal score, every kev
every possible change, was introduced ; occasionally
the flights were so daring as positively to to startle the
listener. Passages so florid, taken with such ease and
finish have never been heard equalled here or surpassed
anywhere. The sudden insertion of accidental semi
tones in the most sparkling runs, the exquisite trills in
major and minor passages, the voice literally alive with
dotted staccato notes, filled the air with music We
do not think that even Madame Patti ever saw or sang
more difficult music. And the artist must have been
delighted that she had an accompanist like Giorza
who could follow every subtle change of voice and
colouring so implicitly; the communion of two such
artists, worthy of each other, was a delight which did
not require merely the musician to appreciate: the most
unskilled could enjoy it; and a furore of excitement
was created amongst the audience—shown in perfect
shouts of applause—as is but very rarely manifested.
inis and the ‘Bolero’ of Bitter may henceforth he
C W/S d ‘ (e . uvres of Madame Patti's many
voeai wonders—-lessons in art as well as in singing which
cannot be paid for too dearly. On this same evening
tiie eantatnce gave a third gem (in addition to two pre?
or e s ) concluding the concert with a lovely
serenade by Gounod, Wiens mon eceur/dn which she wa s
Obligato passages by
M-de Munck, in which one cannot be pro-
« that we listened as much to the instru-
Awiff *i th i e v °c a hst, so perfect was the combination
were th the lo l?i y • eff v°i rt ° f ? x f cutive skill without effort
were the admirable variations of Proch, in which
her things, the highest possible note of the’
M3hfce en * y , T the sin^'er > The sweet scena.
U luce di quest Amma (Linda) would have been mm-o
.Y adame Pa ttilhad she taken it half a tone
j the unmerous cadences were so beautifully
C “ lt f d as to fall 011 the ear like the
ZIS ° f m ? s l ca 1 1 verses. The audience on Mon-
(la,y ou t Tlec J m spirited acclamation that of Fridav.
M^ev re ? lmost mclined to pick a quarrel with M. de
Munck: he goes on night after night piling up the
a £?“y°, f Pieces more beautiful than any that have pre-
ceded them, and more exquisitely played, if possible—
WhoT 3 that the concerts will finish before
unfolded to us half the beauties of his portfolio
repertoire—if an artist can be said to have a re-
pertome who can do anything. But such anger is only
the outcome of delight. M. de Mimck gains on us more
and more after each fresh hearing: the absence of
everything tbatYhn 8 clap ’ tra P’ wi th the presence of
h t sh ° w ® a reverence for art, evinces not
player and the thorough musician, hut the
virtuoso who prizes art beyond applause. We owe to
Monsieur de Munck an inexpressible tribute for his
an a d execil tion of that wonderfully touch-
fnti n + rC T antlC ‘Marche Funebre,’ of Chopin.
Who could fail to be moved by it ? If the transcrin-
tion is thoroughly in accord with the original ttie exe-
cution breathed the spirit of pathos The low din
ther S on f ing nf nm ! g mov ? ment > the peal of the organ.
thl sweet “ “ifitery march, followedby
like nTblf a rf-stimng wailmg air, uow in solo, now
ww ii*’ th a shake tlia-t produced |a thrill of sym-
foneoFa i't bv e F X^ e t ed by the p - layer ' aud the
joneot a set by C. St. Saens, an eminent master), which
the rapturous encore brought forth was in siWai
so ,as not to disturb the harmony previously
produced: the peculiar modulations and changes from
S r ™u° r ’ and end “ g witb Passages on the highest
b ™ niCS ,° f Purity, were singidarly
YH* avads Y tr >' to record in the impost
sible space of a few lines the many triumphs of M de
S +n llmann ’ S delicious trifles (so gloriously
nus-speU m the programme)— a theme of Caraffa by
wif nCe ° f A St ‘ Saens> and a movement of a
concerto by the executant which we should like to hear
. orcb ?stra. Each piece had its peculiarities
and beauties, displaying all that could be done with the
instrument. In the two movements from Mozart’s
diSinlpYf** 6 *' M V de MTmck showed himself the true
Ow-nS nY “ u ® lc , b y ceas mg to be the soloist. Signor
T 10lm) ’ Her T (2nd viol.), and MrYvY.
Wl„ ( a) Wer 2 lm bued with the spirit of this
lovely music, and seemed delighted to play it con
andWhJ.f S T B f ay be / aid Messrs. Ortori, Eice.
and Whyte (contra basso) for the delicacy of their ac-
companiment to M. de Mimck’splaying/Signor Gioaz
carefnll y marking the time. The finish and perfection
cLwrf™* 1 ® 11 tbes ® two P iec es fitted them for any
concert-room in the world. *
Will any one—critic or critical—have the ‘audacity
that Signor Ciampi-Cellaj is not the most
bmshed baritone smger we have ever heard in the colo-
nies ? That there is a charm in his style, his soft flex-
ible smg-mg voice, his delicacy of ornamentation, his
brilliant shake (heard again on Monday in the finale to
Donizettis Bella sicome un Angelo,’ perfectly electri-
tying the house), his rich crescendo, and other evidences
of his mastery of the vocal art, are rather above the
loudness so often mistaken for singing. Whilst the
opinions of others may have undergone a marked
change, ours have never varied on these points; the
less occasion have we therefore to regret our inability
to speak m detail of his numerous delightful renditions
But his graceful ‘II Balen, and that lovely air of
-Lucantom ‘ L Isola d’lschia,’ with the charming ‘ Les
Myrthes sont fletris’ of Faure must not pass unmen-
tioned. Signor Ciampi became a public favourite at !
?rst, and the furious applause nightly greetinghis sing-
mg prove hims to be a greater favourite than ever
U, too, we have only few words for ‘ Povero Giorza.’
it I® because his deeds as a pianist speak for him to the
hearts of lus listeners. But the exquisite playing or
w l6 Hope (often attempted by others
but seldom played), and the brilliance of its
tbp tra^ t fe ng ' , Pasquinade’ (both by Gottschalk),
~J®. s , of *> delicate, clear ripple breathing hope
of tt Pe fp* the °ne, the dash of joyous merrib
otl i® r ’ ' v . ere incapable of greater excellenoe.
concerts Signor Giorza seems to imbibe the
p . mnsic pervades the atmosphere with
of M RppW rr T nde<l - - And the Steinway pianoforte
del?itful concert^ 8 “° mCOnsiderable part “ these
Gra “ * s a mistake at these concerts : not with
stoker to his want of every requisite that makes the
singer, voice, style, intonation, method, or general
knowledge to use his voice, but in his being the“
fo^a’toWion^W^b 0118 9™ ament that is exhibited
ror nomination. With such a quartet as Patti De
refmi C rpd C tn n fin’ a “ d Giorza snr ely no more would be
required to fill a programme than an additional niece
fr om each of the last two artists. ploce
Madame Patti’s benefit and the final concert will serve
o^nKfc. NeXt W6ek thepar *
Mr. Emery’s Benefit.
flQ<l bm ' takil, s a benefit at the Royal
on Tuesday evening—an appeal to which we are glad to
hers* of toeb, f ®P onded - In addition to mem-
bers ot the late Eoyal Company, Mr. Emerv had tbe
assistance of Mr Bartlett as the pom^us^bev
m DJ,,>b n ; ber st Was
r'TTefi • AT l ht (Florence) to Mr. Emery’s Can’n
Cl i^ e > m the drama taken from Dickens’s tafe. P
Tor a second piece * Our Bitterest Foe’ was amusing! v
given by Mr. and Mrs. Emery and Mr. C. Brown. S y
Benefit to the Misses Deorwtn.
The weeks performances at the Eoyal have included
talented Httb> wr to those deserving and
talented little ladies the Misses Alice and Constance
Deorwyn. who appeared as Esther and Polly Eccles to
‘Caste,’ and in <A Little Eebel.* The perforaanc^
altosio°n. ate mthe Week for more than
VICTORIA THEATRE.
Having given so long a notice of the very excellent
performance of ‘ Sour Grapes’ at this theatre in our W
issue, we have the less occasion to regret tbnt ...
1 novelties claim our attention this week The s^ccessfto
™w°k a ,^ in f comedy was interrupted for one
S™- 7 (°n Tuesday) by a benefit given for the New
sufferers, when the performance consisted
of Cn-n+ff™ fine impersonation
ot Captain Gmguh, a concert by the Theatre or-
ubfuteS the -:l rtl il erj ’ band - MadameLamal, the Belgian
™f tO V ™ tb Messrs. Hegrat. Kohler, and H<xlge
SniVfi l^ S » tS; -+i n( i?' S a concluding pertormance ‘H.M.I.
K 2f r - H i U as Tobias Shortcut. We don’t
ntebf rrw'r.f performances concluded on Tuesday
night or Wednesday morning; we did not stop to the
conclusion. But His Excellence and suite did.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE,
r •'^ le enthusiastic reception accorded to Mr. and Mrs
Saturday evening by a house crowded in
every part was the best proof they could have that Syd-
ney never forgets its favourites, and that an absence of
thev v as n°t diminished the estimation in which
they were held on their former visit. They bring with
* be ™ a company entirely new and artistic in every
, and though, by a silly but obvious error of the
w , e we f e “ade to say thatthey would play under
vantage’ of ’entirely fresh faces,’ we ought
m v w to - be able to P redlct tbat comedies acted so ad-
mirably in every respect as was “ Our Boys,’ must con-
*l“™ to . attract those who admire refinement and
f?in?Si Ce m^ Ur J )nbl , lc entertainments. Such pieces so
played are the best lessons that young people can have
m acquiring a fresh, healthy, vigorous tone of mind, in
"TPf’ m . ann |. rs > ? nd general deportment, which can-
a country where we are far
behindhand in the civilising tone of life which marks
;w 1 T“T 8 0f ?°? d J society. It is such lessons as these
tnat the drama is intended to inculcate: and if it effect
some such object it will have done the good work which
is rts purpose. Our young people here see others move
about easily and carefully as ladies and gentlemen, they
address one another in easy tones, there is nothing
forced or unnatural in their manner, no swagger, no
U ii V |vT?i? ar . la ? &uage; and even the commonplaces
of old Middlewick are the result of his previous position
in lire, not of any innate or natural vulgarity. To see
such pieces so played often must create imitation and
beget an improvement in those who must feel their own
awkwardness. u
h^^ ere - fore w A tb deli^bt the return to our
boards of pieces like Our Boys’ and ‘ Sour Grapes’—
adniu-ablyplayedin every particular—as pointing to the
re-generation of the drama, and the cultivation of a
purer taste in the colonial character. We should be
glad indeed if—for a long time at least—the rage for
sensationalism, and for low obscene performances—were
• Our Boys’is too well known to require a detailed
description. Mr. Lingard embodies the chaarcter of the
retired butterman Middlewick to the life. We doubt if
there could possibly be any improvement in it. Every
point in the character is brought, out and every point is
artistic. Mrs. Lingard (Mary Melrose)
dress, acting, mid speaking hasjnot only not lost a single
charm, but 'she has lost the only mannerism she ever
possessed-a certain regularity of rhythm in speaking,
one has cast that aside and she is now nature herself
arrayed m a garb of brightest beauty. Mr. Charles W
Craig (Talbot Champneys) by his thoroughly gentle-
*wl£iJ>fi tmg u- n sta * e shows himself to be a
thoroughly cultivated gentleman off it. or he could
of l i y i, aSSt^ ne * he cbaracter •• a trifle too little
of the affected haw-hawism, but all the better for that!
He has a really fine stage annearance and a very clever
delivery. Mr. F. de Belleville (Charlie Middlew ck)
excellent T "f IOU Comed y Company lias also an
' dehverv- n iitTle t P^ e f rance aad a good flowing
i noS'ho > tt e boisterous perhaps, but this may
possibly be by comparison with Mr. Craig Mr C
I «StSB»
Mrs fIvwPW. T opportunity for distinction,
mrs. b itzwilham (surely this is not the Mrs Fit 7
rSnital O Mi« U rm tone and Celeste
Champneys, virtuously indignant, with a
head-dress and a monstrously good heart
Miss Kamngton (Violet Melrose), elegantVattted we
S®, t 0 Bee again before we pronounce a Sted
nfW t 0 her merits as an actress: she appeared
rather tame. As for Miss Melrose-she is abont th«
most dangerously bewitching little mlmber ? v
I an too er <rh 1 i n mla the romanti e character,
J°° spring face, angularly moving
™* nd olear voice—was as charming a bit of acting
l as can wel } he imagined—of such a character The
I general acting r t e h duircmen , t i s were correct: ondThe
colon'el PIGCe haS Certain * not bee »
CONCERT IN AID OF THE IRISH FAMINE
FUND. "
toJ h lte en fo e r rt lT en i- took r , llace at the Masonic Hall
too late for notice this week. Some of our nrineiivd
and amateur musicians took part in a very
were hH*ss en MSf e ln |? e ci . Am ° ngS l the leadll ‘" artiste
T ™liiT Mane bt. Clair, the charming contralto
TWi kn0 ™ lady amateur, and Mr. Andrew Fairfax
assfs Hwr ° f th e Civil Service Society
assisted. Herr Hgo Alpm was the conductor.
CRITIC.
WOMAN ITEMS.
JM“ e , s of Q u een Victoria’s court ladies, says a cor-
respondent, are scraggy, sallow, and bloodless. *
?, ooker y demonstrations at the Syd.
ney Temperance Hall are increasingly popular. ’
TT^L^ aS -? e t n d ® ci 4® d b y the authorities of Melbourne
Umveisity to admit women to the study of medicine.
, Persians have a saying that “ten measures of
nine.” 616 Set d ° Wn Upon the and the women took
atmJuF * g, ? ve ’ recently introduced, displays a very
simpie but clever mvention, whicii effectually 3 disposes
of the inconvenience caused by buttons coming off.
VP is a young lady in Gloucester so modest that
°““™ •»
rant and da,.h of the piece .re epoogl to £?ce “f
Ni ‘= t »‘«>»*»aA«l.erber|
f^ A J° Un * lady wbo applied to one of the Inns of Court
wf“\ SSlOn tp e preliminary examination for the
bar has been refused the desired privilege. That nn.
gallant body. the Incorporated Law Society, have de-*
fimtavely said that they do not feel themselves Te
adndssionf 0065 * the n ° tice ° f aßy woman in regard to
Sa n e ° f autograph letters belonging to a well-
aJ7et7s..o^Hne L of 0
of Sieon in.,
5f* la.t
1 love you “ ii w taS?-
T A * a swimming contest recently held at the St
Ladies’ Eaths. Melbourne, Miss Sprig? won the lM
d ar- hai B lCa ?’ i flss Johnson the 100 yards dandicap
and Miss Bergk>ff the 300 yards handicap, open to ali
comers. Miss Goode secured the spring-board divino-
trophy, and Miss O’Loghlen distencl
yards! reward by the exceptionally long dive of forty
?? 9.bi° there are for every ten marriages one divorce
sefeWeen Pr % d - ivorces bafa « one ln
1,349 divorce suits were pemhug^xud'^oog o^^ 0 * 6 * 1 '
w©va i <on ana new ones
were instituted, 1,432 marriages were dissolved durine-
the year. In nearly all our American files we notice
that many lawyers advertise to the effect that they are
d to obtain divorces “ without diflicnlty or in-
convemence to cheats.” Which cannot be done in Ss.
recently went to a fancy ball in a closely-
fitting dress of nch white silk, on which were semi
bunches ot violets so thick that they looked if thpv
were growing all over her. It was I very effertive coj
T lly dlsa< lvantage being that she was so
plucked by her friends that at the end of the evening
she looked as if were moulting—and the beautiful
silk was ruing! by the stain from the flowers Vanitas
of'fashion ! ® Ut What WiU not a woman do for t£ sake
Hunter’s City Boot Palace.
Herewith is given a sketch of the now well-know,,
®°, ot Palace, 466 George-street—an establishment
which, from the extent and character of its business
ranks foremost among the principal houses of the'
metropolis The proprietor is Mr. John Hunter, who
for a period of thirteen years carried on a very lar°e
business m the same line in the principal towns of the
western interior. Three years ago, when commencing
m Sydney, he resolved on starting in a style and on I
scale which would be new even here, and he has
certainly accomplished his object in this respect. The
frontage to George-street is artistic, and at night, when
the whole place is ht up there, is no greater attraction
from end to end of the great thoroughfare. The window
fronts are grand and expanding, and behind them is a
display of iboots not elsewhere to be found in the me-
?? re s re to , be seea the costliest articles ever
introduced to the colony—boots which, strange as it
may seem are ready works of art. In the display are
to be found hand-painted court boots worth seven and
f*? ht rR uneas a Pair, the best productions of Parisian
W £ he mo ftelegant pieces of work in their
line that ever the eye fell upon. There are also on show
m the window a splendid collection of boots more gene-
rally worn, and in which are found elegance with good
workmanship. In this establishment in fact are to be
* be ., cost h est and the cheapest boots ever im-
ported to the colony or manufactured here. The shon
the general trade is done is extensive and well
suited to the requirements of the business. It is nicely
carpeted, and well furnished with regard to convenience
m the shape of seats, &c. There is thTusiSl Son
and a large stall of assistants are required to supply the
wants of the crowds who throng the Boot Palace both
night and day. The second floor is the feature of the
e ‘ • Tlus V? devoted solely to ladies, and here
the chief business with the wealthier classes of Sydney
s done. It is quite a step above anything we
used to, and the idea is really a grand
one. This spacious and well lighted room is ele-
gantly furnished with costly suites of furniture, and
its other appomtments are so much in keeping with
good taste as to render even a visit a matter of erc i f
pleasure. The furnishing throughout is elegantfand
the r oom has the addition of a splendid show case in
which there is a display of the best makes in court
boots and shoes, &c. A flight of stairs easy of rscent
leads to this room, and privacy is thus obtained Off
&c epartment BX6 the clerks ’ offices, sampling rooms.
Mr. Hunter’s business, however, is not confined to
the retail trade alone. In another part of the city, at
George-street. one of the largest businesses in the
wholesale line is done. Mr. Hunter imports direct
from all the principal English and Continental makers
including the famous Pinet, the renowned court boot-
maker of Pans, whose portrait is shown on cards in a
1 ti™ on m ® ver y quarter in competi-
the world From this maker boots costing
£7los. a pairlanded are now being imported, and are
j certainly worth the money if for nothing more than
display. The best lines of boots from English and
foreign houses are alone imported. Mr. Hunter’s eoun-
try experience comes largely to his aid in importing to
suit the country trade, and he is now doing a verf ex-
tensive business with the principal retail houses in all
the important inland towns. He gives to all branches of
! bls business the closest personal supervision, and the
greatest satisfaction can only be the result.
It may be said in conclusion that Mr. Hunter con-
buTiues^ 8 * * res k anc * § Tea ter development of his
ORIGINAL POETRY.
“Light” Verses.
Two Knights one day last week assistance lent
To lay the stone, on which to found the lights
To lighten Gentiles o’er the vast extent
Of Jackson’s waters through the dusky nights.
Known to most, were their powers to borrow.
Also their fitness these loans to expend.
Friends alas found, I say it with sorrow.
That they had naught else, but their “ time” to lend.
Once they were foes, their sharp lances lifted.
They tilted—each strove to draw his foe’s blood.
Front is now changed, position is shifted,
They bleed the poor public, for public good.
The * morning ’ clear, the air was light and free
Whilst Helios’ smiles cetherial welcome gave.
With “ Fair-light ” music, set in Quay of sea
Comes tuneful echo from the ‘ mourning ’ wave.
The stone was placed, and then began the fun,
‘ Light ’ speeches, followed by a * light ’ repast.
Light wines, light music, through the system run.
Yet not one sign of ‘ being in the sun.’
‘ Let there be light ’ and prompt was the reply;
Sir ’Enery said it, all on him rely.
He would his promise sacredly fulfill—
All should be light except the heavy bill.
Tired Mothers.
A little elbow leans upon your knee—
Tour tired knee that has so much to bear—
A child’s dear eyes are looking lovingly
From underneath a thatch of tangled hair.
Perhaps you do not heed the velvet touch
Of warm, moist fingers holding yours so tight.
You do not prize the blessing overmuch—
You almost are too tired to pray to-night.
But it is blessedness ! A year ago
I did not see it as I do to-day—
We are all so dull and thankless, and too slow
To catch the sunshine till it slips away.
And now it seems surprising strange to me
That while I wore the badge of motherhood
I did not kiss more oft and tenderly
The little child that brought me only good.
And if, some night, when you sit down to rest.
You miss the elbow on your tired knee
This restless curly head from off your breast
This lisping tongue that chatters constantly;
If from your own the dimpled hands had slipped
And ne’er would nestle in your palm again,
If the white feet into the grave hod tripped
I could not blame you for your heartache then.
I wonder that some mothers ever fret
At their little children clinging to their gown.
Or that the footprints, when the days are wet.
Are ever black enough to make them frown/
If I could find a little muddy boot.
Or cap, or jacket, on my chamber floor
If I could kiss a rosy, restless foot
And hear it patter in my house once more ;
If I could mend a broken cart to-day.
To-morrow make a kite to reach the sky.
There is no woman in God’s world would say
She was more blissfully content than I!
But, ah ! the dainty pillow next my own
Is never rumpled by a shining head !
My singing birdling from its nest has flown—
The little boy I used to kiss is—dead.
The Irish Famine.
Come the memories of a time long vanished
Stealing on my evening reverie;
And surrounding scenes from sight are vanished.
And my thoughts go wandering oe’r the sea.
Back they turn, those pages of existence,
But the scenes are clothed in sorrow now,
They, like me, have met with harsh resistance
Since the youth was smooth upon my brow.
Oh my country! oh my native island!
And thy children, famine-stricken band.
It’s a dreary winter for thee, Ireland—
Bitterer than most can understand.
Often have I gazed upon Liscannon,
Sunset on the waves is glory there;
Well I know the broad and crystal Shannon,
And the fair-faced breezy slopes of Clare. *
But it seems as if life had left the landscape.
Laughter-laden breezes never roll;
’I is hushed—a place -without a people,
ike a body vacant of the souk
■er slew them—slew both young and hoary,
ig mother clasped her dying child:
r,o legends tell their mournful story,
spers, when the winds are wild.
T. W.


BRIEF MENTION.
Exhibition echoes.—Captain Espinasse ass!
Lieut. Tartar ta-ta !
S. E. Lees writes: —-‘Is it necessary for a
man to know much to be an Alderman ?’ —Not much.
Tinned salmon and other fish have now come
to the assistance of doctors, grave diggers, and under-
takers. The acid from the solder does the trick.
According to Archbishop Vaughan, those
members of his flock who are not ‘ out-and-and-oixters ’
are * japanned Catholics.’ This isn’t ‘ soft sawder.’
Funeral. —The new Victorian ministry have
performed the burial Service over the late Berry govern-
ment.
Alderman Harris writes :■ —If two tons of
blue metal cost £3, how much will it take to repair the
street opposite my property?’—Apply at the Town
Hall. There are special rates in certain cases.
Pastor Chiniquy was not our ideal of Cupid;
but he nevertheless unobtrusively followed the useful
profession of match-maker. Maryborough, Queens-
land, can testify to this success in this direction.
It’s been announced in town that the Herald
proprietary are organising in their office a staff of
missionaries for the South Seas. Well, that could be
done easily enough, still leaving two parsons for
every post in Hunter-street.
1 Cairns, you will see flourishing and great;
fortune helps those who best know how to wait.’ This
is the motto of a North Queensland paper. The inhabi-
tants of Cairns are really too modest. They are already
the greatest people on earth.
If you drive on the Blue Mountain zigzag in a
railway car and have a smash you lose your life and go
to glory. If you write on the zigzag in the Echo
(or get your living in any other ‘ crooked ’ way) you may
still live but you lose your reputation. Of the two,
we’d rather go to glory.
Sir Henry Partes is at present in bad odor
with Archbishop Yaug4ian. This is to be regretted, as
it isn’t so many years ago that the Premier was
canonized by his old friend William Forster as * Sir
’Enery.’ We shall be glad to be visited by anyone who
was present at the ceremony.
The illustrious, refined, logical, tender-hearted,
eloquent and unprejudiced David Buchanan is alluded
to by the Pastoral Times as ‘ a blatant orator, who is
only Graham Beany amder another name and an intensi-
fied degree of coarseness.’ Sydney people don’t believe
this.
Hanley Bennett recently said to a gathering
of Northern electors that ‘ Parliament could do any-
thing.’ An elector strongly objected to the statement.
Hanley persisted, and indignantly enquired what it was
that the Legislature couldn’t do. The reply was—
‘ Enlarge your mouth without shifting yoau’ ears back.’
Hanley and his ark moved on.
The Daily Twaddlegeaph’s been writing
about comic literature, saying that Sydney people have
not had much of that kind of thing offered them of late.
Which is another way of saying that the Twaddle-
graph has not a big circulation here. However, York-
street hi ay not be comic, but who can deny that it’s
comical ?
Mickey Chapman, of the Transit Board,
writes ‘ Can the Protection to Animals’ Society have
a person fined for running a horse that’s gone in the
knees ?’ —No, certainly not, excepting the driver be a
cabmen. We should not advise proceedings against
Omnibus companies. They have too much influence
to be prosecuted successfully.
“ Begorra, Mick,” said one Hibernian to
another in Oxford-street, * I saw Pat Tighe lasht night.’
‘ Ye’re mad man,’ said Mick’s friend, ‘ Pat Tighe, rest
his soul, he’s been dead these six months.’ ‘ Oh,’ ex-
plained Mick, ‘ I don’t mane Pat Tighe the landlord, —
I mane Pat Tighe, the Italian singer at the theatre.’
Yet Patti doesn’t come from Ireland.
‘ Considering the huge size, gigantic strength
and noiseless velocity which accompanies the move-
ments of alligators it becomes matter of surprise that
more fatalities are not constantly occuring.’ This is
the way in which Dr. Myers of Cairns commences his
latest alligator yam. We are sorry to see it so. We
miss the old familiar beginning of the doctor’s alligator
paragraphs—‘ The saurian monstrosities, etc.’
Our old friend Dr. Myers of the Cairns
(Queensland) Advertiser has sent us a copy of his
paper with a request that it might be ‘ reviewed.’ As
soon as we saw the wrapper we bet that the current
number of the Advertiser contained a hoi-rible alliga-
tor story. So it did. We also bet that the doctor’s
first paragraph was about Tinaroo tin. So it was. We
likewise wagered that somebody had been drowned in the
Barron. We were wrong there. It’s only a case of
nearly drowned this time.
John Sutherland writes—“ Several persons
have written me, asking explanation of my title,
‘Honest John’ Sutherland. This is a ticklish ques-
tion, and I am not just now prepared to answer it.
Besides, look at the coal lands I’ve got, and then there’s
Hudson Brothers. But it’s just the same with Sir
’Enery. What shall I do?’ Clear out of the coal
lands, and exclaim, ‘ Now, though a political duffer,
I’m Honest John Sutherland.’ This is;’all said poli-
tically.
John Davies has become a regular correspon-
dent of ours. Writing from the Garden Palace he
says ‘I am busy getting up a testimonial here. It
will be presented to me in a few days. I’ll look in at
The Bulletin office, as I want you to do something for
me.’ We have written to Mr. Davies, saying we’ll be
there—that is, at the East Sydney election, when we
hope to be able to give a good lift to politically honest
men. [N.B.—If we left outthe ‘politically,’ this ‘brief
mention’ would be a libel. We’re not rich enough yet
fbr such luxuries.]
Parramatta Scrip Looking-up.
His Excellency the Governor does not like
either sinks or—well, as we must he elegant—
odours unpleasant to the olfactory nerves. The
sinks at Government House or, the sewers out-
side and the delicate odours arising from them,
are evidently not to the taste—or rather the smell
—of Lord Augustus Loftus, whose diplomatic
nose turns up systematically at every fresh sniff
of them. So, he has made up his mind that he
won’t endure them any longer. He has firmly
resolved to have a country or suburban residence.
As an old diplomatist, he has seen well how to
set about getting what he wants. By soft-soaping
Sir Henry a little bit, he has managed to get on
the blind side of the Premier, who has promised
to make it all right with the worthy ciphers, his
colleagues. The only thing remaining to be con-
idered is the where. With one eye on Sir Henry
o prevent his trimming, he has the other cocked
towards the old Government House at Parra-
matta, which, having seen, he has expressed him
self delighted with. Its pretty situation and sur-
roundings are just adapted—so thinks my Lord—
for a vice-regal retreat. Think of that, ye Parra-
mattomans! Less possible things have come
to pass. We shall have a garish glare in Parra-
matta that will reflect a lustre on the country.
We shall see Sleepy Hollow waking u p at last!
Miss Nea, Daughter of Sir Hercules
Robinson.
We present our readers to-day with a portrait
of Miss Robinson, a daughter of Sir Hercules
Robinson, now Governor of New Zealand. From
what we know of the sentiment of the New
South Wales public in regard to Sir Hercules and
his family, we believe the portrait will be very ac-
ceptable. The photograph from which our por-
trait is taken bears the well-known imprint of Mr.
J. Hubert Newman, of Oxford-street, Hyde
Park.
Mr. T. H. Hellyer, the Mayor of Bathurst.
We have much pleasure in printing in to-day’s
issue a portrait of Mr. T. H. Hellyer, Mayor of
Bathurst. He is a son of Mr. W. Hellyer,
a well-known Sydney citizen, and is, like
his father, in whose office he served
articles, a solicitor. For some years he re-
sided at Parramatta but subsequently removed
to Bathurst, where he has since practised his pro-
fession with remarkable success, and earned the
high esteem of his fellow citizens. It is a some-
what remarkable coincidence that Mr. C. J.
Eoberts, the ex-Mayor of Sydney, and Mr.
Hellyer, who were schoolfellows, should on the
very same day have been elevated to the highest
civic positions in the communities in which they
respectively dwelt. Mr. Hellyer is a native of
New South Wales, and is now about 40 years of
age.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE THIRD.-IN THE STALLS.
Again Opera reigns, and the theatre commands its
price. Season tickets for the dress circle make it
almost a necessity to buy a package, or your chances of
a seat are very doubtful. But the stalls or parquette
are not so expensive, Stud are supposed to be equally
select, in the class that Occupy them, as the ‘ circle.’
Fathers with several daughters, and a not unlimited
income, prefer the stalls, where they can take their
girls more than once. The price is not only smaller,
but their daughters are not obliged to dress in evening
costume. Gentlemen who go without ladies also prefer
the ‘ stalls,’ the means of exit is so much easier, and
the * society’ found in that locality so much more
tempting—is it not always the way with forbidden/
fruit ? While parents in the dress circle are shocks
that their daughters should witness such a uatri'
opera as * Perichole,’ the no less careful father
* stalls’ finds ‘La Perichole’ sitting by his
girls. They can pay, the place suits them,
deny them their right to sit there ? No / .
do so, and yet it appeals strongly V
should be a line drawn that these wo
Alas! who will throw the first ri
Jezebels ? * Society,’ who first
ha its turn outraged by them
and the attraction they co r
it will. They pay for c v
richly dressed—for t*
‘ demi-monde.’ Tb
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
V.-"SOCIETY” IN THE COLONIES: No. 2.
In lay first paper I sketched the young married woman
whose position in society has been attained through her
husband s purse. Now Mrs. O’Orudy, my present
study, is one of those whose marriage bad nothing to
do with making her position in society. Of humble
origin, she emigrated from the ‘ ould country ’ to house-
keep for her brother or uncle in the colony, who was in
a fair position—perhaps a priest—and who, with good
prospects, sends for his fa vourite niece, little Mary, out of
MISS NEA, DAUGHTER OF SIR HERCULES ROBINSON, GOVERNOR
OF NEW ZEALAND.
MR. HELLYER, MAYOR OF BATHURST.
his sister’s overcrowded nursery, or more likely ‘cabin.’
And Mary, with her blue eyes, yellow hair, and broad
good-natured face, soon makes her choice in the matri-
monial market. An Irish grazier, or small sheep-
farmer, secures her hand and her brother’s blessing,
along with his unswerving influence and steady help
through life. They livejonjthe farm for years, working
together; she, withja smart gown and boots for Sunday;
he, proud to drive her now and again in brightly-painted
spring cai-t to see her uncle and get the babies chris-
tened. From sheep farm it rises to sheep station, and
the uncle, always on the look-out for Mary, throws
many a ‘ sop’ to her husband. With the station comes
John O’Grady’s house in town, faithfully built out of
their united savings. Here Mrs. O’Grady mostly lives,
only going up, like her fashionable town neighbours
during the shearing season. At other times she puts
her girls and boys to school in town. Mr. O’Grady—
observe the difference! John and Mary for the farm,
Mr. and Mrs. O’Grady for the town house and stations—
lives mostly in the country, until a grateful people pint
him in Parliament as their worthy representative. His
wife now sports her carriage and pair, and is seen daily
with it well filled, doing the fashionable drive. In
dress—even living in town cannot tone that down—she
is ' pronounced’ in her colours, and although clad in
silks and feathers, her vulgarity peeps out on every
side. Her pronunciation, like her complexion, still
asseits itseif; and as she devoutly hurries to matins,
her toes, guiltless of stockings, peep out from her slip-
shod boots, and shews the class from which she sprung.
Yet money has given Mrs. O’Grady a certain position.
Her balls are * awful’ crushes, and for that very reason
an immense success, at which little reunions, as she
calls them—altho’ the mother of twenty children, living
and dead—she appears in diaphanous clouds of white
tulle, like a girl at her first ball. Her hair, coarse and
curly by nature, is arranged in a wild sort of bird-nest
style, ornamented freely with ribbons and feathers or
mock pearls. She always speaks of her husband as
‘ Mr. O’Grady’; spoils her children; and has a slatternly
sort of pride in her over-crowded, badly-arranged
‘ drawing-room,’ in which the prevailing colours are
green and yellow. The walls are decorated with
coarsely-painted madonnas and elaborately-framed
pieces of laborious wool work, where not only the incon-
gruity of colour, but also the stiff attitudes of all the
staring, beady-eyed shepherds and shepherdesses makes
one’s eyes ache to look at them. To Mrs. O’Grady the
room is a sort of white elephant, sacred from its gran-
deur—this room full of atrocious furniture, gaudy paper-
ing, and badly-selected third-rate pictures, carefully
shielded from the sun and air until a visitor is ushered
in, when the jealous shutters that have guarded her
hidden treasures from the wholesome light of day are
opened wide. The sun stares solemnly in, and Mrs.
O’Grady’s white elephant is exposed to the garish light
of day; and the fashionable owner of all this mass of
ugliness, after keeping her visitor full half-an-hour,
rustles in, and possibly apologises for having made her
wait. Her appearance shews she has been roused from
an afternoon nap, and she rubs her eyes in a futile effort
to recover her usual amoimt of stolid vulgarity. Your
call is not a long one, for altho’ her balls are worth
going to, there is nothing—positively nothing—worth
cultivating in Mrs. O’Grady. But she has attained her
object. She visits, or at least bows to, a certain set;
has as much money as she pleases for dress, and about
as much taste in wearing it as women of her class
generally display. But society sees nothing of this.
It attends her balls, eats her dinners, and discusses her
privately.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of The Bulletin.)
IV.—CINNAMON AND GINGER.
Mr deae Bean-Blossom, —
I have been roaming through the different
‘ courts ’ to-day, ignoring all vocal and instrumental
sounds. If I come unawares upon a piano ‘recital’ I
shun it, turn my hack on it; if the full blare of trumpets
break upon mine ear I rush to that mass of ugliness,
the Court of ‘ Japan,’ and from there travel hy a rather
circuitous route to the sandal-wood-scented Court of
* Ceylon.’ This little court has a great attraction for
me. Its objects are familiar. I recognize them as old
friends, the cinnamon sticks, sold for sixpence a piece
in Ceylon—I recall the time, not many years back,
driving out one early summer morning from the
‘Oriental Hotel’ to view the renowned ‘Cinnamon
Gardens.’ We had a lovely drive, and on arriving at the
gardens, after walking all about through a wilderness of
ill-kept, rare plants and shrubs—rare at least to our
party, who had hitherto only known nutmeg and ginger
as seen in the grocer’s—we saw these and many more
in flower and fruit all round us. But where are the
cinnamon trees ? I asked. A whole posse of colored
people who had gathered round us pointed to one tall
battered-looking tree, and we behold the single surviving
representative the whole cinnamon gardens could boast
of.
After looking over all the well-known ‘curios’ col-
lected and displayed so as to attract the eye, and let us
hope astonish the natives, I came suddenly upon what,
in my amazement, I took to be a veritable ‘ mummy ’
from ‘ Ceylon.’ It sat erect in a chair, both hands rest-
ing on a stick, and only that the dress was a careful
mixture of the modem and antique school, I should have
gone away satisfied with my first impression. I went all
round this odd little man. I looked him in the face, hut
he never moved a muscle. His pale grey eyes from
under their shaggy white brows looked stonily into
futurity, his lemon-tinted skin was set off by a blue
cravat, his linen, immaculate (as, let us hope, the life of
the wearer), his nankeen trousers carefully strapped
down under his little patent leathers, his frock coat
tightly buttoned at the waist. Whilst I stood hy the
‘ model elephant,’ wondering whether he could move or
let one feature in his face relax, came tripping up to
him a lady, past her prime—that is if woman ever is—
and yet a very ‘ may ’ to the antiquated gentleman in the
chair. Her dress affected a juvenility which the present
fashion ©f short dresses greatly enhances. She extended
her hand, encased in Jonvin’s six-buttoned kids, and
patted the ‘ ancient ’ on the shoulder, at which he arose
and strengthened himself with a jerk to see that none of
his wires had rusted during his arduous, but self imposed
task of sitting rigidly upright for one or two hours as
guardian of the Court of Ceylon. Not until he
gallantly offered his arm to the lady and slowly stepped
it down the ‘ nave ’ did the scales fall from my eyes.
Then I recognized him as an old colonist, who, travelling
many, many years ago across the sandy desert of
* Sahara ’ grew alarmingly ill from the unwonted strength
of the Egyptian sun. Now when his Arab hearers
carried him to the foot of the ‘ Sphynx,’ he essayed to
climb the citadel of that stony-hearted Egyptian
female, but failing, as many others have, before and
since, disappeared for many weary months and years,
returning when least expected with a precious bottle
securely sealed and labelled in large Oriental char-
acters which you will pardon me if I translate into
vulgar English, as. The ‘ Elixir of Life,’ and from which
both he and his wife frequently anoint themselves.
The result is as though they had bathed in the waters of
‘ Rej ouvenance,’ in fact if you travel to the Court of
Ceylon you can judge for yourself. As they mingle
and get lost in the crowd, I find my way to the Queens-
land balcony, and on a pleasant seat overhung with
palms, I enjoy the soft sea breeze until the * Palace ’
clock warns me I must hasten to poet my letter.
Yours abstractedly,
PEA-BLOSSOM.


•ciety, and the ‘ladies’ at the ‘Boyal Opera House’
would not associate with the ‘ butterflies’ at the
«Queen’s,’ richly dressed, superbly painted, and, as a
rule, vilely scented. Ladies may here take a hint, and
abstain from that, let us hope unnecessary, and always
vulgar habit, the lavish use of scent when in ‘ society.’
These painted sepulchres who throng our places of
amusement, whose very presence pollutes the atmo-
sphere, mostly come out of loathsome dens, where the
use of scent is a pardonable necessity; but among ladies,
or those who aspire to be such, it marks them as people
who have risen from a different class. Money has
placed them in their present position, and to use
Patchouly and Florida water is a luxury to them.
These beautiful, scented women, sail in and take their
seats, clad in soft raiment, exquisite as to colour and
material. In fashion none are their equals, and they often
display better taste in that respect than the virtuous.
They sit generally in couples, and are quiet throughout
the first act. If by that time they have discovered any
friends —masculine ones —who may be round them, then
with the fall of the curtain they begin to show in their
true colours. They rise and rustle out after the gentle-
men, returning with them. They are now all chatter
and noise, exchange seats readily, so that each ‘ De-
lilah’ brings her male friend to the seat by her. They
push past the respectable families, and their conversa-
tion, carried on in an inaudible ‘ sotto-voce,’ falls on the
wondering ears of some innocent girl, who while half
wondering at, wholly admires the richly-dressed,
attractive, bright-eyed woman, who seems to know
every one, and who put a handful of bon-bons into her
lap out of the scented packet given her by one of her
friends. Each time the curtain drops these women
stream out, and come back a little noisier and more
demonstrative in their conduct. Still no notice is taken
of their noisy talk by the ushers, with whom in fact
they seem on the most familiar terms. And this is in
opera season, when the creme of society flocks
to the theatre —when stalls are, or would but for
these women being allowed to sit and blazon their
shame before all, be almost if not quite as fashionably
attended as the dress circle. No wonder that mu-
theatres at such seasons are not well attended, and the
manager grumbles audibly at the thin houses when
the fault is entirely their own. If these women must
not be denied admitance, they might at least be shown
to back seats where their conduct would not be so con-
spicuous, and their close proximity to our growing
boys and girls might be avoided.
QUIZ.
Evaporation of Tilly
Andrews.
We all remember pretty Tilly
Andrews (Mrs. Simmons), who was
for a long time a member of the
Victoria Theatre Company, and
who, four years ago, made up the
quartet of pretty woman (includ-
ing Lydia Howard and the Novaro
sisters), who performed so admir-
ably in “ Cbilperic ” at that theatre.
The following very amusing tale
respecting her comes from
“ The Pinafore was to sail under
pilot Maguire on a certain evening
says the Oregon Telegram, when
alas, on Saturday night the beau-
teous Miss Andrews —we should
say Miss Corcoran —discovered that
she had a cold, and she was sad.
N o wonder! How would it do for
her to sing on Monday night in this
s tyle
* Eefraid, audacious star, your
suit frob pressidg,
Eebeber who you are, ad who
addressidg.’
And to sigh, ‘Oh, by heart! by
bfeart! This unwarranted presub-
tiod on the part of a cobbod sailor!’
Qb,it would never do. Many
remedies were suggested—flannel
around the neck, for instance —
but Josephine asserted that flannel
around the neck wasn’t becoming
to her, unless it happened to be the
sleeve of a sailor’s jacket, with
Ealph Eackstraw’s arm in it.
Finally a lady recommended a
vapor bath. ‘A splendid thing,
said she. ‘ I often take them, and
so do my sisters and my cousins and
my aunts and my grandfather.’
‘ My husband is a doctor, and I
can give you a vapor bath as well
as anybody. Come to my room.
Never shall it be said that a friend
of mine suffered for want of a vapor
hath while I owned a can of kero-
sene.’
They reached the room in safety.
* Now, Josephine,’ said herfriend,
‘ you must furl all your sails, wrap
yourself in a blanket, and come
to anchor in a cane-bottomed chair.’
‘ Why must it be a cane-botr
tomed chair?’ asked Josephine.
‘Never mind the why and
wherefore,’ replied her friend, I,
doctor am, and therefore you must
do just as I say. Unaig, my
dearest, right away.’
Imagine the scene! In five
minutes Miss And—Corcoran was
undressed, wrapped in a blanket
and seated in a cane-bottomed
chair, beneath which her friend
put a lighted camphine lamp
turned up to its brightest heat.
‘Now,’ she said, ‘the heat will
soon permeate your individuality,
so to speak, and produce a perspira-
tion or natural vapour, as it were,
ki which your cold will vanish.’
The lamp burned brightly; Jose-
phine felt its flames; she moved
uneasy in her chair.
* Good gracious! ’ she cried, * I
can’t understand it either. How in the name of
common sense is sitting over this lamp to—”
Her friend interrupted her with:
“Never mind the why or wherefore —vapor cures a cold,
and therefore.
Though the camphine heat is mighty, though stupen-
dous be the pain.
Though your covering is slightly—your perspire not in
vain !
Let the air with smoke be laden; smother every painful
sigh.
Monday night you’ll look so charming, let the kerosene
bum high.’
The kerosene burned high, and Josephine wriggled.
* Oh! ’ she exclaimed; ‘ If Sir Joseph could see me
now, what would he say ? ’
‘Nevermind,’ answered her friend, ‘isthe perspira-
ntion coming ? ’
* Perspiration ! ’ shouted Josephine. ‘ Oh, heavens! ’
And then she relieved her feelings with —
“ Sorry her lot who feels too hot.
Heavy her heart who hopes so vainly
To cure a cold, and only cures herself.
By sitting on a cane seat chair insanely ”
I can’t stand it, I can’t, I won’t—
“ The heat grows on a pace
I know I’m baking, baking—”
The chimney of the lamp cracked with a loud report.
Josephine jumped up screaming, the blanket was smok-
ier, tiie cane-bottomed chair was scorched, the friend
added her screams to the discord, and the doctor, her
husband, came rushing up to see what was the matter.
Lot us draw another blanket over the scene.
principles of a vapour bath were explained, and
■ v.u»t r ut on the window-sill to cool.
*••••••
idrows looks quite well now and takes her
regularly. But she said her prayers stand-
A Dish of Trifle.
II.
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Nautical. —Boatmen are apt to be crafty. —
Family Herald. Pull away. Exchange.
Wherry well, but we almost fail to see It. We
would require a wager or a clinker to force this
into our skulls. However, stret-cher !
Thespian. —So Mr. Dampier has taken to
“Drink.” Let no Son of T. use this in a tem-
perance lecture, as the ‘ drink ’ is Charles Eeade’s
and not from what Frank Warden calls “ a den of
iniquity.”
The Puppy’s Lament :
Oh would I were a bird.
That I might fly from thee.
Thou, who ever when I stirred
Nipped me. Confound thee, fl —!
Shakespeare’s Hamlet.—Stratford.— Lon-
don Punch. 0 Phelia, is not that a ghost of a
joke !
Queries. —Why lias not Sydney a Berry? Be-
cause it it’s y y for it.
When does a ship beat the wind? —When it
sails before it. — Fun. Stay ! this is an old liner
with a new rig.' But sail on.
When a man is rooted to the spot, does he
branch out before he leaves ? — Exchange. Well,
if he does take umbrage, he, moving his trunk,
hoics and stalks. Otherwise, it is resin-able to
suppose that he ivood pine away, yew know.
For its Power have a just Esteem.—
Pope:—
It was a match, with spark of soft and silv’ry sheen,
Dropped while bright into that lamp of kerosene;
It was through the thatch, like a kite, with many a
scream,
A cook-maid, no mite, quickly streamed to the starry
scene.
Extremes meet in the Street op George.
—A carriage parasol and a gig umbrella.
What is the cheapest mode of living?—Ex-
change. On flats. Punch. This might do for
sharps, but would be uphill work for crotchety folk.
Valuable Information to Country Sub-
scribers. A Good and Cheap Summer
Drink. —How to obtain a good wine from iron-
bark, red-gum, and other woods! ! First, take
ten or twelve well-grown, sound ironhark or red-
gum trunks, carefully lop off the branches, which
by a careful housewife may be utilised in many
ways. Next strip the trunks of their bark —it
will be almost unnecessary to inform our country
friends of its value. Then cart the logs to the
nearest saw-mill, where the timber should be
sawn into ordinary planks. These should be taken
and sold. (The cash will buy your favourite wine.)
An Incalculable Weight. —The weight of
indfenation. — Fun. To resist this, don’t jump to
codblusions, but bring out your force of argument.
The Parting :
Whisper our farewell in the gloaming.
Let me kiss thy marble brow;
Ever, darling, for thee I’ll he moaning,
Dear puss, I will! Me-ow ! meel-row!
LANFRE.
The History of a Benefit Diamond Ring.
The way in which benefit presentations are got up is
amusingly illustrated by the following incident in the
career of Mr. D’Orsay Ogden in New Zealand. Mr.
Ogden has his name as well as his manners and morals
from the celebrated Legidou Elegant, Count D’Orsay of
Lady Blessington (not Beatrice) notoriety. The New
Zealane Sun says:—
* Mr. D’Orsay Ogden, who filed his schedule a few
days ago, representing unpaid amounts to the tune of
some £BOO, quietly left New Zealand last week in the
s.s. Hero, bound from Lyttleton to Melbourne. A
warrant, it is said, has been applied for and granted
by the Christchurch Bench for his capture; but as Mr.
Ogden is still under the wing of the Supreme Court, we
can scarcely believe it. In the list of his debts appear
peculiar items. One is for £l2, value of a diamond
ring, which was presented on the stage some weeks ago
by his Worship the Mayor of Christchurch to Mrs.
Ogden, as ‘from a number of admirers and friends.”
Neither the diamond ring, the ‘ admirers and friends,’
nor the £l2 due for the bauble, are to be found any-
where. So much for theatrical presentations. The
Egyptian have been properly bled this time, and people
are laughing at ‘ His Worship.’
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
Cannot the Home Government kindly ask the
British House of Commons or the Law officers
of the Crown to determine for us the con-
stitutional point respecting the right of inter-
ference in a money bill, claimed by our Legislative
Council ? If we are going to repeat the baby-
play of Victoria by each house standing on its
dignity and rights, presumptive, apparent, or
imaginary, and the whole machinery of govern-
ment coming to a dead-lock, the sooner we
abolish such fossilised dignity the better. If the
Legislative Council continue to stand on its
dignity it will become so tired that it will not have
a leg to stand on. When the two branches of the
Legislature thus standing on their dignity they
show that they have no dignity to stand on by
bringing responsible government into contempt.
Last week the Council made an amendment in a
money-bill (the Stamp Duties Act) which would
have the effect of preventing the imposition of a
tax on past deeds —or something of the kind. The
bill is sent back to the Assembly with compliments
and amendments. Sir Henry turns up his ‘ hairis-
tocratic nose’ sat the compliments, and won’t have
the amendments which prevent the putting of
duty stamps on past deeds. Such deeds as these
it is everyone’s duty to stamp with strong disap-
proval. Sir Henry won’t have the old bill patched
up, but prefers a brand new one, which he sends
to the senate without compliment, but with a
gentle reminder to behave better or look out.
And now the Council has turned its back on
the new Bill, thus stamping altogether the
revenue derivable from the duties. Really,
if our Legislative children will play up
such games the parents at home should interpose
their authority and prevent the unseemly displays
of spoilt childhood.
Two and two make four —of course, everybody
knows that. And if .we see something suddenly 1
puffed up in a criticism very strongly, and see the
owner of that thing kotooing, and coquetting with
the hypercritical writer, we also know exactly
what o’clock it is.
We are of Teutonic origin,—personally as well
as nationally—the whole British Anglo-Saxon race.
We love music, too, but our Teutonism and our
music-love do not run away with us so far as to
arouse any enthusiasm for the braying brass of
the band of the Bismarck in the Exhibition build-
ing. Captain Deinhardt is a jolly good fellow, a
hearty old salt and all that sort of thing, but his
music boys do play most detestably out of tune ;
and the material of which some of the instru-
ments appear to be made must have been manu-
factured by Tubal Cain. On the broad briny
billow such brass braying is no doubt like sweet
tinkling cymbals: but inside a building it is the
symbol of a headache. Of course that is nothing
to the Executive Commissioner, or the Finance
Committee, or whoever has the mismanagement of
musical matters. “Cheap and nasty” is their
motto in most things connected with the Exhibi-
tion, except in the payment of do-nothing pen-
sioners : there it is “ dear and nasty.”
What is the meaning of it ? There is something
wrong somewhere, and we should like to know
what is the little secret. Dear dame Tabitha hav-
ing been cornered, bowled out, and wedged in for
the mistakes she made in her musical critiques
when she couldn’t get historical information from
head-quarters on the subject of composers, is
forced to cry peccavi! mea culpa!! mea maxima
culpa. But she does this in so hyporitical a tone,
with such a whining attempt to throw in a most
mysterious manner the blame on somebody else,
that is like adding insult to injury as a reflection
on the intelligence of her readers. She begins by
giving us a translation of the Latin acknowledge-
ment, “ To err is human,” though she won’t go in
for the divine or forgiving part of the quotation.
Well, if we are not to be forgiven, we may as well
be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. And so Tabitha
goes on to show with a mysterious old chanson
likes “ We could an’ if we would,” phraseology,
to throw the blame on others for that fatal mis-
take as to the authorship of “ Where the bee
sucks,” but that the divine part of humanity
prompts her to take refuge in the French histori-
cal proverb (in the original tongue) of the game
not being worth the candle. The “ game ”is of
course her being made game of : the “ candle ” is
the trouble Tabitha would have to make her
readers believe her story. Now, who can possibly
be to blame for a learned critic like Tabitha not
knowing who was the composer of a little song
known by all the world, his wife and family ? And
then, too, the error was made more prominent by
the historical details or criticism of the wrong
composer’s music of which this was a specimen !
And the very same paragraph which apologises
for one error perpetrates another by attributing a
piece to Gottschalk wh*h was by a different com-
poser. If this will-o’-the-wisp continue to make
game of fair Tabitha by rendering false informa-
tion about composers she will have to light several
candles to hunt the game to the death: or—we
shall have to start un in her defence, and supply
her with the information —gratis, of course.
The Assembly made itself not only heard but
felt last week. It refused to pass the estimate for
all the increases in the Governor’s establishment;
additional pay to the first aide-de-camp, salary for
a second aide-de-camp, a private secretary’s
secretary, et id genus omne —and all that sort of
thing. The Governor wanted the extras, said Sir
Harry the minister, nay, and requested them, and
why shouldn’t the Governor have them? The
Governor had been put to a
great deal of expense, said he,
for the Exhibition, and one
thing and another ! Now we
can understand the meaning of
the Exhibition, but not the
expense of attending it: and
we should like to know what the
“ one-thing-and-another ” is,
and what the country has to
do with it. The House, too,
wanted this information; and
not being as obsequious as the
minister, sent the proposed
aide-de-camp to look after this
novel expenditure of the Gov-
ernor. Does Sir Henry remem-
ber how obsequiously he played
the very cards wanted by Sir
Hercules Eobinson on his arri-
val in the colony in the matter
of the Melbourne races, in re-
turn for which he got Gardiner ’ s
release? Does he remember
what came of it ? And will he
also not forget that even
Australian history may repeat
itself P
“The Beggar’s petition,”—
a new version—was song at the
snug bar of that fine old public
house, with the sign of the
Legislative Assembly, on Thurs-
day evening last by Mr. G.
C. Davis, counsel learned in
the law in the case of the
Sydney United Omnibus and
Tramway Co.’s bill. The bill
for the company was duly pre-
pared and presented by Mr.
Driver; it was to do wonders:
to spend half millions of
money here and there; to
have all over the city a net-
work of tramways in which to
catch all the fishy pedestrians
of the community: to have
sumptuous cars and all the
delicacies of the season: and
to enjoy a monoply for only
twenty-one years! After al-
ready misusing the omnibus
monopoly granted to them, and
so carefully fostered by their
friends the transit commission-
ers, they thought themselves
secure in their seats ; snapped
their fingers at the Government;
didn’t care for the introduction
of their tramway bill; would
dare them to commence putting
down the rails: and indulged in
further talk of the same gran-
diloquent character: Alas! it
is the old case of the mountain
in labour and the birth of the
ridiculous mouse. Having
blown off all superfluous
steam with a preliminary swagger they now
come piping down to the House, humbly beg-
ging for compensation from the Government for
interfering with their self-imposed right of mono-
polising the city and suburban streets. Don’t
they wish they may get it?
An Anecdote of Victoria.
One day, some years ago, when Her Majesty was
standing on the public road near Balmoral, sketching
the castle from a x>articular point, a flock of sheep
approached. Her Majesty being intent on her work,
took little notice of the flock, and merely moved a little
nearer the side of the rood. A boy in charge of the
sheep shouted at the top of a stentorian voice :
“ Stan’ oot o’ the road, ’ooman, and lat the sheep gae
by!”
Her Majesty not moving out of the way quite so fast
as the shepherd wished, he again shouted:
“ Fat are ye stan’in’ there for ? Gang oot o’ that, and
latt the sheep pass ! ”
One of Her Majesty’s attendants, who had been at a
distance, on hearing his royal mistress thus rudely
assailed, went up to the shepherd and thus addressed
him :
“ Do you know whom it is you have been speaking so
rudely to, hoy ? ”
“ Na; I neither ken nor care. But be she f’ she likes,
she shudua be i’ the sheep’s road.”
“ That’s the Queen,” said the official.
The lad looked astonished, and after recovering his
senses, said, with great simplicity;
“ The Queen ? Od, fat way disna she pit on does that
foulk can ken her ? "
THE BULLETIN’S DESIGN FOR A NEW CORPORATION SEAL.


Mr. B. O. Holtermann.
There are but few men in this community more widely
known, and yet so little known, as the subject of our
sketch, Mr. B. O. Holtermann. His life is the history of an
enterprising colonist, struggling and succeeding against
the greatest difficulties. The public are acquainted with
him mostly as a successful gold miner; little is known
of the chequered career he led for thirteen years before
fortune smiled on him in earnest. Unacquainted with
the language, he had the double difficulties of a new
colonist, but his readiness to adapt himself to every
change in colonial life bore him over every difficulty,
and he stands to-day an example of what pluck, energy,
and principle can do for any man in this country. Mr.
Holtermann arrived in Melbourne in August, 1858,from
Hamburgh, by way of Liverpool, in the ship Salem,
Captain Walker, and at once made his way to Sydney,
where he expected to meet a friend. Failing in this, he
strove to get employment. He could not speak English,
and after six weeks of a futile search for work on shore,
he was obliged to turn to the sea. He shipped as
steward on the schooner Rebecca, Captain Souther, and
proceeded to the South Seas, New Caledonia, &c. Re-
turning to Sydney he again strove to obtain work, and
again failed. It was at this juncture, the beginning of
1859, that he bent his steps westward. Meeting with
Mr. Louis Beyers, now a member of the Legislative
Assembly, he started for Tambaroora. There he ex-
perienced all the ups and downs of a miner’s life, and
won success only through enduring perseverance.
There is no man in this colony who deserved more to
succeed. He battled against difficulties that would
have overcome thousands. He twice brought Mr.
Beyers back to the famous hill. He stuck to his mine
against all discouragements. Though a good German
scholar, he knew but little of English, yet he opened a
school and taught both his pupils and himself; and all
to keep his mine going. He opened a billiard saloon
and a hairdressing establishment, and became a ferry-
man, and all for the same object. He was also engaged
as hotelkeeper, storekeeper, butcher, and baker, and in
a variety of other ways aided in supplying the demands
of the time, and extending greatly the circle of his
friends. The money thus won on the Saturday and
Sunday was put into the mine, —and Mr. Holtermann
gained in another way. He proved himself a most use-
ful man in the rising community, and made many
friends. Nor was he idle in the public interest. He
was called by the miners the Bald Hill Commissioner,
from the resolute way he battled at Bald Hill, now called
Hill End, in the interests of the poor miner, and against
official high-handed dealing. Seven years’
toil brought the gold to the surface and a
fortune to the man who thus persevered.
The return in four years was over £llO,OOO,
and the claim since being floated into a
company has repaid with interest the
capital invested. Mr. Holtermann still
believed in the value of his mine, and at
no time held less than 7000 shares. He
held 10,000, and the market figure was
then £3 10s per share. It deserves here
to be mentioned that Mr. Holtermann
was the first to warn the Sydney public
against the great mining mania about this
time setting in. For his outspokenness
in the public good he was burnt in effigy
it Hill End, and the mail coach by which
ae was believed to be a passenger was
dunce stopped by a band of enraged
mining sharks who feared exposure. On
the retirement of Sir James Martin from
East Macquarie, and while Mr. Holter-
mann was en route to Sydney, he was
asked to contest the election. He con-
sented, but owing to the want of pre-
paration and the strong opposition against
him, he was unsuccessful, but was de-
feated only by a small majority. Coming
to Sydney, he turned his attention to St.
Leonards, and built a palatial residence on
the crown of the hill, one of the finest
bouses about Sydney, and commanding
a panoramic view without equal in any
quarter of the globe. He was asked to
stand for St. Leonards, and consented.
Mr. Famell failing, however, to get a seat
for Parramatta, contested the electorate
of St. Leonards with Mr. Holtermann,
who was defeated by the Sydney vote. He
polled largely however among the resi-
ients, and was defeated only by a small
lumber of votes. Mr. Holtermann was by
ao means downcast by the result, but
turned his attention to what was really a
great undertaking, and one of more im-
portance to the country than a seat in Par-
liament. He was resolved to make Aus-
tralia known to the world. He started
taking the largest photographs that have
ever been taken, and surprised the world
at Philadelphia and Paris with the magni-
ficence of Australian scenery, and the
importanance of Sydney and other cities
of this island continent. The highest
prizes were the awards for his exhibits.
Mr. Holtermann mainly gained his intro-
duction to European firms he now repre-
sents through this display of his Austra-
lian photographs, which were shown
together on a sheet of paper 80ft. by sft.
In America and Germany, in the pleasure
tardens, he allowed his collection to
je displayed free of charge, with the
ibject of making the calonies yet more
widely known. One of the direct rewards
of this display was inquiries from hun-
dreds of men as to the advantages of
Australia for a field of immigration.
While in America and Europe Mr. Holter-
mann’s attention was drawn to the ques-
tion of supplying New South Wales with
a new class of goods that had not yet
been sent out to Australia. He decided
on entering mercantile pursuits, and his
farehouse in Pitt-street is now an em-
orium for a very superior class of Ameri-
can and European goods. Notably,
mention may be made of the new Davis
Vertical Feed Sewing Machine, which is
spoken of as the perfection of mechanism.
The principles of the New Davis differ en-
tmely from those of other sewing machines, and their
efficiency, adaptability, simplicity and durability have
secured them a high position in the estimation of
the public. Ample evidence of this was afforded by
witnessing the absorbing interest manifested by visitor
to * be Sydney International Exhibition in the working
■f the Davis. Mr. Holtermann has likewise introduced,
n< ? yLf°- e a B’®ht for, the Perforated Veneer Furniture
nd Chair-seats manufactured by Garden and Co, of
P 1686 ? oods BX6 remarkably well adapted
for hot climates, and combine, to an eminent degree
comfort, cleanhnesss, durability, and elegance of apl
pearance. Mr. Holtermann is sole agent for Blunt’s
celebrated force and lift pumps; for the justly famed Lion
Lager Beer, now so extensively used throughout Aus-
tralia; and for Gill s American Toilet Soaps, remarkable
for fheir pimty and agreeable characteristics: as also
for Robert Paton s New York school furniture and fit-
tings ; and Gibson’s Refrigerating Paint, a composition
which if properly applied to iron, slate, or glass roofs,
as the effect of rendering the interior perfectly cool
unng the heat of summer.
In conclusion, it may be mentioned that Mr. Holter-
namn now represents the principal continental maun-
factures of furniture, upholstery, pianos, leather goods
survey and telegraphic instruments, and does an ini
creasing trade in the colonies. He may stand
any day on the steps of his warehouse and look on the
spot where, more than twenty years ago, he walked up
and down friendless and alone. How many such
calonists are we getting by the present system of immi-
gration ?
HEATRICALS IN NEW ZEALAND.
OLD SYDNEY FRIENDS AND NEW ZEALAND
FAVOURITES.
(From our Correspondence to February 22nd.)
Mr. Lyster’s excellent Operatic Company has done
good business in Christchurch during the week, when
Montana," “ Aida,” the “ Bohemian Girl,” and other
favourite operas were produced. A performance has
been given in aid of the Irish Famine Fund
The Carandini Concert Company have done fair busi-
ess in Napier. They opened at the Theatre Eoyal.
Wellington, last Monday for a season of six nights
,„ Fr ° m Hobart Town is expected Mr. Arthur Sketchley
(G. Rose). He is best known as the creator of the
eccentnc Mrs. Brown, of Malaproprian affinity. He
comes to give the New Zealanders a taste of his quality
as a reader.
Dunedin is quite devoid of amusement just now, and
Professor Carmini Morley has in consequence brought
to the fore some of the members of his clever operatic
class.
Baehelder’s Diorama and Pantascope has done good
business at the Thames. It goes shortly to the
Waikato.
Mr. McLean’s clever Juvenile Troubadours opened a
short season at the Wellington Academy of Music last
week, where they have done well. The company has
proceeded to the Wairarapa.
The Hewett Family “ Musette Troupe ” are doing the
townships of the West Coast of the Middle Island.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart, of “ Happy Hours” fame, opened
at the Wellington Academy of Music last Monday for
a short season. Mr. R. F. Roper, R.A.M. is still their
agent.
The Academy of Music, Christchurch, late “Gaiety
Theatre,” is once more closed. The “new manage-
ment," though strenuous in their endeavours to cater
for the popular taste—said endeavours including the
exhibition of wire-walking, fire-eating, and—last but
not the least attractive—boxing—have been compelled
to succumb to the force of circumstances. On Wednes-
day week last the attendance of the public was so small
that the company deemed it not worth while to give a
performance. During the previous week they had
given “ Aurora Floyd ” and “ The Spitalsfield Weaver,”
with an “olla podrida" to follow; and on Saturday
“ The Happy Pair,” in which last Miss Muriella was
supported by a gentleman amateur, whose stage fright
prevented his efforts from being a success. Mr
Warner, the proprietor, has had the theatre renovated
for nothing, as Mr. D’Orsay Ogden’s bankruptcy wiped
off a good many scores, some of them of a very peculiar
nature indeed, and about which there has been much
unfavourable comment.
A Panorama of the Arctic World will appear on the
boards of the Princess Theatre, Dunedin, on the 9th
mst., under the management of Mr. Geddes. Mr. Harrv
Powell is the lecturer.
J. B. Steele is at present engaged getting up a
masquerade and fancy dress ball in Auckland, the
Biorama of the Zulu War having been temporarily
The Williamsons, supported by a new company, are
to open at the Theatre Royal, Auckland, in the early
days of next month.
_ Auckland, March 2.
bo far as the first nothing of any special interest has
occurred during the past week. Mr.;j. J. Wallace, of
Australian renown, has been sustaining the title role in
several pieces at the Theatre Eoyal. On Monday and
Thursday he appeared as the hero in a play written by
himself, and called ‘ The man from America.’ On Wed-
nesday and Thursday he sustained the leading part in
Byron’s well-known drama, £lOO,OOO. On Friday, Guy
Mannering, taken from Sir Walter Scott’s novel of the
same name was produced in conjunction with ‘The
Irish Emigrant.’ On Saturday, the ‘ Colleen Bawn,’
one of the best of Dion Boucicault’s conceptions was
produced with very fair success. Mr. Wallace repre-
sented Myles Na Copaleen. He is assisted by Messrs.
J. B. Steele, Haygarth, Love, Leopold, anh O’Brien, and
Misses Wilton, Raymond, Leopold, etc. The represen-
tations in a theatrical way were successful, but finan-
cially speaking have been a comparative failure.
Lyster’s Opera Company have been successfully per-
forming in Wellington. Their season closed last
Saturday. Vain expectations were indulged in by the
people of Auckland that the company might be pre-
vailed upon to perform in Auckland for a short season.
However, the anticipated pleasure was not destined to
fall to our lot, and universal disappointment is felt that
the company will not come here. The company include
Signor Coy, Mr. Templeton, and Signora Coy and Miss
Rose Hersee.
Martin Swallow, composer and past organist of St.
Paul’s Church, of ‘ paint and powder ’ renown, was
fined 10s. in the Police Court for using obnoxious ex-
pressions to a lady of his acquaintance. Great interest
was manifested in the trial, the Court being crowded
during the hearing. Mr. Swallow being as great a man
as Mr. Thurveydrop, the ‘model of deportment,’ was
rather. m a peculiar fix while standing in the dock,
a position both novel and unpleasant.
The St. James’ Association opened their season this
evening with a grand concert and varied evening’s
entertainment in St. James’ TTnii
EUTERPE.
Memo, for the Sabbath Observance Association.—
Never take pills on Saturday night, because they are
apt to do their work on Sunday.
New Chum • Quart Pot Overseer ’ (who has missed his
way); • Haw, my abowiginal fwiend. Pway infawm me
the diwection to the homestead.*
King Billy (with grand scorn): ‘What foa you yabber
like it that, one blooming French? When you talk
black gen’leman, ’peak English. Ton s’pose me a
blooming Dutchman, eh ? *
FUN AND FANCY.
Cash advances.—Courting a rich widow.
Any actress can paint, hut only a few can draw.
Back-yards—The trains of the ladies’ dresses.
The horrid zone—The latest fashion in ladies’ belts.
An Atlanta belle wears boots made wholly by herself.
The last time a man goes into a graveyard he does not
augh at the style of the tombstones.
When a man gets the rheumatism in his knees he
knows the beauty of a gait without hinges.
‘What were the worst results of the civil warp’
cried an American orator. ‘Widows!’ shouted Jones,
who had married one.
The great ambition of a woman is to clothe herself in
garments that the least drop of water or the least bit of
sunshine will either spot or fade.
Eighteen young ladies of Yankton, Dakota, have
signed the pledge, and agreed to frown upon any young
man whose breath contains a suspicion of cloves.
Hairpins haven’t been introduced into Africa, and
this compels the women of that benighted land to use a
splinter of wood when they want to pick their teeth.
Upon a modest gravestone in a Boston cemetery
appears the plaintive legend: ‘ His neighbor played the
cornet.’
When the Czar arose in the theatre at St. Petersburg
and said, ‘ I have never been so happy in my life.’ no
one dared to say, ‘ What! n —r ? ’
The two important events in the life of man are when
he examines his upper lip and sees the hair coming, and
when he examines the top of his head and sees the hair
going.
There have been paragraphs on stove-pipes, mothers-
m-law, and unloaded guns, but it was hundreds of years
ago, and there is a good chance now for a young man
with talents.
A Boston woman cut her dress from a pattern in a
magazine dated 1873 before she discovered that it
wasn t 1879, and it took three doctors to tide her over
the long, lonely night.
The King of the Sandwich Islands has a four-year-old
daughter named Victoria Kawekiu Kaiulani-Lunalino
Katanmiahilapalapa. At this rate, when she gets to be
torty, her name will reach around four blocks.
A boy undertook to torture a wasp by touching a
*° ! ts ll l ody -, The w asp applied its warm
v b °y 8 band > an( l as it flew away it gave the
boy these words of wisdom : ‘ Never try to beat a man
at>nis own game.
wifi ? ai:n > it’s going to,’ said a Vallejo
wife to her husband. ‘And why?’ he replied. ‘Oh,’
said she, gazing vacantly at a pin on the floor, ‘ I don’t
see any use in wearing monogram stockings this kind of
w Batiier.
The Czar is trying to fool Europe into believing that
be is engaged in reducing his army to a peace footing,
-tsismark was so amused by the news fhat he at once
wrote to the Czar, urging him to mount the lyceum
platform as a humorous lecturer.
When are stockings like dead men ? When they are
mended; or, perhaps, when their souls are departed;
or, again, when they are all in holes; or when they are
m toe-toe; or when they are past heeling; or when
they are no longer on their last legs.
Years and years ago it used to be said that a girl
might be willing to be kissed when she voluntarily put
a boy s hat on her head. That cannot be true, for
hundreds of pretty girls are now wearing the little
round Derby hats, and looking well under them.
Mamma: ‘What’s the matter darling? You don’t
seem pleased to see me ? ’ Precious Darling; ‘ No, I am
not, mamma. I find you have gone and engaged yourself
to be married again without my approval, when I had
already promised you to one of Gerty’s uncles ! ’
A clerk in a drygoods-store, who detected a fashion-
able female in the act of slipping sis pairs of clocked
stockings under her cloak, touched her on the shoulder,
and preparations were at once made to extinguish the
“ re that is, he tapped the belle, and several sections of
hose were laid down immediately.
This is the way the editor of one of our New England
contemporaries gets even with a rival: ‘A dispatch
informs us that the latest style of gentleman’s shirts
are of black cambric, with small white spots. All, then,
that our editor friend will have to do to be in the
fashion will be simply to take a piece of chalk and
make spots on his shirt.’
Marchant, in his * Betrothals and Bridals,’ suggests
the following code of signals for girls: ‘ A ring on the
first finger, to denote poverty and willingness to get
married; on the second finger, money and a disposition
to listen, though nothing is promised; on the third
finger, ‘‘ Already engaged, and so you needn’t trouble
yourself, on the little finger, deliberating.”
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER II.
BEFORE THE STORM.
'^l 1 sa >’ to “y soul. Soul, thou hast much,
goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink,
and. be merry. *
jAugust of the year 1861 —the year suc-
ceeding that which might almost be called the
apotheosis of the cotton trade. The goods of Lan-
cashire were piled in every port; her merchants
were a byword for riches and prosperity. “ Cotton
lords —the aristocracy of the land—that grimy,
smutty, dirty, golden land, whose sceptre was
swayed by Kmg Cotton.
Day after day the goodly ships had home their
loads across the Atlantic from New Orleans and
the other cotton ports ; day after day those Liver-
pool cotton lords had received that load upon their
docks, and those Manchester cotton lords had bar-
tered with them and bought it; and it had been
borne slowly along, piled up on great lorries, or it
had been whirled along the iron road, and un-
loaded, and carried to a thousand factories in
Manchester, and Bolton, and Oldham—the giant
consumers ; in Rochdale, and Bury, and Burnley;
Blackburn and Wigan, and Ashton and Stock-
port; to the great, young, growing towns; to
strange moorland visitors, younger sisters of the
towns ; and there, thickset spikes had whirled it
about, and combs had smoothed it out; revolving
spindles had spun it into the thickest or the most
tairy threads ; rows and rows of shining looms had
received it, and woven it into every conceivable
variety of texture and colour, and breadth, and
length, and pattern. Skilled workmen and work-
women, deft-handed, lissome, soft-
fingered crafts-men and crafts-women
had stood by their wooden and metal
fellow-workers, and fed their untiring
jaws ; then it had gone to the white-
looking ware-house to be piled in great
masses like little mountains for height
and solidity, and from thence removed,
to ships again, and borne over the'
seas to India, and China, and America,,
and to every town in Europe where
men and women needed clothing and
had money to buy it.
The glory of King Cotton at this
period of his reign, and the splendour
°* him cannot be better summed up-
than in the graphic words of one who
has written on that great subject:
“ The dreary totals which Mr. Glad-
stone’s eloquence illuminates and the
rolling numerals of the National Debt
become almost significant beside the
figures which this statement (the
statistics of the cotton trade) involves.
Arithmetic itself grows dizzy as it ap-
proaches the returns of the cotton
trade for 1860. One hundred years
back, and the cotton manufacturers
of England had been valued at .£200,000
a year. Had not French, American,.
Russian wars —had not railways' and.
telegraphs had their part and lot in
this century, surely it would be known
as the Cotton Age. This year, 1860,
Was the annus mirabilis of King
Cotton. In this year his dependants
were most numerous and his throne
widest. There was no Daniel at hand
to interpret to him the handwriting on
the wall which within twelve months;
should be read by all who ran, in
letters of blood. What cared he?
An argosy of ships bore him across
the sea into every port. He listened
to the humming of his spindles and to
the rattle of the looms; he drank of
the_ fulness of his power and was'
satisfied, for he was great—yes, very-
great. . . . The total value of
their (the manufacturers’) exports for
the year amounted to .£52,013,380. If
figures can ever be magnificent—if
naked totals ever reach to the sublime
—surely the British cotton trade for
the year 1860 claims our admiration.
Its production for this single year-
equalled in value <£76,012,380, or
nearly six millions more than the
gross revenue of the kingdom for the
same period.”
Surely the land which was the vast
home of the monster trade deserved,
the title of “ The Land of Plenty,.” 1
and such it was—“ a goodly land,*”
in fact, if not in outward show, “a
land flowing with milk and honey,”
or at least their modem English
equivalents—a land where wealth;
was profuse—where masters and men vied with,
each other in pride of bearing and dogged indepen-
dence of spirit. Such was the rough, dark land
at the end of 1861; what it was in 1862 only those
who dwelt in it, and saw its thousands of perish-
ing, children, and noted their stoic endurance of
their sufferings can say.
Even now, even in this month of August 1861
rumours were gaining ground that the war in
America would not soon be over. The price of
cotton was beginning to go up; the days were has-
tening towards that month of October when prices
sprang up, mounting daily higher and higher, and
factories began to close —not in ones and twos as
heretofore, not to run a short time, or half-time,
or even quarter-time, but to close bodily in dozens
and scores, with no prospect of their opening again
for an indefinite period of want and woe. It was
a vast, dark, pitiless crowd, that which was even
now rolling up from the West, bearing in its
womb lamentation, and mourning, and woe.
But still Lancashire was the land of plenty and
of hospitality; still her generous fires burnt merrily
upon her ample hearths, making the stranger
forget her murky skies, and the smoke-
dimmed countenance of her landscapes. Her
workpeople still got the largest wages, her mas-
ters still made the largest fortunes of any masters
and workpeople, taken collectively, in England ;
and nothing was said of the over-production of the
last plethoric year, nor of the piled up goods in the
overstocked warehouses.
CHAPTER IH.
Rifts Within the Lute.
The brother and sister walked down the sloping
street already mentioned, which was, as usual
at that time, full of workpeople, streaming out of
the numberless factories which formed the staple
of Thanshope buildings. Arms were swinging,
and clogs were clattering: tongues were wagging
furiously in the reaction of the release irom v
and the inhalation of the air which, thoug 1
MR. B. O. HOLTERMANN.


GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahleet’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
AVID M ‘ C A L L,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment.
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBINSON, K.C.M.G.
And
His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870,1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
RTH U R
C U B I T T.
157 (late 203) PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFICE.
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTED.
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS, DEATHS
and MARRIAGES.
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
36 were withdrawn for various reasons
21 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS,
most intricate cases have met with marked success.
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
Nicholson and ascherberg,
325 GEORGE STREET.
LILY QUEEN WALTZ.—By A. Moul. One of the
most popular waltzes ever published. Second
Thousand already sold out. See Press notices.
Superbly illustrated in colours. Price 2s 6d., by
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH.—By A Moul. Comically il-
lustrated in colours. Very bright and effective;
its popularity is assured. Vide Telegraph, Decem-
ber 6th. Price 25., by post 2s 2d.
THE FARMER AND HIS PIGEONS.—Song, by
Taubirt. Second Edition. Charmingly bright
and effective. Sung by Miss Jeannie Sargent at
the Urso concerts. Always encored. Price Is.
6d., by post Is. Bd.
Fourth Edition !!! Fourth Edition !! t
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE No 13.
A Wonderful Success. No less than 15,000 sold in Six
Weeks. Everybody is talking about it. Contains fif-
teen Popular Songs and Pieces, including the songs
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on our Block, Old Log
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me Home, &c., &c.
The sale of this book is so great that worthless imita-
tions are being offered to the public. Ask for No. 13
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE,” and see
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCHERBERG.
325 George Street.
Humble and nicholson’S patent
WASHING MACHINE
Is the Best Invention before the Public.
Its Action is Entirely Different from Any Other.
It is Self-acting and Does not Destroy the Clothes.
It Saves Money and Labour, and Produces no
Noise or Dirt.
It is Impossible for It to Get out of Order,
It is the Quickest in Its Action.
It Cleanses Equally well Partially Soiled or
Very Dirty Clothes.
Its Superiority is Established beyond a Doubt.
See Opinions of the Press and Other Testimonials.
CAUTION.
Several persons having made imitations of this Patent
Washing Machine, we beg to give notice that we will
take legal proceedings against any one making, using, or
exercising, or vending copies of their invention.
On SALE by the Agents,
DBYSDALE and ROBERTS,
397 GEORGE STREET, opposite Royal Hotel.
C. W. ROBERTS’
£3 CASE
of
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.
*,» CARRIAGE FREE bt RAIL OR STEAMER.
ON receipt of the above sum the following genuine
articles will be forwarded, in SQUARE BOTTLES,
securely packed in a case, viz:—
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 „ PALE BRANDY
6 „ WEST INDIA RUM
1 _ WHISKY
1 „ SUPERIOR PORT WINE
1 „ SHERRY WINE.
Total; 15
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. W. ROBERTS has much pleasure in stating that
he is constantly receiving the highest testimonials from
residents in all parts of the colony referring to the high
character of the LIQUORS supplied in his
FAMOUS £3 CASE.
Try one and judge for yourself.
Kindly make a note of the Address—
C. W. ROBERTS,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
George and Market Streets.
SYDNEY.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET.
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be- produaed.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made a
Specialty.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
1
rjp.H EAT E E EO Y A L.
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar.
TO-NIGHT. } POSITIVELY { mARCH^’.
LAST NIGHT > OF ( BEILLIANT
LAST NIGHT S THE I SEASON.
of
('PATTI')
GRAND CONCERTS-} PATTI >GRAND CONCERTS
(.PATTI J
tie
TENTH PATTI CONCERT
Teuth Patti Concert,
and the
FINAL APPEARANCE
Final Appearance
of the
PATTI ■) LA DIVA ( PATTI
PATTI c < PATTI
PATTI ) CAELOTTA (.PATTI
POPULAR SCALE OF PRICES
Dress Circle, 7s 6d ; Stalls, ss;
Familj Circle, 2s 6d; Pitt, Is;
Stage Boxes, £3 3s.
ICTO E I A
V
Stage Manager ...
THEATRE.
Mr. James H. Eainford.
No record in the Dramatic Annals of this great colony
tells of the stage being so exalted as it is by the perform-
ance of
SOUR GRAPES
SOUR GRAPES
JOHN L. HALL SOUR GRAPES JOHN L. HALL.
SOUR GRAPES.
THIS FRIDAY EVENING.
In consequence of its success, and by request, the
above comedy will be repeated, being positively the Last
Night.
Sour Grapes
Sour Grapes
Sour Grapes
Sour Grapes
SATURDAY, MARCH 13.
RIP VAN WINKLE.
RIP (as played by him for 138 consecutive nights)
Mr. J. L. HALL.
Free List Entirely Suspended, Press alone excepted.
Box plan at Elvy’a Music Emporium.
No advance in the prices.
ELLY AND LEON'S
OPERA HOUSE.
Cornet King jnd York streets.
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENING, MARCH 12,
FOURTH APPEARANCE in FOUR YEARS of the
WORLD RENOWNED
LINGARDS
LINGARDS.
The beautiful and Highly-gifted
Miss Alice D. LINGAED,
The world-famed Comedian,
Mr. WM. HORACE LINGAED,
and the
ENTIRE LINGAED COMEDY OPERA COMPANY,
Direct from Melbourne.
Byron’s Greatest Comedy,
With the Lingards in their original parts,
OUR BOYS.
MARY MELROSE (581 th time) ... Miss A. LINGAED
PEEKYN MIDDLE-')
WICK, Retired But- [-Mr. W. HORACE LINGAED.
terman (581 th time) )
To conclude with the
LINGARD SKETCHES.
SATURDAY EVENING. March 13.
Van Ousten's jComedy, in 4 acts,
OUR BACHELORS f
And the Comic Operetta
I LADEONI.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Ascherberg*s.
THLE T I C
SPORTS.
ON 13th MARC Hr
on the
GROUNDS
of the
GARDEN PALACE.
NOTICE.
TO THE INHABITANTS OF SYDNEY,
The Athletic Sports which will be held this day
(Saturday), March 13, will be worthy of attendance,
and the public are informed that the same are to be
carried on under the auspices of the Highland Society
of New South Wales, and that the proceeds of the
gathering, after paying all expenses, will be divided
amongst the leading CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS
in the City,
ATHLETIC SPORTS, EXHIBITION GROUNDS,
on
THIS DAY (SATURDAY).
COMPETITORS intending to be present are informed
that the SPORTS will commence at 1.30, so their early
attendance is requested.
POST ENTRANCES will be received a quarter of an
hour before the event comes off.
For particulars as to same see Book of Sports, which
may be had on the ground.
THE BEST PLACE
to
SPEND THIS (SATURDAY) AFTERNOON
will be
ON THE GROUNDS
of the
GARDEN PALACE,
to
SEE THE ATHLETIC SPORTS.
The names of those gentlemen who have so kindly
contributed towards the expenses of the Gathering, will
be duly acknowledged in one of the daily papers.
H. J. CHISHOLM,
Hon, Secretary.
DRAMATIC PERFORMANCE
Will be given by
THE GARDEN PALACE DRAMATIC SOCIETY,
At the GUILD HALL,
On MONDAY, the 22nd INSTANT,
In aid of
THE IRISH RELIEF FUND.
H. WILLIAMS, Manager.
The great waxworks exhibition
NOW OPEN
Opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street.
Just added, ANDREW GEORGE SCOTT dftas
Captain Moonlight, and THOMAS EOGAN alias
Baker —the notorious Wantabadgery Bushrangers,
taken from original casts; and other figures.
Admission, Is.; children half-price. Open from 10 a.m.
to 10 p.m.
ASHION ABLE SCAEFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STEEE^
Near thb Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TET IT ! ! !
J. L. HOE D E E N.
GEOEGE TALL. PEACTICAL LOCKSMITH
AND SAW MAKER,
PITT STEEET
(Next the Congregational Church).
Saws sharpened and re-set on the shortest notice
GEORGE TALL
is the leading Praotic Locksmith of Sydney, and chal
lenges any competitor for speed or effectiveness
of work.
and thunderous, was yet fresher than that in the
great hot factories.
Thanshope was built on a situation with consid-
erable claims to natural beauty, and there were
days, even now, when it looked beautiful. Its
streets all climbed up and down steep hills, and
when the day or the smoke was clear enough, hills
might be seen surrounding it on all sides in the
distance, exeept to the South, where Manchester
lay.
There was a river—the river Thanse —running
through the town, which unfortunate stream
formed a fertile source of bickering and heart-burn-
ing amongst the members of the town council, the
medical men, and the people who write to the news-
papers : one party of them contended that there
was nothing the matter with the river Thanse, it
was a good and wholesome stream which purified
the town; while the other party said that it and
its unspeakable uncieanness were at the root of
all the ills that Thanshope flesh suffered from.
Altogether, the verdict of a stranger would most
likely have been that Thanshope was a dim, un-
lovely, smoky place, in which no one would choose
to live whose business did not oblige him to do so
—a place where substantial dirt was the co-opera-
tor of substantial prosperity, where grime and
plenty went hand in hand.
Yet there were people who loved this dirty town,
and who lived contented lives in it: people not be-
longing to the great swarm of workers who were
obliged to live there, and who perhaps thought
more about the rate of wages than about the
aesthetic condition of their surroundings.
Myles and Mary Heywood, having come to the
end of the sloping street, turned a comer to the
left, and soon found themselves in another street,
quieter, wider, with terraces of small houses on
either side, whose monotony was diversified by
various chapels, meeting-houses, and schools. Up-
hill for a short distance, till the street grew wider
and the houses better, and Myles and Mary, turn-
ing down a side street to the right, emerged upon
one side of a wide, open square space, called Town-
field, or the Townfield, and elevated so high that
the rest of the town lay before them as in a basin.
All along that side of the street where they stood,
was a row of neat, small houses, each exactly like
all the others ; the only room for the individuality
of the owners making itself apparent in the little
strip of garden spreading before each.
TTalf the Townfield had been cut off, a couple of
years before, to furnish a small park or pleasure-
ground, but looking across the open space to the
north-west, they could see the old part of the town
in its hollow; the old church of the parish on
ground almost as high as the Townfield itself ; the
gilded spire of the town-hall rising ambitiously
from the hollow (it chimed a quarter after six with
mellow tones as they stood there), and all the
other churches and chapels and public buildings
strewn here and there about the town. A great
cloud of smoke came up and dimmed the air,; on
every side a fringe of long chimneys, different
big factories were familiar features in the land-
scape, and formed landmarks to Mary and her
brother —had formed landmarks to them from in-
fancy.
Away to the north-west were undulating lines of
blue, lofty moors. They were part of Blackrigg—
that mighty joint of England’s irregular spine. It
was not exactly an enlivening prospect, but it had
certain beauties of its own; and at least this town,
full of rough, busy toilers, had a fitting and har-
monious frame in that semi-circle of bleak and
treeless moors.
Mary and Myles, went up one of the strips of
garden about the middle of the terrace and opened
the door of the house.
“ Pah! how hot and close it feels !” said Myles,
as they closed themselves in. “ Mow I wonder how
that lad is!”
They went along a little passage, to the left of
which was the “ parlour,” arranged in the im-
proved style of such parlours, with a brilliant;
large-patterned carpet in red, yellow, and blue;
bright green merino curtains, a “ drawing-room
suite ” in rosewood and crimson rep, a pink cloth
upon the centre table, upon which were negli-
gently arranged albums, Sunday books, paper
mats, and a glass shade, under which reposed
waxen apples and grapes of a corpulent descrip-
tion. On the mantelpiece, two green glass vases
and a china greyhound of an unknown variety,
more frilled paper mats, and little piles of spar
and crystal. On the walls, photographs and a
rich collection of framed funeral cards, together
with the chef d r ccuvre of the whole establishment—
a work of art which Mary regarded with feelings
little short cf veneration —‘Joseph sold by Ins
Brethren,’ executed in Berlin wools, the mer-
chants all squinting frightfully, and Joseph with a
salmon-coloured back and a decidedly ruddy coun-
tenance, though of such remarkable beauty
as quite to account for his subsequent adventures.
Past the door leading to this epitome of art and
beauty, went these young people, into the kitchen,
which was, of course, the general living room of
the family. Upon a couch beneath the windows,
with the crinking of the cinders and the ticking of
the clock for his only companions, lay the failure
of his family—a cripple lad of eighteen.
" WeU, Ned, lad, how dost find thyself?” asked
Myles going in.
“ I find myself as usual —wishmg I was dead,”
was the encouraging reply, as wie lad turned a
pale and sallow face, not without considerable
beauty of feature, but stamped with a look of ill-
health, pain, and something deeper and more sor-
rowful than either, towards the strong, handsome
brother who stooped over him.
“ Nay, come ! Not quite so bad as that,” said
Myles, smoothing Edmund’s hair from his hot fore-
head, and seating, himself beside the the couch.
He looked into his cripple brother’s eyes with a
glance so full of life, and hope, and strong, pro-
tecting kindness, and withal so contagious a smile,
that an answering, if a reluctant one, was wrung
from the lad’s dull eyes and down-drawn mouth.
“ I’m that thirsty!” he said. "Molly, do get
the tea ready.”
“ I’m shapdin’ ” (shaping) " to’tnow, lad,” she
returned, hanging up her cotton, handkerchief and
poking the fire to settle the kettle upon it.
" And you read a bit, Myles, wilta?” pursued
Edmund. “ Mother won’t be home for naif an
hour, and I should like to know how yon Lady
Angiolina got on at the castle.”
Myles took up a book from the table and began
to read aloud.
‘“As the groom of the chambers announced the
Lady Angiolina Fitzmaurice, every eye was turned
towards her. She advanced with the step of a
queen. Her trailing robe of black velvet set off
her superb figure to the utmost advantage,’ ” and
s o forth.
Edmund listened with face intent, and a half-
'> upon his bps. Mary moved noiselessly
getting the tea-cups out of the cupboard
ng them on the tray with gingerly hand,
'■o disturb the literary party m the win-
was continued onlyJor the space of
n hour. The story was a novel
T o agent in it was of lower rank
nen’al less distinguished than
v oi v major-domo was per-
mitted to appear in its truly select and exclusive
pages; the action took place in Mayfair, in Bel-
gravia, in the ancestral halls of dukes and earls.
Manchester had been alluded to by the refined
author much as if it had been of about equal im-
portance with Timbuctoo ; the whole a very tawdry
tinsel, pasted together in a very poor, second-rate
manner.
Edmund had an intensely poetic temperament.
Poetry of some sort, in real life or in books, he
must have or die. It was not forth-coming in real
life : Myles never read novels for his own pleasure,
therefore Edmund had no beneficent hand to point
out to him the shining treasures of real poetry with
which our English literature abounds, so he had to
rely on the titles in the catalogue of the Thanshope
Free Library, and often received a stone instead of
bread in the shape of such jingling nonsense as he
was greedily listening to just now.
Myles was a great reader of politics and science.
The romantic and poetic side of his nature had
been left to itself ; the soil, whether sterile or fruit-
ful, had never received the least touch of cultiva-
tion—yet. He had some strong convictions on the
subject of ethics, which will be best left undes-
cribed, to display their results in his actions as
circumstances put his theories to the test.
There was something striking and uncommon in
the appearanee of all three of this group of
brothers and sister. Mary was comely—a well-
formed, well-grown young woman, with the pale
but clear and healthy complexion, dark eyes and
hair of her elder brother —a calm, sensible face,
not destitute of a certain still, regular beauty, but
lacking the impetuousness and intensity of Myles’
expression. She sat knitting a long grey woollen
stocking, and looked with a large steady gaze now
at Myles, now at Edmund, whose face was equally
sharp cut as his brother’s, but worn and drawn
with pain and ill-health.
Edmund was nineteen; Mary, two-and-twenty;
Myles, six-and-twenty; another, bom between
them, had. died an infant.
At this juncture the back door was heard to
open. Some one entered, and in the pause made
by Myles in his reading there was distinctly audi-
ble a sigh—almost a groan. Glances were ex-
changed by Myles and Mary; both looked as if they
braced themselves to meet some ordeal. Edmund’s
face darkened visibly.
“ Is that you, mother ?” called out Mary cheer-
fully.
"Ay, it’s me!” replied a rather grating voice—
a voice high, though not loud, and complaining in
the midst of an ostentatious resignation.
“Go on Myles!” said Edmund, in an under-
tone,
" Can’t, my lad. You know mother can’t abide
it.”
“ Why am I never to have a bit o’ pleasure P
It’s precious little as I get,” grumbled the lad,
as he turned away, and lay with his face con-
cealed.
“ See, lad ! Tak’ the book, and read for thy-
sel’,” said Myles, who indulged in a tolerably
broad dialect when in the bosom of his family,
Edmund shrugged his shoulders visibly and
made a gesture of aversion. Myies closed the
book, rising from the side of the couch and going
to the table, as the woman came in from the back
kitchen —a small, sharp-featured woman, comely
yet, with a bright cheek and a dark eye, She was
the mother of all those tall children, though she
was only five-and-forty, havingbeen married, as
too many of her class do marry, at eighteen. The
great wonder was that she had remained a widow
so long, for in addition to good looks, clever fin-
gers, and a stirring disposition, she possessed pro-
perty to the extent of thirty pounds per annum,
left by a rich relation to her years ago.
An ignorant observer, looking at the family
party just now, would have said what a good-look-
ing, prosperous, well-to-do party they were. But
Mrs. Heywood had scarely spoken yet.
"Evenin’, mother,” said the eldest son, civilly,
but, it must be owned, hardly cordially.
“Good evenin’,” she returned, in her high-
pitched, dubious voice. “ Wbat! you’ve managed
to get th’ tea ready, lass ? But I know what that
means. Just twice as much tea in the pot as
we’ve any need for, or as I should a’ put in mysel’.
Waste, waste, on every side!”
As this was Mrs. Heywood’s invariable remark
when she came in from her ©occasional day’s sew-
ing at one of the large houses of the neighbourhood
and found the tea prepared, it excited neither com-
ment nor indignation, and the excellent woman,
seating herself, cast a sharp, discontented look
around, as if wishing some one would give her an
opportunity of saying something disagreeable.
“ Eh, bi’ the mass ! It is some and hot I If some
folks had to walk as far as me, mayhap they’d un-
derstand what I feel at this moment.”
Again no answer. Myles was buttering a piece
of bread. His eyebrows were contracted again.
The serpent in that Eden was the .contentious
woman. Myles never answered her complaints on
principle, for fear of saying something outrageous
and unbecoming, but it was often with a sore
struggle that he abstained: he did not want to be-
come a household bully, or he knew —he had found it
out by accident one day—that a certain look and
tone of his could quell Mrs. Heywood’s temper in a
minute. He was very much afraid of using it too fre-
quently, though often sorely provoked. " Such peo-
ple as SebastianMallory,’ ’ hereflected whose mother
was said to live for him and his happiness, " were
not obliged to stay in one room, listening to mad-
dening complaints, like the continual dropping of
a rainy day, with no alternative but solitude,
silence or the taproom.”
(To be Continued.)


MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE:
60 (late 98) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The oldest Mutual Life Office in Australia.
DIRECTORS:
The Host. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G., M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq. I Robert Saddington, Esq.
Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq. | Robert J. King, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P., Edin., 5 Lyons-terrace
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY:
Morrice A. Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th
December, 1879, on the Sixth Quinquennial Report of
the Society:—
* * * “It is, as a whole, the most complete state-
ment ever issued hy a Life Company, and affords an
incontestable proof that the tale of singular success
it tells is the result, not of chance, hut of practical and
theoretical ability, governed by sound judgment and
prudence." * * * “An enormous solid income has
thus been gathered together under serious drawbacks
with respect to population and distance at a compara-
tively small cost.”
Accumulated Funds, nearly THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
WHEN PURCHASING FURNITURE IT
IS DESIRABLE TO HAVE AN EX-
TENSIVE ASSORTMENT TO CHOOSE FROM.
THIS DESIDERATUM can be well attained
at the ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
THE FLORENCE
THE SARAH BELL
THE DUMFRIESSHIRE
Have brought large, valuable, and very attractive
additions to our already well stocked premises, all
purchased before the rise of price in Europe of iron
bedsteads, and many other important daily re-
quired Household Goods: —
Austrian Furniture, English Furniture
American Furniture, Canadian Furniture
Beautiful Mirrors, Cheval Glasses
Gilt Whatnots, Gilt Girandoles
English Bedsteads, French Bedsteads
Flower Centres, Flower Vases
Musical Chairs, Musical Albums
Musical Companions, Music Boxes
Cuisine, Atelier, Bureau, &c., Clocks
Writing Desks, Work Boxes
Novel Compendium of Games
Table Billiards, Bagatelle Boards
Union Drawing-room Stationery Cases
Students and Travellers’ Stationery cases
Papier Mache Work Boxes and Desks
Penders, Fireirons, Coal Cabinets
Olivewood Workboxes and Desks
Jewel Cases, Tea Caddies
Compendium School Prizes
Chess Boards, Chess Men
Draught Boards, Draught Men
Ivory Inlaid Cribbage Board
Tete-a-tete sets, Toilet Sets
Marble Clocks, Gilt Clocks
Horloge Mysterieuse, or the Mysterious Clock
Crystal Inks, Single and Double
Crumb Trays, and Brushes, Graphoscopes, albums
New Door Mats, New Fibre Matting
Beautiful and Inexpensive Drawing-Room Suites
Noble Wardrobes and Toilets.
In our “ Guide to Sydney,” which we supply
without charge, will be found Elaborate House
Lists, with each article distinctly priced.
OUR SYSTEM OF BUSINESS
IS ADMIRED BY EVERYBODY.
PLAIN FIGURE PRICES.
NO ABATEMENT.
AND PROMPT NET CASH.
A VISIT TO OUR UPSTAIRS SHOW
will well repay the visitor.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
(Next to the Royal Hotel),
George Street.
ION S, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 84s, worth £6 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit all
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK.COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use. 3s 4d, or 35s
_per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, t« ever
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOUSE,
409 GEORGE STREBJT.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
Atlas FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
OUNT A I N - KILLED MEAT.
F. SALISBURY and Co. are doing what the Govern-
ment are dreaming of —viz., supplying the public with
good wholesome MOUNTAIN-KILLED MEAT.
F SALISBURY and Co.’s meat is MOUNTAIN-
• KILLED, and of splendid quality.
F SALISBURY and Co., the only Sydney firm
• supplying Lithgow-killed Meat and pure country
Milk. Office—George and Hay-streets.
jyjO CONTAIN - KILLED MEAT. Pure Country
Lithgow-killed Meat. Pure Country Milk.
Only to be obtained—
E. SALISBURY and Co.,
George and Hay Streets.
KEAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEW MAN,
• PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business:
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
T E. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) George Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
pOHN CUTTER, PRACTICAL TAILOR,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Has on hand
The largest and best assorted stock of Woollens in the
colony.
All orders attended to with care and dispatch.
0.0 TO BRAY FOR YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address:—
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
c.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER STREET.
FRESH FISH EVERY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
ERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
No. 11 PITT STREET, .
Importers of and dealers in all descriptions of American
Machinery.
Indents executed on reasonable terms.
R
OBERT CASS
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
I N,
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE. SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
o
BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY,
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
O BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufactures are all executed
under their own personal supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, carriages, fours-in-hand, &c.,
cannot be beaten for durability or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, and only the most skilful work-
men employed.
Licensed victuallers*
ASSOCIATION
OP
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OP THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
YDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each.
Distributed as follows:
First horse ' .’ ... £lOOO
Second horse ... * 400
Third horse ... 200
Starters (divided among) 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
[ earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
I requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over Tattersall’s Cup, their orders having
been received after the consultation was filled.
Country subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change on cheques and stamp for repty.
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
JMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
The undersigned, having purchased all the LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS in Kerosene Lamps exhibited at
THE GARDEN PALACE,
Have pleasure in informing customers that they may
select any of the Lamps on show, which will he reserved
for them till the close of the Exhibition.
P. Lassetter &Co vp;
(Limited).
F. Lassetter & Co.
(Limited).
George Street,
Sydney.
George Street,
Sydney.
TABLE LAMPS in-
Do veton Ware
Wedgewood Ware
Ceramic China
Crystal Glass
Pate sur Pate
Bohemian Ware
Majolica
Japanese China
CHANDELIERS for—
Churches
Schools of Art
Public Rooms
Mansions
The Drawing Room
The Dining Room
The Study
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
F. LASSETTER & Co. (Limited),
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
American Mechanical Ingenuity.
Instructive Mechanical Toys for Schools or Households.
Read what the Bulletin says:—
“ Some of the most ingenious mechanical contrivances
ever seen in this city are now on view and on sale at the
establishment of the American Novelty Company, in
Market-street. They were intended to arrive in time
for the International Exhibition, and exhibited as speci-
mens of American ingenuity, but coming to hand late,
they are now exposed for sale in the ordinary way.
They comprise miniatures of every known description
of steam engine, and the style with which they work is
perfectly astonishing. There are four-inch locomotives
complete, four-inch saw-benches with pumping appli-
ances &c. Better models for our Public Schools could
not be obtained. With these little appliances working
under steam more could be explained to the juvenile
mind in one hour than in a month under other circum-
stances. They are, strange to say, only a matter of a
few pence. There are also various mechanical appliances
worked by springs, which travel round and round a
room, and form most piecing and instructive toys for
children. The Americans, furthermore, show their
good sense by producing a variety of other toys, quite
new in design, by means of which the opening intelli-
gence of the child is encouraged and its constructive
powers developed. Quite gladly we recommend a visit
to the American Novelty Company.”
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
JNTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country
visitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALACE.
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously cool.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
UNION CLUB HOTEL,
Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGGA WAQGA
(Close to the Railway Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYRNES, Proprietor.
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A First-cKss Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well supplied fresh and
wholesome provender, and be under the supervision of
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. BA.THS.
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397, GEORGE STREET,
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Heading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables.
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers. < it
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d.,"0r 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
c. j. Hughes,
General Manager.
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
PITT-STREET.
GEORGE ADAMS
(Late of Kiama),
wishes to inform his friends and the public generally
that he has succeeded
Mr. W. J. O’BRIEN
in the above old-established Sporting Hotel, and trusts
by keeping none but the best brands of
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS,
to merit a continuance of the support so liberally
bestowed on his predecessor.
*** G. A. purposes making important changes, so as
'to afford
THE SPORTING PATRONS
every convenience and satisfaction. Also, Gentlemen
visiting the Metropolis.
N.Bi—Night Porter.
G. ADAMS, Proprietor,
Gr™ 8,
JJIFLES,
JJEVOLVERS
PKICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHEERY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No -piH is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL
SIR human use, curing all kinds of Wounds, Bruises,
Blows, or Eruptions of the Skin in all parts of the
, Head, Hands, or Feet, and removes Warts and
Excrescences; applied to the Hands and Face during
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes, and venom-
ous spiders, &c., and may be easily washed off in the
morning. Possesses an agreeable aroma.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL removes Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joints, Sprains, Enlarged
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet, Chilblains, Bunions,
Warts, and Excrescences. Prevents the consequences
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers, and such as
must encounter damps. But its most astonishing
result, and that which distinguishes it, is its power to
preven't a recurrence of the diseases it cures.
J. POTTIE,
Veterinary Surgeon to the Government of N.S.W.,
263 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
__
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
■has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as;
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
IT is pot the dearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very flue,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against "finders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS NOTICES.
The Bulletin is published every Saturday morning.
Communications should reach to the office not later
than Thursday at noon.
The usual cojirse with regard to editorial and business
letters should be pursued.
The Proprietors of The Bulletin intend giving
provincial matters the greatest attention; hence
communications from country readers will be always
acceptable. Postal irregularities should meet with
prompt complaint.
The price per -copy of The Bulletin will be 3d, and
the terms of subscription as follows, viz. :—3s., cash in
advance; 3s. 6d., booked. Advertising scale :—3s. for
the first, and 2s. for every additional inch, with a dis-
count on quarterly, half-yearly, and yearly advertise-
ments.
*
SYDNEY; Printed and Published by John v' it
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors,
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-street. *
