

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.— Wo. 24.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUDY 10, 1880.
Price—3d.
§wlktin.
SATURDAY, JULY 10, 1880.
Hospitals in Cities.
At St, Vincent’s Hospital, Darlinghurst, is a
dead-house, and in close proximity to that dead-
house is a row of private dwellings, the owner
whereof, judging from various reports which have
appeared in the papers and from a petition for
which he is at present procuring signatures, is
sorely troubled. Tenants, when first they take
possession of the dwellings in question, rather
like the situation; but the sight of the dead-
house, of which a charming view can apparently
be obtained from the adjoining balconies, and the
hospital drainage, which is described as being
malodorous in the extreme, frighten them away.
The proprietor seeks the aid of the local residents
in endeavouring to obtain redress of what is un-
doubtedly a substantial grievance. St. Vincent’s
Hospital is reputfdly a well-managed institution
in most regards, and it is not too much to expect
of its authorities that the drainage will at once
be improved, and that any slight defect in the
mortuary arrangements will be remedied, so that
in future offence may be given to no one. How-
ever, we are among those who regard
with disfavour the old-world system
of confining within the boundaries
of a city the whole of its hospital
accommodation. We hope soon to
hear of the conductors of St. Vin-
cent’s being in a position to estab-
lish a first-class hospital in a locality
which will give patients the benefit
of pure air, Nature’s most potent
medicine. Our idea is that no hos-
pital patients should ever breathe
the tainted atmosphere of the
city but those whose removal to the
country severe accident or sudden
and violent illness precludes. We
are sOrryjto see that a large hospital
is to be built on the site of the old
Infirmary, and that the ordinary
class of patients will continue to be
domiciled amidst noise and dust
and bad air, instead of being passed
on from a receiving hospital into
the country. If politicians would
only see the sick poor located on
the ascent to the Blue Mountains
—not necessarily near their own
private residences —the efforts of
the hospital doctors would not so
often be in vain.
Police Rewards.
After a reign of some t wo years in
Strathbogie, the “king of the ranges”
and his fellows have at length shared
the fate of all outlaws ; and it is a
remarkable fact that this end was
arrived at just before the expiration
°f the period during which the
reward remained available. Different
opinions have existed from the first
as to the propriety of offering this
reward ; in the Assembly Mr.
Fitzpatrick, as will be remembered,
objected on behalf of the Opposition
°n the ground of its probable de-
moralising effect on the police. And
now public opinion seems to have
decided, in view of some of the inci-
dents attending the suppression of
the outlaws, that bis prediction has
been fairly verified. The circum-
stances are too fresh in the minds
of readers to require recapitulation
hero, and the conduct of the police
ln the matter has already been fully
commented on. It is universally a-
greod that their attitude throughout,
with a few exceptions, was apparently
bat of men who were conserving
their energies for the future advo-
cation of their respective claims to
a 9 baro of the £B,OOO and saving their
manly forms intact for its better
enjoyment. Now we have too high
a sense of the value of the force as a
whole, both in this colony and in Victoria, to desire
to see a reckless imprudence shown in the discharge
ofsuch a hazardous undertaking as that under
notice. But we cannot help thinking at the
same time, that had the police engaged lit
Glenrowan on Monday last displayed as much
self-abnegation for the sake of duty—and be it
added, as much physical courage—as the clergy-
man who figured so creditably to himself on the
scene, the vindication of justice would have
lost much of that element of the humiliating and
undignified which has unfortunately character-
ised it in connection with the long delayed fate
of the Strathbogie bushrangers. We have no
sympathy with the outlaws —they chose the
manner of their own death. Nor do we charge
the police with cowardice, for after Mr. Hare
was wounded they had no capable commander.
Men, like sheep, only want a leader. The men
were there; the leader was absent.
Manufactures and Agriculture.
Pekhax j s the most striking feature of the social
polity of the colonies is to be found in the
manner of the distribution of the population.
Formed into agglomerations more or less
large, our people seem to prefer the mutual
intercourse and traffic of the township to the less
exciting but more productive and ultimatelv
satisfactory industry of agriculture. The
traveller in the interior cannot fail to remark
the neglect which allows the prolific acres around
him to lie fallow, while in the larger towns on
his route many amongst the working classes,
alarmed for the future of their order, earnestly
advocate Protection to native industries, vainly
thinking that a guarantee of employment may thus
be afforded to those destined to succeed thorn.
Our object is not now to discuss the merits of
this proposal us compared with a free-trade
policy, for we think that New South Wales has
made up its mind on that point. We would
point out, however, that even in those countries
where the controversy has been decided in favour
of the former, the question was only opened
when the soil was occupied to its utmost capacity
by an energetic yeomanry, and when emigration
had been perforce resorted to, to strain off the
excessive population. We hold that the natural
field for the manhood of any country is the soil,
and we cannot therefore admit that the only way
to assure the comfort of the working ordei’s of
the community is by establishing such industries
as will tend to encourage that tendency towards
centralisation to which we have alluded. In the
face of our sparsely-populated country districts,
and with such an ever-present outlet for energy
and good-will as they afford, it should be a
patent absurdity to speak of a looming danger to
the working classes. We nevertheless agree, to a
certain extent, with those alarmists who are not
satisfied with the outlook from the existing
state of things. It is a trite axiom with political
economists that that state alone is flourishing
which car,boast a vigorous agricultural element;
and that the realm, however apparently prosper-
ous, of which the population is almost entirely
given up to mechanical and trading occupations,
is devoid of the very back-bone of endurance, and
fated to collapse under the first serious pressure
of the inevitable vicissitudes of trade. The
knowledge of these facts should tend to shako
that sense of security which many are now
content to entertain. It will bo obvious, too,
that no scheme of Protection would bo sufficient
to meritj the exigencies of the case. The only
trustworthy preventive of future distress is to bo
secured by the proper utilisation of the soil.
Hence it is apparent that, were the land laws so
framed and administered as really to encourage
the settlement of bona-Jide agriculturists through-
out the colony, much of the prospective difficulty
now exercising the minds of the thoughtful
would be permanently obviated. Our misfortune
is, not that some of us are unable to make money,
but that many of us want to become rich without
working.
The Right Revd. Bishop Barker, D.D.
Although worldly-minded men may, in moments
of mundane hilarity, talk lightly about ecclesi-
astics, particularly of those who have reached
the highest positions, still in their inner conscious-
ness these very individuals entertain real respect
for all who zealously devote themselves to the
moral elevation of society. It is impossible for
any civilized being not to admire earnestness and
sincerity, however much the motives that bring
both into action may be objected to or suspected.
There is certainly something repugnant to the
secular mind in the apparently mock humility
which says, nolo e.piscopari after
“ letters patent ” have been granted,
or a “rescript”— smhannulopiscatorLs
—has been issued from Rome. It is
best perhaps to rely on the legal
maxim— de inter nix non judicandvm
est —and not attempt to plumb or
fathom men’s thoughts or too nar-
rowly scan their motives ; and it is,
therefore, a more pleasing task to
judge the heads of the Churches
rather as leading citizens than as
learned divines. It is in this liberal
spirit that wo shall from time to
time survey the most prominent
amongst them in these southern
latitudes, and endeavour to point
out those traits of character which
evoke admiration or reverence (or
a compound of both) from largo
sections of the Australasian people.
Apart from their intellectual attain-
ments, social status, and exalted
aims, the higher clergy influence a
community in many ways—politi-
cally , it is said—and said very truly
of some of them—far in excess of
what [is good for themselves indi-
vidually, or the body politic they
affect. It has been somewhat harshly
assorted —somewhere —of Bishops,
that they usually exact the homage
of a “ plenary obsequiousness ” from
all their followers. That may have
been true in the past: it will hardly
boar “sun or shade” in the imme-
diate future. Dr. Frederic Barker,
Bishop of Sydney, and Metropolitan
of a Province numbering thirteen
sees in Australasia, is essentially
a churchman. His great physical
and mental powers have been almost
exclusively devoted to the interest
of the Church of England In New
South Wales. He has not, liketho
more intellectnally-robust Dr. Moor-
house, of Melbourne, ventured on
that larger platform of social reform
and enlightened progress which first
attracts and then wins the attention
of persons of all sects and of both
sexes. Bishop Barker has, however,
been uniformly consistent in his
views and action. From the day of
his first incumbency in England to
this hour—whether in promoting
synodical action, extending the
operations of the Church Society,
completing unfinished ecclesiastical
edifices, or erecting new ones, sug-
gesting “ ways and means ” to meet
the demands on the revenues at his
disposal, or in organizing Sunday
Schools and bush missions—ho has
been from first to last a low
churchman of considerable ability
and unflagging zeal. Whether his
engagements have permitted or his
inclinations led him to devote himself
much to those apostolic labours
which consist in visiting the sick,
consoling the afflicted and relieving
the poor, wo have no means of learn-
ing ; but we assume from what we
THE EIGHT REVD. BISHOP BARKER, D.D.


know of his doctrine that the practice of the cardinal
virtues, especially works of mercy, would be the
natural outcome of one so penetrated with the spirit
of St. Paul. _ The leading events of Dr. Barker’s
life may be briefly summarized. Born at Barlow,
Derbyshire, in 1808, educated at Grantham
Foundation School and afterwards at Jesus
College, Cambridge, whore he graduated in 1829 ;
ordained in 1831, and appointed to a good living
at Edgehill, near Liverpool, to be afterwards
removed to a rich incumbency in his native shire,
will sufficiently (for our purpose at least) indicate
the earlier (or English) portion of his career.
His high pergonal character, commanding appear-
ance, polished manners, and, doubtless “ the
soundness of his doctrine,” must have commended
him strongly to the Archbishops of Canterbury
(learned and practical Dr. John Bird Summer),
who, on becoming officially aware of Hie death of
Dr. Broughton, the first Bishop of Australia —
but whose diocese had during his life-time been
considerably curtailed made an offer of the
vacant see of New South Wales to the Rev. Mr.
Barker, who accepted the “ onerous honour ”
with the usual modest clerical protest, was
consecrated in November, 1854, and arrived in
Sydney about the middle of the following year.
He at once entered with energetic zeal on the
discharge of his high duties, and soon effected a
complete but simple organization of the clergy, |
and of the associations subsidiary to the action of
the church in his diocese. He certainly showed
his singleness of purpose in making provision for
the establishment of now bishoprics, the com-
pletion of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, and the
satisfactory dispatch of other undertakings. He
has travelled over largo areas of the colony in his
official capacity, and has been the means of
bringing the consolations of religion to thousands
in the rural districts. During his episcopacy—
extending over a quarter of a century—he has twice
visited England, and has been twice married. His
sermons are characterised by solidity of thought,
embodied in simple but vigorous English, and his
charges, published letters, and lectures are all I
careful studies, being guarded in language and I
theology. As President of the Synod, he is firm I
but impartial in his decisions or rulings, and I
appears to be much esteemed by the great body of I
his clergy. Still active in mind and body, ho is I
hkely for many years to come to be an ornament I
and protection— da.cna et tutamen —to the religious I
denomination of which he is the distinguished I
head.
LATE SPORTING.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
SCBATCHINGH.
Jane 25—Averami Metropolitan Stakes
June 26—7.30 p.m., Avernus ... Grand Handicap
July 1—9.30 a.m., Napper Tandy Metropolitan Stakes
July 1—12.30 a.m., Chester
July I—l 2 30 am., Mart indole m
July 7—ll a.m., Lohentrrin
July 7 —12.50 a.m., Tomboy
July?—l2 50 a.m., Cinnnimon... ”
July?—l2.soa.m.,Freemason ... ~
July? 12.50 a.m., Cinnamon ... Hawkesbury H’cans
July 7—12.50 a.m., Tomboy ...
July 7 —12 50 a.m - , Freemason...
July 3— Napper ... Grand Handicap
I regret, with a host of others, the death of
that well-known and much-respected gentleman
Mr. Richard Driver, M.L.A. He wes always fore-
most as a partner of legitimate sport; and whether
on the turf or on the cricket field his presence and
support was always looked for. He was known to
Turfites for years as Chairman ef the Now South
Wales Tattersall’s, and by his demise the mem-
bers of that body have suffered a great loss. He
was one of the most useful men N.S.W. ever had,
and he has opened a gap that will not easily be
failed.
. A match has been made for Mr. Conroy’s Star-
light to run Mr. R. Dwyer’s Maid of Erin to run
for .£lOO aside. No date has been fixed, nor the
distance given, but the match will be run in
Qunnedah.
Wednesday morning’s work was as unimportant
as could’well be, and there was nothing done of
any note. Thursday’s doings were quite of an op.
posite nature, and will bo found under the head of
“ Late Sporting.”
lam pleased in one sense to see that a person
has been fined for trying to obtain admission to
the Parramatta Racecourse on race days without
paying the usual admission fee, for it will now
admit of the case being tried in the Supreme
Court, as to whether the trustees have the power
to sell the right to the gate or not. I understand
the cose will come on shortly.
Although the doings on Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday at Randwick in the mornings are sup-
posed to be worth visiting, last Thursday’s work
did not come up to the usual standard, and most
horses betake themselves to the tan, the course
being so hard that owners and trainers prefer the
soft tan to it. Koreelah and Scottish Chief were
sent along together over three turns, at aservicable
pace, and they were followed by Otira and Cox-
comb, and they also got through a couple of turns
at a strong pace. Liberator and Mr. Ivory’s
Julian Avenel colt did nothing of importance, but
Kamilaroi, Lightning and Hazard wound up two
turns at three-quarter speed, the filly being as
fractious as usual. Cros wick, looking well, was
much liked in a slow gallop, but Lamond’s lot,
Nellie excluded, did only mild exercise. Moon-
beam was treated to a sweat of four miles and
then came The Pontiff and Sapphire, and they
got through long strong work. The Pontiff daily
increases his list of friends. Master Avenal with
Lorton tor a companion got over a couple of turns
at a steady pace, but Sweetmeat and Dover were
treated to two miles and a half, and as both wound
up well after a good striding gallop, they were
much fancied. Andover has been an absentee for
some days, but ‘‘physio ” may be the cause. Re-
membrance, looking very well, worked on the tan,
and Nellie figured conspicuously in a strong gallop,
accompanied by a hackney, and the Derby winner
goes and looks well. Nothing else of any import-
ance was done.
The course proper on Randwick will, I under-
stand be thrown open to-day (Saturday) for horses
to work upon, and owners mnst apply to the Sec-
retary of the A.J.C. for tickets entitling them to
the privileges of such track.
I have received from Mr. R. Dawbnrn a very
neatly compiled pamphlet of the nominations for
the Queensland Derbies of 1880 and 81, St. Leger’s
of 1881 and 82, and Produce Stakes of 1881, 82,
and 83, and copies of such a work will be found
invaluable to horse owners interested in thedoinsrs
of the Q.T.C.
The Doan, Lord of the Forest, and Mr. Terry’s
late purchase. Radical, are in work at Ryde, and
said to be doing well.
Mr. R. Lynch’s Gemma di Vergy filly, 2 years,
carrying 8 st. beat Mr. D. Brown’s 4-yoar-old
Londsborough, 10 st, after a dead heat at Tam worth
•on Monday, and Wynch’s Bulgaria 10 st. 3 lbs,,
beat. Darkey, Ost. 31b., very easily at the same
place.
The cricket match with the Australian Eleven
v. 18 of Newcastle was drawn very much in favor
of the Australians.
Bomeor, the Australian giant, is said to be
entered for the next Sheffield Handicap, and has a
start by 7 yards.
Aplitt and Carver have been matched to run 150
yards for .£2OO aside. The match will come off at
Forbes on the 21st of August.
Combarol’s Billy beat Farlow of Morre at
Narrabri on Saturday last. The distance was 150
yards, and the stake £25 aside.
The Wallaroo Football players beat the Parra-
matta first fifteen by 4 goals, and several tries to
nil. The game was played at Parramatta.
The Glebe players also beat the Orientals by
one goal.
Mr. P. Shendan has been elected president of
the newly formed N.S.W. Football Association.
Messrs. H. C. Rogers, H. Hook, W. Wynne,
and J. Toohey Vice Presidents; Mr. C. Beal,
hon. sec.; Mr. Henwood, hon treasurer; and
Messrs. Williams, Bond, Fordham, Wilkinson,
McLea, Allan, Marsbill, Crisp, Dnce, R. Nellor,
Powell, Chambers, Hayman, Newing, and Neiss,
committee. It was then decided that the annual
subscription boss.
The foot race between Warren and Scott came
off in the Association Ground on Monday last, and
was won by Scott, but so many “funny” little
circumstances surrounded the race, that a great
row was made, and the stakeholder decided to
return the money.
Betting.
During the week there has been a fair amount
of wagering, and the following are the moat notice-
able items. 100’s to 5 are offered on the field for
the “ Grand” or “ Metrop.,” and the public have
been tempted by such a long price.
Grand Handicap.
500 to 25 v Euclid, tk
500 to 25 v Adventure, tk
500 to 25 v Slack Eagle, tk
500 to 25 v Andover, tk
500 to 25 v Othello, tk
500 to 25 v Martindale, tk
500 to 25 v Auckland, tk
500 to 25 v Lord Burghloy tk
Metrop.
500 to 25 v Sweetmeat, tk
500 to 25 v Euclid, tk
500 to 25 v Strathearn, tk
500 to 25 v Adventurer, tk
500 to 25 v Democrat, tk
Melborne Cup.
500 to 20 Cheater, tk *
1000 to 35 v Secundua, tk
1000 to 30 v Mata, tk
500 to 15 v Jeater, tk
500 to 15 v Avemua, tk
1000 to 30 v Calamia, tk
Neither “ The Guineas” or Derby have at-
tracted any right out betting, but on the “ Guineas
and Grand” double 100’a to 3 are offered on the
field and occasionally nibbled at; 100’s to 1 are
obtainable on the Derby and Metrop., and 100’a
to 1 about the “ Grand” and “ Metrop.” double.
Books are also opened on the Metrop. and Mel-
bourne Cup double at from 1000’s to 3to 5, ac-
cording to selection, and a good business has been
done.
Gympie Races.
FIRST DAY.
Maiden Plate.—Scamp, 1.
Annual Handicap.—Ehoderick Dhn, 1; Battleaxc, 2 :
Jibboom, 3.
Trial Stokes.—Piper, 1.
Hack Race.—Baronet, 1.
Queensland Plate.—Battleaxe. 1; Jibboom, 2 j Piper,
Second Day.
Minors’ Purse.—Ehoderick Dhu, 1 • Jibboom, 2.
Town Plate, 1| miles.—Ehoderick Dhu, 1: Piper. 2:
Battleaxe, 3.
Stewards’ Cup.—Lucille, 1.
Cobar Races.
Maiden Plate. —Lieutenant, 1.
Selling Hurdle Race.—Trickett, 1,
Steeplechase.—Kangaroo, 1.
Forced Handicap.—Binalong, 1.
Cobar Handicap.—Three Up, 1; Poverty, 2.
Clarence River Races.
[By Electric Telegraph from our Correspondent.]
Finer Day, Wednesday, 6th July.
The weather was fine to-day, and the attendance a
fair one.
Mares* Produce Stakes, three-quarters of a mile. —
Mr. M. Kush’s Lady Louisa, 1; Mr. Hayes’s Friar, 2;
Mr. Graves's Sir Henry, 3. Won by about two lengths,
the win being a very popular one. Time, 1 min. 20seo.
Maiden Plate, miles. —Mr. Barnes’s Frederick, 1:
Mr. Hawthorne’s Butterfly, 2; Mr. M’Donald’s Zulu, 3.
Seven started, and Frederick won easily. Time, 2 - 48.
The City Handicap.—Mr. Page’s Yarraman, 1; Mr.
Brown’s ‘Barber, 2; Mr. Hawthorne’s Butterfly, 3.
Time, 2 22.
Member’s Cup.—Mr. M’Kenzie’s Ingleside, 1; Mr.
Bradock’s Centurion, 2; Mr. Smith’s Prince Leopold, 3.
Clarence Eiver l Derby, one mile and a half.—Mr. Haw
theme's Yately, 'by (Warlike, 1; Mr. Barrett's War-
eagle, by Warlike, 2 ; Mr. J. Smith’s Althea, by Lord of
Liune, 3. Five started. Won easily. Time, 2 52.
Second Day, Thursday.
Sires’ Produce.—Lady Louisa, 1: Prince of Wales, 2;
Kaffir, 3.
Clarence Jockey Club Handicap.—Barber, 1: Frede-
rick, 2; Yately, 3.
Novel Kace.—Won by Shamrock.
Flying Handicap.—Crusader, 1 ; Esperance, 2; Mar-
quis, 3.
Lohengrin has been scratched for the Melbourne
Cup.
The Spring meeting of the N.J.C. (Maitland) will be
held on the 28th and 29th of September.
The Australian cricketers defeated 18 of Middles-
borongb in one innings.
For Mr. Brett’s trophy, to be rowed to-day, the fol-
lowing have entered—A. Coker, A. Bross, A. Treness,
and A. Carter. The race is for (junior sculls, in skiffs,
members of the Mercantile Bowing Club only being
eligible.
The Late Richard Driver.
We regret to have to record the death of Mr.
Richard Driver, M.L.A., which melancholy but
long-expected event occurred at his residence, on
Wednesday morning. Immediately upon the
Legislative Assembly meeting in the afternoon, the
Premier, while remarking that, as was well known,
he was unfavorable to adjournments in oases of
the death of an hon. member, said that it had
been represented to him with considerable force
that if a departure from the rule should be made
the death of Mr. Richard Driver should be the
occasion for it. Sir Henry Parkes, in moving the 1
adjournment accordingly, said that Mr. Driver was I
in many respects a remarkable man. He was one
of those men who were tender and affectionate in I
their family relationships, too honest to conceal
faults, and too manly to parade before the public I
gaze any virtues they may have possessed. The I
truest test of genuine manhood could be found in
the manifestations of his private life. In that I
House he was a staunch and unfailing supporter, I
and an open and manly opponent. He had served I
the people within those walls long and faithfully ; I
he had held office as a member of that House, and I
he had filled the chair and the post of Minister of I
the Crown with as much zeal and with as much I
efficiency and honour as any person who had ever
occupied those positions. He was in all respects I
a, son of the soil worthy of his native country. He I
lived as they all knew, and had died warm in the I
affections of his country. The House, it was
plain, thoroughly concurred with Sir Henry’s well
chosen remarks, and adjourned till the following
day,
To-Day's Issue of “The Bulletin”
Will be found to consist of sixteen instead of
twelve pages as heretofore. The generous support
accorded to our venture from the date of the
paper’s nativity, six months ago, warrants us, in
view of the great pressure on our advertising
columns, in making an addition to our space on
the present occasion.
Our Portrait of Bishop Barker
Is engraved Ifrom a splendid portrait by Mr. J.
Hubert Newman, of Oxford-street, whose artistic
skill needs no commendation at our hands, and a
visit to whose photographic studio will be found
highly interesting.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society.
The advantages accruing to life assurance are
being everywhere acknowledged.
The reports of the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society are the latest instances of this fact.
People all through the colonies, in various con-
ditions of life, appear from these reports to be
now becoming more provident.
The history of the success of tho Colonial Mutual
!s but a testimony to the growing intelligence and
frugal and provident character of the people of
this country.
Here is a society established bnt six years doing
an annual business of £lOO,OOO and with solid
assets exceeding one year’s income.
In 1875 it issued 454 policies for £119,654, and
in six years ran up to 9940 policies for £2,566,584.
Last year, 5488 proposals for £1,488,934 were
secured; 3258 for £108,650 were completed,
1397 were declined or not completed, and 833
remained in various stages of progress.
The addition last year to the annual income from
premiums was £29,156.
Last year fifty-seven claims by death, amounting
to £15,779 were paid. The expected mortality
was 88.5 deaths for £22,125.
Most of the payments were to widows and
orphans who, bnt for this provision of father or
mother in the Colonial Mutual, would have bcei
left completely destitute.
The latest data show that young people are now
assuring much more than was customary in these
colonies some time back. The average age in the
Colonial Mutual last year was 31; previously it
was 34.
The more youthful assurers appear to aim at
payment of certain sums to themselves
on reaching advanced ages—say 50 or 60 years ; or
to their friends in case of death.
In six years the Colonial Mutual has paid
■£35,000 to the widows and orphans of members,
who have died prematurely or otherwise
The Society has invested its funds in substan-
tial securites. The interest even in the first year
was 2.41 per cent, on the whole invested funds, but
in the fifth year it represented 6.23 per cent, on
the assurance fund or 6.96 per cent, upon the
sums actually invested.
The balance of the assurance fund of the
Colonial Mutual last March was .£103,550, and the
surplus, after making full reserve for all liabilities
of every nature and kind, was .£6,844.
Mr. T. B. Sprague, M.A., F.I.A. of Edinboro’,
one of the most eminent actuaries of the day, and
Mr. George King, F.1.A., of London certify, after
a careful examination, that “ this surplus is a
genuine surplus which might safely bo divided
among the members.”
And the London actuaries congratulate the
members of the Society on the result.
The surplus is retained till next valuation for
unforeseen contingencies; if not absorbed it will
be divided among the members.
One of the special features of the Colonial
Mutual—which some other societies are adopting
—is the surrender value, by which an assurance
may be kept in force during a period of embarras-
ment on the part of the assurer. Recently two
bereaved families have been saved from destitu-
tion by this very provision.
The_ Colonial Mutual gives almost principal
attention to auditing its affairs and determining
by the severest tests the soundness of the business
done.
The auditors are compelled to make exhaustive
continuous audits; to inspect every entry, ex-
amine every counterfoil of every receipt issued,
have a voucher for every payment, and trace to
bank the cash for each policy.
Then comes the investigation by the'actuarial
staff, who are followed by the two ablest men for
the work in England, Mr. Sprague and Mr. King.
The society has principal offices in each of the
six colonies, and 560 agencies.
The board in each of the colonies is comprised
of gentlemen of the highest standing—men of
recognised ability and uprightness.
MUSICAL AND DRAMATIC.
The musical event of the week was the concert
of the Musical Union, There was a good atten-
dance, but the hall was not crowded. The hall
was cold, the music was cold, the audience was
cold—individually and collectively. The special
event of the evening—the debut of Miss Madeline
St. Clair, the very youngest soprano—sister of
our charming contralto, Miss Marie St. Clair, by
whom she has been trained. A young, fresh,
sweet, full, rich, powerful, pure, clear, high voice;
an undeniable aptitude for music, an exquisite face,
with expressive features ; the possession of all
these must, with continued study and constant
musical intercourre with her talented sister,
ensure for the debutante a brilliant musical career
in the future.
Opera House.
At this neat theatre the ever-popular Loftus
troupe continue to do an exclient business.
Victoria Theatre.
At the Victoria that versatile Irish comedian,
Mr. Grattan Riggs, supported by an excellent and
specially-engaged company, including Miss Flora
Anstead, Mr. Greville, Miss Kate Foley, and the
old Sydney favourite, Mr. W. G. Carey, still holds
sway in ‘‘ Shin Fane.” The management announce
that “ Eileen Oge, or Hark is the hour before tlx®
Dawn,” will shortly bo produced.
The Queen’s.
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Roberts appeared at th®
Queen’s last night in “ The Shaughraun,” to as
excellent house. They delighted the Balmainites
on Wednesday evening with their clever enter-
tainment, “ Merry Moments,” which they repeat
at St. Leonards this (Friday) evening. On Satur-
day, at this theatre, occurs an event to which we
refer the “ stage gossip.”
Theatre Royal.
Gilbert’s pretty Comedy, “ Pygmalion and
Galatea,” and Byron’s amusing “ War to the
Knife,” have been the latest productions, and
have filled out the measure of the week’s per-
formances.
The Comedy we have had here previously, and
well-played too, but never so exquisitely placed on
the stage with regard to scenic effects. In this
respect the stage at the Royal may be taken as a
model, and Mr. Gordon be held up to fame as the
modeller. Of the performances we may say more
anon.
Egyptian Hall.
This establishment, only recently opened by
Mr. John Solomon, has become quite a favourite
place of resort. The Afghan jugglers have been
the chief attraction during the past month, and
conclude their engagement this week. On Mon-
day night an excellent variety entertainment will
replace the Afghans.
CRITIC.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Diphtheria prevails in Paris.
Afghanistan is still unsettled.
A heavy snowfall at Bathurst.
Ned Kelly has been remanded.
Victorian general election, 14th July.
Dr. Harman Tarrant has been elected for Kiama.
A Lock hospital is to be built at Rockhampton.
Dunedin, N.Z., has a mania for '“consultations.”
Turkey openly defies the Great Powers, and i«
mobilising an army corps.
The Zealandia, with the Frisco mail, arrived on.
Saturday night.
“Several of the mines at the Thames Goldfields,
N.Z., are looking up. Eich gold has been found.
The number of bills which are being brought
into N.Z. Parliament is perfectly bewildering.
A slight shock of earthquake was recently felt
at Tapanua, Dunedin, N.Z.
Augotte St. Just M‘Kay, for alleged felony in
Auckland, has been discharged.
There are 885 female and 888 male teachers
employed in the various schools in New Zealand.
In N.Z. the other day a J.P., who is chiefly
noteworthy for the immaculateness of his tall hat, the
spotlessuess of his white waistcoat, and the perfection
WHICH IS WHICH?—OR HOW AWKWARD MISTAKES OCCUR “IN THE GLOAMING.”


of his “ buttonhole,” in a moment of forgetfulness
placed his “ belltopper ” on the gas-stove of the court,
jt simmered very pleasantly.
A petition has been presented to the N.Z. Par-
liament by the directors of the Bank of New Zealand
for a private Bill to amend the Bank Act of 1861.
Dr. M'Breardy, of Outram, Dunedin, N.Z.,
has been censured by the presiding magistrate for neg-
lect as an accoucheur.
Tho police in the various towns of New Zealand
are still making a raid on the gambling “pubs.” Heavy
fines have been imposed.
Some new geysers and hot springs of extraordi-
nary beauty have been discovered in the Taupo district
(N.Z.).
From 1868 to 1879 inclusive the Christchurch
(N.Z.) Acclimatisation Society distributed 79,911 trout
in the rivers of Canterbury.
A young girl, nine years of age. was drowned in
the Avon river, Christchurch, (N.Z.) while picking
wateroresses.
One of the congregations at Timaru, (N. Z.)
have resolved to organise a teetotal and anti-smoking
society.
Gold has been found at Hawke’s Bay. The ap-
pearances ore so favourable as to cause vigorous pros-
pecting.
A comet was visible a couple of weeks ago at
Timaru (N.Z.), a considerable distance on the south-
western horizon.
The Full Court has decided that Mrs. Under-
wood is entitled to dower out of portion of the real
estate of her late husband.
To test the question, legal proceedings have
l>een taken against Mr. Bwdlaugh for voting in the
House of Commons.
Mr. William Roylanoe is the new president, and
Mr. George Poole the uew secretary of the Seamen’s
Union.
Mr. Hood, of Pembroke, Dunedin, recently mot
hi* death under peculiar circumstances. Three weeks
previously he was riding with his knife in his belt, when
his horse fell, causing the infliction of a nasty wound in
the side, from the knife. He took no notice of it, but
tetanus sot in, ending in his death.
The charge of imposition against the Rev.
- Atterbury, at Auckland (to which we referred iu a
recent issue), were not proven. He is well known in
MellKiume. The presiding magistrate requested that
the Australian papers should put the public on their
guard against clerical humbug.
Constables Townsend and Colborne, of Dunedin,
■'•Z., roocivedlgratuities of £lO each from the Superin-
teudaut of Constabulary, together with a promise of
promotion at the earliest opportunity, as a reward of
their plucky arrest of Butler, the supposed murderer
of the Dewar family.
Newton Fairs, a bookseller and stationer, who
started business in Auckland over nine months ago,
r‘9?f? 0 <? e bankrupt. His liabilities are set down at
A 2161 9s. 2d., and the probable assets about £lB6B,
umeot to deductions for preferable claims. This is
"iid news for a certain Sydney firm.
. 0 heard rather a droll story of Mr. Gladstone.
™his winter campaign in Midlothian he was asked
1118 personal feelings were. His answer was, “ See
nil iv- r * v ’ The following was discovered: —“Yet
~1 “fi B availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai,
uo Jew, B itting in the king’s gate.”
■ P ow . Berryite, says that if the Geelong Robes-
I, Brro “id his party lie again returned to Parliament
t.lb ■ 08 Prepared to submit to 50 per cent, reduc-
i-i'ffl- 111 J? en ’ s salaries. Major Smith, we notice, is
“ 18 house; Lalor is insolvent, and—but then
‘cnyism would be dear at half-price.
ro P or that tho local institution”
talri o.i e Colonial Secretory of Queensland recently
bHlmw, 1 was willing to take up the nnfloated
of tint 0 °^,th 0 £3,000,000 loan, is not the National Bank
tw colony, as was generally supposed. It appears
adOnisf ow ? hi.S.W. Bank, with painfully distended
Uov..n,’„, I,re . fei 7 e<i to bail up and bo milked by the
rnment of our Northern neighbours.
General Melikoff has submitted to the Czar a
proposal for the establishment of the House of As-
sembly.
A Chinaman has been appointed Deputy-Sheriff
in New York. Probably he will be called upon to hang
himself soon.
Seventy bullocks are consumed weekly at
Temora rush, so there must be from 2500 to 3000 men
on the ground.
The InVEBELii Times says it is mawkish rub-
bish to ask for fair play for an old man like Judge
Meymott.
Rockhampton grew ice a quarter of an inch
thick on the night of June 22nd. A fact, although many
people will smile.
A ball, given in aid of the Christchurch (N.Z.)
Masonic Scholars’ Endowment Fluid, was a great suc-
cess.
The Working Men’s Clubs in New Zealand are
petitioning Parliament against the provisions of the
Licensing Bill requiring clubs te hold a license.
The Civil Service Commission of N.Z. report
that the manufacture of railway material in that colony
entails a loss of five per cent, on the imported.
A Mr. Berg, boatbuilder, of Wellington, N.Z.,
found in a very old whare, in East Bay, Queen Char-
lotte’s Sound, a copy of the London Times dated 14th
February, 1841.
A burglary was committed at a shop in Oamaru,
(N. Z.) A pane of gloss was cut out, but the burglar
did not find any money on the premises, aud decamped
with two dozen bottles of porter.
Wm. George Henson, for rape on a girl nine
years of age, was sentenced to two years’ imprisoment
and 25 lashes, by the judge at the Napier (N.Z.)
Criminal Sittings.
A “ ped.,” named George Gleeson, has been sen-
tenced to seven days’ imprisonment for gambling with
an under-and-over table and loaded dice at the Timaru
(N.Z.) Steeplechase Meeting.
Bishop Stanton, a moat interesting letter from
whom is published in the current number of the C. of
B. Recoed, says North Queensland is “areally splendid
land, an infant giant in its cradle—a world of sudden
wealth.”
How they do business in America: —Steinway
and Sons on April 30th recovered 20,000 dollars from
Hr. Charles Perch land, a Brookland physician, to whom
they had consigned a number of pianos for sale. It sems
that the Doctor was in the habit of prescribing music
in conjunction with physic, but he failed to account for
the pianos to Stein way and Co. nntil he was summoned.
The Party Processions Bill, which is being in-
troduced in the New Zealand Parliament, defines unlaw-
ful processions as {those who shall bear firearms,
offensive weapons, banners, flags, emblems or symbols,
calculated to provoke animosity between her Majesty’s
subjects of different religious persuasions, accompanied
by music of like nature.
Mr, George Jones, jun., journalist, who was re
ceutly elected to represent Oamaru in the N.Z. Parliar
ment, had rather a rough time of it while addressing a
meeting before his election. The hooting and cheering
was so loud that, after the utterance of a few words, ho
was compelled to desist, and the lights were put out.
Rotten eggs and flour halls were freely thrown about.
At the Huon Election for the Tasmanian
Legislative Council, Capt. Fisher, “boss ” of the Good
Templars, and Mr. Joseph Solomon, a wealthy Jew, each
polled 51 votes. The latter was elected by the casting
vote of the Returning Officer. It it a coincidence that
the same thing ocoured at the last election seven years
ago, excepting that a dozen more electors found it
worth their while to come to the poll this time.
The committee of the Mercantile Rowing dub
are making great preparations to bring their ball off
with veldt, The Exhibition building in Prince Alfred
Park will be most lavishly decorated for the occasion
with bunting and evergreens, and the Young Australian
Band has been engaged to play some of their best dance
mnsic. Tho tickets and programmes are handsome
and unique, and the officers and committee are using
their best exertions to make the ball a highly enjoyable
affair.
Dr. Prina, of Christchurch (N.Z.), a week or
two ago successfully performed an operation by re-
moving the whole of the tongue, floor of the mouth, aud
front portion of the lower jaw of a patient.
Professor Hume, tho phrenologist, says that
had Ned Kelly’s training been such its to have given
him further opportunities of learning good his caxeeer
would have been a widely different one.
A team of Canadian cricketers is playing at
home. Their captain, while at Leicester, was appre-
hended for having deserted from the 2nd Horse Guards
eight years before.
David Syme, of the Aob, has already got one of
his staff—Dow, agricultural editor of the Leadee—into
Parliament. Now he’s put Quick, his law reporter, in
the nomination for Sandhurst.
The proceeds of taxation in New South Wales
for the quarter ended 30th June were £391,400, showing
an increase of £27,569 on our corresponding quarter of
the previous year.
The Post Office authorities at Dunedin, N.Z.,
have issued "Twelve Suggestions to the Public," in-
tended to ensure the safe and speedy delivery of letters
and papers.
he Dipton Rabbit,skin Exhibition,lnwercagiH,
N.Z-, was a great success. Many of the exhibits were
dressed almost equal to sealskin, aud the best will be
forwarded to tho Melbourne Exhibition.
The Johnsonian Club at Brisbane is forging
ahead. The members now rent a cottage facing tho
Parliamentary buildings, and are talking of laying on a
telephone from their rooms to the Speaker’s chair.
The wife of a publican at Invercargill (N.Z.)
named M'Farlane, has died from the effects of alcohol.
At the inquest on the body the husband was censured
for allowing her access to the bar.
It is asserted that the Officers of the Naval
Brigade should undergo a medical examination similar
to that to which the Volunteers are subjected, as
there are some among them enable to muster even the
necessary amount of ability requisite for a double.
Where would they be in a charge ?
Sir W. Fox, the great teetotal advocate, has
moved in the New Zealand Parliament that a clause bo
inserted in the Licensing Act that all licensed victu-
allers be compelled to provide tea and coffee
both across their bars and in their dining-rooms.
The Wellington (N.Z.) Fire Brigade, which
lately disbanded, owing to differences with the City
Council, had an accident fund of £5OO, which has been
divided among the members, according to length of
service. Some men received as much as £6O each.
A discovery of gold, which promises to be o
considerable value, has been made at Hokitika, N.Z., on
the ranges between the Paringa and the Blue River,
about 21 miles from the former.
The Adelaide Bushman’s Club is a grand suc-
cess. In ten years it has been availed of by 16,000
persons, and its assets) are now £BOOO against £5OO lia-
bility.
Poisoned bread and butter was recently dis-
tributed in the streets of Ashburton, N.Z. The police
are searching for the offender, and a reward has been
offered.
The New Zealand Civil Service Commissioner’s
report shows the noble army of Civil Service numbers
10,825, or about one to every forty men, women, and
children —not reckoning local bodies.
The George Inn, at Picton, which must be
known to hundreds of coach and railway travellers, has
been taken by Mr. Tom Bell, who will doubtless revive
the popularity of the old spot.
The Australian Auction and Furniture
Mart.
A VISITOR can hardly be said to ; have “ done ”
the sights of the city unless he has taken a
ramble through the great furniture warehouse of
Messrs. Bradley, Newton and Lamb, in O’Con-
nell and Spring streets. This is certainly one
of the attractions of Sydney, for, besides being
a great repository of art, it has within its walls
the most varied and the costliest collection of
furniture to be found in any one place in the
southern hemisphere. The premises, a view of
which is given herewith, extend from O’Connell
to Spring-street, a depth of about seventy yards,
with a frontage to each street of about seventy
feet. It was built by the firm on special plans
to suit the business, and is both an elegant and
substantial structure. The fronts, which are
masonic, and of grand architectural effect, are of
the best Pyrmont stone. There are four ex-
tensive plats ,all well lighted, and strongly sup-
ported. The firm import furniture from every
manufacturing city at home and on the conti-
nent, and there is now on the ground floor an
unopened stock by recent arrivals of several
thousand pounds’ value. This stock comprises
articles introduced for the first time from
Vienna and Paris, and fairly indicates the high
state to which art has been brought on the
Continent for the adornment of homes. On the
first floor there is a display of several of tho
articles in this line, and they exhibit both
novelty of design and highest excellence of
workmanship. There are also shown here soma
samples of the best hand-work of the English
artizan, which for richness and massiveness
cannot be surpassed. On the second floor
there is a further enormous display of fur-
niture, elegant and useful in design and
character. Tho prices quoted are surpris-
ingly low, find it is astonishing how the good
can be produced and sent out here for the
j figure. The third floor is chiefly occupied “as
a workshop, where tho manufacture of furniture
is carried on by the firm, in a manner which
justifies the highest compliment. They have
selected the best workmen; and the articles
turned out equal in durability and finish
anything ever imported hero. The style is a
century in advance of what we are accustomed
to find manufactured in the colonies, and it is
satisfactory to learn that this branch of colonial
industrial art is making rapid headway. Tho
houses of many of our principal citizens are now
entirely furnished from this source.. A great
portion of the furniture show rooms on the first
fioor is devoted to the display of a very large
collection of pianofortes, all the principal
manufacturers being represented—Lipp, Erard,
Anchor, Bord, Carl Ronisch, and many others ;
the sale of these instruments, during the last
few years, through the facilities offered by this
firm, has been enormous. Throughout tho show
room is a splendid exhibition of choice goods in
glass and ceramic ware, useful as well as orna-
mental ; also, treasures in rare old china, and the
walls are covered with paintings in oil and water
colors, including many fine and valuable produc-
tions ; in this respect the warehouse may be
termed a treasury of art. On the lower or
ground floor, facing Spring-street, the auction
tales of furniture and general merchandise
are conducted, and a very largo business is done
every week. The establishment is, in every way,
well worthy a visit. Every article required for
the humblest dwelling or the largest mansion,
may there be obtained of a style that cannot bo
surpassed, and at figures which must please
everybody.
THE AUSTRALIAN AUCTION AND FURNISHING MART.


BRIEF MENTION.
Who lost Blaxland’s medals ?
High time—That kept at St. Mark’s.
Jim Rainford is still looking for his bargains.
The man to tackle things—Forsyth at the rope
works. *
A Chinese firm of grocers deals with Government
House.
Independence Day fell on a Sunday this year
How strange I
“It's never too late to mend "—the side walks
of Oxford-street.
lie fun at Woodstock last Saturday was quite
a matter of course.
The latest sensation is doing the “block” on
your “boss’s” horse.
• hard, y an opening for another tobacco-
nist m George-street.
The payior’s is the best trade on foot in Oxford-
street just at present.
i n£k e Haiuy Telegraph calls Professor Proctor
The Eev. Mr. Proctor.”
Onoe it was Fullerton for conjunctions, now it is
V\ ilhamson for injunctions.
r P This is quite a mistake.
Hook at the girls in George-street.
The 10s. fare to Melbourne, with bedding and
tucker drew crowds on to the steamer.
Mr-Buokholtz, of Mudgee, exhibited bulk oats
at the late Exhibition. What’s in a name ?
o f the extensive boiling-down establish-
ment at Botany, lives on the fat of the land.
Who writes the Echo’s sensational synopsis
and does he do it with his finger or his thumb ?
• * >a(dc ** o"- Lady pedallers are on the increase
since Ketten s visit. This need not be hawked about.
“ Mother, I’ve come home to die,” as Ned Kelly
observed when Mrs. K. visited him in Melbourne gaoL
Boer and syrup is the latest “fancy drink.”
Oh, John Barleycorn, or rather John Barleysngarcorn.
It’s quite plain why some ladies go in for the
Jersey costume. It’s also very plain why some others
don t.
Can all the men who live in any one of the many
terraces of this city say with truth. “There’s no place
like home ?,
The. weather has been very severe. This state-
ment is original, and has not been copied from the
Evening Lybe.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery They
continue to flatter ns in all the papers in and round
about New South Wales.
A standing ad. in dailies is, “ Hardy Pines for
sale. Why does not this Miss Sale go to Hardy, and
save his mind and pocket ? J
~ An old lady reader of The Bur, petto says
there will bo a lot of porcelain (poor slain) Chinamen in
the war between Russia and China.
There s a good deal often lost overboard at a
certain two-storied house in Macquarie-street. For the
curious we specify—the green board.
Ninny holds that, as one of the Sydney public
he is a man of “ refined intelligence.” He claims this
nnder the provision of W. S. Lyster’s card of recent
There is a wild rumour floating about that some
inquisitive people are going to analyse the Irish stew in
paLd^P 611117 restaunmts - Startling results are antiei-
He was rolling along Pitt-street in a “happy
state. Train-wrecker! ” she hissed, as he trod on
KeUy ram ° f Ler n6W dress * “ Yoa are as bad as Ned
.. " r . lo J® to tread the verdant paths.” Some-
times ! Not when the verdant cabbage leaf bestrews
the path, as outside the greengrocers’ shops in Oxford-
street every morning.
When the telegraph line was first opened to
Braid wood a fair native of that place was heard to re-
her intended. “That she never could under-
stand wbat they put them clothes lines so high for/*
Sir John Robertson thinks the aboriginal girls
should he sent to the Reformatory, South Head—he
would hke to make his place popular. Every one does
° f tllese matters hke the gallant knight of two
. The following dialogue was overheard in the
stalls of the Theatre Royal between 'Arry and Ibis
charmer:—“ Excuse me for a minute, I won't be a
second.” Well, how long will you be? About five
minutes.
At the Wesleyan Debating Class, Auckland,
a young man has been reading an essay on
LHuaa. Some time ago the some young man read an
essay on “Jezebel.” He has a habit of kicking doodlo
who he thinks are down.
Motto for Ned Kelly:—
“What stronger breastplate than a heart nntointed P
Tbrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just.
And he but naked, though locked up in steel,
Whoso conscience with injustice is corrupted."
The son of a master-printer in Sydney has been
making a fool of himself. The father, with a keen sense
of humor, last week compelled him to marry, even
though it was below his station. Thus are printers
getting mto notoriety. What would Caxton have said
to this r
The dignity of the pulpit. On Sunday night
last at a certain theatre an uncertain “rev." gentleman
described 1 heßulletin as being composed of “Literary
maggots and flesh-worms." He is requested to call nt
this office, where a cheque for his advertising services
awaits him.
Wo have received a copy of the RoV. Peter
Campbell s new religious publication Pleasant Words.
We haven t had time to study it properly, but so far as
wo can sea it contains a badly-printed and most objec-
tionable collection of twaddle, for which we hope the
rev. gentleman isn’t answerable.
Richmond Thatcher, on departing the other day
for London, sent a telegram from Adelaide to the Mel-
bourne telegraph operators ; “Leaving per Orient. Fare-
well receiver or whoever gets this.” Mr. James.the boss
ot the office saw it and wired back for paymentof the
telegram. Dick had left by that time.
Some curious people want to know the name of
the officia! who shepherded the International judges
while they were deciding the respective merits of the
American and N.S. W. bridges. They also want to know
whether or not it s true that the official in question was
tlio agent of a certain American bridge company.
Some people say that when Tom Garrett de-
scribed Mr. Buchanan as “the most unstable politician
who ever disgraced the constituencies of the country
and a political weathercock, blown about by influences
ol tne most paltry and contemptible character/* he did
no injustice to his friend and at the same time ao-
cuxately drew his own portrait.
Every man should take an interest in local
matters. Kot so Bibber. The Government have gone
to peat expense in erecting a handsome, cut-stone lock-
up down in Woolloomooloo, the place of Bibber's rcsi-
dance. Yet this fellow goes away and gets drunk at the
iiailway Terminus and is “ run in " to the other sort of
station opposite. A pretty thing to patronise an op-
position lock-up. Ungrateful Bibber 1
A boy entered a color si ore in Goorge-street the
other day and asked for a pot of striped paint to paint
a barber’s pole with. He didn’t get it.
The subject of this should, and will, be dropped.
There is a young man in Victoria, who thinks that
after all this life is but a hemp-tie affair.
The Evening Lyre has been getting colonial
beer analysed “in the public interest.” It is now skid
that some patriot, llikewise “ in the public interest,” is
about to commit suicide by attempting to analyse a few
sentences from the Evening Lyre’s columns.
The other day the appointment of a number of
teachers was gazetted. Eight of the number were de-
nominated “Esquires;” the others were merely dnh -ed
plain “ Mister.** Now people want to know where and
by whom the line is drawn ?
Why parade the fact ? An anxious public
wishes to know if the large, red, locomotive water
barrel which is labelled—Hyde Park Trustees—has the
bodies of those gentlemen in trust ? Or is it a notice
that teetotallers are on that trust H
Edwin and Angelina were meandering arm in
ft ? l S.* n botanic Gardens, and a short distance ahead
ofthein walked a young lady very handsomely attired.
The sun was about setting, and its light streaming
through the foliage was throwing a beautiful crimson
glow over the earth. Said he in rather a subdued tone,
“How beautiful! Perfectly grand,” &c. “Well, I
don’t know,” was the response of the fair one at his
side; “ I don’t admire her style, and the dress is a
mighty poor fit.”
There are two kinds of oranges thrown in this
country. One is the sort that’s good to eat; the other,
that sold at the railway refreshment rooms.
Mr. G was last Monday studying the angelic
form of one of the native blondes whose picture was
displayed in Nicholson and Aseherberg’s window.
They are going to teach some of the prisoners
at Pentndge prison, Melbourne, the noble art—of print-
ing. Shades of Benjamin Franklin and Horace Greehw
and James Gordon Bennett, how’s this ? IsH
that a paper shall be started in the Kelly interest
When a large and distinguished party was
present on invitation recently at Raudwiok Asyinm to
witness a distribution of prizes, there were only about
30 cases of scarlet fever. There are now about 44 cases,
However, they're nob all at Randwiek.
Davie said the other night that all our legislators
were too be-nighted to • * * Ninkonpoupe thinks
that this is going a little too far. He asserts that ho
would not mind a few titles in the House, but to have
Sir Ninian, Sir Hanley, etc. is too much.
One of the members of the Stanmoro Cricket
Club was crossing Pitt-stroet towards the City Bank the
other day when he suddenly missed his footing, and
either accidentally or purposely went on his knees to
two of the fair sex who happened to be passing. So
sadden was the shock to the nerves of these two dam-
sels that they had. not sufficient strength and courage
left either to call for aid or summon a policeman. The
final result of this catastrophe is left to the reader's
imagination.
One of our inland towns is the happy possesso
of a guardian of tho peace. “The Watchdog," ns h
is familiarly termed, was edncated at the Dublin Uni
versity—so he says. He is fond of airing his knowledge
and avers that on tho evening of the eclipse he saw mon
people on their peregrinations after licentious am?
libidinous demoralisations than he had seen improving
their astronomethrical knowledge. ‘
Subjoined are a few of tho most reasonable
questions asked of tho lady teachers at the recent ex
animation at Fort-street“ 1. What are the essentia
qualities of an efficient housekeeper? 2. On what
principles would you select materials for clothing ? 3
State some of the more obvious precautions again®
contagious or infectious diseases ? 4. What kinds o
food are most conducive to health p” Can anything be
more absurd than the above ?
This (says a northern correspondent) is how ap-
pointments are made in Queensland branches of the
Bank of N. S. W.: —A gentleman recently introduced to
the tall stool was put over tho heads of old tried ser-
vants. The local “ boss” acted on the recommendation
of Ids superior couched in something like these terms
—“ Mr. is a highly efficient officer, and his uncle ‘ keeps
a cash balance of over £600(7 with us.’ ” It is this sort
of thing that ensures faithful service among the em-
ployes of the great semi-public institution of wliich New
South Welshmen are so proud.
We notice that a horse called “ M'Elhone ” has
been entered for the Waradgery Handicap at Hay races.
Now we want to know whether the horse is called after
M’Elhone or M’Elhone after the horse)? If the former
it ’s a clear case of cruelty to animals; and should that
horse, like Balaam’s ass, ever speak, it will he eternally
to curse the memory of his godfather. We’re glad, for
the credit of the equine race, that they’ve not completed
the animal’s disgrace by pulling in the “John.” It’s
reported that Dan. O’Connor means to introduce a bill
empowering the lower animals—horses, M.P.’s, etc.—to
sue for defamation of character.
More than two years ago a well-known good-
lookmg learned counsel, still practising at the Sydney
Bar, sent round a printed circular, of which the follow-
is a copy : —“ , Elizabeth-street, , 1878. Dear
Sir .—The 24th volume of my set of Beavan’s Reports
and ”4 Law Journal are missing from my library. Will
you kindly see if they, or either, are or "is among your
books, and if they, or either, are, oris, 1 should feel
obliged if you would send them, or either, to me
Yours faithfully, Now the legal profession
is anxious to know whether the books hereinbefore men-
tioned, or either of them, have or has yet been found.
Much domestic ill-feeling ha.s, it is said, been
recently caused in Melbourne by husbands bringing
home in their jackets bundles of cigars neatly done up
in little packages whereon are printed the following
words, embodying, as the intelligent reader will notice,
a choice passage from Lytton:—“Love versus cigars.
He who doth not smoke hath either known no areal
grief or else retiiseth himself the softest consolation
next to that which comes from Heaven. ‘What!
softer than woman P’ asks the young reader. Yesi
young reader. Woman teases as well as consoles. Woman
makes half the sorrows that she boasts the privilege to
soothe. Womau consoles ns.it is true,while wc are young
and handsome ; but when we are old and ugly woman
snubs aud scolds. On the whole, then, woman in this
hand and tho weed in that, hang out thy balance, Jupiter
and weigh them both; aud if thou give the preference to
woman all I can then say is—the next time Juno
ruffles thee, O Jupiter try the weed 1”
The London “Referee” on Australian
Sporting Affairs.
In its issue of the 9th May the London Referee
makes some most ungenerous, uncalled-for, and
ungentlemanly remarks concerning Anglo-Austra-
lian sporting affairs. The writer says :
Trickett, I am sorry to see, is at the same old
game, or at a similar one to that played by him with
Higgins after the flukey victory obtained over Sadler.
He is making loud complaint among hia Australian
friends about Hanlan refusing to meet him in England
for the purpose of rowing on the Thames. This is
very bad business. Hot only is Hanlan prepared to
meet all comers onhisown waters—Trickett for choice -
in a private match or for a subscribed purse, but
Trickett has already been specifically invited (and a
slice of his expenses guaranteed) to take part in the
race on the Pawtucket, which will, whether with him
or without him, settle satisfactorily enough to the
world the relative positions of the best known scullers
of the present day. With a prize of 6,000 dols. or so
waiting for him, and as much money in the way of
pools as they care to cut in for, if Trickett is half as
good a man as his friends insist, it is worse than
ridiculous to hear wails from Australia that Hanlan
will not come forth and be made an outsider by Trickett.
The Australians needn’t be afraid of being idle if they
come here and Hauhm stays where he is. Boyd wouldn’t
he away so long but a match with Trickett might be
made by him, and rather than our distinguished visitor
should remain idle, there are people about who would
find Elliott a stake, just, you know, for the purpose of
letting it he seen what a really magnificent sculler Mr.
Trickett is in second-class company.
We are sorry that such an opinion should be
entertained in England of a man whose sculling
ability, gameness and honesty are so well re-
cognised by every competent rowing authority
who has ever seen him pull. The Referee knows
full well that the Championship of the World is
at present Trinkett’s property ; that Trickett
could, if he chose, be de jure Champion of the
World until he became grey-headed, unless some
one came to the Parramatta to wrest the title from
him ; and the Referee, too, ought to know that
the fact that Trickett returned from the Thames
to Australia without rowing any one but Sadler
cannot fairly be laid at the door of the Australian
or his backers. The Referee’s allusion to
‘ Trickett’s flukey victory ” over Sadler is utterly
absurd. Whoever wrote the preceding extract
must either have known nothing about his subject
or have deliberately twisted facts with a view to
pandering to the Lord ’Arrisism ” now so pre-
valent in England. There was nothing flukey
about Sadler’s defeat. He was a stale man and one
who on the best day of his life could not
have beer expected to successfully oppose
Trickett; but the Englishmen, obstinate, self-
sufficient and bull-headed to the last, laid
seven to four on their man at the start,
and have, therefore, no right to say at this
late date that the race which they, before losing
their money, considered a “ moral,” was “ won by
a fluke.” We hope that the Referee’s sport-
ing writer will have an opportunity of meeting
Trickett, the man whom he evidently considers
a second-rate oarsman. Should ho do so, he
will, we promise, find the Australian to be in
private a most unassuming and taciturn man-
one who, in fact, is too typically English to please
most people ; and who in public is as an oarsman
one of the finest specimens of manhood and the
prettiest sculler who ever got into a boat.
While confident of the result of any races
Trickett may row at home, we do not,
especially in view of Hanlan's reported serious
illness, feel called upon to “blow.” We
may, however, remark that we personally know
that Trickett is capable of beating Hanlan’s best
recorded time; that just before Trickett left,
Mr. James Punch offered to wager that the cham-
pion would row four miles and a turn in time
which Hanlan lias not yet equalled; and that
Englishmen who wish to back Hanlan against the
wiry, determined man who carries our aquatic
fortunes, will have every opportunity of laying
seven to four once again. The Referee calls the
Captain of the Australian team “ the manager of
the Australian circus.” However, the team can
afford to be insulted collectively—they number
among them at least a few men who can, if in-
sulted individually bo very well left to take care
of themselves.
A DISTINGUISHED AMATEUR TENOR.
BYRNE, THE OUTLAW, AFTER DEATH.
(From a picture taken at Benalla by Mr. Barman, Victorian Government photographer.)


SPORTING.
Index to Races to Come.
Sockhampton J.C. Annual July 8 and 9
HavJ.C July 13
Deniliquin July 21
Avoca Annual July 29 and 30
<lee long Winter July 31
Adelaide R. C. Winter steeplechase August 6 and 7
Tattersall’s Spring August 11
Hawkesbnry August 25 and 27
Parramatta August
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 4,7, 9, 11
Sydney Turf Club September 18
Northern J.C September
Narrabri October
V.K-C. Spring Oct. 30, N0v.2,4, 6
Q.T.C. Spring Nov. 6 and 9
Jlnrrumbidgee Spring Nov. 22,23. and 24
A. J.C. Summer December 27
Tattersall’s Annual January 1, 1881
V.E.C January 1, 1881
V K.C. Autumn \ .
f - I March 3 and o
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Adelaide R. C. Winter Steeplechase meeting July 8
Brewarrina M.P. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
Tattersall’s Spring entries Aug. 2
Tattersall’s Mares Produce Stakes, 1883.
Nomination of Mare Aug. 2
Sydney T.C. Juvenile Stakes Aug. 2
A.J.C. Summer December Stakes Aug. 2
Hawkesbnry General Entry Aug. 2
A. J. C. Spring General Entry Aug. 18
Sydney Turf Club General Entry Sop, 1
AJ.C. Summer Cup Oct. 14
V.E.C. General Entry Oct. 14
Tattersall’s Cup 1881 Oct. 26
V.E.C. New Year’s Day Meeting General Entry Dec. 10
A.J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration op Weights.
Deniliquin July iq
Geelong Handicap July 15
Tattersall’s Spring Handicaps Aug. 6
Hawkesbnry County Purse, and Plying
Handicap Aug. 17
A.J.C. (Spring) Hurdle and Steeple Aug. 24
Hawkesbnry Turf Club and Members Handi-
cap Aug. 26
A.J.C. (Spring) Epsom and Welter Aug. 30
A.J.C. (Spring) Shorts and Squatter’s Sep. 6
A.J.C. (Spring) Suburban and City Sep. 8
A.J.C. (Spring) Members, Waverley, and Free Sep. 10
Sydney Turf Club Handicap Sep. 14
A.J.C. Summer Cup Handicap Nov.
Tatter sail's Cup Dec. 1
V.R.C. New Year’s Day Handicap Dec. 16
A.J.C. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Great Metropolitan Stakes—first forfeit July 14
Hawkesbnry Grand Handicap non-acceptances July 14
Deniliquin acceptances July 20
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Metropolitan Stakes last forfeit Sep. 3
TattersalTs Cup non-accept Dec. 13
Answers to Correspondents.
J.R., Windsor. —1. Satirist did start for the Don-
caster Handicap won by The Hook, but was not
placed. 2. Secundus did run as Highlander,
and it was under the latter name that he beat
Camellia after two dead heats at Maitland.
Cueist, The Glebe. — Mr. E. Perkins, of George-
street, won the valuable prize at Cook’s billiard
tournament.
Constant Reader.—lf your horse “walked over”
or “received forfeit,” except for a match, he is a
winner.
X.X.X., Grafton. —We do not answer questions hi/
post. Mares are allowed 5 lbs. from the Ist of
August to the Ist of December. The alloivance
to geldings is 3 lbs. all the year round.
Steward.— We do not see what redress you can
want. The rule distinctly states that two year
olds shall not be allowed to start in a race over a
distance exceeding a mile and a quarter. If you
entered your cbltfor a mile and a half race, and
Irumed him for it, it is your own fault, but you
cannot claim the amount of the prize from the
club.
Gunnedah. — l. Tour own carelessness and neglect
were the cause of it, and you ought to suffer. 2.
He killed 21 out of 42.
Stumps asks. —“ Is ‘ Twopenny,’ the aboriginal
cricketer, still alive, and if so, where is he?” He
is alive, and is to be seen in the camp at Rose
Boy.
"• W. Myrtle-street.—lt is Archimedes you ask
about and not Sir William Don. He has been
dead some time.
King High, Murrumburrah.—There is no such thing
one player going alone against another. 2.
The hand counts 12. 3. Abe Hicken is still in New
Zealand but will shortly return to Sydney. 4. It
was Dave Ingram who fought him at the time
you speak of.
A correspondent asks ; —“ Where is Woodyear’s
circus now performing, and who is the agent ?”
"ill some of our readers oblige with the informa-
tion.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
fc>iNCE my last, one prominent meeting has joined
me things of the past, and that one the Clarence
hirer fixture—a meeting that ought to have been
m every way attractive, but from what I can gather
it does not appear to have been the gigantic success
some people anticipated. The Clarence Eiver is
»o awkwardly situated that although Sydney horse-
owners do enter every time the entries come round,
out few horses are asked to do the journey, and
tms time we were not represented. Several entries
were sent from here, but it must in a majority of
ouses be an almost ridiculously-favourablo handi-
holding as it would close upon a certainty,
“tot would entice owners to undertake the trip,
wmch is oftentimes not only unpleasant but
tended with more than a fair share of danger.
i T?*' Prizes P u t forth were enticing enough,
the various results will be found in another
oiumn under the head of late items. —The Eock-
“ampton meeting finishes on this Friday, and will
caiw fi na^e on the very lengthy Queensland cam-
-5.? - Several of our metalhcians have been
’ n " this round, and from various rumours that
b , r ho the trip has not been a remunerative one ;
wifi rum ? urs t°se nothing by travelling far and
view’ va. th o cliances arc in favour of an opposite
v or the case. I have also heard that our string
rph 10rs . es w iU be added to when the travellers
addi? home > hut what the names of the proposed
{„ 10n . s are t cannot say, for I have not yet been
Ifa Ul - ur ‘th that desirable piece of information.
j)^ cy > Plough, there will be a jumper or two.—
, mg the coming week there is only one meeting
Jock^ e pi ff v tllat my illdex Poiuts to, viz., the Hay
surh hlub annual fixture, but lam sorry to see
mfiph - a P° or list of acceptances, and fear that the
as he otherwise than a failure so far
am w , S are . concerned. I hope, however, that I
Pleaspd°+ e l n my surmise, and will be greatly
fields U T° h ear °fi a K°od attendance and largo
is bin’ 6 matter of “ closing of stakes,” there
hut a , I Z e - m domand ing attention for the present,
lor thn i lB - *"h° calling of entries on this Friday
Weis], Steeplechase meeting, New South
of are n °t likely to require any reminder
we ar« ~ Ur ®’ —following on to expected weights,
if thor h romi sod those for Deniliquin to-day ; and
j are adjusted as they have a right to be, the
good folk of that part aro likely to tell of good
sport.— N ext Thnrsday ought to see the weights
for the Geelong Handicap made public, and many
arc the anxious expectations that will be set at rest
when the imposts are made known.— I The first
forfeit for the Metropolitan Stakes is due on the
coming Wednesday, and on the same day the non-
accepfiincee have to be declared for the Hawkes-
bury Handicap. In each case the non-acceptors
gets out for one sovereign, but the terms for each
race are so liberal that I do not expect to sec many
malcontents.—The withdrawal of Cheater, Aver-
nus, and Martindalo from the “ Metrop.” and
Ayornus and Napper Tandy from the “Grand”
will not tend to heighten the interest attaching to
each event, and Chester’s withdrawal may have a
beneficial effect on each stake in point of numbers,
for had he remained he would in all probability
have caused the scratching of a few.
The well-known imported horse Wilborforce has
been leased to Mr. Richard Rouse, of Biraganbii,
for the coming season, with the option of
purchasing him at the end of that time. None
of Wilborforce’s stock have yet raced in Aus-
tralia, but good judges tell me that his de-
scendants to bo found in Mr. Baldwin’s paddocks
are a grand-looking lot of youngsters, and
will compare favourably with the progeny of
any other sire in the land. Wilborforce had,
prior to leaving England, two or three winners to
his credit, besides which his career as a racer was
a very successful one. As a three-year-old he won,
amongst other events, the Welter Cup at West
Drayton, the Clerwell Welter Cup and Stand Plate
at Nottingham, the Rutland Plate at Northampton,
and the March Stakes at Goodwood. As a year
old he was victorious no less than six times, two
of these being in important handicaps at New-
market : so that ho clearly shows the possession
of both speedy and staying blood. He is what I
may call a remarkably well-bred horse, his sire,
Oxford, being by Irish Birdcatchor, by Sir Her-
cules, by Whalebone, and his dam, Corsica, being
by Touchstone, by Camel, by Whalebone, makeup
as grand a pedigree as is boasted of by any sire in
the colony. After the glorious victories achieved
by one—the best of to-day’s English racers,
Isonomy—whose grandsiro is the sire of Wilber-
force, nothing further is wanting to make his
services extensively sought after in his new homo.
The lease and option of purchase was effected
through Mr. Fennelly.
A printer’s error in my last by some means or
other caused “ Lady Emily” to read “ Lady Aud-
ley,” and another one also made it appear that
The Barb had carried to victory in two Sydney
Cups fist 121 b and lOst 81b.
The well-known steeplechaser Warrong, who
bolted from his trainer or stable-boy while out
exercising previous to the late Q. T. C. mooting,
was only found a few days ago. No doubt ho
wanted a spell.
I learn that Napper Tandy moves rather “ gin-
gerly” in his work. If so we are not likely to see
him figure at the Hawkesbury or A.J.C. meetings.
The acceptances and weights for the principal
handicaps to be _ run for at Hay on Tuesday next
are to be found in another column, and nothing
look better than Dollar for both, if he goes as
“ dollars” usually do.
This week I give my readers a full list of horses
in training at Randwick, and as there is a goodly
crowd it ought to prove acceptable.
The racehorses Tom Kirk, Blackthorn, Queens-
land and Myrniong, were shipped from Victoria a
few days ago for India, and with an ordinary share
of luck they should pay their way well in their
new home.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club meeting
was held at Elemington a few days ago, and
notwithstanding that the weather was as un-
propitious as could be, and stopped a large atten-
dance of spectators, the racing was good
throughout, some of the finishes being close and
exciting. Our old friend, Blackthorn, was to the
fore in the Amateur Riders’ Flat Race, having
carried list to victory; and that grand horse,
Sussex, who won the Maiden Steeplechase with
list 11 lb, almost cantered in a winner for the
Gold Cup, with 13st 5 lb. The results are in
another column. Puff, by Hawthomden—Zephyr
after winning the Selling Stakes at the same meet-
ing was sold to W. J. Whittingham for .£250.
She was in the great St. Alban’s stable, but was
bred by Mr. W. J. Dangar.
The fast approaching race meetings once more
make “ touting ” in the mornings a necessity, but
the trainers have not yet tried to find the inevi-
table “early worm,” so that “ Mrs. Bill-at-the-
Gates’ ” services have not been called into requisi-
tion up to the present for the dispensing of the
early “ coffee and roll.” On Monday morning at
the stroke of eight I was one of a small army of
lookers on at the Randwick convincing ground,
and the morning was a very cold and raw one.
The rain that had fallen on Saturday and Satur-
day night had made the course and training
grounds much more to the liking of owners and
trainers than they had been for some days; and
the showers came not a moment too soon, for the
ground was as hard as a nail, and had already told
its tale on several of the nags. Even now the
tracks are by no means as “good going” as they
ought to be, and I would urge upon the committee
of the A.J.C., in the absence of rain, to have the
tracks watered occasionally, for as things are at
present, “ dicky” and suspicious legs will soon
show themselves, and it would only bo consulting
the welfare of the horses in work. A few barrels
of water occasionally would suffice, and the cost
would bo but trifling. I was just in time
to see Bird treat the speedy little son of
The Barb, Blantyre, to his morning’s exercise.
This horse has not grown in the smallest degree,
nor has ho improved any to my liking, and if I bo
any judge he is much too big for the time. Ho
was treated to a long strong gallop. Valotta, who
has joined the same stable, was, as usual, looking
rather fine, and her morning’s exercise consisted
of steady work along with a jumper that I am not
acquainted with. After a long pause Harding
came out from the sheds with a two-year-old (or
rather yearling now) by Rapid Bay from Glenshee,
and who, I understand, will be named “ Went-
worth,” after his breeder. Ho is as “ big as a
house,” and when moving gives one the impression
that ho will turn out one likely to do well; he ap-
pears though rather a trifle overgrown, but this
may be only fancy. Hopeful next worked with
Annandale, a three-year-old, by Tim Whiffler
from _ Rosebud, both looking well, the former
especially so, and they did three times round
slowly, finisliing with a fast brush homo
over a couple of furlongs. Hopeful has a very
serviceable amount of condition, but not a very
assuring style of moving, which may however
wear off. The jumpers in the same stable, Lime-
rick, Mustang, and The Deer did nothing but
steady exercise, all three going on the tan, but
Harding has them sufficiently forward for the
time. The in-bred Gemma di Vergy horse, Sun-
light, went by himself, and performed over three
turns at a gentle pace, and as usual he covered
the ground in very taking stylo. St. John, from
the same stable, next put in an appearance, only
cantering, and like his stable companion boasts of
being ‘ ‘ well in ”on the score of condition. Black
Eagle, in clothing, had Scottish Chief for a part-
ner in a long steady canter, and then came Rapid
Bay, in bandages, and this grand looking son of
Talk of the Hill and Miss Giraffe bowled along in
good style, but I fear that he is far too big to be
expected to play a prominent part at the coming
meetings of the H.R. and A.J.C.’s. Coxcomb,
Otira, Chisletoe (yearling by Rapid Bay from Para-
site), and Sardonyx (yearling by Rapid Bay from
Caress), also in charge of Monaghan, did steady
work, and each is more forward than the big bay.
Liberator, a well-known habitue of the training
ground, cantered by himself, and then the re-
mainder of Mr. Ivory’s string, including Andover,
Sweetmeat, Lorton, Master Avenol, and Dover
were all put through good work. Both Sweetmeat
and Andover went well, and Master Avenel gets
along in such good stylo that he has taken the
fancy of the visitors considerably, and although
it may bo rather premature, I look upon him as
likely to be one of the hardest to beat at the
Hawkesbury. Dover, too, appears to me to have
unproved much more than many others, and in his
three-year-old engagements he ought to run very
forward. Cap-a-pie worked by himself, and
North Star, Gipsy Cooper, and Prairio Bird
together did two turns at a gentle pace, finishing
up fast. North Star and the long “ spell ”ho was
treated to do not appear to have agreed, for he
shows less improvement than almost any horse at
present on Randwick. Got Back, by himself, did
along strong'gallop, and the suspicious looking
legs he at one time possessed seem to bo
quitting him, and his owner may yet have cause
not to regret his supposed dear purchase. Kami-
laroi, of course, had a great share of admirers,
and such a grand colt as he certainly deserves his
fair share, but he did nothing beyond steady work.
Strathearn, by himself, started from the sheds and
put in a good fast once round, when he pulled up.
Jemmy Ashworth deserves credit for the
polish shown by this son of The Barb, and as ho
knocks along with all his usual style I would bo
indeed sorry to say that he is out of one of tho
three big handicaps, and I should like much to see
him at last land a “ good thing,” but he has so
often been “ going to do it,” and each time failed,
that I have at last found him a very unprofitable
customer to follow. Lightning, with two others,
Hazard, I think, being one, wound up a couple of
turns, when the “ gay deceiver,” Auckland, put in
an appearance with Thorntopper, and did twice
ronnd at a good serviceable pace. The son of Tim
Whifflor had a very taking appearance, moving
along in grand style, and as that careful trainer,
Alsopp, has evidently spared no trouble on him, I
expect to see him run very forward in some of tho
coming handicaps. I have said and written this
before, and ho has on many occasions shown great
trials against “ the watch,” but it is patent to all
that ho possesses the quality, and why he should
not be the real Simon after all, I don’t know.
Thorntopper, too, is well forward, and as ho has a
very taking appearance and stride when extended
he may also do a good thing some I appre-
hend much more danger from Auckland than
from his stable companion. Martindale,
Chester and Democrat went in company at a
steady pace over a couple of miles ; and, judging
by appearances, I should take the last named to
be the “stable horse” of the three, either at
Hawkesbury or Randwick, and venture to think
that I am not -wrong in my calculation. Tho
youngsters in charge of Mr. Fennelly were also
out, but cantered only, and they show signs of
careful attention. Nellie by herself did three
turns comfortably, and many are led to think
that her chances for one or other of tho handicaps
are not by any means remote. Two very taking
fillies also in charge of Mr. Lamond wore out, viz.,
Monota and Shipka, the former being a sister of
tho Maribyrnong Plate winner, Vulcan, and tho
latter by Tho Marquis from China Rose —they
are two very nice fillies, the former especially
taking my fancy. They did gentle work only, and
I should imagine that by Maribyrnong Plato time
Moneta will have a host of admirers. Tom Brown’s
string, or at any rate most of it, was out, but as
they had undergone a dose of physic, only per-
formed slowly. His string has been strengthened
by the addition of Rupert and Gladys, tho former
being a brother to South Hamilton, and the latter
a sister to First King and Petrea, and it is said
that they belong to the Hon. W. J. Clarke. Be
that as it may, they are very valuable additions
—and their blood alone is good enough for any-
thing ; but I prefer the colt of the two. Avernus,
looking as well as could be wished, and showing no
sign of the accident that caused his retirement in
the autumn, did only gentle work with the others.
T. Connors had his lot, consisting of tho speedy
Julian, Nyarra, a Kelpie filly, and a nice, taking
half-sister to Sweetmeat by Julian Avenal. Shee-
han’s Zetland colt, with his trainer in the saddle,
did nothing out of the common, nor did the’
remainder of Mr. Fennelly’s and Brown’s batches.
Bruno went by himself, but only slowly; and
altogether, with such a crowd at work, the morn-
ing’s doings were anything but important. I
almost forgot to mention that Raynor’s trio,
Tho Admiral, Habena’s brother Gainsborough,
and the black Reprieve colt, Retrospect, was also
out and at work, but beyond strong exercise there
was nothing to be seen, and it is rather too early
for any really fast work to be expected. The
course has not yet been thrown open, but tho time
will be up in a few days, when fast work will be a
necessity ; and I will then have to chronicle some-
thing worthy of note. I did not notice Freemason
at work, and his absence may be cause for alarm
to his friends, if he has any. Taken as a whole,
a finer-conditioned lot of horses it would be hard
to find, and I hope they will continue to bo so, and
“break-downs ” written up as absentees.
I give in another column a list of all, at any
ratp so far as I know, tho horses at present under-
going their preparation at Randwick, and hope
that it will be found useful to turfites in general.
Instead of dying out, the number seems to be in-
creasing every year, and should it go on for two
or three years more as it has done for the past two
or three, extra tracks for training will be required.
Tho defendant in the Victorian libel action,
Wilson v. Symo, has succeeded in having the
venue changed from Geelong to Melbourne, and
the case will bo tried in Melbourne.
The Australasian says that Morris Griffin
summoned Mr. Bagot to tho Police Court, Flcm-
ington, a few days ago for tho alleged assault that
I referred to in a previous issue. The magistrates
dismissed the case with with two guineas costs.
Mr. W. Pile, one of South Australia’s foremost
sportsmen has purchased tho steeplechaser Snow-
storm for the high price of 500 guineas. “Augur”
says that Tocal has also changed hands.
At last things are in a fair way to move in the
formation of a trotting club in Melbourne, a grant
of land 40 acres in extent having been obtained at
Elsternwick Park. The Government, too, it ap-
pears, has lent its assistance, and a track will
very soon be in course of formation. I should
like to see something of tho same kind got up in
New South Wales, for trotting races are com-
pletely out of place when dovetailed to a flat or
jumping race programme.
Mr. John Thompson leaves for England on
Tuesday next to assist Trickett in his training.
He has all along been an ornament in his profession
the ring,” and will take the good wishes of all
( sporting men with him. He has mine.
For “ Vernon ” in my last, read “ Venom.”
Mr. T. Lamond has informed me that both Lady
Emma and Gitana, by Eanid Bay from Gipsy have
been purchased by Sir Hercules Eobinson, and
they will bo shipped shortly to the land of the
Maori, and I hope, as will all other followers of
the turf in Australia, to hear of popular
“ sports ” being carried to victory.
From what I have seen of the work on the
tramway line to Eandwick, I am afraid all
things will not bo in readiness by the time the
time A.J.C. Spring Meeting comes on.
Coursing.
N.S.W. C.C., Metropolitan Meeting.
Patron : His Excellency the Kiglit Hon. Lord Angus-
tus Loftus, G.C.8.; President, E. Lee ; Treasurer, John
Woods; Stewards G. Lee, W. Lamb, G. F. Want
E. L. Tooth, and W. K. Hall; Slip Steward, C. C.
Skarratt; Finn Steward, G. Denny; Judge, K. J.
McCulloch; Slipper, A. Burgess; Secretary, C. S.
Gregory.
The Midwinter Meeting of the Metropolitan Club
was held at W oodstock on Saturday, with, unfortu-
nntely, not the accompaniment of flue weather. Mr.
\\alter Lambs Hare Park has become celebrated
throughout the colonies, not only for the amount of
money that has been laid out upon it, but also for the
numbers of hares that are to be coursed there within
such a small area; and the liberal and hospitable
proprietor spares no pains and grudges no expense to
ensure sport for the coursing men, ns well as enjoy-
ment for disinterested visitors. This time there were
any amount of hares, and, had all things gone
smoothly, the work would have been got through a
couple of hours sooner than it was, notwithstanding a
commencement was only made at 11 o’clock; but
unfortunately several little matters combined to make
progress difficult. First of all, the weather was against
good work being done ; then there had been a bad
system of driving resorted to, which caused a good
deal of difficulty in getting on to the hares; and, last,
of all, the slipping was execrable, not only spoiling
several courses, but interfering considerably with the
even tenor of the Judge’s work. However, the day’s
work was got through (all but one deciding course
which was made necessary by a division) in time for
the return “special,” and all that is requisite is fine
weather to make the August Meeting on the same
ground a great success. Space will ouly allow of our
giving the results of the different courses without
remark ; but the trials were good and satisfactory, and
Mr. McCulloch lidded greatly to tho golden opinions he
gained at Bathurst iu the role of Judge. Little
“Helpmate” was in great form, and pulled off tho
principal stake for Mr. Walter Hall. The Sportsman.
—Eastern Princess Puppies added greatly to their
credit, as Queen of the East and Miss Molly ran first
and secoudfor The Oaks. The Squire of Woodstock won
The Derby, with Lottery by Barmby from Lassie, whoso
pedigree Ido not know. The Cumberland Stakes was
divided by Lola and Ladybird. Amateurs who have
attended meetings of the present or last season will see
by the above list of performers that the cracks of the
day were absent, the best of Mr. Walter Hall’s, Mr.
Tooth’s, Mr, W. Lee’s, junior, Mr. Leo Lord’s, and
Messrs. Hill and Weir’s being at Melbourne, iu antici-
pation of the Great Waterloo Cup; aud though it was
hardly a day for making a certainty of trials, I think
Helpmate and Queen oi the East may bo looked upon
as the two best greyhounds that ran. Notwithstand-
ing the uninviting appearance of the weather in the
morning, the sport was honored by the presence of the
Governor, the Lieutenant-Governor, and tho President
of the Legislative Council, the first time a meeting of
the Club has been presided over by such august
personages, aud for which Mr. Lamb is to bo thanked,
as a thorough supporter of coursing. Stanley pro-
vided a good luncheon on the ground, and it was just
the day to render plenty of creature comforts
thoroughly acceptable.
The different stakes were run off as follows :
The Derby. Winner, .€l5; second, £7 10s.
Mr. W. Lamb’s f w Lottery, by Barmby—Lassie, l>eat
Mr. W. Lamb’s f w Little Ned, by Master Edwurd—La
Kapide (dr).
Mr. W. Kite ns hr w Peasant Boy, by Zig Zag—Lily,
beat Mr. W. Lee’s (jun.) bk w Lexicon, by Good
Authority—Seawave.
Mr. W. McQuade’s hk w My Lord, by Laueroost—
Eupertina, beat Mr. A. L. Park’s f w Portsmouth, hr
Portland —Kilburn.
Mr. T. Croudace’s f w Coleraine, by Zig Zag—Gaiety,
heat Mr. J. Weir ns f w Hopbloom, by Barmby—
Brindisi (dr.), after a no go. J
Ties.
Lottery beat Peasant Boy.
My Lord beat Coleraine.
Deciding Course.
Mr. W. Lamb’s f and w Lottery, by Barmby—Lassie,
bent Mr. H. McQuade’s bk w My Lord, by Laneroost—
Eupertina, and won.
t-'
I _ ( Bengal Light \
9 LLaseie 1 S
<• ! ::::::::::::
The Oaks. Winner £25 ; second £7 10s.
Mr. W. Lamb’s bk w Lorna Doon, by The Judge-
Caller Ou beat Mr. W. Lee’s (jun.) bk w Lua Lua, by
Good Authority—Seawave.
Mr. W. Kite’s r Miss Molly, by Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, heat Mr. G. Hill’s (jun.) f or r w Hopbine, by
Barmby—Brindisi (dr)., after a no go.
Mr. E. T. Stephen’s hr w Queen of the East, by
Sportsman—Eastern Princess beat Dr. C. Belisario’s bk
w Bess Blackburn, by Claverhouse—Miss Willis (1).
Mr. W. McQuade’s bk w Money, by Forest Eauger,
Amulet, heat Mr. J. Weir’s bk w Wild Oats, by Had-
dington—Cutty Sark.
Ties.
Miss Molly beat Lorna Doon.
Queen of the East beat Money.
Deciding Course.
Mr. E. F. Stephen’s hr w Queen of the East, by
Sportsman—Eastern Princess beat Mr. W. Kite’s r
Miss Molly, by Sportsman—Eastern Princess, and won
W r
g ( Adam ix. t
('"Sportsman (im)-J S
o|J Lad y {
gW ( Brigadier
S L Eastern Prin- J (.Wee Nell
o cess (im) (. Lightning -J j
-nr „ (Leda by David
The Woodstock Plate. Winner £25; second £l3
10a.
Mr. W. E. Hall’s hr w b Helpmate, by Sedan—
Hyacinthe, beat Mr. W. Kite’s ns f d Jacobite, by War-
fare—Jenny Lind.
Mr. W. Lamb’s f w b p Wyndham, by Barmby—
Lassie, heat Mr. A. L. Park’s bk w d Portland, by Son
of Nicodemus—Zoe.
Mr. T. Croudace’s f d Cashel, by Tamerlane—Lengh,
heat Mr. W. McQuade’s wbb Misaliro, by Sportsman
—Ada.
Mr. G. L. Lord’s bk w d p Loelaps, by Good Authority
—Seawave, heat Mr. J. Weir’s ns wkb d Delight hr
Hobbledehoight—Fly (1).
Ties.
Helpmate beat Wyndham.
Cashel beat Loelaps.
Deciding Course.
Mr. W. Hall’s hr wb Helpmate, by Sedan—Hyacinthe
heat Mr. T. Croudace’s f d Cashel, Tamerlane—Lough’
and won. ° ’
The Cumberland Stakes. Winner £l5; Banner
up £7 10s.
Mr. T. Croudace’s r w d Lambton, by Wellington—
Minnie, beat Mr. G. Hill’s (jun.) r b Honeydew by
Tumult—Brindisi. ’ J
Mr. W. E. Hall’s n s b k w b Lola, by Good Authority
—Seawave, heat Mr. W. E. Langley's g w r or f w b
Light of the Village, by Morning Kay—Bessie Belle.
Mrf G. S. Lord’s ns hk w d Le Loup, by Jupiter—
Emerald, beat Mr. J. Weir’s ns r or f d Haddington, by
Barmby—Jezebel.
Mr. W. Lamb’s ns f w bp Ladybird, by The Judge—
Caller Ou, beat Mr. W. Kite’s he w h p Keepsake, by
Barunah—Sharp Practice.
Ties.
Lola beat Lambton.
Ladybird heat Le Loup (1).
Mr. W. E. Hall’s nshk wh Lola and Mr. Lamb’s ns bk
or w h Ladybird divided, after a no go.-<Communi.
cuted.)


Sporting and Athletic Mems.
A Tatter sail’s Club has been formed in Dunedin,
N.Z.
W. S. Cartwright, the well-known English
turfite, is dead.
A pigeon flying match, from Oamaru to Christ-
church, was recently done in 4 hours 20 minutes.
Elliott, the English oarsman, has been suffering
from rheumatic fever and palpitation of the heart.
Hart, the colored winner of the O’Leary belt,
wagers that ho can repeat his splendid performance.
“ Albert,” the groom, who ran Charley Banner-
man, is supposed in Queensland to he an aboriginal!
The Irish team suffered defeat in the Inter-
national rifle match at the hands of an American team.
In a ten-mile walk at Fredorickton, N. 8., on
15th May, Leggettt, of Sussex, won iu 1 hour 23 min.
39 secs.
Napper Tandy has taken to roll himself and his
rider on the newly-laid metal on Wickham Terrace,
Brisbane.
A junior sculling race takes place to-day at the
M.E.C. There are seven entries, and a good race is
expected.
A walk of fifty miles is on the tapis at Christ-
church, N.Z., between C. Swan and O’Connor (the
champion.)
The New South Wales Rifle Team leave Sydney
on Tuesday next to take part in the Intercolonial match
at Brisbane.
The N.S.W. Rowing Association have added a
junior double-sculling race to the programme of their
annual regatta.
“ Prenchy Johnson” and Wallace Ross were to
row three miles and a turn on the Ist June, at Boston,
Massachusetts.
Fuller, the Melbourne boatbuilder, has built a
splendid clinker four-oar outrigger to the order of the
Sydney Bowing Club.
Rowell, the English pedestrian, expresses his
readiness to walk Hart, Dobler, or any man in the world
for £'soo or £lOOO aside.
Herbert Roberts, the English finger billiard-
player, who visited the colonies some time ago, is giving
exhibitions iu England.
O’Leary’s six-day go-as-you-please tournament
at Buffalo was won by Panchot, an ex-pedostrian, who
covered 406 miles 5 laps.
At Harvard Gymnasium, on 6th May, W. Soden
is said to have, iu a standing high jump, cleared a rope
at the height of 4 ft. 11 in.
Only one entry was received for the gig race for
Mr. Lockyer’s papier macbd gig. The limit being four
entries, the race has lapsed.
Messenger, the Victorian sculler, is at present
employed by the Mercantile Rowing Club in building
two clinker sculling outriggers.
Laycock and Pearce try conclusions over the
champion course on 17th instant. The latter sculler is
looked upon as the probable winner.
J. Keen boat F. Cooper and A. E. Darkinderin
in a live-mile bicycle race on Leicestershire Cricket
Ground, covering the distance in 15 min. 45 secs.
Bell’s Life in London of the 15th May re-
marks that the present team of Australian cricketers
is one of the best it has ever seen banded together.
The racing mare Moth was raffled at the Royal
Hotel, Brisbane, the other day. She was won by Harry
Macdermott of the livery stables, for a throw of 50.
They are trying to arrange a billiard match be-
tween Vignaux, the French champion, and Roberts,
jun., the latter giving 400 iu 1000 iu the English game.
The Banka’ Rowing Club, which promises to
become a very line one, intend having a floating club-
house that can be moved at pleasure to any part of the
harbour.
Mr. J. Austin, who had a prominent part in
sending Laycock homo, is endeavouring to arrange so
that he can follow his protege at an early period to
England.
Patrick Byrnes, late of H.M. 101st Regiment
Royal Fusileers, is credited with the fastest 20 mile run
on record— l hour 5 4 min., and wagers that he will
repeat the feat.
In the 72-hour go-as-you-please, under the
management of Havcrly and Eugelhardt at Philadel-
phia, James Albert, the winner, covered 412 miles on a
correctly measured course.
Wallace Ross, the present champion of America,
who has just defeated Hanlan, is similar in physique,
weight, and height to Trickefct, than whom ho is a
younger man by several years.
Captain Bogardus shot a return match with
Fred. Erb, on Ist May, at St. Louis, Mo. The event
was 100 birds each, for 500 dollars aside, 30 yards rise.
Bogardus won, scoring 88 to Erb’s 82.
The United Service Hotel, Auckland, N.Z.
(Abbott, proprietor), is the sporting house of that
town. The enterprising and gentlemanly host gets
up consultations on all racing events.
Power, tho Twofold Bay sculler, is in Sydney
with the view of doing some rowing, and it is thought
that he will render a good account of himself should he
tackle some of our second-class scullers.
A pigeon match, “ Lean v. Fat Men,” recently
took place in New York, each man firing at ten birds.
The result was. Anti-fat, 87; Anti-lean, 71. Why don't
our Sydney “ fat and lean men ” have a match ?
T. Stone, of Manchester Gun Club, beat “ Mr.
Daahwood," at the Gun Club ground. Netting Hill,
London, on 23rd April, in a match for £5OO, 100 birds
each, 30 yards’ rise, shooting 75 to his opponent’s 70.
Palmer, the Queensland Colonial Secretary, has
placed his boat, the Vrilya, in the hands of P. G. Black-
more for a thorough overhauling preparatory to her
being entered for the Champion Cup on Boxing Day.
The Christchurch, N.Z., Waterloo Cup was won
by Miranda—Mr. Macaulay’s animal. The runner np
was Mr. Kelts’ Petrea. Mr. Cookson’s Beaconsfleld
won the purse. Runner up, Sherwin’s Queen of the
Sea.
Joo Goss and Ryan wore in training for a fight
for 1000 dollars aud the American championship, imt
the fight was prevented, and had not come off when the I
mail left. However, we now learn by cable that Ryan
has beaten Goss.
Laycock’s outrigger, one of the prettiest and !
lightest over imported, was badly smashed on the trip
up from Melbourne. Messenger is engaged repairing '
her. The planking is only the 32nd of an inch in thick-
ness. Swaddle and Winship wore the builders.
Courtney, on tho occasion of his recent match
with Hanlan, weighed 1631 b; Hanlan scaled 1481 b.
Haulan’s boat weighed 281 b, and measured 30 ft. 6 in.,
with a beam of 11} in. Courtney appears to have lost
his last race with Hanlan because his nerves failed
hhn.
The London Sportsman pooh-poohs the idea of
the Darby bding henceforward run at Gravesend, and
says tho penny-a-lincr who made such a ridiculous j
statement must have drawn powerfully on his imagina-
tion. There has never been any idea of removing the
venue from Epsom.
Tho entries have been well filled for the Sydney
Rowing Club Regatta, which promises to be a veryfgood
one. It is a pity that the club have not seen their way
clear to reciprocate tho compliment paid by the M.R.C.
in leaving some of their races open for competition to
tho various rowing clubs.
Holske and Armstrong walked 25 miles at Man-
hattan Athletic Club grounds on Bth May. The former
won, covering tho distance in 3 hours 43 minutes 45
seconds, or but 1 minute 23 seconds longer than that
made iu England by old Jem Smith in 1851. The race
was a terribly severe one.
Warburton the ox-amateur champion, and James
Bailey, of Sittingbourne, started to run 20 miles re-
cently at Rudclifle aud Pilkington Grounds. When 13
miles 800 yards had been covered Bailey retired, and at
14 miles (run in Ih. 22m. 55.) Warburton, who was pro-
claimed winner, left the track.
The programmes for the Mercantile Bowing
Club Ball are out, and are so gorgeously got up as in
themselves to afford a cogent reason for investing in a
ticket.
Young Scott, the N.Z. “longdistance walkist,”
succeeded in walking over 113 miles in five minutes
under 24 hours at Dunedin, a week ago. Ho did the
last mile in under ten minutes, and was enthusiastically
cheered on the completion of his task. Beside this
performer our “peds.” look very small indeed.
The fastest sculling time ever made in England
was that of Himlan in his race with Elliott—3 miles 563
yards straightaway in 21 min. 1 sec. Courtney’s best
time was when ho defeated Riley and “ French,v John-
son” in a race 3 miles and a turn, in 20 min. 14J secs.,
which, according to the N. Y. Cupper, remains un-
equalled.
The celebrated racing sire Traducer, who was
owned by the Canterbury (N.Z.) Middle Park Stud
Company, has reluctantly been shot by order of the
proprietors. Traducer had been ailing for some con-
siderable time past from the combined effects of old age
and chronic rheumatism, and had not a tooth left to
masticate his food.
Many people hero believe that itisnotTrickett’s
intention to return to New South Wales, and one promi-
nent and usually reliable aquatic authority goes so far
as to state that the champion before leaving said that
he meant to go into business in the north of England.
One thing is certain —that in Australia there is no one
left for Trickett to conquer.
Courtney, of whom there is an excellent likeness
in Punch’s picture-gallery, is big enough for anything
and exhibits the muscular development of a gladiator;
but it must be confessed than he has little determina-
tion in his features, his appearance being rather fierce
than Arm. In America it is openly alleged that his
recent race with Hanlan was rowed on dry land days
before it came off.
Advices by cable state that Hanlan has gastric
fever and will probably be unable to complete his en-
gagement with Trickett on 15th November. The latest
English papers remark that should the pair meet the
odds will be 7t04 on Hanlan. Byithe way, we recollect,
and so do some Englishmen who yelled out on the
steamer to Mr. J. T. Fallon, that the odds in the last
race were 7 to 4 on Sadler.
The following resolution has been passed by the
Oamaru (N.Z.) Presbytery“ That in the judgment of
this Presbytery horse racing is a disgrace to modem
civilisation, a waste of time and means, an incentive to
gambling and other vices, and deserving the reprobation
of all professing Christians, as injurious to piety and
morals; and instruct the ministers of the bounds to
direct the attention of the congregations to these evils."
“ If we once efface the joys of the chase
From the land and outroot the stud.
Good-bye to the Anglo-Saxon race,
Farewell to the Norman blood.”
A 24 hours’ walking competition is to ho held at
the Garrison Hall, Dunedin, in the early part of this
month (July). Mr. Alfred Austin, the trainer of yonng
Scott, is at tlia head of affairs, and nearly every town in
New Zealand has a representative entered. The first
prize is fixed at £5O, second £lO, and third £5 ; with a
sweep of £1 from each competitor, to go to the second
and third men. The entries are as follows :—Bedford,
Claxtou, Henderson, Drummond, Delaney, Morehouse,
Malcolm, Allen, Stenhouse, Deuchrass, Waugford,
Sims, M’Ewan, M'Laren, Freer, Dunedin; Henry,
Auckland; O’Connor, Timaru; Swan, Christchurch;
Neary, Wellington; Wiltshire, Wanganui; Boardman,
Waikouaiti.
The New Gaming and Lotteries Bill at present
before the N.Z. Parliament makes the use of the total!-
sator (unless by recognised racing clubs who have
obtained permission from the Colonial Secretary) illegal,
and aims at crushing the bookmakers by providing that
“ Any money received by a bookmaker as a deposit on a
bet ‘ shall be deemed to have been received to or for the
use of the person from whom the same was received,
and such may be recovered accordingly with full costs
of suit in any Court of competent jurisdiction.'" The
bill makes a dead set at lotteries, and more especially at
big sweeps and “consultations," and the sections on
this head are apparently far too explicit for evasion.
The hill has passed first reading.
The following excellent advice is commended to
all oarsmen :
“ Catch yonr stroke at the beginning,
Then let legs with vigour work.
Little hope has he of winning
Who his stretcher loves to shirk.
Let your rigid arms extended
Be as straight as pokers two.
And until the stroke is ended.
Without jerking pull it through ”
A caso of considerable interest to sporting men
was recently heard at the District Court, Napier, N.Z.
It seems that Lawrenson (the defendant) drew Grand
Duchess in a Derby sweep on the Tradesmen’s Cup at
the last Hawke’s Bay races. Ellis (the plaintiff) agreed
to buy Lawrenson’s ticket for £25. An agreement was
drawn out, signed by both parties, and stamped. The
ticket was also endorsed to the same effect. Grand
Duchess proved to be the only starter and entitled the
holder of the ticket to £lOO. Lawrenson then instructed
the holder of the sweep money not to pay Ellis, and
Lawrenson received it himself, hence the action. The
Court gave judgment for the defendant for the full
amount of the claim. It caused great surprise.
“ Pugilistica,” a work which, in the words
of an esteemed contemporary, should be wel-
comed by all who are interested in the art of
boxing and who take pleasure in reading about the
exploits of the knights of the orthodox circle in the
days when “ the ring " was a well patronised institution
in old England, has recently made its appearance in
London, under the above significant title. It is pub-
lished in and it is a readable history of
the British prize-ring from 1719 to 1865, containing por-
traits and sketches of the celebrated pugilists of the
past, with full reports of the more important battles,
and other interesting information. The compiler is
Henry D. Miles, formerly connected with Bell’s Live.
In the recent English twenty-six hours
championship contest five men came to the post, and it
looked as though a very great record would result.
This would undoubtedly have been the case had not
Howes made the pace so hot that, one by one, the other
competitors were dead settled, and retired. Howes was
20 miles ahead when Lewis (the last man left with him)
gave np. The winner had, in 18h. 20m. 55., walked 101
miles—a very great performance. Weston, it is believed,
has finally retired from go-as-you-please contests, and it
is probable that such big crowds will never be seen
again in England to witness these exhibitions. It is
expected, however, that some one will before long go
600 miles on foot in the six days. It is said Rowell, "of
Cambridge, can do 580.
Sir Hercules Eobinson, apropos of the case of a
colt by Thunderbolt out of Lyra, recently purchased by
him, and foaled in the Auckland district on 15th April,
1878, is urging upon the authorities of the Dunedin
Jockey Club the advisableuess of adopting rule 43 of
the Australian Jockey Club, which runs as follows :
“ In all races in which standard weights for age shall
be carried, an allowance, according to the following
scale, shall be made to horses sired north of the line,
and foaled between the Ist January and August Ist,
viz.: Two and three-year-olds. lOlbs; four-year-olds,
71bs; five-year-olds, 31bs.” His Excellency remarks
that, without the allowance given in Australia, the colt
will be of little use for racing purposes imNew Zealand,
and had therefore better be exported. The rule has j
already been adopted by the Napier Jockey Club.
A little breeze recently happened in the N.Z.
Legislative Council, raised by Sir Cracroft Wilson, who
had received a circular from the secretary of the Wel-
lington Jockey Club informing him that a specimen
totalizator had been placed on view in a room in Par-
liamentary buildings by consent of the Speakers of both
Houses. Sir Cracroft Wilson called attention to the
matter as a question of privilege. Sir Dillon Bell pro-
tested against the Speakers devoting any part of the
building to any other than Parliamentary purposes.
Colonel Fraser thought the last speaker straining at a
gnat and swallowing a camel when the building had
been used for all sorts of purposes, including the ex-
hibition of earthenware some of which consisted of
sundry domestic utensils which ought never to have
been exposed to public view. After this the matter at
once dropped.
It now appears that the row which Trickett and
Punch had was merely in a boat, and not as most people
imagine, on land. The circumstances which gave rise to
the rumour are these: —While on the Thames during
his last visit Trickett suggested a short trip down the
river with Punch, and shortly after starting the latter
broke his scull. The accident was observed by
an ink-slinger on (the staff of the Universal Penny
Sporting Tipster, for in the next issue there appeared
—“ Ostralia v. Sadler. Yesterday afternoon we saw the
Ostralian sculler have a row with his trainer, Jim
Punch. The latter party broke his scull and gave it
best, tbo’ it is certain he could not last, his condition
being far from concert pitch. The exhibition of stylo
was a ridiculous one. The visit of these two parties
adds one more instance of Ostralian presumption and
ignorance.’’ It is unnecessary to state what this
simple affair has been magnified into by evil-minded
persons.
The Oamaru Maiden Steeplechase, 2J- miles, was
won by Bradley’s Miss Hungerford, Osborne’s Robin
Hood 2, Mack ay’s Leap Year 3. The Handicap Steeple-
chase of 100 sovs was won by Clifford’s Clarence (list),
Agent, who carried the crushing weight of 13st 41b
finishing a bad second. The Selling Steeplechase was
won by Leap Year, and the Consolation Eace by Little
John. The Timaru Steeplechase Meeting resulted
tuns: —Maiden Steeplechase of 40 sovs : Kobin Hood 1,
Colonel 2, Stella (3. Tally-Ho Handicap of 100 sovs,
distance, 3 miles: The Agent, 12st 111 b, 1; Ivanhoe,
lOst 71b, 2. An exciting race over 22 jumps. Lone
Hand fell at the second jump from home, rolling over
on Hedges, his rider. Timaru Cup of 50 sovs: The
Agent 1, Eoyalty 2, Miss Hungerford 3. Consolation
Handican of 30 sovs : Miss Hungerford 1, Shillelah 2.
At the Wanganui meeting the Handicap Steeplechase
of 175 sovs was won by Higgie’s King Don, lOst 31b, 1 ;
Keith’s Ada, list, 2; Jackson’s Old Ireland, 12st, 3.
14 started. The Agent did not accept. Maiden
Steeplechase : Grey Momns 1, Hard Times 2, Matua 3.
Consolation Steeplechase : Loch Lomond 1, Venture 2.
The programme of the Canterbury (N.Z.)
Jockey Club meeting to be held in November next has
been issued, and a good one it is. The events of the
first day consist of the Free Handicap of 100 sovs , the
Derby of 250 sovs., the Canterbury Jockey Club Handi-
cap of 500 sovs. (the nominations for which have closed
and the weights issued), the Welcome Stakes (for 2
year-olds) of 200 sovs., and a Hack Eace. On the second
day a Maiden Handicap of 100 sovs. (one of the con-
ditions being that the horses engaged must be ridden by
boys who have never won an advertised race of 25 sovs.),
a Eailway Plate of 100 sovs., followed by the Canter-
bury Cup of 500 sovs., a Selling race of 60 sovs., the
Grand Stand Handicap and a Selling Hack Race. The
Cup will be run for the first time under the new weight
for age scale, which runs as follows:—3yrs, l 7st 61bs ;
4yrs 9st; syrs, 9st 51bs ; 6yrs and aged, 9st 61bs. The '
third day’s events consist, of the Christchurch Plate of
150 sovs., the Metropolitan Handicap of 150 sovs., the
Spring Nursery Handicap for 2-year-olds, a Soiling Plate
of 50 sovs., followed by a Flying Handicap of 100 sovs.
(forthree-year-olds and upwards),and Consolation Stakes
of 50 sovs.
An esteemed correspondent writes us as follows :
—ln these “degenerate days ” of the Road it is a novelty
to find coaching keeping pace with the iron horse ; and
just to show that between London and neighbouring
towns the old four-iu-handdrag is once more to the fore
and holding its own, I send yon the following clipping
from a late Sporting Life : “ The Box Hill coach, on
its return journey, will pass through the town of Sutton
(Surrey) at the same hour as a train is timed to leave
the station there for the West-End of London, viz.,
five o’clock p.m. The coach arrives at Charing Cross
(Golden Cross Hotel) at eleven minutes past six o’clock,
whilst the train is not due at Victoria until 6.14 p.m.
Further, a first-class ticket by the railway is 25., the
fare outside by the coach is only 6d. more, viz., 2s. 6d.;
but then half-price is charged for the inside places, so
that the journey can be accomplished not only more
expeditiously by the coach, but passengers can travel
in a first-class manner for less than two-thirds of the
cost by train.’’ This would gladden the heart of him
who wrote as follows, forty years ago :
“ Hero’s to the horses, all ready to start.
Shining in brass and in leather;
Here’s to the waggoner, skilled in his art.
Coupling his horses together.
Let the Steam Pot hiss till it’s hot—
Give me the speed of the Tantivy Trot.”
The fastest 1| miles on record were run on 17th
April at Preston, England, when Win. Cummings of
Paisley and David Livingstone of Portobello met to
decide their match, one mile abd a half, for £25 aside.
It was known that Cummings would try to heat record
time—6min. SOsec. —and this fact was sufficient to attract
a large company. Cummings was in splendid condition,
weighing five pounds more than in any previous com-
petition, hat being without au ounce of superfluous
flesh. He scaled 1351 b. The course was 6051 yards round,
consequently 4 laps and 218 yards had to be gone over to
complete the mile and a half. Betting was almost
entirely in favour of Cummings, 4to 1 being freely laid
on him. Cummings’ condition was simply perfection ;
Livingstone had a cold. The latter led to ,wit,bin 900
yards of home, when Cummings pnshea forward, took a
lead of ten yards, after which his opponent was com-
pletely out of it. The Paisley champion went at a ter-
rific pace, to the intense wonder and pleasure of the
spectators, doing the last 100 yards at a sprinting rate,
and defeating his opponent and Time in 6m. 431 s. —6is.
faster than the previous record. The time for each
quarter was carefully taken, and the following is the
return: Quarter-mile, Im. Is. ; half-mile, 2m. 10s.;
three-quarters,, 3m. 255.; one mile, 4m. 355.; one mile
and a quarter, sm. 395.; one mile and a half, 6m. 43-Js.
The day was anything but favorable for fast time being
made, a strong wind blowing across the course. Truly
a wonderful performance.
List of Horses at Work at Randwick.
Mr. Albert Cornwell: Gipsy Cooper, Kamilaroi, Prairie
Bird, Hazard, Lightning-, North Star, Cap-a-pie,
Colima, Athol, filly by Maribyrnong, and colt by
Yattendon.
T. Brown : Geraldine, Sylvan, Grand Flaneur, Aver-
nus, Trump Yoss, Friday, Bertie, Oreola (sister to
Robinson Crusoe), Gladys (sister to Petrea), Hil-
debrand, Eupert (brother to South Hamilton),
Collector, by Julian Avenel from Queen Bee, and
Johanna, by Maribyrnong from Jocasta.
Mr. S. Harding; Hopeful, Limerick, The Deer, Annan-
i. dale, Yorraville, Mustang, four-year-old mare by
Camden, yearling by Kapid Bay from Glenshee,
Traverton.
G. Donnelly: Eosinnnte.
Mr. M. Fennelly: Chester, Democrat, Martindale, Cin-
namon, Sapphire, Freemason, Bathurst, Despot,
Jester by The Tester, Woolsorter, Monmouth
(brother to Chester), Gloucester, and .Etna (sister
to Woodlands).
Mr. T. Lamond : Eemombrance, Lady Emma, Nellie,
Sjunuingdale, Bertie’s sister, Stella by Maribyrnong
—Signora (imp.),. Primrose by Qol.isbrough—Cori-
sande, Roxburgh by Kingsborongh from Phoebe,
Somerset by Maribyrnong—Keepsake, Shipka by
The Marquis—China Rose, Monita, Vulcan’s sister,
and Gitana by Rapid Bay from Gipsy.
J. Allsopp: Auckland, Thomtopper, Fisherman, colt
by New Holland-The Rose, and another by Golds-
brough from Seabreeze.
Mr. Ivory: Sweetmeat, Andover, Dover, Master Avenel,
Liberator, Dover's brother, Lorton.
H. Eayner; Retrospect, The Admiral, Gains-
borough.
J. Ashworth : Stratheam.
M. Monaghan: Rapid Bay, Moonbeam, Otira, Cox-
comb, Mistletoe by Rapid Bay—Parasite, Sardonyx
by Fireworks from Onyx, and a colt by Rapid Bay
from Caress.
J. Ross: Middlesex, Black Eagle, Koroelah, Scottish
Chief.
Mr. Freeman: Sunlight, St. John.
Mr. Rochester: Creswick.
T. Connors: Julian, N yrara, Kelpie filly, and a
Juhan Avenel filly from Sultana.
M. Sheehan : Colt by Zetland.
H. Bird ; A jumper, Blantyre, Valetta.
J. Kelso: Bruno.
Mr. Coyle : Get Back.
Mr. Charles Roberts has in work at Mamre, South
Creek, the following five: Terrara, Araluen, Jester,
Bedouin, and a two-year-old colt by Julian Avenel
from Tiara.
Cricket.
The Australians defeated 18 of Harrowgate by 10
wickets. Bonnor made 59 not oat.
The Cambridge University eleven have beaten the
Oxford University by 116 runs. The scores were Cam-
bridge, 398; Oxford, 282.
From the tone of the English Press it is very im-
probable that the Australians will play at “ Lords ” or
“ the Oval."
Football.
The match between the first fifteens of the Warat v
and University clubs was decided, notwithstandingUr
rain, on Saturday last, at Moore Park, and the bo+
game of the season resulted in a draw, each side havfn
obtained a goal. Mullens scored for Alma Mater
Phillips for Waratah. * a “d
Mr. Campbell, a well-known football player in Vie
toria, is about arranging a match for twenty “ old Vi
torians ” to play a like number of the Sydney Warat A,'
Club, and if it does come to pass, the game will
played under the rules of the Victorian Association 06
The Norwood(Adelaide)team and Geelong first fifteen
played their second match in Geelong, Victoria n
Saturday last, and there was an attendance of speotatrJ!
bordering on 15,000 present. The game, after a desperate
straggle, was won by the representatives of Gaelon- >!»
one goal to nil. °* u °
Pigeon Shooting.
A long-pending pigeon mitch for a small sura came
off at Randwick on Saturday last between Messrs
“ Tyro ” and R. Eggleton at 21 birds each and SO yards
rise. The former used an ounce and a quarter of shot
but the charge for Mr.JEggleton’s old fashioned muzzle
loader was unlimited. The birds were obtained from
Newcastle, Penrith, Botany and Richmond, and were
by far the best ever seen at Randwick. The day was as
uninviting as could well he imagined, and as it rained
very hard and a stiff “southerly” was blowing heatr
scoring was out of the question. The first dozen birds
shot at were “ trimmers ” of the highest order, and
several of them fell dead a few yards out of bounds’. As
the following score shows Mr. Eggleton was one bird in
front at 12, but at 13 his opponent drew level and main-
tained the lead to the finish, eventually winning by one
bird, having killed 12. It is worthy of note that one
bird was shot by Mr. Eggleton when he was fully 70
yards from the scratch. The scoring runs as follows
“Tyro” 001000110111111011001
Mr. Eggleton 000100111111010100011 _]?
The following sweep. £1 each, was then shot off, and
“little Jack Cornwell,” the well-known Jockey, at 23
yards, added another “ win ” to his list:—
Master J. Cornwell, 23 yards
Mr. F. Gannon, 25 yards
" Tyro," 25 yards '' _n lft
Mr. Hamilton, 25 yards
Thomas, 25 yards [ '
D. Towns, 25 yards jqo
The great northern Pigeon Sweepstakes at Gnnnedak
was won by Mr. B. C. Fletcher, who shot his nine
birds.
Pedestrianism.
Notwithstanding that it rained almost without inter-
mission on Saturday afternoon, the various “footraces”
came off at the appointed hour and places, and the
promise of a good “ ducking ” did not deter the votaries
of each sport from rolling up in gmod numbers. On tie
Association Ground the match between Blakeman and
Scott (the latter having only one arm) was run, Scott
laying £3O to £2O. The distance was 125 yards, and
Blakeman, on whom 7 to 4 and 2 to 1 was laid, won
after a great race by a breast. B. Keating then met j!
Powell over a distance of 100'yards, for £2O aside. The
“talent” laid 5 to 4 on Keating, but Powell won easily.
Then came M. Ryan and Warren, for £lO aside, 100
yards. The knowing ones “got on” to the winner in
this, a shade of odds being laid on Warren, and he won
comfortably. At the southern, end of Bounce-street
White and Thame tried conclusions over 150 yards, and
3 to 2 was laid on Thame, who landed the dollars by a
“ nose.” Owing to the pistol missing {fire a dispute
arose, there being no report, and the stakeholder de-
cided that the race be run again to-day, over the same
course.
Kensington Park Races.
Handicap Hurdle.—Albatross, 9st2lb, 1: Godfrey, Bst
101 b, 2 ; Empress, 9st 121 b, 3.
Corinthian Stakes.—Sea King, list 21b, 1; Diomedl2st,
2; Dundreary list, 3.
Steeplechase.—Gayfield, Bst 101 b, X ;St. Kilda Bst 121 b,
June Handicap.—Little Nell 7st 51b, 1: Sea King, 7et
71b, 2; Shadow, 7st 71b, 3.
Galloway Handicap.—Elsie, 7st 121 b, 1; Robin Hood,
9st, 2 ; Lord, 7st, 3.
ENGLISH SPOUTING.
The two weeks’ files of sporting papers, later than those
previously to hand do not deal with any great number of
highly interesting events; and our Turf items are re-
duced to the Chester Cup and the Payne Stakes at New-
market ; besides a private memo, of the Manchester
Cup—the Handicap to which a larger sum of money is
added than to any other handicap race, we suppose, ia
the world. This great event, with its splendid bonus of
£2OOO, brought a field of twenty-one to the post, of
which that grand five-year-old, isonomy,” carried the
steadying top weight of fist 12lb; the next highest
being the four-year-old, Lartington, with 7st filb up.
Mr. Naylor’s three-year-old, the Abbott, by Hermit,
started favourite at 6 to 1, on account, no doubt, of the
late excellent running of his sire’s stock ; Isonomy being
at 100 to 6; hut the top weight was equal to the occur
sion ; and, after a desperate run, in which he and the
favourite ran away from their followers at the finish, he
stalled off the young one by a neck. The Abbott, 3yrs,
fist filb, second; Horizon, 3yrs, fist 51b, third; and
Valour, 4- yrs, 7st 81b, fourth. This was an immense
performance of Isonomy, proving him more pronour-
cedly than ever the best horse of the time; and re-
minding us very much of the stylo in which the Barb used
to win his handicaps—a style, by the bye, we have not
since been treated to here. Isonoray’s win seems to
have taken all the knowing people, especially the genns
“special correspondent,” most completely by sun 1 rise;
and it only shows the great difficulty in ganging tie
capabilities of a “ real good un,” with such a nicety as
to determine what he cannot do. This was the case
with our noted and historical Black Demon, a horse that
never was found out; and yet plenty of conjurors are to
be found who knowingly tell you that Glencoe was the
better of the two ; “only, you know,” etc. We gave, last
week, the tabulated pedigree of Isonomy,hut by someover-
sight omitted to give the parentage of Faugh-o-Ballagb.
who is by Sir Hercules from Guiccioli. This omission
is the more to he regretted, as the presence of Irish Bird-
catcher as the paternal greatgrandsire and maternal
greatgrandsire, and of Birdcatcher’s own brother,
“Faugh,” in a similar relation to Isonomy’s dam
through her dam, as Birdcatcher’s is through his sire,
are sufficient to make the pedigree second to that of no
other horse breathing. Isonomy has no fewer than
four distinct runs of Sir Hercules—Whalebone— Waxy>
besides other combinations of the two last named, more
than which can hardly be needed by the most fastidious;
and although we have not graduated in the science of
breeding by figures, we confidently commend the
pedigree of Isonomy to breeders of racing stock as one
that can hardly fail to produce a race of horses P° r
excellence.
Apart from the Turf, there is little to notice. Tn.®
Australian cricketers keep on the even tenor of their
way, winning matches, though certainly not gainm?
much in the shape of kudos over and above what the
former eleven put together for the colony. So far, 00*
one first-class match has been played; neither does one
appear on the published programme; and we are con-
firmed in the opinion we expressed long ago —nameoi
that it was a pity a team should go to England with tne
almost certainty of meeting only second and third class
clubs; the visit being also purely one of pecuniar!
speculation, not at all of cricket.
Late telegrams.throw considerable doubt on the pro*
hability of a match between Trickett and Ham 4 ?'
resulting from the arrangements already made >
London; in consequence of Hanlan being reported a
suffering severely from gastric fever. This is wnc 2,j. e
be regretted ; as we should greatly like to see i
“Greenwich” Champion of the Parramatta Eiver
his length of reach, and power of propulsion along® l
the great Canadian sculler ; but at any rate there
very small fear of Trickett’s returning to us W 1 j
out having measured sculls with the best men
England, if not of America. I read in the
Asian, that Trickett is not rated at a very high
England ; and that in the event of his pulling a mj^. g
with Hanlan, the latter would be hacked at 2 to 1.
is said to arise from Trickett’s ability being
that of Sadler’s, which is not considered up to as


s
&
e
PH
G
IS
C3
O
£
1
&
1
F
1S3
on
'A
O
-
«
m
k
u.
|
s
o
fk
C'
£
>»
s
»
‘oo
®
1
ft
Sweetmeat
Gladiator
Partisan
Pauline
Lollipop
m
Starch or Vol-
Belinda [taire
Grayere
Verulam
Lottery
Wire
Jeunala
Touchstone
Emma
King Tom
Harlcaway
Economist
Nabocklish m.
Pocahontas
Glencoe
Marpessa
M entmore
Melbourne
Humph. Cllnk’r
Cervantes mure
Lass
Emerald
Defence
Euiiliann
Kingston
Venison
Partisan
Pawn
Queen Anne
Slane
Garcia
Bloomer
Melbourne
Humph. Clink’r
Cervantes mare
Lady Sarali
Velocipede
La’y Moore Car.
=r-
Newminater
J
Touchstone
Camel
Banter
Beeswing
Dr. Syntax
Ardrossan mare
Varsoviana
ion
Cain
Margaret
more by
Lunger
1 Sister o' Cobw’b
• tiv high standard of excellence ; but from what-
C r ranse it may arise, I look npon this low estimate
nnr champion as a feeling that should be fostered aa
01 nh os possible by his friends and backers. His being
vhtlv considered now cannot in any way interfere
•Jh his chances of success, but will improve the posi-
of his supporters from a monetary point of view.
1 llie following are particulars of the only two races
worth noticing from our sporting files
wortn CHESTER RACES.
Tha Chester Trades Cup of 500 sovs, added to a
1 handicap sweepstakes of 25 eovs each, lo ft. About
1 mile 6 fur. 100 yards.
r, de Rothschild’s ch f Fashion, by Favomns
■*“’ ’ —Sister to Elegance, 3 yrs, 6st 51b (inc. 12 lb
ex.) (Greaves) ••• ••• 1
Lord Drogheda’s b h Philammon, by Solon—
Satanella, 6 yrs, 7st 9 lb (Connolly) 2
Lord Rosebery’s b h Rhidorroch, by Joskin—
Peahen, 6 yrs, Bst2 lb (Constable) 3
Mr K. Jardine’s b c Blackthorn, 4 yrs Cst 81b
(Kellett) ... i • ••■ 0
Sir W. Nugent’s br h Glanmoor, G yrs, Gst 71b
(Bell) 0
Lord Dupplin’s ch g Reefer, 5 yrs, 7st 7lb (Luke) 0
Sir R. W. Bulkoley’s br c Young Calabar, 3 vrs,
Gst 4lb (Tinsley) ••• 0
Lord Bradford’s brc Sword Dance, 3 yrs, sst 121 b
car. Gst 41b (Gallon)... ... ... ... 0
Mr. E. Potter’sb c Usk, 3 yrs, sst 71b (White) ... 0
Mr. W. Gregory’s b f Espada, 3 yrs, sst 7 lb
(Barrett) ••• 0
Betting : 4 to 1 each 'agst Rhidorroch, Sword Dance,
and Fashion, 5 to 1 agst Reefer, 10 to 1 agst Rhilammon,
100 to 6 agst Espada, and 25 to 1 agst Blackthorn.
The principal running was made by Sword Dance,
Usk, and Espada, till the last named was beaten at
the five furlong post; and Sword Dance for a few
strides was in front of Philammon, Fashion, Rhidor-
roch, and Reefer. Before the Groavenor turn was again
reached. Fashion ran past the leaders, and Philammon
following suit, the pair came round this hend, and the
Castle turn clear of Sword Dance, Reefer, Espada and
Rhidorroch being next. When fairly in the line for
home. Fashion had her opponents in trouble, and
Rhidorroch passing Sword Dance, Espada, and Reefer,
took third place, but Fashion cantered along in front,
and won easily by three lengths ; two lengths between
second and third. Reefer was fourth, Sword Dance
fifth, Espada sixth, and Blackthorn seventh, the re-
mainder trotting in. Time by Benson’s chronograph,
3 min 20 sees. Value of the stakes, £lOl7.
Pedigree, Performances, and Engagements of the Winner :
Fashion is a chesnut filly, by Favonius from sister to
Elegance by Ely by Kingston from Nemesis by New-
minster; Favonius being by Parmesan by Sweetmeat
from Zephyr by King Tom; and Zephyr being from
Mentmore Lass by Melbourne; while Ely is from
Bloomer by tbe same great sire. Wa have here a
splendid combination, in wbicb are double strains ot
Touchstone and Melbourne with single ones of Sweet-
meat, Harkaway—Pocahontas, and Venison. As a two-
year old Fashion ran five times and was successful once,
viz., for the Old Nursery Stakes Handicap at the New-
market Houghton Meeting. This year she has run four
times—unplaced for the Newmarket Handicap, won the
Newmarket International Handicap, second for the
Great Metropolitan Stakes at Epsom, and won the
Cheater Cup as above mentioned. As showing how
difficult the handicapping of three-year olds is in the
beginning of the season, it is worthy of remark that
Fashion carried 12 lb. penalty in this race.
The winners and placed horses for the Cup since l«»o
have been as follows
Eirst. age st lb Second. ’ Third.
Dalby . ... 4 6 8 Buckfoot Leproshaun
Dolby 5 7 7 Redcap Mousley
Beeswing 4 7 9 Endsleigh Lecturer
Paul Jones ... 3 6 2 Goodwood Beauty
Knight of tho St. Mungo Dolby
Garter ... 5 9 1
Our Mary Ann... 5 6 0 Formosa Sabine
Glenlivat 4 6 2 Mortemer Our Mary Ann
Inveresk 3 5 12 Soucar Napolitain
Field Marshal... 5 6 12 Laburnum Inveresk
Organist . ... 3 6 6 Leohnus Bertram
Freeman 6 7 9 Distinction Dukedom
Tam o’Shanter 5 6 11 Freeman Grey Palmer
Pageant 6 7 10 Jolm Day Snail
Pageant a 8 12 Woodlands Jester
Reefer 4 7 1 Touchet Ridotto
Fashion 36 5 Philammon Rhiddorroch x
NEWMARKET SECOND SPRING MEETING.
The Payne Stakes of 15 sovs each, 5 ft, with 500 added,
for three year olds ; colts, Bst 101 b; fillies, Bst 61b;
A.P. (1 mile 2 fur. 73 yards).
Prince Soltykoff’s ch c Mask, by Carnival—Meteor, Bst
131 b (Cannon) ATVAiVVx 'V' i " o
Mr. R. C. Naylor’s b c The Abbott, Bst 101 b (Luke)... u
T. E. Walker’sbr f Elizabeth, Bst 131 b (C. Wood) 3
H. E. Beddington’s Scot Guard, Bst 101 b (Jeffery) 0
Bowo’s Pride of the Highlands, Sat 101 b
Lord Bradford’s Sword Dance, Bst 101 b (W. Mac-
donald) 0
Mr. J. H. Honldsworth’s c by Pavomns—Red Riband,
Bst 51l> (Lemaire) ;•••—• 0
Count P. de Lagrange’s Milan,Bst 51b (R. Morris) ... 0
Mr. R. C. Naylor’s Fire Queen, Bst lib (Huxtable) ... 0
H. M. Sanford’s Aristocrat, Bst 101 b (Rossiter)... 0
H. Savile’s Marc Antony, Bst 131 b (Goater) ........ 0
Betting ; 2to 1 agst The Abbot, 9to 4 agst Elizabeth,
10 to 1 agst Milan, 100 to 8 each ag Pride of the Highlands
and Sword Dance, and 100 to 6 agst Mask. Aristocrat
made running with a length lead of Scot Guard, while
Fire Queen, in the centre, was upsides with the pair,
with the Abbot, Marc Antony, and Elizabeth in close
company. On the lower ground, well up, was Pride of
the Highlands, with Mask and Milan in his rear. Much
in this order they came across the flat to the T.Y.C.
winning-post, where Fire Queen was beaten, ami fell
rapidly to the hackgronnd. Between here and the
Bushes Scot Guara was in front. The Abbot, Elizabeth,
and Marc Antony following him clear of Mask, the
remainder being beaten. Going down the hill Scot
Guard was done with, and The Abbot came into the
Abingdon dip in company with Elizabeth, the pair being
followed by Mask. Directly the descent was commenced
Elizabeth was in trouble, and Mask, coming with a dash
half way up, took a half length lead of The Abbot, who,
however, began to catch him again, but the distance
was too short, and he suffered defeat by a head; a had
third. Sword Dance was fourth, Pride of the Highlands
fifth, Milan sixth, and Marc Antony seventh* with Scot
Guard last.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Kitten is a favourite of the “ Mows/’
San Francisco ia the Actress’ Paradise.
A theatrical trip to Capo Town means rain.
Sadlers Wells is the oldest theatre in London.
Hare is the shortest actor on the British stage.
J. K. Emmet has been playing Fritz at St. Louis,
Fechter’s daughter has made a great hit in
opera.
The plot of “One Word” still remains a
mystery.
A sensational pianist has cropped up in
Adelaide.
J. C. Williamson opens at the Eoyal, Melbourne,
in August.
Ellen Terry is separated from her husband,
Watts, lI.A.
Mrs. Nyo Chart is coining money at the Brigh-
ton Theatre. „
“Pinafore” has reached Wales— Tahw, reven
Llew, yidrah reve!
The bright Nelly Power still triumphantly reigns
at The Canterbury.
Billing ton (John) is playing low comedy parts
at the Folly Theatre.
Jenny Nye plays “ Topsy ” with the Arethusa
Uncle Tom’s Cabin Co.
Charles Dickens (the live one of course) is the
editor of The Theatre.
The real genuine Doctor Lynn is contemplating
a visit to these colonies.
D’Oyly Carte’s new theatre in the Strand, Lon-
don, is to be called the Savoy.
How is it that all travelling panoramas have a
ventriloquist in the company ?
The Prince of Wales has fitted up a Bijou
Theatre in Marlborough House.
Mrs. Marsh and her daughters Lillie and Annie
arrived this week from Brisbane.
Old Ben. Webster is still alive, but no longer
takes midnight walks to Kennington.
George Darrell is not the author of The
Kelly Gang.” He declines the honor.
Levy, of the London Telegraph, ia the hus-
band of Old Ben. Webster’s only daughter.
Dedicated to Professor Eice What is mind ?
No matter. What is matter P Never mind.
Chiarini manufactures his own gas for his circus,
but somebody else writes his advertisements.
Few people applied to ride through the streets
in the cage with the tiger tamer and his pets.
Mrs. Lane, of the Britannia, played Jack Shep-
herd in “ The Two Apprentices” at her benefit.
Barry Sullivan has always fought shy of London
since his famous failure at the old New Holbom.
Ole Bull has finished his farewell concert tours,
and he now iiddles in the Miss Thnrsby concerts.
It is the correct thing in London society to “do
the Haymarket.” Of course we mean the theatre.
Miss Lettie Gray, a girl of New York City, is
astonishing people with her marvellous whistling.
Adelaide Neilson contemplates a visit to the
colonies. She is, or was, the best Juliet on the stage.
Dickens’ only farce “ Mrs. Nightingale’s Diary”
is about to be produced by the German Eeed Company.
George Grossmith, the humourist’s son, was the
original Admiral Porter in the everlasting “ Pinafore.’-
Madame Celeste is still alive, and continues to
take farewell benefits os Miami in “ The Green Bushes.”
Mrs. Scott Siddons is reading in the States, and
is to travel in America with the new plavs next season,
Arthur Sketchloy’s entertainment has not been
a financial success since Mrs. Brown left her “native
ile.”
David James and Tom Thorne threaten the
frequenters of the Vaudeville with a revival of “Our
Boys.”
Mrs. Kendal’s dress in Tennyson’s “ Falcon”
was the admiration and envy of every lady of taste in
London.
The lion comique, George Leybourne, has
created another immense ballad entitled “ Booh ! booh.
don’t now l M
Amy Thornton and her father, a well-known
scenic artist, with a small company, have been playing
at Napier, N.Z.
Five thousand pounds is the price that John L.
Toole is reputed to have paid Henry J. Byron for his
“ Upper Crust.”
A “ Byronic Comedy and Burlesque Company”
at latest advices, was performing at the Theatre Eoyal,
Wellington, N.Z.
Lottie Elliott and Eeed and Gilbert (of Simon-
sen’s Froliques) had crowded houses at their benefits in
Wellington, N.Z.
The report that John Bennett is going to
Queensland to build a theatre is contradicted by the
Eockhampton people.
At one of the Carandini concerts in N.Z., Miss
Josephine Deakin was taken suddenly ill, and
fainted in going off the stage.
Verdi’s “Aida” has been produced at the
Grand Opera, Paris, with unparalleled brilliancy. The
composer himself conducted.
The managers of Temperance Galas have deter-
mined to exclude tight-rqpe performances from the pro-
grammes of their festivities.
The Theatre Eoyal, Christchurch, is to be reno-
vated and decorated this month. It will then be re-
opened under new management.
“Blackfern, or the Murderer’s Idiot Child” is
the cheerful title of a drama by a local author, lately
produced in the English provinces.
Lydia Thompson, says a late paper, can never be
admitted to the Queen’s receptions. She insists on
wearing too much, clothing to suit the style.
Mr. Wm. Hoskins recently took a farewell
benefit at the Theatre Eoyal, Christchurch, N.Z. He
stated that he would shortly visit Australia.
Thompson’s Confederate Drama, with Lieuten-
ant Herman, ventriloquist, was the attraction at the
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, at latest advices.
Mario the tenor, who is holding in Eomc an
official position that yields him two thousand dollars a
year, has resumed the title of Marquis of Candia.
H J Byron and F. C. Burnand are the joint
authors of a burlesque on Ouida’s last novel. The two
busy B’s will no doubt get great fun out of Moths.
Fred Young and Fred Thorn are two of the best
comedians wo have had; Fred Marshall the best at
present and Fred Stokes the best amateur comedian.
Good for the Freds.
Members of the Johnsonian Club, Brisbane,
who are not dead-heads ore admitted to the Queensland
theatre at a considerable reduction on the advertised
charges for admission.
Unkind critics, in speaking of Joe Hatton and
Charles Dickens’drama “Edwin Drood,” say that one
of the gentlemen must have put the jokes in and the
other taken them out.
There is no truth in the report that a theatrical
manager has offered our Trickett a fabulous sum of
money to appear as Tom Tug in “The Waterman on
the night of his victory over Hanlan.
The weather has been keenly felt behind the
scenes. Many “frosts” have taken place and several
promising pieces nipped in the bud, whilst stars of some
magnitude have seen their laurels fading.
Little Jenny Lee nearly had her eye knocked
out through a York “ rough” throwing a cabbage on
Sydney.
the stage from tlio gallery. “Poor Jo” prosecuted the
rascal, who got two mouths for the assault.
A carnival in aid of the benevolent institutions
of Dunedin, N.Z., has been a grand success. It extended
over a week, and the institutions will benefit greatly.
Scherek apjieared at the musical entertainments.
At the funeral service of Wioniawski, at
Warsaw, his violin was placed on a cushion of violet-
velvet at the foot of the bier, and was environed with
crowns of laurels presented by his brother artists.
Jenny Lind’s eyes are described by Mrs. Hooper
as lovely as ever in their expression, and in their soft
depths of lustrous blue. Her abundant brown hair,
slightly silvered, she still dresses in the same fashion
as of old.
Miss Nellie Farren made her first appearance as
Hymen in the pantomime of “Giselle the Night
Dancer” at the Victoria, 18H5. The same piece also
introduced Eiise Hold and the beautiful Ada Harlond to
the public.
During the exhibition season in Melbourne, it is
rumoured, the Royal management intend running the
theatre with promenade concerts and such like variety.
This in consequence of the decision to open the Exhi-
bition at night.
Wo once thought “ Topsy” a strange Christian
name for a lady, but we were thoroughly startled the
other day in reading of a Miss Jacky, Miss Joey, and a
Miss Sainmie as wandering stars of the London Music
Hall persuasion.
Mr. G. B. Allen (Alice May’s husbandl has
written, in collaboration with Mr. E. Eeeco, an Opera
entitled “The Wicklow Rose.” Mrs. Allen of course
will play the lead. It is to be produced at the Theatre
Royal, Manchester.
Paul De Musset, whoso death is announced, was
the elder brother of the late Alfred De Musset, the
French poet. Paul was not only active in the literature
of the stage, hut in his ripe life of seventy-six years he
published upwards of twenty novels.
One evening recently, just as Madame Urso.was
about to commence her performance in Auckland, a
number of “currant-jelly” aristocrats noisily entered
the hall, whispering and sniggering to each other.
Madame dropped her bow until jellydom had settled
down.
The Arethusa Dramatic Company are again
playing at Wanganui, N.Z. They appeared in Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.” “The great panorama of New Zea-
land ” (!) Miss Lillie, vocalist, and Corbett, ventnlo-
qnist, at latest, had been showing at the Princess
Theatre, Wanganui.
The Carandinis, during their New Zealand tonri
have visited Gore, Otago. Some sentimental gentle-
man has been writing verse ttbont them in the loca 1
paper—the Matauka Ensign— the editor whereof says
that the writer’s name is not known, hut, since poetic
and floral offerings generally go together, there is a
faint clue to his identity.
Disraeli described Gladstone as “ a sophistical
rhetorician, inebriated with the exuberance of his own
verbosity and egotistical imagination. And now the
nigger minstrels have 'caught the sentence and have
stuffed it for use on the tambourine end. thus will the
noble Earl bo handed down to posterity, for an
endman’s joke never dies.
After an elaborate preparation, George Darrell’s
Australian drama “The Forlorn Hope” will be pro-
duced on Saturday at the Queen’s. The company has
been materially strengthened, special engagements
having been made with Miss Maggie Oliver and Messrs.
B. N. Jones and T. Raiuford. The author himseli will
appear as the hero of the drama.
A Peak Downs man went to see “The capture of
the Kellys,” at the Queen’s Theatre, on Monday night.
When it was announced that Government would not
allow the piece to proceed, the P.D.M. took a £5O note
from his pocket and waved it wildly, ejaculating, I
want to see Kelly gang! Plendy munny! Plennymoa!
Go on, I say! ” But they did’ut “go on.
A feature of all shows should bo the excellent
music discoursed between the acts. People do not
mind sitting out an interval when there is a good band
to listen to, bnt at certain theatres that we know of,
the audience seek the seclusion of adjacent public-
houses as soon as the orchestra tunes up. Those mis-
guided musicians must have been the death of many on
aged cow.
R W. Cary recently hold a rinking contest in
Wellington, N.Z. The prize was a silver cup, and the
distance half-a-mile, fifteen times round the floor of
St. George’s Hall. The following are the names of the
competitors and the time made by each Snow, -nun
35soc : Asher, 2min36aec; Edmunds, 2miu 39sec ; Row-
lands, 2min 47sec ; France, 2min 48sec; Tinney, -mm
48sec; and Wilson, 2min 51see.
Said Mrs. Scott Siddons recently: “I have
travelled the United States for eleven years, and know
all phases of society. The women here are very much
better informed than the English women. American
women have a certain grace and ease, what the Irench
call c hie, that you will not And even in the highest Eng-
lish society. A servant-girl here will dress herself in a
graceful, natty way that an English duchess knows
nothing about.”
Mr. D’Oyloy Carte, who is travelling in America
with the new comic opera, “ The Pirates of Penzance,
has fallen foul of the authors, Messrs. Gilbert and Sul-
livan who do not consider him sufficiently energetic in
working the piece. The authors are likewise in trouble
with some sharp Yankee managers who intend playing
the “Pirates" without asking their permission and
paying the customary royalty. Applications to the law
courts are impending.
A Philadelphia music-player claims the right to
attend performances of “The Pirates of Penzance,
catch the music by ear, and jot it down as it proceeds or
afterwards from memory, and then publish the report
thus obtained. In accordance with this claim he has
mado arrangements to have a large number of musical
experts attend as many of the performances as may be
necessary to take down, transcribe and publish in music-
type the whole or such parts of the music as he may
desire.
The dramatic critic of the San Francisco
News Letter, would seem to have no very pleasant
recollection of Herr Bandmann’s performances on a
previous visit; as he congratulates himself that the ban
Franciscans will only have to endure Daniel s Eugli h
for a week. As a specimen of Herr Bandmanu s pro-
nunciation the critic says that instead of saying
“Without all was glitter, and within all was rotten-
ness,” he was wont to declaim, “Vidouat oil vaz
gleeder, and vidin oil vaz roedeuess.”
The Dillon and Ponder Company at late dates
were still at Rockhampton and were trying Stokspeare
in which they succeeded in pleasing their audicncos and
the Press. Miss Penders Juliet and Portia hit the
taste of the Northern Argos, which, in regard to the
former character, remarks that she looks Juliet, she
dresses Juliet, and she is Juliet in everything she does
and says, and her balcony scene was exactly to the life,
as everyone present possessing any imagination would
fancy it must be. Her very manner of speaking was
that of a girl bursting as it were suddenly into woman-
hood, under the magic touch of the wand of love.
Mr. Dillon’s Macbeth and Shylock are spoken of by the
■paper named ns excellent performances. The efforts of
Miss Clara Wilson and Messrs. South (Gratiano), Sea-
grave and Clinton had also met with approval.
During a recent performance at the Theatre Royal,
Wellington, N.Z., of “ The Stranger,” rather an extra-
ordinary scene occurred, which caused a little sensation
and a great deal of amusement. In the affecting and
painful scene, where Mrs. Haller appeals to her obdur-
ate husband for forgiveness, an enthusiastic and chival-
rous individual in the stalls strode forward to the foot-
lights, and in a very winning tone of voice, commenced
to coax the “stranger” to take her back again. Not
receiving any reply be continued addressing the ans-
band, and giving him a proper lecture on the duties of a
husband. Although the interruption had the effect of
stopping the performance, the actors kept their coun-
tenances remarkably well, which roused the sympathetic
gentleman to the highest pitch of excitement, for he
added that “ he and his mates would stand by the lafly
if the old man wouldn’t come round as be ought to.
Ultimately the enthusiast was led back to his seat,
where his friends impressed upon him that the whole
thing was a sham.
One of the principal attractions in Paris now is
an intrepid young acrobat who appears every night at
the Hippodrome—a Miss Robertson. The individual in
question is exciting the greatest curiosity, for, apart
from being a most able athlete, nobody knows whether
Miss Robertson is a woman or a boy I Large sums
have been betted, but so far no satisfactory solution of
the question has been arrived at, and the Paris papers
are full of the matter. Nothing will induce the com-
rades of Miss Robertson to divulge the secrets of the
boudoir, and in the meanwhile the jouug gosiiVMnx
hardly know whether to continue to send the fair
enigma bracelets and flowers or not. Boy or girl, how-
ever, Miss Robertson takes care to accept all presents,
but sternly refuses invitations to supper and frowns
down any bint at a rendezvous. This certainly does
not look natural, does it P The above forcibly reminds
us of the well-known (andauthentic) story, told of the
early career of the lately-deceased and brilliant rider,
Omur Kingsley, so well-known to Sydney circus-goers.
During the rehearsals of “The Pirates of Pen-
zance ” at Philadelphia, Mr. Gilbert personally goes
through all the “business” in order to show the im-
personators of the different roles what be desires them
to do to bring out bis meaning. It is said to be a funny
sight to see a “new lot” of Major-General Stanley s
daughters—there are twenty of them —going through
the “hopping chorus” with one stocking off, with Mr.
Gilbert hopping over the stage teaching them the move-
ments. And then when the pirates seize the young
ladies, intending to marry them, the difficulty with the
“new lot” of daughters is that they wont struggle
enough to get away; and then again the pirates seize
them much too gently, at which the author exclaims,
“ Did you ever know a pirate to seize a woman that
way ? This is the way.” The speaker pounces on one
of the young ladies. “Now struggle, ladies, do strug-
gle,” and so the work goes on. Mr. Gilbert is right. The
failure of the young ladies to offer vigorous resistance
clearly shows that they don’t take nature as their model.
Off the stage they treat man, who never prizes anybody
or anything he gets easily (though after all, in the words
of the Immortal William “ all things that are are with
more spirit chased than enjoyed) ” very differently.
Our correspondent at Auckand, under date Juno
29th, sends us the following footlight flashings: —“ The
production of Mr. Walter Reynolds’ sensational drama
‘Tried and True,' at the Theatre Royal has been a
success, and a ‘big bonanza’ to the treasury. It baa
occupied the boards since Wednesday last (23rd), and
is still running. The play is put on in a praiseworthy
manner, and the scenery is exceedingly effective. Miss
Marie Wilton assumes the part of the heroine Helen
Burton, playing it fairly well, while Mr. J. B. Steele as
Geoffrey Landfein, Mr. J. O’Brien as Policeman 92x,
Mr. E. D. Haygarth as the heroine’s reprobate father,
and J. A. Patterson as Mother Wrigley, are all deserv-
ing of mention. The author, Mr. Reynolds, as Lord
Fitzeustace (a Dundreary swell), makes the most of the
character, and nightly touches the risible faculties of
the audience with his by-play. This gentleman is one
of the best stock actors that I have seen in Anckland.
He is carefnl in his acting, letter perfect, and always
buries identity iu every part that he assumes. Another
of Mr. Reynolds’ dramas, ‘Lost and Won,’ is in rehear-
sal. A very amusing incident is reported as having
occurred on the first night of the production of ‘ Tried
and True,’ but as I was not present on that particular
evening, I will not vouyh for its truth. Here is the
story:—When the unfortunate heroine got into gaol
she appealed to her sainted mother iu Heaven, and that
lady, taking upon herself the form of a property angel,
descended to this sublunary sphere and flapping two
goose-like wings, with much solemnity, bestowed on
her luckless offspring a sileut benediction. The pitites
were so intensely delighted with this tableau that after
calling all the performers before the curtain they
evinced a desire to pay the angel a similar compliment.
The lady, however, had probably taken off her wings
and returned to another and bettor world, os she
was obviously ‘ not on.’ The Lynch Family of Bell-
ringers, at the Lorne-street Hall, have done big business
and the entertainment provided seems to be highly
relished by the public. Santley (baritone vocalist),
Lyndhnrst (ventriloquist), and Warde (pianist), are
still performing with the company. Mr. Harry Lynch,
the genial and gentlemanly business manager, has many
friends in the town. The troupe will perform at the
Thames goldfield, on Wednesday next. —Messrs. J. L.
Byers, Love, Dnmar, and others have been playing a
drama called ‘ Nick Whiffles,’ at a Bijou Theatre, the
Albert Hall, at low prices of admission, but the houses
were thin.—Simonson's ‘Froliqnes’ are expected here
shortly.—Miss Clara Stephenson met with a serious
accident while the Steele company were showing at the
Thames goldfields. She was about to descend the
staircase of the Pacific Hotel (where the company were
staying), when she slipped, and was thrown violently
down the stairs for a considerable distance, sustaining
injury to her spine. A rib was also broken. There is
no likelihood of Miss Stephenson appearing in public
for some time to come.—Abo Hieken, who was about to
proceed to Sydney by the steamer last week, acci-
dentally fell off the wharf just as the boat was leaving,
thereby losing his passage. A big crowd assembled at
1 his farewell benefit.”
The Manager’s Dream.
I dreamt a dream of the buried great.
As the shadows veil’d the day—
A dream so near to the truth of late,
That I pen descriptive lay.
Methonght myself to be lessee grand
Of ev’ry temple, where art
Should reign supreme, on the lofty stand
Of pinnacled fame, a part.
There vision’d around in spectral guise
The shades of the mighty few.
Who had pass’d away from earthly eyes
That erst those ghost-kings knew.
Brave Brooke, Montgomery, Nesbitt, Kean,
And ®f others near a score—
The stars of old and their like I ween
We may look for —nevermore.
They sought for " an op’ning,” one and all.
To enact their classic roles —
They knew not, they, of the stage’s fall,
Those giant minds, those kindred souls.
I ran my fingers adown the page
“ A vacancy—no, not one
Engagement made —besides in this age
Legitimate plays won’t run.”
«* At the Royal, comedy from the French,
Just verging on immoral—
The ‘ Vie ’ a drama—but I’ll not trench
On critics’ ground, or quarrel
“ With public tasto, so thus at the Queen’s
I cater with propriety ;
For the lads and lasses in their teens.
Are fond of much variety.”
“ With dances, breakdowns and legs galore
At Opera house I’m trying
To ' run them in ’ and fill my store.
Whilst art is deal or dying.”
«• In Melbourne City within the walls
Of the old-time building, where
Are no usurpers from music halls,
We’ye surely a foothold there P ”
“ Alack ! and alas 1 I grieve to say
The play-goers of the nation
Have minds depraved, for, night and day.
They clamour for sensation.’ ’
“ A real live horse and a sinking ship—
A deep-dyed villian to foil—
Huge scenic effects—you have the tip
Of the ‘ Bab Ton at the Royal.”
»' Mannikins pert of a pinafere age
Are playing across the way—
An instrumentalist treads the stage
Where Rist’ri once held sway.”
•• Shakespere and Sheridan’s days are past,
Bulwer trashy, shelv’d should be —
Knowles and Level, their plays to cast
Would be courting bankruptcy.”
They stood transfixed, that ennobled baud,
And I wonder’d not that they
Were speechless, hearing on ev’ry hand
Of the drama’s dire decay.
With mournfnl eyes and looks of grief
They passed me in grim array,
Ending our interview, painful, brief,
. . Silently fading away.
GEORGE DARRELL.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Jesuits are being expelled from Prance.
*. ‘^gamMe^ 6 Ba J B a raffle for church purposes is
that Bishop Hale, of Brisbane, i
aeout to resign.
The Eaikos’ Centenary Celebration was a grea ;
success at Adelaide. ®
/vr^y l ? B y na £ogue is be erected at Christchurch
(N.Z.), at a cost of £2OOO.
The Rev. J. Jefferis has left Adelaide for Mel
oourne, on his return journey to Sydney.
r> was collected last Sunday in the
Catholic Churches of Sydney as Peter’s Pence.
The weli-known missionary priest Dr. M'Alroy
Vicar-General of the R. C. Diocese of Goulburn is
uying.
Australia sent <£3ooo last year to the Bible
H °S 1 ; Canada, about the same; New Zealand, £563
and South Africa, £760.
°r n iS?T 0f SL Mar y’ s Cathedral is
the 6th January, 1882. The roof will be tempo-
rary , and to lit the building for use, will coat £30,000.
♦L?™? P T Barkor ’ at the dosing of the Synod on
expressed himself much satisfied with
“r’l 0 ? of . t. he . session. The subjects discussed were
or great public importance.
It is true that the worthy Canon Goodfellow
+s mC oA^if ( V US most loyal au(l royal sermon at , on
MaiWv J ?. w* Wl , th tl , lis , graceful apostrophe to Her
■Majesty; — May her shadow never be less! **
The Rev. S Chambers Kent, formerly Congre-
gational minister of Newtown, and principal of the
Independent College, was ordained a priest of the
Church of England, on Trinity Sunday, at Melbourne.
Gough the temperance lecturer, says that when
he told 6000 people at Exeter Hall of Mrs. Hayes's
* n re f UB mg to offer wine to her
cheers at " klte House, they instantly gave three
The French Government have caused to be
forwarded to the agents of the London Missionary
Society at Lake Tanganyka, their thanks for the
attention shown to the missionary Abbe Debaze during
his fatal illness at Ujiji.
The Pope carefully sees to the welfare of royal
ladies visiting Rome. When Victoria, Crown Princess
of U-ermaay, who is an active sightseer, was there His
Holiness personally intimated that special courtesy
should be shown her in the Vatican galleries.
The Inverness Free Presbytery made a strong
protest against the appointment of the Marquis of Ripon.
a Roman Catholic, and a recent pervert from Protes-
tantism, to the office of Viceroy of India." One of the
speakers said the appointment was a dreadful one.
The past year in India was the richest in its
results for Christianity that was ever known. Sixty
thousand persons came out from Hindooism and united
themselves with the various Christian Churches. At
latest accounts, all the missionaries were expecting
even greater results.
Writes the Australasian, in regard to the
fight a,t Glenrowan: —“lt is characteristic that when
the place was burning a Catholic priest was the first to
show the courage and devotion which are never wanting
from men of his class in presence of great danger and
great human suffering."
Speaking of tho late Dr. Raleigh, one of the
■English journals says that he was really one of the
greatest preachers of the time. His sermons were not
only models of clear, close, and condensed thought, but
were also full of vivid and beautiful imagery, and
inspired by true genius.” J
The money for a memorial to Archpriest Therry
and Archdeacon M’Encroe has been subscribed. A
memorial window in the new Cathedral is thought by
some to be more appropriate than a monument, and it
is suggested that the remains of these prelates might
be removed to the new building. 6
r> 'Anglican Bishop of Bathnrst, says the
C. of E. Kkcokd, has just returned from an extensive
tour. He has visited the western portion of his diocese,
travelling as far as Bourke ; he has gone from town to
town, and from station to station, holding forth the
word of life, and setting in order the things that were
wanting.
Dean Cowper stated at the Church Society’s
meeting last week, that there was a place in Sydney
which was known as “ The Marriage Shop," aud where
400 marriages were annually celebrated. The result was
deserted wives aud deserted husbands &c. The
solemnity of the marriage celebration had been looked
npon very lightly.
A statement is to be drawn up showing the pro-
gress of the C. of E. in the Metropolitan Diocese
during the last quarter of a century. The return will
give tho number of churches and schools erected,
accommodation provided, number of clergymen ad-
ministering, number of scholars who have passed
through Moore College &c.
Mr. W. E. Hillior, Evangelistic agent of the
Home Mission and Church Extension Committee of
the Presbyterian Church of Queensland, says that the
reason why the long lamentations emanating from the
i do u , ot stir n P the people in the bush is that
the Churches have made a mistake in sending gentlemen
instead of harvestmen into tlie colonial field.
Mr. White, the Baptist missionary at Tokia,
Japan, has had a difficult and profitless twelve months
there. He writes ‘ ‘ During the past year severe earth-
quakes have made the solid earth tremble beneath us.
cholera has mown down its victims by thousands around
us, tearful fires have rendered multitudes homeless,
yet by tho almighty power of God we have been pre-
served in good health. Eight converts only have this
year been obtained."
One of the chief uses made of the recent convo-
cation at St. Paul’s, Loudon, was preparing the way for
tho use of Latin instead of English in the Church
services. The litany of the convocation was said in
Latin by the Bishop of Rochester. A Latin hymn
having been sung, Archdeacon Ralston preached a Latin
sermon. At the conclusion, the Gloria was sung in
Latin, and even directions for the election of a pro-
locutor were given in the same tongue.
The British and Foreign Bible Society recently
held a groat meeting in Loudon. The receipts for the
year to tho general fund were stated at £210,511. and
£103,530. The issues from the Bible
establishment were 1,375,673, and from the depots
abroad 1,104,689. The distribution was as follows :
In r raucc, 110,000, a slight increase; Germany had an
increase of fourtoeufold ; Austria, 116,000, slight de-
crease; Italy, 56,000, increase 6000; Spain, 39,000, as
against 51,000; Portugal, 5306, as against 8238; Madras
Presidency, 87,000; Calcutta aud Bombay, 60,000.
&ome females have just been arrested in Ken-
u?ky for the manufacture of illicit whisky. This'is
the tirst recorded instance of a woman keeping still.
The title of the article was, “Foiled by a
Woinun, hut (he compositor, who evidently did not go
much on the poetical, set it up, “ Boiled by a Woman."
A Chinese widow, rather than wed again
hanged herself. This conclusively proves that there is
nothing in common between the yellow and the white
race.
It is believed that eats can be made tender-
hearted by playing soft, sad music to them. But how
much easier it is to hire a boy to chuck 'em off the
bridge.
The cattle on a thousand hills,
Contribute to the milkman’s wealth.
So does the water from the rills
That’s slipped into the cans by stealth.
The Kelly Gang and the Queen's Theatre.
Rightly enough the powers that be stopped the
performance of “ The Kelly Gang” at tho Queen’s
—■still, in this age of mournfulness ’twas a cruel
kindness to deprive the crowd of sympathisers of
the opportunity which would have been afforded
them to exercise their risible muscles. Portions
of the dialogue wore calculated to develop unre-
strained mirth. As, for example, when the gallant
gang had disposed of Sherritt they wore made to
cover tho police with their rifles, calling on the
[ besieged blues to surrender.
‘ ‘ Never •' “ever! ’ ’ reply the voices—* * the police
die, but never surrender ’’—then instanter the four
“ peelers ” dive under a bed.
Later on, a low comedy policeman being informed
by his superior, “ You have your orders”—replies,
“ 1 have that, one for the pit and two for the
gallery.”
Psha! you’re only a fool.”
h aix, that s the play I’m going to see when I
get to Melbourne.”
This, in the language of tho block, is too ex-
cruciatingly funny.
Ned Kelly the martyr made a fine melodramatic
part; he would have exclaimed —
Ned Kelly the boy shworo to bo revinged, and
Ned Kelly the man has kep’ his oath.”
In the grand finale, after Ned has been shot in
his nailcan helmet, the police, in their turn, call
upon the outlaws in the burning hotel to surrender.
Sayeth Ned the righteous—
“ Niver, they’ll niver surrender ; they will die as
they have lived, like men.”
Groat Crnsar! men! Enough. In serious earnest-
ness we are glad that the play was not enacted.
In all conscience, we import enough of the grim
and gory trash from America; let our would-be
colonial playrights seek loftier themes and not
pander to a vitiated taste to earn a paltry royalty
at the expense of self-respect.
[N.B.—The above was written by a well-known
author, who stops at the Oxford and wants the
Colonial Secretary to let him produce “ The Kelly
Gang”as a great moral dram v. — [Ed. Bulletin. 1
Facetiae of the Blue Mountains.
At the bottom of a deep gully below the residence
of a gentleman who has embellished by cultivation
a portion of these romantic hills, there is an ex-
tensive cave, and beside this is a small mountain
stream, flowing finally, after many rapid descents,
into the Warragamba. In this cave its owner re-
cently left an empty claret bottle labelled,
curiously enough, “Caves du Grand Hotel,
Paris. The Parisian cellar doubtless inspired
the bequest. A holiday-making friend wrote the
following short epistle on the table—“ Please, Sir
Alfred, on your next visit be good enough to leave
a claret bottle full. Thirsty John.” Another
friend, a few weeks afterwards, spying this, wrote
impromptu beneath it the following lines :—
Under the bridge, close to the right.
Flows water pure and bright.
Thou “ Thirsty John!”
But wine might leave thee in sad plight.
To re-ascend the height
Of Alphington!
A. M. 4-7-’80.
After reading both inscriptions the proprietor
(but not impromptu) wrote as follows, to be posted
on a card at the back of the cave:—
It is quite easy to descend below.
So Virgil said or sang some years ago;
But sagely added what we all soon learn.
An awful labour is it to return!
'Tis not an easy task to reach these dells ;
Of wearied feet this cave the story tells
Yet wine—or water, if we like it best—
With luncheon-basket, chat and song and jest
May here revive ns, and our strength prepare
To mount the rock-bound hill, and breathe the upper I
air.*
±lta , . A.S. 6-7-’80.
lie trod on her skirt. She turned round, her
face flushed with auger. Then she smiled com-
placently, saying:—“l beg your pardon, sir, I really
thought it was my husband."
The iron was red hot when he said “ S-s-s-s-
--strike it hard.” The other answered, “ Wh-wh-wh-
wh-where shall I hi-hi-hit it ? "—No mum-mum-mum-
matter now it’s co-co-co-cold."
A man gets into trouble by marrying two wives.
If he marries only one he may have trouble; and some
men have come to sure tribulation by simply promisin''
to marry one. Trouble anyhow. ”
* “ Superas-que evadere od auras.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
• Philadelphia and New York the marriage rate
«orto P tL"oUatTon. r ta Mblbo “ n “• * *«*«-
Philosopher has discovered that
tlle »-**«-■
Hfiin+Pn, r * ll^c ’ dear? is the customary form of
ealatation between Indies just now in Wellington (N.Z.)
Sjrduej lte ' Mr - »• W. Cary, runs a rink in that
a ?, epitapluc warning from a Versailles
XS’- Except 111 1859. during several days of
out stain ~t k lessons on tho P lan °. her life was with-
Queen Victoria should knight her faithful
and seentoe JOI S efore she lays aside tho crown
to * Brown, W good rightT™™* ** **** BrOWn
a ad .y has made a whole turkey—
or rather a whole iturkey-skin and all its feathers-into
a Hat. !f the girls here would only follow suit a
i ? n a U hi« r w-f la r w ? n 4 n ’tL have so much hesitation
m asking his wife to get a turkey for dinner.
wiSom hor - T ltalian ,P ra y« r which is not without
But if Imam *T?t I may never be married,
if f „ ’ 1 V ray Tb l xt 1 may not lie deceived. But
I know i t ™ W t h“ t 1 may not know it. But if
whole affair.” P > that 1 may >e able to laugh at the
h J! 1 2 a Ti ,erS f a y° un ff tidies’ debating society
heldedrirbD m °’i- of ,, loil » courtships. Level-
Ss&JSfflsJißiS£f oudi
It takes a while to get used to a woman’s ways
B ihHwrt 114 Mteals u l> behind his wife, while
** * d “»
cutAsfhirt Li'u Wb ff l . to tlB " e ' r celluloid
sponge atmX < 2, for f et to apply the obliterating
sponge at night, and, therefore, when the wife of the
n U ,, mbliUg r ° un ji thu husband of the ditto’s
gai meats tor pm money in the early grav of down
is apt to come across some such littfe memo as “ Bo
SS&~* flowers to J-." or, “ Numbe “Blank. S i3lan B k e -
The editor of the Victorian Review writes
saWect Ur S e Thfi 1 a Ilv , el >_articlo on that well-worn
BUDject, The Decline of Matrimony in Victoria “
He rZ Tr ftll °7 ed us to Sprint at le,™th.
no sajs that the decline o t matrimony is not the
j fault of the girls—it is primarily the fault of the young
| men, particularly the fault of the unprppitious circum-
[ stances to which they are the submissive victims, and
I partially the fault of the fathers, the mothers, and the
niggardly inducements that Melbourne, with all its
institutions and fine suburbs, offers to young couples
desirous of marrying. He suggests as a remedy that a
number of leading men in Melbourne, especially those
wi.h marriageable daughters, come together and sub-
scribe say £lOOO or £2OOO each to a fund of £lOO,OOO for
the erection of fwo first-class hotels, on the American
plan, build them, furnish and thoroughly equip them
with necessary luxuries with the primary object of
furnishing first-class suites of rooms for young manned
people at a very nominal cost.” We don’t think the
editor has hit the nail on the head this time. The last
thought of a great many of the men who get married, in
} i lc . na elsewhere, seems to be how and where
they’ll keep their wives after the wedding. There are a
gfi’eat many women whom not even the prospect of free
board for self and wife would tempt a fellow to marry to
say nothing of the relatively small inducement offered
by the privilege of living at and paying for a
well-appointed residence. We know young men who have
found that monied papas, as a class, aren’t inclined for
philanthropic schemes of even a far more practical
kind than the one submitted—who are painfully aware
ot the fact that rich papas with clever and pretty
daughters worth marrying are chiefly anxious that
their Angelinas should directly be heavy financial
gainers by the marriage ceremony. The blame in our
opinion lies with both sexes alike, and is not the exclu-
sive property of either. It’s rather curious, too, that
hotels should be suggested as a remedy for what is
well, perhaps not celibacy, but bachelorhood. Hotels
have always been held up ns institutions whicli helped
to keep bachelors single; and if what formerly killed is
n .°"r,,,° cure > d ca -n only be on the principle of siruilia
suiuhbus curantur .
OEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
XV. —THE ACTRESS.
UITK such an attractive heading, the subject
appear rather a voluminous undertaking, and too fun ‘ \
variety to be curtailed into so small a space ; but it mu°r
always be borne in mind that [in Australia we have „
great " tragedy queens” dwelling among us. Our act rest
are almost all of mushroom growth, springing as q U j c S
into notoriety, and short-lived popularity, as the nb
named “ verbiage,” and dying out as speedily,—swallow
up in fact, by a more recent “star ” equally erratic i n
course, whose only charm is its novelty. Of real loca
actresses we have very few. They are so easy to eng
from our American Cousins,” that the necessity of stuc v
mg steadily for the stage by those in the Colonies see
fast dying out, altho’ wo have in years past seen so e
young colonial ac'resses whose genius and natu
capabilities for the stage have been far beyond that of
very wishy-washy girls we got from America. I g ]
sketch in this paper the life of one of our colonial worn
whoso great talent and vivacity of manner, job
to a voice of more than mediocre power fitted her for 1 10
life for which she was so early destined I mention
names, nor do I pretend to write a biography—this s
merely a sketch drawn from life, and may perhaps sen
to pourtray the lives of many; for, alas, the Theatre and
many attractions, and the adulation and flattery win
all pretty actresses are so sure of receiving, prove t ie
utter ruin of many. The character I take for my pape .
was the daughter of an actor,—one of many an avaricio
money-making man, willing at any sacrifice to becon
wealthy. This child—bright, showy, and active—ear ■
developed a strong liking for the Stage. She had awo
derful memory, and at ten years, or even younger con
recite the parts she liked In different plays correct!
She could mimic all the different theatrical people wl
frequented her father’s house. Coppin, on hearing h ■
sing recite, persuaded her parents to train her :
onccjfor the stage. His advice was followed, he himse •
assisting her and becoming her firm friend for life, si
appeared in many minor parts, both here and in lid
bourne, also in New Zealand as a burlesque actress-
although. with O. V. Brooke and his talented company
she acted successfully in many of Shakspearo’s play
making her debut as Perdita, with the late Mrs Darrel
(then Mrs. Robert Heir) as Hermione. Always a grea
favourite with the people, she was petted as a chih
flattered and courted as she grew older. She now too •
steadily to the burlesque line as the one she was bes
fitted for; and hor pretty voice for singing, combined witl
her mobile face and well-set lithe figure, tended greatly
to enhance her power. As Aladdin, Ixion, Prince Pretty
Pet, and many others, none have equalled her. Her father
.ill this time, kept a tight hand over this paying daughter
The result was, in the middle of an engagement in Mel
bourne, she eloped—and the stage lost its favourite bur
lesque actress for nearly two years. Again she returned
to her stage life, still the; queen of song and burlesque
fi ee from her father. She evidenced the possession of a
shrewd head for business, and made money steadily
Then, when scarce two and-twenty, she made up hci
mind to go to London and secure fresh laurels. When
pressed lor a reason, she would laugh and say she war
going for her “ diamonds ”—not the first woman in a
similar position whoso love for jewels has ruined her.
At home, our Australian actress was well received. She
got a good engagement, with a liberal salary, and “ took
immensely;” but life such as hers is very different in the
colonies from what it was in London. Flattered, praised,
admired, she became for a season the reigning favourite,
—and had her clever head only remained as practical as
previously, she might have gained, not only wealth, but
I position, and gathered true friends around her. But,
perhaps, tiro very diamonds she longed for brought her
ruin. She left her home, husband, and little children
and travelled with her “protector.” The first downward
step was quickly followed by worse. To drown all her
troubles, sire began to drink; her once prettv figure
became bloated, her voice thick and husky. Her last
engagement was in America. Suffering from rheumatism
and many other diseases the result of her dissipated life
the once reigning ‘‘queen of burlesque”—whose slightest
wish was once met by those who surrounded her—was
now compelled by the manager in whose power she was, to
act when really dying. She was dressed for the burlesque
of “Bluebeard,” —her legs so swollen she could not walk;
but she could sing. Before her part was ended, a tit
mercifully put a period to her sufferings. She died in the
“ green-room ”of a New York theatre. Such is the meres
outline of the life of one of our most gifted colonial-horn
actresses.
Ot Agassiz theory of a local origin for several
distinct branches of the human race, Quatrefages says,
that it 1 ought to lie rejected by anyone who sets the
least value upon the results of observation.”
Darwin says that animals have no religions
sense, Hid he everuotice the calm, reverent, reflective
manner in which a chicken stands on one leg and looks
up to heaven after squeezing through a hole leading
into a fellow s flower garden P
Wo are told by a correspondent that a grave-
stone in the old cemetery Melbourne, bears the fol-
lowing inscription. “ Sacred to the memory of
a victim to a faithless and ungrateful wife.” All epit-
aphs are not as true to both living and dead.
An man telegraphed to his wife to go to the
railroad station with a hearse to meet a certain train,
as he would then arrive dead. She did so, and found
him dead—drunk. Angry and possibly disappointed,
she had him thrown into the hearse and conveyed
home.
river: Well, what’s the matter,
Alfred ? You look uneasy,” "Well, my wife, who’s
fond of swimming, dived oft' tho boat some time ago
anil has not yet come to the surface—am afraid some-
thing’s the matter.” “ How long has she been under P ”
“ About a couple of hours.”
The touching sentiment, “ Our first in Heaven,”
was added by a sentimental newspaper office clerk to an
obituary notice. Then the father of the child came
into the office, raging mad. It was the third death in
the family, and he desired to know where the clerk
thought the other two had gone.
Do animals have fun ? Of course they do.
When a cow switches her tail across the face of the
man who is milking her and steps along just two yards
and turns to see him pick up his stool and follow, she
has a most amused expression in her face, and if she
can only manage to kick over the pail she grins
broadly.
To make an ordinary love poem : Take two
large and tender human hearts, which match one
another perfectly ; arrange those close together, but
preserve them from actual contact by placing between
them some cruel barrier. Wound them both iu several
places, and insert through the openings thus made a
tine stuffing of mild yearnings, hopeless tenderness and
a general admiration for stars. Then completely cover
up one heart with a sufficient quantity of chill church-
yard mould, which may be garnished, according to
taste, with dark waving weeds of fragrant violets, and
promptly break it over the other heart.
YE TORTERSHELL, OF WAGGA, WHO IS GOING
HOME.
If you Love Me, tell me so.
If you love me, tell me so ;
Wait not till the Summer glow
I ados in Autumn’s changeful light.
Amber clouds and purple night.
Wait not till the Summer hours
Heap with snow-drifts all the flowers,
lul the tide of life runs low—
If you love me, tell me so!
If you love me, tell me so.
While the liver’s dreamy flow
Holds the love-enchanted hours
Steeped in music, crowned with flowers :
r.re the Summer’s dreamy days
.Fade in Autumn’s mystic haze-
Ere is hushed the music flow—
If you love me, tell me so 1
If you love me, tell me so ;
Let me hear the sweet words low.
Let me know while life is fair,
Eeel your kisses on my hail - .
While in womanhood’s first bloom.
Ere shall come dark hours of gloom,
in the first fresh dawning glow—•
If yon love me, tell mo so !


A Mother’s Wail.
(AN EPISODE OF THE LANCASHIRE DISTRESS).
The following lines, by John Plummer, appeared in
the Manchester Guardian, during the Lancashire
Cotton Distress, on which our interesting story
"Adrienne” is based.
Dead dead dead;
Far better it should be so—
To lie in a pauper’s coffin there.
Than sin’s temptation to know.
For oh! my girl was bonny and fair,
But beauty’s a curse, you see.
When hunger and want, disease and cane
Such merciless fiends can be.
It wag for her sake that day by day
My heart, grew weary and sore,
Till hope itself seem’d ebbing a way
From my life’s dark, sunless shore.
Dead dead dead!
She was starved to death I say.
Because of the fierce and cruel strife
Mid our kinsmen far away.
Man, look on her face so worn and pale.
Her fingers so white and thin ;
Her’s was a spirit that would not quail
From striving her bread to win;
yonder, closed is the factory gate,
Xhe engine is red with rust;
And what could we do but starve and wait
1 ill peace should bring us a crust!
Dead dead——dead!
With her brother lyiug ill
And her father shiv’ring on the step
that leads to the silent mill.
«? e 1 kneel in my blinding tears—
Alone in my black despair '
M> heart’s o’erburden’d with gloomy fears,
i et far too bitter for prayer
"tw you P rf de how the world still grows
More kind and more wise each day ?
S > ' 1 . ood y dame e’er glitters and glows —
the olives of Peace decay.
Dead dead dead!
0 ! God, that my curse could fall
un the heads of those whose selfish aims
Have worked such woe for us all!
Man, blame me not for my burning words,
■Nor bid me those thoughts disclaim;
flsath has riven the silvery chords
lhat swelled through my anguish’d frame,
inie, i m only a woman whose heart
Lies struck by a mortal blow;
4 .4 ! il0w keeu is the bleeding smart
*' mother a lone may know.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
There is no Ketten in to see him. Ketton in
Melbourne is a pronounced success.
The circulation of the Age is 38,000: Argus
10,500. It would be a libel to state the Telegraph's
circulation.
Billy Gaunson has determined to run in the
Opposition interest for East Melbourne. He is a
political scrubber.
The Birdcage is closed, and a gloom cast over
this quarter of Collins-street. The very trees look
crestfallen in front of its doors.
rea teat show in Bourke-streot is Byrne
1 7^ nge £ S b ° ots - They are exposed at the Wax-
works, and gather tremendous crowds.
A bumper house greeted Miss Vinson on Satnr-
aay nigbt. Melbourne bristles with Amateur Dramatic
one °* which, the Hawthorn, tendered a benefit
to the yonng lady.
R T w a V aiK * Pleasing person,” Mrs. G.
11:1(1 a testimonial presented to her in
nonom ot the marvellous success of the Juvenile Pina-
fore Troupe, These ads. are getting very common.
When it was announced by telegram outside the
Argus office that a reporter had been shot by the Kelly
gang, three cheers were given, but whether the ovation
was meant for the reporter or the gang we know not.
The coming man in Melbourne is Mr. Upjohn
me voluntary executioner, who succeeds Gatel v, the late
The latter retires on his hard-earned laurels,
ihe clients of these gentlemen are of opinion that
no noose is good noose.”
Miss Iffla the beautiful daughter of the Mayor
of| Emerald Hill, had the honour of dancing with His
Excellency at the opening of the new local Town Hall,
bhe is a daughter of Israel, of the Spanish line, and
resembles an Oriental Odalisque.
The Bandbox is closed. Wo refer to the People’s
theatre in Spring-street. Theo. Hamilton, during the
i eign ot New Babylon,” it is said, received from
Ooppm and Co. £5O a-week to close the People’s, thus
throwing a number of the profession out of work.
TheExhibitionCommissioners recently advertised
for gentlemen willing to undertake the clerical work at
me Exhibition. In answer to this ad., a stream of men
resembling an army on the march poured in towards
mo white eleplmnt ’’ from all quarters of the city.
The weekly and illustrated papers have come
out strongly during: the Kelly week. The run on the
Sketcher and Illustrated News was unprecedented ;
the former, though scarcely up to artistic standard,
may yet be considered to have surpassed the latter—‘the
News sketches were simply execrable.
A crowded house at the Bijou on Saturday night
3rd instant, greeted an old Melbourne favourite in the
person of Miss Marion Dunn,—but, O! not the Marion
of halcyon days. Twelve years have wrought a great
change since she followed poor Akhurst’s advice to
marry an done” with it. You all know she is the
wife of Marcus Clarke.
A series of articles under the title of “The
otoge Jew,” are appearing in the Jewish Herald. The
first two papers are devoted to the analysis of the cha-
racter of Shylock, which is handled in a scholarly
manner. The modern Boucicaultian Jew is to be
touched upon. When shall we see represented on the
stage a true Jewish gentleman? Israel is not com-
posed entirely of blacklegs.
On the doorpost of every Jewish house is a
small parchment scroll, which is supposed to exert a
powerful influence over the destiny of the place
The People's (erstwhile Princess Theatre) is the
property of the Benjamin family, and has had a
Hebrew scroll for many years on its entrance door
The bandbox has had many narrow escapes from fire’
and the lessees will never remove the parchment, *
During the Kelly scare, the Argus published
on Monday five extraordinary editions, with an issue of
about 35,000, which were sold in the subimbs at omi
shilling each. The Aoe published six editions with an
issue of 52,000 The Herald four editions wHhUO OW
which was sold in Geelong for half-a-orown The
crowds at the Arous office on the eventful Monday had
no equal since the days of the Franco-Prussiau war.
Loot for the Press. After the Kelly destruction
the spoil was thus divided .—Melvin of the AuousNed
Kelly shoots; M-Whirter of the Age, Ned’s spurned
a black eye (the only reporter who had a firearm but
which would give no report); Joe Brown of the Aoe
a leaf pierced by buckshot and saturated with blood’
Nicholson of the Herald obtained most of the boot v
j££! S S ng {. SIX i* e « vei i’ ? ne cwt ' of b «Uets and other
cunos ; Pugh and Brodsky were not antiquarians, and
brought back only a report from Kelly land. Allan and
Gale of the Daily Telegraph grew poetic over Ned
Kelly and his armour they said he resembled
“ Hamlet’s ghost walking in the glimpses of the moon."
Baron Von Mueller, or rather Sir Ferdinand Von
Mueller, K.C.M., is perhaps the best abused man in
Victoria. Kemoved from his seat of learning in the
Botanical Gardens, he now enjoys a sinecure which he
does not relish. Of friends he has but few, but they are
staunch, and such as can appreciate genius though it
may be veiled by eccentricity. At Press dinners and
Bohemian banquets it is considered “ the right thing ”
to use the Baron and his grievances as a butt for the
foolish amusement of the educated throng, and the
botanist’s dialect, accent and manner are hit off
“ happily ” by more than one member of the Melbourne
Press. The great services the Baron has rendered his
adopted land, his countrymen and the world at large,
onght to be sufficient reason for abolishing those inane
personalities against a talented and upright man.
FUN AND FANCY.
Water colors —Green and blue.
A two-foot rule —Don’t stumble.
Garden greens—Amateur florists.
Alfonso is becoming bald. (Twice married.)
The laugh of the school girl—“ He! he! he!”
The wasp thinks it is smart to stand on his hind-
leg
The women who do fancy-work don’t fancy
work.
“Suspend the total” is more refined than to
say, “ Hang it all.”
Oblige people to pay as they go and the majority
of them would go slow.
“ My burden is light,” remarked the little man
carrying a big torch iu the professiou.
A Printer’s girl fell exhausted into his arms
at a ball. It was a feiut to work iu au cm brace.
An inebriate, prone in the gutter, explained that
he was doing his level best. Spirit level, probably.
Au antiquarian who married a young widow
says she is the most interesting relict he has ever found,
Maud (an aristocratic child): “ How pretty and
clever yon are, mother ! I’m so glad you married into
our family.”
At a beer festival lately the following toast was
ottered: “ Woman—second only to the press in the dis-
semination of news.”
Kow, this is what I call business,” remarked
an undertaker as an unfortunate gentleman stepped
into his shop and died.
Some people say that it is dark-haired women
that marry soonest; elderly spinsters maintain that it
is the light-headed ones.
When the daughters are infants mothers are
anxious to keep matches out of their reach. It's dif-
ferent when they grow up.
Cats have no fixed political belief. Like cer-
tain newspapers, when there’s any doubt about the
fate of a party, they “ Sit on a rail.”
A Journalist is a man who spends the best
days (and nights) of his life in conferring reputations
on others and getting none himself.
It is said that they have Zulus on exhibition at
the London Aquarium. The place must be assuming
the character of a Zululogical garden.
A clergyman named Hoyle was so indiscreet as
to register his name at an hotel. Within half
an hour jio fewer than ten persons sent their cards to
his room to ascertain if a flush royal couldn’t beat four
aces.
One of our contributors, who while on his road to
St. Mark’s church the other evening, heard a lover ask
his darling " how her corn had been " writes thus:—
Hay Jockey Club Races.
July 3.
The following are the acceptances and weights
Warodgery Handicap— Dollar, 9st 101 b; Cloud, 7st
61b ; Redrover, 6st; M‘Elhone, 6st; Farmer’s Boy. Sst
71b; Abbott, Sst 71b.
Town Plate Handicap.—Dollar, 9st 31b ; Cloud, 7st
Selector, 6st 31b; Redrover, Sst 31b; M'Elhone, sst 91b
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Races.
Thursday July 1.
The races came olf to-day, but owing to the bad
weather the attendance was but very moderate. The
following are the results :
Hurdle Race, about 2 miles.—Nooma, 9st 71b Goodie, 1 •
Don Silva, 10st91b Hill, 2; Pemberloy, Sst 101 b Wall, s’.
Ten started betting, C and 7to 4 agst, Don Silva, 5 to 1
others. Won cleverly by a length. Time 4’20
Amateurs’ Flat Race, about J of a mile.—Blackthorn,
list, 1; Dollar, 12st 71b, 2; Don Silva, list 111b,3.
Seven started, Dollar being the favorite. Time 1.26.
Won easily.
Hunters Sweepstakes, about 2 miles.—Warrandyte.
13 st, 1; Changeable,-13 st, 2; Tomboy, 13 st, 3. Four
started and Warrandyte was made favorite. Won
easily. Time 5’31.
Maiden Plate, 2i miles.—Sussex, list 111 b Batty 1
Verdi, list 21b Chifuey, 2; Rosewood list 111 b Griffiths,
... Five started, and 6 to 4 was laid on Sussex, who
won easily by a neck. Time 6'B
Flat Race, 1 mile and a quarter and a distance.—Ad,
venturer, 3 yrs 6st 71b Cracknell, 1; Shadow, Sst 101 b
Hughes, 2 ; Euclid, 3yrs, Gst 111 b, Walker, 3. Fifteen
started, aild Euclid was a great favourite; but Adven-
turer won from Shadow by a neck. Time 2’36{
,9, 01 d Cup, Welter Race, 2J miles.—Sussex*
13st 51b, 1 : Greystanes, 13st, 2; Unknown, lOst 41b, 3-
Nine started. Sussex won easily, Time 6 - 6.
Selling Stakes, I mile.—Puff, 2 yrs 7st 11b, 1; Epilogue.
3yrs 7st 51b, 2; Stanley 2yrs 6st 31b, 3. Six started and
the favorite won easily. Tine 52J secs.
Blackall.
Ist Day—July 1.
Hurdle Race—Mr. P. O’Malley’s b.g. Cannobie, aged,
1; Air. G. Orr’s bit g Ganymede, aged, 2; Mr. C
M‘Konna’s g g Friendless, aged, 3. Time, 37.
Maiden Plate.—Mr. H. B. Gough’s The Bard, 5 years
1; Mr. W. P. Tozer’s Spot, 4 years, 2; Mr. G. Porter’s
Mantana, 2 years, 3.
Corinthian Stakes.—Mermaid, 1; Moses, 2; Mento 3
Blackall Handicap.-Mr. G. Porter’s Marathon,’
years, Sst Mb. 1; Mr. H. B. Gough’s Theodore, a^d.
3 Time 2’47 Monahau 8 Sir Artllnr . 4 years, 7st.
2nd Day—July 2.
inafta u* J ozet ’ s Claremont, 5 years
I? 1^ lb Ar X .ir M ?-Orr s Ganymede, aged, list 41b, 2;
Mr C. M Henna s Friendless, aged, list 41b, 3, Time.
9
Stakes, Begum, 1; Maritana, 2; Poet, 3.
•tJmPi Ilaivlimp -Mr C M‘Henna’s Beadsman, aged
7 w’ u r ' C. Porter s Marathon, aged, Set 51b/ 2;
384 H. B. Gough s The Bard, 5 years 7st 41b, 3. Time
i ■^® m^'®J‘ K 'Cup. Mr, C. M‘Kenna’s Beadsman, aged,
1; Mr. H. B. Gough’s Theodore, aged, 2; Mr. Mono-
han s Attraction, aged, 3. Time, 3'lti|.
Members’ Welter Race.—Lnnsdowne, 1: Mermaid. 2-
Mento, 3. Time, 2-27. ,
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(Written Expressly for THE BULLETIN.)
The Barmaid.
Dosing in the sunshine.
Brawling in the dark,
Down the streets and tramline.
Thro’ the dismal pork.
Meets a country cousin.
Trots the bushman out.
Taverns half a dozen—
Cousins always “ shout.’*
Soon is met by others
On their lamblike ways—
This time city brothers.
Trusting Cousin pays.
Country Cousin “ boozes,”
Misses evening train,
Country cousin loses
Watch and purse and chain.
Pleeceman X grows tricky
Makes the business dull,
Moses, Bill and Mickey
Batter in his skull.
Stands before his Honor,
Brillliant counsel fee’d.
Smiles at his dishonor.
Jury not agreed.
’Stead of Cat descending.
Till the red drops flow,
Back to Kent street wending.
Funny little go!
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.
When day is dead and the sunny hours
Are all asleep ’mid the dreamy flowers.
When waves leap up on their sandy bars
To clasp to their bosoms the burning stars.
When gas lights quiver and, dancing, shine
In the ruby beads of the blushing wine—
When guilt and riot and madness meet
To add fresh tears for the world to weep.
You meet her decked in the blazing hall.
The chosen queen of the carnival.
Look at her form, it is full of grace—
Look at the lines of her fair young face —
Look at her tresses which darkly float
In silken clouds o’er her snow-white throat:
Eiohly jewelled and young and fair—
Ask her what evil chance brought her there.
She answers Lust, in its purpose twain—
The lust of the eye and the lust of gain :
■Gain for the master who daily gives
The scanty pittance by which she lives—
Kindly welcome and smile and jest
For each who comes as her master’s guest.
*******
The day is dead and the green fields lie
In the moon’s white arms without sob or sigh.
So calm and still iu the young* day’s death
The ear might drink in the blossoms’ breath;
But the fields may sleep and the hills may lie
Their leaf.crowned heads ’gainst the solemn sky •
The city wakes to her nightly sins
And the ghastly dance of her shame begins
The scene is set and the actors glide
From street and square thro’ the portals wide,
And bright lights glimmer aud, dancing, fall!
■On painted ceiling and gilded wall—
On glowing picture iu glowing frame
On crystal and metal all aflame ;
And the play the women aud men rehearse
In the dazzling room is—’* The Drunkard’s Curse.”
The dice-box rattles, the dice arc toss’d
And bread of a household perchance is lost:
But what reck they of mother or wife,
Bister or child in the frenzied strife!
h° uor are smitten dead.
While the lights burn high and the wine is red.
The laugh and jest aud the ribald song
On the waves of music are borne along.
While old and young iu the sordid scene
Cliuni wanton smiles from the bar-room queen.
And she must smile, tho’ her heart be true
And pure as light in a drop of dew,
For womanly worth and womanly fame
Are things to scoff—in the damned game;
But who shall question and who shall dare
To say that both are not met with there—
' that many a girl from her household hurled
To the stony ways of a stony world,
To save herself from the greater sin
Shudders and touches tho lesser ill ?
d e who have mothers, children and wives
witli roses tlie chain of your lives#
bending you sunshine, blossom and song,
Judge her not harshly, judge her not wrong.
Blameless or guilty, judge as ye will—
Guilty or blameless— womanhood still'
And ye, her sisters, who daily plead
Our dear God’s help in the hour of need,
het not your station or worldly pride
The poor lone waif from your presence hide,
ihmk ot her life—and what life should be
Aud tenderly name her ou bended knee.
OSCAR HUGHAN.
Supreme Court.
HOW THE ZEALOUS MR. ALDERMAN HORDERN
MATUTINALLY BEINGS DILATORY CIVIC OFFICIALS
TO THEIR BEARINGS.
All poets say, and I think too>
That evening is the hour,
For lovers true, to hill and coo,
And acknowledge Cupid’s power.
I think ’tis right, and hope that you
Agree with me iu this,
That shades of uight, or eve of dew
Are proper times to kiss.
A proper time to kiss perhaps
I do not say it aiu’t,
But ’tis more proper for all chaps
To ask their love’s complaint.
To put your arm around your love.
And with a gentle squeeze.
Say, dearest, sweetest, pretty dove.
Pray how’s yer corn bin pleese ?”
The Larrikin.
Standing at the comer
Of each thoroughfare.
Rampant, ribald scomer.
Tainting social air.
By his obscene chatter.
By his senseless whoops,
H y the smoke and spatter
Of his vile cheroots,
cduiflles.cards for winning
i bis straightest tip
J - s the art of spinning
Pennies on a chip,
h <?ud of polished leather.
Weak in point of dress,
Apemg in all weather
Famous E. B. S.
Manner light and airy,
hot averse to drink,
&0 tis drawn by Mary,
Costing but a wink,
iin? as Wolu »ded bison
..." hen no strength is nigh,
■Sri as twice-used Hyson
W hen there’s danger by.
v °J es the Rand wick ticket,
Oood at scull and bat.
Cross ’tween Spoff. and Trickett,
Cl ~aud and water rat.
to spinal marrow,
a Calculating gains
At the stall or barrow—
»o much for his brains.
•seldom wholly idle.
Seldom toils for bread,
'-ave when prison bridle
OmamtUs his head.
LOVE'S NET.
A SONNET.
Methought I wandered through a dark’ning wood.
When o’er the dreary world the sun had set.
And as I strayed in melancholic mood
I fell into a lurking silken net.
Half startled by this sudden fall to earth,
I gazed around in wondenng surprise.
To find that I was drowning in the mirth
Of Love’s delicious laughter-loving eyes. 1
I tried to save myself—a golden thread,
Floating too near me on the balmy air
I seized in fear, and found myself instead
Caught in the meshes of Love*s shining hair.
” here’er I turned fresh dangers met my eye,
I could but love, and, loving, can but die!


Public Notice
ATEST EXHIBIT K
ONE HUNDRED EXHIBITIO
Purchased at a Sacrifice from Exhi
otherwise, are now exposed for sale
THE EOYAL FURNISHES
to be sold at an
ENORMOUS RED
from the former asked
Under the excitement of Sales by
prices have been obtained for Exhil
Prudent purchasers will not fail 1
of the opportunity now offered fo:
inspection before laying out their n
Nearly everybody seems desirous
Recherche Souvei
of our
Great International Ex
and no such desirable opportnnit
hitherto offered
The leading feature of thi
ECONOMY,
which can only be faithfully carrie
Prompt Net Cash Syi
Houses are here Furnished for tl
Also for £25, £35, and for £5O.
For the net cash expenditure of
nicely Furnished.
£lOO will do it well.
£2OO, £3OO, £5OO, or any other
Furnish a house elaborately.
When you go to
ROYAL FURNISHING
ask for the printed house List.
There can he no mistake about
leading business principles.
PLAIN FIGURE P
No Abatement
PROMPT NET CASH P
JOHN BRINSMEAD
« SOSTENENTE PL
lowest possible price consisten
manship and mat-
| Sole Agents, ROYLE ai
OHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PI
Prices from 44 guii
Sole Agents, ROYLE ai
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PI
a five years guarantee given wit
Sole Agents, ROYLE a
RINSMEAD
NOTICE.
B
We have WITHDRAWN o
Mr. W. H. PALING, and a
REPRESENTATIVES for N
Messrs. ROYLE and HOGG, tt
tions for sub-agencies must be :
JOHN BRINSMI
OHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PI
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
cipal Towns of New South Wa
ROYLE ant
JOHN
Sole Ag
Bond-street
BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE P!
gained first and only prize abc
Sydney, 1879-5
Sole Agents, ROYLE t
ATE S T
I N V
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS.
For lighting Dwellings, Churche
Buildings, Municipalities, Citie
For particulars see Catalogue
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole
Sole Agents fox
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BE]
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON. T
Importers of all kinds of iron,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, ci
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XII.— Continued.
“Your guess is correct,” went on Sebastian.
“ I am Mrs. Mallory’s son. And now I should be
glad to know who and what you are—one of my
■working people, perhaps P”
The young man did not seem to be at all
annoyed at what was taking place ; indeed there
was that in his manner which said that he was
mildly amused with the whole affair. He looked
around as he spoke, with a lazy, criticising glance
as Myles keenly felt, of a master, and
of one who was accustomed to be a master. He
was surveying his property and questioning one of
his servants. All the revolutionary element in
that servant was in perturbation.
“ What am I ?” he began, when Sebastian, who
had taken off his cap on entering the office, said
suggestively: )
“ Hadn’t yon better take your cap off?”
“ That is a matter of opinion,” said Myles, the |
blood rushing to his face. “ It is not the fashion
here. As for me, I doff to no man, and but few
women.”
“ Ah! well, we won’t quarrel about it. As you
say, it is a matter of opinion,” said Sebastian,
politely: but there was something in the tone
which made Myles feel small, and as if he had
been behaving childishly—not a comforting feel-
ing.
“But I interrupted you,” continued Mallory,
who seemed to be acquiring gradually a sort of
interest in the conversation ; “ you were going to
tell me who you are P”
“ My name is Myles Heywood, and my business
is cut-looking and part of the over-looking of this
factory,” said Myles.
“ Heywood,” repeated Sebastian, his eyeslosmg
their lazy look, “Heywood; where have I—ah ;
yes ! A out-looker —I don’t know what that is.”
“ Likely enough not,” said Myles. _
“But it is quite certain that I must learn it,”
pursued Sebastian ; what is it, if I may askp
An uncomfortable sense began to steal over
Myles, that Mr. Mallory was courtesy itself, and
that, too, under considerable provocation. He
gave a short sketch of his business.
“Thanks,” said Sebastian. “And now by-
the-by, I am absolutely forgetting my business—
is Mr. Sutcliffe in?”
“ Not now ; he will be in about an hour.
“ In an hour ? Then I must go over the works
without him. Is there anyone here who knows all
about it —you, perhaps ?” he added quickly, as if
struck by a happy thought.
The idea of leading Mr. Mallory round the
works excited the liveliest aversion in Myles’s
mind.
“ Wilson, the head overlooker, is above me. He
generally does that,” said he.
“ Wilson —I ought to remember Wilson. He
tas been here a long time, hasn’t he ?’ ’
“ He has,” said Myles.
“I thought so. Well, whore is he?”
Myles, despite himself, very much despite him-
self, felt the influence of Sebastian’s manner. He
would have been glad could he reasonably have
classed him with Frederick Spenceley, but no such
classification was for a moment possible. He
wished he had not made that difficulty about going
through the works. He suddenly remembered his
voluntary promise to Adrienne, and felt that he
could not tell her that he had kept his word. But
too proud, or perhaps too shy, to suddenly change
Ms manner, he said;
“ He’s going round the works. If you 11 wait a
minute I’ll send him to you.”
“ Thank you,” said Mallory.
Myles wont out of the office, and across the yard
to the factory; and Mallory putting his hand
upon Hugo’s shoulder, silently pointed to the
workman’s figure, and they watched him until
be had gone into the mill.
“Hugo, you have not a good ear for English
names yet, but I have. I have heard that man’s
name just lately—yesterday, in fact, in the train
as we came from Manchester. He is a fellow I
must know something more about. Did you notice
him? He has a splendid face.”
“ Splendid manners too, I think,” said the boy
sarcastically.
“ Yes,” replied Sebastian, meditatively. Hey-
wood ! If he had not mentioned his name when
he did, I think I should have lost my temper. As
it is, I shall try another plan. There he goes !
What a row comes from behind that door!”
Then they looked through the window.
“What a prospect!” said Sebastian, glancing
over the head of his companion, who leaned with
both arms on the window-sill. “ This time last
week, do you remember? we were with —ah, what
was their name —those girls and their brother?’’
“ On the Luzern steamer, going to Pluelen,”
said Hugo, his eyes fixed upon the dead wall op-
posite.
“ Just so ! Do you remember the sunset, and
Mount Pilatus, as we came back ? Well, Pilatus
is there now —and we are here.”
Hugo made no answer, but Sebastian saw a
smile curve his cheek.
“ Why you might be pleased rather than not,”
said he.
“ I am not displeased,” replied the lad with the
same smile.
“ Not displeased that I took a notion about duty
into my head, and whirled you away from Switzer-
land, and snow-peaks and Alpine colouring, to
Thanshope, Hugo?” ,
“ Suppose you had obeyed the call of duty
without whirling me away—had left me behind
somewhere?” said Hugo. ....
“Ah, so! That is at the root of it, said
Sebastian, laughing. “ What an odd an, here
comes the overlooker ! Now, Hugo, observe me
doing the merchant-prince,and prepare your artist
eye for some shocks during the progress we are
going to make.”
Wilson entered in a state of high excitement.
“ Mr. Mallory, sir, this is a hunexpected meet-
ing ! I couldn’t believe it. ’Ow are you, sir?
Well, I ’ope. We’ve looked forward long to this
event.”
“ Very well, thank you. I found myself at
home sooner than I expected—a week earlier. I
remember you very well,” he added. “ How are
yon and your family?”
“ As well as possible, sir, thank you,” said Wil-
son, pressing the hand which Sebastian had held
out to him. “ Do I see a friend of yours, sir ?” he
added, looking at Hugo, who was watching the
man with the preternatural solemnity which was
one of his ways of showing that he was amused.
“ Yea ; avery great friend—Mr, Vonßirkenau,”
was all Sebastian said, and added, “ I want to go
through the works. I asked that young fellow
who was here, ” _
“ I hope he wasn’t rude, sir. I trust he didn t
make himself unpleasant,” said Wilson fervently.
“ Why, is he insubordinate usually, or rude to
his superiors ?” asked Sebastian, with a sudden
keenness of look, in strong contrast with his soft
Toioe and gentle manner.
“ Insubordinate ! no, sir. A better workman
or an honester young follow never lived; only he’s
got the idea that he hasn’t got no superiors—and
it will bring him into trouble. I often tell him
so.”
“But he is clever and honest, you say?” said
Sebastian, pausing to ask the question.
“ Yes, sir,” said Wilson, who was fond of
Myles, and had been fond of him for years. “ He’s
got the brains of half a dozen of the usual run,
and you might trust him with untold gold ; ay,
and more dangerous things than that. But he is
apt to give a little too much of his sauce.”
“ Ah! Well, we will go on now, if you please;
and when Mr. Sutcliffe comes in, I’ll get him to
go on and lunch With me. I should like to say a
few words to the— ‘ hands,’ is it you call them?
—if there is any place where they could come and
listen to me.”
“ Surely, sir. The big yard will hold them all,
and more than them.”
“ Then be good enough to lead the way,” said
Sebastian, looking at his watch suggestively.
Wilson was a proud and happy man that morn-
ing, as ho led the newly-arrived lord of that place
through the maze of great rooms and machinery,
and pointed out all the improvements, the wonder-
ful contrivances for making wood and steel and
I iron do the work of hands and feet ; all the ‘ ‘ Per-
fection of mechanism, human and metallic,”
of which the factory and its contents formed an
example.
Sebastian followed him: his eyes had lost their
sleepy look; he asked many questions, acute
enough, for all the indifferent tone of them. He
seemed to have much of the gift which is said to
be royal—the eye which took in with incredible
rapidity both details and generalities. Very little
that was to be seen escaped him, including the
curious glances and ,the loud comments and sur-
mises relative to himself.
It took an hour to go even quickly through the
different rooms, and then Wilson, saying, “This
is the last, sir, the warehouse,” took them into a
large, well-lighted room, in which were some half
dozen men at work, Myles Heywood in the
centre. Sebastian stooped to Hugo, and whisper-
ing—
“ I want to speak to that young fellow alone a
few minutes.”
Hugo stepped up to a large pile of cloth, seem-
ingly interested in some mystic marks and figures
upon it, which he requested Wilson to explain;
while Sebastian, going on, stopped at Myles’s side
and, looking at his work, said :
“ That is cut-looking, is it ?”
“Yes.”
“ Well, I’ve learnt something. Listen to me a
moment, will you?”
Myles looked up.
“ I am going to say something to all these peo-
ple directly, and I want you to come and listen to
it; will you?”
Half vexed, half flattered, Myles looked into
Mallory’s face. He had not given up his notion
that the young man was a “ jackanapes ” ; but if
so, the “ jackanapes” had a manner that it was
not easy for even a superior person to resist.
Myles replied:
“ Certainly I will come.”
He looked as if he were going to add something
—in fact it was on the tip of his tongue to say:
“ I don’t promise to like what I shall hear ;” but
he refrained. He remembered Adrienne, and his
promise. Yet he had the conviction that he would
dislike what Sebastian had to say. A Conserva-
tive —Southern sympathies, no doubt. What
could such an one have to say that he would like ?
But he would go, if only to watch till the cloven
foot showed itself.
At that moment Wilson came up.
“You’ve seen the last of the rooms, sir. If
you’re ready, I’ll have the bell rung, and then we
can go out into the yard.”
In a few minutes the great bell had clanged out,
the engines had been stopped, the hands were
streaming out into the yard.
Sebastian and Wilson stood upon a huge empty
lorry that was close by one of the warehouse doors
so that they had nothing to do but to step on to
it, which they did, while Myles and his comrades
swung themselves on to the ground, and took their
stand in a knot, not far away from this impromptu
platform.
Sebastian looked keenly at all the upturned
faces, while Wilson made a few brief introductory
remarks.
The over-looker’s voice ceased. He swung
himself from the lorry, and went and stood with
the crowd.
“ My friends,” began Sebastian, “ circum-
stances have kept me for ten years away from
Lancashire. Perhaps I might still not have made
the necessary effort to return, but for this great
struggle which is going on in America, and whose
direct effects will first be felt in Lancashire.
When that began, I felt that I had no right to re-
main any longer away. I have heard, and one or
two little things which I have seen, even during
the few hours I have been in Thanshope, lead me
to feel that the saying is a true one, that you Lan-
cashire men are inclined to despise an employer
who does not know his business, much as you
would despise a workman who did not know his
work. The principle is a right and honest one;
and I don’t say that I may not have come under
the head of those who deserve some contempt as
being ignorant, and ‘absentee owners.’ Even
since I came here, I have discovered that I never
knew what work was before ; I see that my task
will be no easy one, to master the principles of my
business, and to try and provide in some degree
against the dark days which, I fear, are almost
inevitable. But, hard or easy, it is a task I mean
to learn. The time is coming, as I think all
thoughtful men must see —coming rapidly, when
Lancashire will have to exert every effort to meet
that distress which will rush upon her ; that cloud
that is hastening across the Atlantic is a very
black cloud, and will make the days very dark.
Let us try manfully, hand in hand to breast the
storm together.
“ I suppose that you all, or nearly all, will agree
with me upon at least one point—sympathy with
the Federal side in this struggle. (A murmur,
deep and strong, of profound approbation arose —
a murmur in which men’s and women’s voices
alike joined.) That noble man, Abraham Lincoln,
against whose honour the Southern press has
lifted its impotent voice—not to mention some
journals in this country, which Englishmen ought
to be ashamed to read—that noble man, should he
live and be fortunate in his grand crusade, will
benefit all the world by his intrepidity. He cannot
give you cheap and abundant supplies of cotton
now, but by his courage and wisdom heps securing
your future supplies upon a firm basis, very dif-
ferent from the slippery vantage-ground of slave
labour upon which they have hitherto depended.
(Another murmur indicative of that approval
which, to their honour, Lancashire working men
and women, throughout those bitter years, gave to
the Federal side, greeted the speaker.)
“ I understand that yon Lancashire men, espe-
cially you Thanshope men, think a great deal of
politics and principles. So you ought, considering
who is your member, and that other great name
which is connected with Thanshope. I also know
that in spite of the strong Conservative element
amongst your gentry, and, they tell me, amongst
the workmen too ” (a voice: “ Conservative work-
ing-man—there’s no such thing !”) —“ in spite of
the alleged Conservative element, you have always
since you first returned a representative to Parlia-
ment, returned a Radical.
“ I was not aware of the strength of the feeling
upon this point in Thanshope. I have always my-
self held politics to be secondary to some other
subjects, but, sfhce I find so much interest centered
round the point here, and moreover, since persons
whom I have met and spoken to have treated me
on the tacit assumption that I was a Conservative,
I judge it as well to tell you, face to face, that
whatever I may be on other matters, in politics I
am no Conservative, but a Radical. Of course
there are almost as many kinds of Radicals as
there are of Dissenters. The details of my radi-
calism and those of your radicalism are, I dare
say, somewhat different: but I hope we shall both
be able to respect the principle and never mind
the form.
“ Now I will not keep you any longer,—only let
me say, finally, I am here to learn my business,
and to try to guide my ship through the storm
that is coming. Thanshope, as you know, is one
of the places where the pinch of distress will be
soonest felt, since the counts of yarns used here
are precisely those the supply of which will soonest
fall off. 1 ask a promise from you and I make one
to you. In that time that is coming I ask you to
trust me—my feelings and intentions towards you,
and on my part I promise to strain every nerve to
do my duty by you. We will work on as long as
there is cotton to be had, and then —I trust for
your sakes, and mine, and that of humanity at
large, that it will not be long that I shall have
to help you in your fight to keep the wolf from
the door.”
He stopped, bowed, and was turning away, when
they gave him a hearty cheer; and one or two
voices informed him laconically that they
“ reckoned he w r as one o’ th’ reet sort,” and that
“he’d suit.”
He jumped down from the lorry, joined Wilson
and his friend Hugo, and went with them towards
the office. The engineer returned to his post;
soon the busy machinery was in full roar again, as
if there had been no such thing as war —no such
parties as Federals and Confederates. The inter-
ruption of the morning’s work was already a thing
of the past—an incident to be talked about.
Myles Heywood maintained entire silence upon
the subject, nor could anyone of all who inquired
of him get him to say what he thought of the new
master. He might have deep thoughts about it—
—at least they were unexpressed. The rest of the
hands talked the event over with lively excite-
ment. The general impression was a favourable
one. The men liked what he had said, though he
was generally pronounced to be a “ bit too much
of a swell,” and it was agreed that he “ spoke
rather fine,” and, they said, minced his words too
much ; was, in short, rather too much of a fine
gentlemen. Otherwise he was considered sound,
and they were pleased to find him on the right aide
in politics.
The women, too, liked him, for reasons appar-
ently similar to those alleged by Peter van den
Bosch, as his grounds for liking Phillip van
Artevelde :
“ And wenches who were there, said Artevelde
Was a sweet name, and musical to hear.”
Mary Heywood, at least said she “liked the
chap: he had siccan a soft voice, and a nice,
smooth-soundin’ name, like.”
The general conclusion was a very Lancashire
one; that the young man had spoken very well
and reasonably; sensibly enough for a person
who knew nothing about his business, but that
“ fair words butter no parsnips” : and the con-
jecture may reasonably be hazarded whether
Sebastian’s speech had induced any one of his
hearers to form a decided opinion, good or bad, of
him. They waited to see, and indeed the time
was striding forward with fearful rapidity, nearer
and nearer, when the sincerity of his profession
should be put to the proof.
(to be continued.)
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street Clarke, Pitt-street
R Callaway, King-street Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-st. J. L. Berghoefer, Pitt-st.
George Hill, George-street Schneberger, Oxford-st.
Nash ~ Spragg& Adams „
J. W. E. Clarke „ W. Lapham
E R. Cole » G. Barker, Sassex-street
Gordon & Gotcli „ Thorsby, Erskine-street
Sandon ~ J. Walton, Railway Station
Colliss, George-st. west J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
E Turner, Brickfield Hill Pierce, William-stree
W. Johnson, 354 Elizabeth- J. Withers. Park-street
street South
SUBUEBAN AND COUNTRY:
Alexandria —
G. Robbins
Aemidale —
H. Mallam
H. M'Alpina
Ashpield—
W. J. Banka
Balmain—
W. J. Small
Bathurst —
E. Layt
O. Welby
Bodalla—
W. Brock
Carcoar —
J. A. Moss
COOTAMONDRA—
J. Percival
Cowra—
E. Stevenson
Echuca—
G. Fosdyke
Forbes —
E. Chapman
Germanton —
T. Brown
Glen Innes—
F. Marshall
Goulburn —
J. Walsh
Gunnedah—
J. L. Fitzgerald
Lambton —
J. Firth
Liverpool—
C. A. Scrivener
Maitland (West)—
C. W. Clarke
Morpeth—
James Maher
Mudgee—
W. Hall
Naerabei —
O. Haussman
Narrandera—
W. Young
Newcastle—
Hale Williams
F. Alcock
Newtown—
E. Bray
E. Sheridan
J. Arnold
E. Jones
North Shore—
Deacon & Son
Nicholson Bros.
ORANGE —
R- Lessells
Parramatta—
G. W. Green
C. E. Fuller
Rtde—
R- Young
Scone —
M. F. Asser
Shoalhaven—
Wicks
Singleton—
J. P. Quinn
Wagga Wagga—
C. H. Daniel
L. S. Joseph
Wattle Flat —
B- Grimwood
Wellington (n.s.w.)—
W. Booth
focnq—
Q. F. OU
INTERCOLONIAL
Melbourne —
Handers* Co.
C. Muskett, Bourko-st.
C. J. Bird, „
Nath. Levi, Spencer-
street Railway Stn,
D. Lazarus
Brisbane—
Gordon * Gotch
'VV. Whelan
Sxanthoepe (Q.) —•
J, F, Williams


Hotels, &c.
Nathaniel
Begs to inform Ms numerou
tances (those who do know him am
that he has taken the
EOYAL ALBEET HC
at the comer of
GIPPS & MACQUAEIE STEP
And trusts, by a strict attention
customers in the shape of good Lit]
a little hilarity thrown in for th
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ver
the man with the talkir
Come and hear the man under tl
the Qir in the Eum-keg.
olonnade"
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEEEAQI
c
J. SHAEP, Propri
Eospectfully begs to acquaint hi
public that they can obtain the very
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch fre
First class accommodation for C
very moderate prices.
c
AELTON CLUI
199 Elizabeth-St., H
H. OIJPHANT PaTON, Pj
Healthiest position and most con
Sydney. Private Suites of
Detached BAE ; BATHS, SI
Hot Coffee, Eumand Milk, &c., fr
d’hote 1 p.m. daily.
Id on parle Franc
OAC H AND HOES
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Ui
c
Mr. P. STANTON, PEOI
Buggy always in attendance a
Visitors from the metropolis
finding the very best accomodation
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun
immediate neighbourhood.
V
ICTO E I A
Having taken the above hotel'm
alterations and which will be fltt
fashionable ’style, I trust that by
brands of Wines, Spirits, &0., and c
most respectable manner, to merit
public.
GEOEGE
R
OYAL EXOHANC
Corner Kino and Georg:
Superior Accommodation. 5 ]
New Bars and Wholesale and Eetail
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Di
re-opened on Monday next, under 1
proprietor.
N.B.—Pic-nics, Balls, Parties. Ck
best of terms. _
EDW
hTe COMPAGNOI
CAFE AND CATEEING CO!
Will open their ladies’ and gentleme
and CAFE
on or about
MONDAY, the 21th
The Company have the
Marrietto, late cWf. de cuisins (
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners
Three hours notice required for prb
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decora
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL 1
June 30,1830.
HE BEST SHILLING LI
(including a Glass of Ale
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MEECi
AND
LUNCHEON E
BEIDGE-STEE]
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints
and Salad.
Auctioneers and Commie
J 0
H N BE
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auc
LIVE stock; AND STAI
Flour, Grain, and Metal
T N. MEIKLEJOHS
• Produce and Commissio
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Coi
Sydney.
Popular consignments of Hay, Con
on hand, sold at market rates
guarantee as regards q
All orders by, post or otherwise pr<
COMMEiiGIAL STOEES, SU
JOHN McMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE Ml
GENERAL COMMISSION
Special attention given to Consign!
Sales promptly rendered. Intt
and Country Orders executed w
w.
PEITCHAED’S HOt
HOTEL, & GENERi
FOE THE LETTING A 1
Of every descriptic
BUSINESS PE
By Auction or Private C
ESTATE AND LAND SAI
289 GEOEGE STEEET (Oppos:
N.B. —A Register kept (free of cb
ties To Let or Businesses for Sale.
W' ELLS AND SMITH B]
tioneers, Commission Age
Salesmen, hold Sales by A
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the C
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harl
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darlin
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, 1
&c., at Darling Harbour Railwa
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Chi
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 Geci
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newto
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, an
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tall
Darling Harbour—every Thursc
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEOEGE-S’
Horses and Voh
David m ‘
14 HUNTER STREET, 1
By Special Appoint!
SADDLER AND HARNES
to His Royal Highness the DUKE
His Excellency the Right Honors
BELMOEE, His Excellency Sir He
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency L
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlome:
Agricultural Exhibition 1869,187
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Coupling!
Sheets, and other reqc
EAEE Y B E
COACH AND BUGGY I
290 PITT STEEET, SI
Near Park-street
Tobacconists
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leal
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and Ri
159 PITT STE
Next Post Office
mHE G E F
X VIRGINIAN TOBJ
Comprising Every Desc
Manufactured by the renowned ti
Richmond. Virgil
To be had at the Wholesi
639 GEOEGE S:
Haymarket,
Machinery
Atlas foundry and
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydn<
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron a
Coppersmiths and Millwrights. —l
prepared to undertake contracts for
Marine and Stationary Engines, B
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Shee
Sugar Mills, and all other descrip
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with c
price given for old metal.
T
HE OSBORNE
H A
MACHINERY
THE WATEROUS SAI
THE WATEROUS FL
WAGGONS,
BUGGIES,
&c. &c.
34 CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
W.
c
Chemists and Dm
ENTRAL PH
78 (Late 81) KING-ST
DISPENSING ESTABLI
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet :
Every article carefully selected.
FELMIN
ARMSTRONG’S PECTOI
BALSAM,
An elegant preparation for all al
monary Organs. This is the best kn<
POE THAT fatal DISEASE, CE(
most successful remedy for Coug
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness,
THEOAT, and ASTHMA.
E. B. ARMSTRONG,
Family Chemist and j
Wholesale & Retail Dr
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite t'
TglOR ALL DESCRI
MEDICINE!
GO TO
SEL F I
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STRE
f S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
tf • Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER R
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Pc
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in pi
strengthening the stomach, correct!
ing or removing headache, giddine
costive habit, debilitated stomach, o:
require no change of diet, and the
stitution may take them with safety
Invented only bj
J. S. ABRAH
At the Laboratory, 434 George
Be careful not to get imi
Hotels, &c.
CJ. ROB
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEPj
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for in
Pure West India Rum,
Legal
M
S
E. A. G © ]
SOLICIT©
(Also of tho Supreme Court of
Has commenced practice i
Office—s 3 Elizabeth-!
Hofi T E E & FI 'I
Solicitors,
69 CASTLEREAGH STEEE"
And
Macquarie Street,
-J- EGAL.—Mr. T. M. S
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at -
PITT-STEEET, opposite f.
News Office.
Business Cart
-V/CTILLIAM BEDE
* * Licensed Suevei
(Surveyor under the Eeal Pr
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sy(
JJLACHMANN ANI
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEOEGE SI
SYDNEY.
W,
MAC
POETEAIT PAIN
225 Bourke-street, Wooll
Gr.
AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Erskine Streh
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, I
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at 1
ESTABLISHED 1£
■OOWLEE’S PC
AND
BEICK WOEK
CAMPEEDOWN, NEA!
Price List on applica
S
M
IGN O E A L. P.
Professor of Sing
173 VICTORIA SI
Darlinghurst.
ISSEL I S E S
(Prom Tasmanu
TEACHER OF THE PIAt
173 Yictoria-stree
SKINNER AND CO., 18
• BRASSFOITNDERS, PLD
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C
p. CEIPPS, PASTE
• CONFECTIONEI
267 (late 255) Pitt Strei
♦\
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., ea
best style.
OBE E T BUTCH
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME I
538 GEOEGE STEE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Pro:
j! MASON, LAND AGEN
street, Woolloomooloo, Syd
of LAND for Sale at Waverley, a
Naxrandera and Wagga Wagga.
HAS. H. D A
R
C
GENERAL STOREKEI
!EOSS ROADS, UR AN A ROAD,
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life


Government Adv
Department of Public Wor
Sydney, 21c
fJIO CONTRACTORS
TENDERS will be received o
o’clock on TUESDAY, tbo 27t
willing to contract for the constr
the Extension of the South-w
Narandera to Hay, a distance of
Plans, specification, and form <
and further particulars obtainei
Engiueer-in-Chief for Railways
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ‘ Tend
Narrandera to Hay.’
The Commissioner does not bin
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GO
Commii
Public Comp
The intercolonial
ASSOCIATION. LI
Head Offices 253 (late 217),
(formerly the Mercan
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shai
Subscribed, £5
Directors
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.MJ
Mr. Alderman John Young
M. Slattery, Esq. I P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E.
T. R. Smith, Esc
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No e:
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FI
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-]
in the profits,
JAMES S
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL
_ Established 1
Capital—£loo,ooo, with power tc
„ BONUSES
20 per cent, paid annually for 1
DIRECTOR
Hon. John Sutherland
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. Will
John Wetherill, Esq. Will
First Fire Society esi
Colony on the Mutual I
Policy-holders back pai
miums as a Cash Bonus
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed fo
premiums.
Damage by Lightning j
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement
Fire insurance at lowest rate
„ WALTER C
Head Office— l 44, late 184, ]
but one north Evenins News).
rTHE LIVERPOOL ANI
GLOBE INSURANCE
with unlimited liability, and t
colony to enable the Company
Directors in St
_ Edward Knox, Esq.,
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. | Y
Town and country risks at loi
Life business in all it
Principal Medical
A. Roberts, E
M. W, S. CLARKE, M.A.. E
Hoad Office for Australasia—62
Australian mutuj l
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHEI
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-ST
THE OLDEST MUTUAL I
AUSTRAL!
DIRECT©
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G.,
John H. Qoodlet, Esq., Depntj
Robert Saddington, Esq. | *;
lOLONIAL MUTUAL I
SOCIETY(LIM
President
His Honor Sir Eedmond 1
Vice-Presidei
New South Wales—The Hon. Sir
M.L.C.
Queensland—The Hon. Joshu
South Australia—Samuel
Western Australia —The Hon. Si
M.L.C.
Directors in New Soi
The Hon. Sir J. George Lon;
I President,
The Hon J. E. Bums, M.L.A.,
Edward Lord, Esq. (Chairman
Stock Bank).
Alfred Chandler, Secretary.
PEOGEESS OF THE SOCIETY;
NEW BUSIN
During the year ended 31st Marc
5188 proposals for
1397 of which have been declined
drawn, or not completed, amc
to
3258 were completed, and policies
for sums amounting to
833 remaining in various stages
gress.
The addition to the annual incon
premiums was
The annual income on 31st Marc
was
The policies in force number 9940
ing
The present annual income excee
QUINQUENNIAL INW
Extract from the Valuation E<
Sprague, M.A., F.1.A., Edinbur
: F.1.A., London:—
“ The valuation balance-sheet
£6844 9s lid, and from our exami
we are satisfied that this is a i
might with perfect safety be di
bers. Bearing in mind that the
I acted upon are such as to effectu
duction of any negative policy
instance has a policy been recko
valuation, we consider the abo
which the members of the sod
gratulated.
I “ Under these circumstances, t
fully look forward to the result o)
into the society’s affairs. For th
recommend that no division oi
will, in our opinion, be more
society that the present surplus
an^idditionaljprovision for unfor<
Tailors, Drapei
pEA P E 8 AN
Have Opened
Eeal Russian leather purses, cai
bags, in all sizes, the most
that ever came into this marie
The new Passementerie Trimming
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collaretb
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool mu
warm, the largest and choice
city, imported direct from Ge;
Radies’ Warm Winter Hosiery I
Ladies’ Warm Winter Gloves
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuff |
All the above goods are only i
marked off, Cx S.S. Orient.
T> E A P E S AN]
J JACKETS AND M.
14s 6d to 5 guin
Feapes and Shaw’s costumes, fron
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid gl
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for si
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for di
** Come and see them, comparison
Stout Saxony flannels—ls, Is 2d, 1
Seal Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d,
imitation)
Peapes and Shaw’s umbrellas—lad
6d, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter
men—2os, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355,
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s ul
GEORGE STREET, GEO
_____ George-street
T> EAP E S AN I
■*" DRESS MATER
„ did, 7*d, B|d, 105
rsroche and Pompadour, fortrimi
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s!
4s 6d, 5s 6d
A beautiful assortment of rich col
for dinner, evening, and weddi
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful ga
2s 6d, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto.
2s 9d
Ladies’nightdresses, ditto ditto d
Public Not
James c
PEIZE MEAT PE;
Has always on
Smoked Beef, Mutton, and Ham
Ox and Sheep Tongues, smoked t
Frankfort, Epping, and pure For
Bacon, Hams, &c.
Poultry of all kinds, alive and dr
Joints, Poultry fresh co«
Orders promptly ati
Address:
JAMES COO
90 OXE O E D £
Jj] L O C U
CANDIDATES FOE THE Cl
carefully and efficient!
COEEECT SPEAKEES A’
STUTTEEING, STAI
and all defects in speech q
Eeference—Medical Profession,
leading citize
~ T , [Copy.]
Icertify that Mr. M. A. Clea
my children elocution, and that 1
in his efforts and successful in
that he is competent to bring al
tinct pronunciation where origin
F. Milford, M.D., 16c
P-S. Additional references if
leges, Schools, &c. Schools and
Particulars at
335 ELIZABETH £
w
INT E E
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Eegu
TENNIS BALLS, Eegulation Sizt
sewn.
EACKET BATS, all prices.
FEISQUETTE, or LADIES’ CEj
All of Jeffries’ and Mailing
GILBEET'S MATCH FOOT BA
QUOITS, all sizes made to coloui
BOXING GLOVES, INDIAN Cl
SINGLESTICKS, Foils, Head am
the requirements for Stick an
Presentation CEICKET BATS ar
SIDNEY C
lEONMONGE
4OB GEOEGE S 1
15 THE
GEEAT PUZ2
15
BUY AT THE HEAD-C
WHOLESALE & ]
AMEEICAN NOY
DEPOT
408 GEOEGE STE
(Opposite Australian Joint
AND
MAEKET-STEI
15 SYDNEY.
PHOTOGEA
PEICES.
POETEAITS :■
Cakte de Visite
Cabinets
$9
MULTIPLYING CAB
6 Bon Tons
16 Doubx.e Gems
Open from 9 a.m. till
I EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY
■jpJXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14a 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 25a.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
AH wool and well shrunk
50s, BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
[EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
rjHE STANDARD AME
COLLAR, AND CUFF
100 KING STREET,
(entrance in right-o
A PERFECT FIT GLA
ORDERS EXECI
with
NEATNESS AND D 1
GENT.’S WHITE i
in three qualiti
CRIMEAN SHE
excelling all other
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALI
THE TRAD!
All work done at the abovt
the superintendence of a gentle
20 YEARS' EXPEI
in
AMERICA.
JgIONS, PRIZE ME]
ESTABLISHED TWEF
Whose success is attributed to his 1
in catering for the million at si
BEIGES as to enable every workir
and fashionably, while those with
disposal can wear so many extr
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VEKY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, v
BLACK DEESS SUITS, to measu
WVir» will noi. a.va-il


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Hon. Bourn Russell is dead, at .the great
age of 85-
Captain Brydges and his bride have gone to
Melbourne.
The “ Gineral’s sou” does not dance the
• Boston hop.”
Parnell goes to Parliament as a timid bather
goes into water—on Cork.
The Wagera editors are fighting, and using bad
language and lots of italics.
Wm. John Harris, who had attained the age of
102 years, recently died in Auckland.
The Queen of Italy is a good-hearted woman and
wears No- 6 shoes made on a wide last.
jlr E. E. Waters, editor of the Evening News
goes to Melbourne on a visit in a few days.
Alderman Babbige was the most important-
looking personage at the Brisbane Mayor’s ball.
Dr. and Mrs. Picrcy (Miss Dargon) celebrated
•■The”Fourth” at Coonamble. Both well and happy,
Howard Walker (“Adonis”) went overland to
Melbourne, and was in the thick of the affray at Glen-
rowau.
The day is fixed when the most fascinating
nrcssman in Sydney is to fall a victim to the charms of a
William-street belle.
Bradlangh wears his hair on his face and owns
forehead of about 10 inches high without the ghost of
a wrinkle or a frown on it.
gir Henry Parkes’ son has entered into
rtnersbip with Mr. Blachmann, of International Exhi-
bition architectural fame.
Mr. Alfred Bennett, the senior proprietor of the
T & C. Journal, will seek to enter political life shortly,
says the Mudgee Independent.
Colonel Sir Herbert Sandford represents the
British Royal Commission at Melbourne International,
anil leaves England on 21st current.
Mr. Tennyson has at the request of the Glasgow
University Club allowed himself to be nominated for
the Lord Rectorship of the University.
Judge Sheppard threatens to bring an action
against the Government of Queensland if he be not given
the vacancy caused by Judge Lutwytehe’s death.
Mr. John Bennett has, it is said, bought the
Kellys’ horses, secured some of the outlaws’ ashes and
has the first refusal of the armour worn by them.
“ The Vagabond’s ” engagement on the Pacific
Weekly prevented his departure for Fiji and Samoa as
announced. He has missed a chance of starving.
The clerks in the Lands’ Office were obliged to
"part” one shilling each last pay day for stamp duty,
which, however, will see them through to the end of
hi year.
Mr. Allan, of the Melbourne Daily Telegraph,
has a much-prized curio, in the shape of Ned Kelly’s
revolver, which he picked up immediately after the
outlaw’s fall.
It is again asserted, and denials are growing
feebler, that it was “ George Eliot,” and not the legal
Mrs. George H. Lewes, who recently married John
Walter Cross.
A legal gentleman and his wife, in the dress
circle of the Theatre It oval a few nights ago, indulged
in the innocent amusement of eating “lollies” from a
brown paper bag. r
H.M.S. Raleigh leaves here on the 17th instant.
Most of the men on H.M.S. Wolverene have volunteered
to remain on this station, such is the popularity of
Sydxiey with the “ tars.”
There have been several successful small dances
lately at Double Bay and Darling Point; the number of
men-of-war in harbour ensuring an ample supply of the
favourites of the “ briny.”
The Mayor of Brisbane gave a most magnificent
ball the other evening. It was noticeable that husbands
affected sisters-in-law rather than wives on that occasion.
Such is the force of example.
Captain Gingah, hailing from the neighbourhood
of Double Bay, is the “ adored one” of the pretty
waitresses in the upper portion of the Coffee Palace. So
much for a red head and a military style.
Rumours are current of a projected marriage
between a well-known M.L.A. and a young lady who
generally resides at a boarding school, whether as a
teacher or a pnpil we don’t pretend to say.
A marriage is on the tapis between a well con-
nected Sydney solicitorfond the widow of a naval officer.
We admire his pluck in coping with minor obstacles
and his utter disregard of Sam Weller’s advice.
Mr. Frederick Allan, at onetime connected with
the Palmer Chronicle, and lately braceman at the
Lord Byron claim, Etheridge, fell down a shaft 190 feet
while trying to land a bucket. He died at once.
What a pretty picture the contents of that drag
would have made at the coursing meeting on Saturday,
at Rooty Hill. It is a matter of regret that young
“Gus” had not his photographic machine with him.
During the past four months eight members of
one of our rowing clubs have become happy fathers.
In seven cases they were blessed with boys, but the
eighth, who is noted for his perverse disposition, chose
■a girl.
Wo are shortly to hear of a divorce case in Syd-
ney, in which a misguided young Englishman, and a
well-known “nymph” (not a clergyman's daughter, as
is generally supposed) are to figure. Some interesting
• complications are likely to ensue.
A well-known linguist, recently appointed to an
nnportant position at the Melbourne International
Secretariat, the other day told George Collins Levey
that be (George) couldn’t write English. The Hebrew
and his friend have since parted.
The fancy dress of an infirmary doctor at the
recent ball given by the Licensed Victuallers’ Associa-
tion was remarkable in the extreme for its simplicity.
He went as the surgeon of an Orient liner, wearing a
frock coat, and three brass buttons!!
Mr. Gladstone says there is no precedent for
1 Lord Beieonsfleld’s abuse of patronage in making Mr.
Montagu Corry a peer for personal services to himself.
J lr. Lowe says there is a precedent. Caligula, he re-
-1 marks, made his favourite horse a pro-consul.
It is a remarkable fact that the creditors who
miuiag.-yl to outvote the Bank of Australasia in regard
“> the disposal of the estate of Peter Lalor, of Bcrryite
notoriety, were nearly all prominent Berryites, to whom
R was alleged Peter was indebted in various small sums.
Curiously enough. Superintendent Frank Hare
*~o was in charge of the police on the occasion of the
capture of the Kellys, joined the Victorian force at
ueechworth, twenty-six years ago. He is a native of
Africa, and in the early days was known “as the
Mr. Purves, the eminent Victorian barrister, in
speech the other day in the Supremo Court, referred
• a well-known species of cigar as “the long thin
. ? lniDft fi°ns, known as Swiss cigars.” A Melbourne
nation 01 *• S t now advertise “Purves* Long, Thin Abomi-
The Premier and the Colonial Secretary of
gncensland are married to sisters, the Premier’s wife
banf l e y° nn = er - She Lately accompanied her hus-
ret n IXIO I was Presented to the Queen, and has
Ti,p rn U- Wngftaff a number of ‘Worth’s best dresses,
-com p I s feared, will lexd to very serious politic il
'The Rev. Newman Hall got a divorce from one
wife and married another within a month. The name
of the second wife was, until his reverence changed it.
Miss Knife. We suspect that the disappointed maiden
ewes of that pastor’s flock indulged in not a few cutting
remarks thereat.
Yonng “ Gus,” of Government House, is now
taking lessons in photography from Goode, the pho-
tographer of Brickfield Hill, and is making rapid pro-
gress in the art. His dark room has been improved,
and is in capital working order. He has recently taken
some excellent views.
A member for Canterbury (not Sir Henry) has
his clothes “built” at a cheap tailoring shop in
George-street. It requires the whole staff of the
establishment, including the boy, to measure him
round the waist, and during the operation, all other
business is suspended.
This is what an English Magaz'ne addresses to
Sir Moses Montefiore on the occasion of his 95th birth-
day :
“ Good Patriarch, honour’d hy Christian and Jew
Prom England as far os Jerusalem,
Don’t die till the world has grown weary of you—
And you’ll live to the age of Methusalem."
Five years ago, at a Masonic Hall concert, he
asked in the interval, “Do you sing ?” A timid “ No,"
was the reply. They had just been introduced, and he
must say something. She managed to say “ Yes ” upon
the introduction of a more important question five
months later. And now there’s a husband who says
that “ some people are liars," and few can equal “ her ”
at singing—out.
Mrs. Professor Smith is getting up an amateur
dramatic performance, to take place at the Masonic
Hall, in aid of the Infants’ Home, Ashfleld. Among the
names of lady performers, we hear those of
the above lady, the Misses Labertouche and Miss
Benson, which is, in itself, more than sufficient to
insure a good audience, particularly when they give
their services for so deserving an object.
The Premier of Queensland, who returned from
Europe the other day, has already given his Ministry
the slip. They assembled on the wharf to welcome
him, but he landed from the steamer down the river
and walked home. The knowing ones say that ho is
dissatisfied with his Government’s conduct during his
absence, and that his giving them the slip on this
occasion is only a “ shadow” of “coming events!”
Some ladies belonging to the “upper crust”
in Sydney are to be seen incog., early in the fore-
noon, buying their worldly grandeur at a certain
leviathan drapery warehouse in the Haynmrket, where
their manner is condescending and even familiar. The
same people may he identified in the afternoon in the
fashionable shops in George-street, where their pur-
chases are limited, and "their manners even haughty.
Herldnstoll (writes our Brisbane correspon-
dent) is the luckiest man in Queensland. He drew
second in Byrnes’ Cup Sweep. He has won five horses
during the last fortnight in raffles, and on Saturday last
he won at raffles a race-horse and the cutter “ Charm.”
He is to be seen now figuring round public-houses,
asking when the next raffle comes off.
A well-known lady in Sydney—one of the
“ nonveanx riches ” —whose well-appointed carriage is
familiar to the pedestrians of George-street, received a
cord the other day hy post, with the letters P. P.C. on
it. One of her lovely daughters (who really is a pre'.t.v
girl) asked the meaning of these mystic letters, and
her mother gave the following intelligent interpretation,
“Personally Prevented Calling."
The two intrepid ladies who went with the
special train from Melbourne to Glenrowan and wit-
nessed the end of the Kelly gang, were Mrs. O’Connor,
wife of sub-inspector O’Connor —well-known in Mel-
bourne society as Miss Smith, daughter of the late
Hon. John Thomas Smith—and Mrs. Carrington, wife
of the distinguished artist. Both these ladies accom-
panied their husbands on what was considered a dan-
gerous mission.
A well-known bterary eccentricity has had him-
self put into Darlinghurst on a friendly ca. sa. He has
been there before under other conditions; and the
object of his present visit is to write concerning Mr. G.
R. Dibbs, whom he will favour with his company.
“ We hope he don’t intrude.”
Two well-known members of the Legislative
Assembly arrived too soon for the performance at the
Theatre Royal, and to beguile the time away went in for
some shooting at the gallery opposite. As they had
been previously dining together at an adjacent hotel
the shooting was very wide of the mark.
A well-known member of the Australian Club,
who suffers very much from gout, is constantly to be
seen “ cabbing ’’ it to the offices of the great forensic
healing medium, in Elizabeth-street. He generally
returns with a mysterious-looking black hag, which we
suppose contains the "Elixir of Life,”
Mr. Alfred Lamb, and Mrs. C. Cox (his sister),
entertained a number of tbeir friends on Friday
evening, 2nd inst., at a ball, in Need’s Assembly Rooms,
Liverpool-street. A gaily dressed company, well lighted
rooms, and a good floor, together with profuse hospi-
tality, conduced to bringing about a most agreeable
re-union.
Many visitors to and natives of Tasmania will
remember Tom Reidy, the genial and witty Dish gentle
man who lived_ at Bertram's. “Poor Tom has gouo-
aloft,” after being for seven years paralysed. Before
tbe stroke he was for many years Governor of Hobart
Town Gaol. His, literary attainments were very con-
siderable, and many a hearty laugh has been raised by
his caustic pen.
Mr. William Miles, M.L.A. , of Queensland, in
personal appearance somewhat resembles Mr. Palmer,
tbe Colonial Secretary. He was recently travelling from
Mutaburra to Aramac when a wild-looking bushman
pulled him up and hailed him with the question, “ Beg
pardon, sir, bat is your name Palmer? " Miles instantly
cracked his whip and shouted with fearful earnestness,
“No! thank God.”
Dr. Dattner Jacobson, Rabbi of the Mel-
bourne “ Hebrews,” does not sleep on beds of roses.
Ha is an erudite and eloquent preacher, a native of
Vienna. Ho is not liked by Jnadaica Melboumensis.
He doesn’t play cards, and prefers to stop at home
amongst mediaeval Rabbis to visiting parishioners and
prescribing for spiritual maladies to feminine inanities !
A square peg in a round bole.
The inhabitants of the “ block” for the last few
evenings have been somewhat amused by the equestrian
performances of a young man, sometime ago the orna-
ment of a certain well-known outfitting establishment
in this city. His display of horsemanship (?) is limited
to two streets, and seems a secondary consideration
when compared with his effort to create a sensation b y
his scrupulously “ horsey" get up.
“ Snorty ” Palmer’s brother herds “ Chinkies ”
on Cambridge Downs station. He is an M.L.A., and
known as the “ silent" member. He has never
spoken in the House yet, but he’s sulphur on taking
notes of what other men say. And to think that it
would have ended in being a Chinkie boss!
It is rumoured in London that an Irish belle,
whose beauty during the season has been the sensation
of more than ene salon in the gay capital, has fascinatd
Prince Oscar of Sweden, and a matrimonial alliance is
to take place. Oscar, by the way, is reported to be a
well-c mentioned stripling, at all events in his moral
character. Ho is very long, very lank, and a little
lopsided, but plays the fiddle well.
Percy B , the well-known and handsome re-
presentative in Queensland of a leading soft goods
house in Sydney, “ did a line ” the other day that few
other men could have accomplished. Driving a buggy
ind pair with four occupants—two in the trade —he up-
set the lot in gloibo down a hank. Neither man, beast,
harness, nor buggy, suffered a scratch. A weighty
solicitor who was of the party picked himself up and
expressed the opinion, “ that there would be no to-
Morrow for him.
A medical man residing in the classic neighbour -
hood of Woolloomooloo is par excellence the shining
light of the profession. Projecting from the balcony
of his house he has an enormous lamp—somewhat like
a coffin—with his name and address on it in huge letters.
We would recommend the idea to some of the Sydney
shopkeepers, while we say with the poet—
That men are wise who advertise
In every generation.
At the Mayor’s ball at Brisbane the other night
the youngsters would have the “sixteen" Lancers
after midnight, although it is forbidden at Government
House. At 11 p.m., the Governor and suite, the Judges,
M.L.A.’s and Aldermen had a special supper. The
remainder of the company endeavoured to rush the
room, and, because not admitted, seventeen left in high
dudgeon, twenty others declaring they would not
taste a morsel at the Mayor’s expense.
It is whispered in the Brisbane clubs that the
Premier (M‘Dwraith), since his return from Europe,
has shown a tendency to develop into a colonial Crom-
well. He has commenced by stopping the extension of
any of the three trunk railway lines for which the
Ministry hod called for tenders. He asserts (say the
gossips) that he can get any quantity of money at home
to build Queensland railways on the land-grant system,
and while this is the case he will not sanction the
people being further taxed for railway construction.
The following paragraph appeared last Saturday
in an evening paper:—“ An entertainment was given by
the Emerald minstrels, on board H.M.S. Emerald last
night, in celebration of the second anniversary of the
ship being in com mission. A great number of ladies and
gentleman from the city were present, and seemed very
pleased with the entertainment provided.” As many
who read the foregoing arrived at the conclusion that
invitations had been issued by the officers, it may be
well to state that the entertainment, which was a most
enjoyable one, was got up by the crew for the edification
of themselves and their friends.
At the private skating rink, Protestant Hall,
last week, about 100 members and their friends assem-
bled. There was an unmistakeablv strong dash of the
Jewish element of both sexes present. Two sisters,
who wore dark bine costumes, skated really well, and
also a fair yonng lady, dressed in black, trimmed
with a deep shade of crimson. Very short dresses, as a
rule, were worn, showing that red stockings are be-
coming the fashion. The skating was not very good,
and many of the performers showed a lamentable want
of grace, and plenty of room for improvement. Several
of the gentlemen skated fairly well, but most of them
were of the “ hobbledehoy” description, and didn’t
appear to advantage.
Mr. Hickman Moles worth, whom Mr. Service
has put forward to contest Belfast in the Conservative
interest against Sir John O’Shanassy, is the most
formidable antagonist whom it would under the circum-
stances have been possible to find for the doughty and
unreliable knight. Mr. Molesworth is one of the few
able criminal advocates in the colonies and divides with
Mr. Purves the leading criminal practice at the Vic-
torian Bar. He is a son of Mr. Justice Molesworth. by
universal consent the most eminent of all Australian
lawyers and is married to a daughter of the late Mr.
William Rutledge, of Pamhara Estate, near Warnam-
bool, the extensive interest of whose family will be at
his command during the contest. Mr. Molesworth is a
liberal Protestant and. while enjoying extreme general
popularity, is held in the highest esteem by the Roman
Catholic clergy and laity.
Impudence is one thing; sublimely cool
“ cheek ” another. Some time ago a young fellow who
is the son of a leading London solicitor, and whoso lite-
rary accomplishments would not only have secured for
him ft handsome income but have given him entree to
the best colonial society hod he been even moderately
honest, was convicted of stealing a watch. It was by
no means the first time he had “ got into trouble.” Ho
served his sentence, came out of gaol, and re-entered
the journalistic field. The other dav the man whom he
had wronged was walking along King-street and was
rather surprised to see his literary friend dressed to
perfection, doing the block, cigar in mouth, and carry-
ing himself as jauntily as a bank director. “My dear
fellow, how are yon ? ” said the watch-obtainar, bolding
out his hand. The man who had parted with his time-
piece was amazed, and spoke not. “ Now, old man,”
continued the cool individual, “ I took yonr watch, but
upon ray soul I bear no ill will to yon. I hope you bear
none to me —in fact, I’m sure you’ve done brooding
over that little affair. Ton got your watch back, and I,
thought I lost it, hod to go to gaol for my trouble in
taking it. Life’s too short to trouble oneself about
such matters. Come and have a drink ” —which the
other man did, fully impressed for the moment with the
cool one’s idea that that society which made laws in
regard to watches was a sham. After this, who can say
there’s nothing in mesmerism ?
John McCaviston, at present a prospector on
the west coast of Tasmania, has been on almost every
goldfield in the world heard of during the last three
decades. He is noted for dauntless courage and un-
hesitating pluck when the safety of his fellow man is
concerned. In 1874 he was the hero of one of the most
extraordinary adventures that have been recorded in
the history of mining. When employed as underground
manager in the Hustlers’ Company, Sandhurst, some old
workings were broken into suddenly and water came
pouring into the drive. He thought of the men working
in the lower level and instantly slipped down the rope a
depth of 160 ft. to give them warning. The lower drive
he found tenantless, and rapidly retraced his steps to
the shaft. He had only risen a few feet on the ladders
when the volume of water coming down the shaft
stopped his further progress. Nature prompted him to
retreat into the drive, but he had no hope of escape. As
the water filled the drive, he was surprised to notice
that it rose somewhat slowly. This fact combined with
the difficulty of breathing the heavily compressed
air soon showed him that there was a chance if the air
did not escape before the water. All night and next day
he remained crouching in a slight rise in the roof of the
drive waiting for the subsidence of tbe waters—a result
he knew would soon be brought about by the powerful
pumps, the “ suck ”of which he could plainly hear. At
the poppet-head thero was an immense crowd waiting
for the recovery of John’s body, for which they hod
actually provided a “shell." His reappearance at the
top of the ladder momentarily converted a munber of
the watchers to Spiritualism, but they were all sceptics
once more when the ghost asked for “som’ut substan-
tial.” A few months afterwards John stepped out of a
drive —not into the cage as he supposed, but into the
shaft, with a rest for his foot 350 ft. below. He managed
to clutch the iron plate at the edge of the drive, and
waited anxiously till some one heard his hoarse whisper
and released him from the horrible predicament. Half
an hour later Jack left the claim, swearing never to
tempt fate by going down deep sinking any more.
He is convinced that the “tight little island” is a
treasure house, and for three years he has alternately
devoted himself to the search for gold and tin with, we
are glad to hear from him, considerable success.
Something Wanted.
A bottle for the source of the Nile.
A sleeve for a coat of arms.
An apron for the lap of luxury.
An iron safe for the banks of the river.
A cushion for the seat of war.
Electricity for thunders of applause.
A seat for a standing joke.
A towel to wipe the face of the country.
Last week’s casualties.
A man was buried in thought.
Many people lost their heads.
A groat many persons wore drowned in tears.
Some split their sides, others fell between two
stools.
Many were riveted to the spot.
Several stuck to their posts.
Some were smothered with kisses, particularly
The Bulletin people.
A few hadn’t a leg to stand on. Especially the
other papers.
NED KELLY.
(The most accurate portrait yet printed).
Back Lappet. Armour —front view. Helmet.
Armour worn by Ned Kelly.


Amusement
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
SEVENTEENTH WEEK ai
SUCCES
of
THE LONDON COMEDO
THIS (Friday) EV
and until further i
PYGMALION and QJ
and
WAR TO THE K 1
Characters by \
LONDON COMEDY C
Stage Manager ... Mr. Fn
The scenes designed and 63
George Qord
Doors open at 7.15.
Overture at 8.
“ Prices of Admission.—Dress
3s ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co
where seats can be secured si:
ARTHUR GAI
Q
U E E N’S
The EVENT of the S!
SATURDAY NEXT. ,
Special Engagement of the celebi
and Author,
Mr. GEORGE DAR
Mr. George Dar
Mr. George Dar
who will produce his great origins
THE FORLORN
The Forlorn H<
The Forlorn H<
The Forlorn H
The Forlorn Hi
The Forlorn Hi
which achieved'a run of Seven Wei
was pronounced by the Presi
REPRESENTATIVE AUSTB
PULL CAST OF CHS
by the Queen’s Dramati
Entirely new Local Scenery and 5
SPECIAL NOT!
The QUEEN’S THEATRE will I
for preparation and rehearsal of
THE FORLORN
ERA H
Comer King and Yoj
o
GREAT SUCCI
of
The FAVOUR!*]
The VICTORIA LOPTU
The VICTORIA LOFTU
of BRITISH BLOJ
ALL the OLD FA VO
and SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT o
man, Irish, and Hebrew d
BUTLER AND RU!
MONSTER PROGR
The
GREAT LE CLi
WATERS and KI
RICKEY and MCCARTHY,
BARONY and ATI
E
VICTORIA LOP
MINNIE ESMO
VIOLET EL WO
ELLA ST. MAJ
&c., &c.
SATURDAY EVENING an
Programme.
Popular prices—3s, 2s, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Asch
M
ER CANTILE RO
ANNUAL BAI
EXHIBITION BUI]
22nd JULY NE]
The ANNUAL BALL of this C
place in the EXHIBITION Bl
ALFRED PARK, on the above da
age of His Worship the Mayor (B
the MERCHANTS OP SYDNEY.
DRESS: PLAIN and
TICKETS :
Double, 30s; Gentleman’s Sin
Single, 12s 6d.
STEWARDS
B. Fowler, Esq,. (Mayor of
Sydney)
The Hon. James Watson
W. M. Alderson, Esq.
1? R All* Plan
John
J. S. .
W. Lt
James
f! K -
ICTORIA 1
Lessees—Messrs. COPPIN, HEf
VILLE.
Enthusiastic Eec<
of the
lrish Con
- GRATTAN EIC
Who Appears Nig
Supported by a Powerful Compa
Eoyal,
Melbourne,
With Acknowledged Sydr
HIBEENIAN DE^
SATURDAY, 10th
And Until Further
EILEEN
Or,
DARK IS THE HOUR BEFO
With Beautiful New Scenery, Novi
Auxiliaries.
Performances commence at 8.
Box Office at Paling’s.
Manager—
CMMERCIAL BANK INI
SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £500,000. Reserve
Directors :
Eichard Jones, Esq., Chairman ;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Job
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , 1
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. E
Solicitors .-
Messrs.’Want, Johnsor
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head Office—George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office —39 Lomba
Directors; J. A. Youl, Esq., CJ
Esq.; F. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel (
Branches in New South Wau
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Campbelltown, Cannon bar. Care
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North)
Cootamnndra, Dubbo, Dungog,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. (
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kian
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murrurundi, Muswellbrook, Narn
andera. Orange, Parkes, Parra mi
-Queanbeyan, Quirindi, Richmond
ton, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga Wag
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellingtc
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Wo
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bria
Maryborough and Eockharc
Agencies in the Cc
Victoria: The Bank of Victor!
Australasia, Colonial Bank (
Commercial Bank of Australis
South Australia : The Bank of
National Bank of Anstralasi
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diet
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and Westr
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester am
Ireland ; The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco.- The Bank of B
Messrs. Maoondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de 1
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Mor;
India, China and Singapore : T.
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lor
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercani
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Ci
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bonk discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security, £
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, a
lects bills payable at any of the a
elsewhere, at current rates ; colled
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investmen
ties in Great Britain or in the colo:
Furniture shc
O’Connell Stre<
The undersigned invite the attei
nishing, gentlefolks recently arri
generally to the
MAGNIFICENT SEI
of
HIGH CLASS FURU
NOW ON VIE
at the above addi
«3* FOR PRIVATE
AT TRADE PRK
including a complete assortment o;
Library, Drawing-room, and Bedro
most novel and fashionable designs
Fresh consignments are now be
they will be followed by other
EXTENSIVE SHIP]
arrangements having been made wi
factoring houses in London for cor
A great variety of Elegant and £
of a less expensive character is alsc
as well as an extensive assortmen'
Bedsteads (with or without bedd
wood Furniture, Pianos, and Harr
makers, and a large assortment o
(under advance), which may be pu
prices.
Experienced Packers are retained
of goods for the country, or for sh;
BRADLEY, NEWTON a
Auctioneers and General Con
Furniture Warehouse and
O’Connell-stree
Auction Sale Rooms, Sp
OUT-DOOR SALES by Aucti<
Effects, Glass, China, Plate, Pictn
a special staff, and conducted as
for the past 20 years.
Regular Sales by Auction at the
jewellery, and all descriptions of i
unreserved sale.
Cash advances mode to any extei
fide sale.
Valuations made and Inventorief
JJIOR PRIVAT
An ELEGANT PIANC
RICH IN TONE, full compass
finished throughout, ITALIAN
picked. «3“ Guaranteed to withal
climate. Price, only £36. UHT Im
BRADLEY, NEWTON i
Auctioneers and Furniture 1
Spring and O'Connell
jpoß privat:
A WALNUT PIANOFOR’
Sweet in Tone, strong in constrm
moderate-sized drawing-room. Pri
spection invitod.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
Auctioneers and Furniture t
Spring and O’Connell 8
JJIOR PRIVAT]
A SPLENDID WALNUT
(extra size), by Bord; Rich and
highly-finished mechanism, trich<
action, and patent keyboard, keys <
very comfortable to the touch, n
seasoned walnut, strong and durab
of the country. Cost 75 guineas
j a* Inspection invited.
BRADLEY, NEWTON
Auctioneers and Furniture 7
Spring and O’Connell
JjlOR PRIVAT]
A HANDSOME WALNUT P]
ERARD,
full compass, trichord, with all t
provements; price only £45.
Brilliancy of tone and Exquisite t<
S3* This instrument is well wor
professionals.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
Auctioneers and Furniture
Spring and O’Connell
OR PRIVAT]
PIANOS. PIANOS.
A large assortment, ex recent
buyers a choice of instruments froi
makers (guaranteed genuine) embi
the highest class, unsurpassed foi
and durability, and unequalled for
Also,
AMERICAN ORGANS and ]
W All pianofortes sold at thii
carefully examined and properly t
pianoforte mechanist before they
and purchasers from the country n
a sound instrument that will give
tion.
INTERNATIONAL EXH]
SWALLOW and ABLELL w<
Prizes for their celebrated Biacu
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 313 a
north King-st.
I (INTERNATIONAL 'EXHIBIT
BENCRAFT and Co. were aware
for their .superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Kent
SWALLOW AND AEIELL'
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYEI
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and
and 6i cwt. each. Solo agent, 1
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Pe
and assorted Jams. Special agt
343, and 345, Keut-st., 3 doors u<
J3A LING’S MUSIC A
ERARD’S PARIS Pli
hare gained t]
TWO FIRST P;
THE FRENCH ■
Agent: W. H. Pi
PLEYEL’S CELEBEAT
Non-eompetiti
BUT UNSURPA
Agent : W. H. Pi
W. BELL and CO.’S CANA
have gained tl
FIRST and SPECIAI
OYER ALL OTI
Sole Agent : AV. H.
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAN
have
GAINED ANOTHE:
for the
FOURTH Til
at
THE INTERNATIONAL ;
W. H. PALI]
352 GEORGE-ST
opposite
WYNYAED-STEEET,
jgl O R AND A
“freethoug;
A Monthly Illustkati
Devoted to Argumei
FEBETHOUGHT, SPIRITUAL!;
CLAIEYOYANC
AND OCCULT SCH


Miscellaneous
0
LIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN and commission
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES —Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. *., Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA —Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 318 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
EADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
■dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12s. 6d,; Six months
; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books thanroue set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents,— Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Throe to Twelve sets at a time/
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from HADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of eountry terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Plain English, by John Hollingshead
Doctor Digby’s Letters from France, edited by
Lady Eastlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. Lefanu
Reata: What’s in a Name, by E. D. Oirard
Memoirs of a Cynic, edited by Wm. Gilbert
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesworth
The Duke of Albany's Own Highlanders, by James
Grant
Mary Auerley: A Yorksbi e Tale, by R, D. Black-
more
Protection and Bad Times, by Q. Baden Powell
Honor Carmichael, by Miss Duff
The White Month, by the Author of “ Cartouche”
Poor Zeth, by Author of “ Grandmother’s Money”
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Prince Consort, vol. 5, by Sir Theodore Martin
Haworth’s, by Francis Burnett
Our Australian Cousins, by James Inglis (“Maori")
For Her Dear Sake, by Mary Cecil Hay
Moths, by Ouida
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Rice
Diree Recruits, by Joseph Hatton
An AustraUan Heroine, by R. M. Prior
England Under Beaoonsfield, by P. W, (Hayden
Roughing it Van Diemen’s Land, by Edward Howe
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C.
Crawford
'On Duty; A Ride through HostUe Africa, by
Parker Gilmore
bo Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Memoirs of Madame de Remuset
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
htonr of Barbara, by Miss Braddon
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
Oueen of the Meadow, by Charles Gibbon
hi Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Rnnce Hugo, by Maria M. Grant
v>weot Spring Time, by Catherine M. Mucquoid
*oyal Windsor, vols. 3 and 4, by W. Hepwortb
Dixon
A Sword of Damocles, by Thoo. A. Sharp.
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
r. „ 381 George Street Sydney.
°Pen from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
T° OPEN ON TUESDAY NEX 1
The SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE, No. 2.
15S George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay.
into-
UdW n?'• Lining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27 f
Abning Saloon (with convenient re-
Ooffee room * 50 x 27 f
Cftfe T> 27 x 27 f
(all i j Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Roo
l; Wwpi* papers), JParlours, Lavatories, Bf
Thorns, * c ,, &c.
Rr 'f 1 ' el ‘ Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade
The n;’. View of Sydney Harbour.
c °okV r> Rooms. Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Past
And a Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooi
1 most con 118 ! i°P Accommodation, are all fiHed uj
Ae . e manner, and quite capable of meet)
Eamilv 11 ,, thousands of persons daily.
Softest not' ?10u * c Parties supplied to order on 1
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
SYDNEY. 1879 —80.
LEATHERS—
Sole
Kip, Calf, Tweed, Ac
Harness, Strap, and Bog
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing
Splits, Levants, Ac
Patent Enamel and Japanned -
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings
Morocco Boons, Levant, and 800 k...
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
MANUFACTURES.
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd P-iizo
Harness, Collars, Ac Special Ist
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping..: Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851—80 —Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
Special Ist Prize
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
JJORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO. RESERVE FUND, £BO,OOO.
FIRE AND MARINE RISKS ACCEPTED BY
G. A. LLOYD AND CO., AGENTS,
348 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
HENOTED J 65 BALES
RILEY BROTHERS,
IMPORTERS OF DRAPERY, WHOLESALE & RETAIL,
10, 60LKMAN-ST., LONDON.
Central Establishment for £5 Bales-
-386, GEORGE-STEEET, NEAR POST OFFICE.
Branches—
Pitt-street, next Victoria Theatre")
(WO, George-street, Brickfield-hill > SYDKEV.
Oxford-street )
And at Anbiirn-street, Goulburn.
£5 WINTER BALE.
1 pair large blankets
1 large marsella quilt
10 yards good sheeting
20 yards strong calico
12 strong cotton tick
20 wincey dress tweed
10 good Welsh flannel
6 yards strapping tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair large blankets
1 white or coloured quilts
5 yards strong sheeting
10 white or unbleached calico
6 white or red flannel
12 yards dress material
18 yards cotton shirting
4 pairs good stockings
1 pair strong stays
1 dork petticoat
6 strong gambroon
6 brown holland
4 large white towels
3 yards good trowsertweed,
buttons, thread &c.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 suit tweed, coat, trousers
and vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best cotton shirts, large
size
1 best felt hat, any size
6 pair strong cotton socks
6 white handkerchiefs, bor-
dered
1 belt or pair of braces
1 pair strong boots, good
Collars, ties,Ac.
£5 LADIES’ BALE.
6 ladies’ chemises
6 pairs drawers
4 nightgowns
4 ladies’ camisoles
2 ladies’ petticoats
3 children’s chemises
3 pairs drawers
3 nightgowns
3 petticoats
The above are made of good
longoloth, and nicely trim-
med. If desired, other ar-
ticles may be ordered instead
of any of the above.
£5 INFANTS’ BALE.
On the shortest notice we
can send, carriage paid by
mail, this Bale. Articles not
required may be left, and
something else put in.
Half-dozen infants’shirts
Half-dozen infants’ nights
3 long flannels
3 infants’ swaithes
1 dozen calico squares
Half-dozen diaper squares
3 monthly gowns
1 Christening robe
1 christening hood
1 merino square (quilted)
2 pairs wool boots
1 head flannel
£2 STOCKMAN’S BALE.
1 pair tweed trousers
1 Crimean shirt
1 best cotton shirt
3 pairs strong socks
3 pockethandkerchiefs
1 soft felt hat
1 elastic belt
1 pair strong boots
£2 DROVERS’ BALE,
1 macintosh waterproof coat
1 pair leggings.
READ THIS LIST OF PRICES.
CUT IT OUT OP THE PAPER AND KEEP IT BY YOU.
Take our price and try, say, a £2 Bale, as a trial, and order
the middle prices. You will find them serviceable articles.
We wish particularly to impress on persons who may read
this list that they are not our (lowest price articles ; we
have commoner goods, but these are our medium articles,
and we would recommend the middle price as the best goods
for durability and wear.
20,000 Bales have been sent away, and all give the greatest
satisfaction.
Horrock’s calico 3Jd, 4M.fi d
American calico, Aid, fid, 7id
Gray calico, 3d, Aid, 6d, 7d
White sheeting, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Gray sheeting, 7i, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Maasella quilts, 6s, 7s, 10s
Honeycomb quilts, ss, 7s 10s
Coloured quilts, 3s, 4s, 5s
White blankets, 7s, lls, 15s
Toilet covers, RRd. Is 3, ls9d
Blue blankets, 7s 6d 10s 12s 6d
Scarlet blankets 10s, 14s, 17s
Railway rugs, 12s 6d, 16s, 21s
Cotton tick, 4|d, 6d, 71d
Linen tick, 9d, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d
Honeycomb towels, A|d 6d, 9d
Long curtains, 4s lid, 6s, 10s
Table damask, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d
Unbleached damask, Is 6d,2s
Glass towelling, 5Jd. 7Jd. 9d
Kitchen towelling, Aid.6id,9d
White flannel, 10!,d, ls,|ls 3d >
Red flannel, 9d,15d.18d
White Dimity, 6M. 9d, Is.
Bed fringe, 4d, fid, 9d, Is
Blind muslins, 4d, 6d, 8d
Brown holland, 6id, 9d, Is
Hearth rugs, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s
Drugget carpet, Is, Is 6d, 2s
Table covers, 4s, 4s 6d, 7s 6d
Turkish towel, 7-£d, lOd, Is
Warm gloves, Is, Is 6d, 2s
White stockings, A£d, 6d, 9d,
Is, Is 3d
Coloured stockings, 6d, 9d,ls
White stays, 2s, 3s, 4s, 5s
Silk parachutes, 6s, Bs, 10s
Felt skirts. Is lid, 3s 6d,
6s, 7s
Quilted skirts, 7s, Bs, 10s
Chemises, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, 4s
Drawers, Is 6d, 2s, 2s lid
Nightgowns, 2s lid, 4s,
Ss lid
Camisoles, Is lid, 2s 6d,3s 6d
Petticoats, 2s lid, 4s, ss, 7s
Accouchement belts, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s
Fashionable bonnets, 20s, 30s
Trimmed hat, 10s, 15s, 20s
Bridal veil, 6s, Bs, 10s
Bridal Wreath, |6s, Bs, 10s
Fashionable Mantle, 10s, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, 40s
Warm shawl, 6s, Bs, 10s, 12s
Ulster mantles, 8s 6d, lls, 14s
Infants’ bibs, 4-Jd, sd, 9d, Is
Infants’ shirts, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Infants’ Flannels, 3s, 4s, 6s
Infants’ nights, 2s, 3s, 4s
Infants’ Swaithee, 9d, Is
Monthly Gowns, 3s fid, ss, 6s
Infants’ hoods, 3s 6d, 5s
Christening robes, 7s, 10s
Infants’ squares, Bs, 12s, 15s
Short frocks, 3s lid, 5s 6d
Wool boote,|6d, 9d, Is
Christening cloaks, 10s, 15s,
20s
Violet powder, AJ packet
Puff boxes. Is 6d, 2s, 3s, 4s
Children’s pinafores, 10|d, Is
3d, Is lid, 3s, As
Children’s Stay Bands, Is, 2s
Merino Frocks, 3s, 4s, 5s
Merino Pelisses, 4s, 6s, 9s
Velvet Pelisses, Bs, 10s, 12s
Velveteen Tunics, 6s, Bs, 10s
Children’s Costumes, 7s, 10s,
16s, 20s
Girls’ School Hats, 9d, Is, Is
6d, 2s, 2s 6d
Girls’ Stockings, AJd, 7!,d, lOd
Children’s Socks, 4id, 6d, 8d
Girls’ Chemises, 15d, 18d, 2s
Girls’ Drawers, 15d, 18d, 2s
Girls’ Nights, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s
Girls’ Petticoats, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s
Girls’ Stays, 2s fid, 3s 6d, 4s
Girls’ Jackets, 6s 6d, 8s 6d
Ulster Mantles, 4s fid, 6s 6d,
8s 6d, lls 6d
Black alpaca, Bd, lOd, Is, 15d,
18d
French merino, 15d, 18d, 2s
Crape cloth, 15d, 18d, 2s
Black coburg, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Habit cord, Is 3d, Is fid, 2s
Alack crape, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d,
ss, 6s fid
Donble width plaid, Is 6d,2s
Wincey tweeds, 4£d, 6Jd, 9d,
Is
Persian cords, Is, Is 3d, Is 9d
Homespun tweed, Is 3d, Is 6d
Fancy serge, 6d, 9d, Is, Is 8d
Satin cloths, 10*d, Is, Is 3d
Snowflakes, Is, Is 3d, Is fid
Coloured lustres, 9d, Is, 15d
Poplin cords, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d
Black silks, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 4s
Rich gros grain, 4s, ss, 6s, 7s
Black satins, 3s, 4s, ss, 6s
Coloured satins, 2s, 3a, 4s, 5s
Silk velvets, 3s lid, ss, 6s 6d
Silicia lining, A£d, fid, 8d
Victoria Lome, AJd, CdBd
Slate linen, 6d, 7sd, 9d
Black braid, 36 yds for Is
Hooks and eyes, 6 cards for 5d
Tweed trousers, 7s, 9s, 12s
Dark moles, 6s, 7s fid, 8s fid
Trousers and vests, 13s, 17s,
21s, 255, 30s.
Stockmen’s moles, 7s fid,
8s fid
Biding pants, 16s, 20s, 25s
Tweed suits, 25», 355, 45s
Tweed vests, 6s, 7s fid, 9s
Tweed coats, 12s 9d, 16s, 20#
Warm coats, 15s, 20s, 25s
Black cloth, 15s, 20s, 25s
Paget coats, 20s, 255, 30s
Overcoats, 16s, 20s, 25s
Pilot reefers, iOs fid, 13s, 16s
Ulster coats, 255, 30s, 35s
Waterproof coats, Bs, 10s,
15s
The very best, 20s, 30s, 40s
White shirts, 3s, 4s, ss, 6s
Crimean shirts, 4s fid, 16s,
8s 6d
Oxford do., 3s lid, ss, 6s 6d
Working do., 18d, 2s, 3s
Under flannels, Is 6d, ss, 7s
Merino shirts, 2s, 3s, As
Merino pants, 3s, 4s, 5s
Woollen socks, 9d, Is, Is 6d
Woollen stockings, 2s, 3s
Elastic braces, 9d, Is, Is fid
Elastic belts, Is, Is fid, 2s
Cotton socks, 4d, 6d, 9d
Silk handkerchiefs, 2s 6d, 3s
Linen collars, 4£d> 6d, 9d
Paper collars, 6d, 9d, Is
Silk scarfs. Is, Is 6d, 2s
Felt hats, 2s fid, 3s 6d, ss,
Wool comforters, Is, Is 6d,
Warm gloves, Is sd, 2s, 2s fid
Knickerbocker suits, ss,
12s
Dark moleskin, 15d, 18d, 2s
White moleskin, 15d, 18d, 2s
Colonial tweed, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s
Buckskin tweed, 3s, 4s, 5s
Saddle tweed, 3s 6d, As, ss,
6s fid
Bedford cord, 6s 6d, 8s 6d
Black cloth, 5s fid, 7s 6d,956d
Gambroon, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Strapping tweed, Is, Is 6d, 2s
Cotton Cord, Is lid, 2s 3d
Best trousering 4s lid, 5s lid
Mantle cloth, 4s 6d, 6s, 8s 6d
Waterproof tweed, 2s fid, 3sfid
Melton tweed, 2s lid, 0s lid
W orsted coating, 6s, 7s 6d,10s
Diagonal clota, fie, 7s 6d, 8s fld
Black broadcloth, 125,155, 20#
Habit cloths, Bs, 10s, 12s
Silk mixtures, Bs, 10s, 12s
Baunockburns, ss, 6s, 8s
Cheviot tweed, 3s, As, 5s
FOR BOYS AND YOUTHS.
Sailor suits, 6s, Bs, 10s
Velvet suits, 15s, 20s, 25e
Tweed trousers, fis, Bs, 10e
Mole trousers, 4s, 5s
Trousers and vest, lls 6d, 15s
Vests only, 4s, ss, fis
Tweed coats, Sslld.lOs 6d, 13s
Paget coats, 14s, 17s, 20s
Overcoats, 13s fid, 17s, 20s
Pilot reefers, 8s lid, 10s, 12s
White shirts, 2s lid, 3s 7d, 4s
Crimean shirts, 3s lid, ss, fis
Working shirts, Is, ls6d, 2s
Oxford shirts, 2s fid, 3s, 4s
Felt hats, Is fid, 2s, 3s, 4s
PLEASE SEND FOR PATTERN AND PRICE LISTS.
RILEY, BROTHERS,
Importers of Drapery, Wholesale and Retail.
Depot for the original
£6 BALES,
386 George-street, near King-street,
or
600 George-street, Brickfield-hill.
HE PACIFIC WEEKLY.
THIS WEEK’S ISSUE CONTAINS:
NOTES OF THE WEEK:
Short and Pithy Paragraphs on Current Events.
TOPICS OF THE DAY:
VICTORIAN FINANCE.
The Opening of the Queensland Parliament.
The Sleeper awakened.
Suburban Industries, Secret Bills of Sale.
Christianity and Infidelity.
Colonial Celebrity No. IX;*
The Honourable GRAHAM BERRY.
CLUB GOSSIP, by “CAIN”:
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE REIGN OF MUDDLE, No. IV.,
By “ Capri cornua.”
The Stage as a Moral Agent; Jottings by the way.
LITERATURE AND ART:
Colonial Periodicals. Actors and Acting.
“Under the Changing Sky.'
To be had of all Booksellers and Newsagents, and at
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STREET.
CONSOLIDATED SOUPS.
These Soups can be prepared ready ’for use in ten to
twenty minutes, and form a most nutritious and
palatable food, invaluable to all domestic households,
settlers, travellers, &c.
EGYPTIAN LENTIL SOUP,
per tin.
Equal to one-and-a-half pints soup.l
MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP,
4Jd per tin.
Equal to one-and-a-half pints soup.
SPRING, or GREEN PEA SOUP,
3 id per tin.
Equal to one-and-a-half pints soup.
ERBSWURST, or CONSOLIDATED PEA SOUP
2|d per tin.
Equal to one pint soup.
Large quantities of these Soups (two-and-a-balf
million tins) have been supplied to-the British Goversn
ment, and have given the highest satisfaction.
Sold Wholesale Only by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
Sole Agent,
16, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY,
N.S.W
IFLES! RIFLES!
Just Landed, a consignment of
HOLLAND & HOLLAND’S
Celebrated 360 or 380 bore Rook and Kangaroo
RIFLES,
Which took a Special First Order of Merit at the
Sydney International Exhibition.
PRICE, £6; WITH CASE. £7.
Also a few
GUNS
By the above Celebrated Makers.
PRICES, from £2O and upwards.
HOLLAND & HOLLAND’S
New;PateLt Safety
HAMM ERL ESS GUN
Price, 46 Guineas,
With Case and full set of best implements.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
Sole Agent for Australia,
16, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
N.B. —A Stock of 380 C. F. Cartridges, with hollow
fronted Bullets, on hand.
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
ASSIGNED ESTATE of MR. C. HEMSLEY-
MEN’S MERCERS, Ac., Ac.
GEOEGE-STEE.ET, SYDNEY,*
GOWING, BROTHERS,
HAVING PUECHASED THE STOCK IN THE
ASSIGNED ESTATE
OK
ME. CHARLES HEMSLEY,
MEN’S MEBCEE, Ac. Ac.
(at a vert large discount koe cash),
HAVE REMOVED THE SAME TO THEIR
PREMISES,
332 and 500 GEORGE-STREET,
AND ARK NOW
M A 'EKING THE STOCK
AT
HALF ENGLISH COST,
SO AS TO ENSURE A SPEEDY CLEARANCE.
SALE TO COMMENCE SATURDAY, July 10,
AT
GOWING, BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE-STREET, 500.
Opposite Central Police Court,
AND AT
J. E. GOWING,
332, GEOEGE-STEEET, 332,
Halfway between the Post Office and Hunter-street.
RATTAN’S PRESS AGENCY
and
ADDVEETISING OFFICE.
* 124 PITT STREET
(near King-street),
SYDNEY.
Reports Writ tea.
Correspondence Supplied,
Newspapers Filed for Reference,
and
Latest Intelligence Wired Daily
to
All Ports of Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania.
tsar Proprietors of Country Journals desirous of
Establishing a Sydney Agency, where their Papers may
be FILED FOR INSPECTION, are invited to commu-
nicate with the undersigned.
BRANCH OFFICE
for
THE SYDNEY DAILY TELEGRAPH,
Published Every Morning,
containing
The Latest Telegraphic and General News.
Price One Penny,
or Cs 6d Per Quarter,
Advertisements and Subscriptions Received.
O. L. GEAT T A N.
124 Pitt-street, Sydney.
fjl ASMA N I A N MERINOS.
From the Renowned Stud Flocks of
Messrs. W. Gibson and Son,
Scone, Tasmania.
For SALE, by Public Auction,
at the
AGRICULTURAL HALL, GARDEN
PALACE,
on
WEDNESDAY, 14th July. 1880,
at 11 o’clock.
Catalogues now ready.
BRUNKER and WOLFE,
Auctioneers.
DR. SACHS, Homoepatiuc Physician, returns
thanks to his friends for kind enquiries during
his late illness, and informs them that he has Resumed
Practice at his residence. Manly Beach, mornings and
evenings, and from 1 o’clock to G at 52 Wynyard Square.
r, ~ &
' o V/
every flower that
. ,at
breathes a fragrance.
SWEET SCENTS'
LIGN-ALOE. OPOPONAX. .
LOVE-AMONG-THE-ROSES.'
frangipanni.
A THOUSAND OTHERS.
. 24. Od. each ; or three
"«• '


Miscellaneous
M A. HUGHES
• 580, Geoege-stee
respectfully invite Gentlemen at
WINTER UNDERCLC
to pay them a visit before goi
Special Lines in-
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Unde
Lambswool Undershirts and Draw
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Draw*
White shirts, Military Fronts, 3s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s fid six for
At M. A. HUGHES A]
380 George-stree
aREAT BARGAIN.—ShinerL
STEAM MILL at KEMPSE
Price, £5OO. £2OO down—balance et
O’Dt
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO P
260 and 262 GEORGE-S'
(over Peate and Harcc
Now open to the Public. The higl
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Co
Crayon Water Colours, and
will be produced
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fad
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respec
REDGAT
SHT
And FOOD OF
The most wholesome n
children or persons in <
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO {
gold by all Grocers ami
IMPROVED KOMI
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAC
To prevent fraud and decejitio
the following words on the steel si
they ship their sole agents in Ansi
All Genuine Mac
stamped
M. MOSS and (
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S.
Look for words before m
WINTER NECESSI
VASES
For the Dining Boom,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Boom,
&c., &t>.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
THE SYDNEY GAEDEN PALACE
(Manufactured for the 1880 Season
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEOR<
fj I E AUSTRA
(Now in its Fourth Volum
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH
PEICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL bookselle:
THE MOST POPULAR, MAGAZINE
ILLUSTEATED WITH PHOTOTY
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clipp
Rambles, See., Sec.
Also, Among the Advebtisem]
TIME TABLES FOE FERRIES, MAILS, T
'BUSES.
Miscellaneous
T| RYSD A L E AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street, ,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&e., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Ivon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
oi?
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY'
AT
RILEY BROTHER S’
IS NOW OPEN,
If you want to
SAVE ss. IN THE POUND |
Don’t fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
ox
SATURDAY,
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
380 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
[7l OR SALE, or TO LET, on the BELLINGER
D RIVER,
> ACRES of LAND, on which are about 7 acres
: bearing Vineyard, comprising a choice selection
? crapo vinos, together wiih comfortable DWELL-
STG, Cellar, &c. Also, a 52-ACRE FARM, direct
pposite vineyard; all of which is rich alluvial
)il, and situated between the Townships of Forn-
lount and Boat Harbour, all navigable water
■ontago. The above is situated in one of the
ealtbiest country districts on the Northern Coast,
or particulars, apply to J. F. SCHOLER, Castle-
jagn-atroot, or to J. MARX, Senb., Bellinger
liver.
STIEPVATER, GUNMAKER,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Country orders promptly attended to
Gb. mod I
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
UNS.
TRIFLES,
JJEVOLVERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
U 1 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
E. L A E K I N,
Wholesale and Eetail
PEODUGE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEOEGE AND GIBBS STEEET,
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-stroet),
Darlinghurst Eoad, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAE KIN,
W'holbsalk and Eetail Wink and Spirit Merchant,
PEINCE OP WALES HOTEL,
778 GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
SYDNEY,
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Haymarket.
- KILLED MEAT
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
I
The finest display of
CQUNTRY -KILLED BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see,
And Jddqk hoe Yodbseitks.l
Comer of
GEORGE AND ENGINE STREETS,
HAYMARKET.
