

THE BULLETIN
No. 4.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1880.
Price —3d.
§wMm
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1880.
Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Cr. H. Reid.
It is undeniable that for many years past politics
in this colony have been swayed rather by the
personal influence of the leaders of the Assembly
than by the principles which they professed. In
New South Wales, as distinguished from Victoria,
there have been no two well-defined parties, no
sharp, deeply-marked line of demarcation between
the occupants of the Treasury benches and those
who faced them. Whether a member’s seat was to
the right or to the left of the Speaker has hitherto
depended on his personal love or respect for Sir
Henry or his devotion to Sir John. But all this
is now to be changed—that is to say Mr.
Buchanan intends to change it, and to sub-
stitute for the calm, cool tone of politics, hitherto
enlivened by naught save his own feeble, wordy
caricatures of Carlyle, or the more forcible,
though even less cultured diatribes of Mr.
M‘Elhone, a state of things which, when regard
is paid to the average personnel of a New South
Wales Assembly, can hardly fail to be interesting.
Since the departure of his amiable friend Chiniquy
Mr. Buchanan’s attention seems to have been
diverted from the Pope, the Papists, Shakes-
peare, and Archbishop Vaughan to politics
proper and protection. This substitution on his
part of worldly matters for religion no one can
regret in a young country like this, where the
sectarian difficulties engendered by ecclesiastical
interference and by the influence of a greedy peri-
patetic impostor, whom only a clerical habit
protected from the penalties of the Vagrant Act
would, if not set straight, result in infinite harm to
the community. Mr. Buchanan, having so far
converted his own intelligent constituency as to
get a public meeting of Mudgeeites to vote straight
for protection, is bent on carrying the war into
Sydney and giving an assemblage of metro-
politan residents an opportunity of distinguishing
themselves in a similarly brilliant way. He has
invited some one to ‘ ‘ tread on the tail of his coat ’ ’
and discuss with him in public the relative merits of
free-trade and of his newly-adopted doctrine, Pro.
tection. Mr. G. H. Reid, the well-known author
of “ Five Free Trade Essays,” has accepted the
challenge, and nothing now remains but the fixing
of the happy evening on which we are to hear Mr.
Buchanan talk round a subject of which his
opponent is comparatively a master, and of
which the member for Mudgee knows as much as
the man in the moon —the fateful night on which
Mr. Buchanan is to be elevated to the dignity of
a small Berry and to have the fate of the colony
decided by a miniture plebiscite.
Notwithstanding the fact that Mr. Buchanan
has managed to constitute himself the local
champion of protection and that Mr. Reid’s
argumentative statistical essays have been largely
commended by that ablest of Australian political
journals, the Argus, it is hardly probable that
the count of noses to be taken after the forthcoming
debate will have any great weight in the ultimate
solution of what is, paradoxically enough, alike
the most simple and the most knotty of political
problems. No one expects to hear Mr. Buchanan,
the man of words, argue, any more than those
who know Mr. Reid, the man of figures, expect
to hear that gentleman declaim. It is a fortunate
thing for this free-trade colony that the question
of the advisableness of a change in its fiscal policy
has as yet not seriously arisen, and that New South
Wales, while following so far as is dictated by
common sense the example of Great Britain, has
the benefit of calmly viewing the effects of the
protectionist system in a colony which, though
geographically near, may almost be said to be
commercially more distant than the mother coun-
try. So far as the settlement of the question is
concerned it would really appear that the pro-
posed public discussion of the respective merits of
free-trade and protection will serve no more useful
purpose than that of allowing Mr. Buchanan to
hear himself talk, and that the decision of the
meeting in regard to the question at issue will be
of the same intrinsic value but have less weight than
the verdict of one of the juries whomMr Buchanan
bamboozles every day in the week. The member
for Mudgee is intemperate, reckless, and illogical
enough even when he cools his words in ink and
commits them to paper. He could give his cause
more valuable aid were he with the permission
of some kind editor to deliberately provoke
and enter upon a printed instead of an oratorical
controversy. What Mr. Buchanan sees ahead
and how his devious course of action is to carry
hunto it the public can at present but guess.
Iheycan only perceive that he has in regard to
this discussion of his own making already com-
menced to bully and to bluster, and they cannot
re P r ®® B a smile at the characteristically conde-
a « Gumptious way in which he suggests
that Mr Greenwood, “ the ablest advocate of
he has yet encountered ” be allowed to
assist Mr. Reid. David’s modest remark that
“ a triumph over the weakness of opponents” (as
embodied in Mr. Reid!) “would he but a poor
one ” reads like a huge joke; and the manner in
which he disclaims all confidence in himself and
deprecates any such thing as “a silly paltry
vanity ” is a fit accompaniment of his high-falutin,
expression of boundless confidence and trust in
the eternal truth of the cause he advocates.” It
is a great pity for the protectionists that the man
who has chosen himself to represent them should
be an embodiment of all Mr. Berry’s political vices,
and of none of his virtues.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
II.— THE LADIES' MAN.
BY QUIZ
The “Ladies’ Man’’ is not necessarily a marrying
man or a married man. He may in his youth have
passed through one or two mild flirtations, but nothing
more serious. His self-love usually saved him from
committing himself too deeply, although he may have
.... TT
inspired hope in more than one young girl s heart. He
n
never really proposed. He is often known to take the
..._.„,, . . . . . ,
position of “ best man for his more impetuous mends
, , .
and on such occasions never shirks the duty of kissing,
. ..... ~ , , ,
not only the bnde, but also the bridesmaids. And yet
, . . . . ,
he is not a marrying man. Among young married wo-
, . ~ , . _ ... .• ~ .
men he is quite at home. He makes them his particular
v i, , , . ... ~ „ „
charge, and has been known to chide pretty Mrs. Flip-flap
, . , , .... . . . ..
for giggling too much when talking as not being quite
. ... . . „ .. , ...
the thing in society. He may sit and say soft nothings
.., . .
to most of his young married friends without raising
... ... ~
the temper or exciting the curiosity of their husbands,
~,., , , , , ,
he s known to be such a careful fellow where women
, ~ ~ , . ~ ..ux,
are concerned. At the races he fixes on the most stylish
... . .... ~ , ,
looking carnage, containing two or more pretty daugh-
. - , . ’ . * , , . , . . -
ters-for he believes m the old adage of safety in
numbers He leans on the door displaying his white
teeth, and looking all manner of soft thmgs out of his
rather expressive eyes. He is interested in the girls’
racing cards, helps to make up sweeps ”—including
’. ... V, . „
mamma-and in a little while, after standing up by the
daughters, steadying their field-glasses, and taking great
care neither of them fall, he discovers that theirs is
the winning horse. He returns and pours the stakes
into mamma’s fat hands, and puts the girls’ glove
numbers down in his pocket book, together with a good
many less innocent memos. Mamma asks him to stay
tiffin ; but no. He has friends who expect him—“ so
sorry ! Awful bore! So happy ’ ’ where he is—but must
tear one’s self away. Those confounded fellows ore
waiting for him.” So, bowing over mamma’s hand he
squeezes, first Lucy’s and then Eosy’s slender fingers
and is gone, but not without a promise to return and
accept a seat for the drive home, which he makes
delightful—for mamma is drowsy, and although her eyes
are open, the clatter of the girls is not noticed. When
the carriage stops, pretty Lucy and blushing Kosy both
say : “Is he not a dear fellow ! ” “So entertaining,’*
says mamma. While he is being eulogised by his fair
friends, he his pursuing his way—at first with a smirk,
which, after examining his little book with its different
entries, widens into a very satisfied smile, for our friend
makes a very careful book, and the results of his day’s
work are very good indeed.
His evenings, when no better engagement offers, are
spent at the theatre, where, with his eyes he criticizes
the ladies’ dresses, and with his ears he listens to the
music of the Opera, which does not always please his
musical taste. He chatters to his neighbour on this
actress or that one, generally in a weak disparaging
style. What he says must be correct—in fact his ear for
music is so fine that the grandest overture, well played
and correctly fails to please him. He raises his white
hands to his ears in mild deprecation, if asked whether
the piece just ended was not well performed.
He is partial to cards; but never plays before, or
with ladies. He likes to take his young friends to his
room, where they play pretty high, and pretty late,
and our friend often teaches his friends a lesson. At
parties he is invaluable; he takes all the trouble off his
hostess’s shoulders, arranges the dances, starts the
band, see that every one has a partner—not forgetting
himself —or he sits by his pretty hostess and entertains
her, holds her fan, and so on. Later on, behold him
surrounded by girls, one of whose belts he has clasped
round slim waist, and surveys himself with no little
satisfaction. He lives carefully, likes delicate cookery,
sips his wine like a girl, and is never known to exceed;
yet he is as fair a judge of wine as he is of women.
C. J. ROBERTS, ESQ., EX-MAYOR OF
SYDNEY.
Just at this time when the public, in view of
important approaching events, are quietly taking
an estimate of the men who have been before them
during the last few years, no more fitting moment
can occur than the present for a glance at
the services of our ex-Mayor, Mr. C. J. Roberts.
In our late Mayor we find a man who by
by his industry, good judgment, and uprightness,
won for hiinself a high position among the trading
community—men who are really the backbone of
any country —and in him we find, too, a man who,
by his kind, genial, and self-denying disposition,
has won the admiration of all who appreciate inde-
pendence and straightforwardness of character.
We contend that the election of Mr. Roberts to the
Mayoralty at the time that it did occur, was a
public good. He did honour to the position. Well
might a contemporary say that “ to alithese per-
sonages who came in a representative capacity,
Mr. Roberts extended a hospitality almost princely,
and the courtesies of an English gentleman.’
C. J. ROBERTS, ESQ., EX-MAYOR OF SYDNEY.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN)
II.—A QUEER VISITOR.
My dear Beau-blossom, —
My second visit to the “ Garden Palace ” was
to hear one of the afternoon concerts. There was a
great crowd, but not altogether a musical one. Most
of the courts still presented a half-finished appear-
ance, and to the steady tramp of the people was added
the frequent sound of the carpenter’s hammer, so the
concert was not all harmony. However, as I went to
listen to the music, I managed to secure a comfortable
seat and determined to turn as deaf an ear as possible to
all sounds not strictly musical. Alas ! scarcely had
“ Giorza ” waved his “ baton ” than the chairs in front
of mine were taken possession of by an energetic female
of ample proportions and her friends ; as soon as she
had subsided she prepared herself with paper aad pencil
to take notes in a truly feminine manner. In the in-
terim of her scribbling she talked volubly to her friends,
nodded to those she knew in the orchestra, shook her
pencil playfully at Signor “ Nor-ti-i ” because, poor fel-
low, he drew such a hair-splitting note from his violin
it made us all shudder, while he writhed his long arms,
and curved that singularly elastic back-bone of his into
all sorts of ungainly shapes in his efforts to get back into
harmony with the other instruments. Who can this
stout black-eyed woman be P I rack my brain and at last
it flashes upon me, that she is the Melbourne “ Octopus ”
who used in Opera season to sow her opinions like her
chaplets broadcast. I often wondered if poor old “ Sig-
nor Zelman” ever wore his oak leaves and gay
streamers behind the scenes; or if Signor “Nor-ti-i”
felt proud when the “ Octopus ” put her feeler on his
sloping shoulders and called him “ a good boy ” as he
passed the thronged doorway, after opera. However,
having recognised my somewhat corpulent friend and
observed that her musical notes were fast sprawling over
a quire of paper I shifted my position. I had scarcely
settled myself at a safe distance from the “ Octopus ”
and once more given my attention to the music, when
two or three fussy workmen with their shirt sleeves
rolled up to the elbow marched up, and addressing several
ladies said, ‘You must move and leave a clear path
right through here,’ The ladies objected, said they came
to listen to the music and declined to move—why should
they ? Because said the workmen, the great “ Panjan-
drum” is making a tour of all the Courts. The ladies
still declined to move, so the men shook their heads and
said the police would make them. We waited rather
anxiously and'the myrmidons of the law did cqme, closely
followed by the great “ Panjandrumbut who could
break through such a closely packed army of ladies
whose bright eyes were all fixed defiantly on the great
“ Panjandrum ’’—they quietly ignored the “ blue bot-
tles” and their buzz. No ; the great man turned short
with the audible remark, that he would just as soon face a
cannon as an army of amazons. Then we smoothed our
ruffled plumes, smiled sweetly on the retreating forms
of our redoubtable foes and sat the concert out in peace.
There was a mass of people, but somehow the feminine
portion are not as yet quite at home in these light and
tastily-painted courts. In a little while, however, when
the surrounding objects begin to get a more finished
appearance; when the incessant hammering ceases;
and the frequent “By your leave, ladies” compels you
to rise suddenly and make way for a body of workmen
shifting some of the exhibits ; —when all this is ended
I shall b« able to do full justice to the ever varying
groups of youth, beauty, and fashion that will dail
gather in our Garden Palace.
PEA-BLOSSOM.


It is, however, in the faithful discharge of his
duties as a civic representative, and particularly as
Mayor, that Mr. Roberts has proved himself a real
benefactor to his native city. The public already
know of the munificence of his Mayoral period,
but they cannot possibly be acquainted with the
manner in which he discharged the very onerous
duties of his position during the trying era of
1879. At the time of his election to the Council,
which, from his sweeping majority, was in itself
an unmistakeable mark of public confidence and
esteem, the Corporation was drifting into insol-
vency. At that time the sanitary condition of
Sydney was indeed alarming, and the public in
vain looked for a remedy. The period of his
election to the Mayoralty saw a climax of the
Council’s difficulty. Complete insolvency was an
accomplished fact—a condition which was the
result of a want of arrangement in the Council’s
affairs that is not very pleasant for the citizens
now to contemplate. The papers of the day
pointed out the difficulties that beset the new
Mayor, Mr. Charles Roberts, and rightly called
it a crisis in the civic affairs of Sydney when the
exercise of great tact and judgment would alone
save it from disgrace. The great work of the
International Exhibition had been undertaken, and
the city had to make some sort of a presentable
appearance. But there were no funds —the Bank
was unwilling to offer further accommodation.
The staff of workmen kept to look after the sani-
tary condition of the city had to be reduced. Mr.
Roberts at this juncture took a bold stand on be-
half of the city. He laid the full facts of the
Council’s condition before the Government, and
pressed them for prompt relief. He succeeded in
getting the Government to give a guarantee to the
Bank for the sum of <£75,000. The obtaining of
this temporary relief was not, however, all that was
gained. The attention of the Government was at
last fairly directed to the urgency of an increased
endowment for the city and increased powers to the
Council. All this, however, was not gained with-
out great personal exertion, and during the delay
Mr. Roberts, with his customary munificence,
offered to temporaraily meet from his own private
sources the demands of the hour. This period
was admittedly the most trying and most difficult
the city ever passed through. With all his calls,
however, Mr. Roberts managed to make himself
acquainted with the working of every de-
partment of the Corporation. With a reduced
staff he managed to get more work done than
was ever previously accomplished, and he was
continually with the officers, encouraging them to
extra exertions to surmount the difficulty. One of
the most experienced and useful of the officers of
the Corporation recently told the writer
that Mr. Roberts “ dropped into the busi-
ness as if he had been fifty years at it.”
He made a practice of frequently visiting at
early morning those portions of the city whose
moral and sanitary condition urgently called for
improvement. A decided change for the bet-
ter was the immediate result of these visits.
While at Melbourne in March Mr. Roberts noticed
several important imporvements in respect to the
sanitary arrangements of that city, and on his re-
turn he at once adopted them here, much to the
common advantage. Thus, while in his official
capacity he did honour to Sydney by his munifi-
cence, he improved, in the face of the greatest
difficulty, the social and physical condition of the
people. The affairs of the Council were set on a
solid basis as far as could be done without effec-
tive legislation, and the business of the Town
Hall received an impetus that it is Kkely to feel
for some years to come. He completely reorganized
the staff, yet in vacating the Mayoral position he
retained the respect and esteem of the Corpora-
tion officers for his business-like tact and gentle-
manly conduct towards them. The officers, in
fact, wonder how they got through the year 1879,
and it is not surprising that double the work is
got through now than was the case in years gone
by. The city has undoubtedly reaped the benefit
of Mr. Robert’s unselfish labours, and it must be
some satisfaction to him to find that the citizens
allow no opportunity to pass for showing their ap-
preciation of his exertions. In another way, at
no distant date, the citizens of Sydney will doubt-
less, in further rewarding Mr. Roberts for his
past labours, open a new and wider field for the
exercise of his energies, tact, and judgment.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The drought in South Africa has broken up.
In the Scottish railway disaster 90 perished.
Spurious A.J.S. £5 notes are in circulation.
Coffee taverns are successfid in Adelaide.
It is believed that the dispute between China
and Japan will blow over. ‘
The French flagship, Themes, 3,600 tons,
arrived at Singapore on 27th January.
On 27th January a synod of French E.C.
bishops was opened at 'Singapore.
A fearful storm with loss of life occurred at
the Cape diamond fields on 14th January.
A colony of young men is to be brought from
England to settle at Mount Umzimlu River, Zululand.
There are epidemics among the horses and
young ostriches at the Cape.
A woman named Thompson has murdered her
illegitimate child at Ballarat by throwing it into a dam.
Hudswell, cook of the ship Oceola, has been
found dead in his bunk at Adelaide.
The country recently taken from Secococni, the
Basuto chief, is' being prospected for gold.
The Boers intend maintaining a passive re-
sistance to English authority.
During January 81,000,00 gallons of water
were consumed in Adelaide.
An extensive fire was occurred at Deniliquin.
the estimated total loss is £4OOO.
A new vine disease, in the shape of a minute
tick, has appeared at the Cape.
The Kent left London last week with a full
passenger list.
The s.s. Easby has been mulcted in damages at
Melbourne re her late collision with the “ Undaunted.”
The Tucker’s Creek rush is unfavourably
spoken of. Fifty remain on the ground.
A miner, just returned from Temora, says that
the prospects are poor.
The Trentham railway (Victoria) was opened
on Monday.
On the night of Mr. Service’s Maldon speech
26,000 words were wired to Melbourne.
Party discipline was never so apparent in the
Victorian Oppositionist ranks as at present,
, It would cost £lO,OOO to light the Melbourne
Exhibition with gas.
The Government are taking steps to preserve
and improve the Whombean caves.
The foundation stone of a new temperance hall
has been laid at Balmain.
The provisional public school at La Perouse is
favourably reported on.
Mahomed Jan, who attacked General Roberts, con-
tinues to incite rebellion at Cabul.
In future the registry office of the Postal
Department opens at 9 instead of 10 a.m.
On 31st Drcember, the population of New
South Wales was 734,282.
The laying of the new Wanganui cable is
proceeding.
Farmers generally favour the Eobey thresher
as being best adapted for their work.
David Buchanan complains that no reporters
attended his Mudgee protectionist oration.
It appears that the arrest, trial, and execution
of the Wantabadgery bushrangers cost £3,250.
Justin M'Carthy has resigned his seat for
Mallow because he could not follow Parnell.
Flood, the ’Frisco bonanza king, gave his
daughter a New Year’s present of 2,500,000 dols.
In 1879 there were 6,658 mercantile failures in
the United States.
President Hayes is in favour of immediately
depriving Mormons of political power.
Governor Tilden says that should Grant be
again President it means “ Empire.”
A further sum of £3,500 was transmitted to
the Mayor of Dublin from Melbourne on Friday week.
An excellent concert (the third) has been
given by the Glebe choral society.
In 1847 the Eoyal Family gave £3,000 to the
Irish Famine Relief Fund.
The Duchess of Marlborough’s Irish Belief
Fund amounted, when last mail left, to £19,000.
M. Wadding!on is being strongly pressed to
accept the Berlin Embassy.
A hundred Nihilists have been arrested at
Warsaw.
Skobeloff has presented to the Czar an elabor-
ate report on the German army.
The Eussian national income and expenditure
exactly balance, each being 160 million roubles.
A branch of the British Medical Association has
been formed in Sydney.
Galway county is in a very disturbed condition.
200 extra police have been sent' there.
The Sir Hercules Eobinson portrait committee
have not yet selected an artist.
An attempt is to be made to open the reading-
room of the Sydney School of Arts on Sundays.
£17,000 has been remitted to Dublin from
Sydney in aid of the Irish Famine Relief Fund.
Mr. W. Forster says he objects to the “present
system of pauper immigration."
John Brown, butcher, has fallen from the old
Fitzroy Bridge, near Windsor, and been drowned.
Eobert Davis, a boy of six, has been dragged
by a horse at Cornwallis and killed.
Mr. Bern says the Victorian Conservatives are
wolves in sheep’s clothing.
Larrikins prowl round the ladies’ corporation
baths.
Funds are urgently needed for that useful
instution, the Sydney Night Refuge and Soup Kitchen.
Dr. Wazir Beg has published in pamphlet-form
his letters to the Herald on public education.
A remarkable increase of 40,000, in the popu-
lation of the colony is shown by the vital statistics.
Mr. Buchanan is to move that State’’aid be
withdrawn from the colleges affiliated to the university.
Victorian Eoform League meetings are becom-
ing more rowdy as the election approaches.
£35,000 in new silver coin has been brought
to Melbourne by the Garonne.
A large sale of Eiverina station property to
Melbourne capitalists has just been concluded.
The balance sheet of the Cumberland Fruit
Growers’ Association is very satisfactory.
The Eegister says that while the Victorian
revenue has diminished by £182,000, the S.A. revenue
in 1879 increased by £69,000 over the revenue for 1878.
Jones, Leighton and Co. are raising splendid
stone at Currajong, and have refused £4,000 for their
claim.
A man was the other day locked up at Goul-
bum for passing a half-crown,'which, after all, proved
to be genuine.
The body of a man fully clothed has been
taken out of the Murrumbidgee at Wagga. It had
been a week in the water.
Mr. H. H. Ould, chief clerk in the Crown
Solicitor’s office, has been appointed a commissioner for
affidavits.
John Hood, a lad residing at Surry Hills, was
nm over by a cab in Oxford-street last Saturday week
and seriously injured.
Somerset House, in Cooper-sfreet, Waterloo,
the property of Mr. James Bulfln, was totally destroyed
by lire on Sunday morning last. It was insured for
4200.
The steamer Florrie, conveying excursionists to
the Hawkesbury, is being overhauled and fitted up with a
special view to the comfort of ladies.
The Eev. John Vaughan, of Penrith, has de-
livered at St. Jude’s school-room an interesting lecture
on “ My trip through America.”
Mr. Clarke, a Conservative, has been returned
for Southwark in place of the late Mr. Locke, a Liberal.
Another Conservative victory.
A subscription is on foot for the widow and
family of the late Eev. G. C. Bode, of St. Thomas’s,
North Shore.
A young fellow at Inglewood, Victoria, recently
married his landlady’s servant girl. She has now come
in for £42,000 and a small estate in Bedfordshire.
The Government monument to the memory of
the late Constable Bowen weighs three tons, and has
arrived at Gundagai.
All coasting sailors agree that St. George’s
light near the entrance of Jervis Bay should be re-
moved to Crocodile Head.
British manufacturers are disinclined to ex-
hibit at the Melbourne International on account of the
Victorian protective tariff.
Mr. P. A. Jennings, C.M.G., Executive Com-
missioner of the International is to be banquetted before
the Foreign and Colonial Commissioners leave Sydney.
Dean Cowper will receive subscriptions in aid
of the fund on behalf of the family of the late Eev. Mr.
Bode, of North Shore,
In 1879 there were 80 owners of over 500 sheep
each in the Yass district. There are now 102 owners
and 64,602 sheep.
Ann Webb, wife of a carrier, has hanged her-
self at Braid wood. A woman who looked at the corpse
became mad.
Mount Kembla mine, Wollongong, is to be
connected by rail with the harbour and worked by an
English company.
’’The Barrabool and Macedon are still laid up at
Newcastle, but the latter will probably soon load
Waratah Company’s coal for Melbourne.
Eobert Thrutchley, blacksmith, has had his
skull smashed in an altercation at Brisbane and is in a
dangerous state.
An iceberg 250 feet high and five miles long
has been passed by the Border Chief on her voyage
from Liverpool to Melbourne.
A company with £5,000 capital is being
formed to establish a milk-condensing factory at
Kiama.
The Sydney harbour steamers Fairlight and
Swansea have collided, the former having a hole
knocked in her quarter.
Constable Hayes, who with Constable Todd
was assaulted by some street ruffians and seriously
injured. He has now been conveyed to the Infirmary.
The Marquis of Lome and the Princess Louise
have met with an accident, fortunately not serious,
while sleighing.
Mr. MTherson, of the Melbourne jute works
(a protected industry), has filed his schedule. Liabili-
ties £18,000; assets, £32,000.
Cablegrams to the dailies state that 118,981
bales of wool have arrived in London in time for the
present series of sales.
It has been decided by the Assembly by a
majority of 33 to 8, to altogether witheraw State aid
from Denominational Schools at the end of 1882.
Alexander Ogilvie, the defaulting secretary of
the Operatives’ Benefit Building Society, has been
sentenced to four years’ imprisonment.
It is rumoured that the Municipal Council
intend fencing in the lagoons which abound on our
pavements to save probable inquest expenses.
George De Thouars, who stuck up Holy Plains
Station, Gippsland.has been sentenced to 15 years’ hard
labor.
Chiarini has been fined Is at Melbourne for
smashing an hotel waiter who had compared him and
his wife to a pair of pigs.
At New Plymouth, N.Z., a shoal of 120 black
fish, some of them nearly 20 feet long, were driven
ashore, it is believed by a sword fish.
Henry Jackson, the recipient of a free railway
pass, has been fined £2, in default one month’s gaol for
trying to sell it.
Dr. Kennealy is not in the Tichborne case.
J. P. Benjamin, Q.C., late Confederate attorney-general,
will appear for the claimant.
Charles S. Watson, a storekeeper in the employ
of Messrs. Brown and Co. Spring-street, has been com-
mitted for trial on a charge of stealing tea.
The Irish Home Eule Executive Committee
is disgusted at the subscriptions in London for the
relief of the distressed.
Changes in the French Ministry of War are
attributed to the influence of Gambetta, who for some
time past has been studying the science of war.
Mr. Burton Bradley’s letter on the sewerage
question in last Monday’s Herald has attracted much
attention.
At Yalwal, the Pioneer Claim have raised 200
tons of stone, which is expected to average between 10
and 15 dwts.
The commandant’s parade of the Headquarters
volunteer force took place on Saturday afternoon last.
For steadiness in marching the Torpedo corps bore off
the palm. •
“ Let there be Light ” writing to the Herald
forcibly urges that the magnetic-electric light be used
at the new South Head lighthouse, and also at other
places, instesd of the old-fashioned oil-flame.
“ Tom Brown ” writes to the Herald pointing
out that the mistake made in examination
papers of Mr. Leverrier is not the first grave one for
which Dr. Badham and his assistants are responsible.
His Excellency the Governor has been pre-
sented by the Exhibition Commissioners with their
individual photographs, splendidly executed by Boyd
and grouped into one picture.
The Woolgar prospectors say that all the reefs
tried by them on their way were gold-bearing, and that
100 loads of washdirt yielded 20 oz. per load. They
claim the reward for the discovery of a payable field.
Wells, the bushranger who shot at and
wounded Mr. Murphy of Cunnamulla while the latter
was endeavoring to arrest him has been sentenced to
death without hope of mercy.
Alexander Ogilvie, late secretary of the Opera-
tives’ Benefit Building Society, has been convicted of
forging a society’s receipt for £lOO with intention to
defraud, and of two acts of embezzlement.
At Campbelltown, on Tuesday evening last, the
annual meeting of the Botanical Collecting Society,
established by the Rev. T. Y. Alkin, took place. A
very pleasant evening was spent.
At Gyinpie, the North Glanmpire Co. have
crushed 190 tons for 736 oz. 9 dwt. 6 gr. gold. No 1
Nortin’s, last crushing is 350 ozs smelted gold from 190
tons.
It is said that the Melbourne banks the other
received notice from the chief commissioner of police of
the intention of the Kellys to make another raid on one
or other of the country branches.
Messrs. Cowan and Co. have issued a small
pamphlet advocating the use of Indian as against
Chinese teas. The latter are being extensively and
dele-tea-rionsly adul-tea-rated.
A successor to the Hon. John Sutherland in
the representation of Paddingon will be elected to-day.
Messrs. W. Hezlett and J. B. Douglas are the
candidates.
Nominations for the Infirmary medical officer-
ships vacant through the retirement by rotation of
Drs. W. J. O’Reilly and J. C. Cox, who offer themselves
for re-election, are to be handed in by noon to-day.
“ One who works for his living” writes to the
Herald protesting against the practice of giving cab-
men more than legal fares. “ One who," etc. may be
theoretically right, but there’s something about a good
horse which ‘ fetches ’ a Britisher.
Messrs. W. and A. Gilbey, prompted by the
increasing demand resultant on the ravages of the
phylloxera, cl eared the London market on Bth November
of all the best brands of cognac. The total amount of
their purchases amounted to £183,000.
Mr. Corcoran’s alleged invention of a new and
simple apparatus for washing is stated by Messrs.
Drysdale and Roberts, agents for Messrs. Humble and
Nicholson, to be an infringement of the latter firm’s
patent.
Near Gayndah, Queensland, recently, a brown
snake crawled up the arm of a coach passenger, who
violently jerked the animal on to the driver’s neck.
The latter spasmodically transferred the reptile to the
custody of a policeman, who killed it.
After the 25th instant the overland fare to
Melbourne by coach will be £5 instead of £7 10s. To
prevent overcrowding the mail coaches, it will be neces-
sary for passengers to arrange in advance with Messrs.
Cobb and Co.
Messrs. W. W. Eichardson, Abbott (of Mort
and Co.), Moser, and the Hon. G. H. Cox are now, on
behalf of the Agricultural Society of N.S.W., pre-
paring an analytical and exhaustive report on the inter-
national wool show.
Mr. Buchanan’s motion that in the opinion of
the Assembly the fact that Sir Alfred Stephen, the
Lieutenant-Governor, was a member of the Legislative
Council was inconsistent with the spirit of the consti-
tution, has been rejected.
Mr. Buchanan himself was the only member
who voted for his motion to the effect that the pre-
rogative of mercy should in future be exercised by the
Governor and Executive Council and not by the
Governor alone.
It has been decided to distribute as follows
the sum collected by the Police Testimonial Committee
formed after the capture of the Wantabadgery bush-
rangers £2OO to be invested for the son of the late
Constable Bowen; £55 to Sergeant Carroll; £2B to Ser-
geant Cassin (who has already received £17); £2O each
to constables Johns. Williamson, Headley, and Rowe;
£35 each to constables Barn - and Gorman; £2O each to
constables Johnson and Granger; £l7 to constable
Wiles; and £lO to Mr. Archibald Cook.
A paper of the issue of 100,000 copies called
the Reformer, containg the history and a statement of
the misdeeds of the Berry Government has been pub-
lished in Melbourne, and it is to be scattered broad,
cast throughout Victoria.
Diggers are cautioned by the A.S.N. Company
against proceeding to Woolgar, which is 300 miles from
Townsville, the nearest port. No rations are on the
ground, the country is flooded, 800 men are on the
ground and provisions are extremely scarce.
Mr. Henry Hudson (of Messrs. Hudson Bros.),
the newly-elected Mayor of Eedfem, gave an excellent
banquet to the aldermen of the borough and a number
of other gentlemen at the local Town Hall on the
evening of Friday week.
An association for the protection of the
aborigines was formed at a meeting held on Monday
evening, for the purpose of hearing Mr. D. Matthews of
Maloga deliver an interesting lecture on the work done
at Maloga mission station.
Subscriptions to meet the necessary expenses
of the Eev. Principal Kinross during his visit to the
Philadelphia Pan-Presbyterian Council as the represen-
tative of N.S.W. are now being received fby the Hon.
S. D. Gordon and Mr. Joseph Paxton.
Sir Arthur Gordon has issued a series of regula-
tions under the order in Council prohibiting the sale of
intoxicating liquors to the natives of various of the
South Sea Islands. Also, in regard to the traffic in
firearms, and to the sale of dynamite, etc.
A lecture on the Education question has been
delivered by the Eev. Joseph Bamier, who says that
while hating “ Vaticanism ” he disapproves of the 26th
clause. The closing of E.C. denomination schools will,
he remarks, only lead to the establishment of others of
a more pronouncedly religious type.
The Australasian satirizes the action of the
N.S.W. Assembly in re Mr. Terry’s Betting hill, and
says that, by refusing to legalize the totalisator it pro-
hibited what would have been the most effectual
instrument in the limitation of betting, which it pro-
fessed to have at heart.
A day or two ago a Sandridge congregation
presented their minister, who was in difficulties, with a
sum of money. A gentlemanly-looking stranger, with
an aquiline nose and a dewy lip put in an appearance
among the rest, and snapped up the sovereigns as soon
as the rev. gentleman had enfeoffed himself of them.
He was a bailiff!
On the 15th instant, as the Parramatta train
approached Macdonaldtown, Urban Robert Moore,
agen forty, laid his neck on the rails and allowed his
head to be severed from his body. He had had a mis-
understanding with his employers, and was, though
temperate, of a very excitable nature. He was not in
financial difficulties.
A very large meteor was seen at noon on 2nd
inst. at Belfast, Victoria. In colour it was red, and it
looked like a large body with wings and tails. It
travelled in a westerly direction, changed its colour to
silvery white in descending, spread out into a number of
small stars and disappeared. It was also seen at Mount
Gambier, S.A.
The Queensland authorities are having dis-
tributed in pamphlet form at the Garden Palace what
purports to be a concise account of the gold-mining
industry in the northern colony. Charter’s Towers, the
most prosperous field in all the colonies —a place from
which one man we know is drawing £l6OO per week in
dividends —is not even mentioned. How is this ?
Mr. E. Du Faur wishes to send a small party
in search of the half-caste children whom Hume alleged
he had met in company w th their father —who is sup-
posed to have been identical with Leichhardt’s hrother-
in-law and companion Classen—at the back of the
Herbert. All the evidence which has been accumulated
of late goes to support Hume’s story.
Some of the Bathurst people quarrelled at the
declaration of the poll at the recent municipal election.
A Mr. Saville appears to hive consid;r3d that somebody
else was a “liar, a sweep, and a traitor,” and to have
said so. It also appears that Mr. Read would, but for
the fact that he was “ held back,” have put Mr. Saville
out —perhaps, indeed, have altogether extinguished
him.
SPORTING NOTES.
Boyd has beaten Hawdon easily on the Tyne.
Dr. Evans, of Balmain, has bought the yacht
Pert from Mr. Richardson.
Power rows Solomon in light skiffs to-day over
the champion course for £lOO.
The race in watermen’s between Laycock and
Pearce on Saturday was won easily by the latter.
The Melbourne Eowing Club won the senior
eights at the Barwon Regatta, Corio being second.
A double sculling match, open to maiden
scullers of the North Shore Eowing Club, is to come off
next month.
A circus performer who tumbles somersaults
for a living is apt to meet with many a reverse in bis
business.
Dent, who, at Goolwa, S.A., unsuccessfully
contested the swimming championship with MTndoe
of Victoria, has been presented by friends with a purse
of sovereigns.
Trickett was backed to row round the two is-
lands— Piuehgut and Goat Island—in minutes. A
deposit of £5 was made, but has been forfeited to
Trickett’s backer.
The following have been selected to represent
New South Wales in the Intercolonial eight-oar race
this year;—Messrs. Thompson (stroke), Gaden, Anstow,
Clarke, Woodriffe, Orr, Stewart, and Zollner.
Kanaka, the Bishop (late K.C.8.), Trump
Toss, First Lord, Lilia, Oliva, Lord Clifden, and Re-
cherche are the horses which up to date have been
scratched for the Sydney Gold Cup.
The dates for the farewell matches by the
Australian Eleven at Melbourne are fixed for the 27th
and 28th current and Ist March.
O’Connor, a jockey recently in the employ of
Mr. Edward Terry, of Eyde, has gained a verdict for
£6l 10s. against his late master for his services in riding
a number of losing races. Mr. Terry contended that it
was not usual to pay jockeys under such circumstances.
At Adelaide, twenty-five greyhounds, the
property of Mr. Hart, including Sorceress, Siren, and
Loot, eight of which were entered for the Melbourne
St. Leger, have been burnt to death. The fire is at-
tributed to incendiarism, and entails a total loss of
£2OOO.
The officials of Oxford and Cambridge Univer-
sity Boat Clubs have decided that the annual eight-
oared race bet ween Oxford and Cambridge shall be rowed
over the Thames Course, from Putney to Mortlake, on
March 20th. Both universities have their oarsmen in
training.
* Pendragon,’ in the London Eeperee, says:
*So much feeling is out and about between Boyd and
Elliott that a race is with them almost a necessity of
existence. Not so is it with the real champion; and it
is by no means certain that when the February en-
counter is over, undue eagerness will be shown on the
part of the winner to make a fresh match which shall
then properly and legally include the cup. Unless,
indeed, by that time Hanlan is engaged with Trickett,
or is in some other way unable to respond to the
pressing invitation. ,
Any“ lazy lout,” says the Eueal Hom e, can
sit in a biiggy, but to be a graceful horseback rider re-
quires skill and energy. Not one farmer in ten can
afford a buggy turn-out, and the young men would be
healthier, and the farmers not so much out of pocket,
if there was a return to the age of saddle horses. The
place to begin is in breeding a class of horses of a good
size and action, that can move freely in more than one
gait. The English market is open to such horses. The
farmer will find it to his interest to raise a class of colts
that the boys will like to ride. He can raise three or
four fine saddle colts for what one buggy will cost, and
a fair saddle horse will bring more money than the
average roadster.


Where’s Europe ? ’ asked a newly imported Bridget of
a friend the other day. ‘ In Ireland,’ was the answer.
* What connty ? ’ enquired Bridget. * Dunno,’ replied
f he geographical genius, ‘but it’s in Ireland.’
The latest addition to the educational machin-
ery of the city is the ‘ Oratorical Lyceum,’ in George-
street. Its object is three-fold in nature, so the adver-
tisement sets forth; the curriculum of instruction
being the study of elocution and dramatic literature,
the treatment and cure of defetes in speech, and a
course of gymnastic training, which latter is subsidising
to the former course. We wish the institution a
success commensurate with its merits.
A clergyman, who lately left Liverpol in one
of the huge ocean steamers, began to f«sel rather un-
comfortable soon after leaving the mouth of the river,
and having had an introduction to the captain, sought
him out to learn if there was any danger. The captain
did not answer immediately, but led his passenger to
the forecastle, and told him to listen to what was going
on. The clergyman was shocked to hear a party of
sailors swearing vigorously, and expressed his horror to
his conductor. The captain merely remarked, “Do you
think these men would swear in such a manner if there
was any real danger ?” Whereupon the parson appeared
satisfied and retired. A day or two afterwards, when
they encountered rather a severe storm, the clergyman,
remembering what he had been shown before, managed
to make his way with great difficulty to the forecastle,
and was overheard by the captain, as he came away, ex-
claiming to himself, “ Thank Heaven, they’re swearing
yet! ”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is not generally known that Mr. Combes is
an artist.
Dr. Hamilton, surgeon of the Garonne, died of
consumption during the voyage to Adelaide.
Mr. levers, who opposes Mr, Munro for
Carlton, is a house agent and a Berryite.
Mr. Angus Mackay, managing proprietor of
the Daily Telegraph, is a native of Sydney.
Mr. Wynne, the Telegraph’s sub-editor, was
champion swimmer of Victoria.
Marcus Clarke is married to Rosa Dunne, the
actress, daughter of the late John Dunne, comedian.
Carlotta Patti’s reputed wealth in 1870 was six
million francs.
Mr. W. Forster, the late Agent-General, sailed
from England for Sydney on Ist current.
Mr. Parnell, the now celebrated Irish agitator,
intends visiting Sydney and Melbourne.
Sir Henry Buliver is said to be about leaving
Natal.
Mr. Alfred Bennett, managing partner of the
Town and Country Journal and Evening News, is on
a trip to New Zealand.
Mr. Abram Riding, who has been very suc-
cessful as a city missionary in Sydney, has received a
pastoral call to New Zealand.
Alexander Dumas has gone to the south of
France to devote his whole time to his forthcoming
work on Divorce.
The Marseilles Municipality has voted 20,000
francs for the erection of a statue of M. Thiers on one
pf the open spaces of that town.
The Federal Assembly of Switzerland has
elected Dr. E. Welti, of the Canton of Aargau, Presi-
dent of the Confederation for the year 1880.
The Bishop of Peterborough, who is to preside
over the next Anglican Church Congress, has appointed
28th September as the time of meeting.
Professor Reuleaux leaves for Europe by the
Assam. He will probably visit Melbourne International
as commissioner for the German Empire.
At Washington they are expecting that the Sul-
tan of Turkey will have to recall his diplomatic represen-
tatives to America for want of money to support them.
Mr. Angus Mackay has issued a farewell
address to the Sandhurst electors. He however lends
his personal aid to the Conservative interest during the
forthcoming political contest.
Sir William Robinson, late Governor of the
Straits Settlements, likes Western Australia so much,
or it may be the Straits so little, that he returns to
Perth at £3OOO less salary.
The Rev. Samuel West, a local preacher of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, died recently at Olive
Branch, Ohio. He celebrated his hundredth anniver-
sary February 14th, 1879.
Marcus Clarke is writing a novel, “ Felix and
Felicia.” It will be published simultaneously in Lon-
don, New York, and Melbourne. His last work, “His
Natural Life,” was a big success, and has been trans-
lated into several Continental languages.
Garnet Walch is making great progress with
his work on “ Victoria in 1880.” It is to be an edition
de luxe. The Hon. W. J. Clarke has been so liberal as to
help Mr. Walch, who will do his generous patron every
credit.
Mr. F. W. Haddon is editor of the Argus-
He is a stout, well-made, good looking, clean shaved
man, who writes very little, but has great judgment in
selecting and reviewing articles. He is very business-
like, and has little to say. His age is about forty.
At the Argus Office there is only one chair in
the editor’s room. If a gentleman visits the editor, the
latter remains seated. If the visitor be a lady, the
editor rises and places his chair at her disposal. She
soon leaves the sanctum.
Mr. Tom Carrington is the artist of Mel-
bourne Punch and of the Australasian Sketcher,
and has quite enough to do. The eccentricity of his
genius prompts him to be unfashionable. He wears a
slouched hat.
The Rev. Hugh O. Pentecost, a minister of the
Baptist Church in Hartford, has announced his marriage
engagement to Miss Ida Gatling, the only daughter of
Dr. Gatling, the inventor of the gun which bears his
name.
Mr. W. E. Johnston, son of Mr. J. S. Johnston,
of St. Hilda, Melbourne, has gained a 200 guinea Middle
Temple Studentship. Last year he won a studentship
of 100 guineas, and before going home distinguished
himself at Melbourne University.
Mr. Mori, the former Japanese Minister at
Washington, is, it is said, to be accredited to England
in the same capacity. He knows English very well, has
good ability, and is a man of excellent presence. His
charming wife will accompany Mm to England,
The uniform of the late Prince Louis Napoleon
is stated to have been found at a kraal near Ulundi, the
whole front of it having been pierced by assegais. The
Zulu who actually inflicted the death-blow is said to have
been Abango, who was subsequently killed at Ulundi.
The Commission of the Free Church of Scot-
land has appointed Drs. Rainy, Wilson, Somerville,
Kennedy, Mitchell, and Blaikie, Professors Bruce and
Binnie, and the Earl of Kintore, among others, as the
delegates to the Presbyterian Council to meet next year
in PhUadelpMa.
The Queen of Italy has gone to seek for health
at Bordighera. The nervous shock she received on wit-
nessing the attempt to assassinate King Humbert is the
cause of her invalided condition. She has taken with
her to Bordighera the Prince of Naples, whom she does
not trust out of her sight.
The Berlin papers describe a sleigh lately pre-
sented by the Prince of Hohenzollern to Ms bride, a
princess of the house of Turn and Salts, as a marvel of
costly beauty. The body is shaped like a cockleshell,
and is of polished ebony inlaid with silver, and the
cushions are of the richest purple velvet adorned with
silver balls.
There died at Pesth, a few weeks ago, Count
Dominik Zichy de Vasonkeo, formerly Bishop of Eose-
nau and Vesprim, and one of the wealthiest and highest
of Hungarian magnates. He left a fortune of £900,000,
and was a fair representative of the time when, in France
and Germany, great bishoprics and rich benefices were
looked übon as the natural privileges of noble families,
Mr. William Clancy Little, who writes to the
Evening News concerning a Queensland political
matter, is one o£ the celebrities of the Far North,
where he is familiarly known as “ Billy Little.” He is
one of the most honest, enterprising, generous, and
hard-swearing of men; has an astounding memory, and
can tell better yams about niggers and snakes than any
other man in Australia.
William Gaunson, who resigned a good billet
in the Melbourne Treasury with the idea of entering
Parliament, and who has been defeated for at least half
a dozen constituencies, is again to the fore—this time
for Fitzroy. The Conservatives won’t have anything to
do with him nor will the Berryites. He is a “ stickit
legislator," and has nothing to recommend him but the
name of his popular brother David. William is a duffer.
Extensive preparations are already being made
in St. Petersburg to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniver-
sary of the Czar’s accession to the throne, which falls
on the 2nd March next. The muMcipal authorities,
among other things, have voted a considerable sum for
the presentation to His Majesty of a work of art record-
ing the chief architectural achievements, &c., of Ms
reign.
Before his departure from Japan, Professor
Nordenskjold received from the ToMo Geographical
Society a handsome gold medal in honour of his achieve-
ment. The token bears inscriptions on either side in
Japanese characters. One legend gives the name of the
learned body presenting the gift; the other commemo-
rates the voyage of the Vega and the Tokio banquet in
honour of the Sweedish savant and Ms stall.
It is annoying for a man to owe you money. It
is more annoying for a man to buy the horse you wanted
to buy. But when a man buys the horse you wanted to
buy with the money he owes you it is most annoying.
Messrs. John Walsh and F. A. Cooper, M.P’s.
for the electorate of Cook, Queensland, were recently
burnt in effigy by their far-northern constituents. Mr.
Walsh is a well-known storekeeper at Cooktown and
Port Douglas; Mr. Cooper is a barrister, and was for-
merly a gold-fields warden in New South Wales. The
pair can console themselves with the reflection that it
hurts no more to be thus burnt than it would to have
their shadows butted by a goat.
An exhibitor in tho Fijian Court made a sad
mistake on Friday week in giving into the charge of a
fiolicoman Mr. Frederick Stewart, who represents a
urge Loudon firm at the International. Mr. Stewart
had in his possession a large pocket-book like some of
the exhibitor’s stock, and the latter individual most
unwarrantably jumped to the conclusion that it had
been stolen. A Supreme Court action will probably be
instituted over this matter.
Mr. Howard Willoughby, leader of the report-
ing staff of the Melbourne Argus, is about 37 years
old. He was Argus special in the last Maori war.
Then he was a member of the staff of the Victorian
Hansard, which he left to found the Daily Telegraph,
Melbourne. In the latter venture he made an indepen-
dence. He sold out of the paper, and went back to the
Argus. He is one of the readiest, cleverest, and hardest
working of newspaper men.
Miss Whiteside will probably succeed in
making the science of cookery, or at any rate atten-
dance at cookery classes, as fashionable —and, let us
hope, as remunerative to herself —as Mrs. M'Pherson
has done in Melbourne. Amongst the select audience
who attended her first lesson at the Temperance Hall
on Wednesday were Lady Augustus Loftus and Bishop
Stanton of North Queensland. Let us hope that the
right rev. gentleman will never have to manufacture
for himself, or any one else, even a billy of tea, a dam-
per, a “ Johnny-cake,” or a “ water-dog."
Mr. Thomas Hughes is likely to be removed
from the chairmanship of the Crystal Palace Company
in London, and Prince Teck will probably be his suc-
cessor. The main objection to Mr. Hughes is that tho
Crystal Palace has deteriorated in Ms hands. It is fur-
ther alleged that he has too many irons in tho fire. He
is a lawyer, a politician, an author, a journalist, a rail-
way chairman, a gas company’s chairman, a telegraph
company’s chairman, a coal company’s chairman, and is
on the board of a milk company, an agricultural com-
pany, and a bank. He is the London John Davies, in
fact.
On November 2nd, a Japanese mission arrived
in St. Petersburg, wMch has been sent to Europe to
study the police and prison systems of the different
States. The director is M. Sava, head of the cabinet,
or the cMef of police in Japan. They left Japan at the
end of February, and have commenced by studying the
police and prisons in Holland. They purpose passing
three or four weeks in St. Petersburg and going thence
to Berlin, then to Vienna, Florence, and Rome ; thence
to Switzerland, France, Spain, Portugal, and England,
whence they mean to return to Japan by way of
America.
On Wednesday afterneon last Mr. Henry
Cohen was married at the Jewish Synagogue to Mis's
Seilah Hyman. The ceremony was a very imposing one
and the attendance large and fashionable. The bride
was attired in a hadsome Princesse dress of white satin,
with long fau-shaped train, and orange wreath from
wMch depended a long tulle veil that enveloped her from
head to foot. The costume bore no flounces or fringes.
The bridesmaids (Miss Hyam, sister of the bride, the
Misses Elsie and Constance Cohen, sisters, and tho
Misses Esther and Fanny, cousins, of tho bridegroom)
wore white satin polonaises, sleeves and skirts of white
silk, white straw bonnets, trimmed and lined with wMte
satin and further embellished with sweeping wMte
feathers. The wedding breakfast was served at Mr.
Brodziak’s residence, Alberto Terrace.
THEATRICALS IN NEW ZEALAND.
OLD SYDNEY FRIENDS AND NEW ZEALAND
FAVOURITES.
(From our Correspondence to February 5th.)
Lyster’s Opera Company, after finishing their season
at Christchurch, have commenced in Wellington, which
will end their New Zealand tour. They will not visit
Auckland, but will proceed direct from Wellington to
Tasmania.
The Theatre Royal at Christchurch has again reverted
to the hands of its original lessee, Mr. Hoskins, who
has commenced a dramatic season with his wife (Miss
Florence Colville, who is said to have recovered her
health,) and J. P. Hydes.
Pinafore controversies are still going on in New Zea-
land. Mr. J. P. McDonald, who is now in Auckland,
has served a notice on behalf of Mr. J. C. Williamson,
or Mr. Wade, lessee of the Theatre Royal, prohibiting
the performance of “ H.M.S. Pinafore.” Mr. Wade, we
hear, refuses to acknowledge the exclusive right of Mr.
Williamson, and has determined to play it until some
better authority is shown.
The Lingurds have mode a large amount of money in
Auckland with “ Pinafore.”
Bachelder’s panorama, —a tour through America, —
with Chislet, the ventriloquist, and “ gifts ” finished a
good week’s business at Auckland, on Saturday. Simon-
sen’s “ Froliqnes” are expectedin April under the man-
agement of Hiscocks, Hayman, & Co.
The Mammoth Minstrels are at the Lorne-street Hall,
Auckland. They are doing a great business there.
They leave for Sydney on the 3rd of February.
Mr. Garth wait’s dramatic company have drawn ex-
cellent houses at the Theatre Royal, Invercargill. The
company is compact, and contains some of the best
talent in the colony.
The Carandini family again passed through Auckland
on Monday from New Plymouth, en route southwards.
Phil Kirby, the genial agent, (Uncle Tom’s Cabin,) is
in Auckland waiting for something to turn up.
Amusing Incident with the Carandinis.
Of the Carandini Concert Company, now doing
West Coast townships of the North Island, a Wan-
ganui paper amusingly remarks ; —“ The Caran-
dinis were recently at Inglewood in the Taranaki
province, and some amusing incidents are connec-
ted with the visit. The concert was given in the
Government building, and the elite of the neigh-
bourhood paid for admission. Some of the baser
born with more music in their souls than money
in their pockets stood outside the buildings and
peered through the windows. This was too much
for Manager Sherwin, and he stopped the concert
while the convenient windows were covered with
paper. The rest is well told by Mr. T. Drake, who
writes an amusing letter to the Taranaki Herald :
—‘ Then a wicked boy, who won’t go to heaven,
was discovered with his head down close to the
ground looking through a cat-hole cut out of the
bottom part of the coach-house doors, with which,
strange to say, the building is furnished. But
Mr. Sherwin was equal to the occasion, Or thought
he was, and appeared bearing a full-sized tin milk
bowl, which he placed over the hcle amidst much
applause and merry laughter. It was now thought
that the wicked boy was non-plussed, but he was
not. His heart was hardened, and procuring a
thin stick, he put it through the hole, and did a
faint tambourine performance on the milk pan,
upon which the gallant Gordon Gooch rushed upon
the scene bearing what appeared to be a half a
sack of Dutch cheeses, or old boots, or something
lumpy, and, taking away the milk pan substituted
the sack of cheeses. All these proceedings seemed
to greatly amuse the audience within the building.
And now the wicked boy seemed quite vanquished :
but who can tell the hardness of the wicked boy’s
heart: for before he went he defiantly pitched a
mall stone, about the size of a marble, on to the
corrugated roof of the building, after which he ap-
peared no more.’
Mythology a la Mode.
Written expressly for THE BULLETIN.
III.
.. rvuos Jove’s love (which was not too Platonic),
«r At Sven to Latona (would this be Latomc ?)
Ww f 1 n 0 or Phoebus, as he is oft called.
And Apo » q{ love jj e forthwith installed
y a of the Sun and colleague of the Muses,
f D s let them alone—they are apt to confuse us).
Poetry he was - all there.”
induct bad-looking either ’’-vide Belvidere.
His son by Coronis was made an M.D.,
.lulled Esculapius— he took his degree
Under Chiron, a Centaur who lectured on physic
U And two pair of feet, curing many a phthisic.
w , omes our friend Hercules, strong as a lion.
gS” ® Jeuo ne’er ceased all her base arts to try on,
Vor be was Jove’s son, by Alcmene, the wife
ritx mnhv trion, so he was led a mce life.
What between Juno’s hate and some fatal mistake
Tr. Hie stars at his birth, Hercules had to make
Hfa wav through such troubles as never were seen,
Twelve of which he got through, but “caved in" at
thirteen. . ,,
■Pirst when a child in his cradle, there came
£wo boa constrictors, their eyes darting flame.
'Pore they made up their minds they were put to the
He strangled the pair, turned them each inside out.
In Lena’s dark forest came trouble the second.
The Hydra of fifty heads (tails wem't reckoned).
As he cut off one head up another would shoot ;
It’s a sin and a shame, too, that History’s mute,
When we ask “ How he did it ?” but one thing is plain,
Hercules was triumphant, the Hydra was slain.
On Menalus’ Mount he accomplished the third
Of those labours, when running like—just like a bird.
He chased the swift hind, with the horns of pure gold ;
Need I say that the hind and the antlers were sold ?
Fourthly, he killed the far-famed King of Thrace,
Who invited his guests and then coolly said grace;
Gave their flesh to his horses—no wonder his stud
Was accounted the best in the country for blood.
They never looked better —they never ate faster —
Than when Hercules threw them their poor deceased
master.
Number five on the list was the Arcadian boar,
n fancy I’ve heard the word punned on before),
Which—the boar—not the pun (though I dare say it
did)- - •
Confusion! I’m certain my meaning is hid
In those frightful parentheses. What! though I’ve
used
My license, my bad grammar only confused.
And made things much worse than than they e’er were
before —
I wish you would let me get back to the boar
Which Hercules hunted, and tamed with less trouble
Thau I’ve had in vainly attempting a “ double.”
He taught it all sorts of nice tricks, and in time
Led it back to> mountain not cut out for rhyme.
As well move the mountain! Euristheus’ height,
Others might try it—I give it up, quite.
Sixth, to provide this poor boar with a mate.
He tamed a mad bull, which laid desolate Crete.
The seventh of his labours reminds us of Jack,
Whose name irresistibly carries us back
To the days of our youth when with rapture we read
Of the hero before whom each tall giant fled.
Like Jack, mighty Hercules hunted his giant.
Who boasted three bodies, and looked quite defiant.
“ A straight one ” from Hercules out from the shoulder
Soon settled Geryon, who rolled quietly over.
Calpe and Abila had long been united.
And formed but one mount till our friend was invited
By Mercury (President of Commerce and Trade),
And a large deputation requesting his aid
In a work they’d in view to develop the latent
Etcetera, regretting their means were so straightened.
In fact, they were anxious those mountains to alter.
And cut through the centre, the Straits of Gibraltar.
He said, ‘ Is that all ?’ and looked over the plan
With the eye of an artist, as quickly he ran
Through the estimates—glanced at the tables to show
The astounding results, if they made it * a go.’
He grasped the idea, and then grasped the mountains.
Through which rushed the waters of ten million
fountains,
(Theyigttre is wat’ry, no doubt, but my numbers
May rouse up the reader, who thoughtlessly slumbers).
This active young man moved the hills far asunder,
And this was his eighth, and most wonderfnl wonder.
En passant, I may as well say ere I’ve done
With Mercury, he was the eloquent son
Of Maia and Jove. Quick as lightning he flew
With a neat little wing fastened over each shoe.
He did all Jove’s business, wrote most of his speeches,
And never was known to fall foul of his H’s.
The ninth you’ll admit was exceedingly strange.
Hercules robbed an orchard, by way of a change,
Hesperldes’ bright golden apples—the prize
There never were seen finer apples nor eyes,
A pair of those pippins two princes would suit,
For ‘ they didn’t grow on trees,’ being only the fruit
Of a King called Hesperius, of Atlas the brother
(I cannot remember the name of the mother).
Hercules killed the dragon that watched o’er the garden
Of beauty in which the poor damsels were barred in.
The truth is scarce worthy of mention, ’tis true—
In the absence of better employment he slew
A giant called Antaeus —in wrestling he choked him.
Historians don’t say how the giant provoked him.
The eleventh was not altogether a joke ;
To give Atlas a “spell,” or p’raps time for a smoke.
On his shoulders Olympus he bore for a day.
After which he looked fresh as a Queen of the May.
Number twelve, I believe, was a doubtful success.
Though an undying fame, and a durable dress
Were the fitting rewards for the vict’ry he gained
O’er the lion which long in Nemea had reigned ;
If we judge by the skin which old Hercules wore.
Sure no lion was e’er half so monstrous before.
After leading this quiet, monotonous life.
He died at the hands of his own darling wife
Dejanira, who killed him with kindness, if ever
A man was so killed, by a wife kind and clever.
To regain his affections she sent him the shirt
Of a monster he’d killed—never thinking 'twould hurt.
But this monster (a Centaur) the shirt had imbued
With his blood, and some poison, well mixed up, and
stewed.
When he put on his shirt, Hercules got rheumatics
So badly, that not all the salt of the Attica
Could cure him, or ease him one pain in his back
As he lay like a wretch on some torturing rack.
As salt was found useless his gods he invoked
On the Mount of Oeta, where he was soon smoked
And burned alive on a pile he had raised —
’Twere hard to say whether his body e’er blazed
With such brightness in death, as his deeds, in his
life—
What a pity he e’er had been blessed with a wife!
I’ve got through Jove’s offspring as well as I could,
But I beg most distinctly to be understood
That I do not say all, lest I make a mistake,
For Jove was an unmitigated old rake;
A more amorous god never ale drank or slept.
And of course you know there was no registry kept.
This jolly old Pagan, I’d wager a guinea.
Had more strings to his bow than the famed Paganini.
I’ve given you all that could found a fair claim.
But if in my haste I omitted the name
Of some jovial descendant, I’ll make full amends
lu a second edition, when told by my friends.
ORIGINAL POETRY.
A Pretty Girl’s Answer to St. Valentine.
Thanks for all your mildness
To ladies fair and wise ;
That you said it out of kindness
Not one of us denies.
Courtships may be pretty.
Wedlocks not so grand;
Is it not a pity,
Can’t you understand ?
Lovers we can manage
Twenty at a time;
So talk not of marriage
To your Valentine.
Be content with mooning—
Is it not absurd ?
Young men call it spooning.
They do, upon my word.
We women are not perfect.
As you all seem to know j
Love is apt to surfeit
' When too far you go.
If indeed to marry
You really do incline.
Why, prithee, do not tarry—
Seek another Valentine.
Often, when we marry.
Life is not all honey.
If Poppet asks her Harry
For just a little money.
Then you stamp and rave, sir.
Leave her with a frown.
Just because she asked, sir.
For a hat and gown.
Let me tell you kindly.
While there yet is time.
Not to love too blindly
Your sweet Valentine.
All the jealous wishes
In your verses I have read.
On bread and cheese and kisses.
Kind sir, I cannot wed;
And being of such tender growth,
I fear I must say no!
To make one coffin do for both.
Would never do, you know;
So you may go the first, dear.
For then I may have time
To choose when you are gone, dear.
Another Valentine.
E.B.
Sydney, 16th Feb., 1880.
Labour and Capital.
King Capital high from his tMone looked down
On Labour, his plebeian sire;
A monarch was he, though he wore no crown.
Nor would to a crown aspire;
Bills, bullion, and bonds were the stays of all
The kingdom he claimed to rule.
And ever by fits, with the rise and fall
Of gold, was he sage or fool.
Triumphant by times by a chance bold stroke
His coffers would fill and swell;
While labour, in need, at his door would knock,
Some tale of Ms wants to tell;
To plead, or appeal, or a right demand.
That caused the proud king to frown ;
For was it not his on his throne to stand
And Labour’s to drudge far down ?
So Capital vowed by Ms sovereign might.
Possessed by the grace of gold.
That Labour must bow to Ms lawful right.
All profits and gains to hold.
And Labour he swore by his strong right hand.
His right was by nature sealed.
For was it not he who had made the land
Life-nourishing food to yield ?
King Capital spoke of the cares he bore.
Up, up as he dared to climb,
While Labour maintained that his cares were more.
And risks unto life and limb:
• Strike, strike!’ said a voice, with an angry shout.
That raised a tumultuous din;
Then Capital cried he would lock him out
Aye, aye, and would starve him tMn.
A battle of classes rolled on for years
And raged with the direst strife.
And stirring wild fancies of hates and fears.
Made life a sad war for life.
A gulf that was broad yawn’d dark between,
The acts and the walks of men;
By all, with a sigh, were the evils seen.
The cure was beyond their ken.
A voice was heard with a powerful plea,
* Let men with their feuds have done,
And launch out their barks upon one broad sea.
And cast in their lots as one ;
As helpmeets impelled by a noble aim.
United be sire and son,
Together to pull, with an equal claim.
To live as the tide may run.
* Come forth from your citadel, powerful king,’
The voice of the nation pled,—
’ And with you the helps of your stronghold bring
To still the wild cries for bread.
And thou, hardy labour, from apathy wake.
Self-help is the secret key
To open the portals of hope, to make
Life better, and grand and free.’
Men’s thoughts softened down to a wiser mood.
And the hopes of the land leapt up,
And the hearts that had long been cold and rude
Now warmed o’er a friendly cup.
Industrial hives of associates
Arose o’er a fruitful land.
Eclipsing the glory of princely states.
More rich in their worth and grand.
H.N.M.
An Alphabetical “First Night.”
A were the Actors I saw in the play;
B was the Bosh I heard them all say;
C was the Cue they did not learn by heart;
D was the “ Dickens” each played with his part;
E was the end—l rejoiced when it came I
F was the French which suggested its frame;
G were the “ Gods” who were loud in their wit j
H were the Hisses I heard from the pit;
I was the Int’rest which did not increase;
J were the Judges who dozed through the piece;
K were the Knaves who applauded for hire;
L was the Little I found to admire;
M was the Mess they were in at the end;
N was the Noodle who called for his friend;
O was the Order I brought in my hand ;
P was the Plot I could not understand;
Q was the Quaff I indulged in, of stout;
R was the Rubbish I had to sit out;
S was the Scent Rimmel put on the bill;
T was the Time which the the play would not kill;
U was the Uproar I heard at the close;
V was the voice that was first to oppose.
W the Wit which grew less by degrees;
X were the Xtras extorted as fees;
Y was the Yawn which on all sides extended;
Z was my Zest when the curtain descended.
M.


BRIEF MENTION.
Cincinatti Chinamen are embracing Christi-
anity, which is the last thing ehinaman embrace in
Sydney.
Since the publication in The Bulletin of
John Davies’ obituary notice, the undertakers have got
his measure. So have the public.
Since the horrors at the abbatoirs were revealed,
the editor of the Herald has become a vegetarian.
His staff now never go beyond liver and bacon. The
editor of the Mail, whose duties are heavy, eats tripe.
Lord Augustus Loftus will, at next meeting of
the Cookery Clubs, perform (for this time only) his
grand feat of preserving mutton in vinegar. Prices as
usual.
At Kew Lunatic Asylum, Melbourne, when a
patient won’t open bis mouth, they put in what is
known as a 44 persuader.” Which means a big wooden
wedge.
Edwd. Mooney, an inmate of . the Cascades,
Hobart Town, has been seven times sentenced to death.
His first offence was breach of the artlEles of war. He
is now a lunatic, and is 44 years of age.
The Infirmary directors have been too often to
“ Pinafore.” They have become O-fficial, and will allow
no information to be given to the press after 4 p.m. Of
course no Infirmary official ever entered the gate drunk
after that hour. Hardly evah !
It is known that our chameleon friend, Mr.
John Davies, has often pretty well manipulated the
working men. Why, then, was he instrumental, at the
last meeting of the Exhibition Commissioners, in having
thirty men thrown out of work ?
There are five parsons in the Herald Otflee
Dr. Garran, the editor, is a parson; Mr. Ward, the
editor of the Mail, is a parson; Sir. Greenwood is a
squarson ( i.e., an ex-parson) ; Mr. Cnmow is also a
squarson. It is not only, however, at the lower end of
Pitt-street, that the editor’s scautum is preferred to the
altar.
The other day, at New Norfolk, Tasmania,, a
herculian lunatic from the asylum swam out to a rock
in the river. He wouldn’t return, and couldn’t be
brought back. Some pretty girls who were pic-nicing,
and wanted to go home, had to wait till it was dark.
The other day, on the Palmer, a snake bit a
man’s log, ont of which the sufferer’s mates imme-
diately cut a large piece, 44 Dear me 1” observed the
new chum doctor, looking at the wound through his
eye-glass, 44 1 really didn’t think snakes made such big
gashes!”
Mr. Pitt, writing to the Evening News, says
that when the Nepean water scheme is completed, the
grateful lowing herds will sing the praises of the
promoters. We presume that Mr. Pitt alludes to the
common herd —the great unwashed. We don’t want any
cow’s so-lows.
Ah, yes! Hanlan wants to row Courtney, and
Courtney wants to row Blaikie, and Blaikie wants to
referee Riley, and Courtney does not think much of
Hanlan, and Hanlan wants to go to Australia, and Blaikie
thinks he can outrow both men, and Courtney thinks
he is a better man than Hanlan, and the Patent Hop-
beer Company or something want Trickett to go to
America, and but we’ll stop here.
Lord Nonnanby gave a bop the other day in
Melbourne, and for the occasion secured the services of
a master of ceremonies from a public dancing saloon.
For a time everything went right, but when 44 the
Lancers” came on, and a loud voice was heard request-
ing— 44 Top gent, and bottom lady to advance and swing
in the middle, 4 ’ His Lordship came to the conclusion
that the master of ceremonies could be dispensed with.
At the Bishop of Sydney’s meeting at the
Masonic Hall lately about the Education Bill, it is
reported by a morning contemporary that when the
Rev. came forward to air his fervid eloquence in
reply to Mr. McElhone. the Bishop drew him back, and
gently 44 placed him behind himself.” Some mean
people say that while so doing, the suave and gentle
Bishox), in his blandest tones, added, 44 Get thee behind
me, Satan.” Ish dat so ?
Bill-stickers beware! or rather, billies look out!
Goats like paste, and will, to gratify their appetite in
this regard, pull down posters and bills of however
sacred or secular a character. The other day a billy-
goat died at Darlinghnrst. He ate a bill (and though
it had flour, or rather paste, on it, it wasn’t a billy,
dough), and died within half an hour. The billy’s
decease may fairly be attributed to the fact that he had
swallowed a poster bearing John Alex. Dowie’s name.
One of John Davies’ election notices kills a billy in two
minutes, and a Young Men’s Christian Association
poster is fatal at half a mile.
Camilla Urso’s Thanks to the Press.
Prompted by the impulsive and sensitive amia-
bility of her artist nature, and urged thereto
possibly by the selfish, half-veiled whisperings of
some designing person desirons of acquiring a
certain degree of notoriety at the artist’s expense,
Madame Camilla Urso has committed a solecism
which she would herself have been the first to
disavow had she thought maturely over the sub-
ject in all its bearings. In a letter to the Sydney
Morning Herald of Tuesday (and, very singu-
larly, the letter is placed immediately under the
notice of her final boncert), Madame Urso ex-
pressed her acknowledgments to “ the Press :
for the “ prompt recognition of her talents as a
most powerful motor to help the season to a suc-
cesaful ending.”
Madame Urso could scarcely fora moment have
realised the implication contained in these words—
the final ones especially: that no matter what the
artist’s talents, oven supposing her name to have
been unknown till she came here, yet her power to
move her audience at the first concert or two was
so slight, that those who heard her would not care
to hear hefligain, or te communicate their delight
to others; and that, therefore, but for this
“ powerful motor,” her second series of concerts
at all events might have been a failure. Even as
members of that body “the Press” —powerful
for good as for mischief—we protest, in the name
of Art and of the people of Sydney, who have
always supported true Art except when they have
been turned away from its from its recognition by
the injudicious flattery always bestowed on medio-
crity or incompetency by the S. M. Herald par-
ticularly—we protest against the assertion.
Madame Urso has been for many years in a
country where, unfortunately, the support given
to artists or public performers—good, bad, or in-
different —was measured out according to the
amount of the contributions given for it. Here,
with all satisfaction we *an say it, we have not
(however poor may be our artistic knowledge and
the consequent ability to criticise artists) arrived
at that stage of journalism when a puff is to be
bought with a bracelet, or when the fear or favour
of critics is to be mollified #r courted by flattering
homage, or special presentations. The Press has
a duty to perform to genius, to Art, and above all
to the people—the great people of a free country,
who are its constituents. In doing its duty it
does not require (and it is derogatory to publish)
any “letter of thanks.” If it does not it will
find its reward in the languishing of genius, the
exile of Art, the demoralisation of the people, and
—in most cases —the contempt of its supporters.
Will Madame Urso aver that the hushed rap-
ture at her playing, the literally bounding ap-
plause after the pent-up silence, the delight which
communicated itself from mouth to mouth till the
hall filled itself with those who are not wont to be
swayed even by the Herald’s criticisms —that
these are due solely, or even partially, to the
“valuable criticisms” of the S. M. Herald?
Supposing Madame Urso had not been the great
artiste she is, but the same notices had appeared,
would the people of Sydney have given the same
support to the concerts ? We will answer by re-
ferring Madame Ur so to the columns of the S. M.
Herald, not so very far back, as well as those of
more distant date, and she will see indiscriminate
praise as flattering as that bestowed on her genius
given to second —nay, third and fourth-rate artists.
Nay, more, we unhesitatingly assert that for years
and years the incompetency of the S. M. Herald
in dealing with dramatic and musical art has been
positively laughable, and a reproach and a by-word
in Sydney, and we call on those leading citizens of
Sydney who do understand such matters to sub-
stantiate these statements. No ! the people of
Sydney have always loved and supported true art,
let the memory of Kate Hayes bear witness!
But gulled occasionally by puffery into patronising
mediocrity, buffoonery, or vulgarity, they are not
now swayed by any such mendacious false criti-
cisms : they will judge for themselves ; and when
the voice of the people accords with the verdict of
the press, then is the latter commendable for
consideration. Frequently bit, the people are for
ever shy afterwards.
When performing its high functions fearlessly
and judiciously the Press needs no thanks ; when
it does not, it does not deserve them. As members
of the Press, we acknowledge Madame Urso’s
kindly “gratitude;” such gratitude is not, how-
ever, our due. Madame Urso’s feelings will
always be best expressed by the reports she gives
of us whithersoever fortune may lead her ; for we
think she would scarcely have written a public
letter of thanks had she not been brought to be-
lieve that she was coming to a land of savages,
amongst whom —to judge from the criticisms of
the S. M. Herald —true art could have no
appreciation.
"LA DIVA” PATTI.
In presenting our readers this week with a por-
trait of one of the greatest lyric artists of the day,
who has come to Australia in the zenith of her
fame, and will make her first appearance at the
Theatre Royal on Monday evening, we believe
that we are giving to the public evidence of our
determination to keep with the spirit of the age
by making The Bulletxn the ne plus ultra of
illustrated journalism in the colonies —the paper
of reference, especially for all matters of interest
connected with the musical and dramatic arts.
Carlotta Patti —the celebrated sister of the
equally celebrated Adelina Patti, Marquise de
Caux —has, as a concert singer, attained an emin-
ence in the musical world, reached only by the world-
famed artists that from time to time astound public
and critics, and shake the spheres with their
music. Possessed of a voice of the richest quality
and of great sweetness and flexibility, the daring
flights of her execution are pronounced to verge on
the marvellous. In vocalisation she is said to out-
vie her sister Adelina (another sister, Madame
Strakosch, being being also noted as a contralto),
though circumstances decided her in favour of
adopting the concert-room rather than the stage
for the display of her genius. Like her sister, the
development of her talents took place in America,
where she commenced her career at about eleven
years of age, under Hirz and Barilli; and in 1861
she first appeared at the Academy of Music in
New York. On the breaking out of the American
war, the Patti family went to England, where
Garlotta appeared in a series of concerts at the
Royal Italian Opera, Covent Garden, creating a
i furore such as had been rarely witnessed in the
concert hall. From London she went to the Con-
tinent : France, Belgium, Holland, Germany,
Austria, the Principalities of the Danube, Russia,
and other countries were visited, hundreds of
towns viewing with each other in according her
ovations —Sovereign and populace striving to
be foremost in doing homage to art as represented
by such an artist. Her wonderful of
fancy in vocalisation were the theme of an admira-
tion as universal as it was merited. Her staccato
passages to the highest notes in the gamut are
spoken of as something unapproachable.
In 1869, Mdlle. Carlotta Patti again visited
America under the management of her brother-in-
law, Mr. Strakosch. The tour included every
town of note, and was like the triumph of a mar-
tial hero. She then went to South America, where
she created an equal furore amongst people with a
thorough knowledge of art, and very sensitive on
the subject of artists. In 1871, Europe was again
the scene of her artistic “progresses,” especially
the southern and central portions. In 1872 she
once more returned to America, this time with the
tenor Signor Mario. In 1873 she again visited
Europe, and for six yeras has retained undis-
puted possession of the concert platform, as
its greatest exponent in vocalisation. During
that time she has given over twelve hundred
concerts, giving an average of four con-
certs weekly, travelling included. She gave one
concert in aid of the distress in France after the
Franco-Prussian war, and the result was the trans-
mission of 25,000 francs in gold towards the
assistance of the sufferers; and on her return to
Paris she gave another concert for the same
purpose, which realised 15,000 francs.
This is the artiste whom Sydney is called on to
welcome on Monday evening with the warmth ever
accorded here to art and great artists.
CRITIC.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Hair nets are again fashionable in Americr. Ugh!
In San Francisco the washerwomen are getting up a
4 wring.’
Arthur Sullivan says the Boston women are the hand-
somest in the world.
Sarah Bernhardt is credited with the remark that an
honest child is the noblest work of God.
Of late it has become fashionable among the ladies of
Rome to attend trials in courts of justice.
No woman should ever give a plump 44 No ” to an
offer of marriage. Hold on to even a poor one and use it
for bait.
Dr. Mary Walker’s reason may he restored. Edison
is said to be at work on an invention to keep pantaloons
from bagging.
The Empress Eugenie is said to be fond of the music
of the bagpipes, which accounts for the opposition of
the French to her return to Paris.
The two Misses Longfellow, a daughter of Professor
Horsford, and a daughter of Mr. Arthur Gilman are
among the lady students at Harvard.
Give a girl long eyelashes and small hands and she
will put tip with No 6 feet, and marry all around a
curly-headed girl wearing one’s and a half.
It is really wonderful the amount of assistance a young
lady requires in holding up a live-ounce prayer-book in
church when she has a young man with her.
Fifty girls are studying at Cornwall University, U.S.,
and the wife of the man who keeps the chewing-gum
thereabouts recently appeared in a camel’ s-hair shawl.
That girl is clutching time right by the bangs who,
when her 'gentleman friend’ drops in to spend the
evening, gives him a gentle hint as to what she would
like to have about Christmas.
French history in the past hundred years exhibits
three women who have, perhaps, experienced more
splendor and more bitter grief and mortification than
any other three women in the world —Marie Antoinette,
Josephine and Eugenie.
A young wife in a colliery village in England assists
her husband at blacksmithing, and makes 3,000 rivets a
day, besides doing her housework. She is described as
being sedate, well spoken, has a low, sweet voice, and
fair complexion and hair.
Rosa Bonheur has two pictures in the Antwerp Trien-
nial Fine Arts Exhibition which opened recently. This
is the first time that she has exhibited for fifteen vears.
One of the paintings represents the stag called the
4 King of the forest of Fontainebleau.’
The story of the 4 Prodigal Son * is a good one, hut
there ought to be beside it a companion picture showing
the return and treatment of a prodigal daughter. To be
forgiven is g - ood for anybody, and all of the fatted calves
and welcomes should not be kept for the male side of
the house.
A woman in the hospital in Florence has a strange
history. She entered the Italian army in order to save
her brother, a married man, from military service. She
served with distinction during the war with Austria,
and received a medal for bravery in the field. When
the facts became known to King Humbert, he presented
her with the cross of his Order and gave directions for
her discharge and an annual pension of 300 francs.
The Princess Clothilde’s home, in spite of its elegance,
wears the air of a cloister. Her whole life is given to
religious exercises and the practice of all sorts of good
works. She rises at a very early hour, hears Mass, gives
alms, and consoles and succours the sick. Near by her
chateau is a Carmelite convent, where she spends much
time. She is only thirty-six years of age, hut her asce-
tic life makes her look older than she really is.
Mems. for the Mayor and Aldermen.
A disgrace to Sydney—the management of our mon-
strous mammoth monopoly, and other Omnibus
Companies of Sydney.
f
Another—the broken pavements. Are the owners o
property in George, King, Pitt, and almost every other
■treet in Sydney, too poor to put down proper pavements,
or is the Corporation powerless to prevent such nuis-
ances, and to compel the due administration of the law ?
IL BARBIERE DI SYDNEY.
PRIVATE THEATRICALS AT GOVERNMENT
HOUSE.
Lord Augustus Loftus lias disagreed with his barber
Some days ago His Excellency feeling and perceiving
that it was high time he indulged in a shave, sent his
orderly down to Pitt-street, to invite the attendance at
Government House, at 10 o’clock a.m., of a noted expo-
nent of the tonsorial art, who proudly boasts of having
mown stubble from the chins of a generation of
Governors. The barber promptly obeyed the summons
of his vice-regal patron. He got into a hansom, and as
10 o’clock struck he was ushered into the waiting-room.
He waited at first without murmur, hut a quarter to
eleven came, and still he had not been given an oppor-
tunity of fulfilling his task. Then the rude and
excessively colonial man told the exquisite flunkey to
convey his respects to Lord Loftus, and to intimate
that he could wait no longer. His Excellency, arrayed
in a sumptuous dressing gown, at last received the
barber. The operation was speedily and skilfully per-
formed. * What is the charge here ? ’ asked his
Excellency, out of idle curiosity. ‘Four and six,’
replied the tradesman. ‘ Tut! tut! Dear me! •
exclaimed His Excellency. ' In Oxford-street ’ (Oxford-
street London, was meant) ‘ they’d never dream of such
a charge. The amount seems really outrageous.’ ‘ But
a hansom has been waiting for me outside for an hour,
your Excellency,’ x*emonstrated the barber. Lord Loftus
said nothing further, and the barber was paid. So far,
so good.
When His Excellency had grown another patch of
stubble, the orderly was once more despatched to Pitt-
street. * His Excellency wishes you to wait on him at
10 o’clock, said the messenger. * Give His Excellency
my respects,’ replied the barber, and toll him I can’t
come. ‘ Do I understand you to say that you can’t
attend F ’ enquired the orderly in amazement. ‘ Tell
Lord Loftus if you like,’ observed the barber, ' that I
won’t come.’ 4 Very well ’ said the astounded orderly.
Not long afterwards one of His Excellency’s sons
happening to be in Pitt-street, dropped in at the
barber’s. 4 Do you know’ remarked he, 4 that your
message to His Excellency the other morning was con.
sidered highly impertinent ? ’ 4 1 can’t help it,’
ejaculated Mr. Barber, * I’ll not visit at Government
House any more.’ 4 Then you had better take down the
Eoyal Arms from above your door,” suggested the young
gentleman.
But we’ll say no more. It is openly stated that the
wealthy barber retorted that the 4 arms ’ had been given
him by the Duke of Edinburgh, and that he would see
Lord Loftus and a lot of other people in—well never
mind—before he’d take the arms down.
LORD AUGUSTUS : “I’m afraid, Mr. M'Lorne, my constitootion will-
Mr. M‘L.: “ 'Scuse me, yer Hexcellency, but I make a practice of not letting myself be drawn out on constitootional
questions. It might bring me into disfavour with my Parliamentary Constitooents.”
LORD A.: " You must understand. Sir, I mean my constitution will hardly stand that jagged instrument you’ve- ”
MR M’L: “ Well, has to that, your Excellency, I was about to observe that my razors are not tempered to a fortnight’s
growth” (The business proceeds uninterruptedly.)
“ LA DIVA” PATTI.


LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
How is it that the very United Omnibus Com-
pany’s drivers manage to dawdle about just at the
stroke of 10 in the evening to trap the waiter for
them into paying double fare ? After cooling your
heels for a quarter of an hour in George-street wait-
ing for the only conveyance which those un-
blessed with carriages and Jehus have to take
them home, you have no sooner taken your place
than the church-clock chimes the hour and you are
greeted with “Double fare; please: past ten
o’clock”—the “past” being due solely to the
driver’s determined dilatoriness. Can’t this mild
species of petty larceny combined with annoyance
—one of the many to which the Omnibus Com-
panies subject us —be put an end to ? Could not
the arrangement be that double fare would be
exacted from passengers by omnibuses leaving
their stands at any certain hour ? Then we should
know what we were doing, instead of being stuck
up on the road. By-the-way, some of these
drivers are adepts at the multiplication table, and
know that twice ten make twenty, for in one of
these ten o’clock punctually sticking-up Glebe
road busses we had twenty full grown passengers,
stowed away somehow, utterly regardless of de-
cency. Possibly, after ten o’clock, punctually,
the by-law limiting the number to be carried, be-
comes a good-bye law. Model company!
Woman is, of course, man’s delight—with ex-
ceptions. Such exceptions are loud-talking women
—young, middle-aged, or old—at public entertain-
ments w hen you are in your place listening to
lovely music, and the lovely women are out of
theirs not listening—out of their places because if
they go to hear the music why don’t they listen to
it?. Women who want people to listen to the
dulcet strains of their voices only should stay at
home, invite their friends, and talk till they are
tired. Two of these egotistical loud-talking
bipeds in female form —not particularly divine —
were next to me at a recent Urso concert, and
their tongues quacked loquaciously like bell-clap-
pers with an incessant wag. On the other side,
slightly in the rear, was an elderly dame criti-
cising in a very disagreeable manner; this piece
she <fid not like —which was her business ; then,
Jenny Clans was a better player, which was not
her business ; opinions are one thing, critical de-
cisions another. A prize to the individual who
will invent some means of arresting the progress
cf these perpetual pendulums.
Pastor Chiniquy is not to die the martyr’s death
so easily as he thinks. However obnoxious may
be his attacks personally to certain parties, his
powers of injury to his opponents are not likely to
lead them into Borgia-like poisonous attacks on
his life. The solemn farce of opening a threaten-
ing letter and sniffing the enclosed powder as if
■courting the death it threatened, was too theat-
rical even for a solemn farce. That the powder
should titillate the reverend gentleman’s nostrils
was very natural; he has made himself .so un-
pleasant a name in the community that, had the
powder been assafoetida, the perfume arising
therefrom would only have been a sort of
quid pro quo for the perfume arising whenever his
name is the subject of conversation. The affair
of the powder began as a hoax and ended in a
sneeze.
The Urso concerts have not been without their
amusing points. On Saturday evening, Herr
Scherek, the conductor, came forward (after some
little delay and a slight change in the programme),
and with all the Teutonic gravity he could assume,
announced to the expectant audience that
“ Madame Urso’s strings were a little out of
order!” The titter amongst the fairer portion of
the audience suggested naturally the resort to the
lady’s maid as the best remedy for such a contre-
temps, and a flutter of feminine furniture at the
wings of the little stage gave evidence that such a
course had been adopted : the carelessness of the
Abigail for not having paid due attention beforehand
to the strings of her mistress’s apparel provoked
stern comment, no doubt. Again Herr Scherek
appeared, and then we came to the rights of it —
it was the violin strings that were out of order,
broken, in fact; it was not the female attendant
but the foreigner who was at fault —in his English.
“Dirty speeches and notings to eat!” This
was the verdict of our distinguished friend, Herr
Von Schlippentchloppenhauer, in reply to our en-
quiries as to the particulars of the banquet given
by the Sydney Commission to the Foreign Com-
missioners. He meant “ thirty speeches,” of
course, but the other epithet would have answered
as well, taken in the sense of their stupidity.
When will English dinner-eating and dinner-giving
people drop their absurd custom of boring one
another with long-winded speeches on every pos-
sible occasion ? The salivatory process of butter-
ing everybody present, from the chairman to the
chief waiter, is peculiarly English, and may be
pleasant to the participants—who, immediately
after separation, abuse each other again to their
hearts’ content —but to foreigners who only half
understand the language, it is positively sicken -
• ng; and the bettor these latter understood the
sense of the speeches the more they would see
how hollow is the whole thing—a hollow mockery
got up for the occasion, with wretched attempts
at speech-making doing duty for oratory. A few
choice addresses on special toasts by orators noted
for their eloquence (if we had them!) interspersed
with music, singing, and conversation, so to be
arranged that a man need not necessarily be tied
an entire evening to a few disagreeable neighbours,
with none of whom perhaps could he agree on
any one subject, might make such a banquet a
boon instead of a bore. On this occasion the
speeches were as poor as the dinner ; and the poor
foreigners had to listen to poor speeches, without
sufficient creature comforts (worthy the connois-
seur’s attention) to vary the weary dullness and
monotony of the proceedings. A positive cruelty
(as far as the non-speakers were concerned) to
dumb animals.
Mr. David Buchanan, M.L.A., possesses the
pleasing peculiarity of always assisting the cause
he desires to oppose. His change of opinion is so
rapid that it is difficult to say which side he is
going to take on any question on which ho may
have spoken but a very short time previously.
This is the special gift of the true lawyer, who
must be able to accuse and defend the same per-
son in different stages of a suit. Mr. Buchanan’s
roaring rhodomontade drives from him oven those
who would support him ; his frothy denunciations
devoid of every particle of argument are generally
so contrived as to throw every shred of reason
into the opposite scale. Mr. Buchanan mistakes
undoubted truisms for opposing facts, whereas
they are generally supporting ones for his oppo-
nents. In his attack on Mr. Terry’s bill, his
whole speech was a tirade of the most ridiculous
assertions; because people will bet, that is no
reason why public betting should be made a public
scandal. People will drink—we believe Mr. Bucha-
nan did so moderately atone time —but that is no rea-
son why the law should recognise drunkenness as a
virtue. “ Do what you will,” said Mr. Buchanan,
“ men will come to the racecourse.” Of course
they will; Mr. Buchanan might have continued in
the babbling bubble of Tennyson’s “ Brook,” —
slightly altered—“ Men will come, and men will
go, and I (shall) go on talking trash for ever !”
There is distress in Newcastle —a double dis-
tress. The distress amongst the miners and their
families is caused by want of employment; the
distress amongst steamboat shippers is caused by
want of coal. Five powerful vessels belonging to
the A.S.N. Company and the Melbourne S.N.
Company are laid up there from their inability to
procure coal: thus entailing a loss of thousands
of pounds to the owners who have to keep their
vessels unemployed, and a loss of good wages to
the crews who swell the ranks of the living unem-
ployed. The cause of the trouble is the same in
both cases —the “ vend system,” and it is time we
gave vent to our feelings on a system that pre-
vents people doing as much work as they can, as
they please, or as their employers can—or please
to—pay them for. It is said that what is good for
the goose is good for the gander, and certainly the
best thing for the geese who encourage and main-
tain the system is to drop it. Both they and
the ganders, who are the mine-proprietors and
the steamboat proprietors, will experience the
truth of the adage.
“To do good by stealth, and blush to find it
fame,” is a veey admirable motto for our general
conduct in private life; but to carry mock
modesty too far, and hide our light under a bushel
when it would be more useful to let it shine
amongst men, is to rob ourselves of an opportunity
for doing good when it presents itself. Our Ger-
man friends have not much idea of the courtesies
due to the Press, as they are, in their own coun-
try, ignorant of the power of the Press itself.
Bound hand and foot by dictatorial censorship, it
only speaks out in some pressing emergency ; but
as regards all the amenities of social life, the
Press in Germany sings very small indeed. On
Tuesday evening a dinner was given to Professor
Reuleaux, the German Commissioner for the In-
ternational Exhibition, by the Germans of Svdney,
exhibitors and others. As, since the the arrival
here of the learned Geheimrath and Professor—
more than six months ago —nothing had been done
by the Germans to show their appreciation of hie
zeal, energy, and assiduity in working as he has
done to place their country in the most favourable
light, here was an opportunity for distinguishing
Vmn and themselves. This was the more desirable,
as the people and Press of Sydney had taken so
many opportunities of remarking on the advan-
tages to us of Germany being represented by so
talented a man as the Professor. They gave the
dinner, but, with their usual Conservatism,
took care t hat it should not be reported by
omitting to invite the Press. Now, Professor
Reuleaux is so used to turkey, tongue, and trifle,
with fulsome flattery for sweetest sauce, that a
dinner and a few speeches more or less can be
neither novel nor entertaining to him, however
much good breeding might prevent his saying so.
The only real value of the dinner to him would
have been the newspaper reports of the proceed-
ings which —without egotism —he could have
shown at home in official circles as a proof of the
estimation in which he was held by his country-
men in this colony.
“ Deutsche Himmel, Deutsche Fluhe,
Deutsche Narren, preist ernur.”
According to Mr. Lackey, in the Legislative
Assembly on Thursday evening, it has taken the
Government a year to consider whether a sum of
money should be voted for a public water tank
between Inverell and Warialda. Of course, under
such circumstances, the promise given in March
last for a supply of water to these places by means
of this tank was mere moonshine, or, rather —to
talk by the card—very milk-and-watery; for,
where there is no tank to put the water in, there
can be no water to put in the tank, especially as
no money had been voted to build the water-
works, and if there were money the works could
not be erected till a place was found to put them
on. Out of this bundle of negatives we have one
affirmative; Mr. Lackey says that during this one
year enquiries for a reserve have begun to be
made. The merest tyro in multiplication, algebra,
trigonometry, and the integral calculus, can now
easily calculate from this declaration how many
beans make five, and when the people of the
Warialda district are likely to get any water.
A defeat of the Ministry! in fact a ruinous de-
feat, by John Davies, who, though he does not go
in for strong drinking, said to the House “ Dinna
•forget the dinner.” Sir Henry Parkos and hia
colleagues have evidently stomachs above dinners,
as others have souls above buttons : but mem-
bers generally are not averse to the good
things of this life, and, by a very significant majo-
rity against the Ministry, carried Mr. John Davies’
proposal to adjourn at seven o’clock on Thursday
in order to allow the members to attend the din-
ner to the Foreign Commissioners at the Exhibi-
tion. Thus what party politics or trimmimg
tactics could not accomplish was effected by an
artful dodge—the Art of Gastronomy, represented
by John Davies. Mr. Davies will not be sent
for to form a new Ministry.
Mr. J. K. Rainford, of the Victoria
Theatre.
As the public of Sydney is always pleased to see
portraits of its leading theatrical favourites, we
present our readers with one of Mr. J. H. Rain-
ford, who has for so many years kept a leading
position on the boards of our theatres as actor and
stage manager, in which latter capacity he is now
at the Victoria Theatre, being the youngest
actor in the colonies engaged in so responsible a
position. Though for a snort time he severed his
connection with the stage for another occupation,
he soon rejoined it, and continued his theatrical
career with renewed eneregy. As an actor, Mr.
Rainford is too well known in Sydney to require
any eulogy in our columns. He is greatly esteemed
by the profession for his uprightness and integrity
in all matters connected with the stage, and by all
who come in contact with him in private life for
his urbanity and courtesy.
SCENE AT BOTANY HEADS.
Our artist this week furnishes us with a sketch
of a scene at Botany Heads, perhaps one of the
most interesting spots on the Continent of Aus-
tralia. The view is taken from the elevated
ground on which stands the monument of La Pey-
rouse, and is indeed a most attractive one. Look-
ing on this scone, a person can easily picture
the spectacle when the gallant Cook sailed
in with his vessels, and, further up the bay,
landed to take possession of the continent in the
name of His Britannic Majesty. One of the finest
drives about Sydney is that to Botany Heads, yet,
strange to say, hardly one in a thousand of the
residents of the Metropolis has ever cast eye upon
the scene shown in the engraving. There are good
fishing grounds round about which are regularly
visited by some Sydney sportsmen, and the gentle-
men in charge of the 'station at La Peyrouae are
at all times ready with courteous directions in this
respect.
Since the appearance of the comet, the Astronomer's
business has been looking up.
A Michigan newspaper says it is permitted by
etiquette in that State for a bride to be married without
gloves, it being supposed to be typical of the manner in
which she will handle her husband, when she gets
better acquainted with him, and proceeds to regulate
her household.
• Yon have such a sensitive heart,’ Laura said orrang
ing the parting ot his hair with her deft fingers, ‘ I saw
tears in your eyes to-night at the concert, when Miss
Seesharp was singing, “The Bing my Mother Wore.’
«Oh, that wasn’t it,* said Tom, with a painful movement,
‘ it just made me think of the shoe your father had on
last night.’ And than for a moment or two she did not
say anything.
MR. J. H. RAINFORD.
SCENE AT BOTANY HEADS.


STAGE GOSSIP.
Mr. Creswick takes his farewell benefit next
Saturday week.
Madame Camilla Urso opens at Brisbane on
the Bth of March.
The Williamsons have produced ‘■Pinafore”
with great success at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
Mr. Williamson has had Mr. Lingard served
with a writ for £2OOO in re ' Pinafore.*
Fourteen pantomimes were produced in London
on Boxing night. The be best was " Slnbad the Sailor "
at Drury Lane."
All who wish to secure seats for the Patti con-
certs will have to keep their eyes on the box plan at
Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
Miss Amy Sherwin, “ The Tasmanian Nighting-
gale," is singing at New York. She is also studying
under a noted music professor in that town.
The English Circus Company, late of Sydney,
is showing in Launceston. It proceeds shortly to
Adelaide.
Signor Pompei is in Tasmania arranging a
grand operatic company to travel in New Zealand and
colonies. They open first at Hobart Town.
Mr. James Cathcart has joined Thorne’s
Dramatic Company in Launceston, and he shortly
appears in Shakesperian impersonations.
Olga Duboin lias been doing a bad business in
Hobart Town. The amateurs gave her a complimen-
tary concert in Launceston, on the 16th instant. Her
next move is to Adelaide.
“Such a good man,” by Walter Besant and
James Rice, has been produced at the Olympic, London,
but is a failure. The Referee says the play should be
called “ Such a good man gone wrong."
Mr. P. B. Marshall, brother to Mr. Marshall,
of the London Comedy Company, has been engaged by
Edgar Chapman, on behalf of Mr. Allison, to play a
season at Adelaide.
“ Agapemone,” which has just been produced
at the People’s Theatre, Melbourne, is described os
being not much from a theatrical point of view, but
politically successful.
A fine collection of water-color drawings, re-
presenting the late Charles Mathews in one hundred and
sixteen different characters, has been added to the
theatrical portraits of the Garrick Club.
Miss Augusta Dargon commenced a short sea-
son at Hobart Town on the 13th instant. Her enter-
tainment, consisting entirely of choice readings and re-
citations, was much admired.
At the Yictoria Theatre during the week there
have been some excellent attractions. Mr. and Mrs.
J. L. Hall continue as popular as ever. One of the
most powerful dramatic companies ever got together in
Sydney is just now being organised for the Victoria
Theatre.
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus and
Lady Loftus have notified to M. Ballieu, Consul for
France, that they will honor by their presence the con-
cert to be given at the Victoria Theatre in aid of the suf-
ferers in New Caledonia.
Miss Kate Harvey, of Launceston, will
probably join Pompei’s Opera Company. The lady is
young, has distinguished herself as an excellent vocalist
and is reckoned to be a worthy second to Miss Sherwin
—her townswoman.
The whole of the Theatre Eoyal Company are
to disband this evening. The reason is the commence-
ment of the Patti musical season, and the arrangement
for the appearance of the London Comedy Company.
We ore happy to learn that most of the members of the
Royal Company have met with lucrative engagements'
‘ To what base uses’—to quote your own words,
Billy. See here, from the Times ; |‘ William Shake-
speare, aged forty-five, well known to the police, was
charged with being drunk and disorderly.’ This comes
of mixing with those play-acting fellows. The prisoner,
we notice, was remanded for a week. To inquire into
that little deer-stealing affair down in Warwickshire,
we presume.
An Irish audience is frequently very trying to
the actors. Audible remarks, of the most personal and
reverse of complimentary description, are freely bandied
about amongst the gods during the performance. We
all know the story of 4 Och, my atin-pince !’ But fancy
any one Gothic enough to interrupt the burial of Ophelia,
with ‘ Och, the chates 1 They have only one side to the
coffin!’
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“FOR I AM NOTHING IF, NOT CRITICAL."- “Othello."
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times be glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
Having given precedence alternately to each of
the older theatres, justice as well as the produc-
tion of anew and entirely unknown piece compels
us to commence our notice this week with
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
~ on Saturday evening, the long-promised
Bells of Cornevillo,” by Robert Planquette, and
now being played in London by Mr. and Mrs.
Bracy and Company with great success, was pro-
duced to the satisfaction of a large audience and
continues to be played nightly. We confess to
have been so long out of the musical world as not
to know anything about M. Planquette, and our
loss is great, to judge from the bright and spark-
ling music of this work. “Les Cloches de
Cornevrlle not as has been supposed by many
an opera bouffe; it is an opera comique in the
true sense of the word. There is no burlesque on
any event of the day ; but the opera has a pleasing
story with some very comic situations.
As the managers have not published any libretto
and a score is unobtainable, we can glean the plot
only from what we see (not what we hear) on the
stage—the more difficult as, excepting in one or
two cases, and notwithstanding the excellent
acoustic properties of the building, it is almost im-
possible to catch much of the inwardly spoken dia-
log: and the first lines of the different pieces, in-
dieating their titles are almost invariably lost in the
accompaniment. The following appears to be the
story :-Gaspard, steward to the Seigneurie of
Corneville (Mr. E. Kelly), has, on the death of its
lord, taken possession of the chateau, whence the
heir and nephew of the deceased owner, has for
some reason been banished, and is supposed to be
dead. Gaspard having in some way amassed
wealth, hoards it up in the chateau, and to prevent
anyone spying on his actions or taking possession
of the place, visits it at night, and with the aid
•, a . s * I< r e *' an d some old armour causes certain
midnight weird appearances that make the neigh-
bours believe the place to be haunted. In connec-
tion with the chateau there is a legend that the
bells of Corneville, which are otherwise silent, will
only chime whenever a lost heir comes to take pos-
session of his rights. Henri de Corneville (Mr.
Melchior Winter), who had become a gallant sea-
captain provided with a letter of marque, returns
*° Normandy, but is desirous of learning some
particulars of the state of affairs at home ere he
appears in person to claim his inheritance, and for
this purpose attends the fair at Corneville, where
ho joins in the prattle that is going on. In one of
his expeditions ho has saved the life of Germaine,
Gaspard’s niece (Miss E. Wangenheimi, who had
fallen from the cliffs, and at once falls in love with
her. He has a rival, however, in one Jean Gre-
niohenx (Mr. Vernon Reid), a cowardly young
fisherman, who in reality has an eye only to Ger-
maine’s money, being really attached to Serpho-
lette (the Only Leon), a foundling, who was
brought up as a servant at Gaspard’s farm. In
order to ingratiate himself with Germaine, Joan
makes her believe it was he who saved her life at
the risk of his own, and she feels bound to accept
him out of gratitude. Henri hears from Germaine
the legend of the “ Bells of Corneville,” and also
the reports of the chateau being haunted. He an-
nounces his determination to watch there and find
out the mystery, as he is not a believer in the
supernatural. He engages the assistance of
some of the more stout-hearted neighbours,
amongst them Germaine, and sets a watch in
every room. In to the one in which Jean is placed
—inside the suit of armour, Gaspard, who has
grown to be a wretched conscience-stricken miser,
comes at night to frighten passers-by by appearing
at the windows clad in white and moving the armed
figure about, and to count over his ill-gotten gains.
Avery fine scene ensues, founded on the incident
in the Erckman-Chartrian story of “ The Bells, or
the Polish Jew.” In the midst of his avocation
Gaspard falls into a sort of trance, in which he re-
calls the past, narrating aloud his nefarious
transactions, with his fear of the ringing of the
chimes of Corneville, from which, however, he at
length declares himself to be safe, as no heir is in
existence. But at this moment “ The Bells of
Corneville” are heard chiming, set going by the
watchers under Henri, who has procolaimed his
identity, and who, attracted by signals from Jean,
press into the room. As the refrain of the legend
and the ringing of the bells grow louder and
louder, Gaspard, waking from his trance, falls to
the ground in a swoon, in the midst of his wealth :
a really effective and very novel operatic situation.
In the meantime some papers have been found
proving that the heiress and daughter of a pro-
scribed Compte do Lucenay, connected with the
Seignourie of Corneville, exists in the person of a
foundling _ the village. Serpolette, answering
the description, claims and receives the family
honours, and of course conducts herself very hu-
morously and very ridiculously in sumptuous cos-
tume, and with Jean Grenicheux as her major-
domo. _ The latter, in an interview with Henri,
tolls him of his having saved Germaine’s life, and
receives a thrashing for his lie, but is forgiven on
condition of his not mentioning to Germaine the
true particulars. Germaine, however, overhears
the altercation, and is glad to be released from her
implied promise. The denouement is brought
about by Gaspard entirely recovering his senses,
and declaring (as in ‘‘The Old Corporal” when
Simon recovered his speech), that Germaine is the
real heiress and Serpolette the child of a peasant;
the two, being of the same age, having been
brought up together to prevent identity. Gaspard
is forgiven, Serpolette marries Jean, and the spell
of the legend—with its pretty “Ding-Dong”—is
broken when the announcement of the intended
nuptials of Henri and Germaine is celebrated by
an untimely extra ringing of “ The Bells of
Corneville.”
There are two other characters in the piece who
—with Serpolette—do the comic business; the
Baillie (Mr. Ball), and his representative, Gobo
(Mr. E. Lester); and these certainly give you
ample cause for laughter.
This really pretty and poetical story is accom-
panied by very delightful music, thoroughly in
accord with the text. Though some of it is of a
comic character, as beseems a comic opera, there
is not the slightest approach to the burlesque of
anything whatever from beginning to end. Occa-
sionally there are reminiscences of other com-
posers—Lecoq, Offenbach, Rossini (the “Buona
Sera” from “Ilßarbirfee” is very plain in the
“Legend”); and in the oft-repeated “Look at
that and look at this ” we have the idea of one of
Carmen’s pretty songs. Joad’s air behind the
scenes in the same opera is also heard. These two
pieces form the refrains of the opera at every op-
portunity. And yet there is a remarkable degree
of quaintness and originality in the music: it is
bght, lively, melodious, and sparkling, and some
of the numbers have a far higher character. The
prelude to the first act introduces the theme
of the opera. For the reasons we have men-
tionen, it is impossible to give even the names of
the pieces or the character of the music but as it
fell on the ear. After some pleasing couplets of the
girls going for hire to the village fair, comes a very
pretty barcarole for Jean, “ On billows rocking,”
which cannot fail to be a favourite. Germaine has
next a very attractive song, which merges into a
bright duet for tenor and soprano. The accom-
paniment is well worked out, the tremolo and piz-
zicato of the violin being conspicuous. A lively
waltz-song of the villagers is the next number.
The arrival of Henri (with his “ Blosh your pretty
face ) is signalised by Germaine singing the quaint
Legend,’ with its chorus and bell refrain of
L>b>g , ‘dong.” (This was introduced in one of
the Sydney pantomimes of Christmas. 1878.) It
would have been far more effective if the chorus
had not been so loud. The next piece is a very at-
tractive_ scene for Henri, half rondo, half waltz,
With joy my heart ” —excellent music if sung in
a proper key. In tke next scene Jean, as a fugi-
tive, has a charming allegretto air, “ Thoug they
may not pursue me,” and in the succeeding scene
at the fair the chorus of the girls reminds us of
the famous “ Trab, trab ” song of Jetty Treffz
memory. It is a sort of French chanson, with
whip accompaniment; and there is a pretty flute
passage in the instrumentation. Henri takes up
the preceding melody of Germaine, and a good
finale terminates the act.
A semi-phantom chorus of the retainers of Henri
gives a good introduction to the second act; and
after another song for Germaine, Sespolette has a
comic scene, ‘ Not a ghost at all,” which is very
musical and very amusing. Henri has the next
number, a very effective recitative and battle
song, and this is followed by a good ringing chorus
m , , of a chorale or of oratorio music,
which contrasts well with the baillie’s buffo song
Oh dear, oh dear.” One of the best pieces fol-
lows—a duet between Germaine and Henri. Ger-
mame s song, “ Girls should ne’er say yea or nay ”
is capital. Then comes the effective climax of the
act, after Gaspar s fine song on “ Gold,” as pre-
yously narrated. The whole mnsic is here of a good
dramatic character, consecutive and musically, de-
serving a very good position amongst modern
composers.
In the third act, after a high prelude, with
changing, peculiar passages for violin and
flute, a lively galop chorus follows, which is
is succeeded by Serpolette’s pretty “ Look at
that and look at this,” which breaks out again
and agrain, having reminiscences of “Carmen”
and of The Cracovienne” dance. A quaint old
Normon song, " The Norman custom,” is evi-
dently some national popular melody. A duet for
two tenors (Jean and Henri) “ That night,” is the
next piece; and the next duet between Henry and
Germaine, My lord, my lord,” is the prettiest
motive in the opera, which winds up with a joyous
finale.
Of the orchestration we can say nothing further
than is contained in the previous remarks, since,
however much may have been done by Mr. Lns-
combe Searel with his limited forces, it is impos-
sible to give orchestral effects except ample
material is provided; and an opera of this de-
cription—unlike opera bouffo—demands a full
orchestra.
Some very pretty scenery has been provided,
and the fair, and the haunted room of the chateau
are well arranged. The dresses and appoint-
ments have received every attention.
This long description of the piece prevents our
saying anything further of the performance, which
is just as well, as it will give us time to hear the
very necessary improvement which (except in the
case of Mr. Kelly, who is thoroughly well up
in every particular) will doubtless be effected
in a work that requires the full strength of a good
operatic company, without the necessity for trans-
positions which always spoils the effect.
THEATEE EOYAL.
The melodrama of “ Escaped,” which we noticed
at full length last week, was continued until
Tuesday evening, and was then withdrawn to allow
of a couple of evenings’ rest to Mr. Ores wick. The
sensational play of “Sentenced to Death,” was
performed by the regular company at the theatre.
This evening will be produced one ef Mr. Cres-
wick’s famed impersonations—“ Hamlet,” and in
this he will make his present farewell to Sydney.
On Monday a different scene will be presented.
The lovers of music will assemble in crowds to
give a Sydney greeting to one of the bright parti-
cular stars that has come from the musical worlds
of Europe and America to visit and delight us—
one of the most renowned names of the present
decade —La Diva Patti; and in her train comes an
almost equally celebrated artist, the Belgian vio-
loncelloist, Do Munck, and a famed baritone, Sig-
nor Ciampi-Gellaj, whose fame as a singer was
established in operatic circles some years ago.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
Another sensation—“ Insured A1 at Lloyd’s.”
It abounds in some of the most startling scenes
ever witnessed, though some of them —indeed, the
piece itself —appears to us as old friends. With
so many places of amusement open it would be im-
possible to give minute details of the performances
at each every week ; and, considering the ample
space bestowed on this well-patronized theatre last
issue, we must content ourselves at present with
saying that the very extraordinary intricacies of
the plot were satisfactorily evolved. When any
special novelty or attraction is given we prefer to
deal with that at length to the mere passing equal-
ised notice of every place of amusement.
QUEEN’S THEATEE.
The Loftus troupe are swimming in a sea of
popularity, for which we were quite unprepared,
considering the storms that were raised about
them in other colonies. If what was written be
true the company must have toned down their per-
formances to suit our superior judgment. Some
of their productions are amusing, as we have
already stated; in the productions 'of the week,
however, there has been nothing materially differ-
ing from the previous performances. But the
managers, Messrs. Hiscocks and Hayman, seem
determined to give an overwhelming force to their
entertainments next week by adding to them the
amusement of our old friends, the Maumoth Min-
strel Company, recently arrived from New Zealand,
—thus affecting an unprecedented combination.
CAMILLO URSO’S CONCERTS.
The final entertainments since our last issue were
not only fully equal in excellence but also in suc-
cess to those preceding so that we cannot blit regret
that the demands on our spaoe prevents our doing
more than make a mere allusion to them. Madame
Urso has in one thing been at a disadvantage; every
violinist knows what effect the weather has on the
strings of a violin ; the murky state of the atmos-
phere for the past fortnight entirely prevented
the artiste from bringing the strings up to the
high pitch necessary to produce the finest effects
on the instrument; consequently, great as she has
appeared to be, she has not been heard at her
best, and the occasional wheezing produced by a
damp string before the bow has firmly settled to
the note has madejthose unacquainted with the in-
strument fancy that occasional wrong notes were
being played ; and, sometimes, it was only with
the greatest difficulty that Madame Urso could get
the bow to run down the strings with sufficient
accuracy to make her exquisite runs as perfectly
as she could herself have desired. This trouble
culminated on Saturday evening, when the weather
was more than usually oppressive: 'the violin had
to be strung as high as possible for the “ Carni-
val ” of Paganini, and five strings broke in succes-
session compelling the artiste —for the first time—
to change her piece.
Madame Urso is to be thanked for the extensive
repertoire of new beauties in violin music of every
school she has introduced to us. Miss Sargent,
too, has made us acquainted with some delightful
vocal pleasures: and Messrs. Sauret and Scherek
have well merited full share of approbation for the
part they have taken in as delightful a series of
concerts as have ever been heard in the southern
hemisphere.
MUSIC AT THE GARDEN PALACE.
The fifth oratorio was given on Saturday after-
noon, the work being “ The Crown of Thorns,” by
Mr. Charles S. Packer —a master in music—one of
the greatest theorists we have ever had resident
in Australia. As a musician the name of Mr.
Packer is widely known and celebrated. His
oratorio has been given here previously, and as a
beautiful composition it is entitled to rank very
high amongst the sacred works of the great masters.
But it is scarcely massive enough for production
in a area, and such an ill-fitting place as the
Exhibition music monstrosity was least calculated
to develope to a listener its many rich beauties,
which also require a far better rendition than was
accorded to them on Saturday. Where we were
seated we could just manage to hear the occasional
deficiencies of execution without the beauties.
Even if space were available could criticism be
possible under such circumstances.
One afternoon we heard the band in the base-
ment, the military band on the official platform,
and two pianoforte recitals (!) going on at the
same time, and within sound of each other,
and anything more hideous, more distressing to
the ear, more evident of the bad taste of those who
permitted it, or more calculated to drive people
from the Exhibition, it is impossible to imagine.
On one occasion we heard on the Bechstoin
piano the eternal “ Home, Sweet Home,” of
Thalberg, and Pauer’s pretty “ Cascade ” (which
is nothing if not well and brilliantly given) played
(by a lady who has been saturated with fulsome
adulation) like a funeral march, or something
near it —water dripping down like drops from an
overflowing rain-pipe.
CRITIC.
FUN AND FANCY.
A Grave Yard—Thirty-six inches of crape.
A headlong man is not always long-headed.
One touch of humor makes the whole world grin.
Human pennies are always trying to get into the
shilling society.
What law has been the greatest terror to evil-doers
since the world began P The mother-in-law.
To obtain a beautiful view of the comet, walk out any
clear night and step on a banana skin.
When you wake up at night and hear the baby crying,
look out for danger—for there’s a rock ahead.
Swans sing before they die. They have to if they sing
at all.
A sole-stirring incident—Treading on the point of a
tack.
Next to nothing—A girl walking with the average
dandy.
Bald-headed men are like kind words, because kind
words never dye.
Time brings many changes. In fact it is full of new
wrinkles.
Don’t buy thermometers now. They’ll be lower after
a while.
Families that cannot pay their baker are liable to be '
stricken from the rolls.
A change of base is always a desideratum of the small'
boy who is being spanked.
Twenty-two pound sweet potatoes are raised in
California. The mode of raising them is with a derrick
The popularity of the ulster is owing to the fact that
you can wear it longer than any other garment.
A Texas man has been bom without a brain. The
jury-box yawns for him.
A harsh answer tumeth away wrath, if you are the
biggest and have a brick in your hand.
Never use fast words. It may not always be agreeable*
‘ How do you like my boots, love ? ’ exclaimed a
youthful bride. ‘ Oh, they’re immense,’ he said.
If a man whistles in the street, as if he were calling a
dog, from three to seven men will stop suddenly and
look about them. Is Darwin right ?
A western newspaper says : ‘ Some of our subscribers
are trying to kill us with kindness—unremitting kind-
ness.
Shakespeare never repeated. There was a little boy
in Kentucky who resembled the bard in this particular.
He very thoughtlessly twisted a mule’s tail.
Young man, diamond pins look real nice; but when
fifty shillings a week support a man and a pin too, one
or the other is not genuine.
The young man who is cold, and who has no money to
buy himself an overcoat, is trying to figure out how
much he has spent for cooling drinks during the
summer. The sum-total makes him shiver.
When the girl who has encouraged a young man for
about two years, suddenly turns around and tells him
she can never be more than a sister to him, he can for
the first time see the freckles on her nose.
‘You have got a treasure in that woman,’ said a fond
parent to a son-in-law on his wedding day. ‘ You just
wait till the bailiff calls, and see what kind of a recep-
tion she will give him.’ *
A man in a rural [settlement who has been an inve-
terate smoker for years, has suddenly and permanently
given up the practice. He knocked the ashes of his
pipe into a keg of blasting powder.
Why an advance in lard should enhance the price of
butter, is about as difficult a problem as is the true
inwardness of the connection between the price of milk
and a water famine.
It is hard to decide which is the most pestilential—
the young bore who is forever bragging what he is going
to do, or the old bore who is eternally bragging what he
has done.
An agricultural exchange publishes an article boasting
of what a single bean can produce. It is amusing.
Fired from a bean-shooter into a man’s ear, it can pro-
duce the worst language man is capable of hearing.
The clergyman in a certain town having, as the custom
is, published the banns of matrimony between two
persons, he was followed by the clerk, reading the hymn
beginning with the words, * Deluded souls that dream of
Heaven! ’
“Fat cook (with unconscious blushes) to the lady who
wants to engage her): “As to there bein’ no followers
allowed, mum, you might recollect as you’ve been single
yourself; and a girl as is rather showy in figure can’t
well help em’ comin about.
A household magazine says that a little whisky and
water will give a rich polish to furniture. It does not
say how you apply it, but we suppose you rinSe your
mouth with the water, drink the whisky, and rub the
furniture with a flannel rag.
An unpromising infant. Mrs. Levi: “ You wouldn’t
charge dot leedle paby full fare ?” Conductor: “ How
old is he, mem?" Levi, junior: “I vas seex years.”
Mrs. Levi: “Oh, Jakey, Jakey, you vill nefer make a
schmart man like your farder.”
“ Drink to me only with thine eyes.” She was his
mother-in-law, and his gallantry tickled her vanity. He
was glad it made her leave go the bottle. If she had
gone on drinking to him with her mouth there would
have been none left for him.
Washoe is in Navada, and had a very bad case of
milk-stealing. The jury, indignant at the heinousness
of the crime, in that the defendant habitually milked
the plaintiff’s cow at night, found the prisoner guilty of
milking the cow in the first degree.
When two young people with a singleness of purpose
and a doubleness of affection sit up with each other, and
when the clock strikes twelve, he says : “ Is it possible ?”
and she says, “Why, I did not know it was so late!”
you may draw your conclusions that if the business
boom continues, a unified couple will be hunting for a
house to rent in the spring.
The Cambrian News says that at the Merionethshire
Quarter Sessions the rector of the charming town of
Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogertysiliogogogoch was charged
with obstructing the highway near that place. Lllan-
fairpwllpwyngyllgogertysiliogogogoch is a parish in
Anglesea, and it may interest our readers to know that
the name we have given is an abbreviation of its full
title.
Arthur Cubitt’s missing friends and private
inquiry office in Pitt-street, next the General Post-
office, has been in existence more than twenty years,
and has now become one of the popular institutions of
the city. For the conduct of such a business Mr.
Cubitt is well fitted by experience gained during a fixed
residence in Sydney since 1851, twelve years of which
were passed in pursuits whereby he acquired a thorough
geographical knowledge of the Australian coionies; a
familiarity with persons and events ; a perfect acquaint-
ance with the ramifications of the various public estab-
lishments ; and he has thoroughly posted himself up in
matters connected with the early days of the colony. It
is not, therefore, to be wondered at that with these
helps, combined with the appointment of first-class
agencies in all directions, he has achieved such sncoess
as that referred to in our advertising columns. As
members of the Press, we are also aware that Mr. Cu-
bitt has made strenuous efforts towards crushing the
operations of unprincipled adventurers, who for some
time had managed to trap the unwary. By means of
the newspapers, by numerous “cautions,” by a series
of letters, and by representations to the Crown law offi-
cers, he has compelled certain persons to relinquish
their dishonest calling. A perusal of many testimo-
nials has convinced us of Mr. Cubitt’s tact and ability.
His discoveries have frequently been made by the exer-
cise of much ingenuity and foresight. Whether within
the range of the Anstralias or in far-off lands, distance
appears to create no difficulty. During 1879 his suc-
cesses were accomplished in the scarcely explored
regions of Carpentaria, in Madagascar, Mauritius, Cape
Colony, including Znluland, various parts of China,
West Indies, Noumea, Fiji, United States, including
California, New York, Wisconsin, San Joachim, and
Missouri ; also at Montreal, Toronto, and other parts of
the Dominion of Canada; and last, though not least, in
the United Kingdom of Great Britain. “ Strictly pri-
vate inquiries ” form a special item in Mr. Cubitt’s la-
bours, for which, amongst others, he holds a highly
complimentary letter from her Britannic Majesty’s
Consul at Noumea, who placed in his hands a very im-
portant and delicate commission. AVe have no hesita-
tion in recommending Mr. Cubitt to any person
requiring his services.


HEA T E B
Lessee and Manager Mi
THE BRIEF SEAS
ot
PATTI V GE
PATTI t
PATTI PATTI ) GR
will commence
(MONDAY EVENING,')
NEXT \ MONDAY EVENING, S !
(.MONDAY EVENING,;
SECOND PATTI CON
on
WEDNESDAY EVENING, 1
THIRD PATTI COS
on
FRIDAY EVENING, Fel
W At EACH CONC
will be given a
NEW AND BRILLIANT PE
N.B.—The SEATS in the STALLI
CIRCLE, will be all NUMBERSj
SERVED during the PATTI seasoi
CARD.—Signor D. de VIVO tal
nounciug
THE FIRST APPEARANCE
of the
ILLUSTRIOUS YOGA
PATTI "v
PATTI ( LA DIVA
PATTI C CARLOTTA
PATTI J
whose peerless vocalization has ei
critical and fashionable andiencoi
America, and whose career has
phenomenal successes.
Since Catalan!, Jenny Lynd, Pagoi
such concert furores as those rec
LOTTA PATTI CONCERTS hav
Europe.
Rossini, Meyerbeer, Verder.Auber,
languished critics of both hemisphere
THE QUEEN OF CONGER
In addition to PATTI will appear al
THE GREATEST VIOLONCEL
ERNEST DE MUN
ERNEST DE MUN
ERNEST DE MUN
SOLO VIOLONCELLIST to the G 1
SAXE-WIEMAR
The EMINENT BARI'
Signor CIAMPI CEI
Signor CIAMPI CEI
THE RENOWNED PI
and
MUSICAL DIRECT
Signor PAOLO GI(
Signor PAOLO GIC
and another artis
car SPECIAL NOTI
Notwithstanding the ENORMOUI
TENDING this ENGAGEMENT, a
all classes an opportunity of listeuiu
WONDERFUL CANT;!
and this
MARVELOUS ’CELLO-
the management have decided to i
POPULAR SCALE OF P
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.
POSITIVELY LAST 5
Positively Last Ni|
Positively Last Nij
Mr. W. CRESWK
Mr. W. Creswic
Mr. W. Creswic
THIS (Saturday) EVE
POSITIVELY THE LAST A
of
Mr. W. CRESWIC
Prior to his departure for ]
in
HIS GREAT IMPERSO
of
HAMLET
Hamlet
Hamlet.
*,* SPECIAL NOT
The Free List entirely si
Box office at Nicholson and Asclu
A MERIC AN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
No. 11 PITT-STREET.
Importers of and dealers in all descriptions of American
Machinery.
Indents executed on reasonable terms.
gYDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each.
Distributed as follows:
First horse
Second horse
Third horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-starters (divided among)
£lOOO
400
200
200
200
£2OOO
The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over Tattersall’s Cup, their orders having
been received after the consultation was filled.
Country subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change on cheques and stamp for reply.
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sidney,
DISEASES OF THE EAR.
BY PROFESSOR STANICA, OF WYNYARL-SQUARE, SYDNEY
"With reference to the successful treatment of diffi-
cult cases of deafness, I may mention that of a young
lady, Miss M D , aged 17, who consulted me in
last October on account of deafness in both ears. Some
time previously, after an attack of severe cold, she
found herself dull of hearing; the deafness was daily
increasing and soon prevented her hearing in general
conversation. On examination I found the mucous
membrane of the fauces to be very thick and red, and
both tonsils very much enlarged. On the right ear the
watch was not heard even in contact. The membrana
tympani was of a dark copper colour and more concave
than natural, showing that the membrane was deprived
of its ordinary evenness of surface. In the left ear the
membrana tympani was found white, the surface shiny,
and the watch was heard only in contact. Feeling as-
sured from the history of the case, the symptoms, the
condition of the throat, and the appearance of the ears,
that the eustachian tube was closed at the faucial
orifice, I proceeded at once with astringent application
to the mucous membrane of the fauce, and to the orifice
of the eustacian tube, with the administration of tonics.
I painted occasionally with solution of argentl nitratis
the region of the tonsils, as it was evident that the
hypertrophy of the mucous membrane hod slowly come
on. It was not probable that it would do otherwise
than slowly improve. The effect of the first treatment
was a slight improvement of the hearing, although the
tube remained impervious ; this improvement depended
upon the diminution of the congestion of the mucous
membrane of the tympanum. The patient attended to
my treatment regularly, and in the course of two months
the air passed freely through the eustachian tube, and
when I last saw her at my rooms she could hear
perfectly.
“ Cases of this class are very commonly met in prac-
tice. However, the result of treatment varies consi-
derably, some taking a long time to deal with, while
others are cured in a short period. It is important at
the same time to remember that great care has to be
taken of the patient’s general constitution, and in re-
lieving the congested mucous membrane by astringent
application to the throat. Some of these cases are
easily cured if treated early, but if repeated, as I have
often seen them, thev run on into obstinate and
incurable deafness. If parents only knew these facts,
deafness would not be so common as it is.”
We are obliged to Professor Stanich for the interest-
ing information he has enabled us to give our readers.
We look for another article. The regret is that medical
men in general overlook the importance of the Press.
The results of years of experience and practice are often
buried with them. Important facts about health stated
in common language, and given on the principle of pre-
vention is better than cure, would be invaluable and
remove a tremendous amount of suffering. Professor
Stanich, while honestly and legitimately making known
some extraordinary cases of cure, has given the public
since his arrival in Sydney most important information,
in the way of prevention of deafness, and we are sorry
now to learn that he is called away to his head-quarters
at Melbourne. He will, however, return at no distant
date. It will be satisfactory to the public to leom that
the Professor, during tfie last few days, has received
from a gentleman in Tasmania, W. Brooke, Esq., of
Colebrook, a costly gold medal, with an inscription on
it, conveying the thanks of the donor to the Professor,
for what is termed a ‘ miraculous’ cure of deafness.
THE BROKEN NECKLACE:
A Love Story.
BY M. B.
Years ago, in a small country theatre where my
father was engaged, I was considered by the mana-
ger a very clever child, and in children’s parts had
become a pot with the audience. Attractions must
have been at a very low ebb when the manager
conceived the idea of my playing “ Juliet.” I am
thankful that such things do not occur now.
Happy children ! and happier public !
I was a pale, thin, delicate-looking child and
very tall for my age, being only thirteen, although
announced in the bills as twelve. Everyone
thought at that time, that I should, if I lived, be a
remarkably fine woman ; but since playing “Juliet ”
cm that memorable first occasion I have not grown
an inch, and sometimes think that my tragic efforts
gave as great a shock to my system as to my
audience.
Often on my way to and from our rehearsals,
when I had time to loiter, I stopped at a window
in the little High Street, and longingly looked at a
necklace of pearl beads, in three rows, marked five
shillings—a fortune to me then. I saved until I
bad half-a-crown, and then tried to induce the
shopman to let me have it for that price ; but I
failed. My father promised to buy me the trea-
sure if I would be very good, and study “Juliet.”
How readily I said “Yes,” for the labour of learn-
ing the words and being taught by my mother how
to speak them, seemed light indeed compared
with the joy of possessing those little pearl beads.
The night arrived for the “great dramatic
event” {vide advertisements). My mother could
scarcely dress me, her hands trembled so. I could
not help wondering why she should be so anxious.
I was not. I was of that happy age that knows no
responsibility. I had on a pretty white dress,
trimmed with narrow silver lace, my hair hanging
in large waves over my shoulders ; the best adorn-
ment of all was my beautiful pearl necklace. Oh !
how every one would envy me those beads. All
went well until the fourth act, when, throwing my
head back to drink the poison, my long train,
which I wore ‘ for the first time in my life and
which had been a great anxiety to me all through
the play, got entangled in my feet, and in the
effort to free myself from falling, my necklace
gave way, and the beads were scattered about in
all directions. I looked scared for a moment; but
when I fully realized that it was broken, I fell to
crying so bitterly that I thought my heart would
break too. I sank on to the couch sobbing pit-
eously. The audience thought this a good piece
of acting, and gave me great applause.
Nothing in the shape of fond persuasions, pro-
mises, threats, or arguments, would induce me to
go on for the last act—nothing but the restored
necklace, one row of which was broken, and the
beads scattered all over the stage. At length, my
poor mother, who was almost wild with despair,
promised me a new one if I would only finish the
part.
So, in the greatest grief, and with stifled sobs, I
went through the last act. When I fell on
Borneo’s body there was great applause, but in the
middle of Friar Laurence’s last speech I saw some
■of my beads lying close to his feet. His treading
upon them seemed imminent, so I got up and res-
cued them and then lay down again. Of course,
the rest of Friar Laurence’s speech was not heard,
and the curtain fell amidst loud laughter. I had
a good scolding from father, mother, and manager,
who hoped that when I again played Juliet I should
think more of the part than the ornaments.
As we were leaving the theatre, my eyes swollen
from crying over the injured necklace, a gentle-
man who had witnessed the performance and the
scene stepped up to us, and said, “ I hope you
will pardon me for speaking to you ; my name is
Captain . Let me tell you how much I have
been impressed by your little daughter’s acting as
Juliet; it really was, for so young an actress, very
remarkable. Take care of her, sir, there is a
bright career before her. Good night. Good
night, little one ! ” He shook my hand, and asked
me if I would give him the remnant of my broken
necklace, which I had so carefully rescued from
destruction when supposed to be dead. I trembled
at the thought of parting with it; but my mother
whispered to me, “lam going to buy you another.”
So I gave it. On our way home we talked of
nothing else —my father dwelling on the criticism,
and I on the final disappearance of my necklace.
For many and many a night I quite looked for
my “prophet,” but he had gone as mysteriously
as he had come. Often on our way home I have
said, “We have never seen that kind gentleman
since, father, and, though I only saw him once, I
seem to miss him somehow; will his words ever
■come true, I wonder? ”
About two years after that, we joined the com-
pany of the Bristol Theatre, where I played almost
every class of part that ever was written; one
night I appeared as Ophelia, owing to the illness of
the Reading lady. I felt that I had made a success,
and was leaving the theatre with my mother, who
instructed me in every part I played, talking to
lier, and feeling very happy, when who should step
up to us, but my ‘ ‘ prophet. ” We both recognized
him at once. I was delighted, my mother gratified,
and, so far as circumstances would permit, she
showed that his criticism and kind compliments
were most acceptable two years ago, but, having
some considerable knowledge of the world, she
feared that his admiration of me as a child, might
grow into something more serious, and she there-
fore did not receive him with that warmth she
otherwise might have done. He said, “Well,
little one, you see I was right, you are going up the
ladder, step by step; mark my words, the next one
will be London.”
My heart jumped at the sight of this man;
there was a kind of mystery about him, he seemed
to be mixed up with my life somehow, and what-
ever part of importance I played, I always thought
■of him and of his kind words. He showed me the
string of pearls, and said, “You see how I have
treasured these. I don’t intend to part with them.
I shall never give them back to you unless you ask
me for them. ’ ’ How different were my feelings for
those pearls now; it seemed like taking away my
heart when he first asked me for them, and how,
unknown to myself, he had taken away my heart.
Every night during his short stay he sat in a
comer of the dress circle, and at the end of the
play would show me the pearl beads; he would
wait sometimes outside the stage door, just to
Eress my hand and say, “ Good-night, little one; ”
e had not time to say more, for my mother used
to sit at the window of our lodgings, which were
opposite, to see me come home.
1 was now in love for the first time in my life.
How everything else in the whole world suddenly
dwindled into nothing! Father, mother, sisters,
theatres, acting —all seemed to bo shut out by a
curtain, and only one being was in view. There
was nothing in this man to attract a girl of my
age ; he was not young, not what is called good-
looking, and was poor : but what was all this to
me? I argued with myself that all the nicest
people were poor, and I didn’t care; but I never
had on opportunity of telling him all this, for my
mother had declined to encourage his visits, and
so he kept away and never tried to see me, except
for one moment to say “ Good-night.”
One night I received a note from him, only a few
lines, saying, “ Good-bye, little one. I wonder if
wo shall ever meet again. I shall never part with
your pearls. I love you, little one. I wish you
loved me. but it is better for you that you should
not.” This was the first opportunity he had ever
given me of telling him how much I loved him,
and I was resolved to take it.
I gave the note to my mother, and implored her
to let me see him. She refused, saying I was a
silly girl. I fancy she said a fool, but I was too
agitated to remember.
“ How can you think seriously of such a myster-
ious person?” Mysterious! she would not give
him a chance of being anything else. “Surely,”
she continued, “ you cannot wish to destroy all
your professional prospects. Let me hear no more
of this nonsense. Thank goodness he is gone, and
you will forget him in a few days.”
“Forgethim! and in a few days ! Oh.mother!”
I laiew his address in Ireland, ’and after vainly
trying to follow my mother’s counsel, I wrote to
him saying that I loved him more than anything
else in the world, and that if he really cared for
me as much, I would run away, and go to him;
that if I did not marry him I would marry no one
else ; that I could not study, that I could do noth-
ing but think of him. He replied that it seemed
hard to take me away from a profession in which I
seemed destined to shine—that he should for ever
reproach himself if I regretted, when too late, the
step I had taken—that his love and empty pockets
would be but a miserable return for the sacrifice I
should make. He begged me to reflect. I did,
and the more I reflected the more determined I be-
came, and I told him so. He answered that he
would not fight with his feelings any longer ; that
he was sure, when once we were married, my
mother would soon forgive us.
And so it came about that I was to start on a
certain day. All was settled. I was to receive
the final letter with instructions and the money
for my journey. I thought the day would never
come. Time seemed to creep and not to fly. But
as the day drew nearer and nearer, my heart,
which had been so light and joyful, began to beat
with a heavier thud. There was a kind of fear—a
wish to run away from myself, for I felt afraid of
myself—my head and my heart began to argue.
On the night before I was to leave my home, I
returned from my work at the theatre. I found
my mother waiting supper for me as usual. I
could not eat, I was nervous and thoughtful. My
mother asked me if I was ill, or had I been annoyed
at the theatre ? I shook my head. I could not
trust myself to speak. When she kissed me and
said, “ Good-night, God bless you?” I whispered
to myself, “Will He bless me to morrow?” The
words fell from her lips like a reproach, for al-
though she said them to me every night, they
never seemed to mean so much before—they never
set me thinking as they did that night.
When I was alone in my little bed-room, I fell
on my knees and prayed to God to help me and to
guide me, for my heart was full of doubt. I felt
how I was deceiving my dear mother, to whom I
owed everything—who had taught me, who had
worked for me, and who was now dependent upon
me. If I went away, what would become of her
and my young sisters, for my father’s health was
getting worse and worse. Oh! how I wept and
prayed that night! I implored God to help me in
trouble and to give me some warning in my dreams.
I cried myself to sleep but awoke several times. I
heard the church-bell toll four, six, and eight.
Still no warning dream. I tried to think my going
would be for the best, or I should have surely
dreamt something. Half-past eight was the post
time, and I had told the servant to bring any let-
ters there might be for me to my room.
The half-hour struck. I heard the postman’s
knock. My heart seemed to stop beating. I
heard the girl on the stairs. I could scarcely
breathe. A knock at the door. This was the
final letter. I jumped out of bed, and as I crossed
the room to open the door, a voice in great haste,
said quickly, “ Don’t go.”
God alone knows what my feelings were at that
moment. Never —never, to my dying day, shall I
forget it. A thrill, first of awe and terror, then of
thankfulness, came over me. I fell on my knees
and said, “I won’t go.” The servant impatiently
pushed the letter under the door. I opened it.
There were the final instructions—how he would
meet me on the journey, and the money for my ex-
penses. I threw on my dressing-gown, sat down,
and wrote these words —“ Don’t expect me, I can-
not go. I have changed my mind.” I enclosed
the money, and sent the letter to the post. I gave
a sigh of relief, lay down on the bed, and cried
bitterly.
One morning, during breakfast, a few weeks
later, my mother (who up to this time knew noth-
ing of my little story (handed me the newspaper,
and with a smile of satisfaction pointed to the
marriage column. He had married! I threw my
arms around my mother’s neck, had a good cry,
and told her everything.
The words of my “prophet” were fulfilled, and
some two or three years later I was acting in a
London theatre. Whenever I made a success, I
thought of his kind words when I first saw him,
and I remembered how I had learned to love him
at last.
One day I was walking slowly up Regent Street,
when I stopped, without knowing why, at the
Carrara marble works. Serious thought came over
me as I contemplated the headstones and monu-
ments, and as I turned from them with a sigh, a
voice by my side said, in a low tone, “ Well, my
faithless little one.” I turned, and saw my “ pro-
phet.” My first instinct was to run away, but my
logs would not move.
“You see,” he said, “ what came of your sud-
denly changing your mind. I revenged myself and
got married. How cruel you wore ! ” He told me
that he had married a rich widow, that he pro-
posed, was accepted, and was married within a
month from my refusal. After thinking to myself
that widows lost no time in settling their affairs, I
told him the story of my warning, and he seemed
much impressed by it. He answered, “It was, I
am sure, a timely warning, for we should have
been very poor, and consequenly very miserable.
It would have been a dreary life for you, and much
too big a sacrifice, with all your bright prospects.
I am now a widower, with one little child. My
wife died a year after our marriage. I am rich
now, and can return to my own young love. I
wonder if my Juliet loves me still as much as she
said she did?” Yes, I did, but I would not say
so. I was afraid to hope again, so I said, “ You
had better not see me any more; you will soon
forget me.” He replied_ “Never, until I am
under one of those,” pointing to the headstones in
the window. A cold chill ran through me as he
said those words.
He was under orders to sail for India the follow-
ing week, so no time was to be lost. He called on
my mother, and asked her consent to our cor-
responding and to our marrying on his return to
England, which would be in a year, providing she
consented. My mother hesitated, but after tears
and entreaties from me, and with the hope that he
would marry a black woman, or that I should for-
get him, or that something would happen to keep
him in India, she reluctantly consented. The fates
seemed to will it this time, and so I was very happy
again.
The day came to say good-bye. He showed me
the pearl necklace, saying, “ You see how I have
guarded it. I will never part with it; it seems to
have linked our two lives together.” I looked at
the broken beads, and all the old times came back
to me. There was my necklace just as I had left
it, with two rows complete, and the third partly
gone; and there was the knot which I had made to
prevent the other beads from falling off.
I somehow wished there had been no broken
link. I had begun to feel rather superstitious now
about our courtship.
I was to have a letter from him by every mail.
Every mail brought me one, full of love and kind
words. No one ever seemed to speak such words
as he did, they were so good and honest. I always
felt that I could trust him, and that is why I loved
him.
Six months passed—seven, eight, and nine—and
every mail brought me my letter. How anxiously
I looked for his handwriting—l counted the days
and hours. At last the day came, but no letter;
the next mail arrived, and the next, but still no
letter. What could it mean ? My mother smiling,
said, “ Ah, my child, the old, old story ; and I am
not sorry.” After a few days reflection, I began
to think that she was right, and that I had been a
fool; but I was very unhappy. He had to
be my guiding star ever since I was a little girl,
and all my first and purest love was his. On, it
was dreadful to bear !
One day, very shortly after his third letter was
due, I was again in Regent Street, and thought of
the day I had met him there. I was very sad and
miserable, but still could not help clinging to the
hope of seeing him again, and that all would be
explained. He had been so frank and honest, I
could not help trusting to his honor. Perhaps he
was coming home to surprise me. As I approached
the Carrara marble works, I thought how strange
it would bo if I met him there again. I hurried to
the place, with a kind of superstitious feeling—
having met him there so strangely before, I should,
perhaps, as strangely meet him there again. I
stopped at the old spot, waited, looked about—no,
not there! Ah ! I remembered, I was looking in
at the window when he came ; I will do so again.
I looked in at the window, and there I saw a large
white headstone, with these words:
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OP
CAPTAIN IN THE
who died suddenly, at Kurrachoe,
&c., &c.,
How I got home, I know not. I found my
mother in tears, reading a letter she had received
from his dearest friend who had found my letters
among his papers. He had died soon after writing
to me for the last time, and my little pearl neck-
lace was buried with him.


JH UB E R T N
, PORTRAIT
Photographer by appointment to :
Governor.
Sole Place of Busin
12, OXFORD-STREET. HYDE I
ATT, AS FOUNDRY and ENG
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney,
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron a
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—l
prepared to undertake contracts for
Marine and Stationary Engines, B
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Shee
Sugar Mills, and all other descrip
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with c
price given for old metal.
G
UNS,
R
IFLES,
T
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY
C. COWLES,
Practical Gcnmab
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITI
HE SYDNEY COFF
393, 395, 397, GEORGE
THE MOST POPULAR HOTE:
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Sn
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of A
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes, i
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class
Fare constantly varied. Fish alwa
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week
nightly. Meals only charged whei
fees or gratuities to
ICENSED YICI
ASSOCIATION
NEW SOUTH WAI
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFI
The object of the Association is t
CONSERVATIO.
OP THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED YICTUAI
Throughout the Col
Communications may be addresse
SECRETARY or the PEI
The lightning
for Sawing Brackets, &o
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., h
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortmei
Books, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also,
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
JOHN CUTTER, PRACTI
317 PITT STREET, S'
All Orders attended to with caw
KEAREY BROTHERS. COA(
BUILDERS,
290, PITT-STREET, SI
Near Park-street
KOHLER, FISHMONG
SALESMAN.
22 HUNTER-STRE
FRESH PISH EVERI
LUNCH and SUPPER
NTERNATIONAL E
The Undersigned wish to annoi
visitors that they are SOLE LESS.
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALAC
The Drinks are of the best qua
picturesque apartments, are delicioi
YOUNG a
|rpHE SYDNEY ORATOR!
The above institution will be
GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, on M
23, for the Study of the Art of ELC
branches, but more especially for
Cure of Defects in Speech, such as S
ing, &c., under the most approved j
in England, Germany, and Prance.
For full particulars and terms apj
at the Lyceum, personally or by letl
M. A. Cl
M
R
OBE R T C
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGG
BRANCH AT NARAN
Gentlemen residing at a distance
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassinh
can always obtain them by writi
establishment.
o
BRIBIN' BROTHERS’ CARRY
MANUFACTORY
276 PITT STREET (near Ba
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufact
under their own personal super
learnt what colonial requirements
confident their buggies, carriages,
cannot be beaten for durability or c
seasoned timber used, and only the
men employed.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTUR
Watch and Cloci
574 GEORG E-STREE r
Opposite St. Andrew’s C
Medals of every description, M
Presentation Trowels designe
the premises.
DIAMOND SETT
c
HAS. MON lE, SADDLEI
MAKER,
GURWOOD-STREET, WAG
Jobbing executed on the she
WAGGA has long been celebra!
of its Saddles, audit wil
who try Saddles of my manufaettm
means inferior to those of any <
colonies. . ~ . , „
Sportsmen are invited to call.
NION CLUB
Baylis and Forsyth
NEWTOWN, WAGGA
(Close to the Railway S
Under the patronage of His Exce
Robinson, K.G.C.M
T. J. BYRNES, Pro]
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the vt
A First-oHss Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well snpi
wholesome provender, and be und»
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. BA’
u
TO PICNIC PARTI
-pm *-■p TVT UVUNTTH nf t.be Pvrmc
144 COLLARS for
AT HORDERN’S IN PIT 1 ]
gEE THEM!!
144 COLLARS FOR 3s.
144 COLLARS FOR 3s.
ANY SIZE, 14, 14j
DOLPHE GABKI
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC.
18 WYNYARD SQU,
(two doobs pbom pfahlek
SYDNEY.
CAUTION
Owing to systematic attempts i
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. fi
caution their patients tl
ONLY ADDRESS IS AS
\RTH U R C
157, late 203, PITT-STREET
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOU
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF 1
and MARRIAGE
COPIES OF WILLS PR<
DURING THE YEA!
253 INQUIRIES WERE I
Of these 172 were satisfactorily cor
26 were withdrawn for va
24 were unsuccessful or ahi
81 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE E
most intricate cases have met with
AGENCIES in Great Britain a:
States, Continent of Europe, Ai
Zealand.
Forty thousand poun
SEASONABLE DRA
NOW ON SALE.
The most successful of our ms
and the MOST GENUINE SAI
NEW SOUTH WAI
£40,000 WORTH OF SEA SON A]
ALL NEW GOODS, bought
|at an enormous reduc
by
ANTHONY HORDERN i
HAYMARKET,
In this GENUINE SALE w<
Slate and Drab Dress Linings, 1
Slate Holland, 6d, 6|d, 7*d, Bid,
Brown Holland,
5d
Diapers, 6*d, 7*d, 8)/i,:
Thc»e goods are fully 30 to 45 p
oou be procured elsewhere.
£40,000 WORTH GENERAL
32-inch Al only 2Jd per yard, B 1
36-inch A, 3| . .
B, 4d Horrock’s
888, 74 I Long Cloths |
George tall, practice
AND SAW MAK
PITT STRE
(Next the Congregational
Saws sharpened and re-set on tl
GEORGE TALI
is the leading Practic Locksmith o
lenges any competitor for speed
of work.
AVID M
14, HUNTER-STREET,
By Special Appointn
SADDLER AND HARNES
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE.C
His Excellency the Right Honora
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBIN'
And
His Excellency LORD AUGUI
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemei
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 187 1
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings
Sheets, and other requ
C. W. ROBERTS
£3 CASE
OP
ASSORTED WINES AND
v CARRIAGE FREE by RAH
ON receipt of the above sum th(
articles will be forwarded, in S(
securely packed in a case, viz.: —
QUALITY GUARAN'
C. W. ROBERTS has much plea
he is constantly receiving the highei
residents in nil parts of the colony r
character of the LIQUORS supplied
FAMOUS £3 CAS
Try one and judge for y
Kindly make a note of the
C. W. ROBERTS
Importer of Wines and
George and Market St
SVTINPV
PROFESSOR STANICH AT WORK-(See page 7.)
