

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3. —No. 36.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1880.
Price —3d
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1880.
Contempt of Public Opinion.
Three of the judges in Banco did a very
inexpedient thing, and it may be an unwise one,
on Friday last. In the first place they consti-
tuted themselves the prosecutors, judges, and
juries of a newspaper that had criticised one of
their number in a manner too caustic; and, in
the second place, they defended their procedure
on precedents over a century old, the shreds and
patches of a traditional forensic despotism that
should have been allowed to remain obsolete.
What can their Honors hope to gain by exhibiting
this hostile front to the community ? Have they
morally or intellectually rehabilitated Mr. Tem-
porary Judge Windeter, or won for him an
oblation of public respect ? Far otherwise.
Ft would not be too rash to say that the late
proceedings are likely to culminate in his retire-
ment from the Bench when his current year of
office shall have terminated. As to his judicial
brethren, they have contemned public opinion,
and do not appear to have made a brilliant stand
as exponents or interpreters of the law. The fine
imposed on the Messrs. Bennett will probably
be paid by three-penny subscriptions throughout
the country, and indignant protests will be made
against what will be designated the arbitrary or
tyrannical conduct of their Honors. Even a
Judge Keogh, in the ecstasy of his hatred,
never asserted such irresponsible powers as
did our Chief Justice and his brother judges on
Friday last. What other effect can this conduct
have on the public mind than to cause distrust,
which leads to a kind of contempt very preju-
dicial to the administration of justice, and sub-
versive of that reverence and respect which
Englishmen willingly pay to those “ clothed ”
with authority ? There has been a great deal too
much gasconade over the powers with which
judges (Supreme and District Court) are armed.
That they should exercise a large discretionary
power, while conducting the business of their
respective courts, no right-minded man will deny.
There should be calm deliberation, a patient
analysis of the evidence, the observance of order
and decorum ; but all this is very different from
“ pulling ” people for something they may have
written in a newspaper published beyond the
precincts of the Court. Now as to the comments
made on Mr. Judge Windeter by the Evening
News, they were sharp and incisive, but hardly
reached the highest quality of satirical criticism.
Other words less liable to a forced interpretation
—less capable of being tortured into imputation
of corrupt motives —would have served the pur-
pose as well, and shown that his Honor was very
apt to “mix” things, and flounder in muddy
judicial water when he once got out of his legal
depth. We remember the exhibition he made of
himself over a piece of evidence at the trial of
the Wantabadgery bushrangers. Nobody believes
he is corrupt —believes that he would sell justice
by taking a bribe. But even despotic authority can-
not give a judge brains, and there is a great deal of
the advocate in him yet, which requires toning.
It is hardly worth his while, however, to make
the experiment, as he is likely to be relieved from
his temporary judicial appointment at the end of
his second year. In the meantime, the country
will speak out with no equivocal voice in vindi-
cation of the freedom of the Press; the coppers
will even bo raised to pay the fine imposed on the
offending newspaper; and when Parliament meets
there will be a lively hubbub over the disagreeable
business. It is doubtless a very heinous offence
to contemn the judges of the Supreme Court,
but smore serious and more significant in its
ultimate consequences is it for the judges to
contemn public opinion. Discretion is a golden
attribute, and should always guide the hand that
wields the pen of criticism. It should also
regulate the acts of those who wield practically
irresponsible power.
Waiting in Hope.
People all over the colony are exceedingly
arafious to learn whether the Government in-
tends prosecuting the public works for which
money was voted last session of Parliament. An
opinion has begun to spread abroad that several
“votes” will be allowed to lapse, and the justifi-
cation for this pusillanimous conduct is said to
be found in the state of the country’s finances.
Sir Henry Pabkes drew rather a glowing pic-
ture of the state of the Treasury a few days ago
at Albury, but if the money in hand is the result
of a false economy —a number of unexpended
votes- —the censure of the public should be
strong and deep in reprobation. The growls
that reached us from Grafton about a fortnight
ago were re-echoed at Parramatta and other
places, where important works are much needed;
and even the formation of the tramways is not
being expedited with that promptness which a
Ministry so well toasted and applauded as ours
is should exhibit. Ministers are not, however,
likely to be left to the enjoyment of ease without
dignity ; they are being reminded of their neg-
lects by deputations and comments in the Press,
and exhorted to bestir themselves and carry into
effect the works ordered. The meeting held at
Waverley a few evenings ago was a very credit-
able manifestation of public spirit; and others
to whom tramways have been promised should
not allow forgetfulness to paralyse the Ministerial
mind. It is all very well to wait in hope for
administrate e activity; but hope deferred makes
the heart sick. The Ministry want watching;
there is something “ up” which the public will not
like when the eclaircissment comes. We think
it will be found to consist of several unexpended
sums of money voted for important works.
Should this peculiar policy prove a reality, we
are much mistaken in the temper of the people
if they will not condemn it with the most vehe-
ment emphasis. The whole truth will soon out.
“Ship Knacking."
A vessel of 1137 tons was built in the Baltic in
1863, but was so defectively constructed that she
did not at first pass survey. Then she was
strengthened and went to sea in the South Pacific.
She arrived in Sydney in 1878 a complete hulk,
and lay for nearly three years in Snail’s Bay.
An index to her real condition is contained in the
fact that when sold, two months since, she only
realised £6OO. However, she was purchased,
docked, fitted up for a voyage and given the best
of characters. She was towed from Sydney to
Newcastle with 400 tons of “stiffening” cargo,
and whilst loading the balance of the 1200 tons
she was designed to carry to Yokohama, she
leaked badly, making over four inches per hour.
When she had loaded 1060 tons she went to sea
in such a leaky state that it was considered
necessary to get a donkey engine to work the
pumps. On the evening of the day on which she
set out on her voyage she was pumped dry—next
morning there were 2ft Sin of water in her hold.
The water gained steadily on the pumps. The
captain first tried to make for Lord Howe’s Island
and then for Newcastle. “ Nobby’s was sighted,
and they stood in for the port, under a strong
S.S.E. gale, with a terrific sea running. The
signal of distress was hoisted at daylight, and
kept flying until the ship went to pieces on North
Beach. The captain continued to run down, in
hopes of assistance, until there was no more room
to work the ship, when, finding no help approach-
ing, they ran for North Beach. Whilst ap-
preaching the beach, the seas poured aboard in
every direction, flooding the decks. The ship
first struck the ground about 400 yards from the
beach, and before breaking, was driven up another
100 yards, and, ten minutes after, the whole ship
was in pieces, and the crew were left struggling
in the waves.” Seven men at least, including
the captain and chief officer were drowned. On
shore, the lifeboat was ready but was not ordered
out, though according to all accounts she could
in the first instance undoubtedly have reached
the ship. And this is the story of the Susanne
Godeffroy. f sriiSoß.j
Ourselves Again.
The first number of The Observes, a neat little
paper, published at Auckland, N.Z., in imitation,
so far as is practicable, of The Bulletin, has
reached us. There is hardly a paper in Australia
which has not taken a leaf from our book, and
that a journal avowedly on our lines should have
been started in distant Maoriland only adds one
more proof of the suitableness of our style to this
high-pressure age. The success of our paper may
be said to have effected a total revolution in the
country journals of this colony—and even the
sleepy newspaper men of Tasmania have been
awakened by the “live paper.” We quote for
our readers’ edification the concluding sentences
of The Bulletin’s first leading article :
“ The public mind rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half which shall
appear in The Bulletin.” This journal, started
under great difficulties, has in eight months
attained a circulation of 16,000 copies. The
Bulletin has therefore, with but one exception,
a far larger circulation than any other weekly
journal in N.S.W., and its individual advance
equals that of all the rest put together. How-
ever, though we have in two-thirds of a year
quadrupled our circulation, doubled our size,
exterminated all objectionable prints, and im-
proved our paper in every way, we have not yet
used up even the first letter in The Bulletin
alphabet. Perhaps people will remark that the
foregoing is “one for The Observer and two
for ourselves.” This may be. We take a paternal
interest in The Observer and in all other papers
—there are but few—which practically recognise
the facts that life is short, and that “ words are
like sunbeams —the more they are condensed, the
deeper they burn.”
Mr. Alderman Daniel O’Connor. M.P.
.The public career of this gentleman has been a
series of vivid surprises. When he first became
Alderman “ knowing ” people looked at each other
with corrugated brows, and with the muscles of
the face drawn tauter, as much as to say—“ Who
would have thought that this humble tradesman
could make his way into the central divan of the
City Fathers?” But if his success in attaining
to Aldermanic honours made certain people stare
agape, what must have been their amazement
when he was returned to Parliament third on the
list as the representative of West Sydney, beating
men who had grown grey on the political aiena,
and whose influence was supposed to be absolute.
Mr. O’Connor’s pluck—his boldness —his contempt
for all evasion, at once attached to him his fellow-
citizens, who recognized in him those qualities
and potentialities which they most admire. The
active bustling fife of Daniel O’Connor is strongly
marked with interesting occurrences Born in
the town of Tipperary, in the year of Daniel
O’Connell’s incarceration (1844), he was named
after the Great Tribune, and learned before
he emigrated from the land of his birth to
realise the constitutional spirit which animated
the distinguished O’Connell in all his political agi-
tations. There are few spots in the British Isles
so full of beauty as the scene in which Daniel
O’Connor spent the first years of his life.
In the tenth year of his age his parents
with a young family of six children im-
migrated to Australia in the Lord Hungcrford
from Plymouth, and after a perilous voyage, of
four months, arrived in Sydney in 1854. His father
started in business as a butcher ; and after a few
months’ schooling, Master Daniel began while
yet a boy to do the work of a man as clerk,
messenger, and general assistant. For several
years he worked sixteen hours a day, but managed
“ to steal a few hours from night ” to read books
of history, travel, and before all, the speeches of
the British and Irish orators. He became a
habitue of the Sydney S chool of Arts in his four-
teenth year, and in 1869 entered on a course of
classics and English literature with Mr. Sheridan
Moore, of the City College, Lyons Terrace, which
lasted about a year and a half. Although improv-
ing his mind under difficulties, he managed through
untiring devotion to business to make a fortune,
every shilling of which he lost during the gold-
mania of 1871-72 ; but not disheartened, he set to
work again, and in three years time nearly regained
his lost position, and added to the respect of all
with whom he had business transactions. His
energy, plain-dealing, and willingness to assist all
with whom he came in contact, began in 1874, to
attract attention to him as a public man ; and one
gentleman of a more analytical turn of mind than
the rest of his friends, insisted on his taking a
MR. ALDERMAN DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.


position in the ranks. We allude to Mr. Samuel
Priestly, who, notwithstanding divergence of views
in some particulars may be looked upon as Mr.
O’Connor’s political foster-father. He was induced
in 1876 to stand for Phillip Ward, and was tri-
umphantly returned. He soon made himself felt
in the Municipal Council, insisting strongly on
retrenchment, and carrying resolutions to investi-
gate the working of the Corporation. His
zeal, firmness, and integrity attracted the
electors of West Sydney at the general election
of 1877, when he was returned third on the
poll, Messrs. Merriman and Cameron being at the
head, and Mr. John Harris fourth. From the first
night he took a seat in the Legislative Assembly,
Mr. O’Connor became an energetic debater, and a
vigilant guardian of the public purse. He has
resolutely—on three occasions particularly—pre-
vented the Government from dictating to the
House of Assembly, and on one occasion, when
the wool, coal, and cattle tax came on for debate,
his native eloquence and vigorous physique
compelled the Government to yield and reconsider
their financial policy. Mr. O’Connor has given an
independent support to Mr. Farnell and Mr. Fitz-
patrick. Ho was able, a short time ago, in
the Municipal Council, to protect Mr. Westcott,
the mechanical engineer at Botany, who would
have been ruined only for Mr. O’Connor’s insist-
ance on justice and the exercise of a little human
kindness. As a speaker, he has great and varied
powers ; and, when through practice he conquers
certain objectionable mannerisms, there will be
no one in the Assembly better worth listening to.
He has undeniably been born with the gift of
oratory, which does not come at the mere bidding
of the tutor. Considering the zeal and disinterested
devotion with which Mr. O’Connor has entered on
his public career, we imagine there is a brilliant
future him. He has endeared himself to the
electors of West Sydney by chivalric service as
their representative; and they are not likely to
retract that confidence which they gave him when
he was less known than he now is. As an im-
promptu speaker, he has few equals. To a vivid
fancy he adds a genial humour and a wonderful
versatility; and his speeches, even when on
common-place topics, are varied, rich, and forceful.
He is still a comparatively young man, and can
only have foreshadowed his capacities. But he
has begun right —with a straightforward avowal
of his principles, and a scrupulous attention te
duty, which should secure him the confidence and
respect, not only of his numerous supporters, but
of those who, differing from his political views,
are honourably bound to oppose him.
“The Referee” on the Match for the
Championship.
Says the London Referee of let August:—
“ The arrival of Trickett and Laycock constitutes
an event in the year’s boat-racing history. Assum-
ing that Trickett has come here for the purpose of
showing that the stories as to his eagerness to
depart after defeating Sadler in ’76 wore untrue,
he deserves every consideration and respect from
Englishmen. Still, it is difficult to understand
how a man who declined to row Higgins, though
the latter offered to lay odds (!!!!!) and no end of
money in bets would have been forthcoming,
should now come here to try conclusions with
Hanlan. With all respect to Higgins’ splendid
show when fit and well, and before the new system
of sliding had been exhibited in England, no one
in his senses believes him to be within many many
lengths of the American champion. This is not a
question of physique or ability as measured
according to ancient standards. Mechanical
appliance and its proper uses have to be con-
sidered first now, and, whatever may have been
the class of Chambers and Kelly, Higgins and
Elliott, or any other of the men who held premier
rank, in the days of fixed seats or short sliders,
they are completely out in an argument which
affects scullers at the present moment. The
advantages of following the lead were certainly
shown by Boyd last back end, and again this
spring, but no less certainly was it shown when he
went to America that it is one thing to beat men
educated in the old school and quite another to try
conclusions with those who have no knowledge of
aught but the new. * * * Australian papers
state that Trickett has been unjustly treated here,
as he and not Hanlan introduced the long slide and
slow stroke into England. If Trickett thinks the
sort of form he showed when preparing for Sadler
is anything like Hanlon's, either for style or speed,
he will be waked up suddenly when he sees the
Canadian ’twixt now and November. Antipodean
strictures as to the long slide and its invention
make it appear as if Trickett has no suspicion of
the profound change ’79 worked in professional
rowing. This only makes the impending match
more puzzling than it was previously. Maybe
writers upon rowing in Australia know nothing
whatever about it; but whatever may be their
inventive claims for Trickett, it is an undeniable
fact that on his old show he has not a million to
one chance against Hanlan, provided the latter is
fit and spinning. Hanlan’s doctor, Hanlan’s
friends, and Hanlan’s representative newspapers
all state that he is quite recovered from his recent
indisposition, and that he will row nobody until he
rows Trickett. All of which but adds to the
despair engendered by an endeavour to understand
why two men, matched before Midsummer and
anxious to settle all differences —with nothing to
occupy the interval or to interfere with prepara-
tion—should, of all months in the year, select
November for their meeting.
The School of Industry Bazaar.
It is to be regretted that a greater meed of suc-
cess than we have this year to chronicle has not
attended this charitable undertaking. It may be
questioned, however, if the choice of the Garden
Palace, shorn, as it is, of all its splendour, be not
accountable for the comparative failure of the
fancy fair. There is something depressing about
the huge empty building, which we can all re-
member humming with life and gaiety, filled
with every possible attraction, resounding in every
corner with the pleasant hum of busy life ! The
vast structure, full, now, of nothing but echoes,
and containing but one empty show case (that of
the B. and F. Bible Society) has a depressing
effect upon even the most mercurial tempera-
ment. The fountain silent and forlorn —majestic,
dry, and verdigrisly ; dolphins with their mouths
open, gasping as though for the rippling stream !
Ah! who will ever forget the gurgle and the
splash of that fountain in the summer time —the
sound of the falling waters lending an
additional flavour of coolness to ice-cream and
champagne! Our readers can then imagine the
effect of some six stalls dotted about the central
transept; of some 500 people scattered like
currants in hot-cross buns about the great build-
ing ! It is true there was music—organ recitals.
They were good recitals, too,by Messrs. Whit warn,
M’Lean, A. Rea and others ; but performances on
the organ are not, as a rule, popular with the
general public, however they may be appreciated
by musical enthusiasts. The singing of Mr.
Fisher’s children on Saturday was pretty ; and the
performance of the Artillery Band was much
admired. The ladies who presided over the stalls
looked more than excessively charming; but at
the same time we may suggest that not every
member of the general public is thirsting after
baby linen. We are glad to hear that the receipts
were greater than the paucity of the attendance
seemed to indicate ; but we trust that, for appear-
ances’ sake, the next fair won’t be held in that
vault of departed glory, the Garden Palace.
The Railway Ball.
The Railway Ball, on Monday evening last, in the old
Exhibition building, attended by about 800 people, was
quite a success. The banquet commenced at half-past
8, and the tables, furnished by Compagnoni, and occu-
pying the whole of the galleries, were crowded in every
part. The speeches were of the usual character. Mr.
W. Y. Read, traflic manager, who filled the chair, spoke
briefly. He is not an orator, either born or made, but
no doubt is better at managing than talking. Sir
Henry Parkes was politic, as he always is ; Mr. Lackey
stereotyped ; and Mr. Davies full of smooth platitudes.
Mr. Goodchap spoke departmentally, and Mr. Suther-
land with outspoken, rugged eloquence. Mr. Dan
O’Connor, the “noticeable man with the large grey
eye,” provoked repeated roars of laughter and cheers
by his really excellent speech on “ The Ladies," and
Mr. Hugh M'Lachlan responded for the “ weaker
vessels ” in a way which earned for himself countless
approving smiles. Among those present were Mr. Six-
smith and Mr. Darby, who were introduced to the
Ministers as the engineer and guard who drove the
first train in New South Wales twenty-five years ago.
It mattered not if one of the officers courted the
shadow of the Minister very much. The dancing com-
menced a little after 10 o’clock, audthe music of the
“ Young Australian Band ” was the theme of the even-
ing’s commendation. With good music, fascinating
partners, and with that entente col'dialdlwhich is always
so much more conspicuous among those whom Sir
Henry calls “the foundation classes,” than among the
more patrician and artificial orders of society, all
seemed to enjoy themselves to the utmost as they bade
dull care begone. Dancing was kept up until nearly
daylight in the morning. The dresses were for
the most part plain, but there were a few fancy
costumes. One especially was much admired: the
wearer, a graceful dancer, was clothed in black
from crown to foot, but the brilliance of the hun-
dreds of silver stars which glittered on their sombre
background rendered the dress tasteful and charming.
A verv pale green silk, perfectly plain, was also
noticeable for its elegance. The.only hitch in the
arrangements was a scarcity of programmes during part
ofthe evening, but the M.C’s. were most courteous and
indefatigable in their efforts to make everything
pleasant. The total absence of formality, and the de-
termination to enjoy, mode the affair all the more suc-
cessful, and though some people did have to go home
without their hats —well, yon know, hats are very much
alike, and when a man is in a hurry he cannot always
tell his own old hat from somebody else’s new one.
Miss Louise Pomeroy.
Ax obvious error occurs at the top of the fourth column
of page 8 of to-day’s issue. The piece in which Mies
Louise Pomeroy and the Melbourne Theatre Royal
Company open on Saturday night at the Queen’s is “ As
Yon Like It,” in which Miss Pomeroy impersonates
Rosalind. The piece will be produced with due regard
to detail, Mr. Larry Foley, the champion pugilist of
the colonies, being cast as the wrestler.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Government are terribly exercised over our
article “ Parkes in Penumbra " last week. Who could
have divulged the secret ?
Sammy Lees got out a card stating he was a
candidate for East Sydney, and then he sent round
someone to get signatures to a requisition asking him
to stand.
Mr. George H. Reid will tend to improve the
tone of the house, for with all his Free Trade principles
he would protect refinement of speech and put a heavy
duty on invective abuse.
“ Little Bob,” the popular Icandidate for the
Lachlan, advertises in the Evening Lyre that he sells
Pictorial Cherry Balsam. We suppose illustrated
plasters are likewise on hand. Bob would, at any rate,
make a most energetic M.P.
Can it be really true that John is going for
Mudgee and David for a Sydney constituency ? Surely
the pair do not intend, by thus changing places, to
admit that a prophet is never honoured in his own
country.
In his address to the electors of Morpeth, Mr.
J. N. Meiklejohn says, “I beg to say that, after many
considerations, I have consented to become a candidate,
and have the honour to solicit your votes and assistance
at the coming election." How many ?
“ Wollombi Joe” will shortly be on the war-
path. He said “he don’t want no rekkisition ; ” all he
requires is a fair field, a bottle of three star, and a
shilling “Complete Orator.” With these trifling ac-
cessories Joe says he will knock spots out of any electo-
rate.
Some of the hon. members’ grammar is rather
shady. One in an address to the electors of Sydney,
says “hedeems it his duty, at the present time, to re-
tire from seeking to obtain a seat in the ensuing Par-
liament. I remain, gentlemen, John Macintosh, Pitt-
street.” There is a cheerful eccentricity about this
“change of persons.”
The rumour that Mr. A. B. Eae, the splendid
lecturer, is going to contest the city of the plains, is
without foundation. He says he has had enough of
public speaking for a while. Lecturing to three boys
cracking nuts in the gallery and the hall-keeper’s rela-
tives in the front seats has its attractions and its charms,
but it is expensive. So, therefore, A. B. would rather
not.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bclletin will at all times be glad to
receive information from correspondents living in town
or country or the other colonies on subjects of general
interest, more especially on matters connected with
sport, the drama and fashion. Communications from
ladies will be especially welcome.
To Correspondents.
J. T., Albury.—(l) Dickie Lingard at latest
dates was playing in the States. Her home, last we
heard, was in ’Frisco, where her husband, Mr. Dalziel,
is in business. (2) I)e jure the action amounted to pro-
hibition. What if the letting of church-sittings were
prevented by authority ? S. R.—Thanks. Rock-
hampton-—Some of your paragraphs could not be
published unless we knew the name of the writer.
T. 8., Grafton.—Glad to hear from you, but try another
style. We don’t deal in polemics. J. W.—We don’t
agree with you. The fact that a clergyman eats oysters
and drinks porter in public nightly in Pitt-street rather
tends to show that he is not a hypocrite and undeniably
proves that he knows what’s good. Oysters contain
plenty of phosphorus, the host brain food, and you can’t
go wrong if you drink bottled porter, which, especially
when taken with oysters, is alike tonic, digestive and
gently stimulative. Re Thornton C. C. (handwriting
illegible): We can’t commit ourselves to such a state-
ment “A subscriber.”—Purely a personal matter.
As the offended one is a gentleman he should be able to
take care of himself. “Lanfre.”—Thanks; late;
next issue. Grose.—ln our next. W. N.—Will look
into the matter. Maronan. —Thanks ; in our next.
E. D.—Too late, next issue.——G. M. D.—Our space
being limited we are sorry that we cannot at present
find room for any more matter of the kind.
“ Suburbs.”—Too far fetched.—“ An nan dale."—We are
obliged for the matter but cannot, unless yon call,
state our reasons for not inserting it.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Porte is still defiant.
Melbourne International opens on Friday.
Mr. Gannon won the Maitland pigeon matqh.
Chief Judge Prendergast is Acting-Governor in
N.Z.
In Ireland, in 1878, there were 1749 ejectments
as against 2677 in 1879.
A Free Selectors’ Conference is sitting at the
Imperial Hotel, Wynyard Square.
The supplementary English mail, per “Assam,”
closes to-day (Thursday!, at 5.30 p.m.
Mr. Edwin Browne and a strong company open
at the Maitland Theatre on Saturday.
A life and death struggle is proceeding between
the Pall Mall and St. James’s Gazettes.
Some startling movements are said to be in pro-
gress to make a good defence for Ned Kelly.
There is a well-grounded demand that the art
gallery shall be opened on the Sunday afternoon.
At Bowen Downs 100,000 sheep were washed and
shorn in six weeks and two days, producing over 800
bales of wool.
The Victoria, from Brisbane with 62 passengers
and a full crew, is two days overdue. Grave fears are
entertained for her safety.
Bradlaugh, in contesting his claim to a seat in
the House, said, “If I had 10,000 men at my back
The rest was lost in a storm of hisses.
Mr. Upjohn, the newly-appointed Victorian
flagellator, is a complete success. He flogged three
criminals the other day, and inflicted on them terrible
punishment.
The Rockhampton people want a resident sur-
geon for their hospital at £5OO per annum, board and
residence; no private practice except consultation with
other medical men.
The memorial-stone of a new Wesleyan church
at Parramatta was, on Sunday, laid by Mrs. J. T.
Bryant, who was presented with an elegant silver
trowel on the occasion.
The Campbell Brothers, who are now the pro-
prieors of the Royal Furnishing Arcade, are arranging
for a further extension of their business. Additional
space, larger importations, &c.
A writer in the Dtjbbo Dispatch complains of
the very bad horses in use by the police in the bush,
and says that many scoundrels escape justice through
the police not being properly equipped,
Lientenant-Colonel (of Volunteers) Windle Hill
St. Hill, late private secretary to Governor Weld, retires
from the army on the usual pension. Thus ends his
quarrel over money matters with the late Governor of
Tasmania.
Clancy, sentenced to death for the “ Carl ”
murders and commuted to ten years, has served seven,
and is to be released shortly. He pleaded at the
trial that he acted under orders from the notorious
Dr. Murray.
A requisition signed by 637 electors of Canter-
bury was presented to Mr. George Pile, on Tuesday,
by a deputation headed by Mr. Shorter, solicitor. Mr.
Pile assented, and briefly adverted to the principles on
which he would be elected.
Cables inform us that a Rev. Mr. Kane, in
Ireland, says that as a set-off to the landlord shooting
excursions of our tenantry, a few priests, &c., should be
made into Aunt Sallys. A mistake has evidently been
made in spelling Mr. Kane’s name.
The match against the English Players appears
“a moral” for the Australians, who have only 30 runs
to get for 7 wickets to win. The Players scored 90 and
82; the colonials in their first innings totalled 133, and
in their second have lost 3 wickets for 10.
The Ven. Archdeacon Beamish, who for 2o years
has been incumbent of Christ Church, Warrnambool,
Victoria, is now visiting Sydney for the benefit of his
health. The Archdeacon preached an effective sermon
just Sunday at St. Stephen's, Newtown.
Mr. Andrew Fairfax is, we are glad to notice, in
much better health than he has enjoyed for some time
; past, and he somewhat surprised his old friends by the
renewed excellence of his vocalisation at the Bennett
Testimonial Promenade Concert on Saturday week.
Three large stones, weighing between two and
three pounds each, were found in the stomach of a valu-
able horse in New Zealand, and are supposed to have
been the cause of death. The stones were of a dark
green colour, and of the consistency of hard mortar.
F. V. Easpail, the great French chemist, who
' died last year at the advanced age of 80 years, said,
j “ He felt certain that a time would come when the law
i will condemn severely the doctor who has the temerity
i to prescribe mercury, opium, and antimony in their
; medicines.”
A requisition signed by a large number of the
: electors of South Sydney, was presented during the
| week to Mr. Bogie, asking him to stand for that
electorate. Mr. Bogie consented, and intimated that
he would address the electors at an early date. He is
likely to give utterance to an energetic policy.
Tasmania is rapidly becoming of the first impor-
tance as a gold-bearing country. Large parcels taken
from various parts of the Royal Tasman reef, near
Mount Cameron, give from 24 to 106 ounces to the ton,
the metal being thoroughly diffused. The reef is 9 feet
thick, and the richest yet discovered in the island.
The “ Manchester Special Settlement,” about
which the noble duke of that ilk intends visiting the
colony is, it appears, 75 miles north of Wellington.
Youths with a capital of from £TOOO to £2OOO are invited
to apply for blocks to the Emigrants’ Aid Corporation,
Westminster, of which his Grace is President.
An exceedingly clever water colour sketch, by Mr.
Alfred Clint, was exhibited in a picture-shop in Pitt-
street, on Saturday last. The drawing—a satire on a
newly-titled dignitary—was humorous in the ex-
treme, and the picture is admirably finished. It at-
tracted much attention, and is sure to fetch a good
price.
A company consisting of a few enterprising
Victorian capitalists have purchased, for the sum of
£175,000, a tract of 700,000 acres of land in New Mexico,
into which country they intend introducing the best
Victorian sheep and the Australian methods of rearing
stock. This big venture, which has been thoroughly
considered, is expected to prove very remunerative.
Captain Kerr, for publicly horsewhipping a Dr.
Smith, Auckland. N.Z., has been fined £5 and costs.
1 The cause of the affray was of a domestic character. Cap-
! tain Kerr was in Sydney about two or three years ago.
He made a fortune at the Cape diamond fields, and at
about the same time became the recipient of a legacy.
Dr. Smith was assayer for the bank of N.Z. during the
early days of the Thames goldfield.
Writing on our Premier’s Albury speech, The
Australasian says : —“ Very few people whose opinion
goes for much will be disposed to question the logic of
Sir H. Parkes’s conclusions. Audit is at any rate cer-
tain that it is long since a Victorian Premier, under the
regime of protection, has been able to present so exult-
ing a statement of the progress and prosperity of his
colony in regard to its finances, its commerce, and its
productions."
The Mayor of Sydney has called a public meeting
for Tuesday evening next, at the Masonic Hall, to
consider the action of their Honors the Judges in regard
to the recent case of “ contempt of Court.” The
proceedings at Tuesday’s preliminary meeting were
orderly but vigorous, and fully showed that many in-
fluential citizens are thoroughly determined to protect
their liberties, of which the freedom ofj the Fress is
the greatest.
Some time ago prospectors began to search for
coal at Rocky Month. After going down 50 feet they
found a seam of surface coal 4 feet thick, at 57 feet they
struck a seam of good coal 18 inches thick. They are
now down between 60 and 70 feet, but as water comes
in freely, they have slabbed the shaft, and engaged an-
other set of men to help keep the water under. They
are now puddling the sides of the hole, and when finished
will resume sinking.
The foundation-stone of the new R.C. church
in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane, was laid on Sunday by
Bishop Quinn. £650 was collected.
The schooner yacht Red Gauntlet, 140 tons,
flying the flag of the Royal Thames Yacht Club, and
owned by Mr. C. C. Balfour, of Tidman, M’Taggart and
Co., of London, who is the only passenger, dropped
anchor in Port Jackson on Saturday last, after a seven
months’ cruise from Southampton. She visited Lisbon,
the Canaries, Batavia, touched at Trindad and remained
a month at the Cape. She docks and refits here, and
goes home by way of the South Seas and Cape Horn.
At the Young Quarter Sessions, Judge Forbes,
after sentencing a prisoner to detention in Darlinghurst,
and after the man had been taken from the court to the
local gaol, found that it was necessary for him to alter
the sentence to imprisonment in Bathurst. He accord-
ingly asked the Governor of the Young gaol to bring the
prisoner back into court. The gaoler at first refused to
do so without a habeas corpus, but, under pressure of a
threat from the Judge, he at last obeyed. The point is
one on which the law does not seem to be clear.
L’Estrange’s balloon ascent on Saturday was,
considered as an aeronautical exhibition, a thorough
success, but, as a business speculation, it was as decided
a failure as is usual in cases where the generosity of the
public alone has to be depended on. The adventurous
aeronaut let go his hold on Cook Park at 3 p.m., and
rapidly rose to a height of about 2000 yards, drifting
the while seawards. As L’Estrauge didn’t care about
undertaking a trip to America, he descended before it
was too late, and got safely to ground at West Manly.
We are sorry, however, to state that his balloon was so
tom bv trees as to be rendered unfit for farther use.
At last the worm has turned. At Bega the
other day a man named C. Rasmussen sued a pnblicau
named Maldon for £32 18s, amount of cheque spent on
a “ spree” at Maldon’s public-house at Panbula.
Plaintiff said he gave his cheque to Maldon, and five
days afterwards was told there was only .£1 left, for
which he received two bottles of grog and 8s to go
away. A set-off was put in by defendant'for the fall
amount, part for refreshments and part for cash lent.
The set-off was disallowed, only £4 being awarded
defendant, for meals and horsefeed. A verdict was
given for plaintiff for £2B 18s and heavy costs. This
is probably the first instance on record where a man
who wanted to eat his cake and have it too has suc-
ceeded in doing so.
Lord Augustus and Lady Loftus, accompanied
by Sir John and Lady Robertson and Mr. P. A. Jennings,
left by special train on Friday evening last en route to
Melbourne International. On their arrival at Wagga,
on Saturday, an address was presented to the Governor
by the residents, to which his Excellency formally
replied. A long procession escorted the Vice-regal
party to Byrne’s Hotel, where they stayed till Monday.
A levee was held in the evening by his Excellency, and
Lady Loftus held a reception, at which the leading
residents were presented. On Monday, at J p.m., his
Excellency arrived at Gerogery, where he addressed
the German farmers in their native language. At
4 p.m. the party reached Albury, where the addreas,
reply, levee, and reception programme was again gone
through. A special train conveyed the party from
Wondonga to Melbourne.
At Wallsend baby show the first prize was
awarded to a son of Mrs. Johu Buxton, of Wallsend, 6
months old, and weighing exactly 2st. The child is
described by the Newcastle Herald as “a fine boy,
with limbs resembling those of a miniature Hercules/’
The prizes, consisting of “ pretty suits of clothes,” were
awarded by Dr. Higham and Mrs. Hill (an English lady,
wife of Dr. J. J. Hill, now on a visit to this colony).
In distributing the prizes Mrs. Hill said, as it might
reasonably have been expected she would say, that
“every child in the room would be a credit to any
country.”
A baby-show on a large scale has just come off
at Wallsend School of Arts, the president and vice-
president of which are understood to be greatly in favor
of such displays. The Newcastle Herald thus
gushes : —“ The children exhibited led the minds of the
thoughtful into every track and scene of human life, —
here, through passages where poverty crawls ; there to
the fields where glory has its race; here to the mid-
night lake where meditation floats between two heavens,
and then again to the arid sands where passion pants
and dies. Many such thoughts as these arose whilst
gazing upon the lovely infants,—to the number of about
twenty,—which were dangled in their mothers’ arms on
Saturday afternoon.” Now this would have read very
well if the compositor hadn’t set up “ dangled ’’ for
“dandled”—for it is fair to suppose that the scribe
who got off the flowing periods quoted was thinking of
what Horatius said at the bridge in the brave days of
old; —
And for the tender mother
Who dandled him to rest.
And for the wife who nurses
His baby at her breast —
However, we’re not so sure about the meaning of "the
midnight lake where meditation floats between two
heavens.” If the affair had come off in Sydney we’d
have thought some reference was intended to a belated
pressman standing in a corporation puddle, situated
equidistant from two whisky mills and wondering to
which landlord he owed least.
FACTS FOCUSSED.
The Keilawarra (s.s.) is the champion boat on
the Northern coast. In Queensland, a constable on
entering court has to take off his uniform cap or helmet.
The Woolgar goldfield was named after the well-
known Fanny Woolgar, who used to sing in days long
gone, “Do it again.” A tunnel has been driven
through the granite rock on which the town of Beech-
worth stands, to divert water to the Rocky Mountain
Company’s claim for the purpose of sluicing. The
length of the tunnel is 3323 ft.; the total cost was
£13,000. The ground to be sluiced is about 35 ft. in
depth. The greatest depth at which payable stone
has been obtained in Victoria is in the Pleasant Creek
Cross Reef Company’s mine. 417 tons, taken from the
1850 ft. level, averaged 3 oz. 3dwts. 18 grs. per ton.——
The prohibition of smoking on the N.S.W. railways has
caused the habit of chewing tobacco to largely increase.
The demand for shares in Wesley Bros’ claim at
Vegetable Creek, which has just been formed into a
company, with a capital of £40,000, was very great.
At Castlemaine, Vic., the other day, a lady’and gentle-
man, after drinking coffee, were seized with spasms.
A frizzled, ill-favoured lizard was subsequently dis-
lodged from the spout of the kettle in which the water
had been boiled. The Rockhampton Hospital Com-
mittee have had great trouble with their resident
surgeon, Dr. Patterson, and have dismissed that gentle-
man.—-A very rich patch of golden stone has been
struck in the Nil Desperandum reef, Boorook, by HaU
and Co. Mr. Gordon, junior, of Poor Man’s Hollow,
Bathurst, was “bedding” his horse in the stable when
the animal kicked and struck him with the edge of its
hoof fair on the eyebrow, inflicting a terrible wound
but not fracturing the skull. It is expected that
3000 bales of wool will be dispatched from Brookong
station, in the Wagga district, this year. A Danish
ship, the Harfruen, now discharging at Newcastle, was
formerly a vessel of war in the Danish fleet, and though
58 years old, is still staunch. A quartz reef near the
Jamieson River, Victoria, has yielded 5000 oz. from 860
tons. An illuminated address is to be presented to
Mr. Roberts, late telegraph master at Armidale, who
has* retired after 18 years’ service. In the Warwick
district, between Feb. 1878 and Feb. 1880, 302,908 mar-
supials were destroyed, at a cost of £9314 10s. 6d.-,— ;
The Pieman Track from Mount Bischoff, Tasmania, is
being rapidly completed. The track is now available
for packing 25 miles from Bischoff. The Victorian
Government steamer Pharos is offered for sale by
tender. At Cootamundra, Thomas Kelly, an old
man, was fined £2 or fourteen days’ imprisonment.
He had £BO on him, but preferred to “ take it out.”
——The penny savings’ banks in connection with the
Victorian State schools have been very successful.
A number of French vignerons, who intended
settling in Auckland, are so disgusted at being offered
600 acres of barren land covered with an impenetrable
scrub, that they intend returning to America. The
Medical Association of Dunedin are memorialising the
N.Z. Government to insist upon the production of a
medical certificate and registratian of death before
burial is allowed. Mr. Squire W. Pye, of Orange


|1 H E A T R E
Lessee
THIRTIETH WEEK I]
and
SIXTY-SEVENTH WEEK I
LI AN COLON]
of the
LONDON COMEDY
THIS EVENE
and until further i
will be produced, for the first 1
entirely now and original c
acts, entitled
THE O I
Act I.—Mr. Clench’s Dr
Act 2. —Potter’s Home r
3.—Tony Judsoi
Stage Manager—Mr. FRED
The scenes designed and exi
GORDON.
SPECIAL NOT
The Public are specially requ
the new comedy, “ The Girls.”
tical with a play entitled “ We!
has been repeatedly given thr
cities of Australia under th
Girls.”
In active preparation, with e:
and appointments, and a power
ters, Albery’s brilliant comedy,
TWO RO S
AETHUE G
QUEEN’S T
Lessee, G. B. Lewis 1 Directress
MONDAY, September 27, and fo
children will be admitted to all pa
AT HALF-PEK
AT HALF-PEK
Five Farewell Nights
Five Farewell Nig
Five
of the
JUVENILE -PINAFOEE
JUVENILE PH
JUVEND
The Last Five Nights in New Sou
troupe return to Melbourne on
An opportunity for children of all
interesting Juvenile per
HALF-PEICE TO ALL PAETS
Monday, Sept. 27th, Benefit of
Tuesday, Sept. 28th, Benefit of £
Wednesday, Sept. 29th, Benefit
Thursday, Sept. 30th, Benefit of £
THE FAEEWELL NIGHT, 1
NIGHT.
Friday, October Ist, Benefit of (
the Dick Deadeye i
Prices of admission—Dress circl
children half-price ! children half-
Box plan now open at Messrs. N
berg’s.
OPERA H
Corner of King and Yo
Lessee and Manager... ..M
Musical Director
OPENING OF THE DEAM
SATUEDAY, OCTO
Engagement Extraordinary of 1
Tragic Actor
HEEE BANDM7
who will mate his first appearan
his great creation of
HAMLET,
supported by Mr. Wm. HOSKINS
ite), MISS LOUISE BEAUDE
Favourite Actress; ME. SAM.
pearance here for I t years, and t
pany in Australia.
The manangement will spare nc
duction of Shakespeare's Grand
which will be produced with New
by Mr. E. L. SETEIGHT and assi
New Mechanical effects by Mr
assistants, new properties and a
Farley and assistants, new coi
Croucher and assistants.
Dress Circle. 4s i Stalls. 3s ■ T>
IG LES HEAD FOOT
ANNUAL EXCURSION t
Next SATURDAY AFTERNOOi
Young Australian Band engi
Cricket, Quoits, Foo;
Steamers from foot of King-s
2.15 p.m.
Tickets. Is 6d each, to be had £
hers, at Elvy’s, or oh the Wharf.
J. B. T
; Ml Mim—t. i. - ■
F
REETHOUGHT
THEATRE RO
SUNDAY EVENING, O
Mr. CHARLES BI
Will deliver a LEG
entitled:
THE PRESS:
SHALL IT BE CONTROLLE
LAWYERS ?
Doors open at 7.
Co
Sittings as usui
N.B.—Transferable course.
Tickets for 26 lectures, coalmen
be obtained at the doors.
T
HE SYDNEY COF
COMPANY (LIMI
231, 253, and 255, PIT'
Next door to Tatter,
Those extensive Premises, replet
as A FIRST-CLASS RESTAURh
TEMPERANCE HOTEL, are N
public.
CAFE and spacious Dining Ro<
Ladies’ Saloon, Gentlemen’s Sale
Billiard Room, Bed-rooms—single,
nients for Ladies, at the most reas
F. ABIGAIL, Cl
P. R. HOLDSW
C E !
IC E !
The CITY ICE COMPANY are
the public of Sydney and Suhur!
made from filtered water from 1
at the lowest possible rates.
For particulars, apply to the Ma
street, Sydney.
XJRINSMEAD
SPECIAL NOTH
Referring to certain advertisemei
appeared in the daily journals, M
HOGG desire to call the attention
following fact, viz. : That the Jn
struments at the recent Sydney I
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPEC
Pianofortes, and that was to Me
MEAD and SONS. A reference t
under the authority of the Com mis
Official Awards, will clearly prove t
We append letters, signed by
judges, which establish this fact,
the public the position of affairs.
“ To the Executive Commissi
“Dear Sir,--At the final meetii
Pianos at the Sydney Internationa
decided to award to Messrs JO lit
SONS the ONLY S RECIAL MEN
“ This was duly presented and c<
entive Commissioner. Afterwards
we understood, of the Secretory,
particulars for the official catalog n<
way intended to invalidate the di
JOHN BRIN3MEAD and SONS-
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO ]
snch are entitled to a higher award
“ We give you these particulars i
entitled to special distinction, am
see this duly carried out.
“ We remain, dear sir,
“Yours obedie
“ c. j. jac;
“ MONTAG
“EDMUND
“CHARLES
“99 P
“ ToH. Brinsmead, Esq.
“ Dear Sir,—l received your lett
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson.
Great SUCCESS of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
ZULU W AR,
Every evening during the season the Proprietor will
distribute a number of presents, including a complete
suite of drawing-room furniture, a silver watch, par-
lour clock, and fifty other presents.
Tickets can be had during the day at Kirby's, book-
seller, Pitt-street, and Altman’s Music Wiirehonse next
School of Arts. GRAND MATINEE, Saturday
October 2nd. Every child will receive a present. ’
Admission, Is, 2s, 3s.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8 o’clock.
Descriptive Lecturer Mr. W. H, Thompson.
Philip Stuart Agent.
rjlO THEATRICALS AND OTHERS.
’ r ° LET, the VICTORIA THEATRE, WEST MAIT-
LAN D, thoroughly renovated and re-modelled.
Apply,
J. HART, West Maitland.
celebrity, has sent some splendid samples of fruit to
the Melbourne Exhibition. Ho is shortly to follow.
Several publicans in N.Z. have been heavily lined for
adulterating brandy. The galvanised iron telegraph
posts at Blackheath were beat double by the gale last
week. An anti-secular agitation is going on in Auck-
land, N.Z . It is proposed to introduce the N.S. Wales
system, half-hour daily for religious instruction.
Two colonial clergymen (Berry and Isitt) have opened
offices in London for the sale of N.Z. land. Quinine,
given in a one-grain dose, with sugar and water, before
retiring at night, is again strongly recommended as a
certain and speedy cure for whooping cough. “ An
infamous job ” is what the Australasian calls the dis-
placement of Mr. H. E. Neal, of the Victorian Penal
Department, in favor of Mr. Ryland, who does all the
work “for love” —accompanied with a salary.
The Moorburg, made familiar throughout Austra-
lia by the heroic conduct of Mrs. Boldt, the master’s
wife, has been wrecked on the Belvidore Reef,
while «n route for Hong Kong. Two rusty
revolvers, loaded, relics of the old bushranging
days, have been found at Braidwood. It now
appears that all the attendant physicians who watched
Dr. Tanner during his 10 days’fast, were friends selected
by himself. There are eight weekly and two daily
papers in Auckland, N.Z. The latest addition is a
paper on the lines of The Bulletin, and a free ad-
vertising weekly. Two enterprising “Yanks” run
the latter. Labour is leaving New' Zealand in
hundreds. Things are in a wretched state among the
poorer classes. Jacob Seuft, a German lately from
Sydney, has been smuggling on an extensive scale in
New Zealand. James Berry Robinson, a clothier, is
missing from Auckland, N.Z. He left that town some
time ago, ostensibly for the purpose of replenishing his
stock from Sydney warehouses, but did not return at
the fixed time. The bulk of Robinson’s liabilities have
been contracted in Victoria, and the Geelong Woollen
Company is reported as being the largest creditor. Two
of his shopmen, a Melbourne tailor named Bell, and
Cuthbertson, an Aucklander, tried to secure the stock
from the “trustees of the estate, but were
unsuccessful. The latter stated that he was agent
for certain firms in Sydney and
The whole of the Victorian inspectors of public-houses
(appointed by Berry during his former reign), are to be
dismissed. The South Australian Pierce Artesian
Well Company have sent two representatives to Temora
to bore for water. They are now down over 100 feet.
Considering the difficulty attending on the erection of
new machinery, the operations of the company so far
may be considered a great success.. The first
christening ceremony at Temora was held last week in
opening the Temora reef. The opening speech was
made by Newman Scott, of the firm of Scott, Reed and
Co., and the christening was performed by the wife of
the legal manager. The Exhibition Commissioners
adhere to the decision of awarding Brinsmead and Sons
the first, Bechstein second, and Bluthner third prize
for pianos. “ Salting ” is being tried on fields nearer
to Sydney than to Ballarat. On Friday, at the
Italian’s claim, Temora, 640 z. in nuggets were picked
out. In Nugent’s claim, on Thursday, 1.500 z. were
found, the total from this latter ground so far being
5000 z., got without washing.——The most efficient Vic-
torian public servants are, one by one, being dismissed.
A sacred concert was announced for last Sunday,
at Ballarat, but was prohibited by the police, on the
ground that admission money was demanded. H. M.
ships Wolverene, Emerald, and Cormorant arrived at
Melbourne on Monday. There is now quite a fleet of
war vessels in Hobson’s Bay, and a naval review is sug-
gested. The new Prince’s bridge, Melbourne, is to
be rapidly proceeded with. ——The price of gas at Bal-
main has been reduced to Bs. per 1000. At Cooma, on
Tuesday week, the roof of a house was blown away,
and has not since been seen. Two seamen, John
Stanton and Frederick Batchelor, were swept overboard
and drowned, during the voyage of the City of Agra,
from Norway to Melbourne.- The mails per Garonne
were delivered in Loudon Sept. 21.—The Marquis de
Ray’s steamer Genii has arrived at New Ireland just
in time to prevent the desertion of the entire colony.
Good gold, prospects 7 dwts. to the dish, has been
struck near Bermagni—4 to 16 ft sinking. Several
claimholders have struck payable wash. The Queens-
land Assembly has decided by a large majority against
all kinds of payment to members. It is expected
that 1200 bluejackets, British and foreign, and 1500
military and volunteers, will be present at the opening
of Melbourne International. A handsome presen-
tation has been made to Messrs. Harper and Staughton,
the late members for West Bourke.— —-Mr. Murray
Smith (Conservative) has been elected Chairman of the
Victorian Elections and Qualifications Committee. ■
The Commercial Bank, the principal creditors of the
Adelaide bankrupt, De Young, charge him with fraudu-
lent insolvency.——The Government resident of the
Northern Territory recommends that only experienced
miners with capital enough to prospect should go to
Port Darwin. The Chinese hold all the apparently
good ground on the Margaret.——Mrs. Henry Johns,
aged 74, a colonist since 1838, has been killed by the
Semaphore train, atiGlansville, S.A. A company is
being floated to work the Caledonian Reef. Temora
specimens of stone are on view at the Post Office Cafe.
FOREIGN FACTS.
IS evv York, including Brooklyn and the collection
of cities around there, has a population of 2,500,000.
Germany has 3773 periodical publications, England
follows with 2509, and France comes next with 2000.
America boasts 9129. -A London firm advertises that
it has for sale one of the identical stamps by which
George 111. attempted to impose the obnoxious tax on
teas imported into British America.-—-There are said
to he now 170,000 Germans in London. An immense
immigration has taken place since the war. A terrible
earthquake has oceured in Chili. The newly
appointed French Ministry announce that their
policy is pacific. Viscount Montmorres, a con-
siderable landowner, has been shot dead by
concealed assassins, near Douburn, Ireland.——
The Eev. Mr. Kane, a north of Ireland clergyman,
suggests the shooting of priests and Catholics, in
retaliation for the attacks upon the landlords, and has
been supported in this proposal by a meeting of
sympathisers. The Lancashire cotton strike has been
averted, the workpeople submitting to a reduction.
The situation in Basutoland is serious. Troops are
being hurried forward.— Chinese at Canton have at-
tacked the E. C. missionaries, who have given offence
by endeavouring to proselytise the natives.
Grand Brass Band Contest.
The plucky speculation of Mr. John E. Fulton,
whose advertisement appears on page 15, pro-
mises to eventuate in a brilliant success. Special
attention is directed to the advt. referred to.
Mr. I. J. Josephson.
Among the candidates definitely announced as
coming forward for East Sydney is Mr. I. J.
Josephson, whose portrait is given on page I.
Mr. Josephson is a native of the colony, o and
haring the means and the time at his disposal,
he is willing to give his services in Parliament!
Mr. Josephson was born in 1834, and was educated
in the old Sydney College, then under the charge
of Mr. Cape, and selected commercial pursuits for
his profession. At an early age he entered the
office of Mr. Sam. Lyons, who was then conduct-
ing a large auctioneering business. Mr. Joseph-
son’s talents soon won for him a first position in
the establishment, and he managed the commer-
cial business of the house with much success.
On the death of his father, Mr. Josephson came
into possession of a valuable house and landed
estate, and, retiring from active business, devoted
his time and attention to various public under-
takings. The charities of Sydney are indebted in
no small degree to his liberality and his exertions
in their behalf, notably the Asylum at Eandwick
and the Benevolent Asylum in Pitt-street. Of the
former institution t o has been ten or twelve years
a director, and of the latter for several years the
lion, secretary; and ho has certainly been unspar-
ing in his efforts to ensure good and liberal man-
agement. Mr. Josephson is now announced for
East Sydney, and has already received many
hopeful assurances of support. His programme
is a liberal one. He is in favor of the National
system of education, is a thorough free-trader, but
is opposed to the present system of immigration—
a class of small agricultural capitalists being much
needed, which, he thinks, could be secured under
more encouraging land laws—and on these points
he intends to address the electors at some length.
Railway extension, water supply, etc., are also
topics with which Mr. Josephson is prepared to
deal; and he is confident of receiving for his
liberal programme such support as will enable him
to give it form in Parliament.
Mr. W. H. Ariell’s International Stores,
Kent-street, Sydney.
The stores occupied by Mr. W. H. Ariell, and
. shown in the engraving on page 5, are situated in
Kent-street, in this city, They are fine roomy and
substantial structures of brick and stone, and quite
an ornament to the part of the city in which they
stand. The business aarried on by Mr. Ariell is
that of a general agency and an importer of pro-
visions. Eor some years he was located in Sussex-
street, but an increasing business demanded more
extensive premises, and the stores in 'Kent-street
now spoken of were decided on. The import trade
done by Mr. Ariell embraces principally the best
lines of Muscatels, Yarleys, Cheshire and Wilts
Cheeses, York hams, &c., and a very large business
in these particular branches is enjoyed by the
proprietor. In respect of colonial goods, Mr.
Ariell’s ranks foremost among the houses of this
city. Mr. Ariell is the agent in this colony for the
famous manufacturers of confectionery goods,
Messrs. Swallow and Ariell, of Sandridge and
Melbourne. This firm may be said, from the
excellence and variety of their manufactures, to
have equalled any house in England or on the con-
tinent, and the whole of the Australian trade may
be fairly said to have been won from the foreign
manufacturers. The people of this city had ample
opportunity at our International Exhibition of
seeing what Messrs. Swallow and Ariell could
produce, and at the stores in Kent-street may yet
be seen a fine display—as many as 50 varieties
of the goods manufactured by this interprising
firm. The confectionery goods, as shown at the
stores, are no less of a varied and excellent quality.
All the articles manufactured by the firm—in-
cluding of course the Salisbury, Canterbury and
Christmas Cakes, and the rich and famous plum-
puddings, are here in the form of open and bulk
stock, and in great quantities as indicate an enor-
mous trade in this colony. Golden Syrup specially
manufactured and refined by the Company, and
which has an increasing sale, is here on view in large
quantities, in bottles, tins and cans. Looking at
all these articles, some idea can be formed of the
great proportions to which the business of the
manufacturers has grown, and further proof of this
is found in the extent of the factories and the
number of men employed,—as many as 250 being
kept in constant work. Mr. Ariell is the agent
likewise for Bencraft and Go., of Melbourne, to
whom was awarded special prizes at our own
International for oatmeal, brose meal and pre-
pared oats. Bencraft’s manufactures are quite in
as great demand here as in Melbourne, and
command the highest ruling figures both wholesale
and retail. Mr. Ariell, it may further be mentioned,
is agent here for Messrs. Dillon and Burrows, of
Melbourne, and for Mr. Hunt, of Goulburn, whose
baking powders are now in such great demand.
The stores are well stocked with goods either in
bulk as received, or in small parcels for removal
to wholesale or retail houses in the city or country.
Patent American hoists operate on each of the
eight floors, and greatly facilitate business.
The offices are in the front of the building, and are
neatly furnished, not the least attractive features
being the grand display ot the various manufac-
tures that are shown as samples of the stock.
Redgate’s Patent Meal.
Says Mrs. Brown to Mrs. Jones,
That boy was quite a bag of bones;
And though he’s such a one to eat.
And almost ruined ns for meat,
The doctor said the hoy would die
Unless at morn and eve we’d try
Some better food; —-so grocer Steele
Supplied us with some EEDGATE’S ME4T,,
Three weeks had scarce elapsed when I
The doctor passing did espy ;
And running out, I said to him,
* Oh, doctor, come and see my Jim •
I never saw him half so fat
Since he was quite a tiny brat,
And really I’m inclined to feel
It’s due to EEDGATE’S PATENT MEAL.”
Now Jimmy, who some weeks before
Could scarcely walk across the floor.
Was just then playing with a ball
By throwing it against the wall;
And calling him, says I, “ My child
Come here and show to Dr. Wild
How plump you are—how well yon feel
Since taking “EEDGATE’S PATENT MEAL ”
Says Jim, quite saucily, “No fear!
The doctor’s physic makes me queer •
But now that EEDGATE’S MEAL I’m taking
I sleep all night without once waking.”
“ But,” says I, “ remember child,
You have a friend in Dr. Wild,
Who says a pound of beef or veal
Isn’t equal to an ounce of Meal.”
The doctor, he looked quite surprised.
And said, “ This Meal that I advised
I knew was good, but never thought
Such wondrous change it conld have wrought.
Yet though I always said ’twas good
As a prime farinaceous food.
Now that I see this boy, I feel
There’s nothing like the EEDGATE MEAL.”
And from that time to this bless’d day
I really, Mrs. Jones, must say
That if you have a child that’s thin.
And wish him to lifers battle win,
You must not give him too much meat.
But give him, twice a day, to eat
More wholesome food —good milk and Meal, —
Yes, give him EEDGATE’S PATENT MEAL.


BRIEF MENTION.
David Buchanan —Mud-G.
Unlimited Lie-ability— Melbourne Age.
A N.Z. paper is advertising for a “sober editor,”
A distinction without a difference — John’s
C.M.G.
Cat coursing is the fad among Adelong bank
officials.
The author of “ Stanhope Burleigh ” has
another novel in the press.
Sir James Martin says newspapers have no
duties. We wish they hadn’t.
In Brisbane the Government steamer “Pearl”
is used to keep “ the missionaries in order."
A well-known magisterial tobacconist objects to
people smoking other tobacconists’ tobacco.
The new gaols at Rockhampton and Townsville
(as expected) have proved to be “ white elephants."
The backs of the maps in Combes’s .£2,000
School Report make excellent “ copy ’’ slips for press-
men.
The first Stephen overtaken aback was Matthew
Henry when he heard the words “ two hundred and fifty
pounds."
They say at Temora that the good-looking girls
do more to civilize the place than the Rev. Peter Camp-
bell does.
We’ll “ stand by a brother judge,” and the three
did ; not four square of course, but triangularly, as the
saying is.
They have been having “ Lantern readings” at
the School of Arts, and yet they never gave Rochefort
a benefit!
The power of the people, according to Sir James
Martin, was "behind” their Honors. It’s in front of
them now.
The Yerald, in noticing the opening of
the Art Gallery, speaks of Mr. Suttdbas “ Minister for
Justice ” yet.
They say the Health Officer at Rockhampton ex-
amines the Chinkie leper through a glass. Some say it
is a telescope.
The report of the judges on musical instruments
at the Exhibition has caused more discord than anything
else. Ask Brinsmead
The Evening Nuisance calls obscene
language “a choice vocabulary of exotic epithets."
“ Goot vorts, good vorts."
It is astonishing what a deal of stolen property
“ a party by the name of Smith " seems to distribute
amongst suspected persons.
Thorne, M.L.A., wants to know what has
become of the blacks’ blankets. Most “ Banana men "
begin to think things look fishy.
Queensland squatters, beware. TheQ.N. Bank
has just erected at Rockhampton a magnificent building,
in spite of the hard times and bad seasons.
The Parramatta municipal authorities are build-
ing council chambers at a cost of £4,000, but cannot
afford to point up the names of the streets.
At a meeting of the Adelong Debating Society
the other night, a certain young gentleman argued that
one-third of anything meant "one in four.”
At Wamego, a place in the extreme West, is a
shanty which bears the sign—“ Here’s Where You Get
a Meal Like Your Mother Used to Give You."
The Evening News people and the judges
have been much together lately. The News says the
" attachment ’’ is entirely on the part of the judges.
John Davies says of Sir Henry Parkes, with
reference to the newly-made C.M.G., that a conjuror
doesn’t deceive the man who beats the gong for him.
A man named Muldoon attempted suicide in the
lock-up at Newcastle, with the handle of his pannikin.
This was presumably in the absence of the Muldoon
Guards.
The severity of the Evening News fine is
attributed by some people to the " life-like portraits of
the judges” which appeared in last week’s Weekly
Waters !
The papers described the ceremony as “ The
turning of the first sod of the Mudgee Railway.” Mr.
M'Elhone designated it " The opening of the grave for
£1,000,000.
“ Splitting a Hare ” was an operation lately in-
dulged in by Drs. Youl, Ryan and Fitzgerald in
Melbourne. The Superintendent, we are glad to hear, is
now better.
When Eugene Lafarge, a tailor from Noumea,
was arrested with a coat he had stolen in his possession,
he explained to the apprehending constable that “it
was a habit he had.
Canon O’Reilly, in one of his recent deliverances,
averred that if bookmakers went to heaven, he would
not go. About the Canon’s going? Bookmakers ask
" what’s the odds.”
Rev. A. C. Gillies has lectured at Newcastle on
" The Cause and Cure of Intemperance.” Some people
expected to hear something about intemperate language,
but they didn’t.
There’s quite a run on red flannel now, but
Milner Stephen’s must be of some peculiar make, as
the rest won’t answer. Perhaps the other people don’t
know how to blow.
Why doesn’t the Colonial Secretary prosecute
Charles Bright at once ? Mr. Bright is acting in open
defiance of the " law ’’ whereby Mr. Proctor’s Sunday
lectures were stopped.
The rule in Sydney newspaper offices respecting
advertisements from protectionist candidates is “ cash
down.” Such people can’t reasonably be expected to
pay more than the £4O deposit.
The annual cost of the Parramatta water supply
for interest on money and pumping will be about £9OO,
while the water rate will amount to about £3OO. Where
is the deficiency to come from ?
Captain Byrnes, the genial proprietor of the
Pyrmont ferries had his office broken into the other
day. All that the thieves found in it was a portrait of
Dave Ingram—which they left.
The members of the Melbourne City Council
are fighting about wood-paving for the streets. Sydney
Smith's advice is applicable. "Lay your heads together,
gentlemen, and the thing is done.”
A conductor of a Sydney “ comic ” journal says
that he sees more humour in a column of Government
advts. than in all the combined works of Sheridan I
Perhaps this accounts —but no matter.
Now that the railway is open to Gerogery, the
traveller who leaves the Redfern station by the 7.30
a.m. train can have tea in Melbourne on the evening of
the same day.—lf he gets there in time.
The other day we saw in the Herald that at
the ball given by the Mayor of Melbourne there was
" a noticeable absence of the leading families.” We
wonder who the “ leading families ” are ?
A certain musical tailor the other day backed a
friend’s bill. Friend " urgently " wanted the money—
to pay expenses in Insolvent Court. It has since been
found Musical tailor's amount is in the schedule.
Melbourne people say they are going to lick all
creation in the matter of exhibitions—especially
Sydney. No loyal Victorian now eats his dinner without
thinking in some vague way that it helps on the Inter-
national.
There was once a per-inter called Lees,
Who thought to “ go in " as you please 1
But th’ electors of Sydney
Said—" Men of your Kidney,
Suave Samuel, ain’t quite the cheese! ”
The Goulbum correspondent the Harternoon
Hempire is evidently suffering from an attack of gram-
mar. Thusly doth he record a harrowing tragedy:— “A
Mrs. Jobson cut her throat with a razor yesterday near
Goulbum. She is now lying in the hospital, with but
little hope of recovery. Bad health and domestic
bereavement wo* the cause of the rash act." "There
is but little hope of recovery,” but when she sees this
telegram that hope will have fled 1
Sydney has the costliest Town Hall and the
worst streets in the southern hemisphere. The art of
promoting the public inconvenience has been reduced
to a science with greater success by its officers than in
any other part of the world. For instance, it is the
only city known where the paving stones are wholly
prepared on the footpaths and laid at the rate of three
a week.
For the past twelve months Sir Arthur Gordon
has been appointing his “ moral Aberdonians" to all
the good billets in Fiji. Now that he is going to New
Zealand the “morals” want him to take them with
him, as if he leaves them to make their way by their
own ability they are afraid their chances of promotion
will not be so rosy under a man who knows not Aber-
deen and despises moral ideas.
Alderman Hordern told the Hand wick people
the other night how he had popped the question in a
shady grot at Coogee Bay. One of hie hearers said that
he had popped a good many corks at Coogee, but hadn't
got up to question yet. Edward then changed the
subject by accidentally alluding to a choice consignment
of something, and the meeting broke up in confusion.
Hon. members give each other the lie freely in
Queensland. It is a playful way they have. Here is a
bit of their Hansard:—“Mr. O’Sullivan said what he
said was that the hon. member was a squatter's agent
in the House. ‘ Mr. Stevenson: Yes; and paid for it.*
•Mr. Morehead: That is a lie.’ " Now this is singularly
refreshing. It reminds us of M’Elhono in his best
days I
A well-known itinerant divine of the Peter
Campbell and Westwood order, named Currey.has been
expressing in an Adelaide paper his intense admiration
of the Chinese. Asks an Adelaide pressman:—“ Why
doesn't the self-dubbed * Missionary Apostolic ’ waltz
over to Canton, and make proselytes of his pets ? Cur-
rey-ed Chinaman would be a new ingredient in the dish
of nations.”
At Rosewood, Queensland, the Divisional Board
placed a tax on bullock drays. After the annual exhi-
bition of the Farmers' Club was concluded, the effigies
of the members of the board were placed in drays and
«^l ed rJ Ut i t ic the T. g^OU 5 d ', preceded bya band playing
, The Deal March in Saul.” The effigies were then
burnt, amid the jeers of the spectators.
As they passed through Riverina H re-
gretted that they could not see the Old Man Plain (the
largest level tract in the colony), but one of the Vice-
regal party said it didn't matter, as they had a plain
old man before their eyes ever since they started.
A well-known George-street tailor’s order-book
contains the following:—“ One extra-super doeskin
frock-coat with extra wide lapel to show the Star, Jno.
Davies. N.B.—Cash." When “George" sees this he
will be “savage" in one sense but not in another.
A sarcastic Melbourne correspondent remarks
that the sympathy with crime and lawlessness is so
general and strong in Victoria that, were a plebiscite
taken to-morrow on the subject, Ned Kelly would be
released and made Chief Commissioner of Police.
A requisition to Mr. G. R. Maclean to stand for
South Sydney is being got up. Two gingerbeer sellers
and a cabman have appended their marks. The names
of Bill Stumps, Bob Stiles, and John Smith also shine
upon the page. This is evidently a genuine thing!
Sir Henry Parkes’ non-licensing law for the
county of Cumberland was a clumsy affair. Three
large, old-established Parramatta hotels, owing to the
deaths of the landlords, about the time the Act came
into force, will have to remain closed for twelve
months.
On the Northern railway line, a bull, which had
escaped from its keepers, charged the light of an in-
coming train, and was killed. Can’t you picture the
derned old fool of a bull sticking up his tail and going
full butt at what he thought was a man prowling about
with a lantern ?
Here is a certain police-court lawyer, who, when
indulging in a pint of “ fizz ” at an hotel, not only takes
long time in drinking it, but calls all his
friend s attention to the tinfoil as they enter, and in-
vites them to envy him. The “invitation" does not
exceed this limit 1
In Heaton’s “ Dictionary of Dates and Austra-
lian Men of the Times," it is stated, in the biographical
notice of Viscount Canterbury, that his lordship was
married, etc., etc., and “ by her " had five sons and two
daughters. The sentence is certainly awkward, but
then, you know, honi soit qui mal y pense.
A telegram in Tuesday’s Herald says the
Australian Eleven will leave England “by the first
mail in October." If this is the case they will doubt-
less be taken at parcel rates, and the regulations as to
the maximum size and weight of packets have been re-
laxed in their favor—at least so it is to be supposf.
A man bought an allotment (per plan) of a cer-
tain suburban estate at the sale in Sydney the other
day, and on going out next Sunday “ to see it," he found
he had purchased the water-hole! He is now debating
whether he will breed ducks or sell water to those who
are going to build on the 16 feet “ blocks of country."
From the Weekly Mickey—
Tho’ glowing breasts may be
In soft vales beyond the sea.
Yet ever. Grab ma cree,
Shall I wail.
We shall wail if we are not told what Grab ma cree
means!
Sydney barmen complain that, like the Coffee
Palace watresses, they have terribly long hours of
bour - The y are compelled to work seventeen hours a
day. They may stand it better than many of their
customers, however. It is often harder work on the
outside of a bar than on the inside, even thoutrh the
hours may not be so long.
The Hawkesbury district has raised many a
good man and true in its time, but few better than one
of the city fathers of Charters Towers, Mr. Mat. Gro-
gan. Mat. is what Milton would call “ a bully boy with
a glass eye," and although his Bible knowledge is weak
still he plays a good hand at euchre. Matthew is the
coming man up North.
Whilst at Menzies’ hotel in Melbourne, Senery
was called upon by the French Commissioner. “ How
do you like ze exposition ?" enquired the French gentle-
man. “ Oh, tray hong,” replied the Premier, wishing to
air his knowledge of the language. “ Australie est un
pays magnifique," proceeded the Commissioner. “Oh
tray bong, tray bong,” faltered the Premier. ‘‘Etenor-
mement riche aussi,” went on the native of Gaul. “Oh
tray bong, tray bong chimed Sirenree. Then the Frenchl
man fled, and when he got to bis hotel asked Jonbert
the meaning of tray hong in French.
A very clever Melbourne press-man, noted for
his eccentricities, whom we will call Barkis Colac, was
at one time a good deal in the clutches of Shylock
One morning he called at the office of a well-known
money-tender, and put a pound note upon his table.
Why, vot is dat ? " enquired Mr. Aaronsh, starting
back. ‘ Well, I’ll tell you,” replied the journalist,
the more money I borrow off you the poorer I seem
to get, so I’ll try what lending you a little will do.”
Then with an apparent effort he tore himself away. *
* * * * The moon came out that night, and the
stars twinkled over the city. At 10 o’clock a knock
came at the front door of the usurer’s private residence.
Expecting a friend he opened it himself, when a falter-
ing voice said, “ Just let us have that pound again,
Aaronsh I've (hie) got nothing to take me home with.
Seven’s the main—goo-ri." And he was gone like a
phantom.
Where is he gone ? To what fair zone
Is wafted Johnny M'Elhone ?
The sweet inflexions of his voice
No more our beating hearts rejoice.
Silent as the moonlit grave
Is this legislator brave!
No more on cheese he daily lunches
And onions crunches at Jim Punch’s !
Where art thou John ? We pray thee {ell-
in glistening grot ? or fairy dell ?
With mermaids toying 'neaththe waves ?
With cherubs singing in silver caves P
Como ! tell us, we entreat thee. Jack,
So that we can fetch thee back.
The offence of baker Moon, who was fined £l2
for selling bad bread by Messrs. Lester, Bird and Pen-
fold, was aggravated by the"defendant saying that the
poisonous rubbish he retailed was “good enough for
sailors.” °
“ Good enough for sailors! ”
So the sleek baker said;
“ Good enough for sailors!”
Is sour blackened bread;
** Good enough for sailors!”
He cried, in angry mood;
** Good enough for sailors 1"
Bread unfit for human food
Bitter, sour, baked quite black
_ . , That bread’s good enough for “ Jack 1”
We feel inclined to say with Hipollyta, “I am
already aweary of this moon."
The North Shore has about 12,000 inhabitants
amd nearly 3000 electors. It returns one member to
flork a T nt an< ? has 4 mayors. 29 aldermen, 3 municipal
l e^’ ; 3COUn v Cl i chambers. 15 day labourers, no water,
no drainage, bad roads, worse footpaths, a poor apology
for a public bathing place, and the drowsiest people in
creation, the only energy displayed being when any of
the rival mayors (all worthy men) meet like captains of
At the water meeting last week.
Mayor Pitt opened the meeting with poetical
quotations and a liberal use of the pronoun I
Mayor Tunks’ objecting to Pitt, Poetry and Personal
pronouns, and overruling the chairman’s “ dictum ”
Parliament* 10 meet * ns ’ hj quotations from Acts of
An anonymous correspondent, whom we have
reason for believing to be Lewis Scott, sends us the
following account of the undertakers’ picnic:—“ It was
a great success. Nothing occurred to pall upon the
pleasures of the day. and the amount of (s)coffin that
was accomplished could not be expressed in narrative,
onying at Aunt Sally was indulged in; also biers were
in considerable demand. Mr. Alfred Douglass was in
the chair, and constituted himself the life and soul of
the body-discoursing pleasantly in his speeches on the
mute-ability—not only of human affairs, but of some
of the company in particular. The polishing of the
plates was a thing to be remembered, and some of the
ladies dresses exhibited the rarest dyes. Everybody
was in fine feather; and when, at a late stage of the
proceedings, a foreman was accused by one of the com-
,of.^em/ “ "as a Shah,” he replied that he
“f™*? the f . ( ? ul hearse-persian. The Imperial Band
played everything but the “Dead March in Saul.” and
the affair was a very fine display indeed.
Free Trade.
Protection required for Native Industry.
MR. I. J. JOSEPHSON, CANDIDATE FOR EAST SYDNEY.


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORY.
CHAPTER I— Continued.
This was a hard subject during all the years of
the cotton famine —how to keep the operatives
together, provide for them, prevent them from
becoming demoralised by the enforced idleness,
combined with the living on money not earned by
themselves ? It was a problem which, all must
confess, was nobly solved.
At this precise time, though the’ distress was
daily augmenting in an appalling manner, though
each week saw a greater number of factories closed
entirely, yet the organised system of relief —that
gigantic machinery whose equal the world had
never before seen —was not yet in existence.
Sebastian, after long consultations with Mr.
Sutcliffe, had come to the conclusion, for the pre-
sent at least, to support his own workpeople, and
the result of that resolution was the paper just
now read out by Wilson,
Slowly the hands dis-
persed. Mary Heywood*
seeing her brother near
the big gate, joined
him there, and glanced
rather doubtfully up
into his face. Doubt
rapidly changed to dis-
may : he was white as
death ; his lips tight-
set ; his great dark
eyes absolutely scintil-
lating with passion.
The words she had been
about to speak to him
died upon her lips.
‘ * Thou go home, lass!
I’ve a little business to
do before I come after
thee, but I’ll not be
long,” said he, so
quietly and calmly that
her heart beat less
rapidly, and without a
word she obeyed,leav-
ing him there in the
yard, ho conscious only
.of one purpose, and of
a burning restlessness
until that purpose
should be accomplished.
He waited by the
gates, looking at no
one, speaking to no one,
until he saw that all the
hands had filed out, and
that Wilson was left
alone in the office,
locking things up. A
few swift, striding steps
brought him inside the
little room. Wilson
looked up.
“ Hey, Myles! Is
that you ? Do you
want something ?”
“Yes. I just want
to tell you to take my
name—and my sister’s
too —off the books. We
shall not work here any
more.”
“Oh! but you will.
This here is only a tem-
porary stoppage, you
know. Times must
mend, though they look
bad enough now, and
Mallory’s won’t go to
smash so easily.”
“ I shall never work
here again, I tell you,
nor Mary either. Take
our names off the books,
if you please: and look
you, Wilson, if anybody
comes round to my
house in the master’s
name, I’ll kick him out
—so you’re warned.”
“My certy, Myles !
You’re mad to talk in
that way. You’ve ne’er
thought about it. How
are you to live w ithont
relief ? And when such
a handsome arrange-
ment has been made—”
“ That’s nothing to
the point. Please to
do as I ask, and re-
member, I’ll keep my
word.”
He turned on his
heel and left the yard.
Wilson looked after
him, watching the
proud, elastic figure,
haunted by the remem-
brance of the deadly
paleness of the face,
and the sombre, des-
pairing gloom of the
eyes.
Wilson acted as be-
came a wary man, who
did not choose to com-
mit himself—shook his
head and murmured:
“ Ay, ay, my good chap, but you’ll have to eat
humble-pie sooner or later —and why not sooner ?”
Evidently, the characters of Myles and his easy-
going old friend were fundamentally unlike.
Meantime Myles, breathing rather more freely,
and with a faint return of colour to his cheek,
took his way home, feeling that now, if he met
Sebastian Mallory, he could look him in the face
as defiantly as he chose. There was something
almost exquisite in the sense that, though only a
few pounds stood between him and destitution,
yet he was no longer in any way dependent upon
Mallory.
Arrived at home, he found the kitchen empty:
the dinner half ready (not such an abundant din-
ner, even now, as it once had been), the table
spread. He sat down moodily, and waited ; and
presently Mary came down, looking very sad in-
deed. She had not been crying, but there was
something in her eyes speaking of a grief and fear
beyond tears.
“ Well, my lass, where’s Edmund?”
“ Edmund’s in bed, Myles.”
“In bed!” he echoed,looking,up in some sur-
prise ; “ why, what ails him ?”
“ The same thing as has been ailin’ him this
six-week, I dunnot know what it may be. Th’
doctor calls it low fever.”
“The doctor!” he echoed again, more aston-
ished still. “ What’s the meaning of this, Molly?”
“ Eh, Myles, if thou’d none been so wrapped up
in summat all this time, thou might ha’ seen as
th’ lad were fair pinin’ away.”
She could hardly finish her words, but sat down
upon the rocking-chair, and covered her face with
her hands for a moment, while he looked at her
with a haggard gaze. A hundred trifles came
into his mind now, crowding quickly forward—
Mary’s pre-occupation—Edmund’s passive silence
and flushed face —and he had never seen it. Brute
that he was!
“ And to-day he’s that weak he can’t sit up no
longer,” continued Mary, raising her face from
her hands and looking sadly before her; “and
I’m sore fleyed he’ll ne’er be strong again, that I
am.”
Then she rose, and began to finish the few pre-
parations for dinner, though, sooth to say, notwo
people ever made ready for a meal with less
appetite. She began to talk, as she thought
cheerfully.
“ When I heard Wilson read out as Factory
would stop o’ Friday my heart fair sank within
me, when I thowt o’ yon lad, and us wi’out a penny
to earn, but, eh! I could ha’ cried wi’ joy afore
he’d done. Yon Mr. Mallory mun be a reet good-
hearted chap, and our Edmund winnot clem now.”
“ Mary!” he exclaimed, starting up, and speak-
ing in so strange a voice that she looked at him in-
voluntarily, and saw again the 100k —the pale face,
the scintillating eyes —which had so terrified her
an hour before, at the mill-gate. He stepped
across the room to her, and grasped her arm.
“ Never thou name such a thing again. I told
Wilson to take my name, and thy name, off the
books, and to send anybody round here, poking
into my affairs, if he dared. I’d die like a dog be-
fore I’d take bit or sup from him, or let any of
those that belonged to me do it.”
“ Why, whatever •” she began, but ho went
on, forcibly moderating his voice :
“Molly, I never thought to hear such words
from thee. Hast thought what it means ? It
means that we—seven hundred and more of us—
shill go liko beggars every day, and take that
man’s money, and eat his bread, and do nothing
for it. Thou’rt mazed with thy trouble,” he
added soothingly, “or thon’d never have dreamt
of it.”
“ But how mun we live.” she asked, seeing only
that they were Mr. Mallory’s work-people, and
that he prized their services, and like a generous
master desired to help them until better times
came round again. “ Thou were always so set
against th’ master lad: but when we’re like to
starve, what mun we do?”
Neither Mary nor Myles, it may have been ob-
served, made any mention of their mother, or
spoke as if she could relieve them. Later in the
distress, Mary went to her mother, and repre-
sented their situation. Mrs. Hoyle replied sen-
tentiously, that her money was sunk in her hus-
band’s business, and she had no longer any con-
trol over it, which was indeed true: she had put
it entirely in his power immediately after marry-
ing him, and it remained there, for towards the
close of 1863, Mrs. Hoyle, who had believed she
was doing well for herself in her marriage, died,
of a rapid, sudden illness, and her money passed
away from her children, and into her husband’s
hands, for ever.
“ We’re not like to starve yet,” replied Myles,
to his sister’s last remark. “ I’ve got over ten
pounds put by—it ought to have been more, but
I wasn’t as careful as I ought to have been; and
you’ve something of your own, I know. It’s true
we’d mean to keep it, but in these times we’ll
most of us have to use up what we put by.”
“ Eh, lad!” answered Mary, with sorrowful em-
barrassment. Mine were such a bit! And I’ve
drawn it all out, for to buy yon lad his bits of
things as he must have. Doctor ordered them, so
I saw as thou were moithered wi’ summat, so I
didn’t ax thee, but just used up my own bit o’
brass. It’s all gene—-all but a few shillin’s.”
He dropped her arm and turned aside. This
then was the prospect—a sick brother to cherish,
himself and his sister to support; the rent to pay ;
and a little over ten pounds between them and des-
titution. Undaunted though his spirit was, it was
fain to stand appalled before these facts, until at
last, turning round, he said :
“ I’ll think about what can be done, Mary.
Ten pounds will last a good while, and thou’rt
so clever at managing, and all that.”
Mary was silent. She knew how quickly ten
pounds would vanish, when there was an invalid
to be oared for; and the regular weekly sum
which Myles had haughtily refused, seemed, now
that it was out of her reach, to assume the pro-
portions of absolute wealth.
“Myles,” she said, “I know thou mun have
some reason for what thou’rt doing, but I’ve no
grudge against the master. I don’t see why I
shouldn’t take the relief and help Nod a bit—
thou needna know about it.
“Mary!” He paused, choked back some pas-
sionate emotion, and looked at her. There rushed
over his mind, as by an inspiration, the conviction
that what he had said, what he had proposed to
do, was a mean, tyrannical way of making others
suffer for his own private grudge. Mary’s mind
was to be kept on the rack as to ways and means ;
Edmund's comforts were to be stinted, or stopped
because ho, Myles, hated Sebastian Mallory, and,
knowing his sister would obey him, despotically
said, “You will take no help from him.”
/ Certainly, to know that Mary and Edmund were
subsisting upon Mr. Mallory’s bounty, while he
was idle, would be anguish almost as keen as to
sit down and subsist upon that bounty himself;
but anguish, it seemed, prevailed a good deal in
the world. It had to be borne by some people—
what right had he to shift his portion upon the
shoulders of a loving woman, and a cripple boy?
He cried shame upon himself. His cheek flushed
and ho hesitated no longer. He had begun to
speak passionately ; he finished calmly.
G.-j“ I had not thought of that. You are right,
Molly. You’d better do so. It will be bad for
me to bear” (how bad, his pale face and drawn
lips foretold), “ but it’s best so. This is a great
trouble that has come upon us, and we must be
as brave as wo can to meet it, I suppose. I shall
look out and see if I can find anything to do —
perhaps away from here. I’m sure it’s the best
thing I could do. It’s a great mistake my being
here at all.”
This speech, with the misery and bitterness
underlying its acquiescence in her wish, seemed to
freeze Mary’s heart within her. She could not
understand it, yet it seemed to forebode evil and
misery and woe to her. She looked at Myles, in
whose whole attitude was something alien and
strange. For a moment a fearful weight and
foreboding oppressed her; then, breaking sud-
denly loose from it, she ran up to him with a cry
of lore, flung her arms
around his neck, and
kissed him eagerly.
Ekj Myles, hush,
hush! Thou munnot
talk like that. I’d clem
sooner nor take a penny
from any one thou
didn’t like. It were
only that I were quite
disheartened, like, wi’
wondering what I were
to do in these hard
times, now yon lad is
so poorly. But for thee
to go away and leave
us—the best brother ”
(a hug) “ ay, the very
best, ever a lass had —
my certy, don’t say
nowt about it again.”
She was half laugh-
ing, hall crying. As
for Myles, the clasp of
her warm arms about
his neck seemed to un-
stiffen it; the pressure
of her face upon his
breast appeared to
loosen a load of pent-up
feeling. Ho put his
arm round her waist,
and kissed her soft
brown hair again and
again, and once more
the feeling rushed over
him that this was true
hearty love, and that
he was a fool to dis-
tress himself for that
other love which would
never be his.
“Don’t take on so,
there’s a dear lass. Do
just as you like about
the relief. Say nothing
to me about it, and I
shall know nothing at
all about it. There’s a
reason why I can take
neither bit nor sup from
young Mallory—a rea-
son I can’t tell you—
and that can never be
removed. A crumb of
his bread would choke
me.”
“ Why, has he done
thee any wrong ?”
“None at all, and
means me no wrong;
it’s what they call
circumstances, Molly.
They come rather hard
upon a fellow some-
times, that’s all. Come!
the dinner must be well
nigh cold. Let’s have
it, and then I’ll go up
and sit wi’ poor Nod a
bit.”
It was a dark pros-
pect which opened be-
fore them; yet, after
this conversation, they
both rfelt lighter of
heart, and better pre-
pared to meet it.
CHAPTER n.
“ BATHE SCHIiAQEN.”
Sebastian Mallory,
Mr. Sutcliffe, and Wil-
son, holding a council
of war together, late in
the afternoon of that
eventful day, discussed
the means to be taken
fqf the preservation of
order, and the best dis-
tribution of relief.
Sebastian, in the
course of the debate,
asked how many exactly
there were to be re-
lieved.
Wilson ran his eye
over some long lists of names and addresses
“The number of hands is seven hundred and
thirty, sir, all in all; but it’s with the heads of
families we shall have to deal. About a dozen
won’t require relief, and four have taken their
names off the books altogether.”
“ Which are they?” asked Sebastian.
“ Frank Mitchell, weaver ; he’s got a brother in
Canada, who offered to pay his passage out if he’ll
go and help him on his farm; so as soon as he
heard work was stopped he decided to go. That’s
one. Myles and Mary Heywood ”
* ‘ What! Any reasons given for their leaving ?”
asked Sebastian, quickly.
i i“ Well, sir, relief would be a hard nqt for Myles
Heywood to crack at the best of times. He’s un-
common proud, and he came up to me, after I’d
read the notice, and told me very stiff indeed to
take his name and his sister’s off the books. I did
hexpostnlate with him, but he were determined.”
“ Did he give any reasons ?”
“ No, sir. He doesn’t generally give his reasons
for what he does, leastways not to me; but I’m
not his master.”
“ Is he one of my tenants?”
“ No. sir. He lives on the Townfield, at Num-
ber 16.”
“ Oh, very well!” said Sebastian, and the busi-
ness went on for some time uninterruptedly.
(to be continued).
MR. W. H. ARIELL’S INTERNATIONAL STORES. (See page 3.)


Tailors, Draper
656 GEOEGE STEI
(Just below Liverpc
J.
B. YOU
FANCY AND GENEE
This New and Commodious Establi
operation, and customers have
purchasing from a well-bought sto
and Useful FANCY and HOUSi
Corsets, and Trillings.
s
o'
■4
m
J. B. Y O U I
NEW MILLINEEY NCTTC
ASHIONABLE SCAEFS
FOE GENTLEM
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEECI
FITTING SH(
PITT STEI
Near the Victoria
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECI
TEY IT[!I
J. L. HOED]
T
HE
CITY
TAI L (
31 MAEKET-STEE
ABE MAKING TEOUSE
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLA
LATE 684 GEOEGE-STEEI
rjIHE
BEST AND LA
of
WOO L L E
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND
GAEMENTS TO 0
at
J. TUENEE EOBINI
MAEKET CLOTH
482 (late 484) geob<
Opposite the Fruit It
Established 1®
EEDUCED PE
XEOUSEES TO OEDEE,
TEOUSEES & VEI
SUITS TO MEASUE]
6T All goods well made, wel
perfect fit guarani
VXCAKS <S
' WOOLLEN MANUFACTI
Chemists and Dn
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOD
AND LIVER PILLS St£
General FAMILY APEEH
indigestion, dyspepsia, sic
the head and chest, ha
heartburn, giddiness, wine
ness of the eyes. They proi
of the stomach and be
neither griping nor sicknes
recommended. Boxes, Is,
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL C
An elegant preparation, i
, the pulmonary organs. T 1
preventive for that fatal
well as the most successful
colds, bronchitis, whoopii
ing cough of consumption,
in the throat, and asthma.
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR
• “Is recognised by medict
in Empirical Medicine,” b
CURE “for this hitherto
relief from PAIN, and a
HAGE.” Can alwavs b<
from TWENTY-FOUR
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cur<», the us
PARAGON PILE OINTM
bined with the remedy. P
R. B. A R M S T
Chemist and Apotbe
466, George Street,
(Opposite Markt
lAKE NO M O;
■ but try
RANDERSON’
PODOPHYLIN LOZI
Do you SUFFER from HEAE
Then trv 1
PODOPHYL
Do you Complain of Indigestic
Take a few doses of
podophyl:
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, and
RANDERSO
Do you constantly suffer from
If so remembe
PODOPHYJ
will soon cure, if taken as i
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any of your children sick
can safely give them one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
tST Remember this, and always
V aluable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and (
45 and 47 George-st
JJY ROYAL LETTE
The Greatesi
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’f
AUSTRALIAN OINT
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qualith
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pul
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the pnbli
long deceived. In fact, people are i
lons regarding its efficacy (never ;
article of the kind before which ;
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, havi
fits from its use, and scarcely an’
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the ci
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF TI
which, taken altogether, prove the J
frt Vua fllO TiliffVl+li Won/lm. nf 1»i
Tailors, Draper
JJAVID JONES ANI
ORIENT CLOTHI
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Sumn
reliable fabrics, fashionably c
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their i
made clothing for the Spring an
being unequalled in style, qu
whole of their stock having bi
pressly to meet the requireme
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business a
Gentlemen’s I’romenad
Gentlemen’s Travelling
Gentlemen’s Dress suits
D
[AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits
/Comprising Cc
I and Trousers,
-j favourite cole
cut and finisl
I best manner.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest aha]
ful and dur;
for business
nary wear.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits,
/In light Homes
I thin Cheviots
I nockburns. fo
land Summer w
D
AVID JONES ANI
f la Choice
Orient ) Tweeds, exci
Sac Suits, ) general wear
checks and ir
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Lig
Durable, the
having bee
shrunk befo:
made up.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior
I Tweeds, cut
[ latest styl
finished the
L. ordered clotl
D
AVID JONES ANI
/'Beautifully 1
Orient ) Texture, pern
Serg Suits. ) colour and
K able in wear.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
fSpecial attenti
I vited to on
1 Clothing, a
the best vi
most perfect
and dash p
L in the colony
In Superior T
Flannel, tl
shrunk.
J China Silk Coat
Military Duck C
Fine black Alpa
All Wool Merin
I Superior Serge (
j Black and Blue
In fine Black A!
In Super Black
In BlueSergerei
In Black Serger
/"In fine Black A 1
j In Black Merim
On Super Serger
fSuper White Du
Tailors, Draper
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOC
358, 360, 362, GEORGE
SEEING NOVE
In consequence of the great inc
their importations this season exc
FIFTY THOUSAND :
THEY are now making their first d
early shipments in all de
THOMPSON AND (
having purchased these goods in
the world, are marking them at pr
CHALLENGE COMPE
The same quality of material cam
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
fTHOMPSON
opened their
of Millinery,
exhibiting in
all choice goi
sured that tl
with an inspe
gratified at th
now displayin
comprise an e
of British am
made especial
Giles by the
London and
trimmed Bon
18s 9d. Lad
Feathers, E
1. ments, &c.
fTHOMPSON
TLES, PICH
■ —We wish to
attention of
Department,
the finest lot
Capeletts, am
ever been es
Our Stock co
designs in sha
variety of Bra
'j lid to 30s; IV
trimmed, from
Cashmere Mat
| Large lot of I
chased very m
prices; some v
at very low pri
Jerseys, to 1
every colour
dreu’s Jerseys
_ every size.
fTHOMPSON
TUME DEPA
first houses ii
in every style,
can select in a
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6 ;
signs and trim
variety of Wt
cambrics am
printed sate*
Galatea stripei
from 15s to 30i
well made,
tumes, in a va
_ other fabrics,
fTHOMPSON !
ING FABRIi
plain and prit
Materials is r
bracing all st
both French
and Linen Te:
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY,
JgJXCELLENCE
WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
DON’T FORGET
to cnlll at
THE NEW SHOP.
T. P. SIVIEE,
77 OXFORD-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Burney & Evans).
The New
GENTLEMEN'S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &c
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PRICES.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the rity). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE AIPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Hotels, &c.
IJIHE SYDNEY COFFEE
158 George-street, and 13 Ne
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPE
The Premises are Three-Storie
frontages to both George-street and
Quay, with a through depth of
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ...50
Dailies’ Dining Saloon (with conve
tiring room, &c-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Ro
(all leading papers). Parlour
Rooms, ffC., <fec.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Op
Roof, with View of Sydney Ha
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bui
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lari
and spacious Shop Accommodatioi
a most complete manner, and quit
the demands of thousands of persi
Family and Picnic Parties sup
to order ©u the shortest notice anc
terms.
ETIS’S CLUB
This new and splendid HOTEL h
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirte
will be a sufficient guarantee that
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has oi
Tables, and is replete with every n
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c.
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every
Corner William and Dov
J. E.
Hotels, &c
The compagno
CAFE AND CATERING C(
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s REST
IS NOW ope;
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late chef de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special diime:
Three hours notice required for pr
The spacious rooms of Messrs
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30,1880.
rNOMPAGNONI PALACE <
serve up in their bei
OtSTEE STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLI
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATUE
Patrons of our Theatres and Co
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposit
£1 W. ROB
MARKET STEF
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES.
BEERS.
c
OAC H AND HORS
MITTAQONG
Within three minutes of the 1
Mr, C. SHEATH EE, PE<
Buggy always in attendance
Visitors from the metropolis
finding the very best accomodation
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun
immediate neighbourhood.
The best shilling li
(including a Glass of Ale
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCi
AND
LUNCHEON R
BRIDGE-STRE
Soup, Pish, Entrees, Joints
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets ca
the bar in packets of eleven
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1
FREE COUNTER L
CO>rß AND TASTE THE OLD Cl
Ap A
That the Old Livergoi
(corner of Pitt and Kir
is the Best House to get a Glas
Also, the Cheapest House for Bo
Proprietor, DAVID H.
4 USTRALIAN WINE.—
1 1 PORPHYRY, equal to the
Awarded First Prize at t
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H.
Agents, Circular Quay.
z
RAD £
MAR
Chemists and Dn
—•
J* II BL I C N
THE following Lis
WATSON’S RENOWNED I
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to th
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti
Watson’s (Vegetable) Woi
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo)
Watson’s Compound Cbloi
Watson’s Strengthening E;
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s Excelsior Toothi
Watson’s Concentrated 6c
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and n
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG
581 GEORGE STR]
g IM S AND P
MEDICAL HERBA3
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HEB
TREAT ALL DISE
(Using herbs only in thei
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVIC
colonies on receipt of Cash or I
HERBAL BOOKS by most autho
and for sale.
Books free by post on ap
Address
SIMS AND PARI
340 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Charlotte I
SYDNEY.
A RECOMMENDATION
TION.
HOW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, c
Deserves the highest commei
Of every philanthropic natioi
This is not vain expatiati
For ’tis a well-proved applies
For all external inflnmmatioi
Whate’er its stage or complic
In callous state or suppuratio
On human kind or brute crea
It claims the just appreciable
Of those who’ve felt alleviati
Of pain, which reached exoru
And stayed all zest for popula
To men of sense and repti
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration-
Just use your powers of obsei
View the surprising renovath
Made by this virtuous prepar
On our rheumatic population
Or gouty folks (who hate stai
And raw-boued brutes whose
Is heard in neighing cacchinu
Or seen in cock-tailed exultat
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prost
Which made them wish for p
Then —friends of suffering cn
You can’t withold your admi;
Before I close this recita ;
I wish to add this dehortatio:
Beware «f fmnrinns i-mifnfirm
Business Cai
[Legal.]
S
HORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEREAGH STREI
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter* Notary
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. I
SOLICITOR, has coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STBEET, opposite i
News Office.
Roberts, hare is, a
Licensed Survey
r LAND AGENTS. ARBITRATORS
Rescissions and reclamations s]
Run Maps compiled to latest date.
House ; Chambers, 130 Pitt-street.
B LACHMANN AN:
ARCHITECTS
267 GEORGE S
W.
SYDNEY.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAR
225 BOURSE STREET, WOO
Q. AND S. PR
SAW MULLS AND TIMI
16 Eeskine Sire:
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at
ESTABLISHED 1
BOWLER’S P <
AND
BRICK WORI
CAMPERDOWN, NEA
Price List on applict
WOODFORD
(From Londoi
SANITARY AND PRACTICA
63 ITTT-ST., SYDNEY (Corner
c.
Baths and Water-closets fitted or
principle. Galvanized Iron Worker
and Gas titters.
J. p
CRIPPS, PAST!
CONFECTIONE
267 (late 255) Pitt Stee
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., ci
best style.
R
OBERT BUTCI
(Late William Lo:
WINE AND SPIRIT ME:
531 GEORGE STRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Pro
EM A S
• DRAUGHTSM.
AND
Exgeavee ox
LAND, ASSURANCE. AND GI
All matters carried out promptly.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STRB
MR. AND MRS.
Experienced and thoroughly
PAI'HIC PRACTITIONEi
MENT DAILY, at 107 LI VI
Pamphlets gratis.
~[VrOTICE. —I beg to inforn
?«55as
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
eyerj Genuine Bottle.
J
UNIPEE TEEE
P. MELCHEES.
GIN.
sS
&
rd
&
Si
i
CHAS. BATH
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dot
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made vary fine,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J, B. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.


STAGE GOSSIP.
Bland Holt is here again.
Lazar and Vincent are going to law.
Clara Stephenson is still in Dunedin.
W. S. Gilbert is a fair amateur actor.
Overton is a favorite in Aucklank, N.Z.
John Bushelle is coming back to Sydney.
Roberts opened in Adelaide in “ Eileen Oge.”
Grattan Riggs is doing fairly well at Ballarat.
Dampier says he will be back in seven months.
Annie Pixloy has not fixed her Australian dates.
Thom and Darvin visit Australia again shortly.
W. C. Greville intends making Sydney his home.
Ketten is a big success in the Victorian pro-
vinces.
Williamson is growing considerably less —around
the waist.
Nat. Salsbury’s Troubadours were a success at
Liverpool.
“ The Happy Land” has been produced at Dune-
din, N Z.
J. F. Cathcart has arrived in Sydney, and joins
Bandmann.
Macdonald’s Melbourne International Agency
is flourishing.
Fairclough and Mac. are still in Melbourne. So
is Sam Emery.
The Empson Variety Company have been play-
ing at Inverell.
The Carandini family may be looked for in Mel-
bourne shortly.
The “ Confederate Diorama ” did fair business
at Timaru, N.Z.
The “ iron man ” (not Parkes) is in the Victoria
Theatre vestibule.
First-class London stock actors receive from
£2O to £ K) a week.
George Lingard and the “ Zealandia Panorama”
have gone to England.
“Mother Goose” will be the pantomime at
Drury Lane this year.
Edwin Browne intends forming a company for
Newcastle and Maitland.
Juvenile Troubadours go to the Cape, but before
leaving visit Bathurst, &c.
The unemployed pros, are still numerous and
discontented in Melbourne.
If there’s a crush at the theatre-door, use per-
severance and—your shawl-pin.
The Inverell Masonic Hall is said to be the best
on the northern side of Maitland.
Alice Deorwyn has not forgotten how to look
pretty, and has learned how to act.
The Loftus Troupe are now at Rockhampton
doing fairly. They go on to China.
Miss Mary Melrose and her husband (H. Emmet)
are back in Sydney —for the Queen’s.
Mr. H. Rainford, the veteran basso, has still a
voice we have seldom heard excelled.
Gardiner and Perinan’s variety company are
meeting with great success in Temora.
A Miss Willet, an infant piano-playing prodigy,
shortly makes her debflt under Liddy.
We are pleased to hear that Mr. Harry Leston
is engaged to support Miss Pomeroy.
The Stray Leaves Company had a hearty welcome
back to Melbourne at St. George’s Hall.
R. W. Cary, of Wellington, N .Z., is organising
an amateur company to play “ Pinafore."
The first time J. L. Byers went mad was when
the clock struck in “Don Caesar de Bazan.”
At the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, Bland Holt has
just concluded a fairly successful season.
Baker and Barren's permanent address, is
American Exchange, 449, Strand, London W.C.
Garnet Walch, the prince of burlesque writers,
is already at work for the coming Christmas.
Mr. J. W. Dodge is back again, to manage for
Coppin, Hennings, and Greville at the Queen’s.
C. H. Burford talks of coming to Sydney. He
will have a hearty welcome when he does come.
John Sheehan, the Irish comedian, who once so
startled Brisbane, keeps a shoe store there now.
Herr Hugo Alpen will shortly reproduce his
cantata, “ Australia," for Mr. Chizlett’s benefit.
Harry Jackson is playing a prominent part in
“The World,” at Drury Lane, for Walter Gooch.
Teddy Haggarth, J. O’Brien and J. B. Steele
were inspecting the pavement in Auckland at latest.
The Kelly Company have just completed
season at Grafton, with but moderate financial success
Mr. Luscombe Searell was brought up at Auck-
land, N.Z., for a cab fare, 12s. 9d. Judgment reserved
A benefit to the widow of poor Walter Cooper
is on the tapis. Old professional friends should volun-
teer.
“ The Girls ” is just the sort of piece for the
London Comedy Company. It is the best cast they
have.
Mr. R. J. Roberts and Miss Clara Lemore are
now performing at Adelaide in a round of Irish
pieces.
Millie Palmer (Herr Bandmann’s wife), who is
now iu America, proceeds to India with a company
shortly.
“ Warrior” Brown, of Melbourne, savs his
coming drama will knock spots off all the other com-
petitors.
“ Pinafore ” was performed in Glen Innes last
week. There is now some talk of producing it at
Inverell.
We hear that a permanent circus is about to be
erected at the corner of Exhibition and Little Bourke
Streets, Melbourne.
Another large circus, on the Cooper and Bailey
principle, will be here shortly. The advance agent. Mr.
Gaylord, has arrived.
Nigger business is “the universal broad gauge
platform, hat harmonises all English-speaking amuse-
ment patrons on earth.”
Mr. N. H. Thornton, scenic artist, recently took
a benefit at Napier. N.Z. The “ Streets of New York ’’
was produced on the occasion.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Florence, “ little” Camilla
Urso, and several others, have been “ concertising” at
the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, N.Z.
-£250 for a prize drama is not to be treated with
contempt. Nay. contempt sometimes costs £2so—that is
when the Full Court awards the prize.
“Beaudet,” in French, means donkey. Miss
Louise Beaudet, judged by her portraits is one of the
prettiest tittle donkeys yet seen in Sydney. |
Mr. W. G. Broadhurst played all the accompani-
ments at the Bennett Promenade Festival—a task of no
small difficulty with such a variety of styles.
Walter Reynolds played Romeo to Mrs. Walter
Hill’s Juliet at Christchurch, N.Z., lately. It was
advertised as a “ legitimate treat.” Save ns !
“ The Navel Cadets,” a new French opera
brought out by Emily Soldene at Dublin, is a success
as to the libretto, but a failure as to the score.
The Bennett testimonial is to be presented at
the Opera House, when the colonial dramatic artistes
will perform free for their old liberal employer.
Thompson will give away his old gloves the last
night of the Zulu War Panorama. Mothers who re-
quire leather suits for their boys should be present.
Hawley and Buislay, trapeze performers, who
were in Australia a few months ago, arc one of the
attractions of Woodward’s Garden, San Francisco.
G. H. Leonard, once well known in Sydney in
“pretty” parts, has made a name in England, and plays a
big part with the “ Diplomacy ” Comedy Company.
Melbourne musicians wax wroth at the intro-
duction of the Austrian Band. They would protect
native talent (P). Surely this is Protection run mad.
Miss Louise Beaudet we do not yet know ; but all
we can say is that if she is only half as Bea itdelful as she
is depicted, Sam will Louise nothing by engaging her.
The Auckland Star says that they have seen
better companies on the local boards than the one
which supported Fairclough at the Melbourne Theatre
Royal.
For Henry Irving’s benefit at the London Lyceum,
Miss Ellen Terry, Mrs Bancroft, J. L. Toole, Sims
Reeves, and his son Herbert Reeves were announced to
appear.
John Plummer, the representative in Sydney of
the Graphic, is the author of many plays, and has with
him a lot of unacted dramas by celebrated English
authors.
In Willenhall, England, a legal dispute is going
on about stealing an automaton called the “Living
Head.” In Sydney the disputes are about the “ dead
heads.”
Miller, the champion athlete of the world, opens
2nd October, at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne. Barry
O’Neill and other artistes assist. Macdonald engineers
the show.
The reason Baker and Farron have not proved a
success in the old country is that their pieces are so
abominably bad. When they left Australia they left a
certainty.
“Wanted (for Grafton),” says a discontented
professional, “ a serio-comic singer (lady), and a con-
certina player. Guaranteed attendance, 25 people and
100 dogs.”
Miss Ella Le Ferre, who travelled with the
Loftus troupe and Simonsen’s Opera, has been playing
in “ The Bells of Comeville ” at Tivoli Gardens, San
Francisco.
The successor to “The Two Eoses” at the
London Vaudeville Theatre, “ The Gnv’nor,” the name
of whose author has been discreetly withheld, has been
suppressed.
Miss Florence Terry, the youngest of the Terry
sisters, is about to marry Mr. Hardinge Cox, part pro-
prietor of the Field and Queen newspapers, and retire
from the stage.
Miss M. Litton (Mrs. Wybrow Eobertson) has
produced “As You Like It ” with great success at
Drury Lane. She plays “ Rosalind ’ ’ and Lionel Brough
“Touchstone.”
W. P. Wrighton, the popular ballad composer
and musician, died on the 13th July, aged 83. A few
weeks previously he had been dined and presented with
a plethoric purse.
Paul Meritt and H. Pettitt have produced a new
piece at Covent Garden—something after the style of
Halliday’s “ Great City.” It is lavishly mounted and is
fairly successful.
A young lady in Grafton thinks it vulgar to say
“ sweat." Hence she speaks of a iustly-celebrated
nigger delineator, not as Mr. Billy Sweatman, but Mr.
Billy Perspireman.
The San Francisco Minstrels (Haverley’s), at
latest, were playing at St. James' Hall, the Moore and
Burgess Company going to the National Standard
Theatre, Bishopsgate.
Theo. Hamilton, now he has a printing estab-
lishment, intends to have all the parts for his theatre
printed. He says it will be useful for those American
actors who can’t read manuscript.
_ “ The Woman in White ” has been successfully
Cred at the Bijon, Melbourne, during the past week,
ve gives an excellent performance of Fosco, and
Alice Deorwyn and Legrand are well fitted.
Signor and Signora Majeroni are playing English
parts with great success. John Bushelle taught them
English, and they first played in Sydney in our language,
but were not successful in a business sense.
Dampier has taken, one of poor Walter Cooper’s
Australian plays with him in the “John Elder," and it
is not unlikely that he will put it on the boards of some
of the London theatres during his stay there.
Mrs. Stowe is at work dramatising “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” entirely anew for Mr. J. B. Pond, who
will produce the new version in New York in December.
Mark Twain is said to be assisting Mrs. Stowe.
It is remarkable with how much more finish a
certain well-known actor delineates the character of
his loving spouse on the boards than in the street. He
should remember that “ all the world’s a stage."
While she is in San Francisco, Sarah Bernhardt
will exhibit her gallery of paintings and statuary in the
lobby of Booth’s Theatre. “ This alone will be worth
the price of admission,” as P. T. Barnum would say.
Macdonald, of Melbourne, has received direct
news from George Rignold. The latter will be in Aus-
tralia after Christmas, with novelties, and Miss Ellen
Terry as leading lady. Here, indeed, will be a treat.
When poor Walter Cooper’s comedy “ Colonial
Experience" wds produced, the principal parts were
played by J. J. Bartlett, Charles Young, and W.
Andrews. All three and the author are now no more.
A new farce, “ The C.M.G.” will soon be played,
unless the authorities prohibit it as an insult to the
colony. It was written at home from materials supplied
by a political poet not over popular in Sydney just now.
Ketten is drawing very large audiences at the
Town Hall, Adelaide, where he is astounding by
his marvellous manipulation. Prior to his first ap.
pearance he was serenaded by the German Leidertafel
“ The Trump Card,” re-written and specially
localised, will be George Darrell’s opening play at the
People s, on 16th October. They are already engaged
in the get up, and have commenced billing the city thus
early.
The Austrian Strauss Band will give their first
open-air performance on the Flemington lawn, on
Saturday, 9th October. There will be a grand parade
of 150 of the principal horses training near the
grounds.
Alice Deorwyn scored a genuine success at the
Academy, Melbourne, in the “Woman in White.”
The local journals do not gush over her; but then,
you see, she is a native. They give Legrand the “soft
sawder."
Two excellent representations of “School”
were recently given at the Academy of Music, Adelaide,
by lady and gentlemen amateurs belonging to the
"upper ten,” in aid of a charitable object, to crowded
audiences.
One of the Zigzag men privately suggests that
the Only Leon should play Strachan’s burlesque of
“ Richard I." for his benefit, as then he wonld be able
to tell the audience that his last farewell o-Cceur-de-
Leon time ago.
Professor Pepper has been delivering a course of
his exceedingly interesting scientific lectures at the
Academy of Music, but the attendances have only been
moderate. After a country tour he is to present his
world-renowned ghost illusions.
John Jack, according to the Californian papers,
has been divorced from Mary J. Jack. But who is Mary
J. Jack ? When Mr. Jack was last in these parts some-
one else, who shall be nameless, was his wife. Cfto it
be that the good man has two ?
All the ladies who sing in the Melbourne Inter-
national Cantata are to wear white dresses. Cardboard
wings (says the Melbourne Punch) would odd to, the
effect. At a given moment they could all stand up and
flap. Pretty sight !
Five years ago Haverly, whose Mastodon
Minstrels have almost surprised London was about
100,000 dollars in debt, but he never lost heart and
constantly told his wife and friends that before long he
would be at the top of the tree. He has kept his word.
His ambition, it is said, is to have a theatre in every
fair-sized city in the world. America (says on English
' paper) can’t hold Haverly; it will take the entire globe
to do it, and then he won’t be satisfied.
A suburban paper says ;—“ Dave Hayman,
manager and lessee of the Opera House, can, for
pomposity, self-confldence, and verbosity, lick Dave
Buchanan hollow." We suspect some trouble about a
free pass is at the bottom of this.
The George Simms Amaterir Company played at
Inverell on Saturday last, under the patronage of acting-
Judge Bennett. Receipts, £2 4s. Od.! “ Milky White ”
was capitally acted. The veteran George intends putting
*' Our Boys ” on the boards shortly.
J. K. Emmett is out of the lunatic asylum, but
his last terrible attack nearly brought on death. He is
described as looking very thin, yellow, and emaciated.
Just a little more of his weakness and hasty consump-
tion will bring him up with a round turn.
At the People’s, Melbourne, Theo. Hamilton
produced “ The Danites," with an excellent, cast, on
the 25th. The lessee proposes to run the drama for
three weeks, to allow full time for the preparation of
his next novelty, George Darrell’s new drama.
Barry Sullivan, it now appears, is not coming to
Australia, yet. In several of the dramatic papers to
hand by the mail, a card appears announcing that Barry
is retiring until September, when he will commence
“a tour of the United Kingdom (?) aud Ireland.
Mr. Dion Boucicault’s new Irish play is entitled
“ Inchavogue.” It is in four acts, two of which are
laid in London and two in the West of Ireland. The
drama is said to contain more thrilling situations than
either the "Colleen Bawn” or "Arrah na Pogue."
, As our readers know, Leon Caron is to be
musical director at Melbourne International. Singular
that his motto in the cantata competition was “Abori-
gine." The judges, in awarding the prize to him,
probably thought that they were encouraging native
genius.
We notice that our old friend Mr. Gordon
Gooch, who has settled in Auckland, N.Z., acted as
director of the conversazione given on 7th September,
to celebrate the opening of the local Free Public
Library, and with great success sang on the occasion
" The Goodwin Sands.”
Mr. A. Hayrnan returned by the City of Hew
York after a five months’ trip on the continent of
America in search of novelties. He has engaged
sufficient professional talent to last his firm for the
next two years, and has somebody or something to
arrive hy every boat.
There is a musical marvel at Lusby’s Musical
Hall in London. He plays the whistle with his proboscis
just as we have known an elephant do with his trunk.
He gets the “ Carnival of Venice ” out of his cheeks by
slapping them, and he plays the piano with his elbows,
his fingers, his wrists, and his nose.
E. A. Hart (of “ Happy Hours ” fame) has been
sentenced to a month’s imprisonment at Auckland,
N.Z., for breaking a sherry bottle over a gentleman’s
head at the hotel where he was staying. It (net the
sherry bottle, but the row) was all over his wife. Teddy
Haygarth was in the trouble.
A correspondent of the Paris Figaro who “did”
the .Passion plays at Ober-Ammergau says he had a fine
time of it. He had Caiapbas for his host, an ex-Virgin
Mary for his hostess, and Herod— la creme des lone
enfanis —to run to the post-office with the manuscript
of the FigAro contributions.
The London Era of July 18. says, “ Aus-
tralia having sent us cricketers, scullers, &c., now
proposes to give ns a taste of the quality of some of her
show folks. The Australian Mammoth Minstrels, of
whom report speaks well, are shortly to be introduced
to us by Mr. Richmond Tbatcher.”
The celebrated dramatist Tom Taylor was at
Blanche's funeral on the 4th June, in excellent health,
and was himself buried on the 16th of July. Over a
thousand representatives of the drama and art attended
the funeral. He wrote upwards of 50 dramas and
comedies, all of which were eminently successful.
“ Liddy has just returned from his trip North,
and is now preparing for an extended tour of the
Australian colonies. He has enlisted already under his
banner Mr. Edwin Kelly, Mr. Billy Sweatnam, Mr.
Edwin Lester, Mr. Patterson, Mr. ‘Frazer, and Miss
Emma Wangenheim, also Misses Emma and Fanny
Rogers,
J. L. Byers, now in Brisbane, once played
“ Hamlet" with Charlie Irvine. Byers was Hamlet,
and his wife (Julia Hudson) and Irvine played all the
other parts. A blanket was the back scene; there were
no wings; and when a character was supposed to be
“off,” it stood facing the blanket, like a bad boy in a
comer.
When Charles Burford had to wear a wig after
his head was shaved, Clara Stephenson ran away with it
into her dressing room, and Charlie charred a cork
over the prompter’s gas and drew splendid curls all
' over his bald pate. The piece was redolent of gags
about “cork," “wigging," “cureless,” and “putting
on airs."
Miss Marie St. Clair takes her leave of Sydney
next month, and gives a farewell concert, at the School
of Arts on 12th October, when she will be assisted hy
her sweet-voiced sister, Miss Madeline St. Clair. We
can ill afford to lose such excellent singers, but they
know their own business best. It is to be managed by
Mr. Medcalfe.
The ever-popular Williamsons opened at the
Royal. Melbourne, on the 18th Sept., in “Struck Oil"
and “ The Fool of the Family,” to an excellent house.
The performance went off well, and the houses have
kept up during the week. Jimmy plays with all his old
finish, and his charming wife is as full of gaiety and
abandon as ever.
AlTLondon has been talking of the way in which
Haverly’s Mastodons were billed. Haverly shipped
seven and a half tons of lithographs from one firm in
Cincinnati, and over fifteen tons of coloured printing
from the National Printing Company, Chicago. The
whole amount sent weighed over twenty-five tons, not
counting the boxes.
At the Princess Theatre, Dunedin, “ Across the
Continent” and “The Kellys’’ have been running. As
in the first act alone of the former piece there are two
murders and any number of attempts, while in “The
Kellys " there is plenty of roaring and discharging of
pistols, everybody was highly delighted, and the manage-
ment have made money.
Crammed audiences greet the performers at the
Popular Concerts at Adelaide on Saturday nights. But
then these people only pay one shilling, or sixpence, and
have a vulgar liking for sweet singing and melody,
Frank Winterbottom’s ’cello, and hate fireworks! Yet
and the Town Hall never gets blasted by lightning.
Something wrong somewhere!
“ The Owl ” Club, Melbourne, bloom forth at
the Academy, on Wednesday, 29th, and enact “The
Happy Man" and “Caste." They are clever lads and
right genial souls. An evening spent within the sacred
precincts of the Owls’ Club-room is one of the greatest
treats imaginable, and should never be missed by any
literary man who goes to Melbourne.
A certain well-known tragedian was in the habit
of giving orders to a widow lady She was sitting in
the pit with her little girl when their friend the per-
former was to be stabbed by his stage rival. Roused by
the supposed imminence of his danger, the girl started
up, exclaiming “ Oh, don’t kill him, sir—don’t kill him;’
for if you do, he won’t give us any more pit orders! ”
“ Professor Carl,” the deaf and dumb aeronaut,
has been ballooning at Kempsey. His first ascent was
witnessed by “ a large crowd,” who materialised to the
extent of JE3 10s. The professor mode another ascent
at Frederickton. where a grateful public subscribed 15s.
An aeronaut really ought neve- to ascend unless he’s
guaranteed at least funeral expenses before starting.
Of Miss Louise Pomeroy, who opens at the
Queen’s on Saturday, the New York correspondent of
the London Era says—“ Miss Louise Pomeroy, the
celebrated American tragedienne, has returned to town
(New York) after a starring tour of forty weeks’ duration,
in which she has been eminently successful. This lady
is one of the most accomplished artistes on the American
stage.
“ Carados,” in the Referee declares that
Lnln, the famous female gymnast, who took London by
storm some years ago. is a man He says: “ I saw Lnln
a short time ago. He was employed in fixing a net for
another gymnast. He wore spectacles, and boasted a
moustache It made me wild to remember that in the
days of the successes at the Holborn Amphitheatre I
hod lifted my hat to him, bad paid him pretty com-
pliments, and had squeezed his hand. Ugh !
A critic says of the debut of Herbert, Sims
Beeves’ son. in London, that he was a remarkable
reproduction of his father in everything but voice.
The same dress, in the most minute particulars, the
same extra how to the orchestra, the same style of
holding the music, bat, his voice sounds ns if his father
had sung into a phonograph, and somebody were turning
the crank.
Mr. Greville’a new company, to open at the
Queen’s Theatre on the 2nd October, comprises Messrs,
Vincent, Emmett, Leston.Sefton, Martin, Gerald Diilon,
Martin Porde, and W. C. Greville. Miss Melville, Mrs.
Greville, Miss Lily Porde, and Miss Marion Melrose.
The opening bill will bo a sensational drama, with
H. H. Vincent in the leading part, and the burlesque
“ Cinderella."
The Williamsons played their new piece,
“ Struck Oil,” at the Melbourne Theatre Koyal to a
crammed house, the people evidently enjoying the
novelty. Jimmy, malicious people sav, was jealous of
B. N. Jones as the Deacon, so Oily Deering was cast
f(>r it. At last Stuart O’Brieu had to he engaged to
play his original part.
From the Herald Bertie Wilson, in depart-
ing for sunnier climes (to re-enter the professional
arena), bids all his friends a long farewell. Letters to
G.P.0., Melbourne. Poor Bertie ! this looks as if he
had dropped into a bit of bad luck. The “ professional
arena,” too. Humph !—sawdust and a horse-rake—or a
tin helmet and a banner. Answer, Bertie, who’s bloom,
ing in “ sunny climes ? ”
Churchill says “ Actors as actors are a lawful
game,” but Mr. W. J. Holloway doesn’t seem to agree
with him, as he "plugged” Mr. of the Adelaide
'Tizee, in the “ dose.” There wasn’t much credit in it,
for Mr. Davis, like the Captain in " Madame L’Arch-
dne," is such a very little man. If, however, what we
hear is true, the actor will shortly receive a Boland for
his Holloway—we mean, Oliver.
Mr. Daniel Bandmann is a very powerful actor;
hut he is better in German than in English. His best
impersonation is Narcisse, in which his famous speech
" I will not stand between thee and the gereat white
thoo-ne" is bound to bring down the house. We wish
Daniel luck, equally on his own account and on that of
Mr. Sam Howard, the entrepreneur. We can always
stand Sam, who is a low comedian without being low,
and it should go Howard if his speculation does not
turn up trumps.
Mr. C. Huenerbein, the favourite pianist, gave
a matinee musicale last Saturday afternoon, in his u usic
warehouse, Pitt-street, which was attended by the prin-
cipal vocal and instrumental talent in Sydney. A full
orchestra opened the proceedings; the vocalists were
Miss Bessie Harrison and Messrs. H. Wilkinson and
T. H. Eainford; the instrumentalists, Herr Kretsch-
mann, and Mr. Huenerbien. The host played Ketteu’s
" new Caprice,” even to the pop-finger business. All
present were delighted.
It is rumoured in Melbourne that a grand com-
plimentary benefit will shortly be tendered to the well-
known scenic artist and co-manager of the Eoyal (John
Hennings). If this eventuate, there’s not a man or
woman in the profession who will not readily proffer
services, There is not in Melbourne a more deservedly
popular man than our John—whether in business, in
art unions, or in social chat at the “little pub. around
the corner," John is ever to the fore, brimming over
with geniality and good companionship.
Mr. Walter Reynolds successfully produced his
drama, entitled “The Sprissann” at Christchurch,
N.Z. One of the papers speaks of it as follows “It
has all the merit of Mr. Darrell’s efforts, in that it
presents a fair quantity of * moving incidents,’ one fire
(for instance), one murder, and several ‘gallant rescues'
of a startling character; and it possesses, in a literary
sense, merit beyond what we have been accustomed to
from Mr. Darrell. With regard to its representation,
the company may be congratulated all round."
Says a N.Z. journal“ Mr. Charles Craig, the
clever jeune premier, travelling with the Lingards, is
an American gentleman of independent fortune, who
follows the theatrical profession for love rather than
money. Unlike some actors, he does not consider
himself perfection, and is doing the colonies in order to
get thoroughly well grounded. By-and-bye we shall
probably hear of his making a big hit at Wallack’s or
some other first-class theatre in New York. Having
plenty of “the ready,” he can at any time command a
hearing and in good company.”
Henri Kowalski opened at the Melbourne Opera
House on Monday, 20th Sept. In the opinion of a good
many people, he is superior to Ketten—he is certainly
pleasanter to hear. Most unquestionably Kowalski is
a marvellous executant and a brilliant improvisatore.
As a composer, he must hold high rank, his works being
the most popular numbers in the programme. His
“ Marche Hongroise” is a stirring composition, admir-
ably played, and it never fails to elicit a tremendously-
enthusiastic encore. The houses have not overflowed.
Ketten had the pull, but should Kowalski visit New
Zealand first the tables will he turned.
An amusing incident was lately enacted at the
Queensland Theatre during Mr. Dampier’s season
there. One night, in the closet scene where Hamlet
goes to stab Polonins behind the arras, and makes use
of the words “A rat, a rat —dead for a ducat," while in
the act of drawing the curtain on one side, and jusf
repeating the words, Mr. Dampier, in the r die of
Hamlet, was startled by two rats jumping out sud-
denly. One rushed off at the E.C.E. and was killed by
the stage carpenter, and the other made good its escape.
Mr. D. has had a dog 'appear in this particular scene
before, but he does not recollect the passage having
been played so near the text on any previous occasion.
The interior of the new Gaiety Theatre (late
Guild Hall) is fast approaching completion, and the
place is as much metamorphosed as Christopher Sly
was in the play. The whole aspect of the place is
elegant in the extreme—light colour prevailing, while
these are set off by rich and admirably painted decora-
tions by Messrs. Gordon and Wilson. The whole of the
arrangements are on the most complete scale imagin-
able, and evidences of a lavish expenditure are every,
where. It is proposed to open in about a mouth from
the present date, with opera bonffe, or something
“light and sparkling.” There can be no question that
the Gaiety will be an ornament to the city; and as
Messrs. Solomon and Bayliss have signified their deter-
mination to engage only first-class talent, we think
we may safely predict for them - a successful dramatic
career.
Our correspondent at Auckland, under date
September 20, reviews amusements in that town as
under : —“ Lingard and Company enter their fifth week
here to-night, but business has fallen off considerably
during the last few nights, which may be attributed to
two things—viz, the length of the season for a small
town like Auckland, and that two principal members of
the company, Mrs. Lingard and Mrs. Eitzwilliam, have
been ill, the latter seriously, the doctors at one time
giving her up; hut lam glad to chronicle that she is
fast getting- convalescent. Her place in the company
has bean filled by Miss Jessie Eaymond. Mrs. Lingard
was unable to appear for three nights. Since my last
the following have been on the boards :—*old Bachelors,'
‘Heart and Crown,* ‘David Garrick,’ ‘Charity,’ and the
one-act comedy, ‘ Viscount de Leo.’ ’Dr. Clyde’ will
bo produced to-night for the first time in N Z , Mr.
and Mrs. Lingard assuming the principal characters.
The season will probably close next week. ‘The Wreck
of the Pinafore,’ it seems, will not he brought out here
after all, as Mr. Luscombe Searell (who must be hard
to please) intends to keep it for the Dunedin theatre-
goers, for which town the whole of the company shortly
leave. It is whispered that the Lingards return here
and open in the opera on Boxing Night. Mr. J. B.
Steele has seceded from the company. Miss Marie
Wilton is back in Dunedin.
MISS LOUISE POMEROY.
Miss Louise Pomeroy, who arrived by the City
of New York under engagement to Coppin, Hen-
nings, and Co., and who is now looked upon as the
best American delineator of Shakespearian comedy
roles, will make her debut on Saturday night at
the Queen’s Theatre under the management of the
firm above named, in the character of Rosalind,
supported by the Melbourne Theatre Royal Com-
pany. Her next impersonation will be Cymbe-
line, for the first time in N.S. W. During her stay
she will appear as Viola in Twelfth Night, and in
other leading legitimate parts. Miss Pomeroy,
who is of a well-known literary family, has a
reputation as a writer, and in next issue of. The
Bulletin we hope to print a trifle from her pen.


PEPPER AND SALT.
As I was driving home in my carriage # last night I
was accosted by a man whose pale, starved,
ghastly look reminded me of a pauper’s grave.
Ho had deeply-drawn furrows of sorrow, and care
in every feature of his face, and he had divers
pieces of straw stuck through his frowsy hair. I
think the straw, however, was put there for a sort
of theatrical effect. He said he was the funny
man of the Echo, and if I gave him a drink he
would tell me a funny yarn. Heaven help me ! I
thought he was a last century ghost, but I gave
him the drink, and here is the yam. The reader
will perceive it has a strongly-marked religious
tendency : —Peter Campbell, the reverend, lately
exhorted in a Temora shanty. He had a big house,
and he spread himself to his fullest spread. After
about an hour’s exhorting he paused to get his
■ wind, and immediately a long, slab-sided digger
seized a Yankee hat, took up a collection equal to
about =£2o, and then coolly walked out through
the door with the hat and its whole contents.
The astonished Peter at once cried out, “Brethren,
it would appear that that misguided young man has
walked off with that collection. He’ll be d d
if he has I” Just then a pious old sinner near the
door arose, removed his pipe and replied, “ Bose,
that’s so, and I’ll be d dif he hasn’t.” Peter
says they want a chapel badly up Temora way, but
so far as he’s concerned they can want ic.
I don’t know if I read the picture placard on
our walls correctly, but if I do one ton of Mitchell’s
coal produces one dining-room, with four Landseer
pictures on the walls and a full suite of furniture ;
one large stove, and a cheerful fire therein, one
kerosene lamp, one novel by Ouida, and about Bst
21b of the prettiest little terrestial angel of the
female persuasion, clothes and all, that ever broke
a soldier’s heart, or caused a linen grocer to go
without his victuals. If the above is the straight
reading Mr. Mitchell will oblige by sending 200
tons to The Bulletin office at once. Also
directions how to make the angel. Never mind
the stove coal, Mitchell, it’s the angel part we’re
hankering after.
Some one asked Samuel M‘Cracken last week
if he thought the Government printing clerks
were good pullers. “Of corks they are,” replied
Sam ; but he afterwards apologised, and he said
he meant “ of course they are.”
Ketten writes to say he “ admires The Bulle-
tin var mooch. It ees mognificence; it ees
-splendid ;it ees immense—it ees pretty goot. ’ ’ He
also says he was once well off ; but Bobby Byrne
says it must have been the moment after he
ascended the Brisbane horse.
Lewis Scott has had a set of quadrilles dedicated
to him. John Davies tried hard to swap honors,
but Lewis wanted fifty pounds and a horse, and a
patent washing machine thrown in, so it fell
through. •
In your last I mentioned that the E.T.O. regatta
was a great success. But the man from Benalla
has since written poetry upon the event. I have
received a copy of his poem. It is at least 9 miles
long, and it is as thick as the skull of any ordinary
Scotchman. The poet begins by an elaborate
account of the Creation after the Darwinian theory,
and then he devotes a square mile or so to every
event that has happened sinoe. Cain, Nero,
Pontius Pilate, Mrs. Potiphar, Graham Berry,
Brian Boru, John Alexander Dowie, Lottie
Wilmot and about 250 millions of other notorieties
are all mentioned in the most elaborate manner
possible. He then “ bottoms,” as the diggers say,
on the bare rock of the regatta, and after alluding
to the spirited enterprise which invariably
characterizes Sydney, the bard jolts along as
follows:
If stronger testimony be required in this here matter,
Take as evidence our Telegraph regatta.
Which for many months past have been all the rage.
And to-day’s to be launched under the patronage
Of the recently appointed P.M.G.
Which I need scarcely say every man here as well
As those who are unavoidably detained over
There is glad to see.
I have never walked down King-street before
noon without meeting a lawyer, and I have never
met a lawyer yet who didn’t carry a bag. This
reminds me of a little Sabbath School experience
—Judas Iscariot used to carry the bag. I have
never heard of his having been a lawyer though.
He seems to have had a sort of conscience also ;
this settles the question.
It is rather a remarkable fact that the day after
the Bulletin which contained the handsome
portrait of H. H. Brown, Esq., was published, the
office was literally besieged by eligible ladies of all
descriptions, who wished to know if he was a
married man or single. No less than four boarding
schools called before breakfast to make the same
enquiry, and yet never a one asked after Parkes,
although his Hyperion Phiz was given in the same
issue. Truly (as the captain says in Plautus), ’tis
a fearful thing to be a handsome man.
The most acute kind of pain has been in all ages
described as that in which people see the object
they most desire before their eyes, and yet are not
able to reach, and enjoy it. Tantalus and Dives
are notable instances of this, and now that I
think of it the greatest torture to some men here
will be to see the side of Punch’s Hotel, and yet
not be able to lean up against it.
The telegraph regatta prizes were paid over last
week, and there was a good time going on within;
but Bussell sat on the kerb outside, and thought
of the bard who sang—
One mom at Heaven’s gate,
A Peri stood, disconsolate.
Of course Bussell isn’t much of a Peri, but his
heart was sad. He was dead in this, the final act.
Presently Geary came out, chewing a lemon, and
the Peri in the gutter said, “ Havin’ lots of fun
in there, ain’t they?” “ Slap up,” replied Geary.
“ Got lots of cups, and medals, and milk jugs, and
wine bottles, and butter basins, and got good
clothes on, and plenty bread and cheese and
swankey, eh?” sighed Bussell. “Tons of it,”
said the other. “ Ah. well, I don’t care a cuss,”
observed Bussell, getting up, “ I ain’t got no
prizes; but I caught ninety-seven crabs at the
regatta, and I can get fourpence for every con-
demned galoot of a crab that I hawk up to Emer-
son’s. Besides, I can sit down, and that’s more
than half of those yahoos can do anyway.”
A most heartless joke was perpetrated last week
on a certain clerk in a certain Bank in George-
street. It seems this clerk owed his landlady for
ten weeks’ board and lodging, and he also owed an
obliging broker =£lo. He went to Manly on
Saturday, and stayed till Monday. Upon his return
a brother clerk informed him that his landlady
had eloped with the broker! The way that clerk
earned on after this would disgrace a madhouse
He flung his hat through the glass door of the
manager’s room ; shouted for all hands ; went to
the Egyptian Hall and kissed the man-woman nine
times ; dined at both Coffee Palaces, and then
polka’d over to Dalveon’s and raised up Cain in
general. When he subsequently called round to
his lodgings in a four wheeler to remove his box
his landlady met him at the door, and had barely
time to gasp “ Et tu Brute ” when he fell deac
upon the spot. How sad. He was a young anc
promising man —so the brother says.
In Oxford, in the early part of this year, a very
unpopular Proctor was “screwed in’’ by some
larky undergraduates of University College. The
Master, thereupon, sent down about 80 innocent
men of that College. In Sydney, in the same year,
a very popular Proctor was denounced by some
wild Sabbatarians of that metropolis. The Colo-
nial Secretary, thereupon, ordered him and 2fl0(
innocent citizens besides to be “ screwed out
but. then, Sydney is at th’e Antipodes, you know.
Parkes is our Prefect, and “ M'Guven ” is his
Prophet.
Now that we know how it came to pass that
Proctor was M'Guven’d, all that we can say is—
More shame for the Muckguvernment!
_ Seventeen barristers want George Reid’s pleasant
billet in the Crown Lands Office, besides nobody
knows how many nondescripts. But, as the office
is peculiarly suited to and ought to be filled by a
man of legal training, you lay your dollar on the
“nondescripts” against the professionals. The
Bulletin’s King-street Prophet has just sent in
the following tip for this event: —“ Back ‘ Member
of Parliament,’ or else ‘ Our Willie.’ ‘ B . . . e ’
is scratched, and ‘ Eitz-sparagus,’ ‘ Merryfeather,’
and ‘ Macspavin ’ have gone bung ! ”
St. Paul said that “ It is more blessed to give
than to receive.” Since Combes, C.M.G., was
appointed “ receiver ” in a certain equity suit, he
has begun to feel some doubts about the apostle's
orthodoxy. He says the saint was -not educated
in Frapce, never ran a brewery, or was trans-
figured into an Executive Commissioner, and pro-
bably knew next to nothing about the ventilation
of “ Seed Plots."
The casual visitor to Coffee Palace No. 1 may
doubt his soup, or he may doubt his sausage, but
there is one institution there which he can
never doubt, and that is—the clerk from Lasset-
ter’s. When the casual enters he moons about
from table to table amidst the din of knives, the
rattle of plates, and the artillery of hardworking
jaws, and begins to entertain a sort of hazy idea
that he’s in the middle of a second Zulu war, or
on board the wrecked Sorata. But the clerk from
Lassetter’s doesn’t.* He trips gaily along like the
bridegroom going to meet the bride : he plants
himself down in a remote and shady bower, and
instantly a smiling little fairy stands on one toe
before him. He doesn’t have to howl himself sick
after fleeting nymphs, or sit in his chair until he
takes root, or succumbs to famine, not he; the
aforesaid fairy hangs up his hat, smooths his hair,
and then sweetly lisps—“ Will, deary, soup to-
day?” Deary soups; and then the fairy wipes
the beads off liis manly brow, and the vermicelli
off his manly moustache, and proceeds to fill him
up to the ears with turkeys and ducks and pastry
and creams and such, until the wonder is how one
small stomach can hold so much. Then he is
smoothed up again, a flower pinned to his coat,
and he waltzes out between two rows of smitten
maids, each of whom places her hand on her heart
and sighs like the summer breeze as it glides
through the ribs of a dead horse. Ah me ! It’s
good to be the clerk from Lassetter’s. Solomon
in all his glory hadn’t the “ bulge on him.”
A man whose pedigree and autobiography are
absent from a certain well-known Dictionary of
Dates is not considered to be an Etonian.
The young man Henry, now under committal for
stealing monef from the General Post Office, was
in receipt of 20s a week —so of course they put
plenty of temptation in his way, “ officially.”
Lord Augustus Loftus, in replying to an address
at Albury, said, “ I cannot doubt but that,” &c.
Now isn’t this bad grammar—a double negative in
fact? Perhaps, however, Lord Augustus is so
accustomed to French that he unconsciously
adopts at times the Latin ne que construction.
But then his lordship should remember that if he,
the Queen’s representative, isn’t the guardian of
the Queen’s English he ought to be.
A suburban mayoress attended a suburban
church last Sunday, having for a companion her
eldest son, one Francis George, aged five. The
clergyman was in good form, and the subject
chosen was the great necessity for us all to be
born again. There was what Tennyson would
call a “ splurge ” at the mayor’s house that day,
and a large and influential company graced the
festive board. In the midst of the enjoyment,
however, Master Francis George leaned over and
called out, “ Ma, didn’t the preacher say to-day
we all had to be born again ?” “ Yes, darling,”
replied the delighted mother, “ the preacher did.”
“Well, look here Ma,” continued F. G., “ don’t
you do it for him — spose I come out a girl, whose to
wear my new trousers ?” The lady mayoress didn’t
say anything.
* Wheelbarrow.
ELECTIONEERING BON-BONS FOR MINISTERS.
The Colonial Secretary—
“PA(r)X vobiscum."—Vulgate.
The Colonial Treasurer —
“ Black Spirits and White.”— Shakspeare.
The Minister of Public Instruction —
“ The Schoolmaster is abroad.” — Lord Brougham.
The Minister for Public Works —
“ A soft answer tumeth away wrath.”—Proverbs.
The Minister for Lands—
“A' babbled of Green Fields.”— Shakspeare,
The Attorney-General—
“ It’s a wise [political] father that knows his own
child.”— Shakspeare. .
The Minister for Mines—
“ Pull Devil—pull Baker.”—Akon.
The Minister for Justice —
“With Devotion’s visage
And pious action, we do sugar o’er
The Devil himself.”— Shakspeare.
The Postmaster-General— *
“A Man of the World among Men of Letters.” —
Macaulay,
V.
AMATEUR ATHLETIC SPORTS.
Athletes have many friends. There are those
who admire their prowess ; those who are dubious
of the same. There are those who love them for
themselves ; those who love them for their
sisters. Then there are their coteries proper :
their “sisters, and their cousins, and their aunts.”
The crowd that mustered at the Association
ground on Saturday last is evidence, any way,
that sports are, in a great degree, attractive. Not
even a free balloon ascent could diminish the at-
tendance, as the grounds and pavilion were
crowded with an assemblage whose general “ get
up ” would have done no discredit to the lawn on
the day of “The Metrop.” The afternoon was
sunless and chilly. At times there was a sharp
cold breeze, which, although it delighted the
Lilliputian yacht swimmers in the Moore Park
ponds, somewhat discomforted many ladies whose
dresses were scarcely adapted to bear
The wintry blast that hurtles through the air.
Some of the costumes were remarkably tasteful;
others were remarkable without being tasteful at
all. Two ladies in white cashmere robes, made
almost in the shape of peignoire, attracted some
attention; and a fair enslaver who paced the
sward in a costume of bed-curtain prononce, also
came in for her meed of observation and remark.
The ladies, strange to state, appeared somewhat
apathetic in regard to the sports. So busily en-
gaged were they in taking each other “ out of
winding” that the exertions ©f the athletes —
like the seed in the parable—seemed to fall
on exceedingly “ stony ground.” Even when
handsome young Mr. Higgins, resplendent in blue
and white, leapt like a deer over the high bar and
won the prize, there was no feminine enthusiasm.
Nor in the half-mile race when Metcalfe, the
Adonis, in melting colors of cerise and lavender
sped like a race-horse o’er the plain, breasting in
triumph the ribbon were any kid gloves “ busted ”
by applauding palms. The “ Strangers’ ” —how
that word recalls (with a shudder) Kotzebue’s
lugubrious play ! —l5O yards spin was a source of
considerable disappointment, as only four runners
“ toed the line.” We were told before the ap-
pearance of the aspirants that it was “ a moral
for O’Brien.” That gentleman, however, did not
put in an appearance, and the prize was carried
off by Mr. S. H. Fairland, who really ran in true
Watsonian form. The Maiden Mile flat race was a
struggle between Mr. S. H. Teece and Mr. A. Bros.
The latter was habited entirely in green, which
elicited for him the sobriquet of “arsenic” from
some gentlemen, whose natural facetiousness
would have rendered them fortunes to the editors
of comic journals. Mr. Teece, however, was too
much for the candidate in emerald and eventually
won with much ease and some grace. The two
miles walking event (eight times round the en-
closure) was a source of considerable interest, and
would doubtless have enthralled the spectators,
but for one circumstance. Hardly had the
quartette of peds started on their journey when
loud cries of “Bloon!” were heard all over the
pavilion. *‘ Bloon! ” “ Bulloon !” “ Ber-loon !’ ’
“Balloon!” Then necks were craned and all
rushed out of the pavilion, greatly to the dis-
may of the pedestrians who were working them-
selves along at a great rate. The race was even-
tually won by Mr. Buckland who beat E. Tiddy in
a magnificent final spurt, which, had it not been
for the “b’loon” incident would have been the
admiration of all the spectators. Altogether the
sports were a great success. We have no space
at our command to give a detailed account of the
various races, but can simply chronicle the result
of the several events. Thus Simpson won with some
good running the 440 yards flat race; Brennan,
after a good struggle with Oxley, the hurdle race;
Deuchar, by a shave from ffiggins and King,
the 200 yards handicap flat race; Vicars, the
bicycle race, through a silly blunder of the judges ;
Hillyar, the three-quarter-mile flat race, for
Messrs. Hardy Brothers’ cup; and the consola-
tion handicap of 150 yards fell to Fairland, who, hav-
ing run a dead heat with Oxley, won the prize by
drawing lots. This event closed a very pleasant
afternoon’s reunion, and much satisfaction was
expressed at the success which had attended the
whole proceedings.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Mr. Eastway has again won tho Nimrod Fishing
trophy. .
The Australian Roberts is starring on the green
cloth at Grafton.
Joe Fowler, the Bristol light-weight pugilist, is
coining to Australia.
The cricket match Australians v. All England,
caused great excitement in N.Z.
The Australian team are to dine with the Lord
Mayor of London'on Bth October.
The Auckland (N.Z.) Amateur Athletic Club is
in a satisfactory financial condition.
Riley has beaten Lee and Plaisted in a three-
mile race with a turn. Time, 22m. 25sec.
The Grafton Grammar School annual sports
came off on the 24th inst., with great eclat.
Nottingham beat the Australian team by one
wicket. The ground was sticky and difficult to play.
Baker, the pedestrian, at late dates, was about
to give a specimen of his powers to the Rockhampton
people.
At Parramatta last Saturday, the Petersham
C.C. defeated tho local club by two wickets and 46 runs
to spare.
The Eskbank Athletic Club are to the fore with
a £5O handicap for their meeting on Prince of Wales’
Birthday.
The Orange Cricket Club has arranged a match
with the Petersham C.C.,to he played at Orange on
Boxing Day.
Sir Mildred, The Governor, and Lure are strong
favourites for the Christchurch Derby, to be run in
November.
Willis, of Auckland, N.Z., who again attempted
to walk 108 miles in 24 hours, broke down. He was
badly trained.
The winner of the all schools race, at the King’s
School Sports, last week, comes from Bathurst, and is
21 years of age.
A yacht is being built at Auckland, N.Z., to
compete in the Melbourne Regatta. It will cost £lOOO
without cabin fittings.
The Referee and several other other English
papers were very anxious that Trickett should row
Boyd before tackling Hanlan.
The great question re Bend Or was a “ blaze ”
on the face. IS o wonder the Duke declared angrily that
the turf was going to blazes.
The veteran Strop, now 19 years old, has been
put in training once more in Tasmania. He is said to
be still as clean in his legs as ever.
Hornby, Foul Play, Le Loup, and Betrayer, are
first favourites for the Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club
Handicap, to be run on the 9th of November.
A plitt and Martin run at Sydney on 9th October
150 yards for £l5O aside, the latter receiving 5 yards’
start, and the winner taking the gate money.
The ten-mile amateur championship of Er gland
is n° w held by Mr C. H. Mason, who on 10th J uly at
Lillie Bridge covered the distance in 56m. 25sec.
Boyd and Barrass have fallen out, and the for-
is said to have no intention of rowing this year, if
indeed he ever strips again for a money contest.
An inter-provincial football match, Wellington
v. Auckland, N.Z., took place at the latter town a week
ago, and resulted in a “ flukey ’’ victory for Wellington
by a goal to nothing.
Racehorse owners should bear in mind that the
-Dunedin Cup nomination of 2 sovs., is dne on October
-nd, and the Auckland Cup and Racing Club Handicap
nomination on October 29th.
A “Tom Cribb ” has been giving exhibitions of
pugilism at the Garrison Hall, Dunedin. N.Z. His
lighting weight is Ist 61b, and is advertised as being the
smallest pugilist in the world.
At the Adelaide Hunt Club races, the Maiden
Plate was won by Mail Boy, the Cup by Joker, the Selling
Stakes by Momalong; the Hurdles by Faugh-a-Ballagh.
Om Drag Cup by Barney, and the Warrigal Stakes by
O Connor, the N.Z. champion, is reported to
have done a mile in Cmin 50spc=, at Wellington, the
fastest time on record in Australasia. He walked in a
hall. Our correspondent says he is a “ clincher.” He
ought to come over here.
On March 14, 1854, Messenger boat Candlish on
the Thames. Such are the changes of fortune that at
the present time Candlish resides in this distant land,
and the eldest son of the Queen’s waterman has also
lately taken up his abode here.
Walter Phillips beat Charles Terront, the French
bicycle champion, in a challenge match, 30 miles, at the
Alexandra Palace, Loudon, on July 10. Phillips led by
a foot or two at 28 miles, when Terront, who had been
unwell, was seized with cramp.
The Carlton C. C. have engaged Charley Ban-
nerman, the leviathan wielder of the willow, to play
with that club during this season. It is a pity for many
reasons that Charley should have turned ihe Warwicks
np after such long association with that club.
The Auckland Stud Company are greatly pleased
with their new purchase— Cap-a-pie. The Auckland
province promises in a few years to have the best race-
horses in N.Z. Cap-a-pie is backed to win the cham-
pionship from Musket at a show in November.
Mr. T. H. Young, of the V.R.A., has given
notice of a motion for a four-oared race, open to all
colonies, to take place on the Saltwater, in December
next. “ Cloauthus ” is informed that in the event of
the proposal being agreed to a Sydney crew would most
likely enter.
A rather peculiar coincidence took place in con-
nexion with the preliminaries of the match between
Lay cock and Blackman. Laycock’s challenge was the
first handed in at the office of the Sportsman, and
half an hour afterwards a similar document was lodged
on behalf of Blackman.
The Wellington Racing Club have fixed for
St. Andrew’s Day programme a Railway Stakes Handi-
cap, 50 sovs, J mile; Hut Paik Spring Handicap. 125
sots, 1J miles; Consolation Handicap, 30 sovs, Imile;
two Hack Races, 25 sovs ; total, 28 * sovs. Nominations
are to be made on October 20, weights declared Novem-
ber 16.
Professor Cavill’s aquatic carnival on Saturday
last at Foley’s baths was very numerously attended.
The members of the P. J. Swimming Club mustered in
force, and gave some creditable exhibitions of swimming.
Then followed the clever feats of Professor Cavill and
his children. Larry Foley won the aquatic tournament,
and Mr. Wynne the polo match.
Nonpareils v. Oxford C.C. A match was played
on Saturday last between the abovementioned clubs,
resulting in a victory for the former. The batting
of Kelly and Gribben and the bowling of Nunn
and M’Laughlin, for the former and the, batting
of Stewart and Smithers and bowling of Stewart and
Mayhew for the latter they were very good.
. John Day. the well-known trainer, says that his
son-in-law, Tom Cannon, the jockey, is the finest horse-
dealer he knows. One night the old man went to b. d,
leaving Tom and a would-be buyer wrangling over £5 on
the price of ahorse. Looking out of his bedroom win-
dow at four next morning, he saw the high-contracting
parties shaking hands over the front gate on the con-
clusion of the bargain.
The Warwick Club has amongst its number a
younger member, perhaps, than any other club in the
world. The youthful aspirant to cricketing honors was
presented to his parents on Saturday last, and in the
evening of that day his father, who has been many
years connected with the Warwicks, enrolled him as a
member of the club, the old mau “parting” his sub.
We congratulate young Jim, and hope that he and the
governor may pass many a happy year together.
The business people at Grafton resolved to
close their establishments and make a general holiday
of the 7th October, the occasion of the great aquatic
events at Rocky Mouth. Two persons refused to join
in the closing arrangement, a storekeeper and a shoe-
maker. The former because the regatta was not being
held at Grafton, the latter because his religious
scruples would not admit of his giving any encourage-
ment to aquatic sports when people risked money
in bets.
“The committee of the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion have spared no trouble to make their first regatta
an undoubted success. The band of the N.S.W.
artillery, numbering nearly twenty performers, has been
engaged and very spectator will have an opportunity of
viewing each race from start to finish, two steamers hav.
ing been engaged to follow the competitors. The official
programme will be published by Messrs. J. Woods and
Co., Bridge-street, and tickets may be had from Turner
and Henderson.
An esteemed correspondent at Rocky Month says
that Bush pulls in much better form than he has ever
been seen to do before. He is rather afraid of William
Trickett, but has no fear concerning any of the others,
who in his opinion will have no show with the Sydney
man. Pearce is doing good training, bat as be rows all
over the boat he has fewer admirers than the brute
strength he undeniably possesses would otherwise give
him. Donald M‘Donald has many fanciers, but has more
pluck thau length of limb. Our correspondent thinks
that the result of the race will be Trickett, 1; Rush or
McDonald, 2.
The races held on Saturday at Melbourne, in
honour of his Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson,
resulted thus:—Hurdle Race, 2 miles: Canezon 1,
Pemberly 2, Battle Abbey 3. Two-year-old Stakes, half
a mile: Baltic 1, Welcome Jack 2, Asteroids. Robinson
Stakes, 1| miles: Lord Harry 1, Gambado 2, Prattle 3.
Welter Plate. 1 mile: Brenda 1, Morning Star 2,
Kilmany 3. Steeplechase, about 2| miles: Simpleton
1, Twilight 2. Turpin 3. Farewell Handicap, f of a mile.-
Cam hallo, who earned 7st 71b, won easily by several
lengths.; 25 others started.
In order to clear himself from the charge made
against him by Mr. Wm. Freeman, of having given the
jockey Bancroft £5O to pull Laertes, Mr. Thompson,
(says ‘Augur’) has submitted his books to show that
he lost money on both of the races referred to, and he in-
tends to bring the matter before the Australian Jockey
Club, which tribunal will be called upon to hear the
case. Aspinall (whose name has also been dragged into
the matter) is prepared to make a statutory dec'aration
to the effect that he is innocent of any such charge as
that made against him by Mr. Freeman. The Austra-
lasian, in its sporting leader, deals unmercifully with
the jockey Bancroft.
The following are the entries for the Sheffield
handicap, to be run for on the Association Ground on
2nd and 9th prox. The handicap will appear on the
morning of the first day :—J. Aplitt, A. Aulezark,
A. Bull, C. Carver, J. Edwards, W. Furness, G. Gardiner,
D. Howell, J. Honan. J. Kirby, H. D. L imbert, J. Mori-
arty, T. O’Connor, C. Prince, E. G Prendergast. M.
Solomon S. Stainton, J. Seymour, R. Thame, E. Weekly,
E. C. Young, W. August, W. Ager. A. Chaffer, R. Coulter,
W. H. Duun, B. B. Eaton. J. Goldthorpe, J. Graham,
R. Hill, S. Hewitt, P. Kean, G. Long, J. Martin. T.
Murphy (Moore), L. Pyke, S. Rowe, G. Stettler, G. A.
Studdert, J. Shaugler, Thompson, C. J. Williams,
Albert (Botany), I. Bull, W. Crosby. T. Collins. R.
Eagles, T. Foster, J. D. Griffiths, S. R. Hogan. G. Hum-
merton, T. Jurd, M. Lawless, W. H. Morgan, J Morgan,
T. Punch, T. Pracey, C. Royal. J. Sherry, B, Stokes.
S. Thompson, T. Thomas, A. Warren.


Public Compa
lOMMERCIAL BANKIN(
' SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £500,000. Reserve
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman ;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Joh:
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , I
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R
Solicitors :
Messrs.'Want, Johnson
Messrs. Cape and Wes’
Head Office— George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; E. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office—39 Lomba
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.l
Esq.; E. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel (
Branches in New South Waij
Armidale, Barra ba, Bathurst, Bei
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Oampbelltown, Cannonbar, Care
Coelah, Cooma, Copeland (North)
Cootamnndra, Dub bo, Dungog,
Glen Innes, Gonlbum, Grafton. (
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kian
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloi
Murmruudi, Muswellbrook, Narra
and era, Orange, Parkes, Parrama
Queanbeyan, Quiriudi, Richmond
ton, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga Wag
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellingto
caunia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woi
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bris
Maryborough and Rockham
Agencies in the Co
Victoria : The Bank of Vic tori;
Australasia, Colonial Bank c
Commercial Bank of Australis
South Australia ; The Bank of
National Bank of Australasi
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieu
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the
London : The London and Westn
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester ant
-Ireland; The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of Bi
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de (
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : T 1
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lon
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercant
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Ct
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances ©n approved security, a
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, a
j< <t f bills payable at any of the a
elsewhere, at current rates ; collect
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the lavestmeui
ties in Great Britain or in the coloi
to undertake the agency of Banks <
l*e mutually agreed upon.
HE MUTUAL ASSURAM
VICTORIA (LIMP
Established a.d. 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery. Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es
This Society is established for Li
granting of Annuities and Eudowir
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the enti;
Society at every distribution there
LOANS granted on Mortgage or
JVtmhinAfl wit’ll T.ifo Awanrnn/'o
TO LADIES.
JJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO-BUTTON GLOVES @ 2.6?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OE FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Makers ? •
Try PEAPES * SHAW’S
TUO YOU WANT Charming 1 REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
ThO YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PAEASOLS?-
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
jQO YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES k SHAW’S
T4O YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PEESENT ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
ThO TOD WANT SHIETS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TfcO YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLARS ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW'S
TJO YOU WANT a Stylish SCARF, TIE,
or BOW ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OVERCOAT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TRAVELLING BAG?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILORS and HABIT MAKERS in
the CITY?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Public Compa
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN'
Incorporated by Act of C>
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £l7;
Directors :
Edward lord. Esq., Cl
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jerec
William B. Watford, Esq. | Willi
Moses Moss, Es
General Manag:
Vincent Wanostrocht
Head Office, Sti
City and Suburban Bi
Haymarket j Eedlern
London King Will
Branches throughout the Cole
Wales and Queensland, and Agei
Colonies, Great Britain, America
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALE Gi
BUSINESS.
' •
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OE I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.Q.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS;
Phillip Gidley King,
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Qei
LONDON BANKE:
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexandc
This Bank transacts all nsual Ba:
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma<
other produce shipped to England f<
4 USTRALIAN MUTUAL
A- SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 15
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STRS
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIT
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTOR
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.Q..M.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Cl
Robert Saddington, Esq. I * Isai
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A
CHIEF MEDICAL OFI
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P.
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I |
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. j A 1
Extract from Post Magazine (L
comber, 1879, on the sixth Quinque
Society:— , . ; ‘lt is, as a wh
plete statement ever issued by a 1
affords an incontestable proof that t
success it tells is the result, not of c
tical and theoretical ability, goven
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (Londoi
1880, says:—‘No British Company
with the Australian Mutual, which, i
of its existence, has received in inter
than it has been called upon to pay i
ACCUMULATED FUND, THE
STERLING.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANI
Capital, £500,000. Unlimil
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORI
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messrs. Tangye Bros., Birmingham.
4'
- -■!•■
H* Mif?
iff
V
il
SStSvffiSS*'
GAN D Y’ S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
. TAN G Y E STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A L\RGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWAS]jj| MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes, •
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK. •
W.
P. WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
1
mmm
Oriental Blind.
4>
N
W
S E
ASO N ' S
Ex s.s. Menmuir.
The arrival of this steamship has given us the opportunity of selecting with care and judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
We present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will l e
appreciated by our Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily. endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
-2s Od per lb Very Choice Rich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s ~ A Rich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congon, very good and
strong
Is Gd „ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a stock of Groceries, we would most respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
99-NOTE the address —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
M'CLELLAND AND ROACH,
C6G GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.


Bus iness Annoui
INTERNATIONAL YXH
SWALLOW and ARIELL w
“Prizes for their celebrated Bisc
agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & ;
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXIIIBI
•BENCRAFT and Co. ware awar
d’or their superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. 11. ARIELL, Ken
SWALLOW AND ARIELL
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYR
'■in tins* 2,7, 14, and 23Ihseach, au<
and 65 cwt. each. Sole agent,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Pi
and assorted Jams Special ag
343, and 345, Kent-st-., 3 doors n
JpALING’S MUSIC 1
Iw
ERARD’S PARIS PL
hare pained t
TWO FIRST P
in
THE FRENCH
Agent: W. H. P.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRAT
Non-competit
BUT UNSURPi
Agent: W. H. P.
'W. BELL and CO.’S CANj!
have gained t
FIRST and SPEOIA
OYER ALL OT]
Sole Agent: W. H.
BALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAN
have
Business Anuotuu
JJOMES FOB TH
It is difficult to understand wh;
continue to pay rent, when for a sili
amount now going to the landlorc
years realise
THEIB OWN FREE
for their own profit and that of
them.
The undersigned offers a chc
hundreds of woll-siti
VALUABLE BUILDING AI
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the subu
£4, CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMI
Giving Immediate Pc
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac.,
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILL]
For those having no present in
an undeniable opportunity of im
deuced by the fact of the astound
main during the past six years, a
that the present chance can ever rei
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORK
There are no law costs, no con
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDI
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Ba
Hotel.
TCTORIA VARNISI
ALEX. BORTHW
OIL AND COLOR MEI
Importer of Paperha
Oils, Colors, Van
White Lead, Glass, I
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and C
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STRE
jp R. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MER<
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 George-street West (late Pa:
And
Darlinghurst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley and S
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
PRINCE OF WALES
778 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
GO U N D
CONSOLIDATE
or
COMPRESSED 1
is very much stronger than the san
The reason is very simple. The gri
to bear on the leaf crushes the si
tain the essential strength and re;
and which is to a great extent k
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compi
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by ui
GO UNDRY'S
CONSOLIDATED or COMP
As much strength is drawn ou
minutes as can be drawn out of
Compressed in five hours. The tal
Business Annonm
TVTADDOCK’S SELE(
" LTJ " 381 GEORGE STB
SYDNEY.
This Library will be found to conti
newest works o
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLO
which are received immediately or
and fast ocean steal
Arrangements.have been made '
publishers for full supplies of ev
interest to l>e sent as soon as publii
In addition to the above v
All the Rest
MAGAZINES and QUARTEI
Subscribers may join at any da
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One mouth, ss. ; Three mouths, 1:
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families, —Those i
a larger supply of books than one s
liberally dealt with ; thus —Two se
taken from the Library at once for
Books or Periodicals may in all
Daily if desired.
To Visitoes to Sydney.— Subset
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors ’
may even join tor a Fortnight, and
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Speci
made for the benefit of Country Sul
taking a parcel of from Three to T
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MAI
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-
parcel rates. A card of country t
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST o
BOOKS now in circulation:
Pipistrello, by Ouida
Moths, by Ouida
Alan Bering, by Mrs. Fetberst
The Story of an Honest Man,
translated by Bertha Ness
A Modern Greek Heroine
Lady Laura, by Mary Elizabetl
Memoirs of Madame de Remus!
Fair-haired Alda, by Florence 1
Second Thoughts, by Rhoda Br
The Duke’s Children, by Aatho
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Ja
Travel and Trout in the Antipo
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by t
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackm
The Duke of Albany’s Own His
Grant
Travels in New Zealand and Ans
ford
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twa
Poet and Peer, by Hamilton Aii
Poor Zeph, by author of “ Gran
Random Recollections of an <
Belton
Roughing it in Van Dieman’s
Howe
Brazil, the Amazons and the C<
Smith
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesw
Holidays in Home Counties, by
Memoirs of Catherine and Crau
Curiosities of the Search Room
Renan’s Hibbert Lectures
Beauty’s Daughters, by the aut
A Cruel Secret, by Lola
Wooers and Winners, by Mrs. I
Eros: Four Stories, by Sarah
lield, and Miss Butt
Soldiers of the Victorian Age, I
Life of the Prince Imperial o
B irlee
The Violin Player, by Bertha T
Troublesome Daughters, by L. ]
Glimpses through the Cannon f
Memoir of Rev. John Graham,|!
Charles Graham
Caroline Von Linsingen and W
plains G. Arundel
Life and Letters of Horace Bus
HADDOCK’S SELECT
381 George Street Sy
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO P
260 and 262 GEORGE-S
(over Peate and Harc<
Now open to the Public. The higl
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Cc
Crayon Water Colours, and
will be producer
The enlarging of Old and Fast-far
Speciality.
Horses and Vel
TZ - E A R E Y B R
COACH AND BUGGY
200 PITT STREET, S
Near Park-stree
X H A R
W * WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, Ac
Hat and Engine St
Established 185!
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOI
Railway Contractors would find it t
inspect the large stock of seasoi
able for Dobbins and other I
J. HARVEI
Hay and Engine St
GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WI
WORKS,
llakris-street, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. G. would heg to draw the pai
Export Merchants to the large q
Spokes always on hand, which v,
saving in freight to purchasers i
timber in the rongh.
S. G. has also always in stock
Bnggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he ii
Carts, and has supplied the Goverun
Municipalities with a large number
STEPHEN GLASS
Harris-street, net
Tobacconist!
T
HE GEN
VIRGINIAN TOBi
Combrising Every Desc
Manufactured by the renowned ft
Richmond, Virgil
To he had at the Wholes!
639 GEORGE S'
Haymarket.
C. LOU G H J
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBAC
•is inducing other manufacturers t
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the E(
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKE!
DIXSON & SOI
155 YORK STREET,
J
AMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leal
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and R
159 PITT STB
Next Post Ofiic*
The Oldest Cricketing;
o
Depot In the Colonies*
BATS bearing’ my NAME can be rebel oa.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
. SYDNEY COHEN. Ironmonger.
408, Gaorge-street.
J AKES PEM%LL AND CO.,
TAMES PEMEBL ‘AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STKEET,
SEAR THE HAYMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
j 797 GEOEGE-STREET SOUTH. SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Snperflne, Fine, and Good Seconds
"FLO UR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Corn, Barley, Oats,
Pea-, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
1 t*uiatoes, to.
GEOUGK-BT. Sth., SYDNTCY.


Easiness Annoum
O NCE USED AL^
♦Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on
out which none is genuine. Bei
The GRAND GOLD ME]
HIGHEST MEDAL, P
HIGHEST AWARD. Sj
LATHEES FREELY, SOFT
ASO SHOULD ALWAYS :
For Washing Clothes, Linen, 1
For Scouring Floors, Greasy 1
For Washing Glasses, Plates,
For Cleaning Paint, Marble W
And for every purpose of washi
Sold retail in Jib packets by all
storekeepers throughout Australia
T. VIVIAN EAU
16 CHARLOTTE
Sydney, N.S.W
E. KEEP & CO
37 ELIZABETH f
STOCK-TAKING
ASD
Mb. W. B. CAM]
Having retired in our favor, we ha
informing our friends and the publ
TRADE
Melbourne, Victo
E. D. NEILSOI
BRISBANE, QUEEN!
BUS I N E
OF THE
Business Annoim
T °
BUYERS OF
AND
COUNTRY STOREK
DAVENPORT AND
TANNERS AND BOOT MAh
5, Babeack Siei
Sydney.
Tannery and Boot Factory at Marr
at St. Mary’s, South
Davenport and Alcock ask tl
tion of all buyers of Leather t(
superior quality of their tannages,
to supply Sole and Dressed Leath
their kind, in any quantities, at ’
Boot Manufacturers and Makers rt
will have their requirements prom]
Davenport and Alcock are tl
and Boot Manufacturers in New So
the extensive nature of their worl
ness of their arrangements, are al
for Colonial Boots with great dif
most liberal terms. Country Stc
simply farthering their own iuteres
with D. and A., who will readily
terms, and all particulars.
Awarded First Prize for Co
the recent Intercolonial Exhibitior
Boots at former Exhibitions.
Awards also obtained for Lea
delphia and Paris Exhibitions. 1
bought by Davenport & Alcock, w
values, thus saving commission an
OOTS! BOOTS: !
MAKE YOUR PUR
AT
H. HIL D E :
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE ST
BRICKFIELD HI
ALL NEW GOODS, JU
AND TO BE SOI
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D
670 GEORG
J
O H N A. W I
WINE GROAVER & ME
OOLATA AVINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Cii
Sydney.
Vineyard ; Coolalta, Branxtou, ]
Auction Sal
Q. A D S H
The RESIDENCE of DANIEL I
J.P., MAYOR of AS]
This MAGNIFICENT ESTATE
of about
TWENTY-ONE A
together with residence and bight
will be submitted to public comp
plan of subdivision.
ON THE GEOU
During the early part of I
The property has a large fronts
LIVERPOOL EC
CROYDON ROi
and
THOMAS STEE
is opposite the residence and high]
of S. Dickinson, Esq., and is dis
from the
CROYDON RAILWAY
ON THE CROWN OF 1
overlooking ASHFIELD, BUR’
FIVEDOCK, and the pretty woe
CROYDON PARK and COOK S I
The TERMS for GADS HILL
LIBERAL.
Plaus and further particulars wi
HAEDIE and GOR
Auctioneers fo
GADSHILL; ETTATE, the resi
HOLBOEOW, Esq.
\EW SOUTH
TO CAPITALISTS, GRAZIERS, j
and others
The most Luxuriant and exte
Pastoral and Agriou
Northern Estate
comprising
“DARTBEOOK,” near ABE
13,955 acres, in five
“ST. HILLIEES” at MI7SWE
14,126 acres, in two
“ GIJNDIBEI ” near MEI
27,140 acres, in sevei
These magnificent Freehold Past
submitted to public competitioi
pursuant to a Decree of the Suy
South Wales, in its Equitable Jnrii
cause of Hall and another v. Hall a
approve of the Master in Equity, I
RICHARDSON and W!
at their Rooms Pitt-street
Monday, 4th October next, at 1
following order
DARTBEOOK ESTATE, Count,
LOT 1.-730 ACRES, near Lot
Yarraman, known as Pikes
and two other small seleetiot
LOT 2.—4,981 ACRES, 4 rood, 24
the “ Sheep Station,” in the P
and permanently watered b;
Guaugua Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between I
the Parish of Halscot, a s
adjoining Lands belonging
Esq., and S. WRIGHT Esq.
LOT 4.—640 ACRES, near Lot fi\
Strathearu, adjoining the
STEPHENS Eso.
LOT 5. —S,OBI]ACRES 1 rood 23 p (
on the Railway-line between
Scone, in the Parish of Strati
pastoral property and highly
inoging to D. M'lntyre, Esq.
Family Residences, with all nei
The greater portion is clear
and subdivided into Paddocks
ST. HILLIEES ES
adjoiuintr Muswellbr
COUNTY of DUEH
LOT 1—8.799 ACRES, being 1
Magnificent tract of highly i
cultural land extending fro]
Scone, and including Spark-
adjoining tho Permanent at
mens. On this is a commodion
fitted with every conveniem
necessary out-bnildiugs. Als
huts etc. This estate is wat
River, Mus well brook, St. Hill:
tributaries, and the Railway
Propertv.
LOT 2.-5327 ACRES, Parishes
Balmoral, close to Lot One an
Town Common.
GUNDIBRI ESTA
COUNTY of BEISB
LOT 1.—7297 ACRES, the Sout
Estate, in the Parish of H
Hall's Creek.
M
JUST ARRIVED
JUST AEKIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS. AETICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, &c.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEAKL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
N o trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
403 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
A stitch in time saves nine! How many who
now continually suffer from Indigestion and Dys-
pepsia woull have saved themselves all the pain and
trouble had they attended to their stomach, and kept
themselves thereby free fro n Bilious attacks, 4c. In
order to do so al« ays keep a box of Randerson’s lozenges
in your house, and whenever you feel out of forts just
try the best P uuily Medicine known, and be convinced
that delays are dangerous. RANDERSON’S PODO-
PHYLLIN LOZENGES. Suitable for all ages. Sold
everywhere. Is. per box.—Advt.
FUN AND FANCY.
Most meters have the gas-trick fever.
A four-in-hand is worth two in the pack.
A senior (wr) angler—Old Izaak Walton.
Only a question of time —asking the hour.
Ferry unfortunate —Freycinet’s resignation.
Tax collectors are like smokers —They expect-a-
rate.
Why is Hill End like to-day? Because it’s not
Temora.
The barrister’s hymn —“ Brief life is here our
portion.”
People who live in glass houses should—pull
down the blinds.
The man who hanged himself died of his own
tree will and a cord.
Speaking across a garden-fence admits of a good
deal being said on both sides.
Beauty is but skin deep. The mousquito finds
its best feeding beneath a homely skin.
In Morocco a tramp is put at the mouth of a
cannon and helped to reach the next town.
The old maid who exclaimed, “ My life has been
a deserted waist,” can readily be believed.
An unhappy marriage is like an electric machine
—lt makes one dance, but yon can’t let go.
An actress seen hugging a minister remarked
that she was only trying to embrace Christianity.
“ Adam never had to beat a carpet,” but he had
to beat a retreat in the height of the fruit season.
Considering how slowly cabmen drive it’s a
wonder that justice does not sooner overtake them.
Were Ashmead Bartlett to marry Miss Contts he
will rise in the world, not by merit, but by seniority.
For every heathen converted in the South Seas
there’s an opportunity to convert five here in Sydney.
Turkey can’t borrow a dollar for war purposes,
and yet she wants to fight everybody and everything.
He asked the old lady for her daughter’s hand.
She hesitated. “Then,” said he, “if you can’t give it
lend it to me.”
Smith: “You have a big mouth.” Jones:
“ Yes, but Nature made yours small so as to give yoii
plenty of cheek."
On seeing a house being whitewashed, a small
boy of three asked, " Man, if you please, are you shav-
ing that house ? "
There are times when afflictions prove blessings.
It’s twice as hard to drown the man with a cork leg as
the man without one.
Beta have been made in Eussia that the Czar
wonld not live a year, and the chaps who made the bets
are now living in Siberia.
When a Chinaman was saved from drowning by
being pulled from the water by his pigtail, he feebly
murmured, “I thank queue."
“French Student” (J. J. Casey): Pourquoi is
pronounced “ porkwar," but it does not as you imply
mean a pig-fight.— Melb. Punch.
She told the doctor she wanted a change.
“ Where should you like to so ?" “ I don’t care where,
provided my husband isn’t there.”
It can scarcely be possible that the handsome
stockings now worn by the ladies are intended only to
be seen when hung upon the clothes-line.
A little boy up North tamed an alligator, and
the ugly reptile began to like the little fellow—not,
however, until the little follow was all gone.
It was Primrose who went to the fair in “ The
Vicar of Wakefield.” In Afghanistan they reverse the
order of thiogs. The Phayre goes to the Primrose.
The jewel of a servant-girl is the one who hangs
all her mistress’s embroidered underwear on that por-
tion of the line most conspicuous to the neighbours’
eyes.
She was] a meagre old woman, and wore a very
low dress. “Why the devil,” says C , “does she
dress so decolUUe'!" “To protect her virtue,” responds
I> , maliciously.
Some of the ladies’ hats at the amateur athletic
sports on Saturday might be called the “ Orchard ”
style. They deserve this apple-ation from the number
of blossoms on them.
“ This is a sad commentary on our boasted
civilisation,” a tramp despondently observed, when he
discovered that the ham he hod taken from the front
door of a shop was a wooden one.
Grace held a rope while William attempted to
climb to her window. But when she heard her parent’s
footsteps or the stairs and let go of the rope, then it
was that her lover fell from Grace.
An Irishman of a mechanical turn took off his
gas meter to repair it himself, and put it on again up-
side down. At the end of the quarter it was proved
that the company owed him £lO.
The man who loafs his time away around a one-
horse grocery or a fruit shop while his wife takes in
washing to support him can always tell you just what
this country needs to enchance its prosperity.
Love never enters into Chinese stories. The
hero is always a fellow who made his ducats by selling
vegetables in Australia, and the heroine is a girl who
wants revenge on him becanse he killed her cat.
A distinguished member of the 1.0.G.T. returned
home “from the lodge” at an early hour the other
morning. It was with difficulty that his wife managed
to dissuade him from trying to light his pipe with
a moonbeam.
The editor of the Hay Standard the other
day headed his leader “ Areopngitica." Abushman, on
seeing the word, contended that it meant a new kind of
drink, and roundly asserted that it was a “ spider ” and
a “ stone fence," mixed.
Since the introduction of female postmasters, a
girl in a Victorian country town goes up to the window
and says : “Is there a letter for Miss Margaret Robin-
son P ” “Yes.” says the female postmaster out loud,
“here is one from James M‘Jones.”
Poem by Dr. Beg—
There’s a land that is hotter than this.
Where never a collar will stand ;
Where the people all bubble and hiss—
Oh, go to that beantiful land.
An impecunious fortune-hunter having been
accepted by an heiress, at the wedding, when that
portion of the ceremony was reached where the bride-
groom says, “ With all my worldly goods I thee endow,"
a spiteful relative of the bride exclaimed, “Theregoes
his carpet-bag! ”
A Dutchman who married his second wife soon
after the funeral of the first was visited with a two
hours’ serenade in token of disapproval. He expostu-
lated path) tically thus: " I say, poys, you ought to be
ashamed of yourself to be making all dish noise ven
dere was a funeral here so soon.”
Sanson, the Parisian executioner, has a pretty
daughter married to a surgeon. He says that his son-
in-law often amputates a deceased member to save a
human being, while he himself often removes a gan-
grened member from society. His calling and that of
his son-in-law are alike—the only difference beingin the
length of the kni’e.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Professor Pearson used to be a clergyman.
Mr. James Blackwood, of the firm of Dalgety,
•Blackwood, and Co., and Chairman of the V.R.C., is
seriously ill.
Mr. Saul Samuel, C.M.G., the newly-appointed
Agent-General, left for London by the Assam last
Saturday afternoon. An influential assemblage at-
tended to take leave of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel and
family, the toast of whose healths, proposed by Sir
John Hay in the neatest of speeches and cordially
drunk in the appropriate beverage, was gracefully
acknowledged by Mr. Samuel. The Thetis and other
steamers with friends on board accompanied the Assam
as far as Bradley’s Head.
When S*r Hercules took leave of N.Z., he
declared tha h e was so enamoured of the colony that
he would like to go back and spend the balance of his
days there. This is exactly the sentiment he gave
utterance to when he left Sydney to go to N.Z. How-
ever, we must make due allowance for the sadness of
parting. For gush, however. Sir Hercules is no match
for Sir George Bowen. That worthy shadow of Royalty
was wont to exclaim in the fullness of his heart on
■every exhibition of loyal enthusiasm: “ I assure yon,
gentlemen, that the first wish of my heart is to lay my
bones in the spot on which I now feast my enraptured
pazo." sentiment invariably "brought down the
House," until some meddlesome newspaper man calcu-
lated that if the “ first wish " of Sir George’s heart was
gratified, his bones would require very extensive sub-
division, and his funeral would be on an unprecedented
scale.
The Governor of
Victoria has issued in-
vitations for a grand
ball on the sth October.
Price, M.L.A.,
Wide Bay (Q.), is said to
be a publican, but does
not drink himself.
Mr. Ashmead Bart-
lett, the euterpring
young man aged 28,
who was announced as
about to marry the
Baroness B urdett-
Coutts. 66, is an Ameri-
can. He was originally
a clerk in Coutts’ bank,
and was told off to at-
tend the Baroness’ pri-
vate affairs, which, so
says rumour, he did.
“ The Vagabond,”
we hear from our Fiji
correspondent, lectured
to a crowdedhouse in
Levuka, on September
11, and was well re-
ceived.
Mr. Casey’.s room
fsays Melbourne
Punch) cost £137 for
decorating. Some of
the officials at the ex-
hibition say they would
sooner have his room
than his company.
Billy Townsend, the
acting Speaker of the S.
A. Assembly, called a
member to order for
Laving his hands in his
pockets. Billy is about
4ft high, and by profes-
sion an auctioneer!
We hear that “ The
Vagabond" has been
offered the post of
editor of the new paper
"The Fijian Planters’
Gazette” at a munifi-
cent salary. But he has
refused, and will return
by next mail to wipe out
Wollombi Joe.
One aged peer who
had not voted for 30
years, and is almost
bedridden, was brought
over from Ireland, bed
and all, and carried
into the House of
Commons on a stret-
cher, to vote on the
Hares and Rabbits Bill.
It is widely ru-
moured that the post of
Secretary to the At-
torney - General, ren-
dered vacant by the
resignation of Mr. G.
H. Reid, has been
offered to one of the
“ Tite Barnacle family,”
who is already in the
Civil Service but is at
present under a cloud.
There is a lineal des-
cendant of the author of
Christabelle in Sydney,
and he adds to his in-
come by writing comic
verse. Fancy a name-
sake of the great meta-
physical bard writing
topical stanzas to order,
and not writing them
particularly well!
Prompter! Ring down
the curtain!
A well-known
Manly exquisite was
passed by a belle ou the
beach the other day with
no sign of recognition.
The next day ho called
upon her as if nothing
had happened. "You
might have taken the
hint by my demeanour
yesterday not to pester
me with your society,"
said the beauty with a
pout. " Ah, mademoi-
selle,” cried the gentle-
man, "you are so fas-
cinating in all you do
that my heart is sore
with loafing you. And
ecoutez, it is because
you cut so nicely that
I cornea gain. Not bad
that for a Frenchman !
Mr. Zincke, M.P., Victoria, claims that he is of
f * various races," havingbeen suckled by a “ yaller girl."
There is an M.P. who sits for the
Ovens and Murray named Zincke,
Who boasts he is Saxon, and Indian,
And Negro, and Yankee, and Chinkee.
Among those who knew Mr. Corrie Morgan
Williams, late editor and proprietor of the Hampden
Guardian and Warrnambool Examiner (Vic.), great
surprise was felt at the news that he had been arrested
on two charges of forgery. It appears that he negotiated
here a bill for £5O, purporting to bear the signature of
Mr. William Gumming, the well-known Victorian
squatter, which, on arriving at the ostensible drawer’s
bank, was pronounced not to be genuine. The dis-
counter immediately charged Williams with forgery,
and he was arrested on board a steamer which was just
about to leave for Queensland. As Mr. Gumming did
not appear to substantiate the charge, the accused was
remanded to Melbourne, there to answer a similar indict,
ment preferred by Mr. J. L. Currie, of Lara Station,
whose name he had used for £5O before leaving Victoria.
The signatures in both cases appear to have been very
neatly copied—it is presumed by means of one or other
of the numerous mechanical contrivances which now
render forgery so easy.
One of the S.A. Metropolitan newspapers has
been publishing •• Mrs Brown in Adelaide," written by
Arthur Sketchley. The appearance of the article was
heralded by a considerable flourish of trumpets, but the
sketches are, as might have been expected, utterly
deviod of humour, and have been unmercifully ridiculed
by several of the other local journals. Here is a
paragraph from one of the sketches“ The post-ofiice
arrangements in Adelaide strike one as admirable, and
it is a luxury to find one’s letters awaiting one, when one
has experienced elsewhere the annoyance of being told
that there are no letters addressed to one, and to discover
subsequently that letters correctly addressed have been
returned to England instead of being allowed to wait
one's arrival."
Hamilton, one of the members for Cook, in
Queensland Parliament, who ought to know something
about the matter, speaking of the police force, saj s:—
“ There are men in the force whose careers were long
records of crime sanctioned by the Government, and
virtually by the people of the colony. These men had
committed murders which were unparalleled in the
records of the Bulgarian atrocities, at which they had
then held up their hands in such horror." "Some of
these men," he added, are “ unfit to b« invested with
the power of life or death. He knew of such men who
went patrolling through the country shooting the
unfortunate blacks where ever they met them. It was
perfectly immaterial to them whether or not those whom
they shot were guilty of crime. The hon. gentleman
detailed various diabolical acts that had been committed
on the blacks, and expressed his willingness to give
evidence before a Royal Commission if immunity were
given to witnesses whom he might call." Now
Hamilton has hod a “ big peep under the umbrella."
He was on Gympie in the early days, and he knows the
history of the Far Northern Goldfields probably as well
as any man living.
It was stated in the city early this week that it
was likely that Mr. Justice Hargrave would soon retire
from the Bench, and be succeeded by Mr. Detfell, Judge
in Insolvency, a sound equity lawyer and a man of the
most upright character.
A very extraordinary breach of promise suit
was recently tried in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia, in which the “ pursuer," or plaintiff, was not, as
is usually the case, one of the fair sex, but an individual
of the masculine species. This person, a general dealer.
Noble by name but not by nature, sought to recover
£5OO damages from a young woman possessed of con-
siderable property named Ellen Mary Crawford, whose
husbaud, William Crawford, was joined as defendant It
was clearly shown by the evidence that a breach of pro-
mise had taken place, and tha* just before the day ap-
pointed for the wedding the flighty fair one eloped with
her present husband, an old lover, though why she mar-
ried him according to her own uncomplimentary admis-
sion “ she didn’t know.” It was equally proved, however
that the plaintiff had been more solicitous about
the lady’s possessions than for herself alone,
and consequently it appeared that in his case his
lacerated feelings were an inborn experience. The jury
taking this view of the matter, thought that £2O would
be sufficient to console the “intangibilities,” and
awarded him that amonnt with costs.
The Government wharfage rate on groceries per
package is now twopence. It used to be fourpence. It
is an unfortunate coincidence that the Treasurer is a
grocer. The wharfage rate on drapery is now nine-
pence; it used to be fourpence. A number of ex-
tremely mean people account for this on the ground
that the Treasurer is a wharf proprietor.
Few of our Jewish citizens are ashamed of their
names, nor have they reason for regarding with disdain-
appellations far older than those borne by the nobility
of any empire of to-day. However, we notice tbat in
some quarters such hideous anomalies have been per-
petrated as those of tacking * Algernon ’ and ‘ Reginald'
and other high sounding modern cognomina to, let us
by way of illustration say ‘Samuel,’ ‘Cohen,’ and
similiar Biblical names. It is hard to imagine that any
well-educated Jew would on attaining years of discretion
rejoice to find that his ancestral name had thus been
defaced, or be in the least proud of bearing a name as
appropriate to a grown-up Hebrew as kilts would be to
an Oriental-featured Jewish schoolboy.
The captain of the City of tells a good
anecdote. The Bight Rev. Dr. was once a pas-
senger to Sydney by his vessel. There were also two
young lady passengers of a certain class, very pretty,
and innocent-looking. The second day out, the rev.
prelate noticed these young ladies come unattended on
deck, and was astonished that no one offered them any
attention; so he gallantly went up to the captain, and
finding they had no protector or chaperon on board, he
asked for an introduction. This given, he proposed a
walk, and, with one “ lady " on each arm, he promenaded
the deck for a couple of hours. Subsequently some
kind friend told him how he had "put his foot in it,"
and even the honi soit qui mal y pense principle didn't
induce his lordship to leave his cabin for the remainder
of the trip.
The Oxford-street ’bus drivers don’t like the
tramway. They say Jthat so far as it is concerned
“ civilization is a failure." Unconscious of the beam
in their own eyes they see the Motor in that of the
Government.
One of the prettiest and most elaborate cos-
tumes at the amateur athletic sports meeting was worn
by a dark and strikingly handsome young lady who
resides in Darlinghurst. It was a walking costume of
light drab, trimmed with silk of a darker shade, hood
lined with cardinal and trimmed with cord and tas-els
to match, and a bewitchingly pretty gipsy hat turned
up in front. This dress for artistic design and good
taste was more than equal to any on the ground. A
local bank manager’s wife wore a handsome dress of
dark maroon silk, and white cashmere polonaise trimmed
with lace and looped up with a scarf of maroon. Two
sisters who reside at Moore Park appeared in neat cos-
tumes of white Chinese silk, trimmed with lace, and
wore charming French caps. These dresses stood out
prominently among others of a darker hue, but must
have been somewhat chilly in such a cold wind as swept
over the Association Ground. A lady resident of
Petersham, whose superb figure was set off with a
tightly-fitting black silk dress trimmed with fringe, wore
a gipsy hat with a bunch of apple blossoms in front.
She was dressed with characteristically good taste.
A tippet adorned with black jet beads worn round the
shoulders had an extremely pleasing effect. The pretty
daughter of a well-known literary gentleman wore a
simple and tasteful attire of Chinese silk, with black
sleeves, dark-kilted flounce, lace to match, and a most
becoming gipsy hat. A very striking costume was worn
by a fascinating blonde. It consisted of a jacket body
ef Japanese-looking pompadour, sleeves of new blue,
bows in front, and a white straw hat with a wreath of
ivy. The daughter of one of our learned judges wore
black velvet, satin-kilted flounce, magnificently bor-
caded at bottom, with bonnet-hat trimmed with old
gold, satin and maroon, and encircled with feather
tipped with same colours. An attractive young lady
from Upper William-street had a dress of cream cash-
mere trimmed with Languedoc lace, plush sleeves,
bows lined with cardinal satin, and hat en suite. The
accomplished daughter of one of our most eminent
architects graced a costume of light grey, hood of blue
bird’s-eye pattern, surrounded with a most “ fetching "
maroon velvet cap with cream-coloured tips. A charm-
ing brunette who wore heliotrope satin of two shades,
with a coquettish satin cap of a lighter colour,
attracted much attention. One lady was almost oblite-
rated by her costume of chintz, trimmed with flaming
red, and mushroom hat decorated with two large red
poppies. This costume, with a youthful face peering
out of a recess overhung by the immense projecting
brim of the hat, was more prominent than tasteful.
There were several other sufficiently conspicuous
dresses—notably one composed of red-coloured chintz,
with red bows in such profusion that it needed the
tawny beauty of some dark-eyed gipsy to set against
speh a mass of colour. As it was it turned the delicate
tints of the wearer’s face to a ghastly and unbecoming
pallor Some other toilettes were of very brilliant and
decided colours, but many of these were so pretty and
effective as to show extremely good taste.
No action has yet
been taken re the dog-
sbooting business in the
Governor’s domain.
The sportsman has,
however, made himself
scarce.
The latest trans-
lator of Homer’s
"Odyssey" into English
verse is Sir Charles
Du Cane, K.C.M G.,
formerly Governor of
Tasmania.
W. M. K. Vale, the
Victorian Attorney-Gen-
eral recently went into
the Registrar-General’s
office, and rated one of
the clerks there
soundly, because he did
not offer a chair to the
great man. Vale said
he would teach him a
lesson in gentlemanly
politeness. Just fancy,
says Melbourne Punch
Vole teaching a person
anything in the way of
gentlemanly politeness.
At the late fancy
dress ball at Napier,
N.Z., a jolly civil servant
appeared in evening
dress, with patches on
knees and elbows, an
empty wallet labelled
•10 per cent, reduc-
tion ” at his side, and
placards bearing the
woeful legends “eco-
nomy” and "hard
times” at front and
rear, but over his heart
was the inspiring motto
“Nil Desperandum."
Sir Arthur Gordon
is an astute diplomatist.
The only man he was
afraid of was the editor
of the "Fiji Times,”
Mr. P. S. Solomon.
After trying for years
to buy him over to the
Government side, he at
last gave him a lucra-
tive appointment and
followed it up by mak-
ing him acting Attor-
ney-General. He thus
most effectually re-
moved the viper from
bis path.
The advent of Mr.
Des Voenx as Governor
is viewed with mingled
feelings of joy and regret
in Levuka, joy at losing
Sir Arthur Gordon—re-
gret at not having a more
hardworking man than
Mr. Des Voeux, who was
lately Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor there. Most of
the officials in Fiji quar-
relled with him before
he went away, and they
are much exercised in
their minds as to the
reception they will not
give, but receive from
him.
Here is the latest
about the much travel-
led manager, our good
friend R. S. Smythe.
On Saturday week he
visited Melbourne In-
ternational and wish,
ing, as usual, to see
everything. obtained
the key of the dome-
door. He got into the
dome, but by some
means the door, which
is a very heavy one,
slammed. The key was
outside and R. S. was
inside. Soon afterwards
great excitement was
caused for half a mile
round the building by
a portly somebody per-
ched on the dome,
gesticulating most vio-
lently. In two hours a
Samaritan came along
and R. S. was released.
We mention this occur-
rence because R. S. has
lots of friends and
enemies in Sydney just
now.
The passengers by the Sorata, says a Victorian
Press correspondent, have tales to tell which were
they put into print just now, would probably land yon
in the law courts for libel. There is a strange unani-
mity on the part of all the passengers I have met as to
the causes which led to the loss of the vessel Three
young French gentlemen who were ou board have sup-
plied me with a full, true, and particular account of
what occurred. I would really like to let you have the
first information, but it is far better to wait and see
whether the passengers will in the witness-box prove
the charges they make.
Two German dwarfs, professionally termed the
Marquis and Marchioness, have recently been marrie-i
and now bunch their salaries. The male is a native of
xt, y , ea , rs old * and weighs, it is said, but 191bs :
while the lady was born at Neumunster about 22 years
ago. and is represented as weighing but 131bs. Both
had been exhibited separately for years before they saw
each other. It was about a year ago, while the Marquis
was doing a turn in Moscow and the Marchioness was
being held out at arm’s length in St. Petersburg!!, that
they first became aware of each other’s existence
through the medium of the newspapers. They entered
into an epistolary correspondence which led to a ren-
dezvous, and that in turn led to the hymeneal altar
PAPA PARKES: PROMISING KID. EH! SPOON ’FED.
NURSE MARTIN: YES, HE IS A PROMISING KID, BUT WE CAN’T ALLOW OUTSIDERS TO SPANK HIM.


Election Not:
OANTEEBUEY El
To GEOEGE PILE. Esq., Sum
Dear Sir,—The Electorate of (
two representatives in Parliamer
advocates for its rights and claim!
had, we, the undersigned electors
the great interest you have evince
in its welfare, and believing th
proper person to represent us in
that you will allow us to nominal*
for election; and, in the event of
request, we hereby pledge ourse
and use our best endeavours to se,
"We are, dear sir
Yours faith
Election No
Thomas Cross Wm.
Thomas Gribble W. B
John Sumfield W. J
E. L. Williams John
James Bring Geor
Frederick Davis Kobe:
George Westhider Wm.
C. Woodward Corm
Henry Sumfield Josia
George Wilkinson H. E.
A. Promless Wm.
J. J. Gordon Jame
Newton Bungay Wm.
John Branson G. H(
J. C. Hagerty Thon
John L. Mansorgh Steve
J. Neville Josej;
John Wier Jame
George Head Willii
Arthur Peters J. Mr
Thomas Maun Edmt
George French Edwa
Henry H. Neale Thom
Charles Curtis Thom
William Cross C. Cla
William Miles J. Hu
John Butters Wens
David Mann Wi
William Erwin Thom
John Durrell . Georg
James Campbell H. In
Edward Barnes J. Ed'
M. M‘Mahon H. Br
M. E. Shuttleworth • James
James Duxhury Willis
Eichard Warren Willia
Alfred Arnold John
W. H. A. Bullock John ;
J. Murphy John
Abraham Booth John
Charles Solomon John
W. Spitsred S. Bai
William Brown Thom
John O’Halloran W. H
Elyah Eoyston T. Joi
Francis Bannon W. H<
Eobert Eoyston W. T.
William Whealey W. C.
William Italis T. Cai
Christopher Fishbyrne J. Osl
Thomas Brennan John
Paul Winroh Ealf J. W.
E. Askin Danie
J. G. Porter David
H. Sullivan Charli
John M'Cnllough Thom
P. Fox Willia
Edward Carey David
John Dyer W. Cr
G. Evans Willia
J. Moore Edwai
T. Carey Willia
T. Gough E. Wo
Charles Woodley J. Job
Eobert Kelso James
Pius Ware Georg
James Gallagher James
JohnClissold W. F.
E. Sumbigar O’l
C. Bissell Henrj
James Douglas Eoberi
Henry Porter Bober
C. J. Franks Charts
T. Simpson Georg
John Eobinsou D. E.
F. Curtis H. Sir
S. Smith W. At
Thomas Johnson Thour
Charles Flint C.Ba,;
Joseph Mead Willia
Thomas Hopping S. Mu
Frederick Janies Sivifer, J. Bai
jun. W. Be
William Heath S. Car
Charles Mobberly S. Hui
Walter Hayes James
Sebastian Fehrenbach John ]
A. Thompson Fred®
J. Macleay T. Mu
James Bishop W. Co
Henry O’Hara W. Co
W. Smith Fredei
William Ferry J. Bee
W. O’Brian John
Thomas Kirr Thoms
John Kirr John 1
E. M. Jones John (
Joseph Petitt Ed war
John Savill John.
T. Hitchison G. S. I
Charles Meredith James
Wood W. Dc
William Davis George
W. Hall Charle
G. Eeynolds Willia
Adams John 1
W. Griffith James
J. Johnson S. Ban
W. Fussell Willia:
Guilinno Guazzini H. Foi
Barton O. L. J
Samuel Thomas John I
Slater John (
William Slater H. L. !
John Lane John C
■Reward White J. Can
Election Not:
other matters of importance, upon
bye address you, shall receive my
I am, sreuk
Faitl
Sunnyaide, Petersham,
28th September, 1880.
WILLIAM H.
BOWENFELLS COAL '
820 GEOEGE-STE
Sir, —We, the undersigned Elect
having confidence - in your probity
sent us in Parliament, respectful
•will allow yourself to be nominated
and in the event of yonr becom
promise to.use our united exert
return.
Anthony Hordern M. Wi]
J. C. Mitchell J. Law
Benjamin Morris Pat riel
J. G. O’Connor J. Mur
John Buchanan John C
William M’Bnrney Joseph
John J. Hayes Charles
M. Olhne Williar
John A. Clune James
James Byrne James
Thomas Hogan M. Bis
Thomas Conlou W. C. 1
John O'Brien James
A. S. Bishop Williar
James De Conrcy J. W. I
George Hyde John C
Isaac Moore Henry
Thomas O’Neil Charles
Thomas Mitchell Williar
Chas. Israel John G
Thomas Kelly Williar
Alexander Watts C. H. ]
George Ashton D. Ben
Andrew Bayliss C. Carp
Fred. Morgan T. E. I
John M'Namea John F
James M’Laughlin John I
Thos. P. Yaughan A. Har
Alfred Pullen W. Jan
E. A. Taylor James 1
David Curtin Michae
A. M. Stirling E. M. I
Thomas Martin A. Ada
Thomas Graham Samuel
J. W. Eandle Wm. I
D. F. Eussell John I
J. Baxter Hy. So
Thomas Clarke Thos. J
James Tracy Johu G
J. Manning A. Bro'
Edward F. Meade H. Boc
A. Carthidge Wm. S
Geo. Cox E. E. C
F. Johnston J. Hos'
George Catley A. Hav
Donald M’Donald W. Bui
W, M. Garrety Wm. E
Eeuben Cottam J. H. I
Ben Johnson John J
J. H. Passmore A. Fiel
S. Maddox J- M*N
Thomas Hegarty John A
J. W. Fraser E. Ban
Arch. M‘Lea George
Henry Stephens E. Bak
F. S. Green A. Gou
T. Morrison W. J. I
A. Game John A
J. A. Barr Michae
W. E. J. Calpitt Wm. C
S. Hemlin W. E. (
T. W. Folkes Henry
J. Walmsley E. O- S
W. Brandon W. A.
J. E. Kelly Wm. I
D. Wheeler H. Gib
H. W. Harrison W. G. <
W. H. Cook Patriot
J. Marsden J• Bart
J. T. Roberts J. A. D
James Eoss John C
Hugh Murphy John E
Thomas Cuddy F. E. F
Wm. W. Davidson H. Dav
J. H. Leslie J- Edw
Alfred W. Wakefield J. C. D
Henry Stoneham S. Ellis
James H. Parker H. Fit 2
Joseph Wall Henry
Joseph M‘Donald i Michae
E. P. Watts Edware
J. D; Ward John G
W. W. Sanders J. Hall
J. P. Bolgcr Wm. H
S. H. Baker Michae
Alex. Knox John H
H. Boucher John J
Edwin Harris Williar
N. E. Lopstrom C. Gree
S. Upton Williar
G. A. Tokely J. John
J. Chamberlain H. Law
Henry Robert Hudson D. C.AI
M. Lacey Mich. 0
A. J. Scott J. M‘Cl
Election Not
Henry Fisk
George Boiirke
Amos Williams
S. Sudley
Richard Hawkins
George Buskin
J. Hawkshaw, inn.
A. Ball
Carl Behrens
John Makin
Walter W. Wilkinson
T. Hilton
Nathan Sargeant
James Hume
Wm. Pegruni
George Smith
Wm. Keating
James Watson
George O’Loughlin
Henry Hunter
Maurice Bullivant
A. G. Taylor
Michael Dolan
T. Belhridge
T. Shepherd
W. Slattery
G. Eggletou
Octavius Townley
Daniel Burge
Robert Fisher
John Stuart
Claudius Ekins
W. S. Solomon
Henry Gibb
James Hargrave
Samuel Critteudene
Wm. Hardy
T. D. Fitzgerald
George Coombe
James Forrest
S. Chignell
T. E. Hughes
Patrick Fleming
Patrick Gorman
Thomas Wall
L. Macheson
J. Tomlinson
Richard Brill
M. Eourke
George Rudd
Thos. Blucu
Edwd. Handley
A. Colley
James Swinhope
R. Gregory
Joseph Flocking
R. Warriner
E. Fehrenback
Robert Wade
Philip Denfer
G. Vial
Thomas Hunt
William Findlay
T. Cromack
James Templeton
Samuel Jones
Thos. Jostling
William Tait
William Thomas
R. Ricketts
SanlJudson
H. Thomas
M. Flaherty
A. Slack
William M'Koue
T. M‘Dona Id
John Hannali
Wm. Lipscombe
Wm. Harding
John Carter
A. Street
E. A. Turner
J. F. Frank
John Goodman
Henry Manning
Walter Fennell v
J. C. Scott
James O’Neill
James J. Loneragau
John Jones
W. Fnrley
George Baker
W. Hr
James
Henry
W. Sh
Danie:
m. c.:
James
J. Rol
W. Pr
T. Vei
John
Henry
James
J. Fra
James
W. Ne
T. Nic
James
M. Sin
P. She
Thomi
W. G.
Lewis
Wm. 1
Micha
\\\ C.
Micha
Wm. I
Thom:
Wm. J
Wm. J
J. Bar
Wm. 1
Wm. I
T. Far
Patric
Thom;
Wm. C
John .
C. Caii
Ed war
John j
John 1
John 1
Autho:
John J
E. Chr
Matth
Sidney
Robert
John 1
M. Fly
P. G. 1
Samue
John I
J. Solo
J. Wii
J osept
James
Geo. IVi
E. Mi
James
J. Farr,
Thos. (
Edwari
Joseph
J. Gre<
J. Hun
Joseph
John h
James
Willi*,
J. Nicl
J. Oliv
George
Henry'
M. A.
J. Hut
Patricl
John C
Harry
Alexan
F. Bak
Cott
John S
Thom i
W. Job
Matth,
George
John L
and 7»i
Gentlemen, —I have very great
ing with your influential requisi
services at your disposal. I shall
tunity of addaessing you and ex]
the various topics of political inter
Yours ob
820, George-st., South, Sydney, !
11 OXFORD STR]
Near Hype Park (
(N.B. —The Tram-car stoj
AV. D. EAMES, Pi


WILKS (LATE READ’S) COAL AND WOOD YARD, WA
Government Advert
Department of Mi
Sydney, 24th i
NOTICE TO APPLICANT
MINING LEAS;
rFHE Lessees of the unde
mining Lease are hereby c
cause, within thirty days from
lease should not be cancelled, f
the rent due thereon.
Western District No. 390 c
Cripps, G. Cole, andW. R. Cole ; Ea
Creek, on Church and School Lands
Application, 30th June, 1873
"l 4331 ] Department of IV
Sydney 17th 1
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
~[Vr otice is hereby given that
. ’ executes and takes delivery
tioned Mineral Leases within thi
date, they will be declared void.
No. —812. Name—Augustus Hoc
249. Locality—County of Bucklan
Area—3o acres. Application No. —1
N 0.—813. Name —Augustus Hoo
250. Locality—County of Bucklan
Area—3o acres. Application No.—l
N 0.—814. Name—Augustus Hoo
266. Locality—County of Bucklan
Area—2o acres. Application No.—D
N 0.—815. Name—Augustus Hoo
265. Locality—County of Bucklam
Area—2o acres. Application No.—l
[4410] Department of M
Sydney, 21st Sc
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS ]
LEASES.
IVT OTICE is hereby e-iven that
IF YOU W
A Cup of
REALLY GO<
TAEPI]
MIITI
PACKED INTO 1-lb AXI
IN THE CHINA TEA
Agents:
EDWARD CLARK
Oxfc
WILLIAM HUGH]
Will
R. S. TIGHE,
Brie
THOS. E. GEODE!
Rail
M PROVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAC
Try the
JgT. LEONARDS ELECTORATE
GENTLEMEN ELECTORS.
I hereby, in accordance with the wish of several of my
friends m the above electorate and the support of
R. SELDON, Esq.,
who has kindly resigned in my favour, offer my services
as a candidate in the forthcoming Election.
Believe me. Gentleman,
Tours very faithfully,
B. O. HOLTERMANN.
W. CROWE & CO.. STOCK. STATION
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS
4 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
, N.B.—We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, Ac., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
H
UNTEE EIYEE AGRICULTURAL AND
HOETICULTUEAL ASSOCIATION.
ON THUESDAT, the 14th OCTOBEE, 1880,
on the
ALBION GEOUND, WEST MAITLAND,
A PLOWEE AND POULTET SHOW WILL BE
HELD.
Entries must be made in writing and lodged with the
Seeretary on or before 6 o’clock p.m. on THUESDAY.
7r.n ()(!TnPT?P 9
Entrances for Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Amatenrs,
free. Entrance for Poultry, Members free. Non-
members must pay one-fourth the amount competed
Schedule of prizes, with regulations, can be obtained
free on application to
THOMAS K. OSBOENE,
Secretary.
THE GREAT MUSICAL CARNP
EXHIBITION BUILDING, PRINC
MANAGER MR. JOHN E. FUI
Under Distinguished Patronage. (Tor Two ]
SATURDAY AND MONDAY EYENINGS, OCT(
GRAND BRASS BAND CO
Wilks’ (late Read’s) Coal and Wood Yard,
Waterview Bay, Balmain.
The accompanying sketch represents the wharf,
yard, buildings, and dwelling occupied by Mr.
Wilks as a coal and wood yard, which are most
admirably situated for carrying on an extensive
business; in fact, not a more commodious site can
hardly he found in Sydney or its neighbourhood.
They arc situated in Waterview Bay, Balmain,
within five minutes’ walk from Dry Dock Ferry.
Mr. Wilks has always on hand a highly dry and
-seasoned firewood which he can recommend to
housekeepers, never being without a stock of
from 1800 to 2000 tons, which is cut to any
lengths by a steam sawmill on the premises. A
large heap of coal in the centre of the yard con-
tains none but the very best Newcastle and
Anvil Greek collieries, which are landed di-
rect from ships on to the wharf, which has a
i frontage to the bay of nearly 200 feet, and a
depth of over 100 feet. The coals when landed
are thoroughly screened, and then weighed into
bags and delivered to purchasers by civil dray-
men, and drays drawn by strong horses, four of
which will bear comparison with any in the
colonies. Breeze and charcoal are kept in stock
and supplied in quantities as required. Those
who favour Mr. Wilks with orders, either by
post or otherwise, will not regret it, as they may
always depend upon being supplied with the best
of articles and at the lowest prices.


R
EME D T
POE
IMP U R E
WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
R * p 'a
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’a
Rapid Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Slite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Falacet during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAYIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
F.
SOLE AGENTS:
LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. HARPER & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
TEN FIEST PRIZES
AND THE
SPECIAL FIEST
As the BEST OF THEIE CLASS
in the
STDNET
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
R. HARDER & CO
SYDNEY.
BUY
'o
PRIZE
:
STA*
ev(o
BUY
B
PRIZE
R. HARPER & CO-,
SYDNEY.
These goods are Fresh,
some, and Genuine,
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says:
“Deserving of special notice. T 3
quality is fully equal to imported, ai
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER & CO.
SYDNEY.
S IN
G E R ’■ S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FQEMEE YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany's Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES— M 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss, Deposit and 2s. per Week.-
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One - Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCISTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
, Sold Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAßLElGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EYES’
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OP THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashjield ;—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney ; —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney .-—My child had sore eyes for 2-i years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney: —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
NTERNATIONAL
SYDNEY, 1879-80.
EXHIBITION
LEATHERS—
Sole Special Ist Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, Ac
Harness, Strap, and Bag
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing
Splits, Levants, Ac
Patent Enamel and Japanned
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings
Morocco Roans, Levant, and 800 k...
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, Ac Special Ist
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers .' Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) ■. 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851—80—Leathers. —Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2-
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGfiTE’S
M.TEIT MEJ.L
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
mi
u
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old by all Grocers and Storekeepers*
o
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL .
TWEED
SUITS
TO
MEASURE
OR
ALL WOOL
TWEED
TO
16s w. /
K
GI)T LENGTHS
__ AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
aOMFATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROM
HLSUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMEIN t T WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
JgT GREER AND CO. ’ S
PEI Z E
ALB U E Y
EeD WINES:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
WINES.
White Wines :
Eeisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY/
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
TT\ EYSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters,ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies. Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Gal v. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £i 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
M
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
A C H I N E R
Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prise Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality SUIBANTEED, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
T
HE BEST PAINT EST T4IE WOSLDr
7 4>
*
*
QVP.AdL
ELfZT'C
I
W.
mm
7T^e-22 n .HB
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use, ,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., £ gal., and 1 gal.
These cans form a convenient Painb Pot with haudl
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us ; —“Wooilahra. August 20th, 1880, —I ha.ve foqnd the.
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am Inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house, was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as' fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE'G ALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
vfill cover 35 Square Yards—one Coat; 25 stj. yds,-two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any sv»e required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
jg COT T, READ, & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CENTRAL TEMORA,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydney
Firms.
Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & CO , 322 George-
street, are their Sydney Representatives.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Acconn
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
H A R L E S HEMSLEY,
TAILOR AND SHIRTMAKER,
297 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Hunter-street, two doors south of
Cafe Franr-ais),
Removed from 372 George-street.
SPLENDID CHOICE of WOOLLENS.
NEW STOCK of COLLARS, TIES, BRACES,
UMBRELLAS, &c.
CHARLES HEMSLEY.
