

THE BULLETIN
No. 10.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1880.
Price—3d.
3%
SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1880.
Des Meubles an Gratin.
Mr. Oriel Lee Grattan is a much-injured man.
He lives at 6 Belmore Terrace, Paddington. Next
door to him is a house which was recently empty,
and into this empty house was lately put, by some-
one or other, a large quantity of furniture. A few
days afterwards it was advertised in a metropolitan
paper that Messrs. Harris and Ackman would
sell by auction at the residence of “ Mr. R.
Gratton,” No. p Belmore Terrace, all that
gentleman’s furniture and effects. “ Mr. R.
Gratton” was a mythical personage, and as
nobody knew where he lived and as people who
wanted to view the furniture were unable to find
him, they came to the real Grattan next door.
The tradesmen with whom Mr. Oriel Lee
Grattan deals took fright. They eon -(
eluded that he was going away and as naturally
demanded payment of their little bills. People
who had failed to find “Mr. R. Gratton”
pulled at Mr. Oriel Lee Grattan’s bell-handle
vigorously, and announced that they had come to
inspect his furniture—announced it with that
semi-proprietorial business-like air which nobody
can assume better than, or in fact as well as, the
typical shabby-genteel old lady who, without a
cent., attends every auction sale, gives endless
trouble, and purchases only in her imagination.
Mr. Grattan remonstrated with the auctioneers,
but in vain. “ They laughingly assured him that
there were more Grattans than one in the
world,” but implored him, when they found he was
bent on doing something of the sort, not to insert an
advertisement disclaiming that he was in any way
connected with the sale. Then plaintiff, discover-
ing the annoyance his family had been subjected
to during his absence from home during the
day, brought an action for libel against Messrs.
Harris and Ackman, who pleaded in defence
that the advertisement had no reference to Mr. O.
L. Grattan, but did not produce Mr. R. Grat-
TON or show that any such person existed. The
jury found for defendants without leaving the
box. We presume that the question involved in
the issue laid before the jury is now to be regarded
as having been satisfactorily settled, and that
the admirable system so happily inaugurated by
Messrs. Harris and Ackman must now be looked
upon as perfectly legal and proper. One can now
play a practical joke on one’s friend, or avenge
one’s self on an enemy by advertising under a
flimsy, though apparently sufficient disguise, that
the furniture of the man next door is for sale by
public auction. Of course it would not be perti-
nent to ask where the furniture of “ Mr. R.
Gratton ” came from, why it was sold under
such peculiar circumstances, or why such a lot of
trouble was taken to conceal the name of the real
owner. That is nobody’s business—at present.
Messrs. Harris and Ackman are a reputable
firm and besides, the auctioneer is only the agent
of the seller and has, as a general rule, only the
latter’s instructions to guide him. If people want
a solution of this little mystery they must look
behind Messrs. Harris and Ackman. Of course,
ff an unfortunate newspaper had said that “ Mr.
R- Gratton,” living at 5 Belmore Terrace, was a
bar or a scoundrel, or both, or had mentioned his
name in connection with a divorce suit, then
would Mr. Oriel Lee Grattan of 6, Bel-
more Terrace, have had his legal remedy
against the newspaper. He would only
nave had to call upon the newspaper to pro-
duce “ Mr. Gratton ” and show that several of
juis friends had recognized him (Mr. O. L. G.,) as
r? an a f- An intelligent British jury
wouldhaveregarded the case as clear, would have
ooked upon the newspaper as a bank, and would
nave given Mr. Oriel Lee Grattan sub-
stantial damages— perhaps .£2,000 and costs. No
reasonable person can doubt that Mr. Grattan
as injured and that Messrs. Harris and
ackman’s mistake, though it perhaps arose out
o an accidental, wonderful and unfortunate coin-
cidence, is one for which, as a matter of principle,
a verdict should have been recorded against them,
ue present case only differs in degree from the
ne we have supposed. While saying, as we have
aid previously, that there is nothing in the evidence
otb auctioneers have in this or any
of e^ n ?^ ance been connected with a transaction
which they have cause to be ashamed, we may
y e allege that it would be well for the detec-
es to watch the advertising columns of the
Sub ni newspapers and stroll gently round the
urns m the interest of the commissoner in
insolvency.
The New Victorian Ministry.
The Service Government, notwithstanding that
it numbers among its members men who have
strong convictions on the subject of political
economy, has commenced business with a modera-
tion which augurs well for its success. Notwith-
standing that the now Premier, speaking as a
private member from the Opposition benches
before the defeat of the late Ministry, said that
should the party of law and order come into power
it would be their first duty to rectify the injustices
of Black Wednesday and the many other gross
wrongs perpetrated by the Berry Ministry, with
the aid of Governor Bowen, Mr. Service and
his followers have, so far, carefully abstained from
everything which savours of retaliation, and have
shown a due appreciation of the fact that on their
action depends whether or not Victoria is to adopt
the American system in regard to the Civil Service
or follow, so far as is practicable, in the steps of
the mother country. Were Mr. Service to dis-
miss all the Berryites who secured Government
appointments during the recent reign of terror, he
would in some regards give countenance to the
system instituted by the political freebooters who
have just parted company with their portfolios.
The most important alterations which have been
made in the personnel of the service by the new
Government lie in the re-appointment of Mr.
Thomas Higinbotham as Chief Engineer of
Railways and of Mr. Gordon as the permanent
head of the Water Supply Department. Mr.
Higinbotham, who holds a high position in the
estimation of professional men in both Europe
and the colonies, prior to his dismissal furnished
the Victorian Government with a report on the
American railway system of so exhaustive and
able a character that it was ordered to be printed
by the British House of Commons. He owed his
dismissal to the fact that he was so unfortunate as
to have acted on a board which, years before,
“ sat on” one Woods, a servant of the Railway
Department, who was charged with, convicted of,
and dismissed for having allowed some faulty pipes
supplied by contractors to bo tarred with a view to
the ooccealment of their defects. That whirligig of
time which brings its revenges pulled Woods
out of departmental mud and official ignominy
and made him Minister of Railways. A feel-
ing similar to that which has led to the
murder of judges and policemen induced Mr.
Woods to show Mr. Highnbotham that the re-
vanche had come, and also to prove to Mr. War-
dei.l (then Inspector-General of Public Works,
and now an esteemed resident of Sydney) that
every dog has his day, for Mr. Wardbll had also
judged Mr. Woods on the tarred pipes’ question,
and found him wanting. In place of such penni-
less adventurers, as Woods, Longmore, and Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen, Victoria has in the Service
Ministry men of good political and commercial
repute, who have a majority, however small, in
the Assembly, and behind that majority the in-
fluence of the Upper House, an institution of
which the Berryites really desired to be rid, but
which, in a most desperate time, proved to be the
colony’s safeguard. The Age, the only really
corrupt newspaper yet published in this continent,
can now do nothing but raise its parrot-cry of
“protection” once more. That journal was the wind
which drove the Berryite ship to extremes and
destruction; and it is now the wet rat which has
swum from the sinking vessel. It abuses those of
whom it made tools, and again says, as it said fif-
teen years ago, that the Graham Berry
whom it recently belauded is unworthy of politi-
cal confidence. However, despite the Age and
the “ protectionists,” Mr. Service has at present
the ball at his foot. It is probable that for a long
time to come the Age will lament its excesses and
the sad “ might have been,” and longingly look
forward to a new reign of terror and a new crop
of free cablegrams in the “Sweet by-and-
bye.”
Mr. P. A. Jennings, C.M.G.
Mr. P. A. Jennings’ name will be known to
future generations of Australians as that of a man
who devoted life, money, and energies to the well-
being of his adopted country. Mr. Jennings was
born at Newry in the North of Ireland in 1831 and
was educated both in that town and in England
with a view to being called to the bar. He how-
ever changed his mind ere it was too late and
marked out for himself a course in the mercantile
world, doubtless considering that such a career,
while congenial to himself, would enable him the
better to confer substantial benefits upon hia fel-
low man, and that in the extended field of com-
merce he would hare ample opportunities for
exorcising those philanthropic views which have
so signalised his life. Mr. Jennings came to
Australia in the year 1852, and having landed at
Melbourne betook himself to the gold fields, where
he was lucky enough to be tolerably successful.
Three years later he deserved and received the
thanks of the mining community for the intro-
duction of crushing machinery on an extensive
scale.. Shortly after leaving the gold fields Mr.
Jennings became the proprietor and holder of
considerable station property in the Murrumbidgee
district and in 1862 went to reside at Warbreccan,
near Deniliquin. Some of our readers may re-
member that there was a difference of opinion
between the Sydney Government of that day and
the Rivernia district, and that in order to obtain
a redress of the grievances under which the dis-
trict was labouring an association called the
Riverina Association was established. Mr. Jen-
nings was a prominent and active member of that
association, and in 1866 he was offered, and
accepted, a nomination to the Legislative Council
of this colony, the main reason for his doing so
being that by his personal knowledge andj in-
fluence the differences above alluded to might be
reconciled. In this, as in most other things which
he undertook, Mr. Jennings was successful.
In 1870 h.e resigned his seat in the Council, and,
having been elected member of the Legislative
Assembly for the Murray district, represented
that electorate in two successive Parliaments, re-
signing his seat in 1872.
Mr. Jennings commenced that class of services
which have rendered hia name so deservedly well
known and popular in 1875, having in that year
attended as Commissioner from New South Wales
to the Victorian Exhibition. He was also ac-
credited as Representative Commissioner to the
Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876, from
the three colonies of New South Wales, Queens-
land, and Tasmania, and gained “ golden opinions
from all sorts of people.” But perhaps the
most widely known of his many services in
this respect are those which have arisen out of his
appointment to the office of Executive Com-
missioner for the great International Exhibition
of Australia which has just been brought
to a close. Mr. Jennings’ exertions to promote
the success of that grand enterprise may
be characterised as almost superhuman, and
if that success has not been so complete, finan-
cially, as it might have been under other and more
favourable circumstances Mr. Jennings is certainly
not in fault. The onerous duties and the troubles
which were inseparable from the office of Exe-
cutive Commissioner have alike been undertaken
and borne with by Mr. Jennings in a manner which
not only proves that that gentleman possesses the
quality of unswerving perseverance in no ordinary
degree but also speaks well for his urbanity and
thorough bonhommie. The thanks of the whole
community are due to Mr. Jennings for the tact
and skill with which he has performed duties which
have been heavy and difficult beyond measure.
Mr. Jennings is a magistrate of the three colo-
nies of New South Wales, Victoria and Quees-
land and although he has not, as yet, been called
upon to exercise the functions of his office in that
respect in any great degree, still there is no doubt
that his early training for the bar would stand
him in good stead -were he at any time to be put
to the test. He is a large landowner in Queens-
land as well as in Victoria and this colony, and has
for some years been Vice-President of the Agri-
cultural Society. Despite his numerous employ-
ments he has always been an enthusiastic patron
of the fine arts, and has been the author of and
prime mover in numerous movements in their
behalf. Mr. Jennings has been made a C.M.G.
by Her Majesty for his distinguished services in
this colony.
The Victorian Eight.
A correspondent, well known in the aquatic
world, writes us from Melbourne as follows:
“ The men composing the crew are : G. Upward
(stroke), 12 st. 3 lbs.; R. Brown (7), 12 st. ; R.
Booth (6), 12 st.; W. H. Tuckett (5), 12 st. 2 lbs.;
J. Booth(4), list. 21bs.: J. Irvine(3), list. 21bs.;
A. Nichols (2), 10 st. 12 lbs.: A. R. Stackpoole (1),
11 st. In the boat are three men w r ho rowed last
year on the Parramatta River. Two of the crew
are maiden oarsmen, the rest are rowers of note.
With one exception, Mr. Stackpoole, the men
rowed in the race for the Clarke challenge cup
(an eight-oared race) —three in the Banks Club crew,
two in the Corio Bay crew, and one in the Mel-
bourne crew. The bow, Mr. Stackpoole, of the
M.R.C., is a maiden oarsman. He rowed stroke
for the Melbourne Club in the junior eight at last
regatta, but the crew were third. I may tell yon
that getting a bow has been the chief difficulty
of the selection committee. Tunbridge was
wanted bv them, but he declined to row. No. 2,
Mr. A. Nichols, has been one of our beat oarsmen
and stroke oars, and the success that has fallen to
him must be attributed to his pluck. He does not
MR. P. A. JENNINGS, C.M.G.


row in such good stylo as the other men. He is
stroke for the Banks Club. No. 3, Mr. Irvine, of
the Banks Club, is thought to be our best oars-
man, and rowed in both the previous races. No. 4,
Mr. J. Booth, of the M.R.C., stroked the crew
that rowed last year, and behind a good stroke rows
better than when stroke himself. No. 5, Mr. W.
H. Tuckett, of the Banks Club, is our amateur
champion sculler, and one of our best oarsmen.
No. 6, Mr. R. Booth, belongs to the same club as
Mr. Tuckett, and is a maiden oarsmen, though he
rowed No. 7 in his club crew for the Clarke cup.
No. 7, Mr. R. Brown, of the Corio Bay Club, is a
very strong oarsman, and is the No. 7 of his club
crew. Mr. Upward, the stroke of the Victorian
Club, is stroko of the Corio Bay Club. His style
is to get very slowly forward and make a slight
pause before the stroke —so that the crew can get
all their weight on at the commencement of the
stroke—and then pull the blade slowly through the
water. He is much easier for men to row behind
than Mr. Fairbairn, the stroke of our first eight,
and although there is not a unanimous liking for
his slow reaching out, the crew row very well
together. Upward does the principal part of the
work before the throwl, Fairbairn behind it. Booth
was never stroke until he stroked our last year’s
crew. I think that this year’s crew is the best of
the throe. Sydney Edwards is the Victorian coach,
and the crew have gone to Footscray to finish their
training.”
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
The Queen is visiting the Continent.
In Afghanistan fresh complications have arisen.
Crushings at Charters Towers continue good.
On Easter Monday 19,000 persons attended
the Exhibition.
A thief has removed two chalices from the
B.C. Chapel, Newcastle.
The Chilians have been defeated by the Peru-
vian forces after a sanguinary battle.
Near Gawler, S. A., recently, a tram ran into a
flock of sheep, killing several of the animals.
Mr. G. E. Dibbs’ friends will be sorry to hear
that he is suffering from rheumatic gout.
A good-looking exhibitor at the International
has been vending works of art twice over at least.
On Easter Monday 13,000 persons travelled on
Elizabeth-street tramway.
A decree nisi has been granted to Captain
Grainger in his suit for divorce against his wife.
A sum of £5OO has been given by the Pope to
the Irish Relief Fund.
A Middle Head ’bus full of passengers cap-
sized last Saturday, but no one was seriously injured.
The Kiama Milk Condensing Company’s share
ist is filling np.
Hartmann is now in England, but Eussia re-
frains from demanding his extradition.
The Service Ministry are preparing their Ee-
form Bills.
The Empress Eugenie has left England for
Znlnland.
During 1879, 6,504 breakfasts were supplied to
the poor of Sydney by the Sydney Morning Breakfast
Mission.
Our Portrait of Mr. P. A. Jennnings is en-
graved from a spldndid photo, by Boyd, of George-
street.
The members of the Melbourne Harbour
Trust have decided to go on cutting the canal to con-
nect the city with the sea at once.
Clarke, the young jockey who was injured at
Randwick on Monday, died in the Infirmary the same
night.
John M’Nulty, the keeper of the King-street
gambling-house has been fined £7O and costs; the other
two defendants £25 each and costs.
On Thursday week thirtv-four members of the
Nimrod Fishing Club caught fiOO schnapper off Broken
Bay.
Lord Beaconsfield’s party has the support of
the leading French, German, and Austrian papers.
Ned Kelly, it is stated, was recently seen near
Glenrowan. It is pretty certain that the gang ore stilj
in Victoria.
Coal-boring operations at Moore Park, Sydney,
have been temporarily suspended owing to the breaking
of one of the tubes.
Mr. Buchanan, the Mudgee philosopher, has
again been addressing the working-men of Sydney in
the interests of protection.
A young man named Edward Baker has been
■drowned in the Yarra through the capsizing of his out-
rigger.
H. M. schooner Conflict goes to New Ireland
to watch the movements of the persons belonging to
the Marquis of Rhys’ expedition.
Three men stole £llO worth of jewellery from
Mr. Cooper, watchmaker, of Hunter-street, on Monday
week. One of them has been arrested.
In South Australia, which has a population of
255,148, there were last year 9,902 births, 3,500 deaths,
and 2,238 marriages.
Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Eoberts’ ball at their
residence, Chatsworth, Potts’ Point, was a very bril-
liant affair. 500 were present, including officers from all
the men-of-war now in harbor.
A lecture on the manufacture of perfumery
was on Wednesday week delivered at the School of
Arts by Mr. Piesse, of Piesse and Lubin, in the pre-
sence of a numeoous audience.
In 1872, 800 steam-engines were at work at the
Sandhurst mines. There are now less than half that
number; not because there’s less gold, but because it
costs more to get it.
The fund instituted for the relief of the
ruined shareholders of the City of Glasgow Bank
realised £383,428. Of this Scotland paid £244,672, Eng-
and £12,114, and Australia £4,051.
Upwards of 1,000 bouquets were last month
Idistributed in the various public institutions by the
members of the Ladies’ Evangelistic Association. This
society thoroughly deserves public support.
A great melee took place at Eandwick on
Wednesday between cabdrivers who used their whips
freely. The cab horses seemed to enjoy the fun for many
of them had a set to also.
On board the Sorata, of the Orient line, which
which has arrived at Adelaide from England, after
a passage ot thirty-six days seven hours, are 128 pas-
sengers for Sydney.
A man named John Plunkett fell on the rails
of the Elizabeth-street tramway last Saturday evening,
and had his arm so severely crushed that it has had to
be amputated.
An Inverell jury the other day returned what
Judge Meymott considered a rather absurd verdict.
His Honor sentenced the convicted prisoner—a China-
man, to be imprisoned for half an hour and to be given
his dinner.
At St. Amaud, Victoria, the other night, a
newly-married lady who had just arrived at the hotel
with her husband, aroused all hands by screaming out
that there was a man in her room. The unfortunate
husband was kicked out and otherwise roughly handled
by the inmates of the hotel and it was only then that
the absent-minded lady recollected that the bridegroom
belonged to her.
Garabetta’s sympathies are with the British
Conservatives. The Liberals, says his organ, made
England lethargic, and would have turned her arsenals
into cotton-mills.
Mr. John Smith, of Dean, Victoria, has lost
six splendid draught horses, which got at a bam of
wheat. Mr. Smith by this unfortunate occurrence loses
£2,000.
A Brisbane cripple whose hand-organ used to
be taken about by a pair of donkeys and a pair of ill-
matched ponies, has just died and been drawn to the
grave by his nondescript team.
Hundreds of men have been met en route for
Woolgar from Cairns, the Mulgrave, Port Douglas and
the Hodgkinson. Those who are working on the field are
fossicking for their bare lives.
The Moonta Company during the last six
months have treated 10,172 tons of ore, yielding
£99,205; have paid £61,754 working expenses; have em-
ployed 1,285 persons, and have made a profit of £37,451.
They declare no dividend.
On Tuesday night the special reporter of the
Herald at the ’Middle Head encampment was arrested
and put in the guard-tent until morning for prowling
round without the password. It is said that the pass-
word that night was 4 Dork brandy.’
It is not generally known that the new star of
the ‘ Loftus ’ variety troupe—not the company under
the direction of Messrs. iHiscocks and Hayman—was
formerly an undistinguished member of the Lyster
Opera Company.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs is appealing to the Privy
Council, but Mr. Shepherd is at liberty to carry into
execution his verdict for £2,000 and costs, provided he
gives security for the repayment of the amount and all
costs in the event of the Supreme Court judgment
being upset by the Privy Council.
At the seventh annual session of the Grand
Lodge of Good Templars of New South Wales, held at
Newcastle bn Friday and Saturday last, it was stated
that the membership had increased during the year by
1,200. Mr. L. E. Harcus is G.W.C.T., and Mr. W. B.
James G.W.S.
STAGE GOSSIP.
L’ Estrange has made a successful balloon ascent
at Melbourne. He safely descended at Cheltenham.
People must go the Urso concerts because they
al-lu(e)r-edto them by the manager.
Signora Fabris has been singing in the country
towns of Tasmania.
Mabame Patti and M. de Tiro have healed
their differences.
Mr. George Darrell and company have left
Adelaide for Brisbane.
Mrs. Lingard looks a charming creature in the
Little Duke.
Madame Haselmayer had the gift of a costly
bouquet at the School of Arts on Wednesday night.
Miss Clara Stephenson and Company are
doing the provinces. They played at Young this week.
Dramatic whispers indicate that we are shortly
to have Miss Adelaide Neilsonl and Barry Sullivan in
Sydney.
Many Sydney ladies are imitating the ‘Patti
shake ’ in the ballad of ‘ Edinboro’ Toon' —at least
they are trying to.
A mathematical friend, speaking of the Urso
concerts, says that Miss Agues Palma and Miss Jenny
Sargent were the long and short of it.
Miss Augusta Dargon and company left on
Thursday for Brisbane. Miss Dargon returns shortly
to Sydney to give readings.
Messrs. Kelly and Leon are shortly to appear
in Melbourne, after an absence from that city of fifteen
months.
The other evening Urso was transporting her
audience with ‘ The Dream,’ unaccompanied. The lis-
teners felt dreamy until a horrid wretch somewhere
outside screamed, * Pies —all ’ot —all ’ot.’
The Opera House has increased its popularity
every night since the opening. We congratulate Mr.
Dave Hayman on his judicious management and cour-
teous treatment of his patrons.
There are now eight places of amusement
open each evening in Sydney. Still, we notice about
the streets that many professionals have time to
cultivate their moustaches.
There are no theatrical incidents this week —
no marriages and no divorces. We hear, however, that
one of the principal theatrical managers seriously con-
templates attending church some Sunday this year.
Messrs. Kelly and Leon are doing a big
business at Newcastle in the Doctor of Alcontara.
They leave on Saturday for a fortnight’s tom- up the
line, playing at all the principal towns.
Haverly’s Mastodon Minstrel’s receipts in
Chicago for two weeks were £4,500. It is expected
that in course of time they will appear at Bathurst or
Parramatta.
Professor Haselmayer introduces his marvel-
lous electric spark illuminations next Saturday after-
noon. The programme of the matinee will be specially
arranged for ladies and children.
The Lingards play at the Opera House on
Saturday night W. S. Gilbert’s satirical comedy,
‘ England.’ This will be the first production in Sydney
of the original version.l word for word as the author
wrote it.
Miss Lydia Howarde, Mr. and Mrs. S. Howard,
the Misses Marsh, Mr. Sam Poole, Mr. J. Hasker, and
Mr. and Mrs. L. Booth, left for Brisbane on Wednesday
afternoon. They open in 4 Robinson Crusoe ’ on Monday
night, next.
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s new operetta,
‘ The Pirates of Penzance,’ we hear, eclipses * Pinafore'
in America. Our contemporaries say the satire and
music are immense. Messrs. Kelly and Leon’s Ameri-
can agent is its production in Australia.
Many are anxiously waiting for the reappear-
ance of the old favourite, Mr. Bland Holt. He and Mr.
John Bennett intend producing the grand spectacnlum
and sensational drama of "The New Babylon’ in a
week or two.
Maryborough, Queensland, as we remember it,
was a very musical place, but its chief talent was
amateur, not professional. Mrs. Fairclough, while
singing there on 16th ult., was, we learn, compelled to
request her accompanist to retire, and sang her solos
without his assistance.
Madame Eistori, the great Italian actress,
writes of Lord Loftus that Sydney is now governed by
one who is capable of helping Art forward. Lord Loftus
has helped it forward by not attending one of the Patti
or Urso concerts. However, perhaps he thought that
the artistes named didn’t need helping.
An Evening News reporter, who held
Strathearu in Ned Jones’ Cup Consultation, witnessed
the race and thought that Secundus, not Stratheam,
was third horse. Forgetting that there was a certain
amount divisible among starters and non-starters, our
friend, who is not a sporting man, sold his Stratheorn
ticket to a smart friend after the race for £1 He went
to the office, discovered, when too late, that Stratheorn
was third, and that de had lost £199. He wept. He’d
caught a salmon and thought it was a catfish.
Madame Eistori writes to a friend in ‘ dear
Sydney,' of which (to use her own words) ‘ I deplore the
geographical position which renders my return to it
impossible.’ She says she has since her visit to Aus-
tralia made two artistic tours —one to Spain, in 1878
and the other to Scandinavia, in 1879. She speaks of
the Spanish towns as much changed for the worse,
politically and otherwise, but was delighted with Sweden
and Norway. King Oscar, of Sweden, she says, is atrue
Maecenas in art, speaks Italian perfectly, and conf err ed
great honours upon her.
Baroness Burdett-Coutts has been in the habit
of bestowing exceeding patronage on Mr. Henry Irving,
the tragedian. It is said that there was recently a dis-
turbance in the servants’ hall, and that the butler, when
sent for by the Baroness, explained matters as follows:
—“ Beggin’ your ladyship’s pardon. Which we humbly
desire to explain our conduct, having only one complaint
to make. We do not hobject to Mr. Enery Irvin at
breakfast, though it be every day; nor do we hobject to
Mr. Enery Irvin at lunch and dinner, though he do
rarely miss; nor do we not hobject to Mr. Enery Irvin
at supper every night of our lives. But what we do
most respectfully hobject to is, that whenever any one
of ns has a hevening hout, we should be expected to
go to the dress suckle of ,the Lyceum and clap con-
tinuous.”
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
A well-known Sydney sporting barber landed
the Petrea double for a thousand.
A schnapper fishing club is being organised at
Balmain.
W.Trickett offers to row Lay cock in best and best
boats giving odds, but Laycock ‘ no sabboe.'
Pearce is likely to be matched against either
W. Trickett or Dick Hickey in watermen’s boats.
Under the auspices of the Sydney Amateur
Soiling Club, races for 24ft. and 18ft. boats take place on
the 3rd instant for Commodore Hyam’s trophies.
It is rumoured that the betting about the
Intercolonial Eight Oar Race is £lOO to an egg shell
against New South Wales.
At Bathurst, the Parramatta Alfred Club have
beaten the local team in one innings with 94 runs to
spore.
A salmon seven-and-a-half lbs in weight, 2ft in
length and 14in in :girth was the other day caught and
exhibited in Hobart Town.
A string test gig is being built for the Glebe
Rowing Club by Donnelly. It is likely to be the fastest
in Sydney.
The Melbourne eight do not appear to have
made any very profound impression on those of our
crew who have seen them at practice.
Mr. T. P. Whistler, of the Bank of New Zea-
land, Newcastle, successfully consulted Mr. Ned Jones
in re the Sydney Cux>—£9so. Dr. Sir W. H. Gordon,
baronet, of Murrurundi, ‘ came in second.’
Mr. P. J. Clarke, honorary trainer to the
N.S.W. Intercolonial Eight Oar Crew, in responding to
the receptionremarks made by Mr. H. G. Turner, on the
arrival of the crew at Melbourne, said that he con-
sidered ‘ the N.S.W. crew was not in the race ’ —so says
the Argus —that ‘ they had great difficulty in Sydney
to get up a crew, but they determined not to let these
matches fall through.’ . . . . ‘ they would learn
something in outrigger rowing, a thing in which they
were very deficient.’ What a confession to make! even
in an hotel! This is rough on our colony.
The A. J. C. Autumn Meeting.
Want of space must be our excuse for not more
fully reporting the racing at the autumn meeting of
the A.J.C., which was more than usually successful—
though perhaps less in point of exciting finishes than
of fine weather and large attendance. The arrangements
made by Mr. Clibborn, secretary to the club, were almost
perfect, and the only event which occurred to mar the
enjoyment of either day’s racing was the unfortunate
accident which occurred during the race for the Leger,
and which has since resulted in the death of the young
jockey Clarke. Subjoined are the results ot the races ;■
First Dat, Monday March 29.
The Hurdle Race.—A handicap sweepstakes of 5 sovs.
each, 1 forfeit, with 100 sovs. added. Second horse
20 sovs. from the prize. About 2 miles and a half.
Mr. James Mace’s ch. g. Express, by Peter Wilkins,
aged. 9 st 21b (F. Hill) 1
T. S. Clibborn’s bg Esmonde (late Torpedo), aged,
lOst (Corigan) 2
R. Howie’s chm Zephyr, 5 yrs, 10 st 2 lb (Scolie) 3
Six started—Pomrae-de-terre, the Hatter and Deer
being the horses not placed. Deer led over the first
fence but slipped and fell at the fourth hurdle. Express
was the first to land in the straight. Zephyr and Esmonde
hard on him. Express drew away and won cleverly by
four lengths from Esmonde, who beat Zephyr for second
place by a length. Time, 5 min. 16 6-10 secs.
The Autumn Stakes, a sweepstakes of 10 sovs. each, 1
forfeit, with 100 sovs added ; for three-years-old and
upwards; second horse 20 sovs from the prize.
mile.
Mr. T. Ivory’s b h Sweetmeat, 5 yrs, by Yattendon—
Sultana, 9st 31b P. Pigott 1
Howie’s g c Suwarrow, 3 yrs, by Snowden—Phizgig,
Bst 21bs Walker 2
A. K. Finlay’s b c Caspian, 3 yrs, by King of the
Ring—Seaspray, Bst 21bs St. Albans 3
J. Eales’sbr c Sunshine, 3 yrs, Bst2lbs..,S. Davis 0
Four started, the betting being 5 to 4 on Suwarrow.
The latter turned into the straight with a trifling lead
of Sweetmeat who, however, won after a desperate
struggle by a short neck. Caspian was three lengths
away. Time, 2 m 47 8-10 secs.
The Champagne Stakes, a sweepstakes of 20 sovs
each, 6 forfeit; for two-year-old; colts, Bst 101 b, and
fillies, Bst 81b; the owner of the second horse to save
his stake, and the winner to give two dozen of cham-
pagne to the committee. Five furlongs.
Mr. E. De Mestre’s b c Grand Prix, by the Marquis
—Art Union J. Morrison 1
Hon. J. P. Bell’s ch c Waterloo, by Epigram—
Wheatsheaf Walker 2
Hon. James White’s b f Sapphire, by the Drummer
Amethyst (Huxley) 3
Eleven started. Grand Prix was the favourite, and
led into the straight, but Waterloo come with such a
rush that Mr, De Mestre’s colt only won by a short
half-length. Time—l min 5 secs.
The St, Leger Stakes. —A sweepstakes of 30 sovs each,
10 ft.: for three-years-old; colts, Bst lOlbs ; fillies, Bst
51bs. The second horse to receive 60 sovs out of the
stakes. The forfeit to be paid before 4 p.m. on the
Saturday preceding the race, or the nominator will be
liable for the whole stake. If mile.
Hon. W. J. Clarke’s bf Petrea, by King of the Ring—
Mischief, Bst lOlbs T. Hailes 1
Mr. Q. Lee’s hr f Nellie, Bst 71bs by Tim Whifiler (im-
ported)—Nellie Colley 2
Mr. A. Loder’s bre The Pontiff, Bst lOlbs, by Yatten-
don—The Nun Kennedy 3
Mr. W. Forrester’s blk c Gipsy Cooper, Bst lOlbs
G. Thompson 0
Mr. G. Donnelly’s br c Falmouth, Bst lOlbs...Huxley 0
Mr. R. Howie’s b c Faublas, Bst lOlbs Walker 0
Betting: 5 to 2 on Petrea, 4 to 1 v. Nellie, 6 to I bar
two.
Petrea, whose jockey had held her back for some
time, was brought to the front after going over the tan
crossing. She increased her advantage to four lengths ;
Nellie, pressed by Pontiff, afterwards lessened the
leader’s advantage by half. Petrea led into the straight
with her field in trouble, and though Nellie made a game
effort, she could not overhaul the leader, who won
easily by three lengths, the same distance separating
Pontiff from Nellie. Six started.
The Doncaster Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of
6 sovs each, 1 ft, with 100 sovs added; for all horses.
Second horse 20 sovs from the prize. 1 mile and a
furlong.
Mr. E. M’Carthy’s ch f Queensland, 3 yrs, by Drum
Major—Miss Newbold, 6st 71b Emsworth 1
Mr. W. Freeman’s b h Sunlight, 4 yrs, by Gemma
di Vergy, 7st 41b Murphy 2
Mr. T. Ivory’s br h Master Avenal, 4 yrs, by Julian
Avenal, 6st 101 b Nicholson 3
Fifteen came to the post. Queensland led for almost
the whole distance. Halfway round the bend Santa Cruz
tripped and fell, and the Dean, War hawk, Auckland, and
Star falling over him, horses and riders were mixed, one
unfortunate jockey receiving injuries from which he ha,
since died. Sunlight went up second at the home turn
but he only got as far as the quarter of the filly,
won by nearly a length. Master Avenal was beaten tv
a neck for second place. Time, Im. 59 7-16 secs.
The Trial Stakes, a sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each, 1 ft.*
with 100 sovs. added; for all horses which have not
a prize exceeding 50 sovs. in value up to time of
j entrance. Second horse 20 sovs. from the prize, j
mile and a quarter.
Hon. J. P. Bell’s b c Lothair, Epigram—Legend. 2
yrs, 6 st 81b (Cornwell) f
Mr. W. S. Hill’s ch f Clarenza, 3 years, Bst 2 lbs.
I (S. Davis) "•••; 2
H. J. Adams’s b g Nemo (late Happy Joe), aged,
I Bst 13 lbs (Pickering) 3
I Thirteen started. Lothair, who was the favourite at
5 to 2, went to the front, was never caught, and won
by two lengths. Time, 2 min. 18 2-10 secs.
Second Day, Wednesday, March 31.
Flying Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of 5 sots
each, 1 ft, with 100 sovs added. Second horse 20 sots
from the prize. Three-quarters of a mile.
Mr W. S. Hill ns ch f Clarenza, by Kelpie, 3 yrs,
6st 121 b Campbell 1
Mr. E. De Mestre’s b c Chesterfield, 3 yrs, 7st 41b
Riley 2
Mr w"F. Buchanan’s bf Star, 5 yrs, 6st 21b (car-
ried 51b over) Cuff 3
Fifteen started. Clarenza won by a nose. Star beat-
ing Blantyre, the fourth horse, by a short half head.
Queensland was fifth. Time. 1m 18 4-10 secs.
Autumn Maiden Stakes, a sweepstakes of 5 son
each, 1 ft. with 100 sovs added. For maiden horses u
the time of - entrance. Penalties for winning—once,
71b • twice or more, 101 b. Second horse 20 sovs froa
the prize. One mile and a quarter.
Mr R Howie’s be Faublas, by Maribyrong—Caress,
3’yrs, Bst4lb R. Walker \
Hon. J. P. Bell’s ch c Waterloo, by Epigram—
Wheatsheaf, 2 yrs, 6st 81b St. Albans 2
Mr. E. De Mestre’s b c Good Morning, by The Mar-
quis—Lamoma, 2 yrs, 6st 81b M-Mahon 3.
Faublas won by three lengths. Six started. Time—l
2 min 17 2-10 secs.
Sydney Cup, a handicap sweepstakes of 20 sovs each, 5
ft., or 1 if declared by March 3, 1880, with 500 son
added; second horse to receive 50 sovs, and third 20
sovs, from the prize. Two miles.
Mr. W. A. Long’s b f Petrea, by King of the Ring—Mis.
chief, 3 yrs, 7st 111 b Hailes 1
Hon. James White’s b h Martindale, by Maribyrnong—
Maiubroce, 5 yrs. Bst 71b Huxley 2
Mr J Tait’s brh Stratheam, by the Barb Mavourneen,
5 yrs. 7st 81b •• • Murphy 3
Petrea and Martindale were the favourites and started
at 6 to 1, Strathearu being next in favor at 8 to 1, and
Sweetmeat and Hopeful at 10 to 1. Entering the
straight Sunlight led, but at the distance Hailes
brought Petrea up on the inside. The latter left her
field at once and won easily by three lengths, Martin,
dale, the second horse, beating Stratheam after a
desperate race by a short head. Then came Sunlight
and Hopeful two lengths away, Gipsy Cooper and
Croydon were last. Time, 3m. 37 5-10 s. 26 started.
Breeders’ Plate, a sweepstakes of 20 sovs. each,
5 ft., with 350 sovs. added (being 50 sovs. each from
the Hon. E. King Cox, Andrew Town, John Lee, E.
De Mestre, and James Wilson, Esqs., and 100 sovs.
from the A.J.C.), for then two-year-olds, bred by the
above-named gentlemen; colts Bst. 51b., fillies Bst.
31b. The second horse to receive 50 sovs, and the
third to save his stake. The breeder of the winner
to receive a piece of plate ot the value of 50 sovs., to
be purchased out of the stakes. Six furlongs.
M. W. A. Long’s br. f. Geraldine, by Yattendon—
Atholine Yeomans 1
Mr. E. De Mestre’s b.c. Grand Prix, by the Marquis
Art Union Morrison 2
Hon. J. White’s b.f. Sapphire, by the Drummer-
Amethyst Huxley 3
Mr. F. Wenthworth’s b.f. Otira, by Maribyrnong—
Telopea Wilkinson 0
Grifnd Prix was the favourite, 6 to 4 being laid on
him, but Geraldine won comfortably by a length and a
half. Four started. Time, 1 min. 19 8-10 secs.
Selling Plate of 100 sovs. For all horses ; weight
for age. The winner to be sold for £150; 71b allowed
for every reduction of £25 on the selling price down to
£5O. One mile and a quarter.
Mr. E. M’Carfhy’s ch f Queensland, by The Italian
Star of Peace, £5O, 3 yrs, 6st 21b Elmsworth 1
Mr. J. Abraham’s b c Balthazar, £5O, 3 yrs, 6st 51b
(including 41b over) F. Clark 2
Mr. W. A. Long’s b h First Lord, £lOO, aged, 6st
131 b J. Kean 3
Fifteen started. Queensland won by a long length
after a good race. First Lord two lengths away from
Balthazar. Time—2 min 16 6-10 secs.
Sapling Stakes, a sweepstakes of 5 sovs each, 1 ft,
with 100 sovs added. For two-year-olds. Colts Bst 71b,
fillies Bst 71b. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize.
The winner to be sold for 200 sovs. If entered to be
sold tor 300 sovs, to carry 71b, if not to be sold, 121 b
extra. Five furlongs.
Mr. T. Lamond’s b or bl f Lady Emma, by Yatten-
don —My Nancy, £2OO, Bst 51b Connor 1
Hon. J. P. Bell’s b c Lothair, by Epigram—Legend
(not to be sold), 9st 51b Walsh 2
Mr. B. Richards’s b c Kamilaroi, by Goldsbrough—
Fleetwing (not to be sold), 9st 51b...G. Thompson 3
Lady Emma won a good race by three-quarters of 1
length. Time, Im. 7 sec. Nine started.
The Industries, Businesses, &c., of Sydney
MR. A. W. CORMACK'S STEAM COOPERAGE.
The cooperage business participates in the all
round development of trade which is going on in all
parts of the colony, and at no establishment is this
more patent than at the steam cooperage works of Mr.
A. W. Cormack, at the head of Darling Harbour.
In point of appliances and capabilities, this cooperage
is a long way ahead of any similar establishment in
this colony, and a splendid business is done in all the
various branches of the work. In connection
with this establishment a very curious occurrence
took place some time back. Mr. Cormack finding his
business rapidly increasing introduced the steam appli-
ances which could alone enable him to meet the
demands made upon him. The appliances greatlj
lightened the labour of the men and would have given
increased work. But some few malcontents decided on
visiting the introduction of machinery, and got np a
strike. The public could hardly believe that at this
time of day the introduction of machinery could have
been resisted, and the strike being condemned by all
branches of trade soon came to an end. Now, three
times the amount of business is done at the establish-
ment, and the men are saved from the slavish laborious
portion of the work. The principal appliances which
Mr. Cormack has introduced are those for cutting p<*
shaping the staves. They are driven by a 6-h.p. engine,
and works with marvellous rapidity and exactness.
The best kinds of timber are used for the varions
descriptions of casks, and the work from beginning to
• end is carried out under the immediate supervision
an experienced foreman. There are seven very law*
sheds at the Darling Harbour portion of the works, wkfl*
about thirty hands are kept in regular work, and there ii
another branch at the Circular Quay. The principal
business of the colony in the wine, tallow, and vinegar
cask trade is done by Mr. Cormack, and he is arranpiW
now for a further extension of his business.
MR. M. MAXWELL'S TOBACCO FACTORY, MARKET
STREET.
It is fully known to the trade that out of this nnpre
tentious looking factory there is turned an article tnw
has no superior iu the colony. The famous brand®
tobacco is sought for throughout the city and in all
principal towns, and it is now only a matter of difficult!
for the present demand to he met. The manuwe-
tore of this tobacco is absolutely perfect, the process
being such that the essential properties and the are®
of the leaf are fully preserved. The best Virginian
leaf only is used, and the manufactured article is
out pure, not a particle of drug being used.
Maxwell has had thirty-three years’ practical expire
ence in the manufacturing of tobaccos and has M
foreman ot some of the principal factories in
he consequently brings to his establishment no sm
amount of experience. The work is done under


•„i nTl and he has the assistance of the best
own supervision tion of the establishment is
workmen. exce llence of every piece manufactured,
pledged to the e tfae letter M . The demand for
as.it hi Sydney, Maitland, and Bathurst is
this ~n (i the applications for agencies for the
roag f ro m all parts. We give this brief
sale are ec ti o n with our articles on the industries
notice |”tv wd any visitors may call on Mr. Maxwell
of the clt Y’ . . the factory and inspect the article he
to have a look . g d £ ne direct with tlle c(m ntry
manufacture ds are fastened in strong boxes
£ring the unchangeable M brand.
MESSRS HUME AND PEGRUM'S CORDIAL
MANUFACTORY.
manufactory, which is situated at Regent-street
T£ s does one of the most varied and extensive
111 Sydney, and we doubt not that hotel pro-
bUS?nrs would derive a considerable amount of pleasure
L” n Mneral inspection of the works First of all
£ are extensive and are specially adapted to
and round about there is ample room and
tbe h nnnvenience for the cartage and despatch business.
Offices of the firm are in front, and at the rear is
nrincipal department of the works Here are
1116 ml of P the newest descriptions of appliances, and
aevera Fh last seven months
thevbave for the last seven months
SS in const mt operation day and
vbt Some of the most expert
bSs are engaged in this branch
s n very large amount of work
if got through. The work here
Irried on expeditiously and
systematically and thorough clean-
ness is the unvarying rule. There
.“two separate steam engines and
£,tlcrs giving a total of 14 horse
newer, and from this fact alone
idea of the extent of the
business can be obtained. Steam
r aid on to all parts of the estab-
f ament and power for pumping
j washing is at hand in every
riireetion. There are various divi-
sions for the washing and bottling,
" d again, there is a division for the
water and the cordial branches. The
latter is carried on in a separate
building, and, judging from its
internal appearance, a most pro-
mising business is done in this line
alone. There are huge casks
ranging around the rooms, and
here are nearly sixty varieties
of cordials. This branch is
anecially under the personal
supervision of Mr. Hume, who
by the way, is a chemist of
ipnethy experience in this par-
ticular line, and the factory m
this respect Stands unrivalled in
the colonies. Upwards of fifty
kinds of cordials are manufac-
tured here, includng the cele-
brated Orange Bitters, Golden
Bitters, Strawberry and Ginger
Wines &c. The cordial factory
is furnished with extensive racks
and binns capable of holding 400
dozen bottles. Adjoining is a
furnace filled with large boilers,
and steam is laid on to admit ot
the sugar being boiled by steam
or otherwise. The mineral waters
manufactured by this firm have
won the highest prizes (sixteen
in number) wherever exhibited,
and they have secured the patron-
_ . 1 1 .11 —TnOII 1H
aee of the leading medical men m
Svdnev for the manufacture of medicinal waters. One of
their special manufactures is their ginger ale, which has
grown into such a popularity as to test to the utmost
the capabilities of the works. They include in them
manufactures special health-preserving waters for use
aboard ships, and their business connection ( «tends to
all the adjoining colonies. Them celebrated extract of
garsparilla has won the special recommendation of the
medical profession, and already the imported com-
pounds are beginning to feel the competition A splen-
did city and country trade is done, and to the latter
particular attention is given in the way of substantial
and safe packing, prompt despatch, &c. Work is given
to about forty hands, and about ten vehicles are
kept in constant use—in connection with this there are
fine roomy stables on the premises. The firm import
bottles direct to their own order, and at the time of
our visit there were numerous crates bein received and
stored. Mr. Hume does the interior management and
Mr Pegrum the commercial business outside. They
have competed at the International against all-comers,
and, we hear, with the right success.
MESSRS. BIDDELL BROTHERS' CONFECTIONERY
WORKS, BARLING HARBOUR.
Messrs Biddell Bros., whose town establishment is
495 George-street, have been in business in Sydney for
22 years, and own very extensive, neat, and
substantial confectionery works at the h ead
of Darling Harbour, where they manufacture
all the goods in which they deal, some kinds
of fancy confectionery of limited demand
alone excepted. These latter they import from
Europe, and they are also heavy importers
of trade such as almonds, gums, gum
paste, and flavours. They commenced, like
most successful Sydney manufacturers, in a
small way, hut have kept pace with the period
in the application to their work of steam,
water, and machinery. Each of the three
partners of the house has at different times
visited the chief English and Continental
factories for the purpose of gaining a knowledge
of the latest improvements, the result being that
they are now in a position to produce goods
of the highest class at prices which almost
completely shut out the imported article and
secure to the establishment a large proportion
of the confectionery business of the colony.
The works are always open to|the inspection of
persons interested, and a visit will suffice to
show not only that the very best materials
and the cleanest processes are employed, but
that the results of the application of labour-
saving machinery to Messrs. Biddell Bros,
business are as wonderful as those attained
by similar means in other branches of industry.
With the exception of some small lines of the
most expensive goods, the lozenges are made
by machinery throughout. This involves the
employment of machines for grinding and
dressing the sugar and melting the gum, and
for mixing, rolling, cutting, and stamping the
lozenges. There are on the premises many
other labour-saving machines, worked by steam
and hand power, for sawing, cutting, mincing,
and moulding. A powerful vertical engine is
employed, and the boiler which supplies it
produces steam for a multitude of steam-
boiling pans which are used in addition to
the numerous furnaces i n the works.
It also supplies the steam necessary for
many drying stores; and nearly the whole of
the steam generated, including that which
is exhausted by the engine, is utilised for
■ heating purposes, and is conducted, when
condensed into water, back to the supply
tank. Side by side with steam pipes
through the factory are pipes for gas
and cold water—the former for heating and lighting,
the latter for cooling. The water gravitates all over the
building from tanks in the uppermost story supplied by
the Sydney waterworks. The comfit machinery is very
complete, and furnished with the most recent inventions,
as are also the arrangements for the production of all
other articles, such as creams, faudants, liqueurs, boiled
•weets, and gum, chocolate, and piped goods. The firm
make large quantities of marmalade and jams from the
best colonial and Tasmanian fruits, and devote a great
deal of attention to the preservation of Queensland and
South Sea Island pine-apples, both in crystallized forms
and in syrups; also to the manufacture of syrups for
drinking, and of bride-cake, gum paste ornaments,
and table decorations. They employ on an average
over 70 hands, besides numerous tinsmiths and case-
makers, and have just added to their plant machinery
for pills-coating, a kind of work which has until very
recently been done exclusively in America, but which
“bey have after many tedious and costly experiments at
last succeeded in performing satisfactorily. Their loose
goods, cakes, and sweetmeats alike, are most attractive
m appearance and quality, while the elegance of the
Parcels in which many of their products are put up has
no doubt exerted a stimulating influence on the trade.
The factory is kept very steadily going, and is every
month turning out increased quantities; but were the
demand greater, or the competion less, Messrs. Biddell
Bros, could without difficulty and without enlarging
their premises, or adding to their machinery, manufac-
ture at least 50 per cent, more goods.
DALVEEN'S GREAT NORTHERM HOTEL.
One of the most promising houses recently opened in
the metropolis is the Great Northern Hotel, near the
comer of George-street and Charlotte-place, at the
northern end of the city. The proprietor is Mr. T. M.
Dalveen, a gentleman well-known in Sydney and the
principal districts of the western interior of the colony.
Mr Dalveen, in opening the Great Northern, was deter-
mined to meet a long felt want in the immediate
neighbourhood, and provide for visitors an additional
attraction in the way of a first-class family hotel. He
has certainly supplied the want already. The hotel
is very commodious, and quite suited to requirements,
and the furnishing having been carried out on a very
liberal scale, comfort, convenience, and elegance are
secured at the same time. The hotel has become very
popular with visitors from all parts, and has won
the patronage of distinguished French and other
arrivals. The hotel is splendidly ventilated through-
out, the bedrooms being large and lofty, and all
the conveniences and comforts of a private house are
secured. The dining hall, for the use of the private
portion of the hotel, is one of the finest in the city, and
is very suitably furnished. The hotel extends round to
George-street, where there is another bar for the con-
venience of the street trade, and at the rear a large,
well-ventilated luncheon-room which has proved a
boon to the business men of tke surrounding neigh-
bourhood. A first-class table is kept, aud iu this essen-
tial alone the hotel has become very popular. The
principal bar is owe of the most elegant iu the city, and
is supplied with the very best brands of liquors, wines,
&c. The proprietor gives the hotel his persoufil super-
intendence, aud as it is situated iu the heart of the
city, close to the ’bus routes aud the steamers’ wharves,
it cannot but secure aud retain a large amount of public
patronage.
Watson’s Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay.
We give herewith a sketch of the well-known Paragon
Hotel, at the Circular Quay, showieg the projected
improvements in the way of balconies, etc., decided upon
by the proprietor, Mr. E. A. Watson. The Paragon is
one of the best built edifices in Sydney, being con-
structed of the best Pyrmont stone, with a base on the
solid rock. The cellarage is extensive, dry, cool, and
fitted with appliances not found elsewhere in the city
for receiving or removing casks, etc. It has two floors,
one three feet beneath the surface of the harbour water,
and the other ten or twelve feet. The hotel through-
out is built on first-class principles, the lower portion
being devoted to parlours and commercial rooms, and
the upper portion to suites of bedrooms, etc. At the
southern end is a splendid dining-hall, where a table
d’hote is served for the convenience of the officials
of the Custom House, the tramway, the Lands aud
Mines offices, Ac, Some time back Mr. Watson en-
larged the hotel considerably to meet the increased de-
mand on his space; and while devoting the lower
portions to offices for customs agents, &c., he has been
enabled to absorb the upper as additional accommoda-
tion. Little need be said of the style in which the
hotel is managed; few houses in the metropolis have
enjoyed such unvarying prosperity. We give a sketch
of the Paragon for a particular reason. Mr. Watson,
consulting the convenience and comforts of his patrons,
and seeing that tho hotel was exposed to the north and
easterly gales, decided on having some very important
additions, in the shape of spacious balconies which
would afford accommodation above aud shelter below.
The idea, was given to Mr. Albert Bond, formerly the
City Architect, and a gentleman of recognised great
abilities, and he drew up plans for a substantial, costly,
and most elegant improvement. The sketch shows the
balcony as designed, and no one could doubt that the
additions would add materially to our street architec-
ture. But the City Improvement Board could not see
their way clear to accepting the designs, but offered to
Mr. Watson something which had been introduced
from Melbourne, and which were not nearly so ele-
gant. This was of course refused, and the work in
consequence is not at present being proceeded with.
The matter at issue is one of considerable public in-
terest and of particular importance to property holders.
In our next issue we will deal with the whole affair.
WOMAN ITEMS.
George Roe, a poor Virginian mechanic, tell in love
with a young lady of wealth and fashion. Her parents
forbade her to marry him ; but she did, and went to
live with him in a very humble home. But she found
poverty very hard to bear, and her growing discontent
was observed with alarm by her husband. The hus-
band thought that a New Year’s present would make
her happy, and stole a sealskin sacque for her. He is
in prison, and the wife forgives and consoles him.
An American woman refused to lend her husband to
a lady friend to accompany the latter home on the
ground that it is not well for a man to be alone.
A young lady attending balls and parties should have
a female chaperone until she is able to call some other
chap her own.
A man recently said : ‘ Lend me a dollar. My wife
has left me, and I want to advertise that I am not re-
sponsible for her debts.’
Miss Drevar, a young lady belonging to fashionable
society in San Francisco, has shocked her friends by
announcing her betrothal to a Chinaman.
When a Newcastle girl kisses a young man she
reaches out in a vague and restless sort of way like an
automaton worked by steam, grabs him around the
windpipe and gives him a smack that loosens his teeth.
A man and his wife were prisoners in an American
gaol. He was kept close in a cell, while she was given
the liberty of the corridor. She flirted with the gaoler
and a horse-thief, and the husband could see it through
the bars that prevented him from interfering. He
committed suicide.
Petrea, the Winner of the A.J.C. Leger
and Sydney Cup.
We present our readers with a portrait of
Petrea, winner of the two big events at the A. J. C.
meeting. The filly was sketched by our artist im-
mediately after her victory in the Leger. Petrea,
who is full sister to First King, being by King of
the Ring out of Mischief, is now the property of
Mr. W. A. Long, by whom she was recently pur-
chased from the Hon. W. J. Clarke, of Sunbury,
Victoria. The bookmakers lose heavily byPetrea’s
victory.
A Dish of Trifle.
IV.
(COOKED FOR THE CULLETIN.)
A Popular Dry Measure.—Holtermann got
his wealth in quartz.
At E and wick. — Hardly weight for ago —simple-
tons.
A Vocal Monopoly.— The only Singers now
come from America.
A young lady of Darlinghurst says that she
never stands upon trifles. No ! but she stands
upon small nines.
Passing the Time. —Going under the G.P.O.
clock.
Henry Taylor says “ The world knows
nothing of its greatest men.” It does not, Henry,
and that is why the patrician M’Elhone is un-
known to the Courts of Europe.
Buchanan’s opinion is like a Minstrel bill, or
a freshly-branded bullock. Its
variety is its prime feature.
A resident of Ashfield want
ed to know why he is like Pope a
“ spider.” We gave it up.
cause he ‘ lives along the line.
His lines would not have fallen
in pleasant places had he given
himself up. The doctors would
have done the same.
Why art thou sad ;
What has caused the sorrow ? my
pretty, pretty Lou.l
Wherefore do I those little pearly
tears of sadness see ? .
Have I done aught to pain thee?
Speak ! oh speak to me!
Why, I have been onions peeling for
to-morrow’s stew.
The Theatrical Cam-
paign.—‘‘A field of glory is a
field for all. Pope and J. L. H.
are of the same mind.—Pro-
vincial News. Fancy an old
stockman stage-struck. But
it was so. He and a half-
gallon of rum fell in the way of
one of the coaches of Cobb.
A Pyrmont Man (elevated)
went home the other night
singing that aria from the
classic opera of “ The Bold
Fisherman,” entitled “ Our
Fresh-water Trip. ’’ He tripped
into one of the small and
beautiful lakes which form the
great scenic feature of this
prosperous but unromantic
suburb, and rose full up his
soul full of wrath, his mouth
of curses, and his body of ten*
watered grog.
Stir it up. — Tho by the
mass he did it. ’ (Heathen
author.) For a “prettier
word than stammered in
last Iweek issue, read ‘‘than Thomas ”
Very Blank Verse.— He was m wild,. ™
Woolloomooloo. Down the steps of Butler he
quickly sprang. Full were his arms of staves of
fife. Ever and anon a stave (another kmd) of the
“ Babies on the block,” he whistled to the hsten-
ing air. (Our poet knows something of the listen-
inf air. I don f t-but it looks pretty.) A piece of
the rind of Seville’s golden fruit envious of that
happy youth, contrived to meet his foot. Kesuit
in brief— I broken bread, baker, and Babies on
the block.”
LANFRE.
FUN AND FANCY.
Enough for a scent —A penny cigar.
Time gallops under the spur of the moment.
A firm fouudaii*!— Establishing a partnership.
The ra tlsit is but no cook can make it qnail ’
The general appearance of a tipsy man is
dizzypated.
Would it be vulgar to call soothing-syrup a
kidnapper P
A water course —A series of temperance
What kind of wood comes the nearest to
making a fire ? Fir. ....
Wages—The sweet oil with which human
machinery is greased.
A hen is a model for dancers. She never
leaves her set except to eat and drink.
‘My wedding trip,’ said the groom, as) he
stumbled over the bride’s train.
When two men put their heads together
it is for mutual advantage, but it ain’t so
with goats. , . , , .
But few men can handle a hot lamp-chimney
and say there is no place like home at the same
time. . . .
Owing to lack of curtains, there are no
curtain lectures in this country, but only
musquito-bar buzzings.
Yes, said Johnny, lapsus may be the
Latin for “slip,” but when mother laps us
it usually means a slipper.
A child being asked what were the three
great feasts of the Jews, replied: Breakfast,
dinner, and supper.
Why are there not so many characters in a
country town as there are in a large city ?
—Because it is a smaller place.
* Waiter, what is this ? ’ ‘ It’s bean soup
sir.’ ‘ No, matter what it has been, the
question is—what is it now ? ’
Many a man thinks of heaven as he thinks ot
home—a place where he believes he can go
when all other places are closed to him.
One of the inexplicable phenomena of
Nature is the effect the emptying of a pan of
ashes has in suddenly reversing the direction
of the wind. , . , ~
The man who fell off the fence into the
brambles was much nettled by the occurrence.
We hope thistle be appreciated,
The man who hires a plumber always pays;
* 'wE Usefulness is considered, the man who
smokes cigarettes dwindles into insignifi-
cance by the side of the individual who-
smokes hams.
The man who never smelt powder is the fellow who-
never held his nose to a woman’s cheek.
What punctuation mark would be appropriately used
with an order to replenish the fire ? But:
A witness in court was asked if a party to a suit was
a truthful man. ‘ No,’ he answered ; ‘ he’d rather lie at
sixty days than tell the truth at cash.
WATSON'S PARAGON HOTEL, CIRCULAR QUAY.
PETREA, THE WINNER OF THE A.J.C. LEGER AND SYDNEY CUP.
Nice Isn’t it?
“ Charley! What is osculation ?”
“ Osculation, Jenny, dear,
Is a learned expression, queer.
For a nice sensation.
I put my arm thus around your waist
Your head sinks to its resting place;
This is approximation.
You need not fear —
There’s no one here —
Your lips quite near—
I then ”
“ Oh, dear!"
Jenny, that’s osculation.”


Mr. Alderman Hordern.
Recent events in the Municipal Council have given
the name of Mr. Edward Hordern a good deal of pro-
minence in matters of great concern to the citizens of
Sydney, and a portrait, with a brief sketch of his life,
cannot but be of general interest at the present time.
Mr. Hordern is a native of the colony, and was bom in
King-street in this city in 1838. He is the son of Mr.
Anthony Hordern, senior, who left a name which for
the past fifty years has perhaps more than any other
been associated with the active and spirited develop-
ment of the wholesale and retail trade of Sydney.
The subject of our notice, Mr. Edward Hordern, was
educated in England, and after completing his course
of studies, while not yet twenty-two years of age, he
started on a tour throughout the manufacturing cities
of Great Britain and the Continent. The knowledge
he thus gained of the industrial and higher arts has
ever since been of the greatest use to him; and he has
of late applied it to civic affairs with credit to himself
and benefit to the community. On his return to the
colony, Mr. Hordern entered into partnership with his
brother, Mr. Lebius Hordern, and their establishment
in George-street has for years been one of the chief
soft-goods emporiums of the city. His brother
having retired, Mr. Edward became sole proprietor of
the business, and he now enjoys, as the fruits of his
uprightness and enterprise, one of the finest connec-
tions in Sydney. But Mr. Hordern, while developing his
wholesale and retail trade, has all along taken a great
interest in political affairs. He was actively associated
with the political events of 1856, and gave to the leaders
of the time very valuable assistance in winning for the
people of this colony several of the grand constitu-
tional privileges they now enjoy. Mr. Hordern has
always kept a watchful eye on city affairs, and has
exposed from time to time numerous instances
of municipal mis-management. At the las
municipal election he was requested to stand for
Fitzroy Ward, and consenting purely in the interests
of the city—-for affairs at the Town Hall had becom e
very serious—he was returned over his opponent by th e
largest majority ever secured by any candidate in
Sydney. He has quietly and determinedly brought
about many impx-ovements; and if he is anxious for
the architectural improvement of bis native city,
he has already, in respect of his own splendid
buildings in various parts of Sydney, shown what
we require in the way of healthy and handsome
edifices. Mr. Hordern has been twice solicited to stand
for East and West Sydney ; his business, however, will
permit only of his attending to municipal affairs, and
it is some satisfaction to know that in these he is deter-
mined to effect further important changes. We cor-
dially wish him a continuance of his present mercantile
success, and of his opportunities of doing public good.
BRIEF MENTION.
Money-lenders are jubilant.
Mr. Russell, the Government astronomer, say»
the man in the moon is a lunar-tic.
Anyone with half his eyes open can see that
our motto is mult um in parvo.
New classical reading for Easter Sunday —“ De
goose-tibus,” &c.
‘ In the midst of life we are in debt,’ says a
well-known fashionable Sydney parson.
Mr. G. F. Want is always in a hansom now—
but then it isn’t always race week !
The Bulletin has been very anxiously inquired
for at Bourke. This is as it should be.
Willy Dawes has a new “flame”—she say*
she’s bound to like him Willy Nilly.
Mr. Thomas Donovan, one of the editors o
the Express, is not a Frenchman. However, he cut
his hair short, for he has thraveiled on the continong.
New reading of an old proverb—Palma (m)
qui meruit ferat. Let him who deserves Agnes Palma,
take her. The lady is single.
David Buchanan smiles as he passes the Vic-
toria Theatre. The deluded working man, ha! hat
The Berry of Botany Bay, ha ! ha ! ha !
Neither John Davies nor Mr. Roseby suppor-
ted Petrea. They both went for Nellie. This is a dou-
ble.
David Buchanan, not Sir ’Enory, is tie>
coming dictator. At any rate David wanted to df .
taters for a wager with another man a little while ago _i]
On dit that Mr. Justice Windeyer always
makes up his mind before going into Court. If this is
so his position must be a sinecure ; but as his duties art
the reverse of light rumour must lie.
The Caiens Advebtiseb puts black rules
half-an-iuch thick round its obituary notices. See
Cairns and die ! We have been in Cairns and have sur-
vived.
Brandy smashes — egg noggs—cock-tails—
squashes—and John Collinses are to be had half-price
at the Metropolitan Bar since Mr. F. L. S. S. has
gone on Circuit.
Owing to the absence of Judge Windeyer from
town there will be no sittings for divorce until May 3rd
next. Petitioners feel this as hard but co-respondents
are overjoyed. Mr. G ’s occupation’s gone.
A Milesian domestic says that the foinest thing
in the whole of the exhibition is “ St. Patrick an’ the
two shnakes.” And the picture of the .Archbishop too
—isn’t it byootiful! Arrah!’
See, the conquering hero, comes, says the elec-
torate of the Clarence to the candidate for the con-
stituency, Mr. See, of Nipper and See, produce agents
of Sussex-street. Mr. See may prove a Nipper for the
electors.
Miss Whiteside is, according to the Evening
News, a gentleman. That journal, in a ‘ note on
current events,’ in Monday’s paper, says that the lady
is primus in Australia. But this was on Easter
Monday.
If you want to convey that a well-dressed,
empty-headed man looks like a donkey, the neatest way
of doing so is to say that his countenance ‘ wears a
supercilious smile of gentlemanly incapacity.’ This i*
a neat phrase, and is sure not to offend. •
Of a certain draughty, not to say windy, young
official of a certain big gaol in Sydney, it has been
maliciously remarked—though of course we don’t coin-
cide in the observation—that the only points in his face
are those of his delicately-tipped moustache.
Mr. John Young, the contractor, is said to
have made £20,000 by the Garden Palace and its ‘ men-
avelins.’ There are plenty of garden (Palace) parties at
Annaudale this season. John is the smartest man who
ever set foot in Sydney. We don’t bar Captain Cook or
John Davies.
Eighty dozen of bananas are exported weekly
to Townsville from Ah Chiug’s garden, says the second
local paragraph in the Cairns Advertiser. We like
the style of this. It’s so much more interesting than
the S. M. Herald’s first paragraph, which always
begins—“ The anniversary tea-meeting,” &c.
If the youngsters in and about Sydney
were taught to say ‘ mother ’ instead of ‘ ma,’ the
blood-curdling cry of a young goat in the adjoining pad-
dock would never cause an anxious parent to rush out
and see what was the matter with her precious darling.
We like a joke. There was a joke—we’re not
joking now —in the S. M. Herald of Saturday last.
Writing about the encampment at the Heads the
Herald’s special said that a man who was suffering a
recovery, when ordered to take ‘ front turn ’ presented
his back, and that he wasn’t altogether in error, tor he’d
put on his helmet the wrong way. So far the Herald’s
joke was all right. But we don’t like what followed viz.;
—‘and therefore if the position of his body happened to
be wrong the covering of his head was perfectly right.’
This is explaining a joke. There’s only one sort of jok«
needs explanation. We mean Herald jokes.
‘The ’Bus and Cab Mission,’ says Wednesday’
Herald, ‘ distributed 400 periodicals during last month
and many other works of usefulness continue to be
carried on with unabated zeal.’ Which, we suppose,
means that 400 tracts were poked at the noses of ’bus
and cab passengers by severe-lookingold women or stale
virgins with winter faces, blue noses, and bottle curls —
that 400 well-dressed, unoffending travellers, who
thought they were good-looking, and that they were
going to Woollahra or the Glebe, were compelled to
gaze on big tract headings which told them that they
were ‘ poor worms ’ and ‘ miserable sinners,’ and that
they were ‘ going to everlasting torment Ac.’
According to the S. M. Hebald special at
Middle Head, after the camp lights had been put out on
a recent evening, ‘ Some men were overheard discussing
the merits of dark and light brandy, others the address
delivered last Sunday ; some were regretting the impos-
sibility of playing ‘ Loo ’ on account of the absence of
light, and others again evinced considerable interest in
a pretty actress.’ We are thoroughly shocked. Not
one of the subjects alluded to was proper. * Bum and
true religion ’ are recognised as the two extremes, and
we object to 'brandy and last Sunday’s address’ being
substituted for them. The immorality of these sojer-
men is dreadful, and calls for reproof at the claws of the
old lady.
Martin Guest orated at the Bathurst column
on Monday night on the principles of protection, and
then introduced Mr. Brown to his audience. The Dailt
Twaddlegbaph devotes a local to the above interesting
facts, but adds that before anything practical could be
done, a heavy shower of rain fell and abruptly termina
ted the proceedings. A great many showers will fall be-
fore Martin does anything practical. Oh Martin, let us
quote to you the words of Angus— no, not Angus—but
Charles Mackay—
* If ill you do, if false you play
In summer among the flowers.
You will repent, you shall repay.
In winter among the showers.
John Donnellan Balfe, who represents West
Hobart, the largest of the Tasmanian constituencies, in
the Assembly, earned considerable literary distinction
during the Irish agitation of 1848. He is the finest
writer, best speaker, readiest wit and ablest constitu-
tional lawyer in Tasmania. He is 63 years of age, is
6ft. Sin. in height, weighs 23 stone, and was a life-
guardsman at 19. He is one of the oldest politicians in
Australasia and was Sub-Controller-General under the
Imperial regime. He is constantly getting himself
into trouble in Parliament by speaking too plainly, and
is a perfect master of invective. He is a strange mix-
ture of John Bright and John M‘Elhone, and though
he has faults he posseses abilities which would orna-
ment any legislature. He drinks Kinahan’s L.L., and
like a true Irishman shakes hands with all enemies,
political ones excepted.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE CULLETIN .)
VIII. —‘ THE SELF-MADE MAN ’
Is a temperance man, almost as a rule, and has a
wonderful facility for gathering to himself the loaves
and fishes so sought after in this wicked world. He has
slowly but surely risen in the social scale through his
own exertions. He is a public agitator, on small plat-
forms, a temperance orator. He is in the habit of
slapping his white flabby hand emphatically on his
ample chest, as he calls on his attentive listeners to
look at him, and see the results of a hard temperate
life. His favourite attitude is to stand with chest well
expanded and thumbs hooked into the arm holes of his
white waistcoat—a trick he learnt in more humble days
when a black coat, such as he now wears daily, was
a Sunday luxury, taken off and carefully laid by while
his mistress dished the dinner, and he in his favourite at-
titude talked to neighbours as he stood in his shirt sieves
at his open door. He is and always has been fond of good
living. In a few years, by a lucky speculation in iron—
probably for the Government—he steps quietly into
notoriety. He begins to take an interest in Parlia-
mentary proceedings, attends all electioneering meet-
ings, makes himself busy canvassing for some local man,
and is convinced it was entirely owing to his efforts
that the man was returned. The lucky man shakes him
by the hand publicly, gives him the entree to the House
where he can enjoy not only listening to the debates,
but detaining by the button the new member,
and talking to him in familiar terms before all the
assembled old members. He picks up all the political
knowledge he can and turns it to good account. He is
famous for getting up dinners and picnics, in which
various members of the House are included. Of course
they are all in connection with his member, and he
manages so well that beyond starting the idea and
seeing it properly carried out the cost to him is
nominal, and the generous supporters and contributors
are so gratified to see on what terms of equality he is
with all the grand people that they cheerfully pay for
the pleasure of seeing him eat at their expense. Altho’
he has given up the shop he is still a dabbler in iron,
watches the market closely, buys to advantage and
sells at a premium, takes up large Government con-
tracts, begins in his turn to give dinner parties, at
which his wife appears gorgeous in rustling silk and
shiny with gold ornaments, and perhaps a little natural-
timidity that all her acquired grandeur cannot, quite
suppress. Probably from the same cause she is re.
markably quiet. If she begin to chatter, her voluble
tongue might too easily disclose what her husband so
carefully keeps in the back-ground.
Our ‘ self-made’ man has many minds, and many ways
of occupying them; he is a spiritualist, also a Methodist,
will give his whole attention to a street preacher in the
day and attend Bright’s lectures at night; he is the
working man’s friend and lecturer, gives to all charities
which publish a list of the donors, is interested in most
of the charitable institutions, smoothes little orphans
down with his large soft hand, and speaks so unctuously
to them that the Superintendent gives him credit for an
equally large heart.
At last his cup of joy is full—in fact, runs over. His
working friends, who have long looked up to him in
more ways than one, elect to have him as their repre-
sentative in Parliament, and send him in with a large
majority. Now, behold our ‘ self-made ’ man daintily
kissing his own white fingers to his Parliamentary
friends, instead of obsequiously raising his hat and
istening deferentially, almost with servility, to their
remarks. His contracts are now managed through an
agent. A man who talks confidentially with the Premier,
and is on terms of equality with so many great men,
oould scarcely soil those large white hands with finger-
ing iron, although there was a time, he may still
remember, when his hands were grimy enough as he
left his day’s work, like any other working man. To
his supporters he is a very Solon of wisdom. He takes
them all warmly by the hand whenever or wherever he
meets them. No shirking, no backsliding from the men
who have built up his present position and. on whose
future vote he may have to depend. His views, if he
has any—that is, politically speaking—are such as suit
the ruling party, without regard to his own personal
feelings; and he has even been known to sit on the
cross benches, when a decided opinion might have
been injurious to political interest—the interest of the
side he was supposed to favour by his support.
And om this rather tottering ladder of greatness wo
will leave him. He may with care climb to the top, or
by one false step fall to the ground.
QUIZ.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE CULLETIN .)
VIII.—‘TRAVELLED SWELLS.’
I£t dear Bean-Blossom,—
It is a rainy day. Australia is subject to
very sudden changes: heat and cold, fair weather and
foul follow each other without regard to their proper
season. The clerk of the weather is evidently a sort of
modem * abbot of misrule.’ If it rains cold, sleety
rain all night, and the morning looks grey, we put on
heavy clothes and arm ourselves with unbecoming
umbrellas; then out comes the sun and broils us.
Again, we go out on a fine warm afternoon, clad in
dainty muslin apparel—lo ! a cloud, no bigger than a
man’s hand, gathers size and strength with incredible
rapidity, and before we can gain any shelter down comes
a great tropical shower and wets us to the skin, makes
lakelets of the roads, and swift-flowing rivers of the
gutters.
From such a shower I took refuge just in time
within the friendly sheltering walls of our * Garden
Palace,’ and with many others listened to the heavy
driving rain, wondering how long it would last. There
was a piano recital) and some solo singing by profes-
sionals, so I sat down to listen. Near me stood two
heavy colonial swells, in height and dress so exactly
alike that they might have been twin brothers.
Bet me describe them: for you, my dear Bean-blossom,
have never seen two such tailors’ blocks. Their suits
were composed of two shades of light brown cross-bar
doxh, immaculate shirt collars, and cuffs fastened with
large mosaic solitaires. Their icru ties secured by
clear-cut cameo-headed pins: design, head of H.B.H.
the Prince of Wales. On their aristocratic little
fingers they wore gold snake rings, reaching to the first
joint, such as H.B.H. the Duke of Edinburgh wore
when with us. On their august forefingers signet rings
with ambiguous looking crests—as a rule colonial
people buy their crests. One of these ‘swells’ was
very dark, with strongly marked, slightly repulsive
features; the other effeminately fair, with pretty,
girlish blue eyes, vapid mouth, and retreating chin.
For the nonce, as they were fair and dark, we will call
them Cain and Abel; but with the name the resem-
blance ceases, for Abel of the nineteenth century hung
on the words of inflated wisdom that fell from his
brother Cain, and echoed every remark most sweetly.
They talked audibly in the ‘ haw-haw ’ style: Cain
shrugged his shoulders A la parisien when the lady
vocalist ceased and remarked audibly to Abel, ‘wetchedly
sung; you wemember, my dear fellah, when we were in
London hearing the Duchess of Petticoat Lane sing
that vewy song ?’ ' Yaas, by Jove, Cain, I do, in wather
different style though.’ ‘ And don’t you wemember,
Abel, how my Nancy Lee used to sound on board the
MR. ALDERMAN HORDERN.
boat, and how the ladies used to stare at me.’ ‘Yaas,
by Jove, and laugh too, didn’t they ? And the captain,
haw, haw, used to say, who’s that swell singing with
his mouth full of pwunes; but then he was wather
wough, don’t you think so ?’ ‘Of course, my dear
fellah ! he was a highly obnoxious fellah that said we
travelled as saloon passengers and only paid steerwage
fare.’ ‘Yaas, by Jove, Cain, so he did, and some one
else said our behaviour was not even fit for the steer-
wage ; so horwibbly personal, by Jove! But, 1 say
Cain, didn’t the captain laugh when you said you would
weport him to papa ?’ Cain looked rather darkly on
the agreeable rattle by him, and said quite quietly,
‘ Change the subject; let’s see if there’s any pwetty
girls round about the courts ’: and the facile Abel took
the stronger minded Cain by the arm, and the two,
keeping pace as though at drill, each putting his dandy
little cane between his longing lips, moved down the
One of the Hediters of the Daily Twaddlegraph.
* * " With respect to the course the Government intends to pursue, the only fault is, it is
too conciliatory. # * The prospect of forcibly dislodging the Council is not a very pleasant one.
# * Indeed, the Government has gone so I’ivr that ” (like Berry) “it can neither go back nor stand
still. * * In such an emergency the Government which would hesitate would probably be lost.
* # Should Sir Henry Parkes fail, &c,”— -Twaddleoraphic Spasms.
nave to honor the first pretty girl they met with an
aristocratic stare. But the girls need not care for them,
for the looks of these ‘ fellahs ’ are about as vacant
as their minds. They intend to travel home for a wife,
perhaps a daughter of one or other of the dowager
duchesses who kissed them so fondly on Southampton
quay.
The rain is over, the concert ended, and I, like every
one else, must turn homewards.
Yours figuratively.
PE A-BLOSSOM.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Prince Leopold is about to visit Canada and
fhe States. .
Mr P. A. Jennings declines the money testi-
-3? irilwraith, the Queensland Premier, wil 1
ipave England for Australia on 9th April.
tr gerisier, late of Dubbo, a well-known nti-
Itnrist has just died in France.
TJfr John McLeod, who leaves for England
, "ip, on a visit, was ‘ picnicked ’ on Friday last by the
trade of the city.
Members of the Wesleyan body will be
sony to hear that the Eev. Dr. Dare died at Melbourne
last week. . , .
Mr R. Driver, M.L.A., has not improved in
health" during his stay in Tasmania, whence he returns
&t One of the waifs of Sydney is brother to a
Y.innr of South Australia. A man about town slept
him in a six-penny beer establishment last week.
The officers of the Rhin are assiduously
studying English under the tutorship of Mr. James
Carmichael. _ , ,
Father Renehan, a R. C. priest, who had many
Mends in Queensland, where he formerly resided, died
gently in New York.
A man who was one of the crack writers in
Uneland twenty years back is now editing a paper in
die Far West of Queensland.
« jjard times ” is the cry of a potato peeler in
v pprtnin Sydney restaurant. Twelve months ago he
wm reckoned the smartest penman in New Zealand.
Mr Carl Feilberg is the Jules Janin of
the Queensland Press. He is a Dane by birth, but
Siftlish in every other particular. _ His prize pamphlet
on Queensland brought him prominently mto notice.
Latham and Watson, of Sandhurst, made a hig
fortune on the Hustlers’ Eeef, but shortly afterwards
madly endeavoured to develop a coal mine at Kilcunda,
Western Port, where they nearly lost their all.
Miss Caroline Boyd, daughter of the well-
taown Sandhurst medico, Dr. James Boyd, is the first
Isdv who has signed her name in the roll-book of the
Melbourne University. Miss Boyd matriculated in
1876. ,
Just before leaving Sydney on Ins last trip,
Captain Eiddell, of the E. and A. S Co.’s ship Brisbane,
was married to Miss Peate, daughter of Mr Peate, of
Peate and Harcourt. Ship, captain, bride, and crew are
now huddled together in quarantine.
Our esteemed and energetic friend, Mr. William
Fleming, has returned from New Zealand. He says
that the country is a grand one, but that New South
Wales is after all his trump cord. In fact, he observes
that N.S.W. only wants about 200 first-class funerals to
distribute the money and make it the finest place ‘ on
this airth.’
One day lately Bishop Moorhouse of Mel-
bourne walked from Toongabbie to Walballa—twenty-
one miles—over the mountains; preached twice the
following day ; lectured the day after; walked back
over the same road on Tnesday, and preached the sa-me
evening at Heyfleld, to which he drove from the loot of
the mountains at Toongabbie.
Dean Backhaus (R.C.), of Sandhurst, is known
as ‘ the Eev. Comer Allotments.’ He is a German,
talks most grotesque English, keeps good wine, and is
perhaps the wealthiest living Australian ecclesiastic.
He intends all his money for his church. He has been
on the goldfield for twenty years, and owns some the
best Sandhurst properties.
It has been said by the Brisbane correspondent
of a Sydney ionmal that Mr. Joshua Peter Bell is the
only colonial who has ever filled the vice-regal position
in the relievement of a colonial governor. The corres-
pondent is wrong. Sir Alfred Stephen is a colonial—a
native of Tasmania, where his father was judge. Every
one knows that he acted as Governor during the late
interregnum in New South Wales.
Mr. M’ Gregor, who is elected to the Tasma-
nian Legislative Council, vice Sir James Wilson, is a
Wealthy Hobart Town ship-owner. He has four Lon-
don traders, a whole fleet of colonial ones, and eight
whaling ships, which, during the last ten years have
brought him perhaps £BO,OOO. “ The red-iron fleet, as
his ships have been called, are represented in every
colonial port.
It may safely be said that. George Lansell, of
Sandhurst, is the richest man in Australia. Ten years
ago he made soap and candles, and hadn t a second pair
of hoots. He is liberal, even in the selection of a wife.
He owns numberless rich claims of his own and one
fortnight lately received £13,000 in dividends from two
claims in which he has recently purchased an
interest.
j B Watson, the Sandhurst millowner, made
his fortune out of the Kent claim. Garden Gully. For
several years he kept twelve batteries going on his own
quartz, and got so much gold that the small difference
per ounce between the mint and bank prices enabled
him to net thousands by selling direct to Government.
He has £500,000 invested in Melbourne property and
has large interests in Sydney, where he has a brother.
He has seven unmarried daughters.
Mr. Robert Burrowes, successor to Mr. Angus
Mackay (of the Sydney Daily Telegraph) in the
representation of Sandhurst, was formerly associated
with that gentleman in Parliament. Mr. Burrowes
used to keep the Bull and Mouth Hotel in Sandhurst
and retired therefrom a wealthy man, only to find that
the Garden Gully reef ran through the grounds of his
new house. Burrowes’ freehold has since given him
£30,000 in dividends.
Mr. Clay, of Huntly, near Sandhurst, now a
quiet country farmer, sank the shaft which is being
worked by the Great Extended Hustlers , No. 1, known
as ‘ the Pups.’ He was then a man of property, which
he sacrificed little by little in mining. He cleared out
of ‘digging,’ and with the wreck of his fortune storied
farming. The present company , who took up Mr. Clay s
abandoned shaft in 1871, by sinking 25 feet further got
half a million’s worth of gold in a couple of years. Mr.
Clay sank 300 feet; the company got gold at 325 feet.
Mr. F. M. limes, late President of the
Tasmanian Council of Education and now President of
the Legislative Council, is an able scholar and good
orator. As a politician he is despised, and known as
‘ the rat.’ This is because on one evening he as leader
of the Opposition denounced the policy of the Govern-
ment and at next sitting of the Assembly was found,
much to the surprise of his late supporters, sitting
among the Ministry with a portfolio on his knee. He
was subsequently defeated in several elections for im-
portant constituencies and now represents an obscuie
electorate in the north.
A few months since the Tasmanian postal
authorities had their curiosity excited bycertamodori.
ferous parcels which were franked through during the
session by the signature of a well-known wealthy wool-
king. a member of the Upper House, whose chief eccen-
tricitv it is not to wear a collar. One day the string which
Wlone of these parcels got adrift-by accident or
otherwise. A pair of very dirty socks protrnded Tho
hon member explained that he didn t care about Hobart
and that he liked to send his
hlancissage home. Those who know him say that he
is too mean to pay even a washerwoman, and were at
first unwilling to believe that he owned any socks
•tall. ,
Lady Charlotte Bacon, who has lust died agod
79, -was the daughter of the last °‘the Earis of Gxf^ ,
and was Bvron’s ‘ lanthe m Childe Harold. Her
eldest son, Mr. Harley Bacon, married Miss a
Hobart Town lady, andisuow.
Those who, a few years ago, met Lady Charlotte in
Tasmania or South Australia could only by a great
strain of imagination recognise in the
old lady the lanthe of halt a century before. H‘s not
often that the world is offered so striking an oppor-
tunity fora comparison of the the present
and the past. The next most forcible is that which the
Tichbome claimant thrust on the were
asked to discern in his bulky form and rather coarse
face the aristocratic lineaments of the wavy-haired,
long lost Roger. Old Sir George Stephen, who was a
friend of Byron’s and probably knew more about the
latter’s unfortunate domestic affairs than anyone else,
died not long ago in Melbourne; and now Lady
Charlotte Bacon, the beautiful lanthe, who had not
completed her eleventh year when, in 1812, the poet
addressed to her the dedicatory lines of Clulde Harold,
has gone to the other world. Having in view the death
of Lady Charlotte and the leading incidents of the
brilliant poet’s career, even those who are most familiar
with *Childe Harold’ may find an interest, however
melancholy, in re-perusing the dedication. The verse
which of all others suggests reflection at the present
time, runs thus :
‘Young Peri of the west!—’tis well for mo
My years already doubly number thine ;
My loveless eye unmoved may gaze on thee
And safely view thy ripening beauties shine ;
Happy, I ne’er shall see them in decline;
Happier, that while all younger hearts shall bleed.
Mine shall escape the doom thine eyes assign
To those whose admiration shall succeed.
But mix’d with pangs to love’s even loveliest hours
decreed.’
Mr, Chapman, leader of the now celebrated
obstructionists in the Tasmanian Council, is distrusted
by all political parties. He was in office for twenty
years, during which time his policy consisted in tinker-
ing the Customs and taking care that there was ex-
penditure on public works. His resignation in 1875
was compulsory, his colleagues, several
the present Ministry, refusing any longer to sit with
him on account of certain disclosures made through
the Supreme'Court concerning his conduct in connec-
tion with a trusteeship. He was elected_to the
Council last year through a budget of the late Premier,
Dr. Crowther, which lost the latter the support ot his
party.
Mr. E. G. Fitzgibbon, the well-known town
clerk of Melbourne, is now in Sydney. Mr. Fitzgibbon
is a barrister-at-law, and some years ago married a
daughter of the late Mr. Michael Dawson, one of the
biggest of Victorian capitalists. He is a Jiiinter among
town clerks, and is the most important-looking man in
the southern hemisphere. A few years ago he was
troubled with cacoethe* scribendi, to vrote
letters to the papers, but the Argus chaffed him till he
pulled up. Then Fitz., who was at the time a bachelor,
took to writing love letters, which occupation proved
highly remunerative, for he has since been able to make
a kind of royal progress through Europe with his bride,
and interview notabilities of all kinds. He is a first-
rate fellow, but we must caution all undignified people
against attempting to approach him.
The Great Porridge Match.
We have great pleasure in presenting the public
with the portraits of the two champion porridge-eaters
of New South Wales, James Bibby and George Penman,
whose struggle at Stoker’s Hall, Lambton, on tbe even-
ing of the 21st instant, is a thing to he remembered.
The men are both volunteers and as such duly put in an
appearance at the Easter encampment at Sydney. From
the statements of the combatants and from the report
of the Newcastle Herald we learn that several hun-
dred people paid for admission to the show and that the
result was a glorious victory for Bibby, the representa-
tive of Lancashire, over Penman, the representative of
Scotland (the home of Burgoo), and champion of New
South Wales. The porridge was manufactured at Dur-
ham’s Hotel. Seven pounds of oatmeal were used, and
made eight gallons of porridge, which many thought
would not lie sufficient; but the result proved a dissap-
pointment to those who held that opinion. At eight
o’clock the hall was crowded, and hundreds of people
were out in the street. Bibby was the first to appear upon
the stage, and was greeted with repeated rounds of ap-
plause, the band playing “ See the conquering hero
comes ” Just at this time Penman also appeared, and
it was doubtful which of the heroes was meant. At any
rate they both took the compliment, and bowed their
acknowledgements. Both men then stripped, (to allow
for expansion) and made preparations for a start, but it
soon became evident to Bibby that Penman was trying
to take a point of time, as several plates of porridge
were handed up for the latter, who had had it cooked to
his liking. The articles were called for, and it was
proved that he was pointing, as it was clearly shown
that both men must eat out of the boiler which had
been carried on to the stage. Penman insisted and
Bibby resisted, and the whole tiling was stopped for
fully twenty minutes. At last, about a dozen plates
were filled out of the boiler; each one being charged
with a pint properly measured. Order having been ob-
tained, the chairman called upon the contestants to ad-
dress the audience. Penman, in response, flourished
his spoon and said that he would do his duty in honour
of auld Scotland. Mr. Bibby said : * Ladies and gentle-
men, I am here to contest against the King of Fife, and
the champion of New South Wales. I was bound to do
it, to stop his bragging. Penman challenged me be-
fore; but he wanted me to shave my head, and he knew
I wouldn’t do that. Hejlthen challenged New South
Wales, and Mr. King, of Maitland, fook him up, but
that gentleman did not come forward, and so I was
bound to take him up. I can sup porridge, but I think
I can beat him, at least, I’ll try.” (Loud applause.)
The band then played, ‘ Here we suffer grief and pain,’
and punctually at twenty five minutes past eight the
judge cried ‘go ’ and both men set to; Penman caught
the water first, and had considerable advantage in the
first plate, but that blocked him. Bibby kept on most
determinedly, and looked as if his salvation depended
upon getting the porridge out of sight as soon as possi-
ble. He finished six plates in twenty minutes, and then
rested on his oars, as Penman did not seem able to
tackle his second. Matters stood thusly, until time was
called, iiud Bibby declared the winner by 6to 1. Bibby
only supped three quarts, but iu returning thanks, he
said that if pushed he could ‘ scoff ’ as much more if
necessity required. He said he had beaten the cham-
pion of two countries, and the Maitland people could
now send on their King. During this feast of reason,
the audience behaved themselves in a most outrageous
manner. They broke the seats and demolished the room
in their eager efforts to get a view, and it is a nimaoie
that some serious calamity did not result through the
upsetting of lamps or other accident. The winner is
jiibilant over his victory, which has added further lus-
tre to the illustrious name of Bibby. His victory oyer
the King of Fife at porridge is as important as the vic-
tory of his relation over the Frenchman in the wrestling
match at New York. In another column of the
Bulletin will be noticed a challenge from Penman
who is ready to eat porridge against all comers.
Prior to their marriage Lord Rosebery gave Miss
Rothschild, his betrothed, the largest sapphire in the
world known to exist. It was as big as a small house,
and Hosiery loved Hannah like a house-sapphire But
if we were the Roseberies we d not like to have such
a sapphire and Hannah-nigh-us in the family.
He picked up a blue-hell and wrote -
This pretty flower of heavenly blue
Must surely he allied to you.
For you, dear girl, are heavenly too.
Said she— ,
If your compliment he true,
I’m sorry that I look so blue.
A gentleman in Paris paid a visit the other day to a
lady, in whose parlor he saw a portrait of a lovely
woman of, say, flve-and-twenty. Upon the entrance of
the lady her visitor asked her it the picture was a family
portrait, and was told that it represented her deceased
daughter. ‘ Has it been long since you lost her ? asked
the gentleman. ‘ Alas! sir,’ replied the lady, shedied
just after her birth, and 1 had a portrait painted to re-
present her as she would have appeared it she had lived
until now.’
She wore her brother’s Winter cap,
Her father’s ulster coat;
She had her uncle’s necktie on,
And met a hilly-goat.
No sooner had she winked at him
’Twas quicker done than said—
He lifted her about ten feet
And stood her on her head.
The goat walked off as if to say
I guess that young man’s dead.
The Bulletin Portrait Gallery of Artists.
MISS MARIE ST. CLAIR, THE CONTRALTO
VOCALIST.
Since the days of that eminent cantatrioe,
Sydney’s old favourite, Madame Sara Flower, we
have had with scarcely an exception (for even in
the opera companies of late years the contraltos
have been mostly but mezzo-sopranos) no singer
with a voice so rich in quality and so low in range
as Miss Marie St. Clair whose portrait is printed
in our issue of to-day, and will serve as a memento
of one of the favourites of the Sydney concert
of French extraction and of Irish birth
Miss St. Clair’s tuition in music is essentially
Australian. Her parents, having settled in Mel-
bourne, placed her under the best musical training
in that city ; Madame Lucy Chambers and Mr.
Miranda having been her principal professional
teachers in singing. After close study and prac-
tice Miss St. Clair made her first appearance m
Melbourne, and sang at a number of high-class
concerts in the city and suburbs. Subsequently
she joined the Carandini and also the Levy l co f*
net player) Concert Companies. Mr. Lyster made
several overtures to her to join his opera company
as leading contralto, but Miss St. Clair entertains
an objection to the stage and prefers the concert
the end of the year 1878, Miss St.
Clair received an offer to visit Sydney to take
part at the Beethoven Commemoration with
Signora Link, at the University. Her rich voice,
finished style, and interesting and ladylike ap-
pearance at once established her as a favourite
with the Sydney public. Following the advice of
her friends to remain in Sydney, and after visiting
Melbourne to consult her parents, Miss St.
Clair returned to this city in March last year, and
has since then been occupied as a successful
teacher of singing and a public vocalist.
CRITIC.
Back from the Grave.
THE BAD HUSBAND NEVER DIES.
THE REVENGE OF A SYDNEY MOTHER-
IN-LAW.
Just as the writer of fairy-tales feels in duty
bound to terminate every story by assuring his
readers that the hero and heroine “ got married and
lived happily ever afterwards,’’ sothenovelist is by
some unaccountable force impelled while de-
picting his characters and the varied scenes through
which they pass, to maintain the delusion origi-
nated by the literature of childhood, and to repre-
sent this world as one in which, to use the words
of Oliver Wendell Holmes : —
“ Suffering virtue ever finds relief, .
And black-browed ruffians always come to gnef.
“ Living happily ever afterwards ” is a compre-
hensive phrase, and in some respects a graceful
one, for it occasionrly serves to draw a veil over
scenes of joy too sacred to be treated of in the
of three-volume novels. But in cases
‘‘Living happily ever afterwards” only means
that though there wasn’t a divorce action, the
young couple’s troubles didn’t commence till after
marriage. ,
Thirteen years ago—and the event will still bo
fresh in the minds of many residents of Sydney—
a young* fellow, then but a few years married, dis-
appeared. He had. while in a bush town, gone to
bathe, and his clothes, watch, money, and other
items of personal property were found on the bank
of the treacherous river into which he had plunged
with a light heart. His horse, dragging a broken
bridle, came home, and was the means ot bringing
about the search which led to the conclusion that
the absent man was no longer of this world, and
that before leaving it he had stripped himself ot
everything which he could not carry with him.
The amount of his life assurance was, after a long
delay, paid over for the benefit of his widow and
her four children, and to the wife it seemed that,
whatever chance there might previously have been
of her husband re-appearing, the fact that the
company had satisfied themselves of his death was
decisive. Some suspicious people were not inclined
to believe in what had not been seen, and said
that the absent husband was a scoundrel and a
gammer, and had merely used a riderless horse, a
worn-out Geneva watch, a few half-crowns, and
some/ very unfashionable clothes, to cover his
flight to another colony. An indulgent and
wealthy relative, anxious to leave no stone un-
turned, advertised that he would pay the missing
one’s debts if the latter would only return ; but
there was no answer. At last, even the sceptical-
inclined to the death theory, and though a year or
two afterwards vague rumours that the man had
been seen a thousand miles away reached New
South Wales, nothing really definite was heard,
and ever since, the wife, though she may not have
mourned her husband, has regarded him as
de But this didn’t alter the fact that he was alive-
very much alive —as they would say in America.
He took care that he heard more about his wife
than came to her ears concerning him. He found
out that she had been left some money, and, bke
a sensible man, thought it was high time to^ come
home. So he wrote his dear wife a letter in the
old style, saying how repentant he was, and how
pleased he’d be to take her once more to his arms.
In fact, he said it was his intention to do so
speedily, for he was coming home in a month. The
family were furious and vowed vengeance, while
she remarked that as he who was formerly her
husband had been “dead” of his own free will
for almost countless years, he should, so tar as
she was concerned, remain defunct till the end of
time. But his mother-in-law it was who was least
disposed to overlook the past and welcome the
dead She was implacable, and said that if onoe
the man-ontered the house he should never leave
The steamer came, but the prodigal’s name did not
appear on the passenger list. But on the evening of
a certain very recent day there was heard a faint
knock at the door, and a timid tug at the bell-wire.
“Don’t you know me?” enquired the repentant
of his father-in-law, who had opened the door.
“ Yes, James, I know you, even after all these
years,” replied the old gentleman; “ come in here. ”
It was dark outside, and the lamp in the room
where the husband seated himself was turned
down and burning dimly. Immediately on entering
the old man shut the door, locked it, and put the
key in his pocket. He turned the light up sud-
denly, and then it was that “ James” for the first
time noticed that on the table lay a six-foot coffin,
of plain deal, bearing the inscription —
“ JAMES
Died March —, 1880,
Aged ”
—that sawdust was thickly spread on the floor,
and that beside the coffin were a bucket and a
quart bottle of carbolic acid. Then it was, too.
M'DLLE ST. CLAIR.
A COLLIERY PASTIME: OR, GASTRONOMIES AT LAMBTON.
(Mr. Penman.) ( Mr. Bibby.)


that tho mothor-in-law and three able-bodied sons
rose from beneath the table, armed with meat-
choppers, carving-knives, and black frowns.
James” tried to explain, but concluding that
his last hour had come he fainted, only having
time to say that he wished to see his wife. He
dropped down, and was immediately bundled into
a cab which was in readiness, and conveyed to the
hospital. When he arrived there, which was in
less than two minutes, he was conscious, but
incoherent in his statement to the doctor. He has
not since left his card on his mother-in-law.
,w.Th.rs e “”S > ?rSS" k, ’‘ i “
, f A l f oun f P rin . ter w h° parts affectionately with his virl
Matrimonial.— Jones—Hook
Upon a bright excep+i. ‘here we look,
wl i w , ho w ‘ ls » lad lo take his hook.
What did lo die of ?—lodide of potassium.
Camp Humors.
The first thing which appears to have struck
our artist in rambling through the encampments
was the idea that in future the helmets should be
made for the heads, and not the heads for the
helmets. It seemed to him that all the regulation
helmets had been made in one mould. Hia
attention, however, was soon diverted from
this unpleasant subject by the odious com-
parison forced on him. The great difference
between the manufactured and the raw article
was strikingly apparent. It was clear that
very many of our gallant friends had been
nursed in the lap of luxury and were unfitted for
the onerous duties of warfare. In no instance
was this more painfully manifest than in the case of
our friend, Private Augustus—some people call
him Public Augustus—Fitz-Snobba, who took
very unkindly to fatigue duty. On some of our
recruits the seasoned heroes of war were very severe.
For instance, Adjutant de Boots, who injured
his nose in the Peninsula—at Cook’s Eiver
objected to the slowness with which his orders
were obeyed during a shower and wanted to know
whether hia men wished to drill “ under cover ”
of umbrellas. However, his valorous enthusiasm
was all “ put on,” for he sighed when passing the
tent of a certain gallant colonel, to see how care-
fully that colonel had guarded against we
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“For I am nothing if not critical.”
—“Othello.”
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members op the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times be glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
—
VICTORIA THEATRE.
The week has given two reproductions, or productions
a very charming comedy, entitled “Kind to a Fault,”
well represented by Mr. J. L. Hall as Parker, Mr. Vin
cent as Frank Goldsworthy, Mr. St. Lawrence as Arthur
Honiton, Mr. S. Whyte as Mr. Drewitt; Miss Myra
Kemble as Mrs. Drewitt; Mrs. Hall, Jenny; Miss Wise,
man, Jessie, and Miss Merton as Mrs. Cnmberley: a
very even and agreeable performance, that repaid close
attention. To it succeeded—as an Easter offering—the
old well-known, but ever pleasant, “ Ixion,” with all its
mythological meanderings. The performanc e, as a piece
of acting, is good throughout. Mrs. Hall, a capital little
Ixion ; Miss Merton as Dia; Miss Nina Edouin (welcome
to Sydney); Miss Docy Main waring, Venus ; Mr. J. L.
Hall a capital Minerva; Mr. Jordan ms Mars, and Mr.
Hodgson as Jupiter—all gave very fair delineations of
their respective characters.
Madame Patti’s Sacred Concert.
The concert given on Good Friday night was one of
the most brilliant of the Patti series. The cantatrice
sang an aria by Mozart, never before given in Australia,
and but rarely since its composition, it being of a very
exceptional character, but especially adapted to Madame
Patti’s style. Hoendel’s ‘Let the bright seraphim’
(Samson), with cornet (instead of trumpet) obligato,
filled the theatre with voluptuous sound. It had to be
repeated by general demand, which would take no denial.
‘ Where the bee sucks ’ (Dr. Ame) having been given as
the encore for the first piece. To add to what we have
already said in former notices of this great artiste
would be but fulsome adulation. With Signor Ciampi,
Madame Patti sang a very rich and effective duet,
‘ Cruciflxus,’ by Faure.
Whatever we could write could not add to the opinion
we have so cordially expressed as to the artistic and
perfect playing of M. de Munck, and the luscious sing-
mg and rich voice of Signor Ciampi. It is sufficient to
say that the former gave us a charming transcription of
one of Liszt’s pieces, ‘ La Consolazione,’ and that glori-
ously touching, sympathetic ‘ Ave Maria,’ of Schubert
—a piece as if ‘invented’ for the cello. The pretty
strains of ‘ La Fileuse,’ with its crying termination in
harmonics, was the encore for the first piece, whilst for
the second ‘ Old Folks at Home ’ was substituted
Signor Ciampi sang an aria from Htendel's ‘ Rinaldo '—
fine music, so seldom heard—and, very splendidly the
‘ Agnus Dei ’ from Mozart’s No. 1 Mass. This was full
of fervour and intensity : a most effective rendering
Both pieces were encored. Signor Ciampi has an im-
mense repertoire, always gives something new, and
evidently possesses a memory quite beyond the usual
order.
Mr. Hiuohy, though nervous, commenced the concert
fairly with an ‘ O Salutaris,’ very pleasing; but his
‘ Cujus animam,’ in the second part, was terrible. He
got altogether beyond his depth or his height.
Signor Giorza played Thalberg’s fantasia on ‘ Most 5 ’
introducing the famous prayer, though he was scarcel’y
m his usual form in phrasing, but Bechet’s splendid
Stem way pianoforte rang through the theatre, filling up
every space.
THEATEE EOYAL.
Yictorien Sardou’s comedy, under its English title of
Friends, continues to make friends with playgoers •
the house continues filled nightly, and there is no am
nouncement of a change; it will doubtless have a four-
weeks’ run Notwithstanding a few peculiarities, it is
a capital play, well worked out.
We have already spoken of the performance; its
charm lies in its completeness.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPEEA HOUSE.
For the Easter week the Lingard Company have pro-
duced the much talked-of “ Little Duke,” an adapta-
timi of the French opera burlesque “ Le Petit Due.”
The whole amusement of the piece centres in the
splendid acting of Miss Lingarcf, Mr. Lingard, and
Miss Maggie Oliver—who makes a complete study of
the Lady Superior. The music is rather loud • the
singers, too, should remember that the acoustic pro-
perties of the theatre are rather too strongly deve-
loped, and that the flat woooden ceiling causes a terrible
leverberation; the orchestra and choruses were in con-
sequence far too loud. There is a good buffo duet be-
tween the general and the civil tutor on the relative
merits of the ramrod and the pen; the couplets for the
■ pages are pretty; and one or two of the solos for the
Duke are musically effective.
QUEEN’S THEATEE.
Having last week complimented Mr. Hegarty on his
I successful efforts for the public amusement, and on his
I latest engagement of Mr. Dampier we have only to add
I that our prognostications have been abundantly verb
I fled, for the house has been inconveniently crowded
I every night. So much so, indeed, that we have been
unable to endure the heat so as to sit out the perform-
ance of Charle’s Eeade’s sensational play of ‘Never too
I Late to Mend,’ which, however, our ‘ substitute'
reports as one of Mr. Dampier’s best impersona-
tions. Little Lily Dampier—an already clever
actress —is full of future promise as the stray waif
Josephs. The piece is too well known to need special
comment. The cast includes Miss Deorwyn ; Messrs
Sefton (a new arrival here), L. McGowan, Leston"
Eyan, Brown, Holloway, Welsh, West, and Deorwyn. *
I Having been liberal in our space to the Queen’s last
week, we await the opportunity of referring to Mr
Dampier in a novelty.
MASONIC HALL.
Occasional concerts in Sydney may meet with un-
I exampled success, but it is seldom that such success is
I vouchsafed to_ a three-series of nightly concerts—with
only a short intermission between the series—of the
high standard given to us by Madams Camilla Urso and
her company. This speaks well for the taste of our
public, well for the judgment of the ruling artiste who
I in the arrangement of her programme has known so
well how to guage that taste, and well for the general
I management of the entertainment.
In almost every number of our journal we have
Xken at such length of the delightful playing of
dame Urso j but for one thing we may be especially
I grateful to Madame Urso (as lately to M. de Munck) •
I she has introduced to us new and good music
Eaff, Wieniawski, Field, and others of an equally high
I standard, have never previously taken a stand on Aus-
| tralian territory.
Miss Sargent’s pretty warbling always pleases, but
r e ii 5 she woul(1 ve us nothing but new ideas in
I ballad singing. Let her leave common-place opera
scenes and cavatinas ..which everyone sings now-a-
days—to more pretentious or really great artists. Some
of her special pieces are so prettily vocalised by Miss
Sargent that we have a strong prejudice in their favour
| to the exclusion of others. We have seldom known a
singer do so much with means so limited at her
disposal.
We have space only to add that Miss Palma, M.
Sauret, and Herr Scherek have contributed very effi-
ciently to the success of these concerts.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Professor Haselmeyer keeps the ball of success re-
vGiving1 at a most satisfactory speed in his determina-
tion to amuse his audiences nightly by his clever mani-
festations. ot spiritual or necromantic agency. The
Professor tricks your eyes and ears alike, accompany,
mg his acts of dexterity with his rattling small-talk,
the allusions of the tongue vieing with the illusions of
the hand.
CRITIC.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
The Lament of a Bachelor.
A Lat of the Day.
There is a day that I know well.
It comes but once a year;
The date I scarcely like to tell,
But it’s drawing very near.
It’s not in March nor yet in May,
It comes between the two;
I really cannot name the day.
Yet what I say is true.
On such a day if I go out —
A bachelor am I—•
The litte boys are sure to shout:
‘ How’s pretty Mrs. Fry ? ’
I own I am a timid man
And little have to say,
Propose, I’m sure I never can
Or name the happy day.
And yet they ask for Mrs. Fry—
I wish them all at school;
I shake my head ; they only cry
‘ Oh, what an April fool! *
I may be this, I may be that,
I’m truthful as a rule;
I may be thought a little flat
And yet I’m not a fool.
Courage, my heart, this very day
I am resolved to try;
To some dear girl I mean to say:
* Will you be Mrs. Fry ? ’
I wonder will sweet Mrs. Fry—
(That sounds a little cool) —
Be willing to say ‘yes,’ and try
To love an * April fool.’
E. B.
Sydney, April 1, 1880.
The Old Refrain.
BY E. NORMAN GUNNISON.
Saunt’ring slowly along the lane.
Sweet little maiden she came in view;
Chanting over the old refrain,
* You love I, and I love you.’
Boyish figure and little girl.
Sunny ringlets and eyes of blue;’
In her fingers she twin’d a curl—
‘ You love I, and I love yon.’
Years have vanished: a maiden fair
Saunters slowly along the lane.
Sunset tinges her wealth of hair—
Is she singing the old refrain ?
Face to face is the boy of old,
Boy no longer, but boyish still:
As she listens the sunset gold.
Floods the valley and tints the hill.
* Will you love me, my dear ? ’ he said;
Still no answer: his face is pale.
Droops a moment the golden head.
While she listens to hear his tale.
‘Darling, answer! ’ The old refrain
Lingers yet on the lips so true:
Then she answers and not in vain—
‘ You love I, and I love you.*
Moul 8 PFetty SOng lms been set to ma sic by Alfred
Leonainie.
(AFTER EDGAR ALLAN POE).
Leonainie, angels called her.
And they took the light
Of the laughing stars and-framed her
In a smile of white. -a
And they made her hair of the gloomy *
Midnight, and her eyes of the bloomy
Moonshine, and they brought her tome
In a solemn night.
In a solemn night of summer.
When my heart of gloom
Blossomed up to meet the comer.
Like a rose in bloom ;
Then all feelings that oppressed me
Left me, as joy caressed me—
Lying joy, that caught and pressed me
In the arms of doom.
Then spake the little lisper
In the angel tongue—
Yet I, listening, heard her whisper—-
* Songs are only sung
Here below that they may grieve you.
Tales are told you to deceive you.
So must Leonainie leave you
While her love is young.’
God smiled and it was morning.
Matchless and supreme.
Heaven s glory seemed adorning
All earth with its esteem.
Every heart but mine seem gifted
With the voice of prayer, and lifted
Where my Leonainie drifted
From me like a dream.
Only a Newsboy.
Only a newsboy
Tattered and tom,
Kicked and forgotten.
Weary and worn.
U p with the factory smoke.
Sleeps God knows where;
Meals with the street dogs, 1
Often on air.
Four in the morning,
Twelve—late at night,
(Selling his papers)
Sickly and white.
Spumed by the passer-by.
Hoarse with his ‘ call,’
Dying by inches,
Forgotten by all.
Found in the midnight
In his last sleep,
(Scattered hia papers),
A dark huddled heap.
Found by a policeman
While on his beat.
Only a newsboy
Dead in the street.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER IV.— continued.
Myles apparently applied himself again to his
book, but the argument had lost its charm for him.
He did not know till now how lively was the in-
terest he had taken in his graceful young neigh-
bour. Placing his book so as to shield his face,
but yet so that he could observe what was going
on, he said to himself:
‘ I m glad I didn’n go way ten minutes ago.”
After bestowing a very short and scant meed of
attention upon the Daily News, Mr. Spenceley
cast his eyes around him. Myles watched him,
and saw the leisurely impudence of the stare with
which he favoured the young lady, and his ears
began to tingle. He —my poor Myles—was of
fiery temperament, could not endure to see even a
‘ fine lady ” insulted without cause, and was dan-
gerously ready to take up the cudgel for the un-
protected or ill-used.
“ 1 beg your pardon,” said Mr. Frederick Spen-
celey, leaning towards the girl. “ Do you want
that paper.
He stretched his hand towards a newspaper
which lay upon the table at which he sat, but he
was looking at her with a stare, perhaps intended
for one of gallant admiration, but which, from the
unfortunate “ nature of the beast,” succeeded
only in being impertinent.
Without looking at him, she raised her elbow
from the paper on which it had rested and con-
tinued, or seemed to continue her reading.
You don’t want it?” he said, with what may
have been meant for a winning smile.
“No,” came like a little icicle from her lips.
Myles with difficulty sat still; but, making an
effort, continued quiet, though watching the game
with a deeper interest than before.
The twilight had grown almost into darkness by
this time. The attendant perhaps not knowing
that any one was in the room, had not yet lighted,
the gas.
Mr. Spenceley took the paper, but, without even
pretending to look at it, said in a tone of under-
bred badinage :
Isn’t it rather dark to be reading, Miss —a
She raised her eyes this time and caught those-
of the speaker fixed full upon her. Her own were
instantly averted with an expression of cold con-
tempt and disgust, and she made no reply.
“ I assure you it’s very bad for the eyes to read
by this half-light—very trying. Hadn’t I better
tell the fellah to light the gas ? I am sure you
would spoil your eyes, and that would be a pity,”
with a winning simper, which made Myles’s fist
clench with an intense desire to do him some hor-
rible violence. “ Don’t you really think I had
better!” he pursued, evidently bent on making
her speak. At last he succeeded.
“ Be good enough to mind your own business
without addressing mo,” said she, in a voice which,
thought Myles, was sufficient to have rebuffed the
veriest cur that ever called itself by the name of
man.
With that she quietly, but slightly altering the
position of her chair, turned her back upon Mr.
Spenceley, while her profile, with frowning brow
and indignantly compressed lips, was plainly visi-
ble to Myles.
Mr. Spenceley laughed, not so musically as a
lady-killer should be able to laugh, and remarked :
“ I feel it my business to prevent a young lady
from spoiling her eyes, and ”
Steadying his voice with some difficulty into
something like indifference, Myles turned to him
and said:
“ Don’t you know that talking is forbidden
here ?”
The look which he received in answer made him
smile despite his inner indignation. Mr. Spenceley
contemplated him with a stare, which was unfor-
tunately not so regal as it might have been ; then,
raising a single eyeglass, he stuck it into one eye
and surveyed the audacious speaker anew, as if hia


rjp HEA T R E R
Lessee ••• *■*
Business Manager & Treasurer ... 1
Stage Manager ... 1
SPECIAL NOTICI
FREE LIST with the exception of
suspended. This rule will be rigidly
GREAT ATTRACT!
for the
EASTER HOLLOA 1
THIRD WEEK and CONTINL
LTSTER and GAENEKS^LOI
THIRD WEEK and CONTINL
of
friends
THIS EVENING, and UNTIL FIT
friend
Robert Dawson, Esq. (of Wheatlandf
Dr. Thompson
Maurice de Terrebone • --M
Markham Mr -
Meanly M
Captain Donohoe
Theodore ••
Servant
Cecile Dawson Miss
Amy
Susan
Mrs. Meanley Mrs.
PRICES OP ADMISSION.-Dres(
3b. ; Family Circle, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box Office open at Elvy and <
street, where seats may be secured for
days in advance.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8.
ordered at 10.30.
ICTORIA T 1
Stage Manager Mr. J
TO-NIGHT (FEID.
and
TO-MORROW (SATUE
The performance will commence
Comedy, in two acts, ei
GRAND DOUBLE B
J. L. HALL. ("KIND TO A FAUI
J KINE TO A FAUI
IXION. (.KIND TO A FAUI
Kind to a Fault
Kind to a Fault.
To conclude with the glorious j
IXION
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion
Ixion.
New Scenery, new Locals, ne
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Elvy’s Music I
Kelly an d
OPERA HOUI
corner of King and York
This (FRIDAY) Evening,
LAST NIGHT
of the Original Comic
LITTLE DUKE,
Fourth Week and Continued
THE LINGARDS’ COMEDY OP
Continued Succei
of the Beautiful and Higt
Miss ALICE DUNNING
and the world-famed Coi
Mr. W. HORACE LIN
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIC
Sixth Production in Sydney of t
Opera,
FABRICS THE LITTLP
Le Due Frbrice (The Little Duke) M
Frimouse (instructor to the Dnk<
Other Characters by C<
Box Plan now open at Nicholson a
SATURDAY EVENING
ENTIRE CHANGE OP PR*
First time of the original version, w
author wrote it, of W. S. Gilber
in three acts,
ENGAGED,
with the Lingards in their original p
as played by them at Theatre R
with great succes
WANTED to purchase HOD
within about 10 minutes o
about £60 per annum each. Applj
Bulletin office.
CHALLENGE.— The undersign*
prepared to SUP PORRIDC
New South Wales, BIBBY of Lai
£50 or under aside. Each one to b
own porridge by his own confederal
and money ready at JEMMY the Bi
Open for a month.
G. PEN
Champion of th<
ASHION ABLE SCARFS /
FOR GENTLEME
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERGE
FITTING SHO
PITT STRE
Near the Victoria ’
THE BEST SHOP FOB NECK 1
TRY IT 1 11
J. L. HORDE
N
ICHOLSON AND AS
325 GEORGE STRi
LILY QUEEN WALTZ—By A.
most popular waltzes ever ;
Thousand already sold out.
Superbly illustrated in oolou
poet 2s 8d.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH.—By A.
lustrated in colours. Verybi
its popularity is assured. Vv
ber 6th. Price 2e, by post 2s
THE FARMER AND HIS PI
Taubert. Second Edition,
and effective. Sung by Miss
the Urso concerts. Always
6d, by post Is 8d.
Fourth Edition ! 1 I Fourtl
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MA
A Wonderful Success. No less tha
Weeks. Everybody is talking abo
teen Popular Songs and Pieces, I
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on o
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me
The sale of this book is so great t
tions are being offered to the pul
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MA<
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCI
325 George Stre:
Z
IONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENT
Whose success is attributed to his P
ji catering for the million at su
PRICES as to enable every working
md fashionably, while those with i
iisposol can wear so many extra
reasonable rate, viz.j—-
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 63s, w<
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measux
Who will not avail themselves <
GETTING MEASURED at ZIC
ESTABLISHMEN
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fan
cloth, 25s; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, al
their value _
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROU*.
FANCY* 3 and WHITE MARCELLA
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready fc
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit]
part of the country, post free.
had occurred could never be suffi-
3ently business, and leave
thWs?” he at last drawled
S Xvh I shall be quite
leave him to mind his own business ’’
roady to J re tort. ‘‘ In the meantime, as the
waS to read, and I wish to read, and
y ou n |Sus with your chatter, perhaps you will
hold y-ton 5 ° r upon a master-
. Here broadcloth-clad back upon
he tilted his chair back so as to seethe
1 o,dv better, and inquired :
y °“Do you know the fellah, Miss—a——?
Before she could reply (supposing she hadany m-
renlving), Myles had leaned a little for-
and tapped Mr. Spenceley on the shoulder,
a great start quite disproportionate to the
stance, the latter brought Ins chair to its
Sal position again. Myles saw the start, and
my good sir, I don’t remember
r to have seen you here before, so per-
you won’t mind showing me your ticket-I
S your member’s ticket—otherwise—
yah hold yah tongue? retorted the
other in a tone of scornful exasperation.
‘‘No ’ ’ replied Myles. If you ve any write to
w°’ show me your ticket, and hold your tongue
According to rules ; if you haven’t that right, walk
can°teU yah, yah don’t seem to know who
’ti Hueaking to,” observed Mr. Spenceley, appar-
S,yT.rMni ß hment. “ Are one of the
*”///*/? tnc™ you,” .aid Myles who saw
♦W the young lady was now watching the dispute
Sh unisguled interest. “ And I’m that much
an authority that I can prevent you from dis-
turbing and annoying people. _ Onceif or all, will
you show me your card of admission ?
“Then you’ll excuse my going to the librarian
and telling him you are here without right—unless
you prefer to save that trouble to me, and ten
shillings to yourself, by walking yourself off now,
this moment,” said Myles, who began to feel a
delicious piquancy in the sensation of dealing thus
summarily with a person of the consideration of
Frederick Spenceley. It was an ignoble feeling,
and we all have ignoble feelings sometimes, or
what is the meaning of constant injunctions to
bear and forbear which we receive from different
sources?
“ Haw ! Wha—at ?
“ The fine for using this room without belonging
to it is ten shillings. There’s another fine for talk-
Sg and disturbing people, too ’’ said Myles, who
had never lost his look of perfect ease and calm-
ness, and who did not for a moment remove his
eves from the other s face.
Vr. Spenceley did not appear to like the men-
tion of fines. His face fired ; his hand involuntarily
80 “ lender m that direction, poor fellow! ’ ’ thought
place, this !” observed Mr.
Spenceley. ‘ ‘ Not fit for a gentleman to live in.
“ Not when they have only been gentleman since
the last general election/’ said Myles, politely.
“ I quite agree with you.”
“Well I shall go and see what the librarian
says to all this,” said Mr Spenceley, by way of
covering his retreat; and then, after a prolonged
stare at the girl in the window, he retired not so
jauntily as he had entered. . . .
Myles picked up his book again. The girl
watched her tormentor, until the noiseless door
had swung to behind him, and she had seen his
shadow pass towards the stairs. Myles feigned to
read, but he oould not help seeing how she trem-
bled’as she sat there. . ,
He did not speak to her. Something—he knew
not what —held him back. But he suddenly felt a
light touch upon his arm, and, looking up, saw the
young lady standing beside him.
“Do you think he is really gone? she asked,
scarcely above her breath. ,
“Oh yes ! That sort of cur slinks off when you
stoop for a stone, with his tail , f? s ‘
It’s only when he has his kennel well behind him
that he turns upon you and snaps, rephed Myles
with homely if expressive metaphor.
She drew a long breath, raised her head again,
and said, with a mixture of dignity and gentleness
which appealed intensely to his strongest feenngs
of admiration: .. ~ ~
‘ ‘ I cannot tell you how much I am obliged to you.
“ Don’t mention it, Miss,” said he ; and it was
odd that, while Mr. Spenceley’s “ miss made
every right-minded person pant toknookhun down
and pound him well, Myles’s “miss” was not in
faintest degree offensive.
“ You spoke as if you knew who he |ia. Do
you?” she added. , , ~
“Oh yes ! He’s well enough known ; he s the
only son of that Spenceley who has the big fac-
tories down at Lower Place—* Bargaining Jack
they call him.”
“Oh ! I know who you mean. Poor man . How
I pity him for having such a son !”
“ Had you ever seen him before ? asked Myles,
■confirmed in his impression that she was not a
native of Thanshope, and finding conversation
easier than he expected.
“ I have seen him several times lately. I seem
always to be meeting him. Once I thought he had
followed me, and then I thought how absurd it was
to imagine such a thing ; but he must have done it
a Myles had had inexplicable sensations while she
spoke. He had known her so long without a
voice that now, when he heard it, she seemed to
become a stranger again ; and yet not a stranger.
She had a sweet, low voice, clear and penetrating,
and she spoke with an accent that had something
not quite English in it. .
It would have been difficult—to Myles, in his
ignorance, impossible—to say m what the foreign
element lay ; but it was assuredly there. When
she spoke she looked at him with fleeting glances
which had nothing insincere in them, and her face
lighted up and became lovely—and more than that,
distinguished, spiritual; the slender figure was
balanced with such a graceful poise; the delicate
hands were free from all nervous restlessness.
Her chesnut hair was abundant, and its dressing
so simple and beautiful as alone to make her re-
markable. Myles realised that she was most dis-
tinctly a “lady,” but he could not make himself
feel her to be either trivial or stupid. There had
been nothing trivial in her behaviour. Her treat-
ment of him flattered his discrimination when he
remembered her late treatment of Mr. Spenceley.
At that time of his life he had very wrong ideas on
the subject of gentlemen, having mistaken notions
as to their power and character : but that part of
his nature was soothed and pleased when so pert ect
a piece of refinement as this young lady treated
him entirely as a gentleman. ~ , ,
“ And I thank you again, very much, she ad-
ded, smiling, and holding out her hand.
Myles forgot to be confused as he accepted the
hand so frankly extended, and felt encouraged to
do what he had thought would be right from the
moment she had spoken to him.
“lam glad to have been of service. May I ask
how far you are going?”
“ To Blake Street, if you know it.
“ I know it well. It is too far for you to go
alone, if you will excuse my saying so. It is quite
possible that fellow may be hanging about yet.
I’ll go with you, if you will allow me ? .
“ Oh ! you are very kind,” said she, with visible
relief. “ I cannot refuse, though I am sorry to
take you away.” , , . .. . „ ~
“ Not at all. I can t fasten to it again, said
Myles, sincerely. , T , ~ ,
“ Then, if you would be so good, I should be
very grateful,” said she; and she looked so
relieved, and so pleased, that Myles felt himself
rewarded a hundredfold for the act which had
occurred to him as one of simple civility—nay, of
almost obvious necessity. , , ,
They left the town-hall when she had returned
her book to the librarian, and passed out into the
street, turning to the right. _
“ This is the shortest way, miss, said Myles,
distracted as to what he should call her, feeling
“miss” disagreeable, he hardly knew why, but,
despite the wealth of the English language, hav-
ing no other alternative than a bold you.
She relieved his mind as if she had understood
his thoughts. , <T
“My name is Adrienne Blisset, said. bug. i
should like to know yours, if you will tell it me?
“ Myles Heywood.” . ,
“ I like it—it is so English, so Lancashire.
“It’s not like yours, then/ said he. “It sounds
fo **Adrienna? Yes ; that is French for Adriana ;
but I pronounce it in the German way—Adrien-ne.
Don’t you see?” ...
“ I never heard such a name —for an English
young lady,” said Myles, simply.
“lam not altogether an Englishwoman. lam
half German. I was never in England till cight-
teen months ago.” ,
“ Never in England ! echoed Myles, incredu-
lously. “Then you speak English amazingly
Adrienne laughed, and Myles asked:
“ How do you like England now that you aro in
“I do not know England. I only know Thans-
hope, and I—cannot say —that I do like it much
if you will excuse me.” ~
“ Oh, we don’t expect every one to like our town,
said Myles, magnanimously . “It is a rough sort
of a place, I fancy. And I should not think you
would like it, either. You are not like most of the
ladies here.”
“There isn’t another Lady in the place who
would come to the reading-room as you do.’
“Indeed. Why?”
“ They are too fine, I suppose, said he, con-
temptuously.
“Too fine?” ,
“Ay. We have a lot of fine ladies here.
There’s Mrs. Spenceley, mother of that fellow who
was annoying you this evening ; but she s not so
fine, certainly, poor thing! But there s her
daughter!” Myles shrugged his shoulders and
turned his eyes to heaven.
“ Is she very fine ?” „ .
“ Whenever I see her she is as fine as fane can
be ; but perhaps she has some excuse for it, for
she is very handsome, and she has a kind face too ;
one would wonder how she could he that fellow s
sister. Then there’s Mrs. Shuttleworth, that has
the grand yellow carriage, and she is better than
some of them; and she looks ill, poor thing . so
perhaps her finery only gives her very little com-
‘l it seems to me that you have an excuse for them
all,” said Miss Blisset.
“ Perhaps I have—for all but one—the proudest
and the finest of the whole lot. I’d rather have
any of them than her—and that’s Mrs. Mallory of
the Oakenrod.” ,
“ Mrs. Mai began Adrienne quickly, an cl
then stopped abruptly. “Do you know her?
“ I know this much of her, that I work in their
factory, and she comes looking round now and
then, behaving as if she thought that I, and tno
factories, and the town, and the world in general
were made for her pleasure and service. Oh, she s
a proud, insolent woman, Mrs. Mallory ; all the
Mallorys are proud and insolent. It would do
them good to be humbled, and 1 hope they will
be ’’ ?!
“ oh! how can you be so bitter against them ?
said she, as if shocked.
“ No, I’m not bitter ; but I don t like to see peo-
ple like that giving themselves airs, looking as if
the world’s prosperity depended upon their contin-
uing to favour it by living in it, when any one
knows that if they had their bread to earn they
couldn’t do it. I like justice.”
“Justice, and a little generosity with it,” said
she, gently, smiling in what appeared to Myles a
very attractive manner.
“We are here in Blake Street, said he : which
way do we turn?” , ,
“To the right, please. My uncles house is at
the very end of the street.”
“ The end—it must be lonely, observed Myles.
“ Yes, it is, rather. He lives at Stonegate.
“ Stonegate !” echoed Myles. “ I’ve often won-
dered who lived there, and never knew. Why, it
is part of the Mallorys’ property,” he said sud-
dC“1 Yes ; I believe it is,” she replied composedly.
“ My uncle has lived there ten years now.”
There was a little pause, and then Myles said:
“ You will excuse me, but I don’t think it is
really fit for you to walk all that long way of an
evening, now that it gets dark so soon, and after
what has happened to-night.” , ~
“ I suppose I shall have to gave it up. Luckily
lam nearly at the end of my task. So I shall try
to finish it.” . . .
“ Your reading ?” he said inquiringly.
“Yes. References for my uncle’s book. He is
writing a book about Art and the development of
Civilization ; he is too infirm to go to the library
himself, and I like going there. 1 have been read-
ing up music for him all summer. ,
“Oh that’s it!” said Myles, in a tone which be-
trayed ingenuously enough that he had thought
often and deeply upon the subject.
“ Yes, that is it. I must really try to go a tew
times more, because those books may not be re-
moved from the library ; and then I shall not need
to go any more.” ~ ~
‘ But you have not been here long, you said i
said Myles. ~ . e
“No Only eighteen months, since my father
died abroad, and my uncle asked me to come and
live here with him, else I should have had no
home.”
She spoke with a quietness smounting to sad-
ness, and Myles felt sure that there was sadness m
her fife, though she spoke so cheerfully.
“ Were you sorry or glad to come to England r
he ventured to ask. , ... ..
“Oh sorry. Every association I had with it was
unpleasant; whereas I had had many pleasures at
different times abroad ; arid it is so cold, and dull,
and triste here.”
(to be continued.)
-April 3, IS BO -


U R N I
AN EXTENSIVE ASSORTI
FROM,
Austrian Furniture, English ]
American Furniture, Canadia
Beautiful Mirrors, Cheval Gris
Gilt Whatnots, Gilt Girandoh
English Bedsteads, French B<
Flower Centres, Flower Vases
Musical Chairs, Musical Albui
Musical Companions, Music I
Cuisine, Atelier, Bureau, &c.,
Writing Desks, Work Boxes
Novel Compendium of Games
Table Billiards, Bagatelle Boa
Union Drawing-room Statione
Students and Travellers’ Stati
Papier Mache Work Boxes an
Penders, Pireirons, Coal Cabii
Olivewood Workboxes and Dc
Jewel Cases, Tea Caddies
Compendium School Prizes
Chess Boards, Chess Men
Draught Boards, Draught Me
Ivory Inlaid Cribbage Board
Tete-a-tete sets, Toilet Sets
Marble Clocks, Gilt Clocks
Horloge Mysterieuse, or the IV
Crystal Inks, Single and Doub
Crumb Trays, and Brushes, Gi
New Door Mats, New Fibre 1M
Beautiful and Inexpensive Drs
Noble Wardrobes and Toilets.
In our “ Guide to Sydney,
without charge, will be foun
Lists, with each article distinc
OUR SYSTEM OP :
IS ADMIRED BY E\
PLAIN FIGURE
NO ABATEM1
AND PROMPT NI
A VISIT TO OUR UPS
will well repay the
W. B. CAMPB
ROYAL PURNISHII
(Next to the Royal
George Stri
rpHE AMERICAN NOVE
American Mechanical
Instructive Mechanical Toys for S
Read what the Bullei
“ Some of the most ingenious me
ever seen in this city are now on \
establishment of the American !
Market-street. They were inteni
for the International Exhibition, i
mens of American ingenuity, but i
they are now exposed for sale i
They comprise miniatures of ever
of steanj engine, and the style wii
perfectly astonishing. There are
complete, four-inch saw-benches
ances &c. Better models for our
not be obtained. With these litt
under steam more could be expl
mind in one hour than in a montl
stances. They are, strange to si
few pence. There are also various
worked by springs, which trave
room, and form most pleasing an
children. The Americans, furtl
good sense by producing a variety
new in design, by means of which
gence of the child is encouraged
powers developed. Quite gladly v
to the American Novelty Company
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO..
SYDNEY.
R T H U R C
157 (late 203) PITT STREI
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEX
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIC
M
OUNTAIN-KI
F. SALISBURY and Co. are d
ment are dreaming 1 of—viz., supp
good wholesome MOUNTAIN-K
F
SALISBURY and Co.’s i
• KILLED, and of splendk
F SALISBURY and Co., t
• supplying Lithgow-killed 1
Milk. Office—George and Hay-si
M
OUNTAIN - KILLED Mi
Milk.
Lithgow-killed Meat. Pure Co
Only to be obtained—
F. SALISBU
Geor;
K
EAREY BROTHERS, CO
BUILDERS
290 PITT STREET,
Near Park-stre
JH U B E R T
• PORTRAI
Photographer by appointment tc
Governor.
Sole Place of Bus
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE
T F, CRIPPS, PAST
* CONFECTION
267 (late 255) Geobok S'
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac.,
best style.
G
.0 TO BRAT FOR TO
It is the cheapest shop in
Note the address:—
E. BRAY,
Statioitkr and Boo)
Newtown Boa
C KOHLER, FISHMOh
• SALESMAN
22 HUNTER STI
FRESH PISH EVEI
LUNCH and SUPPEI
MERICAN MACHII
H. P. GREGORY a
No. 11 PITT STE
Importers of and dealers in all des
Machinery,
Indents executed on reasc
Robert c
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAG
BRANCH AT NARA
Gentlemen residing at a distanc
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin
can always obtain them by wri
establishment.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTUI
Watch and Cloi
674 GEORGE STREE
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, 1
Presentation Trowels design
the premises
DIAMOND SET’:
CHAS. MONIE, SADDLE
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WA
Jobbing executed on the sh
Wagga has long been celebrated
its Saddles, and it will be fonnc
Saddles of my manufacture that t
inferior to those of any other mi
Sportsmen are invited to call.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARR
MANUFACTOI
97« ■prr'T HT'WC'X'fr / U.
JMPROVEMENTS IN KI
The undersigned, having pnrch
IMPROVEMENTS in Kerosene
THE GARDEN P.
Have pleasure in informing oust
select any of the Damps on show,
for them till the close of the Exhi
E. Lassbtter & Co
(Limited).
F. Lassettkb & Co.
(Limited).
TABLE.LAMPS
Doreton Ware
Wedge wood Ware
Ceramic China
Crystal Glass
Pate sur Pa
Bohem
CHANDELIERS
Churches
Schools of Art
Public Rooms
Mansions
The Draw
WITH ALL LATEST IMP
F. LASSETTEE & C
GEOEGE STE
SYDNEY,
I
NT
E
RNATIONAL
The Undersigned wish to ann<
visitors that they are SOLE LES
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALA
The Drinks are of the best qi
picturesque apartments, are delici
u
YOUNG
NION CLUI
Baylis and Forsytl
NEWTOWN, WAGGA
(Close to the Railway
Under the patronage of His Exc
Robinson, K.G.C.I
T. J. BYRNES, Prc
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the i
A First-cliss Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well BUj
wholesome x»ovender, and be nnc
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. B£
THE SYDNEY COFI
393, 395, 397, GEORG
THE MOST POPULAR HOY
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, £
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-clai
Fare constantly varied. Fish alw
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. Tin
men’s Dining and Retiring Room
QUNS,
"JJIFLE
PRICE MODERATE. QUAD]
C. COWLE
Practical Gdn;
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOS
RMSTRONG’S PECTORAI
An elegant preparation for al
monary Organs. This is the best
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, (
most successful remedy for Cc
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, th
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRON(
Family Chemist aki
Wholesale & Retail
466 GEORGE STREET (opposit
JS. ABRAHAM’S PEL
• Registered
THE GREAT LIVER
Free from all noxious drugs, viz.,
or Mercury
No pill is so efficacious in
strengthening the stomach, com
ing or removing headache, giddi
costive habit, debilitated stomach
require no change of diet, and i
stitntion may take them with saf
Invented only
J. S. ABE a:
At the Laboratory, 434 Geor
Be careful not to get i
SCOTTISH HIGHL
FOR human use, curing all Idm
Blows, or Eruptions of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, an
Excrescences ; applied to the Hi
Summer it will keep away flies, m
ous spiders, &c., and may be eai
morning. Possesses an agreeable
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OH
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joi
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet,
Warts, and Excrescences. Preve
of exposure in diggers, shepherds
must encounter damps. But i
result, and that which distinguisl
preven t a recurrence of the diseas
J. POTTIE
Veterinary Surgeon to the Govi
263 Elizabeth-street
IMPROVED HOM
LOCK STIC!
SEWING M A
To prevent fraud and deceptu
the following words on the steel s
they ship their sole agents in Ans
All Genuine Mac
stamped
M. MOSS and i
Sole Agents
Sydney, N. S.
Look for those words before n
or a Worthless Imitation may I
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that recc
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHU
has the largest sale of any Machir
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR F:
Reduced Price I
No. I.—For Hand Use, compb
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, witl
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover am
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia ai
M. MOSS & C
8
April 3, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.
