

THE BULLETIN
No. 3.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1880.
Price—3d.
Sdjc bulletin:.
SATUEDAY, FEBEUAEY 14, 1830.
What Further Insult What Next
Disgrace?
It is a painful but at the same time a very patent
fact that the conduct of the principal charitable
institutions of Sydney, and therefore of Now South
Wales, is in the hands of most objectionable people.
The management of our public charities has
utterly passed away from those whose good repute
and undoubted social position rendered thorn fit
mediums between the benevolent public and the
distressed. In Sydney honorary positions in con-
nection with institutions maintained by public
subscription are lavishly conferred by a confiding
public on men who, devoid alike of principle and
money, are bent on supplying the concrete and
not the abstract deficiency referred to—on men
who plot and plan for their ovu sole, li cuds, an I
who, while earning by reason of Tlre_ ndn'hf,vry "
nature of their services the applause of their loss
designing but hardly more ignorant fellows, pros-
titute charity and everything else which is noble
in human nature. The action of the directors of
the Randwick orphan asylum in regard to the elec -
tion of an honorary physician to that institution,
forms one of the most outrageous pieces of bare-
faced rascality ever perpetrated. The directors,
with but one or two brilliant exceptions, belong to
a coterie which lives and gets fat on “ honorary ”
billets. In our little world its members are
omnipresent. They belong to every friendly
society, and to every other association. They
‘‘ boss” the Infirmary, and shamefully abuse the
interests of the sick poor. At the Benevolent
Asylum they have long but unavailingly striven for
supremacy. They sit thick at the City Council
table, and are accountable for the jobbery and
hideous mismanagement which in this city have
made corruption and corporation synonymous
terms. They are of various religions, and
lose no opportunity of insidiously stirring up
and fomenting sectarian disputes, which, in-
directly and directly, are the chief means whereby
their odious names are kept before the public.
They are the personification of every thing that is
blatant, incompetent, unprincipled and preten-
tious. They are the trusted servants of the public
because, in the first place, there is ignorance abroad,
and because, in the second place, the public care-
lessly delegates its business to the first ‘‘good-
natured'’ persons who volunteer to transact it.
The popularity of such moh is, as a rule, altogether
ephemeral. One year they are surprised to find
themselves in Parliament; the next they are as-
tounded at being unsuccessful in a petty municipal
election. While alive they benefit no one but
themselves ; when dead they are remembered by
none save those who catch cold nt their funerals,
and by the hordes of salaried loafers who bear their
names, and whom they pitchfork into every
position, good, bad, or indifferent —within reach.
The other day the Eandwick Asylum, which
has experienced the horrors of ophthalmic visita-
tion, was in need of an honorary consulting phy-
sician. As is usual in such oases, the majority
of the Directors, who always vote compactly, had
a protege ready in the person of an aspiring but
ah ung medical practitioner, to
whom me* dy given an honorary position
at the Infirmary. Unaware of the fact that the
Eandwick appointment was a cut-and-driod affair,
yet suspicious of the men with whom he had to
deal, Dr. Fortescue, an accomplished graduate
of London University, who for twenty years has
resided in Sydney and established his reputatioi
as one of the foremost of Australian practitioners,
tendered his invaluable services to tho Asylum, s
with one reservation. It may be incidentally
mentioned that Dr. Fortescue is one of the
comparatively few local medical men who make
their positions by sheer medical skill and who are
utterly above canvassing and advertising. He is
one of a select few the benefit of whose talents,
we grieve to say, is lost to the Infirmary through
the disgraceful manner in which that institution
is and has been conducted. Dr. Fortescue
made it a condition that no ballot should be taken
between him and anyone else ; and speaking from
the vantage ground of his well-established posi-
tion, clearly and distinctly intimated that should
the Directors be not unanimous concerning him,
he wished them to consider the offer of his ser-
vices withdrawn. However, in defiance of Dr.
Fortescue’s express wish a ballot was taken,
and as a matter of course that ballot resulted in
the return of the Directors’ bantling, to whose
father it is openly alleged—and we say it in the
public interest —the prime mover in this most
disgraceful swindle is under heavy monetary obli-
gations.
Though the matter of this Eandwick appoint-
ment directly affects destitute children alone, its
bearing on the management of charitable institu-
tions in general is obvious. It exemplifies what
can be done bv the clique which constitutes the
majority at the Infirmary Board. It is a matter
which specially concerns the workman, to whom
physical injury brings consequences more disas-
trous than to those whoso calling renders them
less liable to accident. In other cities the hono-
rary appointments on the Hospital medical staffs
are the prizes of the profession- the proudest
positions practitioners can hold. There have been
malpractices in connection with hospital and other
elections elsewhere, but it is a significant fact
that the best medical aid is nevertheless secured
for every metropolitan hospital in the colonies
save Sydney Infirmary. Wo do not say that the
Infirmary has not attached to it some good,
honest, competent medical men, but we call the
public to witness that those men who by common
consent are regarded as the local leaders of the
profession, never enter the Infirmary door. This
Eandwick appointment would really appear to
have been intended as a back-handed slap to the
Government, which has for some time past been
‘ ‘ enquiring ’ ’ into the management of the Asylum.
The action of the directors in deliberately and
grossly insulting Dr. Fortescue, the offer of
whose services was a public benefaction, and re-
jecting him in favour of a mere youth, has only
one parallel. That parallel is contained in the
action of the Farnell-Fitzpatrick Govern-
lj£>iOir , which, having the whole medical profession
to choose from, placed the 700 prisoners at Dar-
linghurst, and the lunatics in the Eeoeption-
house, under the sole medical care of a newly-
qualified boy. -These outrages cannot perhaps
now be atoned for; but lot us hope that the
first care of the newly-formed Medical Association
will be to prevent their recurrence. Let us hope,
too, that the Government will step in between the
unfortunate orphans at Band wick and the cor-
rupt clique, their “ guardians."
Wharfage Corruption.
Ip but half what we hear be correct, a good deal of
corruption with regard to wharfage encroachments
has been winked at in official circles of late. It is
already pretty well known how several wealthy
wharf-owners prevailed on the Government to
bungle and dally, and eventually not proceed
with the,erection of jetties at the Circular Quay.
The projected improvements would have offered
too many facilities to the shipping, and in the
competition that would have followed there might
possibly have occurred a break-up of the wharf
ring. As now, the splendid wharfage front at the
quay is being destroyed. Some fancy gingerbread
weatherboard structures are going up, not so much
to accommodate the ferry-boat passengers as
really to blind the public to the shameful sacrifice
of valuable space. This corrupt manoeuvring of
the wharf-owners is now extending itself from
Miller’s Point to Darling Harbour. Jetties are
being run out into the stream, and the waterway
seriously encroached upon under the excuse of re-
clamation. The change at the Circular Quay,
thought, admitted by some to be desirable, must
drive the shipping round to Darling Harbour.
Now is the time for the appointment of a Board
of gentlemen who will conserve, the general in-
terest and insist on such improvements ia that
quarter as will admit of the development of our
maritime trade. A plan after the style of the
Liverpool or Glasgow docks might with advantage
be adopted. Then, with therailway carried from
its present terminus round to Miller’s Point, and
with an improved style of accommodation for
ships, wo might shake off the wretched name this
port has got all over the world, and make a bold
step towards progress. There is a great deal in
this business that some McElhonian legislator
might inquire into without delay. To postpone
inquiry is to strengthen corrupt hands and render
tho chances of a change the more improbable.
Mr. J. C. Williamson and Miss Maggie
Moore (Mrs. Williamson.)
Hi giving to our readers this week the portraits
of Mr. and Mrs. Williamson, we may confidently
state, without the possibility of contradiction,
that we have delineated the features of two of the
most popular dramatic artists that have ever
visited Australia. No actor or actress who has
ever trod our stage has been able to rivet the at-
tention of the public for so long a period, and
with so few changes of performances, as have
these—in their own particular line of characters
—inimitable artists. It is because, in their spe-
cialities, they have made themselves so perfect
that they have •ompelled tho admiration of all
who have again and again witnessed their per-
formances ; and this, added to the light and
amusing character of the pieces they have pre-
sented for our acceptance—pieces so suitable for
the amusement of the passing hour to those who
have spent the heat and burden of the day in the
toil of labour or the care of business —that Mr.
and Mrs. Williamson owe their great popularity.
Mr. Williamson is an American by birth; Mrs.
Williamson is a native of Sydney, nut migrated
early with her parents to America. Brought up
in a part of the country where there Wftl a large
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON
MRS. J. C. WILLIAMSON (MAGGIE MOORE).


proportion of German settlers, Mr. Williamson’s
keen powers of observation soon enabled him to
master every shade of character, every peculiarity
of manner and custom, every change of expres-
sion and tone of voice peculiar to the. Germans,
and especially their broken English and phraseo-
logy. He then determined to essay his powers on
the stage, and in characters written especially to
develope such imitative faculties, with what suc-
cess everyone knows. So perfect is Mr. William-
son’s representative German, that hundreds have
been deceived into the belief that ho himself is a
Teuton, as one cannot avoid the persuasion that
Leland’s “ Hans Breitman ” and other tales could
have been written only by a German. And yet,
strange to say, Mr. Williamson speaks scarcely
ten sentences of German.
In Miss Maggie Moore Mr. Williamson met not
only with an apt pupil to assist him as a partner
in his impersonations, but also as a partner in the
more serious duties of life. Her charming voice
has materially contributed to her success on the
stage. For years these two clever actors played
throughout America at nearly every theatre until
their fame spread through Europe and Australia.
Many offers were made to them to visit this
country, but it fell to the lot of Mr. Samuel Lazar,
then manager of the Adelaide theatre, to effect
the first engagement with them, and in the middle
of 1874 they arrived in Australia. After playing
the famous “Struck Oil” in Victoria and South
Australia with unparalleled success, Mr. Lazar
was desirous of bringing the Williamsons to Syd-
ney, but, unfortunately, there was no opening for
them. The Prince of Wales theatre lay in ruins,
and there was but one house open in Sydney—
the Victoria. The two managers could not come
to terms, and Mr. Lazar and his partner, Mr.
F. Hisooks, determined to make a bold move-
ment. They took from Mr. Heggarty the Queen’s
for a long term —a year at least. This place had lost
its ancient renommi by being used as a Music Hall,
a Cafe Chantant, and for various other purposes:
and an unpleasant occurrence that had taken place
there also contributed to this end. But the new
managers pulled down the interior, entirely re-
modelled and re-built it, and in March, 1875, were
enabled to introduce the Williamsons to the Sydney
public in as elegant a little theatre as was then to
be found in the colonies. The transformation pro-
duced by such enterprise was as marvellous as
was the success of the artists in a place which—
so people said —not a soul would go. Those who
remember the crowded state of the house night
after night, the difficulty in obtaining seats, or in
securing those for the dress circle for days
in advance —the climbing over the backs of
sofas wedged against the side walls, the
brilliant audiences in full evening costume,
will bear testimony to a dramatic furore unequalled
since the days of G. V. Brooke. For nearly five
months the engagement at the Queen’s lasted, and
the finale was as brilliant as the commencement.
It led to a revolution in theatrical matters here,
for the spirited proprietor, Mr. Lazar, was, by the
support accorded to him, led to enter into arrange-
ments with the owners of the Prince of Wales’
property, which had been for years lying idle.
The result was the building and opening in
December, 1875, of the present Theatre Royal, of
which Mr, Lazar has ever since been the lessee.
Commenting on the performance of “ Struck
Oil” in a journal of the day, the writer of the
present sketch took occasion to speak of the
performance of the Williamsons as follows :“ . .
chic or cheq ue, not our imitated, vulgarised English
word ‘ check,’ but the pure French ‘chic,’ is the
only word to characterize the acting of Mrs.
Williamson as ‘ Lizzie Stofel;’ it is racy, rousing,
and refreshing. The cap and gown of a Master of
Arts should be presented by the University of
Sydney to Mr. Williamson as a perfect master of
the art of acting in his embodiment of the somi-
Aniericauized German settler. Confound it, Sir,
during the evening some bits of dust, or something
else, got into my eyes, once or twice, shaken from
his coat I suppose by a boisterous neighbour, aud
m taking them out I found two wet drops on my
pocket handkerchief. Ish dat so ?By Jove, Sir,
a new sensation.” “ Struck Oil ” was played for
nearly four months, aud ''Kerry ' and “The
Chinese Question” (with that admirable make-up
of “Those heathen Chinee”) filled out the
remainder of each evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Williamson then went to England
where they remained playing in London and the
provinces for nearly four years, returning to
Australia in the middle of last year. After playing
with renewed success in Melbourne they again
came to Sydney, and again under Mr. Lazar’s
auspices. After some weeks of “ Struck Oil,”
which continued as attractive as ever, the
Williamsons produced "H.M.S. Pinafore,” of
which Mr. Williamson is the sole lessee in the
southern hemisphere. Its unparallelled success
up to the night of its withdrawal to make room for
the Christmas pantomime is a memorable event in
theatrical annals. The Pantomime succeeded and
Mr. and Mrs. Williamson concluded their engage-
ment last week with the production of “Kerry” and
“ Arrah-na-Pogue,” in both of which they played,
of course, the leading characters. May we soon
wee them again. Our portraits are taken from
the splendid photos by Boyd.
CRITIC.
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
When a few lives have been sacrificed to the niggard-
liness of our harbour steamboat companies’ directorial
management, we may see some change in the method of
working our cross-water suburban communications.
With a number of boatsat their disposal, the companies
on every occasion crowd the harbour steamers beyond
their carrying capacity, employ old unseaworthy boats
instead of’ the better ones, and have them insufficiently
manned, so that the captain has to leave his place and
do the duty of collecting clerk; or have such bad em-
barking accommodation that intending passengers are
terrified out of their lives ere they can get on board.
Such a scene as that which occurred at Watson’s Bay a
few days ago, when two captains fought for fame before
the eyes of fair unwilling spectators of the fray,
could never take place if there were proper appliances
in use at the landing-places. On Saturday afternoon, a
time when the boats are always crowded with
passengers, a certain wretched tub, renowned in Bris-
bane for its unmanageable clumsiness, has been more
than ones nearly driven on the shore whilst the captain
was collecting the fares, the passengers faring very ill.
Yet this company boasts of having the finest boats in
the harbour. How long will it bo before we shall verifv
the truth of the “ Penny-wise-and-ponnd-foolinh”
adage ?
The Tamworth water-carrier is evidently a wag—a
Wiiter.wagta.il in fact—as a tale in the Tamworth paper
tells us. Unfortunately for him, his waggish propensi-
ties have had the effect of getting him into trouble.
He has had the unblushing effrontery to “ cheek” the
public Press; but though we would willingly wield the
pen on behalf of our brother-in-arms or in-pens, we
cannot help winking at the waggish waterman. The
Tamworth Observer found fault with the water-carrier
for merely sprinkling the streets with his cart-tail.
Now in his watery career, the water carrier had no
doubt a fellow feeling for his fellow townsmen the
publicans, for the more dust iu the town the more dust
would the editor, staff, and readers of the Observer
come down with at the public bar. He was, therefore,
knowing the tastes of the Tamworth townsfolk, imi-
tated at this slurpu his character, but determined that
the Ob3EßVEß*sliOTjld not have again (guise to u of
Jhe dust. Hu filled his c'art and squirted it right ip to
thg Observer office; he filled it again and squirted it
again into the same public.receptacle; again be filled
his war-and-water-machine, and again was about urging
on the wild career of his steed, when—the town being
roused to raise the siege of the Observer office the
Mayor arrived and put an end to the fray hy putt mg the
waggish water carrier into the lock-up. The dusty
drought had been converted in a furious flood.
A minority of five- Parnell. Cameron, Driver, Bow-
ker, and Long—voted on Friday evening to perpetuate
betting by public book-making, in opposition to Mr.
S. H. Terry’s Bill to put it down ; and, whilst giving
the new cabal quintette every credit for honest inten-
tions, we cannot credit them with any great amount ot
intelligence on the subject they talked about , though of
course Mr. Driver, as the champion of the mug, aid all
iu his power, by his advocacy, to support a falling
cause; The few martyrs to Mr. Terry s terrible
treatment of their favourite pastime all took entirely
mistaken views of the point at issue. Mr. lorry might
as well attempt to stop horse-racing itself as to prevent
betting; his object—and this is well understood by
everyone who is not so blind that lie won t see -is to
stop public book-making as a profession, winch wakes
betting as it is now carried on a public scandal, nur-
tures a brood of thieves, and embezzles and.saps the
very vitals of society and family life. If Mr. ferry
succeeds in spoiling the ‘‘rosy little game of those
who know so well bow to trade on the weaknesses of
iockeys, spendthrift clerks, and “poor humanity in
general, he will prove to be the best jockey that has
ever ridden “ The Great Australian Stakes, and will
well deserve all the honour he will reap at the wiuumg
post. While saying all this, we are ready to_ admit that
there are honorable bookmakers and charitable ones
too. We know one in Sydney who maintains many of
the poor people In his neighbourhood, and says nothing
about it. His name is Ned Jones.
“ Your money or your life!" A new version of this
Hounslow Heath footpad’s fond address tt- paa-
semrers is now going the rounds of 8 0 duey official
circles. Don Bernardo del Carpio of tne Internal Ser-
vice Governmental Department having got himself
lately into hot water, was demroM ot baring the con-
sccir ent coolness ot his freezing tnends thawed bj the
genial gastronomy Of a good guzzle. Instructions ~ ere
privately hinted to some of the subordinates ot the de-
nartment to “ forward" the idea, and to invite all the
Imr,loves to take part in the proceedings on pam of
dismissal which might be effected in quiet but ram-
mary privacy. Thus the old saying was changed into
“ Your dinner or your dismissal.”
Will some one obligingly publish a theatrical uad«
mscum for the use of the Herald cntacs ? It « very
tantalising for play-goers to read constantly a descrip-
tion and full particulars of the plot of some new play, only
to find that it is au old friend with a new name.
The Herald of Monday speaks of “ the pool of Lon-
don” as though it werouow given for the first time, de
tailing with great ingenuity the principal features of the
nlot utterly obvious of the fact that the same good
play has done duty dozens of times, at the same theatre,
Dm as “ The Streets of New York, Fraud and its
Victims,” or under other titles. This is rather too had
ot the Herald. To avoid these constantly recur-
ring annoyances, we shall be glad to supply the Herald
theatrical critic—on application—with all theatrical
information of the kind gratis; and wall even undertake
to save the musical old lady the tedious trouble of
toddling round to the back doors of the concert nails in
search of “further particulars.”
That “ confession is good for the soul,” we are fre-
quently told. It eases the conscience and relieves the
digestion of all atrabilious elements. It makes us self-
satisfied, and anus us against all attack. Our friend,
Dame Critica of the Herald, being bowled out in a
blander by Young Bulletin, makes a virtue of neces-
sity, and iu Tuesday’s paper acknowledges the error,
but with womanly resistance does not acknowledge the
source of her obligations. She confesses that she mis-
took “ Salve dimora” for “ Dammi ancor; but, unlike
the penitent who kisses the hand of the priest that
shrives her, whilst purging her own soul of its imper-
fection, she tries to fling a little ot the mud that
clings to her garments on to the robe ot her “leisaiy
monitor, and scatters iuuendos by finding fault with
fulsome flattery, of which, however, she is herselt the
most notable example. . , .
The English ritualists are playing their old game of
coquetry once more. But they evidently want to be on
with the new love before they are ott with the old, in
contradistinction to the terms of the adage. A cable-
gram from Loudon this week- tells us that a certain
number of the members of the Church ot England
practising high ritual on an extensive scale, have
lately formed a union, and have made certain
proposals to the authorities ot the Church of
Rome.” Further, “The Vatican is now engaged iu
discussing these proposals. So the \ atican is evi-
dently the mamma who is to consider the m*n*iagre
proposals of these highly eligible young ritualists who
desire to be received into the capacious family bosom.
They are evidently in danger of being cast otf by the
matron at the head of the Church of Bn* land house-
hold. We knew to what the “ scarlet woman” is bibli-
cally likened ; audit these righteous ritualists (ot whom
we have plenty in our own colony) show too much
vacillation between their two loves, or too much atten-
tion to the Lady Lorette, they may find themselves in
the peculiarly perplexing predicament of being between
two stools.
Have the police nothing better to do than to vamp up
trumpery cases against petty offenders such as were
brought up at the Central Police Court on Tuesday for
sly gfog selling, or is this another way of adding to their
reputation by the number of convictions they obtain ?
Shall there be no moro cakes and ale, or shall they no
longer he hot i’ the mouth because Policeman X, or
Inspector Dunderhead desires to become over-virtuous,
and add another stripe to his chance of promotion ?
Though Mrs. Brand may be branded for sly brandy
selling, do the police think that they can thus put down
houses of .accommodation by a priggish crying into
private proceedings * Aud where such" hoarding-house”
accommodation exists, surely the boarders ought to be
allowed to cheer up their spirits by spirituous as well ns
spiritual imbibition ? This kind of private “hoarding-
house ” traffic cannot be put down by law, and the thing
to do in the emergency is to control it as they do in
continental Europe, so as to prevent its becoming a
nuisance, an eysore, and a disgrace to the rest of the
city • but to attempt to tie it down within certain limits
hy informers of the Tighe species, employed hy the police
to induce the very offence for which they are liable to
punishment, is a disgrace to our boasted civilization,
aud a blot on tbe name of justice. It demands an out-
cry of “Fie, for shame” on the police aud their
protectors. ......
Could not the Graphic have found a single artist in
Sydney capable of executing for its pages prettier pic-
tures of Sydney, and ones far more correct in detail, than
the wretched things which the vaunted “ special ” sent
out for the International Exhibition has drawn for its
pages, as shown in the latest part to hand ? It our
geography is imperfectly unknown in the State offices,
or the newspaper offices of Loudon, is that any reason
why an artist coming amongst ns for a special purpose
should use his eyes or his pencil to our detriment ? Is the
picture of a debate in our Legislative Assembly intended
for a caricature? If so, our own caricaturist could
have drawn it infinitely better. The Speaker’s chair is
totally wrong ; the Speaker is as much like our own
dignified “ first commoner” as he is like the donkey who
drew him; and the whole scene, with the Clerk of the
House leaning over writing, must have existed in the
dreams of the draughtsman after copious draughts of
“ she-oak.” As for the sketch of the closing of
Parliament,, it would do just as well for an assembly of
ourang-oiitangs, which is possibly the idea intended to
be conveyed by this very funny Graphic man. Other
pictures a.re equally puny in their pitiful lack of skill,
except those picked up from photographs. If it were
worth while to punish our detractors, wo should uot
hesitate to place the Graphic “special” artist iu the
front rank. The Graphic special supplement, first
published with the paper and then given away as an
advertisement, contained what was v.iry erroneously
supposed to be a correct view of the big building. The
picture was wrong in proportion, in detail, in elevation,
aud in every other particular, and served, not to
advertise the Graphic, but merely to make colonials
doubt the correctness of Graphic scenes in countries
beyond tbeir ken. It may also be mentioned that the
Illustrated London News’ people arc not above what
is known iu artjstic and literary circles ae “ cabbaging.”
A little while ago, an excellent view of the Garden
Palace and grounds and the harbor as seen from the
steeple of St. James’ was published in a Sydney paper.
This has been coolly appropriated without a word of
acknowledgement hy the sbws last mentioned, which
had a “ special artist ”in Sydney. After all, these big
people arc realy very mean.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
Peep the First.
—AT CERTAIN “LADIES.”
I go to the theatre to have a peep at things not often
noted by the generality of visitors, and The Bulletin
shall have the benefit of my glances. My last visit was
to see the Georgia Minstrels. It may be bad taste on
my part, but I decidedly prefer the spurious nigger to
the real original Georgian darkie. The jokes of the
latter arc stale, their conundrums as old as the immortal
hills, their voices—well, the less said the better. Bones
can bawl, and Tambourine can shout, and that is about
all the voice in the company. However, the place was
fairly full, stalls especially, where the town butterflies
apparently reiguod supreme. Their dross was elaborate
—gay shawls, doubtful jewellery, smart hats, and
pretty (if bold) faces; beauty marred by the life they
lead. They laughed the loudest, clapped the most
liberally, nodded familiarly to Bones, waved their
handkerchiefs to Tambourine, recognized the male
portion of the audience at intervals, accepted lemonade
and apples, let the corks fly vigorously, and altogether,
from first to last, stamped themselves as the “ queens’*
of the theatre. “ A short life and a merry one” is their
motto, and they adhere to it in spite of the many ups
and downs such a life must entail. Like the butterfly,
they burst from the chrysalis of girlhood, and flutter
their gay pinions before the world. Their first contact
with it brushes the down of innocence from their wings.
Like the night moth, the very glare that attracts them
singes their beauty, and after the first dull heartache or
cruel rebuff their half-formed minds receive, they enter
life blindly with a dash, living only on the surface of all
things, now petted, now discarded, now nursed in the
lap of luxury, and going gaily with the stream, now
deserted, trembling on the brink, too weak to live and
face the cruel world. But the larger number are always
gay with a heart that can feel more for a man who is
down on his luck than for a fallen sister. They learn in
time to turn the tables, and where they have been the
dupes of man in former years they now learn to trap the
unwary—some young millionaire with more money than
brains ; so long as his money lasts, he is a king among
them. They drag him down slowly, but surely, till
their gay life, late hours, and unlimited pale brandy
soon make him a fit subject for a coroner’s inquest, or
a lunatic asylum. These women seldom live to grow
old, except in looks. Drink is their unfailing resource .
beginning with a little, the habit grows on them, and
they become an ea sy prey for any disease.
QUIZ.
"THE STRANGER.”
(Written for THE BULLETIN BY LANFRE.)
’Twas after dark ! Under the gaslight stood a
mysterious stranger, alone! Judging from ap-
pearances he was no sorcerer, hut more like an
Irish emigrant or a man from America. He stooped
(not to conquer) but to pick up a cut glove which
lay on the roadside near the Red Lion Inn. From
the recollections that glove called up, it seemed to
him as if he had come back from the grave. He
had, for a terrible crime, been transported for life,
but bad, after a severe struggle for freedom,
escaped. A hypocrite, with whom in his early
days he was hand and glove, and who might well
be called his Nemesis, had placed him oh the road
to ruin. ’Tis said he did it all for gold and
revenge. Then, his victim having been once led
astray by temptation, betrayed the secret,
and by turning Queen’s evidence in this then cele-
brated case he received a royal pardon, while
the betrayed, although he pleaded not guilty, was
sentenced to (a living) death. But the vagrant,
almost a mendicant we see beneath the lamp,
locked out at this midnight hour from society,
found too late the truth of the saying, “ all that
glitters is not gold.” He was now but a poor
stroller, a lost son haring no name. Trnly he was
not born to good luck. Money and misery he had
once: he had but the last named now. He
thought of the time when as a poor boy he played
in his uncle Tom’s cabin; of the time when as a
child he wore a pinafore, when it was his heart’s
delight to read of the Babes in the Wood, Cin-
derella and the like. But he had played what he
thought a winning hazard with his trump, and
only to find that the cast of the die left him
euchred. He thought to look back upon the tide
of time when, an (nnjhappy man bereft of an honest
heart, as a forlorn hope he tried tc pluck forbidden
fruit only to be foiled once more. Then tender
memories rose and he thought of his first love’s
chase, when ho was one of the sweethearts of Cora
(who was, ho imagined, perfection). She was a
silent woman and came of a serious family, her
grand aunt being the well-known woman in red,
the nurse to the fair penitent. Ho dreamt how he
and Cora, the two orphans, became engaged, how
he had recourse to many a heaux’s stratagem to
give stolen kisses. There was no necessity for her
to make a bold stroke for a husband, as ho was no
bashful man. They were married in haste, but
the day after the wedding the happy pair, this
husband and wife, found that love in a cottage
suited them not. Then the handsome husband
found he had what he dre(a)d—ed—a jealous wife.
Next ensued a series of family jars till at the
finish came a great divorce case. But the Gover-
nor who struck oil when the Chinese— —No matter!
The reader, we presume exclaims —“But what is
all this much ado about nothing ?’ ’ Madam or sir !
It is just as yon like it.
Breach of Promise.
A most remarkable action for breach of promise
of marriage will shortly come before the. Supreme
Court of N.S.W. The defendant is a rich and
handsome landed proprietor ; the plaintiff is a
“ lady ” whose face has somewhat faded, and who
has never been admitted to a grade of society
even very far below that to which her faithless
lover belongs. The defendant states, firstly that
he never promised to marry plaintiff, and second
that even had he done so the relations which suh-
sequent to the time of the alleged engagement
existed between her and several men about town,
to whom he has already had subpoenas handed
were of such a character as to render any engage-
ment null. More than one civil servant will figure
in the case. Members of Parliament will not be
neglected by the summons-server, and the affair,
if not settled privately, is one in which the ex-
amining counsel for the defence will act as a
veritable asmodeus.
Mythology a la Mode.
II.
' As my last little effort proved such a success,
I’m sure that my second can prove little less.
’Twas submitted to one who looked after its toue,
Need I say that that one was the great M’Elbone ?
Mr. David Buchanan was also so kind
As to see that the language was pure aud refined.
Juno, Pallas, and Yenns were friendly enough
Till the apple of discord set each in a huff.
As they sat thinking just about nothing at all,
In their midst this gold apple did then and there tall.
“ To the fairest,” ’twas labelled—no wonder each dame
Thought that she was tile fairest and put iu the claim.
Paris, sou of King Priam of Troy passing hy.
Was requested the delicate question to try.
He looked well at each for a minute or so
Gave the apple to Venus, who promised to go
To the end of the world to serve him whenever
He wanted her help or the aid of her clever
Young sou, who immediately shot forth a dart
Striking Helen a straight one right into the heart.
Helen left home and husband with Paris for T roy,
And Juno and Pallas did each art employ
To stir up the world against the famed city ,
Closing their eyes and their ears against pity
They roused up all Greece, and half heaven in their rage
To blot out poor Troy from geography’s page.
Of course, Venus stood by the judge who’d declared
Her the fairest, aud by various means she ensnared
The rest of Olympus to smile on the side
Of the Trojans, aud Paris, oft turning the tide
Of war iu their favour, but all was no use
In the end they served Troy like a Michaelmas goose.
By Anchises to Venus iEneas was born,
Whose deeds will for ever Troy’s annals adorn.
After many adventures iu war, love and travel.
His thread of existence in peace was let ravel.
Escaping from Dido, Lavinia he married.
And built Lavinium, where long the pair tarried.
Meanwhile Jove with Juno got on pretty well
Till he changed himself into a bull for a belie
Named Europa, the daughter of Phoenicia's King,
which Juno contended was not the right thing.
Rhadamanthus and Minos, the offspring of this
Erratic effusion of bucolic bliss,
Were made J.P.s’ on earth, where they punished so wsl(
They were shortly promoted to judgeships in hell.
Next, Lela, the daughter of Thesbius, and wife
Of Tunddnis, caused no small conjugal strife.
If Jove called as a god, she would have him “ begone,
But she met the old goose when he went as a swan.
Soon Castor and Pollu appeared on the scene,
And gladdened the eyes of the doirn-hearted queen.
They stuck to each other, like birds of a feather,
And to Colchis with Jason, they started together
To help him in bearing away the gold fleece
In spite of the Dragons, and bulls, and police.
No wonder poor Juno thought Jove was not “steady”
When she heard that he’d changed himself into the
“ ready.”
Daniie, daughter of Argos’ proud King he now sold-
Or bought if yon like, for, transformed into gold
He came down in a shower of bright sovereigns and
guineas, , , , .. . .
And took Daniie by‘storm, like tbe rest ot the ninnies.
The consequence, Perseus, so famous in story—
So brimful of valour, effulgent with glory.
If space did not press, I could scarcely refuse a
Whole page to the man who o’ercame the Medusa
And held the gaunt head to the eyes of his foes,
Whom it/instantly turned into statues, in rows.
True, Perseus had donued Pluto’s helmet—Minerva’s
Own shield she had lent him, which doubtless must
serve as ~ , ,
A reason why he was not instantly changeeci
Into some ugly milestone—his functions deranged.
His future career, but for this slight assistance
Might be cribbed, and confined to denoting the distance
That lay between him and the next market town.
To he stared at for ages hy each passing clown.
To Vulcan’s keen sword he was also indebted.
And perhaps if our own “permanents” each were
abetted ,
And aided like Perseus, they’d stick at no trifle,
Especially as they are armed with the nfle.
But I fear I’m digressing. When Perseus was told
That a maid was in trouble, this hero so bold
Quickly flew to her help, and soon managed to>bring
Andromeda, daughter of Cepheus, King
Of the black Ethiopians, safe out Of the land
Of the monster, who died hy his terrible hand.
Not very long after our Perseus carried her
Home to his mountains, and quietly married her.
She’s still to bo seen, in a milk white condition,
In a prominent place in our grand Exhibition.
Perseus* name will stand out in relief to the end,
For in him each poor scribbler was sure ot a mend.
He loved men of letters (not M.L.A. s, mark).
And he founded a school to enlighten the dark-
Ness that spread its thick mantle in those remote ages
O’er all hut a handful of seedy old sages
Who wrote with a spirit that fires us e en yet.
Though long since arrested by Nature tor debt.
We’ve seen changed, line the spots on the
Now a bull now a swan, now to gold, but a shepherd
Was something he had not yet tried, and he thought
That, all thines considered, he certainly ought.
Mnemosyne, Goddess of Mem ry, to suit.
He played “ Home, sweet home, on his best
concert flute— , ~, , _„„
Sane a past’ral sweetly, and danced wuh such grace,
And went through a whole five act play to her lace;
Winding up with a farce full of local allusion.
In which he pourtrayed to the lite, the delusion
Of conjugal bliss—altogether a fiction.
Made up—illustrated by oue contradiction.
Which hists hut for life with the mortal, alas !
The unfortunate god can’t so easily pass
From the scene of his troubles—for him no kind knife
To place iu his bosom instead of his wife.
Jove piled up the agony higher and higher,
’Till artless Mnemosyne fell iu the fire.
She afterwards owned that the scene, though confusing.
Was uot without merit. She then fell a muting .
Here would I be mute, did not Clio command
Me to deal with the fact, with a hold, graphic hand,
Abjuring all falsehood, and scorning all myst• ry,
For Clio herself is the goddess of history,
And saw no disgrace in being horn of Jove
And the goddess of mem’ry, although their fond love,
Was not formally registered hy Mr. Hymen,
Whose business, considered aright, is to tie men
And women as tight as lie likes keeping clear
Of gods and of goddesses, out of his sphere !
Thus emboldened by oue who was most interested,
I freely admit (for they each have confessed it)
That after a few of those fond interviews.
This young woman presented the world with a muse !
And soon after oue more, and another, and still
The cry was “ They come,” aud they came, too, until
The Goddess of Mem’ry produced the same uiue
Who are sometimes erroneously termed divine,
And more times “ immortal,” but no one refuses
To look with resxiect on the heavenly muses.
To each Muse was assigned, as her empire, a science—
Empires which set even time at defiance.
Secure of allegiance while pens, ink, and paper
Survive, or while dancers can cut one poor caper
While wandering minstrels can blow on a horn,
While tragedy—comedy—op’ra adorn
Our board; while th’ historian has aught lett to
write of;
While little stars twiukle, while —but I lose sight of
Tbe printer’s long bill and the reader’s long face—
Astronomy’s dang’rons—it takes too much space.
Calliope rules o’er the heroic line
While Thalia’s expected to look after mine;
Fair Clio inspires our Macaulays and Humes ;
Melpomene watches o’er him who assumes
The tragedian’s role ; makes him rant, rave, aud bellow
In Richard the Third, or the coal-black Othello.
At Erato’s request Byron wrote his Don Juan,
And to please her Tom’Moore hurried on to his ruin—
Threw away all bis chances of canonization.
As Little by Little be lost-reputation.
Terpsichore’s functions too oft are paraded.
By each dancing master her name is degraded.
“ Six lessons, one guinea,” be can’t advertise
Without calling her down from her home in the skies.
Polyhymnia reigns o’er each wearying ode
“ To the Sun,” “ To the Moon,” “ To the Grave,” “ To
the Road.”
At Euterpe’s command swell the choir and the chorus.
And each barrel-organ that strikes up to bore us.
Urania, the last of this eminent lot,
Was not least (I should say most decidedly not).
Each day the astronomer sings forth her praises
And looks for her face when at bright stars he gazes.
Perhaps some young person may find her ere long.
Ere the comet now near us be known but in song.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Victorian Conservatives arc organizing.*
Many French emigrants are leaving for Texas.
The Carden Palace is now closed at 6 p.m.
daily-
£2so has been subscribed at Invcrell for a
convent.
Tncre are 3,671,000 sheep in the stock farms
of Texas.
A Legislature is to be established in the
Xransvaal.
A building society is to be established at
Wollongong.
In N.S.W. there arc 18,885 persons receiving
Government pay.
A boy has died at Brisbane hospital while
under chloroform.
Mr. W. Jones, of Gawler, declares lie saw the
comet a month ago.
Mr. Langton will contest Castlemaine in the
Conservative interest.
Thfc Adelaide Corporation and the local Gas
Company are squabbling.
A Georgetown telegram states that miners are
returning from Woolgar.
The Tasmanian Parliamentary Session will
probably close next week.
A large meeting at Inverell has decided to
support the Education Bill.
Messrs. Mitchell, Maddison, and Gilmour are
the new Wallsend aldermen.
On Monday last, welcome rain fell pretty
generally throughout N.S.W.
The Bathurst A.H. and P. Association’s annual
show will he held in April next.
In Brisbane they call a well-seasoned toper an
•‘old established whisky tank.”
There were 800 insolvencies in N.S.W. last year.
There have been 102 since Ist January, 1880.
The Hon. John Sutherland will be banquetted
at the Town Hall on 23rd current.
An inspector is to be appointed in Melbourne
to detect attempts at imposition on charities.
Lord Augustus Loftus sive his third Parlia-
mentary dinner on Monday last.
M'Elhone is taking lessons in etiquette and
deportment from John Davies.
A partial eclipse of the sun was visible at
Levuka on Monday, 12th January.
A whirlwind of terrific violence passed the
Wagga hospital on Thursday week.
The estimated net amount realized by the
S.A. Loan of £3,250,000 is £3,065,795.
Mr. Dent has been elected Mayor of Lambton,
and Mr. Whiteman Mayor of Waratah.
The Tasmanian Assembly have authorised a
loan of £450,000 to he raised in London.
Three houses were burnt the other night
in Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
A contractor named Hayes has murdered his
wife at Dunedin by cutting her throat.
The February nisi prius sittings of the Supreme
Court commenced on Monday morning.
The report and balance-sheet of the Hawkes-
bury Benevolent Society are satisfactory.
An open verdict has been returned in regard
to the Are at Berg’s premises, Coonamble.
Special harvest thanksgiving services have been
given at the Church of England, Cootamnndra.
An action is pending, in which a very large
amount of Melbourne city property is involved.
On 3rd February, at 4.40 p.m., several small
shocks of earthquake were felt at Hobart Town.
The comet was seen very clearly at Mackay on
Sunday night, and presented a splendid appearance.
The new steamship “TeAnau” resembles the
splendid “ Eotomahaua," hut is 15 feet less in length.
The municipal council of Noumea has decided
to support laical instruction in the local State schools.
John Drummond, 28, sawyer, has beer,
instantaneously killed at Wallsend by the falling of a
log.
The South Australian Insurance Compam’s
report shows a balance of £30,000 to credit of profit and
loss.
Nine tons of stone from the new Advance reef,
Milton, near Gladstone, Queensland, has crushed 1460z5.
gold.
Sheep-stealing -is rife at Glen Tunes. Mr.
Samuel O’Hara lost 400 lambs from one flock within a
week.
A patient at Adelaide Lunatic Asylum set
herself on fire last week, and is now in a dangerous
state.
The shareholders of the Bank of Adelaide have
resolved to issue 25,000 new shares, but not just at
present.
A man named Laurence Saunders has
committed suicide at Charters Towers by shooting
himself.
The Melbourne Woollen Mill Company’s
premises have been worked at a serious loss during last
half year.
The Adelaide Marine Board have decided that
the loss of the Lady Kinnaira was due to the default of
her master.
The well-known and tedious mining case, Mul-
holland and another’ v. Boyers, has been relerred to
arbitration.
A protection area has been applied for in a
new locality fifteen miles of Georgetown, Etheridge,
■Queensland.
Mr. Berry has held a meeting at Stawell, and
lias condemned Mr. Service’s proposals as “ a mere
'election cry.”
On the sth current the present Parliament of
•Great Britain had had an existence of five years and
»eleven months.
At Thursday night’s banquet to the Exhibition
■Commissioners, there was a most influential company
of two hundred.
The Victorian Farmers’ Unions are taking
active part in the selection of candidates for the
ensuing election.
Mr. Lucas’ newly-erected premises at Darling
Harbour will hold 100 beef ca reuses and a proportionate
number of sheep.
Messrs. Campbell, Evers, Morris, and Beard,
the retiring directors of the Protestant Hall Company,
have been re-elected.
Thomas Gould, charged with cattle-stealing at
Grafton, and who absconded from his bail, has been
arrested at Melbourne.
The cataract tunnel included in the Nepean
scheme of water supply will, when completed, be one of
the largest in the world.
A man named Louis Becker, who had been for
some time in had health, has committed suicide in
Eussell-street, Melbourne.
71,000 bags of wheat, 9,400 of flonr, 7,800 of
of oats, 7,630 of barley, and other grain in proportion,
were delivered at Spencer-street railway station,
Melbourne, during last week; total, over 100,000 bags.
Mr. Tom White and Mr. Patrick Lynch are the
delegates representing the cordwaiuersof N.B. W, at the
Trade and Labor Council.
It has now been discovered that the late town
clerk of Emerald Hill, Melbourne, duplicated some of
tbe municipul debentures.
At the recent municipal election at Welling-
ton, it is said, two infants in arms, and Chinamen by the
dozen were allowed to vote.
Alderman M‘Mahon has been elected Mayor
of Petersham. He succeeds Alderman Pigott, who has
held the office for eight years.
The A. S. N. Company's steamer Pretty Jane,
from Levuka, reports that a big native meeting was
concluded just before she left.
An obscene paper called the Firebrand,
‘ edited ’ by a scoundrel lately in Sydney, has been
seized in Melbourne by the police.
Mr. R. Berg’s public-house at Coonamble has
been totally destroyed by fire. It was insured for £9OO.
An open verdict lias been returned.
The N.Z. Government have now 800 armed
constabulary on the Waimate Plains. A force of 1500
volunteers is ready for active service.
It is now the fashion at home to have the arti-
ficial flowers worn in bonnets and dresses scented to
imitate nature as closely as possible.
Dr. Bod Imm has explained the mistake in the
recent university French examination It appears
that the error was that of an assistant.
In the ease of Larnach v. Australian and
European Bank, for dishonor of cheques, a verdict for
£350 damages has been given to plaintiff
The Orient was spoken thirty miles south-east
of Breaksea Light, seventy-four hours from the Sema-
phore, on Saturday last. All was well.
The directors of the Equitable Fire Insurance
Co., Adelaide, recommend a dividend of 15 per cent., and
the carrying forward of £ 135 to reserve.
The annual tea meeting in connection with the
Sydney City Mission was held on Tuesday evening at
the Temperance Hall. 200 were present.
A fire broke out on Tuesday evening at the
premises of Messrs. Ritchie and Co., Druitt-street,
Sydney. It was, however, soon subdued.
Mr. Berry’s change of front in abandoning
his principle of a nominee Council is regarded as a de-
ception upon the Governor and Assembly.
J. Fliedt, a passenger for Rockhampton from
Brisbane, per “ Alexandra,” disappeared during the
trip. He is supposed to have been drowned.
An order lias been obtained against all the
shareholders for peremptory payment in regard to the
late Provincial and Suburban Bank’s affairs.
There are sixty members on the roll of tho
Pitt-steeet Literary and Debating Society. Tho Rev.
Jus. Jetferis is president for the current year.
“ Yalentia” house and grounds in Albert-street,
Woollahra, have been bought by the Sisters of Charity
of Victoria-street convent, as a branch house.
Tillcars, the explorer, has reached Adelaide
from the country between Elder and Musgrave. H?
sank a well one hundred feet, and found water.
Frederick Ingall, a hard-working miner, has
been killed at Wellington by a fall of earth. He leaves
a wife and young family utterly unprovided for.
The steamer Dawn, with passengers and cargo
from Thursday Island to Normantown, is three weeks
overdue. Fears are entertained regarding her.
The borough council of St. Kilda, Melbourne,
have their books audited once a month by a local
auditor. The audit only costs £25 per annum.
News is to hand by the Deccan that over a
quarter of a million shares in the Mortgage Company
of South Australia were applied for in four days.
For some time past a small party at M'Phcr-
son’s Creek, Weejaspor, have raised go’ld equal to £1
per man per day. The creek is now worked oift.
The ketch “ Foam,” from Loutitt Bay to
Melbourne, is supposed to bave been lost during the
late gale. She had on board three men and a hoy.
The Adelaide Corporation has decided to offer
the local Gas Co. a contract for three years, to keep the
lamps alight from sunset to sunrise, at £7 per annum.
On Saturday night last, Matthew Matthewson,
a Bulli resident, while proceeding home from
Wollongong, fell from the bridge, and broke his neck.
A public meeting is to be called in Melbourne
for the purpose of considering the proposition that the
Exhibition building be lighted with gas and opened at
night.
At a private trial of the American diamond drill
apparatus at Adelaide, a foot of hard quartz was bored
out in ten minutes. The apparatus will bore 2000 feet
in depth.
The twenty-fifth annual meeting of the N.S.W.
auxiliary of the London Missionary Society was held
on Monday night. The Rev. Jas. Jefferis, LL.B.,
presided.
The Government intend to keep the Inter-
national open until after the Easter holidays if the
foreign commissioners can be induced to remain in
Sydney.
Hector M‘Dougall, a member of the Permanent
Force, was knocked down by a cab on Tuesday night,
and very severely injured by the shaft, which struck
his chest.
Mr. Berry has been most unfavourably received
at Ararat, a constituency which his party gained for
Mr. Gauusou, who has now deserted them and is very
popular.
An immense fleet, numbering about 300 canoes
and many European boats, including Maafu’s yacht,
recently accompanied the Governor of Fiji from Ban to
Levuka.
Joseph Dawson, the landlord of a Sussex-stveet
hotel, has been sent to gaol for two months for having
most unwarrantably assaulted a man named Robert
M'Credie.
Miller and party have discovered a gold-bearing
reef on Bartley Creek run, Parkes. An alluvial claim
has also been pegged off in the same locality, which is
quite new.
The Governor of New Zealand lias issued a
pacific proclamation in connection with the appointment
of the commission to investigate the native laud
grievances.
One hundred thousand acres of land in the
south-east are offered for selection by the South Aus-
tralian Government—the selectors to drain the ground
themselves.
Mary McMahon, of Emerald Hill, Melbourne,
has chopped her child’s head off with an axe. She is
evidently insane, and was some time since discharged
from the Kew Asylum.
The Y.M.C.A. bave a “gospel tent” pitched
on a site adjoining the City Mission Chapel, Abercrom-
bie-street. Service is held on every evening but Satur-
day, commenc'ng at 7.30.
Saturday, the 28th current, has been fixed for
the Victorian general election. The date in question is
awkward for the Jewish community, and is also the first
day of the antnmn races.
The local Commission have resolved to recom-
mend the N.S.W. Government to vote £7OOO for the
purpose of having this colony fittingly represented at the
Melbourne International.
The City Council has decided that all footpaths
of streets that have not been proclaimed under the
paving clause of the Corporation Act of 1879 shall be
placed in thorough repair.
Morris Matthews, the “Lusitania’s” barber,
has been sent to gaol for a week by the Water Police
' Bench for desertion. Under the whole of the circum-
stances, the decision, or at any rate its effect, must be
pronounced scandalous.
A man named John Bowke was, cm Tuesday,
at the Water Police Point, fined .€lofor having falsely
represented that ho was the freeholder of certain
property in Woolloomooloo.
Tho Mining Registrar at Woodstown t elegraphs
thus : —“ Temora alluvial greatly valued, and extending.
Two tons quartz crushed at Barmedman from Temora
reefs yielded 6ozs. 2dwts.”
Messrs. Crossman and W. 11. Metcalfe, Mr.
and Mrs. Millet, two sons, and six daughters, are
passengers for Sydney by the s.s. “ Deccan,” which
reached Adelaide on Monday night.
New Caledonia Ims suffered very severely from
a cyclone. The French Consul at Sydney, M. bullion,
invites subscriptions to alleviate the distress, and has
headed the list with a donation of €2O.
Preliminary meetings in support of the
respective candidature for Paddington of Mr. William
Forster date Agent-General), Mr. W. Hezlett, J.P.,
and Mu J. B. Douglas, have beau held.
An application has been received hv the
Council of Education from Miss Whiteside, asking that
she may he allowed to teach cooking in the Public
schools as a branch of female education.,
At Goulburn, the other day, a drunken man
fell from the railway platform while the Sydney train
was coming iu. He was dragged off the rails by two
young men a second before it was too late.
Professor Elkington, of the Melbourne Univer-
sity, has lectured in Sydney on ‘ The practical value of
the study of Political Economy.’ Like all men of his
class, the Professor is a stasnch free trader.
The other night, near Kilounda, a tiger snake
four feet long got into a bed between two sleeping girls.
It coiled round the arm of the younger of the two, hut
fortunately did not bite, and was soon killed.
. Sir Bryan O’LogMen has explained to a rowdy
meeting at West Melbourne the principle of the appli-
cation of the plebiscite. A youuv roan who wished to
move an amendment was very roughly handled.
A new Masonic lodge, under the government
of the Grand Lodge of New South Wales, has been
opened at Redfern. Bro. John Slade Is W.M., Bro.
Bro. Greenwood S.W., and Bro. J. D. Howe J.W.
Mr. T. IT. Kellyer, solicitor, is the new Mayor
of Bathurst. Mayor Holborow, Alderman Chapman,
and Alderman Munro, have been chosen mayors of
Richmond, Newcastle, and Singleton, respectively.
The employees of the Sydney Tramway and
Omnibus Company’s works held their annual picnic at
the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel, Botany, on Tuesday.
There was a party of 70, who thoroughly enjoyed
themselves.
About seventy men are now on the rush at
Tucker’s Creek. All like the look of the country, hut
no work has been done yet by anyone hut the prospector*
The Barrington is still uncrossahle for vehicles, and the
roods are had.
Tho magistrates of Yass and Burrowa are
thanking Sir Alex. Cockburn, Lord Chief Justice of
England, and Sir Eardley Willmott, for their exertions
on behalf of Edmund Galley, who lately received the
Queen’s pardon.
Mr. W. IT. Graves, travelling representative of
Messrs. Heed and Barton, of Taunton, US., gave an
interesting lecture at the Itechnical college. School of
Arts, on Wednesday night, on “ electro-plating in the
United States.”
There is trouble in the Transvaal. Mr. Bok,
a leading Hollander, his been arrested at the instance
of Sir Garnet Wolseley, hut is allowed hail of €3OOO.
Mr. Preforms has been arrested on a charge of treason.
and is refused bail.
Every one who has been in the far north
kuows “ George the Greek.” A constable went to
arrest him at Millchester for stabhiug a woman.
“ George” stubbed the constable —it is feared mortally—
and is now iu custody.
A meeting in celebration of the first anniversary
ff the Rev. W. Bradley’s pastorate of Gleumore rood
Congregation il Church was held last Tuesday evening.
The rev. gentleman is also minister of Ocean-street and
South Head churches.
Martin Wiberg wants another trip to the
Tarwin. Ho has told the authorities where he planted
the undiscovered balance of the 5000 sovereigns stolen
from the Avoca. A detective visited the spot indicated,
hut failed to find the money.
Some person, as yet unknown, has made a
series of deliberate attempts to set tire to the press-
men’s hostelry, Wangeuheim’s Hotel. The hotel has
been set lire’ to on five separate occasions, usually
during the absence of the proprietor.
A “ New South Wales branch of the British
Medical Association ” was inaugurated on Monday
evening lost at the residence of Dr. Milford. A general
meeting of the profession is called for next Monday
evening at the Cambridge Club Hotel.
The number of dealings registered under the
Real Property Act during 1879 was 6788, and the amount
of consideration £5,884,311. The total area of land
under the Act on 31st December was 9,837,516 acres, of
an estimated and total value of £14,197,193.
Mr. Spencer, U. S. Consul • General for
Australia, has, in consequence of the illness and de-
parture for America of Dr. Cox, Secretary to the
Commission, come from Melbourne to Sydney to
officially represent the American exhibitors.
Payable alluvial is reported at Tucker’s Creek,
nine miles north-west of Cobark station, near Copeland
North. The sinking is 8 feet in the l>ed of a narrow
creek. Tho prospectors, iu three days, obtained from
8 loads of dirt, by box-sluicing, 3ozs. 9dwts. 6grs. gold.
Twenty trucks, with threshing machines,
winnowers, engines, hedge-cuttars, and Fowler’s
traction engine were sent to Orange for the inter-
national trial under the management of tho Spring Hill
Farmers’ Union. They were unloaded without a hitch.
The Victorian Minister for Railways doubts
whether provision can be made out of the railway loan
for a moiety of the cost of constructing a railway bridge
over the Murray, inasmuch as, with the exception of
the approaches, it would staud altogether on N.S.W.
soil.
The letters and papers found in a bag m the
Murrumbidgee at W agga some time back nave been
recognised as belonging to Robert Standish Clarke,
who, two years ago, was driving sheep in the district,
and the trunk of whose body was found in the river last
July.
The defalcations of Ogilvie, late secretary to
the Operative Building Society, amount to £Blll6s. 9d.
This is covered by a guarantee, for the recovery of
which legal; proceedings have been instituted. The
amount at credit of profit and loss on 31st December
was £1542 4s. 4d.
It has been decided, after a three days’ inquest,
that the remains recently found on Flinders Island,
Tasmania, are those of a boy named Ralph Place, who
disappeared eight years ago. A verdict of wilful murder
has been returned against a man named Jehu Hardesty,
who was suspected at the time.
The N. S. W. Savings’ Bank has 25,906 de-
positors in the central office, Sydney, with £1,051,516 at
their credit. In the country districts it has 6738 de-
Sositors, owning £281,500. Including both, it holds
eposits three times as large as all the Government
Savings’ Banks pnt together.
A mummy from Trinity Bay has been added
to the curiosity of the Queensland Court at the Inter-
national. The blacks in the Bellenden Ker range, where
the mummy was found, have lost the secret of its
preservation. They say the body is that of a celebrated
chief who died two hundred years ago.
The tender of the Telegraph and Maintenance
Company has been accepted for the supply and laying
of a cable between Wanganui and Nelson, New Zealand.
This cable will be the fifth, connecting the two islands,
and will very much expedite the exchange of messages
between Australia and the North Island.
On some sandhills blown down recently afc
Mongonui, near Cape Karakara, N.Z., a great heap of
bones and the remains of a house have been discovered.
The natives know nothing of these, and it is believed ;
that they form traces of a race inhabiting New Zealand
prior to the immigration of the Maories,
At Cowra Police Court an unsuccessful suitor,
named Alford, who is a J.P., has been shaking his fist
at. the presiding Solons, keeping his hat on in the
temple of Justice, patting his tongue out at a legal
practitioner, and making grimaces. Will Mr. Wisdom
kindly put his pen through Mr. Alford’s name ?
An important trial of thrashers has taken place
at Orange during the week. Robey and Co.’s celebrated
machine thrashed 100 bushels in forty-one minutes,
defeating Marshall’s and Forster’s, and other
competitions. The news was telegraphed on Wednesday
to the Sydney agents, Messrs. Drysdale and Roberts.'
In Launceston a man was recently charged
with having conducted himself towards a publican iu a
manner calculated to cause him to commit a breach of
the peace. The defendant had written “love letters’’
to the wife of the complainant, who objected. The
charge was laid under a statute of Edward 111., and is a
curious one.
A “Hairdressing Soiree” was recently given
by the French Society of Coiffeurs, for the benefit of
sufferers by the Spanish inundations. The evening
proved interesting and suggestive to both ladies and
maids. About twenty young ladies sat around long
tables ready to lend their respective chevehtree to be
operated on.
After being closed five years, Messrs. Craw-
shay, of Merthyr Tydvil, have ret going their iron
works, the oldest, most, famous and most lucrative in
the British empire. Mr. Crawshay, sen., who died some
time ago, vowed that he would never re-open the
works on account of the misconduct of the mon iu
•trying times.
Pile steamers “ Barrabool,” “Macedon,” and
“ Cheviot,” belonging to Howard Smith and Sons, ars
to be laid np iu consequence of the inability of the
vessels to obtain the A. A. Co.’s coaf, owing to that
company being in excess of the vend. The “ Leura ”
and “ Rodondo” only will continue running between..
Sydney and Melbourne.
Mr. Miller, the owner op Macaroni, while in
the mail coach between Ooulburu and Braldwood, had
a cheque for £lOO abstracted from his pocket. Some
time afterwards, n, jockey, who was travelling by the
same coach, put bis hand in Ids pocket, and found that
the missing document had boon placed there. At any
rate, thus goes the story.
The congregation of the Bourko-street Baptist
Church, "Wuolloomooloo, have marked their appreciation
of the faithful pastorate of the Rev. Frederick Hibberd,
who is leaving them after eight years' service, by the
presentation to him of a testimonial and an address.
The latter, engrossed by Mr. John Stone, is a beautiful
piece of workmanship.
Miss Hoyle, Miks Burke, and Miss E. Burke
(the two latter ladies nieces of the Rev. J. Can-oil, of
Mount Carmel) were, on 7th instant, received as
postulant s at St. Vincent’s Convent, under the respective
names of Sister Mary Teresa, Sister Mary Aquin, and
Sister Mary Gabriel. There was, on the occasion, a
large and fashionable attendance.
The Tasmanian Parliament has decided to
vote no money for the representation of the colony at
the Melbourne International. The treasurer remarked
that the Victorian policy was inimical to the progress
of Tasmania, and Mr. Mitchell added that Tasmania was
not called on to assist Melbourne iu competing with
Sydney. Berryism is healing fruit!
A deputation of Sydney importers and shop-
keepers has requested the Attorney-General to prohibit
the proposed “ art union’’ of foreign exhibits remaining
unsold at the close of the International. Mr. Wisdom,
iu replying, said that he would see that the law was not
contravened, but that he would not object to an art
union according to the spirit of the act on the subject.
The ceremony of firing the first blast of the
principal tunnel in connection with the Nepean scheme
of metropolitan water supply, for the carrying out of
which scheme £1,086,768 was voted last session, took
place on Monday last. The water will be brought 6?
miles, through XOjf miles of tunnels, lit} miles of open
conduits. 3 miles of aqueducts, 13} miles of pipes, and
3} miles of reservoir. Contracts have been take* for
the two heaviest parts of the work—the Nepean and
the Cataract tunnels.
It is definitely proved, by an extract from a
letter written by the late John Stuart Mill to the late
G. K. Holden, of Sydney, that the former was not in
favor of protection (in the Victorian sense) to native
industries. Mill Said: “ The most just mode in which
it (protection) could be given is tliat of a temporary
protecting duty, on condition that it should be known
and declared to be merely temporary and of no very
long duration.’’ Mr. R. A. A. Morehead is trying to
procure, far publication in the Herald, a copy of Mr.
Mill’s letter to Mr. Holden on the subject.
The following telegram Ims been received by
Messrs. Alfred Lamb and Co. from M’llwratth,
M’Eacheru and Co.:—“Have sold the l(Strathleveu)
butter at 13d. ; beef at s}d.; mutton at 6d. There was
a glutted market, but the meat realised .jd.. more than
American, and the opinion of the consumers is favorable.
Before next shipment extensive alterations will be
necessary in the treatment of the meat-apparatus and
chambers.”
Mr. Berry has addresed an immense audiesce
at Geelong. He took credit for the passing of the land
tax and for the continuance of payment to members.
Some measure of Constitutional reform is, he says, an
absolute necessity. He adheres to the 6th clause of his
bill, giving the Assembly powers similar to those of the
House of Commons, and also “ sticks” to the plebiscite
but lias excised the nominee proposal. His programu e
(p.v.) is the abolition of the plurality of votes, the
establishment of a national bank, the extension of the
railway, and the improvement of the Education Act.
“James Corcoran” thus writes to the Herald :
“Each household possesses an almost perfect washing
machine—viz., a tin funnel. My plan is, take an
ordinary tin funnel, and bore, say half-a-dozen holes of
any size around the rim. Place it then in a*y vessel
containing boiling water, add to the water the ordinary
amount of soap and soda; then, presuming that the
clothes are steeped as usual over night, put them iu
any ordinary boiler, keep it boiling and in twenty
minutes they will came out thoroughly washed. This
principle is adeath blow to all patent washing machines,
as it is of universal application, and upsets a practice
in vogue from time immemorial. It has only to be
tried to astonish the wide world, and I am proud that
the idea should start from Australia.”
Ladies of Rank Beseiging the Prussian
Headsman.
Thk Kleink Journal, a daily paper recently started in
Berlin by the Prussian railway king, Dr.Strousberg, has
published an account of an interview recently granted
to the writer by Krantz, the state executioner who
beheaded Hoedel last summer. While “ Monsieur de
Berlin ” was chatting pleasantly with his visitor about
the decapitation of the would-be regicide—Krantz’ first
performance as a headsman—a knock was heard at the
door, and a footman in splendid livery entered the room
with the request that the Scharfrichter would be pleased
to apeak with him for a moment in the passage. Krantz
went out with the lackey, and after a brief interchange
of sentences in an undertone, was heard to say aloud,
“ Tell her excellency, the lady countess, that I am very
sorry, but I cannot, dare not do it.” Interrogated upon
his return by the visitor with resyejct to the mission of
the mysterious man-Servant, he replied with a smile,
“ Oh ! it was only a request from one of my ‘ sympa-
thisers ’ such as reach me several times a week. You
may often see the handsomest equipages in Berlin stand-
ing at the corner of the Mulock-Strasse. They bring
me lady visitors, young and old, pretty and ugly. Yes,
ves, many ladies of the highest aristocracy have called
upon me and insisted upon seeing my wife when I was
uot at home.” ‘‘And what did the ladies want?”
« The merest rubbish. Hair cuttings of criminals, for
instance—a blood-stained pocket-handkerchief, a morsel
of bread from the headsman’s breakfast table, for one of
my gloves.” Krantz himself is a fine young fellow,
decorated with the Iron Cross for valour in the field.
Like most subordinate functionaries in Prussia, he was
a non-commissioned officer in the army, and received his
present appointment upon his discharge, as a reward for
faithful aud gallant service. He is married, and the
proud father of a flue little boy, the heir apparent to hia
important office. With, a touch of Quaint pride he in-
troduced this lad to his visitor’s notice as “ his sue-
cessor, please 3od!’* and observed that though he
passed an uneasy night before the morning fixed fen
' Hoedel’s execution, when he looked in£o WB , ‘hlleut’s
iujpudept, fage, he ” thahktefl Gou for making


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Augustus Loftus’ sons don’t dance.
There are half a dozen rich Jewesses in the
Sydney marriage market.
Sir William Robinson will return to Western
Australia as Governor in April.
Sir Arthur Gordon was to leave Fiji for Samoa
as soon as the weather became settled.
Pineamine Tnliaka, the Maori Chief, lias been
inspecting the State schools at Melbourne.
Professor Cavill writes Mr. James Punch to the
effect that he intends settling down in Sydney.
The recently-formed Gold Prospecting Asso-
ciation, Mudgee, lias now four miners at work.
The Rev. M. Hick, of Port Adelaide Congre-
gational Church, died rather suddenly on Tuesday,
aged 30.
Lord Augustus Loftus says —“ Dip mutton in
vinegar and yon can lay it up for days, and it will keep
quite fresh.”
Dr. G-lennie, of Newcastle, denies that he is
dead. As this is alike a personal and a medical opinion,
it ought to he correct.
Lady Augustus Loftus says that “dancing now
is not so common at home, and little more than walking
dances are fashionable.”
The editor of the Evening News is Mr.
Ernest Waters, son of a wealthy Lancashire soft goods
manufacturer, and a pupil of Gladstone’s.
Mr. Janies Brown, aged twenty years, son of
the senior partner of the firm of J. and A. Brown, New-
castle, has died suddenly of heart disease.
Lady Augustus Loftus is an accomplished
artist. The lady contributor to the T. and C. Journal
says that she (the contributor) “was surprised to hear
this.” Why?
Dr. Glennie, for nearly half a century resident
in the Hunter Hirer District, is dead. Lord Byron was
a pupil of his father, the late principal of Dulwich
College, England. [This is an ante-mortem obituary
notice from the Daily Twaddlegraph.]
David Buchanan lias- been doing the magpie
and stump business at Mudgee during tbe week. On
Monday lie denounced Mr. Cassiu and other well-known
residents because they wouldn’t support protection.
However, the Mudgee iwoplo are going to have a pro-
tection league.
Mr. Alex. M arks lias been appointed Consul in
Melbourne for Japan -the first appointment of the kind
yet made. Mr. Marks is a son-in-law of the late Hon.
Edward Cohen, and has made a large fortune as a
merchant in Japan, to which country he wont from
Melbourne some years ago.
Count dc Gastelnan, who died at Melbourne
the other day, once experienced at the hands of a
servant a misfortune similar to that which befel the great
Sir Isaac Newtown through the instrumentality of his
dog, Diamond. While the Count lay ill, the servant
was lighting the fire with valuable manuscript and
dra"' , the result of many years’ labor.
■ of the most striking costumes at Camilla
I' on Thursday evening was that of the
\ . r ay who accompanied Mr. ’s party, white
sib. i. jiued with broad bands of black velvet, sleeves
short from the .shoulders, and elbow white-kid gloves.
The cap, of crimson silk, after the style of the “ Beds’”
head dress, suited its wearer very well. A young Jewish
lady, attired in white satin with little trimming, attrac-
ted much attention.
W. M. K. Vale has come out for Fitzroy in the
Berryite interest. He was once a bookseller, 'was for-
merly a Member for Colliugwood, and has been a
Minister of the Crown. When thirty-five or six he
left Victoria for England to study law. He is now
i‘W. M. K. Vale, Esq., of the Middle Temple, barrister-
at-law.” But he is a briefless barrister, hankers more
than ever after the loaves and fishes, and is still on the
rabidly democratic ticket. The Government want to
put out the present Member for Fitzroy, Mr. C. B.
Blackett, the analytical chemist, who is a Conservative.
BRIEF MENTION.
M'Elhone aspires to the Mayoralty.
If Camilla Urso is a fiddle-her, surely Ortori is
a fiddle-him.
Publications Received.—Valentines innumer-
able. The senders of the ugly ones are invited to call
at The Bulletin office.
Mr. Pid goon, of the Lands Department, will not
stand for the Paddington electorate, though solicited by
thousands to do so.
John MMntosh is a safe euchre hand. Ac-
cording to Sir Henry he’ll “ pass ” anything, from two
bowers and an ace to a fat immigrant.
Ladies are again cutting their hair short.
Gentlemen ore wearing their hair low on their foreheads.
How we long to see M’Elhone with a fringe!
Is it a fact that a certain pious M.P. is in the
habit of providing a comfortable home for a short
period for unsuspecting immigrant girls? WeTl look
this matter up.
The editor of a N.S.W. ‘matrimonial’ paper
advertises that the marriages effected through the
medium of his journal have been ‘of a very respc stable
character.’ How does he know ?
A country subscriber wants to know whether
the Evening’News is related to the Hbatons-ville
Gazette, quoted by Dickens. -Our correspondent has
been led astray by the similarity of style.
The reason why several of the leading Sydney
doctors will have nothing to do with the Infirmary is
that everything depends on canvassing. A man in
really good practice has neither the time nor the
inclination to do this.
A well-known Scottish squatter, about to visit
the old count*-, says that he intends to take a trip
to “his ancestral halls.” Those consist or did consist,
accoi-ding to the testimony of veracious witnesses, of
an inverted boat on the Clyde.
Camilla Urso is reported to have broken one of
the strings of her violin in the middle of one of her
exquisite pieces. It would have been quite excusable
under the circumstances if, instead of Camilla Urso,
ahe hod become Amilla Cnrso.
One of the Japanese Commissioners who, be-
fore coming here, lived some time in China, has got
himself into trouble. He met a pretty girl at a hop the
other night. He wanted to compliment her. Havivg
looked down at her really pretty shoes, he said, “ I
love your English large foets.”
Brisbane Punch is out again, and is as well
written, as well illustrated, and as well printed as ever.
It is an album which is passed round to aud filled by the
wits of Queensland every mouth, and is as lively as its
proprietor, “ Bobby Byrne” hinffeelf.
What nice people we are ! On Tuesday night
at Parramatta a public meeting, called to consider the
Education question, was (no doubt at the instigation of
the Herald reporter) “opened with prayer,” by the
Bev. Joseph Oram. Oreinus! Hooray!
At the threshing machine contest held in
Bathurst, aud reported in yesterday’s papers, the
Bandwick Asylum apparatus was not exhibited, the
general public having awarded it the leather medal.
The directors of the institution are content with that
distinction.
A Sydney lawyer dreamt that he died, and
went to the gate of Paradise, but was told that neither
he nor any other member of his profession could be
admitted. “ May I respectfully ask,” enquired he of
the janitor, “ how is it that you let in the late David
Buchanan and Mr. Justice Windeyer?” “Ah!” was
the answer, “you see they were no lawyers.”
When a Cooktown man arises he goes to the
bar aud takes what is variously known as a “ Queens-
lander ”or a “ Bauanamau.” To make this delectable
beverage, which is warranted to make you comfortably
drunk all day, you mix in a lemonade tumbler a big
uobbler of gin, ditto of whiskey, some limejuice, cura-
coa, cloves, absinthe, and Hostetter’s bitters, together
with a teaspoonful of cayenne, and a little of the grounds
of a bottle of Worcestershire sauce. You pay five
shillings to the landlord, who gives you the run of his
bar. The exact recipe will be supplied (for a considera-
tion) by Mr. John Duff, Cooktown.
Equity:- Justice?
Suppose that there is an estate belonging to
children whose parents are deceased! it is
placed in the Equity Court under whose jurisdic-
tion now come estate, inheritors, nearest relatives,
trustees, receiver, and perhaps, tenants. Suppose
that the receiver! or person appointed by the Equity
Court to receive and disburse during minority of
inheritors all money connected with estate) happen
to die, or fall into disrepute, or be dismissed, or
something else of that sort, and parties cannot
satisfactorily agree on another to be appointed, or
that the machinery of the Court is out of gear, and
its functions arc suspended! What becomes of
the estate and the rights of the minor inheritors.
It seems nobody's business to have anything to do
with anybody. No receiver is appointed, there-
fore no one can pay anything. Houses may go to
rack and ruin because nobody can do anything.
Tenants may go in and out, may pull down, ruth-
lessly destroy, or gently carry off anything they
like, because nobody can say anything. Nobody
seems to know what to do, and nobody seems to
care. It is certainly somebody’s business, but
somebody appears to be either everybody or
nobody, and oven the Court itself does not seem
to be able to interfere. This may be equity : is it
justice ?
Mr. Larnach, of New Zealand, who some time
ago formed a company to buy one of the Hon. W. J.
Clarke’s N.Z. properties for £600,000, and who subse-
quently went to England, is said to have made £250,000
by tbe trip.
Silk plush mats and Jtidies are made in squares of
different colored feathers stitched together with em-
broidered silk. The fringes repeat all the colors in the
embroidery,
ORDINAL POETRY.
All Honest Valentine.
(RETURNED PROM THE DEAD LETTER OFFICE.)
Thank you for your kindness.
Lady fair and wise ;
Love is famed for blindness,
Lovers —hem! for lies.
Courtship’s mighty pretty.
Wedlock a grand sight !
■Should I—from the city,
A plain man, ma’am— write,
Ere we spouse-and-wive it.
Just one honest line,
Would yon o’er forgive it,
Pretty Valentine?
OUR PRETTY VALENTINE.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN BY QUIZ.)
I.— LADIES WHE DRESS.
There are few places like the colonies where women of
all classes display such an inordinate love of dress,
generally without regard to their social position, almost
always without regard to means—the young married
ladies more especially, many of whom boast they have
worn nothing but silk since they married. In the hot
summer months and lingering autumn the climate is not
adapted for heavy materials, or such as will not wash,
yet pretty Mrs. Foularde clothes her dainty shape in
costly silks aud brocades. She appears morning, noon.
OUR UGLY VALENTINE (the HERALD’S Critic).
Honeymoon quite over.
If I less should scan
You with eye of lover
Thau of mortal man ?
Seeing my fair charmer
Curled up spire on spire.
All in paper armour.
By the parlor fire;
Grown that wants a stitch in
Hid by apron fine —
Scolding in the kitchen—
Oh, fie! Valentine.
Should I come home surly.
Vexed with Fortune’s frown.
Find a hurly-burly.
House turned upside down,
Servants all a-snarl, or
Loitering on the stair,
Breakfast still in parlor.
Dinner —anywhere.
Shall I to my bacon
Meeklv fall and dine f
No: or I’m much mistaken,
Much—dear Valentine.
What if we should quarrel ?
Bless you, all folks do !
Will you take the war ill.
Yet half like it too ?
When I storm and wrangle,
Obstiuate, absurd,
Will you sit and jangle
For the latest word;
Or, while pot* love, crying.
Upon tip-toe stands,
Ready plumed for flying—
Will you laugh, shake hands.
And, the truth beholding.
With a kiss divine,
Stop my rough mouth’s scolding.
Gentle Valentine ?
If, as times grow harder,
We fiud lack of pelf.
Little in the larder,
Less upon the shelf;
Will you, never tearful,
Make your old gowns do.
Mend my stockings cheerful.
And pay visits few;
Crave nor gift nor donor.
Old times ne’er regret.
Seek no friend save Honour,
Dread no foe save Debt,
Meet ill fortune steady,
Heart to heart with mine,
Like a gallant lady—
Will you, Valentine ?
Then, whatever weather
Come—or shine, or shade,
Let’s set out together,
Ne’er a whit afraid.
Age is not alarming;
I shall find, I ween,
You at sixty charming
As at sweet sixteen;
Let’s pray, nothing loath, dear,
That our funeral may
Make one date serve both, dear,
As our marriage day.
•Clasp hands ! joy or sorrow;
Thou’rt mine—l thine ;
And we’ll wed to-morrow.
Dearest Valentine!
War!
"In reply to a memorial from German peasants in
favour of a reduction in the army, instead of an increase,
General Moltke add such a «jfccp was impossible now;
and that it wou* only be possible when European
nations, acting under religious avd moral influences,
recognised war as a national calamity.” —Xrmtpaper
Cablegram from London, Jan. 31st 1880.
Oh 1 that Mars, the God of War,
Could walk this earth in life.
And tell mankind that never more
Shall nations be at strife.
That trackless waves would gather round
Where e’er a different tongue was spoken.
And stay each blessing commerce found
If his high command were broken.
Or, that some “ Fury,” Heaven sent.
With thunder’s voice and fiery breath.
Would hurl the monster from his throne
That gave dispute the power of death.
Till even-handed Justice held •
Her scales before the eye of Peace,
And Slander and Imposture’s tongue
Pid with their disturbance cease.
Beauty by the Pound.—Scene at the Garden Palace.
MR. WILLOUGHBY MUDDLETON (Bank Swell) to Scale-Master: “Haw! do your scales weigh
up to eight or nine stone, old fellah?”
SCALE-MASTER (American): “Jess you go straight on. Weigh anything on this airth.”
MR. W. M. to his adorable Selma (an awful nice girl): "By Joye! do twhy your weight.”
The adorable Selina consents, and down go the scales.
SCALE-MASTER : “Twelve stone, ten.”
WILLOUGHBY MUDDLETON (collapsing): “ Wh-a-t’s that? Good gwacious! You don’t
mean to say so.” Tableau.—[See page 6].
and night in silk. She pours out her husband’s coffee
in a half-worn brocade, trimmed round her neck and
arms with dainty lace; on her head a jaunty little
breakfast cap, whose pink hows seems to be perpetually
blushing at the startling incongruity of a dinner-dress
with a morning cap, and yet Mrs. Foulards is clever,
witty, and young enough to look better than many like
her in a plain white wrapper, fresh as the morning, or
her own fair face. Perhaps, like many others, her
ideas on dress are based on the purely colonial view that
rank is shown by dress. So, from the breakfast, she a
little Inter, drags her pretty silk dress about town, for
that unalloyed delight of the feminine heart—a morn-
ing’s slumping. Regardless of the state of the streets or
pavements, she sweeps through it all. Later still, in
another exquisite silk toilet, she receives her friends
and bears her burden of dress cheerfully through the
heat of the day, assisted by her fan, which she works
incessantly. In the evening, another change—still
silk —for dinner and opera, and at last she retires to a
silken-cnrtained silk-covered couch, where, in a silken
robe de nuit, let ns hope she dreams of nothing hut silk.
After all, Mrs. Foularde is not a rara avis in her style,
for look at rich Mrs. Haberdasher, who goes marketing
in a rich though soiled silk dress loaded with trimming,
who is not too proud to sit down at the stall where she
deals and enter into conversation on family topics with
the “lady” of the stall. She never knew what dress
and plenty were until the rich master in whose shop she
served, struck with her fair face and buxom figure, made
her “ Mrs. Haberdasher,” to her unspeakable satisfac-
tion. What a change! to saunter up the shop where
once she served—the happy overdressed wife of the
Haberdasher. What though she does drop her h’s, and
eat her peas with a kuife ? She can wear handsomer
silks and velvets than most of her more refined neigh,
hours. Her husband eyes her with undiminished satis,
faction. To him she is, and will always be, the best
investment he ever made. Has she not proved a better
advertisement for his shop than all the puffs he can
write ? And in the same way Mrs. Foularde advertises
her dressmaker; hut although it is a pardonable weak-
ness in an uneducated woman, knowledge and talent
should teach the class of which Mrs. Foularde is only a
type, that a mind well clothed and stored is more to
be desired than silken raiment. Therefore the disease
becomes more reprehensible in the educated class
among our Australian matrons.


JOHN DAVIES, ESQ., M.P.
AN ANTE-MORTEM OBITUARY NOTICE.
“ Tlie evil tliat men do lives after them ;
The good is oft interred with their bones.”
SHARESPEARE.
“ A man may smile aucl smile, ami still l>e a villain.”
-[?]bid
It is related that a certain Maori, when told that
a recently-deceased Pakeha statesman had been a
noble-hearted man, ever ready with his purse,
exclaimed, “ What a pity I wasn’t told that while
he was still alive !” If the Maori’s observation
held good with regard to the white-man in question
who, it must after all bo admitted even by his
very best friends, was born much too far north of
Edinburgh to bo unnecessarily prodigal—with how
much additional force could such a remark be made
in respect to some of the gentlemen who devote
their lives to the service of their follows, were they,
the gentlemen aforesaid, to bo suddenly taken from
our midst!
In these well-mannered days, when polite society
prints no evil of the dear departed, and when, too,
polite society conducts itself in the presence and
within the hearing of its living friends with that
commendable decorum which the law of slander
and libel enjoins, it must to those reflective persons
who boldly dive into the river of life instead of
lazily paddling on its surface be a matter of the
deepest regret that no prophet is honored in his
own country, and that it fs not until a man is
calmly reposing at Haslem’s Creek, or is very far
advanced on hia journey to Petersham, that the
papers discover the unsullied splendor and excel-
lence of his character. It is with a view of
remedying this state of affairs, so far as is possible
—of enabling the most amiable and self-denying
of our foremost public men to participate during
life in the accurate outside estimates of their own
characters, and to grind out from the mental
surface they expose to the public those trifling
little flaws of which carping, ill-natured people
make so much with a view, we say. of
turning the earthly reward of virtue from what
it is, namely, Dead Sea fruit, to what it should he,
namely, rosy ripston pippins, wo have determined to
publish, from time to time, some of those obituary
notices which are kex>t on hand in every editor’s
drawer in anticipation of the death of the persons
to whom they refer, and which, let us add, are
manufactured as soon as a public man’s medical
adviser informs the editor that the constitution of
his patient (the public man) is getting shaky. We
shall in all cases be strictly impartial, and shall
consult a standard work, Mr. Henniker Heaton’s
“ Australian Dictionary of Dates and Men of the
Time,” for the purpose of settling what, were no
such authority in existence, might be the awkward
question of precedence. Let it bo distinctly
understood, however, that the obituary notice
which we print below has not been written by
reason of, or in anticipation of Mr. John Davies.
M.P., getting shaky, either mentally, physically’
morally, politically, gastronomically, alcoholically,
or in any other way. We now write prophetically,
and independently of the notice in question, which
was scribbled some years hence, in the light of the
future, or of the past, in whichever way it may be
most convenient for the reader to regard the
matter. It bears the impress of having been
written in haste, and at a late hour; but as a
sample in the rough of what may one of these days
be stowed in the private drawer of every metro-
politan editor it cannot fail to excessively gratify
the gentleman whose life and virtues form its
subject. Here it is : —■
“It is with a feeling of the deepest regret
that we have to acquaint our readers with the
death of Mr. John Davies, for many years one
of our foremost politicians, and msot highly-
respected and popular public men. The melan-
choly event, which was not altogether unexpected,
took place this morning at an early hour,
immediately after the grand dinner given by the
directors of the Sydney Cockatoo-catching
Association, of which the deceased gentleman was
president, and is attributed by Dr. Dansey to
sanguineous apoplexy, induced by late hours
and too much ginger beer. For a long time past
Mr. Davies had not taken an active part in publie
matters, but he had, nevertheless, continued to
manifest as deep an interest in the affairs of the
community as in those days—-some fifteen years
ago—when he represented a constituency in
the Assembly, was an Exhibition Com-
missioner, held the high office of Mayor of
Sydney, and occupied various other high
and low public positions. The history of the
colony from its earliest times affords no
other such example of energy, combined with
stupidity, as that exhibited in the character
of the gentleman whose decease has
thrown the kingdom into melancholy and the
world into despair. At one and the same
time he, in addition to transacting private
business of a more than ordinarily corn-
plicated character, and “ bossing” tent feasts,
harbor picnics, etc..held no less than eighty-
four honorary positions, the duties attaching
to the whole of which he faithfully fulfilled.
His time was not spent in plotting. His
devotion to the grand principles of Free
Trade, as expounded by the Cobden Club,
was no less ardent than his subsequent-
some people say, simultaneous—attachment
to the doctrines of Protection, as laid down
in the epistles of the late Mr. David
Buchanan. The great temperance move-
ment of 1870-80 occupied Mr. Davies’
attention quite as much as all the movements
of the Licensed Victuallers, hut it is in
connection with tho Daug-hters of Temperance
that the deceased gentleman’s labors will be
chiefly remembered. He was a man of tho
most liberal religions views. Orangeman
and Catholic wore to him alike, especially at
election times. Ho used the Orange insti-
tution for his own great end. and rose to the
proud position of P.P.W.G., X.P.W.D.,
D.A., B.F. , at the same time that ho retained
the support of the other sect by exposing to
their gaze, as occasion arose, an Agnus Dei
upon his breast, and getting for some poor
Irish laborers billets under the Corporation.
His enemies often said of him that ho was as
ignorant of the first principles of government
as he was unscrupulous in winning a political
or social present; but this was a libel. True,
he followed Sir James Martin, the Con-
servative leader, with the devotion of a
spaniel, and he was equally ready at the
next turn of the wheel to stand by the great
Liberal, Sir Henry Parkes ; but this was only proof
of the equal balance of his mind. He fought for
labor, and he backed up capital. Nor was this
all. His versality was great. Though reared
between the anvil and the cooling-tub, he aimed at
playing the harp and the piano, but, sorry we are
to say, it was only at the big drum that he made
any sort of a hit. He wore kid gloves, and ran
picnics and sixpenny concerts. He was a man of
temperance, and a daughter of temperance too,
and yet attended every great free feed. At every
picnic he was present—on invitation. He started
many subscription lists, and always gave in his
own name first —at the bottom, as secretary. He
drank with the Governor, or tried to, and he
prayed with his friend Carter. People said he
poked his nose into everything. What tho idle
tongue of envy meant was that he wont into every
committee, every directory, and every secretary-
ship, where there was nothing to gain. And in
view of all his triumphs, what cared Mr. Davies
when an alderman, in tho moment of anger, said of
him that he commenced life as a bad tradesman, and
then went into business as a political impostor P
Everybody know it was untrue. But tho un-
kindest thing of all is yet to be told; and let these
words show the world’s ingratitude. After all his
sacrifices, all his attachments to principle, all his
obliging turnabouts, and all his smiles, the electors
of East Sydney, in a moment of madness, rejected
him at the general election of 1880. They said
they had had enough of him. Back from the
front he was driven. “ Away,” they cried, “ away
with Oily Gammon —turncoat to every principle,
untrue to every man ! Away with the political
trickster : bent on his own ends, he has bamboozled
us long enough. Away, then, with Oily Gammon !
away with him! Crucify him! crucify him!”
This was, of course, the rankest piece of injustice
ever done a man. Broken-hearted, he gave up
the (Kiama) ghost. With his rolling eyeballs cast
on a fading world, and his great heart beating up
and down —up and down, like the share market—
what wonder is it that the last words of his expri-
ing breath should be, “ P’r’aps, after all, I wasn’t
much chop.”
Attention has been drawn to the case of young
Leverrier, of the Sydney Grammar School, whom th e
University examiners, in their first list, “ failed,” and to
whom, on appeal, they subsequently gave the French
medal and a first-class in Modern Languages. The
Herald says that this evidences gross carelessness
somewhere.
Supreme Courtship.
An honest struggling trader lately applied to his
importing patron for a fresh supply of goods, and
to his astonishment was mot by a curt refusal.
“ And what on earth have I done,” said the trader,
“ to forfeit your confidence and trust F” ‘‘Nothing,
my dear sir, nothing at all as far as you are per-
sonally chargeable, but wo observe that a verdict
in the Supreme Court has been returned in your
favour, and that we look upon as the first and
almost irrevocable step to a trader’s financial
ruin.”
A SKETCH BEHIND THE SCENES.
Our artist gives us this week what any night
may be viewed in all its reality behind the scenes
of any theatre. Tho English journals have lately
furnished particulars of an incident of this kind,
where a gentleman in Royal favour forsook the
happiest of homes, tho path of duty, and.the
field of fortune, to bask in the transient smiles of
a celebrated danseuse. It is hardly neces-
sary to say that the managers are against
this sort of thing; though some of the giddy
butterflies of the stage like it very much.
Leading artistes stoutly object to it. Everybody
has witnessed the exodus from the circle . hen an
act is over. The gentlemen go out for refresh-
ments —some of them to refresh themselves as our
artist depicts, while their “ better halves ” remain
sweltering in 9 J degrees of theatrical heat, vainly
endeavouring to refresh themselves with trashy
sweetmeats. The illusion of the painted darling
does not long endure. Like the fly and the honey-
cup, the fool flatters but for an hour ; ho soon
finds a rival, and the beauty blows hot and cold
for both.
The Victim of a Ruinous Victory.
Tho “ no-business ” man who haunts the
Supreme Court —the man who got a verdict, had
it reversed, got another on a new trial, suffered
an appeal to the Lords, and gained it with costs.
Subsequently, notwithstanding his verdict, experi-
enced an execution, called a fi fa in his house
at the suit of his attorney—lost everything—
was given up by his business acquaintances,
and now lives on a charitable friend, and
thisman is not yet mad. Ho dines during tho
sittings of the Supreme Court under the infernal
portico thereof, and is beginning to realize what a
barbarous, cruel, behind-the-age system it is that
holds tho scales of justice so finely, that nothing
is ever distributed from thence.
A Handsome Donor.
Twenty thousand pounds!—a hundred thousand
dollars '—given by one man and the one paper he
owns, to a great charity ! Does it not take the
breath away and make our hundred-guinea donors,
or even the larg’er bank corporation subscribers
sing their song of relief in a very small voice, by
comparison? James Gordon Bennett and
the New York Herald don’t do things by
halves, whether it is fitting out an Arctic expedi-
tion, finding an African explorer, or helping a
starving people. Old J. G. 8., the founder of Die
paper—whom we knew when he had difficulties in
making ends meet—met his end in a happy frame
of mind at leaving his heir a veritable heir-loom,
whick looms longer and larger in the distance
every, year. He knew how to make and to take
care of the bawbees, and his son knows how to
put them to their right use. That’s the ticket!
There is no doubt that it is the right ticket: it is
the Irish ticket, which will enable J.G.B and the
NA .H. to let their “ ticket (whatever it may be)
have full sway at the next Presidential and State
elections, and be the, means of putting hundreds
of thousands into the pocket of the proprietor.
SMIKE!
There are men, and men—of all sorts ;in every
condition of life. No matter of what order, class,
social position, circle, occupation, or anything
else of any kind whatever, we repeat emphatically,
there are men— and —men. And so, from the
crowd of facts in support of this theory, we drag
out the one great fact that there are men
who do not know—or, knowing, do not under-
stand — Charles Dickens. There are men
who actually walk every day through their
wretched, squandered, mis-spent rough-hewn-
ended lives without recognising in the flesh in
their numerous intimate friends, close connections,
distant relations, or passing acquaintances, tho
very identical characters that Charles Dickens
draws witli his pen in view before us.
You may stare, you may disbelieve ; yet there
are men who do not when they nod to Placid, re-
cognise Toots, there it was “ not the slightest
consequence” whether they put their individual
names to his fifty-pound bill, or notwhen giving
Smilax tho cold go-by, they have not tho faintest
idea that it is Micawber; when, being “ well-in ”
they receive that soft, smooth, firm pressure of
the hand from Pastor, they actually are blind to
the fact that it is not Pastor but Pecksniff of
whom they wore reading but yesterday ! And so
on, through the entire photographically united
assemblage of our “Men of mark.” Mark the
ignorance! What boots it to assure you of the
fact that, when “ hand-and-glovo” as they are with
him, now pointing him out there to a distinguished
visitor friend, anon fingering-and-thumbing him
as he crosses the road to buttonhole you with
some pet grievance with his usual sickly-s railing
accompaniment they don’t know Smike !
Nonsense! Not know Smike F Come now,
good-bye ! That’s going a leetle too far. Can’t
stand that! Ta-ta ! Stop ! we say, hurriedly ;
it’s a fact, we assure you, though we don’t wonder
at your unbelief. On our editorial word we stake
our reputation on the fact that—we repeat—there
are men who do not Know—or profess not to know
—A-h-h-h ! !!)—Smike—ouk Smike.
Poor dear simple Smike ; the personifica-
tion of unselfish .Tiendship! the school
drudge and the unfledged dramatic genius
of the great Do-the-boys’ Hail and its genial
Squeera. His origin was mythical, his end
dramatical. He was unmistakeable in his
Smikeism; and so he became the type of
all Smikes—of “ our” Smike of to-day.
The first we saw of “our” Smike was
in a school in Sydney—though not by any
means a Do-the-boys Hall. How he oama
there we believe even the master himself
didn’t know.
Smike is a J.P., and is proverbial for the
rows begets into with professional advocates
whenever ho adjudicates in the Police Court.
He is the acknowledged friend of every street
arab in Harborville —a very refuge in their
distress —a protector of their rights. He
accompanies bobbies, alias the myrmidons
of the law, in their rounds, making all sorts
of raids into all sorts of places, at all sorts
of hours. Occasionally, when he htys not his
body-guard about him, Smike—vulgarly
speaking—gets the worst of it, by coming
off only second best.
We don't exactly know the eirliost his-
tory of Smike, but everybody thinks that
ho never was a baby. As Topsy would
say, ‘' he coined into the world full
growed. ’ At least ha was always long Smiko
at the schoil, which was the first placa
where any living being first heard of him.
Here he was the pet of the pedagogue for
his Smikey propensities. There are those
who stoutly muutaia that he was chris-
tened “ Smike” here, thus obliterating all
traces of his e r-ly sponsored and paternal
cognomina. "Master Smike, ,r would the
stately pad, say, ” have you ig|ept the school-
room;-'” and. h ! it was ‘‘Master
Smike, have you swept the windows ?” Dirt
knew them no more for a month. Smiko
then dived into obscurity.
Suddenly Smike emerged from it. Still
long and lank, he was seen trundling
along in a little shandrydan by the side
of a buxom and elderly widow who took
a maternal liking for him—still a youth.
The widow was the possessor of a small mine of
tin. Smike married the widow : or, did the widow
marry Smike ? He thus emerged from boyhood
and the state of the unknown into relationship
with one of the terrors of Parliament. Smike
henceforth was a magnate—such as we see him.
Smike is a distinguished member of the Poking-
your-nose-into-everybody's Society: indeed, a
Director —not to put too fine a poinjum-^* —
still wears a long coat-^now- j *' VJJ
and a "
novsJb^'-
JOHN DAVIES, ESQ., M.P., O.G., P.P.G.M., ETC., ETC.
A SKETCH BEHIND THE SCENES.


SPORTING NOTES.
Napper Tandy has been scratched for the New-
market Handicap.
Boyd has beaten Elliott with case in a match
on the Tyne for £2OO a-side.
The Hon. J. P. 801 l has been elected Pesident
of the Queensland Turf Club.
The first day of the V. R. C. races has been
postponed from 28th inst. to 2nd March.
M. Michael, the footballer, lias beaten Hobble
jn a foot race at Adelaide.
Three footballers’ from Adelaide are willing to
join the proposed team for England.
Power and Solomon meet in wager boats on
the Parramatta River next Saturday.
There is no hotting on the Sydney Cup—noth-
ing of notice—and 1000 to 50 is the price ou the field.
Arrangements for the big pigeon handicap, pro-
posed by Mr. George Adams of Tattersall’s ore pro-
gressing. '
Professor Cavill and family have arrived at
Adelaide. The Professor intends to give .swimming
exhibitions there.
The Bishop (late K.C.8.), by The Barb, has been
sold to the Maharajah of Jehpore, who also bought the
horse’s half brother, Knight Errant.
Laycock and Pearce row over the champion course
Parramatta River, this afternoon,in watermen’s boats.
Pearce laying £lOO to Laycock’s £6O.
At Q-oulburn, Woods of Victoria has, in a
twenty-four hours' walking match for £2O a-side, beaten
B. Forster, & local man, by seven miles.
The Hon. J. P. Bell’s string of racehorses
arrived from Queensland on Tuesday last. They consist
of Whisker, Elastic, and the two-year old colts, Lothair
and Waterloo.
The chairman of the Parramatta Park trustees
has refused to sign an application for a lease of the
racecourse, 4c., tor the Jockey Club. The public are
dissatisfied at this.
Wellington, Columbus, and other horses in
Griffin’s stable, will, it is said, soon be submitted to
auction, at short notice, on account of Griffin’s dis-
qualification for twelve months.
Tom Coker, the ancient metallieian, and the
almost equally well-known sporting landlord Jerry
Boland, have been lined 20s each and £7 7s costs, for
starting sweeps ou last Melbourne Cup.
Flaneur, the winner of the Nomianby Stakes
atFlemiugton on New Year’s Day, and the property cf
Messrs. J. S. Smith and W. Long, has injured himself
severely, and has been thrown out of work.
A Bathurst turf club, to take the place of the
defunct Jockey Club, has beeu established. Mr. J. E.
Tonkin is secretary. The club is in the field with a two
days’ programme tor 16th and 17th March.
Very good entries have been received for the
Melbourne Regatta, but not so many as last year. There
a*s five for the Clarke Challenge Cup, three for the
Challenge Sculls, and five forffhe Grand Challenge Cup.
At Adelaide, in the match between the Associa-
tion Eleven and the Southern Eighteen, the former scored
223 for four wickets against the latter's total score of 12.
Jarvis, who is to join the Australian Eleven, made 50
not out.
The third-class yacht race of the R. S. Y.
Squadron last Saturday was won by the Pleiades
(Messrs. E. W. and T. F. Knox), which was ten seconds
behind the Guinevere, but gained the prize by time
allowance., j
The Scottish-American Athletic Club won the
championship colours with thirty-seven jxiiuts to their
credit, against twenty-seven points to the credit of the
Manhattan Athletic Club, thus securing the title of
Champion Athletic Club of America.
The crew to represent N. S. W. in the coming
race with Victoria have not yet been definitely picked,
but the following have commenced practice; —Thompson
(stroke), Brett, Auslow, G.ulen, Stewart, Zollner, Bros,
and Lookyer. It is hoped that the services of Mr. Lord
as stroke will yet be secured.
A well-known racing writer says, in regard to
Mr. Terry’s Anti-betting bill, that “ the 26 mighty men
who followed the lead of the member for New England
are evidently capable of swallowing the largest camel
that ever wore a hump, while they boggle, even to
choking, over the most minute of mosquitoes.”
Tuesday’s racing at Launceston resulted thus :
—Maiden Plate— Quilp 1, The Bake 2, Oaks 3. Two-
year-old Stakes —Alethe 1, Castle Eden 2. Launceston
Cup—-Swiveller 1, British Workman 2, Viceroy 3; good
race. Cornwall Handicap—Quilp 1, Boadicea 2, The
Bake 3. Criterion Hurdle Race —Cyclops 1, Carlyle 2,
Renown 3.
Subjoined is a list of the cricket matches fixed
for to-dayCorio v. Petersham, at Petersham;
National v. Hyperion, National ground; Manly v.
Manly, Manly ; Albert 2nd v. J.st Gladesville, coni iuued,
Qlodesville; University v. Warwick, Oval; Carlton v.
Surry United, Alderson’s ; Elswick v. Belmore, St. Leo-
nards ; Excelsior v. Osborne.
There has been a good deal of talk latch about
My P. J. Clark taking the champion home to row on
the Thames. Mr. Clarke would go home as a gentleman
amateur, and Trickett, of course, as a professional.
Now. we would like our spirited friend, Mr. Clarke, to
consider well what he is setting about. Class di; Unctions
in England are not mythical, and ha could not wall descend
to deal with the l oafing fraternity of the Thames, It
might uot beabud idei. to ler William Trickett go home
with the champion. We would then be sure of an honest
trainer, aud a good second man to do battle for the colony
should the champion fail off. However, we would like
the opinions of rowing men on this point.
Seven weeks ago W. Spencer of Chelsea, and
George Tarryerof Bermondsey, pulled from Putney to'
Mortlake for £2OO u-side. The la ter sculler is credited
with having, in a match with Brvau, done the taste t
time ou record in any match : while Spencer’s career
must he described as exceptionally successful, for, al-
though a winner of several good matches, his reverses
have been but few, his principal defeat lining occurred
when matched with Emmett, of Jarrow, who, though
victorious, had all his work to dispo -e of the plucky
little Chelsea man. Neither Spencer nor Tarryer
weighed 10st. and both came fo fixe post very fit.
Tarryer was trained at Wild worth by J. H. Clasper,
the builder of the bout in which he rowed; Spencer
made the Bells, Putney, his head-quarters, was trained
by Q. Drewett. and pulled in a Swaddle and Winship
boat, which had beeu christened " Culvert.” in compli-
ment to a friend of Mr. Charles Bush, his chief bucl er.
Spencer won the toss and took the Fulham shore.
Tarryer had, perhaps, the quicker grip of the water ;
hut his rival was soon on terms, and led by a quarter-
length at Simmons’s, drawing nearly clear at the Loudon
Club House. Halfpray up the wall. Spencer, rowing
the faster stroke, hail further improi ed his position, the
Bermondsey man pulling with a decided absence of Ire
and dash, though, from his leisurely action, he might
have beeu credited with any amount of reserve strength.
This, however, was not forthcoming, and at Craven
Cottage, where both were striking very slowly. Spencer
led by three lengths. A strong wind down the Reach
now somewhat incommoded the light weights, but had
no effect on their relative positions, the Chelsea sculler
having improved his advantage to four lengths at the
Crabtree, and was now washing his man, who sheered
out a trifle to avoid the ripple. At the Suspension
Bridge Silencer led by six lengths. Thence to Chiswick
Church he held his position without palpable effort, and
along Horse Reach, where the wind was again very
strong, Tarryer’s exertions were equally fruitless ;
indeed, after Hammersmith, no important change
occurred, and Spencer passed the Ship at Mortlake an
easy winner. Spencer’s time was 25 min. 24 sec.
Dr. G. Fort esc ue v M. 8., of London University,
v ’■-sr-v-'vv * Australian practitioners, has
of Directors of Randwick
v ’ v ce of honorary con-
'nstitution.
rtful and
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN).
I.—THE OPENING CEREMONY AND THE PEORLE.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
My dear Bean Blossom,—As you cannot come
down and view our Garden Palace, I must do my
best to make yon see it through my eyes—not bad
ones as you know, but really useful articles. Let
us turn to the commencement', and begin my
letters on the “ Exhibition,” from its opening day.
It had rained for more than a week previous to
that most auspicious event; in fact the very
evening before had closed in rainy, and wc all
made up our minds that those varied and various
costumes, got up regardless of expense, would not
be worn. But the gods were propitious, and
Jupiter Pluvius found himself in the minority.
For in the night old “ Boreas ” woke up, and,
finding the atmosphere about the consistency of a
wet blanket, he blew a blast from all quarters,
and raged about until every cloud was glad to get
out of sight. Then the “ Sun God” shook him-
self, and came out hot and strong, to see what old
“Boreas” was about, and between them they
dried up the mud, and set the trees nodding and
the birds singing ; so we put on our fine feathers
and went to the ceremony. As soon as we arrived
the ladies all made a rush for the American
gallery, which was supposed to be set apart for
ladies only. After a little general squeezing and
pushing I managed to get a very good front seat,
from which I looked down on the carpeted dais,
reserved for the five Governors, their friends, and
suites. By the by, the best dressed lady on the
dais came from Melbourne, having a blue velvet
and cream satin costume. More than a few
of the rest, were absolute dowdies. We had
not to wait long before the Governors arrived—
such a curious looking set of old gentlemen in
their uniforms. Then the Queen’s statue was
unveiled, while the orchestra played the National
Anthem, and the Governors reached the dais. A
vary great man—in his own estimation—road the
opening address, of which we could not hoar a
word, nor of the Governor’s reply. This was fol-
lowed by Giprza's “ Cantata,” which was charm-
ingly musical. Then I began to use my eyes in
your behalf, and take mental notes of all around
me. First, the swell foreign commissioners and
exhibitors in their various drosses drew all the
girls’ eyes on them ; and, to their credit, they did
not shirk the bright glances, but returned them
with interest. Looking down, I saw grouped
against a “ show case ” a show mamm in mauve
and White lace, whose well-oiled curls and smiling
self-satisfied appearance brought forcibly to my
mind the Widow Barnaby in her palmy days.
Round her were grouped her four daughters with
a fair amount of good looks, and rejoicing in a
variety of odd names. Then there were the girls
in blue, and the girls in red, and in our gallery
stood the next best dressed lady in the building,
not long married, yet not a blushing bride—a
stranger until her husband joined her, and then
the fact became patent that my turtle-doves had
both made a second leap—let us hope not in the
dark. I have no intention of mentioning any
names, for they would be Greek to you ; but the
bride was fair, light, crimpy haired, face prettily
tinted, fashionably and tastefully dressed. Her
manners, like her hair, were light, perhaps a shade
too light, for when she found she conld not grace-
fully step down from her pedestal (a packing case)
she allowed a Yankee exhibitor of Florida water to
put his arms round her and lift her bodily. When
a pretty woman looks appealingly helpless what
can a poor man do ? Our Yankee friend did the
best he could and they grew quite friendly until
her eposa put in an appearance, and claimed her.
Now there is a move. The Governor is about to
make the tour of the building, and we must all
follow in his train through the length and breadth
of the courts; then stand within the grand
entrance while he and his pass slowly out throngh
the mass of people, and enter their state coach,
amid the deafening cheers of the multitude.
After that we wait patiently until out carriage
blocks the way and go home tired and hungry, but
quite satisfied with our morning’s work. And so
ends my first day within the Garden Palace.
Believe me,
Yours very confidingly,
PEA-BLOSSOM.
Improved Howe Scales at the International
In another part of The Bdlt.btin we give an
interesting sketch of a scene at the Garden Palace,
entitled “Beauty by the Pound.” The machine
on which the fair creature stands is exhibited by
the Howe Scale Co., of Rutland, U.S., who dis-
play at the International some fifty modifications
of weighing apparatus, ranging from the little
balance to the six-ton weigh-bridgo. They manu-
facture over 300 kinds of scales, varying from
half-ounce to 500 tons capacity—the latter for use
in weighing canal boats laden with coal, &c. The
chief advantages of the improved Howe scales are
clearly set forth by the Company’s agent in
charge of the exhibits, and he presents satisfactory
evidence that the Company's claims of superiority
have been allowed at the present International
Exhibition- The most notable advance in their
manufacture (patented) is the device of placing
chilled iron balls between the platforms and pivots
of all weigh-bridges and of portable and platform
machines. These give the platform a perceptible
swaying movement when lo idiug or driving on and
off, and thus relieve those sensitive parts (the pivots)
from the wear and friction which is transmitted
directly to them where the primitive method of
holding platforms rigidly in their places obtains.
By a simple arrangement of levers the Imperial
Howe Scales have a less number of knife edgts
than any others, and consequently fewer points of
friction, which ensures greater accuracy. This
claim was grandly borne out for them at the criti-
cal and important trial of weighing apparatus at
the Paris Exposition lost year, when a 30-ton R.E.
track scale was found to indicate accurately for a
4-oz. weight placed upon its platform, no others
coming near to this crucial test. The Howe Scale
Company were in consequearo awarded higher
honours than any exhibitor of weighing apparatus,
namely, the Grand Gold Medal and several special
medals of gold, silver, and bronze (a medal in
every class they exhibited), and wore the only
Company awarded the distinguished honour of
having their machines selected for the Museum
of France. The Commissioners of our Exhibition
adopted the “Howe” weighbridge for weighing
the prize cattle and horses at the recent exhi-
bitions in connection with the International.
Messrs. Drysdale and Roberts, of George-street,
have secured the agency for these goods.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Embroidery seems to have reached its climax.
Dresses for the street are made short enough to show
the boots.
Fancy handkerchiefs with polka-dotted borders are
fashionable.
Gold dinner cards are the newest. They are said to
■ ‘ light up ” beautifully.
The polonaise is again taken into favor under a new
name, “ habit rediugote.”
Suits with skirts of corduroy velvet and over-dresses of
camel’s hair are made for street wear.
Cashmere scarfs imbroided in drah, white and black
on a black ground, are Arab, be it understood.
It has been noticed by a Sydney youth that the big
belts now worn by ladies are just the width of a fellow’s
coat sleeve.
Large lace half handkerchiefs of Breton lace and point
d’esprit, bordered with plaiting of the same, become tall
and stately women.
A novelty in evening dress fabrics is white toilet
sanglier. boar’s cloth, a heavy all-wool material, dotted
in raised fine points.
New linen may be embroidered more easily
if rubbed over with fine white soap. This prevents the
t hread from cracking.
Satin trimmings are made in rows of doubled leaf-
shaped pieces and are placed over box-plaits or knife-
plaits to I warder skirts.
Little girls, from two to four, when their parents do
not care to dress them in white, wear box-plaited blouses
of dark navy blue or gendarme flannel.
The jauntiest jackets for young girls are made of
cream and drab-colored cloths, with collars and cuffs of
olive, green, garnet, gendarme bine or black velvet.
Garlands of small crab-apples, mingled with chestnuts
and hazel nuts, form the embroidered decorations of a
dayk brown gown, supposed to represent autumn.
A pretty screen is composed of two long tiles showing
a flight of storks circling in the air, and a stork brooding
on her nest. The screen can be converted into a table
with two shelves.
With wool dresses Persian fabrics are mostly com-
bined, having a variety of vivid colors wrought in silk
and wool, in which all the strange, bright and dull
shades of the East are involved, as in a rug.
Miss Lillie Bnnce, the daughter of the Appleton’s
.Ton nud editor, who married George T. Ferris the other
day, painted her wedding dress of white silk with a
design of lilies of the valley and shaded grasses.
Windsor and kitchen chairs have been promoted to the
drawing-room since the craze for varied furnishings
came in. T hey are rendered acceptable by being painted
black and touched up with gold, and little cushions,
covered with some thick, pretty material, are placed on
the seats.
Among new neck lingeries are found’chemisettes of
point d’esprit, of puffed tulle, and of lace; enormous
wired ruches of point d’esprit and crepe lisse alternat-
ing; enormous cravats of white muslin, edged with
Breton, point d’esprit and other laces, and fichus of all
styles and dimensions.
Purple is now fashionable in all its shades, from deep
amethyst-violet to pale lilac. For winter dresses, deep
purple cloth is in great favour,, more so than navy-blue
or prune, of both of which one has become a, little tired.
Garnet still pleases. For evening-dress, pretty shades
of lilac and nmnve have beeu introduced.
An innovation in underwear is seen in fine pink and
blue flannel, beautifully embroidered in flowers with
white floss ; other more costly underwear comes in silk,
in such colors as red, blue, rose-color aud olive-green.
White skirts are no longer worn in the street. Black
satin, or Japanese blue, scarlet, or olive-green satin aud
flannel take their place.
Dinner dresses (mode de Paris) are open no longer,
either in a square or V shape, but in an oval shape, aud
a tiny chemisette, called modestie, is worn inside; it is
of lace or embroidered muslin, and the edge of the open-
ing is trimmed with a fluting of white lace or eivpe lisse;
the semi-skirt and very tight sleeves have a white finish
to correspond.
FUN AND FANCY.
Courtships are said to average four tons of coal each.
“ Hands off, as the circular saw said to the fellow who
tampered with it.
Zulu women don't bang their hair. Their husbands
save them the trouble.
A fascinating young lady resembles a pair of bellows,
in that she often fans a spark into a flame.
A newspaper reporter who died recently left a large
sum of money behind him. All the money in the world,
in fact.
Woman is the only sincere exponent of Chris-
tianity.” That is the reason why so many young men
wish to embrace the faith.
Can any man lay his hand on his heart and say that he
never in all his life arose at two a.m. and drank cold tea
out of the spout of a tei-pot ?
The author of “ Nancy Lee ” has received over £2,000
on account of that grandest of baritone ballads.
Financy-lee the song’s a success.
“ Blossoms,” wrote Pliny, are the joy of the
trees.” That may be very true, Pliny, but it is the
apples that make the boys laugh.
It is a mean man who at the theatre, when the pathetic
scene is on. will exclaim so as to be overheard by female
neighbours, “ See that mouse run !”
A man who had a little nose chaffed a man with a big
nose. “One would think,” remarked the latter, “that
my nose was made at the expense of yours.”
Wheu a man wishes to pai s ns a graduate of Harvard
University. U.S.A., he has his room decorated with
photographs of all the leading burlesque actresses.
Mistress (to gardener); “ I see by the paper, Pat, that
there is great distress in Ireland.” Pat: “ Begot),
marm, Ireland will soon be as bad as this country.”
An enraged poet (The Bulletin man) complained
that the printer hadn’t punctuated his verses. The
printer remarked that ha was a setter, not a pointer.
The “go as you please” style of podestrianism has
lately been alleged 1u be quite new. It has, however,
been in vogue amongst servant girls here for several
years.
A ste idv young man of Sydney savs that, whenever he
in the morning Unds m his side-pockets sixty threepenny
pieces and nearly as many cigars he knows that some-
thing has happened.
“ A sociable man is one who. when he has ton minutes
to spare, bothers some one who h isn’t.” This should
he printed and pasted up, as a gentle hint, ou the door
of every business man’s office.
That duel between two women at Union, Tenn., was
a sad affair. Both fired together, and one hit a hoy on
the fence, and the other killed a calf in a field. Then
they palled hair and jawed each other until oue fainted
away.
Kissing the baby may result in deforming its nose and
bringing on near-sightedness. The safest plan is not to
kiss a baby of the feminine gender until it attains the
age of sixteen years. The cartilage of the nose is much
stronger then.
It is strange how the sudden opening of a drawing-
room door will send two people to the ends of a couch
and set them to counting the figures in the carpet.
There must he something powerful in the draft of air to
blow human beings around in that way.
Perhaps, the old woman who does the Urso concerts
for the S. M. Herald is afterwards going in for the
theatrical agency busiuess. But Kelly and Leon would
tell her that however successful lady critics and agents
might be, they would sooner have (H)a(y)man.
A Bristol dentist recently received an order for a set
of teeth, which read : ‘ • My mouth is three inches across,
five-eighths of an inch through the jaw. Some hum-
mocky on the edge. Shaped like a horse-shoe, toe
forrard. If you want me to be more partiklar I shall
have fo come thar.”
Subjoined is Iho latest Brisbane nursery rhyme —-
“ There was a young fellow called Moreheod,
Who had not a strong but a poor head;
He ate salt beef and gherkins.
And drank lots of Perkins,
And in consequence often was floor-ed.”
STAGE GOSSIP.
The Royal bears the stamp of Greswick’s
presence.
Chiavini’s circus is drawing large houses at
Melbourne.
The “Happy Land” picnic to Frankston, near
Melbourne, was not a success.
Mr. David Lee has been elected conductor of the
Melbourne Philharmonic society.
Dumpier, en route to Queensland, gives four
performances at Newcastle shortly.
The London Comedy Company is having a
successful season at the Melbourne Opera House.
A benefit is being organized for tbc well and
favorably known actor, Mr. J. J. Bartlett.
Carlotta Patti and her company loft Auckland
by the City of New York at 6 p.m. on Tuesday last.
Before leaving Sydney, on Thursday last, for
Melbourne, Mrs. F. M, Bates said the Sydney people
were “awful’’nice. .
The Williamsons, we learn by telegram, ar-
rived safely and in good health st Melbourne. A rtxost
prosperous season opens to them.
The Lingards, who come to Kelly and Leon’s
Opera House about Easter, are, according to our ex-
changes, doing a thriving business.
“The Bells of Corneville,” to be produced at
Kelly and Leon’s Opera House to-night will ring many
an hour in this city. The music’s divine.
The Brisbane people during the next month
will have plenty of attractions—Camilla Uroo, Dillon’s
Company, Dampier, and Eayuer’s Panorama.
On Saturday last, Mr. and Mrs. Williamson
left for Melbourne by the “ vvotonga,” on board which
boat many theatrical and private friends assembled to
bid them srood-bye for the present.
The “ Pinafore” at the Royal fetched the enor-
mo us sum of nearly £ll,OOO during its thirteen weeks’
run. The expenses were £3OO a week. Not bad for
Lazar and the Williamsons.
Mr. Shepparson, the advance agent of Camilla
Urso. left for Brisbane on Friday to arrange for a series
of six concerts at the Town Hall. The distinguished
artiste will be accompanied by her present Company.
Mr. Creswick, son of the tragedian, and his
accomplished wife (Miss Ashton) are spending the
season at one of the Queensland coast towns. A lucra-
tive official position is offered Mr. Creswick, and he is
likely to accept it. _ ...
Camilla Urso’s success in these colonies is a
triumph of genius. She opened at £lB a Melbourne,
and closed to £427. The takings jumped by twenties
and then fifties. The last night hundreds lingered
round the Town Hall in vain, returning every moment
to gain admittance.
Mr. W. C. Dillon, with a fair dramatic com-
pany, goes next week ou a ” starring expedition
through Queensland. He opens at Brisbane in a
religions sensational drama, styled “Dolores, <on the
18th instant . Rockhampton aud the North will then be
treated to the show.
The Launceston folk are being entertained by
the “Melbourne Combination Company, under the
leadership of Mr. Frederick Thom. There is no theatre
in Launceston. Its place is taken, but not supplied, by
a synagogue-like building, wliere theatrical companies
disport themselves and catch colds.
A leading home paper to hand by last mail
says that “ Mr. George Eiguold gives a singularly
unequal performance of Henri V. His scheme of
elocution is good in the quieter passages, but in the
warlike speeches he is much given to bluster, and his
reading of the text is often entirely at variance with
what is usually regarded as the spirit of the play. Thus-
his behaviour to Montjoy, the French herald, is
preposterous. Of regal dignity there is none. Henry
defies the French King’s messenger like a little boy
challenging a comrade to fight, and afterwards, in place
of noble dignity, seems to taunt him with the defeat-
There is too much attitudinising also, and the mis-
directed strength is the more to be regretted because
wheu Mr. Rignold exercises self-restraint and gives
thought to his sentences his emphasis is very just, and
he shows an appreciation of the character which makes
his lapses not a little surprising.”
Since Mr. George Coppin’s resignation as agent
in the colonies for the Dramatic Authors’ Society, and
the appointment of Mr. Wyhert Reeve to that position,
an entire reclassification of the tariff has been made, and
upon a basis that cannot but be deemed satisfactory. In
lieu of the old assessment, under which first-class houses
were charged £l5O per annum for the right to perform
the society’s plays, whether they were produced or not,
managers are now asked to pay very moderate royalties
only for the pieces actually performed, and special
arrangements can be made for reduction even on these
charges upon notice being given beforehand, when it is
intended to give a series of representations of any'
particular piece. The division of theatres into first,
second, aud third class enables the society to fix a scale
as follows Sweethearts ” (Gilbert), first-class, £1
10s.; second-class, £1 per night. “Serious Family,”
first-class 12s. 6d. ; second-class, 10s. per night. “ Still
Water-.; Run Deep,” first-class, £1; second-class, 15s.
per night; and all other dramatic works copyrighted by
members of the society in similar proportions.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“ Foe I AM NOTHING if not critical.”
—“Othello."
Noticks to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times be glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
THEATRE ROYAL.
The return to this theatre of Mr. W. Creswick
on Siturday evening last, for a final season, pre-
vious. we believe, to his return to England, has
been signalised by his appearance in a now sensa-
tional drama entitled “ Escaped ; or, Fetters and
Flowers.” We have become so habituated to sea,
Mr. Creswick in Shakesperiau and other logiti-.
mate dramas, that it is a novelty to witness his.
rendition of a part that displays all the vivid'
changes of the modern ultra sensational-.sohooj
of extraordinary incidents and startling effects
and, certainly, except in the one unalterable point
of advancing years, Mr. Creswick gives in this,
piece a series of as finished sketches as wo have,
seen on the stage for a long time, quite vicing
with his more legitimate representations. But,
this one point must bo said to materially affect
the illusion ; because, not being informed of the*
relationship existing between some of the principal
characters, we imagine until the last moment of'
the denouement that Mr. Creswick is playing the.
father instead of the brother of Madelon, this
idea being strengthened by the voice and appear-,
ance of the actor in the first and second parts of 1
the play.
During the horrors of the early French revolu-.
tion a certain Marquis has been denounced by his
brother, and condemned to death, leaving two
children. The one is sentenced to the galleys for-
a crime he never committed, the other is turned
out into the world, and becomes a flower-girl.
The son we find in the first act as Michael Cra-
uow, the convict, in the prison, on the point—it .
is supposed —of death. Here, however, Mr.
Creswick is rather at fault, as he speaks in far too
,uitbroken a manner to represent anyone in ex -.
tremis. Knowing of the existence of a fortune


H E A T R E EOYAL,
Lessee and Manager Mr. Samuel Lazar.
Stage Manager Mr. B. N. Jones.
Leader of Orchestra Mr. W. Rice.
Scenic Artist Mr. W. J. Wilson.
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
of
THE EMINENT TRAGEDIAN,
Mr.
WILLIAM CRESWICK,
on
HIS SIXTH APPEARANCE
in the colonies
IN ROMANTIC DRAMA.
THIS (Saturday) EVENING, FEBRUARY 14.
THE SIXTH TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
THE GRAND COMEDY DRAMA
of
ESCAPED,
or
FETTERS AND FLOWERS.
ACT X.
THE CONVICT.
THE CONVICT Mr. W. CRESWICK.
ACT 2.
THE MARQUIS.
THE MARQUIS Mr. W. CRESWICK.
ACT 3.
THE MATELOT.
THE MATELOT Mr. W. CRESWICK.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Free List entirely suspended.
Box office at Nicholson and Ascharbarg’s, George-st.
rjl KEAT P. E EOYAL. PATTI.
Lessee ... ... ... ,Mr. Samuel Lazar.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
PATTI GRAND CONCERTS ( Commencing on
PATTI GRAND CONCERTS' MONDAY,
PATTI GRAND CONCERTS (_ 23rd of February.
Under the management of Signor D. De VIVO.
EXPECTED ARRIVAL by the next San Francisco
mail (due here on the 16th instant) of
("CARLOTTA PATTI
LA DIVA CARLOTTA PATTI
JjA uj v a ) CARLOTTA PATTI
ICARLOTTA PATTI
in conjunction with
ERNEST DE MUNCK C The most
ERNEST DE celebrated
ERNEST DE MUNCK (, Violoncellist,
and
The eminent ( CIAMPHI CELLAJ
Baritone (CIAMPHI CELLAJ,
who will make their
FIRST APPEARANCES
in the Southern Hemisphere at the
THEATRE ROYAL. Sydney,
in a short, but
BRILLIANT SERIES OF CONCERTS.
ICTORIA THEATRE.
PKELIMINAEY ANNOUNCEMENT.
[THIS (Saturday) EVENING, Febeuary 14.
INSURED.
A 1 AT LLOYD'S.
GREAT SENSATIONAL DRAMA.
“ Hundreds of brave men are sent to death, their
wives made widows, their children orphans,' in order
that a few speculative scoundrels (in whosehearts there
is neither love of man nor fear of God) may make un-
hallowed gain; men who have never built a ship, or
bought a new one; hut are simply, ns I heard one
described by an ex-Secret‘iry to the Treasury,
‘ SHIP-KN ACKERS.' '*
Vide
Mr. SAMUEL PLIMSOLL’S SPEECH,
in the House of Commons, Thursday July 22,1875.
This Drama is founded on facts.
The action is laid in the year 1861-2, during the late
American war.
George tall, practical locksmith
AND SAW MAKER,
P ITT STR E E T
(Next the Congregational Church).
Saws sharpened and re-set on the shortest notice
GEGRGE TALL
is the loading Practic Locksmith of Sydney, and chal-
lenges any competitor for speed or effectiveness
of work.
D
AVID M ‘ C A
14, HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
L In
By Special Appointment.
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to
His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE
His Excellency Sir H. ROBINSON, K.C.M.G
And
His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870,1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
gYDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each.
Distributed as follows :
' The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over TatterealTs Cup, their orders having-
been received after the consultation was filled.
Country subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change en cheques and stamp for reply.
E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney..
LAWRENCE FOLEY,
CHAMPION OF AUSTRALIA,
United States Hotel,
Corner Riley and William Streets, WoolloomooToo,
BEGS to inform his numerous friends and the public
that he is now in possession of the above Hotel,
and chat the business will be carried on under his own l
immediate supervision. He will be glad to see his oW
friends, and as many new ones as are in want of a glass
of spirits, wine, or beer of a quality not to bo surpassed
in the colony.
L. FOLEY will continue to give instruction, on mode-
rate terms, in the ART OF SELF-DEFENCE, in
large Athletic Hall adjoining the above Hotel,
QUEE N ’ S THEATRE.
Leseees Messrs. Hiscocks, Hayman & Co.
Stage Manager ... George Atkins.
GRAND FASHIONABLE NIGHT.
TO-NIGHT (Saturday) February 14, 1880,
Third change of Programme.
FOURTH WEEK FOURTH WEEK
of the
VICTORIA LOPTUS TROUPE,
EVERY ACT NEW,
and
EVERY PERFORMER A STAR.
Dress circle, 3s; stalls, 2s; Pit, Is; children half-
price to dress circle and stalls. Seats may be secured
without extra charge at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
THIS (Saturday) NIGHT, February 14.
Entire Change of Programme.
ANOTHER MONSTER BILL.
Kelly and leon’s
OPERA HOUSE,
Corner King and York-stroets.
Sole Proprietors Messrs. Kelly and Leon
Business Manager Mr. Dave Hayman.
THIS (SATURDAY) EVENING, FEBRUARY 14,
FIRST PRODUCTION IN SYDNEY
of the
GRANDEST COMIC OPERA EVER WRITTEN,
NOW IN THE THIRD YEAR OF ITS REPRESEN-
TATION IN LONDON,
LE CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE
(The Bells of Comeville).
THE ONLY OPERA TROUPE IN SYDNEY.
THE BEST TALENT PROCURABLE.
THE BELLS OF CORNEVILLE.
The Bells of Comeville.
The Bells of Comeville.
The Bells of Comeville.
Box Plan now open at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s,
George-s-treet.
CHOOL OF ARTS,
Lessee ... Mr. S. Lazar.
CAMILLA URSO’S
GRAND CONCERTS.
Director Mr. Frederic Ltler.
THIS (Saturday) EVENING,
February 14th, 1880.
TENTH CONCERT
OP THE SECOND SERIES
and
SI XTEENTH APPEARANCE
of
CAMILLA URSO
CAMILLA URSO
CAMILLA URSO
The final arrangements being completed for the giving
of concerts in Bathurst, Orange, and, immediately after,
in Queensland, the Director announces
THE LAST APPEARANCE
of
CAMILLA URSO
THIS (SATURDAY) EVENING.
Pianos from Nicholson and Ascherberg.
Prices of Admission :
Front seats, ss.
Second seats, 3s.
Gallery, la. 6d.
i 'Box Plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s. Seats and
Tickets can be had at this place for any one of the
remaining nights.
Doors open at 7.15, concert at 8 o’clock.
Carriages at 10.
THIS (SATURDAY.),
BAST CONCERT
LAST CONCERT
LAST CONCERT
OF THE MOST MEMORABLE CONCERT SEASON
THAT HAS EVER BEEN GIVEN IN SYDNEY.
CAMILLA URSO
will play
FANTAISIE' ON THE MARCH
PROM “OTHELLO”
and
AND ROMANZA
ERNST,
INTRODUCTION AND CARNIVAL OF VENICE,
PAGANINI.
concealed in the vicinity of the town, Cranow
tries to bribe one Louis Baronncs (Mr. H. Vin-
cent), who is sent to the prison to watch over the
dying man, to unlock his chains in return for the
secret of the fortune. Louis swears to do so, be-
comes possessed of the secret, informs the guard
that the prisoner is mad, and makes after the
fortune. Madelon (Miss Kemble) is next sent to
take care of poor Michael, and, moved to pity by
his entreaties, she unlocks his chains. Then he
suddenly assumes his natural manner and pre-
pares for escape, which he effects by a window,
notwithstanding that at least a dozen bullets are
sent after him by the guard brought into the room
long after the clanking of the chains and the
screams of Madelon ought to have alarmed every
corner of any ordinary gaol. All this is very
natural, of course, but it is only at this spot that
the drama become exciting. If, by some means,
the melancholy first part could be shortened, it
would be all the more agreeable to the audience.
The rest is well wrought up. showing the at-
tempts of the Marquis to unmask his uncle (whom
everybody supposed to be his brother), who has
established himself in Paris as one Jacques Lo
Beau (Mr. B. N. Jones), the beau-ideal of a vil-
lainous notary. Ho fails at first, but ultimately
succeeds, gains possession of tho family papers,
discovers in little Madelon his long-lost sister,
confounds the knavish uncle, and everything ends
happily—as usual —Madelon being united to her
friend Edward Launay, who had shown kindness
to Cranow in the prison infirmary.
In the second and third acts Mr. Creswick is
admirable, and thoroughly artistic in his acting.
His interview with Jacques Le Beau, his biting
sarcasm, his humour with the Commissary, his
sympathy with Madelon when, disguised as a
sailor, he finds her mad in the streets, after she
had been discharged from prison, whither she had
been sent three years previously for stealing a
necklace, given to her by her benefactor ; and the
last scene where he assumes his rightful position,
and is able to clear up the mystery, are all evi-
dences of consummate skill and genuine acting.
There are so many incidents in the plot, all so
intricately interwoven, as to occupy a very large
space in the relation : we must leave them, there-
fore, to be gathered by the visitors to the theatre.
Mr. B. N. Jones plays a repulsive character, but
he throws into it that care and intelligence which
are his distinguishing traits. In the third act Mr.
Jones makes a point that should be followed by
all who wish to be considered “ actors.” He
shows by his “ make-up” the effect of years, and
—it may be—some slight qualms of conscience in
personal appearance.
We scarcely recognised Mr. Brown as the
notary’s still more villainous assistant, Antoine,
so complete was the disguise of manner and ap-
pearance. The character was capitally repre-
sented —perhaps a trifle overdrawn.
Mr. Vincent has another disagreeable part in
Louis Baronnes, who lets his love of gambling and
adventure get the upper hand of his better nature,
and ends by being shot in an attempt at robbery.
There is nothing specially remarkable in the cha-
racter of good-natured Edward Launay, but all
that there is is well exemplified by Mr. Douglas.
Miss Kemble’s two faults are a little staginess,
and a little monotony in her delivery ; otherwise
she is an agreeable actress, having a very pleasing
voice. In the second act, where she refuses to
injure her protector by stating whence she ob-
tained the necklace, and hence is committed to
prison, and in the moments of pathos when, half
bereft of her senses, she recalls the past, Miss
Myra Kemble rises to considerable distinction.
Mr. South and Miss Maggie Oliver have the comic
business in two characters that have nothing to
do with the plot; both are very amusing, and
Miss Oliver, by her naturalness in every situa-
tion, convinces us that her equal in such parts is
scarcely to be found in the colonies.
Nothing can he more elegant than the mounting
of the piece, and the scene at the Marquis’ house
in the second act is quite out of the common, its
conservatory, waxed floor, and rich, luxurious
appointments, are something more than usually
attractive.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
Tho old drama of “Fraud and its Victims,’’
alias the “ Poor of London,” alias “ Tho Streets
of New York,” h.as been revived at this theatre
with success. It is very long, having a prologue
and four acts, which take till a very late hour for
the evolution of the many incidents of tho intri-
cate plot. Tho play is so familiar to most people
who are habitual attendants at our theatres that
it is by no means necessary to giro any details of
the plot. The principal interest of the present
representation lies in the impersonation of a
clerk, Tom Truraper (originally Badger) by Mr.
J. L. Hall, who, after being brought to extreme
poverty, by his rascally master, becomes a loafing
seller of knives (instead of matches), hut who is
ultimately instrumental in righting the wronged
orphans and sufferers. From beginning to end he
keeps up the amusement of the audience by his
by-play: and in his alternate moments of pathos
and humour shows himself as still one of the
most genial comedians on the Australian stage.
There are so many characters in the play that it
is difficult to enumerate them all. Mr. Rainford
i s the goody-goody young man, Alfred Seaborne,
struggling through poverty, starving, yet honest,
who gives the cue to the title of “ The Poor of
London ” (or anywhere else), and well he repre-
sents the character. The other poor little orphan
was fittingly represented by Mrs. J. L. Hall and
her sister, Miss Wiseman, in the different acts.
Mr. St. Lawrence is of course tho lover of the
latter, induced by tho promise of wealth from the
rogue of the piece, Old Huddlestone, and encour-
aged by the villainous, fraudulent hanker (Mr.
Whyte—a capital impersonation) to renounce his
fealty, and to engage himself to old Huddlestone’s
daughter. He however up trumps at last. Mr.
Poole as Pummypot. the friend of the poor family,
was amusing without over-acting. Miss Mayo was
effective as the banker’s haughty daughter. Miss
Julia Merton, always painstaking, now as a young
andsprightly lady of fashion, now as an unfortunate
middle-aged dame, was soft and pathetic as the poor
widow of tho murdered sea-captain. Miss Merton
is ever natural, and acts on the stage as she
would and should off it. Miss Laura Wiseman is
a pretty little Petty Roselips. When pieces are
put on the stage under different titles, the names of
the characters are apt to become a little mixed.
The mounting was good, and the fire and suffoca-
tion scene is wonderfully realistic of course. The
fire seems to confine itself to certain limits in a
remarkable manner, and walls of houses tumble
in bodily very strangely. We saw this scene done
at the Victoria (with Mr. Carden, we believe)
rather more artistically.
The house was, we are glad to say, crowded on
Monday, for the benefit of Mrs. Bates.
KELLY AND LEON’S OPERA HOUSE.
There has beeen nothing new at at this theatre
since our last notice, except the reproduction of
“ Tho Doctor of Alcantara” in the place of the
“ Grand Duchess,” preceding “The Happy Land.”
Saturday evening, however, the long looked-
for opera bouffe, of “ Le Cloches de Corneville,”
will be performed, and will be a, welcome novelty
for the frequenters of the pretty theatre. We
shall be able to notice “ Les Cloches ” fully in our
next.
QUEEN'S THEATRE.
Tho change of programme by the Victoria Loftus
Troupe has included a very amusing sketch, “ A
Woman of few Words,” by Le Clair, the female
impersonator; a variety of dances, Ethiopian de-
lineations, and Rickey and McCarthy’s Irish farce,
“ Casey, the Piper.”
CAMILLA URSO’S CONCERT.
Sydney is recovering the old musical taste for
which it was formerly noted: and the presence
of a groat artiste like Camilla Urso or Car-
lotta Patti will do more than aught else to wipe
from ns the stain which clung to us for so long a
time by reason of the support and encouragement
given to the lowest class of amusements (?) fos-
tered as they were by the fulsome flatteries of the
“leading” papers, whilst genuine talent, not
“ heralded “ by a loud flourish of expensive trum-
pets, was almost ignored, or received at least but
scant justice. Having been led into supporting the
meretricious, tho people of Sydney learned to
neglect places of entertainment altogether; and
now only some convincing proof will Induce them
once again to come forward. This convincing
proof is supplied by the tongue of report running
rapidly round the residences of those who gladly
listen to music of a really artistic character. But
one regret is expressed by those who have thronged
the School of Arts night after night—sthat the
IJrso concerts cannot be prolonged after Saturday
evening.
It is as impossible as it is unnecessary for us to
analyse closely the performance of all the pieces
given at the Urso concerts. When we have
said that every school of violin music—classic ami
ornamental —has been exemplified by Madame
Urso; every composer —from the old unknown
Carelli and Tgrtini, Paganini and Beethoven, to
Vieuxtemps and Wieniawski; that in such she is
equally skilled; that she has mastered all the
technicalities and difficulties of playing; that
whilst she amuses by the little witcheries and
trickeries of which the instrument is capable—
she by far excels in full, steady playing—we have
said all that can be said worthy of her eminent
talent. To torture criticism with unmeaning,
learned technicalities is the task of the pedant, and
one for which general newspaper readers are not
thankful. Nevertheless, we may say—alas !
for those who, having exhausted all adulatory
epithets on unworthy objects, find themselves in
the presence of genius restricted to common-
places lest they should evoke contempt by a com-
parison of their praises in both cases—so nearly
alike, and, therefore, to the detriment of genius.
Nor is it necessary to narrate whether the pieces
performed wore part of the programme as they
stood originally, or given as encores. The few
pieces given each evening at the first series of con-
certs have been changed to six in tho second
series, each piece in each programme being doubly
encored. The public is insatiable, the public is
merciless, in its greed for more—and with reason ;
for, who would not bo so, knowing that the de-
light must so soon be taken from us—for ever?
Besides. Madame Urso has herself to thank if the
strain demanded by the crowds of genuine ad-
mirers be too great for ; for her amiable manner
of acknowledging the rapture of her listeners
disarms all suspicion of fatigue. Tho plaudits of
a vast audience are to an artist what the shouts of
the multitude are to the victorious leader, the
homage of his subjects to a well-beloved monarch :
they never tire however much they may by
habitude have become a surfeit —a part and par-
ed of daily existence. The true homage of a de-
lighted crowd is the purest measure that can be
offered at the shrine of genius.
We select a few memos, for passing notice. That
wondrous composition by Tartini, written nearly
two centuries since—“ The Devil’s Trill”—was a
model for everyone claiming to he an artistic vio-
linist. If it was inspired by the fallen angel, tho
same fallen angel must have pervaded the spirit
of the musician during tho composition. Its
execution completes the sentiment, for it seemed
as if all the elves and spirits of dreamland wore
meandering over tho strings of tho violin —a
dozen of them led on by harmony, as-
sisted by a tiny spirit of time and delicacy. As
tho player stood with closed eyes, in graceful
attitude, it seemed as though she were dreaming
tho weird music that flowed apparently sponta-
neously from beneath her bow. It was like a
sweet song with a full chorus diabolique; the
changes of key with almost every fresh trill and
variations, until a vivid attack gave a perpetual
movement of grace, delicacy, and fullness. The
accompaniment to this pieoe by Herr Scherek was
masterly—piano and violin notes fell together with
metronomic symmetry.
Another pieoe was the “Souvenir de Haydn,”
by Leonard —a perfect gem, sufficient to stir every
chord of the heart. An air on one string, the full
rich harmonies of another pieoe played on the
others. This was truly vocal music played on an
instrument. The effect was marvellous. The
first part of each verse was a violin duet on tho
one violin, tho piano accompanying the final
strains, tho end in harmonies. In the TahorowsW
valse, Madame Urso played the pezzicato or finger
notes in a very firm and impassioned spirit. She
rarely uses this ornamentation, but when she does,
it is always to prodnoe some fine effect.
We have space only to allude to other speciali-
ties, such as Prutin’s plaintive “ La Melancolie,”
“ The Dream,” of Felix Simon : that grand piece
of noble, full resonant playing the “ Avo Maria ”
of Schubert, the sweet and delicate cadenza in the
introduction to tho ‘ ‘ Santa Medaglia ’ ’ (Faust
Selection), tho noblo “ Elcgio of Ernst,” that ex-
quisite “ Last Bose,” with its soft, mute tones,
the variations by Corelli (with an original cadenza
by the executant), and the “ Kreutzer Sonata” of
Beethoven. Would that circumstances could have
given us the opportunity of hearing Madame
Urso in some of the grand concertos with orches-
tral accompaniment.
Miss Jennie Sargent has continued her career
in popular favor. Her ballad singing is charming—
faulty occasionally, yet peculiarly original in
stytle. Miss Sargent will do well not to indulge
more frequently than possible in arias and scenas :
they do not suit her. Nor did that lovely song by
Schubert, “ Impatience,” known under the various
titles of “ Ungeduld,” “ Ich schnitt, es gern ant
jedem Kieselstein,” and “Dein ist mein Herz.”
It requires more depth and phrasing than the
vocalist imparted to it, and is one of those songs
that lose in the translation. Smart’s “Rhine
Maiden’’was admirably sung. Signor Palladini
continuing indisposed, his place has been supplied
by Mrs. Kingsmill Shaw (who, very nervous,
should not peril her excellent reputation as a
teacher by public appearance as a vocalist), Sig-
nor Pompei, Mr. A. Fairfax, and Mrs. Riley.
These, with Monsieur Auguste Sauret and Herr
Scherek have contributed to the rendition of as
charming concerts as can be koard in any capital
in the world.
CRITIC.
THEATRICALS IN NEW ZEALAND.
Auckland, January.
Since the Lingards left the city there have been no
dramatic representations of importance. The Lin
gards, while here, performed “ The New Magdalen,”
“The Lady of Lyons,” ‘‘Our Boys,” (their chef
d'mvvre), and they also produced Lecoq’s opera, ‘‘Le
Petit Due ” and “ H.M.S. Pinafore,” besides other
minor performances.
The Riccardi Ojiera Company have hod possession of
the Theatre Royal for the past few weeks, and during
that time have produced the “Sorcerer.” “Pinafore,”
“ Girofle-Girofla ” (a miserably performed piece), and
the “ Rose of Auvergne.” They were to have played
“ Maritana,” but through the inability to play of one
of the principal performers (Riccardi) the performance
fell through, and the the theatre was closed, the money
being returned to the audience which had assembled.
Since Thursday last “ Pinafore ” has been played, and
wc hear that Mr. McDonald is going to issue a writ to
Mr. Dc Livre, the proprietor of flic Theatre Royal, for
for infringing the rigts of Mr. ,J. C. Williamson. While
this company were performing “Pinafore.” Mr. Ric-
cardi’s impersonation of Sir Joseph Porter. K.C.8., was
universally admired, and Miss Leaf was nightly ap-
plauded. Miss Isabel Hunter played Little Buttercup,
and was very successful. The Captain found a very
able representative in Mr. Charles Harding, while Ralph
Rackstraw was taken by Mr. Crain, whose voice has
greatly improved since he last appeared here in
“ Pinafore.” Mr. George Leopold sustained the rok
of Dick Deadeye, and little Miss Heath appeared as
Hebe. All the characters were well taken, ana the per-
formance, both financially and musically, was a great
success.
Mr. J. J. Wallace is going to appear in “Queen’s
Evidence” to-night, and he is supported by a good
company.
The popular vocalists, the Mammoth Minstrels, have
been performing in the Lorne-stroet Hall to excellent
houses. They are very good in burlesque absurdities.
They gave an Evening Concert last Sunday, and
the Choral Hall was crammed. The performance was a
great success both in a musical and financial way. They
leave for the Australian colonies to-morrow.
Riccardi, Harding, and Miss Leaf have bean engaged
to appear in Melbourne by Me. J. C. Williamson, and
leave per Rotomahana,
At Christchurch Lyster’a Opera Company have been
playing. They have produced several world-known
operas, of which we may mention “ II Trovatoro," “ Un
Ballo inMaschera,” “LaTraviata," “ Maritana,” “The
Rose of Cnstille,” “ The Bohemian Girl,” together with
“Faust" and “LuciadiLammermoor." All hav heeu
successfully produced. The principal vocalists have been
Messrs. Templeton and Johnson, and Signors Yerdi and
Coy, while the ladies have been represented by Signora
Coy and Mesdames Hersee, Vouosta, Mademoiselles
Royal and Lambert, and Signora Zelman. Lyster’s
Opera Company ha ve had one of the most successful
runs ever known in the city.
The Auckland opera season has commenced, and as
we said before, the dramatic season 'commences this
evening with “ Queen’s Evidence.” This piece has pro-
duced a great sensation in Loudon and the provinces.
I forgot to mention that “Carmen,” the only worthy
opera composed by Bizet, has been produced in Christ-
church with the following oast: —Carmen, Mdme. Rose
Hersee; Niehaela, Miss Bessie Royal ; Jose, Mr.
Beaumont; Escamlllo, Mr. Verdi. The piece is being
well performed, and liberally patronised by the public.
The original, of course, was open to strong comment,
as being in contravention of the rules of propriety, hut
all objectionable features have been carefully excised,
and all the remains of Miss Carmen’s viciousuess is a
heartless coquetry which draws lovers to her only to be
rejected with scorn. There has been nothing else of
importance.


JOHN CUTTER, PRAC
317 PITT STREET,
All Orders attended to with c
KEAREY BROTHERS, CO
BUILDER?
230, PITT-STREET,
Near Park-stre
c.
KOHLER, FTSHMOI
SALESMAN
22 HUNTER-STI
* FRESH FISH EVE!
LUNCH and SUPPEI
NTERNA T I O N A L
The Undersiffned wish to arm
visitors that thev are SOLE LES
REFRESHMENTS wirhin the
GARDEN PAID
The Drinks are of the best qi
picturesque apartments, are delioi
YOUNG
DEAF N E S
PRO FESS OR S';
AURIST,
per itively terminate h
TV
. . in Sydnev on the 29th of
He wUI proceed to Queeußlah
Tour, startlag direct for Charters
bion illy visiting all the principal
on his return southward.
Robert c
SADDLER,
WAQGA wag
branch at nara
Gentlemen residing at a distant
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassii
can always obtain thorn by wri
establishment.
O ’BRIEIS BROTHERS’ CARR
MANUFACTO;
276 PITT STREET (near E
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufa
under their own personal sup*
learnt what colonial requirement
confident their buggies, carriage
cannot be beaten for durability or
seasoned timber used, aud only tl
men employed.
w.
KERR, MAFUFACTU
Watch and Cio
574 GEOKGE-STREI
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, ]
Presentation Trowels desigi
• the premises
DIAMOND SET
CHAS. MONIE, SADDLI
MAKER.
GURWOOD-STREET, WA
Jobbing executed on the si
WAGGA has long been celebr
of its Saddles, and it w
who try Saddles of my monufactu
means inferior to those of any
colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
u
N I O N CLUJ
Baylis and Forsytl
NEWTOWN, WAGG7
(Close to the Railway
Under the patronage of His Ex*
Robinson, K.G.C.!
T. J. BYRNES. Pr
BJWiucs, Ales, aud Spirits of the ■
lIA First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well suj
wholesome provender, and bo un<
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. B/
TO PICNIC PARI
H/T R. M. BYRNES, of the Pvrn
JH U B E R T
• PORTEAI
Photographer by appointment tc
Governor.
Sole Place of Bus
12, OXFORD-STREET, HYDE
Atlas foundry and ei
PANY, Hay-street, Sydm
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.-
prepared to undertake coutincts fi
Marine and Stationary Engines,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sh
Sugar Mills, and all other descr
with latest improvements.
N.B. -Castings executed with
price given for old metal.
UNS,
H
IFLES,
PRICE MODERATE. QUALM
C. COWLES
Practical Gunjhj
111 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSE!
mHE SYDNEY COF!
X 398, 395, 397, GEORG
THE MOST POPULAR HOT]
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, S
The Billiard Room has two of .
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newsjmpers.
Meals* at at! hours. First-cla(
Fare constantly varied. Fish alw
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. Tin
men’s Dining and Retiring Roomi
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the weel
nightly. Meals only charged wh
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J.
Licensed yic
associatio:
or
NEW SOUTH W A
President;
Mr. J. B. OLLIF
The object tif the Association is
CONSERVATK
OF THE
INTERESTS
or THE
LICENSED VICTUi
Throughout the Co
Communications may be address
SECRETARY or the PR
mHE LIGHTNING
I for Sawing Brackets,
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., ]
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortme
Books, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also,
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
144 COLLARS for
AT HORDERN’S IN PIT
j^BE
THEM!!
s
114 COLLARS FOR 3s.
141 COLLARS FOR St
ANY SIZE, 11, 14!
DOLPHE GABR
SURGICAL AND MECHANIC
18 WYNYARD SQL
(two doors from pfahlbi
SYDNEY.
CAUTIO}
Owing’ to systematic attempts
mislead, Messrs A. Q. aud Co. i
caution tbeir patients t
ONLY ADDRESS IS A
RTH U R C
157, late 2011. PITT-STREEI
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOI
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF
and MARRIAGE
COPIES OF WILLS PR
DURING THE YEA
253 INQUIRIES WERE 1
Of these 172 were satisfactorily coi
26 were withdrawn for vi
21 were unsuccessful or ah
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE I
most intricate oases have met with
AGENCIES in Great Britain a
States, Continent of Europe, A
Zealand.
Forty thousand pouis
SEASONABLE DRA
NOW ON SALE,
The most successful of our m
and the MOST GENUINE SA
NEW SOUTH WAi
£40,000 WORTH OF SEASONA
ALL NEW GOODS, bough-
lat an enormous redm
hy
ANTHONY HORDERN
HAYMARKET
In this GENUINE SALE w
Slate and Drab Dress Liuiugs.
Slate Holland, 6d, 7l d, B'd,
Brown Holland,
.VI
rjlO THE ELECTORS 01
Gentlemen, —I have the honon
Candidate to represent your iutore
Assembly of New South Wales,
caused by the resignation of tl
Sutherland.
I am personally known to most, i
of Paddington, and having taken i
liberal interests during the last
connection with your late Membe
ciples are well known.
One or two matters T may ment
my wannest support -first the pas
Bill, giving you increased reprosen
completion of the Land Bill.
The Education Bill will no doul
hind before your Member can tike 1
not I will, if elected, support the pn
before Parliament. It elected Iwi
pledged to no party, but will suppo
for the general good, no matter h
introduced.
Yours fait
Melrose, Woollahra, February 6,
C. W. ROBERT
£3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES ANI
*.* CARRIAGE FREE by RAF
ON receipt of the above sum th
articles will be forwarded, in S
QUALITY GUARAN
C. W. ROBERTS Ins much pie;
he is constantly receiving the high*
residents in all parts of the colony
character of the LIQUORS supplie
FAMOUS £3 CA!
Try one and judge for ,
Kindly make a. note of the
C. W. ROBERT
Importer of Wines and
George and Market S
SYDNEY.
m A T T E R S A_ L_L_’ S
Why Mr, Tebbutt, of Windsor, Couldn’t Find the
Comet’s Head.
"I SWEPT THE HORIZON LAST NIGHT WITH
MY TELESCOPE, BUT COULD FIND NO TRACE OF THE NUCLEUS
OF THE COMET.”— Vide Mr. Tebhutt’s letter to the HERALD.
(Our artist explains).
