

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 39.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23. 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1880.
A Leap in the Dark.
The elections for the new and enlarged Assembly
cannot now be long delayed. Candidates are
bestirring themselves in every direction, and the
wire-pullers are busily preparing their under-
ground machinery. In many of the electorates
requisitions have been circulating for some time,
and the good nature or business obligations ot
voters have been worked upon to induce them to
pledge their suffrages in advance. Still the
Government make no sign, announce no policy,
pledge themselves to nothing, offer nothing to
the country. The Premier, apparently bitten with
the frenzy of imagining that he can successfully
emulate Gladstone, has been discharging floods of
talk wherever he has wandered. But the effect
of his garrulity has been the exact opposite of
that conveyed by Mr. Gladstone’s now famous
oratorical tour; in the case of the British states-
man each successive speech afforded additional
evidence that the mind of the orator was animated
by one supreme conviction and predominant
purpose. But as regards his would-be imitator,
the purport of the speech of yesterday has been
contradicted or qualified by the speech of to-day;
and the vague and general skimming of a farrago
of diverse subjects, generally trifling and often
trumpery, has served merely to engender a sus-
picion that Sir Henkx is floundering about in
quest of a policy which will serve the purpose of
keeping himself in power. At Ashfield he was
emphatic on the" prime necessity of the electors
subordinating every other consideration to that
of returning representatives who would be sound
on the Education question. But when next he
addressed the public he was just as emphatic in
impressing upon them that they should not allow
themselves to be swayed by the fact of candidates
declaring their adherence to any single issue, but
should make their choice upon the broader ground
of general fitness and ability, and of the capacity
of the men who aspired to representative honors
for dealing with large questions. This latter
advice is first-rate so far as it goes. But it is
purposeless and incomplete in default of distinct
and uncompromising declarations as to what are
the large and important questions which the
Government intends to ask the next Parliament to
deal with. At present nobody has any idea that
the Cabinet of Sir Henbt Pashes is big with
grand conceptions. Naturally it might have
been expected that the Premier would in later
speeches have followed up his handsome, but
non-committing, generalisations with important
revelations of the particular projects or principles
which were present in his mind when he sought to
impress the public with the weighty responsibilities
they were about to be called upon to discharge.
But either he was merely mouthing big phrases,
without having any particular meaning, or his
courage has since oozed away, like Bob Acres ,
from his finger ends. His most recent deliverances
have dwindled down into childish drivel and
meaningless maundering. From rousing -the
people to a sense of tremendous responsibilities
relating to something undefined, he sank, without
apparent cause, to whining complaints that in the
metropolis, where he is best and most intimately
known, and where every phase of his kaleidos-
copic career has been noted, he is not understood
°r so highly esteemed as his prodigious merits
deserve ; and, to saponaceous suggestions that,
what the perversity of the citizens of Sydney
has prevented them from appreciating, the
natural penetration of the gifted people
°f the hamlet of Cudal had enabled
them to comprehend. If it be really,
this line of inference would apparently
Bu ggest, sufficient consolation for being held in
some degree of contempt in Sydney, to believe
that one is esteemed in Cudal, political pilgrim-
ages to that remarkable village should become
tolerably common. But, however consolatory
such self-soothing proceedings and effusions may
he to the Premier, they are none the less worth-
less to the public, and excessively aggravating at
this particular time, when throughout the con-
stituencies electors are anxiously expecting some
declarations which may serve to assist them in
taking their choice of persons to represent them
io the next Parliament, and to assist in shaping
the course of legislation during a period likely
enough to be protracted. What the public wants
to know just now is not the valuation which Sir
Henry Pabkes would like to believe he places
upon the opinions prevalent regarding his merits
in Sydney and in Cudal respectively. I hey are
desirous of having information as to what are the
intentions and projects of their Premier for the
government of the colony, for lending impulse to
its development, for rectifying defects in its
legislation, and for accelerating its progress in
the immediate future. It wants to know his
intentions in order that it may make its own
arrangements for electing representatives either
to assist or to restrain him, as his purposes may
fall in with its wishes and ideas. Prom a Premier
it has a right not only to expect clear explanations
on these heads, but to demand them. Perhaps
Sir Heney is merely reserving himself. If so,
he is reserving himself dangerously long. While
he remains mute, electors are being drawn into
engagements to candidates who may not be the
men they would choose had they full information
as to the work to be done by the next Parliament.
If, on the other hand, it be the Premier’s plan to
leave the elections to be made on merely paro-
chial and local likings and impulses, he abdicates
his high functions, and such a course would be
to practically work against the spirit of his own
recommendation that men should be chosen in
view of their fitness to deal with large themes.
But an Assembly of members without definite
views would be a very manageable Assembly for
the coalition Ministry of veteran politicians to
deal with; and whatever might be the opinion of
the gifted people of Cudal, the citizens of the
metropolis are likely to entertain the idea that
such an outcome of the elections might be
regarded by their old acquaintance, Sir Heney,
as quite worth scheming to bring about.
The “Devil’s Advocate.”
A proverb tells us that when we are in Rome we
should do as Rome does; and the reverse of this
doubtless holds good, that when we are away
from Rome we need pay no attention to what is
done there. Were it otherwise, the above head-
ing would bear a very different interpretation to
that which has recently been attached to it in
Sydney. As is well known the Devil’s Advocate,
in Rome, is a duly appointed and important
official whenever the august authorities of that
ancient Christian church are contemplating an
act of canonization. However strong, may be the
claims to sainthood of the individual about to
be honoured, however holy his life and astound-
ing the wonders performed at his grave, the
Advocatus Biaboli will have something to say
against the proposed addition to the celestial
corps. Our local “ Devil’s Advocate,” however,
has more to do with sinners than saints, and in
place of appearing as a prosecutor on the part of
Satan, has to accept a brief for the defence of
that maltreated potentate. Beelzebub, it seems,
like so many monarchs in these democratic days,
has fallen upon evil times ; and the extent of his
declension may be conceived when we say that
the only clerical counsel who appears inclined to
plead at the bar of public opinion on his behalf
is Dr. Beg. One of the latest attacks upon poor
“auld Nickie-Ben” came from the Jewish
Rabbi, who wants to shoulder the unlucky demon
out of the Bible, even. Dr. Beg gallantly rushed
to the rescue, and hence has been dubbed by the
Rabbi with the title of the “ Devil’s Advocate.”
Whether the pugnacious cleric accepts the title
or not is more than we know. Titles are falling
somewhat into disrepute just at present, and
possibly this one may go a-begging. But even if
Dr. Beg rejects the nominal honour which the
Rabbi would thrust upon him he has shown him-
self eager to claim the position which the title
indicates. There is a class of persons who are
said to rush in where angels fear to tread, and
certainly most angels—if they are the clear-
sighted beings they are commonly represented—
would be afraid of attempting to maintain his
Satanic majesty and his sooty domain in the light
of the nineteenth century and in the laughing
face of sceptical science. But Dr. Beg is not an
angel —at least, as Mark Twain would say, he
has none of the “points” of an angel about him
—and so he is at it, hammer and “ tongues,” on
behalf of “ Hell and the Devil.” We can scarcely
say that he has our good wishes for his success,
but at all events we wish hrim all the success he
deserves. And so far are we from offering him
opposition that we sincerely trust if he is fortu-
nate in his temporary assumption of the role of
“Devil’s Advocate,” he may have sufficient in-
terest in that quarter to ensure his obtaining a
permanent appointment.
The Revenue Racket.
The state of our colonial finances is daily at-
tracting more attention. An excellent way to
gauge public opinion on any question is to con-
sider what side the majority of Parliamentary
candidates take, and, following this rule, we can-
not fail to be struck with the general feeling of
alarm on this subject, and the wide-spread pro-
phecies of rocks ahead. Naturally enough
people look to the land for the cause, and
also for the remedy, of the evil, knowing
that if injudicious management of the publio
estate is to be the cause indirectly of our pros-
pective impecuniosity, that it is also the one
plank which, properly utilised, will enable us to
weather the storm, and keep the head of the
colony above the figurative waters. It has of
course been evident for some time that the crisis
was coming ; that our land revenue as at present
derived could not last much longer ; and it has
long been currently believed that a system either
of taxation or retrenchment, or both, would have
to be devised to prevent a large balance accruing
on the wrong side of the public accounts. Hence
the Stamp Act and the proposed wool and coal
taxes. Hence, too, were it not for the ju-
dicious finessing of the Premier, the burning
question of the coming general election would
inevitably have been the one of finance. But by his
dexterous flourishing of the Education Act in
the face of the country, and his careful use of
the present quarter’s increase ot revenue, per-
haps the matter will not now receive the attention
its importance deserves. This quarterly increase,
however, is in itself an effect of that mistaken
legislation which has been the primary agent in
incurring all the mischief. Abnormal and
merely temporary as it is, it will, if not properly
understood and guarded against, induce a false
feeling of security on this question of revenue,
and postpone its consideration until the weight
of the taxation which must necessarily, sooner or
later, be imposed, will be positively unendurable
by reason of its excessive but necessary propor-
tions. It may not have been generally observed
that one of the effects of the last amendment of
the Lauds Act has been to provide that free
selectors who have already holdings of say 210
acres, which they have improved in a proper and
acknowledged manner at the rate of between
fifteen and sixteen shillings per acre, are ipso
facto entitled to select a proportionate 110 acres of
adjoining territory, without any further condi-
tions as to improvements. Now, the statements
of land sale returns during the last quarter show
to what an extent this provision has been availed
of; and while, by its intrinsic nature, the cir-
cumstance speaks of itself for the short term of
its possible continuance, it proffers a warning
that the obtaining a permanently reliable
and legitimate revenue should be no longer
delayed. And while on this subject, let
us say, it seems a particularly unfortu-
nate juncture for the selectors to put forth
their “repudiation” principle, as it is called
by its opponents; since the Act by which the
State’s claim to the interest on the purchase
money of their holdings would be foregone,
would deprive the original Act of 1861 of the
only quality it had to recommend it, apart from
the benefits it conferred on the free selector him-
self —namely, the revenue represented by the
residue of the income which was to be derived
from the total alienation of so much of the pub-
lic landed estate, the natural capital of the
ME. JAMES SQUIER EAENELL, M.P.


colony. The proposal has certainly one des-
perate recommendation, and that is the immediate
and certain necessity which would follow its ac-
ceptance by the Legislature for a comprehensive
and thorough treatment of the whole question of
finance.
Mr. James Squire Parnell, M.P.
For the past twenty years the name of James
Squire Farnell has been before this country, and
for the latter part of that period it has been inti-
mately associated with the administration of its
affairs. It is a name which yet stands well with
the people as that of a man who has laboured
honestly, fearlessly, and successfully for the good
of this country. A critical review of Mr. Farnell’s
public life, which, unfortunately, we are unable
just now to give, would reveal the fact that with
respect to our land legislation he foresaw all the
difficulties which now surround the administration
of the law ; and it is not unlikely that during the
next few months he will play quite as prominent a
part as any member of the Government in the
solution of the knotty questions that now present
themselves for consideration. Mr. Farnell was
bom in Sydney on the 24th June, 1825, and was
educated at Parramatta. He was first elected to
the Legislative Assembly in May, 1860, for St.
Leonards. Five months later, on the 10th Nov.,
the House dissolved on the Land Bill, and the
questions submitted to the country were Free Selec-
tion before Survey and Deferred Payments. Mr.
Farnell, who was opposed to these principles, stood
for Central Cumberland, but was defeated. He
was afterwards, however, elected for Parramatta,
and sat for that electorate up to the dissolution on
the 28th November, 1874. At the ensuing election
Mr. Farnell was defeated for Parramatta, and
stood for St. Leonards and was elected. This
constituency he still represents. Mr. Farnell was
Chairman of Committees of the whole House for
a session. He accepted the office of Secretary for
Lands with Sir Henry Parkes on the 14th May, 1872,
and after the passing of the Mining Act of 1874,
became Minister for Lands and Mines. Prior to the
passing of the Mining Act of 1874 he administered
the Mineral Lands and Goldfields under the Occu-
pation Act of 1861, and the Goldfields Act of
1866. He was Minister in 1872 and 1873 when the
groat rush took place for Mineral Lease Lands for
auriferous areas and for conditional purchases.
The applications to lease mineral lands alone,
within a period of about seven months, amounted
to over three-quarters of a million of acres, and
Mr. Farnell had to bear the burnt of the sudden
demand for land of all kinds. He had to ad-
minister everything in connection with the lands —
the Alienation, Occupation, Roads, Stock Act,
and many other branches. The Minister for
Lands at the present time, it should be under-
stood, simply deals with the alienation of land
and reserves. Mr. Farnell went out of office with
Sir Henry on the Bth February, 1875, on the
Gardiner question. It was some time after this
that a new party was organised in the Assembly,
and it eventually took the form of the Farnell
Administration, which went into office on the 18th
December, 1877. In this Government Mr. Farnell
was Premier and Secretary for Lands. Twelve
months later a change of Government took place,
Mr. Famell’s Land Bill having been thrown out.
In the coming election Mr. Farnell will, with other
members of the Opposition, very probably put a
liberal programme before the country. With
regard to the Government, ho expresses surprise
at their policy of delay, and feels certain that it
will meet with general condemnation throughout the
colony. Our portrait is from a photo, by New-
man, of Oxford-street.
The Wool Trade —Sydney or Melbourne?
Mr. J. Thompson writes us from Albury as fol-
lows : —“ Can you inform me how it is that wool
does not fetch such a good price in Sydney as in
Melbourne ? I have it, on good authority, that
several of the stations in Eiverina, more especially
those near our present railway terminus, Gero-
gery (amongst which is Cox’s, of Mangoplah),
intend this year sending their wool to Melbourne
via Sydney, instead of via Wodongaas heretofore.
The N.S.W. Government are thus carrying wool
at a loss simply to benefit Victoria. Surely there
must be ‘ something rotten in the State of Den-
mark,’ and, after carefully considering the matter,
I have been compelled very reluctantly to come to
the conclusion that the fault lies with the Sydney
wool-brokers. Their warehouses are, compara-
tively speaking, small, and it is a matter of
impossibility to show their wool like Goldsbrough
and Co., and other large wool-brokers in the Vic-
torian metropolis. The whole question resolves
itself down to this : that wool-growers find it pays
them better to.bear the extra cost of re-shipping
their wool from Sydney to Melbourne, where they
will get a higher price, than to leave it in Sydney.
I hope you will use your pen, which, when wielded
by you, is undoubtedly very powerful, and put a
stop to such a disgraceful state of affairs.”
[Mr. Thompson writes as if from dictation. It is
not, however, the fact that wools do better in
Melbourne than in Sydney, as is proved by clips
tried in each market. Buyers from Melbourne
have found they cannot buy cheaper here, even
for direct shipment to England ; certainly not
after incurring the heavy charges made in Mel-
bourne. It is not reasonable that there should be
any considerable difference in markets so near to
each other; but if so, it is only fair to assume
that buyers would gravitate to the cheapest
market. ■ Wools, taken from Sydney and tried in
Melbourne one year, have come back to Sydney
the next year. Expenses are much heavier in
Melbourne, and even the buyers are put under
hewy contribution, which is, of course, against
the grower, as the buyer naturally leaves himself
a margin to cover extra cost. The brokers get
nearly twice as well paid in Melbourne as in
Sydney, and this extra charge also comes out of
the pockets of the producers. Moreover, the
arrangements in the Sydney warehouses for the
display of wool before sale are now vastly superior
to those of the Melbourne houses, and are perhaps
unsurpassed even in London. The statement that
Melbourne brokers propose opening in Sydney
shows they are not so confident of their own
market as would appear. The great increase in
the Sydney sales is, after all, the best reply as to
the relative merits of the two markets.— Ed.]
Accompanied by a candidate for Parliamentary
honors they were returning from an electioneering
meeting held in a suburb of Sydney. Their horses
were all that could be moderately desired, but the night
was dark and no “faint lamps gleamed to hint theirfarther
way.” Having travelled it often they did not hesitate
to proceed. However, whether one of the animals had
a nervous doubt as to the right path, or whether the
alcoholic sniffs he seemed to take from the breath of
the rider affected him is not known, except that the
beast proved superior to the man. The latter made
a closer acquaintance with n culvert than was good
for his henltn. The n rfy got home in the small hours
of the morning, anil ‘ be huiiVer had another shaking.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Early in January next Wagga will be lit by gas.
Miss Kate Slattery is a pupil of Signor Stef-
fani’s.
Pyrmont Regatta, Boxing Day. First-class
prizes.
Queensland is "prolific in babies, blacks, and
bananas.
Queensland squatters have got frozen meat on
the brain.
There are seventeen Chinese gambling saloons
in Sydney.
Mr. Edwin Brown appears at the Opera House
next week.
The handsome bridge across the Fitzroy (Q.) is
nearly finished.
Miss Pomeroy’s new programme will be the sen-
sation of the week.
The Irish absentee landlords draw six and a
half millions annually.
The “Jolly Dog Club ” meet at Compagnoni’s
every day at 1 o’clock.
Victorian sportsmen are liberally backing
Trickett against Hanlan.
Instrumental music in the Sydney theatres on
Sunday evenings in future.
Mrs. Fitzwilliam, one of the Lingard troupe,
died at Auckland on the 19th.
The Crocodile gold-field, near Rockh ampton, is
looking up wonderfully just now.
The new gaol at Rockhampton is not built to
keep prisoners against their will.
Barbour continues his agitation against any
further alienation of Crown lands.
Gladstone (Q.) has revived, and storekeepers an-
ticipate reaping a rich harvest shortly.
Notwithstanding the constant dredging the
Fitzroy River (Q.) is shallower than ever.
Martin “ apparently” easily defeated Aplitt in
a run last Saturday of 150 yards for £3OO.
The late Mr. Richard Driver’s portrait is to be
placed in the Cricket Association’s Pavilion.
The Under Secretary and Acountant of the
Lands Department are still under suspension.
The amount spent on intoxicating liquors in New
Zealand is estimated at £2,750,000 per annum.
The foundation-stone of a new church (R.C.)
will be laid at Rockhampton early in the new year.
A large Masonic meeting at the hall, York,
street, decided to form a Masonic Benevolent Institute
Mr. Broome, Colonial Secretary of Mauritius,
succeeds Sir George Bowen as Governor. Swept away
again.
An institute of surveyors has been formed in
Sydney. The energetic Mr. Parrot is the leading
spirit.
Treble event—Grand Flaneur for the Derby,
John Sutherland for Redfem, and John Young for
Newtown.
A Victorian clergyman upholds the totalisator,
saying it’s as legitimate as bazaars. Where is Peter
Campbell ?
There has been a general clearance at the
Rochampton hospital, from the resident surgeon to the
kitchen boy.
Opals are being extensively found in Queens-
land, and the local jewellers are busy polishing and
cutting them.
Messrs. Green and Co., Macquarie-place, have
their cellars now stocked with the best brands of old
Albury wine.
On dit the Duke of Manchester is to be the
next Governor in Victoria, and 6 squatter in New
South Wales.
If not better patronised the magnificent steam-
ship Keilawarxa will probably soon cease running to
Rockhampton.
Hanley Bennett says he is a “ self-made man.”
This relieves the Great Architect of a good deal of
responsibility.
It is said there ore less likely things than that
the Duke of Manchester should become a New South
Wales squatter.
Coleman’s Lighthouse Hotel, Bolton-street,
Newcastle, and three other buildings were burnt down
on Sunday night.
The funeral of the late Mrs. John Mackintosh
was attended by thirty conveyances when it passed
Rushcutters’ Bay.
Aplitt has been matched against Callaghan, 130
yards, next Saturday, for £l5O aside. There will be no
betting, we believe.
Lieut. Le Patourel has gone to Wollongong with
a detachment of sixteen men, to mount the sixteen 80-
ponnder guns there.
The pigeon-shooting match between Mr. Pay-
ten, of Goulburn, and Mr. Friend, of Sydney, was for
honour—not for a wager.
For the first sixteen days of the Melbourne
Exhibition there were 119,656 visitors, of whom
50,195 were admitted free.
Mr. Darley to be the new Chief Justice —so Sir
Henry confidentially informed Mr. Berry when at
Melbourne. A little bird, etc.
Mr. Jemmy South, we learn by telegraph, has
married Miss Edith Pender at Townsville. Dillon re-
turns to Sydney per Alexandria.
The Melbourne Age commented severely on the
poor display made in manufactures by N.S.W. A
Welshman made a very telling reply.
The salaries of the President of the Victorian
Legislative Council and of the Clerk of the Assembly
have been reduced from £BOO to £lOOO.
“Struck Oil,” played for the benefit of the Be-
nevolent Society by the amateurs of Rockhampton, did
not “ strike oil’’ for that institution.
Hon. Robert Wisdom (Attorney-General) and
Mr. Cowper (Sheriff) were given seats on the Bench at
the trial of Ned Kelly, at Melbourne.
The Licensed Victuallers’ Association’s annual
picnic, at Botany, on Wednesday, notwithstanding the
wet weather, passed off very successfully.
Boland’s drapery establishment, Queen-street,
Brisbane, was partly destroyed by fire on Saturday
night. Stock insured for £7000; damage £5OOO.
It is understood in official circles that the Mar-
quis of Normanby told the Du e of Manchester he ex-
pected to succeed the Marquis of Lornje in Canada.
A man describing a church at Petersham, writes
to a friend; —“ No velvet cushions in our pews. We
don’t go in for style. The fattest person has the softest
seat."
A telegram states that Dr. A. R. Hutchinson, a
recent arrival at Bundarra, has died through taking
poison—whether accidentally or otherwise is not yet
known.
It is untrue that a Roman Catholic clergy-
man refused to bury an Oddfellow at Rockhampton.
We readily comply with a request to make this cor-
rection.
The Australasian, speaking of Miss Flora
Anstead in “ Snowball,’’ savs “ her acting was the best
kind of comedy brilliancy. It was dashing, easy, subtle,
and refined.’’
Fearson’s Weekly (Adelaide), in its last
issue, remarks on the increase of forgeries in the
southe m colony, and points out that the offenders for
the most part are men who have received a good edu-
cation.
The “ shoddy ” aristocracy of Petersham have
got at the Bishop, and he has decided, against the wish
of pastor and congregation, to have the seats in the
Church of England alternately marked "Christian”
and "pauper.”
Nothing yet clear about that terrible Bermagui
mystery. Only bullet marks, and the worst fears. Mr.
Lament was a ver)' capable and promising man, and an
able geological student.
A Ucenso for the sale of spirituous liquors has
been issued to the proprietor of the refreshment rooms
atthejunee railway station. Travellers from Mel-
bourne speak in the highest terms of the place, as a
step in the right direction.
At the annual meeting of the Deaf and the
Dumb and the Blind Institute, there was a disturbance
over an alleged defalcation of £2OO. The chairman was
condemned for mentioning the matter, as the “little
affair had been arranged.” A change is coming.
It is rather a noteworthy fact that as the warm
weather comes round the sale of Murray and lianman's
Florida Water greatly increases. The perfume has not
only a remarkably exhilarating effect on the mind, but
improves the health and preserves it against prevailing
epidemics.
The Chinese difficulty in the Northern territory I
is what the S.A. Government have now to face. It is
thought that unless something is promptly done the
hi orthern territory will become a Chinese settlement,
be abandoned by Europeans, and the capital expended
there turn out a dead loss.
The opposition to fresh licenses may be carried
too far. Scholar, to whom this city is indebted for
entirely changing the character of the once immoral
neighbourhood of the Scandinavian, is now refused a
license for an hotel which he himself has improved
both in style and management.
The Chinamen of N.Z. have subscribed .£lOOO
for the defence of Ah Lee and Lee Guy, charged with
the Kyebum murder. Collectors have been appointed
in every part of Otago. The Chinese say that if the
accused men are hanged Europeans will not in the
future employ a Chinaman, and therefore they combine
to get their countrymen off.
Writing on the subject of the prevalence of
measles, Professor Stanich says:—“To prevent the
complaint from spreading, next in value to the admission
of pure air, is the fumigation with mineral acids, and
sprinkling the rooms and passages with essence of
rosmerine, which will be found the most effectual means
of checking the progress of the contagion.”
Miss Kate Slattery sang splendidly at the Mel-
bourne Liedertafel. Subsequently Miss Slattery was
admitted to the dining-room of the Victoria
Club, and there presented by the Governor, the Mar-
quis of Normanby, on behalf of the Liedertafel, with a
souvenir, consisting of a magnificent negligee formed
of golden lyres, with a large lyre in enamel and gold as
a pendant.
A big newspaper cable contract, and disagree-
ments between newspaper proprietors. The S. M.
Herald and the Annus nave separated, and the Even-
ing News and the Melbourne Age have burst up. All
with this result. The Evening News, the Augus, and
S. A. Register enter into a big agreement arranging
for cables from Europe. The Herald, it is to be pre-
sumed, will not be beaten.
It would appear that “ Wollombi Joe” has yet
a few friends in the Hawkesbury district, and that they
are going to charter a steamer for him when he can-
vasses that part of his electorate which, as the Mait-
land Mercury has it, “is accessible to steam.” Well,
all we can say is that if the Wollombi electors are ac-
cessible to Joe’s steam very little puffing will answer
their requirements.
_ A young Sydney swell, who was excessively
timid and shy, went to the father’s house to propose
for the hand of her whom he adored. Seeing that he
stood embarrassed paterfamilias said, “ Take a chair,
take a chair, sir.” “ I never take anything between
my meals,” huskily muttered the embarrassed lover.
“Then you can’t take Bessie," snapped the father;
and the interview was over.
The ‘ ‘ Chantanqua ” salute, which at religious
gatherings takes the place of the ordinary demonstra-
tions of applause, is gaining ground in America.
General Garfield, the Republican candidate for the
Presidental chair, was present at a Y. M. Christian
convention. “He stepped forward, and at a given
salute vast numbers of white handkerchiefs were sud-
denly waved by the audience, the effect being very
striking and singular.”
Messrs. Mort and Co.’s opening wool sale on
Wednesday passed off exceedingly well. There was an
unusually large attendance, including a number of
foreign bnyefs, and competition was exceedingly brisk,
especially for good lines of greasy wool, which reached
up to 13d. per lb. 1030 bales were sold, values, as com-
pared with last year’s opening prices, showing an ad-
vance of from 12 to 15 per cent. Sheepskins also sold
well, and realised up to Bd. per lb.
Ned Kelly’s trial has been postponed till the
28th. Before leaving the gaol for the Court he asked
for a better coat to appear in before Mr. Justice Barry,
as his own was the worse for wear. Mr. W. Gaunson,
his barrister, lent him his overcoat. Kelly had his hair
carefully oiled and brushed, and wore a clean white
shirt and black tie, tweed vest, and Bedford cord trou-
sers, walked without the slightest limp, and had appa-
rently quite recovered from his wounds. He appeared,
generally, to be in excellent health, and his demeanour
quiet.
The commercial fraternity of this city, when
wrecked on Tuesday, the 19th inst., chartered the
screw-steamer Pacific (which stranded on the sand
bank at the Spit, to goto Middle Harbour. Theexcur-
sionists, with other friends, who represented all the
leading houses in the city, were obliged to walk to
North Shore, the vessel being high and dry on the sand-
bank half-an-hour after striking. The North Shore
ferry conveyed some of the stray ones home in the
early hours of the morning.
Three magnates of Rockhampton (they call
bushrangers magnates in America), W. Pattison
(17st.), M'Eachern, and Milman, recently went for a
drive. The great heat told on them, and they drove
over some surveyors’ pegs. Evolutions were the result.
The light weight was landed on his nose, and the
people round about now speak of the “ foot,-prints” on
the sand. M‘Eacheru was comfortably thrown on to
Pattison’s back, but friend Milman kept his seat, and
saved the country the expense of a public funeral.
An English money-changer, Barker, in the Rue
Royale, Paris, has absconded, leaving many of his
countrymen and Parisians to deplore his flight. One
morning a notice appeared on the shutters, “ Closed on
account of death. ’ Creditors on the fourth day con-
cluded sufficient time had elapsed for tears, and had
the office opened by the Commissary of Police. On
examining the safe, not an angry shilling was even
found therein ; in fact, it must have been a stranger to
cash for a long time, as the spiders had commenced to
weave their webs inside.
“ Old Gold ” writes“ Just fancy, Mr. Editor,
the P.O. and Telegraph clerks held their picnic on Satnr-
day last amongst their selfish selves, and never asked
any of us girls. I know lots of girls who intend to cut
them dead when,they meet. I feel as if I could do some-
thing’ desperate, but don't know exactly what to do.
Assist me—assist us, dear Bulletin, to get our revenge]
and the pathway to your office will be strewn with
flowers by the fair maids of Sydney.” Never mind,
dear lady, The Bulletin will give a picnic shortly, and
only ladies will be invited.
From the electoral returns just issued from the
Government Printing Office it appears that the Joneses
carry the day, and are more numerous than the Smiths.
After the latter come the septs Williams, Taylor
Davis, and Brown. Johnson stands tenth, Robinson
eleventh, Wilson twelfth, Thompson, with a “ p ” takes
only twenty-fourth place, and Clark without an “e ” is
tnirty-eighth. Among the strange names are
Albertina Regina Victoria Gotha Brown, Turuerica
Hennca Ulrica du Gloria de Lavinia Rebecca Turner
and Hostilliana Ophigenia Maria Hypihile Wadge-
Smith.
Figures of speech, according to Cobbett, are
sharp-edged tools. The Victorian Exhibition building
as is pretty well known, stands in Carlton Gardens.
■ ir xJ le^ y .. Parkes ’ s Pe-iking at the Exhibition banquet
in the Melbourne Town Hall, said “the Parliament in
voting a, quarter of a million for the great show
deserved well of the country, for it had planted on the
mountain tops of Victoria tne standards of nations—
the standards of freedom of intercourse between all
the civilised nations of the world.” It matters not if
both in fact and figure Sir ’Enrv was all astray He
never will be correct till William Forster returns to his
side. v
In the case of Gaynor v. Gosset, heard at Mary-
borough (Q.) lately, the judge reversed his decision
tour times, hirst, he awarded defendant £6 costs
then, upon plaintiff’s counsel objecting, he awardee
nothing to defendant. Then, upon defendant’s counse
objecting, he awarded him £3 costs. Then, upon
plaintiff’s counsel again objecting, he finally awardee
defendant nothing! That judge was evidently a well
meaning man, and is to he commended for his Paul
liteness to all parties. There is just the merest whif
of the Wantabadgery trial about this —just the fnintesi
soupqon. Our £250 is ready.
We have to acknowledge receipt of a copy oi
“Grandmamma’s Verse-book,” of which that talontec
writer and estimable lady, Mrs. Charles Meredith, is
the author. The nature of the contents of this pleasing
little volume, which is published at Is fid, is sufficiently
indicated by the first sentence of the preface, in which
Mrs. Meredith remarks that “ All of us, who love ehil.
dren, well know how keen a relish they evince for tales
or verses which touch on some familiar theme." As
the verses are brightly and melodiously written and
smack strongly of the soil, we are certain that the pub-
lication has only to be properly placed before the public
to command a great success.
The Public Instruction Regatta on the Bth inst.
was not quite a decided success, and the blame ap-
parently lay with some of the competitors and officers.
For instance, Strong was nearly week a getting into his
boat, and West’s cardinal point was too much compass.
Booth wanted a tent to keep the rain off, but Scott was
never riled—well, hardly ever. Williams appeared
bilious, Richards was dicky, and Chatty very quiet.
One gentleman’s yarns were not very Sircomspect, and
Selkirk, being a little taller than most folk, was not
monarch of all he surveyed. Burke did not make an
oration, but left it to Kilmister, who tried to kill
Mister B. with N.V. (N.B. —There was no O.D V
about.)
There must be either a good deal of strong
party feeling or of rum up Bourke way, for this is how
the Cobar and Louth Herald speaks of the Central
Australian : — “ And now this C.A.D., or Central
Australian detractor, hints that we lied. Poor thing,
yourself have been so long in the sardine-tin that, lying
always, you imagine others must lie, and become as
oleaginously and ductilely prone as your own self-loving
self - Dr. Young said ‘I give him joy that’s awkward
at a lie.’ Such joy, however, will never be shared by
the canting equivocator, the Brummagem critic, who
now reigns supreme o’er the Central Australian.”
Now, this is not very good English, nor very good
taste, but it is extremely forcible.
Mulholland, better known as “Lovely Billy, ’
arrested for the Quirindi bank robbery, declares that
“ he never had the pleasure of enjoying the breeze of
Quirindi,” that he “ never saw the blooming city in his
life,’ that he “ never saw the important commercial
town of Breeza,” and that Gunnedah was unknown to
him till he had the pleasure of standing before them—
the “great unwashed’’—guarded by Dan O’Hanlau
(brother of the rower) and other obtainers of the Gov-
ernment “screw,” —as a felon. When collared by the
Queensland police, he had no sugar, no revolver;
nothing but an old blanket, clean shirt, a paper collar,
and his own lovely carcase, which is fit for the Mel-
bourne Exhibition as an illustration of excessive love-
liness.
The editor of the Narracoorte (S. A.) Herald
devotes a column leader to discussing the momentous
question: “ Our cows : Are they a nuisance or are they
not?” Of course, he can’t see how funny he is. He is
a Scotchman. He says:—“ The traveller approaching
by rail, and looking forward to the town as it appears
embowered in foliage, and framed by the encircling
hills, expects to find a thing of beauty, and a source of
joy. * * * But by them (the cows) the pathways, as
well as roads, are usurped, so that pedestrians of the
feebler sex have often been forced to walk in the gutters.
By them the whole town is liberally mosaiced, so that it
presents oftentimes the appearance of a huge draught-
board. And these same cattle, crouching down at night
in cosy comers and on the dry paths, have often caused
meditative and abstracted travellers, as they have fallen
over them, to feel righteously indignant.” The worst
of the whole affair is that the editor winds up his article
by stating that, “We shall have more to say on this
question."
We have often heard jocose allusions made to the
cannibalistic habits of aborigines in presence of members
of the Queensland native police force, but have never
succeeded in gaining from a blackfellow a hona fide
opinion as to the relative culinary merits of whites and
Chinamen. However, in the Fai North it is generally
understood that the blacks prefer the flavor of a
Celestial to that of a European—the reason being that
the former eats less salt, smokes less tobacco, and as a
rule doesn’t wash himself so often. Even on the prin-
ciple alone of de yustibue non ditputandum the white
man is not inclined to quarrel with the untutored
savage in this matter. Great hopes are entertained iu
Melbourne that the black trackers from Queensland
recently added to the police force will, if kept on
vegetable diet for a short period, and let loose in the
Chinese quarter, render a service that will be most
gratifying to every well-ordered mind. The Chinamen
in Melbourne are very tough-looking. As the Queens-
land blackfellows say, in regard to very old and lean
horses, they’re “too muchee walk-about.”
FACTS FOCUSSED.
A tombstone, consisting of a white marble slab,
facing upwards, has been erected at Dunedin over the
f rave of Mr. Wilson’s family, victims of the Octagon
re. The Newcastle fortifications have been com-
menced. It is thought that Joe, the South Sea
Islander, who recently committed the outrage at Du-
nedin, was sutfering from insanity consequent on neg-
lected measles. Mrs. Macpherson is lecturing at the
Athenseum on cookery. “ Good attendance; copious
notes.” Every reference to free trade and federation
was loudly cheered at the Deniliquin banquet. A
servant at Government House, Sydney, presented her
husband the other day with the 24th child. Sir
Henry Parkes has purchased from Professor Eeuleaux
two massive Gorman porcelain vases for the new
Government offices. Cameron, Oriental interpreter,
has been suspended. Several small railway extensions
are proposed by the Victorian Government. On
Tuesday, the Marquis of Normanby officially visited all
the men-of-war in Hobson’s Bay. Ned Kelly is to be
tried on the day which is the second anniversary of the
Mansfield murders. Splendid gold, Milburn Creek,
Carcoar. More nuggets and good quartz at Temora.
Tanga rush, Bega, a failure. More jewellery
smuggling at Melbourne. The Victorian vintage is
large. Melbourne Botanic Gardens expenditure to
be cut down, and with the same object several of the
provincial lands' offices to be closed. The Argus and
Australasian proprietary have given £5 to the Press
Defence Fund. First Temora escort, 92fioz.— —The
favourite traders, Darling Downs and Windsor Castle,
arrived in first-class order from London during last
week. A ten per cent, ad valorem duty on boots,
shoes, wearing apparel, saddlery and harness has been
rejected in the Brisbane Assembly. Captain Penne-
feather reports favourably to the Brisbane Government
on the proposed harbour at Point Parker, Gulf of Car-
pentaria. At Goldsbrough's wool sale, Melbourne,
prices ruled from 10 to 12 per cent, over last year’s
opening rates. Joseph Benton got seven years on
the roads at Walgett assizes for horsestealing. The
Reform Qoldmining Company, which is owned by
several Sydney merchants, is under offer to an English
firm for £25,000. Good gold has been struck at
Chambers s Creek, Hill End. An eighteen-inch reef
has been struck at Temora; good gold. Captain
Battye is to succeed at Albury the late Police-inspector
Singleton. A branch of the Sydney Coffee Pa’ace
is to be opened in Collins-street, Melbourne. Captain
Gouch, of Goulbum, acts for the Inspector-General of
Police, Mr. Fosbery, during his absence. Mr. H.
Levien is safe for Tamworth. Gunnedah lies between
Mr. J. P. Abbott and Mr. T. Browne, ofjPullaming Sta-
tion. Power, the bushranger, is dying at Pentridge.
Dr. Thomas, of Woollongong, died on 14th inst.,
universally regretted. Sir William and Lady Robin-
son have returned to Western Australia. We learn
from the Clarence Examiner that Neil and Donald
M’Donald have challenged Messrs. W. Trickett and G.
Solomon to a double-scull race on the Parramatta River.
■—Nuggets are becoming plentiful at Temora. The
drought has broken up and operations will now be
pushed forward. The Chief Secretary of Victoria
has been waited upon by a deputation of discharged
Civil servants, asking for three months’ leave of absence


TICS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Cardinal Paccais dead.
The Czar of Russia is ill,
Gortschakoff seriously ill.
Strikes at Wolverhampton.
More repulses for the Basutos.
Australian tin has gone up to £B7.
Betting 6 to 4 on Hanlan in London.
France is again friendly with Mexico.
Destructive fire at Charlestown, U.S.
Irish agrarian disturbances increasing.
Great trade revival throughout England.
The Russian squadron has been reinforced.
Another “ pot-shot” at Bantry, near Cork.'
No clue to the murderers of Earl Mountmorres.
Cologne Cathedral opened. Emperor William
present.
Serious riots over the American Presidential
elections.
Much sickness among the British troops at
Candahar.
The leading Irish Land Leaguers are to be
prosecuted.
Cession of Dnlcigno again delayed. Danger not
yet averted.
The expulsion of Jesuits from France is to be
made absolute.
The English journals advise New Zealand to
cease borrowing.
Rising among the Greeks in the island of Samos
against Turkish rule.
None of the Turkey to be given to Greece. The
latter is arming to help herself.
Cardinal Nina, Pontifical Secretary of State,
has resigned through ill health.
A plot to pillage the Turkish bazaars in the
event of war has been discovered.
General Roca has been elected President of the
Argentine Republic. No revolution.
Persia demands of the Porte that it shall pre-
vent Kurdish raids on Persian territory.
Turkey has made a satisfactory arrangement
with the bondholders—pay when she cam.
The Orient Company are constructing another
splendid steamship for the Australian trade.
The German Government purpose to subsidise
a line of steamers to Australia and the South Seas.
Czar of Russia offers the Caareowitch a co-re-
regency on account of the Princess Dolgourouski affair.
Forty thousand took part in a republican de-
monstration at N. T. in honor of General Grant's visit.
Other religious orders are being expelled from
France. The Carmelites and Bamabites are now being
removed.
The Basutos have surrounded a Company of
Cape Rifles, and threaten a second Eorke’s Drift. The
siege since raised.
The Kurds destroyed 170 Persian villages, in-
dulging at the same time in an indiscriminate butchery
of the inhabitants.
The French revenue of =6100,000,000 is asserted
to be the largest ever received from a population of
thirty-six millions.
Three-parts of Christiansund, Norway, de-
stroyed by fire, including cathedrals, warehouses,
&c. Thousands homeless.
This year’s yield of tea in India is estimated at
70,000,0001b5., nearly double that of 1878. Ten years
ago it was under 14,000,0001 b.
A terrible snow-storm, lasting some days, in the
Argentine Republic, destroyed one million and a-half
of horses, sheep, and cattle.
Ireland is to have more soldiers to quell antici-
pated agrarian disturbances. Five peers are said to
have been marked for death.
The American Presidential elections are be-
coming exciting. In Indiana and Ohio the Repub-
licans have secured victories.
It is expected that Mr. Gladstone will frame an
Irish Reform Bill on the same principle as the land law
existing in Prince Edward’s Island.
The pulse of Europe getting easier over the
cession of Dulcigno, Gladstone and his colleagues are
enjoying a relaxation in the country.
All the leading oarsmen are expected to take
part in the international race for the Hop Bitters prize
over the Thames champion course next November.
The livery stable at Washington in which John
Wilkes Booth hired the horse on which he rode out of
the city after shooting President Lincoln was burned
on July 22.
The recent arctic discoveries show that Frank-
lyn’s party must have subsisted for some time on
human flesh. The records of the expedition are said to
have been unwittingly destroyed by the Esquimaux.
Mr. Forster, Secretary of State for Ireland, has
declined an invitation to a banquet at Dublin. Reply-
ing, he said all ordinary modes of procedure for the
maintenance of law had not been exhausted. No spe-
cial measures yet necessary.
Greece would acquire a considerable addition to
her population by the proposed readjustment of the
line between herself and Turkey, but not so large a one
as she expected. According to the Greek line she would
have had an accession in all of 614,365 inhabitants,
while now she will have an accession of 499,865 inhabit-
ants. As regards the extent of territory, according to
the Greek proposal, there would have been an acces-
sion of 1 24,337 square kilometres, while, according to
the line accepted, there is an accession of 22,075 kilo-
metres.
PACTS ABOUT OUR WOOL TRADE.
The Victorians are alarmed.
We have over 29,000,000 sheep in this colony ;
about Si times as many as Victoria.
In 1875 we exported seaward 39,649,1471b5. of
wool ; in 1879 the amount was 67,612,6291b5.
Last year our increased export was 41,379
bales; in Victoria the increase was 12,951 bales.
The Bulletin lays claim to creating' the
present discussion on our expected increased wool
receipts.
The wool export from Victoria last year was
valued at £2,636,528, and from New South Wales at
£6,491,198.
Improved railway arrangements and superior
storage accommodation add to the attractions of our
unrivalled shipping facilities.
Last year 30,000 bales of wool which wept an-
nually to Melbourne, came on to Sydney. This year
the number will rise to not far short of 60,000.
The Melbourne Protectionist organ says it is
“immoral” of the Sydney Government to lower their
railway rates so as to attract the Riverina wool to
Sydney. ,
Our increased wool receipts are already showing
themselves. Prom September 1 to October 12 in 1879
the receipts were 3437 bales; this year the returns for
the same period are 21,607 bales.
Por some years Victoria has been enjoying the
receipts of wool off 10,000,000 of our sheep in Riverina.
South Australia also has had a finger in the pie. Our
railways to Hay and to Wentworth will bring most of
this wool to the free trade port.
In Melbourne the commission on sales of wool
s per cent, on all sales over £2OO, and 2J per cent.
®n sales under. In Sydney the commission is 1 per cent,
on amounts over £lOO, and 25 per cent, on all sales
wnder. In Melbourne there is the additional charge of
« per lb. to the buyer for delivery.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. C. A. Irving stands for the Richmond.
S. B. Bailey retires from the Upper Hunter.
Mr. J. G. O’Connor is a candidate for Gttndagai.
Mr. John Taylor has been well received at Bal-
main.
M'Elhone has been talking straight to his con-
stituents.
Abigail and S. E. Lees are still hopeful. So is
the country.
The Roylance committee are active and hopeful
in West Sydney.
Mr, Olliffe’s candidature in South Sydney is to
he vigorously carried on.
Dr. Ross’ chances for Molong are improving.
Where is John Roche Ardill P
Alderman Hancock is to have a large requisition
presented to him from Balmain.
Mr. Edward Hordern will submit a vigorous
programme to the South Sydneians.
Mr. Charles St. Baker, Mr. Johnßodel, and Mr.
H. H. Cooke are candidates for Forbes.
Mayor Holborow does not appear to have
pleased the Argyle settlers with his addresses.
Mr. Greville will have an opponent for
Braidwood. Mr. Alexander Eyrie opposes him.
Mr. J. Ferguson, speaking at Glen Innes,
advocated a £5O poll-tax on Chinamen, together with a
tax of £lO.
Alderman John Young runs for Newtown, and
will no doubt “ bowl in ” for that electorate as success-
fully as he has hitherto done for Annandale.
Mr. S. Swift, a relative of the celebrated Dean
Swift, and himself one of the most intelligent and hard-
working men in the country, stands for Gundagai. Mr.
Swift has a good deal of energy, and is a mm of good
sound sense.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
There is some talk about starting in this city
a penny daily, advocating independent principles and
eschewing the party slangwhang of the Akgcs and the
Age. Intelligent members of both parties are desirous
of reading some such paper.
In political circles it is confidently stated that
a coalition has taken place between the Opposition and
the Comers, the leading spirits of which are Sir John
O’Shanassy and Mr. Murray Smith. Mr. Berry, it is
said, appears uncomfortable about his chance of a
K.C.M.G.-ship, and Mrs. Berry of becoming a Lady.
What a pity!! I
The Victoria Club, vulgarly known as th'e Bird-
cage, once under the management of Mr. Butters, and
recently closed through shortness of “ sugar,” is to be
opened shortly as a Coffee Palace, similar to those in
Sydney, and is to be managed by Mr. Dyer, well-known
for years as the man at Scott’s Hotel. The directory
consists of Sydney and Melbourne capitalists.
“The Royal Middy” (American version) still
draws crowds to every part of the Opera House, ex-
cept the dress circle. Miss Annie Montague, despite
her Yankee accent, is an extremely dashing actress,
with a sweet voice. She dresses superbly, and has
already become a favourite. Farley and Leopold are
immense. Miss Bessie Eoyal is nowhere, and the rest
are only middy-ling.
A good story is told of a young French exhibitor,
more noted for his good looks than for his knowledge of
the English language, who, having been successful in
selling a valuable watch to a young lady, offered to give
her a “ kees ” into the bargain. Mabel could not see
it, and fled for refuge to the N.S.W. Court opposite.
However, on explanation, it was learnt that the gallant
salesman wanted to present “ Mees " with a key, and
not a kiss.
The following are the theatrical follies for the
week.—At the Royal, the Williamsons in “ The Snow-
ball ” and “ Chinese Question.” At the Opera House
“ The Royal Middy." At the Bijou, with great suc-
cess, has been represented for the last fortnight
“ Stolen Kisses” and “ Never Reckon your Chickens."
At the People’s Theatre the third week of “ The
Danites.” St. George’s Hall opens with Kelly and
Leon’s Minstrels.
There is a great rush among the Melbourne
Exhibition swells to secure a Michael and George
knighthood. The competitors making the hardest
running at present are Mr. Attorney-General Yale,
the Hon, J. J. Casey (commonly known as King
Casey), and Mr. George Collins Levey, C.M.6. The
betting is decidedly in favour of the third, as being of
superior grit, more wily, and less loquacious. And
then he has sorted newspapers.
Casey and Jack Gardiner (the member for Carl-
ton) are about to edit a new French-English Dictionary.
Progress has been made as far as the word “ Can-can,"
which brought to the mind of our Casey the pleasures
of the Jardiu Mabille, when he “did the grand in a
distant laud,” during the Exhibition period at Paree.
He says he can-cannot go any further with the work.
Jack, who is a Geelongese to the backbone and spinal
marrow, considers such behaviour quite unconstitoo-
shinal.”
The latest insane conundrum) concerning the
Austrian Band is—“ What is the most peculiar part of
this organisation ? ” Answer—" Its Strauss’s ” (its
trousers). The fiend who originated this joke has been
permanently Black-Wednesday’d. The next conun-
drum, which has a little more flavour about it, was
concocted in that department of the Exhibition devoted
to Catholic crucifixes and statues. Question—“ Why
do these works of art resemble smashed crockery?”
Answer—“ Because they are altar pieces ” (all to
pieces). The concoctor was immediately offered by
Boss Levey the important position of Hungarian
Schnapps-carrier from the Austrian Court.
“Victorians don’t blow,” said old Trollope.
What would the veteran novelist say if he entered
Melbourne during the Exhibition season of 1880. No
less than four bands of instrumentalists have been or-
ganised to give Melbourne musical treats—to wit, the
Austrian, with sixty performers; the Australian, with
ninety performers; and two others (the Melbourne
and Sydney) to fill up the intervals. The “ hoodlums ”
of Collingwood say they will trump it by sending in
their royal penny-whistle contingent.
The Melbourne Bulletin, a new “live,
personal, and society paper” (so the advt. says) is just
out. The first number contains the portraits of W. J.
Clarke and the Baroness Burdett-Coutts-Ashmead-
Bartlett. The paper upon which the number is printed
was manufactured at Ramsden’s paper mills, on the
Yarra Bank. The question is, will The Melbourne
Bulletin pay ? The Sydney Bulletin is read largely
in the clubs, and hotels of Melbourne, and ad-
mirably adapts itself to the tastes of all classes. There
is no gap for another such paper in Australasia.
The Exhibition by gaslight was a fiasco. Men,
women and children of all colours and persuasions
crowded round the organ platform; but as the conver-
sazione was arranged on the “no chair ” system, the
people soon grew tired, and walked about at will
amongst the partially covered exhibits. There were
levee costumes, military uniforms, and every-day
attire; “symphonies” in blue and “delicacies” in
red. Promenaders sauntered about in semi-darkness,
the only light obtainable being from the eyes of several
fair beauties and the flickering glare of the electric
light.
“Who asked you to come here?” said Gentle-
man Yale to the learned Dr. Reuleaux, the other day.
“ Not you, sir, or we should not have come; but at
your Queen’s request, we are here.” Yale was crushed
by this answer, and shrunk away to abuse some others
of his superiors in another portion of the Exhibition
building. The Argus had a capital “leader," a fort-
night ago, on the insolent behaviour of these upstarts,
since which time the “Caseys, Munros, Vales,” have
to a certain extent calmed dowu. It is a sad pity that
“ Berryism" should be introduced into the Temple of
International Peace.
Boss Levey, of the Melbourne Exhibition, with
his underlings of Executive Commissioners and
others, is rendering, as much as lies in his power, the
Great Show the most unpopular place of amusement in
Melbourne. The Argus and other dailies are never
tired of grumbling at the mismanagement displayed by
the “Caseys, Munros, and Vales” of the Exhibition
administration. The exhibitors are sickened at the
restrictions placed upon them, and villify Boss Levey
in true international fashion. But the Boss’s inhuman
reply to all appeals, from public, strangers, and press,
is summed up in—“ Shemominee.”
“ I can’t see the Exhibition on account of the
exhibits,” said a little precocity the other day at the
great show. As paradoxical as this exclamation might
seem, nevertheless there is some amount of truth in
it, for no judgment whatever has been used in appor-
tioning the spaces. Whilst in some almost impene-
trable places in the Foreign Courts we are squeezed
into mummies in vain attempts to catch a glimpse of a
trophy or a trifle, in other places, notably the Vic-
torian Court, open spaces stand sparingly vacant for
the purpose of displaying and advertising to advan-
tage some vamped-np, protection-nurtured abomina-
tion.
Town Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL.
Alb key’s play, “The Two Roses,” was produced at the
Theatre Royal on Saturday night. It is not altogether
new to a Sydney audience, having been rendered at the
old Victoria Theatre some years ago. The piece has the
slightest of plots, being little more than the illustration
of an episode in the family history of the impecunious de-
scendant of an ancient family and his two lovely
daughters. The work is good of its kind, especially the
dialogue, possessing character in a marked degree; and
although it is deficient in invention, the lack is scarcely
felt. Miss Stammers must be credited with possessing in
a high degree refinement, grace, and a delicate perception
of humour, but her impersonation of Lottie is scarcely as
happy as usual. It was impossible not to feel that the
character was one in which she has a difficulty in exhibit-
ing her usual artistic acting. Her irrepressible love for
Jack in the last scene was very cleverly and divertingly
shown, with Just that touch of reality and earnestness
necessary to raise it above the level of a farce. Mr.
Shepherd, as we expected, forcibly displayed his powers
of conception. His assumption of Digby Grant was a
masterly piece of acting, thoroughly intelligent and satis-
factory. Never, perhaps, has this gentleman since he came
amongst us given so characteristic or so effective a ren-
dering of a difficult part- Mr. P. Marshall, as Mr. Jen-
kins, has a character which is most amusingly worked
out, and is instinct with real human nature. His clerical
appearance and unorthodox utterances during the last act j
were alike admirable. Mr. Titheradge plays with manly |
earnestness, and in the pourtrayal of the faithful Jack
Wyatt’s character looks the young lover to the life. Mr.
Cates is very successful as Caleb Deecie, whose blindness
would excite more sympathy but for his puns and his
violin accompaniment. Mrs. George Gordon, Mrs. Stam-
mers, Miss Taylor, and Mr. E. W. Marshall all play as
usual with much care. The scenery, designed and exe-
cuted by Mr. George Gordon, is another rich display of ar-
tistic excellence, and compares well with his previous
efforts. The same programme is announced for repetition
during the week.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.—MACBETH.
Miss Louise Pomeroy’s Impersonation of Lady Macbeth
was, to a certain extent, a surprise—and a pleasant one—
to the theatre-going portion of the Sydney public. It
was evident from the commencement of the tragedy that
our young American cousin excels more in the delinea-
tions of Melpomene than those of Thalia Miss Pomeroy’s
physique is such as to render her, from a physical point of
view—putting aside altogether the question of histrionic
ability—a fitting exponent of the arduous role of the
erring wife of Cawdor’s vacillating Thane. She has just
sufficient embonpoint to give a satisfactory picture of that
young matron who urged her husband to so many " dark
and bloody deeds.” Prom an artistic point of view, Miss
Pomeroy’s Lady Macbeth is as far above her Rosalind as
the stars are from the terrestrial sphere. In saying this
we are saying a good deal, and in saying a good deal we
know what we are saying. Miss Pomeroy’s elocution, so
far as the mere enunciation of blank verse is concerned,
is nearly faultless; but some of her gestures—and we al-
lude more particularly to the dagger scene—slightly verge
upon the transpontine; but with all this, Miss Pomeroy
is always graceful, and gracefulness, coupled with a pair
of symmetrical arms, covers a multitude of sins. In the
sleep-walking scene she was remarkably effective—even
painfully so. The study is evidently “ after Ristori.” The
part was admirably dressed, and the young actress’s efforts
were received with much favour by the audience. Mr.
Vincent, as Macbeth, was very effective, but rather loud.
He looked the character to the life and played it con-
scientiously. Compared with his Orlando, his representa-
tion of Macbeth was a great Improvement, and on the
whole we have to congratulate this clever and genial
young actor upon having achieved a genuine success in
one of the most arduous parts of the Shakespearian drama.
Mr. Emmett’s Macduff was, we are sorry to chronicle, an
unqualified failure. The manner in which he “ split the
ears of the groundlings ” was painful in no ordinary de-
gree ; so much so indeed that there was a sigh of relief
amongst the spectators when he “ hid behind his shield; ”
and when he retired fighting O. P., the Joy of the audience
verged upon the boisterous Miss Camb made a pretty
Donaldbain, and spoke the words “ trippingly on the end
of her tongue.” As Banquo, Mr. Sefton was painstaking—
could we say more? The witches were well done, all three
of the weird sisters singing remarkably well. Mr.
Greville’s Hecate was a study as regards “ make-up; ” and
Mr. H. Lestou was—as he invariably is—successful as
the second lady of the cauldron. The rest of the cast was
fair —a line being due to Miss Melrose for her graceful
impersonation of the gentlewoman. “ Macbeath ” will
well bear reproduction—if for nothing more than to meet
the wishes of a large section of the public.
SYDNEY MUSICAL UNION.
The Masonic Hall, on the afternoon of Saturday last,
Emted an enlivening spectacle. The place was
with a highly aristocratic assemblage—the fair
sex predominating. This brilliant attendance, to do
honor to the first concert of the fifth subscription
season of the Sydney Musical Union, is a pleasing
instance of the great interest taken by the (UU of the
metropolis in classical music, and in the encouragement
of clever amateurs. Among the audience were many
well-known forms and faces, and it was interesting to
watch the proceedings of fair musical enthusiasts,
who, armed with large quarto volumes, followed every
note that was played or sung with an appearance of
intense attention. We have, unfortunately, no space
to give a detailed notice of every number in the long
and attractive programme that wos offered to the
audience, but wo shall notice, in detail, the more im-
portant efforts of the performers. The second number
was a tenor song, “I seek for thee in every flower,”
which was sung with great effect by a gentleman whose
voice exhibits a considerable amount of cultivation,
and who gave the ballad with commendable taste and
feeling. In his second song, “ Alice, where art thou ?”
he was scarcely so successful —his time being slow,
and his higher notes laboured. The gem of the first
part, however,' was the concerto in C minor, for piano
(Beethoven), which was conducted by Mr. Rice, and
the piano portion executed by Mr. Sydney Moss,
L.C.M., the conductor of the Society. The brilliant
and capable manner in which Mr. Moss interpreted the
thoughts of the composer was beyond all praise,
and he was rewarded with an enthusiastic encore. The
second part, Gade’s Cantata, was rendered remarkable
by the brilliant singing of the gentleman who took the
part of Sir Oluf. Possessed of a magnificent baritone
voice, the gentleman in question positively enthralled
his audience by the splendid style in which he delivered
his solos —more particularly the song commencing—
When thro’ the meadows of tender green
I see the streamlet wander,
Then turns my heart to its gentle Queen,
And on her sweet charms do I ponder.
Of great richness and volume, he kept his voice well
under control, and the result of his efforts wore such
as to surprise many veteran musical critics. The
choruses were well rendered, but the orchestra was at
times a little tempestuous. The concert, on the whole,
however, was in the highest degree successful —a more
enjoyable matined we have not for some time experi-
enced, either musical or dramatic.
Mr. John M'Laughlin.
Some Sydney lawyers (in both branches of the
profession) have drawn splendid prizes. There
has, too, been a remarkable transmission of tact
and mental acumen amongst them. Many of ns
know that the mental vigour of George Robert
Nichols became intensified in the present Chief
Justice, and a great deal of the professional
smartness of the former is distinctly visible in
Mr. William Roberts. It has been asserted that
Mr. Williams, the Crown Solicitor, is as profound
a lawyer as any of the judges ; and the late Hon.
Robert Johnson’s legislative and forensic ability
is matter of history. We make these remarks as
a declaration of our candid opinion that lawyers
educated in Sydney are well trained, and reflect
credit on the profession. We have to-day to treat
of the short but brilliant career of one of them —
a career that is likely in the near future to be
much more distinguished than it has been. Like
Sir James Martin, Mr. John M‘Laughlin is almost
a native of the colony. His parents emigrated
in the second year of his age, and settled near
I Raymond Terrace. His father, Mr. Daniel
I M‘Laughlin, a native of Westmeath, Ireland, was
a man of great energy, and, like many of his
countrymen, highly appreciated a good education.
Young M'Laughlin, his fourth son, who was born
on the sth June, 1850, was entered before he was
yet in his teens at a classical and mathematical
school in Maitland, whore he remained till his en-
trance to Lyndhurst College, then under the pre-
sidency of Dr. Norbert Quirk, a very successful
tutor and an accomplished scholar. Having held
the captaincy of the school for more than a year,
Mr. M'Laughlin entered into articles of clerkship
with the late Mr. W. C. Curtis, which he com-
pleted on the 29th of October, 1874. He then
became managing-clerk to Messrs. Allen, Bowden,
and Allen, in whose offices he gained large ex-
perience, and was admitted an attorney, &c., of
the Supreme Court on the 19th of December,
1874, being the only one out of five candidates
who passed the examination on that occasion. In
1877 (to wind up the record of his professional
pursuits), he entered into partnership with Mr. F.
Gannon, and their business is extensive and highly
respectable. Mr. M'Laughlin has for the last
two years devoted himself to the study of poli-
tics, and is a Liberal of great intelligence and
force of character. He has acquired a perfect
mastery of our complex land legislation, and has
secured the enthusiastic support of Mr. John
M‘Elhone, who, not content to become his sponsor
to the electors of the Upper Hunter, boldly as-
serted some days ago at Muswellbrook that he
would not himself take a seat unless Mr.
M‘Laughlin was returned with him. There is a
similarity in their views on the leading questions
of the day, and both are ecfaally resolute, although
Mr. M'Laughlin’s superior education and profes-
sional pursuits give him a refinement not possessed
by the honourable member for the Upper Hunter.
As indicating Mr. M'Laughlin’s pluck and inde-
pendence, he would not consent to allow Mr.
M'Elhone to sacrifice himself or prejudice his
chances of being returned at the head of the poll.
In a characteristic letter to the Maitland Mer-
cury, Mr. M'Laughlin puts the matter in a manly
way. He tells the public (while addressing Mr.
M'Elhone) that he will not admit his mend
to jeopardise his chances of success. “I
naturally feel grateful to you,” he writes, “ for
the interest you take in my election, and am
pleased with your belief in my qualifications to
perform the duties of a member of the Legislative
Assembly, after an intimate knowledge of me for
more than ten years ; but my desire to enter Par-
liament is not sufficiently great to justify or permit
me to seek election upon conditions that would
deprive the electors of unqualified freedom to
retain your services, and return whatever second
member they wish to choose. It would, besides
being unfair to the electors, be most unfair to you
and your supporters, for me to allow your election
to be endangered by such a condition as the elec-
tion of another person in whom they may not have
confidence. * * * * I must say emphatically
I will not accept any seat in Parliament unless
elected by the free choice of the constituency re-
turning me, and on my own merits only after my
principles have been published, thereby being free
to act and vote according to my own judgment and
conscience.” We certainly think that a man who
announces his candidature in a manner so candid
and straightforward can hardly fail to make a
good impression on the electors. Mr. M'Laughlin
would make a useful member. He has energy,
decision of character, a natural eloquence, and his
latter studies have made him acquainted with the
principles of political economy. Our portrait of
Mr. M'Laughlin is from a photograph by Boyd.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C. M., Maitland ; Quite correct. —Peter Camp-
bell : We really cannot tell the exact location of West-
wood at the present time. We believe, however, he is
still at liberty.—lnquirer: We agree with you. If horses
are not allowed to stray in theDomain.donkeys ought not
to be allowed to preach.—D.F.H. : Send us something
else; that line is overdone; besides, it’s not likely he’ll
be permanently appointed. Lady Visitor: Net quite
explicit.—lnquirer : Wo really can’t explain why the
; ournal you mention should be always attacking the
London Comedy Company. Some family feud pos-
sibly, or less Press tickets. —L.; Article too late for
this issue.—Viola: very acceptable ; next issue.
The Candidate.
Smiling as the morning.
Pleasant as the hours.
When the Summer zephyrs
Flirting, kiss the flowers.
Prodigal of promise
As the gracious rain.
Singing in the mountains.
Dancing on the plain.
Meets the neediest voter.
Clasps the horny hand—
Such the delegated
Killers of the land.
Chats with flattered mother
'Bout the cold and heat,
'Bout the blushing orchard,
'Bout the growing wheat.
Says that Jack is clever,
lauds the bashful girls.
Gives them shining trinkets.
Smooths the baby’s curls,
learns as if by magic.
He must kneel and praise,
Every idol lifted,
In the public ways—
Eight-hour demonstrations.
Tea and whiskey fights,
Chinese emigration,
Trade and labor strikes.
Stands upon the hustings
Red and out of breath —
Binds himself a servant.
Faithful unto death.
Hoad and bridge and schoolhouse
Are his special care.
Wharf and punt and tramway,
Planting everywhere.
Voters lodge their tickets,
Scrutineers awake.
Show his lofty purpose
All a grim mistake.
Eoad and bridge and schoolhouse
Wharf and punt and tram
Vanish from his dreaming.
In a silent d—m.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Marshal Bazaine, at the time of his death, was
entering his 70th year.
Mr. W. B. Dailey appears for Mr. J. C. Dibbs
in the hig divorce case.
The Hon. J. Balfour and Miss Balfour, of Vic-
toria, are on a visit to Sydney.
It is confidently stated that Spofforth is going
to settle in Melbourne. Whence the cause ?
Mr. F. Wentworth, a passenger by the Orient,
regrets he could not stay for the Hanlan-Trickett
match.
The Hon. Sir George Allen and Lady and Miss
Allen returned from the Melbourne International on
Thursday.
F. A. Packer, honorary organist to the Corpora-
tion of Hobart Town,”is paid every time he performs.
Why honorary ?
Sir Henry Parkes bought .£6O worth of porce-
lain cups and saucers, &c., when at the Melbourne
Exhibition recently.
Mr. Hart, M.L.A., of Launceston, receives .£BOO
a week from the Mount Bischoff and Tasmania mine,
or £41,600 per annum.
Mr. Justice Hargrave and the Hon. Robert
Wisdom, Attorney-General, have returned from a visit
to the Melbourne International.
Mrs. Lingard’s two daughters are at school in
Melbourne. The eldest, aged 14, is a very handsome
girl—the image of her mother.
Mr. Townsend Macdermott, the well-known
barrister, formerly of Victoria, has settled in N.Z.,
where he has a good practice.
Lieutenant-General Sir J. H. Lefroy, K.C.M.G.,
the new Governor of Tasmania, Lady Lefroy, and Miss
Lefroy were passengers by the Orient.
The recent grand bachelors’ ball at Kensington
House wag given by eighty-three of the most rich and
titled pets of the British aristocracy.
It is reported that the Marquis of Lome will
resign his position in Canada next year, in order not to
be separated from his wife too frequently.
Marcus Clarke will shortly publish a new novel,
to be dedicated to the Hon. W. J. Clarke, the only true
patron of literature, art, and science in Victoria.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke is steward to three
racing clubs, patron to six rowing and coursing clubs,
and president to no less than eleven different societies.
Sir P. A. Jennings, who gave at his Warbreccan
Station a royal reception to the vice-regal party on their
homeward trip from Melbourne, has returned to
Sydney.
A Chinese student, Yan Phow Lee Wow Row,
carried off the principal prizes at the leading educa-
tional institution of Connecticut, U.S., including the
first prize for English composition.
Dr. Hastie is about to leave the Sydney Infirm-
ary, having accepted a lucrative appointment as medical
officer to a Victorian insurance company which is about
establishing a branch in this colony.
Graham Berry’s soliloquy: “My colleague has
dismissed seventy-one men from the Lauds office. Now,
it is a most singular fact that that is the precise number
of my relations who want providing for.”
The Duke of Manchester patronises colonial
industry. He has ordered for use on his estates at home
paints manufactured by the Tasmanite Company in
Melbourne out of shale found in Tasmania.
Sketches on Sydney by Dr. Trask, of the
R.M.S.S. City of New York, will shortly be published
in some San Francisco journals. We can give the
doctor some particulars about “our harbour."
Henry Wilkinson, for many years town clerk of
Hobart Town, has gone to Melbourne, for a trip, after
60 years’ uninterrupted residence in Tasmania. He is
still a hearty fellow, and even now never says dye.
Sir Samuel Wilson, K.C.M.G., is the greatest
wonder in Victoria. He is an authority on wool, stock,
and salmon, and is educating himself to rule the des-
tinies of the Arous by acting as judge of exhibition
poems and addresses.
A marriage has been arranged between Mr.
Henry Loftus, son of Lord Augustus Loftus, and Miss
Leach, of Philadelphia, a lady not only endowed with
the well-known charms of her countrywomen, but also
with a very large fortune.
It was Disraeli who defined the difference
between a mishap and a misfortune. “If,” he said,
•‘Mr. Gladstone should tumble into the Thames, that
would be a mishap; if somebody should fish him out,
that would be a misfortune."
The Duke of Manchester “brought down the
house ” at the Deniliquin banquet by expressing a hope
that the colonies would at no distant date be repre-
sented in the Imperial Parliament, and have a voice in
the government of the Empire.
Mr. Ruskin was nominated without his consent
by the Conservative Independent Clubs for the Lord
Rectorship of Glasgow University. The cable recently
told us that Mr. Ruskin had written a “wild letter” in
the Edinburgh journals against Liberalism.
It is said David Gaunson, since becoming Chair-
man of Committees in ithe Victorian Parliament, has
suffered greatly through inactivity of the lingua. It is
a pity the same complaint could not be chronicled of
other Parliamentary lights throughout Australia.
The remarks made by Lord Augustus Loftus at
Deniliquin as to the manner in which a federation of
the colonies might be brought about have been warmly
eulogised by the Victorian Free Trade Press. The
speech is regarded as a spirited appeal to Australians.
Music smiled once more on Sunday week. Mr.
John Bushelle, one of the best musicians, and the best
fellow this side the line, arrived that morning. His
present address is Petty’s, and we promise concert-
lovers a treat when John once more “ let’s out"
amongst us.
Emerson MTvor, the eminent agricultural
chemist, brought out to Victoria by the Hon. W. J.
Clarke, will shortly deliver a series of lectures in
Queensland. Will not it pay this Government to enlist
the sympathy of our farmers by employing Mr. MTvor
in a similar capacity ?
The blue-and-gold cestumes of the Vice-Presi-
dents of the Melbourne International are described as
“ fitting them like policemen’s clothes." On the other
hand, the President, Mr. W. J. Clarke, wore at the
opening ceremony a plain black suit, “and took any
amount of pains to avoid notice."
A great equity suit, involving some £40,000,
will be on at the Courts in Melbourne next month. The
parties to it are Messrs. Stanbridge and Waugh and
Messrs. R. Qoldsbrongh and Co., through Mr. Frank
Jenkins, of Buckenbong Station, over the purchase of
which property the suit has arisen.
When Mr. Berry claimed credit the other day
in the Victorian Parliament for saving the country a
sum of money in connexion with the loan, the whole
merit being with the banking institutions, two lines of
Praed’s reminiscence of boys formerly at Eton sug-
gested themselves. Said the poet:—
“ Some lie beneath the churchyard stones.
And some before the Speaker! "
There is a solicitor in Melbourne who is emi-
nently famous as a “bright and shining light ” and a
pillar of the church." He hands the plate round in
church, and acts as secretary to a most worthy chari-
table institution in that city. Yet, despite all this,
they wouldn’t have him in the Melbourne Club, a
member of which is reported have said that
“Aminadab Sleek” didn’t go down with “tiz” and
cards.
Sir Henry Parkes has returned from Melbourne.
He starts for Armidale with the Minister for Works,
and afterwards visits Glen Innes. Then round west-
ward, by Wellington and Orange, homeward. The
Bulletin announced these projected trips five weeks
ago. That was when it was unknown beyond the
Ministerial circle. The Ministers call it “touring;”
common people call it “ stumping." However, Sir
Henry may please the country by announcing his
policy in some distant constituency.
M. Eowalski, the celebrated pianist, who is
just now representing a French house at the Melbourne
Exhibition is a member of the Yoriek Club, the resort
of the literateurs of Melbourne, and is the soul of the
place, about the hour “ when churchyards yawn," &c.
—Shakespeare! The Monsieur is rare company, being
a happy mixture of French politeness and English
bluntness.
Captain Audley Coote, a member of the House
of Assembly, masquerades under this title from his
having once been officer on a mail steamer. He very
naturally objected to volunteer commissioned officers
travelling about the colony on their titles also. He was
once asked what corps he belonged to. Were such
curiosity carried too far what would the public say ?
Mr. H. Came, of the Lands Department, was
thrown from his horse, Inst week, and killed. Many
will regret the sad end of this gentleman, as he was
liked and respected both in office and out. He was
engaged to the daughter of a well-known Sydney
merchant, and the nuptials were to have been celebrated
in a few months had he lived.
Here is a charming anecdote of the first Lord
Lytton. “I was playing whist with him at the Port-
land a good many years ago, when it was the fashion
to wear hanging sleeves. During the rubber the king
of hearts mysteriously disappeared, and after a time
it dropped on the table out of Lord Lytton’s sleeve.
He said with a smile, ‘ I am very glad I am playing
with gentlemen who know me.’ ”
The Boss” of the Melbourne Argus is Gowen
Evans, who represents the late Mr. Wilson’s interest
in the Thunderer. He was educated at the Blue Coat
School, London, and is now a member of the Melbourne
Club, of whose views, as represented by Sir Samuel
Wilson, et hoc genus omne, he is said to be the reflex—
“ To what base uses may we not come ?’’
Efforts are being made to secure a Baronetage
for the Hon. W. J. Clarke, M.L.C., of Victoria, as the
K.C.M.G.-ship has become so common. The only diffi-
culty in the way is an Imperial Act that was passed
some years ago excluding colonial celebrities. Only
two colonists have ever been made Barts. Sir Daniel
Cooper is one of these.
The Marquis of Bute has built a villa on the site
of the Mount of Olives, overlooking Jerusalem, where
he occasionally intends spending the winter. 18
When Sir G. C. Strachan was first announced as
Governor-elect of Tasmania, it was whispered that he
was a bachelor, and lots of pretty things were com
menced with the monogram G.C.S. on them by the
eligible and neglected ones. But when he did not come 6
there was dejection in the dovecots, until a monster
cricketers’ bazaar was announced for February next
Then the work went on, but all the monograms were
said to mean G.S.C , and the bazaar secretary, George
S. Chapman, takes it all in—the contributions and the
flattery—and is as pleased as Punch.
His Grace the Duke of Manchester, now on a
visit to New South Wales, has for years taken an active
interest in the Australian colonies, and, as President of
the Colonial Institute, has done much for their welfare
In all parts of this colony the Duke will meet with the
best reception that can be given him. Care will be
ta ken that he really sees New South Wales. Sir Patrick
Jennings has organized a distinguished party toaccom
pany the Duke in a tour over the rich districts of the
North and West of this colony. Newcastle, Singleton
Gunnedah, Dubbo, Wellington, Orange, and Bathurst
is the line. On this brief trip, his Grace will view a
country unsurpassed in richness by any other territory
in the world. 3
It was Mr. Samuel Bennett and William Ridley
who settled the pretensions of the first Free Selectors’
Conference in Sydney. The manifesto drawn up was
then, as now, liberal—quite liberal. The T. and C. was
expected to stand by the delegates. Bennett and his
editor consulted for a few minutes. The article which
appeared in the following issne of the paper was a
withering one. Hardly a word was subsequently heard
anywhere of the manifesto. After giving the delegates
this “ back-hander," the sagacious Samuel entertained
them (the delegates) at Mundarrah Towers. The Press
in general are now doing what was then done by one
newspaper.
A “ revival” is just now occupying the attention
of the people of Cape Town. The Times thus describes
the “converting” process :—“Girls with highly impres-
sionable conditions of mind, mostly associated with
tender age, are requested to give themselves to the
Lord. This they consent to, more out of fear of Miss
Smith than the dictates of their own minds. They are
then taken by these men in twos, and closeted with them
to speak upon (we shall charitably presume) their spiri-
tual condition. After being closeted in this manner for
about half-an-hour, they are released and supposed to
be converted. Two more are then admitted, and their
conversion is commenced, and so forth. This has been
carried on for more than a month, and is still the order
of the day."
Gladstone in custody! By virtue of his position
as Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gladstone holds the post
Master and Worker of the Mint, and thus becomes liable
to the judicial proceeding known as the “trial of the
pyx.” The “ pyx ” means, in English Mint language, a
certain iron safe into which' specimen pieces from each
batch of each gold and silver coinage are placed. On a
set day the Lord Chancellor summons a jury of gold-
smiths ; he charges them with the assay of the pieces
in the pyx, and pending the result he delivers into their
custody all the officers of the Mint. From 1290 a.d. no
precedent exists for the punishment of the Queen’s
coiners when they fail of their duty. The pyx pieces
having always been of true weight and goodness, the
coiners have always been acquitted. At the recent
trial the result was as usual, and the Master of the
Mint is safe for another year.
Mr. Andrew Murray, who died at Waterloo,
Gippsland, recently, was one of the oldest Australian
journalists, and was educated at the Andersonian Uni-
versity, Glasgow, where, in 1836, he obtained a gold
medal. In the following year he was awarded the Glas-
gow Peel Club prize of 15 guineas for an essay. In 1839
he emigrated to Adelaide. In 1843 he was Government
printer in South Australia, and he also became pro-
prietor of two newspapers in that colony. In 1852 he
was employed on the Argus staff as commercial editor.
He was editor of the Arous in 1855-1856, and subse-
quently for many years he was editor and proprietor of
tho Economist, besides having started Murray’s
Price Current, and edited a book almanac. Mr. Mur-
ray also devoted some time to the business of a
vigneron.
iEgles (of the Australasian), rolls up Mr.
Berry after this style“ The Chief Secretary ungener-
ously sneered at the Council’s refusal of payment as an
evidence that it did not deem itself worth nayment.
That mean speech, splendide mendax, must not be for-
gotten. Like chickens and curses, it will come home to
roost some day. The country won’t forget the distinc-
tion between the 'House of Greed and" the House of
Forbearance. Just imagine a reversed position. Con-
ceive—if you can—Mr. Berry the leader of a patriotic
majority in the Assembly, which said ‘No, we will not
defile our hands—our country bleeds and we would bind
her wounds. It shall never be said that we sucked her
life-blood at a time of even temporary debility. That
we will leave to the selfish and bloated vampires of the
other House. Let that remain as the appropriate act
of the representatives of money and sheep, and not of
brains and manhood.’ ”
This is how they manage things in .
A director of waterworks pawns certain proparfy,
theodolites, &c., belonging to the Corporation, ana gets
three mouths in gaol. While there a new director
is advertised for, and a large number of applications
are received, and a very competent ‘aen'leman from
a neighbouring colony is appointed. When comes
out, he is taken on as temporary clerk in the office, and
sees that gentleman’s plans for the extension of the
local waterworks system. He writes to the City Council,
criticising some of the details of scheme. Some
of the aldermen favour the ex-imprisoned one, and the
plans and criticisms are submitted to G—. C.E., of
M , who supports the plans and says the criticisms
are “bosh.” Still the aldermen stick to their det.
They refuse to accept G ’t report, though they
have to pay for it. Underhand work goes oh, and there
is at present a very good chance of being ousted,
even if his enemies haven’t the pluck to put the late
prisoner in his p ace once more.
There is not another roll of contributors to any
publication in Europe like the contributors to the
Edinburgh Review. It tabes in almost every name
that is distinguished in statesmanship, in eloquence
and learning for a couple of generations. It includes a
Prime Minister, Lord John Russell; a Chancellor,
Lord Brougham; a Lord Chief Justice, Lord Denman;
two Chancellors of the Exchequer, Mr. Spring Bice and
Sir G. C. Lewis; two or three Lords of Session and
puisne Judges on the English bench; a Secretary of
War, Macauley; a Secretary of State for the Colonies,
Lord Lytton ; metaphysicians like Sir William Hamil-
ton ; historians like Henry Hallam, Carlyle and Napier;
politicians like Charles Butler and John Arthur Roe-
buck; political economists like John Stuart Mill and
McCulloch ; theologians like Henry Rogers and Dean
Milman; almost all the poets who were invited to dine
with Apollo, Tom Campbell, Tom Moore and Samuel
Rogers; essayists like Sir James Stephen and Hazlett:
and it was only by accident Charles Dickens was not
enrolled among the contributors, with the greatest of
his rivals and contemporaries—W. M. Thackeray.
Captain Jackson Barry, the other day, delivered
a lecture at Wellington, N.Z. From a long report of it
which appears in a local paper, we learn that the affair
was a very lively one, For instance, Captain Barry had
no sooner deposited his belltopper on the table in front
than an egg of ancient flavour was delivered on his
shoulder. “Where’s the man that threw that egg >
the lecturer exclaimed, dusting the egg off his shoulder-
Capt. Barry then said he was “an experienced colonist-
(A voice : “ Eggs-perienced.”) The chairman sprang to
his legs as another egg passed midway between his ngh"
ear and the captain’s left shoulder, leaving an enlarged
representation of a cowslip on the canvas. Here a large
egg that had winged its way from the body of the room
exploded with a slight report above the chairman, and one
of the audjence rose to ask if smoking would be
Renewed uproar ensued, in the course of which tne
“ Count" suddenly vacated his chair, just in time to
escape a goose egg of large dimensions which broke
against the back, and fell with a loud liquid sound u
the hollow of the seat. At this stage the captain de-
scended to the body of the hall, where he excitedly
mounted a form, and asked those who threw the egg®
to step forward, exclaiming, “I’m an old ’un, but 1
game yet; come on single handed, yonng_ or old, I
not afraid! One at a time," &c. On reaching the o' ;
side of the hall an endeavour was made to assure i
offended captain that the rotten eggs were intended i
his chairman and not for himself.
ME. JOHN MCLAUGHLIN.
O.M.G.!


ENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
An eight days’ mission is to be held at All
• Saint’s, Petersham.
About sixty persons were present at Dr. Beg’s
lecture in defence of Hell.
The Roman Catholics of the United States have
increased four millions in twenty years.
They say Archbishop Vaughan will announce a
■big conversion, shortly—a colonial Newman affair.
The New Zealand Christian Record applauds
Sir Henry Parkes lor preventing Proctor’s lectures.
Last year the British and Foreign and the
American Bible Societies put into circulation 60,000
copies of their Scriptures.
The Australian Churchman has come out
in a new form, exhibiting vigour and excellence in every
column. Good writers on the staff.
Some writer in the religious Press calls the Rev.
Mr Forsaith to account for casually remarking in a re-
cent lecture that Peter was in Borne.
At the Wesleyan Methodist Conference held in
London recently, the Eev. E. E. Jenkins, formerly a
missionary in India, and a man of great weight and in-
fluence, was elected president.
M. Brnery, a Catholic priest, aged ninety-three,
was converted two years ago to Protestantism, and was
recently married by the Mayor of Cannes to Mile. Yer-
net, a Protestant, aged thirty-three years.
The Young Men’s Christian Association (Auck-
land) has issued a circular asking ministers of all de-
nominations to unite in an effort to secure religious
-teaching in the Public Schools of the colony.
Notwithstanding a prevoius f decision of the
iFree Church Assembly in Edinburgh, Professor Smith
is to be called to account at Edinburgh for his article
011 Hebrew literature which appears in the Encyclope-
dias Bntannica.
Cologne Cathedral was commenced August 14,
1218, and the last stone of the cross ornamenting the
pinnacle of one of the great spires was finally fixed on
•the 14th August last. The church has thus been 632
jears in course of erection.
Native Christians on the islands of New Heb-
rides recently shipped to London some 37091bs of
arrowroot to pay for an edition of the Old Testament
now being printed for them in their native tongue.
Fair exchange.
The Pope contemplates re-convoking the (Ecu-
menical Council, which, after the proclamation of
Papal infallibility in 1879, was prorogued, not dissolved.
The object of this convocation would be to discuss the
relations between Church and State.
It is stated that the Prussian Government is
shocked at the wide and rapid spread of irreligion
throughout the Empire, and seriously contemplates the
abolition ©f civil marriages as a means of recalling the
people to a sense of their religious duties.
The Unitarian Minister of Rockhampton claims
to possess the same gift of healing as Milner Stephen.
He calls it the mesmeric curative process, and offers to
exercise it privately for the benefit of those who wish
to be healed of disease. What will Milner say to this ?
The Victorians manage the discussions of knotty
points much better than we do here. At the discussion
on education at the Social Science Congress, Bishop
Moorhonse, Father Cahill, a Jesuit, and the Eev.
Messrs. Watsford and Symons, Wesleyan ministers,
took part.
The popular vote in the Canton of Geneva for
the separation of Church and State has resulted in the
rejection of the measure. The majority has surprised
everybody in Switzerland by its magnitude. Of 13,000
ballots cast, out of a possible 17,000, only 4000 were for
the separation.
Chief Joseph, of the Oka (Canada) Indians, is
-quite a scholar. He has recently been ordained a clergy-
man. He has already translated the four gospels of the
Douay version from the French into the Iroquois lan-
guage, and hopes to complete the translation of the
New Testament during the year.
Pope Leo told Thomas Davidson, an American
Protestant writer, that his aim was to place phi-
losophy on a sound basis, and gather round him in
Eome a number of profound thinkers, who should
thoroughly discuss all difficult questions, and bring as
many of them as possible to a solution.
Dr. Platt says science and religion may be
together or apart. Eeligious belief may stimulate
'knowledge, and knowledge may enlighten and exalt
religious belief. True science is the religion of know-
ledge, and is restricted to no one era; true religion
welcomes science, and is restricted to one race.
Chief Justice Thompson, of Pennsylvania,
■says:—“ It those who preach had been lawyers previous
to entering the ministry, they would know more about
the depravity of the human race than they do. Educa-
tion, refinement, and even a high order of talent, can-
not overcome the inclination to evil which exists in the
human heart and has taken possession of the very fibres
of our nature.”
The President of the Wesleyan Conference, the
Eev. Dr. William Kelynack, in an address delivered by
him on the evening of Sunday week, expressed his
opinion that in the present day men of business should
exercise ginartmxg in their daily avocations, and added
the remark that gharpnegg was also required, to compete
with the times ! This is a wise utterance by a man who
evidently carefully watches the proceedings of every-
day life.
The Eev. Dr. Talmage, replying to a reporter
on the San Francisco Press, said “ He believed Mor-
monism was spreading, and that the death of Brigham
Young had strengthened rather than weakened it. The
strong arm of the law could alone put down Mor-
monism. Its proselytes came principally from Scan-
dinavia, England and Scotland —especially the latter.
No one could form any idea how the Mormon faith had
taken hold of the Scotch Presbyterians, and led them
off literally by hundreds.”
A council of American Hebrews from twenty-
five States, and representing half a million of Hebrews,
■was recently held in New York. On questions of belief
wide differences of opinion were manifest, showing that
tbe Jewish, like the Christian, sections of the world
were being affected by the prevailing liberal and
materialistic tendencies of the age. The Council before
closing its proceedings, decided on encouraging the love
of agriculture now manifesting itself among the Jews
in various part s of the world.
Dr. Young J. Allen, a missionary of the Ameri-
can Methodist Church, now at Shanghai, has been
made a Mandarin by the Chinese Government. He is
the first foreigner who has received the distinguished
honour. The position of Mandarin is a civil office of
great dignity among the Chinese. The Emperor of
China, in whom is vested the appointing power, never
makes a Mandarin unless he is profoundly learned. So
familiar is Dr. Allen with the Chinese tongue that for
a number of years he has edited a literary review in
that language.
Bismarck, conversing recently upon the exploits
■of his boyhood one evening when he had taken bis long
Patriarchal porceliau pipe to smoke upon the verandah,
said; —“l sometimes wish my father had carried out
his idea of making a parson of me. It was very nearly
■done, too. One of his relatives had already a place in
sight where I should at the end of the year have hod an
income of at least £l5O a year. Something unexpected,
however, occurred, and the plan was frustrated ; but,”
said the Chancellor, “ I would have been a much better
man had I turned parson.”
Some Christian journals do not show a good
example to the secular Press. The Christian Weekly
began its career by doing au act of great injustice to its
Printers, rendering a strike necessary. The secular
Press generally has had a good word to say about the
improved appearance of the Australian Churchman.
It remained for the Standard to make an indecent
reference to the Churchman— a reference such as
would not likely he admitted to any secular print in
this city. Well might Charles Bright ask, “Who is
the real defamer of Christianity?”
Bishop Moorhonse’a address on education, at
the Melbourne Social Science Congress, is described as
a masterly survey of the whole field of primary educa-
tion, and will inevitably produce great effect throughout
Australia, The Bishop thinks the effort in these colo-
nies lias been to perfect n system rattier than to create
a thirst for knowledge. “ The German child is among
the best educated of children, but too often becomes a
stupid man ; while, on the other hand, the American, in
country districts, was among the worst educated of
children, and developed into one of the brightest and
most efficient of citizens.”
A complete change seems coming over the city
of Sydney with respect to Sunday observance, and there
is no doubt it is in the direction of more freedom. Only
a small number attended the meeting of the Sabbath
Observance Society. The Presbyterians give little, if
any, support to the movement, and regret is expressed
among extreme people that the society should find itself
safe only in using moral force to ensure observance of
the day. It is remarked among laymen that strict
Sabbath observance has been insisted upon only in
journals which have ever been the vehicles of hate and
slander.
Writing in defence of the French Republic with
respect to its proceedings against the Jesuits, a corres-
pondent says it all comes to this: "The Teutonic
nations dealt with the Church 300 years ago and
did it with an iron hand; the Latin nations have
been more tardy, and are trying after so long an inter-
val to get free of clericalism.” M. Edmund Scherer
further states the case for the French Republic in the
Contemporary Review for June thus : “ The Catholic
Church can not be compared to anything else. It is an
institution of a perfectly unique character. Catholicism
has this distinctive feature —that it is theocratical. It
claims the right of ruling rulers and governing govern-
ments. It recognizes the existence and the lawfulness
of the state, but at the same time it alleges its own
Divine commission to bring the laws and conduct of
the earthly regimen under the control of ecclesiastical
authority.”
The American Republican journals regret the
proceedings in France against the One anti-
Catholic republican print says ; —A republic is a garden
for the growth of individual liberty, and the first condi-
tion of liberty is the perfect freedom of all opinion.
When people who hold unrepublican opinions disturb
public order or violate public right, they must be made
to keep order, not because of their opinions, but of their
conduct. In this country (America) there are many
persons who hold that an empire is better than a re-
public, and many who would like to have priests con-
trol the schools. But they are not disturbed until they
begin to break the peace. The doctrine of liberty is
that opinion can better be met by opinion, and force by
force. There is no tribunal to determine the absolute
correctness of opinion, and since all opinions may be
equally sincere, the condition of peace and progress is
equal liberty of opinion under the law.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Return ball to the Mayor of Melbourne —25th
Oct.
Kisses sweeten a farewell. They are the cream
of a ta-ta, as it were.
The women of France are erecting a monument
to Joan of Arc at a cost of £60,000.
Mdlle. Charbonnet was the favourite with the
French officers at the Melbourne ball.
A thousand invitations are already out for Mr.
James Clarke’s ball at the Melbourne Town Hall, on
the 27th.
Lady Elizabeth Campbell, the second daughter
of the Duke of Argyll, has just been married to a
Commoner, Mr. Clough Taylor.
The hardest thing in the world for a woman to
do is to look unconcerned the first time she comes out
in a handsome engagement ring.
Mrs. Hayes, wife of President Hayes, walks to
church, believing it wrong to ride there. She has a
sweet, old-fashioned voice, and uses it at church.
The dismissed minister of police at Constanti-
nople is being tried by court martial for arbitrarily
arresting a young girl for wearing too thin a veil.
Lace and embroidery are the order of the day for
trimming all elegant dresses, whether of foulard,
batiste, grenadine, voile de nonne (or nun’s veil), and
gauze.
Miss Rogers, daughter of the great American
sculptor, Randolph Rogers, has just been married at
Rome to Signor Pio Santini, a handsome young Italian
gentleman.
The temperance women of Delaware, Ohio, have
started a movement to present Mrs. Hayes with a
testimonial for her course in excluding liquors from
White House.
A slight frown is much affected by many ladies
when in company, and produces a very telling effect
when worn in conjunction with a retrousse nose, and a
mouth cut bias.
Princess Mary of Hanover is not, it is now
stated, about to follow the example of her sister, Frede-
rica, and marry in a lower rank than her own. She has
never thought of such a thing.
It was an elderly lady residing not 100 miles
from Sydney who recently, on hearing of the death of
her daughter, at the age of 73, exclaimed, with anguish,
“I always thought I never would rear that girl.”
“ A lovely Jewish maiden ” sat in Palestine as
the model for the Virgin in Holman Hunt’s new pic-
ture, “ The Flight into Egypt.” All her surroundings
were painted with realistic care in the Holy Land.
A case at the Melbourne International which
interests visitors very much, is filled with several of
the Australian wild-flowers, made in wax, and forwarded
by two sisters —Misses Eva and Florence Peebles.
Miss Frances Evelyn Maynard, the beautiful
young English heiress, to whom Prince Leopold was at
one time reported to be engaged, is shortly to be married
to Lord Brooke, heir to the historic Earldom of War-
wick.
A French actress who had graduated from the
laundry, asked an old man »ger what he thought was her
“best line of business.” Glancing at the sumptuous
wardrobe, he replied, “ The clothes line still, mademos-
elle.”
The examination for colour blindness among the
railway employes of the State of Connecticut suggests
the information that while one man in twenty-five is
colour blind, only one woman in five hundred is
similarly defective.
A lecturer on optics, in explaining the mechanism
of the organ of vision, remarked: “Let any man gaze
closely into his wife’s eye, and he will see himself look-
ing so exceedingly small that ” Here the lecturer
stopped for a minute.
Lady managers are becoming the rule rather
than the exception in England. Drury Lane, the
Olympic, the Strand, the new Sadlers’ Wells, the
Britannia, in London, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton,
are all under women’s control.
The “baby stare” is considered pretty for
young girls now. It is done by opening the eyes as
wide as possible without raising the brows, and slightly
turning the corners of the mouth upward. Saying
“ mouse ” five or six times gives the right position to
the lips.
Mr. George Cavendish Bentinck, eldest son of
the Right Hon. George Cavendish Bentinck, M.P. for
Whitehaven, and cousin of the Duke of Portland, was
married to Miss Bessie Livingston, daughter of Mr.
Maturin Livingston, of New York, at Newport, on
August 12.
Amongst the fantastic styles that from time to
time become prevalent must be classed the hood, which
is now an appendix to every costume. On a mantle
attached to a small pelerine, fastened to the back of a
simple dress even, as well as on all travelling cloaks or
ulsters, is the English hood to he seen.
A grand ball is to take place at Ramesburgh,
Mr. W. K. Thomson’s residence, Brighton, near Mel-
bourne. 300 invitations have been issued, including the
officers of the ships Europa and Finisterre—for the
occasion the walls of the hall and three chief rooms
have been all hand-painted by a well-known artist.
That was a brilliant ball of the Countess of
Cork’s recently, when the guests were invited
en condition only thatk they would pay court to the
queen of English flowers.' Most of the ladies appeared
smothered in these luscious blossoms, each dress, from
head to foot, being dedicated to some new and beautiful
specimen.
“I desire,” said the husband to the wife, as
they were walking along the shore, “ that when I die I
may be buried in a plain, stained pine coffin, without
expensive trimmings.” ‘‘But, my dear,” said she,
“ how much more respectable and fashionable it would
be to have black walnut and silver.” “Possibly,” he
said, “ but I was thinking of that for you.”
Miss Kate Field, in an interview with Brad-
laugh, asked, “ Where do you find time to edit the
Natiohal Reformer” and he answered; “I don’t;
Mrs, Besant does most of the work, and well she does
it. The World states that my daughters assist me in
editing the paper. This is incorrect. I think all
women should be employed, so my daughters do the
summary of news, amounting to about two columns
every week, for which I pay them a regular salarv.”
The marriage tie is very loose in America. Mrs.
James Beard, of Rock Island, Illinois, got a divorce
from her husband, not because she hated him particu-
larly for his shiftlessness, but she was tired of being
the wife of a man whom she could not respect. Soon
afterward he went to her to find out whether she would
take any legal proceedings against him if he married
again. She not only gave her consent, but went to the
wedding, and gave the couple a present of 50 dollars.
With regard to bonnets the question is one of
daily increasing perplexity, owing to the extremes of
style and shape. Nor is there any restriction as to size,
very large and extremely small ones both being worn,
so that the wearer should study her individual taste
rather than follow any set rule. For how is it pos-
sible for us to know whether your face be round or oval
and your head large or small, fair reader ? And these
are matters not to be ignored in making a selection.
The three prevailing shapes are the Auvergnate, the
Niniche, with its projecting front and strings tied
behind, and the toque so much liked by young ladies,
and which is made to match the dress.
To the east of San Roque, near the famous Rock
of Gibraltar, rises a long, sloping, lofty hill or mountain,
called the “ Queen of Spain’s Chair.” The legend runs
that during the siege the Queen established herself on
this ridge, and took an oath never to leave it until she
saw the Spanish flag hoisted in place of the British on
the summit of Gibraltar. When the siege was at an
end, the Queen, according to the story, was sadly dis-
concerted, being unwilling to violate her oath, but still
more unwilling to spend the rest of her days upon this
inhospitable mountain. From this dilemma she was
delivered by the gallantry of the English Governor,
who, on learning the melancholy predicament in which
her Majesty found herself, ordered the British flag to
be hauled down, and the Spanish colors hoisted for
five minutes in its room.
Some of the styles at a recent English “ home
party ” are thus described; —Some others of the dresses
proved how becoming the present style may be when
not carried to an extreme. A fair girl wore a white
dress with stomacher of real white roses. Her hair was
not so tightly arranged as is usual, and drooped loosely
at the back, with a few rosebuds apparently entangled
in it. A fringe of begonia leaves and forget-me-nots
edged a dress of pale sea-green. One lady, who did not
dance, wore a black “ coat of mail ” over a long, trailing
dress of black velvet, with lovely gloir de Dijon roses
scattered over it in branches of two and three. As to
the dresses, the sleeveless, the tightly-moulded, with
their flesh-colored scantiness, their draggings in, and
tying back —whither are they tending ? Is a second
edition of the notorious Tallien era in preparation for
us ? And is the frock of the future to prove the con-
verse of Talleyrand’s famous maxim about speech, that
it was “ given to us to conceal, and not to express our
thoughts? ”
THE FASHIONABLE WOMAN’S PRAYER.
Strengthen my husband, and may his faith and his
money hold out to the last. Draw the lamb’s wool of
unsuspicious twilight over his eyes, that flirtation may
look to him like victories, and that my bills may
strengthen his pride in me. Bless, oh fortune ! my
crimps, rats and frizzles, and let thy glory shine on my
paint and powder. Enable the poor to shift for them-
selves, and save me from all missionary beggars. Shed
the light of thy countenance on my camel’s hair shawl,
my lavender silk, my point lace, and my necklace of
diamonds, and keep the moth out of my sables, I
beseech thee, oh fortune! Save me from wrinkles.
Let the lily and the rose strive together on my cheek,
and may my neck swim like a goose on the bosom of
crystal water. Enable me, oh, fortune! to wear shoes
a little smaller, and save me from corns and bunions.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER III—Continued.
‘ Won’t you take a seat ?’ said Myles, handing a
chair to Sebastian, and taking one himself. ‘ It’s
a cold night, and you’ve had a longish walk.’
‘ Thank you. It was on a small matter of busi-
ness that I called —about your having taken your
name from my books.’
‘ Yes,’ said Myles, his eyebrows setting sud-
denly into a straight line across his brow, and
his lips in one nearly as straight beneath his
moustache.
‘lt was this. Ido hope vou will not think that
I come out of any officiousness or curiosity, be-
cause it is not so. Mr. Sutcliffe told me you had
left my employment. I asked him if ho thought
you had any other occupation; and he said that,
so far as he knew, you had not. I concluded,
whether rightly or not, that your reason for leav-
ing was that the factory was closed, and you would
not accept assistance without working for it. Was
I right ?’
* Yes,’ said Myles, concisely.
‘ I know that employment, especially remunera-
tive employment, is not easy to find in these bad
times, and that you might not soon find anything
to do: so I merely called to say that I know of two
situations, for either of which you would be suited,
and if you would like me to use my influence tc
get you either of them, I shall be glad to do so.
You must not think that I meant anything else.’
‘ You are very kind,’ said Myles, in the same
constrained and colourless voice, which belied his
contracted brows and the fiery flash of his eyes
beneath them, ‘ very kind : but I do not require
any assistance, thank you ! ”
The manner and the tone were such that Sebas-
tian felt he could not, after what he had said, urge
his offer any further. But the desire, which he
constantly felt when with Myles, to gain his
esteem and win his confidence, rushed more
strongly over him than ever before. He saw in
the young man so much that was noble, so much
that was good, so much that he, in his quiet
reserved way intensely prized. Sebastian had a
strong, though secret, desire to be much loved, to
greatly influence certain individuals. He felt very
strongly that were Myles Heywood loved or
admired, it would be with a passionate whole-
hearted devotion, which would go all lengths; and
he desired greatly to see some other expression
light those sombre, moody eyes, when they looked
at him ; to compel that right hand to stretch itself
towards him in a genial, spontaneous clasp of
friendship and regard.
Was it possible that he who before now had won
hearts, both of men and of women; he who had
inspired that fitful, capricious artiste-Hugo with a
passionate love and devotion; he who had seen
Adrienne Blisset’s quiet eyes well over with some-
thing more than gratitude; he who felt within him
the potentiality to subdue that fiery-hearted
Helena, did he but choose to give his mind to the
task, and to bring her to his feet with a devotion
as intense as her present half-assumed scorn —was
it possible that he was to be baffled by a young,
uncultivated, untutored, unsophisticated artisan,
who could continue to resist, defy, and scorn him r
in spite of all his efforts to the contrary ? Was it
possible that this plain-spoken Myles Heywood,
with nothing on his side but his predjudices, his
pride, and his love, could continue to hold Sebas-
tian Mallory at arm’s length, when he really set
his whole battery of persuasion to work upon him ?
The idea was a galling one. He did not like effu-
siveness, but he did like devotion very much. He
hated a display of power; but the power itself he
loved dearly. Myles, in his present attitude,
represented a defiant obstacle which must be
overcome. But how ?
Mary here afforded him unconsciously a little
assistance, by saying in a tearful voice, ‘Eh.
Myles, think about it! Remember how badly off
we are. It’s-not for mysel’, it’s for Edmund and
thee. I canna bear to think o’ thee bein’ so pulled
down and troubled wi’ such things. Thou’rt too
good for it.’
‘Molly, lass, don’t make it worse for me !’ said
Myles with a reproachful look; and Mary was
silenced, as Sebastian saw._
‘ I am very sorry you will not let me do any-
thing,’ he said. ‘You are quite mistaken in
thinking there could be any degradation in it.'
‘ I never said I did think so,’ interposed Myles.
‘You are not without ambition,’ pursued
Sebastian, fixing his eyes upon Myles with convic-
tion, and noting the answering flush in his face,
though his eyes remained downcast. ‘No man
who is worth anything is without ambition. If
you would let me, I could put you into the way of
furthering your ambition. Of course it would bo
a struggle; but then you are one of the right kind
to struggle—you like it. A few years’ absence
from England, a few years’ hard work in a post
for which you would be well suited, and you
might return here, if you liked, a different man,
in a different position, able to do and get pretty
much what you liked. Remember, to a man of
courage, who has made a mark, most things that
he wishes for stand open. Is this nothing to you ?
Do you prefer remaining shut up in Thanshope,
with your own prospects, and the prospects of
your fellow-workmen no better than the are ? T
cannot believe it of you.’
Almost unconsciously, Sebastian had half-cast
aside the mask of indifference, and was speaking
nearly as eagerly as he felt. He had stepped up
to Myles, and laid his hand upon his arm. Their
eyes met. Myles’s very soul had been stirred by
the words he had heard.
They had touched the very well-spring of his
present wishes and desires, the longing which had
grown and intensified with his love, and with his'
sense of its utter hopelessness. To leave this
place —go away to some other spot, where there
would be scope for hard work, mental and bodily
—work that would absorb his energies. There
was nothing he desired more than such work.
His enforced idleness was absolutely hideous to
him. Out of England, he might advance, rise ;
Sebastian, he knew, was not wont to speak rashly
or unadvisedly on such matters, but was given to
measuring his words. He might return an altered
man, well off, perhaps, or at least with the means
of becoming well off ; why, he might (it all seemed
to flash in a second through bis mind) —he might
go at last, and seek Adrienne —and find her gone—
hear that she was Sebastian Mallory’s wife. And
then the acceptance of Sebastian Mallory’s assist-
ance would have caused his last state to be worse
than his first. He would have stooped, not to
conquer, but to be forestalled, defeated, humili-
ated, and all the riches, and all the position that
the world could give, would not restore his hopes
and his lost self-respect. With a short sardonic,
miserable laugh, he jerked his arm from Sebas-
tian’s hand, and said, almost angrily :
‘ltisof no use. You will never persuade me to
that. It is wasted breath to try it. ’
‘ What makes you so obstinate ? ’ he unwarily
exclaimed. ‘ls it some personal reason ? ’
‘Yes,’ answered Myles, looking him directly in
the eyes; ‘itis ! ’
‘ Well, since you will not, you will not. But I
think you are mistaken in your course, and, what
is more, I think you will repent it before long. If
you do, if you should come to change your mind,
let me know. I have no wish to take my word
back, but shall always be ready to abide by it.’
Myles smiled, almost scornfully, as he bowed his
head slightly, and said :
‘ Thank you.’
In his inmost heart he was thinking that he
would rather die than place himself under obliga-
tions to his rivals, whose full formidableness he
only realised to-night. There was, he confessed it
fully and frankly to himself, something extremely
attractive about the grace and courtesy of Sebas-
tian, but the most dangerous quality was the
power which soon became distinctly visible beneath
the polish; a power which forced the observer,
however reluctantly, to respect as well as to
admire. If he, the unwilling and prejudiced, felt
these things so strongly, how much more must
others, already prejudiced in his favour, experience
it? So much the more reason why he, the plain
and unadorned, should keep himself to himself,
follow his own path, and not ape qualities so
different from his own. But he had ceased to
bear any ill-will to Sebastian. The latter did not
know how far ho had advanced in the very
moment in which he seemed to have receded.
* I will not intrude upon you any longer,’ said
he. “You bear no resentment, I trust, but
understand my motives ? ’
“ I bear no resentment at all,’ said poor Myles,
puting his hand without hesitation into that held
out to him. ‘lf I have been rather rough, I beg
your pardon. It is my way. I mean no incivility,’
‘I am sure of it. Good night,’ he added, turn-
ing to Edmund. ‘ Good night, Miss Heywood.’
‘ Good night, sir,’ said Mary, looking tearfully
up, as Sebastian followed Myles from the room.
She heard the door open and shut,land the steps
of the unwonted visitor going away. Then Myles
returned to the kitchen. Edmund was tired.
Myles helped him upstairs and came down again.
They scarcely spoke. Mary uttered no reproach,
and he offered no apology; but when she got up
to go to bed, he kissed her tenderly, saying •.
“ Don’t think too hardly of me, Molly. I can’t
do otherwise and be an honest man at the same
time.’
‘ I’m not thinking of blaming thee, lad,’ said
Mary, escaping from him, and going upstairs.
He remained there a long time, brooding over
the embers of the fire, and thinking, if only things
had been different! And as he thought, a vision
rose before him of that Sunday afternoon when he
had so nearly betrayed himself, and he remem-
bered Adrienne’s words:
‘lf I loved that man, and he loved me, and
asked me to be his wife, I would say yes : and 1
would love him and serve him as long as I lived.’
‘ Ay, my darling! ’ his heart cried within him •
in a kind of anguish, * but you don’t love me : and
if you did, I should not be worthy of you, if I did
what was wrong to win you.’
No doubt he took a wild, fantastic, mistaken
view of things, but to him it was much more real
than if the most accomplished logician had argued
it out for him, and proved it to be founded on the
purest and most solidly reasonable terms.
(to be continued).


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
656 GEORGE STEEET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
B. Y O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
This New and Commodious Establishment is now in full
operation, and customers have an opportunity of
purchasing from a well-bought stock of Choice, Cheap,
and Useful FANCY and HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY,
Corsets, and Frillings.
J. B. Y O U D A L E.
NEW MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
JjIASHIONABLE SCAEFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MEECEEY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 1 !
J. L. HORDERN.
IJ1HE CITY TAILOEING CO.
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
T
LATE 681 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
HE BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) geoege street.
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1861.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
oar All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
VICAKS & c 0 .
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. *
'll!.,
SYOJMEY
JjONDON TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12a. 6d,
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
,, Suits 63s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
JJCONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
WYNYAKD-STREET,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
„ , , REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
3f England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, leas
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; ause-t
ful and durable suit I 35s per
for business and ordi- f suit,
nary wear. j
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Iln light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockburns. for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
•Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures, j
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY'S
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Light and')
I Durable, the materials I „„
| having been well J- 6 ” s P er
I shrunk before being sml ’
(, made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
68s 6d
"In Superior Oriental^
Tweeds, cut in the
latest stylo, and )-
flnished the same as 1>er SU1C ’
h ordere .t clothing. J
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
f Beautifully light inb
Orient 5 Texture, permanent in f 38s 6d
Serg Suits. j colour and very dur- f per suit
V able in wear. )
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
("Special attention is in-')
I vited to our Orient I
I Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and J- Orient
most perfect in style I Clothing,
and flush procurable |
in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanians
Flannel, thoroughly f
shrunk. r
18s 5d
The
Orient.
("China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
| Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
■{ All Wool Merino Coats. 14s 6d each.
I Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
!In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 25s.
In Blue Sergerette, 45s.
In Black Sergerette, 45s.
fin fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
< In Black Merino, 30s.
(.In Super Sergerette, 55s.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
,. „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
,, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s fid.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s 5d.
fin Superior, all Wool")
Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
C finished. )
{A Special Dress Over-']
coat, silk trimmings, )
and facings, beauti- j-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
66s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
“PLOY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theU EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH'S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys”
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys'
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
f h 7s 6d, 8s
In neat fashionable 8d, 12s 6d,
J Tweeds, neatly cut I 13s 6d, 15s
1 and well made, and j 6d, 17s 6d,
finished. (19s 6d per
L J suit.
fin new shapes, very12s 6d to
< prettily trimmed, and > 19s 6d per
(, thoroughly well-made.,) suit.
In fancy and plain
Drills, trimmed in
new and effective
styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
In superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 5d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s fid per
suit.
("In light and dark mix-')
| tures, cut in fashion- j 21s fid to
■{ able styles, well j-to 23s fid
I trimmed and strongly | per suit.
L made. J
’In fine durable Esta-I
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and f fid.
. general wear. )
(
For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, See.
HOHPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
358, 360, 362, GEOEGE STEEET.
SPEING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all deportments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVED PILLS Stand unrivaUed
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE f 0 a
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, iiains
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi’
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthv
of the stomach and bowels. caus
neither griping nor sickness, and are confident] 9
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG'S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP
well as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack'
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4a
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine," being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOrI
HAGE." Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s. X
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG'S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
46G, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE
NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES h
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Kg' Remember this, and always keep a box of this.
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
jgY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT..
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull tho-
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS,
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu.
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now bo
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephsou’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is peeved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the largo and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything-
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented — s.
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMAC
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Y„
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELM INGHAM, Chemist.
H Y S I C.
F. W, BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhoea, riles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation —10 to l-»
and 2 to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included,
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT,
r
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
snred that those who favour ns
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Orna-
. ments, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 63s; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dreu’s Jerseys, all colours and in
_ every size.
'THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
. other fabrics, &c.
'THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
Slain and printed Washing Dress
laterials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
ment of choice Washing Materials’
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4Jd
to 8|d; French Percales, from 9Jd,
to 14d; French Sateen, from OJd
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d;_ French Cambrics, printed
. and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We hare in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tossy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6a
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
**Ii ACE C U E T A I N S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
■piXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TEOUSEES. TEOUSEES. TEOUSEES.
AH wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED,
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
DON’T FOEGET
to calll at
THE NEW SHOP.
T. P. S I V I E E,
77 OXEOED-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Burney & Evans).
The New
GENTLEMEN’S 0¥T-
EITTING
ESTABLISHMENT,
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &e
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PRICES.
TABLES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
-U WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ” of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, axe GIVEN AWAY for 8*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Chemists and Druggists
'U
~W!
*SS
T r.'
..''l Ownrafe'-fJ*
S^ii
•I
■=■- ■
:L,L:
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
■can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Htde Park Corker.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
■CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR.
And one of the Pounders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
L , | liM'WiiHP"
hecar
r .
f m f
,:|ppraf‘
1
L>
1
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
■of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
’the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
gIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES.
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PARKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
CHOUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
ilPJcpus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
fpICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
“ PR® street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
team Machinery and is now prepared to do for tne
. Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
urmug a (; i o \v rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart's Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Business Cards
[Legal.]
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
1 SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
X EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREBT, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
D.
Gr. AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P O W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
C WOODFORD AND CO.,
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gastttters.
Robert butcher & co.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
E.
M A S 0
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
N,
Engrave b on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STRBET-
Pamphlets gratis.
NOTICE. —I beg to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets. Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-street.
J.
S T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (lata 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
■yiCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Yamishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Jj/f URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (fiat and
rolled)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &e.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAED SQUAEE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Gleb Hoese Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
0 W. R 0 B E E
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS.
T S,
AND
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAQONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mr. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s KESTAUEANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late ch4f de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM.
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
10MPAGN0NI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTEE STEWS
OYSTEES SCOLLOPED
OYSTEES FEIED
and
OYSTEES NATUEAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
A
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL.
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. AETIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIAED BOOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with everv requisite.
WINES, SPIEITS, BEEES, &c.. of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every live minutes.
J. E. AETIS,
Proprietor.
QALLEN PARK HOTEL,
DAELING EOAD, BALMAIN.
W. DEEMEE begs to inform travellers and the public
generally that The Bulletin, S. M. Herald, Evening
News, &c., &c., will be found in the commercial room
of the above Hotel.
rjTHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and havej;27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Eooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) - 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Boom 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Eooms, Beading Boom, Smoking Eoom,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Eooms, gr-c., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Eooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Eoof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Eooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Eoom s
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meettug
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
AF A C
That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(corner of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink,
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuffs.
T.
Proprietor, DAVID H. WAEBY.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
POEPHYEY, equal to the finest Khine Hook.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIED and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GEOWEE & MEECHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAE,
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PEICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
Money
O N E Y. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours ; 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TEEMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PEESONAL and other
SECUEITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ „ 0 7 6
20 ~ „ 0 10 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, those offices will be
epencd every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PEOPEIETOES.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MGETGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay*
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans geanted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Eepay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-stroeti next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
£**£ WORVP
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
P. MELCHBES.
&
&
:S
&
m
&
m
m
s
0
i®
CHAS. BATH,
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET
SUPEEIOS to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celo bratcdfor its PUEITY and FLAVOUR.
IT isuot the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very flue,
but no other brand has rno same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the f ulness on the palate, and the great keeping
Qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
eoual in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Solo Agents.
Yy
TRADE MAR
U 9
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the bet t of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of AST HUE GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J.»E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
Hoskins’ lago is still a treat.
The Lingards are now in Dunedin.
W. S. Lyster is in improved health.
Ketten appears in Sandhurst shortly.
Both tho Haymans have pretty wives.
Signor Eosnati has been singing in Milan.
Marshall’s “ Jenkins ” is simply immense.
“ I vill ekt owert in Brishbain next munt ”
Pantomime projections are kept very secret.
Marion Melrose is the best sonbrette we have.
Billy Sweatnam made a great hit in Melbourne.
Hoskins, in old comedies, next at the Opera
House.
Miss Beaudet's Juliet is even sweeter than her
Ophelia.
Leg pads are sadly wanted in one of our
theatres.
The Loftus Troupe were nearly drowned in
Brisbane.
Miss Pomeroy was once nearly poisoned in
“ Juliet.”
Harwood is in London, looking up talent for
Australia.
Miss Pomeroy’s drawing-room is full of presented
bouquets.
Miss Eleanor Carey is still popular in San
Francisco.
Gounod is decorated with the cross of the Legion
of Honour.
The London Comedy Company go hence to
Newcastle.
The Gaiety Theatre (Bayless’) will open at
Christmas.
Nat Douglas never played so well as now —vide
his Romeo.
One theatre is using a great deal of paper—
which is it ?
Mr. Garner made as fair an offer as possible to
Mr. Hoskins.
Cast-iron Hasker knows every old man Shake-
spearian part.
The London Comedy season has set Mr. Garner
on his less again.
“Betsy ” has now been played 400 nights at the
Criterion, London.
On dit that Irving’s past season returned hinS
£l2OO a week clear.
Theatrical business all over America is reported
as being excellent.
Bandmann goes from here to Brisbane, and then
visits New Zealand.
Haverley’s Mastodon minstrels, it is said, come
to Sydney next year.
Herr Bandmann sings the “Flea Song” in
“ Faust ” admirably.
Darrell shortly produces his Trump Card at the
People’s, Melbourne.
M'Donald is doing well with his Dramatic
Agency in Melbourne.
Al. Hayman has the solo right of doing “ Kerry
Gow ” in the colonies.
Hiscocks and Hayman’s Mammoth Minstrels
will open in Liverpool.
Williamson closes in Melbourne Nov. 12, and
then goes to Tasmania.
Herr Bandmann has had his hair cut. He depre-
cates “ sawin’ uf de ’air.”
Claude Melnotte now no longer wins tho prize
for “ missing every shot."
Miss Pomeroy opens on November 13 at the
Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
George Eignold will be in the colonies after
Christmas, with novelties.
Jas. Allison, of the Theatre Eoyal, Adelaide,
will visit Melbourne for the races.
Salvini, tho tragedian, leaves London on an
American tour early in November.
Blacklook and Kennedy will arrive by the San
Francisco mail, to-morrow (Friday).
Agnes Robertson Boucicault, the wife of Dion
Boucicault, visits Australia next year.
Cole’s Great American Circus leaves San Fran-
cisco Oct. 25. They open in Auckland.
J. K. Emmett describes his arrest and confine-
ment in a lunatic asylum as an outrage.
Miss Pomeroy grows upon the audience, and
many hearts burst with envy of Romeo.
Wagner offers to go to America for the modest
sum of £250,000. He isn’t likely to get it.
Gelding, florist, of the Markets, wishes the
Pomeroy season would last twenty years.
W. H. Leake’s opening piece will be Bartley
Campbell’s latest success, “ My Partner.”
Bandmann’s double murder in “Othello” thrills
both ears and eyes. Poor Desdemona—poor Swan!
Billy Emerson is singing “ Grandfather’s Pants”
with the Haverly’s Mostadon Minstrels in London.
Miss Myra Kemble is the coming Lady Macbeth.
With Hoskins as tutor there’s no such word as fail.
Baker and Farron terminated a stay of two weeks
at the Prince of Wales Theatre, Liverpool, July 31.
Emily Melville is coming to Australia again,
with a company of her own, to produce comic operas.
The new opera by Boito and Verdi, and founded
upon the subject of “Othello," is to be called “lago.”
Leon’s Minstrels opened to a crowded house on
Saturday in Melbourne. Dave Hayman manages them.
Catheart’s Friar Lawrence was the next best
played part to Romeo. The reading was irreproachable.
The Taylor troupe, including Little Mattie and
G. Bromley, are doing a capital business in Gippsland.
Miss Florence Terry is announced as the pro-
spective bride of the younger son of the late Sergeant
Cox.
Arthur Sullivan has written a Canadian National
Hymn in D major, which he has sent to the Marquis of
Lome.
Al. Hayman has cabled Robert M'Hade, the
American comedian, advising him not to visit Australia
this year.
Sara Bernhardt commences American en-
gagement at Booth’s Theatre, New York, on the Bth
November.
Sydney amateurs say Fred Stokes is better than
Marshall as Toby Twinkle ; but you see Fred S. is one
of the boys.
Miss Emilio Melville announced her intention at
San Francisco, recently, of retiring from the stage for
a brief spell.
A big bid is likely to be made soon for the
Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park, for amuse-
ment purposes.
According to tho New York Tribune Adelina
Patti has been ill, and some of her higher notes are said
to be much weaker.
Greville pronounces the Lady Macbeth and
Juliet of Miss Pomeroy the best ever seen in Australia.
We agree with him.
“ Stray Leaves” —Miss Ella Carrington, Messrs.
Chas. H. Taylor and J. Forde, are in the provinces en
route for South Australia.
Miss Pomeroy makes her first appearance in
Melbourne on November 13, at the Theatre Eoyal. She
opens in Romeo and Juliet.
It takes Henry Irving and Miss Ellen Terry an
awful long time at the end of every act to carry off the
bouquets thrown to the lady.
Harry Evans, who put out the fire at the
Theatre Eoyal, deserves credit for his gas arrange-
ments in “ The Two Koses.”
The rumour is revived that Wilhelm), the violin-
ist, will come to Australia this summer. He will after-
wards visit China and Japan.
Byers is doing the legitimate for Thynne at the
School of Arts, Brisbane —with a temporary stage
daring the building of the theatre.
Martin, the “old man” at the Queen’s, is a
valuable addition to the Sydney stage. He possesses
a “ variety ” not usual with “ old men.”
E. D- Davies (“ Teddy”), with Mr. Lewis and
Miss Amy Horton, have left en route to Sydney and
Queensland, working their way overland.
Messrs. Coppin, Greville and Hennings intend
producing in Melbourne Shakespeare’s Cymbeline on a
grand scale during the Pomeroy season.
Why will lovely, virtuous women play Lady
Isabel Carlyle in “ East Lynne ? ” That ass of a
woman cannot serve as a sample of wives.
The Wybert Eeeve dramatic company will
open at the Opera House, Melbourne, on October 30, it is
said, in a new play, entitled “ French Flats.”
The new song, “ Land of Liberty,” splendidly
sung by Miss Marie St. Clair at her farewell concert, is
to be published, with a portrait of the singer.
Miss Marien Melrose deserves credit for simply
going on in the minuet in “Borneo and Juliet.” Not a
line to say: only to dress well and look pretty.
It is to be hoped that Mr. George Gordon will
be retained to paint for the opera season. We usually
have such anachronic scenery to sing in front of.
There died in London, on August 2, Thomas
Eidgway, one of the Brothers Eidgway (the marvels of
Peru), who visited the colonies with Chiarini’s first
circus.
Some woman writes spiteful critiques from Syd-
ney to the Australasian. Now, if such came just now
from Melbourne to the Morning Cook no one would be
surprised.
Alice and Constance Deorwyn are great favour-
ites in Melbourne; and “Stolen Kisses” owes all its
success to them. Wybert Eeeve should relinquish
gushing parts.
Miss Louise Pomeroy’s magnificent performance
of Juliet is now the talk of the city. Our people are
wakening to the fact that they have a great artiste
amongst them.
The “ Go-as-you-please” mania has set in once
more in Melbourne. The Hippodrome is being utilised
for that purpose, but as yet the public do not rush the
money-takers.
L’Estrange lost all he possessed when his balloon
was destroyed in descending at Manly. John Bennett
offers him the one used by Gale, which is still in first-
class condition.
At St. James’s Hall, Brighton, the Eoyal Hand-
bell Eingers left the hall, and, on returning, found that
their 53 bells, valued at £BO, had been stolen. They
swore in chimes.
The French papers predict that Miss Griswold,
niece of Bret Harte, who recently gained first prize for
singing in the Conservatoire, Paris, is the coming star
in the operatic world.
At Henry Irving’s benefit, in London lately,
enthusiasts commenced to wait outside the doors as
early as 1 o’clock in the day. Camp-stools, flat bottles,
and sandwiches were de riguer.
Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner and Arthur Elliott
are engaged to support George Darrell at the People’s,
Melbourne. Johnny Hall, Annie Major, and Maggie
Knight will also appear in the combination.
Thatcher writes from England that Haverly’s
Mastodon Minstrels are doing an immense business.
He pronounces the company the best he has ever seen.
He says the Mammoths cannot play against them.
By last accounts, there were great expectations
in San Francisco over the two Australian songstresses,
Clara De Yere and Miss Allan, who were to be intro-
duced to the American public by Mr. Fred. Lyster.
At the sale by auction of the Eoyal Dramatic
College only £4500 was bid. The reserve was £5OOO, so
it was withdrawn, and has since been sold privately to
Mr. Alfred Chalot, who bought it as a speculation.
“ The Danites” still hold the boards at the
People’s, Melbourne. Scenic artists and mechanists
are busy in the production of George Darrell’s drama,
which will be presented with a phenomenally strong
cast.
It seems hard that so legitimate and painstaking
an actor as Mr. J. J. Welsh should be excluded from the
Shakspearian companies now performing in Sydney.
His Polonius has not been excelled here for many a
year.
Charles Hengler gave a benefit for the Irish
Belief Fund, and he realized £100; his company added
£l7; and the aldermen on the Eelief Committee spoke
very highly of Mr. Hengler’s well-conducted Hippo-
drome.
John Bushelle, the well-known vocalist (nephew
of Vincent Wallace), has returned to Sydney after a
lengthened tour through Europe, where he has been
studying the great musical compositions of the great
masters.
Signor Nicolini has been arrested for shooting
game on his own estate —that is, Adelina Patti’s —in
Wales. He had rigged himselt up in the conventional
hunting costume, but had neglected to take out a license
to pull trigger.
Miss Pomeroy wore five new dresses as Juliet.
Enough to frighten any modem Borneo. The gallants
of to-day would rather have their names cut out of
David Jones and Co.’s missives than out of their bodies,
as Borneo craved.
Mr. W. H. Leake, the celebrated American
actor, will arrive per the S.S. Zealandia, to-morrow,
under engagement to Hiscocks, Hayman and Co. Mr.
Leake opens at the Queen’s Theatre upon the finish of
the Pomeroy season.
Earner’s dioramas of the American and Eusso-
Turkish wars have just completed a most successful
season in Western Australia, and are expected by
the next P. and O. mail boat. They shortly leave for
the Cape of Good Hope.
In celebration of the second centenary of La
Comedie Francaise, M. Perrin proposes giving a repre-
sentation of Moliere’s “ Bourgeois Gentilhomme," with
the dances and music as performed on its production at
Chambord, Oct. 14, 1670.
Among those who supported Adelaide Neilson
in ’Frisco was a daughter of Mrs. Corlett, the well-
known “ Silver Pen” of the Auckland Herald. Ade-
laide Neilson took a great fancy to, and prognosticated
a brilliant future for her.
Martin Simonsen, with his new opera company,
including Madame Simonsen, Misses Martina and Leo-
nora Simonsen, Sig. Paladini, Sig. Eiccardi, &c., left
Melbourne (16th) on a short provincial tour preparatory
to leaving for New Zealand.
M. Zolo writes that whereas a successful play,
running one hundred nights, brings into the theatrical
treasury £16,000, and into the author’s pocket £l6OO,
only five examples in the past fifty years can be found
of a book bringing its author so large a sum,
A Northern exchange says : —“ During the week
a slack-rope performer gave an exhibition of nis skill on
the Market-square. The collections were very unsatis-
factory.” So both business and the rope were slack.
That’s the way to put it. Nothing like brevity.
It appears that the most persistent in refusing
to play free at the Bennett matinee were those who had
received many years’ salary from Mr. Bennett. All
received their pay but Mr. Gamer and Mr. Goodman.
This notification is made in justice to Mr. Gamer,
In reference to the approaching advent of St.
Leon’s circus at Wagga, the Advertiser ingenuously
remarks :—“ The proprietors are justly favourites with
the people of Wagga Wagga, and to use Mr. St. Leon’s
(senior) own words, ‘ When coming to Wagga Wagga
he feels as if he were returning home.’ ’’ St. Leon has
made that tonehing little speech before —and will
again.
It is proposed to give a simultaneous benefit in
every theatre in Australasia en the night of the return 1
of the Australian Eleven, the proceeds to be presented
to the “ boys ” at the Melbourne International by the
respective Governors of the colonies which they repre-
sent.
A medical specialist who recently examined
Adelina Patti’s throat is said to have reported on it
that “ it is in a better condition than ever, and as hard
as iron, there being no reason why she should not con-
tinue to sing as well as she does now for the next ten
years.”
Charlotte Cushman’s grave is to be designated
by a magnificent monument, in exact representation of
Cleopatra’s Needle as it stood at Heliopolis. It is to be
feet high, constructed of Hallowell granite, and the
only words upon it will be the actress’ name in plain
raised letters.
The members of the Brisbane Histrionic Club
have been for six months rehearsing “ The Octoroon,”
and they haven’t made up their minds to perform it yet.
Everybody wants to play Salem Scudder, and all the
boys’ beards are too strong to permit of their success-
fully representing the “ gal.” *
Amongst the happy fishermen seen in the
harbour on Sunday were Greville, Al. Hayman, Dodge,
Capt. Seabnry, and a party of ladies. We understand
they brought home with them two fiddlers, twelve
empty champagne bottles, and forty-eight empty lagar-
beer bottles. Pish appeared scarce.
Mr. W. J. Holloway has taken a benefit at
Adelaide, and “been presented with a flattering ad-
dress by his numerous friends.” This little demonstra-
tion arose out of the recent assault case. The Adelaide
newspaper men are not a happy family, and have been
taking sides in the Davis-cum-Holloway embroglio.
Mr. James Carden leaves England for Australia
on 17th December, accompanied by his wife, a most
charming lady (daughter of Mr. John Herand), the
famous art critic, and sister to the great reader, Edith
Herand. They expect to effect an opening in Sydney
on arrival under the management of the Leviathan
agent, Mr. John Bryan.
Horace Wall, Sothern’s agent, writes to the
New York Dramatic News respecting Dundreary’s ill-
ness “ I am afraid that it is true that Sothem cannot
fulfil his American engagements. It looks as if this
time it was a settler. Last season he got over £14,000
for his work in America, which was the most he ever
had with one exception.
Annie Montague and Charles Turner appear
nightly in the “ Eoyal Middy ” at the Melbourne Opera
House. The business is not commensurate with the
artistes’ ability and yet no change of bill. The public
wonder at this, and a general wish is expressed to hear
the new arrivals in English opera, such as “ Maritana”
or the “ Bohemian Girl.”
It is rumoured in London that Madame Adelina
Patti, before leaving that city, signed an engagement
for an eighteen months’ tour in America, for which she
is to receive the sum of £120,000; further, that the last
of the diva’s notes in London have been heard, inasmuch
as on the termination of the American engagement, she
will retire into private life.
Caron’s Australian Band of ninety performers
opened at the Melbourne Exhibition on Saturday, the
16th. Several soloists of repute are engaged, and nu-
merically and artistically it is a very stroag combina-
tion. Yictorians may well be proud of such an orchestral
display, and if the members work in unison several
notable performances may be looked for.
It is said that Mr. Williamson’s exclusive right
to produce “ Pinafore” in the colonies has expired.
Evidently the profession have had an inkling to that
effect, and hence the number of companies springing
into existence to give representations. According to
the local Maix, Mr. C. Florence is going to produce it
at Oamaru, N.Z., with amateur assistance.
The second concert of the Petersham Musical
Society will be given this (Thursday) evening, when
Mr. J. Churchill Fisher’s cantata, “The Emigrants,”
will be given. A large choir of good voices has been
practising the chorus for nearly six months, and the
solos will be sung by Miss Shipway, Mrs. E. E. Morris,
and Messrs. J. J. Hinohey, J. H. Flynn, and Mr. T. H.
Eainford. Miss Emma Fisher, the talented accom-
panist of the society, will play, and the composer will
conduct.
The Dillon and South Company have left
Charters Towers, where they have done very well—
Sweet Edith Pender!
Where will she wend her
Where to now we wonder ?
And Jem South, too.
And Dillon who
Deals in such verbal thunder.
We hope, and trust not hope in vain—
We’ll see the trio once again—
A-hem! —in Comedy.
Alphabetical Lewis has already underlined the
reproduction of the “Mannikin’s Pinafore” at the
Academy. The Melbourne people are heartily sick of
these midgets, and not a little indignation is expressed
outside the theatre, as well as in, at the wholesale
invasion of juvenile entertainment threatened by the
Lewis’s and others to the detriment of adult members
of the profession, who are absolutely thrown out of
employment as a consequence. It is time that press
and public expressed in plain and unmistakable terms
their disapproval of the system that enables managers
to fasten on the premature exertions and wasted youth
of the poor unfortunates they gather within their
clutches.
The Austrian Strauss band first appeared in Aus-
tralia on the Flemington racecourse, in the presence of
a vast concourse of nearly 15,000 persons. Strangely
enough the mass was not over enthusiastic, and a
general impression went abroad that the band had not
realised the high expectations indulged in. The con-
cert at the Town Hall on Tuesday placed matters on an
entirely different basis. But one opinion permeated
through the vast audience, namely, that a truly artistic
and gratifying success had been achieved. Such per-
fection of instrumentalisation had never previously
been heard in the Australias; the conductor and his
men were thoroughly in accord, and the various num-
bers were executed with a brilliancy and a finish that
gave unqualified pleasure to the artistic ear. Of the
selections given special mention must be made of the
rendering of “ Fruhling’s Erwachen,” translated “ The
awakening of Spring.” A delightful melody runs
through the entire composition, and its interpretation
was marked by sympathy and fervid expression. The
waltzes of Strauss are naturally strong items, and
their rendering would cause the most phlegmatic of
mortals to feel in the terpsichorean vein for the nonce
Altogether the able director, Herr Wildren, and the
several members of his band, may be sincerely congratu-
lated on the undoubted and well-deserved success they
have achieved.
Over forty M.S.S. of Australian dramas were
received by Theodore Hamilton up to the advertised
date, October 16. Of these the great majority bear the
impress of rejection—on the scene plot alone. One
aspiring youth forwarded a piece containing nine scenes
in the first act, with impossible strikes and sets.
Another forwarded a model of his sensation scene—a
structure so wild and fearful that it would be necessary
to take off the roof of the theatre and sink below the
stage some 50 feet to produce the effects. Some of the
M.S.S. weigh by the lb., others are completed in a few
sheets of note paper. It is simply wonderful the
ignorance displayed by would-be-dramatic authors as
to stage requirements and mechanical effects. In many
cases the dramas were accompanied by letters assuring
Mr. Hamilton of the author’s inexperience, but claim-
iug the former’s kind consideration and advice. What
a treat is in store for the reader or readers. Johnny
Wallace had a week’s experience, and he is now
wandering about in a state of melancholy imbecility.
Several men have been requested to read, but all rush
frantically away, and Hamilton is shunned in the street
by all the literati. Darrell, Martin, and Topp entered
into partnership and offered to tackle the lot at £5 a
copy, but there were no funds available, and Hamilton
is left alone withjhis M.S.S. the most miserable man in
Melbourne.
The Williamsons have made their appearance
at the Theatre Eoyal, Melbourne, in “The Snowball,"
which is described in the bills as a farcical comedy, a
designation that tolerably fittingly applies to it. It is
in three acts and one scene, and it does not play much
beyond an hour and a half. The fun bubbles all
through. You are kept laughing from beginning to
end, and when the curtain falls upon the last net you
feel in good humour with yourself and everybody else.
It is probably an adaptation from the French One
cannot tell. The maid (Penelope) was played by
Mrs. Williamson, and if you had any unwise conviction
that Mrs. Williamson's best efforts were limited to-
Dutch business and Irish business you were at once
and for all time disabused of such belief ; for she made
of this character a most exquisite example of demure
quaintness. Mr. Williamson brought into the picture
of the bewildered husband a kind and a measure of
humour as opposite as possible from that which makes
John Stofel so delightful a creation to witness, and to
remember. Nor was it spoiled by any of that exagge-
rated perplexity which one occasionally sees in farce
representations. Miss Flora Austead in the part as-
signed her has never been seen to greater advantage.
For the most part she has been seen in melodrama and
a good deal of agony business, but in this character
she had a good opportunity of showing what she could,
do in pure light comedy, and she came out singularly
well.
IN MEMORIAM-ADELAIDE NEILSON.
And is she really dead,
This beauty frank and free ?
And does her royal head
Lie low beyond the sea ?
It was but yesterday
We saw her leave our shore.
Alas ! the parting then
Was more than “ An revoir ! ”
And can that voice be hushed,
Bach tone so known to fame ?
Those tender, lustrous eyes.
Can they have ceased to flame ?
That genius that new life
To noble Shakspeare gave-
ls all its splendour quenched
Within the cruel grave?
She glorified our stage.
Though few indeed her years.
We can but bow the head,
And think of her with tears.
PEPPER AND SALT.
“ Why didn’t you insist on having your name-
placed on the electoral roll?” was the question
lately nut by an inquiring one to the owner of
half a dozen streets in and around the metropolis.
“ Because,” he replied, “ I didn’t want to have
eight-and-twenty professional patriots tugging at
my door-bell every morning before breakfast for
the purpose of making me swear solemnly that I’d
plump for their respective candidates at the
ensuing election. I did swear promiscuously and
all round like that, last time ; but the difficulty I
experienced in keeping the various oaths occasioned
me some qualms of conscience. The way I got
out of it was this —I voted for myself.”
An aristocratic unemploye presented his card
(with monogram and other fittings) to a Minister of
the Crown yesterday, and asked for some pleasant
little sinecure which would barely enable him to
live comfortably in one of the best hotels, wear
lavender gloves, and lose coin at pool. The
Minister asked him what he thought he could do ;
and the applicant frankly replied, “Not much, I
confess; but if you could pension off the present
holder of the appointment, and get the one
o’clock gun sponged and loaded for me, I think
I could manage to fire it off —always provided
some one called me at the proper time, as business
is not my forte.”
In the Illustrated Christian Weekly, a
new religious publication, whose advent we hail
with delirious joy, there is a portrait and a short
biography of Mr. Thomas Spurgeon, a shining
light, who is at present shedding the roseate glow
of his genius upon this colony. With the portrait
we have nothing to do ; with the biographical
sketch but little. In the latter we hear hardly
anything about Spurgeon, but a great deal about
one Eehoboam, who is now dead. It is satisfac-
tory to learn, however, that young Tom “ is one
of the twin sons who constitute the entire family
of the most famous preacher of this or any pre-
vious age ! !” And also to be assured “that many
who have now heard him speaking in the various
colonies he has visited, and those who read ‘ The
Fight in the Fender,’ in the present issue, will
he l is a chip of the old block.’ Full
of life and humour, yet full of reverential faith
and love also.” Well, we haven't read “The Fight
in the Fender,” because the warm weather having
set in our interest in fenders has temporarily ceased;
but as we understand that Tommy is about to
leave us, we feel that it would be a want of cour-
tesy, so far as we are concerned, to allow him to
depart without a souvenir of The Bulletin —
something that he can show to his friends at the
old gentleman’s tabernacle, and please them and
advertise us at the same time. It is with the
deepest admiration for his brilliant abilities, and
with the sincerest reverence for himself, that we
inscribe to him the following little poem:—
The editors of those two fiery journals, the IN'
verell Times and Herald, have had a little
political quarrel. The latter journal espouses the
cause of Mr. E. L. Murray; the former that or
some other candidate. In the Herald appears a
gentle attack upon the editor of the other paper,
of which the following is a portion;—“ Honesty
and intelligence, as in the case of Mr. E. L. Mur-
ray, are to the Caliban of the Times as a red rag
to a mad bull; and hence he treats his readers to
the verge of falsehood, misrepresentation, aim
* mortal hate,’ throughout the entire issue or
Saturday. His helpless malice at the progress ot
Mr. E. L. Murray’s honest utterances gesticulates
and roars in every column, just as he himself dm
when exhibiting his oleaginous person in ‘ Bom-
bastes Furioso.’ ” There are other pars, in winch
the rival editor is accused —of all things . <*
“ keeping a skull in a carpet bag!” And alto-
gether journalistic affairs just now in Inverell are
about as lively as even a Texan newspaper man
could desire. There are libel actions brewing,
but these, at this period, are just a little playe
out.
Why don’t our numerous readers ask us ™? r ®
conundrums ? If there is anything that can bri g
pure, unadulterated joy to an editor’s soul, i
the arrival of three or four hundred quest loll ,
ranging from an explanation of the Swedenborg!
doctrine up to the stewing of geebungs, or
proper treatment of measles, just as he (the edi >
Illustrious t win!
There is within
Thy hounding heart the ardent lire
That doth e’er roll
Within the soul —
The quiv’ring soul—of thy great sire!
Twin ®f our hearts !
Twin of those parts
Divine! Sweet twin! so soft and tender !
We kneel before
Thee, and adore
The author of that “ Fight and Fender.”
De-licious twin,
The rhythmic din
Of thy sweet voice when thou didst rail, O
Floats still within
Our heads, dear twin.
Ah, round thine own should he a halo!


no t the measles) is up to his ears man article on
“ Our Statistical Returns for the Past Century.”
Readers should look to this. An editor’s life is
n ot all pleasure, and little attentions like these
soothe many a weary hour. We will endeavour to
Inve every satisfaction in the worrying up the few
which are now before us.
The News asks who was the author of the poem
commencing
Oh, the game it was high, and the fun it was tall.
For I was the jury, judge, witness, and all.
We don’t know, Ernest, and we don’t want to
know, either. Ask us something easy—or less
expensive.
“ Sabbatarian” is in a stew to find out where is
the best place for a good Sabbatarian to open a
barber’s shop in. Gant- on, we should think.
Eureka ! I have struck a patch. I have found
a find that will bring, everlastingly, joy to the bosom
of every man in the two hemispheres. I have found
a place where the women wear only one style of
dress, and that style is one which is cheaper than
even the soul of the father of 15 big girls could
ever dream of. And the name of the place is
Haslem’s Creek, or Rookwood. Just a plain
white robe —no frills —no Osnaburg table, with
rV ,che-de-la-ruche or paU-fois-de-gras embroidery ;
but just a plain skirt, and perhaps a button. Yet
all seem safe and satisfied.
There is a clerk at the delivery window of the
G.P-O. who, if he lives long enough, will come to
an untimely end. Last Monday a well-known
athlete walked up, and asked if there was a letter
there for Board. This clerk said no, but he had
quite a pile for Lodgings. Next day a pious old
Lady waltzed along, and asked if he could favour
her with anything for Burns. He said no again,
but he could tell her a demn’d good thing for Scalds.
This clerk is already on the downward road which
leads to Parliament.
There’s a young lady hereabouts who is in a
terrible state to know if what the papers say is
true about her poor dear Freddy Spofforth. She
has been reading the Herald, and finds that a
horrid brute named Watson hit poor Freddy for 3
she supposes 3 paltry shillings. Another wretch
drove him into the slips, a third struck him in the
left leg, and a fourth hired assassin knocked him
clean over the fence for 5. He was never strong,
and she knows this cruel treatment will break his
health for life. But what troubles this young
lady most is this—the Herald says that Spoff.
went to Scarborough, and gained no less than 7
maidens.
Persons of Spiritualistic tendencies can always
be known by one distinguishing feature—their
trousers never fit them. I wish it to be distinctly
understood on all sides, however, that I only refer
to gentlemen mediums. If anyone doubts the
above, let them interview Mr. Edward Greville, or
Hon. John Bowie Wilson, and then report progress.
The legs are as wrinkled as an old gaoler’s jaws,
and I have seen geese hatching in a far smaller
place than the back of a Spiritist’s waistband.
New Zealand, from all accounts lately, is in a
deplorable state. The latest comes from a Sydney
gentleman now on a visit to Dunedin. It appears
to do nothing but rain there. No amusement,
save drinking—drinks, 6d. all round ; oysters,
Is. Cd. dozen. Barmaids are the great attraction,
and our informant says he doesn’t wonder at it,
but that he wouldn’t live there for anything.
“Should auld acquaintance be forgot?”
That’s the way the bard put it; but it isn’t always
well to work back into history. A few nights ago
a miscellaneous looking character, who had evidently
been triangulating the streets during some time,
found his way into a highly respectable hotel in
this city at about 11.45 p.m., and asked for “ some
place whore he could sleep.” The landlord, who
is well-known in musical circles, said he had no
room for him. “You know me of old,” said the
visitor, “Ido ! ” replied the landlord.
There is a land of lasting love.
Beyond the sunsets’ glow.
Where broods for ages the peaceful dove
And flowers unfading blow,
Where the sprits’ fondest yearnings cease—
He was a newly-married psychological student,
and that’s what he was singing. Just as he got
this far, however, a certain female person waltzed
in on him with a sweet little thing in broom-
handles, and after vehemently critciising the state
of the mid-day meal, the parturition of which he
had been left to watch, she waded in. In congenial
circles he now laments the power of the material
bonds that “clog the spirits’ high aspiring,” and
sighs continually for his release. The initiated
sympathise.
John Jones took a piece of string off a nail in
front of a boot crib D beg pardon,—a boot em-
porium near the Markets, at 4 p.m. on Monday
last. Tim string wasn’t much in itself, but as
there happened to be a pair of boots attached to
it, Mr. Jones called round next day to the “ Cen-
tral.” He said he was a pious man, and went to
church in the Domain every Sabbath. He also
said Prank Warden told him “The Lord helped
those who helped themselves,” so he helped him-
self with the boots. Mr. Penfold said he was
pleased to see the gospel spreading, so he helped
Mr. Jones to seven days. Thi s seemed to astonish
Jones, especially as they took the boots away from
him.
The Rabbi declares there’s no hell and no devil;
Wiser Beg says there is, which is rather uncivil.
If the devil reigns over the demons eternal,
The life of hereafter must be somewhat infernal!
As for mo I prefer to be where I am.
And for Rabbis and Wizers don’t care a .
Patrick Mulcahy was next charged with allowing
a lamp to go out in front of his public-house in
Woolloomooloo. Mr. Roseby said this was a fear-
ful crime. In ancient Rome if a vestal virgin
allowed her light to be extinguished for a single
instant she was buried alive immediately. Patrick
Mulcahy replied he wasn’t a vestal virgin at
present, he was merely a licensed victualler. The
Bench therefore decided not to bury him alive thia
trip, but to take care of 40s. for him until he
called again. P. M. then glodo softly out, mur-
muring as he went along, “ Begorra, I wouldn’t
be wan av thim poor divils of virgins for a thrifle
anyhow.”
I suppose Bathurst is about the best town for a
musician to fatten on in the whole of the southern
hemisphere. Bass Hodge went up there, many
years ago, to teach the young idea how to toot
with a clarionet. Ho stayed twelve months, dur-
ing which time he only got two pupils. One of
these accidentally ran away, and forgot to pay
Bass; and the otter one stole his clarionets.
Bathurst has one great blessing, however. _lt
possesses a nice roomy graveyard. No crowding
a fellow up there; but everything quiet and com-
fortable. Y.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Wagga training ground is in splendid order.
Geary has joined the Warwick Cricket Club.
Napper Tandy, now in Melbourne, is for sale.
Sheridan is bringing the St. Leonard’s Club on.
A match between Callaghan and Aplitt is
spoken of.
Joe Fowler, the Bristol light-weight, is coming
to Australia.
The Melbourne Annual Regatta is fixed for the
21st February.
The bookmakers are all Britishers or Irishers —
never Welshers.
A 5-sov. sweepstake is to be shot for at Caulfield
during the Cup week.
The parade of thoroughbreds at Flemington
was a miserable fiasco.
Liberator has been purchased by T. Jones, the
trainer, for 360 guineas.
Cricket has commenced very eaidy this season.
We want concise reports.
A belt is to be presented to Foley, as champion
of'the colonies, in a few days.
There’s great life in the Newtown team. They’re
likely to take root in the field.
The Intercolonial cricket match is fixed for the
12th, 13th, and 15th November.
Edwards, the pedestrian, is endeavouring to get
up a tournament at Melbourne.
The Carlton footballers have been the winning
men of the past Victorian season.
Jem Mace has bought Haidee of the Hills for
200 guineas. Gone in for big ring.
The scratching of Democrat for the Melbourne
Cup means burnt fingers to many.
Hales, the well-known jockey, considers Rich-
mond “ very likely” for the Melbourne Cup.
There is a dispute among the members of the
Glebe Rowing Club over a very trivial matter.'
The Victorian rowing season is to be opened
with a procession of boats on the Taxra, 13th Nov.
The Hon. Mr. Cox has imported two splendid
racing stallions from England at a cost of £12,000.
The Ballarat Meeting is fixed for 18th and 19th
November, and nominations close on the 25th instant.
G. Palmer, one of the Australian eleven, is
among the dismissed of the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment.
Twice eleven —22, just the wins of the Austra-
lian team. Their losses were four, and their draws
eleven.
The next meet of the Hnnter River Amateur
Turf Club, fixed for the 9th of November, promises to
be a success.
W. T. Greenland, the boatbuilder, has com-
pleted a very fine specimen of a clinker eight for the
Colac Rowing Club.
Mr. L. L. Smith’s horse Douglaston, a son of
Lady Manners Sutton, has been purchased by Mr. J.
Dnfi'ett, jun., for 450 guineas.
A golden-shoe contest for a 60oz. trophy is
anticipated between two well-known retired cricketers,
both of Intercolonial celebrity.
Lord Burleigh is first favourite for the Mel-
bourne Cup. He is rather uncertain in the feet, and
“Augur” advises backers to be careful.
The absence of Sweetmeat from the Cup, seeing
that he had been entered for all the principal weight-for-
age races, caused some surprise in Melbourne.
If Evans, Bannerman, Coates, and Gregory play
with the Melbourne men the bookmakers are prepared
to back an eleven against the Australian team.
The match between W. Triokett and Rush takes
place on the Parramatta river, Nov. 13—-two days before
the big match between E. Trickett and Hanlan.
Blackboy, one of the racing stallions imported
by the Hon. E. K. Cox, attacked his caretaker (Fleet-
wood) in his stall, biting and otherwise wounding him.
Pearce, in course of a rather rambling statement
anent the Clarence River Regatta affair, says if W.
Trickett beats Rush, he (Pearce) will row Trickett for
£lOO or £2OO a-side.
The Victorian Rowing Association decided not
to alter the date of the Intercolonial eight-oar contest.
The proposal was to arrange the match for Dec. —, as
an attraction to the Exhibition.
Mr. De Mestre’s team, Guinea, Orient, Judith,
Paul, Yosemite, Kernel, and Qndarz, has arrived safely
at Melbourne. Yosemite, Mr. Do Mestre’s best,
seemed a little tender in the feet.
At a recent meeting of the members of the Vic-
torian Club it was decided to alter the betting rule
relating to starters, so that it now is similar to that of
the English and Victorian Tattersall’s.
Monmouth is reported to have done a wonderful
trial at Randwick before leaving Sydney. It is said
that he ran the five furlongs under Im. 45., and he has
been well supported at Melbourne in consequence.
Reviewing the events of the past season, it is
clear that football is making grand headway in all the
colonies, being now firmly established in Victoria,
South Australia, and Tasmania, and fast getting a sure
footing in New Zealand and in this colony.
The first eleven of the Stanmore Cricket Club
defeated the Gorio last Saturday by 30 runs. Scores
—Stanmore 65; Corio, 32. For the winning club.
Wisdom and Farnsworth bowled in great form; and
for the Corio, Sullivan and Rigg also trundled well.
O’Leary’s 72-hour go-as-you-please tournament
in New York, recently, drew 20,000 spectators. The
affair was arranged by O’Leary, and the prizes were
£l5O and the champion belt; £BO ; £4O; £2O; £lO.
The winner was Dobler, who accomplished 414 miles.
Mr. Alfred Austin is endeavouring to make ar-
rangements for a 24-hours’ walking match between
young Scott, of Dunedin, and Professor Miller, the
well-known athlete of Melbourne, for £2OO a-side. It
is intended that this contest shall take place in Mel-
bourne.
Dick Fuller is putting the finishing touches on
a clinker eight-oar for the Corio 8.R.C., which is
intended for use in the bay. This same builder has
received an order from the Brisbane Rowing Club for a
four-oared gig, to be ready for a race on 12th November
next.
The chess match between Messrs. Esling and
Wisker was continued at the Melbourne Chess Club on
Friday, Bth instant, when the fifth game was won by
Mr. Wisker. The sixth game was played on Tuesday,
12th instant, and resulted in a draw. Score —Wisker 4,
Esling 1, drawn 1.
A match between the Strathmore and Osborne
clubs was played last Saturday week, on the ground of
the former, and resulted greatly in favour of the Strath-
more. Osborne, 37 ; Strathmore, 3 out for 30—leaving
but 8 runs to win. A heavy rainfall deprived the Strath-
more of an easy victory.
The Astley belt, representing the championship
of the world at six-day go-as-you-please pedestrianism,
has not been contested for since Charles Rowell won it
in the month of September, 1879. He was challenged by
two or three parties, all of whom withdrew their money,
declining to walk in England.
“Cloanthns,” in the Australasian, remarks :
“ We knowthat Trickett is subject to bronchial attacks,
even in the semi-tropical clime of his native place; and
if he has thus early shown that he is not proof against
the October chills of England, how, it may be asked, is
he to negotiate the November fogs ?"
A match was played last Saturday between the
Parramatta Defensive and Chester C.C’s.,which resulted
in a draw; the Chesters having 6 runs to get and 6
wickets to fall. Their captain agreed to finish the
match if close, but as did not think that close enough he
drew the stumps a minute before time.
Respecting the Victorian Derby, some of the
Melbourne sporting writers think there may be another
Suwarrow this year, notwithstanding the bold front
assumed by Grand Flaneur, and there is also no know-
ing what the dark stable of Bt. Alban’s may bring forth.
Progress is believed to be the St. Alban’s best repre-
sentative.
“Augur” thinks the Y.R.C. Derby is shorn of
some of its interest by the withdrawal of the Royal
Consort, who would have been one of the most for-
midable competitors. Consort was withdrawn from the
Maribyrnoug in consequence of lameness, and now the
same thing has caused his withdrawal from the Derby.
“ Augur " goes for Grand Flaneur.
One of the best contested games of frisquette
was played on Saturday last at Moore Park. The field-
ing was remarkably good, and unusual activity ex-
hibited. W. P. Mulholland’s 51. H. Solomon’s 77, Mr.
Turner’s 32, and O. Carroll’s 32, were the principal
scores. It would take a smart ten to beat the pick of
the Alpha now; and when a side is pitted against
them the match will be worth seeing. Is everyone
afraid to play them ? If somebody don’t wake up and
challenge them it will look very like it,
Jem Mace, “ champion of the world,” writes as
follows, under date Melbourne, October 12: —“ Sir, —In
a recent number of your interesting journal, The
Bulletin, you announced the advent in Australia of
a pugilist, * Bos Tyler,’ at the instance of James Mace,
inferring that I sent for him, or that I offered some
inducement for him to visit Victoria. Such an
announcement has not the slightest foundation. The
Australias are as free to Bos Tyler as any other member
of the P.R. who chooses to make a home at these
antipodes, but I object to the inference that I was
instrumental in bringing him here.”
The Maribyrnoug Plate will be worth <£2ooo
this year, thirty starters expected. Royal Maid is
the best of the St. Alban’s lot. New South Wales
stands well. The Hon. James White’s best is Mon-
mouth, who is full brother to Chester, and possesses
one of the qualifications essential to success in racing,
viz., breeding. He is a big, plain colt, a raking goer,
and well up to any weight. The only other left in by
Mr. White is Etna, a full sister to Woodlands. Mr. W.
Long is also represented by a couple only, and what a
couple! Gladys is full sister to First King and Petrea,
and Aureola is full sister to Robinson Crusoe.
Telegrams tell us that the match between the
Australian Eleven and the All England team excited
more interest than any match ever played in England.
The English team was the strongest combination that
ever entered the cricket field, and the attendance on the
three days was enormous. In the second innings, when
the Australians had to face almost certain defeat, their
play was able and courageous, and elicited hearty
cheering. Murdoch’s innings for 153 was simply per-
fection. The merit of the play of our men all round
commanded universal admiration, and a tribute to
their ability was made by Lord Harris in front of the
pavilion after the match; and his wish that they should
nave a safe voyage home was heartily re-echoed by the
spectators.
The referee of the Rocky Mouth Regatta
publishes a letter in the local papers to the effect that
he was not in a position to give a correct decision (re
the Trickett-Pearce affair), but nevertheless he asserts
that Trickett was in fault. On this subject “ Truth”
writes to us from the Clarence as follows : —“ I hap-
pened to be on the Clarence River during the regatta,
and at a banquet given by friend Rush at the * settling
up.’ During the speechifying a Mr. Jamieson asked
Pearce ‘if he did not threaten to foul Trickett just
before starting.’ Pearce’s reply was to this effect, • I
did, certainly, but it was only a joke.’ So you will see
at our meeting, in the presence of all the pullers and
other gentlemen, he admits having said this, and
directly he gets to Sydney denies having done so.”
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club opened the
season on Saturday, 16th instant, with a display of
evolutions, led by Commodore Hyam, and a dinner at
Athol Gardens, provided by Messrs. Cripps and Co.
Despite the weather, there was a good muster of the
boats, representing the pick of Balmain, North Shore,
and Sydney. The various evolutions were most credit-
ably carried out, aided by a stiff north-easter which
gave some of the crews plenty of work. After saluting
the Commodore in regular man-of-war style, the wel-
come signal was given, and the fleet by common consent
made for Athol, where the boats were made snug.
Dinner was laid in the pavilion, and about 150 of the
members, dressed in 151 different costumes (Grant had
a double supply), manned the seats and attacked the
provender as if they had just been picked off shipwreck.
Some of the smaller boats’ crews must have been in
active training for at least three months, as before the
Commodore proposed the health of “The Queen” each
of them had gained a stone in weight. Afterwards the
health of “ Commodore Hyam ” was proposed, and
“ Success to the Club,” together with other toasts.
Except a few laughable contretemps, not a hitch occurred,
and the way everything passed off did credit to the
committee and the hon. secretary of the Club, Mr.
Teitrich.
Giand Flaneur continues to harden for the
Victorian Derby, for which 500 to 200 was taken in one
line on Tuesday evening. Progress received support at
5 to 1, 200 to 40 being booked about the eon of Angler;
but still the public seem to have some faith in Respite,
who receives attention at 10 to 1. Heron has advanced
a point, and we have heard of 600 to 25 having been
accepted about Nero. For the Cup Lord Burghley is
now undoubtedly first favouiite, lor after the first
acceptance of 2000 to 180 an offer was made to take
10,000 to 1000. Mata for some reason has receded to 100
to 5, and Fan Bias to 100 to 4, t hough both horses are
still doing good work. Darriwellnow and then has small
sums invested in his favour at 100 to 6, and Chester has
improved again. Richmond, too, is advancing, 500 to
20 and 1000 to 40 having been accepted, and Grand
Flaneur is supported at the same price. Pawn-
broker has plenty of friends at 100 to 3. Late
on Thursday night (14th instant) a slight demon-
stration in favour of Progress for the Derby had the
effect of sending him to the head of the betting. His
owner took 400 to 100 about the colt, and another bet
of 200 to 50 seemed to exhaust the market at that price,
for he immediately advanced to 5 to 2, which was also
accepted. For the Maribyrnoug Plate 3000 to 90 was
booked about Somerset, who was subsequently sup-
ported at 100 to 5. Richmond was backed for the Cup
to win £3,000 at 100 to 5. Progress was once more
backed at 100 to 10, and the best offer against him now
is 100 to 10.
A great trotting match recently came off at
Rochester, United States. The trotting record for a
mile was 2m. 12Js., and the Rochester Turf Club offered
to give the owners of two celebrated trotters, Maud S.
and St. Jnlien, £2OO each for an exhibition of speed,
and £2OO to whichever succeeded in lowering the record;
if both did it, each to receive the amount; three trials
■b be allowed. St. Julien’s first trial was quarter of a
mile, 335.; half, Im. 415.; three-quarters, Im. 415.; the
mile, 2m. 13fs. The betting now on the record and
against the horses is £5OOO to £3OOO. Maud S. next
appeared on the track. She burst off with startling
speed, and reached the quarter in 32J5.; half, Im. 55.;
three-quarters, Im. 38js. She was going like the wind,
and it now seemed a foregone conclusion that the beau-
tiful mare would accomplish the great task she had
undertaken. As she sped around the turn and into the
straight, her feet seeming to spurn the earth, the spec-
tators became intensely excited, and applause arose and
ran all along the line, swelling into perfect uproar when
the object of it all had dashed under the wire and the
magic figures 2.1IJI! were hung out, showing that
Maud had beaten by a full second the fastest time on
record. St. Julien soon came out for his second trial.
He started at a great pace, and did the quarter in 31§s.,
just j of a second less than the mare ; in the next
quarter he lost \ a second on her time, but for the half-
mile had yet the best of her by \ second. He lost,
however, for the next quarter, his time for the three-
quarters being 345., while the mare’s was 33)5. St.
Julien was, however, woke up lor the final quarter, and
the result was a marvellous exhibition of trotting; he
did the final quarter in 335, J second quicker than Maud,
thus equalling all out the mare’s time, and likewise
lowering the record time by one second. It defies language
to describe the scene which ensued when the trial
was ended and the announcement was made from the
judges’ stand that St. Julien had exactly equalled the
record made by the mare. Men and women were fairly
carried away with the excitement, which swept like a
tornado over the crowd, and many acted as if insane.
As the hero and heroine were led past the stand, side
by side, covered with blankets made of flowers presented
by the officials of the Association, and respectively
preceded by placards bearing the legends “ King of the
Turf" and “ Queen of the Turf," the applause showered
upon them and their skilful pilots was overwhelmingly
great, but no greater than the occasion justified.
The principal topic of conversation amongst
rowing men lately has been the result of the sculling
race on the Parramatta River, which was won by
Michael Rush, the Clarence hero. The regatta, if
such a name can be applied to it, took place on the
7th inst., and, from all the information to hand, appears
to have been a gigantic failure. Most of the races had
only one competitor, who rowed quietly over in each
case for the prize. The spectators, we are told, were
much disgusted with the arrangements, this being
more noticeable after the champion sculling race fiasco;
and it is more than likely that regattas on the Clarence
River are to be numbered with the past. The most
important race was for all-comers, in outriggers, for
which four started—viz.. Messrs. Rush and McDonald
(of local fame), and William Trickett and Henry
Pearce, of Sydney. For some days previous to the
race (although he stoutly denies it) it was reported
that Pearce intended to foul Trickett; and although
this was well known to the committee, no steps were
taken to prevent such a disgraceful proceeding. At
the start Trickett states that Pearce told him he would
stop him winning, and as soon ns the flag fell, and be-
fore they had travelled 100 yards, Pearce rowed
(Trickett says) deliberately into him, the bow of his
boat cutting Trickett’s thigh and tearing away his
yoke lines. The delay canned by the foul of course put
Trickett out of the race, and Rush won at his ease.
Pearce then had to row M‘Donald in light skiffs con-
ceding lbs., but ho was easily beaten, although he is
one of the best and fastest scullers in Port Jackson.
As Rush was the promoter and prime moving spirit in
the regatta, and, with M‘Donald, was a prominent
member of the committee, which we think
was a great mistake, being competitors, it would
have been a graceful act on his part, when ho saw the
foul, occurring as it did so soon after the start, to have
ceased rowing, and had the boats started again. Rush
has always been noted for his straightforward and
honourable conduct in the previous matches in which
he has been engaged, and had he acted as we think he
should have done, he would have added greatly to his
reputation, and at the; same time saved his district
from gaining such an unenviable notoriety. Pearce has
addressed a contemporary in defence of his conduct,
but wo cannot seo that he has justified himself. If the
sport of boat-racing is to bo kept free from objection-
able practices, we recommend all committees to enquire
into the late Clarence River affair before accepting
entries; otherwise a long-suffering public will be so
disgusted that great difficulty will be experienced in
obtaining money to provide prizes for regattas. We do
not wish to detract from Rush’s victory in this last
race, as in any case he might have won; but the result
ought to be as unsatisfactory to him as it is to all those
who take an interest in aquatic sports.
The Hop Bitters Manufactory Company of
America recently addressed Trickett the following
note :—“ Dear Sir, —Being desirous of bringing the
world’s greatest oarsmen together in a contest, and as
our prominent ones in the United States have expressed
a desire to meet, we write you to ask if you will enter
and row in a single scull regatta on the Thames, or other
suitable water near London, England, some time iu
November or December, 1880, for the Hop Bitters cash
prize of £lOOO. First, £500; second, £300; third, £140;
fourth. £6O. Entries are open to all the world. Please
rejdy at your earliest convenience, and give your pre-
ference as to time and location. Also do us the favour
to ask Laycook if he will enter, and report same to us.”
Trickett replied accepting the proposal, but refusing to
row later than November 22, so that Laycock might
have an opportunity of competing before leaving
England. Triokett suggests that the race should be
rowed in heats, and that one Australian, one English-
man, and one American should be iu each. The Hop
Bitters Company agreed to this, so that Laycock, who
leaves London on the 26th of November, will be able to
row against all the beat scullers of the world—Trickett
also made some very sensible suggestions as to rowing
in heats and that each heat be directed in such manner
that English, Australian, and American scullers would
meet in each. We also learn that Trickett’s style is not
liked, and that he slides too short. This latter statement
appears to all who have seen him scull absurd, as he is
known to have a longer slide in his boat (24 inches) than
any other sculler, and when in condition uses the full
length of it. As we are aware, however, that Trickett,
when he commenced work at Putney, was two stone
above his rowing weight, we can easily imagine that he
could not row in anything like his own form, especially
if encumbered with “heavy sweaters." We have
frequently had the opportunity of seeing Trickett
rowing at his best while training on the Parramatti
River, and are confident that he is without
doubt a complete master of the slide. The
Rowing Almanac of 1880, in describing the race
between Hanlan and Hawdon (the EubUsli sculler who
is matched to row Laycock on the 13th Nov.), which
took place on the sth May, 1879, writes of Hanlan as
follows" He rarely struck more than thirty strokes
a minute; but they were long strokes, and his seulls
were pulled through with a dash that was unmistakable
in effect. His extraordinary slide of twenty inches, and
his rather ungainly way of drawing his knees up to his
armpits at the commencement of the stroke, made his
sculling look awkward, but it was evident he held a
perfect mastery over his craft, and that his theory and
practice agreed. Perhaps no living sculler makes more
use of the slide than Hanlan, who moves fore and aft
fully twenty inches. At the finish of the recovery he
gathers himself up like a ball, then makes great use of
his legs and hips before he slides, completing the re-
mainder of an extraordinary sweep by bringing his arm
power into requisition aft the rowlocks!" This de-
scription of Hanlan’s rowing may have been written
with equal truth as regards Trickett. The same
authority, writing on the Elliott-Hanlan match, which
was rowed on the Newcastle-Tyne course, on the 16th
June, 1879, says:—“ Elliott was unable to find the last
deposit for the match, and it was really posted for
him by Hanlan’s backers, so that there should not be a
forfeit on the part of the English champion, who had
had great difficulty in finding the money that had been
posted. After the fact became known there were many
ominous whispers and shakings of the head.” Quoting
again from the same journal they say, “ The
American scullers row a much slower stroke and slide
much farther than the English scullers, and at the
same time go much faster, so that there is every reason
to believe that the art of sliding is but little under-
stood in this country (England)."
INTAGLIO.
My Carte—A Feverish Dream.
BY HENRY S. LEIGH.
I was fain to discover some gift for my fair
(Which was no easy matter to choose).
I perchance would have sent her some locks of my hair
But my locks are too scanty to lose.
Should I proffer some trinket—a novel—some gloves—
Or deposit some rhymes at her feet ?
Nay, to startle the dearest and last of my loves
I would sit for my carte do visite.
The resolve that had flashed through my fancy at e’en
Re-appeared in my slumbers at night.
Never yet such a series of horrors, I ween.
Filled the soul of a sleeper with fright.
I was wafted in visions—l cannot say how—
To some weird and sequestered retreat;
Where, accosting a Stranger, I asked with a bow —
“ Can I sit for my carte de visite ? ”
Could I dream that the Stranger so meek and so mild
Was a Fiend in the likeness of Man ?
He returned my salute ; he benignantly smiled.
He politely responded, “ You can! ”
Such a picture of artless, yet elegant, ease
I was charmed, I acknowledge, to meet;
So I said, “ Will you point out, the chair, if you please.
Where I sit for my carte de viste ! ”
In a trice, like a criminal bound on the rack,
I indented that engine of pain;
While a cunningly-fashioned machine at my back
Played a march on the base of my brain.
Quoth a voice, “ Take a natural attitude. Sir :
Do not icohhle so much, I entreat.
It will ruin the negative, mind, if you stir
While you sit for your carte de visile.”
I became like a rock ; but the voice in mine ear
Gently muttered, “That’s better, no doubt:
But your smile is a little spasmodic, I fear.
And I don’t like your chin sticking out! ”
♦ *»*•**
I awoke with a struggle—my blood running cold —
As it runs while my dream I repeat.
If my reader should relish the tale that I’ve told—
Let him sit for his carte de visite!


Public Companies
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; £.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J, A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H, Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adolong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayuey, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kejnpsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrunmdi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Pioton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tam worth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Waleha, Walgett, Wal-
lernwang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young. With the foil*wing
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dabby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ut South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank. .-
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank o: !
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
318 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accept EIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
TO LADIES.
TJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO - BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6 ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
D
O YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
O Y T OU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OE FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU, WANT
From best Makers?—
FINE
HOSIERY
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
“T)0 YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PAEASOLS ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
X~hO YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PEESENT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney). SIX for Thirty Shillings?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T\o YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLARS ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TfcO YOU WANT a Stylish SCARF, TIE,
or BOW?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
}0 YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY
?
JCry PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OVERCOAT ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
|]o YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TRAVELLING BAG ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILORS and HABIT MAKERS in
the CITY?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Public Companies
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, Eso
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Redfem | Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. *
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
'HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
Geprge S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Qeorge-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
\ USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
3k. SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
D I E E C TO E S •
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq,
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace,
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singulai
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.*
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices 263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
Lion fire insurance company.
Limited.
Chief Office—o, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
II
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
B,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
t:
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IB|BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEET WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY - ,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
tn STOCK.
ft
m
$
/»
/
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
manufactured Br W. DAVIES & C? couLauftN.N.S.Vi
GEORGE BARR,
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2J-d. PER GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST Y/HOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFAC TORY—63I GEORGE STREET.
__3
P. WELCH
PEACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIEE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.E—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
safiss
Bssstßßsa
Oriental Blind.


Business Announcements
[ALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
m
mm
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
hare gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
B.
GUNMAKEE AND CUTLEE,
602 Georoe Street, Sydney. 60i2.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Ee-
stooked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
F-Al^TOG&Sojsf
pEICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and AEIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCEAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Keut-street.
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYEUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2, 7,14, and 231bseach, and in casks of IJ, 2,3,
and 6* cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343,
vnd 345, Kent-atreet.
A.. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. AEIELn.,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
JJHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MAEK ISAACS’ COEPOEATION STOBE3,
HAY STEEET, HAYMAEKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTEY STOEEKEEPEES LIBEEALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. churchwood.
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPOETEE AND MANUFACTURER OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUEEY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
630,000 AMERICAN SKEWEES,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO,
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
IF YOU WANT
A Cup of
REALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TAEPING
MIXTURE.
I
PACKED INTO 1-lb AND £-ib PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William-street.
E. S. TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
GO U N D R T ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidate,
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by nsing
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas,
j Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued tousoGOUNDEY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
E
CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Eetail
Tobacconists
The genuine
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by tbe renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Dep6t,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C, LOUGHNAN.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
is-
Sr
%
NX
I
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E LL,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
JAMES EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett's Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
T
H O S. J.
ENGINEERS,
BOW N &
BRASSEINISHERS,
c 0.,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS. SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
r ■
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W,
Look for those words before making your purchase,
>,r a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Peice List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4,
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
ADVT
POSTAGE STAMPS.
G R O C E R S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DABLINGHURST.
w
H. A K I E L L,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
313 AND 315 Kent-stkbbt, near King-steeet.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham & Co.'s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Sou’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
313 and 315 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
JjILOUE SUPEEFINE.
Pine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Peed.
AIZENA FLOUE.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet ottered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL PLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEAENE.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAR THE HAYMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds!
FLOUR, "Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,|
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Corn, Barley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,,
Potatoes, &c.
| GEORGE-ST. Sin., SYDNEY.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES —Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr, D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART.
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blao 1
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
£2
A TEAS FOUNDRY AND ENGINEERING
-AjL COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney,Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOR GAS OR
KEROSENE.
o*o
*3
*
A
v/a\
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c..
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &o.
J. HAWKSFORD, C 5 MARKET STREET.
'Mite Oldest Cricketing
Depot in the Colonies*
vwmm,
BATS "bearing- my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
J>eint ing
Of Every Description
at eeduced bates
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Poster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THF BULLETIN.”


rjl H E ORIGINAL!—THE BEST!
KINGSFORD’S OSWEGO PREPARED CORN.
MADE OE AMERICAN INDIAN CORN,
Pure and unadulterated.
KINGSFORD’S OSWEGO CORN FACTORY is tlie
most extensive establishment of the kind in the world.
The purity of the Prepared Corn is unequalled.
By its superior nutriment, excellence, and uniformity,
it has secured a world-wide reputation, and the con-
sumption has, in spite of the competition of a host of
imitations, increased from year to year.
THE SALE NOW EXCEEDS 26 TONS PER DAY.
Although the price is higher than that of imitations
it is more economical to use the GENUINE OSWEGO.
“ Taken in conjunction, with Milk of Beef Tea it con-
stitutes a valuable article of diet for Infants and Young
Children.”
ARTHUR H. HASSALL, M.D.,
Author of “ Food and its adulterations,” Ac.
THE MOST DELICIOUS OF ALL PREPARATIONS
For Puddings, Custards, Blanc Mange, &c., as it
takes the full flavour of every kind of seasoning.
Fall Directions with each packet.
Sole Wholesale Agents—
M. MOSS & CO., SYDNEY.
IHE OSWEGO STARCH FACTORY AND
ITS PRODUCTIONS,
T. KTNGSFORD & SON, MANUFACTURERS.
The Starch Factory of Messrs. T. Kingsford & Son,
at Oswego, N. Y., is, without doubt, the most extensive
establishment of the kind in the world. In 1842 Mr.
Thomas Kingsford invented a process for extracting
from Indian corn a peculiarly delicate and nutritious
article of food known as Prepared Corn, and also a
superior Starch for laundry purposes. For the manu-
facturing of these articles in sufficient quantities to
meet the increased demands of both their home and
foreign trade this mammoth establishment was built.
The success from the start of this enterprise was un-
precedented, and their products came to be considered
as indispensable to the trade throughout the world.
The present dimensions of the main factory buildings
jn which Starch and Prepared Corn are manufactured
and packed, and which are built in the most substan-
tial manner of stone, brick, and iron, and some portions
of which are seven stories high, are 800 feet front, and
extending back 300 feet to the Oswego River, which
furnishes splendid water-power. Besides these are
large buildings, such as the box-factory, store-houses,
machine-shops, carpenter-shop, and other out-build-
ings. There are twelve acres of floors, and five acres of
roofs, and 38,800 lights of glass, equal to about the
surface of one acre. The factories contain 689 cisterns
or vats, containing an aggregate capacity of 3,150,000
gallons of water, for the purpose of effectually cleansing
the Starch and Prepared Corn from every conceivable
impurity.
There are forty-eight pumps, capable of raising
850.000 gallons of water per hour. The length of gut-
ters for distributing the materials is 6i miles. There
are 4 miles of water-pipes, varying in size from 2
inches in diameter to 24 inches.
For grinding the corn there are twenty-four pairs of
burr stones and six pairs of heavy iron rollers. There
are five miles of shafting, connected by 2499 gear-wheels,
also 716 pulleys. There are 690 sieves for straining the
Prepared Corn. There are 33J miles of steam pipes for
drying and warming the works. There are fourteen
turbine water wheels of an aggregate 1220 horse-power,
and ten steam engines of 815 horse-power, making an
aggregate of 2065 horse-power. There are thirteen large
steam boilers. There are twenty-four machines for
packing and weighing, capable of packing 72,000
packages per day. The building and machinery where
the packing-cases are made have a capacity to turn out
70.000 cases per day. There are 7240 feet of belting,
varying in width from 2 inches to 24 inches, and 27 and
li miles of hoop-iron used in hooping the cisterns.
The buildings cover 5 acres, while the number of
acres occupied for factory purposes is 171. 6000 tons
of coal are used annually. The works are now making
at the rate of 21,500,000 pounds of Starch and Prepared
Com;annually, or about 35 tons per day. To pack this
amount of material, 700,000 pounds of paper are re-
quired, and 5,000,000 feet of lumber for boxes, and
furnishes employment to about 950 operatives.
OSWEGO PREPARED CORN.
Oswego Prepared Corn is claimed to be the original
of all Corn Flour, aud it has become a household word
for a household necessity. Its great excellence has
merited the commendation of Europe for American
manufacture.
This is one of the few productions so perfect as to
admit of no improvement.
The manufacture of this delicate article from Indian
Corn was the sole invention of Mr. Kingsford more
than thirty-six years ago, during which period it has
received from time to time all the improvements wlucn
skill and science could furnish, and has now been
brought to the highest attainable quality.
Wherever placed on exhibition in the United States
it has been awarded the highest premium, and at the
World’s Fair in London in 1851 and 1862, also at the
Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, the Jury oi
Nations awarded to it the Prize Medal, in testimony o
the highest grade of merit.
When placed in competition with all the production
of the]world, it received the medal of Superiority.
The obvious justice of this award has since then re-
ceived the fullest confirmation by the testimony ot tn
most dis tfnguished analytical chemists in Europe,way
subjected it to rigid chemicallaualysis.
Sole Wholesale Agents—
M. MOSS & CO., SYDNEY.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
Th Ef urestStimulant
Wo*V£
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
SUPERLATIVE TONIC,
DIURETIC, ANTI-DYSPEPTIC,
And
INVIGORATING CORDIAL.
THIS MEDICINAL BEVERAGE
Is warranted not only free from every injurious
property and ingredient, but of the best possible
quality. Its extraordinary Medical properties in
GRAVEL, GOUT, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM,
INCIPIENT DROPSY, FLATULENCE,
COLIC PAINS
Of the Stomach or Bowels, whether in Adults or
Infants. In all ordinary cases of Obstruction in the
KIDNEYS, BLADDER & URINARY ORGANS;
In Dypepsia, whether Acute or Chronic, in
General Debility, Sluggish Circulation of the
Blood, Inadequate Assimilation of Food and Ex-
hausted Vital Energy, are acknowledged by the
whole Medical Faculty, and attested in their high-
est written authorities.
Perpetual Injunctions against the Counterfeits of
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Have been granted by the Supreme Courts of
New South Wales and Victoria, audfurther action
will be instantly taken against anyone infringing
upon the Trade rights of the Proprietor.
Sols Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
The undersigned individually acknowledge the
receipt of iil sterling, being for an order for that
amount found by them inside the wrapper or
under the label of Quart Bottles of Wolfe’s
Aromatic Schiedam Schnapps:—
No. 137—Joseph Heybnm, Balmain
85—R. Suape, Moonbi
171 —Bank of New South Wales, Gundagai
123—Commercial Bank, Queanbeyan
217 —L. Mockler, Bathurst
67 —P. Brown, s.s. Elamang
500—W. Meek. Newtown
562—Commercial Bank, Queanbeyan
410 — A. Telstead, Wagga Wagga
532—J. Malumby, Sussex-street, Sydney
81 —W. Mathews, Ipswich
78 —W. A. Hornby, Ophir, N.Z.
63—Bank of New South Wales, Creswick
76 —Hoifmeyer and Co., Sandhurst
412—Commercial Bank, Brisbane
515 James Newman, Gunning
604 —Joseph Crick, Double Bay
411— James Ah Foo, Springsure
140 —David Auld, Dunedin
639 —Joseph Holland, Pyrmont
245—Walford & Sparke, Sydney
515—J. L. Crimp, Cleveland-street, Sydney
26J—William Davies, Goulburn
597 —W. Sorrell, Wallerawang
625 —Union Bank, Rockhampton
327 - B3V6ryj "Yfiss
620—Bank of New South Wales, Tamworth
615—J. L. O’Leary, Burrowa
122—Queensland National Bank, Townsville
72 —Chas. Barnet Kadina, S. A.
313—E. Stewart. Ultimo
490—Queensland National Bank, Rockhampton
400—W. Fitzpatrick, Gunnedah
182—J, D. Rowe, Thornborough, Queensland
445 —A.J.S. Bank. Wagga Wagga
27f—P. O'Brien, Empire Hotel, Lyttleton
660—Frederick Nye, Christchurch
193 —T. J. Morton, Morton’s Hotel, Christchurch
505 —Hamburger Bros. & Co., Georgc-stroot, Sydney
546—T. Greystou. Tamworth
649—Commercial Bank, Yass
483 —Wood Brothers & Co., Newcastle
133 —Queensland National Bank, Port Douglas
374—Queensland National Bank, Rockhampton
262 —A. M. Naylor, Pitt-street, Sydney
639—T. Morgan, jnn.
803—A.J.S. Bank, Goulbnrn
510—George M. Starkey, Dee-street
635—F,A. and A.C. Bank
657 —H. Shayler, Parramatta
389—George Lloyd, Mastarton, N.Z.
322—L. Labor, Featherstone
293—Willcoek & Danten, Charters Towers
427 —G. Raff & Co., Brisbane
665—Thomas Cullen, Murphy’s Creek
247 —A.J.S. Bank, Yass
617 —A. Blakeney, Comet Hotel, Albion-street
291—George Allen, Clermont
503 —Willian Bond, Capt. Cook Hotel, Miller’s Point
430 —E. J. Maunder, Lucknow
011 —J. Ohatar, Filbert-street, Dunedin
789—M. Brodziak, Charters Towers
685 —G. Taylor, Bandana
280 —Chas. Hughes, Hughenden
462—G. J. Martin, Ashburton, N.Z.
559—Richard Turner, Bond-street
298—8. L. Fox, Rockhampton
309 —Barber & Co., Brisbane
143—C. R. Creswick, 2 Br. N.S.W. Artillery
799 —Travis & Co., Maryborough
438 —W. Suing, Charters Towers
677 —J. B. Bourke, West Maitland
447 —Bank New South Wales, Forbes
317—Bank New South Wales, Uralla.
The Trade in Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps
An enormous trade is done in the Australian
colonies in Wolfe’s Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps.
During the last four or five years 50,000 cases Pave
been imported to these colonies. Ten years ago
M. Moss and Co., of WynyardLane, in this city,
the agents for the colonies, imported their first
line of these Schnapps. Having an article whose
excellence was attested by the leading physicians
and scientists of the day, the firm resorted to the
Press to make that excellence widely known. In
'every newspaper in every town in the Australian
colonies have M. Moss and Co’s, advertisements
stared the people in the face. The sale grew
steadily. It was stated by the manufacturers
that the Schnapps was the purest spirit _ in
the market, which was confirmed by the leading
physicians of the day. Experience soon demon-
strated this to be a fact, and supplementary
evidence was forthcoming in the strongest recom-
mendations of every physician of standing in the
colonies. The demand for the Schnapps increased
every year,till now it has reached 30,000 cases. The
sum of .£20,000 was spent in advertising, and, as
every advertisement had to be checked, M. Moss
and Co’s, offices as the post is delivered partakes
somewhat of the appearance of a large newspaper
office. The enormous trade brought imitations
into the market, and the strong hand of the law
had to be invoked in order that the maker’s
rights might be maintained. The agents,
M. Moss and Co., got heavy damages and an in-
junction against the parties who sought _ to imi-
tate Wolfe’s celebrated brand. Herewith is given
a fac simile sketch of the exterior of the wrapper
in which Wolfe’s Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps are
done up; and there is also given a fac simile
sketch of the £1 orders which the manufacturers in
Hamburg secretly do up with the wrappers to en-
sure their complete distribution, and further pre-
vent the possibility of a base and injurious spirit
being passed for consumption. A certain number
of these £1 orders are done up in each day’s
packing for the colonies, and they are to be found
sometimes carefully stowed away in the wrapper
or securely fastened beneath the label on the
bottle. These orders are duly honoured by M.
Moss and Co., Sydney, and they are cashed by any
bank in the colonies. At the time of our reporter’s
visit to Messrs. Moss and Co.’s there were orders
for payment from the furthermost point in the
postal communications of the colonies. Professor
Dixon and the leading 1 Sydney physicians attest
the excellence and suitability of the Schnapps
either as a stimulant or as an article for general
consumption in this climate, and the statistics of
its trade demonstrate the soundness of their
testimony.
WZ&STJ3T <3r Ca
sottr-
WOLFE
S 3
A §WiP2aMffli¥B
TOXIC, DICOETIC, ANTI-DYSPCPTIC,
Invigorating Ooraic.l.
THIS WEBICISIfc CETEiMOC
b manufactured by tie Proprietor, at Schiedam, la Col*
Uad, and la warranted not only pure from every Injurioaa
property tod Ingredient, but of the teat poiULIo quality.
I La extraordinary Medicinal proper ll si, la
Ortnlf Boat, Chronla EhitmaUnn, Incipient Uropiy,
Xlalultataw Culio Pain*
Of the fitomosu or Bovola, whether la loom oa I«nri:
/a oil ordinary taut VOUlrvet'.on la U*
Sidneys, Bladder, end Urinary Organs ;
In Byapopala, lento or Chronla; In General
i>»Ulliiy, Elaggiih Cirealodoß of the Blood, Icud-
•gnete Aaelmilatian of Food, and
Ezbaxned Vital Energy;
Ira oehoowledged by the whole Medical Faculty, and at-
taetodin their highcat written a lUvoritiea.
PF* The attenUoa cf Igente and purchoaers la Invited
to Ilia algaataro and addreu of the Proprietor, oa Ilia
label* tad (O the UUa Of thin HadLcloal Cordial, cmboaaeJ
on the sides of (be Bottle, oa protection* against Inferior
ud pernicious laltolioaa
■—•-sawr.
sm&ffßSSr-
O-OtZ/ /&£' S^U/i
pytsstsaMs a/ i/ie/qf/se&y
cMj.SUfc/%J4 4^
//<0 ■ ;
6(f</rQr/u? c£n flSn
T '
The cheapest medicine chest sold in the Aus-
tralian colonies containing physic suitable for all ages
—old or young, rich or poor, married or single, is the
well-known Kanderson’s Podophyllin Lozenges. By
keeping these lozenges in the house, many a doctor’s
visit will he saved. Seeing that nearly all diseases
arise from a disordered stomach, they are the best,
safest, and most effectual purgative known. Try a
box, and be convinced of their value in removing head-
ache and general dyspepsia.—Advx,
FUN AND FANCY.
A bad omen.—To owe men money.
Men of the Time. —Chronometer-makers.
The first river you come to in Scotland is the
Forth.
Recipe for a hot breakfast. —Admire your land-
lady’s new bonnet.
It is far better to give than to receive—that is,
in a pugilistic sense.
Faith moves mountains, but it takes a couple of
express waggons to move a fashionable woman’s bag-
gage.
Music doesn’t always “ soothe the savage
breast.” The Indians killed a whole brass band out in
Colorado the other day.
In the hour of gloom the thought that all men
have to die is very comforting to the man who keeps
the funeral hacks for hire.
A bottle has been thrown ashore by the sea,
containing a document which purports to have been
written by Noah. It is probably a hoax.
Two deaf mutes were married the other day in
Chenango County, N.Y. It is pleasing to think that
no harsh words will ever pass between them.
There isn’t much difference between a grass
widow and a grasshopper, after all. Either will jump
at the first chance.
Man’s lot is not a happy one. No sooner is he
free from his mother’s apron strings and slipper than
he becomes the slave of some tyrant in pink and white
and marries. His wife then “masters” him until a
baby comes along, and then the baby masters the whole
family.
The Hoboken minister who kissed his cook was
asked to resign. “ The minister was not wise,” sug-
gests the Oily City Debrick. “He should have kissed
the ladies of his congregation, and his salary would
have been raised.”
Domestic (who is taking leave of her situation,
and is inclined to think that her excellent qualities have
not been altogether appreciated): ‘‘And I’m sure,
m’m, I have been most kind to the childring, in fact I
have treated them almost as if they were my own
little brothers and sisters."
A promising youth recently surprised his father
by asking : “ Father, do you like mother ?” “ Why, yes,
of course.” “ And she likes you ?" “Of course she
does.” “ Did she ever say so ?” “ Many a time, my
son.” “ Did she marry you because she loved you ?”
“ Certainly she did." The boy carefully scrutinized his
parent, and, after a pause, asked : “ Well, was she as
near-sighted then as she is now ?”
Two young men in light plaid clothes were rid-
ing down by train the other morning reading their
papers, when one of them saw an item about a robbery
in a boarding-house, in which it was said that the per-
petrators of the crime took the jewellery of the landlady
and of the three boarders. “It is funny, Billy,” said
the reader, “ that they always get away with the jewel-
lery in a boarding-house. They never steal anything to
eat."
The poet who composed the highly classical
ode:
When I was young, and had no sense,
I bought a fiddle for thirteen pence—
Died in the poor-house. Had he written it :
When I was young and had no guardian,
I invented my cash in an old accordion —
a grateful public would have risen up as one man and
presented him with a brass medal.
A down east circus has a cannibal among its at-
tractions, but the foolish reluctance of women to give
up their babies deprives him of many opportunities to
show off.
Mrs. Tanner, late wife of Dr. Tanner, the fasting
man, who recently married a widower named Hyde,
with eleven children, and says she has given up Tanning
and is now dressing Hydes.
“ I’m a census taker,” said he, smiling, at the
doorway. “ All right, but you musn’t in-cen-sus,” said
the man of the house, and he was immediately arrested,
and fined £2O according to law.
An Irishman can take his rifle and put a bullet
hole in a hat 1000 yards away every time; but he
doesn’t get down on the ground and tangle himself all
up to do it. All he needs is a good hedge.
A frail young woman in Denver flung herself
into a cistern, but was fished out. A local paragraph ad-
vised her as follows: “ Cisturn from your evil ways.”
But he won’t joke that way when it comes cistern.
Young men should take warning from the story
of the watchful mother, who, thinking that he* daugh-
ter’s guests had stayed long enough, walked out on the
piazza and inquired if the morning paper had come.
The number of one-armed young men seen driv-
ing out by Eandwick with young ladies these evenings
is truly appalling. An old soldier at our elbow says
that one arm is invariably lost during an engagement.
Street Scene. —Small and Objectionable Person:
“Don’t you know me, Mr. Yilliams ?” Mr. Williams :
“Oh yes, I knowyou.” S. and O. P.: “ Veil, yon didn’t
recognize me vhen you passed just now.” Mr. Williams :
“ That’s because I do know you.”
Do you believe in second love, Mr. M’Quade ?”
“Do I believe in second love ! Humph ! If a man
buys a pound of sugar, isn’t it sweet ? and when it is
gone, don’t he want another pound, and isn’t that
pound sweet, too ? Troth, Murphy, I believe in second
love."
Pun on tombstones ! The following is
and is to be found in West Churchyard, Tranent, Scot
land:
“ Trumpets shall sound, archangels cry.
Come forth, Isabel Mitchell, and meet William Mathi-
son in the sky.”
Here is a very precise inscription on a soldier, in the
kirkyard of Dumfries:
“ Here lies Andrew Macpherson,
Who was a peculiar person ;
He stood six feet two
Without his shoe.
And was slew
At Waterloo.”
The next is less communicative:
“ Here lies wrapt in clay
The body of William Wray.
I have no more to say.”
Jane Carthew’s epitaph at St. Angus, Cornwall, Eng-
land, has a very cruel remark :
“ Here lies the body of Jane Garthew.
Bom at St. Colmb, died at St. Cue;
Children she had five,
Three are dead and two alive ;
Those that are dead choosing rather
To die with their mother than live with their father.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Most perjury cases may be summed up—re-
venge.
I have turned over a new leaf, said the infidel—
Be-lief.
Gregory Board says the willow is best for
•“fretters.”
The Daily Alfred calls the Wagga fire “ a
disastrous conflagrailon.” Good again 1
The Barwon Argus has got an attacklof sen-
sational headings. O Alfred 1 how much lieth at thy
■door ?
The Parramatta Park wants inspecting after
dark. “The rain breeds no terrors, the moon's itself
defied.”
A. well-known Sydney dentist announces in the
local paper that he will “ shortly appear in Inverell ”
We seem to miss the words “ great attraction 1" some-
how.
The architect of the Melbourne Exhibition has
eot a bonus of something like £13,000. Our colonial
architect, for|erecting a much finer structure, gets only
abuse.
Willie Stephen gets G. H. Reid’s billet. A
split in the Cabinet. Sirenree and Jimmy say “ sack.”
Old Jack and Augustus say “ disrate "—why either of
-these ?
The latest dance is the “ cube
set.”
The big divorce case comes on
next month.
Parnell does not come to Syd-
ney via America.
Sir Patrick Jennings, K.C.M.G.,
is a pleasant fact.
Babbage is sadly wanted about
•Sydney street organs.
There are several “dark horses”
yet to come for East, West, and South
Sydney.
It is unlikely that Mr. Macin-
tosh will be induced to stand again
for East Sydney.
The Government reap a rich
harvest on the Proctor prohibition
day out of the Eandwick trams.
Where was the new Superin-
tendent of the fire brigades, when the
Oxford-street fire was being “played
•out ?”
A stranger here says hotel liv-
ing is most expensive. It cost him
30s the other night to sleep in an arm-
chair.
An inspection of old sea-tubs is
spoken of in official quarters. If it
•takes place firewood will go down in
the market.
The railway porters at the
Orange Railway Station are so polite
that they even allow ladies to wheel
their own luggage from the station to
the carriage.
Dr. Trask, of the P.M.S.S.
■“City of New York.” is ■writing a
book on New South Wales, and eulo-
gizes the Zigzag, and other portions
of the colony therein.
“Dried up” is the way they
■•announce in America a man’s retire-
ment from a political contest. A good
many will “dry up” about these
parts before December.
One of the leading mercers in
Queen-street, Brisbane, is about to
become a Benedict. Chorus of sym-
pathising friends “ There’s another
good man gone wrong.”
The gentleman who attends a
•crowded church, but who indulges in
onions every Sunday tea-time, is loud
in his praises of the politeness of the
congregation. “No unseemly crowd-
ing, you know.”
One of the most sanctimoniously
■conducted lodging-houses of Wool-
loomooloo is presided over by a gen-
tleman who recently addressed his
■correspondence “ Darlinghurst, Wing
A; corridor B,” &c., &c.
There is some talk about the
Civil Service Co-operative Stores.
The refusal of the Board, at the last
meeting, to allow shareholders to ex-
amine the books, appears to have only
increased their desire to do so.
Fifteen of the city aldermen
have announced themselves as candi-
dates for Parliament. They have
proved themselves so clever in dealing
with city finance, as to aspire to the
manipulation of treasury funds.
Mr. Hughes, of the Coffee
Palace, says his waitresses axe not
■overworked. Well, compared with
the Tram Superintendent (who works
■eighteen hours a day), and railway
signal-men, perhaps they are not, but
girls are not men, thank goodness !
A person went to a money lender
who lives about 10 miles from St.
James’s Church to borrow. “ Yes,”
said the money lender in answer to
his requisition, “ but how do you in-
tend to repay the amount ?’’ “ Oh,"
said the intending borrower, with a
knowing grin, “ half when I die, and
the other half when I come back
again.”
A Congregational minister in
Glasgow has had his testimonials, with
an account of his experience, family,
&0., printed as a circular, and sent
■out to the secretaries of the Congre-
gational Unions of the various colo-
nies. It is said also, that the Vic-
torian Parade Congregational Church
in Melbourne has sent for him. Of
course, this is the call of God, in
Church cant, but what will the scep-
tics think of it. But after all what is
there in the simple words, “ Warran-
ted a good cure.”
A man of Adelaide, named Noble, has recovered
£2O damages against a young girl named Crawford for
breach of promise. This may be termed a case of
Noblesse oblige, though we doubt if Miss Crawford was
■obleeged to Noble.
You can’t improve the libel law by unfair and
irritating puny attacks on the judges in every day’s
issue. One good meeting is the thing. The rest should
be left to Parliament.
A vocalist in Balmain, singing “ Man the life
boat,” was hissed and interrupted by cries of “ Godde-
froy,” and “ Oh, Sussanne.” He should try Newcastle
just now with that song.
North Shore is to have no water supply till the
Nepean scheme is completed. Where is Holtermann ?
Of course he’ll reply, “Id is no matter, so long as de
(Lager) peer hoT dout.”i
Many parts of Woolloomooloo are at present
tastefully festooned by kite-tails. Juvenile cricket (a
game played with road metal, a boomerang, and a gin-
case), looms in the horizon.
We reverse the style of things in those colonies.
Housebuilders become the constructors of forts. Now
that Sir James Martin is on the Bench we have no
vauban to see to our safety.
In the current number of the Australian
there is a “ Lone Song,” by “ Liryc.” Here is apenny-
weight of it
“ I’d kiss thee softly on the lips,
And melt in pure delight.”
Milton might have wrote this—or Scroggins.
A Freethought Club is brewing in the General
Post office.
Ellen Tighe was, on Friday last, fined 40s. for
being Tighe-t.
Turkey is about arranging with her creditors—
for a new loan.
Thus a West Australian paper:—“ Four cot-
tages to let, conveniently situated at the back of the
prison.”
When a certain literary genius bids his beloved
good-bye, he says, “ Nighty, nighty, dear! ” Unaffected
eweatur 1
Two men and a boy are working at the Peter-
sham viaduct. The wool season will find the works
completed.
The Twilight Hogue didn’t report David’s
phillipics. The ante mortem canonization of Ninny was
too genuine!
Gold is being taken from a rich claim at
Temora. This doesn’t cause the proprietors much joy
so far, because the people who take it are strangers.
The proprietary of the Melbourne Bul-
letin comprises two lawyers, an artist, and a
humourist. A good mixture if not “ shaken before
taken.”
Certain convenient buildings from our great
International are now serving as cottages of content at
Manly. More Philanthropy! A clergyman is the
speculator.
Urgently required. A list of cases where gentle-
men (?) have been bowled out travelling without
“parting” on the railway. Also the number ofsuch cases
hushed up, and the reasons therefor.
Peter Campbell is evidently “gone” on allitera-
tion. He “preached,” last Sunday, on “The Pulpit of
the Period.” Next Sunday, “ The Pulverizing Prophet,
or the Peripatetic Pitcher,” will be given.
Defalcations havebeen discovered in theaccounts
of the late Registrar of the Supreme Court, Brisbane,
amounting to about £4O, and yet the police there won’t
even allow Yankee grab for “ soft drinks.”
When toasts are uttered “ to the dead 1"
With brows unclad we silent drain
The pledge ; but in the heart and head
They live again.
Tiddlewinks was at the funeral. He seemed
lost in his helmet. When will Tiddlee be content with
something like a jam-tin ? It is all very well to have a
helmet, but confound it a fellow must have a head to
fill it.
When a new Hibernian arrival caught sight of
Dr. Beaney at the last Melbourne Cup, he cried out, so
stricken was he with the gorgeous apparition —“ Be-
gorra! shouldn’t I like to pawn him." This should be
original.
The Rockhampton Argus announces a “ black
burglary.” Then in the next column they have a par.
headed “ Black ingratitude.” This is what the old
croupiers would call “ a run on the black.” Fattes lu
jeu. Messieurs!
The name of an auditor in a lodge of Sons of
Temperance in Kiama is Boniface.
Admirable Self-abnegation.—A medical man
kicking orange-peel off the side-walk.
Tyerman has gone over for the Melbourne Cup.
Bright was going, but he had a (pecuniary) call to stay.
Saturday’s Echo says that “the Paris Figaro
is compiling a little “ Dictionnaire des Estrangers.”
What’s that ?
When Oily Gammon kept a diary he wrote, “ I
have grown a foot larst yere ” —only he forgot to cross
the t in foot.
“The Aspirates’ Use Repeal Bill” and the
“Lindley Murray Burials Bill” are to be introduced
next session.
The blacks are getting troublesome in Queens-
land, and the whites, in the same locality, are getting
some trouble.
A minimum size for rooms should be fixed by
Municipal Councils in suburbs where building is con-
templated. That would stop these 16-feet allotments.
The suburban bandsmen who refused to play
along George-street, behind a transparency, were in
such a condition the other night as to be quite unable
to see one.
Sir Francis and Lady Smith (Tasmania) return-
ing from Melbourne, had to undergo some heavy
“ scrooging” in one of Cobb and Co.’s coaches from
Wodonga to Albury.
The top of the Petersham Railway Bridge
wouldn’t be chosen by many for spooning. Yet one
couple may be seen there; she says she can see her
husband coming from a convenient distance. This is a
friendly warning.
Young Jones used to come to the front gate and
whistle for Matilda. Her father made up his mind to
warn Jones about it, so next night he wrote out a big
notice, “In Terrorem," and posted it near the gate—on
the bulldog’s ribs.
One of the evening papers says we, in this
colony, are at the old game again of appointing sham
educational boards—boards composed of men unedu-
cated themselves and without the slightest taste for
intellectual culture.
A well-known Sydney detective having gone to
do duty in Melbourne, it will render seeing the Lyons
an easy matter to those who visit the Exhibition.
“ Doing the Lyons,” however, will by no means be so
simple to accomplish.
The Collector of Customs and other salaried
officers contribute two-pence to the revenue under the
Stamp Act when receiving their monthly dols., but the
bloated Tide Waiter is taxed to the amount of four-
pence. Why is this thus ?
How things get mixed at the Town Hall. A
Fowler in the Mayor’s room ; a Maze, a Carter, a Dean,
a Palmer, a Chapman, and a Taylor in the Aldermanio
chambers; Allum in the treasury; a Daker, a Fox, and
an Abbott in the cellar; a Woolcott over all; a Mountain
on one side of the vestibule ; a Butterfield on the other;
and a Merriman in the Police Court.
Under the head of “localmems,” the Inverell
Times announces the death of Jaques Offenbach.
An average of more than one coffee-palace
waitress a month has been married since the opening.
Dr. Beg insists that his “ best friend ” is still
alive. As an end man’s joke this would be very funny.
It is a sarcastic man who exhibits a dog-kennel
at the Melbourne International, and labels it an Aus-
tralian bark hut.
Maggie Knight says her husband is owing; but
her benefit at Adelaide brought in much hard cash last
Wednesday week.
Mr. Morehead, in the Queensland House of
Assembly, wanted to know if it was a crime to kill a
lawyer. Not some lawyers.
Joe Eckford writes to say “ that if ho ain’t the
acum of perfeeshun as a member, he is at enny rait a
wonderful fenomema.” So is Peter Campbell.
The S.A. Register says of The Bulletin
that it “Is altogether the best journal of its kind
which has been published in the colonies."
One of the men charged with stealing cube sets
was proved to be actually saving money for the Govern-
ment by breaking the stone for ballast. Evidently
another mare’s nest.
Sir ’Enery’s prophecy “ that the population of
Australia will, next year, be increased to 3,000,000,"
causes us to “think of the friends over there” on the
other side of the wall.
Melbourne International attend-
ance is far below Sydney.
The Bethel Church is a popular
resort at 8.30 on a Sunday night.
Hogsflesh is the appropriate
name of a butcher at Surry Hills.
“ Temora is going ahead.” A
free-stone gaol is in contemplation.
Burton Bradley is consistent.
He won’t cross the Petersham via-
duct, but he walks under it.
There is nothing to be seen in
Toowoomba (Queensland) now except
bank clerks and black gins.
Measles have invaded Padding-
ton Barracks. The sentry allowed
them to pass without challenge.
The Insurance offices doing
business here met one day, and ar-
ranged to have a picnic. The picnic
has not yet come off.
The picnics are interfering with
the attendance of children at the
Public schools. It is noticeable that
“free” children seldom miss one.
Some of the more aristocratic
members of the local band at Peter-
sham have embarked in the “ Haris-
tocratic” pastime of electioneering.
A constable who perambulates
one of the parks has lately bought a
piece of land for £2OOO. How is it
done ? Open air somnolents are not
usually disgustingly wealthy.
When a Cooktown man read
in the Herald that the Colonial Sec-
retary hod “forwarded a supply of
converted sniders,” he said they were
better than Chinamen anyhow !
There is a J.P. at South Head
who still amuses himself by having
goats thrown over the cliffs. Where
is the Inspector of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ?
A man whose property was des-
troyed by fire recently, had made a
proposal to an office, but refused to
pay the rate quoted for an insurance.
While he hesitated the house burned.
They say in Victoria that Mr.
Berry always exhibits a forty Austrian
band power when blowing his own
trumpet. On this side we have our
German band in the person of Sir
'Enery.
Senor Gayarre, the most popu-
lar operatic tenor in England, was
(says a N.Z. exchange), at one time a
blacksmith at Pampeluna. A corres-
pondent signing himself “ J.D." says
all great men were blacksmiths.
In connection with the “ in-
sanity” of buildings complained of
by the City Improvement Board, the
citizens think it time some “ sane ”
measures were adopted by the Cor-
poration towards assisting them.
Our inspector of charities has
been visiting Grafton. He thinks that
the men who designed and approved
of the plans for the new wing to the
Grafton Hospital never saw a hospital.
Rather rough this on some people.
Is it not time that constables
were empowered to carry out muni-
cipal bye-laws ? The whole secret as
to why they do these things so much
better in Melbourne rests in the fact
that the police are empowered to en-
force the corporation regulations.
There is no encouragement to
colonial talent. We have several ex-
cellent old blocks we could supply
the big Sydney weeklies with, at a
trifle under what they ore now paying
the London papers for their “excellent
illustrations," and yet there is no
quiry for our old blocks !
Last Sunday afternoon some
young ladies’ after attending Sunday
School, went on board a vessel lying
at one of our wharves and helped them-
selves to some cake in an officer’s
state room. When he gallantly in-
vited them to come in and take some
more they declined, saying it was
sweeter stolen.
Sullivan, the N. Z. murderer, is
a capital point for police jokes.
Whatever happens Sullivan is the in-
evitable “ Miles’s Boy.” Now,
although he is known to be in
Western Australia, they übiquitose
him at Bermagui! The Evening
Lyre again.
The Walgett Mail, in a brevity (they’ve all
got brevities now) is delivered of the appended blast
of intelligence:—” Neilson’s voice, it is said, has de-
teriorated.” We should think it had, considering she
has been dead over a month.
Sir ’Enery prohibited Mr. Proctor from lecturing
on Sunday; but now (according to Monday’s News)
some determined fellows commenced Sunday preaching
in “Parks." But I suppose they are only a few
(E)oysters haranguing to porters.
Miss Turner, who officiates in the Melbourne
Unitarian Church during the absence in Sydney of the
Eev. W. E. Melton, speaks very straight to sinners,
and when she puts her foot down makes herself heard.
It’s the same with Peter Campbell.
E. B. Grundy, of the farinaceous capital, is
thinking of going on the stage. He avers that his
humour is completely thrown away on the Bench, for
the C. J. can’t recognise or repeat anything as a joke
unless it be years old at least. Fact.
The following appears in the Pastoral Times
of the 9th inst.; —“lf anyone who has lately seen
Daniel O’Connor at Echuca or Shepparton will give in-
formation, however slight, concerning him, it will
greatly oblige his mother.” Can this be a joke ?
Mr. W. H. Suttor had a bit of bad luck the
other day at Carcoar. Mr. B. Stimpspn, of that town,
moved an amendment to the chairman’s motion that
Mr. S. was a fit and proper person to represent them.
He said he “ was very sorry to do so, but under all the
circumstances he thought it would have been better for
FLEECED NO MORE!
SQUATTER: “HALO, WHAT’S THIS?”
STATION-HAND: “GOING TO THE OLD PLACE, SIR.”
SQUATTER: “COME, COME! THAT GAME’S ALL UP. OUR WOOL GOES TO SYDNEY."


o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
iiilß
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
mm
al^ay s
c\iSiO
qw 1
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Sconring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WOODSIDE ESTATE.
WOODSIDE ESTATE. WOODSIDE ESTASE.
Between
Granville and Merry lands Stations,
and HAVING LARGE FRONTAGES TO THE LINE,
Subdivided
into 34 Allotments, each having an area
of about
HALF AN ACRE.
BATT, RODD, and PUR YES have received
instructions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, October 23rd, at 3 p.m.,
THE above very VALUABLE ESTATE.
fronting the RAILWAY LINE and ROADS
ONE HUNDRED FEET WIDE,
and in the immediate neighbourhood of the
residences of Messrs. Holroyd, Docker, Lowe,
and others, while not far distant from PARRA-
MATTA,
offers advantages
to those requiring GOOD VILLA SITES rarely
to be met with.
HIGH LAND. RICH SOIL. BEAUTIFUL SITES,
TITLE FREEHOLD. TERMS EASY.
LARGE SALE PLAN and LITHOGRAPHS of the
subdivision on view at the ROOMS of the AUC
TIONEERS.
Special Train to convey intending purchasers or
Day of SaIe—SATURDAY, 23rd October.
BATT. RODD, and PURVES.
JIREETHOU6HT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL,
SUNDAY EVENING. OCT. 24, 1889.
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a LECTURE
entitled:
“ REASON AND CULTURE :
versus
HELL, THE DEVIL, AND DR, BEG.’
Doors open at 7. Commence at 7.30. Sittings as
usual.
Transferable Course Tickets at the doors.
T
HE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
is
KING-STREET.
See the
BON MARCHE POMPADOUR PRINTS
at 4fd per yard.
See the
BON MARCHE BEIGES
at 3Jd per yard.
See samples of all the
NEWEST, MOST FASHIONABLE, & SEASONABLE
GOODS IN OUR WINDOWS.
LEADER AND STARK.
LECTORS OP SOUTH SYDNEY.
Vote for
EDWARD HORDERN,
One of the
REFORM ALDERMEN
Of the City Council.
READ HIS ADDRESS,
INTELLIGENT, ENERGETIC, INDEPENDENT,
HE SEEKS NO OFFICE,
He will neither
DECEIVE NOR DISGRACE THE ELECTORS.
LET HIM HEAD THE POLL.
N
EWTOWN ELECTORATE.
ALDERMAN JOHN YOUNG is a CANDIDATE-a
live representative for NEWTOWN.
M° ET’S WOOL WAREHOUSES
PRODUCE STORES.
CIRCULAR QUAY,
Sydney.
MORT and CO. hold SALES OF WOOL bv *.
on y auction
WEDNESDAYS and FRIDAYS
IN EACH WEEK DURING THE WOOL SEASON
To secure the FULLEST CONFIDENCE fr
buyers, and, as a consequence, the
BEST POSSIBLE RESULT TO OWNERS,
all wool is EXAMINED on receipt,
CLASSIFIED, and FULLY DISPLAYED for tJ
SPECTION. This rule is strictly observed wifi,
SMALLEST as well as with the LARGEST LOTS 1 * 16
and every parcel is dealt with on its intrinsic me;*
When desired, lts>
OWNERS ARE ADVISED WITH AS TO VALUES-
before offering for sale.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES
mode as .required on produce received for sale
< shipment.
SHIPMENTS
to THEIR LONDON HOUSE have the benefit of
SPECIAL SUPERVISION
by the
RESIDENT LONDON PARTNER.
In addition to above,
AUCTION SALES OF LEATHER
are held on TUESDAYS,
SHEEPSKINS on WEDNESDAYS,
TOBACCO LEAF on THURSDAYS,
and
HIDES, TALLOW, &c., on FRIDAYS.
WAYBILLS
and all further information forwarded on application
WOOL AND OTHER PRODUCE
Consigned to our care at any of the Railway Termini or
at the Steam Companies’ W harf s, will be duly forwarded.
MORT AND C O.’S,
WOOL WAREHOUSES AND PRODUCE STORES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
SYDNEY.
W ILLIAM HADDOCK
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
381 QEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST RECEIVED, ex “ORIENT” steamers, alaree
supply of
BIRTHDAY CARDS,
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S CARDS
COVENTRY BOOK-MARKS,
SATCHETS, &c.
NEW BOOKS.
A Woman’s Patience, by E. J. Worboise—ss.; post, 6s.
Joan Carisbroke, by E. J. Worboise—ss.; post, 6s.
A Red Rose Chain, by Maggie Symington—ss.; post, 6s.
Pictures from English Literature, 20 illustrations-
-55.; post, 6s.
Roberts’ Manual of Fashionable Dancing—2s. 6d.;
post, 3s.
Wood’s The Tree Planter and Pliant Propagator, illus-
trated—2s.; post, 2s. 6d.
Wood's The Tree Primer, illustrated—2s,: post, 2s. 6d.
Locker’s Patchwork—ss.; post, ss. Bd.
Pitman’s Phonetic Short-hand and Pronouncing Dic-
tionary—4s. 6d.; post, ss.
Probation, a novel, by author of “First Violin”—6s.;
post, 7s.
Stephens’s (J. Brunton) Miscellaneous Poems—6s.;
post, 6s. 9d.
Ribeaucourt’s Manual of Rational Beekeeping, illus-
trated—3s. ; post, 3s. 6d.
Hayward’s Taking Cold the Cause of Half our Diseases
—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
Zerffi’s Spiritualism and Animal Magnetism—ls, 3d.;
post, Is. 6d.
Davies’s Other Men’s Minds, or 7000 choice Extractson
History, Science, Philosophy, and Religion, steel
plates—9s.; post, 11s. 6d.
Flora Symholica, or the Language and Sentiment of
Flowers, coloured illustrations by Terry, gilt extra
—6s.; post, 7s. 6d.
Jones’s The Broad, Broad Ocean and some of its Inhabi-
tants, illustrated—ss.; post, 6s. 6d.
Jones’s The Animal Creation, a Popular Introduction
to Zoology, 500 illustrations—ss.; post, 6s. 6d.
Valentine’s The Girl’s Home Book, or How to Play
and How to Work, illustrated—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
James’s (G.P.R.) Henry Masterton, John MorstonHall,
The Gipsy, 3 vols. in 1, cloth—2s. 6d.; post, 3s. 2d.
Davies’s Wildcat Tower, or Adventures of Four Boys
in pursuit of Sport and Natural History in the
North Countrie, illustrated, gilt extra —65.; post, 7s.
Grant’s The Lord Hermitage, a novel —25.; post, 2s. 9d.
Spurgeon’s (Rev. C. H.) John Ploughman’s Pictures:
More of his Talk —Is. 3d.; post. Is. 6d.
Cassell’s Sixpenny Lessons in French—6d. ; post, lOd.
Cassell’s Lessons in French—2s. 6d.; post, 3s. 2d.
Manners of Modem Society—2s.; post, 2s, 6d.
Davidson’s Elements of Building Construction—2s.;
post, 2s. 6d.
Men of the Time, a Dictionary of Contemporaries, tenth
edition, by T. Cooper—lss.; post, 17s.
Womankind, by C. M. Yonge—Bs. 6d.; post, 9s. 6d.
The Family Novelette Library, 12 complete high-class
novels—2s.; post, 2s. Bd.
“JUDY" SHILLING BOOKS, each containing hun-
dreds of comic pictures—each, Is.; post, Is. Od. .
A Book of Comicalities—Judy’s High Jinks— A
Shilling’sworth of Phiz—Rattletray and Tootle-
tum—Sugar Plums —There and Back —Crackers
and Kisses —All the Way—Sloper’s Book of
Beauty—The Twopenny Twins—Sloper’s Guide
to Paris —Sand and Shingle— Yoicks—Moon-
shine—The Penny Wedding—High Tide— Ally
Sloper, a moral lesson—Ally Sloper’s Senti-
mental Journey—Fun on the Sands —Seaside
Maidens.
MADDOCK’S GUIDE TO SYDNEY and TOURISTS’
HANDBOOK, comprising a description of the City
and its institutions, with which is incorporated
The Tourists’ Handbook and Description of the
Resources of New South Wales . Fourth Edition.
Price, Is.; post. Is. 4d.
JUST PUBLISHED, r . tnxJ
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS OP NEW SOhTB
WALES, and the Regulations, with Notes and
Index, by John L. Watkins, Esq., M.A. Cantab. &
Sydn., and of the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law.
Price, 10s. 6d.; post, 11s.
LETTS’S DIARIES for 1881, all sizes and bindings.
MAGAZINES and PERIODICALS for 1881-Sub-
scribers’ names can now be received.
THE FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDE, with plain direc-
tions for the treatment of every case, and a list o
medicines required for any household, by Gboem-
Fullerton, C.M. & M.D., formerly Physician t
the Sydney Infirmary and Benevolent Asylum •
Third Edition, revised and improved; containing
also the newly-discovered Remedy for Gout, Rne •
matism, and Neuralgia. 548 pp. demy Bvo., w' l
photographic portrait of the author. Price, l- s - ’
free by post, 14s.
WILLIAM HADDOCK,
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY.
381 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
The league foe the encourage-
ment OF COLONIAL INDUSTRIES will aoiu
te usual Public meeting at 183 Castlereagh-street,
iibson’s, on Friday, October 24, at 8 o’clock p.
Visitors invited. „
G. R. MACLEAN, Hon. Sec-
rjl H E A T E E
Lessee
ROYAL.
Mr. Samuel Lazar.
THIRTY-THIRD WEEK IN SYDNEY,
and
SEVENTIETH WEEK IN THE AUSTRA-
. LI AN COLONIES,
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING,
find during the Week,
Grand production of Albery’s Brilliant Comedy, in
three acts, entitled,
THE TWO ROSES.
Byron’s powerful Dramatic Work,
THE LANCASHIRE LASS,
is in preparation, and will shortly be produced.
Prices of Admission: Dross circle, Ss; stalls, 3s;
family circle, 2s ; pit. Is.
Seats in the dress circle can be secured, and stall
tickets obtained, at Elvy’s, George-street.
■Tickets for all parts of the house can now be obtained
during the day at Lloyd’s Hotel, Castlereagh-street,
next Theatre.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Q
U E E N ’ S
THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, and Greville, Hennings
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
THURSDAY, 21st OCTOBER,
The gifted Tragedienne
LOUISE POMEROY,
for the last time in ROMEO and JULIET,
FRIDAY, 22nd OCTOBER,
LAWRENCE FOLEY GRAND PRESENTATION
NIGHT.
OLIVER TWIST.
NANCY LOUISE POMEROY.
During the evening Captain M'Donald, on behalf of
the friends and admirers of MR. LAURENCE FOLEY,
will present him with the Gold and Silver Champion
Belt.
SATURDAY and|MONDAY, 23rd and 25th OCTOBER,
EAST LYNNE.
LOUISE POMEROY AS LADY ISABEL.
N
EW SOUTH WALES
REGATTA.
NATIONAL
A MEETING of Committee will be held at the Ex-
change Hotel, THIS THURSDAY EVENING, 21st
instant, at 8 o’clock, to close accounts connected with
Regatta of 1880.
_ Members of Committee who have collected subscrip-
tions since last meeting are requested to hand same to
the Hon. Treasurer.
FRED. THOMAS, Hon. Sec.
Sydney, October 21st, 1880.
The large and weekly increasing
BUSINESS
of the
BON MARCHE, 69, KING-STREET,
is due to the following statements: —
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
makes.
Secondly.—The Prices are Lower than ever for the
Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Politeness, civility, and attention paid to
all customers.
Fourthly.—Our Stock is always well assorted with
new Beautiful Goods.
Every Steamer brings us FRESH SUPPLIES.
LEADER AND STARK.
Mr. Snttor if he had remained at home a little longer,
and then it would have been more becoming if he had
sought re-election at the hands of his old constituents
at East Macquarie (Loud applause.)” The amend-
ment “ That Mr. Suttor is not a fit and proper person
to represent this electorate in the Legislative Assembly
of New South Wales," was carried by four to one!
This don’t look healthy, William.
When Mr. Spurgeon preached on Sunday last
at the Royal, he invited all “ singers ” on to the plat-
form. The stage was accordingly crammed, and as each
vocalist sang “Hold the Tort” to the tune he knew
best, the effect of the whole was very striking indeed.
Mr. T. Pugh, P.M., Rockhampton, has obtained
six weeks’ leave of absence, owing to his sight having
become affected, and intends to proceed to Melbourne
to consult an oculist (!) Can this be an epidemic ?
There are a few in Sydney suffering from the same
complaint!
Both the Adelaide papers are railing at the
Agent-General. West-Erskiue fancies it a mistake to
suppose that because a man knows all about saucepans
he therefore should be “esteemed relative” to
railway gear. There is more in this than most West-
Erskinism.
A correspondent writes: “A fair young man
(27) walks down Cambridge-street, South Kingston,
every Sunday about noon, picking flowers from over
garden fences until he has a nice bouquet. Does he
read the Bulletin ?” [No; he takes the Christian
Weekly.—-Ed.]
Messrs. Freeman and Howard (the footballer) and
two young ladies were wrecked off Bradley’s Head on
Tuesday last. No harm was done save the caving in of
the boat and the wetting of the fair boatists; and all
that was lost was a scull, Mr. Freeman’s left shoe, and
—the ladies’ tempers.
A Pitt-street printer, who aspires to Parlia-
mentary honors, was present at the Printers’ Picnic
and Regatta. Desirous of a good prominent position
he stepped on to a little knoll. How those soldier
ants did make him turn and twist about. It was nigh
as bad as the declaration of a poll.
Yet another bard. Philip Dale this time
Then rest ye adored ones in heaven above,
Till together we waken the strains that I love.
This smacks of Eliza Cook— in her old age.
David Syme drives away from the Age office
every afternoon in a carriage and pair, driven by a
coachman in a blue livery, with a ventilator on the left
side of this gold-emblazoned stone-pipe. Not bad this
for a radical editor.
A Queensland paper jocularly remarks :—“ Mrs.
Cox, of Bundaberg, who recently gave birth to triplets,
has received a letter and a cheque for £lO from the
Premier. Mr. MTlwraith evidently believes in en-
couraging native industry.”
In the current month’s number of the Shilling
Haviland there is a drawing entitled “ Prospecting at
Temora Gold-field,” which resembles a murderer dig-
ging the grave of an anticipated victim. The most
realistic thing in the litho. is the shovel. The effect
of this is positively pre-Eaphaelite.
“ Williauj ” V., of Adelaide, has withdrawn
proceedings against the Bank of Australia for dis-
honour of a certain cheque. He thinks that no money
would compensate him for the damage his character
has sustained, and will therefore content himself by
simply “cutting” the manager the next time they
meet.
A correspondent asks-. “How can I get Sir
Henry Parkes’ autograph ?" Write to him for a posi-
tion; omit all reference to the figure—per annum.
There’s nothing much, however, in Sir Henry’s auto-
graph. Lots of people in this city have it, and they
don’t care much about it. Any of them would give it
to you.
Charles Cronquest, now in Darlinghurst for
forgery, has issued a writ against the Mudgbe
Chronicle, claiming damages for injuries sustained
through an accident. Cronquest tumbled into a blind
creek at the end of the township. It is called a
“ blind ’’ creek. The people are too kind to say the
creek was intoxicated.
Thus the Inverell Herald “ Another
Speculation.—We have received a Supreme Court writ,
at the instance of Mr. Bond, of the Inverell Times,
claiming damages for libel. Mr. Bond only asks £2000.”
Mr. 8., being on the right side of the hedge, is of course
jubilant. Therefore the Herald people are likely to
find good spirits in Bond.
Talk of “ insult to injury !” Look at this par.
in Saturday’s Lynch “In our issue of Tuesday it was
stated that a man named Joseph Francis had been
bitten by a dog belongingto John Whelan, of Watson’s
Bay. The names were transposed, Joseph Francis
being the owner of the dog and Whelan the subject of
the attack.” It’s lucky Whelan isn’t a Chinaman !
In speaking of Mr. Bonnor’s portrait in the
Sydney Illustrated News, a Bathurst paper remarks :
—“We would not have known it was intended for him
if his name had not appeared below the portrait. He
must surely have worn a mask.” Journalistic ameni-
ties are flying around! Could it be that instead of
having on a mask Bonnor was taken whilst Bonnorted.
Members of the Adelaide Council gbt abusing
each other lately, and threw mud in the shape of ante-
cedents, which stuck. “Fluffy Joe” declared, with
tears in his eyes, that he never was a “guinea-pig,”
while “ Sir ’Enery ” protested he never knew how to
play the fiddle, and Sandover swore he’d report the first
man who dared to insinuate he used to sell Kent Town
beer for English.
Inverted commas must be plentiful at the Cook-
town Herald Office. This is how they report the
Police Magistrate “ I cannot refuse to take the ”
“ evidence of a child who proves his knowledge of a”
“ Supreme Being and the consequences of telling an ”
“untruth,” &c., and so on for half-a-column. Could
the editor at the time he read his proof have been him-
self in a state of Com(m)a ?
Now that Sammy Lees has “ consented” to be
nominated for South Sydney, he calls pica “ picah,”
and tells his boy to tell the “Mayah” that he’ll be
round at the “Town-nail almost immediate.” He
thinks nothing of changing his paper “ collah ” every
Other day, and has his eye on a pair of M'Coy’s ten-
and-sixpenny patents. He is actually getting too proud
to turn the handle of the double demy. “Think of
that. Master Brook.”
The Colonial Printers’ Register says :
“The Eastern Districts Chronicle, published at
York, has the reputation of being the smallest, the
most impudent, and the worst printed newspaper in
West Australia.” We are looking out anxiously for
the Eastern Districts Chronicle’s opinion of the
Printers’ Register. Won’t the long primer just be
leaded, and won’t the we’s bristle in the editorial
columns ? Ha ! ha! Vengeance!
A bard in the Gundagax Times sings to this
effect: —
“ My next penchant was for one whose face
Was her fortune, she was as fair;
Oh ! she spoke with an air of enchanting grace;
But a man cannot live upon air.”
There is more truth than poetry in this'stanza. The
writer signs himself B.S.—initials that are suggestive
of brandy and soda. In conclusion, he says
“ I was now forty-one, but I did still adopt
All the style of a juvenile beau;
But, somehow, whenever the question I popped,
The girls with a laugh said ‘ No.”’
A fact, which, if his love-making was no better than his
poetry, ought to surprise no one.
“ Frank Fudge” vouches for the accuracy of
the following story:—“Fourteen years ago a certain
storekeeper on the West Coast of N.Z. was forced,
through unremunerative mining speculations, to become
insolvent. However, times have improved with him,
and the other day he made a circuit of his former
friends, paying 20s. in the £ and wiping out all old lia-
bilities. A few days afterwards one of the grateful
creditors mot a brother trader in Princes-street,
Dunedin, and narrated the incident. The listener, who,
by the way, is a shining light in one of our city churches,
was quite astonished to hear of such noble restitution,
and gave vent to his admiration as follows; —* Eh, mon,
ye surprise me; he maun surely be a richt guid Chris-
tian tae ack soe nobly.’ ‘ Christian be bio wed,’ replied
the blunt informant; ‘why, he's a Jew. You won’t
find a Christian make such a blessed fool of himself.’ ”
A correspondent writes to the Bega Standard
of October 9:—“Last Sunday Mr. James Clarke, of
Meringlo, had a cow which gave birth to a calf with
two heads on the one neck. The two heads were quite
perfect, each having two ears, two eyes, and a mouth.
In all other respects the calf looked naturally formed,
being a pretty red or white spotted heifer. lam sorry
to say both are now dead.” Both what ? Both heads;
or both the cow and the calf; or both Mr. Clarke and
the cow ?
Under the influence of two “ long uns ” a N.Z.
Civil servant is stated by Public Opinion to have hic-
cupped forth the following
“ Stamp, stamp, stamp, the boys are parching
They cannot spare a tan ner for a beer.
This cruel ten per cent, has fostered discontent.
The shilling stamp idea, too, is queer.’’
No name is given, but whoever he may be,
•* To say no worse.
His name would bring more credit than his verse.”
The following is an extract from Mr. Thomas
Spurgeon’s article in the Sixpenntworth op Chris-
tianity. The sketch is called “ The Fight of the
Fender.” “Whichever side of the fender you may
happen to be, don’t long for the other, and never fancy
that yon could serve your Lord in So-and-so’s position
far better than in your own. Covet not your neigh-
bour’s work, any more than his ox or his ass, or any-
thing that is thy neighbour’s.” Well, we don’t covet
Mr. S.’s words so much after all. We would sooner
have onr neighbour’s mule.
About two years ago, four young men of the
period, after discussing the merits and demerits of
married life, agreed that he who should first depart from
the ranks of single blessedness should pay the penaity
of disobedience to each of his other favored coadjutors
by supplying them with one silk hat, value, £1 Is.; do.
hat brush, 55.; do., box, 7s. 6d.; van hire, Is. 6d.; total,
£1 16s. After a hard struggle on all sides (the betting
being equal), the employee in the Railway engineer’s
workshop is about to succumb. This is rather assist-
ing emigration, and discouraging to Davy Buchanan’s
Protection. It is rather hard to part five guineas as a
penalty and then to ponder over the last par. ;in
“ Woman Items ”in The Bulletin of the 16th. Tea,
verily, he is altogether wretched, and will probably find
the following lines, composed by Pastor Allen, verified
“ Love is witty : Love is pretty.
Love is charming whilst it’s new.
But it soon grows old and waxes cold,
And fades away like morning dew.”
The introduction of female “ comps.” into the
office of a religious periodical in Sydney has caused a
strike among the knights of the stick and rule.
An late holder of a portfolio in a for-
mer Government, is reported to have said that the
“ Delegates to the Free Selectors’ Association repre-
sented squatters’ dummies,” or words to that effect.
Does Mr. Tom G already forget the nice hot din-
ners and wines of the most recherchi description given
by squatters from Eiverina in Melbourne ? We might
expect ingratitude from a whiskered “ tom-cat ” even
after licking cream, but not from the gallant “Tom
G Has the pastoral cow become so dry that
even the very stool on which the milker sat is made to
resound against the ribs of the unfortunate animal P
Let that naughty boy—G. T.— remember that this cow
will come in milk again.
Te noble comps.! no wonder yon
From this grave wrong recoil.
And that it does your souls imbue
With anger, sons of toil!
Yon work “ by piece,” and if there were
Some pretty girls around —
Bewitching things with golden hair.
And voices with a silv’ry sound.
And laughter and all sorts of romps—
You’d “ eat up” but few “ stamps,” you comps.
Oh, no, in sooth 'tis better far
Brave boys! to just stop as you are!
You wouldn’t drink so many “ beers ”
If bright eyes there did shine.
But in the presence of the dears
Know where to “draw the line;”
And then these awful “ big, big D’s”
You’d mutter less, we know.
By gallantry you’d strive to please
These working fags—just so!
For single men ’twould be all right.
But married ones, e-hen !
If you were ever late at night
Your wives would “ shepherd ” you,”
So after all ’tis better far.
Sweet comps., to just stop as you are.


Business Announcements
G
OVEKNMENT RAILWAYS.
MELBOURNE RACES,
30th OCTOBER, 1880.
Should sufficient passengers offer, an EXPRESS
TRAIN will leave Sydney for Gerogery at 1.40 p.m. on
THURSDAY, the 28th instant, running through in
twelve hours, and enabling passengers to reach Mel-
bourne at 2 p.m. next day. Through Tickets for the
Train will he issued only by Cobb and Co., and intend-
ing passengers are requested to obtain them as early as
as possible. CHAg A GO ODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
■Denartment of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 18th October, 1880.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 12th October, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
0 ’ E. A. BAKER.
No. 792; James Butler and others; No. 42; Glen
Creek, parish of Strachan; 20 acres. Application No.
Vegetable Creek 311.
N
ever judge by
APPEARANCES.
OUTWARD
VISITORS TO SYDNEY who have heard and read
so much about the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE
generally look for a grand exterior, and it is not until
they enter that disappointed feelings vanish. They
begin to wonder where they are going, and more par-
ticularly since the opening of
THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
Those who enter thereat and then traverse the main
Arcade floor, the upstairs Show-room, and the Gallery,
say IT IS A REGULAR JOURNEY. So it is; but
the room is absolutely necessary to carry on our in-
creased and increasing business, and to enable us to
keep in a systematic manner the regular supply of
goods necessary to execute the orders received through
our
NEVER FAILING HOUSE.
FURNISHING GUIDES.
Copies of the Mutiny, Gratis.
Copies of the Monthly Railway Guide, Gratis.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
- (Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET.
Next the Royal Hotel.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JOHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices, from‘44 guineas.
SONS’
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JOHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
a five years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
JJRINSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGS, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Woles. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
(COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRING
v -' MATERIALS,
Ready mods for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK and SATIN POMPADOUR,
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVERY
FIGURE.
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME,
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
thorough working order, and is highly appre-
don ’ ®; s shown by the steadily increasing business
ne - The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
18 w ell stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
fi EAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY.
PRETTY SCARF, Embroidered Ends, only 6id,
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES,
KID GLOVES, good quality, Is 9d per
KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
••>8 lid, ’ *
Q STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
*** ° F THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
j Sunshades, and Lodie’s Umbrellas,
opened a cose of the above at Wholesale Prices
EDWIN RICE,
•500 George-street.
Business Announcements
j§ COT T, READ, & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CENTRAL TEMORA.,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydne
Firms,
Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & CO., 322 George
street, are their Sydney Representatives.
€
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
S. HANDERS &
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
CO.,
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS.
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
T.
H
N
N O
N,
Agent for the Bulletin and Evening News.
COMMISSION, ESTATE, AND LAND AGENT.
Servants' Registry Office.
LIVERPOOL ROAD,
Ashfield.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
TOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
£JENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stook for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
I NG-STREET.
LADIES, WHEN OUT SHOPPING, SHOULD CALL
IN AT THE
BON MARCHE,
And see the Splendidly Assorted Stock of
NEW. FASHIONABLE, CHEAP GOODS.
Imported this season direct from the
Manufacturers.
All of thoroughly reliable, durable manufactures, and
marked at reasonable moderate prices.
LEADER AND STARK.
Jgj D W I N RICE.
On view this day
REAL NOVELTIES IN MILLINERY.
Very Handsome Dress Bonnets,
The Prettiest trimmed Hats in Town,
Stylish Washing Hats for Children.
Ladies will do well to call at the
LADIES’ DEPOT,
And see the SHOW IN WINDOW before making their
purchases in MILLINERY.
THE FASHIONABLE FLOP HAT, from Is lid.
EDWIN RICE,
500 George-street.
gANDER LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
6 YORK STREET.
T H A R Y E Y,
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES. &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
g GLASSO N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habbis-stbeet, off Geoege-stbeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, <fec., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Easiness Announcements
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool,
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and sea the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
» » „ ~ Baby Linen
•> » „ „ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ » ~ „ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STEEKT.
REMOVAL.
f 1 1HE undersigned have removed their
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
JfT IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibitioh of 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
Business Announcements
O O L
TO WOOL GROWERS, MERCHANTS and OTHERS.
THE COMING SEASON, 1880,
The near approach of the New Season causes us to
remind growers to make their arrangements in good
time for the Disposal of their Wools, and while thank-
ing our friends for the business which has been entrus-
ted to us hitherto, we have the pleasure again to offer
our services for either the SALE or SHIPMENT of the
New Clip.
The extension of the railways throughout the interior
will cause the Wool of the coming season to reach Syd-
ney both earlier and within a shorter space of time than
heretofore, and in view thereof we have made such ar-
rangements, by securing more extensive Warehouse
Accommodation, to deal with the Wool as fast as it
arrives, that we can promise those who may favour us
with their Business that, as soon as their Wool reaches
the railway station or the wharves, we shall take IM-
MEDIATE DELIVERY of it.
On this point, therefore, no delay need be feared by
OWNERS of WOOL.
Our Warehouses are SPACIOUS and PARTICU-
LARLY WELL LIGHTED, and are thus admirably
adapted for the Display of Wools to the best advantage.
All Wools are carefully examined and valued by our-
selves prior to being offered at auction, thus each lot is
thoroughly protected up to its full MARKET VALUE.
Instructions, when given as to reserve prices, are also
carried out. We can, therefore, confidently assure
owners that every care is exercised by us in the disposal
of Wools placed in our hands for sale.
In our Circular issued prior to the opening of the
Last Season we therein anticipated an active demand
from American and Continental Buyers in this Market,
and the result justified our expectations, and it now
affords ns pleasure to inform Wool Growers that a still
more animated Business may be confidently looked for-
ward to during the Coming Season.
The quantity of Wool sold during the past year in the
Sydney Market, owing to the operation of the Foreign
Buyers, considerably exceeded what was sold in any
previous year, ard as the demand from the some
sources, added to the requirements of the Local Buyers,
promises this Coming Season to be still larger, the
prospects that prices will be well maintained are very
bright.
These inducements will no doubt operate largely to
cause Wool Growers to try this Market. To those of
our Friends who prefer shipping [to London we also
offer our services.
We are always in a position to ensure best Terms of
freight by first-class vessels. We will therefore either
ship to our Agents in England, making full advances,
or we will hand over Documents as we may be directed
by the owners of any Clips entrusted to us for shipment.
MAIDEN, HILL and CLARK,
Offices—Pitt-street, Sydney.
Wool Stores, Circular Quay.
JJOMES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIE OWN FEEEHOLD ! .
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£4, CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick's
Hotel.
QOALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BEICK
KILNS, LIME-BUENING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent. In price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town: —
18s. Best double screened ■)
17s. Ditto single ditto 5- Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines,)
235. Ditto double-screened \ Newcastle
225. Ditto single ditto j JNewcastie.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
JUEST - PEIZE
SEWING
MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OP THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“ The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards."
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANK and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
ADVT
JUST ARRIVED
JUST ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS. &c.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneofis relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
jp E. L A E K I N,
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MBECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spikit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.


Miscellaneous
■nEYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axle,',, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders' Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&0., &c., &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD.
R
a
*
*
UP*»L
TtßrtOi
CLASTIC
RdmtfcA
m.
22
C-
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete. li tekUH
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—"Woollahra. August2oth, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy os if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
R. HORNSBY & SONS’
s?
S 3
&
59*
the simplest,
THE STRONGEST,
And THE BEST.
Oampbelltown, Sept. 30, 1880.
Messrs. Martin & Pain,
Please book my order for another Paragon Ma-
chine, 4 ft. 6 in. cut The last I had of you, three
years since worked perfectly, and ail my neighbors
say it is the best Combined Mower and Reaper they
ever saw. The first year I cut 160 acres, the second
year 200 acres, the third year 220 acres, and during
the whole time it has not cost me ss. for extras.
The Machine I now order you will please fit with
all your latest improvements, and oblige yours,
A- VICARy
We challenge competition, & guarantee
all our Paragon Mowers and Reapers.
Martin & Pain,
389 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the Royal Hotel.
J
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER Y,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
ITT, SON, AND BADGERY,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—All Fat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuality rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are ,
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „
Do. „
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
Peaberry
Nos. 1 and 2.
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
JJ E M E D Y
FOR IMPURE WATER.
EAPII) WATER FILTERS.
NI,>VG» patEKT
'■'•n :
WATER FItTEB
F. LASSETTEE & C
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Slite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. -Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAYIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
SOLE AGENTS:
0. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIZE
Coco A
er
R. HARPER & CO.,
M
&
■9
O'
y^y^
m
c/<
%
%
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
UTAH
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
AFDF
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
R. HARPER* CO.,
aviso i4|
L3LJUX a
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old tar all Cirocera and Storekeepers
o
ass
ALLWOOL
sr
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL .
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns' j> choose from
H.LSUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO.
PRIZE
ALBERT WINES.
Red Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malkec
White Wines:
Reisliag
Yerdeilio
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
* CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors.
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Omcefl'Oi
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
SYDNEY.
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDOYE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES— £6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have you not heard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
<3B KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —PARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
E T E S ’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE,
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials ;
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should he patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Oeo. Woolnoiigh, M. A., Ashfwld ; —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney: —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee ■. —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2i years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney ;—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
CHAELES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CAEVINQ
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS:
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all Rinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental), Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B. —Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
K
EAEEY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
B
O OTS !
BOOTS!!
BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUE PUECHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEOEGE STEEET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PEICES.
NOTE THE ADDEESS :
H. H I L D E E.
m GEORGE STEEET,
Brickfield Hill.
