

THE BULLETIN
No. 5.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1880.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATUEDAY, EEBEUAEY 28,1880.
The Victorian Elections.
To-day the same sun which shines on peaceful
New South Wales rises in Victoria to illumine the
:scene of a political struggle unparalleled in
bitterness. Those whose experience is confined to
contests in the mother country and to our own
well-conducted elections, so seldom rendered
acrimonious by aught save the “religious” ele-
ments which unscrupulous nonentities try to
import into them, can have no idea of the nature
of the fight which will to-day be decided in the
southern colony. The memorable 11th of May,
which drove from office the M’Culloch party,
theretofore all powerful in Victoria—which sent
the rabid democrats into power, with so overwhelm-
ing a majority as to render the balance of parties
as lopsided as the balance of principle—seemed at
the time to he a death blow to everything bear-
ing the semblance of respectability. Whatever
may be the opinion of the public concerning the
soundness of the programme on which the Bebey
Ministry attained office, it must be admitted by
all that the conduct of that government has stamped
it as the most unprincipled band of adventurers to
whom a British people ever confided their politica-
destinies. It is needless, as it would be imposl
sible, here to recapitulate the crimes of which the
present Victorian Ministry have been guilty—
crimes which were dictated by a spirit almost
identical with that which prompted the worst
excesses of the French commune. Class was pitted
against class. One part of the press was gagged and
the other part subsided. Civil servants were dis-
missed wholesale. The government, which one mo-
ment said that its object was retrenchment the
next moment boasted that it had had revenged
itself on the class which wore black coats. A
Minister who had formerly been a civil servant,
and had been dismissed from the service of the
state for accepting bribes, found himself at the
head of the very department from which he had
been ignominiously expelled, and proceeded, firstly
to disnßss the departmental officers by whom he
had been convicted, and then to erase the record
of his infamy and to accept his own resignation of
his former position. A Minister to whom the
most odious of social crimes had been brought
home, constituted himself the guardian of public
morality in general, and of that of public servants in
particular. A Minister who had dummied more
acres and had made more money out of perjury
than all the other Victorian land sharks put
together, took his seat at the Executive Council
table. A man who knew no grammar and
could not spell was installed as Minister
of Education. The civil service was reformed
by the dismissal of masters of arts and
the appointment in their places of incapable and
necessitions tap-room loafers. The course of
justice was stayed for political ends. It was
sought to bring the Supreme Court judges under
the rod of terrorism. Corruption reigned rampant
in parliament, nepotism in the civil service, and
venality in the Press. History repeated itself.
“ And he said unto them ‘ which of these men shall
I deliver unto you?’ And the people cried
‘ Barrabas’: now Barrabas was a robber.”
It would be unduly flattering Mr. Bebby’s
comparatively mean ability were we to regard him
as the principal instrument by which so deplorable
a state of things has been brought about. When
the political history of Victoria is written, the fact
will be recognised that though Mr. Bebby nomin-
ally wielded almost dictatorial power, he was, like
the voters who slavishly followed him to destruc-
tion, under the control of a force which, however
short lived, was greater and more potent than even
the maturely formed will of the people. That
force was, and is, the power of the Press. In
Victoria, and we say it advisedly, there is at pre-
sent no Ministry properly so called, nor
are there amongst the dominant class any
fixed ideas concerning national polity save a
blind and unreasoning hatred of capital, and a de-
testation of everything and everybody superior to
one’s self. David Syme, the chief proprietor of
the Age —a journal now edited by a man who not
long ago wrote for the party of law and order—rules
Victoria at the present hour. He marked out a
policy for, and forced the “ plebiscite” on Mr.
Berry—the man whom he formerly denounced as
utterly untrustworthy and politically corrupt.
With a stroke of the pen he could for ever annihi-
late the Victorian Premier as a public man. Mr.
Bebby is another Ueiah, and Mr. Syme is a
modern King David.
The statements which have from day to day
been published in the telegraphic columns of the
Sydney daily papers concerning the probable issue
of the Victorian elections cannot be regarded as
affording any reliable index to the outcome of the
struggle. If Mr. Bebby is to win at all he must
maintain, if he does not increase his present great
majority. Should he do less, his victory will be a
Parthian one. The hopefulness of the aspect placed
on affairs by the journals of this city is merely a
result of the wish which is father to the thought,
andis altogether a view from a Victorian Conserva-
tive standpoint. Should Mr. Bebby’s majority
narrow, he will never be able either to coerce the
Upper House or to influence the Imperial Govern-
ment. It is hardly likely that the Victorian
Conservative party will be able immediately to
oust Mr. Bebey, but if they happen to do so, they
will not secure a serviceable majority. Victoria
is between the horns of a dilemma. If Mr. Bebby
signally triumph to-day corruption will prevail:
but on the other hand, the success of the law and
order party merely means a continuance of the
strife of two contending factions and a few more
years of anarchy. The most ominous sign which
now manifests itself in Victorian politics is that
the Catholic vote “ sits on a rail.”
Respectable Journalism.
On the principle of “every man to his trade,” it
might naturally be supposed that when a company
of journalists properly so called met for a social
evening, the toast occupying the place of honour
would be “ The Press.” But this is not so. In
Sydney it has been found necessary to substitute
on such occasions for “ The Press ” the words
“ Respectable Journalism,” in order that the host
of oft-convicted thieves who for months past have
made in Sydney a home for themselves and their
infamous publications might not receive at the
hands of literary men that recognition which has
undeniably been extended to them by a largo sec-
tion of the outside public. The Act for the
suppression of obscene publications has not come
a moment too soon. A long-suffering community
should, we suppose, be grateful for small mercies
and return its moat sincere thanks to Mr. Wisdom
for his bill, notwithstanding that there are grave
doubts as to whether the measure referred to will
be found sufficient to effect the end which all
honest men and women desire to see accomplished.
The reports of the Supreme Court proceedings
in the slander case Shepherd versus Dibbs
published in the Evening News and Daily
Telegraph, are of so filthy and utterly obscene
a character as to justify both those journals being
accorded a place in the list of publications which
should be banished from every respectable house-
hold. It would really appear that the mantle of
the authors of those nameless obscenities which
have just been squelched by the heel of the law,
has fallen on a large section of the ostensibly re-
spectable newspaper press. The Evening News
never was noted for punctiliousness, and is to its
weekly number what the matter expurgated from
the editions of the classics specially prepared for
Don Juan’s use were to the expurgated books
themselves. In Sydney piety is monopolised by
the Herald, so that the Daily Telegraph,
unless it out-Herodod Herod, could hardly assume
with success the role its conductors used to play in
Melbourne. This being so, it has exchanged piety
for pruriency. It is an altogether exploded idea
that public morals can be advanced or vice
diminished by parading in print obscenely-
worded statements concerning the immoiality of
individuals. Wore such the case the publications
which have just been suppressed by law would
have a groat deal to recommend them. The ad-
missions which Mr. Shepherd was forced to make
in the witness b*x must have had a very harrowing
effect on him, but their publication will do little
to benefit the species to which ho belongs. Mr.
Shepherd’s case is the old one—
Men may laugh and riot till the feast is o’er;
Then comes the reckoning and they laugh no more.
The Bulletin Portrait Gallery of Austra-
lian Celebrities.
I. —Miss MAUD FITZ-STUBBS, THE AUSTRALIAN
PLANISTE.
It may be argued that a miscellaneous journal of
the character of The Bulletin should scarcely
intrude into the sanctuary of private life for
subjects on which to exercise pen or pencil; nor
do we propose to do so: but when from that
charmed circle there steps forth into the outer
public arena of art one gifted far above her fellows,
she becomes in some sense the child of the public ;
and it would be false modesty on the part of a
journal devoted to art-subjects to cast aside the
opportunity of making the world outside our own
smaller sphere acquainted with the lineaments and
particulars in the lives of those whose genius
makes them above all others fit subjects for public
comment. Wo therefore only perform a pleasur-
able duty in presenting our readers with a portrait
of our -most famous and most gifted Australian
amateur pianiste, Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs.
If climate has anything to do with the produc-
tion of artistic genius —and we have abundant
evidence that the the theory is well founded —then
it must be granted that Australia possesses all the
necessary qualifications to support the arguments
in favour of such a theory. And, certainly in her
short period of existence, less than a century, and
arrived at a state of self-dependence only during
its last quarter, Australia has shown more, perhaps,
than any other country under the same conditions,
of talent, —in painting, singing, and instrumental
music—that augurs a great future career for her
children. Generally speaking, there is an amount
of intelligence in the youth of the colony that
makes education more applicable and followed
by better results than in many other countries;
and the great tendency to an easy development
of artistic talent becomes every day more and
mere apparent. The names of Miss Ironside and
Miss Thompson the Australian painters, are
not unknown even in Eome; our vocalists are
carving names for themselves in Europe: and,
undoubtedly the eminent talents of Miss Maud
Fitz-Stubbs, who has so often delighted the pub-
lic of Sydney with the display of her musical
genius, entitle her to a conspicuous place in our
records. If circumstances would but compel her
to throw aside entirely the veil of private life, and
enter on a professional career, she would —after a
short novitiate at one of the groat European
Academies of Art, vault to the topmost rung of the
ladder of fame.
Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs, the third daughter of
Eobert Fitz-Stubbs, Esq., of this city, was born
in Melbourne, February Bth, 1861. Almost in in-
fantile years she displayed a talent for music that
was remarkable, picking out notes on the piano in
imitation of anyone singing them, making correct
chords without tuition. This talent was not dis-
played with any precocity of manner, but was the
early development of genius. That, under such
circumstances, the talent should be fostered by
her parents, was but natural. Mr. Stubbs him-
self, a groat lover of music, saw with delight the
wonderful musical aptitude of his daughter; in-
deed, all the family display a rare talent for
music, which apparently is a gift of nature.
When she was four years of ago the parents of
Maud Fitz-Stubbs settled in Sydney, and at once
placed their young daughter under the celebrated
musician, Charles Edward Horsley, one of the
greatest piasters and theorists vve have over had
residing .in Australia. Under him she _ may be
said toTiave commenced her musical studies. She
soon overcame all early difficulties. Her memory
was wonderful: a piece once heard was played by
her without notes; or, once practised, did not
require any further reading of the music. This
extraordinary gift has remained with her, and is
likely to bo an inheritance in music as long as
memory itself holds her sway. After about two
years’ study, she made —under Horsley’s auspices
—her first public appearance at a concert given
by the master at the then Academy of Music, on
December 21st, 1867, being lass than seven years
of age. All who hoard her on that occasion were
astounded at the skill and efficiency so marvel-
lously displayed by such a child. It was no child s
play, however: it was the proficient budding of
genius which enabled her not only to overcome
technical difficulties, but to display taste and
judgment. The applause and criticisms which fol-
lowed her success wore such as might have
chocked in the bud the development of ordinary
talent; but Miss Stubbs’s parents now first saw
the necessity of making their daughter settle down
to study. So great was the charm exercised by her
abilities, that Mr. Henry Marsh, one of the very
best and most assiduous teachers we ever had in
Sydney, gave her lessons for two years for which
he absolutely refused payment.
In the meantime she was sent to every concert
given by any distinguished artist who visited
Sydney; and as the residence of Mr. Fitz-Stubbs
was always the rendezvous for musicians, she
naturally profited by what she heard around her.
She studied every composer, and with her reten-
tive memory became such an adept in reading
music, that every difficulty faded from her ; she
stored her mind with the greatest works, and for
one so young Miss Fitz-Stubbs has a greater reper-
toire than had perhaps any living artist at her age.
Had her health and application been equal to her
talents, she could have eclipsed them all in bril-
liancy. Having taken a reactionary fancy (after
so much pianoforte music) for the violin, she was
placed under the tuition of Herr Carl Schmitt,
the violinist and director of music, wlm (arriving
here as conductor of Julia Matthews’s Opera
Company), was resident in Sydney. So great was
her progress in this instrumot tnhat within a year
and when only about nine years old, she played a
violin solo at a public concert given by her master.
She continmed her studies with him until he left
Sydney, when Mr. W. J. Eice took up the task of
her instruction. She subsequently played violin
solos with immense eclat at a concert organised by
Miss Woolley at Camden, for the relief of the
sufferers by the floods. Subsequently, however,
she discontinued the practice of the violin and
devoted herself exclusively to pianoforte music,
continuing her . studies for throe years under
Charles Packer.* Her next teachers were the late
Alfred Andeipon, and afterwards that admir-
able pianiste, Miss Madeline Schiller, Mr.
Fitz-Stubbs thus lost no opportunity of giving
his daughter every instruction that was possible
to be gleaned from the different artists who have
for a time made Sidney their home. From John
Hill she next obtained further knowledge.
In 1872, Miss Fitz-Stubbs visited Tasmania, and
even whilst on this visit to Hobarton, did not neg-
lect to avail herself of the services of the eminent
teacher there, Mr. Frederick Packer. When
Signor Paolo Giorza settled in Sydney, recourse
was at once had to him for instruction. Monsieur
Jules Meilhan also contributed for several months
to her store of knowledge ; and, for the acquisition
of style in certain pieces, recourse has again been
had to Giorza since his return to Sydney. . . _ .
It will thus be seen that the skill of every artist
MISS MAUD FITZ-STUBBS.


who has been hero has been made available for
maturing her genius, which requires but the steady
unflinching regularity of a conservatoire and the
stamp of its authority to herald her to fame as one
of the greatest artists of the day.
Amongst the public appearances of Miss Maud
Fitz-Stubbs have [been —a concert given by Miss
Adrienne Koch (from Batavia) in 1877; in concerts
by Orlandini, in 1877; by Alice Charbonnet, in
1878; in concerts by Giorza; in a concert (the
first) organised by herself, which took place at the
Victoria Theatre on February 12th, 1879, in aid of
the funds of the Hospital for Sick Children, since
established at the Glebe; at a concert given at the
Masonic Hall in the same year, with immense suc-
cess, in aid of the funds of the Glebe Rowing
Club; and various other charitable and friendly
concerts ; at the opening ceremonial of the Inter-
national Exhibition, September 17th, 1879, and at
various recitals in the Garden Palace.
For the acquisition of languages Miss Maud
possesses equal talent. She was studying German,
French, and Italian at the same time for some
months, and her readiness in pronunciation and in
overcoming dramatic difficulties were equally re-
markable. Her amiability of character is known
to a very extensive circle of personal friends, who
pay homage to her genius; and her personal
graces may be best seen by a glance at her portrait.
CRITIC.
BRIEF MENTION.
A midsummer night scream— The Bulletin.
Parramatta station will henceforth be known
as “ Devastation.”
The tramway still continues an inconvenience.
People have to pay sometimes.
Sir Henry Parkes is still busy with his new
work on Promissory Notes.
There are some very nice little contract swin-
dles being worked at the Town Hall.
Even John Davies says very little’s to be made
now out of the Exhibition.
We have not seen J. Walter Smart speaking
to a policeman for some time. The fact is the police
are getting awfully proud.
We hear The Bulletin’s cartoon of the late
Oily Gammon, Esq., was cut out and sent as a valentine
to that gentleman. Nearly 300 went by one post.
There is one body to whom The Bulletin’s
attention must be given sooner or later: The Transit
Board, or as some people call it, the Sydney Omnibus
Company.
Lieut. Longfellow of Balmain says the rough
city streets are terrible on shoeleather. He is quite
right, especially at night time, when a man trots up
and down the block instead of being at home.
The Bulletin, it appears, has hit Bishop
Barker's tastes all out. He writes: “ This is a d d
good paper. Next to home comforts, I like it better
than anything else.”
It’s something the same with Dr. Yaughan.
He says: “ I get The Bulletin, of course. I look
through time: I see but two geniuses. Bona-
parte was one. I should like to know who is the
fellow who gets out The Bulletin.
At the Sutherland banquet the jolly Jamieson
of the George-street warehouse found himself beside
the sedatest clergyman that ever sat at table. It was,
however, in vain that the rev. gentleman spoke not of
the things of this world.
It was John Lucas who lent all the weight of
his influence to the passing of the Feather Your Own
Nest Bill. The chief feature of the measure is that it
makes no distinction between a fellow’s own family
and anyone else’s.
Let everyone learn from the case of Nash who
was discharged from the Commissariat Department the
fate that awaits the man who is honest and courageous
enough to expose what he believes to be a fraud. Dis-
charged, deserted, left to starve. Where is the working
man’s friend in Parliament. He’s a myth, and exists
but for a day. That is on the hustings.
Just before Westwood came to Sydney he had
a serious dispute with Peter Campbell. He said Peter
was running on his ground. The venerable itinerant
retorted that Westwood was like the Colorado beetle;
wherever he went there was nothing left to do in the
gospel or in lying—that is, lying in, or, in other words—
but, we’ll say no more. “ Travelled 300 miles, preached
90 sermons ; shook no horses ; aboriginals in a bad state,
nearly as bad as the whites. Deficit, £5O; contribu-
tions, etc.”
Alderman M'Elhone always ascribed self-
ishness to Mr. Edward Lord, ex-City Treasurer and
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Aus-
tralian Joint Stock Bank, but we have never seen
it more exemplified than when the late wielder
of the city purse-strings pays his usual morning
visits to Watson’s Paragon Hotel for a Jack
Smither. Mr. Lord, perhaps intent upon drawing the
line somewhere, would not even spend an extra threepence
in shouting for one of the committee for his late picnic,
who was also doing a Jack Smither —may be on the
grounds that a * man is known by the company he
keeps.’
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Wool continues firm in London.
A crushing of 28 tons quartz from Krohman’s
new vein, Hill End, has yielded 52 oz. gold.
11,000 summonses were last year issued by the
Adelaide local court.
An old man now in Bathurst hospital says that
he served in the Eniskiilen dragoons at Waterloo.
On 31st December the population of Victoria
was 899,420.
Roughs at Collingwood, Melbourne, have
attacked the police and tried to rescue a prisoner.
Last week’s yield from the Band and Albion
Consol G.M. Co. was 242 oz. from 224 tons quartz.
Our friends Young and O’Connell continue to
do the business of the International.
Peter de Young, one of the prisoners who re-
cently escaped from Casino, has been re-captured.
On Saturday last the Australian Eleven left
for Melbourne by the City of Adelaide.
Honey wood has won the English Waterloo
Cut; Plunger running up. Shepherdess won the
Waterloo purse and Debonnaire the Plate.
Professor Cavill and his three children have
given a swimming exhibition at Adelaide with great
success.
Dr. J. C. Cox, after 14 years’ service, has re-
signed his position on the honorary medical staff of the
Sydney Infirmary.
Mr. Aarons, formerly proprietor and now lessee
of the Academy of Music, Melbourne, is in difficulties,
and has been sued by his employees for their salaries.
Mr. Adolphe Gabriel, the dentist, of Wynyard
Square, has returned from his country tour, and has
resumed the practice of his profession.
Mr. Hezlett, the new member for Paddington,
took his seat on the Ministerial cross-benches on Tues-
day afternoon.
Mr. Henry Scott, J.P., who had for twenty
years been a resident of Cootamundra, died at that
town on Monday, after only two days' illness.
Herman Okland has been fined '£2o, or six
months in default, at the Water Police Court, for having
persuaded a seaman to desert from an American barque.
j 2,500,000 telegrams were sent in 1875 in
Australia, which then had 23,582 miles of wire and 689
stations.
A ganger, named August Muller Oberlin, has
been killed near Glenelg by the capsizing of a
locomotive. ,
Dean Geoghegan, of Kyneton, has told the
Dalhousie (Vic.) electors to vote straight for Messrs.
Young and Duffy.
Mr. Tuckett, the champion amateur of Victoria,
won the challenge sculls on Saturday last, Stratton
secodd, Cazaly third. Mr. Tuckett has never yet
been beaten.
With all their professions of kindness, we
notice the Press give not a word to Mr. Jones* benefit
at the Theatre Royal on Thursday night. Thus are
months of services rewarded.
The popular Bland Holt, after a most success-
ful tour in Victoria, has been offered by, and has
accepted, from Mr. John Bennett, a lengthy engage-
ment.
The Lingards write saying they are about
starting en route to “Old Sydney,’ where they hope for
a renewal, at Kelly and Leon's Opera House, the grand
patronage accorded them when here some time back.
Mr. Edward Lord, late City Treasurer, who is
about to visit the old country, was on Saturday enter-
tained at a picnic at Fem Bay by the officers of the
Corporation. A most enjoyable day was spent.
Members of the Mammoth Minstrel Troupe
who gave a sacred concert at the Victoria Theatre, New-
castle last Sunday, are to be prosecuted for “ Sunday
trading.”
William Holcroft, landlord of the Commercial
Hotel, Eight-Mile Plains, Queensland, accidentally shot
himself while watching for fowl stealers. He has since
died.
We omitted to state in our last issue that the
photo, from which the splendid portrait of the Mayor
was taken was supplied us by Gorus, of King-street,
whose photos, of public men have always been excellent.
Mr. Jerdan, of the Victoria Theatre, met with
an accident on Friday night in the last act of “ Insured
A 1 at Lloyds." While being “ stabbed to the heart”
with a swordstick a nasty jagged was inflicted on his
arm.
Mr. James Hollowav, a well-known London
actor, has just died at tbe age of 60. Kate Holland,
the graceful equestrienne who formed a member of
Chiarin’s circus company on its last visit to Australia,
was Mr. Holloway’s daughter.
The banquet given to Mr. John Sutherland on
the occasion of his retirement from politics, was at-
tended by about two hundred-and-flfty persons. The
company was an influential one, and was presided over by
the Mayor, Mr. E. Fowler.
On the day prior to the departure for the South
of the All Australian team, Mr. Bonnor, one of its
members, ran 180 yards w th Mr. P. O. Williams on the
Association Ground for a £lO trophy. Bonnor won
easily.
J. M. Watson and Callaghan ran 100 yards for
£2O a side last Saturday at North Shore. Watson was
not in form and was beaten easily. A mile race between
Cooney and Waterhouse was won without difficulty by
Cooney.
At the Saltwater Regatta, Melbourne, the
Footscray crew carried off the principal eight-oar race,
and proved themselves the best men of the day. The
challenge pair was/ - walked over for ” by Umphelby and
Tunbridge.
Mr. M‘Elwell, leader of the Queensland
Government prospecting party, says that he has prost
pected the heads of the Cape and Flinders withou-
flnding payable gold. He is about to start for Mackin-
lay Ranges.
A contract has been let for the construction of
the first nineteen miles of the Adelaide and Naime
mil way, which is the commencement of what must ul-
timately be the great connecting line between South
Australia and the eastern colonies.
Mr. John Walker, chief engineer of the A.S.N.
Co.’s s.s. City of Adelaide, has patented a new com-
pound, “ the Alexandra lubricant,” which for several
months past has been tested with satisfactory results
afloat and ashore. One pound of the compound goes at
least as far as a gallon of oil.
Last Saturday’s sculling match between Solo-
mon and Power clearly proved the former to be best
man. Power being defeated by a good many lengths.
However, Solomon having rowed inside the beacon, had
to forfeit the stakes, £lOO, to his less speedy opponent.
It is not likely that another match will be made.
The “Octoroon” has been played at the Vic-
toria Theatre during the week in better style than we
have seen it played on the boards of any Sydney
theatre. Mr. Hall and Mr. Rainford have made a hit in
this piece that they certainly could not have antici-
pated. The one report from the Victoria is—good
houses every night.
On Saturday morning last three persons—two
charged with forgery and one with horse-stealing—
escaped from Casino lock-up. Prior to their departure
they stole the constable’s watch, tore open the warder’s
desk in search of money, and caught and saddled three
police horses, on which they rode away. One of them
has since been re-captured.
One of the results of extensive and judicious
advertising—that is advertising in papers of large cir-
culation, where the advertisement can be readily seen
—is to be found in the enormous demand for the Bull
Dog Ale and Stout. Messrs. Cattell and Co., who are
the agents, have been compelled to more than double
their imports.
Last Saturday the Albert Club treated the
Newtownites to an afternoon’s leather hunting’ on the
Association Ground. Two of the town club’s men were
absent, bat before the remaining eight wickets fell 311
runs were obtained, of which Gregory contributed 131,
Docker 72, and Massie 55. The match is to be con-
tinued from Saturday to Saturday.
Edwards and Azella are at present giving
pedestrian exhibitions at the Osborne Hall, Forbes, of
which Mr. W. C. Smith is proprietor. Azella recently
walked 78 miles in 24 hours. The “ Go-as-you-please ”
tournament for all bona-fide residents of the Lachlan
takes place on the 26th, 27th, and 28th current, Edwards
giving £3O in prizes. There are ten competitors.
The Bill to authorise the construction of new
tramways in Sydney and elsewhere has been published.
The proposed measure provides for a complete network
of metropolitan tramways, empowers the Commissioner
of Railways to construct tramways along the line of
any Government railway to places distant not more
than twenty miles therefrom, and facilitates the re-
sumption of land required for tramway purposes.
Much comment has been made on the action of
juries in regard to certain charges of assault heard at
the Central Criminal Court. One man was acquitted in
the face of most conclusive evidence, and another jury
after twenty hours’ detention failed to agree, and were
discharged. This disinclination manifested by juries to
convict is undoubtedly a consequence of the severity of
the Executive and of its disregard of recommendations
to mercy.
Mr. Edwin Kelly takes a benefit this Friday
evening at Kelly and Leon’s Opera House. The Belles
of Comeville will be produced. If ever an artist de-
served a bumper house, Mr. Kelly deserves it. We
should not be surprised to see all the theatrical mana-
gers present. Mr. Kelly is admitted to be a gentleman
of rare talents, and as enterprising as he is generous and
courteous. The piece will be worth coming any distance
to see.
The waxworks in Pitt-street continues a great
attraction to citizens and to visitors. The collection
altogether is one of the most valuable ever seen in
Sydney. The sketch of the scene in which the Prince
Imperial fell is one of the most life-like productions
ever exhibited. As to the figures of Scott and Eogan,
these are the only two effective representations pro-
duced. No portrait yet published presents so faithful
a likeness of Scott as this one. It is the very image of
him.
The Glebe is making an advance in the right
time. A short time back Sir George Wigram Allen
presented the borough with an hundred-guinea clock
for the Town Hall. Mr. W. C. Kerr, of George-street,
was given the task of constructing and erecting, and
now the clock is already fixed. It strikes the hours and
half hours, and is a great convenience. It will doubtless
reflect every credit on Mr. Kerr’s establishment. Every
piece of work turned out by Mr. Kerr has been of ad-
mitted excellence, care and skill being bestowed on
whatever is taken in hand. His exhibits at the Inter-
national are considered to be one of the finest shows
in the jeweller’s art that has yet been made by a Sydney
house. The presentation cups, &c., Mr. Kerr’s work,
has gone quite to the front in the metropolis, through
sheer good design and workmanship.
The gold medal for the best colonial ale has
been awarded Marshall and Sons of the famous old
Paddington Brewery. Some years ago Mr. Marshall and
his sons went in for a thorough revival of their trade.
They enlarged thfiir premises just three times the size,
and imported all the newest appliances. With the best
water and the best material, and with the exercise of
the greatest care in the brewery, the Paddington brew
has for the last six years been steadily coming to the
front. Three or four years ago the admitted excellence
of their bottled ales won for themselves preference in
all public departments and the households of our prin-
cipal citizens. It was fairly champagne ale. The
brightest production of the kind that ever flowed from
a bottle; the body was excellent yet the ale was as clear
as amber. The award of the gold medal to Marshall
and Sons will not surprise the trade in Sydney. To the
firm themselves the award will be sure recognition of
their labours and care. The judges’ award was unmis-
takeable, They declared both the ale and porter
from the Paddington Brewery to be superior to any-
thing else exhibited. They pronounced the exhibits to
be sound, mellow, and of excellent flavour, and added
in' their notes that the manufacture of the colonial
article as shown in these exhibits had been greatly
improved. Messrs. Marshall and Sons can hardly receive
much further benefit, as ; the brewery now runs night
and day to keep pace with the existing demand. In a
social sense there is few more popular business men in
this city than the firm of Marshall and Sons.
We accidentally omitted a report of Mr.
S. Lazar’s annual picnic to his company. The spirited
proprietor has had his company so long with him that
the picnic has in reality been an annual affair with them.
This year it was preceded by a picnic from the com-
pany to Mr. Lazar. The annual picnic given to the
company by their manager took place at Chowder Bay.
Refreshments were provided in excellent style by Mr.
Cripps of Pitt-street. The usual outdoor sports were
entered into with alacrity. At two o’clock the com-
pany repaired to the pavillion, where an excellent
banquet was served. After the substantial had
been dealt with, the toasting began, and the usual loyal
toasts were first duly honoured. Mr. Levison then
rose and proposed the health of Mr. Lazar. In a few
neat words he referred to the geniality and kindness of
manner of Mr. Lazar; no manager could be more es-
teemed by his company, and he believed few ever could
be more popular with the public. The toast was drunk
right merrily. Mr. Lazar responded in a very feeling
speech, if not in a very eloquent manner. He said he
was no speaker, and besides he had just ceme a long
journey from Bathurst. All he could say was that it
was indeed a pleasure for him to be with his company
in a reunion of this kind. He could only use words of
commendation for each member of his company, par-
ticularly his stage manager, Mr. Jones, who was the
best stage manager he had ever come across. Mr. Lazar
concluded by proposing the health of the company.
Mr. Jones responded in an effective little speech, and
concluded by proposing the health of the ladies,
coupling with it in an especial manner the names of
Mrs. and Miss Lazar. The toast was drunk with great
hilarity, and the usual accompaniment, “ Health to all
good lasses." Mr. Salomon and Mr. Deorwyn re-
sponded. The former gentleman was naturally very
backward, but he made a neat speech nevertheless. The
latter gentleman spoke in the very highest terms of
the kindness which he and his daughters had ever re-
ceived from Mr. Lazar. Years of experience gave him
a right to be a judge [of managers; and he could say
Mr. Lazar was an ornament to the managerial profes-
sion (cheers). No one could have done more to de-
velops a taste for legitimate drama. Mr. Lazar thanked
Mr. Deorwyn for his spontaneous expression of good
will and esteem. Other toasts followed, and were duly
honoured. The company resumed the sports, and re-
turned to town at an early hour.
Ready or Willing.
Being in a confidential mood the other evening,
Lawyer Pleadwell was induced to tell why he didn’t
marry young Miss Tenderheart, to whom he had
formerly paid attention.
“ Well:” he began, one Sunday evening I called
upon her with the intention of bringing things to a
focus. I had thought of nothing else for a week,
till my mind had got into such a state of agitation
that I scarcely knew what I was about. We were
sitting opposite each other, talking on casual mat-
ters, when I suddenly braced up, and looking
Mary in the eye (rather sternly, I suspect), said I,
‘ Now, answer me without equivocation—mind,
you’re on oath —tell me, whether or not, to the
best of your knowledge and belief, you are ready
and willing to become Mrs. Pleadwell!’ Well,
gentlemen, she showed a spirit I had little suspec-
ted, and which thoroughly awakened me to an ap-
preciation of the fool I had made of myself. Mary
was on her feet in an instant, raised herself to her
full height—she had never seemed so tall before
and with, ‘ Mr. Pleadwell, when lam ready and
willing I will send you word, sir! 4 she flounced
put of the room. And I—well, I thought I’d be go-
ing. Now, gentlemen, this is not to be repeated,’
added Pleadwell, half-repenting his burst of
confidence. All promised not to tell, and that is
how we heard of it.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
NOTICES TO MANAGERS, ENTREPRENEURS, ETC.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times he glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
“Fob I AM NOTHING IF NOT CRITICAL.”
"—"Othello.”
THEATREROYAL.
THE PATTI CONCERTS.
Place a la Dame! Place d la Diva! How grateful is
the feeling when duty and pleasure are combined ; and
it is a manifest duty to place at the head of our article
the theatre at which have taken place the leading
entertainents of the week, which have attracted—
even at prices increased by at least one-half—such
crowds as are but rarely indeed seen within the walls of
the Eoyal.
Having, in a biographical sketch last week, narrated
the leading features of Carlotta Patti’s career, we need
give but few preliminary remarks. It is fortunate for
ns that in spite of many slaps and rebuffs which have
from time to time been given to Art by our wonderful
so-called leading papers (leading—not because they can
lead public opinion, but because they have the pecu-
niary means of publishing their views), by upholding
and praising the meretricious and dealing out left-
handed compliments, or damning with faint praise and
inuendocs, artists of fame, distinction, and eminence,
either because they have not unnatural powers—which
only those expect who know nothing of art—or because
they do not come here every day to chance a success,
of which they are certain in every civilised city in other
countries where managers overwhelm them with tempt-
ing-offers it is fortunate for us, we say,that there are still
to be found impresari! who, having tested by experience
the true sympathies of an Australian public which has
learned to trust to its own instincts rather than to its
so-called leading papers, risk fortune and the reputation
of a great artiste by bringing her to the antipodes of
art.
The pure bell-like quality of Carlotta Patti's voice was
heard in her opening piece, the famous executive
bolero—‘Merce, dilette amiche,’ from the last act of
Verdi’s ‘ Sicilian Vespers,’ and introduced to Sydney by
Madame States. It is one of the most ornamental
vocal pieces ever written. Madame Patti’s rendition of
the whole was as thoroughly artistic as could possibly
be desired; but the clearness of the runs, the fullness
of the shake, and the little dotted notes beyond gave
intense delight to the listener. The Scottish song,
‘ Within a mile,’ displayed a naive humour that was
quite original—the stop before the * buckle to,’ and the
full tone of the last words showed the womanly deter-
mination not to give up her freedom yet. But it was in
the ‘ Echo Song’—composed for Jenny Lind by Ecket,
that every resource of the vocal school was brought
into play. If Patti is not Jenny Lind, she has certainly
mastered the exquisite vocal peculiarities of this piece
—the soft plaintive air of home followed by the moun-
tain calls echoing from peak to peak, so pure, so true, as
if borne on the air by Nature’s wings. The change from
the lower to the higher register of voice was impercep-
tible. Auber’s ‘Laughing Song’ was simply superb;
the time rapid, but passages (clear and distinct; the
laugh so catching, so natural, and yet so thoroughly
attuned to the accompaniment as to unite in luscious
harmony. A second encore produced a repetition of
one verse.
Signor Ciampi-Cellaj is a baritone whose equal we
have never heard in the colonies, Bertolini, Wharton,
Coliva, included. Orlandini is the only one we omit in
the comparison, because perfect as was his vocalisation,
age had weakened his vowers even when he first came
amongst us. Signor Ciampi’s voice is not strictly
powerful, except when he uses it in crescendo passages;
but we have ample compensation for this in its delicious
softness and sweetness allied to a florid style rarely
heard in a baritone. The voice is young, fresh, and
perfect in intonation. There are people who mistake
bellowing and nasal utterance for resonance; whilst
others think vibration produced by intensity of vocali-
sation is the same as the tremolo of age or overwork.
In the ‘ Eri tu,’ from Verdi’s ‘Un Ballo,’ we were
forcibly reminded of Bertolini’s beautiful vocalisation
in the tender and sympathetic singing of the passage,
‘ 0 dolcezze perdute d’ amore.’ But (Signor Ciampi’s
powers were most tested in the piece he gave as an
encore, Rossini’s Saltarella (dance song) ‘GialaLuna,
a descriptive scena, the delight of Ronconi. Only per-
fect intonation and thorough skill in music could keen
pace with the quick time of this mass of musical notes
allied to syllabic masses for the tongue. It was im-
mense, and with a bound Signor Ciampi-Cellaj leaped
into public favour. In the Brindisi, a veritable Baccha-
nalian drinking-song 'from the ‘ Hamlet’ of Ambroise
Thomas, he fairly took every one by storm by his vivid
and expressive coloring of style; florid passages are here
such as a Santley and but few others can take; and who
ever before heard the usually hard baritone voice make
a prolonged delicate shake—unerringly in time of
about four bars! No wonder at the storm of applause •
the Signor replying to the call with a Spanish song’
after the style of ‘ The Orange-girl,’ introduced to us
here by Signora Fabris. With Madame Patti Signor
Ciampi sang the famous duet from ‘ Don Pasquale,’ and
the effect of the combination of two such voices in the
comic piece was the most attractive finale that could be
given to a concert.
M. Ernest de Munck is a master of his instrument
the violoncello, on which we have but very few good
performers. In England, one calls to mind only three
names —our English Bindley, the father of the cello-
Piatti, the great Classical Italian player; and the Ger-
man, Max Bohrer. Here we have had but one, and he
was a giant, Douay. M. de Munck is an elegant and a
conscientious player; all he does is thoroughly artistic
and, what is better, he attempts nothing that is not as
do so many even great instrumental soloists. His
bowing is free, his style large and open, the tone, per-
haps, scarcely as full as might be expected. The har-
monics on the upper string very pure, on the lower
string very slightly rough. When playing with the
mute in the last piece, the harmonies produced were
very rich. His contributions to the concert were a
series of variations entitled ‘ Souvenir de Spa,’ by Ser-
vais; a well-known Nocturne by Chopin, specially ar-
ranged for the cello; and a delicious little piece, ‘La
Filleuse,’ by Dnnkler, in which there is a continual
thread-stitching movement almost exciting. For en-
cores we had the ‘ Abendlied,’ of Schumann— the most
delicate and effective of all M. de Munck’s pieces • and
‘ The Old Folks at Home.’ The audience was very warm
in its appreciation of this artist.
Our own (by long residence) Giorza—who was warmly
greeted—showed how great he can be when moved by
the presence of kindred spirits. Though he had to play
every piece in the programme, his accompaniments
formed a study for the emulation of our budding con-
cert pianists—a true lesson. With the songs or with
the ’cello his notes fell so softly yet freely with voice
or playing, that they carried out the intention of ac-
companiments by assisting the effect; and the inters-
stices were filled up with similar artistic result. His
solo, the brilliant Spanish dance of Gottschalk, was a
musical casade a la —Giorza. The audience would
gladly have had a second piece, but Signor Giorza is
not ambitious of honour.
Mr. Parkinson opened each part of the concert with
a pretty song, and obtained his share of applause.
Having devoted so mnch space to the first concert it
will be seen how impossible it is to say anything more
of the second than that it equalled its predecessor for
brilliancy and success.
Mr. Creswick’s Benefit.
The claims of meritorious artists should always meet
with acknowledgment, and are even worthy of increased
regard when time and age lay a greater stress on the
obligation. Mr. Creswick is one of the last of our stock
of sterling British actors. An intelligent, educated,
and zealous student of the drama, he has always es-
chewed the commonplace, and striven for the highest
achievements in dramatic art. For more than two
years he has given Australia the benefit of his tried
and finished skill. Let it be remembered, then, that a
complimentary benefit is to be given to Mr. Creswick
this Saturday evening, and let this benefit be a proof of
our estimation of Mr. Creswick as an actor, a scholar
and a gentleman. *
VICTORIA THEATRE.
. Performance Of a pleasant little drama—
Ola bailors, the entertainments here during the
“Brought to Light at Last!!”
(A SHAKESPEARIAN RELIC.)
Written, for THE BULLETIN.
The appended work, rescued from obscurity and decay
and now for the first time published, is truly the pro-
duct of a great pen. It is useless, as the immortal bard
has said, “ to gild refined gold”; therefore the eloquent
recital of the wooing of another Capulet by another
Montague reveals its wonders to your critical eye, un-
heralded by any stately prolegomena or airy panegyric.
Suffice it to say that this appears to be an early pro-
duction of the great bard: —
’Twas in June. ’Neath the light of fair Lune (that’s
the moon),
Most importune this lover. Young Loon, came to spoon.
Oft on a cracked bassoon he played a sad tune,
While she ate his nightly boon, a prune or macaroon,
But oversoon he claimed a boon —a kiss! for his old
prune.
Ye ladye turn’d maroon and swooned. He fled, this
buffoon of Fortune!
Tell it typhoon, and thou oh monsoon, in many a platoon,
How her father, the dragoon, on the shalloon of that
Young Loon,
Did like a musketoon attune
The clang of his avenging shoon.
Gentle reader! thou hast read the " pome.” It is, as
We said before, the work of a Shakespeare. Not, how-
ever, of Billee, but of a “ super” who, during the run of
L spectauclar play in Sydney, did privily “shake”
(Subripiut,Horace, hem!) and likewise carry away one
property “ spear” (best deal gilt). He was upon dis-
covery dubbed Shakespeare by a well-known, facetious
lisciple of Susarion. We fancy if our friend William
bad given birth to this eaelt production, he would not
have lived to write much more. Some Stratford-on-Avon
jr.P. or coroner would have had the pleasure of sitting
upon the remains of W. S. In the elegant language of
pur poet we say, " Good afternoon.”
LANFRB.


week have concluded with a most amusing little
absurdity, entitled “ The Temple of the Sun,” a mix-
ture of the rehearsal scene in the “ Critic," and a
sketch recently given (if we remember rightly) by the
comedians of the Loftus Troupe, in which a country-
man searching for his son finds him engaged at a Lon-
don theatre. At all events a similar incident forms the
main point in the situation. The young gentleman
who thus carries on is Mr. St. Lawrence, in the person
of Charles Figgins, Mr. Whyte being the father. Mr.
Eainford is a stage-struck tragedian, and Mr. J. L. Hall,
Mr. Vincent Crummies, a Dickensoniau impecunious
manager. Mr. Sam Poole is the low comedian of the
company, and nice scrapes he gets everybody into.
Miss Laura Wiseman is the leading lady, the daughter
of the manager. The main incidents of the piece are a
really effective scene, showing the entire interior of a
theatre from footlights to gallery, with (partly living)
audience seated, orchestra, and other effects, and the per-
formance of a drama in which nobody knows his part,
and everybody gets alternately applauded, hissed at,
hooted and talked at, and in which the most absurd
blunders are perpetrated to the misery of the manager.
The directions to each player, the blunders, the literal
interpretation of directions by supers, the want of cos-
tume and properties—are burlesqued in splendid but
dangerous style. The climax is reached when old Fig-
gins, having by some means managed to reach the wings
of the theatre, seeing his son on the stage, rushes on in
sight of the audience; and the adroit manager (and
chief actor) just at sticking point, improves the occa-
sion as the audience applauds, thinking it part of the
play, and by some dashing sentences brings down the
house, as the curtains of the mock and the real stage
falls at the same moment.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
There are some seekers of amusements who think
that a little of a good thing is better than a mass of
rubbish ; that is to say, they prefer quality to quantity.
There are others, however, to whom quantity is the
sine qua non for an evening’s enjoyment. But when
quantity is judiciously allied to quality, all parties must
be satisfied, as is evidenced by the packed crowds that
visit the Queen’s Theatre every evening. Messrs. His-
cocks and Hayman have here joined together this week
all their forces, allying the recently arrived Mammoth
Minstrels (old Sydney favourites) with the Victoria
Loftus Troupe. Thus fortified, the joint managers are
enabled to pick and choose, giving us the best of their
arrangements and dismissing the poorer ones ad infernos
As a first part of the performance we have the usual
minstrel business, of an excellent character, some of
the part singing being particularly good. Horace Bent,
an inimitable bones, full of oily humour; Ben Brown
as tambo, equally dry and caustic —a second Wash.
Norton; whilst J. Newlaud is a more than usually in-
ductive interlocutor. Amongst the best pieces were
Bent’s ‘Didyouever ?’ a take-off of the ‘Pinafore’ query,
‘ What, never ?’ with a very humourous ringing chorus ;
and a charming little ditty, sweetly sung by Beau-
mont Eeid —“ Daisy Bell.” The instrumental accom-
paniment to this was really admirable, a flute passage
obligato by Farrell being in excellent taste. The or-
chestra is really good, and Mr. Thompson’s cornet
playing always a feature.
Then came the best low Irish character sketch we
have seen by Eickey and McCarthy—‘ Bad Whiskey.”
A clever dance by Miss Victoria Loftus and Miss
Minnie Esmond succeeded. After a noisily amusing
nautical scene between Brown and Newland, came a
wonderfully funny scene between Sarony, Waters, and
Kelly, entitled “ The Dancing Quakers." Anything
more really comic and mirth-provoking it is impossible
to imagine. One had to laugh—resistance was useless.
A well-harmonised quartette (arranged by Summers of
Melbourne) ‘ The Message ’ (the words of Blumenthal’s
song) was evenly sung by Eeid, Campbell, Fredericks,
and Emery, though scarcely in tune, and a capital
evening’s amusement was concluded with Harry Le
Clair’s impersonation of ‘An Amateur Prima Donna,’
concluding with an imitation of ‘II Bacio.’ As yet we
cannot discover any of the so-called ‘ indecency ’ of this
troupe. It is possibly known that what is food for our
neighbours is not for us.
And all this was over by a quarter past ten: ye long-
spinning managers, take a hint !
KELLY AND LEON’S OPEEA HOUSE.
Blanguette’s pretty opera, “ Les Cloches de Camis
ville,” continues its place on the boards here, and gives
renewed pleasure with each hearing. But this pleasure
does not preclude the duty or the necessity of criticism;
for, we are “ nothing if not critical.” For its due ren-
dition the opera demands the services of a complete
(not necessarily a brilliant), —one well acquainted with
the style and peculiarities of the opera: this company is
not so ; and, however burlesques or opera bouffe like
*■ Pinafore ” or “ The Doctor of Alcantura,” may come
within their scope, the “ Cloches” can scarcely be said
to do so. There is too much constant music for the
company: it is almost a drag on them. Even Miss
Wangenheim, a clever actress and singer is over-weighted
as Germaine. We wish that there could be two to take
the part of Serpolette—one to do the singing—while
Leon (certainly “the only” one of the species) could do
the acting. We cannot spare him, and so must spare
(or miss) the singing. When Leon is there the scene
assumes life : there is in him an irrepressible spirit of
quiet fun, and yet there appears to be no desire to court
public favour. A little interpolation such as “ Pat in
the bag,” is said in an aside for nobody to hear but the
person addressed: and though the effect is irresistibly
funny, it does not interfere with the progress
of the piece for a moment. Mr. Vernon Eeid cer-
tainly sings some of his numbers well —in pleasing
voice, very correctly, with taste and expression: but
there is too much for him, and he becomes husky
before the third act. Mr. Winter reminds us of
a line in one of Tom Hood’s occasional couplets, “ For
though his name’s Winter he acts very summary.”
Very summary, indeed, with that white-sheet cloak, and
we will summarily dismiss him. Mr. Ball bawls
far too loudly, and is far too serious for a buffo part:
the Baillie isn’t Dick Deadrye. Mr. Lester’s Gobo is a
very small part, but he makes very much of it: a quiet
humour without straining after effect.
Mr. Edwin Kelly’s representation of the part
of Gaspard is the cream of the piece. His acting in
the second act is a masterly dramatic delineation, full
of fire and dramatic intensity. His song of “ Gold,”
his gradual sinking with a rhapsody, and then into a
trance as he hums the refrain of the legend, his fixed
look, and his imaginary gathering up of the gold to fill
his pockets rivet the attention, and form a fine study
for many a dramatic artist, in whom we do not often see
song and acting.
And, with the best intentions to do the work every
justice possible, the great claims on our attention pre-
vent our analysing the music according to promise, and
for which we went again and again to the (the theatre,
and obtained the loan of a score—from one to whom
we have perhaps given but scant praise, and he’ll there-
fore not thank us. The will must be taken for the
deed.
CRITIC.
A Professional "Polypus.”
A very amusing story concerning a professional
singer well known amongst us has been going the rounds
of the New Zealand press, extracted from a late letter
of the Sydney special correspondent of the Auckland
Star. The writer says:—“ A little incident, or rather
anecdote, of Sydney, may cause you some amusement.
A novel question is going the rounds as to the state of
your health in a new form —‘ How is your Polypus ?’ It
arose in this wise:—Mr. Gooch Gordon or Gordon
Gooch, a favourite bass singer, whom we also knew
in Auckland some years ago with the Carandinis,
has just returned to Australia after a long visit to
England, where he studied under Macfarren and other
professors of the Royal Academy of Music, and, being
elected an associate of that institute, is entitled to write
A.E.A.M. after his name. It was said that his voice
had wonderfully improved, and that he might now be
considered one of the most finished singers of the day.
But this did not suffice for Mr. Gooch, who, being about
to give a concert, and fearing lest some little peculiarity
in his voice might be set down as a fault, issued a cir-
cular, which he sent round in large numbers to the
public. Herein he stated that whilst in England he
had been terribly alarmed by the loss of his voice in
consequence of the formation of a polypus in his throat.
All the doctors stated that he would never lose the
polypus and never regain his voice; but amidst much
anxiety, he continued under medical treatment, under-
went an operation, lost his polypus, and found his
voice. Now, the reading of all this in a solemn circular
at the back of the programme is really funny, though
the personal relation of it would no doubt be very
alarming to Mr. Gooch’s friends; and now, whenever
anyone coughs in a peculiar manner his friends are
naturally uneasy, and wonder whether he has a polypus
n his throat.”
THEATRICALS IN NEW ZEALAND.
Auckland, February 12.
There has been nothing fresh in Auckland during the
last week in a musical way, the only entertainment of
any importance having been the concert at St. Mary’s
Convent. Lyster’s Opera Company are now playing in
Wellington, and it is hoped that they will be offered
sufficient guarantee to play in Auckland. Several letters
on the subject have been published in the newspapers,
and there is a very good chance of their making an
appearance here.
THE THEATEE.
Mr. J. J. Wallace has appeared in two of his best
characters during the past week—as Gerald Fitzgerald
in the ‘ Irish Exile,’ and as ‘ Conn the Shaughraun’ in
the play of that name by Dion Boucicanlt. The Com-
pany have met with very fair success, and the house is
each evening well filled. The cast includes such well-
known artistes as Mr. J. B. Steele, Mr. Leopold, Miss
Eaymond, and Mrs. Blanche Leopold. Miss Wilton
sustained her port with care and judgment.
THE EICCAEDI OPEEA COMPANY.
Considerable amusement was caused this morning
through the sale of the wardrobe of the above Company.
The gorgeous dresses and fancy drapery were all put
up by the merciless auctioneer, and most of the
dresses fetched very small places. The most valuable
of the clothing was that used in the representation of
* H.M.S. Pinafore.’
LYSTEE’S OPEEA COMPANY.
The principal pieces performed during the past week
in Wellington have been, ‘ Carmen,’ ‘ Eigoletto,’ ‘Mari-
tana,’ and ‘La Traviata.’ A Southern paper states that
the Opera Company will lose from £5OO to £6OO by their
season in Christchurch.
THE CAEANDINIS.
These famous artistes have finished their ‘ Concerti-
zation’ in Wellington, and have lately appeared in
Greytown.
EUTERPE.
Do not trust the circus athlete as lie bowingly
enters the arena. He is a man of revolutionary c
intentions.
FUN AND FANCY.
Stakeholders—Butchers.
Bees cell their own honey.
Do fliremen dam their hose ?
Are fishing-lines drawn in water colors ?
Now is a good time to lay in your Winter’s cold.
A Dentist’s sign—Drawing, music, and dancing.
How to acquire shorthand—Fool around a buzz-saw.
The man who pays cash is a person of no account.
One touch of Nature—when you get your nose frost
bitten.
A good workman is known by his chips—and so is a
good poker player.
Why not use a bar-ometer instead of three fingers to
measure with ?
Why is a glass of fresh lager like a mad dog ? Because
it froths at the mouth.
The monotony of a man’s life is generally due to the
fact that he has no change.
For weighs that are light and tricks that are gain the
sellers of coal are peculiar.
One of the things yon don’t want to be too generous
with is your temper. Keep it.
The story that Sarah Bernhardt sleeps in her coffin
may have originated from her coughing in her sleep.
Poet: “Do you want any of my blank verse ?” “ No,
we don’t want any of your verse,” said the editor.
Any small boy who has green-apple experience knows
the misery that is brought to a party of internal disputes
Hoops are coming into fashion again. Hoops are
tbjugs to put round women to keep them from bursting
with vanity.
A thorough man of the world is one who can shake
hands cordially with a friend whom he has just black-
balled at the club.
A camel can make 100 miles per day if he has fire-
crackers tied to his tail, but he’d rather go about ten
and then loaf around the rest of the day.
Without polygamy the Latter Day Saints business
must be a little tame to the old veterans who are trying
to establish a Mormon camp in Colorado.
say “ a man is known by his associates.” Of
course he is; a man cannot associate with people for
any length of time without their knowing him.
Two men started out to see who could tell the biggest
lie. No. 1 commenced : “ A wealthy country editor—”
No. 2 stopped him right there and paid the forfeit.
Sundav-sohool Visitor: “Why was Lot’s wife turned
into a pillar of salt ?” There was a pause, and then a
small boy piped out, “ I s’pose it was because she was
toO fresh.”
Compared to woman, how insignificant is man,
especially in the matter of baggage. As a rule, you can
stand his trunk up on top of hers and still have room
enough there for a game of parlour croquet.
A Boston paper says : “ A butterfly was caught at the
South End yesterday.” It may be safe enough to catch
a butterfly at the south end, but when you go to grab a
wasp, you want to catch it at the north end.
Aphorism by a little boy.—Let a boy place his stock-
ings in an iron chest as he goes to bed and lock them up
with six padlocks, and in the morning one stocking will
be found under the bed and the other on the stairs.
Pastor Chiniquy has expressed privately to Brisbane
Punch his opinion, that on his return to Canada he will
be able to make considerable capital out of the intoler-
ance and persecution he suffered at the hands of the
Queensland Papists. At one place he was pelted with
rotten eggs, which, on coming in contact with his sacred
person, emitted the “ odour of sanctity.” At Ipswich
gouging-him was attempted.
A clergyman’s wife had impressed upon her little boy
the necessity of ejecting the skins of grapes, and a few
days afterwards she told him the story of Jonah and the
whale. “ The whale is a very large nionster,” said the
mother, “and he swallowed Jonah. “Did he swallow
other men too ?” asked the little boy. “ Well, I sup-
pose he did,” continued the mother, who was somewhat
in doubt; and while she was hesitating about the con-
tinuation of the story, the boy interrupted: “And,
mamma, did he spit the skin out, too P”
Brain Food.
Authors, says a smart literary man, do not diet them-
selves properly, lam convinced. The quality of a man’s
work depends to a great extent upon what he feeds on
at the time he is doing it. After years of study devoted
to the subject, I have ascertained that the very best
incentive to brain-work is fish. But let not the reader
run away with the idea that any fish will do for any
work. On the contrary, a poem written on codfish and
oyster sauce might be excellent, a sermon written on
the same would be idiotic. If you wish to write a good
drama, turbot is the best fish; for poetical work, comic,
sprats; serious, codfish and oyster sauce ; for a romantic
story, boiled soles; for a leading article, whelks; for
sermons, periwinkles. For writing essays upon pure or
applied sciences I have always found bloaters the best
food. No man could do anything on salmon, unless it
were to make his will or write an actionable letter to his
enemy. It will be remembered that Mark Twain shares
the well-established belief that fish is good for literary
men. In replying to a young author who had forwarded
him some M.SS. for publication, he informs the latter
that “ a couple of small whales would do him for the
present.
A Modern Jeremiah.
Lo, the sun doth compass us round about, and the
heat thereof doth prevail mightily against the son of
man.
It catcheth him at the seventh hour of the morning,
and it tarrieth with him even until the seventh hour of
the evening, and there is no good in him.
He sweateth like unto a street-sprinkler yea,
verily, like unto a corporation hose-cart and he
yeameth for ice-water.
If so be he hath ice-water wherewith to quench his
thirst, what proflteth him ? It boweth his soul in an-
guish and vexeth his reins sore.
Oh, daughters of Jerusalem, why art thou girt about
with wrappings, and wherefore dost thou slam the
doors all the day long when the menfolks enter into thy
habitations ?
Why dost thou array thyselves in slender raiment and
laugh unto scorn the son of man when he cometh unto
his house at the third hour ?
Is thy servant a dog that he shall be snubbed in his
own habitation ? and who art thou, oh daughter of
Jerusalem, that thou visiteth him with wrath even in
his own temple ?
Our sous and our daughters are so chastened by the
sun; .it is hard for them to kick against the prickly
heat.
They go to and fro with naught but a girdle to pro-
tect their nakedness, and their complaint is of the
Summer, summery.
The milk soureth in the dairies, and the smell thereof
is an offence unto our nostrils.
The undershirt is a mockery, and the paper collar is
full of vanity. There is no health in a shirt-front.
Whither shall we flee to escape the calamity that is
to come upon upon us, and where shall we hide from
the forwardness of the oppressor ?
Wedding Customs.
The Prince of Wales set a good example at his mar-
riage, when he gave the Princess Alexandra a keeper-
ring in which the initial letters of the six stones —Beryl,
Emerald, Euby, Turquoise, Jacinth, Emerald—formed
her favourite name for him—Bertie. The language and
properties of precious stones are as varied as are those
of flowers; and, like the latter gems, have the proper
seasons in which their good qualities predominate.
High priests in this kind of knowledge inform us that
whoever is touched with any stone set in a silver ring
shall be immediately reconciled. A pale sapphire set in
gold, and engraved with a figure and with the half of a
fish, procures any desire. Capricorn, or cornelian, set
in a silver ring and carried about, insures the wearer
against harm in purse and person; no judge can pass
unjust sentence against him; he shall abound in busi-
ness and honour, gain the friendship of many, and be
all-powerful in battle. A favourite superstition is, that
every month is under the influence of some one of'the
precious stones. The garnet, signifying constancy and
truth, is sacred to January; the amethyst (sincerity),
to February; the bloodstone (courage and presence of
mind), to March; the diamond (innocence), to April;
the emerald (success in love), to May ; the agate (health
and long life), to June; the cornelian (a contented
mind), to July; the sardonyx (conjugal felicity), .to
August; the chrysote (antidote to insanity), to Sep-
tember ; the opal (hope), to October; the topaz (fidelity),
to November; and the turquoise (prosperity), to Decem-
ber. In Germany the turquoise is still the favourite
betrothal ring; it is supposed to prevent dissensions
between husband and wife, and also to give warning of
danger. In addition to the virtues already enumerated,
the diamond is said to be an antidote to Satanic tempta-
tion. The ruby makes its possessor brave. The topaz
is a preservative against poison. The amethyst is a pre-
servative against drunkenness. The turquoise acts as a
charm against the evil eye and from looks foreboding
misfortune. The sardonic sardonyx brings unholy
thoughts, though it promotes conjugal felicity—is, in
fact, a sort of bane-and-antidote affair. The opal, unless
its influence be counteracted by having other stones set
in it, brings ill luck.
In choice of an engagement ring there is, therefore,
ample scope for the exercise of a delicate fancy in the
selection of the stones, and in symbolizing the virtues
of the adorned one.
In the time of " Good Queen Bess ” weddings of the
aristocracy and great people were distinguished by ban-
quets, masques, pageants, etc. But there are some
characteristics and features of weddings that have been
§ reserved, with certain variations, for many generations,
'rom time immemorial, the practice of presenting the
bride with marriage gifts seems to have prevailed.
During the last century it was usual to celebrate a mar-
riage with sports and an open house, to which all the
inhabitants of the district were bidden. Cumberland
was famous for these fetes. So was France. The
custom of throwing the slipper is both “ancient and
honourable." The slipper was a symbol of authority in
the East, and in token of submission to her husband the
bride received a tap on the head administered with her
husband’s shoe. In Jewish times the delivering of a
stone was a sign of a formal renunciation of authority
over a woman. Formerly a peculiar form of shoe-
marriage was celebrated at Haworth, in Yorkshire, the
place in which the gentle “ Currer Bell ” lived and died.
In throwing this symbol of good luck the left shoe
should always be taken. The Eomans were very super-
stitious as to the days and seasons when marriages
should be celebrated. The Kalends, Nones, and Ides of
every month were strictly avoided. The most fortunate
time in the whole year for marrying was that which
followed the Ides of June. The sum and substance of
all the popular belief that governs the choosing of the
“ appointed hour ” In the present age is briefly contained
in two rules: “ Who marries between the sickle and the
scythe will never thrive,” is one. The other, the
hackneyed lines:
Monday for wealth,
Tuesday for health,
Wednesday the best day of all';
Thni’sday for crosses,
Friday for losses,
Saturday no luck at all.
Scan the marriage notice columns of the newspapers
and see how closely people follow the curt advice of the
stanza.
The origin of the term “honeymoon” is an open
question. But good authorities say that it is said to
have been derived from the Teutonic custom of drinking
a decoction of honey for thirty days, or a moon’s age,
after a wedding feast. Attila, the Hun, is said to have
celebrated his nuptials in such a glorious manner in the
beverage hydromel, that he drank himself to death on
the wedding day.
In Sweden, a bride has her pockets filled with bread.
It is supposed that every piece she gives to the poor on
her way to church averts misfortune.
In Norway, the bride herself hands round some drinks
that all the company may drink long life to her; the
wedding feast last some days, and the guests have no
wish to let their moderation be known.
In Libumia, it is the custom for the bride to retire
from the table before the end ofthe dinner, and to throw
over the bridgroom’s house (?) a hard cake made of
coarse flour; the higher she throws it the happier she
will be.
In Circassia, there are always set upon the carpet in
one of the rooms in the bridegroom’s house a vessel of
wine and a plate of dough, and the first thing the bride
does on entering is to kick over the wine and scatter
the dough with her hands about the room.
In some parts of Eussia, the bride and bridegroom,
during the banquet which always takes place on the
evening of the wedding-day, are separated by a curtain.
The parents of the couple exchange rings, and a basket
of cheese and small loaves is blessed by the priest.
Mrs. Dringle’s Audiphone.
Dringle had never heard of the audiphone, and when
Mrs. Dringle, who is as deaf as a post, carried one with
her to the theatre in Newark, the other night, her
husband thought it was some new-fangled fancy fan.
Miss R ,a very pretty and captivating blonde, sat
next to Dringle, and as her big brother went out after
the first act and did not return for an hour, Dringle
laid himself out for a first-class flirtation.
The play was ‘ Oliver Twist,’ and Mrs. Dringle kept
her audiphone pressed against her front teeth,
apparently taking in everything that transpired between
the leading characters in the piece. Di'ingle, however,
was entirely absorbed with Miss R , and this is what
they said:
He ; 4 You looked just lovely at the ball on Tuesday
night, in that pale-blue Swiss with low neck and white
lace. If I had not been a married man, I should surely
have fallen in love with you.’ (He told, his wife that it
was the annual business meeting of the lodge and he
was compelled to be out late).
She : * Really, Mr. Dringle, yon flatter me; but there
is no gentleman whose good opinion I value more than
yours.’
He: ‘We are very good friends, at any rate,’ squeezing
her arm.
She; 4 Indeed we are, and I should be glad to have
you drop in and see me at any time.’
He: ‘I am rejoiced to hear you say so. Will yon go
with me to New York to-morrow afternoon, to —a
matinde ? ’
She; 4 1 shall only be too glad.’
Here the big brother entered, but soon retired again,
and the flirtation was wound up by Dingle essaying to
meet Miss R at the Broad Street Depot at 1.30 p.m.,
to proceed to New York. At precisely 1.10 a fair blonde,
in rubber cloak, rubber umbrella, and in rubber boots
might have been seen entering the depot and peering
wistfully into the gentlemen’s waiting-room. Presently,
a tall, gaunt figure swooped down upon her, and a tongue
tipped with jealous fire poured out a volume of wrath :
‘No, he is not here,’ exclaimed the deaf wife. ‘I
heard what you said. He’s a beauty now, he is; if you
want a lock of his hair you will find some of it in the
dust-bin. His eyes won’t look inter youm agin as they
did last night; he can’t see through them poultices ;
not much, and now I’m goin’ fer you, you hussy—l
heard all yer said.’
She made a grab, but clawed off only a blue bow from
one of Miss E ’s retreating blonde tresses. The
young lady fled, and Mrs. Dringle, fondling her audi-
phone, wended her way homeward to re-poultice
Dingle’s eyes, and read him a new lecture upon the
wonder of the science of sounds.
Some months have passed, and no one has re-
marked upon Rowell’s two soles that beat as one.
Courtney’s boat is his oyster, and he thinks he
can saw it in two and row on the half-shell.
If Courtney will keep in the woods for ever, a
grateful country will provide him with a sawmill.
ORIGINAL POETRY.
Cooking and Courting.
Dear Ned, no doubt you’ll be surprised
When you receive and read this letter;
I’ve railed against the married state.
But then, you see, I knew no better
I met a Ivoely girl down here;
Her manner is—well, very winning.
We’re soon to be —well, Ned, my boy.
I’ll tell you all from the beginning.
I went to ask her out to drive
Last Wednesday—it was perfect weather, —
She said she couldn’t possibly.
The servants had gone off together.
(Our servants often go away
At cousins’ funerals to be looking).
Pies must be made, and she must stay.
She said, to do that branch of cooking.
“Oh ! let me help you then,” cried I,
“ I’ll be a cooker, too; how jolly !”
“ All right,” she answered with a smile,
“ But you will soon repent your folly.
For I shall be a tyrant, sir.
And good hard work you’ll have, or something.
So sit down there, and don’t you stir.
But take this knife and pare that pumpkin.”
She rolled her sleeve about her arm—
That lovely arm so plump and rounded.
Outside, the morning sun shone bright;
Inside, the dough she deftly pounded.
Her little fingers sprinkled flour
And rolled the pie-crust up in masses.
I passed a most delightful hour
’Midst love, and sugar, and molasses.
And when her sleeve came down, and I
Fastened it up—her hands were doughy—
Oh! it did take the longest time,
Her arm, Ned, was so fair and snowy,
She blushed, and trembled, and looked shy.
Somehow, that made me all the bolder;
Her arched lips looked so red that I
Soon found her head upon my shoulder.
We’re to be married, Ned, next month;
Come and attend the wedding revels.
I really think that bachelors
Are most miserable devils.
You’d better go for some girl’s hand
And if you are uncertain whether
You dare to make a good demand,
Why, just try cooking pies together.
Honor thy Mother.
Honor thy'mother—the dear old heart—
There are snowflakes on her brow;
Time has silvered her golden hair—
She’s growing feeble now.
Her lips are thin and shrunken, boys;
They tremble when she speaks,
But those are the lips that kissed the tears
From off thy childish cheeks.
Honor thy mother —I have'none'now—
I laid her ’neath the sod;
Among the mountains far away
She’s mouldering with the clod.
The dearest one in all the world—
The bravest—truest—best;
I never knew her worth until;
We laid her down to rest.
Honor thy mother—her eyes are dim.
They feel life’s evening shade.
Yet glow with such a holy love—
A love that cannot fade.
The sands of life are running out.
But feeble though she be.
There’s no one else upon this earth
Will go so far for thee.
Honor thy mother—you cannot walk
Into a mine so dark
That her kind eyes won’t see you there
With nature’s loving spark.
You cannot enter prison cell
Whose bars will keep her out;
Her love will call thee innocent.
Though all the world should doubt.
Honor thy mother —for though the world
Despise, forsake, and hate.
And leave you all alone to die
Outside the golden gate,
She will enfold you in her arms.
And gather you to her breast.
And tell you, ’mid her burning tears
That you are still the best.
Honor thy mother. You never knew
How oft, at midnight’s hour,
She sat and watched and prayed for you
Within her lonely bower,
And how it grieved her when she heard
That you were doing wrong.
While pleasure’s cup was brimming o’er
With fiery drink and strong.
Honor thy mother. But if you must
Exceed in that which kills.
Away to some wild mountain, where
There are laughing, rippling rills ;
Go, learn to drink God’s beverage there,
And drink to Him alone,
While all the time your mother dear
Will pray for you at home.
Honor thy mother. A little while.
And then the last adieu;
Sooth her fast-declining days.
She smoothed life’s way for you.
Blessings must follow every man
One fast upon the other.
Who tries, and does the best he can.
To smooth life’s road for mother.
A.C.G.
AN EPITAPH.
She never will crown with her earnest love
The life of some honest living man.
For she kindled the fire in the kitchen stove
With the lightsome tilt of the kerosene can.
And he —his work has been laid away.
Almost before it was well begun;
For he didn’t know, they heard him say.
There was any load in the empty gun.
1780.
Farmer at the plough,
Wife milking cow.
Daughter spinning yarn.
Son threshing in the bam.
All happy to a charm.
1880.
Farmer gone to se the show.
Daughter at the pi-an-o,
Madame gaily dressed in satin.
All the boys a-leaming latin.
With a mortgage on the farm.


The Bulletin.
The success of The Bulletin up to the
present has exceeded the most sanguine expecta-
tions and the proprietors are now confident of
being able to secure for their new venture an ex-
tensive and substantial support. The day of
publication has this issue been altered to Friday,
m order to let The Bulletin have an opportu-
nity of competing with the other weekly news-
papers, and we are forced through being one day
earlier to hold over till our next three very spirited
engravings. The little sketch which accompanies
this brief article shows a very important feature
in the life of any newspaper. The heading of The
Bulletin is being engraved by one of our artists,
and in what excellent style it was done has already
been seen. As to the success of the affair just
begun there can be no doubt. The public are in
splendid spirit towards us, and every post brings
us fresh assurances of it. Already the sale in
Sydney exceeds that of any weekly newspaper
published here. The reason, of course, is that
everything in it is original, and, we believe, ac-
ceptable. The Bulletin is not preceded by
any daily newspaper. We can be made still further
successful by the solicitude of those who already
subscribe. One word of recommendation to a
friend who does not subscribe —and we feel the
result. Thus will be attained one object—
the production of a paper that can be read and
enjoyed by all.
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
III. —“SOCIETY" IN THE COLONIES.
By QUIZ.
There are very few woman in the colonies who have
not gained their position in society either by marriage
or money, if not by both combined; for in the antipodes
wealth takes precedence of birth, and it is not even a
matter of question how the money has been made. So,
when a lady appears, young, pretty and richly clothed,
with that useful creature, a husband whose name and
money, if not position, prove so valuable an accessory
to the “ Parvenu,” society does not care to enquire:
“ who was she ? ” They accept the wealthy, dressy,
slightly vulgar wife, who can give parties worth going
to —at least, to those who are not very particular as
to whom they meet, or asto how Mrs. “ Parvenu,” who
knows well how rough and uncultivated was her early
life, and that such days must never be talked about.
dates her existence from her wedding day. Quick to
detect her own faults she devotes her time to study,
learns to write grammatically, to speak without laugh-
ing at every word. Dress and deportment are her
principal studies; shrewd in money matters as though
a bom usurer, she yet likes to dress well, and, just to
show what a fashionable woman she has become, she
will appear in a secondary dress at Mrs. Biglow’s ball,
while at her own she outvies all her guests in
Of course, Mrs. Parvenu plays a little, or affects to do
so, more for the sake of displaying her hands, which are
white, but large as a dairy-maid’s. With gentlemen she
is a coquette, especially if they are unmarried. Fond of
admiration, she readily swallows the broadest compli-
ments as long as her admirers choose to utter them.
Her husband, who affects his pipe more than his wife,
only entertains her visitors occasionally; he is proud
of her, and secretly marvels at the total change a few
years of married life have effected. However, although
wealthy, not having been bom in the "purple” he
fails to detect any qaucherie in Mrs. " P.,” and thinks
her perfection. If you drive with her she will tell you
the occupants of, every x>assing carriage, always prefac-
ing her remarks with “Isn’t Mrs. Willie Bullion a
pretty woman?” Don’t you think Charlie Haw Haw
devoted to his wife ? ” Do you know how much she
spends on her milliner ? That cream costume of hers
cost forty guineas ! ” Amazed at her apparent intimacy
with so much grandeur, you ask parenthetically “Do
you visit in their circle ? ” Her answer is invariably*
“Oh no, I don’t know them!” Perhaps she knows
their dress-makers. Mrs. “ Parvenu ” is only one of
many; society in the colonies is so mixed, you must
either give it up or float with the the stream. One
night mix with the “ Creme,” at Lady Blue-skin’s, and
the next form one in the very questionable company at
Mrs. “ Parvenu’s ” “ crush; ” for her invites are issued
without any discrimination; but then que voulez was?
Her suppers are good and her balls are kept up “ til-*
day light doth appear.
QUIZ.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP the Second. —A Night with “The Gods.”
This time it is Opera, a year back, in the height of
the season, and also summer weather, when it is stuffy
even in the dress circle of the theatre, where ladies sit
in silks and satins, and fan themselves hotter than they
were before, and sigh audibly as they watch mankind
rising between the acts, and disappearing no one knows
whither. On their return an aroma pervates the dress
circle, as though an infant Bacchus had visited the wine
vaults, and then unseen come to the theatre to disperse
among all the beauty and fashion an odour of vulgar
spirits. Of course, those languid swells who put their
waxed moustaches so close to the face of every pretty
girl whom they address could not be guilty of such
rudeness,; it’s only the vulgar little “ god ” that some-
how came in with them —if Bacchus will be seen in
doubtful company, he must bear the blame.
However, to return to my subject: the theatre is
crowded from roof to basement, probably some favourite
star takes a benefit to-night. The “ gods ” come out,
or rather came in, in great force on this occasion, and
it being very warm, they unanimously stripped off their
coats, and to their credit be it said, showed a very fair
amount of clean linen. Not a man but had a snowy
shirt, with spotless front and bright handkerchief
knotted round the throat. As a rule the " upper ten ”
—I say it advisedly—have it pretty much their own
way ; in fact, it would be a brave “ super” who, without
just cause, ventured to tone down the at all times exu-
uberant spirits of the rough and ready "upper ten.”
And as far as possible they should be let alone. Are
they not the "claquers” of the theatre, and what
actor or actress can make firm a footing in public
favour if the “ Gods ” withhold their applause ? No
sooner does the warning gong give notice that the
orchestra is coming, than they are greeted with ear-
splitting whistles, scraps of the opera they are about to
play, and on their appearance a whole volley of light
chaff, in the language peculiar to the “ Gods,” who
know all their weak points and roast them pretty
freely. But flhe orchestra, taken as a whole, is a good-
tempered, much enduring band. Its members know
exactly how much the eclat following the overture
depends on the sympathy of the “ Gods,” so although
the latter call out to them familiarity, “ old waxy ” and
“ rosin,” “ waxy ” and “ rosin ” only look up and smile
as they set strings in order. The “Maestro” is the
only one who shows any signs of impatience; and even
he finds it better to grin and bear. The first wave of his
baton and the seething crowd of heads and arms settle
down and dead silence reigns. Your “ Gods" are
musical to a man, and in their rough way can criticise
as keenly as one bred to it. Then they know every actor
or actress that treads the boards, call them familiarily
by their names, have their favorites and are staunch to
them. They clap the trunat, encore the loudest, and
will bring the house down with rounds of heartfelt
boisterous applause if their favorite be recalled.
Between the acts they recognize their friends; pretty
freely carry on a light conversation with those opposite,
and although they are sometimes not complimentary,
you will never hear bad language or foul oaths. They
besiege the lemonade boy and treat their Mary Anns
liberally to all that’s in the basket, and if the Opera
prove romantic, and the lovers trials touch their hearts,
they may be seen to pass their arm in an elephantine
manner round their buxom partners’ waists. They are
not making love, but it’s their way of enjoying together
the long drawn out agonies of the heroine.
And in this social way let us leave them before the
curtain finally drops; for although we have sat with the
“ Gods,” we decline to join the surging mass as they
rush Ihelter skelter in their downward career to the
streets.
QUIZ.
“Notes” of Good Currency.
The old adage that recommends us to go abroad
to get news of ourselves is not without a leaven of
truth. In glancing at our country files a few days
ago, our nunquam dormio eye rested with satis-
faction on the “notes” of the Sydney special of
the Tamworth News. The following par. will
be fresh intelligence to most of our readers :
The sectarian educationalists are not remarkable, as a
body, for the possession of much humour; and when-
ever it happens that they venture on a mild joke, they
are entitled to the full merit due to the best sayings of
small jokists. It is said that a circular was sent, marked
“ private," early last week to certain Members of the
Legislative Assembly, calling their attention to the
ultimate struggle that was likely to take place on Wed-
nesday evening over the 26th “Claws” of the Bill.
There was no typographical symbolism used to indicate
that the word Claus was intended for a joke—it may have
been a misprint—but it caused a considerable amount of
merriment amoilgst many of those who were favoured
with the circular. They congratulate the reverend
wire-pullers for having perpetrated a pun without know-
ing it; and this small titillation of the legislative mind
actually led to an animated debate without much vin-
dictiveness. Honorable Members looked so gloomy
when they entered on real business of the day that they
would have done honour to a funeral celebration if
Messrs, Michael Fitzpatrick, Joe Leary, Jacobs,
and others had not assumed jaunty airs, strutted
about the Table like so many “ pragmatic” jackdaws,
and looked as if they could, without much effort, remove
the talons of the 26th clause from the body of the
Denominational community. That nucleus of the mea-
sure was ab initio accepted as the real point of contention;
and justly so, because the community should either
agree to a compromise of some kind or another, or insist
on a system of primary education, which would be open
to all without respect of creeds, catechisms, or prelatic
predilections.
We must also “gang agate” for sturdy criti-
cism. The same writer thus growls at Mr. David
Buchanan’s pretention to political prominence:—
The learned David Buchanan, during a tilt with the
Speaker on Thursday afternoon, interjected that he
(meaning himself) was “too prominent” a man to
please most Members. What a fat-brained chiel the
man is becoming! He is not prominent, because that
would signify some merit; but he is notorious; he is
brazen-faced; he is a brawler; he spoils good ideas, and
deceives every one who is fatuous enough to trust bim ;
he swims on a sea of balderdash, buoyed up b y the blad-
ders of vanity and self-seeking, and fancies he is a grand
central figure, because he is an object of ridicule and
contempt. Why do men shun him as a political leper ?
Why has he not a real friend in the House or town ?
Why are his assertions disregarded, and his " bounce**
treated with contempt P If ever a man held a
position in a Legislature it is D. B. To consider him-
self “the coming man”—the Berry of Botany Bay—ia
a monstrous day-mare or delusion. Oh ! no, David, you
will never be a Minister of the Crown, or a Crown Pro-
secutor, or an Assistant Judge, or a man of common
sense and good manners - . Revive your Bathurst Nation,
and reprouuce a new series of political portraits in its
columns, and you will achieve the kind of public repu-
tation to which you are entitled.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN.)
III.— MUSIC AND MORALS.
wisdom teeth, will develop into a “blue,” for she
apparently knows such an astounding lot of subjects, and
is equally fluent in all —a pedagogue in petticoats. Her
sister, in an equally tasteless but no less expensive cos-
tume, has evidently come to the conclusion to let
“ baby” monopolise all the talking part. She is more
lymphatic, as stout people generally are, so she smiles
languidly, opens her pretty mouth with an occasional
“oh!” or “ahl” as required; drops her fan fifty times
in an hour, and always smiles sweetly on the gentleman
who picks it up and hands it to her, with the invariable
addition, “ So stupid of me, is it not ?” to which her
faithful attendant always responds, “Not at all; a
pleasure, I assure you, to pick it up," and so they smile
on each other, and settle down once more to listen to
the lively rattle of her more energetic sister. And I,
finding my engagements call me elsewhere, must bring
my letter to a close.
Yours confidingly.
PEA-BLOSSOM.
Mt dear Bean-Blossom,—
I have been to the first “ Oratorio” within the
Garden Palace, and found it a most melancholy affair,
as ar as voices and instrumentation went; and I sup-
pose it generally requires a little of both to make an
oratorio worth listening to. But, oh! what a crowd—
a Saturday crash; whole families occupying rows of
chairs; mothers serenely nursing their children at
nature’s fount; sticky children eating sticky cakes, and
wiping their sticky fingers on their own and their neigh-
bours’ finery.
The building is completely in possession of the people.
They fill the galleries; they swarm in all the Courts;
they tramp about incessantly, or take the chairs in
the oratorios. Not until the " Oratorio” has ended,
and the happy families have gone in a dense mass
towards the entrance does one begin to breathe some-
thing purer than “ fustian,” and see sights more worth
noticing than the purely domestic “ pictures” so freely
enacted before us during the “ Oratorio.”
I cannot pretend to describe the different Courts. See
our Herald for that. In the Italian Court, after looking
at the much-abused hut all too lovely “ Arianna,” one
is apt to look more at the good-looking Italians than at the
lovely fragile trinkets they so insinuatingly try to tempt
one to buy. You know the sort of men I mean,—eyes
like black beads; cheeks like full-blown cabbage roses;
mouths full of sound white teeth; hair glistening with
pomade; and manners that might make many a gentle-
man blush at his own want of them. But they are not
all so careful in dress or manners, as for instance our
friend the vendor of coral. If you wander through the
Italian Court you will invariably meet some of the exhi-
bitors without coats; their linen looks as though
washed in coffee; and their skin as if they had not
OUR ARTIST AT WORK.
NEW HEAD OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY. (See Page 6).
made acquaintance with a bath sinpe they left their
native laud. But although they are called Signor Bobbi
or Signor Cabbagei, it is self-evident that they are only
subs or care-takers for their masters. The little
“ representative of Italy” is a thorough gentleman, and
a good-looking one too. Whilst I linger awhile by the
beautiful exhibit of cut cameos, I notice two sisters
leaving the Homan Court, of course in "pinafores”—
that exceedingly popular and yet most trying costume
so much in vogue just now, and worn indiscriminately
by young and old. Maggie Moore is almost the only
"girl” who knows how to wear her pinafore, and look
well in it. However, the younger of these sisters wears
a mauve dress and a blue pinafore—startling combina-
tion of colour!—she also wears spectacles, and some one
addresses her as “Baby.” Certainly not a baby,
although in long clothes. She chatters volubly, uses a
great deal of unnecessary action, entertains three or
our young (very young) men without any apparent
effort. There is really a great deal of espiiqlerie in this
rather lanky baby, who probably, when she has cut her


The “Quadruple Alliance.”
MESSRS. F. HISCOCKS. A. HAYMAN, J. C. DAVIS,
AND F. FROST,
Proprietors of the “Leviathan Show."
It is with great pleasure that we introduce (by
their portraits) to our readers four of the most
enterprising theatrical managers and agents who
have ever come to the colonies; not regularly
settled amongst us as residents, but visiting the
various Australasian communities as opportunity
arises to bring us the amusements we require,
culling for our benefit the flowers of the artistic
garden of art so sedulously cultivated in America.
Messrs. Hiscocks andHayman, of the “ Mammoth
Minstrels ” and other well-known variety com-
panies, and Messrs. Davis and Frost, of the
Victoria Loftus Troupe (also under engagement to
H. and H.,) have united their forces, and now
form a combination company such as has seldom
been seen in the colonies.
Mr. Frederick Hiscocks became known to Sydney
by his alliance with Mr. S. Lazar in taking the
Queen’s Theatre and converting it into an elegant
place of amusement, fit for the appearance of the
Williamsons’ and the support of the Sydney public.
On Mr. Lazar joining Messrs. Levy and Barnett in
erecting the Theatre Royal Mr. Hiscocks separ-
ated from him, and after taking a circus through
the country very successfully, joined Mr. Alfred
Hayman in his various business engagements in
Australia and New Zealand, and has continued
with him to the present time in all his speculations.
Mr. Alfred Hayman, who had for some years
been known in America as “ show ” manager and
agent of a most enterprising spirit, first arrived in
Sydney about four years ago, with the celebrated
Illusionists. Subsequently, Mr. Hayman left
them in order to bring over from America the
Kelly and Leon company, -with whom his name
continued intimately associated, they having ob-
tained a wonderful prestige throughout Australia
and New Zealand in no small measure by the
force of Mr. Hayman’s admirable management. _
Mr. Hayman joined partnership with Mr. His-
cocks, and they have continued in business
together for about three years. Amongst other
artists introduced by them to the colonies, was the
celebrated pianiste, Carlotta Tasca. Tpgether
they have three of the principal theatres in New
Zealand, in Wellington, Christchurch, and
Dunedin, as well as St. George’s Hall, Melbourne,
so that if any place is closed to one of their
numerous companies, they can always place it in
one of the theatres of which they are lessees.
Professor Pepper, the renowned scientist, was also
introduced to Australia under their auspices;
whilst, under their management also, New Zea-
land was made acquainted with the merits of our
own Sydney stage-educated actress, the charming
Miss Beatrice.
But for Messrs. Hiscocks and Hayman, possibly
Madame Camilla Urso might never have had a
“ show ” in Australia, for she was languishing in
Melbourne without her manager being able to
effect any arrangement for her appearance. The
Rubicon once passed, the rest was easy.
Messrs. J. Charles Davis and F. Frost have
long been known in America and New Zealand as
successful caterers for public amusement; and
their management of the Victoria Loftus Troupe,
in spite of almost insuperable difficulties, has
proved their right to the position they have
achieved.
After their Sydney season it is the intention of
this managerial “Quadruple Alliance” to take
their Leviathan company of fifty performers to
London.
Shepherd v. Dibbs.
Were it possible to shock Sydney, this city
would have been positively horrified by the dis-
closures made during the course of the evidence in
the Shepherd v. Dibbs case, an action for slander
which has formed the topic of conversation for
some months past. The alleged slander consisted
in Mr. G. R. Dibbs having stated that Mr. Shep-
herd had committed adultery with Mrs. J. C.
Dibbs, defendant’s sister-in-law. Mr. Shepherd,
who is a member of Parliament, under cross-ex-
amination made admissions which must be regarded
as rather damaging to his character. Evidence
was given by several witnesses tending to substan-
tiate the truth of the statements attributed to Mr.
G. R. Dibbs in regard to the alleged improper
relations between plaintiff and Mrs. J. C. Dibbs.
Exciting.
Here is something new to bet on. In the ad-
vertising columns of the Newcastle Morning
Herald of Saturday last appears the following;
I, James BibLy, hereby challenge George Penman to
eat oatmeal porridge, for the sum of £l. Pint of ale or
porter allowed each man at time of eating. Man and
money at Jimmy the Barber’s, Lambton.
We feel inclined to back Mr. James Bibby, who
has a good eating name, and evidently knows
what is a proper accompaniment for porridge. It
is with a sigh of regret that we contemplate the
probability of the match taking place at Lambton
instead of at Sydney. Messrs. Bibby and Denman
and Jimmy the Barber should be brought to the
metropolis and exhibit their powers to a big
crowd at the old Exhibition building in a 48-hours-
eat-as-you-please. And if Mr. Penman won’t take
up the gauntlet, Mr. Bibby might back himself
against time or weight at eating. We don’t care
how the affair goes—all we desire is to see a match
arranged. Should Mr. Bibby find that he can’t
get up any kind of a show at Lambton he might,
with advantage, write to Mr. John Davies, M.L.A.,
on the subject.
The Divinity that Hedges Kings.
In South Australia, it appears, they are of opinion that
the “ divinity that doth hedge a king ” also surrounds
smaller fry. There is a country hotel which His Royal
Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, then Prince Alfred,
honoured by a call. The Prince took dinner, and the
loyal landlord to this day preserves mementos of the
event in the shape of the knife and fork which were
sanctified by the royal touch, and which have never
since been washed. They are now to be seen in a glass
case in the landlord’s bedroom, which is also the
abiding-place of a champagne bottle containing the
water in which the Prince washed his hands. The
boniface could hardly have gone a step further than
this. It is an historical fact that the Duke one day
shook hands with an old blackfellow named
Jim Cane, who met him on the Belfast road. Jim was
in the employ of the late Mr. William Rutledge of
Famham Park, whom he used to drive about in an
eccentric looking buggy. The day following that on
which the darkey clasped hands with “ Duke Alfred”
he met Mr. Richard Rutledge, his employer’s brother.
Mr. R. Rutiedge offered his hand to the trusty depen-
dent of the family who, however, refused to extend his
black digits. “No feah,” remarked Jim, “ bael me
shake hands longah you. Yesterday me shake hands
with Duke Alfred. Bael me wash hands any more.”
It is appalling to contemplate what may occur in this
way when we are honoured by a visit from the Prince of
Wales.
LONG ODDS AND SHARP ENDS.
“ Herald literature ” has occasionally one
good feature—it is amusing, from its very stu-
pidity. This peculiarity extends to its advertising
columns, and is occasioned not always by the writers
of the advertisements. But that this stupidity
should be used to make malicious covert attacks on
its foes is what every right-minded individual must
deplore. Monday’s Herald contains an instance
which should receive universal reprobation. The
uninitiated may say that the writer of the subjoined
advertisement, copied literally, is to blame; but
we, who know a little about printers, believe to
the contrary:—
WANTED, a respectable Woman, as Working
Housekeeper, for a in country. Amott
House, Wynyard-street.
Now, what can be the intention of this ? Why should
the priest be turned upside down ? If he were
turned inside ont we could understand that the
working housekeeper might take the notice as a
hint she could expect nothing but low wages. If
the Herald were not positively pious and did not
draw the line a long way on this side of the point
at which the unco guid became offended, it would
get into trouble every day.
The cacoethetical critical old party who does
the musical “ compliments ” for Dame Herald
of Hunter-street, cannot keep quiet, but must, on
every possible occasion, in her anxiety to fall foul
of some one or other, betray her possession of
back-door influence. Not content with running
after artists to pick up information, making a
writing bureau of the concert-room coulisses, or
showing herself to be always en rapport with
everybody to be able to report proceedings, she
now touches on private matters. She was angry
because some seats were unoccupied at the
Urso concert on a recent evening, and waxes
virtuously wrath at “professionals” who do not
use the seats reserved for them. Now, how does
this spiritualistically informed person know that
these seats were reserved for “professionals”?
By the nose-poking medium, of course. And
what business is it of hers ? Is this a point of
criticism? If charity does not teach her that
there may be some cause for an enforced absence
from a concert she may accidentally be taught the
lesson in a manner not quite pleasant, and may
then repent at leisure of her waggishpropensities.
“ Kopf’s band —10.” This is an announce-
ment made to us every morning in the official
statement—per S. M. Herald —of the attendance
at the Garden Palace. The question naturally
suggested has been why Kopf’s band should be
admitted on the free list or “dead-head” system
(since, if they were not, they would not have a
special entry but would be classed amongst the
“ general public ”) when so strict watch was kept
by means of so many “ticket keepers” that the
Exhibition revenue should not be defrauded of a
shilling by the chance admission of “ a little ’un.”
It was of course understood that the band was
provided by the caterers at the bars round the
fountain for their sole benefit to attract visitors to
the basement, and to amuse the said visitors
when there. Well, there was sense in this,
for some special attractions were required to
induce people to go quickly to a region of
Idarkness ; although the music from the
ower regions might perhaps interfere with
the other “sweet sounds” above. It answered
the purpose too; for, since the establish-
ment of the basement band, the concourse of
visitors to the spiritual regions below has been
wonderfully increased. But why charge the
Exhibition funds with the entrance fee of the
players? The mystery was solved on Saturday
morning by the publication of the report of the
Commission meeting on Friday afternoon. A sub-
sidy of ten guineas a week is paid for the band by
the Commission! This is a new idea: the public
to pay the pipers who are instrumental in inducing
them to guzzle for the benefit of caterers. This is
the philosophy of retrenchment—according to the
views of the Executive Commissioners. However,
as the music istn’t so bad, we suppose it is not
right to make further remarks.
Why will newspapers run heedlessly into libel
actions for some trumpery bit of country news, of
a trifling scandal which could by the most ordinary
care be clad in such garments as be to thoroughly
recognisable and yet not be open to legal objec-
tions ? We can quite understand the great virtue
of suffering even the extreme rigour of the civil
tribunal in defence of principle: but to be mulcted
in pains and penalties and have the pleasure of pay-
ing two lawyers’ bill and the pleasure of giving place
to some punny correspondent’s spiteful attacks on
a local opponent or to his varnished statement of a
petty local grievance looks very like cutting off
the nose to spite the chin. Yet, there’s no ac-
counting for teste : and it may be a real pleasure
to stand by your correspondent’s statements
through thick and thin, veracious, voracious, or
mendacious. But a libel is a dragon, and like the
libellula or dragon-fly whence it derives its name
—carries its sting in its tail —in the shape of the
lawyer’s bill of costs.
Have our theatre-managers no consciences ? or
are their souls above the petty-oonsiderations of
the well-being of the constituents with whom
they ought really to stand well ? Do they know
that if there is an increase in the rate of mortality
some of the cause will be laid at their door ? If
not, why do they sometimes keep their theatres
open to such unreasonable hours, utterly regardless
how their patrons reach home again—if at all.
Lately we were kept at a theatre till over half-past
eleven, then we had dhalf an hour’s omnibus ride
home, then something to refresh the interior after
the mental strain of the evening, and to bed by half-
past twelve or nearly one a.m. Paterfamilias can’t
stand this and be at business by nine in the
morning. But what of those who have to depend
on the train ? Or others, who being at one theatre
till so late an hour come out to find their omnibus
gone from the other house half an hour previously,
and have to foot it homewards with an inward vow
not to be caught at that sort of thing again. The
theatre treasury is all the worsens far as they are
concerned for some time to come. Then, again, it
is impossible to calculate with any degree of cer-
tainty : one night late, one night early ; one night
all the theatres are out at the same time, another
night there is a difference of half an hour between
them. The exercise of patience under such cir-
cumstances is impossible. Will managers ponder
over these things wisely with a view to their
remedy, for the comfort of their customers, and—
the benefit of their pockets.
Time was when the Sydney School of Arts (the old
building) used to rejoiced at being used perhaps
once a month for musical or other entertainments.
Now, there is a constant succession of amusements
taking place within its walls to the very manifest
improvement of its treasury, The letting of the
hall now brings in more in a month than was
formerly the case (at about £2 a night) in a year.
Are the artists who hire it and the public who at-
tend it, and who now cause so great an increase in
the receipts, better served than formerly ? Most
emphatically we answer no! Are the retiring-
rooms more comfortably furnished —except for
cockroaches and their quadrupedal connections?
Is there any more room on the stage, at the wings
or at the rear ? Could not something be done to
curve the proscenium, make it higher, and more
fit for musical purposes with some regard to acou-
stics ? Is the Committee in such a state of im-
pecuniosity that it cannot afford a piece of carpet
in front of the reserved seats, so that ladies in full
dress passing to their places need not soil their
dresses with the dust of ages, as was the case at
the recent Urso concerts? Is not the attempt at
ventilation worse than none at all —a delusion, a
mockery, and a snare ? rendering the place (with
its blocked up imitation windows) when crowded
on a hot night a Calcutta Black Hole on a large
scale. And then the egress! when the two living
streams (the one having been pent-up between two
walls) mingle together in the small vestibule!
Fancy a fire here when the hall is filled! If fear
doesn’t lend wings to the Committee to answer
some of these qneries satisfactorily they will, in
sowing the wind have to reap the whirlwind of
public discontent.
The City Improvement Board, of which Mr.
Thomas Garrett was so prominent a member, has,
since its formation, done so much good that we fear
its heavy labours may be dangerous and lead to an
untimely dissolution. It has reported seven cases
to the Council: and the Council’s respect for the
Board is so great that it has not ventured—for
fear of offence —to take the slightest notice of the
reports. But they promise to look into the matter
—if no fights intervene. The Council Board and
the Improvement Board remind us very much of
the celebrated likeness between Cuffy and Sambo,
specially Cuffy: they are both boards made up of
very modem material, especially about the heads.
Nothing has been done, therefore, the result is
nil: nevertheless nil desperandum.
Casino seems to be a comical place, the lock-up
being about the most curious part of it. Prisoners
put in there for safe keeping under lock and key,
laugh at the blacksmith, and make their own exit
in their own way by removing the slabs
of which the walls are composed, rob the sleepmg
warder of his watch and other valuables, and very
facetiously make themselves scarce. We need
hardly say that the scarcity of money for gaol
purposes is one of the pecuniary difficulties with
which our Government has to contend, for how
can they afford to build gaols when all the money
is wanted to build bridges to satisfy the cravings
of supporters ? When the horse is stolen they shut
the stable-door ; when prisoners have escaped they
tighten the lock-up.
Cook’s River Mosquitoes.
ALK about the
higher education of
women! It’s ab-
surd. I believe in
a girl being able to
make pies and
(dresses and to read
I well and write a
charming hand—
though for the mat-
ter of that I once
knew a man who
was so hopelessly
in love that he overlooked his adored’s bad speaking
and worse grammar. She used to write execrably.
She spelt “until” with two Ts,_ and “recom-
mend” with one m, as does Major_ Smith, the
present Victorian Minister of Education. Yet he
(that is to say, the lover, not Major Smith) kissed
her dear illegible scrawl just in the same way as
he used to Hss her own dear little self.
Australian women know too much. They are
too wise to suit men who, like myself, are fond of
having some one to admire them and look up to
them innocently, affectionately, trustingly, and
dependently. Some one who will believe that they
have been in the office all day, and that married
men never kiss barmaids.
The fair creature I met the other evening is just
the sort of woman I like. The Newtown ’bus was
so full that there was only room inside for one
more. The required “one” soon came and planted
herself alongside Brown of the Thunderer, who
sat next to the door and opposite me. She wore
heavy boots, and trod on my toes as she grace-
fully got herself into position. She was a young,
fresh-colored lady, with large hazel eyes and a
good-tempered face, in which there was something
so strangely different from the countenances I
have for years past been accustomed to gaze upon
that I couldn’t help staring at her in a manner
which some people might have thought approached
rudeness. She was, I noticed, not dressed fashion-
ably. She didn’t wear a “ Pinafore” costume.
Brown and I conversed on various subjects.
When, after we had finished politics, something
was said about the pleasantness of the road over
which we were travelling (this was merely an art-
ful endeavour on our part to draw the pleasant
looking lady into conversation), she suddenly
chimed in—
“ It’s a terrible road in the day time—such clouds
of dust—so different from home.”
“Indeed!” remarked Brown, “you have no
dust there?”
“ Havn’t you been in England?” she enquired,
with surprise. “ You don’t look like a colonial —
you’re not pale enough.”
“Have never been out of the colony,” answered
my friend ; “ but I drink English beer —pale ale.”
“ Dear me,” remarked the pleasant little woman,
“ I wish I were back in dear old England, no
matter how cold it might be. This is a dreadful
place. The mosquitoes —”
“ Have they been troubling you much?”
“Oh! terribly.
“ What do you use as a preventive P”
“ Well,” she replied, “ I don’t know what to do
now. First I rubbed my face, and baby’s too, with
pure almond oil, and then I mixed a little thick
soap and water with the oil, but neither did much
good.”
“ Almond oil is highly poisonous,” said Brown,
solemnly ; “ and, besides, mosquitoes get fat on
soap. It’s the very thing that suits them. Havn’t
you ever noticed them roosting on the towels and
bed-curtains in the morning ? Try kerosene.”
“ I have tried it,” said the little woman, “ but
it hasn’t a nice smell. The mosquitoes have nearly
eaten my baby, and I can’t do anything for him.
I’m afraid he’ll go into convulsions. They keep
us all awake until about four o’clock in the morn-
ing.” Then she half drew off one glove, and
said —“ Look there, I’m all over like that; so’s
baby.”
“ What part do you live in,” asked Brown.
“ Cook’s River,” she replied.
“Yes, mosquitoes are bad there; it’s swampy.
That unfortunate man —poor fellow” —
“ Which man—who did you say ?”
“ Oh !” answered Brown, “it’s some time ago.
He was bitten very badly, and the mosquitoes
were so poisonous that his blood became affected.
His brain gave way; he went mad, and hung
himself.”
“ Poor man,” she said, compassionately, “was
that really so ?”
“ There’s no doubt about it. However, mos-
quitoes aren’t so bad here as they are up country—
at Bathurst, for instance.”
“Bathurst! Do you really know Bathurst
I had a brother who ran away from home seven
years ago, and that’s the name of the place he
wrote to us from five years since, but we havn’t
heard from him lately.”
“ No wonder,” said Brown, “ at Bathurst the
mosquitoes are enormous brutes. They sit upon
trees and bark at people as they pass. Not very
loudly, you know —not like big dogs, certainly, but
very much like English terriers!”
“Oh!” observed she incredulously, “that surely
can’t be. You must mean locusts. I have seen a
locust.”
“ No, not locusts—mosquitoes. They call them
colonial canaries. The peculiarity of the Bathurst
mosquito is that he often perches himself on roofs
and makes a most disagreeable scratching noise
on the galvanized iron. In Bathurst cats never
fight on the tiles ; the barking of the mosquitoes
drives them away.”
“ Well,” said she, “ I really never heard that
before. However, I’ve read that in hot countries
insects and reptiles grow to a great size.”
“ They do so,” remarked Brown. “In Queens-
land there is a variety called the jungle mosquito.
Bmrke and Wills, the explorers, of whose travels
you may have read, were the first to discover them.
They have been known to sit on their haunches
and drink out of quart-pots. You can see some
fine specimens at the Museum in College-street.
They lay desolate whole districts in the far north.”
“ The mosquitoes here seem to specially attack
new comers. Can you account for that P”
“It is chiefly, the doctors assert, on account of
the fact that they smell the limejuice in the blood.
The stagnant and often brackish water of the
swamps in which the mosquitoes breed renders
them, according to the president of the Micro-
scopical Society, liable to a peculiar form of
scurvy. To that complaint the citric acid in the
blood of new arrivals appears to act as an ad-
mirable corrective. Nature is ever wise.”
“ I’m afraid, do you know, that it will take me
a long time to get into the ways of this country,”
said she.
Then we got out, after advising her to invest
heavily in mosquito curtains.


Scientists at Fault.
MAN AND WOMAN—A DOMESTIC QUESTION OF GREAT
MOMENT.
The progress which has been made in our day in scien-
tific research is something wonderful. There seems to be
no such thing as a contented scientific person, who feels
that he has solved all possible problems, and henceforth
has nothing to do but sit down and contemplate his own
excellences. No sooner has the modem scientific per-
son solved one problem than he hastens to attack
another. As fast as he upsets one old-fashioned belief
he begins to undermine another. The result is that
every day some new discovery is made—or, at least,
some new topic attracts the attention of the scientific
mind. It seems only the other daj- that Mr. Darwin
was investigating the nature and origin of the once-
familiar feminine habit of blushing, and wrote his
famous circular to British missionaries, asking them,
in the interests of science, to observe whether their
heathen acquaintances blushed, except so far as their
faces were concerned. And now, close upon the settle-
ment of the blushing question, we find Mr. Darwin and
his fellow-philosophers investigating the reason why
the female of our species always sits down on the floor
to remove her shoes. The question may not seem an
important one to light-minded and ignorant persons;
but the thoughtful man knows that all truth is
precious, and that to search for the truth concerning
the origin of any custom is a grand and noble work.
It is universally known that when a man desires to
take off his shoes he adopts one of two methods. Either
lie sits on a chair or sofa and puts one foot on his knee
while unfastening or moving his shoe; or he stands up,
and by placing his foot on a chair, brings the shoe
readily within reach of his hand. Neither of these
methods is ever employed—so we are assured on the
authority of scientific persons—by women. Mr. Dar-
win asserts that the habit of sitting down on the floor
in order to unlace or unbutton shoes is peculiarly
characteristic of women, and is, so he believes, an ele-
ment—or, at all events, a sign—of sex. It is not the
business of the public to inquire how Mr. Darwin and
his scientific Mends acquired the data upon which they
base their assertions as to this alleged feminine habit.
Perhaps they wrote to fhe late Dr. Judson, an eminent
missionary, who, having been married four.times, must
have collected a vast and awful quantity of facts, How-
ever this may be, we need not inquire, since it is with
investigation as to the origin of the alleged custom that
we are at present concerned.
Mr. Darwin has a prejudice in favour of the doctrine
which he invented concerning the survival of the fittest,
and naturally brings it into service whenever there is
an opportunity. He claims that chairs had not been
invented when women began to wear shoes, and that
hence they were necessarily obliged to sit on the floor
when they wished to take them off.
When chairs first came into use they were very ex-
pensive, and were handled with great core. The
thoughtful young man, of course, preferred to marry a
girl who would never put her foot on a chair, and there-
fore selected a wife whom he knew would sit on the
floor to take off her shoes, instead of using one of his
precious chairs. Thus, it was only the girls who prac-
ticed that judicious habit that secured husbands. They
married, being the fittest for matrimony, and the occa-
sional women who used chairs in connection with
removing their shoes naturally became extinct. This
is an ingenious theory, and coming from the source
that it does, it deserves respectful consideration. At
the same time, it must be noticed that it is based upon
a gratuitous assumption that feminine shoes preceded
chairs in the order of development. This still remains
to be proved, and until it is proved Mr. Darwin’s theory
cannot be regarded as anything but an ingenious
hypothesis.
Mr. John Stuart Mill insists that the difference
between the two sexes in their manner of removing
shoes is due to distinctive mental peculiarities. Man,
so he asserts, delights to make all things subservient to
him, while woman prefers to be herself subservient.
Hence, man, when he proceeds to take off ashoe, com-
pels his foot to approach his hand, whether by placing
it on a chair or by laying it across his knee. Woman,
on the contrary, is perfectly contented to sink grace-
fully and gently to the level of her foot by sitting down
on the floor.
“ The masculinity of man,” says Mr. Mill, “ triumphs
over his foot; the femininity of woman descends to meet
her foot. It is another illustration of the fact that man
is made to rule and women to obey.”
Of course. Professor Huxley has something to say
about the matter, hut he cannot be said to add to his
reputation by the theory which he offers in opposition
to Mr. Darwin’s theory. Professor Huxley maintains
that the exigencies of feminine anatomy are such that it
is physically impossible for woman to assume the posi-
tion which a man assumes who takes off his shoe while
sitting on a chair. If this is so, will that learned gentle-
man please tell us what a woman does with one of her
feet when she sits down on a sofa ? And if she can so
completely dispose of one foot when sitting on a sofa,
could she not with equal ease dispose of it in a very
nearly similar way when sitting on a chair ?
Professor Huxley has evidently jumped to a conclusion
without waiting to collect the necesary data. He may
be extremely learned in the anatomy of extinct animals,
but he needs to attend a course of demonstrations at the
opera bouffe for a season and to correct his ideas as to
feminine anatomy.
Equally inadmissible is the explanation given by a
Victorian scientific person, who pretends that the
weight of the feminine shoe is such that it cannot be
readily raised to the height of a chair, and that it is,
therefore, easier for the wearer to sit down on a level
with it. He had better not publish this theory in
Sydney, unless he limits its application exclusively to
the women of Melbourne.
As for the theory, it is, of course, utterly untenable,
and probably has not one single fact to support it.
Indeed, it is only mentioned here in order that it may be
hurled back with scorn, and nailed to the counter, as
though it were a mere political speech.
When the ablest scientific authorities thus differ,
what are we to believe ? Probably, the best thing we
can do is to take the broad general ground that the
whole discussion proceeds upon a mistake, and that how
a woman takes oft her shoe is something which, in the
nature of things, Mr. Darwin, Mr. Mill, and Professor
Huxley have no means, and do not deserve to have any
means, of ascertaining.
Romance of a Ring.
A Princess of IPrussia at one time received a small
and antique ring from her governess for a present.
About a-year after the occurrence the court received a
visit from the Grand Duke Nicholas, the brother of the
Emperor Alexander, and who at that time was not the
heir expectant of the crown.
The Grand Duke saw the Princess, and with the quick
resolve native to his disposition, immediately deter-
mined to ask her in marriage. One day, as he was
seated by her side at the royal dinner-table, he spoke to
her of his forthcoming departure, adding that it de-
pended upon her whether or not her stay in Berlin
should be prolonged.
‘ What shall I do, then, to influence your intentions ?’
was the reply of the smiling princess.’
* You must not refuse to receive my addresses,’ im-
mediately returned the outspoken Nicholas.
‘ Yon ask much.'
‘I ask even more. You ought to give me some
encouragement in my endeavours to please you.’
‘ That is still more difficult. Besides, the moment is
not well chosen for a favor.’
‘ I beg your Highness to give me a sign that I am not
totally indifferent to you. You have a little ring on
your finger, the possession of which would render me
happy. I beseech you to give me the ring.’
‘What! give the ring at the dinner-table, in the
presence of all these people ?’
‘Let me see—press it into this piece of bread, and
give it to me.’
And press the ring into a piece of bread she did and
gave it to the Emperor. Nicholas took an early oppor-
tunity to leave the hall, and on exhuming’ the treasure
from its wheaten tomb, discovered an inscription on the
inner side in French, and running to the following
effect: ‘ LTmperatrice de la Russie.’
He is said to have worn the keepsake for the rest of
his days attached to a chain round his neck, the ring,
being too small of course for any of his colossal fingers.
The future Empress, it seems, had been unconsciously
wearing for some time the emblem of her future
greatness.
Newspaper men seldom wear diamonds, but
they all wear more or less paste.
A rolling pedestrian gathers no credit, and ho
CUISt brush off his own coat tails besides.
The New Offices of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
We give on page 5 an engraving of the splendid new
offices of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, one
of the most successful institutions in the Australian
colonies. On the 23rd January, 1877, the founda-
tion stone of the new offices was laid by Professor
Smith, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and now
it is just approaching completion. The building has a
frontage of 99 feet to Pitt-street, 61 feet to Bond-street,
and of 101 to Hamilton-street. The principal elevations
to Pitt and Bond-streets are entirely of the best Pyr-
mont stone. They are designed in what is known as
the Renaissance, or revived Italian style of architec-
ture, and are treated in the Venetian more than in the
Roman school of that style. The entire cost of the
building will be something under £45,300. We give in
this issue only a brief description of the new offices of
the Society. We have been glancing over the Society’s
reports, and see much in them that should, in the
general interest, be published in every newspaper in the
colony. In our next issue we will turn public attention
to these matters, and in our own way, extend the
usefulness of this truly useful and grand institution.
Bowden’s Club-house Hotel.
In the accompanying sketch we give a view of Bow-
den’s Club-house Hotel, at the corner of Castlereagh
and Hunter-streest, in this city. There is perhaps no
house in the colonies more widely and favourably
known, and it will suffice to say that it has for the last
seven or eight years enjoyed a very fair share of public
support. Situated in the heart of the city, and in close
proximity to the ’bus and tramway routes, it offers un-
usual advantages to visitors bent on pleasure or busi-
ness. Since Mr. Bowden became proprietor, the hotel
has been enlarged from eleven to sixty-eight rooms,
and there has been erected also one of the largest
and best ventilated billiard rooms to be found in the
colonies. Of the excellence of the accommodation and
the manner of conducting the hotel, nothing need be
said. All the conveniences of an hotel, combined with
the comforts of a first-class family residence, are here
to be found. A good table and the best of liquors are
made an essential. There are two large handsome
bars, and nicely furnished drawing and commercial
rooms. There are four large baths on the premises.
The billiard room, one of the most popular in Sydney,
has two of Alcock’s best tables. In close proximity to
the hotel are roomy, well-planned stables. The hotel
has been one of the principal attractions to visitors ar-
riving in Australia by the San Francisco mail, and it is
likely to increase its popularity in this direction. Mr.
Bowden is assisted in the management of the Club-
house by his excellent lady, and hence its success as a
family hotel. We wish our popular host a continuance
of his good fortune.
miliar ship. The very smell of the place fascinated
him : he would have taken checks at the top of the
gallery staircase sooner than leave the dear old
walls; but it was not so bad as he thought, for he
was appointed confidential secretary to successive
| managers at the best established theatres in Lon-
don ; and it was only when age and infirmities
crept upon him that old Tom went through the
stages of prompter and copyist, till finally he was
installed close to the stage door in that bright and
cosy little recess, hung round with pictures,
warmed by a bright fire, and made companionable
by a comfortable cat. It was here that I made the
good fellow’s acquaintance, and derived such con-
stant pleasure from his interesting and varied con-
versation,
“Yes, sir,” he used to say tome, “there are
good theatres and bad theatres, just the same as
there are good parsons and bad parsons, or good
judges and bad judges. We’re none of us perfect
in the world, except, no doubt, the good gentleman
who know such a precious lot more about our
business than we do ourselves. Look round here,
sir, now do, and see for yourself, where are the
broughams, and bouquets, and diamonds, and the
swells waiting outside, that the papers make so
much fuss about! It all seems pretty neat and
tidy, and decent now, don’t it? You can sit there
in the corner by the fire, and see them pass. All
right, sir, sit you down ; don’t mind the black cat,
old Othello always takes the most comfortable cor-
ner in the room.”
And so I sat down and observed. A constant
swaying backwards and forwards of an adjacent
door : dressers and messengers passing in and out
with a “ Good evening, Mr. Porter,” ora “ Good
night Tom modest women and quiet men pass-
ing in an orderly, business-like way : an occasional
author, who disconsolately called for his manuscript
or exultingly deposited a great roll of brown paper
that would have broken down the rack, and was '
accordingly put aside by the manager—why there
was really nothing in the outside appearance of the
place to distinguish it from a factory, when the
wheels of the machinery of pleasure spin round be-
tween seven o’clock and midnight. Where on
earth is the fascination of a stage door, and the
glittering revelry of life behind the scenes ? I
could not find anything of the kind, and old Tom
was delighted at my antipathy to the dull and un-
romantic side of a world spangled with so much
idealism and fancy. No sensible spectator likes
to have his allusions destroyed. He does not care
to see the ropes and spars, and guys and pulleys •
to be convinced that it is not a forest, bnt canvas :
not a grass bank, but matting; not a sparkling
river, but glass and gelatine ; that the heroes and
heroines discuss the ordinary affairs of life in the
green-room ; that the adorable actress is compelled
to paint her face and her eyebrows, and never fails
to smother you with powder when she shakes her
THE STAGE DOOR KEEPER.
BY C. W. SCOTT.
A mean and narrow opening in an nnromantic
wall—an entrance less pretentious than any that
can be found at the side of a factory gate—an ap-
proach difficult to find, hidden up a blind alley
swarming with miscellaneous children, and lum-
bered up with ragged and disconsolate-looking
scenery, crumbling to ruin—a dark prison-looking
gate, at whose ominous sight have fallen down the
wreck of torn forests and the glory of departed
palaces ; the guardian an overworked and faithful
servant, and the sentinel a carpenter, resting from
his labours and smoking a clay pipe—this is the
approach to a paradise that feeds the unhealthy
imagination with unworthy fancies, and has given
the text for many a lying sermon—this is the Stage
door.
It is always well that people should be slightly ac-
quainted with the subject they discuss; and I some-
times wish that those who are so eloqueut in denoun-
cing scenes with which they are evidently unfamiliar,
lives of which they know nothing, and professions
which might be far more honourable and honoured
were they not so persistently maligned, boasted
half the philosophy, perspicuity, shrewd judge-
ment, and common sense of my old friend Tom Por-
ter. He was a stage-door keeper, and a man of
vast experience, great memory, and considerable
attainments. His father had been an actor who,
under another name, was famous in the dramatic
annals of his time, and he soon promised to follow
very close upon his father’s footsteps, when his
bright career was cut short by a blundering half-
drunken carpenter, who left a trap open one night
and crippled the poor follow for life. Misfortune,
so I have been told, fell heavily on Tom Porter’s
family soon after this deplorable accident, that
nearly broke the heart of an honourable and ambi-
tious man. He had seen all the great actors from
the time he could toddle to Drury Lane or Convent
Garden: he had lived in an atmosphere of art; the
talk was of nothing else but acting at home, over
the baked joint on Sunday down to bed-time on
Saturday night, from morning till night it was
nothing but theatres and theatre-going, old texts
and new readings; and young Tom had dreamed
of playing Hamlet, Macßeth, Werner, and Riche-
lieu with the best of them, when the hospital doc-
tor pressed his hand at the very outset of his young
life, and told him that he would never act again, and
Eoor Tom turned his face to the wall, and sobbed
ke a child, ’’ God’s will be done ?” Yes,my dear
sir, don’t smile. Actors can pray, like the rest of
us, and they have hearts of their own, I can assure
you.
But how to remain at the theatre P It would
have been death to Tom Porter to desert that fa-
head; that the pale student Hamlet looks as
brown as a Zulu Kaffir, and the love love-sick
Romeo is daubed over like a Red Indian. No one
has a right behind the scenes ; not that there is
the slightest temptation in such a prosy workshop,
but because it is cruel to tear down the veil and
expose the machinex-y of so excellent an art. It is
the dreariest and dirtiest of spots.
Returning from the seaside one summer, I hap-
pened to be in a bad x'ailway accident, and was
mercifully preserved. I was able to pay some at-
tention to the distresses of my unfortunate fellow
passengers, who stood disconsolate and dazed, in a
hideous wreck and heartrending confusion I can
scarcely forget, or recall without a shudder.
The sun-burned children crying for their dead
mothers ; the ruin of life and property piled up amid
pipes, and pleasure baskets, and broken toys ; the
cruel engine lying twisted and torn, in a cloud of
blinding mist; the doctors hurrying to their mangled
patients, presented a most distressing scene.
Alone, and apparently uncared for, I found swoon-
ing on the embankment a young girl. At first I
thought she was dead, so fair, calm, and undis-
turbed she looked, but a little brandy revived her,
and I found that she was more fi’ightened than
hurt.
Her nerves were far more injured than her body,
and I soon saw that it was absolutely necessary to
remove her immediately from the scene. Slxe cried
piteously for her father, and implored me to take
her home; and between the paroxysms of her fear,
it was easily to see that her mind was intensely
troubled with the thought that the news of the ac-
cident would arrive in London!before the poor girl
could get home. “Oh, sir, lam travelling alone,”
she said ; “ if father hears of it, it will break his
heart. What shall Ido ? what shall Ido ?”
I reflected for an instant, and decided. A cou-
ple of miles_ away from the scene of the accident
was the station of a branch line to London. A few
shillings to a lad procured me a fly, by merciful
chance we caxxght a train at the side station, and
we were back in London just as they were howling
the news of the frightful accident all over the
streets. On the journey home I had ascertained
that the father of my little protegee was a stage-
keeper at a theatre in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the Strand—where news bad and good
spreads like wild-fire. So I told the cabman to
drive as fast as he could to the stage door of the
theatre. It was best to take the bull by the horns,
and to prevent mischief as soon as possible.
I found a crowd of good-natured folk round the
door that leads to the theatre, and inside the stage-
door keeper’s box I could hear distinctly that
strange, low, moaning wail of a strong man in pain.
It is tex-rible to hear a man sob : and all these
much-abused women at the vicious theatre were
actually drying their eyes, and trying to comfort a
broken-hearted father who thought he would never
see his daughter again.
“ Make way there,” I said, as I tried to make
an opening through the crowd.
The usual response came ; on one side the surly
ill-conditioned “ Why shouldl make wayforyou ?”
on the other, “ Why not let the gentleman pass P”
They did let the gentleman pass when they saw
he had a young and frightened girl on his arm.
There was a silence, and then we heard —
“Father! father!”
“ Oh! Madge, my little one ; thank God!”
That was all. We heard no more after that.
They were united in an embrace that belongs to
things heavenly, and that gives one a lump in the
throat to think of it. And, not strange to say, from
that instant I was made welcome whenever I cared
to look in upon Tom Porter the old stage-door
keeper. The best chair in the little den was al-
ways at my disposal, the warmest corner by the
fire out pf all the draughts; I was allowed to smoke
a pipe if I leaned very much up the chimney; and
it was as much as my comfort was worth if I re-
fused an occasional pull at the comforting “ dog’s
nose ” that simmered on the hob.
The honest fellow could never get it out of his
head that I had saved his daughter’s life, and that
I was a kind of hero to be rewarded with all the
hospitable honors of his paternal mansion. I had
done nothing of the kind, but he insisted I was
wrong, and there was no good in argufng the point.
That reconciliation made a deep impression on the
old man. She was alive who was dead. His heart
made one bound from sorrow to unspeakable joy,
and the happy accident of courtesy earned for me
the never ending gratitude of as honest a soul as
ever lived,
Fancy this, Mr. Preacher, you who are never
weary of raising your eloquent voice against the
ante-chamber of Hades, although I am sorry to
say you use a very much stronger expression ;
fancy this, Mr. Tub Spouter in Hyde Park, who tell
me when I am walking out amidst the fields and
the flowers that if I dare to enter a theatre I had
better renounce all hope of salvation; fancy this,
my fine ladies who talk about “ actors and actresses
and such kind of peoplefancy this, Mr. Super-
ciliousness, who argue in some strange kind of way
that those who possess unsavable souls are some-
how connected with a most elevating and regene-
rating art, kept down from salvation by cruel pre-
judice and viler cant. Why, here was this venera-
ble keeper of the door that leads to the stage, who
had actually brought up his large family in an
honest and God-fearing manner, and regarded his
pure and tender little daughter as one of the best
of the blessings that had cheered his simple life.
The three cosiest scenes that at present appeal
to my imagination are, the inside of a travelling
caravan ; the bar parlour of a country inn, with a
happy circle enjoying the first autumn fire; and
that small and neatly arranged little den where the
stage-door keeper is supposed to sulk away his life,
and to be the intermediary between Cupid and the
postman. I always envied my old friend Mrs.
Jarley, and can conceive no existence more delight-
ful than to be dragged in a house on wheels about
the leafy lanes of Old England ; to sit outside in
the morning, and eat your breakfast off a drum,
and to get to bed in a comfortable alcove when the
mists begin to rise and the land is chill, And then
there is the bar parlour, as seen by the lonely
traveller, who peeps through the crimson curtains,
and sees the firelight glancing upon the polished
mahogany, blue china in a corner cupboard, and
old Dutch clock that ticks in a paternal fashion
over the cpntented scene. Well is it for those who
cannot enjoy realities to taste occasionally the
pleasures of imagination.
The caravan is the home of giants, dwarfs, hard-
ware sellers, and übiquitous cheap jacks : the
country inn is the rest of the landscape painter ;
but the Cockney follower of art must warm his
toes by the stage door fire.
Fortified by this strange friendship of which I
have spoken, and flattered by the warm attach-
ment that old Tom expressed for me, I found my-
self very often, particularly in winter, a guest at
his hospitable fire. My passion for the art of
which he was so humble a representative grew un-
der his guidance. He lent me strange old theatri-
cal books that he had picked up at odd bookstalls,
showed me rare prints he had collected, and de-
lighted me with with curious reminiscences of his
valuable experience.
Old Tom Porter must have been a notable excep-
tion to his race, for I am given to understand that
the Cerberus of the stage door is sometimes a
strange dog, who snarls and shows his teeth when
anyone approaches his kennel. “ Cave canem ’ ’
should be written up over his lodge, for his pri-
mary idea is to look upon everyone as an intruder,
and he takes a delight in keepiug an author—who
is his special abomination —in a thorough draught
and in an ignominious position, in order to show
how thoroughly he is the master, aud the author
is the slave. A fixed idea possesses him that the
male portion of the metropolis is in a combination
to bear off the leading actress, storm the manager’s
castle, and hold high revel amidst the dirty ropes
and grappling-irons that disfigure the hold of the
theatrical ship. His first instinct is to act on the
defensive, to assert his authority in a brusque and
bearish manner, and to look upon the world out-
side his tub as a set of refractory carpenters and
supernumeraries, I may be mistaken, but this is
the prevailing notion of the keeper of the stage
door.
Tom Porter belonged to quite a different school.
He obtained influence and authority without a
harsh tone or a coarse word. He loved women be-
cause they were sweet and gentle as his own nature.
About him there was a certain air of distinction
and good breeding, and he handed the letters from
the rack with the air of a courtier. And so it was
that everyone in the theatre made a friend and a
confidant of the old man, they told bbn their
troubles, and related their experiences, and with
the aid of a prodigious memory, and a habit of
jotting down what he heard, he managed to collect
a fund of varied anecdotes and reminiscences.
The most celebrated actors and actresses of the
day had often dropped in to have a chat with Tom
Porter, to talk over old times, and compare notes,
and so as his life had been devoted to the stage,
and his tastes bound up in it, he became the store-
house to which many people referred when they
were puzzled for a verification, circumstance, or
date. He was an encyclopaedia in himself, and had
a strange method of memory to bring scenes of the
past before him.
The smiling retreat in which Tom Porter spent
the best part of his days, now that his home was
reduced to a simple lodging, his good wife was in
her grave, and all his children scattered about the
world, was hung about with pictures, all bearing
upon the stage in some way or another.
One of these pictures always absorbed my atten-
tion. It haunted me, and somehow or other in-
variably fascinated my eyes towards it. Placed
too high on the wall to enable a close inspection, it
seemed to my short sight, like a fair-haired woman,
clothed in white, and on her death-bed. “ Dear
dead woman, with such hair too! What’s become
of all the gold?” This familiar line haunted me
whenever I looked at the picture. It was one of
those strange, hungry faces that outstrip mere
beauty with rare expression, The eyes closed now
were a little sunken, and half overshadowed by the
BOWDEN’S CLUB-HOUSE HOTEL.


rjl n e a
Lessee ...
T R E
THE MUSICAL SENSA
ENTHUSIASTIC RE
to
LA DIVA P
and
GLORIOUS SUC
of
„ ( PATTI")
GRAND CONCERTS-! PATTI [
L PATTI )
Under the Management of Sig
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENIN
THIRD PATTI CO]
and
THIRD APPEARANCE
of the
ILLUSTRIOUS VO(
PATTI
PATTI t LA DIVA
PATTI f CAELOTTA
PATTI )
In conjunction v
ERNEST DE MUNCK ) The me
ERNEST DE MUNCK j VIOLON
SOLO VIOLONCELLIST to the
SAXE WE IMA
Signor CIAMPI C
(The Eminent Bar:
Signor PAOLO GI(
(The renowned Pianist and M
N.B. —Mr. CRAINE, the dig
Tenor, it is expected, willl make ]
EVENING’S CONCERT.
Mme. PATTI will s
"Grand aria (Erdaui) Ernaui luvol
“ La Calecera ” (Spanish Song)
and
“ Duo Elixir d’amore,” with Siguo
On MONDAY—FOURTH PA'
On TUESDAY—FIFTH PAT
With change of programme a
POPULAR SCALE OF ]
Dress Circle, 7s. fid.
Family Circle 2s. fid.
Stage Boxes £3 i
SEATS FOR TO-NIGHT AND 1
SECURED TO-DAY (Friday) f
at
NICHOLSON and ASCHERBER(
SEATS FOE TUESDAY can be
MORROW (Saturd
SPECIAL NOTH
The SEATS in the STALLS («
season) are NUMBERED, and can
well as in the DRESS CIRCLE.
The celebrated STEINWAY G
used at the Patti Concerts, fumis
Esq., sole agent for Australia.
ICTORIA TP
TO-NIGHT (Frida
COMPLIMENTARY BE
tendered to
Mr. JAMES J. BART
by an
INFLUENTIAL COMM
GREAT COMBINATION of
Mr. SAMUEL EME
Mr. LACHLAN M’GOWAN, Mr
Mr. JOHN L. HALL, Mrs
Miss MYRA KEMI
all of whom have kindly given their va
Mr. J. J. BARTLETT, together with
of the
VICTORIA COMPA
in conjunction with all the available
Mr. BROADHURST has kindly und
the Orchestra to a very large and
A PROLOGUE,
kindly written for the occasion by
INSON, Esq., will be deli
Miss MYRA KEMB
The performance will commence v
day’s adaptation of “ David Copperfl
LITTLE EM’LY,
with the following unexamp'
Dan’UPeggotty M
ELLY AND
OPERA HO
Comer King and Yorl
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENING,
COMIC OPERA. COMIC OPEE
POSITIVELY THE LA
POSITIVELY THE LA
Now in the third year of Us success i
week in Sydney oj
COMIC OPERA. COMIC OPER
LES CLOCHES DE CO:
Les Cloches de Cor
Les Cloches de Cor
(The BELLS of CORN]
THIS (FRIDAY) EVENING,
GRAND FAREWELL
to
Mr. EDWIN KE]
LOOK OUT FOR for the LING
OPERA COMPA
WHO WILL SHORTLY
Box office at Nicholson and
JPUSHIONABLE SCARFS
FOR GENTLEM
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEEC
FITTING SH'
PITT STR
Near the Victoria
THE BEST SHOP FOR NEC]
TRY IT!!
J. L. HO R D
PRIZE ME I
ESTABLISHED TWEN
Whose success is attributed to his
in catering for the million at a
PRICES as to enable every worki:
and fashionably, while those with
disposal can wear so many ext)
reasonable rate, viz.:—
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, i
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measi
Who will not avail themselves
GETTING MEASURED at Zi
ESTABLISHME
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINI
DOTO 3ss
bar that marks both intellect andmnsic. A large
and full mouth gave the best character to the face,
and the hair, a luxurious river of gold, might have
adorned the head of one of Raphael’s Maddonnas.
Many would have scorned the idea of beauty in such
a face, but it contained the reflection of strong
character and soul, it represented an ideal nature,
and in it was that tired and hunted look that mean
nervous power and the exhaustion of keen suscep-
tibility. What then was this strange picture of a
fair, dead woman ? Was it a Juliet in her tomb ?
a Desdemona on her death-bed ? an Ophelia in her
love swoon ?
One night I was sitting alone with old Tom. It
was bitter cold and dreary outside, and I suppose
the play they were acting was unusually solemn,
for not a sound could be heard through the swing-
door, and no carpenter, with some abnormal thirst
upon him, disturbed our conversation and slouched
out for his unnecessary beer. Neither of us spoke,
and instinctively I found that I was looking at the
picture.
“What is it, Tom? I didn’t like to ask you,
but what is it.
“Eh! What?’’ said the old fellow, who was
dozing off before the fire.
“ The picture. Wliat does it mean P”
“Where ?”
“ Up there!”
He took it down, and then I examined it for the
first time. It was not Ophelia, or Juliet, or Des-
demona. No Shakesperian heroine or romantic
scene was here depicted. I rubbed away the dirt
from the glass, and saw the figure of a fair English
woman stretched upon a copper couch. She was
wrapped in a white peignoir, and over her still
white features trickled a silent stream of water
that seemed to tighten the garments on her and to
emphasize her shroud. It was the photograph of
a dead woman in the Parisian Morgue.
“ This is what jealousy brings them to,” said old
Tom.
“ What do you mean ? Who was she ?”
One of the kindest, dearest women I ever knew.
God bless her ! But because she had not admirers
enough over here in England, she must needs leave
the stage when she had made a considerable name,
marry a foreigner, and settle in France. How the
men loved her! Not because she was so very
beautiful, you know, for her features were sharp,
and her cheek-bones were strongly marked; but
there was that in her face which scores of her
rivals never had —an unsatisfied hunger, an unde-
termined longing, a pathetic weariness, a kind of
something in her expression which seemed to say,
‘ Only love me and understand me, only be patient
with me and let us leam one another, and there
will come a sympathy and a union which mere
fools do not understand.
‘ ‘ Such women are not made for fools. The popu-
lar beauty, with a faultless face and stereotyped
expression, with a gaze on one side and a gaze on
the other, always the same, the same vacant look
the same silly simper, the same attitude of self-
satisfaction as much as to say, ‘lama doll : lam
very lovely, but don’t rumple my nice silver paper
or disarrange my curls,’—these are the women for
the majority. But then they don’t understand
anything about it, and don’t deserve anything bet-
ter than a soulless face and a settled smile. The
Frenchman did who married this poor creature,
and he so well appreciated his prize that his
jealousy became a madness. Women like men to
he a little jealous ,_ for it is in a certain sense a com-
pliment. When it is exaggerated, it becomes a
Bore.
To tell you the truth I don’t believe she ever
liked the man. He overwhelmed her with kind-
ness, and that touched her heart, She pitied him
and respected him ; but never loved him. If she
could have eaten gold he would have given it to
to her. Every wish was anticipated ; every whim
considered. Her life with him was one round of
luxury and contented ease ; but that is not love.
A woman with a face like that, with a restless,'
soaring, unsatisfied spirit, wanted a man with
brain, and force, to love her. She was clever, and
she desired intellect in her lover. She desired to
be led on to the higher tastes, culture and light for
which she inwardly craved. But she got suppers,
dinners, smart dresses, and diamond rings, things
that no woman despises, but then how very few do
they satisfy ? However, she married him, and she
was soon cloyed with the sweets of her married
life. She cursed herself for her ingratitude ; she
wanted to love the man so much, and yet she
couldn’t.
“ But she was loyal. A woman with a nature
like hers had only to hold up her finger, and she
might have had lovers by the score : but she was
loyal, on my oath.
“ Wearied with this persistent devotion, and un-
satisfied with her dissatisfaction, she lent herself
to a deception innocently concieved, but one calcu-
lated to destroy the peace of her husband for ever.
She meant no harm, but look at her there on her
miserable death-bed. Her pmiishment came sure
and swiftly enough.
“ She had a brother, of whose existence her hus-
band was unaware. He was a scamp, a bad lot
and had been transported years before for dis-
honesty in the bank in which he was employed.
Her husband had been so good to her that she did
care to distress him with her family troubles, and
so she, perhaps foolishly, covered over that bad
spot and held her tongue.
“ But she did not remember that the time would
come when her brother’s sentence would expire,
and there must be an explanation. I did expire’
and the brother came back to the world, penniless
and an outcast.
“ He found his sister out, he traced her to Paris,
and, woe-begone wretch as he was, presented him-
self at her luxurious apartments, luckily when her
husband was away.
“ She was in a dilemma. She had not the heart
to turn her brother away, and had not the strength
to tell her husband. The most unfortunate course
she could take, she took. Whenever her husband
was out she received her brother, and delighted in
surrounding his appearance with a mystery.
Secret notes were conveyed to him. She admitted
him to her apartments at unreasonable hours.
No servant was taken into her confidence, and still
in her heart desiring to save her husband, she in-
nocently compromised her reputation.
“ It is impossible to keep these scandals secret,
let women manoeuvre as they will. Tongues will
wag ; and who amongst us is without enemies ?
* Some kind lago, good, generous, upright, and
self-denying creature, poured the necessary poison
into the husband’s ear. He received anonymous
letters, and was told to be on his guard. 1 English
women are not to be trusted,’ wrote the correspon-
dent in a female hand. You must remember the
husband had a large fortune, and did not marry
one of his own countrywomen. The explanation is
obvious.
“ Once his jealousy was aroused, the cruelty of
his nature came out; and once the innocent woman
was suspected, her better feelings were outraged,
bhe was so true, that she hated the man who could
believe her false; and in one of those wild freaks
to which women are partial, she heaped up coals of
nre, and bade her innocent brother come and act
his part under more suspicious circumstances than
over. Poor thing! she had friends as well as ene-
■hnes : and one night, when she had arranged a
settlement for her brother, and had ordered him
back to England with his pockets lined, and an
excellent start in life again, she received a note
scribbled in pencil:
For God s sake, be cautious ; your husband
is watching.
She laughed a scornful laugh of triumph, and
scattered the fragments of the note upon the floor
and then, as they were parting possibly for many
years, she led her brother to the door of her apart-
ment.
, She saw a dark shadow in the doorway oppo-
site, and knew it must oe her husband.
Her heart was steeled and nerved for the en-
counter, and she hated the man for playing the spy
A sudden inspiration came upon her.
Kiss me, Maurice,’ she said.
Her brother kissed her, and wondered at the
embrace that tightened round his neck.
“ ‘ Good night, dear.’
“ * Good night.’
“ What followed was the work of an instant.
There was a loud scream of hatred that rang
through the house, and the young brother taken
unawares, was hurled headlong down the stairs.
The wife fled back.
Without another word the husband rushed into
the apartment like a madman. He did not wait for
an explanation, or ask it. His curses were so ter-
rible, that the wife s blood chilled in her very veins.
H®? <Jicd out under the fury of his accusations,
and she laughed, pale and unmoved at his blood-
less face and quivering fingers.
“It was the last sound heard in the tall Parisian
house that night; for, when the servants returned,
they found their mistress stabbed to the heart with
the dagger she had once worn as Juliet. Next day
her husband’s body was fished upwn the Seine !
The day after, the suicide and the murdered woman
were side by side in the Morgue.”
Old Tom looked at me and there were tears in his
eyes. He kissed the picture reverently, and put it
back in its corner again. I looked astonished and
then he spoke:
It was the only time I was ever in Paris, and
it will be the last. I went to claim what belonged
to me. She was my sister.
Bless you, sir, said old Tom, Othello was not
the only one! I could tell you scores of tragedies in
our profession that arose out of jealousy. It is as
useful a passion for dramatic purposes as love,
and that no author could do without let him try
ever so hard.”
****###
It was Christmas-time, all was going on merrily
at the theatres. Managers were nervously active,
scene-painters worn out with fatigue and anxiety,’
stages crowded with neat girls and irrepressible
children ; stage directors, loud of tongue but kind
of heart, vowing vengeance one minute, and pat-
ting a child on the head the next—flouncing about
with hands in pockets, and declaring, “ It shall be
done if I have to stay here all night, so there !”
and immediately afterwards dismissing some sec-
tion of giggling girls with a smile and a “ There !
that will do, my dears ! Go to bed!”
For was it not within a week of Boxing Night,
that great feast-day in the Calendar of the Stage’
when untold blessings are told out to thousands of
honest and hardworking households by what I
shall ever call the charity of Christmas playgoing ?
At other times of the year there are signs of weari-
ness and fatigue at the close of a series of rehear-
sals. Repetition induces a kind of contempt for
the subject. But not at Christmas on the eve of
the pantomine. Dear me, what a noise and a chat-
tering ! The children look upon the stage as a
huge playground, have games at hide-and-seek be-
hind the wings, lose themselves in mysterious
cellars and get into endless scrapes. The girls
gather into knots to discuss their dress, longing
for the time when they will exchange their poor,
worn, little gowns for the gorgeous vestments of
princes and princesses of imaginative extravaganza;
and every one with the thought
that “treasury” will come very soon, and that
unless something very unforeseen and unexpected
occurs, there will be a comfortable and convenient
income for six or seven weeks at least. It is the
fashion now-a-days to sneer at our good old-fash-
ioned Christmas amusement, and there is an incli-
nation to take sides against it, and to veneer it
over with the cheap superciliousness that is the
stock-in-trade of the Brummagem critic and the
“ second-hand gentleman but many of us would
be sorry to deprive the children of their innocent
sport or to abolish, without ample reflection, one
branch of the merry and healthy trade of pleasure.
For the first time for six and twenty years Tom
Porter was not at his post at the Theatre. The
old faces came to the door again, but they were
not greeted by his cheery countenance. Where
was old Tom ? This was the question from the
clown to the columbine. They all liked the good
fellow, and as they are the most conservative of
people, these artists, it did not seem like old times
to come to work at Christmas, and see a new guar-
dian at the stage door.
But disappointment yielded to sympathetic re-
gret when it was whispered about that Tom Porter
was very ill. He had worked on through a neglec-
ted cold, and was very bad—so somebody said who
had heard from somebody else. Of late years there
had been a mystery about the old man. No one
knew exactly where he lived, and he showed an
obstinate disinclination to tell them.
He was to all intents and purposes the last of his
race. The wife had died long ago. The sons had
emigrated, and his favourite daughter, married
now, had gone to join her brother in Australia. And
so, when Tom Porter took ill, as they say, he
found for the first time in his life that he was alone
in the world. This is a terrible moment in the life
of a solitary man. His occupation at the theatre
gave him friends, amusement, and distraction.
He only came home to sleep, and go to work again,
and hardly perceived the misery of isolation ; but
when he had to lower his flag, and was compelled
to keep to his bed, it was positive pain for a man
of his disposition to [look round the empty room
and find solitude.
Gaiety, excitement, business, conversation,
stories, and anecdotes had been the food of his
i daily life, and now, suddenly and unexpectedly,
he knew he was very ill, and was too proud to tax
the claims of friendship.
There are hundreds of good men and women—
for they are generous, self-sacrificing, self-denying,
and most human in this great profession—who
would have come and nursed the old man, but he
preferred to go back to his hole and die without
bothering a soul.
But he sent for me all the same. He denied
himself to all his old friends, he refused to let them
know in what corner of the London world he was
passing away, but one night I received a note
scribbled in pencil, that said, “ Come and see the
old man, like a good friend. He is very bad and
lonely.”
I followed the direction, and made for a top floor
in a little cul-de-sac out of Great Ormond Street.
I knocked at the door and a faint voice answered
me. There he lay, the good old fellow, and I could
see that the pain of death was on his face.
All was perfectly neat and in order ; nothing had
had been neglected, but here he was in that silent
upper room with nothing to console him but the
dull roar of distant London.
“I am going fast, old friend,” he said. “I
know it, I feel it. Let the doctors do what they
will, I know lam going home. But, oh, do take
me away from here. They are very kind, and
charitable, and attentive, but they are strangers,
and this silence is horrible. I want some excite-
ment, some noise. I’d sooner be a hospital where
I could hear some one talk, or in a workhouse to
listen to a grumble ; hut oh, these days and nights
without a word, I cannot endure it.”
I promised I would have him removed where he
would be happier ; but I knew the end was very
near. His breath came rapidly, and he looked at
me with that searching piercing gaze that means
the end.
All of a sudden he lifted himself up with some
strange nervous power, and pulled a book from
the pillow.
‘‘Look here,” he said, “this was the work of
my life.”
“ I loved the old theatre, and it was my amuse-
ment to jot down all I heard when I got home.
Here they all are, scraps, anecdotes, stories, all
sorts of odds and ends. If I lived two hundred
years I could never get to the end of all I have
heard at one place or another. I never showed it
to anyone but you, but I thought you might get
something out of it that would make them laugh-
yes, and perhaps make them cry. You love the
stage and I like you for it—besides, bless you, you
saved my girl.”
I protested.
“ Don’t say another word—you saved my girl;
and where is she now ? Why doesn’t she come to
her old father, who is alone —so terribly alone.”
He was getting weaker now as he handed me the
book of manuscript and newspaper cuttings, but
he tonohed it tenderly till the. It seemed as if he
had been parting from a dear friend.
The breathing came harder than before, and I
took his hand. A nevous thrill of satisfaction went
through his body as our hands touched, for though
I was a Stranger, still he looked on me as a friend.
“I shall not die alone now,” he said. “ God
bless you for coming to the old man.”
He seemed asleep, but as I bent over him he was
murmuring, “Take care of the book, it is yours
—remember, yours.”
“ What shall I call it, Tom ?” I whispered.
His face lighted up for the last time, as he mur-
mured very faintly, “ The Stage Door.”
The rest was silence.


Kearey brothers, coach and buggy
BUILDERS.
290, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
c.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER-STREET.
FRESH FISH EVERY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
JNTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
The Undersigned wish to announce to all country-
visitors that they are SOLE LESSEES for all kinds of
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALACE. .
The Drinks are of the best quality, and like their
picturesque apartments, are deliciously c6ol.
YOUNG and O’CONNELL.
fJIHE SYDNEY ORATORICAL LYCEUM.
The above institution will be OPENED at 796,
GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, on MONDAY, February
23, for the Study of the Art of ELOCUTION in all its
branches, but more especially for the Treatment and
Cure of Defects in Speech, such as Stuttering, Stammer-
ing, &c., under the most approved principles laid down
in England, Germany, and France.
, For full particulars and terms apply to the Secretary
at the Lyceum, personally or by letter.
M. A. CLEARY,
•Managing Director.
Robert cassin.
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by muting to his Wagga
establishment.
o
BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY,
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufactures are all executed
under their own personal supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, cai-riages, fours-in-haud, &c.,
cannot be beaten for durability or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, and only the most skilful work-
men employed.
w
£err, MAFUFACTURING jeweller.
Watch and Clock; Maker,
5 74GEO.RGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD-STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing Executed on the shortest notice.
WAGGA has long been celebrated for the excellence
of its Saddles, and it will be found by those
who try Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no
means inferior to those of any other maker in the
colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
UNION CLUB HOTEL,
Baylis and Forsyth Streets,
NEWTOWN, WAGGA WAGGA
(Close to the Railway Station).
Under the patronage of His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson, K.G.C.M.G.
T. J. BYRNES, Proprietor.
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the very best brands.
A First-class Cook kept.
The STABLES will be well supplied with fresh and
wholesome provender, and be under the supervision of
careful grooms.
BILLIARDS. BATHS.
TO PICNIC PARTIES, &c.
MR. M. BYRNES, of the Pyrmont Ferry, wishes to
intimate to persons getting up Picnics and excur-
sions, that he has added a new steamer (the Princess) to
his fleet of steamers, and is now prepared to supply
large or small Picnic Parties with Boats at Reasonable
Rates.
The beautiful Steam Yacht “Fawn” having also
lately been added to the above fleet, is now available and
is specially adapted for hire by private parties for fish-
ing or other purposes. The “ Fawn is splendidly fitted
up, and has every convenience for a few days’ trip, there
being a first-class stove, with cooking utensils, on board.
The yacht may be inspected, and full particulars ob-
tained, by applying to
M. BYRNES,
Lime-street Wharf,
Sydney.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL
FOR human use, curing all kinds of Wounds, Bruises,
Blows, or Eruptions of the Skin in all parts of the
Body, Head, Hands, or Feet, and removes Warts and
Excrescences; applied to the Hands and Face during
Summer it will keep away flies, mosquitoes, and venom-
ous spiders, &c., and may be easily washed off in the
morning. Possesses an agreeable aroma.
SCOTTISH HIGHLAND OIL removes Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Stiff Joints, Sprains, Enlarged
Glands, Swollen Legs and Feet, Chilblains, Bunions,
Warts, and Excrescences. Prevents the consequences
of exposure in diggers, shepherds, carriers, and such as
must encounter damps. But its most astonishing
result, and that which distinguishes it, is its power to
preven't a recurrence of the diseases it cures.
J. POTTIE,
VETERINARY SURGEON
To the Government of N.S.W.,
263 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
fJIHE GENUINE VIRGINIAN TOBACCOES.
Warranted manufactured by that renowned firm
CAMERON and CO., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA,
WHOLESALE DEPOT.
In Stock, the most beautiful smoking
NAVY B’s, s's, 4’s; AROMATIC and GOLD LEAF
CABLE, flat and P pieces.
Really splendid Manufacture.
Raven, Negrohead, Cut Gold Leaf, Cut Mixture,
Cut Raven, &c.. Cigars of every descrip-
tion. Pipes in large variety.
Cork Pipes, &c.
The above Tobaccoes, Cigars, Pipes, &c., Wholesale
and Retail, at Cash Prices, lower than any other House
in Sydney. Trial solicited.
Good Cigars, ss. per 100. Shag Tobacco, 2s. per lb.
The American Flag, i. e., the Stars and Stripes, de-
notes the address —
C. LOUGHNAN.
VIRGINIA TOBACCO WAREHOUSE,
619 George Street, Haymarket.
JHUBEET NEWMAN,
, POETEAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12, OXFORD-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.— I The above firm are
prepared to ufidertake contrasts for the- manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price giyen for old metal.
EVOLVERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
THE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397, GEORGE-STREET.
THE MOST POPULAR HOTEL IN SYDNEY.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock’s Best Tables.
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s,
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
General Manager.
Licensed victuallers'
ASSOCIATION
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughout the Colony.
UNS,
TRIFLES,
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
The lightning fret saw
for Sawing Brackets, &c. Price 245.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., MARKET-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Just opened, a splendid assortment of M'Loughlin’s
Books, Puzzles, Games, &c. Also, a large shipment of
Toys, Steam Engines, &c.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellowiVinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
EDITORIAL AND BUSINESS NOTICES.
The Bulletin is published every Saturday morning.
Communications should reach to the office not later
than Friday at noon.
The usual course with regard to editorial and business
letters should be pursued.
The Proprietors of The Bulletin intend giving
provincial matters the greatest attention; hence
communications from country readers will be always
acceptable. Postal irregularities should meet with
prompt complaint.
The price per copy of The Bulletin will be 3d, and
the terms of subscription as follows, viz. 35., cash in
advance; 3s. 6d., booked. Advertising scale :—3s. for
the first, and 2s. for every additional inch, with a dis-
count on quarterly, half-yearly, and yearly advertise-
ments.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Haynes
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at The
Bulletin Office, 107 Castlereagh-street.
fjp HEATEE ROYAL.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Samuel Lazar.
COMPLIMENTARY
BENEFIT.
to
Mr. WILLIAM CKESWICK
on
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1830.
prior to
his Departure for England,
when
will he presented
Shakspere’s
KING L.E AE.
KING LEAR Mr. W. CKESWICK.
Captain MATHIEU and the officers of the Ehin have
signified their intention of befng present.
A large number of friends and admirers of the distin-
guished tragedian, wishing to make some special
recognition of their appreciation of his great and
unquestionable talent as an artist, and their regard for
him personally as a man, invite .all lovers of true art
and worth to co-operato with them and tq make the
Benefit an emphatic expression of the estimation in
which the patrons of the drama in Sydney hold a worthy
exponent of the highest art.
G. E. DIBBS.
Mr. Lazar lias upon this occasion most liberally
placed the Theatre at Mr. Creswick’s disposal gratis,
and the members of the company have most generously
given their services.
Box plan now open at Nicholson and Aseherberg’s.
Q UEEN'S THEATRE,
Lescees Messrs. Hiscocks, Hayman & Co.
Stage Manager ... George Atkins.
ENTERPRISE, EXCELLENCE, MAGNITUDE.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
THIS (Friday) and SATURDAY EVENINGS,
February 27 and 28.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS,
Tremendous Success,
of the
LEVIATHAN SHOW.
HISCOCKS’ and DAYMAN’S
MAMMOTH MINST, EELS,
and the entire
VICTORIA LOFTUS TROUPE,
forming the GREATEST COMBINATION in the
WORLD,
Both Companies appearing Nightly.
The Management, appreciating the approbation
shown by the Sydney Public to the Loftua Troupe,
whose performances for the last 30 nights have been
witnessed by over 30,000 people, have determined to
present to the public a combination which, for Talent,
Excellence, and Magnitude has never been equalled in
the World, and to accomplish this the
RENOWNED MAMMOTH MINSTELS
and the
GREAT VICTORIA LOFTUS TROUPE
will appear nightly as one Grand Combination.
NO ADVANCE irf the PRICES.
Drees Circle, 3s; Stalls, 2s. ; Pit, Is. Children half-
price to Stalls and Dress Circle.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherherg’s.
Royal amphitheatre,
and
COLOSSAL CIRCUS,
HUNTER AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
Lessee W. H. Richardson.
Manager ■ JV. Woody ear.
OPEN EVERY NIGHT at 7.15.
- DAY PERFORMANCE ON SATURDAY,
at 2 o’clock,
COMPANY of STAR ARTISTES
SPLENDID STUD of HORSES. .
# SCHOOL of PERFORMING DOGS.
Admission : —Pit, Is ; Stalls, 2s ; Drees Circle, 3s ;
Half-price at 9 o’clock. Children half-price.
The great waxworks exhibition
NOW OPEN
Opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street.
Just added, ANDREW ’GEORGE SCOTT alias
Captain Moonlight, and THOMAS ROGAN alias
Baker —the notorious Wantabadgery Bushrangers,
taken from original casts; and other figures.
Admission, Is.; children half-price. Open from 10 a.m.
to 10 p.m.
AVID M’CALL.
14, HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment.
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to ■
, His Royal Highness the DUKE.OF EDINBURGH
His Excellency the .Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMOEE
His Excellency Sir Hf ROBINSON, K.C.M.G
And
Hi., Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
» K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 18®, 1970,1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
TATTEESALL’S HO. TEL,
PITT-STREET.
GEORGE ADAMS
1 (late of Kiama),
wishes to inform his friends and the public generally
that he has succeeded
Mr. W. J. O’BRIEN
in the abgve old-established Sporting Hotel, and trusts
By keeping none but the best brands of
|WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS,
to merit a continuance of the support so liberally
bestowed on his predecessor.
*** G. A. purposes making important changes, so as
to afford
THE SPORTING PATRONS
every convenience and satisfaction.
Also, Gentlemen visiting the Metropolis.
N.B.—Night Porter.
G. ADAMS,. Proprietor.
LAWRENCE FOLEY,
CHAMPION OP AUSTRALIA,
United States Hotel,
Corner Riley and William Streets, Woolloomooloo,
BEGS to inform his numerous friends and the public
that he is’now in possession of the above Hotel,
and that the business will be carried on under his own
immediate supervision. He will be glad to see his old
friends, and as many new’ ones as are in wont of a glass
of spirits, wine, or beer of a quality not to be surpassed
in the colony.
L. FOLEY will continue to give instruction, on mode-
rate terms, in the ART OF SELF-DEFENCE, in the
large Athletic Hall adjoining the above Hotel.
s
144' COLLARS for 3s.
AT HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET.
EE THEM!!
EE THEM!!
s
144 COLLARS FOR 3s.
144 COLLARS FOR 3s.
ANT SIZE, 14, 14-J, 15, 15), 16, or 16)
Jr. cripps, pastrycook and
• confectioner*
267 (late 255) George Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, &c., catered for in the
best style.
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
TOHN CUTTER, PRACTICAL TAILOR,
C STREET, S
Has on hand
The largest and best assorted stock of Woodens in the
• colony. . .&*•
All orders attended to vftth care and dispatch.
G
O TO BRAY FOE YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address*
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
4 MEEICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY and CO.,
No. 11 PITT-STREET.
Importers of and dealers in all descriptions of American
Machinery.
Indents executed on reasonable terms.
ADOLPHE GABRIEL & CO.
“SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYAED SQUARE, •
(two doors from pfahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that their
ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
G
BOEGE TALL, PRACTICAL LOCKSMITH
AND SAW MAKER,
PITT STREET
(Next the Congregational Church).
Saws sharpened and re-set on the shortest notice
GEORGE TALL
is the leading Practic Locksmith of Sydney, and chal-
lenges any competitor for speed or effectiveness
of 'work.
PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOE THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, ahd ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE-STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
RTH U R
C U B I T T.
157, late 203, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OF KIN OFFICE.
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUCTED.
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS, DEATHS
and MARRIAGES.
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED,
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
24 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS,
most intricate cases have met with marked success.
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, United
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and New
Zealand.
HE ORIENTAL HOTEL
(Foot of Pitt-stret),
CIRCULAR QUAY.
T
Mr. GEORGE BUCKHAM, Proprietor, desires to
announce to his numerous friends and the public that
he is now in occupation of the above Hotel. His first-
class retail trade enables him to offer the very best de-
scription of Liquors. Only the best brands in bottle
and on draught for sale. Particular attention is given
to the harbour passenger requirements, and the
Oriental in this respect cannot be eclipsed. Well fur-
nished, comfortable Parlour, &c.
V
C. W. ROBERTS’
£3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS:
*,* CARRIAGE FREE by RAIL or STEAMER.
ON receipt of the above sum the following genuine
articles will be forwarded, in SQUARE BOTTLES,
securely packed in a case, viz.:—
6 quarts KEY GIN
2 „ PALE BRANDY
6 ~ WEST INDIA RUM
1 „ WHISKY
1 „ SUPERIOR PORT WINE
1 „ „ SHERRY WINE.
Total: 15
. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. W. ROBERTS has much pleasure in stating that
he is constantly receiving the highest testimonials from
residents in all parts of the colony referring to the high
character of the LIQUORS supplied iu his
FAMOUS £3 CASE.
Try one and judge for yourself.
Kindly make a note of the Address —
C. W. ROBERTS,
Importer of Wines and Spirits,
George and Market Streets,
SYDNEY.
S
YDNEY CUP CONSULTATION, 1880
2000 Members at One Pound each.
Distributed as follow
The Consultation on the above event will Close at the
earliest possible date. Intending constitents are
requested to forward their favours early, as many were
disappointed over Tattersall’s Cup, their orders having
been received after the consultation was filled.
Country subscribers are requested to forward ex-
change on cheques and stamp for reply.
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
