

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 30.
SYDNEY, SATUKDAY, AUGUST 21, 1880.
Price —3d.
n lUilktin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 21, 1880.
A False Witness.
We are glad to notice that somebody is at last
taking a kindly interest in that unfortunate and
benighted race the Jews. That somebody is the
editor of the Witness, a comic paper published
in Pitt-street, and devoted, so its heading tells us,
“To the extension of the Kingdom of Christ
and the welfare of society.” There are ten or
twelve thousand Jews in Australia and out of
that ten or twelve thousand we are certain that
not a solitary baker’s dozen are even aware of the
existence of the Witness, notwithstanding that
there have already appeared in it no less than
twenty-eight vehemently-worded four-column
letters addressed to “ Our fellow-countrymen the
Jews of Australia.” About a third of the cur-
rent issue of the W itness is set apart for the
special edification of the Jews. The front page
is addressed to the Jewish laity, to whom it
indicates “ the probable date of their spiritual
restoration,” and the leading article, entitled “ Is
there a Personal Devil and a place of punish-
ment,” is intended for the delectation of the
Rev. Rabbi Davis, whose professional opinion, to
the effect that there is neither a hell in the
generally-accepted sense of the term, nor a per-
sonal devil, is denounced as rank heresy and
wailed over in the following impressive fashion :
“We trust that the pious Jews * * * *
will not suffer this public rejection of Old
Testament doctrine, affecting the whole moral
history and destiny of our race, to pass without
action. Where are the elders of the Synagogue ?
Have they no control over doctrine ? Must they
accept whatever any rabbi chooses to adopt as
a creed ? Surely not. If any rabbi speaks not
according to the Law and the Testament,
it is because there is no light in him.”
Now whether or not there is a personal devil or
whether there is “any light” in the respected
Rabbi it is not our province to enquire; and were
the Witness not avowedly devoted to the
“ welfare of society ” in addition to being one of
the means whereby the Kingdom of Christ is
to he extended on earth we as conductors of a
thoroughly secular and independent journal
would have nothing whatever to say in this
matter. Some time ago that section of the
Press of which the Witness is so worthy a
type quoted, for politico-religious purposes,
statistics showing that the percentage of criminals
supplied to our gaols by a certain religious de-
nomination was far in excess of that con'ributed
by any of the others. The statistics in
question, Much were taken in regard not only to
N.S.W. but also in respect to other colonies and
to various European countries were literally
gloated over, apparently as much for the
sake of; proving that certain dogmas were
in themselves iniquitous as of showing
that purely secular education was a good thing.
It is not our business to quarrel with either the
deductions in question or the data on which they
were based. But as “what is sauce for the
goose should be sauce for the gander ’’ we pur-
pose carrying the statistical theory a little further
than will be pleasant for the miserable zealots
who in one breath insist that religions shall be
judged merely by their results and in the next
stultify themselves by haggling over some worn-
out theological dogma. By whom are our prisons
filled—by those who call themselves Christians
or by Je’fcs ? Do we Australians ever hear of a
Jew deserting his wife and leaving her and her
children to die in the gutter, or live in misery
and shame ? Is it not a fact that the average
Jew is every whit as charitable in purse and
much more charitable in speech than are such
“ Christians ” as those who, caricaturing the
writings of the Apostles, scribble absurd
letters to those whom they think heathen ?
Does the Jew ever insultingly obtrude his reli-
gious belief on his fellow-man? Judaism, in
the light of its results, means, in Australia, at
any rate, morality, happiness, and opulence.
The social condition of the Hebrews of Sydney
affords a strange and unpalatable satire on our
boasted Christianity. We have nothing to do
with the theoretical merits of the two creeds—we
are on the present occasion content, as the Wit-
ness was some time ago, to judge the religions
by their results. Ihe editor of the Witness, in
lecturing the Jews, is guilty of a gross imperti-
nence, He may think that he has made clean
his platter; but his own test, the gaol records,
proves otherwise. He is attending to his
neighbour’s mote instead of to his own beam.
Judged by the rule of results, the Jews, rela-
tively speaking, need little “ religious ” teaching,
and any advice tendered to them should be with a
view of bringing about a gradual change in the
character of their commercial pursuits. The Jew
should be more often a merchant or a professional
man than a pawnbroker or petty trader. He
should have that position in society to which' the
keenness of his intellect and the vigour of his will
entitle him. The position taken up by the Wit-
ness forcibly recalls a capital anecdote. A Mr.
Noah, a Jew, was once a candidate for the office
of sheriff in New York. Some citizens objected,
urging that it was not seemly that a Jew should
superintend the execution of Christians. “Pretty
Christians,” remarked Noah, “to need hanging.”
Candid Criticism.
The most enlightened section of newspaper
readers often betray great ignorance of the spirit
that animates, and the principles that guide, the
great majority of journalists. They are ordi-
narily looked upon as men with more elasticity
of conscience than lawyers, and as full of sharp
practice as electioneering agents. Some people
suppose that whatever professional scribes write
is inspired by party prejudice, and that their
pens—to run smoothly over the paper —must
not only be dipped in the compound fluid called
ink, but previously steeped in a solution of hatred
and malice. Few, except diplomatists, are more
generally —or more unjustly —suspected of be-
longing to the great family of the Bamboozlers
than Pressmen. Now a little reflection will
satisfy any man of common sense that such con-
clusions are erroneous —such generalizations ab-
surd —and that no periodical, worthy of the
name, would long survive if conducted according
to popular notions on the subject. There was,
indeed, a time, not fifty years ago, when party
predilections blunted the moral sense of several
journalists, and made them unjust to their op-
ponents. It was once true that a Tory could
see no merit in a Whig, and vice versa , while the
Radical was looked upon by both as the incarna-
tion of political depravity—disloyal in heart to
the Crown —guided by self-interest in his advo-
cacy of reform—and suspected of a dangerous
communistic and revolutionary bias. Some of
the old leaven may remain, bnt it can hardly be
said with truth at the present day —
“ This man his party deems a hero;
His foes a Judas or a Nero;
• Patriot of superhuman worth,
Or vilest wretch that cumbers earth.
Derives his bright or murky hues
Prom distant and from party views.”
Public men are not now estimated in this trucu-
lent manner; they are allowed a large measure
of toleration by their opponents; and if now and
then a Ghaham Bebky should be tomahawked
by an Argus executioner, the punishment is in-
flicted for grave public offences only. It fre-
quently happens that journalists hit persons for
whose views they entertain respect harder than
persons with whom they have no sympathy
whatever, because they underrate or ignore
the latter. The London Times no longer pays
literary partisans to write down political oppo-
nents, and the benefits of a candid impartiality
are more fully and fairly extended to literary
criticism. The politics of the Duke of
Ahgtlb will not induce the reviewer of
his philosophical speculations to slate him,
or endeavour (because of his party) to bring him
into scorn or contempt. Notwithstanding the
excessive license permitted to Press-writers in the
United States of America, there is far less abuse
of privilege or of opportunity now than there
was twenty-five years ago, and popular sentiment
is waxing strongly against indiscriminate abuse.
It often happens that unskilled men, without the
least malice, and merely confounding the true
meaning of vigour, are guilty of libelling those
whom they oppose; but anybody really acquainted
with the business knows well that personalities
are scouted from the columns of all respectable
journals, except it be in the shape of some jocose
allusions to an individual’s idiosyncrasies, or
peculiarities of manner, which are quite harmless,
and often have the effect of modifying or cor-
recting eccentricities of conduct, or crudities of
thought. Thus if we should say the style, in
oratory and English composition, of Archbishop
Vaughan is “wordy” —that of the Bishop of
Sydney “woody”—that Mr. David Buchanan
is a “vapourer,” Mr. M'Klhone a “bully” and,
a “roarer”—that one man is “a timid financier,”
another a-“ concealed Protectionist ” —we are not
influenced by any ill-feeling whatever, but would
like to see faults amended which (we think) mar
some of the best efforts of the gentlemen re-
ferred to. While we shall ever in these columns
expose what we believe to be prejudicial to the
interests of the country, we shall mete out to all
men fair-play, and never publish a line dictated
by the spirit of malevolence Candid criticism
is the great preservative of upright public conduct.
Not to use it would be to forget a constitutional
safeguard: to abuse it would certainly be a base
use of opportunity. So much we have thought
it to be our duty to assert, that our principles
may become generally known, and, we trust,
generally respected.
The Proctor Lectures.
To all who desire that the Australian communi-
ties may advance in knowledge, and consequent
civilization, it must be gratifying to see the doors
of Mr. Proctor’s lecture hall besieged each
evening by anxious and eager crowds, —crowds
as vast as, though more orderly and intelligent-
looking than, those which press against the pit
doors of the theatres on the first night of a new
burlesque. I he fact is something to set to the
■per contra of our account, when summing up
the varying tendencies of our population. If, on
the one hand, there be masses of people who will
rush helter-skelter to see a half-dressed female
dance a break-down; or, which seems to us
equally deplorable, to hear an ignorant ranter
talk of the God of the universe as if he were a
familiar acquaintance, and consign those who
differ from himself in opinion to eternal flames ;
it is gratifying to note that there are thousands
prepared to sit gratefully at the feet of a teacher
like Mr. Proctor, who happily combines the
erudition of the savant with the practicality,
clearness and savoir faire of the man
of the world. It is not every day that these
antipodean settlements, with all their marvellous
progress, have the opportunity of being informed,
viva voce, by a man of Proctor’s standing in
the schools of science, and they are to be con-
gratulated on the fact that they are making the
most of the chance. And not only is our visitor
in himself notable beyond all the titular dis-
tinctions of birth or wealth, but the subjects on
which he discourses are among the grandest
which can be presented to the mind. The listener
to Proctor finds himself introduced into the
temple of universal religion. He is receiving a
lesson in true theology. He is learning the
ways of God from one who has deeply studied
the most resplendent portion of his works. He
breathes, for the time being, an unaccustomed
atmosphere. The littlenesses attaching to the
sectional ideas of Deity, with which his infancy
may have been crammed, fall away, and he begins
to have a glimmering of the meaning of the terms
“Infinite” and “Incomprehensible.” A breath
of inspiration from the soul of Nature passes
over his being and he seems to escape from the
fallacies and apparitions of time into the
truths and realities of eternity. Meantime the
lecturer, not from the eloquence of his words,
which are simplicity itself, but from the grandeur
of his subject and the completeness of his
THE RIGHT WORSHIPFUL. ALDERMAN FOWLER, J.P., MAYOR OF SYDNEY.


research, appears as though he might without
arrogance say, in the words of Tennyson—
I take possession of man’s mind and deed;
I care not what the sects may brawl:
I sit, as God, holding no form of creed.
But contemplating all.
The Right Worshipful Alderman Fowler,
J.P., Mayor of Sydney.
Etymologically the word Mayor is derived
from the Latin major (greater) through the French
maire, and historically it is an office of great an-
tiquity and dignity. Under the grand old Roman
municipal system the chief burgess of a town
exercised functions almost proconsular, and the
head of the elder men (now called aldermen) under
the Anglo-Saxon kings were Thanes of the third or
fourth degree. With what lively emotions have
infantile bosoms thrilled at the story of Dick
Whittington and his cat, or felt a patriotic glow
at the heroic conduct of Sir William Walworth
when he feared the life of his king (Richard II.)
was in danger. A halo of immemorial fame il-
lumines the London Mansion House because of
the “ bede-roll ” of illustrious men who have suc-
cessively (for centuries) filled its civic chair. The
city of Sydney, too, has reason to be proud of
her chief magistrates, nearly all of whom have
been men of intelligence, energy and integrity,
and we look back to most of the mayoral regimes
with pride and pleasure. No alcalde ever pleased
a Vizier in Moresco Spain more than did Mr.
C. J. Roberts the citizens of Sydney last year.
We are equally fortunate in the current annual
cycle of time, because in Mr. Robert Fowler we
find a combination of rare qualities—an exquisite
modesty combined with an energetic will, and a
self-control t'aat must have become habitual to
him from the exercise of an enlightened dis-
cretion. It is not every man, however intellec-
tually gifted, who, at forty years of age, reaches
the social elevation which Mr. Fowler has at-
tained, and still fewer who so unequivocally de-
serves it. The facts of his life are interesting
because they teach a lesson of the best kind to
young men —they point to a moral that needs
only to be mentioned to be appreciated—they
show how industry, regulated by common sense,
leads to fortune, position, and (better than both)
the conscientious discharge of duty. Without
further comment or commendation, we give the
particulars we have gathered of Mr. Fowler’s
career. He was born in George-street, South,
Sydney, on the 13th of July, 1840, and received
the rudiments of his education at Christ Church
School in Pitt-street. His father, the late Mr.
Enoch Fowler, belonged to that sturdy
class of immigrant artisans many of whose sons
have become so prosperous and distinguished in
Australia. He was a native (as was his wife also)
of the county Tyrone, Ireland, and soon after his
arrival in Sydney established a pottery-business in
Parramatta-street, near St. Benedict’s Church.
TTis son, the subject of our memoir, was at an early
age apprenticed to the trade, and soon became an
enlightened expert. He did not, like many of his
youthful contemporaries, waste his evenings strol-
ling about the streets, or “ enjoying ” themselves
at the old Victoria Theatre. He devoted his spare
time to study under private tutors, and has ac-
quired a knowledge of history, natural philosophy,
and the science of Political Economy far more ex-
tensive than most of his contemporaries imagine.
While still quite a young man, he had charge of
the extensive potteries erected at Camperdown.
In 1867 he began life as a practical citizen by
getting married (to Miss Seale of Burwood), and
two years later, he was called to his first municipal
honours, being elected alderman for the municip-
ality of Cook. The year following he became its
Mayor, and succeeded in uniting the boroughs of
Cook and Camperdown into one corporate district,
over which he presided as first Mayor, in 1870.
On retiring from that position in 1871, he was en-
tertained at a banquet in Camperdown, a flattering
address presented to him, and an enthusiastic
commendation of his impartiality and clearheaded-
ness expressed by several speakers. In 1872
he was elected alderman for Denison Ward,
by largo majorities, and was soon after put
in the Commission of the Peace. He has since
been re-elected three times for that Ward in suc-
cession, without opposition, and was nominated
for the mayoral chair last year, but was defeated
by Mr. Roberts, or rather by the casting vote of
the chairman (Mr. Aid. Merriman). In December
last, Mr. Fowler turned the tables on his worthy
predecessor, and became Mayor of his native city by
a majority of three —the first to hold that office
under the new Act. He has been appointed one of
the local Commissioners for the Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibition, and is likely to have a higher
ambition satisfied —that is if he has any strong
inflation for further honours —at the forthcoming
general elections, as he has been asked to “ run”
for Newtown, with reliable assurances of his
triumphant return. He is chairman of the Public
School Board, No. 4, which embraces Petersham,
Marrickville, Camperdown, and Darlington in its
district. When to his numerous public duties are
added the responsibilities of a large, and —we are
happy to state —largely increasing business, it
must be evident to all who read these remarks,
that Mr. Fowler must possess indomitable energy,
shrewd intelligence, and an innate love of fair
play, or he would not be the popular man he is.
The combination of such qualities—the main-
springs of administrative success in statesman —
gives one an intimation that in the near future, he
may be called upon to accept the port folio of
Minister of the Crown. We wish him well in all
his worthy life-pursuits.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Tahiti has become a French colony.
The Lusitania has arrived in England.
Proctor always swears “ by Jupiter !”
The British are advancing on Candahar.
Proctor again had a great audience last night.
Religious services are now held regularly at
Temora.
Hoskins’ benefit at Christchurch was a great
success.
To find the telegraph office at Mudgee a pilot
is required.
Some good gold found at the Eight-mile Creek,
near Albury.
Landslips are disintegrating the masonry of the
St. Gothard tunnel.
One of the Maori prisoners in N.Z. has died in
gaol of consumption.
They want Proctor in Brisbane, but he will not
go unless guaranteed.
A petrified pine-apple has been found at Mary-
borough, Queensland.
Mr. Berry has been returned for Geelong and
Mr. Vale for ColUngwood.
Ketten thinks that having your portrait taken
implies great self-conceit.
Mr. James Reynolds (the great American Clown,
is now in Sydney disengaged.
The Australasian’s special correspondent re-
ports unfavorably of Temora.
Many lecturers send their audiences to sleep.
Proctor makes his opqn their eyes.
General Loris Melikoff has been nominated
Minister of the Interior by the Czar.
The three largest nuggets yet found at Temora
weighed respectively 250 z, 230 z and 9oz.
R. S. Smythe lives during the day in a hansom
cab, and at night at the School of Arts.
IConsidering the crowds at Proctor’s lectures,
the seating arrangements are admirable.
Four tons of water a minute is thrown by the
Insurance steam fire engine “ Guardian."
A Melbourne company is about prospecting for
coal at Jervis Bay with the diamond drill.
Mr. Morris Green wall, who is back once more in
good health, represents the Williamsons here.
Eight dwts. are said to have been the result of
a dish at the Five-mile Creek near Orange.
A telephone exchange, under the auspices of the
Sydney Merchants' Exchange, is proposed.
The post and telegraph office at Liverpool coat
£2,200. That at Goulburn will cost £22,000.
Cargei’s chromograph, an Adelaide invention,
enables people to forge signatures perfectly.
The Copeland again! Ten tons No. 1 South
Centennial, 160 oz.; 20 tons No. 1 Homeward Bound,
30oz.
Alarms of fire were rung 296 times in Sydney
last year. (59 limes services were rendered by fire
brigades.
“ The Turn of the Tide ” has been the theatri-
cal event of the week in Sydney. The Koyal has been
crowded.
London wool sales have opened at a decline o
halfpenny to a penny per pound on the .average of
last sales.
Miss Neilson, one of the most beautiful women
who ever trod the stage is just dead. —She contemplated
visiting Australia.
The Orange Slaughtering Co. (Limited) have
arranged to send to Sydney daily 36 carcases of beef
and 306 of mutton.
Parcels for conveyance by the Great Northern
Railway (Tamworth line) may now be booked at the
George-street office.
The Victorian Pension and Superannuation List
of 1869 was £21,365. In 1878-9 it totalled up the re-
spectable sum of £33,242.
Mr. Alfred Morris, C.E., gave an interesting
lecture on “ The Solar System,” in Piit-street school-
roam, on Monday night.
Ketten is said to be a fine manly fellow. In one
of his numerous photos, he is lying on a hearthrug.
The playful little Kitten !
Criminal informations for libel have been laid
against the proprietors of journals published at Christ-
church and Hokitika, Ji.Z.
The Blackall people are jubilant. They now
have a gorgeously-fitted chemist’s shop, “run" by Mr.
Irwin, late of the Hodgkinson.
It is estimated there is more blue metal on the
Wallerawang and Mudgee road than on all the other
roads in the colony put together.
Pentridge stockade is being enlarged. Under
the new system every prisoner will be confined in a
separate cell. There will be accommodation for 1,400.
Mr. A. Gordon has lectured to the Young Men’s
Christian Association on “ Freedom of Thought in re-
Iligious matters: its use and abuse.”
Anthony Trollope’s eldest daughter has been
married to the Hon. Stewart Wortley, M.P. for Shef-
field, son of the Earl of Wharncliffe.
A. T. Clark orders Melbourne Customs officials
to work forty-eight hours weekly instead of thirty-
eight as hitherto, without extra pay.
A three-shear ram belonging to Mr. Pears, of
Mere, Victoria, was clipped recently. The fleece
weighed 341b5., the heaviest on record.
Mr. J. P. Garvan, who declares himself op-
posed* to 4he present Education Act, is going for
West Sydney or some other constituency.
• Serious religious riots have occurred in the
North of Ireland, at Dungarvan. The police fired on
the mob, killing one man and wounding six.
Mr. S. B. Reilly (late of the Australian Frolics),
and Mr. E. Barnard, will shortly appear in Sydney in
their new entertainment “ Happy Hours.”
R. S. Smythe declares that all star pianistes are
more or less mad—generally worse. He travelled with
Arabella Goddard, and has read about Henri Ketten.
Mr. Lewis’s Juvenile Pinafore Company promise
us a great treat. Much has been said of the little
marvels, and doubtless there will lie a rush to see them.
The N.Z. immigration returns presented .to
Parliament show the total number arrived since July.
11879, to be 7413 souls, and the grand total to date 84,49‘9
The ’English Government are aware that in-
flammatory papers have been forwarded from Stamboul
and circulated in India with the knowledge of the
Porte.
M‘ll wraith's supporters have had enough of
stone-walling in the Queensland Parliament, so their
leader adjourns the House as early &s possible every
evening.
The Tasmanian budget shows a surplus of nearly
£15,000. It is proposed to raise a 4 per cent, loan of
£567,000 for public works and the redemption of de-
bentures.
Mr. Menser and the Wyburds promise the
Temora people some grand entertainments during the
ensuing week. Knowing the men, we predict a big
business.
Latest advices state that the IT. S. Government
have waived all opjHJsition to the construction of the
Panama Canal, and agree to give a guarantee of
neutrality.
Berry, afraid of the probable result, has stopped
the enquiry ordered by the Service Government on
certain contracts entered into by the Victorian Railway
Department.
An intending passenger by the Fairlight to
Manly, on Sunday, fell into the harbour at the Circular
Quay, but was rescued, none the worse for his immer-
sion, by a friend.
Professor Cavill, the renowned Channel swim-
mer, has returned to Sydney, and purposes giving some
exhibitions of the useful art of which he is so accom-
plished a master.
Fairhall defeated Callaghan at handball at
Dillon’s Rising Sun Ball Court, on Monday. The
match was for .£lO aside. Callaghan, although beaten,
showed fine play.
Owing to the demand for dress circle seats for
the Bennett Matinee, it has been found necessary to
reserve five rows of stall seats at dress circle prices.
Box plan at Elvy’s.
A burglary has taken place at Eldon’s, the great
London jeweller. £20,000 worth of property, including
jewellery, plate, and the Great Seal presented to
George IV., were stolen. '
A gentleman widely known as an author says
that a glass of Scotch ale taken early in the morning at
sea is a sure preventive of sea sickness. At any rate,
the medicine is pleasant.
With respect to the coming meeting of the A. J.
Club, it may be mentioned that there are some good
loose boxes at Clark’s Charing Cross Hotel, Waverley,
within a mile of the course.
The practical utility of Needles’ gas appli-
ance is again manifesting itself. The Balmain steam
ferry boats (Watson and Co.’) are to be lighted with
gas by means of the appliance.
At Balmain, last month, “ The Bachelors” gave
a most enjoyable reunion. They are shortly to be the
guests at a Plain and Fancy Dress Ball given in their
honor at the local School of Arts.
In reply to a cablegram to London, an answer
hn.g been received stating that no match between Mary-
lebone or other first-class eleven in London and the
Australians has yet been arranged.
A fire, the origin of which is unknown, occurred
at Baurin, Fiji, completely destroying every house ex-
cept the King’s residence and the church. “That
divinity that doth hedge a King.”
Proctor only moves in the very highest circles
—that of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, for instance. In
pronouncing “ Uranus,” don’t forget to place the accent
on the ante-penultimate. R. A. P. does.
The son of Mr. Johnson, of Johnson’s Hotel,
Oxford-street, died suddenly at Cootairundra on Tues-
day evening, while waiting for the Temora coach. The
cause is believed to have been heart disease.
Gambetta’s letter, about which there has been
so much excitement in Europe lately, was, it appears,
written some time ago, before he occupied his present
position of President of the Chamber of Deputies.
Mining in the Far North. Blackmore and party,
of the Just-in-Time claim, Walsh River (Hodgkinson
field), have crushed 1,000 tons for over 3,000 oz. Were
the Hodgkinson reefs at Ballarat millions would be got
from them.
The “ Eose of Petersham,” the 20th branch in
connection with the Sydney district of the Grand United
Order of Oddfellows, was opened at the Church of
England schoolroom, Crystal-street, Petersham, on the
10th instant.
The death of Adelaide Neilson is a serious mis-
fortune for Mr. R. S. S my the. He interviewed her in
Toronto three years ago, and it was through his repre-
sentations then and subsequently that the gifted actress
consented to come to Australia.
110 tons of quartz from the Pioneer Claim,
Thomborough, Hodgkinson, yielded 500 ounces of gold.
This claim is situated on the hill which Mulligan took
up in the first days of the field, and unsuccessfully tried
to float a company for the purpose of working.
In referring to our illustration of Messrs. Dalton
Bros’, palatial warehouses last week, we accidentally
omitted to mention that they were designed and carried
out under the immediate supervision of Mr. Benjamin
Backhouse, the well-known Architect of this City.
The N.Z. Government have behaved very
handsomely to the proprietors of the “ Zealandia ”
exhibition which, as has already been stated, is being
taken to England by Mr. George Lingard and is re-
garded as a splendid advertisemeut.for the colony.
Wo are sorry to hear that Mr. Eobert Moodio,
manager of the Mountain Killed Meat Company, has
found it necessary to file his schedule on behalf of the
firm. Liabilities £15,471 4s od; assets, £7,032 3s 9d.
However, it is not expected that business will be
suspended.
At the Marylebono Police Court recently Mrs.
Eugenie Bnckland, aged 35, was charged with being
drunk and incapable. The assistant gaoler stated that
the prisoner was continually being brought before the
magistrate at this Court and there were about 200 con-
victions against her.
John Angus and John Barry, who left Cooktown
for Port Darwin overland some time ago, in company
with Alexander M’Kenzie, are now known to have died
in the bush. M’Kenzie reached McMinn’s camp on the
telegraph line nearly naked and in a famishing condition.
All the horses were lost.
The Baldwin Locomotive Works, Philadelphia,
have turned out a 42-ton engine for the Bound Brook
route between New Tork and Philadelphia, which is
expected to make the 90 miles in as many minutes. The
engine’s tank is so large as to admit of the entire dis-
tance being run without stopping for water.
The formation of a collection of N.S.W. fruit
for exhibition at Melbourne International has been en-
trusted to Mr. Squire W. Pye, who has so far been
very successful in his interviews with the local fruit-
growers and will probably bring together a display
which will make our neighbours’ mouths water.
New steel works are to be erected in Chicago at
a [cost, including land, of £400,000. They are to be
completed within a year, and will consist of four blast
furnaces, Bessemer converting works, and steel rail
mills. They will employ 2000 men, consume 250,000
tons of ore yearly, and turn out 90,000 tons of rails.
The Bill to amend the N.Z. Friendly Societies’
Act proposes to enable societies or branches to apply
all incomes over 4 per cent, per annum arising from in-
vestment, for the purpose of management, such as pay-
mentof medical fees by a vote of the majority. Four per
cent, to be considered as a guarantee of sufficiency of
the benefit fund.
The engineer of the Botany Water Works, Mr.
Westcott, has been reinstated in his position by a vote
of the Corporation. There has been even more than
an ordinary amount of petty-feeling displayed in dealing
with the case of Mr. Westcott, who bears the reputa-
tion of oeing an honest and faithful servant of the
Corporation.
The Eight Eev. the newly-appointed Bishop of
Newcastle, Dr. Pearson, was on Monday last at the
Church Society’s Booms, Phillip-street, presented by
the Right Rev. Dr. Barker, with an address of welcome
from the clergy and laity of the dioecese of Sydney.
Mrs. Pearson, His Lordship the Bishop of Goulbum,
and a large number of most unfluential churchmen
were present.
In last Australasian appeared an article,
entitled “A Mysterious Firm,” in which some strange
facts are given relative to the transactions of a “bogus”
Melbourne house, Uniacke and Co., who for some years
past have been in the habit of writing to people in dis-
tant countries, announcing the death of possessors of
large fortunes, informing the addressees that they were
heirs and requesting them to forward sums for legal
expenses.
Dennis White and John Wilson, charged with
the manslaughter of Edward Nester at Temora have
been committed for trial. As, however, poor Nester’s
death was evidently the result rather of thoughtlessness
than of malice, and as there is considerable nnoertanity
concerning which of the accused pair fired the fatal
shot, it is not likely that will be a conviction.
The St. Leonard’s Fire Brigade must be com-
posed of a zealous body of men. On Wednesday they
had a call out, borrowed two horses and made off to
Buena Vista—but when they got there they found the
hotel was unaffected by the bush fire, and that perhaps
two weatherboard cottages might have been destroyed
if the wind had;been stronger. It was disappointing,
but the men liked the beer.
The Williamsons are staying at the Oriental.
Melbourne, taking a well-deserved rest. Mr. William-
son is looking after Pinafore, which is being played
with tremendous success by the opera troupe. The
profits first week were £IOOO. The popular Maggie
Moore, who assumed the role of Josephine throughout
the Adelaide tour with marked success, is, we hear,
thoroughly enjoying the “ spell.”
In its narrative of the summary execution of a
deserter from the Queensland native police force the
Queenslander says:—“ The wretched victim of Euro-
pean barbarity bad deserted, and for the offence was to
suffer death. To add to the horror of his fate, his tor-
mentors first fastened him to his gin by manacles round
each of their ankles, and then shot him dead. The
terror of the unfortunate wife almost paralysed her, but
she was compelled to drag the corpse of her husband
into the scrub, where it was left with only the leaves to
cover it.”
The marvellous healing powers alleged to have
been manifested by various persons in different ages,
constituted the subject of a graphic and entertaining
lecture delivered by Mr. Charles Bright, before a big
audience at the Theatre Royal last Sunday evening.
Mr. Bright succeeded in showing that there is a vast
amount" of evidence to be adduced in favour of the
occurrence of these so-called “miracles” in and outside
of Bible times, and that, therefore, the probability is
that they will shortly be classified and comprehended
by Science.
When the s.s. Victoria, which had taken on board
5,000 oz. gold at Cooktown, arrived at Townsville on her
last downward trip, a further quantity of gold was
placed in the strong room in sealed boxes. One of these
latter reputedly containing 183 oz. 6 dwt. 6 grs., was
found to be very light when Sydney was reached and on
being opened by the bank officials proved to contain
nothing but closely-packed shreds of paper. The
officers are sure that the package was not tampered
with on board. Detectives are now enquiring into the
matter.
North Shore now has cricket, football, and row-
ing clubs, a school of arts, chess club, debating society,
fire brigade, —and, to crown all, a musical society, which
latter was inaugurated at a meeting held on 6th current,
and presided over by the Rev. E. Symons. Mr. Tunks,
the worthy Mayor of the district, was elected
president; Mr. Green, secretary; Mr. Sinclair, treasurer;
Mr. Lowick, librarian; and Messrs. Slade, Richards,
M‘Lean, and Fenwick form the committee. The society
will be under the conductorship of Mr. Wilson, organist
of Christ Church.
In our advertising column will be fonnd a notice
of the New Grand Prix Distribution. This method of
backing one’s opinion presents many attractions. In
the first place the backer really lays his own odds; and
as we believe each ticket will in a very simple manner
show at the time of issue the total amount of the prize
in one corner and the amount invested on the hors#
nominated in the other corner no difficulty will he met
with in the way of knowing investors' exact position.
Further, we are advised that each week after this a slip
will appear showing how much the total amounts to and
how the nominations have been taken up.
At the Bachelors’ Ball on Tuesday evening last,
a tall dark-haired handsome young gentleman, one of
the officials and an adept at the destructive arts of a
moveable pair of eye glasses, was admired and envied
for his characteristic gallantry and courtesy. Another
gentleman, the possessor of a noble pair of glossy
whiskers, caught approving smiles from every fair face,
as passing rapidly from place to place, he gracefully
consulted the comfort of the guests. The illustrious
trio is incomplete without mention of a lofty legal
form, whose keen intelligence was as successfully applied
to the management of ball-room ceremonies as to the
details of writs and suits. The bachelors are to be
congratulated upon the success and popularity of their
entertainment, which ranks as one of the most brilliant
events of the season.
Mr Edward Ledger, proprietor of the London
“ Era," writes to his representative Mr. E. Lewis Scott,
in response to the letters sent him, as follows ; ‘ Dear
Sir, you will doubtless see by the Era, that I am in re-
ceipt of the address of congratulation on the result of
my recent vexatious trial from the members of the
theatrical profession iu your part of the world. Will
you kindly as opportunity may permit, convey to them
my very sincere thanks, for their sympathy, which will
go far to encourage and support me in my determination
ever to uphold and defend the stage and its! represen-
tatives. I am, Dear Sir, yours truly, Edward Ledger.”
As The Bulletin will be the best medium, we insert
the letter and address it to the profession.
Last Friday evening’s concert at the School of
Arts was well attended. Mr. Thompson, who has
wonderfully improved since he last appeared in
Sydney, was awarded the stakes in the comet contest.
His less practised opponent, Mr. F. M'Mahon, was
suffering from a cold, but could in no case have been
expected successfully to cope with the performer who,
no doubt by way of getting up a small excitement, was
really or ostensibly pitted against him. Miss Came
Godfrey’s solo went to prove that her New Zealand trip
has improved her voice; and the items contributed by
Mr. Osborne and several gentlemen amateurs afforded
satisfaction to the audience, who, by the way, if not
edified were certainly much amused by the guitar
soloist’s weird and melancholy number.
The following is the programme for next meet-
ing of the N. S. W. Rifle Association, so far as it has
yet been fixed :—First, “ The Queen’s ” for all Volun-
teers, 500 and 600 yards; the stage prizes, number-
ing twenty, will amount to £4O each stage : the aggregate
prizes, numbering forty-five, will amount to £142 and
the N.R.A. silver medal. Entrance £l. 2nd, “The
Recruits’,” at 500 and 600 yards, for £3O, divided into
seventeen prizes ; entrance, 3s. 3rd, “ The Ladies ,
at 500 and 600 yards, for Volunteers and members, £IOO,
divided into 36 prizes ; entrance, 7s. 6d. The fourth and
fifth will be for cadets, armed with Hay rifles and
carbines respectively; prizes, &c., same as last year.
The sixth is the “Schools Challenge Bugle.” The
seventh is the “ All-Comers,” at 800 and 900 yards, for
Rigby rifle, presented by Captain Walker, value £3O, and
three other prizes. The eighth is the “ International,’
under nearly the same conditions as formerly. The
ninth is the continuous match for merchants’ prizes;
the only difference this year will be the assimilation of
the target to that in use at Wimbledon.
Referring to the article in our last issue with respect
to Mr. George Milner Stephen, several most influential
residents of Sydney have desired us to state, in simple
justice to Mr. Stephen, that they know that not one
person in six is ever asked for a fee; that Mr. Stephen
never exacts a fee in excess of one guinea from patients
who visit him; that patients are not required, as was
stated in our article, to drink water into which the
medium has previously dipped his hands. The fees
charged are demanded only in exceptional cases, and
their exaction is rendered necessary by the fact that
Mr. Stephen is exorcising his healing powers to the utter
destruction of his practice as a barrister. The gentle-
men who furnish particulars positively state that to
their personal knowledge Mr. Stephen possesses most
extraordinary powers and has by means of them brought
about marvellous results. We regret that a serious
mis-statement in regard to the fees charged by Mr.
Stephen should have been mode by our contributor and
shall take an early opportunity of laying the results of
our personal observations before the public._
The scene in Court during the trial of Wilmot
versus Bennett was exceedingly lively, more especially
when Lotti was being examined. “Now Miss Wil-
mot,” said''Mr. Want in his blandest tones, “Kindly
explain to the jury the meaning of the placard that
was in your shop-window, intimating that gentlemen
could have correspondence addressed there and re-
addressed. “ Mr. Want.” majestically returned Lotti,
begging the question, “ I trust that you will allow me
to leave this court with the opinion that you’re a gen-
tleman.” But not content with this rebuff, the unfor-
tunate barrister rushed on to his fate. “ Come now.
madam, explain the business that was done at this
shop,” h« cried in stentorian tones ; “ I know all about
it.” There was a pause then, just as though the ac-
tress were temporarily bothered, and the learned coun


thk county puRSB—li mile.
Cap-a-a-pie
st. lb.
9 7
Black Swan
... ...
9 4
Elastic
...
...
3 7
Major
...
IU
... ...
8 0
Thorn topper
...
... ...
7 12
Master Aveaal ...
M.
... ...
7 12
Auckland
7 12
Karens vrood
...
7 10
Othello
...
• ••
7 8
Baroness
...
...
7 4
Retrospect
...
7 0
Hesperion
...
... ...
6 9
St. John
...
...
... ...
6 7
Fisherman
...
... ...
n o
Prairie Bird
.
... ...
5 10
Nancy Lee
5 7
THB FLYING HAJSMCAP—OfurlOtt£S*
Cap-a-pie..
9 10
Gainballo
8 10
Lord Borghley ..
...
8 10
Thorntopper
8 7
Auckland
...
8 7
Rarenswood
... ..
8 5
Soothsayer
...
V
8 5
Lorton
... .»
8 5
Inrentas
8 2
Baroness
...
... ..
8 0
Stella
...
7 10
Verdict
... ••
7 7
Lightning
...
7 5
Rookwood
7 5
Mangall&lla Squatter ...
...
...
7 2
Mibrodale
7 0
Prairie Bird
• •• «,
. 6 10
Bandalbiou
... ..
6 7
Vauxhall
. 6 7
Velox
•> 7
Sazarac
• •••
. ti 7
Tub
...
« 7
Rosine
. « 0
Deer ...
• ...
. 6 0
Mistletoe
.
...
. 5 10
Hazard ...
. ...
...
...
. 5 7
Auction Sales
HO SKIN G ’ S 1
GLENFIELD PAI
GKEATEST SALE OP TH
1600 ACRES in Blocks, HAVEN
AND A HALF FRONTAGE TO 1
and TWO RAILWAY STATIONS tl
pleasant ride from Sydney ; suitable
Sydney business people. 82 ACE
Roads on tbe Estate, all one chain w
Unprecedented oportunity o
SEVERAL ACRES OF RAILW
CHEAP.
This well-known Park wnd Estate
THE ACRE, without any reserve,
MONDAY, the 30th August, 1880, at
Plans and particulars can bo obtai
HARDIE and GORMAI
Auct
PRELIMINARY NO'
T
O CAPITALISTS, GRAZII
TURALISTS, and OTI
The most LUXURIANT and EX
HOLD, PASTORAL, and AGRICU
in the Colony, comprising
DAETBROOK, near SCONE, ii
acres. Together with all lin
Lots.
ST. HILLIERS, at MUSWEI
about 15633 acres, together
ments, in lots.
GUNDIDRI ESTATE, near M
about 26140 acres, together
ments, in seven lota.
The above described Magnificent
Estates will be submitted to Pub!
will be sold pursuant to a Deer
Court of New South Wales, in its ’
tion made in the cause of Hall and
others, with the approbation of,the I
RICHARDSON AND V
at their Rooms, Pitt-street, Sydney
MONDAY, the 4th OCTOB
AT ELEVEN O’CL
I
[ IN ADDITION to the above about
ing the Town of
MUSWELLBROO
now being subdivided by M
into BLOCKS to suit all cli
will be sold by
MESSRS. RICHARDSON AJ
AT
EATON’S HOTEL, MUSW:
on
MONDAY, the 11th OCTO:
AT ELEVEN O’CL
Full particulars will appear in a fi
TERMS LIBERAL AI
SOLICITORS: Messrs. HOLDEI
No. 35 Castlereagh-streel
tm \r r * XT t\ uAU FTIT
sel for the defence cast a jubilant glance iu the direc-
tion of his clients. His triumph, however, was but
short-lived. “You certainly ought to know all about
it, Mr. ’Want,” replied the fair plaintiff, in a clear
voice : “ for you were always hanging about the cigar-
shop yourself!” Then there was a bit of a buzz through
the court, Mr. Want cleared his throat loudly, Lotti
set her cuffs composedly, the usher cried silence ex-
citedly, and —the cross-examination was over.
A scene occurred the other day in the Adelaide
local court between the presiding magistrate, Mr. H. E.
Downer, and Mr. Kingston, one of the most rising
young barristers of the city. Mr. Kingston objected
to H. H. trying a certain case, as when it was heard
before he ihad over-ruled the decision of his brother
magistrates. Mr. Downer, interrupting, said that
question could be gone into at that time. Mr. Kingston
was proceeding to state the reason he had for raising
the objection when H. H. asked if he suggested that he
had any interest in the case. Mr. Kingston replied “ I
do your Honor,” upon which the magistrate at once
said, “ Then you will sit down, sir, and we shall go on.
That statement is a gross and utter falsehood, as you
well know, Mr. Kingston,” to which the gentleman so
addressed immediately retorted, “ That the term false-
hood had no more application to his remark than the
word judicial had to H. H.’s observation.” Then H. H.
repeatedly ordered Mr. Kingston to sit down, but he
refused and after several threats of commitment Mr.
Downer ordered the constable to remove Mr. Kingston
from the court. There was considerable excitement in
court as one “bobby” approached Mr. Kingston and the
indomitable young lawyer who, contrary to his wont
kept very cool, was about to resign himself to the
custody of the “ myrmidon of the law ” when Mr.
Villeneuve Smith, who is generally regarded as anything
but a peace maker, stepped in as amicus carve, and
pointed out that Mr. Kingston must be allowed to show
cause why he should not be committed. After some fur-
ther parleying Mr. Kingston was permitted to proceed
with his objections, and the matter ended by the case
being postponed for a month, H. H. still declaring that he
would preside on the occasion of its trial.
An Important Item of Import.
It is pretty generally understood that this
colony is indebted to Mr. Vivian Eauch, of
16, Charlotte Place, Sydney, for the importa-
tion of several important lines of manufactures
never known before here. Not the least important
is that of Hudson’s Extract of Soap, which
has proved itself a valuable article. Since Mr.
Eauch brought it prominently before the public
of Australia at the Exhibition the article has come
into very large demand, and has virtually dis-
placed other similar goods, the sale being great
in this colony and in Victoria, Queensland, and
South Australia. The inventor and manufacturer
of this valuable commodity is Mr. E. S.
Hudson, who in the space of a few years has built
up a colossal business, extending to all parts of
the world. At Paris Mr. Hudson obtained the
grand gold medal of the National Academy of
France, and the silver medal, being the highest
award at the Paris Universal Exhibition in 1878.
At our International a similar prize was secrumd.
There are 2000 hands employed in the manufacture
of this soap powder, and the daily output of the
works, which are situated at West Bromwich and
at Liverpool, amounts to the enormous quantity
of 1,000,000 i-lb. packages. The soap has been
pronounced by good judges to be the best known
for washing clothes, scouring floors, washing
glasses and cleaning paint, marble work, &c. It
has become known in the interior of this colony
chiefly on account of its great adaptability for
washing wool, and the highest testimonials to this
effect have been received by Mr. Eauch from the
principal flockowners. There has been a
very great demand for the article 'in the
agricultural and pastoral districts of Queensland,
its merits having been completely demonstrated
at the Exhibition in the Northern colony. Ar-
rangements have been made for exhibiting this
extract of soap at the Melbourne International,
and doubtless the same result will be achieved
there as in this colony and Queensland. Mr.
Eauch is also agent for the celebrated Consoli-
dated Soups, which have an increasing sale among
the settlers, and on the steamers and other vessels
engaged fn the coasting trade of the colony.
Mr. Henry Copeland M.P.
We give the portrait to-day'of Mr. Henry Cope-
land, Member for the Northern Goldfields, a gen-
tleman whose name for the past nine years has been
prominently associated with the development of
the great mining industry of the colony, and whose
career in Parliament, has been marked by a con-
sistency and sound common sense that have rend-
ered his services of unusual value in all practaicl
legislation. Mr. Copeland is a native of Hull, the
principal seaport town of Yorkshire, and was
educated at Trinity School, which for years has
been celebrated for turning out the ablest and
most adventurous captains of the English merchant
service. Mr. Copeland, like many before him in
the school, chose the sea for his profession, and
having passed the necessary examination for a
command joined the merchant service. He was
but eighteen years of age when his vessel arrived
in Melbourne. He proceeded to Ballarat, and
caught that fever which the whole population were
suffering from, owing to the rich goldyields of the
locality, and from that time to the present—a
period of 23 years,—Mr. Copeland has with varying
success, closely associated himself with the mming
industry. In 1872, IVIr. Copßland Ccwne over from
Ballarat to “ spy out the riches of the land ” being
attracted hither by the reports from Gulgong and
Hill End, and having shortly become largely in-
terested is the Adelong Mines, was returned
unopposed in 1874 as a member of the first and
only Mining Board of New South W ales. Me held
the position for throe years, and during that time
laboured assiduously to liberalise the mining re-
gulations and make gold-mining a more settled
avocation. One of his main efforts was to give
miners large areas with the object of preventing
an enormous waste of labour in sinking so many
shafts to work out small blocks. In 1873 when
the celebrated Gardiner case brought about a dis-
solution, Mr. Copeland opposed Mr. Baker for
the Southern Gold Fields, but he was defeated by
ninety votes. Meanwhile Mr. Copeland had
inaugurated an extensive mining venture at
Ur alia, in the New England district, the
Long Tunnel Company, of which he is the
principal shareholder, and without reward up to
the present time the work has now been carried
on for four-and-a-half years. This venture was
doubtless the cause of his being asked to contest
the Northern Goldfields, and the late Mr. B. M.
Foster having retired in his favour, Mr. Copeland
was elected without opposition. On entering
Parliament, Mr. Copeland took an independent,
position, but generally gave his support to bir
Henry Parkes, who, recognising his great practi-
cal ability, offered him the portfolio of Minister
for Mines. The Ministry, however, was not com-
pleted, and the Farnell party assumed the rema
«f Government. Mr. Copeland continued his
exertions in behalf of every useful measure intro-
duced. Recently, when Sir Henry Parkes in-
clined to an elective Upper House, Mr. Copeland
with others, opposed the Premier, and in a
differences that have occurred between the two
Chambers, he has consistently done battle for the
Upper House, though according the Government
in other directions a liberal support. This inde-
pendent action of the member for the Northern
Goldfields led to an estrangement between himself
and the Premier, and Sir Henry Parkes having
prevented Mr. Copeland from debating his Bill
with respect to mining on certain private lands
(the House having by resolution expressed itself
favourable to the introduction of the measure) the
latter declined to give him further support. Thence
forth we find Mr. Copeland on the side of the
Opposition. Respecting the mining industry, Mr.
Copeland considers that the Albert and Warrego
districts of the far west, as yet untouched, will
prove the richest goldfield of the colony. In
the coming election Mr. Copeland, in response
to a requisition, will stand, it is hoped, for
Gloucester, which embraces the rich mineral dis-
trict so well known as the Barrington,
and now called Copeland, a name given by the
residents to the district in recognition of Mr.
Copeland’s services to the mining interests of the
colony. A movement is on foot on the Peel River
Goldfields to induce him to stand for the Tam-
worth electorate, but Mr. Copeland has not yet
come to a final decision in the matter. Mr. Cope-
land, it may be interesting to learn, is brother of
the Rev. G. D. Copeland, the able and popular
Vicar of St. Stephen’s, London.
Mr. J. Spencer’s Dental
Perhaps there is no establishment in Sydney of
which the people may feel more justly proud than
the dental establishment of Mr. John Spencer,
44 Wynyard-square. This house beats the colo-
nies, and has won prizes for against
the competition of the world. Ik® ar ‘ ; , °|
dentistry may safely bo said to have reached
its highest stage at Mr. Spencer s establishment,
and it is a pleasing recognition of Mr. Spencer s
talents that he should receive from Pans, Phila-
delphia, and London the highest awards in the
shape of medals and first prizes. _ In the colonies
Mr. Spencer has been no less triumphant. On
page 5 we give three views of Mr. Spencer s es-
tablishment. It commands a charming view of
Wynyard-square, and is in itself quite an ornament
to that part of the city. It was built according
to special designs, and internally and externally
is as pretty a piece of architecture as we can boast
of in this city. There is a stamp o- elegance and
richness in the design and the appointments of the
whole place. The surgery is a great attraction.
It looks out on a rich conservatory of foliage and
flowering plants; it is delightfully cool, and is
furnished with the very latest appliances pro-
curable in London or Paris. In the factory,
which is connected with uhe premises, ten or
fifteen experts are employed, and here every
branch (of .to its very highest point la
carried on. It is almost needless to remark on the
extent of Mr. Spencer’s business. He has visitors
not only from every part of our own colony but
from Queensland, Victoria, and New Zealand.
His courteous and gentlemanly manner have pe-
culiarly fitted him for his profession, to the ad-
vancement of which he has ever paid un-
wavering attention.
LATE SPORTING.
Barney Thompson’s opinion of Hanlan has been
published. But whom are we to believe —the whole
world or Barney Thompson ?
For the 19 events at the ensuing Spring Meeting
of the A.J.C. there are a total of 447 nominations. The
general entries closed at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. The fol-
lowing are the numbers in each race: —Hurdle Race,
18; Trial Stakes, 13; Epsom Handicap, 34; Spring
Stakes, 15; Welter Handicap, 26; Shorts, 31; Spring
Maiden Plate, 20; Selling Plate, 23; Squatters’ Handi-
cap, 23; Suburban Handicap, 35; Craven Plate, 25;
Three-year-old Plate, 11; Sydney Handicap, 30; Hurdle
Race, 13; Members’ Handicap, 24 ; Waverley Handicap,
27; Rand wick Plate, 13; Steeplechase, 13; Free Han-
dicap, 46.
When in the saddling paddock at Randwiok
last Saturday a rather amusing thing occurred to Jem
Punch. A grashopper flew up and hit him on the lip.
“Hearings,” he exclaimed, “ it’s something if a grass-
hopper attacks a man when he comes out.” He sent the
insect spinning, but it returned again and hit him in
the cheek. Quite knocked off his equilibrium, Jem
asked, “ What d’ye think of it. Grasshoppers attack-
ing a man!” Yet oaeword more. The grasshopper
flew up a third time, struck Mr. Punch on the nose
and slightly drew the blood. Jem said the saddling
oaddock wasn’t his place.
HAWKESBURT RACE CLUB SPRING
MEETING, 1880.
The following weights have been declared: —
Announcement of an Important Sale.
Ax announcement of a very important sale of art
china, ceramic ware, Parian marble statuary.glass-
ware , etc., is made in our issue of to-day by
Messrs. Bray Brothers. The establishment of
this well-known firm, which is shown in page 12, is
located in George-street, opposite A.J.S. Bank,
and is known as the great emporium for the
highest productions of art in china, ceramic and
‘Parian wares. This establishment may be denomi-
nated a repository of art, and may fairly be
described as occupying the first place among the
houses of the trade in all the Australian colonies.
It is satisfactory to find that we have in this city
a firm who secure for the colony the highest
specimens of art to be obtained in the English and
continental capitals, and their purchases at home
being always large and for cash opportunity is
afforded the colonial buyer of securing for his
household the newest and handsomest and raojt
valuable descriptions of wares at figures only a
trifle over those ruling in the locality of manu-
facture. The business of Mesrs. Bray Brothers
has been entirely built up by themselves, and by
their enterprise in introducing the better descrip-
tions of manufactures they have elevated the taste
of the people and conferred no inconsiderable
amount of benefit all round. The establishment
was opened some years ago by Messrs. John
Isaacs and Co. for retail business, and at the age
of ten years one of the brothers Bray was em-
ployed there. He got a good insight into the
business and an opportunity offering six years ago
the brothers purchased the business right out.
Subsequently, when Messrs. Isaacs and Co. became
insolvent, Messrs. Bray Brothers purchased the
wholesale stock of that firm, and set resolutely to
work to extend the trade. Mr. W. H. Bray went
home and selected in England and France several
descriptions of ware hitherto unknown here.
Arrangements were also made at the time for the
prompt and regular shipment to the firm is new
designs and manufactures. Ever since then the
firm here has been on a par with the best London
and Paris houses. Proof of this is to be found in
the grand artistic collection to be found on the
premises at the present time. In the windows
may be seen some choice specimens of statuary in
Parian marble and a variety of articles in ceramic
ware. Historic, poetic and natural subjects are
here found treated with the most artistic effect,
and altogether in a style that would add greatly
to the adornment of a house. The two branches
of the business of the ground floor comprise the
ordinary and the better descriptions of wares and
on the first floor is the best class of goods.
Articles not to be seen anywhere else in the
colonies are here on view, and an hour may with
advantage and pleasure be spent in inspecting the
varied artistic productions displayed. The glass-
ware, in the shape of claret jugs, flower vases,
candelabras, etc., is superb, the patterns being
quite new and chaste in design. One of the
newest things is that superb article of English
manufacture known as forget-me-not china, which
shows a great advance in the art. There is a
wonderful variety of articles in this description
of china, and they certainly present a
very elegant and attractive appearance. A splendid
specimen of the art is to be seen in a collection of
goods in Worcester china, which are hand-pain-
ted and quite new in design and finish. Bracket
flower holders, specimens of terracotta work,
handsome hand-painted plaques for the decoration
of walls, splendid china flower baskets, card trays
Ac., may be seen in profusion, the design and style
whereever the eye alights being puite novel.
The hand-painted dessert sets ranging as high as
.£35 a set, are probably not to be surpassed any-
where, and the same may be said of some splendid
vases, which are of a very chaste pattern. The
house claims to be unsurpassed in the variety,
value and elegance of its breakfast, dinner
dessert, and tea sets, and well may the claim be
made. The crockery ware department of the
house is of no less importance than the rest,
and in this as in the other branches, a very large
and increasing business is done. Messrs.
Bray Brothers were the first to introduce to this
oftlony the new china flowers. These are
shown in a variety of forms, in portrait holders,
crosses, wreaths, button-hole, ear and hair
&c. They are simply beautiful
specimens of art, and are got out with surpassing
fidelity to nature. It is from this house that the
Compagnont Dining Company and the Coffee
Palace Co. obtained their supplies of dinner and de-
dessert sets, &o. The open stock maybe estimated
at somewhere about .£7,000, and the bulk stock
which is stored at the rear, at about .£20,000. Re-
cently Mr. T. E. Bray went home to arrange a
further shipment, and to make room for these
goods the sale of the present stock is announced.
A reduction of 20 to SO per cent, is to be made,
and as this is the first occasion in on
which there has been a sale of genuine art china,
doubtless Messrs. Bray Brothers will have numer-
ous visits.
The Glove.
From morning time to night time.
Dark time and bright time,
I haunt the pleasant places
My love hath rendered sweet.
Down by wood and meadow.
In the sun and shadow,
I follow the sweet traces
Of fairy hands and feet.
Though I love her dearly.
We are neighbours merely.
She boweth to me daily.
In a distant way;
Then while I am staring,
Dead to my despairing,
Trippeth past me gaily.
Smiling on her way.
In the woodland shady
Walks my little lady.
And botanises nnder
The pines that sigh above.
There in sweet green places
I follow in her traces,
And one glad morn, O wonder!
I found a little glove.
So tiny, so tender,
So silken, so slender.
Still moist and warm and scanted.
From fingers warm and white,
I found it softly blowing.
Where ferns and flowers were growing
And like a man demented
I seized it in delight.
And while the warmth within it
Grew fainter every minute,
“ I love her! how I love he!”
I cried with burning eyes.
“ O sweet as rose-scent lingers.
The touch of rosebud fingers!’’
I sighed, and ten times over
I kissed my little prize.
Then thought I with glad laughter,
“ Shall I now follow after,
And find my love and give her
Her own, and look my love ?”
But as I questioned duly,
My heart leapt up unruly.
My lips began to quiver,
I could not lose the glove.
No! let me keep and kiss it.
Her white hand will not miss it.
And tears of gladness wet it.
As still I stooped to kiss.
And all my bosom yearning
To touch it, on my burning
Heart of hearts I set it.
And thrilled with sudden bliss.
From morning time to night time.
Dark time to bright time,
I kept it thrilling through me,
In guilty sweet delight.
All day its sweet touch tired me.
All day the joy inspired me.
Sleeping I held it to me.
And dreamed of it all night.
Three days my bliss possessed me,
Three days and nights it blessed me,
And on the fourth mad morning
I wandered o’er the grass.
And as I viewed with rapture
The sweet spot of the capture,
Suddenly with no warning
I saw my true love pass.
With distant bow and stately.
She would have passed sedately.
When red as fire advancing
I held the prize of love ;
And while my low voice muttered
Wild wandering words, she fluttered.
Blushing and brightly glancing.
And took the little glove.
Then she with self-possession.
Blind to my eyes’ confession.
Said “ Thank you, sir,” and pondered
A moment, adding low,
“ My aunt, who lost it lately,
Will also thank you greatly.
She missed it while we wandered
A day or two ago.”
Her Aunt ? That maiden lady
So prim, and stiff, and shady!
I gasped, by fate perfidious,
(fast out of fairy-land.
While from my side repairing.
My little love tript bearing
The worthless, wretched, hideous
Old glove in her white hand.


The Coming Elections.
Mr. J. D. Young will not contest East Sydney.
Mr. G. R. Maclean is intending to run for South
Sydney.
Mr. R. B. Smith has been requisitioned for the
Macleay.
Mr. S. Meyer opposes the Hon. James Watson
for Young.
Mr. George Day has been well received in the
Albury electorate.
Mr. Hugh Taylor and Mr. Charles Byrnes will
contest Parramatta.
Mr. W. Crispin and Mr. John Mears are asked
to contest West Sydney.
Mr. G. H. Greene and Mr. J. B. Donkin are
actively contesting Grenfell.
It is considered probable that the elections for
the new Parliament will take place in about ten weeks.
Mr. Maurice O’Keefe is stated to be a candidate
for Newcastle, for which Dr. Bowker and Mr. G. A.
Lloyd also stand.
Mr. Henry Dennis, who strongly supports the
Education Act, has been requisitioned for Carcoar.
Mr. Jacob Banes is spoken of as a second candidate.
Messrs. G. R. Maclean and John Vicars stand
for South and West Sydney respectively on the
“’Native Industries” and "No Chinkee” ticket, under
the auspices of the League in that behalf.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts is sixty-four.
Young Dunn broke his collar-bone at football at
Parramatta.
Consolation at last—William Graham to the
Queensland Legislative Council.
Mr. Shepherd has settled with the Melbourne
Herald. Apology and £l5 costs.
Baron Maclay has been interviewing male and
female hairless blacks at 6. M. Kirk’s station, near
St. George.
David Henry, the erstwhile Collins Street finan-
cier, now under sentence for embracery, attended Ned
Kelly in the gaol hospital.
Graham Nixon of the Queensland Insurance
“swallowed" another Mutual Fire last week and was
laid up in bed for three days afterwards.
A marriage will shortly be celebrated between
the daughter of the director of the Botanic Gardens,
Adelaide, and one of our little Sydney doctors.
His Excellency Lord Augustus and Lady Loftus
have proceeded to Mount Victoria for a change of air,
and will be absent from town for about a week.
We are glad to notice that Mr. J. Henniker
Heaton, of the Evening News, has so far regained
his health as to be able to re-appear in Pitt-street.
An appointment not yet gazetted. Colonel
Drury to be Commandant of the Queensland Volunteer
Force. If not it may as well be,las he is virtually so.
Four of the Charters Towers “ Mundic Kings ”
■ —Messrs. F. Horace Stubley, R. Craven, Geo. Clarke
and Owen O’Neil —are at present on a visit to Sydney.
The lady superioress of Petty’s Hotel favored
Brisbane with her presence for a Jew days last week.
She moved in high circles and had a retinue of
Smiths (4),
Berry is secretly wroth with The age, and
would start an evening paper for the purpose of setting
Victorian politics straight had he the money. He may
yet procure it.
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson has taken
passages for himself and his family in the Orient steamer
John Elder, which leaves Melbourne for London on the
21st September.
Captain French, of the Chimborazo, and his
officers, were handsomely entertained at dinner by
the saloon passengers, on Tuesday evening, at Aarons'
Exchange Hotel.
Mr. John Walter Cross and his wife (“ George
Eliot”) are now upon the Continent, where they intend
to remain for some months. On their return to Lon-
don, the newly-married couple will reside at Chelsea.
A certain merchant in the hardware line in fill-
ing up a cheque on his banker for £4O, spells that
amount “ fourty.” After the recent fraud by the Lands
Office clerk, spelling as well as other directions ought
to be looked to.
The colonists of New South Wales will have the
opportunity of bidding a fitting farewell to Sir Hercules
Robinson, who will pass through Sydney in a very short
time en route to England, prior to entering upon his
duties at the Cape.
In mentioning that the case of White v. Hoddle
had been settled, it was stated that a claim to part of
the property had been put forward on behalf of a niece
of the plaintiff. A satisfactory settlement of her claim
has now been arrived at.
“ Gorgeous Fred ” (Cooper), says our Brisbane
correspondent, when he wires to his constituents makes
the messages ‘ collect ’ now —not 0.H.M.5., and the
Cairns Chronicle calls him a “ smooth Jacob ” for it.
He is much more like a ’airy Hesaw.
It is generally understood that Mr. A. P. Tighe
will regime the representation of Northumberland in
the coming Parliament. Mr. Tighe was member for
the district for a great number of years, and, it will be
recollected, was once Postmaster-General.
Mr. C. M. Longmuir has been appointed manager
of the City of Melbourne Bank, in succession to Mr. J.
Young; and Mr. Stewart, inspector of branches of the
National Bank, has been appointed manager of the
Australasian Agency and Banking Company.
A marriage is on the tapis between the sporting
son of a lately-deceased and very wealthy Legislative
Councillor and a charming young lady of Darlinghnrst
whose name will bear changing, it being the same as
that of the gentleman to whom Mark Twain dedicated
his most successful book.
Judge Barry the courtly, on the Supreme Court
Bench the other day took exception to the word
“ Chinamen,” which Sir Redmond states is grammati-
cally wrong, “ Chinese ” being the proper word. The
rule has not yet been made absolute by the full Court.
Most people say “ Chinkie.”
It’s alleged by a good authority that some of
the members of the Berry Government “ whack” their
salaries with certain outsiders. A fraternal arrange-
ment has, it is said, been made between two of them,
whereby Richardson will have the invaluable assistance
of Longmore the “ smiler" for a consideration.
Mr. Rutledge, the well-known Queensland
barrister and M. P., was for many years a clergyman.
Said someone to Henry Palmer, brother to the Colonial
Secretary, “ Rutledge is a very fine speaker, is he not
“Yes, ” replied Henry, sarcastically, “so he ought to
be when he has been speaking for twenty years and had
no one to contradict him! ”
A literary man came into our office the other
day and picked up a “comic" weekly published in
another colony. “Look here,” he sadly exclaimed, “ I
used to write that paper on Sunday for thirty-five
shillings, and every Sunday evening, too. I used to go
out and spend nil the money. And yet some people
think it’s “ so nice to write for the papers."
It was in another colony, of course. He had
been extensively advertised by a wealthy journal, and a
sympathising jury assessed the value of his wounded
feelings at £5Ol. Then a change came o’er the scene.
He moved instanter to a new house, and then the old
kneeless brown mare gave place to a spanking pair of
high-stepping chestnuts. There’s nothing like adver-
tising.
Mr. Mackintosh, who some short time ago
married Miss Richards, the heiress of very extensive
property in this colony, arrived last June with his bride
at Cottrell House, her seat, near Cardiff (Wales). The
happy pair were received with great rejoicings. All the
tenants were entertained at a great dinner, followed by
a ball, and special trains conveyed those living at a
distance.
The jolliest fellow in the Victorian Civil Service
is Mr. Johnson Hicks of the Patent Office. He is a
cosmopolitan with a strong tinge of London about him,
but yet strange to say he is an out and out Melbourner.
His subs, in office are George Gordon Macrae (grandson
of the late Duke of Gordon), who is a poet and carica-
turist, and a good one, too. Harrison, the other sub, is
a philosopher.
The Southern Cross, the organ of the Evan-
gelical party, has endeavoured to trounce James
Smith, the journalist, but comes out ludicrously
absurdly in its attempt. Mr. Smith’s appointment to
the trusteeship of the Public Library seems to have
given offence to the religious rag, which denounces
“ Mephisto's ” predilection for the better observance of
the Sabbath as irreligious and profane.
The dress circle of the Royal looked more than
usually brilliant on last Saturday night, when “ The
Turn of the Tide ” was presented for the first time. A
magnificent blonde, who sat in the front row, wore a
rich ruby-coloured silk dress, glittering with steel beads,
worn in broad bands and worked in flowers. A lovely
girl (from Adelaide) wore a dress of a pale blue tint,
with a square bodice, and her hair was wreathed with
pearls. Two sisters of the Oriental type of beauty wore
black velvet dresses, and were the most graceful figures
in the circle, but the wearers must have felt rather in-
convenienced by the heat. Many ladies wore natural
flowers, and some wore their hair quite on the top
encircled by floral wreaths.
Some members of the Froliques Company in-
dustriously circulated a report in Auckland to the
effect that they had pulled the nose of the editor of the
Auckland Free Lance. The editor denies the truth
of the assertion, and in a late issue says : —“ We can’t
stand paying three or four shillings for telegrams in
reply to inquiries after our nose ; and if the man who
wired to the Press about it introduces himself to this
office, his proboscis will want pulling by the time we
have done with it."
The ingenuity of man, and woman too, for that
matter, is sorely taxed to devise new characters for
fancy balls. It is reported that at a recent one held in
the country, where costumes are hard to get, a young
man was asked what character his father meant to
assume. The old gentleman was foundered early in life
and is somewhat twisted about the toes. “I don’t
know,” said the son, “ butT suppose as a gentleman of
the 19th century.” Oh, confound it! rejoined his
friend, “ let him take something more original. Whftt
do you say to an inmate of the Benevolent Asylum ?” This
was a clincher, but the old gentleman without making
up for the occasion, fited the character well. Fact.
Some time ago, in the neighbourhood of Curdie’s
River, near Warrnambool, Victoria, there lived two
stalwart young bushmen renewed for their proficiency
in horsemanship and pugilism. Unluckily enough they
had set their affections on the same girl, who, though
not a daughter of Israel, was of Oriental beauty and
bore a Jewish name. She toyed with her suitors, and
they, finding that she looked with equal favor on both
of them, resolved, in expressive Saxon phrase, “ to
fight it out.” The date of the battle was fixed and
announced, and on the eventful Sunday morning the
“ whole country’s side” attended to see the fun. After
a first-rate exhibition of fisticuffs, which lasted an hour
and three-quarters. Jemmy said he’d had enough, and
victorious Billy, as soon as his eyes opened again, went
to claim his bride. He oughtn’t to have been much
surprised when he found that Nellie, woman-like, had
married Jemmy in the meantime.
Mr. E. Brough Smyth’s connexion with the
Government of India has ceased, since he has been
engaged as mining engineer to the Davala Moya Gold-
mining Company, at a handsome salary and good terms.
The company, which has a capital of £200,000, has pur-
chased from the Moyar Copper Company, for £70,295 in
cash and the balance in paid-up shares, the Davala
portion of their estate, and operations in search of gold
will be prosecuted vigorously.
Bulkley Price Watkis, one of the pioneers of the
Far North, died at Charters Towers the other day very
suddenly. A bottle containing some chloral was
found on his table. He was one of the first men on the
Towers, and owned in the Papuan claim a fine property.
Like most people who live north of Capricorn, he had
his faults, but those who knew him best recognised in
him many noble and generous traits, and can add their
tribute to the memory of a true and genuine man.
Writing of Mr. Folingsby’s portrait of Sir
Hercules Robinson, a well-known Melbourne critic
says:—“ It is no exaggeration to say that Mr.
Folingsby’s work possesses every quality which gives
value to a portrait. The likeness is admirable, and the
artist has caught a very happy expression. The mental
power and air of easy command which distinguish his
Excellency are pourtrayed in a masterly way.”
While Dr. West was attending the unfortunate
jockey who met with the fatal accident at Rand wick on
Saturday, two valuable field glasses of his were stolen
from his seat on the Grand Stand. We may mention
that the Dr. is always the first on the spot in case of
accidents, and as his humane efforts have never been
acknowledged in anyway by the Jockey Club, it is too
bad that he should suffer at the hands of thieves.
The lady contributor to a certain Sydney
weekly journal, when in doubt as to the dress worn by
ladies, invariably describes them as “ Llama," and
varies the colour for a change. At a recent amateur
dramatic performance a lady who wore a Turkish
towelling costume was described as wearing “white
Llama,” while at a late wedding at St. Peter’s Church,
the bridesmaids are said to have worn " ivory Llama,"
which they didn’t.
There is in Sydney a man who is now a
millionaire who commenced life, be it said to his
credit, with more brains than money or education. He
was recently on a visit to Europe, and saw in a grand
house at home a pair of tine globes, celestial and ter-
restrial. He ordered a similar pair, which followed
him to the colony. He opened them the other day and
felt “dhredfully shwindled,” to use his own words,
when he took them out of the case and found that
they “ weren’t both aloike by anny manes.”
The Australasian is enthusiastic in its praise
of the address recently delivered by Dr. Vaughan
to the fellows and supporters of St. John’s College.
It says:—We have reaid nothing finer in its tone, or
more full of keen, scholarly, and intellectual apprecia-
tion—recalling, in its sympathetic feeling with the
Greek mind, some of the Greek dialogues of Landor—
than the manner in which Dr. Vaughan speaks of the
method of continuity running through the teachings of
the great schools of Greek thought. And again,
“throughout the whole discourse we have Dr. Vaughan
at his best, and it shows on what a high intellectual
level Dr. Vaughan when at his best is accustomed to
move.
Hanley Bennett, alderman and M.P., has been
writing again. A long time ago he elicited universal
admiration by stating in black and white, in the draft of
a model Land Hoct which he was to have introduced,
that the decision of somebody or something was to be
“final and conclusive, unless appealed against!” The
other night he sent a letter to tne local Council, from
which the following is extracted: —“ 1 don’t think the
driver of a velwii/knl wants no driver’s license, so long
as the owner of the vehaykul has a license for his ve-
liaykul; and he might have several vehaykuls, and would
therefore require a separate license for the driver of
each vehaykul.” This is much better than slavishly
following custom, and referring to a buggy as a vehicle.
“ Veluxykul,” as Polonius said of “molded queen," is
good. Hanley’s peculiar orthography is but an eccen-
tricity of genius.
There is a certain eminent foreign gentleman
who is just now a cause of considerable scandal to his
countrymen. Any seedy scoundrel who visits these
shores can at once find shelter under his official wing,
and obtain access to the best society. Thanks to his
position of influence foreign “ Counts” can plunder
with impunity the poor wretches who only trust them
because of their friend’s high office. But poor fellows
who happen to be in indigent circumstances are scorned
by the gentleman aforesaid.
Mr. Josiah Boothby, C.M.G., the Under
Secretary for S.A., and Special Commissioner to the
• late Paris Exhibition, has resigned his office in conse-
quence of the strictures passed on him by a Select
Committee of the Assembly on account of the im-
proper manner in which he obtained payment of an
amount of £1,600, for expenses in connection with the
Exhibition. The Auditor-General also comes in for a
“wigging"for having passed the account. There is
bound to be more about the matter in Parliament.
Mr. George Labertouche, paymaster of Imperial
pensions, has been suspended from office in consequence
of a dispute with the Colonial Treasurer. The casus
belli lies in the alleged facts that Mr. Labertouce went
up to Mount Victoria some time ago on a Friday and
did not return until the following week; that he set the
local Treasury authorities at defiance jn the ground
that he was an Imperial officer and not under the
Colonial Treasurer’s control. We hear that the object
of Mr. Labertouche’s visit to Mount Victoria was to
prepare for the receptionl of His Excellency Lord
Augustus Loftus.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts has notified to the
Queen her intention to marry Mr. Ashmead Bartlett,
M.P. for Eye, who is aged 32. Her Majesty and also
the brother of Mi-. Bartlett, without objecting to the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts’ intention, have disapproved
of the proposed match, and immense pressure is being
brought in the highest circles to dissuade her ladyship
from the marriage, by which she would lose half her
present income. It will be remembered that some
weeks ago we published an extraet from an English
paper in reference to the proposed marriage. The latest
is that the Queen has refused the use of the Savoy
Chapel for the ceremony.
Un roman frangais a Sydney. — C’etait un
stranger a Pair distingue, possesseur d’une fiere
moustache. H ctait a prendre son diner dans le restau-
rant de Boyer; et elle, une fille qui a force de “doing
the block,” s’etait elargie les pieds marchait dans
la rue ou sans aucun doute elle conduira le mal-
heureux qui aura le bonheur de se marier avec elle.
Ellepassa et le vit a table; la fenetre etait ouverte;
prompt comme Tticlair il porta son verre a ses levres en
s’ecriant galamment “ a votre saute, mademoiselle.”
elle fit un autre tour de promenade dans
King-street pour avoir la chance de le voir encore une
fois. Horreur! II mangeait avec son conteau ! 1 II
n’ y a pas d’amonr sans entrave. Fact.
Great excitement existed at Manly on last Sun-
day afternoon, in the direction of the ocean beach. The
domicile of seme well-known young ladies was invaded
by two blackfellows, fantastically arrayed. The con-
trast was remarkable. With native modesty the fair
inmates fled to their bedrooms, but after some gentle
fluttering appeared to recover the shock. The sons of
the soil grinned hideously and gesticulated violently,
evidently intending to hold the position they had gained.
Just as the excitement was growing intense, “Papa”
appeared on the scene, and compromised the matter,
restoring tranquillity by the gift of a “tanner,” which
was again retiu-ned to his credit in the course of
business.
Some years ago a young fellow who had been
shabbily treated by his very rich father came to the
colonies with a very slender purse. He was remarkably
steady in his habits, energetic and shrewd, and often
told those who knew him well that he meant to make
money, not because he loved wealth, but in order that
he might be able to “ wear a good coat, smoke a good
cigar, and snap his fingers at his rich relatives.” It
was quite evident that bitter memories haunted him,
for his anxiety to accumulate sufficient wealth was so
great as to seem a perfect mania. He made money, but
his health declined. He died rather suddenly, and his
not inconsiderable fortune has devolved, strangely
enough, on those of his kindred who, though affluent,
were too mean to let him participate in their riches
while they still lived.
Mr. G. T. C. Miller is editor of the Cooma Ex.
press, and George Spring “ bosses ” the Manaro Meh.
curt. The pair have fought. There was a woman of
course at the bottom of it. This is how the victorious
Cooma man “lets out” in his paper on his beaten ad-
versary: —‘ ‘Whereupon Miller delivered a sound chastise-
ment which made the numerous spectators who wit-
nessed the fracas imagine it was a dancing bear perfor-
mance. Spring bucked and danced to the tune of the
lash with admirable agility, in fact he displayed a
Springing elasticity which few who know him would
credit him with. .. . Poor Spring, whilst in this
painfully abject and humiliating position, presented a
pitiable specimen of humanity i (sic ) his glassy eyes
wore the expression of a fettered maniac; his nostrils
were distended; his mouth opened like a sepulchre; and
the few bristles between him and heaven stood erect.
Ye gods! The Cooma editor winds up with a brief
reference to the iniquity of “ the cur who would pirate
an original composition, plagarise, contort, and corrupt
in order to discharge the superfluity of spleen which is
ever engendering in his base mind, &e. The violent
nature of this language is fully accounted for when it is
stated that the composition t in dispute was of a poetic
and amorons character.
Mr. D. C. F. Moodie, of Adelaide, is a man to
whom notoriety is the breath of life. After essaying a
swim of ten miles in competition with Cavill, he pro-
ceeded to Melbourne, and took up the role of champion
of royalty against Mr. A. T. Clark, of Williamstown,
or his disloyal attack on the Queen. As the sensation
caused by his mild caning of that democratic politician
was not of long duration, Mr. Moodie determined to
return to Adelaide in an unusual manner —viz., on foot,
and duly telegraphed to the daily papers that it had
taken him five days to cross the Ninety-mile Desert.
He arrived, looking none the worse for his 1 mg tramp.
The other day he was the author of another sensation
in the pugilistic line, by publicly knocking down in the
Prince Alfred Hotel Mr. A. K. Whitby, a well-known
lawyer. It seems that Moody had been
informed that during his absence in Melbourne Mrs.
Moody was told by Whitby that it was very unlikely
her husband would return, and he advised her to have
a deed of separation was drawn up. This piece of
gratuitous .advice was so well appreciated by Moodie
that on seeing Whitby enter the hotel “he
knocked him (Mr. Whitby) down with his fist,
heigho." Some friends separated them, and
Whitby, possibly remembering the old saw, or Mr.
Moodie's self-narrated martial exploits in Zululand,
retreated from the scene, leaving the. Queen’s cham-
pion victor of the field. Mr. Moodie has since been
fined £5.
The beautiful ceremony of decorating the graves
of those who fell in defence of the American flag in the
late war was appropriately observed on 30th May
throughout the States. Garlands were woven over the
entrances to public places. The fronts of the principal
buildings in all the chief cities were festooned with
folds of laurel, and the words “Remember the Brave,”
artistically woven in flowers.
Mr. John Hurley’s Company have fully com-
pleted arrangements with the Queensland Government
to carry out the Burrum railway, and have lodged
£6,000 with them as a guarantee to finish the line
within two years from the passing of an Act authorising
the construction of the same. The Maryborough
people say that a coalfield equal in richness to New-
castle will thus be opened up.
At the Masterton Police Court, N.Z., lately, a
strapping fellow named Franklin pleaded ': infancy ” in
answer to a summons for debt, but failed to prove his
plea. After judgment was given the plaintiff’s wife
marched up to Franklin and presented him with a
rattle. He did not appreciate the little joke, had Mrs.
Ewington kept in custody for a time, and then fined
her £1 for contempt ot Court.
The diamond rings taken by the N.Z. police
from the Adelaide bankrupt, Gleich, and recently
ordered by the Supreme Court to be returned, were
offered for sale by auction but previous to sale the col-
lector of Customs intimated that the rings were not
duty paid and the proceeds would have to be forfeited.
The sale proceeded, and the amount realised, nearly
£l5O, hod to be paid to the Customs.
“ There is no Devil.”
NICHOLAS (soliloquising) : “What! Is it come to this? Can they get along without ME ? ”


Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Herr Zukertort won his match against M.
Rosenthal, the score being 7 to 1.
Thompson says Hanlan is a perfect “ gentle-
man.” Now Barney ought to know.
Rugby beat Collingwood at Stanulore on Satur-
day by a try to nil after a good fast game.
Petersham beat Norwood rather easily on
Saturday by one goal and four tries to nil.
Ulyett won’t play against “ our boys.” He re ‘
members what he called the Sydney people.
The members of the M. R. C. show considerable
activity in view of the forthcoming regatta.
Callaghan and Applitt meet at Sydney the first
week in October, and race 150 yards for £4OO.
The income of the celebrated Jockey, Archer,
is not far short of that of the Prime Minister of Eng-
land.
It is a noticeable fact that five ont of the six
top weights in the Melbourne Cup were bred in this
colony-
“ Augur” of the Australasian thinks that
Sapphire is the best horse left in the Hawkesbury
maiden.
The large entrance fee, five guineas, for the all-
comers’ race at the Clarence River Regatta is giving
considerable dissatisfaction.
The most enthusiastic footballer in the colony
is in the Sydney Telegraph Office. He attends every
meeting concerning the game.
Thame and M'Nnlty ran 150 yards for .£4O on
Moore Park last Saturday, the former winning by a
couple of yards alter a good race.
Middy Morgan, who stands six feet two inches
in her stockings, reports horse races and cattle
shows for four New York papers.
At the football match in Moore Park on Saturday
Wallaroo v. Newcastle, Mr. Dick Arnold broke his
collar bone by falling heavily to the ground.
The committee of the Telegraph Department
Regatta will have thecredit of being the first to intro-
duce racing in clinker fours in Port Jackson.
The owners of Robert the Devil, Messrs. C-
Brewer and Blanton, have given 5,000 f. out of their
winnings on the Grand Prize to the poor of Paris.
The Australians have beaten tbe Sunderland
eighteen in one innings and 38 runs to spare. The
feature of the game was Bonnor’s brilliant innings
for 52.
Mr. Perrier, of Tasmania, who purchased
Greystones from Mr. Glenister, has entered the old grey
for three events to be run at the Southern Tasmanian
Hunt meeting.
The “well-known “Slater” family, who for
half a century have carried on business in Hobart-
place, Eaton-squore, London, have retired and brought
their stock to auction.
Solomon and Pearce have commenced training
for the Clarence Regatta, and are ont of an afternoon.
They are both exceedingly rough as yet, but of the two
Pearce shows to best advantage.
From statements made in the course of a trial
now proceeding in England, it would appear that collu-
sion has existed between certain competitors and
markers at Wimbledon for several years.
The finest time trial that Elias Laycock ever
performed was at four o’clock one summer’s morning
four years ago when he rowed the two-island course—
Goat Island and Fort Denison—in twenty-six minutes
and a half.
A cornstalk hailing from the Hunter, with con-
siderable weight and muscle, has lately purchased a
sculling outrigger in Sydney, and will shortly make his
maiden appearance in the aquatic world amongst the
professionals.
An eleven from Sydney played football under
Hnglish association rules against King’s School at
Parramatta on Saturday. The visitors, who had had
practice at the game, won by five goals to nil. The
School played weQ under the circumstances.
As the attractions in Melbourne at the time
will be exceptional, we trust that some of our oarsmen
will see their way clear to enter for the Victorian
Rowing Association Regatta in December and endeavour
to regain portion of the laurels lost in April last.
It haa been suggested that when Sir Hercules
Robinson passes through Melbourne a day’s racing
ahould be given at Caulfield as a mark of respect to the
gentlemen who, in the words of the Australasian, by
his undoubted ability as well as his love for the national
sports of the Anglo-Saxon race has endeared himself to
the colonists of Australasia.
Mr. H. Jones, well and favourably known as an
old pressman, is now publishing his second volume of
“ The Australian Turf Guide.” His last work was
highly thought of by Sir Hercules Robinson and the
Press. There is little doubt that the edition will be
up to the mark.
W. Baker won the 48 hour go-as-you-please
at Parramatta, completing 165 miles 10 laps. J. C.
Williams was next, a mile behind, and G. Williams
third with 115 miles 15 laps. J. C. Williams, who walked
for 20 hours continuously, was awarded the cup for
longest on the track.
Those who take a really patriotic interest in
rowing are not afraid of Trickett being beaten by Hanlan
iftbe men meet nt their best. The contingency really to
be dreaded and which should most carefully be guarded
against, would lie in the chance of Hanlan declining to
row Trickett a second time in the event of the latter
being defeated at their first meeting.
A meeting was to have been held on the 26th
June to arrange a match over the Tyne championship
course, for £2OO aside, between R. Boyd and W.
Elliott, three months after the former’s arrival i»
England. Boyd’s backer attended, but Elliott, who had
made the arrangement, was an absentee.
The Melbourne Cricket Club hold an athletic
meeting on 9th November, in conjunction with the
Melbourne Football Club. £2OO will be given in prizes.
There will be a “ champion footballers' ’’ race and a
grand |“international” handicap, prizes value £80;
distances 150, 300, and 410 yards, open to all comers.
Trickett will row his race with Hanlan in the
boat he took home with him. The craft in question is
the James Clark, specially built by Donnelly for tbe
champion’s last race with Laycock and named after Mr.
P. J. Clark, captain of the Sydney Rowing Club. May she
and the champion be os far ahead as on last occasion.
Mr. Thoa. Strickland of Parkes, after hearing
that his brother had met with a serious accident, rode
from Carcoar to Forbes, 83 miles, in five hours and
forty minutes, or, including stoppages, which were of
considerable duration under the circumstances, at tbe
rate of 14J miles an hoar. He changed horses three
times.
The outrigger built by Donnelly to the order of
Mr. Brett will neither add to his celebrity as a boat-
builder nor do very much credit to his well-known
skill. She is a considerable departure in model from
most of his successful efforts, and is neither so buoyant,
shapely, nor well finished as is usual with his boats
It is said, however, that Mr. Brett, and not the builder,
is responsible for the design.
A novel contest was lately decided on the
Thames, for a stake of £5O. Mr. R. Smith was matched
to swim against a black retriever bitch. The brute
proved the better of the two, and the man gave up after
he had been in the water 471 minutes. The dog swam
on for 1 hour 58J minutes, when she was taken out of
the water. •
It is the intention of the Rowing Association to
provide a steamer at every important race and regatta
for the use of its members without charge. This
exceedingly liberal arrangement will be initiated at the
M. E. C. Regatta, each member of the association hav-
ing received an invitation with the privilege of also
taking a lady.
The first fifteen of Wallaroo and Newcastle
played their return match on Moore Park last Saturday.
The Wallaroos who by reason of their weight had on
this occasion, “ everything their own way ” won by five
goals and three tries to nil. The visitors were hand-
somely entertained at the Exchange in the evening by
their opponents.
On Monday night the settling over TattersaH’a
Spring Meeting took place at the Club-rooms. The
following cheques were paid over on account of the
stakes : —Mr. T. Ivory, £114; Mr. S. Harding, £79 ; Mr.
P. Brennan, £7B; Mr. J. Cook, £75; Dr. Cortis, £7O;
Mr. M. Lyons, £24; Mr. P, Wentworth, £l5; and Mr.
P. N. Bayly, £lO.
A new [Atlantic yacht race has been arranged,
but this time the vessels are to be steamers, and the
winner will receive £9OOO. Four steam yachts are
being built at Chester and Newburgh, in the United
States, which, when completed, will race from New
York to Southampton. The stakes are £3OOO each, the
winner to take the pool.
A special meeting of the Rowing Association
will shortly be held to decide as to the stakes of the
competitors in the forthcoming regatta—whether they
should be members of the Association. It will be
moved that all persona desiring to compete must first
become what arecaßed club members of the Associa-
tion and pay a nominal sum of ss. yearly. This will he
a considerable concession. We heartily approve of the
idea, and trust that the proposal will be agreed to.
Onr friend Laycoek has already made an en-
gagement in England, and has evidently made a judi-
cious one. His opponent, Blackman, whom he rows in
October next, succeeded pretty well at the Thames
International Eegatta, bnt is very erratic, and can only
be said to be among the second rank of English scul-
lers, which at the present time is not saying much.
We hope that Laycock will submit himself to an
experienced trainer, for the change of climate will
no doubt require a radical change in his own usual
method.
Laycock’s forthcoming match with Blackman is
not creating very much interest in Sydney—where,
however, judging from what is known of the Tynesider’s
past performances, it is thought that the New South
Welshman should have all the best of it. In the event
of Laycock, whose name is so intimately associated with
Trickett’s —being beaten, the odds against the latter
would in all probability greatly increase. It will do no
harm if all who are inclined to speculate on the
Trickett-Hanlan event will take this fact into considera-
tion. ,
Says “Cloanthua” in the Australasian: —
“As for Jack Thompson going home to train the Syd-
ney man, it is all moonshine; his errand is of a less
patriotic character than that, being, as I am informed,
in entirely different interests, although hinging on the
result of the race with Hanlan. If both men he re-
ported fit on the day, there may possibly be such a thing
as odds to be had on each about the time of the con-
test. Two to one on Trickett in Sydney, and two to one
on Hanlan in America or in England, is a little game
that, properly managed, could be turned to good
account in clever hands.”
Several amateur rowers made a trip np the river
to Parramatta on Sunday last and dined at Payten’s
Hotel. It is said that, acting on former experience,
special charges were made. Most of the visitors are
undergoing the process of training. They ate the
dinner and cried for more. The landlord now wishes
it to be positively understood that he will in future
willingly give a bonus to amateur rowers, particularly
when in training if they will confine their patronage
to the beer and bring their own dinners. Arrangements
might be easily made with the proprietor of the Par-
ramatta steamer for the safe carriage of the pro-
visions.
The following are the results of the various
events at the Victoria Amateur Turf Club Meeting, at
Caulfield, on Saturday:—Hurdle Eace. About 1$ mile.
Mr. E. Howie’s br h Battle, aged. I; Mr. J. Rice’s hr h
Marshall, 5 yrs, 2; Mr. A. Kearney’s b m Canezon, aged,
3. Hunters’ Stakes; welter handicap, 2( miles. Mr.
C. Shaw’s b g Ensign, aged, 1; Mr. A. Anderson’s ch g
Highflyer, aged, 2. • Flat Race; handicap, about 1 mile.
Mr. F. Leng’g b h Monarqne, syrs, 1; Dr. L. L. Smith’s
p c Dougalston, 3 yrs, 2; Mr. W. Branch’s b c Progress,
3 yrs, 3. Steeplechase; handicap, about 2£ miles. Mr.
S. Justin’s hr g Selim, by Sarsfleld, aged, 1; Mr. H-
Teend’s b g Intrepid, aged, 2; H. Haines’s br g Planet,
aged, 3. Selling Race; weight for age, about half-a-
mile. Mr. P. Glenister’s b c Hasting, 3 yrs, £2O, 1;
Mr. A. Davis’s g m Lady Ellen, 6yrs, £2O, 2; Mr, J.
Paterson’s b m Maid of Honor,(6 yrs, £2O, i
This is how the Northern Miner, Charters
Towers, speaks of the local race-meeting:—The riff-raff
collected here to the races, the sharpers and blacklegs,
the card-sharpers, and under-and-over men, the whole
rank and file of the Devil’s Regiment of the Line have
cleared ont, and what are the gains to Charters Towers ?
One or two spirit merchants have got rid of their stuff.
A few publicans have retailed said stuff to lots of people
who are now suffering a recovery from the “ poison.”
All the legitimate traders and businesses in the town
hare suffered. Two big prizes amounting to nearly
£4OO have been “engineered” into John Deane’s
pocket. There was a lot of champagne drunk to cele-
brate the close of the saturnalia, a distinguished official
setting the example by getting drunk. The public ear
has been offended by a discharge of foul language,
unequalled in Australia, and this is the'grand total of
Charters Towers races.
Aspen, Adventurer and other Melbourne horses
arrive in Sydney this week. The Australasian says :
“ That Adventurer can gallop a bit we had ample proof
at Caulfield, where he won very cleverly, and being four
years old 6st 51b is bnt a feather to him. He comes
from a Cup family, his dam, Ida, having also thrown
The Pearl, who won the Melbourne Cup, The Arrow,
who won Tattersall’s Cap, and The Spy, who won the
Homehush Cup. Aspen has improved a great deal
since she won the Newmarket Handicap, and though
we have never yet seen her get successfully to the end
of a long race, I hardly think her owner would core to
send her to Sydney unless she had shown a disposition
to stay. She is a nicely-bred animal, her sire, Askin,
being by Maribymong from Iris, and her dam. Talkative,
by Talk o’ the Hill from Elizabeth, by Touchstone, In
the Newmarket Handicap she ran like a game one,
finishing as strong as a lioness; and as her weight in
the Metropolitan is but Ost 121 b, she may reward her
owner with another big victory.
At this year’s Henley Regatta the Leander crew
won the “Grand.” For the Ladies’ Challenge Plate
Eton, who averaged list in weight, defeated Exeter by
holf-a-length, land Twickenham pulled off the Thames
■Challenge Cup, the Thames Club being disqualified for
fouling. However, as a counterpoise, tbey won tbe
Stewards' Challenge Cup. Third Trinity won the
Visitors’ Fours, heating Cambridge Trinity Hall Boat
Club in a most hollow manner —Cains being scratched.
London beat Third Trinity and the Second Thames
crew for the Wyforda and Bedford Grammar School
boys, whose rowing on the Thames had hitherto been
very unfortunate, but who were superior in physique to
all other crews in the race, beat Eadley, Westminster,
Derby and Magdalen College (Oxford). The Town
Challenge Cup fell an easy prey to Reading, who
“spread-eagled” Wargrave and Marlow in the first and
Oxford Neptune in the second heat. The silver goblets
were appropriated by Hastie and Eyre, who oompletely
Jumped over Gulston and Labat and the Mousley men.
The Diamonds were won easily by Lowndes, the holder,
Playford, the amateur champion, not having entered.
Hanlan has been interviewed by Mr. B- Thomp-
son, the well-known member of the Melbourne betting
ring who is at present on a visit to America and who,
prior to Mr. Lett’s negotiations being entered on, was
commissioned to make a match with Trickett. Mr.
Thompson said he saw the Canadian row, and is con-
vinced that Trickett can beat him. Now Barney,
though not a “ flyer," can, like his brother John, handle
a scnll fairly, and as he has seen nearly all the best
Australian pnllers in actual competitions, his opinion,
if really expressed as above, is worth at least noticing.
Concerning this matter “Cloanthus,” of the Austra-
lasian, says : —" Mr. Thompson, it appears, has formed
a very poor opinion of Hanlan; and although he may
be correct when he says that Trickett, if he is well, will
beat him as easily as any man he ever pulled against, I
cannot admit that the Canadian is no better than Bush,
or that Mr. Thompson is qualified to pronounce so de-
cided an opinion. If Hanlan recover thoroughly from
the illness he is reported to have had, and be as well
when he meets Trickett as when he defeated Hawdon
and Elliott, I think he will be by long chalks the best
man ever Trickett met; and I have little hesitation in
saying that the Sydney scnller, fit and well on the. day,
will be as good, if not a better, man than ever before
opposed the Canadian.**
Mr. Barney Thompson sent his brother (the
Leviathan) an interesting account of the race for the
Hop Bitters Prize, in which he didn’t lay on Hanlan,
as the Americans wanted him to, but “ fielded *’ like a
true bookmaker. Of the Canadian Mr. Thompson
says : —“ He has a Most beautiful, clean, scientific style
of rowing,—something the same as Messenger, of Mel-
bourne —bnt he is a better puller than the Victorian,
though, in my opinion, he lacks power; and the idea of
them telling you, as you have heard some Americans
in Australia say when they speak about him, that his
boat skims on the top of the water—none of that
stopping after he recovers himself—it is fill nonsense.
I think he leans too far back and does not get the clean
sweep Ned Trickett does. He does his work a little
behind the rowlocks, which causes his boat to dwell a
little; but still he is a very neat sculler, and for a mun
of his size a little wonder. He has, however, never, I
am certain, met a Ned Trickett, or any man approaching
him.’* The clever little bookmaker puts the whole
question of probabilities into a nutshell when he says
“ I know Hanlan has no better style than Ned, and I am
certain he has not got the power.” He adds : “ There
are a great many here who think that Hanlan never
tried, but he tried, Joe, as hard as any man ever tried
to win. To give you an idea of these people’s
opinions—one man told me Hanlan knew I was there,
and that was the reason he did not win.■ ,
On the night of the \ic.” fire only twenty mi-
nutes elapsed between the alarm being given at the Vic-
toria Barracks and the arrival of the soldiers on the
scene. The insurance companies intend to compensate
them for damage done to uniforms. Superintendent
Bown Las written Colonel Roberts to the effect that
the Royal Hotel would have been burnt down but for
the artillerymen.
Quite a run of good fortune seems t» have been
struck at the Bay of Islands, N.Z., several more of
Wolfe’s Schnapps orders having been found. The
orders are worded “£l. Hamburg, February, 1879.
Good for £1 sterling, payable at the office of Messrs.
Moss and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.—Udolpho Wolfe,
Son, and Co. No. 557.” To get at these orders the out-
side wrappers must be torn.
MR. J. SPENCER’S DENTAL ESTABLISHMENT, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY. (See Page 3).
On the defeat of Hanlan.
(From the N.Y . Clipper)
He used to enter every race
As bronzed as any cruller.
And always with marked ease and grace
He distanced every sculler.
Applause the papers at him hurled.
And poets as a sequel.
Proclaimed in rosy song the world
Had never seen his equal.
They praised the contour of his face.
They said he was a daisy.
And that he’d win in any race
While half asleep and lazy.
When told how in a race he’d stop.
When sunbeams made it tomd.
And reach into the wave and mop
In languid ease his forehead.
And how he’d idly sit and float.
And watch the nearby greenery.
Where maidens played croquet, or note
The beauties Of the scenery.
They called his muscles iron throngs
In many little lyrics,
And all their gay Olympian songs
Were simply panegyrics.
Now he’s been beaten easily.
His friends all howl infernally.
And say with one accord that he
Was not himself internally.


Chemists and Druggists
EMSTEONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
- AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs, This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s fid, and 4s
fid.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOE-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s fid and 10s.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E.
B. AEMSTEONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
C
ENTEAL PHAEMACY,
78 (Late SI) KING-STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
JS. ABEAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABE AH AM,
At the Laboratory, 434 George-street, Sydney,
Be careful not to get imitations.
T
AKE NO MOEE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are your children sick at any time P You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
OS* Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
B
Y EOYAL LETTEES PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’
S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE.
Who weuld suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Wh® would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaxanted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is fid each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARDEOW & COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
HE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK,
LATE 681 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
AST FEW DATS ! LAST FEW DAYS! !
Of the
BON MARCHE SEMI-ANNUAL SALE.
NOTICE. —Goods opened up ex recent steamers will be
offered at the same PRICES and DISCOUNTS as
the other portions of the Stock, at
96, KING-STREET.
Special Inducements offered during this sale of pur-
chasing NEW, GOOD, CHEAP, Fashionable, Season-
able, Reliable, Durable Drapery at unheard-of Prices.
The Stock has been brought down to Home Costs. All
departments throughout the house have bad a thorough
revision, and the goods REMARKED and REDUCED,
in order to clear out our Large Surplus, Good, Clean,
New Stock.
TEN PEE CENT,
additional allowed on all purchases during this sale.
SPECIAL NOTICE
is directed to the following, and we respectfully ask
Ladies to carefully peruse the quotations and state-
ments made in reference to this sale :
FACT No. 1. —This is a genuine Sale of First-class
Goods, at Home Cost.
FACT No. 2. —All our Goods are New, Fashionable,
and Reliable, from the best Home
Houses.
FACT No. 3. —We have reduced and re-marked all
to Home Cost.
FACT No. 4. —In addition to the above, we shall allow
on all purchases 10 per cent, during
this sale.
FACT No. 5. —Is a very startling one: our Jackets,
from 4s lid to 255, represent the cost of
the materials from the looms. 15 per
cent, also will be allowed on these.
FACT No 6.—A very superior lot of Jackets, ranging
in prices from 25s to 455. On these a
discount of 20 per cent., or four shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. 7. —Beautiful Jackets, of beaver, diagonal,
cashmere, and silk, trimmed fringe,
bugle, silk, velvet, and fur, of the new
long fashionable shape now so much in
vogue, reduced - prices from 45s to 90s.
A discount of 25 per cent., or five shil-
lings in the pound.
FACT No. B.—Ladies’ and Children’s Ulsters in every
kind of cloth and latest cut and style,
commencing from 3s lid to 30s, upon
which a discount of four shillings in
the pound will be allowed.
FACT No. 9.—Mothers and heads of families should
not lose this opportunity of obtaining
beautifully made English costumes for
their children, all sizes—prices ranging
from 5s lid to 235. A discount of four
shillings in the pound will be allowed.
S3* NOTE A FEW of the PRICES in the following
departments:—
LEADER and STARK confidently invite examination
of the abovementioned Goods, It will give an idea of
the valne theyare offering during this their Fifth Semi-
Annual Sale. They, of course, cannot mention every
article in their large stock in an advertisement, and
therefore solicit inspection.
LEADEE AND STARK,
96 KING-STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
"P EAP E S AND SHAW
Have Opened:—
Eeal Russian leather purses, card cases, and ladies’
bags, in all sizes, the most beautiful assortment
that ever came into this market
The new Passementerie Trimmings
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collarettes
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool mufflers, fine, fleecy, and
warm, the largest and choicest assortment in the
city, imported direct from Germany
Ladies’ Warm Winter Hosiery I The most complete
Ladies’ Warm Winter Gloves and cheapest assort-
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuif | ment in the City
All the above goods are only just opened out and
marked off, ex S.S. Orient.
T> E A P E S AND SHA W’S
* JACKETS AND MANTLES,
14s 6d to 5 guineas.
Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from 30s to 5 guineas
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid gloves, “two-button,”
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for single beds, 10s fid
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for double beds, 21
“ Come and see them, comparison is the best test.”
Stout Saxony flannels—ls, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is fid
Eeal Welch flannels —2s, 2s 3d, 2s fid, 2s 9d (not
imitation)
Peapes and Shaw’s umbrellas—ladies’ 6s fid, gent.’s 10
fid, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter overcoats for gentle-
men—2os, 255, 27s fid, 30s, 355, 42s
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s ulsters, 27s fid to 55s
GEOEGE STREET, GEOEGE STREET,
George-street.
P
EAPES AND SHAW’S
DRESS MATEEIALS,
6Jd, 74d, BJd, 101, Is
Broche and Pompadour, for trimming, from Is lid per
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s fid, 3s lid
4s fid, 5s fid
A beantiful assortment of rich coloured silks and robes
for dinner, evening, and wedding costumes.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT,
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful garments. Is lid 2a 3d,
2s fid, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto. Is lid, 2s 3d, 2s fid,
2s 9d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto ditto, 4s lid, 5s fid, 5s
9d, fis fid
Wedding trousseaux, from £2O to £lOO
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The new “ Bon Ton ” stays, in whiet and black
The new “ Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,” from 12s fid to 30s
Ladies’ winter merino hose, plain and fancy. Is, Is 3d
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW. PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street. George-street.
F
ASHIONABLE SCAEFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HOEDEEN’S NEW MEEGEEY AND GUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Neab the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TET IT I ! !
J, L. HOED E E N.
JJ CON O MI IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
WYNYAED-STEEET,
Corner of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE.
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
Z IONS’ Black Cloth Walking Coats andPageta,
18s, worth 50s; D. B. Frocks, 38s, worth 50s.
409, George-st
Z IONS’ 15s TROUSERS to measure, fashion-
able materials. Cheviots, Bannockbums, Adder,
&c., 409, George-st.
lONS’ 18s 6d TROUSERS, West of England,
to order; 100 patterns to select from, cash only
409, George-st.
lONS’ White Linen SHIRTS, 3s 6d, ready for
use; Crimean, 3s lid; Crape, 4s Hd. 409, George-
street.
ZIONS, best and cheapest Tailor for CLOTHING
to measure on shortest notice, at lower charges
than any other house. Large assortment fancy
woollens to select from. System of s« If-measurement
with samples free to all parts. 409, George-st.
lONS’ Black DRESS SUITS to measure, 80s,
worth 6 guineas. The Tailor, 409, George-st.
ZIONS’ Black Dress Suits, our own make, large
stock to select from, 40s, worth 80s. 409, George-st.
ZIONS’ Black Dress Trousers, to measure, 21s,
worth 425; ready-made 12s, worth double. 409,
George-st.
ZIONS’ Tweed Trousers to measure, 15s, worth
255; ready-made all wool, 9s, worth 18s. 409
George-st.
ZIONS’ Tweed Suits -to measure, 100 patterns
choice woollens to select from, 555. 409, George-
street.
ZIONS’ Overcoats —Ulsters, Munster, Chesters
Ac., 15s. worth 425; come and look, 409, George-st.
jONDON TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s, fid.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
„ Suit's 68s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16a. 6d„ 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
Furniture
jIIEESIDE READING.
THE MUTINY,
An attractive narrative, in pamphlet form, post free
to any part of New South Wales, with FULL PAR-
TICULARS HOW TO FURNISH HOUSES in the
Most Economical manner.
16 Pages, Gratis, at the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
HOUSES FURNISHED FOR FIFTEEN
POUNDS. (£l5),
Also for £25, £36, and £5O, and for £7O, £lOO, £2OO, up
to £3OO, £4OO, £5OO, &c. See net cash price lists.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, plain and inlaid Oval
Tables.
Drawing-room furniture, in great variety.
DINING-ROOM SUITES, Dining, Telescope, and other
Tables.
LIBRARY and OFFICE Furniture, in great variety.
BEDSTEADS, SOLID or TUBULAR, 4 post, half-
tester, stump; also youths' size and Cots.
BEDDING, in Horsehair, Fibre, Flax, Pulu, Flock,
and feathers.
Bedroom Toilets and Bedroom Furniture, in 'great
variety.
COME AND SEE
The VAST DISPLAY of FURNISHING MER-
CHANDISE. at the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
All marked with PLAIN FIGURE PRICES for NET
CASH PAYMENT.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
426 (new number) George-street.
Horses and Vehicles
K
EARET BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
S.
GLA S S O
N
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Haeeis-steeet, off George-street,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Cftrts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Chemists and Druggists
PUBLIC NOTICE.—The following LIST of
WATSON'S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES, so well and favourably known to the
Australian public—Watson's (Vegetable) Antibilious
Pills, Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders, Watson’s
Gingerbread Worm Nuts, Watson’s Compound Chloro-
form Liniment, Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion.
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer, Watson’s Excelsior
Toothache Essence, Watson’s Concentrated Gout and
Rheumatism Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—can
be'obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manufactory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES, 567 George-street; and
WHOLESALE only at the following Establishment: —
Messrs. Elliott, Bros., Pitt-street; Messrs. W. Taylor
and Co., Pitt-street; Messrs. S. Holfnung and Co,,
Pitt-street; Messrs. Myers and Solomon, George-
street ; and Mr. James Macgregor, George-street.
JOHN WATSON,
CHEMIST AND DRUGGIST,
Begs to acquaint the public and the trade that he has
been appointed WHOLESALE AND RETAIL AGENT
for the sale of STEWARD’S MOTHER’S BLESSING.
No more crying Babies while this is in the Nursery.
This old-established Medicine is, without exception,
the SAFEST AND BEST for instantly relieving the
various ailments of children while teething.
•** See published Testimonials.
567 GEORGE-STREET.
YOUR CHILBLAINS by SOUL’S
Vj matchless PAIN-KILLING CREAM (lg) if they
are not broken; or if broken, buy LUBIN’S GLYCE-
RINE and CUCUMBER, price 6d.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Pitt-street.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linetus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 117 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.


Public Comp a
C
OMMERCTAL EANKIN(
SYDNEY.
Established IS
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £500,000. Reserve'
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Johi
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., J
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. 11,
Solicitors :
Messrs.'Want, Johnson
Messrs. Cape and Wesl
Head Office—George-sti
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt
G-aden,. Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector,
' With Branches at Haymarket, Geoi
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lomba
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.l
Esq.; P. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel C
Branches in New South Walt
Annidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be;
Blaney, Bombala, Bouxke, Bowral,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Care
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North)
Cootamundra, Dnbbo, Dungog,
Glen Innea, Gonlburn, Grafton. (
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsoy, Kiam
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molon
Murmrundi, Muswellbrook, Narra
andera, Orange, Parkes, Parrama
Queanbeyan, Quirindi, Rmhmond
ton, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga’ ig
Wallerawang, Warren, Wei’ to
cannia, Windsor, Wollongw 'o<
With the following ’■
Branches in Quhenslas. . , ~ -is
Maryborough am} t- m
» ' Agencibs is tH* CC
Victoria : The Bank of Victorii
Australasia, Colonial Bank c
Commercial Bank of Australia
South Australia :, The Bank vt
National Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia ; National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dien
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies bktond the
London : The London and Westn
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester' : The Manchester ant
Ireland; The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of B
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de (
New York: Messrs. Drexel, Mor;
India, China and Singapore : T 1
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lor
Cetlon: The Chartered Mercan:
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bonk of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and C
Egtpt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security, i
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, a
lects hills payable at any of the t
elsewhere, at current rates; collect
in public companion, and interesi
for its customers in tho investmen
ties in Great Britain or in the colo
to undertake tho agency of Bonks
be mutually agreed upon.
IJBEEIBLE A (
Axe continually happs
FRIGHTFUL MUTE
and
LOSS OF LD
are »eoorded as the result of accid
the daily press.
The best investment to pn
ACCIDENTS OF AL
is to take out a Policy
AUSTRALASIAN ACCEDED
ASSOCIATE)
(Limited).
CAPITAL—<£I(X
OYER 300 CLAIMS ALRE-i
Public Companies
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Deserve Fund, £170,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esq.
William B. Wolford, Esq. William A. Long, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
ClTT AND SUBURBAN BRANCHES.
Hnymarket | Eedfern 1 Glebe.
London Office —18 Kino William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain. America, India, and China,
&o„ &o.
THE) BANK UNDERTAKES AI/L GENEBAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869,
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £309,000
Deserve FuncL. £110,000
DIDECTOBS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.Q.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITODS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGED:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETAET:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Georgo-atreot.
LONDON BANKBES:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Buis negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital-— £100,000, with power to incaeaseto £1,000,000.
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIEBCTOES:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. William Hezlet, Esq., M.P,
Piest Fibb Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Pbinciplb, giving
POLICY-HOLDEBS BACK PABT OF THBIB PRE-
MIUMS as a Cash Bonus out op Pbofxts
EVEBY YEAB.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liabUity.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums.
Damage by Lightning and Explosions by
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest rates.
WALTER CHUDCH, Manager.
Head Office—144, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evening News).
4 USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819,
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STDEET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRBCTO RS*
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddiugton, Eaq, | Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.B.C.P. (Edln.), 5, Lyons
ACTUARY j ( SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. ( Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society. . ; ‘It Is, as a whole, tbo most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says ‘ No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
VV ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL. £100.000.
RESERVE FUND
£80,000.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
S48 GEOBQE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
|J1HE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AJ
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
tn unlimited liability, and special Acts in ea
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued.
Directors in Sydney ;
_ _ Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman,
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. ( W. O. Gilchrist, Esq
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Life business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer;
A. Roberts, Esq.
M, W. S. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Head Cilice lor Australasia—63 Pitt-street, Sydney
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 23rd Jul/' 1880.
jyST of applications received in the Department of Mines for permission to mine under roods, &c.,
&c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28.
E. A. BAKER.
Purpose for which
land is to be used.
To mine for coal,
iron, and other
minerals.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th August, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Mineral Lease within thirty days from this date, it will be declared void.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th August, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date they will be declared void.
E. A ■ BAKER.
HtTNTEE AND MaCLHAT MINING DlSTBICT.
Locality.
Area. Application
No.
Star of the South Eeef, parish of Binders ...
Saw-pit Gully, parish of Bindera
Eight-hand Branch, Back Creek
Bowman River, parish of Bindera
Eight-hand Branch, Bock Creek
do do
Bowman Eiver, parish of Bindera
John Bright Reef, parish of Bindera
Right-hand Branch, Back Creek
Mountain Maid Eeef, parish of Bindera....
Eight-hand Branch, Back Creek
Main Branch, Duller Creek, parish of Bindera
Queen of Beauty Eeef, parish of Bindera .,
New Year’s Gift Eeef, parish of Bindera
Back Creek, parish of Bindera
Right-hand Branch, Back Creek
Great Northern Eeef, parish of Bindera
Eight-hand Branch, Back Creek
Left-hand Branch, Back Creek
Rainbow Eeef, parish of Bindera
Star of the South Eeef, parish of Bindera..
Back Line of Reef, parish of Bindera
Bank Reef, parish of Bindera
Germania Reef, parish of Bindera
Garibaldi Eeef, parish of Bindera
w.
P. W E L C
PRACTICAL VENETIAN * GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
H.
Outside Venetian.
I H
T E E. N A T I
N.B-—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
EXHIBITION
O N A L
SYDNEY, 1879—SO.
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
LEATHEE S—
Sole Special 1st Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c Ditto
Harness, Strap, and Bag Ditto
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing Ditto
Splits, Levants, &o Ditto
Patent Enamel and Japanned Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings Ditto
Morocco Boans, Levant, and Book... Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
MANUPACTUBES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Poize
Harness, Collars, &c Special 1st
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851 —80 —Leathers.—Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YOEK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
"VT £ W SEASON'S TEAS,
* Ex s.s. Menmuir.
The arrival of this steamship has given ns the opportunity of selecting with care and judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
We present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will be
appreciated by our Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
2s 6d per lb Very Choice Rich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s „ A Rich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congou, very good and
strong
Is 6d „ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a family’s stock of Groceries, we would moat respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
ear NOTE THE ADDRESS —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
M'CLELLAND AND ROACH,
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
7
THE BULLETIN.
August 21, 1830.


STAGE GOSSIP.
Ketten and Bennett’s spec, is “ off.”
Fairclough is drawing well at Adelaide.
Miss Bose Coghlan is once more in London.
Lingard and wife nave gone to New Zealand.
Juvenile “ Pinafore ” at the Queen’s on 21st.
The “ Pinafore” mania has in Tasmania.
James Booty manages Menser’s Bright Stars.
At latest dates Chiarini was at Rockhampton.
Blondin’s rival, Thompson, was killed at Pesth.
Miss Alice Deorwyn was a picture as Desdemona.
Another colonial actress is about to be married.
Tickets for the Bennett Matinee are selling well.
Johnny Cowan is the draw at the Egyptian
Hall.
The Bennett matinee is on Saturday at the
Eoyal.
G. L. Goodman is treasurer at the Theatre
Eoyal.
George Honey, the great comedian, is dead and
buried.
The beautiful Mrs. Lingard is an artist on
canvass.
Jimmy Williamson and Sam love each other —at
a distance.
Mr. J. M. Perrier didn’t go to lecture for the
Zeolandia.
The go-as- you-please Tournament was a finan-
cial failure
Rev. John Cnrwen, inventor of homoeopathic
music, is dead.
Madeline St. Clair would make two of her
talented sister.
Bad business at the Melbourne Boyal, and worse
at the Academy.
His Excellency the Governor patronises the
Bennett matinee.
Mrs. Marcus Clarke has taken her benefit at the
Melbourne Bijou.
Cathcart and a company start from Melbourne
on a provincial tour.
J. L. Hall has reproduced “ Our Girls” at the
People’s, Melbourne.
E. A. Sothern has given another illOO to the
Eoyal Theatrical Fund,
One week’s receipts of “ School,” at the Hay-
market, reached £1,600.
D’Oyley Carte is building a new theatre in Beau-
fort Buildings, Strand, London.
The Mattie Taylor troupe have been playing at
the Oddfellows’ Hall, Launceston,
Mr. E. Lewis Scott has resigned the secretariat
of the Petersham Musical Society.
Mrs. F. Marshall’s dresses in “ The Turn of the
Tide’’ are models of Davidjonesianart.
Sam Lazar is in Melbourne. Never mind the
why or wherefore —it will shortly appear.
Dan Briggs, the original “ Thackem-whackem-
boo," is the dramatic blister of Eockhampton.
Mr. John Bennett has saved sixteen Uvea from
drowning, and hundreds from want and misery.
The Petersham Cricket Club have a concert on
the 31st. Good performers and a capital programme.
Benhamo’s Circus has finished its Hobart Town
season, and is now travelling in the Tasmanian
provinces.
During his first performance in Brisbane Ketten
said that he had never played to such apathetic
audiences.
There has been troublebetween Mr. W. S. Lyster
and the Melbourne critics. Cause —the cutting-down
of the free list.
The Burwood proscenium is properly fixed now,
but Mr. Wedderbum doesn’t expect even that will
satisfy the musical society.
It is stated that Mr. Longfellow has in hand the
libretto of au opera, the music of which will be com-
posed by Mr. Alfred Cellier.
Sara Bernhardt has lodged in the London and
Westminster Bank, as the proceeds of ’her season in
London, the snug sum of £6OOO.
Gounod is at work on a new opera, “ Otello,”
which will be produced in Paris in the autumn, Adelina
Patti taking the part of Desdemona.
The Melbourne Exhibition will be opened at
night for promenade concerts, and not unlikely the
theatres will be closed—for repairs.
The darkies have left the Queen’s, and the theatre
is now being thoroughly scrubbed out by 25 men, ready
for the Juvenile Pinafore Company.
Walter Cooper wrote his best drama for J. J.
Bartlett. Surely some one will play it—if only for the
benefit of those genial men’s widows.
George Frederick Price Darrell—this it appears
being the correct name of the actor-author—has ap-
plied for a new trial in his N.Z. libel suit.
Bland Holt sailed from Melbourne for Adelaide
on the 12th. The “ New Babylon" will he produced at
the termination of Fairclough’s engagement.
Miss Amy Horton (late of Hudson’s Surprise
Party) is now open to accept engagements. Address,
Vaughan’s mansion, Hackney Eoad, Adelaide.
Madame Selina Dolaro and Miss Alma Stanley
are about to proceed to New York as part of a “ beauty *'
company to open in a burlesque of “ Carmen.”
Many English actors are painters as well, and
among the pictures in this year’s Eoyal Academy
those by George Giddens are specially admired.
Lingard had hard work to complete his company
for New Zealand, although such a cry of “ unemployed ”
is raised. But perhaps Horace is a shade particular.
Mr. John Bennett added to the long list of his
public and private benefactions by paying all expenses
for the “burnt out” company’s benefit last Saturday.
The “real African gentleman’s” performance
of “Othello” was like that of Lotti Wilmot in “Bag
Fair” —“a great artistic but not apecuniary success.”
Roberts, late of the Comedy Company, takes a
farewell benefit at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, on the
19th. He opens in Adelaide for a fortnight on 25th
proximo.
The executors of Major Charles Adama are
sneing Madame Valleria, the operatic singer, for £2,310,
the balance of £2,775, expended by him in her education
as a singer.
The Mammoths have sailed for England. Billy
Bent was offered double salary, hut declined to go; the
cheerful William was anxious respecting his constitu-
tion and his return passage.
Sam Emery appeared in “ The Willow
Copse,” at the Princess’, on Saturday, the 14th, and
following nights, supported by Beatrice and undoubtedly
the best company in Victoria.
Somebody sold Ketten a horse when he was
visiting Brisbane. It is no libel to say that nobody
would go within three yards of his (the horse’s, not
Ketten’s) heels when in the stable.
Nash, owner of the Rockhampton theatre, shut
it up, it is said, because a member of Dillon and South's
Company owed him 32e. for long sleevers, although
Dillon offered to stop it out of the Thespian’s salary.
“ Wanted, good second-hand Mangle; Baker’s
patent preferred. Apply, George, Box 498, G.P.O.”—-
At first sight, this gave us “ quite a start." £ui, no!
“ The Forlorn Hope ” could not have brought him to
this pass.
Annie Pixley, who has made such a “ hit” in
New York as MTiss, writes to say that she and her
husband (R. Fullford) often speak of the pleasant time
and friends they had in Sydney, and that they purpose
returning before long.
That splendid baritone, Mr. B. T. Moroney, has
taken a benefit at the Athen®nm, Meloourue. The
vocalists included the beueficiaire, Mrs. Cutter, Mrs.
Howitz, Mr. Lamble, and the instrumentalists Mr.
Siede, Signor Ortori and Madame Tasca.
Mr. Edwin Browne, the recently arrived Ameri-
can tragedian, is now attached to the N. Z. Combination
Company, who are performing in Ballarat. The Aus-
tralasian correspondent says that judging from the
little seen of him, he will become a great favorite.
The annual dinner of the Green Room Club took
place at the Criterion Restaurant, London, on Sunday
evening June 20, and was a great success. Mr. Henry
J. Byron occupied the chair, and the health of the Press
was proposed most felicitously by Mr. Henry Irving.
About 200 sat down to dinner.
“ Lotta,” a famous American actress and variety
entertainer of the pattern of Mdlle Ghaumont, has
arrived in London from New York. The young lady
does not seek an engagement, and the mere fact that
her earnings for the past nine months are said to amount
to 75,000 dollars quite entitle her to a holiday in Europe,
the paradise of successful Americans.
Thompson’s Diorama of the Zulu War, said to
be the finest of its kind which has ever visited the
colonies, opens at the School of Arts on Monday, 13tn
September. In similar concerns the “ gifts’’ and not
the pictures are usually the attraction, but that Mr.
Thompson has faith in the intrinsic powers of his show
is evident from the fact that he lets it stand on its own
merits.
A new comedy, by G. Bronson Howard, entitled
“ Hurricanes,” and a comedietta by Theyre Smith,
entitled “ My Uncle’s Will,” form the bill at the Mel-
bourne Academy. The comedy is a farce of
the “Betsy” species; the comedietta is an elegantly
written trifle, well acted indeed by Miss Lester and
Messrs. Beeves and Joyce. But for a peculiarity of
voice the lady would be the best comedy actress in the
Anstralias.
Michael Menser, of Bathurst, has organised a
variety company for Temora, including Onzalo, Zulo,
the Wyburd trio of skaters, and Mat Riley. James
Booty goes os business manager. Menser is his own
“first robber." Newman Scott has arranged pre-
liminaries. The company is called “ Menser’s Bright
Stars,” and opens at Cootamundra on the 21st, in an
immense tent, and then on to Temora after playing for
three nights.
The cast of “ Pinafore ” on the first night of its
revival in Melbourne Opera House, was as follows : —Sir
Joseph Porter, K.C.8., Mr. Biccardi; Captain Corcoran,
Mr. G. Verdi; Ralph Rackstraw, Mr. Armes Beaumont;
Dick Deadeye, Mr. Farley; Bill Bobstay, Mr. George
Leopold ; Josephine, Madame Rose Hersee ; Hebe (Sir
Joseph’s first cousin), Miss Royal; Little Buttercup,
Mrs. T. H. Fox; and sisters, cousins, aunts, sailors,
and marines by a host of capable people.
George Darrell and Jimmy Williamson attended
the Melbourne “ Owl Club” by invite on Thursday last.
George gave the “Charge of the Light Brigade," and
Jimmy followed with the parody the “Charge of the
Beer Brigade.” The members of the club are a lot of
jolly good fellows, and the president is a jovial soul and
clever. It is out and away the best club of its kind
in the colonies, and several of the “ nobs” and nearly
all the literary and artistic celebrities attend the
monthly reunions.
As has been already stated, Ketten’s “ Brisbane”
horse was a failure. It was bought for £l6 and sold for
£B. Now the great musician has another horse, of
Sydney growth and good temper—a really nice, quiet
animal, which knows it hasn’t a colonial on its back
and behaves accordingly. The renowned artiste now
appears “ on the block ” on horseback, properly got up,
and wears'cavalry boots. Ketten plays the piano much
better than he rides. However in these days there
are no admirable Crichtons.
Mdlle. Eugenie Legrand, has made her re-
appearance at the Bijou, Melbourne, in “ Hurricanes,”
a comedy new to Australia, and played in 1879 at the
London Criterion as ‘‘Truth.” Mdlle. Legrand made
a great success of her part, and the leading critics
say that nothing but praise is to be spoken of the
acting of Mr. Wybert Reeve. The gentleman named
also appeared with Miss Ada Lester in “ Uncle’s Will,”
described as being a bluetts with a dialogue at least as
witty as that of any dramatic trifle ever put on the
boards.
The production of “ Pinafore” at the Melbourne
Opera House was witnessed by an enormous house.
The opinions as to the merit of the performance are
diverse. The know-alls grumble at the acting, or want
of acting, and institute unfavourable comparisons.
Most certainly the artistes engaged are not great in
dialogue or free and expressive in action, but musically
they are entirely successful. The opera is sung for
the first time in the Anstralias, and Sullivan’s delight-
ful composition is in every way rendered with justice
to the author. The houses are good and the look-out
encouraging.
FUN AND FANCY.
Doesn’t Come A-Miss —A boy baby.
The reason why a clergyman rarely marries him-
self is that he wouldn’t make a happy couple.
A country dentist advertises that he will “spare
no pains ” in his operations to make them satisfactory
“Good morning, Mr. Brown; you’re first at last;
you used to be behind before, but I notice you have
been getting early of late.”
Never put the gum brush in your inkstand.
True, the temptation is great; but remember that
cleanliness is next to godliness.
There are a good many “serious families” in
Melbourne. When Mr. Proctor told them the moon
was dead they went into mourning.
The King of Abyssinia, or the “ Negus,” as his
title is in the vernacular, wants to get access to the sea.
Who ever heard of Negus without port ?
Good-sized drinking-cups have been made in the
shape of thimbles. This allows a temperate man to
take just a thimbleful of liquor and feel satisfied.
There is always one time in every boy’s life when
his mouth waters for a chew of pitch. If he misses the
favorable opportunity it never comes to him again.
“ Blow, gentle breezes, blow,” sighed the poet,
and the next moment he was chasing down street after
his hat, and yelling, 11 Stop ’er, stop ’er,” at every jump.
Doctors now say that boiled cow’s milk is not
good for babies, it is better raw. The doctors are
right; a raw cow gives better milk than a boiled one.
No matter how much patience and good nature
a man may have he will find it quite impossible to pre-
serve his equanimity while indulging in a two hours’
search through an unabridged Webster for a postage
stamp which he has put there for safe keeping.
It completely destroys the heavenly immobility
of Clarinda’s pensive couutenance when she wanders
dreamily through the perfume-laden solitudes of the
garden and discovers the brusque, unscrupulous
shanghai sleeping peacefully on her pansies and
mignonette.
Men who have lost a hand or a leg in a saw-mill
now get looked upon as military heroes by gazing upon
the big heaps of rubbish which the corporation
« shoot" in our beautiful suburbs and remarking with
reference to the heaps of deceased cats and dogs, that
“ the place looks like a stale battlefield.”
Says a country editor: —“ The storm winds of
the equinox of Tuesday evening (20), left at our house a
little cherub of the female persuasion—a kind of a leap
year tribute, as it were. We'bow gracefully to the dis-
pensation, sharpen our lead pencil, and call upon our
delinquent subscribers to materialise at once.”
’What we can make of “ the Ladies.” —’Without
repeating a letter in any of the words no less than 63
words can bo formed from the six letters comprising the
word “ Ladies,” viz.:— Aid, Aids, Ail, Ailed, Ails, Aisle,
Ale, Ales, As, Aside; Dais, Dale, Dales, Deal, Deals,
Delia, Dial, Dials, Die, Dies ; Eld, Eli; I, Ida, Idea,
Ideal, Ideals, Ideas, Ides, Idle, Is, Isle; La, Lad, Lade,
Lads, Laid, Lea, Lead, Leads, Leas, Led, Leda, Lias,
Lid, Lids, Lie, Lied Lies (“this is rough"), Sad, Said,
Sail. Soiled, Sale, Sea, Seal, Sidle, Slade, Sled. Slid,
Slide.
In order to avenge two companions’ deaths a
bandit in Thessaly recently stabbed to death with his
own hand 12 of the villagers, one after the other, as he
met them in the streets and then returned unmolested to
his mountain fastnesses, where he still bids defiance to
all constituted authorites. After all there are people
even more dangerous than the Kellys.
The business of the N.Z. Government Insurance
Department, for the year ended 30th June, shows the
following results: —Over 3000 proposals were received
for more than a million sterling. Of these proposals
uwpard of 2200 became policies, assuring a sum exceed-
ing £720,000. The new premium income exceeds £27,000.
This is considerably in excess of last year’s business.
Stephen Fergnsson was sentenced by an Auck-
land (N.Z.) magistrate to 14 days’ imprisonment for
travelling as a passenger on board the s.s. Arawatafrom
Sydney to Auckland without paying his fare. In de-
fence, the prisoner said he came out about eight months
ago as steward in the Woodlark in the expectation of
finding employment as a clerk in Sydney but was disap-
pointed.
Mrs. Kermode, of Mona Vale and Ross, Tas-
mania has the largest and best.recruited poultry yard
in Australasia. It extends over some acres and is sub-
divided into seven or eight paddocks. The feathered
beauties are mostly from imported strains improved by
colonial crosses. The fair fancier has a great taste for
Hamburghs, especially the black species. The conser-
vatories and hot houses at Mona are wonders for this
hemisphere.
As an instance of prompt settlement of insur-
ance claims, it deserves to be mentioned that the New
Zealand Insurance Company paid on last Tuesday week
to Mr. B. C. Boake, photographer, the sum of £l,OOO,
being the full amount of his insurance. Mr. Boake, it
will be remembered, was burnt out by last week’s fire.
It may also be mentioned that two claims which arose
out of the Victoria Theatre fire were settled on the
Saturday following the Thursday on which the fire
occurred.
WOMAN ITEMS.
In Paris the fashionable shade is “ sulphur ’
There is one other place where also it is fashionable.
Brigham Young’s widow is gradually forgetting
the old man. Four of her has remarried since he died*
No matter how often a girl’s hat is lost it i„
almost certain to turn up—either behind or at the side
42,000 Leeds women signed a petition in favour
of the legalisation of marriage with a deceased wife**
sister.
The young ladies of Christchurch, New Zealand
intend, during this month, to play the gallant by giving
a leap-year ball.
In the bright complexion of my youth, I’ll have
no such word as pale. And she reached for the ronp e
box with the clutch of an angel.
We have thousands of unmarried women in
Sydney. There’s so much brotherly love that there's
none to waste on the sisters.
A young man generally gives a lock of hair to
his sweetheart before he marries her. After marriage
she can help herself, and use no scissors.
“ Fan-tail ” trains are much worn just now.
Tread on one and the wearer will be converted into a
“ p outer,” while you probably will he a “ tumbler.”
An American, in the person of Lady Harcourt
is, for the first time, the wife of an English Cabinet
Minister. She is the daughter of the late J. Lothrop
Motley, the historian.
Some people can never be too poor to marry,
A young couple commenced to keep house recently
whose only crockery consisted of an ink-bottle and an
imperfect chart of China.
A female correspondent complains that her
husband eats oiiionß and snores. Now, a man who 1
would snore with an opion-flavoured breath should go
somewhere and start v desert.
Some ydifs i certain Tasmanian became a
widowof- f,V tbe- f< jll time, and his head was so
turned wit! .reedem ohat within a month he married
three wo»»en in as many colonies. '
A bill has been introduced into the House of
Commons providing that no clergyman shall be com-
pelled to re-marry a divorced person as long as the
divorced husband or wife of such person shall be living.
The Rochester family, of New York, positively
refused to answer the question of the census taker in
regard to the ages of the female members. They were
consequently fined in the penalty provided in such
cases.
Prince Oscar, of Sweden, is said to have be-
come enamoured of a young Irish lady, to whom he hag
offered his hand, and whom he intends to raise to the
dignity of Queen of Sweden when he ascends to the
throne of that country.
One of the largest winners by Bend Or’s Derby
victory was a lady, whose judgment in such matters is
much looked up to, and whose sporting proclivities
make her a constant attendant at Newmarket and at all
the other principal meetings.
The oldest son of the Prince of Wales, Frederick
Victor, is a tall, slender, delicate hoy; his second sou,
George, is short, stout and bull-headed. The elder
daughter is homely, hut the younger ones, especially
Princess Maud, are very pretty.
At the Derby, the Princess of WalSs wore a
light drab “ dust-coat ” with black and red collar, and
black and red bonnet. The “ dust-coat" being re-
moved revealed a blue costume with cream-colored lacs.
Her dark blue sunshade had red lining.
An American clergyman recently married him-
self to a young lady parishioner. He went through the
s’ervice in the orthodox manner and wound up by deliv-
ering an impressive oration to the happy pair. He has
since been convicted of illegal and immoral practices.
A demure, diminutive girl, aged 18, is under
arrest in Philadelphia for bigamy. She has three living
husbands, all of whom she has married within two
years. When asked why she had done this, she said
“ They were all good fellows, and, they coaxed me so.”
The latest fashion in gloves is having them of
half-tanned kid. A well-dressed lady asked one of the
assistants at a fashionable establishment if he had any
“ undressed kids.” “ No, Madame, but the baby linen
establishment is in the next department,” was the
reply.
By the express desire of H.B.H. the Princess of
Wales, “ shoulder-straps ” will not he seen at the Eoyal
balls, her Royal Highness entirely disapproving of the
fashion in which some ladies have indulged—of wearing
a mere band of beaded ribbon, or lace, over the shoulder
and calling it a sleeve.
A man may sneer at a woman all he will because
she can’t sharpen a lead pencil, but, she has the smile
on him when he stands holding an unoccupied button:
in his hand, and wondering whether it would hurt less
to pull the needle out of his thumb the same way as it
went in, or push it on through.
“What is home without a wife?” It is the
dining-room in the xiarlour, the coalbin in the kitchen,
the clean shirt in hiding, a depot for soiled clothes, a
try sting place for divorced stockings, a smoking fur-
nace, a private pandemonium, a cavern of profane rum-
blings, a lunatic asylum. More, in fact.
At Geelong recently there was a bride’s cake,
in slices, to be raffied at a local church sale of gifts.
In one side was a wedding ring, in the other a written
promise from the clergyman to marry the winner free.
A young man got the ring, a young woman the promise,
and (says a Geelong paper) they intend to to marry each
other next week.
They were talking about the weight of different
individuals in a certain family, and the daughter’s
young man, who was present, spoke up before he
thought, and said, “ I tell you that Jenny isn’t so very
light either, although she looks so.” And then he sud-
denly blushed, and Jenny became absorbed in studying
a chromo on the wall.
A lady says that the first time she was kissed
she felt like a tub of roses swimming in honey, cologne,
nutmegs and bananas. She felt as if something was
running through her nerves on feet of diamonds,
escorted by several little cupids in chariots drawn by
angels, shaded by honey-suckles, and the whole spread
with melted rainbows.
A N.Z. policeman charged with having forged
and uttered a consent to the marriage of his wife, ft
minor, has been found not guilty on the ground that the
consent in question purported to he signed by the
bride’s mother, whereas according to law a document
of this kind should he signed by the father. The man
has been dismissed the force, but a petition for his re-
instatement is being got up. v
Gloomily the merchant sat looking over t
hooks and through a few remaining papers in the sam .
the morning after the j unior partner had decamped with
alacrity and a thousand or two of the firm’s money. A
consoling friend says to the merchant: “Ah, well, you 11
work out of it all right. There’s no great loss without
some gain.” “ True,” sighed the man of trade, with »
brighter light dawning on his face, “true, my wire
went with him.”
At the Princess Frederica’s wedding,
Brown, clad in Highland tartan, was a most conspi-
cuous person at the departure of the happy pair a™,
the conclusion of the ceremony. He carried in his nm
a bag full of rice, and was further provided win
several white satin slippers. When the cortege fiui ,<*l
the palace, Mr. Brown threw handful after hancnm o
rice over the heads of the newly-married pair, while o
of the Queen’s footmen sent the old shoes flying
the retreating carriage with great energy and per- ■
tence. ,
The Prince of Wales, writes a correspondent
of on English paper, lately sent a note to Mrs. Langt
saying, “ I am coming round to see you at Ift g 0
morrow. The Jersey Lily returned answer, tin. -
sorry grandmamma is in town for tea to-moffo
p.m." The Prince did not receive the answer, howe ’
in season, and presenting himself at the hour name ,
found young Lord Shrewsbury tete-a-tete with tn .
lady. When the Prince did receive the belated ,
“Oho!” said he, “so Lord Shrewsbury is the
mamma;!” and now they call the kettledrum
grandmother’s tea."
Acrostic
How sweet the echoes that awake the grove
Ere yet the gloaming into darkness fades.
No hymns so sacred os those songs of love
Rehearsed by tiny throats ’mid sylvan shades;
Ye pretty warblers cease—let silence reign;
Know that when Orpheus strikes his golden lyre
Entranced all Nature listens !—once again
The startled shadows “ ten degrees ” retire ?
The babbling brooks their gossip now restrain !
Enraptured crowds the minstrel gather round.
Nor can resist the witchery of sound!
EDWARD BALY,
“CHARLECOT.”
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
Two Periods.
“BEFORE MARRIAGE.”
She waits and listens. Footsteps fall—
She knows they are not his.
She waits and listens for a sound
That sweetest music is.
He comes—and with a sudden thrill
And heartbeat loud and clear.
She does not hear, she does not see—
She feels that he is near;
And coyly lifting to his face
Her eyes of heavenly blue.
She murmurs in love’s softest tones,
“ My darling, is it you ? ’’
“Aftke Marriage.”
Again she listens. Footsteps reach
And footsteps pass her door.
She listens, but her needle flies
More swiftly than before.
She hears at length the tread that time
And cares are making slow,
And with a start that sends her chair
Hard rocking to and fro
Springs to the landing and with voice
More shrill than any lute’s.
She screams above the baluster,
“You wretch, just wipe your boots! ”
F. E. D.
Acrostic.
With that modesty which is our most striking
characteristic we hasten to confess that we are not
personally responsible for the following: —
T-hese lines you read below
H-elp my name to shew;
E-ach one of you must know.
B-om in eighteen seventy nine,
U-nique in name os in design ;
L-aughing in his swaddling clothes
L-ike a strapping two-year-old;
E-very week he larger grows
T-hen with gossip over-flows,
I-n leaders good, in endless fun —
N-o living paper has so great a run.
August 15th, 1880.
QUIZ.
Oh Moses!
The Eev. A. C. Gillies has been getting into hot water
over his lecture on “Moses.” This is what one of the
Rev. gentleman’s enemies writes to ns about him :
What an awful lot of sillies, you must think us, A. C.
Gillies,
If you think that we can swallow all the rot
Ton tell concerning Moses, when no one else supposes
He was ever such a peaceful loving lot.
Of course it wasn’t Mosesjwho didn’t like the noses.
Possessed by Egypt’s little sons and heirs ;
And of course it wasn’t he who overturned the sea.
And finished with his enemies and cares.
But then who was it G. ? and how came it all to be—
Now don’t be so mysterious, but tell;
We’ll grant Mm your exemption in working out redemp-
tion,
Must we grant it to the other one as well r
And then, dear A. 0. G., ’tween you the post and me.
Bay where your Christ-like charity is fled:
You have spoken rough of men, who’ll be remembered
when
Every thought of you is buried with the dead.
Unless of course you rise to be considered very wise,
Yet gentle like the Master Mind you follow.
But if you do, my dear. I’m afraid it won't be here,
You’ve shown us that your reason’s far to hollow.
GEEBY.


TOWN TALK.
■jlies Lorn Wilmot, despite her recent vic-
tory over the newspaper people, is now some,
what in the position of the legendary young
jjear— all her troubles are before her. Being
pressed by her creditors [she has declared herself
insolvent, and the world now* knows that this
gifted “ inspirational” lecturer’s assets comprise
but the comparatively insignificant sum of J 660,
while her liabilities are about four times that
amount. Under these circumstances Madame
Wilmot, it would seem, will have not only to
forego her intention of contesting the electorate of
Newcastle, but also of “proceeding to America
immediately to qualify herself for the bar.” Well,
the point to be considered is, what, will she do
n ow that her personal property is limited to her
inspiration? Tarry amongst us, and continue to
delight and instruct us, of course! The mere
thought that this gifted creature will not be lost
to us causes our hearts to warm with a glow of
gratitude; at the same time we drop a tear of
sympathy for the poor who will thus
be, for the present, anyhow, deprived of the in-
-estimable boon of Lotti’s presence on the shores
of Columbia.
We are pleased to be able to chronicle that the
rising and witty young barrister, Mr. Clark
Irving, scored a win at the Criminal Sessions, in
procuring an acquittal for the young girl, Alice
Greenway, who was charged with the murder of
her infant. With all due respect and admiration
for Mr. Irving’s undoubted abilities, however, we
are inclined -to the belief that Miss Greenway’s
personal attractions not without their effect
upon the judge and ju- *..■ At the commencement
of the trial snb stood i raight up in front of the
dock, displaying her fine figure to its best advan-
tage, and tapping a little foot continually upon
the matting. Later, when Mr. Irving was cross-
examining the witnesses, she took a seat unbid-
den, and once smiled slightly, displaying a very
beautiful set of teeth. From that moment her
acquittal was a foregone conclusion. Softness
gleamed in the face of each of the jurymen; quiet
admiration was stamped upon the classic linea-
ments of the judge. Mr. Justice Windeyer’s
summing up was a marvel of judicial gentleness,
and while expounding the evidence, he contrived
to bring out the points favourable to the prisoner
in such a manner as to leave the jury no alterna-
tive but to acquit her. Of course wo do not for
one moment say that the young woman was unduly
favoured; all we wish to remark [is that when a
pretty face and a neat figure are concerned, not
even judges and jurymen are infallible.
Wouldn’t it be a good thing for every newspaper
to have a charming woman for its nominal—we
don’t say real—editor? Suppose, for instance,
that Alice Dunning Lingard, or Mrs. Morton
Tavares, or Emilie Melville or. some other queen
of a comedy or burlesque, had in recent libel actions
"kissed the book and said “ I am the editor,” &c.?
Who could have resisted “beautiful Portia?”
Jin editor’s wink isn’t sufficiently fascinating.
Brougham Place, Pitt-street, is gene-ally al-
lowed to be about as unpleasant a “ slum ” archi-
tecturally and socially as any city would care to
boast of. A few feet of pavement separate it, as
it were, from civilization. In Pitt-street all is
light and wealth —in Brougham Place all is gloom
and squalor and misery. They may call it “ Some-
street,” but no name can alter the character of
the thoroughfare. The houses are small, and
every room in every house is occupied. And yet
the denizens of the hovels are utterly regardless
of the fate of one another; so much so that not
long ago a girl grew sick, sank and died in one of
the dens without even a cup of water being given
to her by her neighbours—
Poor old Davie has broken out again. Like the
old woman in the fairy tale, he never can be quiet.
Writing to the Telegraph he proudly exclaims,
“I am member for Mudgee, and I vote against
■ everything that will injure Mudgee, although it
should benefit the colony as a whole.” This out-
burst, coming as it does, on the eve of a_ general
election, possesses a significance. Time will show,
however, whether the electors will swallow David’s
sugar-coated pill. In any case the hon. member
must indeed consider his chance of re-election to
bo a desperate one, when, in order to propitiate
the electors of one small constituency, he stoops
to such an unpatriotic assertion as the one we have
quoted. Not that, however, any proceeding on
the part of Mr. Buchanan would surprise us.
Whether larking in the ring with a circus-clown at
Morpeth, or raving in Parliament or in a court
house, Davie always continues to impress the
beholder with more “ astonishment ” than
*' admiration.” With regard to David’s abilities,
there is, we believe,{some difference of opinion
existing in the colony at the present time. So fax
as we are concerned we are quite willing to admit
that the hon. member for Mudgee is an amusing
old nedant, who, with his loud voice and funny
gestures would make an excellent outside man for
a small side show. Pedantry, however, crams our
heads with learned lumber, and takes out our
brains to make room for it; therefore David, with
all his so-called erudition is comparatively-
speaking always being wrong by rules, whilst
common sense is always contented to be right
without them. Altogether David is a man who
lives on theory; and we have no need to inform
the electors of Mudgee that such an eccentric
individual is hardly calculated to permanently
advance their interests in Parliament notwith-
standing that he “ will vote against everything
that wul injure Mudgee, even though it should
benefit the colony as a whole.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bradlaugh’s brother is a lay preacher.
The total Mormon population of Utah is 111,820.
A “ profession ” of nuns was held at Subiaco
last Monday.
Father Henneberry made 520 converts to temper-
ance at Mudgee.
Bishop Marsden confirmed seventy children at
Bathurst on Sunday.
Over ,£lO,OOO was the result of the London
Hospital Sunday Collections.
The Wesleyan Thanksgiving Fund in England
reaches to near 300,000 guineas.
Some of the Jesuits expelled from Prance have
pm-chased the old Neverall Estate in England.
The crowds going to church in Madrid last Holy
Week suspended vehicular traffic for four days.
Ex-Governor Brown has given .£lO,OOO to a
Baptist college and seminary at Louisville, U.S.
The C. E. Messenger gives its support to the
Roman Catholic movement in Victoria for payment by
results.
Mr. Spurgeon has been addressing large congre-
gations at Brisbane, where his preaching is greatly
admired.
The Americans have ninety-one missionaries in
Japan. At last accounts there were but 2000 or 3000
Christians.
Archbishop Vaughan confirmed 250 children at
Mount Carmel and 500 nt Parramatta during the last
few weeks.
The Darling Downs Gazette says that the
Rev. Thomas Jones has gone over to the Roman
Catholic Church.
The Queen has created the Jesuit Father,
Pore Lafont (Western Bengal) a Companion of the Order
of the Indian Empire.
The number of Mormon births at Utah last year
was 1230 males and 1231 females. Total church receipts
for 1879 were 1,097,034 dollars. %
The Rev. Mr. Saliniere, of St. John’s, Glebe, is
ill, and the confirmation appointed to take place the
ensuing week has been postponed.
The Rev. Rabbi Davis lectured to a very large
assemblage at the Masonic Hall on Wednesday week,
on the subject of “ Hell and the Devil.”
The Rev. Dean Gibney, the hero of Glenrowan,
was entertained last week at a harbour trip, by his
fellow-students from All Hallows College, Ireland.
They have a “ Young Women’s Christian Asso-
ciation” in Dunedin. The society has branch-rooms,
which are used by girls in business in town and by many
visitors.
The Pope has addressed the Austrian Govern-
ment to exert its influence at the 'coming conflence at
Madrid on behalf of Jews and other strangers at
Morocco.
Dr. Mackay of Hull says the amount contri-
buted by English charities to foreign and home mis-
sions amounts as near as he can tell to one penny per
head per day.
A new sect —the Holy Catholic Apostolic
Church —founded by the followers of Edward Irving of
London, are erecting a church in Webb-street, Te Aro,
New Zealand.
The Rev. Isaac Nelson, Presbyterian minister,
has been elected by a triumphant majority over his
opponent for the extremely Catholic constituency of
Mayo, Ireland. \
The Emperor of Austria made such strong repre-
sentations to the Italian minister at Vienna against the
proposed sale of the Propaganda in Rome that the Italian
Government withdrew it from auction.
The Tablet, Loftdon R. C. paper, opposes the
disestablishment of the Anglican Church on the ground
of its being a “serviceable bulwark” against the ag-
gressive spirit of the Noncomformists.
The capacity of the largest European churches
is stated as follows :—St. Peter’s, 54,000; Milan cathe-
dral, 37,000; St. Paul’s, 25,000; St. Sophia, 23,000;
Notre Dame, 21,000 and St. Mark’s, 7000.
It is suggested that the Methodist (Ecumenical
Conference, to be held in August, 1881, in England,
should meet at the City Road, where John Wesley,
Charles Wesley, and Joseph Benson preached.
No less than 66 persons are known to have
started for the Mormon settlement, Utah, within the
last six months, from N.Z, Towns. Elder Ball, a
Mormon apostle, has made his appearance at Oamaru.
The Right Hon. Mountiford Longfleld, LL.D.,
has contributed the munificent sum of £6OO a year for
ever to the fund created in Cork for the benefit of the
widows and orphans of the ministers of the Protestant
Episcopal Church.
Members of the Church of England in N.S.W.
have, at a public meeting in Sydney, affirmed the de-
sirability of taking every opportunity afforded by the
new Education Act for imparting religious instruction
in State schools.
The R. C. Archbishop of Dublin has ordered
that on week days Mass shall not be celebrated in his
diocese later than 10 o’clock. He is of opinion that
“ fasting till late hours has materially injured the health
of young priests."
The Rev. Dr. Steel, at last accounts, waa at-
tending the great Sunday School Convention in London.
There were 300 delegates from America and Canada alone.
Dr. Steele states that the Sunday School Associations
in England and America exhibit great vitality.
The thirteenth anniversary of the English
Ritualistic “ Confraternity of the Blessed Sacrament ”
was held recently in London. The society was stated
to consist of 900 clergymen and 12,000 lay persons.
Sixty-nine ministers and 1,000 lay communicants were
added to the roll;
The Adelaide Hospital Committee refused to
allow biblical or scriptural texts to be placed on the
walls, and the Christian Colonist remarks : —We sup-
pose it is a piece of concession to the cursed spirit of
secularism, which is leaving the mark of its venomous
trail over the education and the literature of the
charities at the present day."
“ The Vatican” (says a home paper) “is pre-
paring the decree by which St. Thomas Aquinas will
be proclaimed protector of all Catholic educational
institutions.” It will be remembered that it was by a
very learned work eu the life of St. Thomas Aquinas
that Dr. Vaughan (now R.C. Archbishop of Sydney)
first brought himself into special prominence.
The Archbishop of Canterbury recently re-
marked :—“ Some time ago people were afraid the
Church of England was going to the Pope, but it was a
fact worthy of notice that not one Catholic had been
sent to Parliament in the late elections by England,
Scotland or Wales.” In Ireland the reverse was the
case. Nearly half the members returned for the Irish
Catholic constituencies were Protestants.
Of the newly-elected American Methodist Bishops
all wear white neckties, all crown themselves with high
silk hats, and all are of modest bearing. Bishop Haven
is the smallest, as well as the oldest, of the four. He is
not more than five feet five inches in height, and weighs
only 130 pounds. Bishop Hurst wears a small sandy
goatee. Both Bishop Warren and Bishop Foss are tall
and somewhat slim. There isn’t a moustache in the
whole party. Dr. Leonard Qnmey said the other day,
“No man wearing a moustache was ever elected a bishop
in the Methodist Church.”
The Volunteers.
During the comparatively short existence of the
Farnell Ministry an import int change was made in
the military system of the colony. The Volunteer
Force was transformed into what has since been
known and described as “The New Organization.”
To Mr. Fitzpatrick, the Colonial Secretary of the
time, the credit is mainly due of this judicious and
enterprising experiment, and from the success that
has attended it he may fairly congratulate himself
upon having done the State some service. It had
been manifest for some time previous to the
change that notwithstanding the ardour that
generally pervaded the old volunteer force, and the
self-sacrificing efforts of many of the officers, it
was impossible, in the absence of some better
basis of control, to enforce the degree of discip-
line necessary to render it a reliable factor in our
defence system. The land order grants had
worked with tolerable success as long as they
lasted, but as soon as their issue ceased a large
falling-off of numbers set in superadded to a cor-
responding degree of laxity amongst many of
those who remained. The present force has been
subjected to a good deal of criticism ; but on the
whole it must be said that both the Parliament
and the public have treated it with patience and
so far with fairness. It has been objected that
payment of volunteers is paradoxical, and the
example of Great Britain is quoted in support of
the objection; but after all this may be regarded
as a sentimental objection. Payment primarily
ensures a considerable measure of control,
whereas purely voluntary service, as experience
has fully proved, carries with it scarcely a control
whatever. It is doubtful whether it is wise of the
Government to accept honorary services of any
kind; it is not only unwise, but it might
become dangerous to accept the unpaid
services of a large body of men to whom arms
have issued, and for whose maintenance in
drill and equipment a large annual expense must
be incurred. In England things are different from
what they are here. The maintenance of the
National prestige is an idea which is so generally
infused in the people’s minds that it forms a
strong incentive to organise, and moreover there
are many social advantages connected with the
volunteer force, which cannot for many years to
come have any existence in a colony. The question
with us appears to be, will the payment system,
which by the way is not an extravagant one, lead
to the building up of a force that can be relied on
in case of need ? Fortunately, from its inception
the Commandant has had the entire sympathy and
support of his officers, and the progress which has
been evinced at two encampments leads to the
belief that it will prove eminently successful.
Every allowance has hitherto been made for
defects, which were perhaps inseparable from a
state of transition, but the Commandant is
beginning to hint gently that the time has arrived
when some good work should be expected, and he
has commenced the test by holding his annual
inspection of the various corps. On the 7th inst.
the Ist Regiment under the command of Lieut.
Colonel Raymond underwent the ordeal. A
noticeable feature of improvement as compared
with older times was the punctuality with which
the men attended on the parade ground, and the
promptitude with which they filed on the sound of
the bugle. Individually the men look better than
formerly, their uniform and accoutrements are
put on with more care, and although there still
remains room for a little more attention to per-
sonal appearances the tout ensemble in these re-
spects was in a great measure satisfactory. An
inspection of a regiment is a matter which must
be done with great care. Every rifle is examined
minutely, the other accoutrements and the clothing
are also examined closely. This portion of the
business to the unprofessional spectator appears
tedious, but owing to the good arrangements of
the regiment and the proficiency of the com-
pany officers this portion of the business was got
through with comparative celerity. The drill com-
menced with the manual and firing exercises,
which was entrusted for the first time to a com-
pany officer, Captain Johnston, of No. 4 Company.
These exercises were also repeated by Adjutant
Hill. Some battalion movements were then done
by Major Richards. Adjutant Hill again was
placed in command, and after doing some battalion
movements put the regiment through the attack
formations. Colonel Raymond then assumed com-
mand, marched past in column and quarter-
column and advanced in review order, terminating
with a general salute. The whole of the drill was
marked by steadiness and smoothness. The men
have learned to keep perfect order in the ranks
and to concentrate their attention upon the orders,
and the officers exhibited perfect acquaintance
with their duties, as not a single hitch of any kind
occurred. We are informed that at the conclu-
sion of the parade the Commandant expressed
great satisfaction with everything that had been
done. Major Baynes and Major Christie accom-
panied the Commandant during the Inspection.
By the Name of Potman.
A PLAIN (AND EVEN UGLY) STATEMENT.
I am a barber, and some time ago I took an
apprentice.
He was a cheerful blue-eyed youth, with a habit
of whistling out of tune. I fell into a habit of
smacking his head for doing so, but that is neither
here nor there.
His mother brought him to me, paid the pre-
mium, and said I should find him a good boy. I
set him to the lathering as a start, and tried to
show him how to set the edge on a razor. He set
the edges off the razors, on the contrary, tell him
what I might, and I never came across his equal
for vexatious lathering. The way he filled the
customers’ ears and got the bristles up their
noses, you would hardly credit. If one chanced to
gape, the gaper got a mouthful to a certainty,
and more than one very narrowly escaped loss of
sight.
Of course as I had taken the old woman’s
money I was bound, some time or other, to show
him how the scraping was to be done ; but that
sort of knowledge cannot exactly be picked up
theoretically, and who was I to let him loose upon
to start with f
I had been doing a good, steady sort of trade
for the last five years or so, and had got a genteel
little circle of customers who came daily. It was
not likely that I could let him hack and hew at
any of them. If a harmless sort of stranger would
only drop in when the shop was empty, the poor
boy might have a chance. A harmless stranger
dropped in, unfortunately for himself, before long,
and I gave young Potman a good sharp razor, and
went and bolted myself in my bedroom and put
my fingers into my ears.
Before very long there was an awful howling
in the shop. Then more howling. Then some
crockery went, and I began to get excited. I ran
in therefore to see what it was all about, and the
sight of that mutilated stranger made me almost
weep.
When I think of Saint What’s-his-name
they are flaying alive in a corner of our
big picture gallery, I rather take it he was
let off lightly in comparison with this stranger.
When I say that he could just manage to open his
eyes, and that he might have kept his mouth shut
and taken in his food without an effort at two
other places, I trust I shan’t be thought to be ex-
aggerating. Happily he had no friends here,
and was an orphan. I bound up his wounds, and
charged him nothing for the shave, and he went
away limping, but seemingly not so dissatisfied as
he might have been.
After that young Potman tried his hand once or
twice. When I was out he got hold of some of my
regular customers ; and several strangers ho hap-
Eened to catch unawares were mowed out of all
uman likeness. I had some pounds to pay for
noses and ears, and things of that sort he lopped
off permiscuons.
At last I began to think he was injuring the
trade, and I put it to him mildly—
“ You fiend incarnate,” I said, “ you’ve utterly
blasted all my earthly reputation. You’ve brought
my grey hairs -with infamy to the mire. You’ve
crushed me utterly, and bust up for evermore
what was once a respectable business. You lop-
sided, putty-fingered, left-handed, butter-fingered,
imbecile jackass, get 1”
I led him with these gentle words to the thresh-
hold of my establishment, and fixed him up to have a
good kick at him, but the ungrateful young repro-
bate swerved to the right and squirmed to the
left, and wriggled in a mean and shuffling manner.
When I had disjointed both legs at the knee
and hip I gave up the notion of kicking him, and,
returning to my shop, threw three shillings’ worth
of scented soaps at his head.
I have never seen him since, or the soap.
But I bear him no ill-will. May he live to
grow a beard, and may I live to shave him.
That’s all.
The Railway Journal, an American news-
paper, containing the latest important intelligence, is
now printed and published daily in the trains running
between New York and San Francisco. News is tele-
graphed from various parts of the States to stations on
the line and it is set up, printed and circulated among
the passengers while the train is in motion.
A correspondent, from whose letter we make an
extract in order that enquiry may be stimulated, says :
—“ Prom the Synagogue altar the other Saturday,
two instances were given by the Rabbi of the annoying
system of proselytism which prevails in several of the
charities of Sydney. One young Jew, Aaron Myers, was
so persecuted by nurses endeavouring to ‘ convert *
him, that, dying and in pain as he was, he was con-
strained to leave a private hospital, and may be said to
have died the victim of misdirected and ill-timed zeal
Another Hebrew patient was kept awake at night—the
time when sleep was most needed by him—by persons
reading prayers to him.” It requires no testimony
from us to the fact that our Jewish fellow-citizens
never interfere with those who differ from them in re-
ligious faith, and if the Rabbi’s assertions are true, it
seems reasonable to suppose that the authorities in out
curative institutions will see that a stop is put to thik
most objectionable practice.
In a pestilential alley
Where the light of day’s excluded.
Where the noxious vapours dally
With the fever-stricken air,
On a ragged couch extended
Was a form which fitly blended
With the squalor of that lair.
* ♦ * *
A girl ! —one of God’s creatures—
A girl whose pallid features
Were seared and scarred by dissipation, dire ueglect
and crime ;
A girl whose lips had tasted
Of every vice that wasted
Her heart’s blood many, many weary years before her
time.
She lay there panting, moaning.
She lay there, sighing, groaning.
With no kind hand to cheer her or cool her aching
head.
Her time was quickly flying ;
Though she was yet but dying—
The selfish world to her, alas! had many days been
dead.
* * * *
But a stone’s-throw from that dwelling
Many voices rose up, swelling
Into musical cadences on the balmy summer breeze.
And carriages were stopping
Whilst ladies did their shopping.
In gorgeous garments redolent of riches and of ease.
But who in that throng heieded
The dying girl who needed
A Christian soul to kneel beside her dying cotich and
pray,
And soothe her dire affliction
Ere came dread infliction
Which would waft her soul in silence to a kingdom far
away?
INTAGLIOS.
The Old Letter.
I burned the others, one by one ; but my courage
failed at last,
And I snatched this, scorched and yellow where the
fire’s breath had passed,
I could not let it lie there, for it turned like a thing in
pain;
And I love it for the old times’ sake that’ll never come
again.
They used to call me beautiful; I had nothing else
beside,
There was none more great or wise than he in all the
cold world wide;
And it’s still a sort of pleasure—very mournful though
it be—
To know he once could think such thoughts, and write
such words of me.
But my poor beauty faded; ’twas the only thing I had,
I was always weak and foolish, and my whole life grew
sad:
For the cruel blighting fever left me pitiful to see,
(Oh it’s true that “Beauty’s fleeting,” and my love no
more loved me).
I’d have loved him all the more for that, or any grief
beside;
But then he was so different. Oh! If I had only died!
And yet, how can I wish him to have suffered in my
stead ?
I think it would have grieved him, then, to hear that I
was dead.
I have nothing to forgive him; still he very soon
forgot.
Men have much to do and think of, that we girls have
not.
A man has little thought to spore for his own chosen
wife;
Women’s minds are very narrow, and a girl’s love is
her life.
They say I should forget him, but I cannot if I would.
For since my beauty left mo I have tried hard to be
good.
And his name is ever on my lips, when I pray to God
above —
Oh ! surely I may pray for one I can never cease to love.
I was never fit to be his wife, even when my face was
fair;
But every one can pray to heaven: we all are equal
there;
And God in his great mercy will not pass my prayers
by;
I have one thing left to live for —to pray for him—till
Idle.
A. DE CRESPIGNY.
Waiting.
Now since we two have counted up the cost
And pain of waiting till our chance is found
(Some broader chance than any we have lost
Must come to meet us as the years go round);
And since we know each heart will stand the test
Of absence and of waiting; since we know
That all love’s whirl of passion and unrest,
Was calmed for us by duty long ago.
And since we know the past is past beyond recall,
We must accept the fruit of its mistake ;
And trust the dim “ to come,” to give us all
We dare not covet now for honour’s sake.
And till that sure time comes, dear love, we must
In God, in love, and in each other trust.
And it will dawn for us, that happy day,
When love shall overleap whatever lies
Between our lives, and we shall find our way
To joys repaying every sacrifice.
We have so little in the present now,
We have so much to hope from time to come.
We can afford to wait; our true love vow
Binds us for ever, though our lips be dumb.
We take our stand upon each other’s faith.
We know each other to be true as steel,
We hold each other’s future; life or death
Can neither mar nor alter aught we feel.
We work apart, till love, our harvest’s lord.
To reap our fruit together gives the word.


Hotels, &c.
T
HE COMPAGNO
CAPE AND CATERING CC
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s REST
IS NOW OPEI
The Company have secured th
Marriette, late ch(sf de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinnei
Three hours notice required for pn
The spacious rooms of Messrs
been greatly enlarged, re-decon
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30,1880.
/"'IOMPAGNONI PALACE (
serve up in their bes
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLL(
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATUR
Patrons of onr Theatres and Co:
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposit
T
HE SYDNEY COFI
396, 395, 397 Geoege
The most POPULAR HOT
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Si
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of A
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes.
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. Pirst-clas
Fare constantly varied. Fish alwi
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. Th<
men’s Dining and Retiring Room:
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week
nightly. Meals only charged wht
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE
158 George-street, and 13 Nt
Circular Quay
IS NOW OPE
The Premises are Three-Storie
frontages to both George-street and
Quay, with a through depth of
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ...SO
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with conve
tiring room, &c-)
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Ro
(all leading papers). Parlour
Rooms, sj=c., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Oi
Roof, with View of Sydney He
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bal
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lar
and spacious Shop Accommodatio
a most complete manner, and quit
the demands of thousands of pers
Family and Picnic Parties sup
to order en the shortest notice am
terms.
c.
J. ROB
SINGLE BOTTLE DEP
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for u
Pore West India Rum,
6s per imperial
THISTLE BLEI
Legal
M
S
R. A. G 0
SOLICIT'
(Also of the Supreme Coart i
Has commenced practice
Office —s 3 Elizabeth
HOETEE & FI
Solicitors,
60 CASTLEEEAGH STREI
And
Macquarie Street
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOR, has co
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
Business Cai
UNIVERSITY HALL. NET
Mr. SHERIDAN MOORE i
pupils for ANY University examin:
by Mr. CRAIG, second-class classi
T. C. D. (1862).
UNIVERSITY HALL.—Mr
gives private Lessons in
matics at this institution.
w
K
ILLIAM BEDE
Licensed Survi
(Surveyor under the Real I
LAND AGEN'
14 Bridge-street, S
OBERTS, HARRIS, 1
LICENSED SURVEYORS
ARBITRATORS, AND
Rescissions and reclamations !
Run Maps compiled to latest date
House ; Chambers, 130, Pitt-stree
B LACHMANN AN
ARCHITECT
26 7 GEORGE S
SYDNEY.
w.
G.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAT
225 Bourke-street, Woe
AND S. P 1
SAW MILLS AND TIM
16 Erskine Stbi
Every description of Foreign a
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &0., a 1
ESTABLISHED
Jl O W I E R’S P
AND
brick wor:
CAMPERDOWN, NEi
Price List on applic
CIGNORA L. P.
Professor op Sii
173
VICTORIA S
Darlinghurst.
M
ISS ELISE
(From Tasman
TEACHER OP THE Pli
173 Victoria-str*
J SKINNER AND CO., 15
• BRASSPOUNDERS, PL
GASPITTERg
Beer Eusinbb-
WOODFORD
(Prom Lon do
SANITARY AND PRACTICE
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Cornel
Baths and Water-closets fitted o
principle. Galvanized Iron Works
and Gasfltters.
c.
Auctioneers and Comm:
JOHN
B R
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Ai
LIVE STOCK AND STA
Flour, Grain, and Met
T N. MEIKLEJOH
* • Produce and Commissi
Market Wharf and A.S.N. C
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Co
on hand, sold at market rat
guarantee as regards
All orders by post or otherwise p
COMMERCIAL STORES, SI
JOHN McMINN
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE II
GENERAL COMMISSIO
Special attention given to Consigr
Sales promptly rendered. In
and Country Orders executed
T. B u :
HOUSE AND LAN!
353, GEORGE
NEAR KING STRI
PRIVATELY OR
PW. CROWE & CO., S'
• AND GENERAL COMM
4 BARRACK ST:
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders
Corn, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY
AND SMITH 1
T T tioneers, Commission Ag
Salesmen, hold Sales by .
BEEP, Mutton, and Port, at the
Company’s Sheds, Darling Ha
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Dari
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat,
&c., at Darling Harbour Rail?
days, Wednesdays, and Friday
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, C
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 Ge
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newi
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, a
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and T;
Darling Harbour —every Thur
HEAD OFFICE-699 GEORGE-1
P
ITT, SON, AND
STOCK AND STATIC:
SYDNEY.
N.B. —All Fat Stock received an
Large Store Stock coi
Proceeds and Account Sales pui
M.
PITT. SOI
E. M E
21. PARK-STREET,
Hotel Broker, Financial and Ge:
to lend. Various payable Hotels i
localities, in-going easy.
Tobacconist
T
HE G E 5
VIRGINIAN TO!
Comprising Every Dei
Manufactured by the renowned :
Richmond, Virg
To be had at the Whole
639 GEORGE S
Haymarket.
Hotels, &c
The best shilling l
(including a Glass of Ah
is to be bad at
H. DONALDSON’S MERC
AND
LUNCHEON E
BRIDGE-STRE
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joint
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets cr
the bar in packets of eleven
available for any day.
Table d’hftte on Sundays at 1
FREE COUNTER I
COME AND TASTE THE OLD C
~\T I C T O R I A
Having taken the above hotel i
alterations and which will be fit
fashionable style, I trust that I
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., and
most respectable manner, to meri
public.
GEORG!
c
OAC H AND HORi
MITT AGON G
Within three minutes of the J
Mb. C. SHEATHEB, PR<
Buggy always in attendance
Visitors from the metropolis
finding the very best accomodation
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun
l neighbourhood.
L T O |lfr ' C L U
Elizabeth-St., I
H. Oliphant
Healthiest position and most co
Sydney. Private Suites of
Detached BAR ; BATHS, S
Hot Coffee, Rum and Milk, See., i
d’hote I p.m. daily.
Id on parle Frai
Australian wine.-
PORPHYRY, equal to the
Awarded First Prize at the Garde
3 doz. cases, 12s. fid. doz.; quarts
21s. dor. H. S. BIRD and CO., Ag
w
HIS K Y
I
READ PAMPHLET and PUI
ROE’S V FIVE-YEAR-O:
UNBLENDED WH
Recommended by the 1
ROBERT PHILLIPS and C
Sole Agents for
THE ISLAY BLEND WHU
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of 0
fast becoming a favourite in nea
colonies. For purity, strength and
excelled, and the analytical report
“ A very fine spirit with that delic
teristic of the finest Scotch wl
thoroughly matured, and can be
most wholesome and pleasant whis
Agent for New South Wales and <
BASS’S PAL
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA
Battled by
IHLEES’ and BE
LIVERPOOL.
The undersigned have been A
AGENTS for the above Celebrated
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN j
Betdge Strek
CHAS. BATH,
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET-
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
TAMES PE M ELL AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STEEET,
KBAB THE HAYMABKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEOEGE-STEHET SOUTH. SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE BAILWAY BTATIOH.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUE, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked. Corn, Barley, Oats,
Pens, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
Potatoes, &c.
GEORGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.
10
August 21, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


Business Annoui
INTERNATIONA!, PXH
SWALLOW and AEIELL w,
■prizes for their celebrated Bisct
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 3435& £
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL ,'EXHIBI'
BENCEAET and Co. were awan
for their superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. H. AEIELL, Keni
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’
TEEACLE and GOLDEN SYE
in tins, 2, 7,14, and 231bs each, anc
cwt. each. Sole agent,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking P<
and assorted Jains. Special ag<
$43, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors n.
fALING’S MUSIC 1
>ha o j o
a*! s<xtH ~tB-h
ERARD’S PARIS PL
have gained t
TWO FIRST P
in
THE FRENCH
Agent: W. H. P.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRAT
Non-competit
BUT UNSURPi
Agent : W. H. P.
W. BELL and CO.’S
have gained t
FIRST and SPECIA
OVER ALL OT:
Solo Agent: W. H.
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIA*
have
GAINED ANOTHI
for the
FOURTH TI
at
THE INTERNATIONAL
W. H. PALI
352 GEORGE-S 1
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET
toTVt COVERNMENT OBSP
mm
Business Announ
P
A T
BINT
Of Every Descrij
BEDU C E D
Executed with Desj
JOHN WOODS and CO.. 1
(Late Foster and F;
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of "T
J.
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CO
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ES
420 (late 440) GEORGE
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand,
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by
Country and Shipping orders pro
SLATTEBY
Wholesale and R(
to Jtifi
gbo c e
I -,eS no
soK .io *»•
705 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
b!Y lpo
p.
MA H C
AGENT, E
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL
P.
B. LA
Wholesale and R(
PRODUCE MEB
Comer
GEORGE AND GIBBS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STOR]
48 Qeorge-street West (late Parr
Darlinghurst Road, near Willian
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and
P. E. LABK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
PRINCE OF WALES
778 GEORGE STREE'
SYDNEY.
-it r
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haj
jg X ZEAL.
Fifteen Cases
A.
N. Co.,
S.
Consisting ol
! NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOT
Puzzles, Articles of usefu
Books, &c., &c.
AMERICAN NOVEL
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STB
(Opposite Australian Joint
Business Annoon
\ BOON TO THE SY:
Mb. P. HURST, having bee
boot factories on the Continent, is
to import and sell the best makes
figure than any other house in Syd
French calf, hand-sewn, warrant
high-leg satin boots, 6s, 6d. Call i
the style.
P. HURST,
494 George-stre
JJOMES FOR TH
It is difficult to understand wh
continue to pay rent, when for a sn
amount now going to the landlon
years realise
THEIR OWN FREE
for their own profit and that of
them.
The undersigned offers a ch
hundreds of well-sit
VALUABLE BUILDING A]
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the subv
CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYM
Giving Immediate Pi
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, <fcc„
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILL
For those having no present h
an undeniable opportunity of in
denoed by the fact of the astouni
main during the past six years, i
that the present chance can ever re
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORK
There are no law [costs, no cor
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed IND]
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Bo
Hotel.
INY
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS I
For lighting Dwellings, Churche
Buildings, Municipalities, Citiei
For particulars see Catalogue
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole.
Sole Agents for-
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BEI
Mr. H. T. SMITH. Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE k SON, T(
Importers of all kinds of iron, 1
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chi
soda fountains and machinery used
of soda water and other rorated bei
and bottling machines, map shoe
&c., &c.
FIRST PRIZE (International
water Machinery, JErated Wine an
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Sta:
SMITH AND HAN
43 GLOBE BU:
SUSSEX STREET H
Gr.
B. M O I
GUNMAKER AND (
602 Geoege Street, Si
Awarded 2 special prizes for col
Cutlery. Importer of every
Firearms, Cutlery
Every descriptien of Firearms re
stocked on the shortest notice,
made to order on the premises.
STIEPVATER,
Business Anaoun
M
ADILOCK’S SELB'
381 GEORGE ST]
SYDNEY.
This Library wild be found to coni
newest works <
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOL(
which are received immediately 01
and fast ocean stea
Arrangements have been made
mblishers for full supplies of ev
nterest to be sent as soon as publi
In addition to the above \
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTE]
Subscribers may join at any da
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One month, ss. ; Three months, l!
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families, —Those !
a larger supply of bo*ks than one s
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two se
taken from the Library at once for
Books or Periodicals may in all
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.—Subscr
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors '
may even join for a Fortnight, and
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents,—Specii
made for the benefit of Country Sul
taking a parcel of from Three to
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MAE
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-
parcel,rates. A card of aountry t
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST c
BOOKS now in circulation:
Memories of my Exile, by Lou:
A Ride in Petticoats and Slippe
Colville.
Cross Purposes, by Cecilia Pint
Miles Harding, by A. Weber
Edgar Allan Poe : His Life, L<
by J. H. Ingram
There's Rue for you, by Arthui
The Fair Haired Alda, by Flon
London Town, by Marcus Fall
Mervyn O'Connor, by Lord Dei
Signor Molodini’s Neice
Memories of Troubled Times, 1
Second Thoughts, Dy Rhoda Bi
With a Silken Thread, by E. Li
The World of Cant
Six Life Studies of Famous Wo
Edwards
The Mistress of Coon Hall, by ]
The Great Navigators of the 1
by Jules Verne
Very Genteel, by the author of *
Journal”
David Armstrong
George Vanbrugh’s Mistake, by
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by 1
The Duke’s Children, by Anth<
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Ja
Plain English, by John Holling
Dr. Rigby’s Letters from Franc<
The Purcell Papers, by J. S. Le
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Two
Moths, by Ouida
Protection and Bad Tithes, by 0
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackir
Poor Zeth, by author of “ Grai
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie (
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme
In Kent with Charles Dickens,
Royal Windsor, 4 vols., by W. I
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Ri
Russia, Before and After the W
“ Society in St. Petersburg!
Life and Writings of Henry '
Alfred Henry Huth
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Gran
Her Dignity and Grace
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
HADDOCK’S SELECT
381 George Street Sy
Open from !» a.m. to 6 p.m.
INTER (
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Regula
TENNIS BALLS, Regulation Size c
sewn.
RACKET BATS, all prices.
FRISQUETTE, or LADIES’ CRIC
All of Jeffries’ and Mailings’
GILBERT’S MATCH FOOT BAL]
QUOITS, all sizes mode to colonial
[ BOZING GLOVES, INDIAN CLU


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STONY OR
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIV.— (Continued).
“ I never think about such things. I call it
vanity to be always wondering whether you are
superior to other people.”
She rose and went across the room to talk to
Mrs. Mallory. Very soon she was discussing the
merits of anew knitting pattern, just as if no
such thing as women’s rights had ever been heard
of.
When she had gone, had retired, after
fervently expressing his opinion that she was the
loveliest, most fascinating, schonste, herrlichste
person he had ever seen, Mrs. Mallory introduced
her intended remarks upon her favourite. Did
not Sebastian think her very lovely? Yes; she
certainly was an exquisitely beautiful girl. And
intelligent, too ? Undoubtedly; but there was a
certain sameness about her animation. She seemed
to rave a good deal upon one subject.
“ If you knew her surroundings, Sebastian, you
would not be surprised, I assure you. Such a
brother! With her high spirit, and rather strained
ideas as to what is honourable and gentlemanly,
it must be a bitter cross to her to have that brother
constantly disgracing himself in
one way or the other.”
“Yes, that is true. ’
“ And her father and mother,
too ”
“ Ha! what about them?”
“ Her mother ia a mere cipher—
a handsome, helpless, vulgar
woman; kind-hearted, but abso-
lutely weak in intellect, and the
father ia a hard, coarse man, who
bullies that unfortunate woman
in a disgraceful manner. He is
proud of his daughter, but in a
tyrannical despotic way. Fortu-
nately for her (I may say it with-
out boasting), he thinks me the
beet friend she could have, and
places no restraints on her visits
to me. Otherwise, she has not a
congenial companion.”
“ The benefit must have been
immense to her,” he said. “ I
wondered, after all I had heard
of her family, how she came to
be even so well-behaved.”
“ She ought to marry soon.
She would soon calm down if she
had a kind husband, whom she
loved.”
Sebastian remarked dryly that
she had forcibly expressed her
determination to eschew any such
relationship.
Mrs. Mallory shook her head,
smiling with gentle pity.
“ So she may say, but her father
has very different views for her.
She would be very helpless, cast
upon the world, with her beauty,
her hasty disposition, and her
large fortune.”
Has she a fortune, then?” ha
asked with provoking indifference.
“ Sebastian, that young, warm-
hearted girl, with all her enthu-
siasms and crotchets, ready to
fall into the hands of any adven-
turer, will have at least a hundred
thousand pounds.”
Mrs. Mallory spoke with solemn,
impressive manner and tones.
She was watching her son, who
seemed to view the matter with a
seriousness that promised well, for
ho stood, his hands folded behind
him, his eyes fixed upon the car-
pet, profoundly silent and pro-
foundly grave, till, looking up
with a sudden, humorous smile,
he said;
“ Mafoi ! The adventurer who
won her and her hundred thou-
sand pounds, and her frantic ideas
women’s rights, and the execra-
tions of all the other adventurers
who had tried and failed to win her
—and her family, who must be
most delightful people, I am sure
—-that adventurer would have
driven the very hardest bargain
that could well be imagined. I
pity him, whoever he may be.
. . . . Good night, mother.
You must excuse me ; I have
several things to do to-night. I
have my business to learn, you
know.
CHAPTER XV.
’“Do so,’ said Socrates; ‘here is
room by me.’
“ * Oh, Jupiter! ’ exclaimed Alkibi-
ades, * what I endure from that man !
He thinks to subdue every way.* ”
In a week from that time the
master’s face was beginning to be
familiar to his workpeople; and
hia business and its details were beginning to be a
little less strange to him. Whatever Sebastian
thought, felt, or endured, in the change so com-
plete and entire, of habits, customs, and sur-
roundings—and the contrast, and the effort to
grow accustomed to it must have been pretty
severe at times—he said nothing—made absolutely
no remark, but quietly “ went at it,” with a cool,
calm, comprehensive energy which amazed Wilson
and the other secondary officials, and delighted
Mr. Sutcliffe.
It seemed as if, from tko moment in which the
young man had entered the place, work had walked
up to him, ready to his hand, and that hand had
grappled with it, and that head had bent itself
to the understanding of it, without thought or in-
tention of ever turning baek, until the task were
accomplished. His place was ready for him and
he stepped into it. He had a tenacious memory ;
he was rather fond of saying that it was the only
mental advantage he possessed. He was a very
quiet, undemonstrative person—never paraded
any likes or dislikes; at the end of a week, his
mother was amazed and angry to find, that though
he had so completely worsted her on that eventful
night when Helena Spenceley had dined with them
yet that she did not discover any pronounced
points of character in him—no particular weakness
or predilections on which she could lay hold, as
handles by which to manage him. This annoyed
her excessively: she puzzled over it, and tried to
find a way out of it, and was, almost unknow-
ingly to herself, nourishing towards her son an at-
titude which was beginning to be one of opposi-
tion.
Sebastian’s retentive memory held, amongst the
other figures with which it was peopled, that of
Myles Heywood in a conspicuous and prominent
place. A most distinct impression remained in his
mind of the workman’s defiant attitude and words.
What Sebastian felt towards the young man would
make too long a tale, and involve too much dry
psychological analysis, to be here recorded. Mrs.
Mallory had most truly told her son that whether
she knew his habits or not, she was sure they were
not the habits of Thanshope business men. Some-
thing happened just about this time—and Sebas-
tian’s method of treating the matter would
probably have made the hair of a Thanshope
business man stand on ond, or called forth from
bis tongue emphatically Doric epithets as to the
young mill-owner’s sanity, and mental capacity in
general.
Sebastian never beheld Myles’s firmly set lips
and sharply contracting eyebrows without wonder-
ing whether those strongly marked features were
merely signs of an absolutely crabbed disposition
and bad temper, or whether they wore only traits
of a hot temper and quick disposition. He tried
in half a dozen ways to find out, but in vain.
Myles put on a silent dignity and reserve equal to
Sebastian’s own, until at last pure accident put
the matter to the test.
Some irregularity or insubordination had
occurred in one of the rooms, which Sebastian bad
been discussing with Mr. Sutcliffe, and the latter
had said that someone must be told off on the
following day to superintend that room—some one
in authority. The following morning Sebastian,
coming down to the works, entered the outer office,
and found Wilson and Myles there.
“ Has Mr. Sutcliffe come ? ” he inquired.
“ Yes, sir,” said Wilson. “ He’s in his room.”
‘‘Did he give any orders about the beaming-
room? ”
“ No, sir. He hasn’t mentioned it to me.”
“ Oh! Well, Heywood, you had better go there,
and look over them this morning. I can’t have
them idling about as they have been doing. You
had better go at once.”
With that, and without waiting for any answer,
he stepped forward into the inner office, and closed
the door after him.
Myles went on with his work for some minutes,
and then rose.
“If yon go to the beaming-room,” observed
Wilson, ‘ ‘ I must take your place in the warehouse
myself, I suppose.”
“ I’m not going to the beaming-room,” was the
tranquil reply.
“ Not going ! But the master ”
“ I’m not a Ja«k-of-all-trades. I know what my
business is, and how long it will take me to do it.
It is not my business to overlook the beaming-
room ”
“ But Mr. Mallory didn’t know that.”
“ So it appears,” said Myles, with a disagree-
able smile. “ He’ll know it for the future. It’s
all in the way of learning. You can find someone
else to overlook the beamers. I’m off to the ware-
house.”
With which he departed, leaving Wilson aghast.
It was through a mere casual question to Wil-
son that Sebastian found out, later, what had
happened. Wilson’s evident confusion aroused
his suspicions. Dropping his careless tone, he pro-
mptly bade the overlooker tell all that had passed.
Wilson stammered out the whole story, even to
Myles’s remark about it “ all being in the way of
learning,” and then stood, looking miserable, and
feeling no less so, listening for the command,
“ Send Heywood to me.”
But the command did not come, and Wilson
concluded that the dismissal would perhaps be
given through Mr. Sutcliffe. That it would be
given, and that promptly, he did not doubt, nor
was he reassured by the perfect calm and good-
temper of Mr. Mallory’s expression.
Several days passed, and still Myles Heywood,
without let or hindrance, pursued his usual avoca-
tions undisturbed; and still Mr. Mallory, calm
and good-tempered as over, continued to learn
away at his business; and still he made no remark
upon the act of flagrant insubordination which
had taken place.
Saturday came some three days after the occur-
ence just described. It was late in the afternoon,
and work had been over for an hour and a half,
but the mill was not yet closed, for Mr. Mallory
and Mr. Sutcliffe were in the inner office, in con-
sultation, and Ben, the office boy, wishing that his
superiors would bring their parley to a close and
let him look up and get home to his holiday.
Within, at that moment, there ensued a little
pause, and Sebastian rose, looking thoughtful and
leaning against the mantelpiece. Presently be
said:
“ Well, I suppose there is nothing else for it;
we had better put up the half-time notice this
afternoon.”
“ Yea. There is nothing else for it,” echoed
Mr. Sutcliffe. “It will be no time in a few weeks
We can’t hold out much longer.”
“ Ah!” said Sebastian, and again seemed to
fall into a train of thought, until he said :
“I wonder how it will end? What is there in
this life of yours, Mr. Sutcliffe, that gives it its in-
terest ? I feel more as if I were really living now
than I ever did before. The cotten trade is on its
last legs, for a time; and a young man who dis-
likes me has behaved with insubordination and
impertinence; and yet though there is nothing in-
trinsically interesting in those facts, and no con-
nection between them, I feel intensely interested
in both.”
“You will excuse my saying it, Mr. Mallory, but
it is not discipline to have allowed Heywood to
remain a single day in your employment after his
openly disobeying an order of yours. It goes very
much against my judgment.”
“ I know it is neither business nor discipline,”
said Sebastian, apologetically; “but you must
allow me a little tether now and then, till I am
more used to run in harness in this way. lam
trying an experiment in regard to that young man.
It is a delightful diversion from business. How
long has he been here, did you say?”
“ Fifteen years, and his sister eleven. Except
in the strike, four years ago, they have never lost
a day.”
“ Exactly It would decidedly displease me —it
would humiliate me to think that a man who had
amicably worked fifteen years during my absence
should have to—hook it within a fortnight after
my arrival. Besides, he is unusually intelligent
and an admirable workman.”
“Ay, he is. He could direct and manage i
ever he got a rise in life. He has a head on his
shoulders as good as any one else’s, but that tern-
per of hia will be the ruin of him.”
“ I don’t know about that,” said Sebastian, re-
flectively, as if discoursing with himself. “ That
temper ©f his —I should dearly like to subdue it ’*
“I be£ your pardon?” said Mr. Sutcliffe, to
whom this was as so much Sanscrit.
Sebastian looked up with a smile.
“ Leave me my own way in this matter, Mr
Sutcliffe. I promise that, if things do not turn
out as I expect, I will dismiss Heywood on Mon-
day.”
At this moment Ben put hia head in at the door
and remarked:
“ Please, sir, there’s your carriage, and the
young gentleman in it, a-come for you; and
Heywood. ho wants to know if he can speak to
you.”
“ Show him in here, and tell the gentleman I
will join him in a few minutes.”
Ben disappeared.
I’ll leave yon alone with your rebel, Mr. Mallory.
I shall be curious to know whether he has come to
beg pardon or to give notice.”
“For my part,” said Sebastian, “ I have no-
more idea which he will do than an owl in the
parish church tower.”
Mr, iSutcliffe laughed and went away, and a
moment afterwards Myles Heywood entered the
office. Sebastian, still leaning up
against the mantelpiece, looked
at hum ccjnld read nothing
from hia expression. He felt that
he did not know the man, and he
also 1 'fhftr ah ’ Inexplicable anxiety
that the man should not say he
was goihg to leave his service.
“ Good afternoon,” said he,
“ Von wish to speak to me ?”
Myles had taken off his cap, a
sign which Sebastian noticed in-
stantly.
“Yes,” said he slowly, but not
ungraciously. “You gave me an
order the other day, which I took
no notice of, and I spoke of you
as I ought not to have done. I
am sorry that I did so, and I beg
yonr pardon.”
Sebastian had watched him
intently, and with keen interest.
He saw that Myles had strung
himself up to say the words from
a sheer sense of what was right and
fitting, and from conviction that
he had done wrong; not from any
sudden leaning towards him,
Sebastian. And he saw that the
anxiety and the uneasiness
followed, not preceded, the words.
He saw that Myles laid great
importance upon the manner in
which his words were taken.
“It is granted freely,” said
Mallory. “I felt sure that you
were too manly not to do this.
You have felt that I had no wish
to be capricious, or put you to
work that was not yours, when I
gave you that order? ”
“ Yes ; I have thought it over,
and felt that that was the case.”
“You have worked here fifteen
years, and it would have troubled
me very much if you had, from
any reason, been obliged to leave
me as soon as I got here.”
Myles looked up, surprised, but,
as Sebastian plainly saw, with a
flush of self-reproach. It had not
entered into his calculations that
Sebastian could possibly take any
interest in him or hia. The latter
went on t
“ I am new to my work; you
must remember that. Another
time, don’t let a mistake go so
near costing yon your place, and
me my best workman.”
Myles’s face flushed.
“I will certainly bear it in
mind,” said he. “ I have.a hasty
temper, and it leads me astray
often, I know.”
“ And you do not like me,”
said Sebastian, looking steadily at
him.
Myles’s eyes were also fixed
upon hia.
“ I have not liked you,” ho said;
“ I should tell a lie if I said even
now that I liked you; but I
respect you. I shall respect you
txqm this day, and I don’t think
jjpjp, .wilY have to complain
either of disrespect or disobedience
.from me again.”
“You have relieved my mind
very imuch. lam glad we have
had this explanation. It does
you credit.”
“ The credit is not all with me,”
said Myles, hastily, with a rising
colour and a conscious look, which
.Sebastian remarked. “ I had
some advice from someone, that
finished it off. I must go now.
Good afternoon.”
“ Good afternoon,” said Sebastian, who’’would
have prolonged the conversation i£ he could; but
Myles departed, and Sebastian followed him omt
of the office.
Standing just without was Sebastian’s phaeton,
with Hugo holding the reins, and carrying on a
conversation with Ben at the same time. Sebas-
tian heard the words:
“ Ay, and his mother never got o’er it, hoo-
didn’t. It were main stupid o’ Sally Whittaker
to say what hoo did ”
“ What was so stupid ?”
“ Go on !” said Hugo to the boy. “ He’s tolling
me about a boy that he knew, who was killed at
a factory. Go on ! What did Sally Whittaker
say?”
“ Well, i were i’ this was, yo’ seen. It were at
Ormerod’s works as ’th lad were killed, and
Ormerod come round as they was takin’ ’th body
away on a shutter ; and.he says, 1 Now. then,
where are yo boun’ ?’ And they told him they
were for takkin’ him to his mother, and they
doubted it would kill her for aha were main fond
on him. ‘Eh, what?’ he says, ye munnot do so.
You mun one on you go afore, and warn h#r--
prepare her lik a bit,’ he says. ‘ Let one o
them wenohes go on afore.’ So Sally Whittako,
hoo knew his mother, and hoo said hoo’d hoo’d go
and tell her, and went on afore. Eh, bi’ th’ mass!
but hoo is gradely foo’, is Sally Whittaker, and
hoo walks into Emma’s kitchen, ond hoo says
straight out, hoo says, ‘ Eh, Emma, but troubles
is bever t© seech, h*o says. ‘Your Johnny*
killed as dead as a stoan ! ”’
(xo be continued.)
BRAY BROTHERS WAREHOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. (See page 3.)


BRIEF MENTION.
Gutterpnff.
Buchanan and Berry ; D.B. and G.B.
A host in himself —Gus Wangenheim.
Botti Wilmot has gone up King-street.
Dr. Beattie says he won’t recite any more.
Bright v. Dark —Freethought v. Dr. Beg.
The new perfume —“ Ottode Lennox Bridge.”
The last poetical review—“ Frazer on Cowper.”
Shepherd has got his Wellington boots on again.
With not faith enough to swear by—Mr. Brad-
laugh.
An astounding divorce case is ripening in
Sydney. •
Dowie says the School of Arts platform isn’t big
enough.
The Petersham Debating Society boasts no op-
position.
The Free Public Library is the place to learn
patience.
gome stars travel in a circle. Hanley Bennett
in an arc.
Trains wait on an average ten minutes at
Granville.
Many will be sorry to hear that Lotti Wilmot is
insolvent.
No one wanted to hear about the “ Liberty of
the Press."
More wars in Parramatta—the, letter-man
thrashed now.
Administrator of Oaths— Hemming, the Stamp
Commissioner.
Not one death in three years in the Protestant
Orphan School.
There were lots of nigger business with a stick
at the School of Arts.
Mr. Dan O’Connor, M.P., lectures on Sunday
nights at Parramatta. J -■ '■ , o-
The Press is unanimous as to the necessity for
a reform in the libel law. ’ 'l*
There have been a large number of first-class
funerals in Tasmania lately.
Hint to country and suburban editors; Don’t
call it “ poetry; ** call it “ verse.”
Big rush in 1851 to Ballarat; 1861, Forbes :
1871, Gulgong and Hill End; and 1881, Temora.
Ahoyer, in French, means to bark: Boyer, in
English, means to bite—at the Temple Court cafe.
The appointment of school inspectors has caused
a gnashing of teeth among disappointed pedagogues.
Down South one editor keeps the other quiet by
promising his readers a history of the rival conductor.
The Sydney undertakers’ annual picnic is to
take place shortly. A pick-and-shovel-nic, we presume.
In Sydney restaurants it’s considered the proper
thing to eat with your knife, and to wear your hat at
dinner.
Frank Fitzpatrick is getting quite fat on land
agency. He says he wouldn’t enter Parliament if
elected.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs wishes his insolvency case
would last a month or two longer. How he is shep-
herded 1
The latest in solicitors’ charges—Attending
deceased at his death-bed and placing two coppers over
his eyes.
“ Gentlemen, _ this is the signature of a man who
could not write,” said Davy in addressing a Supreme
Court jury.
Alderman Hordern says that those Corporation
officials who never kuow what time it is need
“ watching."
Aldermen Hordern, Harris, and M’Elhone were
very polite to one another at last week’s meeting of the
City Council.
The municipal carts at Petersham are carting
away the rubbish, yet the Council has still its fuli
number of members.
A suburban debating society invites a guest to
assist in its recreation, aud then compliments him by
telling him how it should be done.
Every newspaper man should read the leading
article in the Newcastle Chronicle of August 13 on
the subject of “ The Law of Libel.”
They’re going to have a paper at Manly entitled
the Manly Herald. They’re of opinion that the
Herald isn’t manly enough for them.
Officers of the Permanent Force should groom
their horses as well as themselves. Let them take
example from His Excellency’s orderly.
We are sorry to notice that our esteemed con-
temporary, The Pacific Weekly, is dead. Mr. Warde’s
plucky venture deserved better success.
Portions of the man who came down to The
Bulletin last Saturday to “exact satisfaction” fora
paragraph are now ®u view at this office.
French’s Tweed Factory at Parramatta is
pleasantly situated for shrinking the materials. The
odour there makes even the wearers shrink.
“ Sir George Innes to be Minister of Justice, and
the Hon. P. B. Suttor Postmaster-General.” What 1
the innes-eent young man ? Yes, Suttomly.
“ Honesty (a racehorse), passed through Gun-
dagai en route for his new quarters, Adelong,” says the
local journal. We hope he’ll stay in Adelongtime.
The Australasian says that Sir Henry Parkes*
letter to the Melbourne anti-Chinese agitators “ com-
presses the whole Chinese question into a nutshell.”
A Wagga gourmand, the other evening, pro-
nounced “the hare” to be very good iuded Next
morning he found that he had been eating kangaroo-
rat.
The statues of two eminent explorers arfe erected in
Hyde Park, Sydney. One, Capt. Cook, discovered New
couth Wales; the other. Prince Albert, discovered
and annexed Victoria.
If you collect the fares on an omnibus the
driver or conductor at least says “ Thank yon.” Not
so the tram-car conductor, who expects you to act as
collector.
Mr. Cyril Haviland is a first-rate healing
medium. A man who was born blind interviewed him
the other day and now says that he can see as well as
ever he did in his life.
A Warrnambool editor the other day wrote that
a local editor had given as a free gift, a site for a Church
or England “with a title.” The compositor set it
instead “ worth little."
The Kelly sympathisers say that the outlaws
would never have been captured or killed, had they not
all been drunk. For once in our history, then, groir
has proved a national blessing.
Why, asks the correspondent of a country paper,
did not Blacksmith Ball, instead of flying at such high
game as the Premier, arrange the small matter with the
hon. member for Snagspuddle Hollow ?
D m T n e . who jumped in and saved the
small boy at Circular Quay on Monday was considered
* by the bystanders until it came out that the
small boy had all the bait in his pocket.
ayana^h ' M ’ P - for Carlow, was born
*Vr, ut l e » 8 or arms - A smart man in the country
out. apropos of this, that some colonial poli-
ucians have been born without brains.
Pa * b i Davis has lectured on “ The Devil.” It’s
for H eep the old gentleman before the public,
koo» these days a great many people, it seems, neither
now nor care whether there is a devil or not.
fellow who moves in good society in
tmns y r S a ® km g Cattell aud Co. for one of their bull-
wp l hrii 1 ., se y ays an owner can be found for every
well-bred dog. It’s often otherwise with babies.
It would be difficult to regard Mr. G. L. Carter
otherwise than as a suitable candidate for the repre-
sentation of South Sydney in Parliament. As a leading
exponent of the satoriol art he is no doubt a fitting
man.
Others than doctors differ. The New Zealand
Insurance vers as the South British has been the cause
celeore in Brisbane of late. Bad foundations and
cracked walla caused by a •• Lawless ** fire was the line
at issue.
A Melbourne polioeman the other day saw a
body floating down the Yorra and thought he had a
splendid “case” and one leg in for a “stbripe.” To his
disgust the “bedy" proved to be only a played-out
draper’s-model.
A Botany man, of the George Washington type,
says he was sailing the other day when he felt a shock,
and on looking round discovered his centre-board had
cut a shark in two. He has re-christened his boat the
“ Sausage Machine.’*
On Ananias,” with a view of increasing
ms circulation and adding numbers of Conservatives to
his subscription list, has adopted the following motto,
which is to figure immediately under the usual title.
Fas est ab hoste doceri.”
What a man may suffer in N.S.W.—Says a cor-
respondent of the Cooma paper:—“Our indefatigable
minister, Mr. Soares, came through the snow via Mid-
dlingbank, ankle deep, on Wednesday, expressly to
marry a happy couple. The lady is a member of the
choir, and we can ill spare her if she leaves the dis-
tnct.’’
Suburban jealousies are rife just now, but they
reached their climax in the report of the secretary to
the Bedfern Free Library. Unable to vie with the
popular suburb. Petersham, in its progressive move-
ments, he actually asserted that “books stolen from
the Bedfern Library hod been traced to Petersham.” A
Petersham man says that he evidently did not enquire
how many residents of Bedfern had lately migrated
farther up the line.
The Western Champion (Blackall) supplies
the place of a comic paper in the far west. It issues
roughly-executed cartoons as supplements. One of
these is now before us, the scene being laid in a local
public-house. Patriotic Victorian Youth : “ Why, look
at our bushrangers! They’ve robbed the colony of over
six thousand pounds!” Equally Patriotic Queens-
lander: 44 Oh* that's nothing. We keep our bush-
rangers in the Agent-General’s office ia London, and
they’ve robbed the colony of sixty thousand pounds at
one slap 1 ’’
Meston, of the Daily Observer, has got his
back up, and says that the Brisbane correspondent of
the Northern Miner is a “disgrace to the Queensland
press,” and ought to be horsewhipped. The editor of
the Miner, in reply, says that the Observer is a paper
without a heart—“ a mere integument of windy plati-
tudes and pedantic conceits."
A celebrated colonial journalist recently re-
ferred to a local rival as “a manumitted Scotchman
who sits with his manacled legs under the editor’s
table of the The tame scribe a quarter of a
century previously annihilated a literary opponent by
calling him in the Legislative Assembly an amal-
gamation of hair and impudence.” Nice.
The Australian colonies are informed that we
are not at present in need of any more puns on the name
of this paper. “ Taking the Bullet-in ”is pretty
nearly worn out, at all events in regard to the Mel-
bourne Opera House tragedy and the burning of the
Kellys. Besides, so far as we know, there are no more
people in these parts to take The Bulletin.
Mackay’s new paper, the Free Press and
Pioneer Advocate, has made its first appearance We
have not seen it yet, but Teddy O’Kaue, editor of the
Northern Miner, apparently has, for he says—“ The
Free Press leaves the dock under a cloud of buntinu
and gorgeous metaphors. The spectacle is a little over-
powering, and the tone rather too assertive and over-
weening.” Which “ dock "is meant ?
Amicus cerhis in re incerta (a certain friend in
an uncertain thing, or, a true friend in adversity) is the
motto inscribed on the late premises of the AMP
Society, now taken by the Bank of New Zealand.' It’s
said that the bank means to make good its title to the
motto. If so, the shareholders will —what ?
We re sorry to say that in every country town
which has two newspapers the editors are at war.
When an editor has no local brother scribe to attack,
he ‘ takes to ” a leading citizen or to the newspaper
man in the next town. In Sydney, editors never tight.
They re too dignified. Each considers himself better
than the other. For instance, we*d never be seen speak-
mg to the editor of the Herald.
Some Maryborough planters starve their niggers,
who are then killed by consumption or dysentery. This
eaves the employer the expense of paying' the “ boys’ ”
passages back to the South Seas. We always thought
that slavery had been abolished.
The North Shore has now a splendid water
supply. In deference to the request of an influential
deputation this boon has been granted to the inhabit-
ants, consisting of no less than four ships’ tanks each,
“P*™ o °* holding 400 gallons, making a grand total
ot 1000.
“ Clippings from our exchanges,” is a heading
which appears in the Carcoar Chronicle. However,
it would appear on reading the paper that it doesn't ex-
change with any journal but The Bulletin. A speci
men of the Chronicle’s original matter is given in
another column.
Major Smith, the Victorian Minister for Educa-
tion, has rescinded his famous anti-flogging circular,
except in regard to girls. “ The Minister deems it nn-
?®?? s .® ar y specify any particular instrument for the
infliction of corporal punishment, but is of opinion that
the use of a strap is preferable to a cane or rod.”
The Parkes Government has abolished the
practice of allowing reporters to witness executions.
It is now said that every condemned criminal will just
before death be compelled to listen to a dirge played
by one of the newly-formed Sydney brass bands, in
order that additional terrors may be lent to the gallows.
A Townsville clergyman, a temperance enthu-
siast, recently said that the ladies ought to give up
their “ little drops.’’ The Towers paper remarks that
“ if there were any men in Townsville we should expect
to hear that they gave this parson ‘a little drop’
from the end of the jetty. How these people
love one another 1
The Sheriff says “ in every act I have been guided
by the advice ot such men as Messrs. Butler, Salomons,
M. H. Stephen, and Sir Alfred Stephen !" Now, George
Richard Dibbs, your arrest was an act of little Charlie’s,
and the dead Bntler and absent Salomons are quoted as
authorities for it. We are getting sly peeps under the
umbrella in these days.
The Walgett Mail notices that Mr. George
H. Cohen, its late proprietor, “ has taken over the
well-known tonsorial saloon, which his father, Mr.
Robert Cohen, has so long conducted in Mudgee, and
can give his customers a viva roce edition of the news of
the day, while relieving them of their hirsute appen-
dages.” To be brief, Mr. Cohen has exchanged scissors
and paste (Walgett editors always write with scissors)
for scissors and combs.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs has written to say that he will
apply for a writ of habeas corpus, so as to be at each oi
the entertainments to be given in aid of the John
Bennett testimonial. He says John is the pluckiest
and finest man be knows.
Volunteer officers should learn to ride* It
doesn’t look well, for instance, for a gorgeously-got-
up individual to sail up South Head Road at a butcher’s
canter and bumping like a sailor. There are few
Centaurs in our amateur army.
The Berry Ministry are going to reduce their
own salaries from £14,000t0 £ll,ooo per annum. “ After
all,” says “ iEgles,” £14,000 a year i“ not extravagant for
good men. There is an old story of a little Scotch boy
who went to London and sought work. “ Well,” said
an employer, “what wages do you want?” “I don’t
want any,” said small Sandy; “ I’ll depend on what I
find!’*
“ Customers’ ’bus fares paid by all the City and
Suburban lines of omnibusses ” is the last draper’s
sprat to catch a mackerel in Queen-street, Brisbane.
Another draper in the same street advertises as fol-
lows " Every person spending twenty shillings will
be entitled to a ticket in the free distribution of
prizes.” Our Hordern’s flower shows are distanced by
the Brisbane soft-goods retailers.
Chinesophobia is still on the rampage. A lar-
rikin lately amused himself in Little Bourke-street by
politely excising a Celestial’s nose in that Oriental
neighbourhood. • The Chinese, unabashed, has carefully
wrapped his dismembered feature in rice paper and
sent it to Canton Exhibition to show the natives an
Australian custom. What a pity! The larrikin should
have been made to “ keep the piece.”
There are lots of jokes in the Melbourne Custom
House now over the suspension of Captain Payne and
his alleged strained relations with Mr. Tyler. *• Why
is the Custom House the happiest place on earth ?” one
wit will ask, to which the reply is “Because there is no
Payne there now.” “Why,” another will enquire, “is
the Custom House likely to become like the Coliseum ?"
the reply being "because it is likely soon to have no
Tyler."
The gatekeeper at a certain lunatic asylum (not
in N.8.W., and therefore not near Sydney,) died lately.
The amount of money, exclusive of property, which he
left in legacies exceeded the total of his earnings and
allowances during his gatekeepership. This again raises
the _ question of whence policemen, gaol-warders, and
similar officials, derive their house property. Most of
the warders in Parramatta gaol and asylnms have
terraces. Apropos of the above gatekeeper, he left £6OO
and a house to his medical superintendent, who says he
doesn't think he'll take it 1
There are some funny people at Back Creek, in
the Bendigo district. At an inquest, the other day, a
lively discussion was started on the subject of non-
payment of jurymen, when one of those present said it
'' r r aa “ wrong to send to Parliament a young man like
Mr. Quick, who hod ". . , “ Order, order,” cried
the coroner (Mr. Strickland), “I cannot allow politics
in this court. We have nothing to do with the quick,
but with the dead.” “ Then Berry them,” gasped out
juryman. Mr. Strickland then groaned
That man will be of Service to his country yet.”
, Mr. P. Stanley, who has been “requested” to
stand for Bedfern, follows the honest though humble
occupation of market gardener. He is to be the N.S.W.
prototype of Bent, the market gardener statesman,
whom ‘‘the Victorian people" preferred to George
Higmbotham, Q. 0., Australia's ablest lawyer—
On, Stanley, on I
Member for Greens, arise!
Leave cabbage to John,
M.P. is a higher prize.
Wigs and gowns were at a discount in the in-
surance companies’ great action at Brisbane recently.
lay about promiscuously on the table. *• By the
way, writes our Brisbane correspondent, “I hope
when I get into trouble that I may be sentenced by
his most recently-created Honor. To be able stead-
fastly to regard the latest judicial wig and gaze upon
the belauded and begownod young gentleman who
ought to act as the recording angel but spends most of
his time reading novels surreptitiously concealed in his
lap, would be a mitigation of the sentence fully equal
to an acquittal."
Says an esteemed N.Z. correspondent:—“ New
Zealand is singularly dull just now, and will be in a very
bad way for many years to come. Population, 450,000:
National debt, £30,000,000, which means an annual
•uterest of £1,500.000. Add to that sum another
£1,500,000, for interest due on another £30,000,000 of
private indebtedness to the home private money lender,
and furthermore add on the cost of officialism, which
tots up alone £1,000,000 a year, and you will have a decent
idea of our position. From statistics I lately looked
over I find that this population of 4*50,000 souls (not
heads of families) have no less than £12,000,000 mortage
money registered in the Government office!"
This how a Tasmanian writer pillories the Civil
Servants" The regular transmission of Her Majesty’s
Mails is one of the most important matters I know of.
Some moils ore very irregular, but I know one that’s
invariably up to time. Just let any of my readers take
up a commanding position in the vicinity of the Public
Offices somewhere about * high twelve ’ and he’ll see an
individual emerge from Her Majesty’s General Post
Office armed with a mail-bag containing a mail for a
certain hotel in the vicinity and returning in about
three minutes and a quarter with an up-mail from the
same establishment which is delivered in about the
quickest space of time of any delivery that I know of.”
The editors of the Witness and Protestant
Standard have fallen out. The Standard says: “We
ore the only Protestant paper.” The Witness replies:
“ you’re another—who brought Chiniquy here? Did
not the Witness raise the money for his passage ? Did
not its editor alone bring him here by first inviting and
then securing his passage ? Did not the Standard reap
more benefit by hie coming here than any other paper? Did
not its circulation go up many hundreds after Chiniquy
came here?” [The italics are ours.—Ed. B.] The cat
is out of the bag; the milk out of the cocoanut. After
all Ccesar and Pompey are very much alike, especially
Pompey. The ordinary editor is satisfied with profit
in this world; clerical editors want it both.
A second Bradlaugh has been lost until lately at
Port Douglas, Northern Queensland. At the local
police court, daring the enquiry regarding the late fire,
F. W. Merry was called, and refused to be sworn. In
answer to the bench, as to his reasons for objecting to
be sworn, he, to the surprise of the bench and all
present, said he did not believe in the Bible, which
he considered to be a remnant of heathen mythology.
He was then asked by the bench if he believed in a future
state, and replied he did not. The bench then endea-
voured to ascertain from him if he had any belief at all,
when, in reply, he very coolly informed them that he
had no belief, but that, if they wished him to make the
necessary oath, he would oblige them. Of course, the
offer was not accepted. This is what comes of living
too long in the Far North.
For David. Sent from Edinburgh by a friend
of The Bdixetik ;
“ For close designs and crooked counsels fit.
Sagacious, bold, and turbulent of wit.
Restless, unfixed in principles and place,
In power unpleased, impatient of disgrace.
♦ * * * *
A man so various that he seems to be
Not one, but all mankind’s epitome;
Stiff in opinion, always in the wrong,
Is everything by turns, and nothing long;
But, in the course of one revolving moon,
Is chemist, fiddler, statesman, and buffoon;
Railing and praising are his usual themes,
And both, to show his judgment, in extremes;
So over-violent or over-civil,
That every mau with him is God or Devil.”
At a rural fancy ball, held in one of our great
centres, a buxom lady of many summers, perhaps with
questionable taste on such an occasion, went disguised
asanun. She hod an opportunity of “feeling the part"
much in the same way as Vincent Crummies’ actor
did, who in playing Othello “ blackened himself all
oyer.” For nine mortal hours did this solemn matron
sit in a chair withe giddy crowd waltzing and pirouet-
ting around her. The "jubilee” was kept by the
company, and she kept the “retreat." Considering
that the adoption of such a disguise, emblematic of
death to the world, was utterly out of place on such an
occasion, and could be little else than offensh e to the
feelings of those who were Roman Catholics, the
position of "wallflower" was justly earned. Dancing
with a nun was more than the stoutest heart could
tackle, and as the lady’s daughter was one of the belles
of the ball no one thought of flirting with "mamma.”
Among the tons of rubbish which the Legislative
Assembly ordered to be printed last session is a long
correspondence between two public officers upon the
solemn subject of how a Ryde juryman ought to be paid
El Shireef or Nagasaki Pasha (as he is often called) is
auxious to filibuster all the jury business now tran-
sacted by El Frazer alias Coon Pasha. The Shireef lets
go some very dignified talk about “my accountant,”
"my bailiffs,” "my officers,” and so forth; but his
best point is conveyed in the following extracts —“ The
system of paying jurors is full of anomalies and com-
plications, which it would be well to have placed under
one officer even if it were not a duty peculiarly attach-
ing to the office of El Shireef." Does Nagasaki
Pasha mean by this that he claims a sort of
monopoly in all matters which are " anomalous
and complicated,”—because anomalies and complica-
tions are a specialty with his office. If not what docs
he mean ? Coon Pasha’s reply to the Lord of the White
Umbrella is not so bad, touching the said "anomalies
and complications."
A dapper little party stepped manfully up to
Oxford-street the other night to “enthuse” the people
a bit about temperance. He spread his mat at the
corner of the Park and with nicely disposed crescendo
and dimuendo vocal inflections proceeded to thrill his
auditory forthwith. In the middle of one animated
period, however his energies being quite ab-
sorbed in the elaboration of an exceptionally graceful
oratorical droop, a respectably dressed female ap-
proached and medodramatically smote the little man,
to his intense disgust, repeatedly on the summit of the
nose, after which she invited him to proceed. He
meekly complied, when she somewhat inconveniently re-
peated the atrocity, the convulsions of the by-standers
being meanwhile painful to witness. The victim here
drew a handkerchief, " steeped in gore,” from his
pocket, and without any immediately apparent purpose,
handed it round for inspection. The irrepressible
daughter of Eve set energetically to work to hand him
round after it, whereupon the orator, suddenly relin-
quishing his “enthusing** projects, drew an airy beo*
line for the city, followed by the shrieks of his uninu
proved raw material From the energy with which sha
hit him she was evidently his wife.
MR. HENRY COPELAND, M.P.


Amusement
rp H E A T E E
Lessee
IMPORTANT NOT
THIS EVENING, AND UNTIL F
Production of Burnnnd’a Greai
TURN OP THE 1
Cliaracters by Messrs. G. S.
Gamer, Edwin Shepherd, Frank
Marshall. Wm. Parren, juur., E.
Lemon, J. Criss, E. Beverley, and
Misses Blanche Stammers, Alma
fair, Mrs. Marion Stammers, Mrs (
Frederick Marshall, and Miss Ann
NEW SCENERY and EFFECTS
GORDON.
ARTHUR G
Doors open at 7,15. Curtain w
sham.
Prices of Admission: Dress C
Family Circle, 2s; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, <
seats can be secured six days in ad'
QUEEN’S T
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Bnsinesi
THE LEWIS JUVENILE
COMPANY.
Mrs. a B. LEWIS having the sol
JUVENILE PINAFORE throu (
by special arrangement with Mr
the
LEWIS JUVENILE PINAFO
varying in age from 3 to 13 years, ■
Appearance in Sydney on
SATURDAY EVENING, .
and perform every evening nni
•' H.M.S. PINAF(
with Pull Chorus of 60 Children,
ments and production under the
O. W. B. Lewis. Conductor at tin
URE.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. No hali
Box plan at Nicholson and Aschi
Doors open at 7—commence 8 si
Grand intercolon
SHOOTING CONTEST, at £
SEPTEMBER, 1880 (between the Hs
politan Spring Race Meeting). Ope
A Sweepstake of 10 sovs. each, wit
30 guineas, added. Nominations 2si
to be in the hands of Mr. Georg
Hotel, Sydney, on TUESDAY, Aui
sweep, 8 sovs, to be made good a
before 4 p.m. on the day previous to
each, 25 yards rise, 100 yards bounds
shot. Prizes—The Gold Cup and
first prize; 20 per cent, for second;
5 per cent, fourth.
Any person discovered using a gu
ing No 12, or cartridges containii
shot, will be at once disqualified,
payment of 1 sov., request the u
other shooter’s gun or cartridges wh
deposit forfeited if gun and chargi
trap only will be used, and a numbei
for the order of shooting after each
Each shooter must have a report
Club Rules), and only one discharge
scouting within the groudnwill be fl
to commence each day at 11 a.m. sbi
N.B.—The match will be shot on a
under the supervision of stewards
control over keeping order on th
whose authority any person refush
rules laid down for their guidance
it is expected there will be from 60 1
will be drawn for squads consistini
Notice will be given to eaeh shooter
time appointed for each squad to be
Any shooter failing to join his sc
time will be disqualified.
Tickets admitting shooters to the
at Tattersall’s, at 10 o’clock on each
Committed and Ground Stewards ;
non, George .Curtis, W. D argon
Payton.
Umpires : C. O. Skarratt, W
Referee : A. Hare
Alt communications addressed ti
Tattersall’s, Sydney, or Mr. Henry
Goulburn, N.S.W., will meet with pr
GEORGE I
REAT TNTERCOLONI.
SCHOOL OF AETS,
i A
MIRROR
OF THE
ZULU WAR
iS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBNEE 13th.
Amusement
OPENING
COOTAMUNDE
SATURDAY, the 21st instant,
TUESDAY follow
POSITIVELY FOR THREE
TEMOEH
SATURDAY, AND UNTIL FU
Stage Manager Mr. .
EVERY EVENI
MENSER’S BRIGHT
Meuser’s Bright S
Menser’s Bright S
Look at the list of the followin
ONZALA, Demon of the Air (late
Paris and Madrid), in his Gi
Act and Celebrated Machcroco
The Champion Skaters oi
ALFRED, FRANK, and MIL
SKITTOEIALPEDESTIANISTP
GISTS.
In their Marvellous and Grace!
combining music and poet:
Mdlle. ZULU, Queen of the Air,
Flights and unrivalled Song
EUGENIE MATTI
the wonderful Man-Serpent and (
extraordinary and nnporallelei
MAT RILEY
the ever-popular Irish Comedi
Hibernian Oddit
MENSER’S newly-organised BAN
under the leadership of Pro;
The elegantly appointed Stage a
quee, capable of holding 3000 p<
open to the public nightly at tl
prices:—
Frdut Seats, 35.; Back
Look out for
MENSER’S BRIGHT
Doors open at 7. Comt
Government Adver
General Pc
Sy
SITE FOE POST AND TEL!
GLEBE,
TENDERS will be received
noon on WEDNESDAY, Se
persons willing to sell to this Depar
at Glebe, in the vicinity of St. Job
Vemon-street suitable as a site 1
graph Office.
The tenders must be addressed
General Post Office, Sydney, and e:
Land at Glebe.”
Department of Public Work
Sydney, August 1
Q.OVEENMENT
RATES FOR FRESH MEAT
Referring to the regulation lii
in the casp of Beef to 12 carcases, i
that this number may be increased
load shall not be held to consist of {
than -1 tons.
Where a consignment of Beef' <
4 tons, senders will be allowed to n
with carcases of mutton, pork, c
above 4 tons, whether the number
or less than 12, will be charged fo:
cwt per mile.
CHAS. A. GOO
Commiss
Department of Public Work:
Sydney, August I
OVERNMENT T
NOTICE is hereby given that oi
NO DISCOUNT will be allowed
Tramway Tickets.
CHAS. A. G
Commissi
S'
TORES FOR GOVERNMi
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 13fch.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT,
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 13th August, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Gold-mining Lease are hereby called upon to show cause, within
thirty days from this date, why the lease should not be cancelled, for non-observance of the condi-
tions thereby imposed.
[BO-6,682] E. A. BAKER.
Hunter and Macleat and Peed and Uralla Mining Districts.
Amusement:
Egyptian
406GEOEGE-STREET. NEAI
Engagement and Great S
JOHNNY COWAN and Mj
assisted by the
GREAT VARIETY TROUPE of
‘‘THE ELECTRIC
Scenes of the Kelly Gang
A Suit of Ned Kelly’s (
Wonderful Freak of h
A Man with Six Perfect Fingers on
Toes on each Foe
And many other Novi
Open from 10 a.m. unti
Admission—6d.
T
HE KELLY
To be seen in t
WAXWORKS EXHH
Life-size Figures of EDWARD
KELLY, STEPHEN HART
Also, numerous other 1
Now open, opposite the Victoria'
Admission, Is; children.
Open from 10 a,m. to ]
T
HE GREAT WAVEELE
, THE GREAT WAVERLEY
LUGAR BRAE
LUGAR BRAE
On SATURDAY, the 21i
on the Estate, at 3
J. W. WATKIN will sell by Ai
DAY, 21st August (say next Satnrd
estate.
That well-known Estate, L
prising Lngor Brae Hoi
description is snbjoinee
sold by private CONTE
EIGHT ALLOTMENTS
LUGAR BRAE HOUSE.—The
none in Waverley. Sheltered from
it commands views of the ocean i
coastline, which only require to 1
membered for a life-time. The bi
built of best stone in 18-inch chisell
the roof, slate, joiner’s work, all p
furniture of best quality. The acci
of entrance hall, drawing-room '
inches; dining-room, 17 feet 6inch
breakfast-room, 16 feet 6 inches
seven bedrooms, bathroom, beside
rooms, wide verandahs, conservai
x 22 feet, fitted with two cooking
pantry, wine cellar, scullery, laun
throughout. The water supply
underground tanks, besides numen
so admirably arranged to snpplj
w. c., kitchen, and laundry, that n
be better served in this respect.
Three-stall stable, coachhouse, m
hay store, &c., &c.; in fact all t
comfortable surroundings which in
Lectures
JIBE.
ETHOUGHT
THEATRE ROT
Mr. CHARLES B]
SUNDAY EVENING, Au
Bible Stories—Conclude
Lecture VII.,
Gospel Contradictions, Miss
Exaggerations
Doors open at 7. Comm'
THE SOUTHERN
AND COAL-SAC
P
ROC
WONDERS OF THE


Business Annonn
The standard life a
PANY.
Head Office ..
.Sydney Branch
George
283 Gei
SPECIAL NOT
The next DIVISION OP PROI
at 15th November, 1880, and Polic
date will participate in the BONI
F,
TvCTORIA VARNIS
ALEX. BORTHI
OIL AND COLOR ME
Importer of Paper!
Oils, Colors, Va:
White Lead, Glass,
Marble and Enamelled Slat
Fenders, Tiles, and
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STE
J &■ D E A,
GRAND PRIX DIST
' '(-< 4 ■
METROPOLITAN g
Member’s Entrance Fee and
To close at 12 no
On MONDAY, SEPTI
MELBOURNE (
Member’s Entrance Fee and 1
To close at 12 nc
On MONDAY, NOTE
The whole of the Prizes, less 5 p
will be divided pro rata among thos
have nominated the winning horse
Winner not nominated, all entra
per cent.
Communications, to be accomj
envelope, addressed to sender, to
J.
Box 116. P
A RECOMMENDATION
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND,
Deserves the highest coniine
Of every philanthropic natio
This is not vain expatiat
For *tis a well-proved applic
Whate’er its stage or compli
In callous state or suppurati
On hmnan kind or brute crei
It claims the just appreciati
Of those who’ve felt alleviat
Of pain, which reached oxer
And stayed all zest for popul
To men of sense and rep
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration
Just use your powers of obse
View the surprising renovat:
Made by this virtuous prepa
On our rheumatic populatioi
Or gouty folks (who hate stc
And raw-boned brutes whose
Is heard in neighing cacchin
Or seen in cock-tailed exulta
Or frisky, frolicsome elation
In contrast to their sad pros
Which made them wish for ]
Then —friends of suffering ei
You can’t withold your adm
Business Annoiu
0Y L E &
BOND STREET £
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agenti
Hrinsmead's Celehra
PRICES TO sun
Guaranteed for Fiv
Highest Award above
Faultless and unsru
.aa'/UH-..-. r
OY L E &
BOND STREET S
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agenti
TEE ALPHA GAS 1
For making Gas in pr
large establishments
towns.
No Trouble,
Simple and Effec
Half the cost of Kt
OY L E &
BOND STREET S
SYDNEY,
Are Agents f
SMITH'S AMERICA!
Unequalled and incoi
Business Annona
O
W
TO WOOLGRO WEES, MEECHi
THE COMING SEAI
The near approach of the new
remind growers to make their a
time for the disposal of their Woe
mg our friends for the business whi
to us hitherto, wo ho ve the pleasi
services for either the SALE or
New Clip.
1 The;extension of the railways th
will cause the wool of the coming s<
both earlier and within a shortei
heretofore, and in view thereof
arrangements, by securing more
accommodation, to deal with th
arrives—that we can promise thos
with their business that, as soon
OWmE^’wOOL o ''' “ d,l ‘
Our Warehouses are SPACIO
LAEY WELL LIGHTED, ai
adapted for the display of wooi te
All wools are carefully examine
selves prior to being offered at auc
thoroughly protected up to its full
Instructions when given as to
also strictly carried out. We a
aently assure owners that every ci
in the disposal of Wools placed in
In our Circular issued prior to tl
Season, we therein anticipated an
American and Continental buyers
the result justified our expectatioi
us pleasure to inform Wool Grow*
animated business may be confld
to during the coming season.
The quantity of Wool sold duri
the Sydney market, owing to tl
foreign buyers, considerabty excee
any previous year, and as the de:
sources, added to the requirement
promises this coming season to be
pects that will be well i
bright.
These inducements will no doi
cause Wool growers to try this :
our friends who prefer shipping to
our services.
We are always in a position to
freight by first-class vessels; we
ship to our Agents in England, n
or we will hand over documents ai
by the owners of any clips entru
ment.
MAIDEN, HILL an
Offices—Pitt-
WOOL STOEES—CI
w
o
SYDNEY WOOL SAI
.HARRISON, JONES, <!
WOOL AND PEODUC
Sydney,
Have much pleasure in annou:
NEW WOOL STO
Are ready for the reception of Tl
SON’S CLIP, and offer advantage
where, being brilliantly lighted, an
give Buyers ample space to examit
of Wool, however small.
We are Now Erecting a very Ca
LIGHTED BUILDING, close to
capable of storing about 13,500 Be
addition to our
PRESENT ENOEMOUS
will entirely obviate any possibilitj
the great rush of Wool arriving dr
in the heaviest part of the season, <
sions of our railways.
VALUATION
are carefully made by us of everj
offering for sale; no lot heir
PULL MARKET RATES AE
The FORWARDING AGENTS
Stations will receive Wools consigi
PAY CAERIAG
Parties desirous of Shipping t
London Market'are i placed in t
secure the Lowest bate op Fkeig
LIBERAL ADVAI
are made upon Wool shipped by
London.
ACCOUNT SALES are renderei
GREAT
CLEARING
or
•£13,000 Wox
CHINA, G
EARTHENWi
AND
LAM
AT TWENTY PER CEf
15
August 21, 1880.
THE BULLETIN.


Miscellaneous
LIFFORD, LOVE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2,
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES:—34B GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PATOTT MEJIL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Cold by all Grocers and Storekeepers^
BOYD’S SAN FEANCISCO PALACE OF AET.
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) oi
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
NCE USED ALWAY
USED.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
HUDSON’S EXTEACT of SOAP.
The GEAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
IjtIIGHEST AWAED, Sydney, 1879.
LATfflfiES FEiIEIiY, SOFTENS WATEE,
AND-SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jlh packets by all grocers and General />
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN EAUCH,
16 CHAELOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STEEET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BEISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SYDNEY : Printed andtrablished by the
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Onices o*
John Woods A Co., Bridge-street.
M. A -
HUGHES
580, Gkorqk-sti
respectfully in rite Gentlemen i
WINTER UNDERCI
to pay them a visit before g<
Special Lines in
Crimean and Flannel Undershirt
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Und
Lambswool Undershirts and Dra
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drat
White shirts, Military Fronts, 3s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collaj
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six foi
AtM. A. HUGHES A
380 Georee-atre
D
EYSDALE AND
397 George Stb
76, 78, 145, 147 York
33 Pitt Stre:
IRONMONGERS, IRONMEI
IMPORTERS
Invite attention to their extens
which, besides being the largest in
varied; and comprises all the lates
Engines, Engineers’ Material a
Agricultural Implements, Th
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders* Material, R
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamp
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron,
Builders' Ironmongery, Chanc
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hi:
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, G
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Jc
And
GENERAL IRONMC
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEM
OF
FIRST-CLASS DI
AT
RILEY BRO'
is now ope:
If you want t
SAVE ss. IN THE
Don’t fail to cal
OF THE
ON
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
oxfor:
ONE
RILEY BROTHERS,
F.
LASSETTER & C
Have on view the finest exhibition of Silver-plat
BBSS
to
Over One Hundred Patterns of TEA SERYI
Selected from the best Ateliers in England, the
NEW DESIGNS arriving by Orient Steamship Co., comprii
Biscuit Boxes, Butter Dishes, Liquor Frames, Salvers,
Cups, Toast Backs, Sardine Boxes, &c., &c. Ci
Table Appointments suitable for Presentations.
AGENTS for SEED & BARTON’S Americar
AGENTS for CHRISTOFLE’S Celebrated Parisian Silver-pit
stamped with the amount of silver
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GE OB
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
BUY^N^
PRIZE
Against the world
R. HARPER & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
TEN FIRST PRIZES
AHD THE
SPECIAL FIRST
As the BEST OF THEIR CLASS
in the
STDNBT
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says:—
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
»TAn
afflS
WT\
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
TA
s
INGE Bi ’ S GENUINE
S E V
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDO!
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,3
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NO
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our tw«
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly
PRICES £6 10s Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—J
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Bii
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No.
(One Door from George-street, SY
mH E UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH
Have you not heard of it P Have you not heard of it ? It is t)
tested against any other.
' Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other c
A nnAaon-ina onoVi hi Meedles and Oil. aumVHed at reduced rates-
16
August 21, 1880,
THE BULLETIN.
