

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 23.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUDY 3, 1880.
Price—3d.
u lhtlletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1880.
Our Civil Service.
Tins necessity for a Bill for the regulation of
our Civil Service has long been recognised, as
well by its members as by the general public.
Of great political and numerical influence, this
is a section of the community which, in these
days of class legislation, is fairly entitled to at-
tention. It is not our purpose here to sketch
even in limine what we consider should be the
provisions of an enactment of this nature, but
we may briefly remark, as a too-evident fact,
that in its present disorganised state the Service
is a mere refuge from honest labour for a legion
of incapables whose influence alone preserves
them in lucrative positions, to the prejudice of
their more deserving fellows. Political influence
is the only title to employment or promotion,
and without it ability and competence rank no-
where. The Civil Service certificate, which
should be a guarantee of the holder’s efficiency,
is notoriously a pitiful make-believe. Then,
again, the restrictions and privileges, if any,
should be distinctly Jaid down. At present many
underpaid officers of sufficient ability to cause
their services to be in requisit ion when at liberty,
supplement their meagre salaries by exercising
such talents as they may possess when their
regular duties are over. This, it is claimed,
should be prohibited as an abuse. But we think
the colony might safely follow the example of
the Home G-overnment in this matter, which
only forbids extra-official employment to the
members of the Imperial Service in the case of
the “ directorship of public companies or similar
employments that may require attendance during
the same hours as the public service,” and which
tacitly permits, in the minute quoted, “any other
kind of private and casual occupation, though
of profit.” Many other reasons might be given
for a Civil Service Act, but we notice that the
matter is receiving attention in a way calculated
to heighten rather than to sweep away a grievance.
It is proposed to make a pro rata reduction of
the salaries of those civil servants who receive
£2OO a year and upwards. This, to our mind,
looks vastly like asking for a fish and receiving a
serpent. By its high-handed action and its arro-
gant reliance on a large working majority in the
Assembly, the present Ministry, almost unprece-
dently powerful as it is, has yet made made many
rigorous enemies and not a few conscienlions op-
ponents. With a disunited and feeble Opposi-
tion, and guided by one whose rule of life may
well be epitomised in the words “present expe-
diency,” its members individually in their official
capacity have ruffled the self-importance of Par-
liamentary agents, and collectively have treated
private members and the House with marked
disrespect, as in the case of Mr. Copeland. The
Government’s onward path is not, therefore,
entirely one of roses. Should they persevere in
the proposed reduction, thus getting an example
to commercial and business houses, both civil and
private employees will combine with the dis-
affected to visit, the Government with the fate of
the Cowpeh Ministry—the most powerful in our
short history—which w r as so ignominiously de-
feated at the general elect ion that almost imme-
diately followed on their framing a similar regu-
lation.
The Stage Degraded.
The introduction rf protean and sensational
dramas from America has not tended to improve
tiio position of tlie stage in Sydney. When J.
C. Williamson and Maggie Mooee made their
great hit in “Struck Oil,” ihe news flew through
the United States, and as Mr. Williamson’s
talent as an actor was at that time unknown in
America, the song and dance people from one end
the country to the other said “ The success is
due to Maggie Moore’s songs and dances.”
Away these convinced ones flew to writers and
avva y from dictionaries and grammars. “ Dramas”
wore hatched of the flimsiest and most inelegant
description to take poor simple Australia by
storm. Over they came in shoals, and the veriest
r ubbi 8 h was foisted on the public by managers
w lo i though astonished and disgusted at the
n| eans, were nevertheless, muot{ gratified by the
result. This had the effect of undoing all which
lose who laboured to elevate the stage had
chieved. These artists, whose brains were in
heir feet, gave utterance to the most wretched
of English, and most doubtful of moralities.
They degraded the stage. In the first place they
had no right to appear in legitimate theatres, and
it is hard to see how any manager with the
slightest respect for his profession could have given
them opportunities such as have been afforded.
We have known several of these “ artistes ” who
were so ignorant as to be hardly capable of
writing their own names—in fact we now know
some who cannot write at all. Where then were
the lessons which the stage should teach ? Low
ribaldry and coarse sentiment usurped the place
of poetry and pure English, and actions far from
virtue-inspiring flavoured the hash. But apart
from the evil influence exercised upon the publio
mind by these literary and mountebankish atro-
cities, the degradation forced upon legitimate
actors and actresses is beyond calculation.
Ladies and gentlemen recognised and respected by
play-goers as capable performers in high-class
drama, tragedy and comedy, by the accident of
being under engagement to manners who
import the trash we have described, havffioen com-
pelled to support these “stars.” What surprises
us is that the profession has not entered a just
and unanimous protest against the unwarrantable
humiliation to which it has been subjected.
Surely some manager could be found who would
welcome those who thus bravely stood up for
their rights and refused to assist in degrading
one of the highest arts. We say to those who
have gained good names, “ Come out and leave the
hangers-on of your profession to support these
tag-rag and bob-tail performers, or you will lose
your hard-earned positions and be classed
with those whom you now blush to act with.”
It is not too late for some decisive step to bo
taken, and it is high time that the Australian
public clearly intimated to the cellar-flap boys of
New York and San Francisco that Australia’s
actresses and actors will not bo permitted to hatch
their objectionable productions.
The Glenrowan Holocaust.
Tub fact that a section of the public openly ex-
presses its horror at the burning of the bodies
of Dan Kelly and Steve Haet at G-lenrowan
the other day, shows that this world, so often
alleged to have become utterly artificial and
prosaic, is after all still very natural. People
who object to an offering of burnt bushranger
having been presented to the blind and unsym-
pathetic goddess have evidently imbibed but
little of the classic. Unless they split hairs and
draw a fine line between roasting and burning,
they must be regarded as maintaining that it is
better for a bushranger’s friends that he should
be hanged respectably in private than that he
should be cremated informally in public. We
cannot all be educated up to the standard of a
Pebcy Bysshe Shelley, or even of a Lady
Dilkb. Man of to-day would not like to look
on the face of his dead lover for the last time as
she was consigned to fire and feel that in a few
moments most of her earthly remains would be
in the clouds. He would like to gaze on the green
grass that waves, and on the flowers that bloom
over her grave, and to see once more, in the lily’s
pallor, the cold white face of the dear dead —
to trace once more in the violet’s purple
the crimson life-stream which has ceased
to run. But then sentiment should not be
brought into play over the fate of villains—over
the doom of those who tortured and then
blew out the brains of tbe bravo Sergeant
Kennedy and made bis wife a widow. Wo have
within but a few months beard of Kellys,
Ha uts, Byrnes and “ Moonlites and, more’s
the pity, we have, too, beard of Kennedy and
Bowen and Wallings, who died bravely at the
hands of murderers. All tilings considered,
Hart, Byrne, and Dan Kelly wore remarkably
lucky. They will be regarded by their kin-
dred and sympathisers as heroes. It is fortunate
that one of the gang, and he the leader, should
have been taken alive. Justice loses its dignity
when associated with breechloaders, Armstrong
and burning houses, just as a parent loses his
dignity when he stamps his foot and raves at an
unruly child. The life of Edwakd Kellt,
should he ever leave the prison hospital alive,
will and should be taken coolly and deliberately,
with the stern relentlessness of that Justice
which never dies.
“Ink-slingers” Wanted.
We are sorrj to have to say that the newspaper
people did not show to very great advantage
during the closing scene of the Kelly campaign.
The subject was an exciting one, and one in
which the free and flowing pen of any reporter
in training as a war correspondent could have
found wide scope. There was plenty of room for
the graphic and the tragically-sensational, yet
the scene brought forth from the reporters
nothing but the dreariest of commonplaces, the
most ordinary of platitudes. There were plenty of
deeply-dyed villains, treacherous “ bush tele-
graphs,” splendid horses, and a plucky priest.
Then there was the fair sex, represented by
Kate Kelly and Mrs. Skillion and the mother
of the poor child who was shot; there were
flaming houses, a commandant of artillery and
his army of twelve (listen, shade of the Iron
Duke!) and their cannon. There was lots of
blood, bullets were abundant, and the night was
a moonlight one. Ploughshares had been con-
verted into swords—or rather, armour. Yet not
one of the reporters invoked the shade of a single
classic personage —not even those of Hohatitjs
and Spiteitts Laktius, “the Ramnian proud”
who kept the bridge “in the brave days of old.”
No scribe aired his poetic powers in heroic metre.
What admirable subjects were thrown away
when no one enlarged on the gallant white,
with two niggers “ disposed on either side
of him,” who “ held the creek ” (or was
it that the creek held them ?) or on the
four constables, who, knowing that the outlaws
had them at a disadvantage, and wanted t o shoot
them, told the latter, in language akin to that of
the Old G-uard, that “they would die rather than
surrender.” Not oven Robin Hood was men-
tioned by the reporters. There was no coloring
—not a suspicion of romance—in any of the
messages from the seat of war, unless it was con-
tained in the bare, bald facts of the ease or in
a'passing allusion to “the red riding-skirt and
Gainsborough hat” worn by one of the Kelly
girls. It istruethatsomething was said about “all
nature echoing the grief” of the mother whose
child fell by misdirected bullets; but then this
pathetic morceau came in so suddenly and and at
so queer a place that anybody not possessed of a
bump of philoprogenitiveness considerably lar-
ger than an emu egg must have felt inclined to
laugh. However, we suppose that the reporters
who changed themselves into policemen became
so deeply impressed with the prosaic nature of
their “official” positions that they felt as if the
imaginative had been completely squeezed out of
them. Even our admiration tor the enterprise
of the Evening News, which killed no less than
fifteen people during the sanguinary day, is
toned down when we come to consider that the
staff, instead of murdering their victims, only
butchered them in whit David Bcoiianan
would call a “ brutally and odiously ” unroman-
tic stile. However, we’re glad to notice that
the Evening News dead have “mostly all”
come to life.
Dr. Arthur Renwick, M.P.
We have much pleasure in printing in our issue
of to-day a portrait of J)r. Arthur Renwiok,
M.P., who has just been chosen to proceed
to Melbourne in ttie capacity of Executive Com-
missioner for this colony at the great Southern
International Exhibition. The doctor is a native
of New South Wales, and after having been edu-
cated at some of the best private schools of the
time, entered Sydney University when little more
than fifteen years of age. From the calendar wo
learn that soon after matriculation he obtained
one of the University scholarships, which lie held
during the whole of his undergraduate career.
At the University he was associated with many
who are now prominent public men—Mr. Justice
Windeyer, Mr. 11. 0. Russell, Government astro-
nomer, and others. He was specially distinguished
in the mathematical and natural science classes,
and in 1855 took first-class in both branches, and
obtained the professor’s special prize in chemistry.
Ho graduated as a B.A. in 1857, when the degree
DR. ARTHUR RUNWIOK, M.P.


At Pittsburg, Pa., they hare succeeded in rolling
iron eo thin as to resemble tissue-paper and to require
10,000 sheets to make one inch in thickness.
Exhibition Cement. —Bailey and Kerr, late of
Georye-street and Exhibition, have appointed Mr.
Thiodon, of the Polytechnic, Pitt-street, agent for the
above cement. “It mends everything." la. per bottle,
by post 18 stamps.—[Advt.]
was conferred at a special meeting of the Senate
in order that he might without delay proceed to
the mother country to complete his academical
course in medicine —the profession he had
selected for his future career. During his five
\ears’ absence from the colony, he studied at the
renowned schools of medicine in Edinburgh,
Glasgow, London, and Paris, and obtained some
of the highest prizes and most distinguished
positions in the various classes of the Universi-
ties. During his student course in Europe he
was a leading member of various seintific and
literary institutions and societies connected with
the Universities in which he studied. He was
admitted to the Membership of the Royal College
of Surgeons of Edinburgh two days after he had
completed his 21st year, and in due time gradu-
ated as M.D. of the University of Edinburgh.
After passing with honours all the various trials
required, he was admitted to the Fellowship of the
Royal College of Surgeons, his sponsors being the
celebrated surgeon Professor Syme, and the no
loss gifted Professor Allan Thomson, and a
special exemption was made by the college when
conferring this its highest qualification in Dr.
Renwick’s case, on account of his desire to re-
turn to his home in this colony. Since Dr.
Renwick’s return to this country his career,
which is well known to all our citizens, has been
distinguished by a persevering devotion to his
professional duties in a large and extensive prac-
tice, and by the display of what may justly be
termed a rare amount of ability as a forensic
surgeon. It was, for example, his acumen which
gave to the police the first and strongest evidence
against the notorious Sussex-street murderer,
William Henry Scott, whose trial, no less in view
of the display of Dr. Renwick’s surgical abilities
than of the memorably-eloquent defence of Mr.
Dailey forms one of the most interesting and re-
markable events in the history of crime in
Australasia. During the last few years Dr.
Rcnwick has taken a leading part in connection
with our principal charitable institutions, and at
present he occupies the responsible position of
President of the Sydney Infirmary and Dispen-
sary, President of the Benevolent Society of New
South Wales, and Vice-president of the Deaf
Dumb and Blind Institution. In these
positions he has succeeded the Hon. George
Allen and the well-known and much lamented
Hon. Sir E. Deas Thomson. In the management of
these charities Dr. Ren wick takes an active and
personal interest, and his endeavour always has
l>een to make them as beneficial as possible to
the suffering sick poor of Sydney. While on this
subject it may be mentioned that Dr. Renwick
is in favour of a gradual and experimental intro-
duction of the boarding-out system for our neg-
lected children. Dr. Renwick is a Fellow of the
Senate of Sydney University, and has exhibited
his interest in his alma mater by his constant
watchfulness over all matters connected with its
interests. As is well known he has given the sum
of £lOOO to endow a scholarship of the
annual value of £5O, to be called the “Renwick
Scholarship,” and to be awarded on examination to
the most distinguished student in natural science
(including comparative anatomy). Last year, as
our readers may remember, he gave the sum of
£125 to enable the University to purchase a copy
of the rare and valuable work of Leipsius on
Egyptian Antiquities. When Mr. Attorney-
General Windeyer was promoted to the Bench
of the Supreme Court, Dr. Renwick offered him-
self as a candidate for the representation of
the University in Parliament, but was defeated.
Lately, as is well known, he was returned
for East Sydney, when he received the
largest number of votes ever polled by any
member of Parliament in Australia. Recently
he was appointed Executive Commissioner for
the colony of New South Wales at the approach-
ing Melbourne International Exhibition.
THE PLAYS.
(Forwarded per favour of THE BULLETIN .)
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
Mt Deab Bean-Blossom
Since I last wrote I hare been to Chiarini’s "big
tont," Arthur Sketchley’s “ very sketchy ” entertain-
ment, and to “Our Boys” at the “Koyal.” Chiarini
comes first. He is an old Sydney favorite. On his first
visit, some few years back, his tent was just as large,
his menagerie much larger, and general attendance
much better. Colliding with foreign countries, instead
of puting on a little polish has materially assisted in
rubbing it off every one connected with his “show.”
No well-dressed civil ushers now take your tickets, see
you safely seated and present you with a programme of
the evening’s amusement. All that is a thing of the
past. Now, after buying your «ticket as you enter, a
by no means elegant-looking American snaps at it and
shouts out as he hands back the voucher, “Three
hillings turn to the left, one shillings to the right."
You in your turn make a dash at a heap of ill-printed
programmes and push your way in among a seething
crowd of men, women and children and get as best you
can to the carpeted seats —carpeted rails would be
nearer the mark. There are no backs and the supports
underneath are such a distance apart that your seat
bends like a willow wand each time a fresh batch of
people seat themselves. From my carpeted, but other-
wise uncomfortable seat, I survey the house. The gas
is turned half on, but there is a constant succession of
little sparks of light as the shilling part of the tent
strike their matches prior to “ lighting up,” and by
these intermittent lights, I see the occupants and
owners of the pipes, packed like bees in an over-crowded
hive. I had almost forgotten that there was a “ dress
circle" —chairs four shillings each —until my attention
was drawn to two or three “ heavy swells,” seated
on chairs level with the ring. Then I saw a
double row of seats like fringe round the sawdust.
The gas was now turned on and the performance
commenced. I missed many old favorites—none more
than the fearless, graceful African woman, who rode her
bare backed steed as though horse and rider were one.
I miss Chiarini, too: in days gone by he was almost
always in the ring, now he only once put in an appear-
ance with his matchless pair of horses. Poor old
Chiarini looks stout and stiff and carries his head so
very high as to give one the idea that he must wear a
steal cravat. There was an unhappy-looking man with a
lot of wretched performing dogs. As a rule the dogs
are pitied and the man laughed at. The clown was
funny, but so evidently in league with the larrikin
portion of the tent that his presence seemed a palpa-
ble mistake—the whole “ tent ” should be occupied by
any but the friends of the clown. The performance was
long and often wearisome, but my dear Bean-Blossom,
“ Chacun d son gout.” If we mix with the “ people "we
must not be fastidious, and I am sure Chiarini agrees
with me. At the “ Royal ” I saw “ Still Waters ” one
night and, lateron, “ Our Boys.” Of course, Mr. Ward
as Johnny Mildmay has had many rivals, but I think I
may safely say that since “Montgomery ** we have had
none better. The night of “ Our Boys ” was a packed
house in every port, not actually to see Our Boys, but
the vulgar, illiterate, good-hearted, wealthy ex-butter-
man, so naturally acted by P. Marshall. His first
appearance was the signal for deafening applause, whilst
he kept the whole house convulsed from beginning to
end. His by-play was inimitable. Garner made a good-
looking, rather-too-stilted old baronet. The rest of the
company, with the exception of Our Boys, play such a
secondary part in the drama, that there is nothing
special to say of t hem. I have no space to describe the
house to you. The nights are too cold and the theatre
too draughty to allow of much evening dress. Those
who brought cloaks and even fur capes were glad,
before the evening was half over, to put them on.
Yours theatrically.
PEA-BLOSSOM.
Review.
Mk. T. H. E. Macnovin’s “ Manual for Clerks of Petty
Sessions,” just issued from the Government Press,
almost renders error on the part of its possessor in the
performance of his duties impossible. Every conceiv-
able item of useful information, every form of instruc-
tion and every official leading string is supplied. The
close application necessary for the compilation of so
complete a work ; the untiring industry demanded by
the search for every line and authority and the excellent
arrangement of the details —all these demand gratitude
at the hands of the officials for whom the book is
designed. The offices which are usually affiliated with
that of C.P.S., are also dealt with and the entire
compilation is a credit to Mr. Maenevin and indispens-
ably necessary to country Benches. Governments have
been censured for appointing tyros as C.P.S. and not
without cans?, for their incapacity is often glaring; but
with the novg Manual in his possession, a single error
ought to stamp a man as totally incapable of holding
any office. If he follow the lines as set down for him
by Mr. Macnevin he will do himself credit and earn his
salary. From the Treasury, Lands Department and
District Court the compiler has obtained a fund of
official memos and served them up in a most reliable
guide-book. The printing is good and price very
moderate. Altogether, Mr. Macnevin’s book was
wanted, and now it is here, it is singularly complete and
useful.
FUN AND FANCY.
Brown says that the best way to retain a lady’s
affections is—not to return them.
A smart American girl calls a young fellow of
her acquaintance ‘‘ Honeysuckle,*: because he is always
hanging over the front fence.
“Hug” is the name of the medicine-man who
has lately arrived in Maryborough, Queensland. The
girls say they’re very fond of Mm.
In America, when they want to convey that a
girl is vivacious and sprightly, they do it elegantly by
saying, “ I guess she’s full of fleas."
A Frenchman who had been out to a hunt, was
asked where the meet came off. He had had a spill and
said it came off his hands and knees.
There is a man named J. Hole, who is so lazy
that when signing his name he merely makes a “ J ” and
then punches a hole through the paper.
“ Why, Bridget,” said her mistress, who wished
to rally her upon the fantastic ornamenting of a huge
pie, “ why, Bridget, did you do this P You are quite an
artist. How did you do it ? ” “ Indade, it was meeself
that did it,” replied Bridget. “Isn’t it pretty, mump
I did it with your false teeth, mum."
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Dean Kenny is one of the richest priests abont
Sydney. East Maitland and Morpeth were the fields.
The Sunday schools’ celebration last Saturday
caused a block on the railway. Eather a healthy
sign.
In the Devonshire-street cemetery, Dr. Lang’s
grave, which is tended with care, is very frequently
visited.
The services of St. James’s, Sydney, are still
held on Sunday evenings, although no church-warden
attends.
The curate of St. James’s, Sydney, has a cold,
therefore there was no choral service in the evening of
Sunday last.
Mr. Burnett’s temperance crusade in South
Australia has resulted up to the present in 9000 signing
the pledge.
Ernest Renan is abont to repeat in London hig
four splendid lectures on the influence of Eome upon
Christianity.
The Rev. Mr. Dowio announces that a friend has
promised him £20,000 to build a church. Will the rev.
gentleman be content to remain in his new edifice ?
Frank Warden the evangelist intends going
home. He believes they think more of true religion
and bonfires in England. Out here people are too much
bent on making their own ’‘pile.”
Of all the Congregational ministers the Rev.
Mr. Curtis thinks himself nearest heaven. He is about
Oft 2 in; but can never) beless pass under the rim of
Dr. Barker’s hat. 'Tis said he courts its shade.
10,000 Sunday school children and 1000 teachers
attended the Eaikes centenary festival last Saturday.
The Fitt-street Congregational and Mission school seat
700 and St. Barnabas’ 600. The speech of Lord Augus-
tus Loftus was interesting and encouraging.
A clergyman of the Churchof England, suffering
from chronic bronchitis, has been compelled to apply
for admission to the Axininster workhouse. The un-
fortunate gentleman has been a curate for thirty years,
during which time no offer of preferment has approached
him.
Dr. Bromhy, the clever, and ordinarily clear-
headed, fine old English gentleman, who preaches in the
Churchof England, at fashionable Toorak, Melbourne,
to the “curled darlings of the aristocracy,” has made
a mistake. Wishing to make religion easy, he over-
comes the longevity of the patriarchs by proposing to
read months for years. Thus, Methuselah lived 969
months instead of 969 years. Fancy an ardent Mrs.
Potjphar 2i years old tempting a virtuous and frigid
Joseph of 2 years of age !
Dr. Vaughan has never yet been seen by a re-
porter to partake of the flowing bowl, and those who
ought to know, say that the Archbishop, though not a
professed teetotaller is a total abstainer. In other wavs
he is one of the plainest livers in the country. He ap-
parently is not of opinion that those who live good
lives ought to live well. There are plain deal tables
and carpetless bedrooms somewhere about Csunper-
down—likewise some empty purses at times—though
the reverse is usually the case.
Canon O’Reilly occasionally enlivens his services.
The other Sunday, speaking of the Eaikes cestenarv,
he called on his brethren to contribute liberally.
Those, he said, who had come without money should
not leave the church without giving something. He
hinted that they could leive their jewellery—their
brooches, ear-rings, bracelets, rings or watches—which
would be forwarded on to the Deanery, and oould
he redeemed on the following day. It was noticed that
the ladies seemed just as well ornamented when the
service was over.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Florence Nightingale has just lost her mother,
a venerable lady of ninety-two.
Woman’s snffernge has been defeated in the
Massachusetts House of Representatives by 137 to 60,
the largest majority against it for ten years.
The Princess, the last candidate for the
Indies’ favours, is the best fashion magazine yet pub-
lished, and is full of interesting and useful matter.
When a girl sues a fellow for breach of promise
( he generally proves him to be so mean a scoundrel that
men sometimes think she ought to pay him a lot of
money for not marrying her.
Mrs. Isabella Spencer, head mistress of the
William-street (girls) public “cho< 1 is the youngest lady
teacher holding that rank, and is clever, so merit ha«
come to the front under the new act.
A lady’s maid is under arrest in Paris for having
attempted to murder her mistress, who had scolded her.
She vainly tried to tear the lady’s tongue out and was
about to throw her out of the window.
Women are now eligible for degrees at Mel-
bourne University. They can’t very well call a girl a
“bachelor” of arts, and a “spinster of arts” would
sound too prosaic. So it’s proposed to call the learned
ladies A. B’s. t.e. “after the bachelors."
A French writer alleges that the large gold
crosses which English women usually wear at their
throats at the Opera are often hollow and contain
“ precious cordials—sherry, Madeira, or brandy." Neat
way, this, of mixing “ rum and true religion.”
Mrs. Carlo Perugini, wife of the well-known
painter, is herself a regular exhibitor at the Royal
Academy and is a daughter of Charles Dickens. She
is the Catherine Dickens so frequently mentioned in
her father’s letters ana as a painter is almost self-
taught.
“ So yon want to marry my daughter, do yon P”
asked (he father to 22 years’ growth of trembling man-
hood. “ Yes, sir: I like her—and—and—" “How can
you support lier? What salary do you getp” “Oh,
my salary’s small, but I’d come and—and—live—with
you, if you like.”
The height of fashion at the Court of Dahomey
is a costume consisting of the blue, gold, green, and red
labels carefully peeled from the medicine and pickle
bottles brought by Europeans into the King’s
dominions. The labels are gummed on to the naked
body, and the effect is, at any rate, startling;
They walked out of the theatre arm in arm.
She was as dainty ns a princess, ai d prettier than an
opening flower. The long, soft, white feather hung
gracefully to her shoulder, and her long, delicate band
held a sumptuous fan. He looked pretty spooney him-
self, but he felt good. “How did you like the open*’
pet ?’’ he faintly inquired ; and the delicious one looked
up into his face, and, while the gas-beams lighted up (he
bit of court plaster on her chin, replied : “ It’s a ring-
tail screamer.”
Wo often wondered why girls married. A yonn g
lady upon the subject says: “Well, jno, I don't know
that I’d marry for money alone, but if a mun had
plenty of money allied to a sweet disposition, and a
moustache that curled at both ends, and nice blue eyes,
and a respectable profession, and his father was rich,
and his mother and sisters were aristocratic, and he
wanted to marry me, and would promisa to let me have
my way iu everything, aud keep me liberally supplied
with coin, and have a nice furnished house with a big
piano in it, and would give me two diamond rings and
would pay my doctors’, milliner's, and dressmaker’s
bills without grumbling, and I really and truly loved
him—l wonldn’t consider bis money any drawback to
the match.”
There have been an unusual number of balk,
parties and picnics at Brisbane lately. The ladies have
“grasped their nettle,” and determined that the Pre-
mier’s lady shall wear out her pretty European clothe*
as speedily as possible.
At the South Head Congregation Church, on
Tuesday evening, Miss Sid dins was presented with a
silver tea-urn, butter-basin and knife, and biscuit bar-
rel, on a silver-mounted tray, by the inhabitants of
South Head and Watson’s Bay, as a token of esteem.
Mr. Henry Gillara was also presented with a tea-pot
for rendering valuable service in connection with the
singing.
To my Sister.
Written by the late A. L. Gobdon, on the 4th August
1555, being three days before he sailed for Aus; ralia,
whose foremost poet he was. There was* much in
common between Adam Lindsay Gordon and George
Gordon, Lord Byron. “To my Sister ” is not included
in the published collection of Gordon's verse.
Across the trackless seas I go,
No matter when or where.
And few my future lot will know,
And fewer still will care.
My hopes are gone, my time is spent,
I little heed their loss,
And if I cannot feel content,
I cannot feel remorse.
My parents bid me cross the flood.
My kindred frowned at me.
They say that I've belied my blood.
And stained my pedigree.
But I must turn from those who chide.
And laugh at those who frown—
I cannot quench my stubborn pride.
Nor keep my spirits down.
I once had talents, fit to win
Success in life’s career.
And if I chose a part of sin.
My choice has cost me dear.
But those who brand me with disgrace
Will scarcely dare to say
They spoke the taunt before my face
And went unscathed away.
My friends will miss a comrade’s faoe,
And pledge me on the seas,
Who shared the wine cup or the chase.
Or follies worse than these.
A careless smile, a parting glass,.
A hand that waves adieu,
And from my sight they soon will pass.
And from my memory too.
I loved a girl not long ago.
And, till my suit was told,
I thought her breast as fair as snow,
'Twas very near as cold;
And yet I spoke of feelings more
Of recklessness than pain.
Those words I never spoke before
Nor ever shall again.
Her cheek grew pale, in her dark eye
I saw the tear-drop shine!
Her red lips faltered in reply.
And then were pressed to mine!
A quick pulsation of the heart!
A flutter of the breath!
A smothered sob! and thus we part—
To meet no more till death.
And yet I may at times recall
Her memory with a sigh;
At times for me the tears may fall
And dim her sparkling eye.
■ But absent friends are soon forgot.
And in a year or less,
’Twill doubtless be another’s lot
Those very lips to press 1
With adverse fate we best can cope.
When all we prize has fled.
And where there’s little left to hope.
There’s little left to dread!
O, time glides very quickly by!
Destroying all that’s dear!
On earth there’s little worth a sigh!
And nothing worth a tear!
WHat fears have I ? What hopes in life ?
What joys can I command ?
A few short years of toil and strife.
In a strange and distant land I
When green grass sprouts above this clay
(And that may be ere long)
Some friends may heed these lines and say
The world has judged him wrong.
There is a spot not far away
Where my young sister sleeps.
Who seemed alive but yesterday.
So fresh her memory keeps ;
For we have played in childhood there
Beneath the hawthorn’s bough,
And bent our knee in childish prayer
I cannot utter now !
Of late so reckless and so wild.
That spot recalls to me
That I was once a laughing child
As innocent as she ;
And there, while August’s wild flowers wave,
I wandered all alone,
Strewed blossoms on her little grave,
And knelt beside the stone.
I seem to have a load to bear,
A heavy choking grief.
Could I have forced a single tear
I might have felt relief;
I think my hot and restless heart
Has scorched the channels dry.
From which those sighs of sorrow start
To moisten cheek and eye.
Sister! Farewell I Farewell once more,
To every youthful tie I
Friends! Parents! Kinsman! Native shore I
To each and all good bye!
And thoughts which for the moment seem.
To bind me with a spell!
Ambitious hope ! love’s boyish dream !
To you a last farewell.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Miracle of the Marine (Board).
Of the unbelieving Jews, is
Often sung in Christian rhyme ;
But quite another pair of shoes, is
Faith demanded at the time.
At the winking-Virgin stories.
Every heretic can laugh ;
Every pulpit-thumper glories,
As a bird not caught with chaff.
In a faith which moves a mountain.
All profess their firm belief —
Why then don' t a gouty captain
When he tells of his relief ?
How that laying the foundation
Of the light-house by the sea.
He laid in an inflammation.
From his head unto his knee.
How his legs grew quite unsteady
And he found it hard to stand,
If some triend had not been ready
To hold out the helping hand.
How that sitting down that morning.
On a log in fair Balmain,
At the steamer's whistle-warning,
Ha could not get up again.
Till a kind Sarnaritaner
Lent again the friendly hand,
(Lot us hope some good Balmainer
Helped to make the captain stand.)
He at length the office reached. Ho
Sate him down upon a chair
With his fellow boardsmen all three.
When just there entered there
One who long had worn forensic
Horsehair, and the gown of stuff;
But who now can cure men sick.
If they but believe enough.
And he straightway breathed upon him,
Breathed upon the Captain’s knees,
And he certes was not long in
Caring—call it what you please.
And they all adjourned the sitting
Sine die, as well they might.
Thinking it was much more fitting
That the captain stand all right.
I for my part quite believe it.
And I think that all men should —
And as gospel truth receive it.
That is—that the captain stood.
How I Loved Her.
F. E. D.
Paddington, June 16th.
An Austro-Chinese Battle at Paddy’s
Market.
Jemmy Ah Sue
Was a Chinese Jew
And vended his Botany greens
In the markets along
With Billy Bo Bong,
For a living—his only means.
When Kaiser Zeplin
Himself got helping
With freedom to some of these
Fresh greens of Ah Sue,
Who, as would I or you.
Did on to that German freeze.
Said heathen John
“ You does berry wrong.
Them greens dey is all be mine.”
But Sour Krout hit
Poor Ah Sue mit
His fists and said “ Dot’s flone.
To end this quarrel
I’ll get Jim Carroll,
I know ho is a lawyer ’cute
And in the court
He will hold forth
And make my lies the truth.”
We met, ’twas at a charming ball;
I claimed her for a waltz;
I gazed into her lovely eyes
And found that one was false.
Those golden ringlets on her brow,
I thought 'twas monstrous hard
To be denied one, till I found
She bought them by the yard.
I wrote her name in my pocket book,
(Or, was it her initial ?)
She smiled and thus revealed a'fact —
Her teeth were artificial 1
I admired the rose-tint on her cheeks
As she leaned upon my breast;
She raised her head, alas, ’twas gone—
’Twas transferred to my vest.
My dear friends, I warn you, not
To wed a modem belle.
For if yon should, too late you’ll find
She’ll prove a perfect sell.


11*
NSmI'tafoot ...
... «
9
Utiliuvcr
... «
0
M Elhom*
... #
0
Pimiirr'b EC'X
... 5
7
AiiU>t
... a
7
nt 1>>
Splw'tor
... 6
3
Rod Biivtt
... S
3
M’Elliono
... 5
it
*t Ih
Ilall fir ..
... 9
3
Narnitiri
... 8 19
Cloud ...
... 7
0
Kuttlur
7
0
Hi
Dollar...
... 1> 10
Nnrntftri
... o
0
Floronco
... i>
1)
Uloml
... 7
<i
Buttlor
.. 7
2
Swlootor
6
9
Pressure on our space, both by way of lata news
and adtertisements, necessitates the omission from
this issue of a vast mass of reading matter, including
theatrical notices, the greater portion of our interco-
lonial correspondence and a large number of excellent
sketches. We must again remind contributors of the
necessity of sending in copy early in the week.
An action for libel has been commenced by Mr.
Kanier landing waiter, against Mr. Berney, lauding
«ir7eyor Damages are laid at £2.000 and the case
arises out of certain statements alleged to have been
made by the latter gentleman in a letter to the Col-
lector of Customs.
The Pacific Weekly this week contains a
spirited paper on “ Mr. Parnell, the leader of the Corn-
stalk Party." The articles on " Watsonian Finance,
the “ Ignominy of the Kelly Business, and Mr. Mi -
ner Stephen’s Miracles ” are worth reading.
LATEST THEATRICAL ITEMS.
«.otnnndcnt at Auckland reviews amusements in
]eUer date d 22nd June:-Mr.
th»* city tho Amer ican actor, and company, did
J'.dwm Theatre Royal. The only yew piece
fair husi Hn American drama called “Good as Gold,
produced <■ qualifications whatever that he should
Mr Browse “ Q ward * as a ‘ star,* and the best I can say of
pot is merely a passable stock actor. Sir. Walter
him ’ 9 I t , ,made a good impression on the public since,
Key nolds lias m« md may bo saW of Mr A . Pat-
h's Jirr,v ’V 1 Le Hathaway. The company at the present
tersonaiiu Thames Goldfields, with the exception of
time arc >- es south, and re-open here to-morrow
Mr. Browne Reynolds’ drama. “Tried and True”
OV »HL n t vnoh Family of Bellringers. assisted by Lyndlinrst
frilon ist) and Santly (baritone 1, are drawing splendid
<ventnloq n-ri . street u a ll. They play the same stale
“Tfhreadbare farces, Chinese songs, duetts, etc., that
s" d the ir first appeaeance in here, some seven years
th(,y S assisted by Miss Sargent Sanret,
» go r , rnoch and a fair “ drawing-room tenor,” named
•l" r : C w ho is reported as being well-known in
imtterfiom, Sv( jnov. save three concerts in the
Koval previous to the gifted lady’s departure for
Theatre it )> ‘r procee ds to-day in the mail steamer.
Amer'ca- wht w JJ ed on each oocas i on . Before enn-
Tho theatre » ord to SHV abnut the following untruth-
*?nar”that appeared in a recent issue of the Sydnkv Mail :
Urso has recently been less successful, m a
1 a , sense, than her many Sydney friends would wish
Solent Auckland attraction has been a menagerie and
flct has led to some attemp s at wit m connection
the name of the favourite violiniste.” The above
Luces arc nothing hut a tissue of f alsehoods.. The very
Ctf Madame coming b*ck to Auckland to wind up her
r .elessful Now Zealand tour is a proof of this. And I
“ fontte that her first series of concerts here were such a
an(l musical success that a second senes was
Scd upon by the public, and the request, complied with.
musical and dramatic “ink s inger of the Mm.
Tbo ’ grudge against the Auckland musical
" for it is not the first time that my attention has
uncalled to the misstatements and sneering remarks of
..nertot ” First-class concert companies like Camilla
J'T" always reckon upon drawing good houses. As
the “ meiim-erie” sthtemeht, we have had nothing of
Ihe kfad here Since Cooper and Bailey’s show, visited the
Tmnv not he genially known that Cheevcrs and Kennedy
It may London. They made their first appear-
in tbaf great city with the Moore and Burgess
Minstrels ou 6th February, 18/9.
M Cooper and Hailey’s Menagerie and Circus has been com-
utetelv re-orgauised, and at latest advices was “on the
ro«d” in the States, bound to New York.
Charlev sutton (one of the neatest and best song-and-
dancc tnd. and act men that ever visited Australia and
lew Zealand) is at present playing with the Moore and
Burgess Minstrels in Condon. He also appeared with the
W M®D C o°n^“h n and F.arnshaw’s Marionettes, when last heard
„f were at Phiiadelnlna. The proprietors of the wonder
show "did big biz. with these puppets a few years ago in
A The lU Hoval Illusionists (Thorn and Parvinl, at latest
-dviees were “fishing” for engagements in New York
Ida Ward has been appearing in a new play, Brought
to Justice.” at the Surrey Theatre.
When last heard of, Wash. Norton. Professor Hennecke
j :frt wprft in Indian towns.
®i* v sydnevites will be glad to hear that Annie Pixlov
Jfmfdea successful debut in New York city. American
say ph e premises to eclipse that great American
" Thf in a recent Nkw York Ct.ippbr
that they will return to America in September next.
Charlie Crusoe, late of the “Georgias.” is showuig m
tho states with the Kentucky Jubilee 'ingeis.
Thomas Brereher’s long-pending libel case against George
DarrT has been fixed to come olf at the .Inly sitting of
thoCbristchurch (N.Z.) Supreme Court before a common
jU Here Is an item of interest for Jimmy Mills, late of the
fleorMa Minstrels, which appears in a recent Nkw Aokk
Om-pTa under the heading “ Answers to Correspondents;’
“fihnries (I S Mills wishes to know through our columns
if his brother, James Mills, is living or dead. Be went to
Australia with Chas. B. Hicks’ Original Georgia Minstrels
t/ nd u song and dance performer. All the letters
“nee written him b»hi.s relatives have been returned.
Rijir.ohft CorrelU. who was in Australia with Salsbury s
Troubadours, has been divorced from her tiusban d William
Sln-er Tbo twain have been separated since 18/8.
Blondin, the tiglit-rope artiste, when last hoaid of, was
itt Or“f outlie Auckland papers is frightfully severe on
Clara Stephenson, who is at present playing in that city.
Thisri a criticism of the character she performed in an
American sensational drama called “ Good as Gold, taken
Journal in question- “Miss Clara Stephenson
made her J learanee in the wilds of Colorado, dressed in
her “undav best, and looking, considering her long journey.
deUahtfuUv • spic and span.’ It was also satisfactory to
she (lid not appear by any means overpowered
of her husband, and immediately after bear-
tag the sufficiently to smile triumphantly
when Jim Mumped* the Emily Claim. The whole of this
portion of the play was very ridiculous, and made people
Uugh instead of cry time. . g rtrawins the biggest
money' itiAtneriba, and has had “ Fritz” re written and
miwlv cast This popular actor of German character, says
« KLn uauer has accumulated a large fortune
“thm a few veare. He has bought a place on the
Hurtson near Albany, and begun the erection of a mag-
Jiunsou, nea There is a largo music room, furnished
orchestrion; the parlour is modelled
that of an English manor, with limbered roof; every
r xmi tl main story is an octagon with a hay window
and b-l -onv A feature of tho grounds will be a big wind-
iffill of the Dutch sort, which will pump water for a pio-
tUThe FroTauesare doing a big business in Wellington.
Mrs Walter Hill’s benefit at the 'I lioatre Royal, AVel-
”;‘a „ re at success, the house being crowded.
TOS programme consisted of “Jessie Brown” and “ Boots
at “Uncle a Tom’« Cabin” was recently produced In Wel-
„ a( . ra tc,h.company, Hosea Easton impersonated
Mnrio Tom H A Brown, Billy Wilson, Charles Burfonl,
ainton Mus-ravo. Hooper. Tyrrell, stark Mrs. Walter
Hm Arethusa May, Jennie Nye, and Bessy A man were in
Rough’s season at Wellington was not as successful
t»U might have been. He was supported by the Arethusa
S'ora“.rt V «005. but 1» Ms ' OOmllo.'' KlqlWrt III."
and ‘ Macbeth* (which lie essayed on Saturday night), he is
not tobe congratulated, It may bo truthfully said of
Mr Fairclough that in some of the walks of the drama
he neither faithfully carries out the traditions of his pre-
deoessorsrnor introduces any Judicious innovations. At
theTame'timo, as an elocutionist, Mr. Fairclough has few
ol *Barrv O’Neil is to the fore in Dunedin He has formed
a variety troupe, which ho has called “Tho Hyperion
Party.” Tho company are playing at the limceas
Pnntnscope, and “Chalet,” ventriloquist, at
latest advices were at tho Theatre Royal, Christchurch.
Dampier opened in Brisbane, on Monday, with * Royal
Pardo i.” The house was crowded; hundreds turned away.
He has created a very favourable impression. The piece
wiU “n during the week. Ho has been elected a member
° The engagement of tho Marsh family and Sam Poole
with shepperson and Howard terminated on . aturday.
The Shepperson and Howard company have been joined
ky Karmv Rogers anti Settou. ,
Wybort Reeve, Georgrf Leopold, and several other
“stars” are anxious to visit Brisbane. 1 here is no
° P s"m of remaining in Brisbane, and slicing an
erstwhile “ entrepreneur” lor wages due in Hcl-
Thov olaved “Trial by Jury” at Brisbane on Fridav and
Saturday Tt H esford. as J ndge. had spent some time
in studying tho get-up and business of Judge Harding
who is most unpopular just now. Bo was very
the take-off was unniistakeable. On the second m n ht the
legal fraternity were well represented in the tront seats
Its success will probably induce Dampier to revive it.
To-morrow (Sunday) is the fourth of July.
American citizens perhaps w ill not consider this \ al-
liable information.
The Glebe Bowing club ball, which promises to
bring together a most brilliant assemblage, takes place
at the Glebe Town Hall on Friday next, 9th instant.
‘The Compaguoni Company cater.
Does Advertising Pay?
Some Solid FACTS ABOUT A BIG BUSINESS.
The question as to whether advertising pays is
answered in the affirmative by the greatest busi-
ness successes known to the world. The colossal
fortune built up by Holloway has been attributed
over and over again to the liberal system adopted
by that great man, and in America as well as in
England the rule still applies that all the great
houses —those that have amassed princely fortunes
in a life time —have gained their hold on the people
or the nation by extensive judicious advertising.
In this city, at our own very doors, we have yet
further proof—perhaps greater proof of what
really can be done for a bona fide business by ex-
tensive advertising. The instance here referred
to, and with which this article entirely deals, is
probably without parallel in its results, the ques-
tion of population being considered, and the facts
which we give will doubtless be read with
interest far and wide. Let the reader give but
five minutes to seeing what the well-known
drapery firm of Riley Brothers has done
in this colony in the space of eight or nine
years. In six years they have spent =£37,000
in advertising. There is no parallel to this any-
where. A small drapery business was opened
by one of the brothers Riley in 1807, in Goulburn,
in the premises previously occupied by Mr. P.
Dignam, M.L.A., being secured for the purpose.
It was seen that the success of the large houses
in Sydney depended a good deal on their Loudon
agent, and Riley Brothers formed the opinion—
afterwards proved to bo very sound —that country
houses might be the better expected to succeed
if well represented in Sydney to secure the advan-
tages of a fall in the market or some of the
frequently-occurring opportunities for heavy cash
investments. A business was opened on Brickfield
Hill. This was 1868, and one hand was engaged to
assist. Now, it may parenthetically bo mentioned,
200 are employed. The business grew quickly
both in Sydney and at Goulburn, and branches
were opened at Maitland and at Yass. The great
hit of the firm was the
PURCHASE OP INSOLVENTS’ STOCKS,
varying in value from .£7OO to £17,000, and
these being secured were advertised far and
wide. Among the stocks purchased were
Leader, Charters and Co.’s, for £3,000; Cleary
and Gash’s (twice) Goulburn and Yass, for £4,000;
Stafford and Tarrant’s, Bathurst, for £G,OOO ; and
Messrs. Rush and Rousseau’s, Sydney, for £7,000.
Then came the purchase of the insolvent stock of
Messrs. J. and G. Harris, of Brisbane. In the
oaao of tho latter the public had a remarkable
proof of the effect of advertising. More recently
the stock of Mr. M. J. Murphy, of Pitt-street, wmo
was retiring from business, was purchased for
about .£17,000. The purchase of J. and G. Harris s
stock was widely published, and columns of the
Sydney Press wore occupied from day to day with
announcements of the time when the sale would
begin at Riley Brothers’ Brickfield Hill Establish-
ment. What was tho result ? Almost a panic in
the retail drapery trade of Sydney; a perfect
block in the pedestrian traffic of Brickfield Hill:
and the closing of the establishment now and then
throughout tho day, in consequence of its crowded
state, for some weeks. The result of this extensive
use of printer’s ink, &c., was at once appreciated by
the firm, and they decided on tho principle of sys-
tematic and extensive advertising. Then came
the establishment of
THE ,£5 BALE SYSTEM,
which may be described, as it is ovei'ywhere ad-
mitted to be the greatest mercantile success known
to the trade of this country. Simultaneously with
the development of this new idea of tho .£5 bale
tho firm decided on
IMPORTING- DIRECT FROM THE MANUFAC-
TURERS
all the goods they required. This firm was the
first to undertake anything of the kind for “ the
people,” that is, though one’ or two Syd-
ney houses imported direct goods required
for the wealthier classes, Riley Brothers
were the first to import on anything like a syste-
matic or extensive scale for tho middle or general
class of people. The arrangement proved a boon
to the colony, for, working in harmony with the
£5 bale system, people in the most distant parts
of the country were often supplied, carriage free,
and actually below wholesale figures, with goods
which in many cases had not yet been opened for
inspection eVen in tho wholesale houses. The
columns of the newspapers were sought to adver-
tise the new system, and every bale that was sent
out loft the place as an additional advertisement
of the bona fide character of tho system. One
bale brought twenty. At Brewarrina, Walgett,
Wilcannia, and at the very outskirts of civiliza-
tion in Queensland, people found themselves in
possession, under this new system, goods
which had not yet been offered for sale at tho best
establishments in hero. Confidence created
by every bale, the very best goods being in every
case sent, and supplied at a figure almost inva-
riably ten per cent, under tho wholesale price
ruling in Sydney. The payment to Cobb and Co.
alone for carriage has been from .£I2OO to =£lsoo
a year for the past six years. Riley Bros, began
the system of advertising in earnest in
January, 1874. The returns for that month was
nil, and February, March and April wore without
return. Still the advertising went on to the ex-
tent of some hundreds of pounds per week. In
May there were indications of some returns. .£4O
was the value of the returns for that month.
This went on increasing slowly but steadily till
April of the following year, when the business for
the month ran up to £31,016. The advertising
went on as the business grew. In May, 1874, the
trade was .£4O a month; in May, 1875, it was
J 22,000, or a rise to about £123,000 a year. In 1879
the total business for the year was not far short of
£3150,000. Here is a grand result achieved by se-
curing the public confidence by bona-fide trading
combined with judicious and liberal advertising.
The first year’s returns at their beginning in Gonl-
burn in 1867 were £32,000 ; twelve years later the
returns reached, as already stated, close upon
£2150,000. The greatest results wore secured dur-
ing the past six years, when the advertising was
entered into with spirit, and during the period in-
dicated the sum of £337,000 was absorbed in ad-
vertisements alone. It may seem strange
that Messrs. Riley Brothers’ business should
attain such great proportions while other
houses remain with limited patronage. The ex-
planation is to be found in the thorough organisa-
tion and system on which the whole business
is conducted. One of the partners, resident in
Sydney, purchases goods f>r the country houses
as opportunities arise, heavy falls in the market
or large insolvencies, as indicated above, being
promptly turned to account. The firm was care-
ful first to secure the most competent man
obtainable to buy in the London market and ar-
range for the special manufacture of goods, such
as blankets, at the factories and the shipment
direct to Sydney. Enormous savings were and are
still made in this way, and the people throughout
the colony have reaped and are still reaping the
benefits. Thus was the =£s bale system made an
accomplished fact; and if it was a great
success in the past it is a greater one now.
The firm’s purchasing arrangements in England
and on the continent have bean extended, and are
now more complete than those of any other home,
wholesale not excepted. The premises at Brickfield.
Hill have been extended, and advantage taken of
recent railway extensions and new mail routes.
Where the orders still come from it is hard to
tell ; the fact is, ten or tsveive thousand people
continue from season to season to supply them-
selves through the £35 bale system without going
to the expense of a trip to Sydney. This grand
business has produced something further. In
order to keep up the supply of goods the manu-
facturers at home have instructions from the firm
here sometimes twelve months in advance, and in
the natural course of things it happens that at the
end of the season there is a surplus stock. For
instance, to take one article, the manufacturer is
instructed to make and send out for the winter
season of 1880, say, 5000 of a certain class of
ladies’ jackets. The sale may not bo so great as ex-
pected, and the result is that there is perhaps 1000
of them loft on hand. The firm go on the principle
of turning their goods into cash. They never re-
pack for the following year. How they effect
their object is by means of
THEIR SEMI-ANNUAL SALE,
which like the £35-bale system is a proven success
and another great accomplished fact. _ Absolutely
new goods are offered to the public at prices
showing a great reduction on the usual selling
price. The newspaper columns are once more
sought, the semi-annual sale announced in columns
of advertisements, and the entire stock is cleared
out. The firm give another instance of what
they are doing with blankets from the manufac-
turers ; this winter, though the sale was greater
than last year, there was a fair quantity left on
hand. The price in the earlier portion of the
season was 20s. per pair; at the sale now on the
figure is 14s. 9d., and the whole shipment is being
cleared out. It might be thought that the firm
take an advantage of their semi-annual sale to
dispose of old, soiled or faded goods. All
such goods go direct to the auction mart. Thus
the Riley Brothers’ semi-annual sale is another
part of their great business system, and to con-
tinue a success must bo conducted on principles
of absolute fairness and benefit to the public.
The whole thing is worth inspecting : from end to
end the arrangement is sound and new and simple.
There is strange proof of the
WONDERFUL AMOUNT OF CONFIDENCE
created by the firm in the selection of their
£35 bales. Men who in the distant parts of
the colony trusted the firm with their £35 notes,
and were honestly served found it to their advan-
tage to turn Riley Brothers into their agents for
other goods besides drapery. Hence the firm have
from time to time supplied people all round the
colony with such items as bullock drays, buggies,
camp equipments, mining and farming appliances,
fruit, and even wedding cakes. We have no other
such’instance of confidence created among the
country people with respect to Sydney houses.
The whole thing is an instance of great ability and
the result of upright trading. Of the business
enterprise of the firm one instance may be men-
tioned Last February the firm decided on getting
a new line of goods principally for this market.
The news was cabled to England by means of their
own ample code ; three days after its receipt 111
London the Cuzco left with the shipment, and
within sixty days from the despatch of the mes-
sage the whole line had been placed on the market
here and cleared off. Our sketch convoys some
idea of the handsome exterior of the firm s estab-
lishment in the centre of the city. It was made
bv the best shop-front makers in England and cost
£3600. It is the handsomest front in Sydney, being
of nickel-silver and ebonized glass. The interior
of the establishment, like all the branches is
found to be well lighted and well ventilated, the
health of the employees being one of the first con-
siderations with these enterprising men. Grasping
together all the facts above given is it necessary
for us to answer the question whether advertising
pays?
LATE SPORTING.
Napper Tandy was scratched for the Metropo-
litan Stakes at 9.30 a.m. on the Ist, and Chester
and Martindale at 12.30 same day.
The yearling Maribyrnong, Lady Audley colt,
has been named “Skylark.”
The ties for second money in a pigeon shooting
match at Cook's River were shot off on W ednes-
last, the conditions being as usual at seven birds
ench. Mr. L. Lord shot 1111111, and won the
second prize. A 10s. sweep was shot off after*
wards, and won by Mr. f. Gannon, but space will
not admit of full scores.
N.S.W. Coursing’ Club.
At a committee meeting of the New South
Wales Coursing Cclub held at the lioyal Hotel
on Thursday afternoon last, Mr. K. Lee occupied
the chair, and the following draw, resultedafter
entries had been made. The slips are given in the
order they are to bo run in. The stewards decided
that all dogs are to be in the slips at 11 o clock,
and the public are requested to attend, no invita-
tion being required. The patronage of the club
was given to the Victoria Theatre for this Saturday
evening. The following is the draw :
THE DEHBT.
Mr. W. Lamb ns f w Lottery, by Barmby—Lassie, agst
Mr. W. L uub’s £ w Little Nell, by Master Edward—
La Eapeile
Mr. W. Lee, jun.’s, blk n Lexicon, by Good Authority
Seawave, agst Mr. W. Kite's ns bd u Peasant Boy
Mr. A. L. Park’s f w Portsmouth, by Portland —Kilburu,
agst Mr. W. M’Qnodo’s blk w MyLord, by Laneroo.it
—Miss Tansley
Mr. J. Weir us f r r n Hopbloom, by Barmby—Brindisi,
agst Mr. T. Croudace’s f Coleraine, oy Zigzag
Gaiety
THE OAKS.
Mr. W. Lamb’s bid w Lome Doom by The Judge-
Caller On, agst W. Lee, Jun.’s, bl w Lua Lna, by
Good Authority—Seawave
Mr. W. Kite ns rb Miss Molly, by Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, agst Mr. G. Hill’s irrw Hopbine, by
Barmby—Brindfsi
Dr. C. Bolisario’s bl w Bess Blackburn, by Claverbonse
—Miss Willis, agst Mr. G. F. Stephen’s hr w Queen
of the East, by Sportsman—Eastern Princess
Mr. W. M’Quade’s bl w Money, by Forest Banger—
Amalek, agst Mr. J. Weir’s blk w Wild Oats, by
Haddington—Cutty Sark
WOODSTOCK PLATE.
Mr. E. Hall’s hr w Helpmate by Leda— Hyacinth agst
Mr. W. Kite’s a s fd Jacobite, by Nafare—Jenny
Lind
Mr- A. L. Park’s bl nd Portland by Son of Nicodemus
—Zoo agst Mr. Lamb’s fn p Wyudham, by Barmby
—Lassie
Mr. T. Croudaces f d Cashel by Tamerlane—Leugh agst
Mr. M’Quade’s w f Mossfiro, by Sportsman—Ada
Mr. Q. L. Lord's bl d p Lcelaps by Good Authority—
Seawave agst J. Weir’s n s bl w d Delight, by
Hobbledehoy—Ply.
CUMBERLAND STAKES.
Mr. G. Hill’s r b Honeydew, by Tumult—Brindisi, agst
T. Croudais’ rn d Lambtou, by Well ngton—Minnie
Mr. W. E. Langley’s nrorfn Light of the Village, by
Morning Bay —Bessie Bell, agst Mr. B. Hall a ns
' bl b Lola, by Good Authority—Sewave
Mr. G. L. Lord’s us bl n d Le Loup, by Jupite"—Eme-
rald, agst J, Weir’s ns r or r f w Haddington, by
Barmby—Jezabel
Mr. W. Lamb’s ns f or p Ladybird, by Judge— Caller
On, agst W. Kite's bl w Keepsake, Barmali-Sharp
Practice.
Hay Jockey Club Races.
The following weights have been declared,
Waradgery Handicap.
Town Plate Handicap.
Russia and China are at war.
Goorpo Augustus Sala says the American papers
beat the world.
It is not true that Garnet Watch has commenced
a libel action against the Eve vino N fws.
Professor Proctor says he finds the interest in
science mnch more widely spread in America than in
England.
A return of incapahles in the civil service is to
made during the Parliamentary Recess, and presented
when the next estimates are laid on the table.
Cobb and Co. have 40 contracts for mail con-
veyance in this colony, for which they are paid by
Government £29.537 annually and to carry out which
thi ir drivers have to travel over 9-10,000 miles per y ear,
St Vincent’s Hospital, Darlinghurst, is the only
institution of its kind in the colonies which receives no
support from Government, and in point of comfort,
cleanlinesss, and an efficient medical staff, is second to
none in Au-dralia.
A concert will be given on Monday evening
next in St. John's (R.C.) Schoolroom, Kent-street, for
the benefit oo Signor Bartolometti. Judging from the
programme, the entertainment should be a most suc-
cessful one.
By special request of many who were unable to
be present on the last occasion, including a large num-
ber of the Sydney clergy, Mr. Isidore Myers will, at the
School of Arts, on Tuesday evening next, repeat Ins
clever and interesting lecture on“ The Talmud.’*
The oldest house on this continent is that
occupied by the A.S.N. company. Circular Quay. It
was built by the Campbells. It may he said to be the
birthplace of commerce in this hemisphere, for it was
here that the- first move for free trading was made.
The last generation always spoke of this family as
“ The Campbells of the Wharf.” So commerce in these
parts may be said to have been begun by men who to
this day still live.
At the time of the outbreak of the Eusso-
Turkish war the Dutchman at Banjoewangie cable
station used to “mix-np” terribly, and the errors in
the press here were many and frequent. l* 3 ® l ' o
came along this message“ Two thousand Chamant
Crown Prince Effete." The Hekaij) came out with an
interpretation something after this style:— It is
statec that the Russians have sustained a serious de-
feat. Two thousand were killed and wounded. The
Crown Prince of Germany was present. In those
days the Eveniku News got the same telegrams as the
Hekalp, both being supplied by Renter. The Herald a
account wasn’t half sanguinary enough, so the evening
paper came out with this :—“ Another bloody battle-
total defeat of the Turks-two thousand slam—the
Crown Prince victorious—great excitement all over the
world (Prom our own Special at the scene ot the con-
jjict) -'—A desperate battle has been fought on Iha
Danube, a short distance from Kars. The mam army
of the Russians, about 48,000 strong, under the com-
mand of the Crown Prince, fell across the left wing of
the Turkish army, under Chamount Pasha, and a fear-
ful battle resulted. Tho Turks numbered 70,000, but
they were completely worsted. 4000 lay slain on the
field of battle; according to onr correspondent the
aspect indeed was a gory one. The Turks are in full
retreat, and the Crown Priuce is in high pursuit. Iho
excitement in Europe is intense." Now let the reader
look at the original telegram once more:—“l wo
thousand—Chamaut—Crown Prince." What was the
correct interpretation ? Why, that the Two Thousand
Guinea Stakes hod been run in England, and that Cba-
maut was first, Brown Prince second, and - - -
third.” Still the war went on, and the battles
woro dnly recorded. We always thought there was a
military aspect about Mr, Burton of tho lleeald, and
Mr. J. Heniiikerof the News,


BRIEF MENTION.
Ninny mil not be re-elected.
Why does Ninny eat cloves P
Copeland is the coming man.
A Dibbsomaniac—Shepherd.
The two knights have not quarrelled.
A Civil Service Bill is urgently required.
All the rogues are not yet out of Paddington.
The Emperor of Russia says his fate is Czar’d,
Alderman Hordern is getting excited —by Evans.
Poachers are seldom particular to a hare or two.
Giorza wonders if he will ever have a centenary.
Judge Windeyer’s time is nearly up. August
17th.
Mittens are all the rage with Stanmore gentle-
men.
The pay fixed for teachers is still grossly inade-
quate.
They call valises “ portymantoes ” at Peter-
Sham.
The Warren is still unsold—so is the Govern-
ment.
90,000 copies. Bah! Thersitee! [Divide by
three.
Martin Guest is still chairman of the Scent
Bottle.
They’re burning old love-letters in Wynyard-
sqnare.
A. B. Rae has had last week’s Freeman
framed.
John Spencer plays ;n “New men and old
achers.”
Snb-inspector M‘Kay is a Good Templar. Pubs,
look out.
Jack Alick Bowie hasn’t got that twenty thou-
sand yet.
Tyerman is going to cut Bowie’s supply of
spirits off.
Where Jits are an epidemic Jackson and
Morton’s.
The Victoria Barracks are best suited for a new
Infirmary.
Andrew Lynch is the most honest politician in
Australia.
Parkes and Pigott are the next members for
Canterbury.
Peter Campbell is expected bock to look up a
millionaire.
Mr. G. R. Bibbs plays chess on a Shepherd’s
plaid shawl.
Roly Pickering (Nemo) testifies respecting
“ Anti-Pat.”
Ned Kelly has cut the Telegraph and taken
the Bullet-in.
Aaron Wheeler is bringing the Leichhardt
assessors to book.
We are promised a nice crop of mushrooms for
the coming elections.
Wiesener says he’ll “ mage dot Dower Orl
Clock go oderbnsht.”
Ladies have to climb through fences to get to
the Petersham railway.
“ I’ll be hanged if I do,” as Ned Kelly said
when asked to surrender.
The coroner has not replied to Mr. Rainford’s
charge of shocking a lady.
It was not thought that the police would have
the Hart to Byrne the Kellys.
Boyd won’t take Alexander Stuart. So much
beauty would crack the lenses.
Barlee writes sermons for Feiithocght and
takes notes re Judge Meymott.
The address and reply reading at the Sunday
Bchool Opera was very exciting.
An observer says that Sydney is the picnices
and biggest funeralest city in the world.
Nat Cohen announced his “ talking hand,” but
some wag obliterated the “1” in talking.
The return fare to Peter-
sham is tenpence daring 1 the
week and sixpence on Saturday,
when everybody wants to go into
town. Sometning wrong here.
An Englishman a native
of London—called at the money
order office, G P. 0., Sydney,
relative to the advice of a money
order which he expected from
England. The intelligent native
in charge vouchsafedthe follow-
ing useful piece of iulormatiou;
—“ That as the advice was to
come from Holborn, E C., and
as that place was a village a
considerable distance from the
heed office, London, it was pro-
bable it had not arrived there
in time for the maid." “ Good,
good, worry. ’ ’
During the ever-to-be-re-
membered •• Kelly Battle 11 the
Evekimg News people behaved
like heroes, and kept np a con-
tinual lire of “ latest intelli-
gence. ” After some brilliant
“ flounders," they at lust, calmed
the public mind by issuing a
*■ third edition," mncb to the
delight of—the news-boys. All
must admit that, although some-
what “ mixed," their pens
proved os mighty as swords,
revolvers, and Spenoer rifles,
havingsatisfied the excited.
Bonnet woe as nsnnl calm and
collected a considerable
amount.
“Only a woman,” writes
to the llxilt Tn.EGii.iPn last
week, evidently fiotn the Coffee
Palaee. Sbe expr as s a hope
that some alderman 1 seem*
for her and her feilow workirs
the blessings of “ eiaht hturf,"
She says that she prefers the
independence of earning a living
to the olaneeof a matrimonial
0 Jnnt e :#a like many which enp
np in our ponce Courts, expos-
ing a la-:y runaway husband,
a bigamist, a brute, or a dinn-
kavd, or all four rolled into one.
This is rather ‘'hot ctffee."
Now we hope, in the interest*
of the male sex, thi t th e y oung
lady will retain her billet and
not get married —unless it be i«
one ui h r friends the a derinen.
When t ic two libel actions are over Dr. McGib-
bon’s weekly howl is likely to become weaklier.
Ninny says he’ll have to swear or drink if he is
not allowed to turn Sirenerry out single handed.
10,000 lithographs of St. Lawrence, as “John
Jeremiah Lamb,” were scattered over Melbourne.
Mr. Ramsay, of the Museum, is wrapped up in
a sword-fish. Krefft says it ought to be a blanket.
Some respectable member should have taken the
Parley matter up. Ninny’s insignificance spoiled it.
Father Gibbey annointed Ned Kelly, but the
Victorian police wanted to “ cannonise ” his brother.
Mr. G. R. Dihbs says we are wrong abont his
new pnzzle—that nobody con guess what his game is,
“ Suburban ” in the Hkeatj) wants a steam
lift to hoist him out of the tnanoars into his office
chair
The railway department has prohibite d signal-
men from reading The Bulletin. Too many acci-
dents.
Mr. Greenwood has no State aid although he
does write political articles for the semi-religions
paper.
Ninny, Hanley and Beyers propose to start a
paper, to be pure in politics, and in English. They edit
in turns.
In view of the harbour mud thickening and
hardening, the good folks of Balmain ore asking for a
tramway.
Another attempt is to be made to open the
School of Arts on Sundays, It will cost the Y.M.C.A.
another £4O.
Candles are now sold as “240 gas-light candles,”
and yet they are simple sperms; but remember it is
Sydney gas that is referred to.
The frisquette lawn on Moore Park is being cnt
up for the tramway. The little man who invented the
pastime is getting bald over it.
Another Civil Service superannuation scheme is
afoot. look out, youngsters, the big salaried men
want to make use of you, and retire.
There’s a newspaper man in Darlinghnrst (not
in the gaol) whose foot (or rather twenty-four inches)
is so long and so broad and so humpy with bunions
that he can make a nightcap out of his sock.
There is not the slightest foundation for the
statement that a well-known forensic healing medium
is going into partnership with Dr. George On Lee.
Re the late Mr. Challis’ bequest of 000 to
Sydney University. We know a struggling pressman
who says he’d like a “ draft" from that “ chalice.”
It is said by people who ought to know that a
recent appointment was made before the dispute which
led to the dismissal of the predecessor was originated.
The Evening News people have been proving
conclusively that colonial beer contains deleterious in-
gredients. Now the Evening News people ought to
know.
The counter clerk at a music-shop in Qeorge-
street has gone mad. A young lady asked him for " Two
Kisses." and "Please be quick, fori am in a hurry.”
He has been using raw beefsteak and hair restorer ever
since.
The drum and cymbals kept the children in
time. The organ was perfectly useless as played on
Saturday last.
The new tramcars are very uncomfortable —a
bad imitation of the American article. The “ coffin ”
is abominable.
There was no Flood. It was a facial distinction
made between Jew and Gentile. Nose Arc! I ham
os/iam’d, Japhet!
What is the difference between a brntal husband
and Dauvid Buchanan?—One “boots’* his missis, the
other misses his boots.
Pastor Allen was at the Sunday-school celebra-
tion. He opened his month. Several children have
been missing ever since.
John Harley wants to know if the Eev. Cnrnow
gets a salary from the Government for writing political
leaders for the Hebald or for preaching.
Mr. Edison has discovered a new process for
extracting gold from quartz. All we know is, that
quarts have extracted piles of gold from us.
The clerks in the new Government buildings
ore arranging pedestrian matches. Course: Up and
down those stairs 150 times. No entries yet.
It’s when you’ve got a man who can “ court”
and do the signalling at the same time that you may
talk of an efficient railway officer. Now, near
station on a Sunday afternoon, &c.
The Evening News is going to ran Ninian
Melville for the next election on the auction ticket.
Hanley Bennett has called on the editor for an expla-
nation.
Mr. Milner Stephen still lays his hands on things
and they disappear. He says it’s the spirits. Many a
man has pleaded the same influence before, but j uries
are such fools.
Angne Cameron was present at a religions foun-
dation stone ceremony recently. His name would have
been published in the usual course. Some men, how-
ever, interview reporters privately. Alas! for the
tricks of greatness.
The Twaddlegraph is about raising the
salaries of its staff. The conductors still hold to the
opinion that it's useless to get a Sydney man on it. He
would be likely to know something about the city, and
that wouldn't do, you know.
The Eaikes Progress—The Centenary procession
The Palmer is “ bust.” Drinks have come down
to sixpence.
Who’ll win the skating match F asked a man last
week. Wy-hurd to be sure; the other man will I‘ult-yn_
Wanted next session, “A Bill to abolish the
cowardly practice commonly known as abuse behind
Parliamentary privilege." Along-suffering public can
supply the preamble.
When Sir Henry Parkes, at the last general
election, collared the seat of one of his staunchest sup.
porters, he declared that he meant no Hill to the eletv
torate of Canterbury.
The Petersham post and telegraph office is con-
veniently planted in the middle of a network of railway
lines. You have to wait minutes for a chance to send
across to post a letter.
A foreign visitor present at the verbal Niagara
last Friday night is more than ever disgusted at the
peculiarities of our language. “Stonewalling bywooden
blocks! Such a nonsenses! ’’
The Orient line of steamers is filling the town
with new chums, with enormous appetites and slender
means. Several landladies in Wyuyard-square are ex.
Whiting signs of uneasiness and wishing for a speedy
settlement. '
Apropos of the “ Government stroke,” a private
firm in Sydney have just completed a 'piece of iron-
work, and have charged more than double the cost
of a similar piece of work done in a Government
establishment.
Ninny shocked the spirit of Lindley Murray
over a thousand times when he was on the ram page
last Friday night, or rather Saturday morning. How-
ever, the spirit in question hasn’t ever appeared to the
hon. member yet.
Alfred Allen’s month opens behind Lord Loftns
and Pastor Allen’s mouth open» in front of his Excel-
lency, placed the gubernatorial personage in paren-
thesis. However, Alfred opens his month to better
purpose than the other gentleman.
The Eeverend By-way at Stanmore last Sunday
divided his sermon under three heads 1. “ The News
in a Nutshell 2. “Personal Items;” and 3. “Brief
Mention"—and pulled out a copy of the B , but
there, yon know what he had been'reading! It wasn’t
the Bible but the very next best thing.
The hon. member for Hartley is whipper-in to
the present Government, with John Davies as first as-
sistant. The Sydney John wanted the “ boss " billet,
but bis application went in late, and Sir Henry told him
that the “ Hurley " bird had caught the worm.
The editor of this journal has a splendid assort-
ment of libels on hand kindly supplied by valued and
anonymous contributors. He will be glad to supply
anyone who thinks of starting a new paper with matter
which will at once secure a large circulation. Terms
cash.
“It’s like the himpidenoe of such as yon to
speak to such as me," said the Sultan Suren Eeeparqnes,
and the cricketer’s substitute trembled in fear of the
bowstring, and vanished.
Gately, the Melbourne executioner, is here.
Can no sporting man get up an international hanging
match between him and onr man Nosey Bob P We’re
prepared to advocate that the winner be sent home to
hang against Marwood, or we’re ready to back the pair
in a double hanging event against all comers.
John Davies has turned over a new leaf. He
presided at a Wesleyan conversazione this week. Next
week he’ll be to let for a Roman Catholic tea-party,
and the week following he’ll be available for a hard-
shell revival or a spiritualistic seance. Some weeks
later on he’ll stand for West Sydney. And so will
someone else.
The eclipse of the moon was a great success last
week—at least to the proprietor of the telescope whose
observatory was situated in the vicinity of Roberts*
free luncheon bar. A customer with a crooked eye
had bis money returned to him as he could only
“ fetch” the chimney of a butcher’s shop after three
attempts. “But it don’t signify," he murmured.
Mr. Alderman Thomas Playfair.
We give the portrait, to-day, of Mr. Alderman
Thomas Playfair, a gentleman who has actively
associated himself from time to time with move-
ments of benefit to the city, and who during his
civic career has effected some very important
changes in the condition of affairs in Sydney. Mr.
Playfair’s history is not de-
void of interest. Before start-
ing: in business for himself,
and before his arrival in
Sydney in 1868, he served his
country for eighteen years,
and was present and actively
engaged in numerous impor-
tant naval undertakings in
different parts of the world.
Mr. Playfair was born in 1832,
at Earlscolne, Essex, and was
educated in London. At the
early age of twelve years he
joined her Majesty’s navy.
He served in the Brisk at the
blockade of Archangel. His
vessel was a towards ordered
to effect a b oikade of Petro*
palovsk, in the North Sea,
and the undertaking was car-
ried out with success. The
difficulties at Burmah subse-
uently required the presence
of the British troops, and
Mr. Playfair was a member
of the Naval Brigade, spe-
cially organised to operate
with the army along the
Burmese frontier. The mas-
sacre of Christians at Jedda
then occurring, his ship, the
Polorus, was ordered to the
scene; peace was quickly
restored and satisfaction ex-
acted. After this, the Pelorus
was ordered on to the Aus-
tralian station. Mr. Playfair
left the service here and star-
ted in business with Mr. E.
J. Baily. His partner died
eighteen months later, and
Mr. Playfair continued the
business himself. Mr. Play-
fair has been one of the most
active among the master but-
chers of Sydney in looking to
the interests of the trade,
and has occupied the highest
positions in their association.
He now represents Gipps
Ward in the Municipal Coun-
oi Hud has been twice elected, once with a very large
majority over his opponent, and once without
opposition. As an alderman Mr. Playfair has
done good service for Sydney and effected some
important hygienic and other improvements in the
northern end of the city. Mr. Playfair has been
twice married.
One anonymous correspondent writes us; —
“ Dear sir, if you leave out tbo ‘ Stage Gossip" from
your paper it will be the best journal iu Sydney.*
Another writes ;— *• I think you might publish a short
sermon weekly with advantage ” We have also had
hints as to the desirableness of omitting from Tk»
Bulletin everything of a personal nature, and are
much obliged to our correspondents for their kindly
interest in their own welfare.
KS ALDERMAN THOMAS PLATFAIR.
COMMENCEMENT OF THE ATTACK ON THE SHANTY.


Machinery
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING com-
pany, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Pounders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
HE OSBORNE HARVESTING
MACHINERY.
THE WATEROUS SAW MILLS.
THE WATEROUS FLOUR MILLS.
WAGGONS.
BUGGIES,
&c. &c.
HARNESS,
34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. FLEMING,
IMPORTER.
Chemists and Druggists
C
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 81) KING-STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
A
RMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul-
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE. CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BRON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale A Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market). Sydney.
YtTcTr ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
go to
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
J‘ S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
# Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calome
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, Ac., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,43l George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
Hotels, &c.
C,
J. ROBERT
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT.
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395. 397 George Street.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock's Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence. „
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or Js.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHLb,
General Manager.
MM H E GREAT NORTHERN HO 1 EL.
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a tirst-class Hotel and Luncheon
Rooms, which cannot be excelled in any house m the
Terms Strictly Moderate.
rpRICKETT’S INTERNATIONAL HOTEL.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
In thanking the public for the support which has
been accorded me, I have pleasure in stating that I
have this day handed over my business to Mr. James
Hunt, late of C. W. Roberts’s, who will, I feel sure, con-
duct it with credit to himself and to the satifaction
of all who favour him with their patronage.
I also desire to inform my friends that I have arranged
to establish cable communication between myself and
Mr. Hunt, by which reliable information respecting
the’ race between myself and Mr. Hanlan may be ob-
talned ‘ EDWARD TRICKETT.
9th June, 1880.
N
O
T
C
E.
Mr. PATRICK DIMOND respectfully begs to
acquaint his friends and the public generally that he
has opened a tirst-clcss Hotel, corner of
WILLIAM AND DOWLING STREETS,
And"l rusts by strict attention and civility to merit a
fair share of jiHhlic patronage.
Wines, Spirits) Beers, Ac., best brands.
Hotels, &c.
Nathaniel cohen
Begs to inform his numerous circle of acquain-
tances (those who do know him and those who don’t)
that he has taken the
EOYAL ALBERT HOTEL,
at the corner of
GIPPS & MACQUARIE STREETS, SOUTH,!
And trusts, by a. strict attention to the wants of his
customers in the shape of good Liquor, combined with
a little hilarity thrown in for their three-pence, to
merit their support.
Don’t Forget
NAT. COHEN, The Ventriloquist,
the man with the talking hand.
Come and hear the man under the bar counter and
the Oir in the Rum-keg.
c
OLONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
c
AELTON CLUB HOTE
199 Elizabkth-St., Hyde Park.
H. Oliphant Paton, Proprietor.
Healthiest position and most comfortable Hotel in
Sydney. Private Suites of Apartments.
Detached BAR; BATHS, STABLING, Ac.
Hot Coffee, Rum and Milk, &c., from 4.30 a.m. Table
d’hote 1 p.m. daily.
Jet on parle Francaig.
jrjOACH AND HORSES HOTEL. MITTAGONQ.
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mb. P. STANTON, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors' from the metropolis may Vie certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
f iThTe BEST SHILLING LUNCH IN TOWN
J- (including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Eish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad. ~ , , , , .
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the liar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
OOME AND TASTE THE ObD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
E
B
ASS’S
PALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
A L
The undersigned have lieen APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS lor the above Celebrated Bottlers, and are in
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
M
RS. SPENCER
of the
VICTORIA LUNCHEON & SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre),
Knowing the aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining in town after the theatres axe
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in the evening or day can
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW!
N B This is not restricted to suppers, hut cooked
meats,' etc. can he served and obtained at any time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as usual.
Cleanliness, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling the possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for i ive Shillings, may
be hod at the cash counter.
Note the Address—
-2 d PITT STREET.
AMES COOPER,
PRIZE MEAT PRESERVER.
Has always on sale
Smoked Beef, Mutton, and Hams
Ox and Sheep Tongues, smoked and in tins
Frankfort, Epping, and pure Pork Sausages
Bacon, Hams, &c.
Poultry of all kinds, alive and dressed.
Joints, Poultry fresh cooked every day.
Orders promptly attended to.
Address:
JAMES COOPER,
90 OXFORD STREET.
rOM E s
FOR THE PEOPLE.
Tis difficult to understand why struggling people
i tin lie to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
ount now 1 going to the landlord, they can m a few
QWN FREEHOLD !
• their own profit and that of their families after
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
SUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
le most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
J&4> CAbrL,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
will SUPPLY TIMBER, Ac., to those desirous to
Build.
AY ABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of huilding,
undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
nced by the fact of the astounding progress ot Bal-
ain during the past six years, and it is impossible
“t the present chance can ever recur after the working
Ltof 'scheme FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
nC YjTLEis guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Office. Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick «
Auctioneers and Commission Agents
OSEPH J. ROBERTS,
General Auctioneer
And
COMMISSION AGENT,
716 George-street, Sydney.
TO DEALERS AND OTHERS-LOST PROPERTY.
JOSEPH J. ROBERTS has received instructions
from the Commissioner for Railways to sell by auction
at the Goods shed, Railway Station, Redfern, on
Tuesday, 6th Jnly, at 10.30 sharp,
LOST PROPERTY.
OHNB R I D G
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
nTmeiklejohn AND CO.,
• Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments ot Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS. AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
PRITCHARD'S HOUSE, BUSINESS,
HOTEL, & GENERAL AGENCY.
w.
B U
FOE THE LETTING AND SALE
Of every description of
SINESS PROPERT
By Auction or Private Contract.
ESTATE AND LAND SALE ROOMS—
-259 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
H.B.—A Register kept (free of charge) ot all Proper-
ties To Let or Businesses for Sale.
W' ELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows
BEEF, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station —every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
Ac., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry. Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
Ac., at their Saleyards, 639 Georgo-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts aud Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondavs, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins. Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour—every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
Horses and Vehicles
David m*ca l l,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Bv Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OP
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOPTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869. 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
EAREY BROTHERS, COACH AND BUGGY
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
K
S
Hs A M W B L
• CARRIAGE MAKER,
Little Flinders Street, Melbourne,
Calls special attention to his Patent Two-wheeled
Brougham, lately exhibited at the Show-rooms of
Messrs Haiuiug and Schitnel, Coachbnilders, Castle-
reagh-street, imported by the agents to the order of
J. Harris, Esq,, M.P., of Sydney.
Orders for similar vehicles received by the agents,
DRYSDALE and EGBERTS,
397 George-street.
Tobacconists
E
James e
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159
PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
T
H
E GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond. Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
Legal
M
R.
A. GODFREY
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has oommenced practice in Sydney.
Office—s 3 Bdizabeth-street.
s
HOE T E E & FITZGE fi A L D
Solicitors,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
And
Macquarie Street, Ddbbo.
Legal. —Air. t. m. slattery.
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards
W
ILLIAM BEDE CHEISTIE,
Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under the Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
14. Bridge-street, Sydney.
WM A 0 L B O D,
• POETEAIT PAINTEE,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
Gt AN D
s.
P E E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings. Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Til OWLEE’S POTTEEY
AND
BEICK WORKS,
CAMPER DOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application. ___
OI6NOKA H ~P. BABE IS,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlinghnrst.
i&rTsl iTlTsl sHEE W I N,
-IyJ- (Pr6m Tasmania),
TEACHER OF THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
J- SKINNER. AND CO., 13 KING-STEKET,
, BRASSFOUNDERS, PLUMBERS, AND
GA.SFITTERS.
Beer Engine s— C heap.
j- F . cb IPP S. PAS TEYCO OK AND
I • CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-uics, &c., catered for In the
best style.
iO b E R T BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
533 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
71 MASON, LAND AGENT, 244 Paliner-
-11, street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, bas BLOCKS
LAND for Sale at Waverley, also Allotments in
arrandera and Wagga Wagga.
N HA Si H- A N I E L,
J general storekeeper.
ROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
rent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
r\ HOM A S PLAYFAIR,
L SHIPPING,
tVHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
103 GEORGE STREET.
3 MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
• “WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
■Wholesale Grocers, &c..
Corner of York and Wynyard Streets. Sydney.
Our Prices Current for Groceries, &c., giving lowest
arket a notat ions, is issued the first of every month.
circulated gratis throughout the colony. Store-
sepers who have not received our Circular will do so
j forwarding us their address.
i allerding and son,
• 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Practical
SONOMETER WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS,
AND OPTICANS,
porters of every description of English, Swiss, and
Waltham machine-made Watches
In Gold and Silver,
e "Liver” Telescope, the cheapest and most port-
able Telescope for the bush—Price, £1 Is.
Illustrated Catalogues post free on application.
sole agents for V. Kullberg’s Ships Chronometers.
iich were awarded first prize at the International
hibition.
DOLPHE GABRIEL & CO.
3UEGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS.
18 WYNYARD SQUARE.
(TWO DOORS FROM PFAIIDERT’S HOTEL),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
wing to systematic attempts which are made to
lead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS TS AS ABOVE.
La w«s mid MINTON’S well-known TESSELATED
PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS, HEARTH TILES,
LL LININGS, new and elegant designs.
.me verycheap encaustic'tiles, for verandahs, baths,
iervatories Ac. BEILBY and CO.
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Ir P HURST, having been in the principal
factories on the Continent is placed in yosiHm
Style ’ P. HURST,
491 Georgo-street. >
J G. LEVY,
TOBACCONIST,
169 Oxford Street,
Choicest Brands
of
TOBACCOS AND
CIGARS.
Tobacconist
NOVELTIES
by
Every Mail.
■jyr k. c. prince,
TOBACCONIST,
149 KING STREET,
Begs to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain areally first class article in TOBACCO, CIGARS,
&c., at his establishment.
Just received a fine assortment of WALKING
STICKS in all the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149 KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre Eoyal.
fjjlO BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART his erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Baud Sawing, Planing, and
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.


st.
lb.
st. lb.
Chester ...
... 9
8
Pawnbroker
C
8
Calomia
... 8 11
Chatterbox
6
8
Wellington ...
... 8 10
Sunshine
6
8
Woodlands ...
... 8 10
Japan
6
8
Bos worth
... 8
8
Respite
Euclid
6
7
Darriwell
... 8
7
6
7
Murtindule ...
... 8
7
Elon
6
7
Avernua
... 8
6
Dover
6
G
Lord Hurry ...
... a
5
Guide Olgothach ...
G
G
Sweetmeat ...
... 8
i
Auckland
6
5
Democrat.
... 8
3
Terrific
G
5
Colurnbua
... 8
3
Rothschild
G
4
Rapid Buy ...
... 8
2
Remembrance
6
4
Mata
... a
2
Juveutas
G
4
South Hamilton
... 8
1
Thorntopper
6
4
First Water...
... 8
1
Queen Bee
6
4
Zambesi
... 8
0
Star of West
6
4
Banter
... 7 13
Jester
e
4
Richmond ...
... 7 12
Enos
G
4
Andover
... 7 11
Yurdley
Royal Consort
6
4
Fonl Play ...
... 7
9
6
3
Rivalry
Seoundus
... 7
... 7
8
7
Bertie
Guinea
6
6
3
3
Glenormiston
... 7
7
Gloster
6
3
Imperial
... 7
6
Adventurer
6
3
Stoekbridge ...
... 7
6
Herbert
G
3
Levant
... 7
6
Lion...
G
3
Lord Burghley
... 7
5
Cynic
G
3
Nellie
... 7
5
Aiblins
G
3
Fun Bias
... 7
4
Barou Von Mueller
G
3
Mnllyan
... 7
4
Bandalbion
6
3
Echo
... 7
4
Bathurst
6
0
Tomboy
... 7
4
The Scoop
G
0
Odd Trick ...
... 7
4
Lot hair ... ...
6
0
Pumpiuupa ...
Cam hallo
... 7
... 7
3
3
Surprise
Western Princess ...
G
G
0
0
Lowlander ...
... 7
3
Tide
6
0
Lohengrin ...
... 7
2
Cinnamon
6
0
Aspen...
... 7
1
Middlesex ... ,v.
5 11
Nupper Tandy
... 7
1
Friduy
5 11
Kamilaroi
... 7
1
Deluraere ... ...
5 n
Riverton
... 7
0
ABC
5 10
Wandering Jew
... 7
0
Lord Lisgar
5 10
Elastic
... 6 13
Constance
5
A
Dynamite
... 8 12
Aurora
5
A
Grand Prix ...
... 6 11
Totalizator
5
7
Robbie Bnra9
... 6 11
Progress
5
7
Nerissa
... 6 11
La t. robe
5
7
Grand Flaneur
... 6 10
Valetta
5
7
Trevallyn
... 6 10
The Stag
8
7
Moonbeam „
... •) 10
Chatterer
5
7
Kinsman ...
... 6
8
Alethe
5
7
Sir Joseph ...
... 0
A
Rita
5
7
Geraldine
... 6
8
British Workman ...
5
7
Tidal Wave ...
... 6
8
I. Birdcatcher
Sir Hercules
Guiocioli
Whalebone
Peri
Bob Booty
Flight
Honeydear
Pleiupolent'y
Emilius
Harriett
Mydear
Bay Middelton
Miss Lotty
Flatcatcher
Touchstone
Chiu el
Banter
Decoy
Fi)ho-da Puta
Finesse
Silence
Melbourne
Humph Cliulter
Cervantes more
Secret
Hornsea
Solace
The Baron
I. Birdcatcher
Echidna
e ir Hercules
Guiocioli
Economist
Miss Pratt
Pocahontas
Glencoe
Sultan
Trampoline
Marpessa
Mnley
Clare
Ethelbert
Faugh a Bal-
lagh
:
Espoir
Liverpool
Esperuuce
Bassishaw
The Prime
Warden
Cad bind
Zarina
Miss Whinn’y
Sir Hercnles
Enphrosyne
■2
O
X
O
O
55
u
»
«
02
Whisper
ISONOMY
*
•8
0
-!
hJ
W
M
CO
3
O
0>
5
OTj
►H
SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Clarence Elver J. C July 7 and 8
Rockhampton J.C. Annual July 8 and 9
Hay J.C July 13
Deniliquin July 21
Avoca Annual July 29 and 30
Geelong Winter July 31
Adelaide R. C. Winter steeplechase August 6 and 7
Tattersall’s Spring August 14
Hawkesbury August 25 and 27
Parramatta August
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 4,7, 9, 11
Sydney Turf Club September 18
Northern J.C September
Narrabri October
V.E.C. Spring Oct. 30, N0v.2,4,6
Q.T.C. Spring Nov. 6 and 9
Murrumbidgee Spring Nov. 22,23, and 24
A. J.C. Summer December 27
Tattersall’s Annual January 1, 1881
V.R.C January 1, 1881
i "*»“ iS s
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Clarence River J.C. General Entry July 5
Geelong Entries July 5
Adelaide R. C. Winter Steeplechase meeting July 8
Brewarrina M.P. Stakes—Description of foals Aug. 1
Tattersall’s Spring entries Aug. 2
Tattersall’s Mares Produce Stakes, 1883.
Nomination of Mare Aug. 2
Sydney T.C. Juvenile Stakes Aug. 2
A.J.C. Summer December Stakes Aug. 2
Hawkesbury General Entry Aug. 2
A. J. C. Spring General Entry Aug. 18
Sydney Turf Club General Entry Sep. 1
A. J.C. Summer Cup Oct. 14
V.E.C. General Entry Oct. 14
Tattersall’s Cup 1881 Oct. 26
V.R.C. New Year's Day Meeting General Entry Dec. 10
A. J.C. Summer General Entry Dec.
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Rockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Race, and
Members’ Handicaps July 5
Deniliquin July 10
Geelong Handicap July 15
Tattersall’s Spring Handicaps Aug. 6
Hawkesbury County Purse, and Plying
Handicap Aug. 17
A. J.C. (Spring) Hurdle and Steeple Aug. 24
Hawkesbury Turf Club and Members Handi-
cap Aug. 26
A.J.C. (Spring) Epsom and Welter Aug. 30
A. J.C. (Spring) Shorts and Squatter’s Sep. 6
A.J.C. (Spring) Suburban and City Sep. 8
A.J.C. (Spring) Members, Waverley, and Free Sep. 10
Sydnej Turf Club Handicap Sep. 14
A.J.C. Summer Cup Handicap Nov.
Tattersall’s Cup Dec. 1
V.R.C. New Year’s Day Handicap Dec. 16
A.J.C. Minor Handicaps Dec.
Index to Forfeits and Non-Acceptances.
Rockhampton District Plate, Hurdle Race, and
Members’ Handicap acceptances July 6
Great Metropolitan Stakes—first forfeit July 14
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap non-acceptances July 14
Deniliquin acceptances July 20
Melbourne Cup acceptances Aug. 9
Metropolitan Stakes last forfeit Sep. 3
Tattersall’s Cup non-accept Dec. 13
Answers to Correspondents.
Copeland South. —You are quite right. You count
one for the last card.
Well-Wisher.—Send you name. We do not answer
annonymous questions.
O. B. D. —We do not agree with you. In our
opinion one person should not be secretary for
more than one club.
The Three Big Handicaps.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
As is always the case when the handicaps for a
big race have been declared, it becomes necessary
that they be reviewed in some shape or other, and
once again I come to my task of looking through
the allotted imposts for the three principal handi-
cap races of this and the neighbouring colony. To
say that opinions differ as to which is the better
of the handicaps under notice would be telling
my readers what they must already be fully aware
of, but they cannot be said to be divided, for pre-
ference is.given by the generality of the public to
the productions of Mr. Scarr, and many are of
the opinion that the low scale adopted by Mr.
Barnard is at least half a stone too light. Before
I go any further I must apologise for the wrong list
of entries for the Melbourne Cup given in my last.
How the mistake occurred I cannot tell, but it is
some consolation to know that all the lists given
in the N.S.W. Press of the Melbourne Cup Han-
Handicap were wrong, and I take the opportunity
this week of giving a correct one. Reading down
the lists, a keen observer cannot but be struck
with the wonderfully different estimate arrived at
by the handicappers in the case of several promi-
nent horses, and which is right yet remains to be
seen. Mr. Scarr has commenced at 10 st. in the
Grand and 9st. 121 b. in the Metrop., while 9st.
61b. is the maximum weight in the Melbourne
Cup ; and I am very sorry to notice that both
handicappers persist in going as low as sst 71b. I
have on many previous occasions expressed an
opinion on this subject favourable to doing away
with a minimum weight of sst. 71b., and having
nothing lower than 6st; and I would not have
igain returned to the subject but that I have
heard several of our prominent horse-owners also
declare themselves opposed to such a weight as
fist. 71b. being allowed in handicaps of such pre-
tentions as those I am writing about. I think it
is only a common sense point of view that is re-
quired to decide against such a low scale being
adhered to, for it very rarely happens that the di-
vision mentioned has a representative at all. How-
ever, the handicaps, after such a dull time as we
have of late been treated to, have not done any
great stroke in making the surroundings of the
turf lively, and but little betting has been in-
dulged in. Avernus was about the most fancied
previous to the imposts seeing the light, and since
his withdrawal nothing at all seems to find much
favour, but no doubt when operations are com-
menced in real earnest on the training grounds a
more healthy state of things will follow. It has
been said that betting is dying out, but it is, to
say the least of it, foolish to suppose that such is
the case, and the absence of any great amount of
betting at this stage of the “game” is mainly
attributable to backers holding off until a line can
be got from the “ work ” in the mornings or some
owner or other makes a move, and not through a
desire not to wager ; nearer the day we may expect
to be told of something quite out of the common. It
is only natural to suppose that after one or two
“ gruellings ” backers get a little shy and hold off
for a while, but so sure as the cock crows so sure
will backers come again. Now to my task, giving
priority to
The Hawkbsbtjrt Handicap,
for being run, as it will be, previous to the
others it must have preference given it. When I
entered on this mission I had no intention of
wading through several columns, giving first of
all the performances of each animal engaged, and
then comparing Mr. Scarr’s estimate with the one
1 have formed myself, for such a proceeding is only
a waste of time, and it cannot be other than
irksome to the reader to be asked to wade through
a lot of “stuff” he has no doubt read through
times out of number. I shall only glance cursorily
through the various handicaps in as few words as
possible. There are 78 handicapped, commencing
at 10 stone on Chester and finishing with sst 71b
on no less than nine, there being a difference of
631bs between the top weight and the lowest
division. With lOst, Chester has 91bs above his
weight for age ; rather a big lump of weight to be
asked to carry, but this son of Yattendon and
Lady Chester is such an undeniably “ good un ”
that he earned every ounce of his present weight;
and although I don’t at all fancy him, he cannot,
judging by public form, be looked upon as other-
wise than right “in it.” Calamia, 9st 21b, has
41b less than his weight for age, and his Melbourne
Cup victory alone entitles him to such a position
in the handicap ; but I cannot have Avernus at
9st, which will be exactly his weight for age.
Avernus has been a tremendous ‘ * pet ’ ’ of the
public since his name was first seen in the list of
entries, but when the imposts were apportioned he
was said to be badly used. But without doubt
those who were so ready to cry “wolf” quite
forgot that this son of King of the Ring and Miss
Jessie, as an early three-year-old, won the Hobart
Town Cup easily, carrying 7st 121 b, and as he is a
year older and has had the advantage of a good
spell there is no knowing what he might be
capable of. With all this given in, 9st, I think, is
rather too much for him, but I cannot believe that
he was not entitled to about Bst 101 b. Of the
dozen between 9st and Bst there’s nothing I like
better than Mata at Bst 121 b, but being in the
land of the Maori the chances are greatly against
him figuring for this prize of the H.R.C. Sweet-
meat and Andover appear equally handicapped at
Sat 101 b each, and after her recent victories Bst 71b
is not too much for Black Swan to win with. Were
she well on the day, I opine that her chance would
be second to none. Both Nellie and Sunlight have
nought to complain of in Bst apiece, and Democrat is
a likely customer at Bst 71b. There are twenty-one
between Bst and 7st, and Lord Burghley, 7st 121 b,
Black Eagle, 7st 91b, Auckland, 7st 31b, and
Jester 7st would appear to be the hardest to beat.
I don’t know why Nerissa has been weighted at
7st 51b, and asked to give weight to such as
Auckland, Eavenswood, Woolstone and the Pon-
tiff, for she has never yet done anything worth
speaking of, and within the last few months has
been beaten by a lot of very moderate animals at
Kensington Park. With Bst she never had a
show in the .£6O Town Plate Handicap at Avoca,
won by Activity, 7st 41b. Tocal carried 9st and
won a handicap at the Melbourne H.C. Meeting,
but 7st 81b completely stopped Nerissa from even
running respectably. Shs also carried 7st 81b in
the Newmarket Handicap, won by Diomed, but
was unplaced, and in the face of such perfor-
mances as these she cannot be expected to have a
show, and I look upon her as one of the ill-used
division. Of the remaining lot, nothing to my
mind can have a show with the Pontiff, Master
Avenel, Middlesex, Hesperion and perhaps Valetta,
and of this lot I fancy for choice the Pontiff, that
really fast horse Master Avenel and Middlesex,
and to make up half a score I will include Black
Swan, Auckland,Black Eagle, Sunlight, Democrat,
Mata and Lord Burghley.
The Metropolitan Stakes.
Chester again heads the list, and with 9st. 121 b.
to carry over two miles, has by no means an easy
task set him, but with such a supposed crusher
he will find a host of admirers, and I would much
rather “ stand him” over two miles with 9 st. 121 b.
than pin my colours to him for the mile and a half
at the Hawkesbury. Twelve years ago The Barb
won this race, with 9 st. 101 b., in 3m. 37 3-10 s.,
and who can forget his two wins in the Sydney
Cup—one with 6 st. 12 lb., the other with Bst. 101 b.
—both run in 3m. 405.? Chester’s weight is no
doubt a big one, but over a similar distance he
carried 101 b. more than the now Sydney “ crack”
is asked to bear, and won easily in 3m. 40s. This
time, it will be argued, was not fast, but I maintain
that it was, under the circumstances, and as
the course has been improved in a great degree
since the “ black demon’s ” time, I take it
that 9st. 121 b. ought to be carried to the front
in 3m. 355. to make it compare favourably with
The Barb’s 3m. 40s. Chester’s impost is not
by any means more than he is entitled to, but I
fail to see on what running Mr. Scarr places
Calamia and Cap-a-pie at 9 stone each. When
Calamia won the Melbourne Cup, with Bst. 21b.,
Cap-a-pie was conceding him 6 lb,, but while
Calamia won easily the son of Miss Magus never
was in it, and as he has done nothing since
I cannot see why the pair are handicapped
together. If Calamia be well on the day, Martin-
dale at a difference of two pounds will have to
lower his colours, and Avernus at 8 st. 10 lb. is
already out of it. A deal of talk has been indulged
in relative to this colt’s weight, and although I
agree with many others that he has more than he
has earned in 8 st. 10 lb., I do not see that he could
have expected much less than Bst. B'b., for the
performance that I have referred to above when
he won the Hobart Town Cup with 7 st. 12 lb. ren-
dered him liable to a good burden. Why the
public “ spotted” Avernus before the appearance
of the weights I cannot understand, for at the last
Autumn meeting of the A.J.C. he was not as sound
as could be wished, and he was withdrawn from
his engagements. On the score of this alone
backers should at any rate have been careful, and
as too little was thought of what he had credited
himself with in the shape of wins those who rushed
in to get their money on found only when too late
that they had made a mistake. Of the remaining
lot above 8 stone, I take it that Democrat, Sweet-
meat, Mata, and Wellington are most to be feared,
but the New Zealander may not pay us a visit, and
I don’t expect great things from Rapid Bay.
South Hamilton I know very little of indeed, and
Andover has not yet shown a fondness for a two-
mile journey. Napper Tandy is not to be trusted
at Bst., unless his Queensland running is wrong ;
and if one can be said, so far down the list, to be
“ well in,” it must be Sweetmeat at Bst. 71b. I
dont’ see anything that reads better than Lord
Burghley at 7st. 101 b., but I am afraid he is not
in lucky hands, and will pass on. Strathearn, I
have at last come to the conclusion, is overrated;
and if the winner is to come from those between
7 st. and Bst., Sunlight, Saunterer, Lowlander,
The Dean, or Woolstone, appear to have the
greatest show. Black Swan has shown herself to
be possessed of a rare turn of speed, but I have no
fondness for “ flyers ” unless they have been well
up at the end of a good two-mile journey. Here,
again, I must admit I am at a loss to know on
what running Nerissa is asked to give Woolstone
weight. I think Mr. Scarr has rather over-
estimated the ability of the daughter of Hercules
and Jessica. Sunshine, Gipsy Cooper, Aspen,
Sam, Thorntopper, and Euclid are not to my mind
possessed of the proper quality to “land” a big
thing, and Auckland must hold them all safe.
Kamilaroi would appear to have the greatest say
amongst the (at present) two-year-olds, but I am
not one of those who go in for horses of that age
so early in the season. Jester is a good and con-
stant little horse, and 6 st. 9 lb. is a weight not
likely to stop. him. From Queensland, 1 have
great accounts of Othello; and if Trevallyn be
as good as I am led to believe, he ought to
have a great say at 6 st. 61b. with others of
his year. Moonbeam and Juventas are not
good enough, and I must here say with regard to
The Pontiff that he ought to be very hard to beat
at 6st 41b. Such a consistent performer as he has
crept in very nicely in both handicaps, and if either
prize is to be won by the ‘ ‘ blue and white,” I think
this black son of Yattendon and The Nun is most
likely to do it. Araluen and Bathurst I cannot
have, nor do I see why Bandalbion, Respite, Ad-
venturer, Retrospect, St. John, Freemason, Rook-
wood. Orator, The Rake, Remembrance, Surprise,
Yardley, Cinnamon, Progress, and Sapphire, or
the remaining lot should lay claim to be sup-
ported, but Dover is a good colt, and much better
under a light weight than most others of his year,
and he may give some trouble. Pole Star to me is
a stranger, but Middlesex, well wound up, will
prove than he is a worthy descendant of that
grand old sire, Kelpie. If I were asked to go for
half-a-seore at this stage of proceedings, there are
none I would prefer more than The Pontiff, Mid-
dlesex, Othello, Woolstone, Nellie, Auckland,
Sweetmeat, Calamia, Chester, Demorat, and Sun-
light.
The Melbourne Cup
has a big entry of five score and ten, and it is
somewhat remarkable the wonderful difference
between the imposts apportioned by Mr. Barnard
and those by Mr. Soarr for the Metrop, although
two months later in the year Mr. Barnard has
made almost half a stone a lighter handicap, and
Chester has been well treated at 9st 61b. The
weights given here are correct: —
THE MELBOURNE CUP.
If our “ great gun” can be said to have a show
in “ The Metrop. how much more say has he at
two months later over a similar distance with a
61b lighter handicap ? I do not doubt that
Calamia, Wellington, Woodlands, and Bosworth
are held safe by the top weight. Martindale at
Bst 71b, and Sweetmeat with 31b less, appear
leniently enough treated, as also Andover with
7st lllb, and Mr. Ivory would appear to have
good cause for congratulation. Secundus, at 7st
71b, or 91b less than his Metropolitan weight,
ought to have a fair share of patronage, but at the
same weight I prefer Glenormiston. Imperial,
were he as good as of old, would walk in, but he
has had his day and is not now to be feared.
Lord Burghley with 7st 51b is as favourably han-
dicapped as his greatest admirer could wish, and
so is Nellie at the same weight, but she can have
no show with the “ aristocrat” if pink when the
word is given. Fau Bias has 7st 41b, but I never
had a fondness for him, although he has some
select followers and has already been supported to
win a fair stake, and I would much rather have
Riverton at 7st. Mr. Mayo has a good string to his
bow in Elastic at 6stl3lb, or 101 b less than Mr. Scarr
accorded him ; and if this colt train on and im-
prove as he promises to, then the metallicians will
once more be locked up, perhaps not to be released
by a “ turn-key.” Kinsman has a decent weight
in 6st 91b, and so has that good useful horse Japan
at a pound less, and this latter is a customer
that will sooner or later make a name and distin-
guish himself. Middlesex, too, at sst lllb, is
“ thrown in” I take it; but I find a goodly crowd
here not one of whom could win were they all
turned loose. Lord Lisgar is said to be a good
colt, but I require something more than hearsay
to pin my faith to anything for a Melbourne Cup.
If some of my readers will notice the weights of
the two-year-olds it will be seen that Mr. Barnard
has in most cases risen them and no excep-
tion can be taken to this, as a two-year-old is sup-
posed to improve in a greater degree than one of
another age, consequently Mr. Barnard has aimed
in the proper direction. Napper Tandy with 131 b
less than his Metropolitan weight ought to have a
say, and if his powers are properly gauged in the
Metrop. this son of Cremorne should be very
nearly landing the Cup for his colony. Since
Mr. Kent purchased him he has not been a very
remunerative customer ; and as there are a variety
of rumours as to his capabilities one knows, not
which to give any credence to. Chester, Sweet-
meat, Democrat, Glenormiston, Lord Burghley,
Napper Tandy, Riverton, First Water* and Rich-
mond appear at this rather premature stage of
proceedings to have most claim for support.
A boat race took place on Saturday afternoon
between the employee? of Messrs. Eastway Brothers.
The course was round Pinchgut to Cowper Wharf.
Contesting parties were J. Stokes, 0. S. Hoskins, and
W. Harpur and P. Murray. The former won easily.
The pulling of W. Harpur was much admired.
The valuable gun given by Mr. George Adams,
of Tattersnll’s Hotel, was shot for on Saturday last
at Randwick. There were 17 competitors. The result
proved Mr. Prank Hill’s handicap to be excellent. Mr.
Frank Weston (25 yards) shot all his nine birds in
splendid style and won. Messrs. Eggleton, G. and H.
Lord, P. Gannon add “ Grant “ tied for second money.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
The capture of the Kelly gang has been
the all-absorbing topic of the week, nothing else
being spoken of, and this being so the racing
world has not had its usual quantum of attention
given it. It is only a “nine days’wonder,” to
say the most, and from this out for many a long
month to come we may look forward to a more
than usually busy time. My index points to no
less than half-a-dozen meetings for the present
month, commencing with the Clarence River fix.
ture on the coming Wednesday and Thursday
and although Sydney horse-owners are not, I
think, to be represented, glowing accounts have
reached me, all leaning towards a successful re-
union. On the Bth and 9th the good folk of Rock-
hampton will be holding high carnival, and four
days later will come on the Hay meeting, but
neither of these fixtures are by any means likely
to attract Sydney horses, for the prizes cannot be
said to be of sufficient importance to warrant an
owner in travelling round. The general entry for
the minor items on the Clarence River programme
is due on Monday, as also a similar duty for the
Geelong meeting, to take place on the 31st inst.
and it may not be out of place to mention that the
Adelaide Winter Steeplechase Meeting calls for
entries on the Bth, which will be Thursday. Rock-
hampton weights are due on Thursday next, with
those for Deniliquin to follow on Saturday, and the
only other item I know of demanding immediate
attention is the Rockhampton meeting, accept-
ances, as my index shows, being called for some
of the principal events.
The much talked-of trotting match between
Kiddy—said to have been the joint property of
Mr. W. W. Gannon and Mr. T. Stewart —and a bay
gelding of Mr. P. Fagan’s, came off at Randwick
on Saturday last in the presence of a large crowd
of the “talent.” The stakes were >£so aside,
Kiddy (driven by Blott) conceding his opponent
(driven by owner) 100 yards start in 4 miles. Fives
to four were laid on Kiddy, who was known to be
a “ good ’un,” but a point longer would have been
taken to a lot of money.” The backers of the
bay had much the best of it on the score of con-
dition, but Kiddy passed him after going If miles,
and won by eight or ten lengths. Although the
bay was passed before half the distance had been
got over, he “ came again,” and Kiddy, owing to
want of condition, tiring very fast in the last
mile, would have finished second but for the bay
breaking repeatedly. Kiddy was afterwards put
up at auction and purchased by Mr. T. Stewart
for 98 guineas. I have been informed that the
purchase was for Mr. Gannon. Mr. G. Adams
had purchased the right to the entrance gate,
and must have gained considerably by the
venture.
Avernus was scratched for the Great Metro-
politan Stakes on Friday last, the 25th.
South Hamilton, Western Princess, and a bay
King of the Ring—Eleanor filly are to be sold at
Kirk’s Bazaar on next Tuesday week.
A day’s racing came off at Clarendon (Windsor)
on Saturday last, but owing to the management
having taken all sorts of care to keep the fixture
secret there was not a large muster of visitors.
The results will be found in another column.
The well-known horse Woodlands was submitted
for sale a few days ago at Kirk’s Bazaar, Mel-
bourne, but was bought in at 500 guineas. It is
said that Tom Kirk, A.T., and Queensland will
shortly be shipped to India.
“ Augur,” writing in the Australasian, says
that T. Jones, the Victorian trainer, has given
.£3O and the horse Fizz for the two-year-old
Douglaston, and it is said that Fizz will shortly be
shipped with Queensland and others to India.
Prom by New Zealand files I learn that Hawkins,
the well-known steeplechase rider who was hurt
recently in by Magic falling and rolling
over him in a steeplechase, has since died
in the N.Z. Hospital. Hawkins is spoken of as
one well known and respected, and his untimely
end was greatly regretted.
I give this week the tabular pedigree of Isonomy,
who is by Sterling from Isola Bella by Stockwell
from Isoline by Ethelbert, and as he has been a
grand performer, and the pedigree being a very
fashionable one, it will doubtless be fully perused.
Mr. Sam Harding haa again had a share of
fortune’s frowns, for a ew days ago a really
handsome chestnut horse by Grandmaster, who
was giving another jumper a lead over a fence, fell
and injured his back to such an extent that a
bullet put an end to his sufferings. Ho was the
property, I believe of Mr. B. Bouse, and was a
beautiful jumper. The above accident occurred
through slipping while taking off.
Avernus was scratched for the Hawkesbury
Handicap at 7.30 p.m. on the 26th.
I learn from the Secretary of the H. B. C. that
the disqualification of Vernon by the V. B. G.,
was endorsed by the H. B. C., and this will ac-
count for his name being erased from the lift of
“ Grand ” entries before the weights were appor-
tioned.


Yds
Yds
S. A. Fnllford ■
... 28
H. Smith.
... 26
Jas. Chulker ...
... 28
Jas. Seivl
... 26
Chas. Eather ...
is
W. Craig
... 25
G. Thomas
... is
L. F. Ireland ...
... 25
Geo. Hill
... 28
T. A. Johnston
... 25
E. Belisario
... 28
W. A. Kingsoote
... 25
J. Campbell
... 27
Geo. Fawcett ...
... 25
D. M'Intyro ...
... 57
F. J. Parka
... 25
1VT. Donohoe
... 27
Chns. Wallace ...
... 2t
A, Hoyle, jun,...
... 27
It. Garwalcer ...
... 24
J. K. Doylo
... 27
L. Reynolds
... 2i
H. .T. Hogan
... 27
W. G. Thompson
... 84
H. C. Eather ...
... 27
Thos. Kins
... 2t
— Criphton
... 27
T. H. B. M'Goo
... 2t
E. TTnderwood ...
... 27
R. It. Dichfc
... 23
T, K. Abbott ...
... 2<3
Geo. Johnson ...
... 23
Captain Howard
... 26
John B. Clift ...
... 23
G. B. G. King ...
... 2d
John Pryor
... 23
W. Johnston
... 26
R C. Baldwin ...
... 23
Alfred Hill
... 28
E. C. Fleteher...
... 23
James Mosoly ...
... 26
E. H. Fletcher ..
... 23
E. Eather
. 26
W. J. Macdonald
... 23
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
A coursing- match will take place at Greta on the
stth of the present month.
J Myers is said to have ridden a horse 120 miles
over mountainous country in 26 hours.
A match is on the tapis between M'Clurken and
Heaton to row in light skiffs for £25 aside.
pat-he-honp beat Luna on Saturday last in a
coursing match at West Maitland for £3O aside.
Soprano won the West Bourke Plate at Mel-
bourne on Saturday, Eurydice being the runner up.
Hanlan has beaten Courtney, and netted 6,000
dollars by the result. He also beat Eiley in a private
match.
Messrs. Turner, Selfe, and Solomon figured most
conspicuously in a scratch match at frisquette at Moore
Park on Saturday last.
p. Blakeman defeated Thoms in a foot race, on
Saturday last, on the Association Ground. The distance
was 160 yards, the stakes £4O, and 2 to 1 was laid on the
winner.
The coursing match for =£2oo between Hop-
market and Joe Brown will be decided in Melbourne on
the Werribee Pains on the 27th of August. Hopmarket
is said to be the fastest dog in N.S.W.
Pierce and J. Laycock are to row over the
Champion Course on the 17th July, in best and best
boats, for £5O aside. The first deposit is in the hands
of Mr. James Punch, and the talk of the “talent” at
present favours the chance of Pierce,
One of the very few genuine walking matches
took place in the Old Exhibition Building, Prince Al-
fred Park, on Friday and Saturday last, between the
well-known walkers, Baker and Taylor, for £5O aside.
As this was not a gate-money spec., but a “ real live ”
match, the Sydney public took a deal of interest in it,
and when the men stripped for the contest on Friday
night there was a goodly crowd to greet them. Each
one wore a self-satisfied look and appeared to have had
every attention paid him in the training. Baker ap-
peared to us to have a much more healthy appearance
than his opponent, who seemed if anything a trifle
over-trained, and Baker’s easy style of walking was
mnch more admired than the very laboured exertions
of Taylor. The match needs little telling of, but it
was rather a good feat for both men to stay on the
track for 14 hours without a spell, Baker covering in
that time upwards of 69 miles and his opponent a lap
or two over 68. Prom this stage it didn’t require a
really good judge to see that virtually the contest was
over, as Baker continued in front of his opponent at a
respectable distance, and finally won by two miles and
three laps, having walked exactly 102 miles. Taylor is
a plucky walker, but long-distance walking is not his
forte, and he simply fought against nature. Previous
to this match a go-as-you-please contest for one hour
was got through, and was won by J. Seymour, who
covered 9 miles and 1 lap, W. Davis being second with
8 miles and 9 laps. It is worthy of remark that W.
Davis is a mere lad, we suppose not more than 11 years
of age, and rather small for that, and his plucky per-
formance quite took the spectators by storm, althovigh
he only gained second honours. Several subscription
lists, or rather hats, were busily engaged in collecting
for him, and ultimately he fared much better than
the actual winner.
Coursing.
FIXTURES:
N.S.W. Coursing Club, Winter Meeting
Woodstock ... ... ... ... July 3.
Judge, Mr. M'Gulloch; Slipper, J. Burgess.
N.S. W. Coursing Club Spring Meeting
Woodstock Aug. 7,9.
On this Saturday the New South Wales
Club, properly so called, will hold high holi-
day in Mr. Walter Lamb’s Hare Park at
Woodstock, wher<* there should be a perfectly
huge gathering of followers of the leash. The
place is so easy of access, being only a mile from
the Booty Hill Eailway Station, that Sydney
citizens have an opportunity, afforded them
nowhere else, of seeing real coursing at very small
expenditure of both time and money. Since last
season the sporting proprietor of Woods topic has
made many and great improvements in his hare
preserve, in the,.shape of numerous “homes,”
which will afford shelter to “puss” when hard
pressed, and not only materially lessen the num-
ber of “kills,” but also prevent very long courses,
which so often throw a good dog clean out of a
stake. The Park has also had a large addition
made to its area, which will tend much to improve
the character of the sport; and the Club having
decided not to course at Bathurst in
August, a two - days’ meeting is projected
for Woodstock in place of the Spring Meeting
which last year and the year before closed the
club’s season at Leeholme and Dockaime. For
this fixture two All-age Stakes of sixteen dogs
each are already announced, besides an unlimited
Leger for puppies at three guineas each ; and as
one of the “ sixteen” stakes is at ten guineas each
the other at five, owners of greyhounds can suit
themselves whether they go for the large or small
goods. These three stakes ought to fill well; and
supposing the Leger to fetch sixteen to the slips,
which so late in the season is a good field of pup-
pies, there will be forty-five courses to be decided,
which allowing five for no-goes, &c., will give say
five and twenty courses a day. The dates are
August, 7th and9th, allowing Sunday to intervene,
and entries are to close on the 14th July. Mr.
M’Culloch, of Melbourne, with probably judge,
and I suppose the slipper will be Burgess of
Bathurst.
While on the subject of Woodstock as a coursing
arena I can’t help expressing regret that the club
should have called one of its stakes the “ New
Plumpton,” after a newly established place de-
voted to coursing near London ; for although I
have never been there, I have had Plumpton
pretty well described to me, and can only suppose
the sport to be of the most “cockney” descrip-
tion. The other day, at least only a few weeks
back, a friend told me that Plumpton coursing is
as much like Ashdown, or Altcar, or Southport,
or Newmarket as the Epping Hunt, of olden time,
was to a run with “ The Devon and Somerset
and a wild red deer in “The Forest”; and I
think it’s but a poor compliment, tacking the
name on here, as though “ Woodstock ” followed
“Plumpton” as its prototype, which it never
will. Let us have rabbit coursing if we will on
race courses and cricket grounds, but don’t let
as liken our good open coursing to Plumpton !
I read the other day that Mr. Lamb did not in-
tend to allow horsemen' beaters, and one of our
sporting papers expressed a hope that the Bathurst
people would adopt the same plan. The writer
of that suggestion was possibly not aware that for
several meetings at Bathurst the beating was
done by troops of boys on foot, until it was found
utterly impracticable to course there satisfactorily
under that regime, as so many hares were passed
and got away un-coursed. At Woodstock I was
under the impression that last season the beating
was done by foot-men, which on that ground is
undoubtedly the best plan; but though Mr. Lamb
may be able to organise a corps of men for the
business, the thing wouldn’t work at Bathurst,
and street arabs can’t stand the work.
Mr. Walter Hall’s Dockaine winner, Hark-
away, and Mr. George Hill’s Honey Bee
ran well into the stake for the Australian cup ;
and Mr. Wagner with Styx and Westeria looked
well, when eight were left in, but none of them
could quite see it out to the bitter end.
At a meeting of the N. S. W. Coursing Club,
held on Monday afternoon last, Mr. Edward Lea
occupied the chair. From some correspondence
that was read it is very unlikely that the proposed
international match will come off. The following
resolutions was then read, it being contained in a
letter received from the Australian Coursing
Club : —“ That, in consequence of the Stormont
Plate meeting being fixed for the 12th of August,
the committee regret that they cannot entertain
the proposal of the committee of the New South
Wales Club relative to the challenge submitted by
Mr. Tooth.” The above is said to have been
carried unanimously at the A. C. C. meeting. It
was then desired to postpone the appointment of
judge and slipper until after the meeting of Satur-
day next. Mr. Hill satisfied the meeting that he
had effected all necessary railway arrangements,
and that a special train would leave the Redfern
terminus on this Saturday morning at 8.30.
SIRIUS.
Football.
The Wallaroo and Waratah match came to a rather
abrupt termination on Saturday last owing to a dis-
puted touch-down. Both teams withdrew from the
field, hut the umpire is said to have allowed the touch-
down, and to have declared the marsupials the
victors.
The University First Fifteen administered a whole-
some dressing to the Burwood First Fifteen at Burwood
on Saturday, winning by 6 goals and 6 tries to nothing.
The Arfoma team defeated the second Eedfern
players by two tries to one. The game was played on
Moore Park.
Glenhead beat Parramatta at Moore Park by three
goals and three tries to nil.
The match between the second teams of the Wallaroo
and Waratah clubs resulted in a win for the former by
one try to nil.
The match between the Norwood (S.A.) and Carlton
clubs, played on Saturday last in Melbourne, resulted
in a draw, each side kicking a goal.
The Collin gwood first fifteen defeated the second flf -
teen of the St. Leonards Club by two ties to one.
Cricket.
The Corio Cricket Club defeated the Arundel first
eleven on Saturday last, at Caraperdown, the scores
being: For Corio, 90; Arundel, 7.
£306 is the amount already subscribed towards the
Nat Thompson Fund'
The Australian Eleven.
The Australians defeated 18 of Birmingham in one
Innings and 12 runs to spare. The scores were: Aus-
tralians Ist Innings 179. Birmingham Ist innings 88,
2nd Innings 79.
The Australians defeated 18 of Northampton by eight
wickets.
Pigeon Soothing.
The much talked of match between Messrs. S. Full-
ford and E. E. Jones, in which the former backed him-
self to shoot 30 birds out of 50 with 1 oz. shot at 25 yards
rise and 100 yards boundary, came off at Maitland on
Saturday last. The stakes were £5O aside, and Mr. Full-
ford lost at the 42nd bird, having’ up to that point killed
only 21. There was a very strong wind blowing at the
time, and as Mr. Jones had the fixing of the trap, the
shooter was under a great disadvantage. It is only fair
to Mr. Fullford to state that Saturday’s shooting cannot
be taken as a fair specimen !of his powers, everything
having beeh in favour of the birds. Tne following are the
scores. Therr was no betting.
Mr. S. Fullford—lololoollollloloollolollllollooloooo
10010 -21 out of 42.
Another match has not yet been made, but it is more
than probable that in the course of a fortnight Mr. Full-
ford will again essay the feat.
The following scores were made in Tobin’s Paddock,
Manly Beach, on Saturday last. Both barrels were
used, two points being allowed for the first, and one
for the second.
First Match.
Crook, 26 yds 12120 6 1 Adams, 26 yds 22110 6
Austin, 25 yds 02022 6 Bobartt, 23 yds 20000 2
Cohen, 22 yds 20022 6 | Hordern, 23 yds 22002 ... 6
Messrs. Crook, Austin, Cohen, Adams, and Hordern
divided.
Second Match.
Adams, 27 yds 21021 6 1 Hordern 24 yds 21022 7
Crook, 26 yds 12012 6 I Austin, 26 yds 2200 2
Bobartt, 23 yds 20020 4 I Cohen, 22 yds 22101 4
Thompson, 24 yds 01212... 6 | Baguell, 26 yds 20220 6
Mr. Hordern won.
Great Northern Champion Pigeon Match.
The following are the entries and handicaps for the
sweep which is to be shot for in Gunnedah on this
Friday and Saturday.
Clarendon Races.
Maiden Plate.—Windsor Belle, 1; Princes, 2. Five
started.
Pony Handicap.—Mr. E. Martin’s b g Spide, 7st, 1;
Mr. E. Skinner’s Lady Julia, 7st 121 b, 2nd.
Clarendon Handicap.—Mr. Douglass’s br g Brewer,
Bst, 1; Mr. E. Bearce’s g g Jerrawang, 9st 121 b, 2; Lady
Chester, fist 61b, 3. .
Silver Cup.—Mr, Macnaxnara’s Little Dick, 7st, 1;
Mr. J. Gosper’s Garibaldi, Bst 21b, 2.
Hack Eace. —Stockings, 1; Spider, 2.
Dalby Races
Second Day—Thursday,
Maiden Plate.—Canary won by two lengths after a dead
heat with Galatea.
Northern Do was Jockey Club Handicap.—Olivia 1,
Sydney 2, Sunset 3.
Craven Plate. —Waterloo walked over.
Hurry Scurry.—Harkawny.
Forced Handicap.—Satirist.
Warrnambool Winter Meeting.
FIRST DAY—WEDNESDAY.
Amateur Hurdle Race.—Selim 1, Caraher 2, P.G. 3.
Time. 7 min. 15 secs.
Maiden Steeplechase. Dandy 1, Spectrum 2,
Saxon 3.
Handicap Hurdles. —Fire King, 9st 121 b, 1; Sun-
light, lOst, 2; Wait-a-While, 9st 101 b, 3. Time, 5 min
33 secs.
Handicap Flat Race.—Mesalliance, Bst. 91b, 1; Tran-
sit. 9st. 71b, 2; Eclipse, 6st 71b, 3. Time, 2 min. 31 secs.
Selling Hurdle Race.—Selim 1, Paddy the Larrikin 2,
Devlin 3.
Second Day—Fkidat.
Hurdle Race.—Wait-a-While 1.
Handicap Flat Race. Gossip 1, Mesalliance 2,
Eclipse 3. Won easily.
Steeplechase.—Greystaues 1, Sunlight 2, Dandy 3.
Won in a common canter.
Selling Steeplechase.—Selim 1.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Frank Maxted is writing an opera.
Little Rosebud has gone to England.
Dick Stewart and daughters are coming back.
Sims Reeves’ voice is said to be as good as ever.
Why do circus clowns always despise grammar ?
The Princess Theatre, London, is to be pulled
down.
Walhalla’s Circus is coining money at Braid-
wood.
W. G. Carey will wash his hands in and of every
piece.
Kennedy takes Rickey’s place in the Loftus
Troupe.
Grattan Riggs is a flattering portrait of Father
Mahoney.
George Rignold is giving Henry the Fifth in
Liverpool.
Young Mr. Thiodon is as good as any wizard we
have ever hod.
Miss Alice Wren, American actress and singer,
died in March.
G. H. Leonard is playing good business (pretty
parts) in England.
The People’s Theatre, Melbourne, is in a chronic
state of “ To be let.”
J. H. Rainford won’t act out any more and
shaves reg’lar now.
Mr. Alfred Wilkie, the Sydney silver tenor, is a
favourite in America.
Irish comedians, especially from the North, are
wonderfully tautological.
Why do not music halls, a la the Oxford and
Canterbury, pay out here ?
Barry Sullivan has been playing a round of
favourite characters at Leeds.
Mrs. Lewis’ Juvenile Troupe are said to be
growing out of their pinafores.
Arthur Spencer, who gave promise as a juvenile
comedian, is learning dentistry.
Beaumont Read has not gone home. He re-
mains in Sydney for a time.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons has, for the present, given
up all idea of an Australian trip.
Dampier, we hear, has now a fixed financial
share and interest in the Queen’s.
Pity we don’t hear Miss Marie St. Clair’s sweet
voice oftener in public than we do.
The Morton Dramatic Club is dead. The Her-
cules Club has bought a dictionary.
Marshall, the inimitable, is stage manager of
the London Comedy Company now.
Mr. McLaughlin has bought Kelly and Leon’s
Opera House for £30,000, so they say.
Mrs. Dampier has written a drama for her hus-
band. Come, now, that is legitimate.
Lovers of character-acting are anxiously asking
when is Marshall going to play “ Quilp ?’
Charles Overton, of theYic., Sydney, was for
some time a favourite in the Vie., London.
Arthur Sketchley takes Mrs. Brown to India
and our best wishes for his success with her.
The most dismal temple of mirth in the wide,
wide world is Wright’s Music Hall, Melbourne.
They sell flea powder at the entrance to the
Victoria Theatre, but not for use on the premises.
A regular theatre in place of the Trafalgar
Hall, Durban, Port Natal, is shortly to be opened.
Tabitha soaps Giorza, and says the Civil Service
Musical Society won’t wash. Any bracelets about ?
De Belleville went to America per s.s. Australia
to play “ Friends.” He hasn’t played friends here
lately.
Herr Hugo Alpen’s commemoration ode is ex-
tremely pretty, and, like the composer, very unas-
suming.
The electric eel is played out, for some lucky
showman has got hold of a telephonic lobster. So says
rumour.
The Afghans at the Egyptian Hall do not look
in the flesh anything like as clean as they do on the
posters.
Mrs. Lingard meditates a trip to England after
her present Adelaide season. What a treat for the old
country!
Chiarini has five black horses so much alike
that he doesn’t know them apart, and has to call them
by name.
The hair of a distinguished professional is
growing again since the Exhibition. It is oiled now—
not his palm.
Lingard produces “ The Wreck of the Pinafore”
in Adelaide. Music and, it’s alleged, words, by Lus-
combe Searell.
Pepper is at the Temperance Hall, Melbourne.
Sixpence and threepence charged for tne admission
of the scientific.
Mr. E. Shepherd has succeeded Mr. J. E. Kitts
as business manager and treasurer of the Loudon
Comedy Company.
Miss Theresa Horan plays Little Daisy in Lewis
Scott’s military v ersion of “ Pinafore," called “ H. M.
Singapore Guards.”
Bland Holt is coining money with the “ New
Babylon ” in Melbourne. Eaining heavily, and £l,OOO
netted the first week.
Garnet Walch’s “ Rainbow Revels ” and “ If ”
are much liked, ns played by Dick Stewart and
daughters, in London.
Mr. John Victor, the son of an ex-Ballaratian,
is first baritone in the principal theatre in Mantua,
Italy. Bravo! Victoria.
The San Fraancisco Chronicle says that B.
L. Parjeon and wife have succeeded in making Joseph
Jefferson a grandfather.
American song and dance people always enter
with their bands in front of their faces. They ought to
exit in a similar manner.
Charles Craig has gone on a pleasure trip to
Adelaide to keep Lingard Company. He and William
Horace are sworn friends.
By wire from Brisbane we learn that Mr.
Dampier opened on Monday in that city to an enthusi-
astic and crowded house.
Johnny Cowan and Mat Riley are organising
a company to travel the Hibernicon—the original one,
that Ainsley Scott paid for.
Mr. W. J. Wilson, the scenic artist, has been
specially engaged to paint in the production of Darrell’s
drama, “The Forlorn Hope."
Herr Benno Scherek, late conductor of the Urso
Company, has received the appointment of conductor
of the Dunedin Choral Society.
Harry Emmet apologised to a draper's assistant
for giving so much trouble, but knocked him down
when he said "It don’t signify."
Mr. Lytton Sothern is playing at the Criterion
Theatre, London, in a comedy called “ Betsey," which
has been running nearly 300 nights.
Marcello Rossi, the young Austraian violinist,
who has been sojourning in Paris for some time is pro-
l nounced to be the violiust of the future.
J. E. Kitts must have given some orders.
Lockets are not presented for nothing to business
managers. How we belied the dear man!
Garnet Walch and W. Horace Lingard, with
the aid of Luscombe Searrell, are preparing a great
surprise for the amusement-loving public.
A certain robust actor in Sydney is noted for
being very fond of “ chickens." If he doesn't take
care he may fall " fowl" of something else.
Madame Soldene has been playing “ Carmen ”
at Glasgow. Misses Clara Yesey, Rose Stella and
Mr. Marshall are members of the company.
The line “Tiny Spurts is there, and doying,”
does not create the same sensation in the Melbourne
playing of “ New Babylon ” as it did in Sydney.
Miss Annie Pixley and Mr. J. E. M'Donough
(of Marionette celebrity here) are playing “ M'liss” in
New York, and the lady is deservedly a favourite.
The Australasian praises Miss Merton in
“New Babylon," and then insults her by coupling her
with a horse. In Sydney a libel suit would follow I
The “ Mare Dahlia,” in the Melbourne produc-
tion of “ New Babylon.” happens not to be a mare at
all, but Miss Myra Kemble’s own horse “ Orville."
Royalty, with its numerous engagements, is
1 resent at one or other of the London theatres every
night. Vice-royalty, in idleness, very seldom shows up
here.
Prank Towers is at Cape Town and says he
means to return to Australia in 1831. His daughter,
Rosa Towers, has made great progress in her pro-
fession.
The Princess says that everybody in Lon-
don ought to see Baker and Farron, but characterises
the piece, “ Conrad and Lizette,” as the worst ever
written.
Mr. E. Leathes, who appeared in Sydney for one
consecutive night with Miss Cleveland, and who was
cunning enough to decline a call, is playing good parts
in London.
Mr. Hollingshead, of the Gaiety Theatre, London,
is playing a season of old-time dramas, such as “ G 'orga
Barnwell," “ Maria Martin, or the Red Barn," and tai
“Wood Demon."
Up to 1841 the London theatres were closed for
dramatic performances on Wednesdays and Fridays in
Lent. They are now closed only on Ash Wednesday
and Good Friday.
The “ Stray Leaves ” company, with Ella Car-
rington and J. Taylor as principals, and Wilson
as agent, is now playing in Northern Queensland. The
combination will appear in Sydney early in August.
Matters theatrical are unusually dull in New
Zealand. Playgoers clamour for new faces and stronger
companies. The old stock business is played out, and
the “legit.” is comparatively a drug in the market.
A sister of Miss St. Clair, the sweet contralto,
will make her debut at the Musical Union Concert on
Wednesday next. The young lady is possessed of a
capital soprano voice and considerable personal at-
tractions.
Madame Schroeber, the talented pianiste who
so ably acted ns accompanist at Mr. R. J. Roberts’ en-
tertainment, “ Merry Moments,” is a great acquisition
to our musical circles. We should like to hear this lady
more frequently.
Harry Liston’s drawing-room entertainment in
England is entitled “Merry Moments.” So is Roberts’
out here. Maccabee calls his two hours’ fun “ Mirth,
Mimic, and Mimicry.” Lieutenant Colville, C.M.R.,
adopts the same title.
Those who knew and admired —and who did
not? —the favourite actress Kate Warde (Mrs. J. H.
Vinson) will look forward to a professional visit from
her only child, Miss Kate Vinson, who has made a suc-
cessful debut in Melbourne.
“ The Widow Bedott,” which is described as
being “ atrociously funny,” and is founded on the
famous “Widow Bedott Papers,” once published in
Pennsylvania by nn unknown author, is having a good
run at Haverly’s Theatre, New York.
Ted Sadler used to relate how he chocked a boy
for calling Holleraway before the curtain when that
slowly rising actor had not been playing that night;
and how that boy told Ted that he’d “ been told to do
it every night.” So they do it in Hobart Town.
The collection of portraits of professional cele-
brities made by the late lamented F. C Kirby, theatri-
cal bookseller, is large and interesting. A visit to the
shop kept by Mr. Kirby’s widow will repay those who
love to compare the past with the present of the
stage. (
The versatile Charles Lascelles, musician and
caricaturist, was at Pietermaritzburg, Natal, in March
last, directing an opera bonffe company of which
Mrs. Silvester was a prominent member. Dr. Silves-
ter’s troupe had also been a considerable success in
that city.
Dr. Neild and Miss Myra Kemble (who, it’s
said, was the Sydney correspond* nt of the Austeaia-
SIAN) must have quarrelled. The Doctor is inclined to
be severe upon Miss Myra, an event which has not
happened since the critic first spoke in the actress
praise many years ago.
A Melbourne man has gone home to engage a
really first-class opera company capable of singing in
all descriptions of operas, but more particularly in
French and English productions. In Pans he will look
for about a dozen of the handsomest ballet girls and
“ give us the ballet as it is known to Paris.
Madame Urso, before closing at Dunedin, gave
a Sunday evening sacred concert, which was denounced
by the local clergy. During her Dnnedin season
Madame’s takings averaged £l3O per night. When
playing solo she uses a violin made by Joseph Guar-
nerius, purchased by her over twenty years ago for 400
guineas.
Miss Alice. May is prima donna of the opera
company playing at Manchester. Speaking of her as
the heroine in “ The Sultan of Mocha,” the Era says
she makes “the most captivating Dolly the opera has
ever had. Indeed she has taken the public by storm in
the part, for she not only looks divine, but sings with a
brilliancy, and acts with a piquancy that are rarely
found in combination.”
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis will shortly produce a new
local, though purely imaginary comic opera comedy in
two acts. The libretto is by Mr. Harry W. Emmet,
and the music by the well-known Melbourne musician,
Mr David Cope. Mrs. Lewis is said to be delighted
with the mnpic, and it’s aho Faid that even Marcus
Clarke avers the libietto to be excruHatinff funny. It
is more than probable that Mr and Mrs. B nmett will
proceed to Melbourne and appear in the production.
Mr. Ketten, the “ wonder of the 19th century”
(see playbills), has taken Melbourne by storm. It is
now considered the “ correct thiuff** for the enamoured
swain to liken his loved one’s n UFioal powers to those
of the “ maestro.” But a too-ardent one got into a
difficulty the other day. He told his darling Seraphina
that “ she played like a Kitten." Rising with the occa-
eion, he continued, “in fact, better than a Kitten; fol-
lowing the thought to its legitimate conclusion, “ like
a Cat!" She would like to throw something at him.
Mr. George Darrell will produce his representa-
tive Australian patriotic drama, “ The Forlorn Hope,”
at the Queen’s Theatre on Saturday, 10th July. The
enterprising lessee, Mr. Hegarty, has made arrange-
ments to place Ihedrama on the boards in a thoroughly
effective manner, and to that end will be engaged two
scenic artists for the preparation of the entirely local
scenery A picked company, with several new faces,
will complete the cast, “The Forlorn Hope” was
dedicated, by permission, to His Excellency the Marquis
of Normanby.
Mrs. C P. Searle (Elinor Fielding), an old-time
favorite, died recently at Melbourne. She was one of
the original juvenile performers with the since-cele-
brated Leclercq family, and as a chill was intimate with
Fanny Cathcart, with whom she played many years
after in the old Melbourne Olympic She came to Vic-
toria in 1855 under engagement to Mr. Coppin, and
played many engagements in Melbourneat all the grfat
rushes. She first marrud Mr B. B Dale, and on his
death became the wife of Mr. C, F. Searle. with whom
he went to N.Z. with Mrs. Heir in 18611 Fri he last
two yevrs she lived at Christchurch and suffered much
from heart digease.


Public Notices
FOR SALE, or TO LET, on the BELLINGER
RIVER,
95 ACRES of LAND, on which are about 7 acres
of bearing Vineyard, comprising a choice selection
of grape vines, together wi/h comfortable DWELL-
ING, Cellar, &c. Also, a 52-AGRE FARM, direct
opposite vineyard; all of which is rich alluvial
soil, and situated between the Townships of Fern-
mount and Boat Harbour, all navigable water
frontage. The above is situated in one of the
healthiest country districts on the Northern Coast.
For particulars, apply to J. F. SOHOLER, Castle-
reagh-street, or to J. MARX, Senb., Bellinger
River.
E
O
O
CANDIDATES FOR THE CHURCH, BAR, &0.,
carefully and efficiently trained as
CORRECT SPEAKERS AND DEBATERS.
STUTTERING, STAMMERING,
and all defects in speech quickly relieved.
Reference —Medical Profession, Colleges, Schools, and
leading citizens.
[Copt.]
“ I certify that Mr. M. A. Cleary has been teaching
my children elocution, and that he has been assiduous
in his efforts and successful in the results. I know
that he is competent to bring about a clear and dis-
tinct pronunciation where original defects exist.
F. Milford, M.D., 165, Elizabeth street."
P.S.—.Additional references if necessary, from Col-
leges, Schools, &c. Schools and Families visited.
Particulars at
335 ELIZABETH STREET.
INTER GAMES.
W
LAWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Regulation Size.
TENNIS BALLS, Regulation Size cemented and cat-gut
RACKET BATS, all prices.
FRISQUETTE, or LADIES’ CRICKET.
All of Jeffries’ and Mailings’ manufacture.
GILBERT’S MATCH FOOT BALLS.
QUOI PS, all sizes made to colonial pattern.
BOXING GLOVES. INDIAN CLUBS BOWLS.
SINGLESTICKS, Foils, Head and Face Masks, and all
the requirements for Stick and Foil play.
Presentation CRICKET BATS and BALLS.
SIDNEY COHEN,
IRONMONGER,
408 GEORGE STREET.
15
THE
GREAT PUZZLE
15
15
BUT AT THE HEAD-QUARTERS,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.’S
DEPOT,
408 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND
MARKET-STREET,
15 SYDNEY. 15
T OLLIES
LOLLIES
LOLLIES
LOLLIES
LOLLIES
LOLLIES
15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 FIFTEEN
FIFTEEN
FIFTEEN
FIFTEEN
FIFTEEN
FIFTEEN
PUZZLE 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34
PUZZLE
PUZZLE
PUZZLE
PUZZLE
PUZZLE.
YAL. WILDMAN’S Registered New Sensation 15 and
34 Puzzle in Confectionery. Wholesale Agents —BID-
DELL. BROTHERS, 595 and 597, Gaorge-street; and
retailed at 6d, by all confectioners.
NEW ALPHABET LOLLY PUZZLE.
The New Alphabet Lolly Puzzle,
|! er i Wholesale and Retail from —
6d Per Box )
J. STEADMAN,
CONFECTIONEER,
GEORGE STREET.
JgIIRST- PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Syduey International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
"The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes conld express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Public Notices
EXHIBITION NOTICE.
ONE HUNDRED EXHIBITION ARTICLES.
Purchased at a Sacrifice from Exhibitors’ Agents and
otherwise, are now exposed for sale in the Window at
THE EOYAL FUENISHING AECADE,
to be sold at an
ENOEMOUS SEDUCTION
from the former asked prices.
Under the excitement of Pales hy Auction, fabulous
prices have been obtained for Exhibition Goods.
Prudent purchasers will not, fail to avail themselves
of the opportunity now offered for calm and careful
inspection before laying out their money.
Nearly everybody seems desirous of obtaining some
Recherche Souvenir
of our
Great International Exhibition,
and no such desirable opportunity as this has been
hitherto offered.
The leading feature of this house is
ECONOMY,
which can only be faithfully carried out under the
Prompt Net Cash System.
Houses are here Furnished for the sum of £l5.
Also for £25, £35, and for £5O.
For the net cash expenditure of £7O a house may be
nicely Furnished.
£lOO will do it well.
£2OO, £3OO, £5OO, or any other given amount will
Furnish a house elaborately.
When you go to
EOYAL FUENISHING AECADE
ask for the printed house List.
There can be no mistake about the solidity of our
leading business principles.
PLAIN FIGUEE PEICES.
No Abatement.
PEOMPT NET CASH PAYMENTS.
JOHN
SONS’
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best work-
manship and material.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
w SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
• Prices from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents. EOYLE and HOGG.
JOHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a five years guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
JJEINSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WTTHDEAWN our AGENCY from
Mr. W. H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE
EEPEESENTATIVES for Now South Wales
Messrs. EOYLE and HOGG, to whom all applica-
tions for sub-agencies must be made.
JOHN BEINSMEAD and SONS.
'OHN
BEINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Prin-
cipal Towns of New South Wales. Apply to
EOYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents.
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
OHN BEINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
ained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1479-30.
Sole Agents, EOYLE and HOGG.
J
Gr
O
U
N
D
R
S
CONSOLIDATED
COMPRESSED TEA
* very much stronger than the sane not Consolidated.
?he reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
o bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
ain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
nd which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
oose tea is used.
Glonndry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of- the Tea in five
linutes as can bo drawn out of the same Tea not
bin pressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
be consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
e used in a week or a month.
Mr Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed hi*
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in bis honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade nsed this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and whoa moved to Gibraltar
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GO UNDRY'S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Ten
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour. .
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175. Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
STUDIO
HCTOEIA
PHOTOGEAPHIC
PRICES.
PORTRAITS
Cakts db Visit* v , 10/- per dozen
tt It 7/6 per half-dozen
Cabinets 25/- per dozen
l7/6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA
9JS
6 Bon Tons „
o IS
16 Double Gems
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance—VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
PITT STREET. .
A DEL A IDE TOWN BRANDS Superfine FLOPS,
/\ sacks, halves, and quarters; Hart’s, Magnrey ■ >
Onfield’s, and Dnun’s; ADELAIDE Country Bm
superfine Flour, various; VICTORIAN and N.
SVALES Flour. BEILBY audCO.
Loans granted without delay,**
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. ■",
meats to suit convenience of borrowers. CEiN •
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next com
King-street. Established 1859.
Government Advertisement
T
Department of Public Works, Railway Branch,
Sydney, 21st May, 1880.
0 CONTRACTORS AND OTHERS.
TENDERS will be received at this Office nntil 11
o'clock on TUESDAY, the 27th July, from persons
willing to contract for the construction of the Works on
the Extension of the South-western Railway, from
Narandera to Hay, a distance of aliout 106 miles.
Plans, specif!cation, and form of tender may be seen,
and further particulars obtained, at the office of the
Engineer-in-Chief for Railways on and after the 21st
June.
Tenders to be endorsed ‘ Tender for Extension from
Narrandera to Hay.’
The Commissioner does not biud himself to accept the
lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
Public Companies
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices 253 (late 217), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors ;
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
S. W. Gray, Esq.. M.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Rnbie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAT, Secretary.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital —£loo,ooo, with power to incaeaseto £1,000,000,
BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josepbson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. WilliamHezlet,Esq., M.P.
First Fire Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part op their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonds out of Profits
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly free hy law from all
liability.
Fifteen days' grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums,
Damage by Lightning and Explosionsbt
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest pates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office— l 44, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evenino News).
ffl HE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
with unlimited liability, and special Acts in each
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued.
Dipectors ik Sydney:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman.
Benjamin Bnchanan, Esq. | W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Lite business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer:
A. Roberts, Esq.
M. W. S. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Head Office for Australasia —62 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
\ SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1848.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY,
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Qoodlct, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, P.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, hut of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.'
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:— * No British Company of any ago can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
T
EBBIBLE
ACCIDENTS
Are continually happening, and
FRIGHTFUL MUTILATIONS
and
LOSS OF LIFE
are recorded as the result of accidents in every issue of
the dailj press.
The best investment to provide against
ACCIDENTS OF ALL KINDS
is to take out a Policy with the
AUSTRALASIAN ACCIDENT ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION
(Limited).
CAPITAL —.£lOO,OOO.
OVER 300 CLAIMS ALREADY SETTLED.
Head 03e»s —253 Pitt-st., corner of Park-st.
JAS. INGLIS,
Manager.
TM I T C H E L L,
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANT,
HAY STREET
and
DRUITT STREET,
Sydney.
Jest Newcastle Screened Coal ... 225. per ton.
~ ... 12s. per $-ton
2os. per ton.
Nut C0a1... 20s. per ton.
... 20s. per ton.
lls. per J-ton.
Cut Wood, 12 and 9 in. ... 19s. per ton.
~ ~ 6-in 20s. per ton.
llaoksmiths' and Engine Coal, at Lowest Rates,
e above prices are Cash on Delivery within the
City boundaries.
Correct Wejghtiu all oases guaranteed. *
Mountain Coal
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T 3 EAPES AND SHAW
Have Opened:—
Real Russian leather purses, card cases, and ladies’
hags, in all sizes, the most beautiful assortment
that ever came into this market
The new Passementerie Trimmings
The new Passementerie Fringes
The new Passementerie Collarettes
Wool wraps, wool clouds, wool mufflers, fine, fleecy, and
warm, the largest and choicest assortment in the
city, imported direct from Germany
Ladies’ Warm Winter Hosiery I The most complete
Ladies’ Warm Winter Gloves and cheapest assort-
New Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuff I ment in the City
All the above goods are only just opened out and
marked off, ex S.S. Orient.
P EAPES AND SHA W’S
JACKETS AND MANTLES,
14s 6d to 5 guineas.
"Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from 31s to 5 guineas
Peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid gloves, “ two-button,”
2s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for single beds, 10s 6d
Peapes and Shaw’s blankets for double beds, 21
“ Come and see them, comparison is the best test.”
Stout Saxony flannels—ls, Is 21. Is 4d, Is 6d
Real Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, 2s 9d (not
imitation)
Peapes and Shaw’s umbrellas —ladies’ 6s 6d, gent.’s 10
6d, pure silk
Peapes and Shaw’s warm winter overcoats for gentle-
men —20s. 255, 27s 6d, 395, 355, 42s
Peapes and Shaw’s gentlemen’s ulsrers, 27s 6d to 55s
GEORGE STREET, GEORGE STREET,
George-sireet.
WIT APES AND SHA W’S
DRESS MATERIALS,
6Jd, 7id. B*d. 10i, Is
Broche and Pompadour, for trimming, from Is lid per
yard
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s 6d, 3s lid
4s 6d. 5s 6d
A beantifnl assortment of rich coloured silks and robes
for dinner, evening, and wedding costumes.
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING DEPARTMENT,
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful garments. Is lid 2s 3d,
2s 6d, 2s 9d
Ladies’ drawers, ditto ditto ditto, Is lid, 3s 3d, 2s 6d,
2s 9d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto ditto, 4s lid, 5s 6d, 5s
9d 6s 6d
Wedding trousseaux, from £2O to £lOO
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The new “ Bon Ton” stavs, in whiet and black
The new ‘‘Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,” from 12s 6d to 30s
Ladies' winter merino hose, plain and fancy. Is, Is 3d
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PEAPES and SHAW,
Qeorge-street. - George-street,
SCARFS AND NECKTIE
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near thr Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! 1 !
J. L. HORDERN.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY,
YCELLENCE AND ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDWARD WEBB,
NAYAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 61.. 16s. 61., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
MHE STANDAED AMEEICAN SHIRT,
COLLAR, AND CUFF FACTORY,
100 KINO STREET, UPSTAIRS
(entrance in right-of-way).
A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
ORDERS EXECUTED
with
NEATNESS AND DISPATCH.
GENT.’S WHITE SHIRTS
in three qualities.
CRIMEAN SHIRTS,
excelling all other makes.
INDUCEMENTS SPECIALLY GIVEN TO
THE TRADE.
All work done at the above Factory is under
the superintendence of a gentleman of
20 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
AMERICA.
Z
lONS, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR.
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES as to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, wliile those with more money at then-
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate, viz. :
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measure, 81s, worth £6 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this chance of
GETTING MEASURED , at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 25s ; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, half
their value „, ~
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS, Men’s and Boys’, !)s 9d
CRICKE ITNG TROUSERS, 13s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use, 3s id, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALU MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOH S F,
400 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ketten has created a furore in Melbourne.
Signor Brucciani, the well-known sculptor, is
dead.
Mrs. Hubbard, of Melbourne, has arrived in
Sydney-
Gambetta’s physician orders him to discontinue
smoking-
One of our suburban Mayors can only read
printed matter.
Bismarck passes a good share of his time in
reading French novels.
Walter Coonan is the youngest member of the
New South Wales Assembly.
One of the book-keepers at the Evening
Nuisance has come into property.
A city man “feeds” at the Coffee Palace at
one o’clock every day, with his hat on.
The youngest son of a wealthy family in Sydney
is missing, and more than £SOO with him.
Mr. T. M. Slattery is making twice the money
he received when in the Government service.
The nephew of a certain Legislative Councillor
has gone to San Francisco. His wife has gone after
him.
Sir Henry Parkes attended divine service at St.
James’ on Sunday morning. Lord Augustus Loftus
wasn’t there.
The man who spells Signor “ s-e-n-i-o-r ” is up
to his neck in trouble. We hope he’ll get out of it.
« Never kick a man when he’s down.”
Messrs. H. B. Higgins, Prank Cavan Duffy and
John Quick edit the Australian Law Times. The
latter gentleman is also leader of the staff of the Age.
The late Mr. Henry Farley was one of the first
quartz-battery owners on the Hodgkinson goldfield,
North Queensland, where he made a considerable
amount of money.
The recent serious accident to Cardinal Newman
was caused by a trip of his foot while he was pacing his
room. In falling he struck a piece of furniture and
broke one of his ribs.
A young lady died at Manly Beach on Friday
from typhoid fever. She had been engaged as governess
with a family residing there, and only recently arrived
from England per s.s. Orient.
There is balm in Gilead! Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s
‘‘All Nations” claim at Woodend is giving grand
crushings. “ Heaven never shuts one door butit opens
another.” This makes up for the bitter, bitter loss of
the Attorney-Generalship.
Mr. Alfred Cane writes, saying that the reports,
base and wide-spread, about the late John Walter Smart,
J.P., are unfounded; that the deceased gentleman,
though erratic, was one of the kindest-hearted men
who ever lived. We know it.
The Government House photographer was
graciously pleased last week to photograph the “ little
ones ” of an eminent Sydney medico, residing in
Macquarie-street North. He was nearly successful,
having only to fill in the eyes with pen and ink. O ye
tears!
Lord Hervey Phipps complained that the sentry
at the Treasury, Melbourne, did not carry arms to him
when in private attire. Since then the sentry has re-
ceived orders to salute nil gentlemen who look like
officers, and the number of men who put on a cavalry
“swank ” when visiting the Treasury is enormous and
daily increasing.
We hear frequent complaints from the guests
who assemble at Government House to play lawn-tennis,
that their “little game” is freqnehtly disturbed by
young “Gus” rushing on the scene with his photo-
graphic machine, and telling them to “stand still.” As
his efforts are not always successful, we think his dark
room is defective.
At the performance of “ Our Boys ” at the
Theatre Eoyal the other evening, an anxious mamma
experienced considerable difficulty in arranging her
three marriageable “ girls ” to advantage in the dress
circle. After sundry attempts and a good deal of
gentle fluttering she appeared to have succeeded to her
complete satisfaction.
“OnDit.” We hear that a marriage has been
arranged between a gentleman having a “good billet” in
we don’t say what Government office, and a young lady
at present in the bar of a leading hotel in George-street.
We have been twitted by writers as living in a prosaic
and mercenary age, but this will make the second
“ event” which has taken place from the same hotel,
within this month.
The serenities of a certain hotel and restaurant,
in George-street, were, the other day, considerably
fluttered by a squatter from the interior, who is a noted
explorer, bringing his black boy to dinner with him.
After considerable hesitation, the young lady help in
charge assnred herself that the “ son of the soil ” was
not only on example of patience, but of good behavior.
Of course manners make the man, and —the boy.
A lady of ton visited Lady Augustus Loftus the
other day to tender advice as to who should go to
dinner, often, seldom and not at all; who should go to
evening parties on the same terms, etc. It is to be re-
gretted that her laydship did not think so much
valuable assistance was worthy of acceptance, but
■with becoming grace replied “that she made it a
practice of her life not to take advice from any one."
The skating contest at Botany on Saturday
between Wybnrd and Pnllyn, who were supposed to
skate twenty miles on roller skates for £IOO a side, was
rather a shallow affair. The attendance was very poor,
being mostly composed of Sydney men whose offices
were closed for the day. The fair were almost nil,being
represented but by two young ladies, dressed in lark
bine, who seem to have as many admirers as they have
pairs of shoes.
Two Melbourne ladies are attracted by the
advertisement of an auction sale of jewellery. They
attend the sale. They do not know that these jewels
were the property of a lately-deceased “ lady," whose
trade was one which will flourish as long as woman is
l>eantiful and frail and man impressionable, “ Hear
me!” excbiimed one of the visitors, “I am sure that
those diamond studs are the very ones that Willie (her
husband) told me he lost at the St. Hilda Baths two
months ago.”
Gambetta has sent his photo, to J. J. Casey,
who hi known to readers of Melbourne Punch os “ Jay-
to the general Victorian public as “ King Casey”
that used to he and to Sydney residents ns the short
stout party who carried himself so regally and made
such distressingly-polite Frenchified bows to distin-
guished people at our International Exhibition. Gam-
r.'tta says Casey is a great man (“ grand ciUnjen"), and
tt s reported that when Casey said ditto to Gambetta
the latter said “Ye’re flatherin’ me now."
Mr. David Gauuson (who, by the way, is a native
°j Sydney) is alluded to by the Australasian as having
Wernately been a legislative larrikin, a free lance, and
” I '-, a Pert of onslaught. Now, says that journal, he is
Posing as a high Constitutional authority and a political
moralist. Mr. Bent, the Minister for Works, recently
aid to David, who is mad at not having been taken in
not ■ by r - Service, “ Well, Davy, I am sorry you ore
.? m the Ministry, but as we’ve worked together my
He is agreeable to giving you half my salary.”
Mr. Charles Champion Rawlins, who took so
of*vv*? a P ar bin the capture of the Kellys, is auative
’'ales—the residence of his family being Grove Park,
tu« e , X i - m , Denbighshire. He distinguished himself
crtMCf i Q the last New Zealand war, and earned much
led 14 rb ? brave manner in which he on one occasion
for a forming party. After leaving New Zealand, he
wh ROln 1 f bhne resided in the Western distrie t of Victoria,
jj ere bo established himself as an all-ronnd favourite,
donLf W bol<^s a small estate near Benalla, and was no
Kell P ro,u Pted to join Superintendent Hare in his anti-
bvv/ ex Pedition as mnch by his love of adventure as
is not* roßpoct tor law and order. Mr. Rawlins, who
an e Wl thout friends in Sydney, was once bailed up by
flem^w mouß kangaroo on Lindsay’s Qnamby station,
it vna arruam bool, and in the hand to hand, or perhaps
sushc S? re P r °P er ly be said “ hand to paw," encounter,
life I pr • Bev ere injury, narrowly escaping with his
Triot-Tl 0 . 18 a bne specimen of manhood, being very like
“-sett m build.
The Acting-Governor of Queensland has run
foul of Dissenting ministers. It appears that tickets
for the Birthday Ball were only issued to Church of
England ministers and Roman Catholic priests. Hence
the Dissenters are wroth.
Mr. Milner Stephen’s chambers and the ap-
proaches thereto are now thronged matutinally by halt,
lame and blind visitors to the great healing medium.
The doctors object, and the judges say they’ll shortly
have to ask Mr. Stephen whether he’s in business as a
doctor or a lawyer.
Theodore Piesse, of perfume renown, is filling
in the interval between the Exhibitions by warmly ad-
vocating flower-farming in these colonies. He says
Australian “ roses ” have greater delicacy in bloom and
blush than any found on the European continent. He
would like above all things to sip the honey from a few
of them.
The Anglican Bishop of Melbourne, in one of
his periodical tours through his diocese, lately put up
at the house of an hospitable resident in the north of
the colony. The host was a Presbyterian who hod
never seen a bishop before. Usharing his distinguished
visitor with the greatest politeness into the best room,
he assisted him to remove his overcoat, etc. The tired
ecclesiastic stretched his limbs on the sofa. “Won’t
your lordship take oil your leggings queried the host.
“ No, thank you,” was the reply, as the bishop touched
the sacerdotal gaiters, “ I never take them off—till I go
to bed! ”
Bishop Barker and Joe Thompson the book-
maker once came over from Melbourne by the same
boat. As the venerable prelate isn’t at all horsey and
never bets he didn’t know Joe. He got into conversa-
tion with the metallician, who was respectful to the
cloth, the owner whereof thought the leviathan quite a
nice man. At dinner, Joe found himself in front of a
pie, and, flourishing a knife prior to cutting the crust,
in his blandest tones enquired of the bishop whether
he’d like some. “ May I ask what is in it ?” queried
the prelate. “ I really can’t say, my lord,” was the
reply, “ but I’ll lay you two to one it’s apples.”
“ How are the mighty fallen!” Who does not
remember the gifted young man whose “ get up ” was
the pink of perfection, and who made Sydney the scene
of his operations during the last couple of years ? A
few months ago most of the fashionable hotels in tow *
were his rendezvous, tailors his most humble and obe-
dient servants, »nd his name was legion with cabmen.
But, “ vanity of vanities,” he is now playing the piano
in town to admiring sixpenny audiences. Sic est vita-
in Australia. The “sing-song” business not only ruins
many a young fellow by getting him into love —and into
debt—but it also prevents him from putting his shoul-
der to the wheel with a will when the wolf is at the
door.
There are two young ladies, sisters and orphans,
who reside in a boarding-house, with a bath, balcony,
and piano, in it wouldn't be fair to say what street, and
who were the observed of all observers at the Inter-
national, now unhappily defunct. They are reputed to
have large fortunes, as well as large feet. The amorous
youth of their aristocratic locality are on the qui vive,
and seek to penetrate, with loving glances, the Venetian
blinds of their retreat. It is said, however, that the
is made by two young gentlemen who adorn
the Double Bay ’bus about six o’clock in the evening,
and that there will shortly be one wedding, if not two,
at the house with the balcony, bath, and piano.
The assembly ball was held on Friday, 25th nit.,
at Need's rooms, in Liverpool-street. About 230 were
present, but “Government House" was conspicuous
by its absence. The naval element mustered very
strongly—in fact, every second man sported the
“buttons." Some of the ladies’ toilettes were very
pretty; black, and red, and white appeared to he the
prevailing colours in dresses. One young lady, dressed
(or, rather, a little undressed) in white with lace trim-
ming, looked very pretty; and two sisters, arrayed in
white with floral head-dresses, were greatly admired.
The music was fairly good, and the supper satisfactory.
One thin? was very striking, and that was the diversity
in style of the dancing. Everyone seemed to waltz a
step of his or her own. One dark helle and her partner
danced exquisitely, and they seemed to know it —he
a recent arrival from England.
Superintendent Hare, whose name will long be
remembered as the man to whose coolness, good judg-
ment, and pluck the ultimate extermination of the
Kellys was chiefly due, had a well-established reputation
for personal bravery perhaps before the outlaws referred
to were bom. He is one of the oldest Victorian police
officers, entered the force as a cadet, and commanded
gold escorts in the early days of the colony, during
w hich he more than once showed his gameness in combat
with bushrangers. Some time since he brought himself
again into notice by arresting Power, the outlaw, con-
cerning whom “ The Vagabond ” wrote so much in his
papers on Pentridge, and who was caught asleep, with
arms beside him, lay Mr. Hare and Sergeant (note
Inspector) Montford. It is worthy of note that the
Kellys, with the Lloyds, Quinns, and others of their
friends in the Greta district, were accused by the police
of having acted as scouts for Power. We hope that the
valuable services rendered to Australia by Superinten-
dent Hare will be suitably acknowledged by our Govern-
inent, and that he will soon recover from the effects of
the nasty wound received by him during the progress of
the encounter.
One of the most successful gatherings of this
season was a ball given by Commodore and Mrs. Wilson
at their residence, Macquarie-street, on Wednesday
night. About 200 guests assembled, including the
Governor and his A.DC. and staff, and the
elite of Sydney. Dancing commenced about 9.30 to the
excellent music of the Wolverene Band. The number
of men-of-war here ensured au ample supply of gentle-
men, and the Permanent Force also sent a strong de-
tachment. Some of the ladies’ dresses were very elabo-
rate, and the families of blue and white were the pre-
dominating colours. Almost every second lady wore a
very pretty and coquettish-looking cap, which fashion
appears lately greatly in vogue. One lady—a gallant
captain’s wife —was dressed in an extremely beautiful
white satin costume. She and a matron who wore dark
ruby velvet displayed about the most strikingly taste-
ful dresses in the room. All the arrangements were
perfect in every respect, and the ball was a most
enjoyable one.
Annihilation of the Kellys.
In the brief space of a week tne notorious Kelly gang
has been completely broken —the leader a prisoner in
Melbourne gaol, grievously wounded, and the rascally
two constituting the rank and file lying in dishonored
graves. It is scarcely two years since Sergeant Ken-
nedy and constables lionergan and and Scaulan were
shot down in cold blood whilst searching for the Kelly
brothers in the Strathbogie ranges, but during the
interval the very name of the gang has been synonymous
with terror. The papers seem to have had the name of
‘ Kelly ” kept standing in big capitals for daily use,
and the public know only too well how often it was re-
quired. In December, 1871, the gang startled Austra-
lasia by the clever way in which they robbed a bank at
Euroa and escaped to their mountain fastness without
leaving a clue for the police to follow. In February
this year, whilst the police believed the fugitives to be
surrounded they suddenly appeared at Jerilderie in this
colony bailed up the local police and entire population,
robbed the bank and mode off for Victoria, before the
intercepted telegraphic communication could be
restored. Since that time there have been occasional
rumours that the gang were hidden in the ranges, but
the public were not so sure as the police were on that
point. Now and then the result of a raid by the con-
stabulary was awaited with breathless interest, but it
was not till Sunday last that anything transpired of a
definite character. The suspense was not of long dura-
tion, for within twenty-four hours from the receipt of
the news of the outrage the gang had been satisfac-
torily accounted for without the loss of the life of one
policeman. Thepolice.it seems, had lately received
much assistance from a Kelly “ sympathiser” named
Sherritt, who some weeks ago introduced a disguised
constable to the friends of the gang as a notorious
horsestealer. The outlaws never knew of the danger
but suspected Sherritt’s allegiance for other reapons,
and determined to make on example of him. So on
Saturday, just at night fall, Sherrett and four con-
stables who were in his hat watching that of Mrs.
Byrne, mother of one of the outlaws, heard a voice
outside which Sheritt recognised as being that
of a friend. He opened the door and found to his cost
that his friend has been urged as a decoy, for (here
stood Joe Byrne with a levelled pistol. The outlaw’s
vengeance was complete and poor young Sherritt
fell into the arms of his wife, shot through
the eye and breast. The police shut the
door, hut found that they were at a disadvantage, be-
cause the hut was brilliantly lighted whilst the bush-
rangers were enshrouded in darkness. Two or three
volleys came whistling through the hut, and the con-
stables laid perdu all through the night. At 11 o’clock
on Sunday one of their number made his way into
Beechworth. The outlaws could not have remained
long at the scene of the murder, because they arrived
at Glenrowan, which is nearly forty miles away, early on
Sunday morning. Here they took np the railway at
such a well chosen spot that the special train, which
they knew would come along the line, would inevitably
have gone over an embankment twenty feet deep, un-
less the engine driver was aware of the danger. Ned
Kelly has since stated that he intended to “ make a
stew” of the Queensland black troopers, of whose
tracking powers he and his comrades seem to have been
very much afraid. There is much reason to believe
that he and his brother were waiting till the train crime
to grief in order to murder every man who was not
lulled in the wreck. Kelly also expected to find a secret
party of police at Glenrowan, but was mistaken, con-
stable Bracken, the local trooper, being unsupported.
Having rounded up the inhabitants, cot the telegraph,
and superintended the tearing up of the rails, the gang
took their prisoners to Jones’ Hotel, got up a dance,
and it seems drank a good deal of potent liquor. The
train did not come so soou as they expected, and when
the whistle was heard, about 3 a.m. on Monday, the
schoolmaster, who had been released, improvised a
danger signal by putting a rod handkerchief before a
light. The “ special” was therefore brought to a stand-
still before it reached the trap that had been made for
it. Superintendent Hare did not lose an instant, and
with eight men rushed up to the hotel, followed by
Lieutenant O’Connor and his ” nigger” troopers. The
gang were on the verandah, where they had assembled
after putting on armour made from ploughshares,
which throughout the encounter was never pierced.
At the first discharge Ned Kelly shot Superintendent
Hare through the wrist. The bushrangers then re-
tired indoors for shelter, and some heavy tiring ensued.
The police werespeedilv reinforced, and Inspector Sadi
leir, who relieved Mr. Hare, soon had 30 men'underhim.
At daylight Ned Kelly, who, it seems, took to the bush
a ter the first brush, having had his right arm broker,
came behind fbe police, and abandoning Lis
rifle, fired four shots from a revolver at Sen -Sergeant
Steele, Sen.-Constable Kelly, and Railway-guard Dow-
sett. Steele had noticed that the bullets struck harm-
lessly upon the desperado’s body, and fired twice with
slugs at his legs, bringing him down with the cry “ I’m
done.” When Steele rushed him he cursed fearfully,
and tried to use his weapon again, but could not turn
quickly enough, and the shot was unavailing. He was
relieved of armour weighing nearly lOOlbs., and found
to be wounded, though not dangerous! r, in six places,
namely, in the left foot, left leg, right hand, left arm,
and twice in the groin. Dan Kelly on seeing his brother
fall rushed out of the hotel, firing as he came, hut be-
ing hit in the leg he retreated indoors. The firing
was continued withoutabatement. and about 10 o’clock
all the prisoners who were in the hotel escaped, after
having had a “frightful time.” A boy and girl, children
of the landlord, were wounded, the former mortally,
and young Eeardon, son of the station-master, shot in
the back. The escapees stated that Joe Byrne had
been shot in the groin at 5 30 while drinking in the bar,
and had died very hard. An old man named Cherry was
also shot in the groin, and was then lying in an out-
house. About a quarter past three the police adopted
the very questionable course of burning down the
hotel. Sen.-Constable Johnstone, of Violet Town,
placing a truss of burning straw under the out-house,
his comrades covering his advance and retreat. Mrs.
Skillirtn, sister of the Kellys, dressed in a riding habit
and Gainsborough hat, essayed to get into the building
but was stopped bv the police. Father Gibbie, Vicar-
General of Western Australia, alighted from the
through passenger train when he saw the fight, and was
the first to enter the burning house. He dragged out the
dying Gharry, and says he saw Dan Kelly and Hart ly-
ing in such a position that he believed they hud shot
themselves. This assertion was afterwards borne out
by the fact that the charred bodies were not encased in
armour, but the iron plates were lying beside them.
Cherry died shortly after the priest had administered
the last consolation The body of Byrne when subse-
quently photographed presented a frightful appear-
ance though it was saved from the flames. Mr. Kaw-
lins, a well-known resident of Benalia, was
slightly wounded in the affray. Ned Kelly was trans-
ferred to Melbourne Gaol, in the hospital of which he
was visited on Wednesday by his mother, who has long
been a prisoner. The interview is said to have been am
affecting one. Ned Kelly says he could have got away
after the first discharge, nut told his brother Dan he
would see it oat. The bodies of Hart and Dan Kelly
were taken by their friends, and there is muck
reason to fear that the revengeful dispo-
sitions of the sympathisers will lead to lawless
outbreaks in the distaict, several of the most decided
spirits having declared solemnly their intention to
avenge the dead “herose.” A strong police force how-
ever will be kept up in the vicinity of Greta It is
worthy of note that the reward of £B,OOO offered by
Victoria and N.S.W. for the heads of the gang wonld
not have been available a month hence. Dr. Ryan, of
Plevna renown, extracted the bullets from Ned "Kelly's
body.
At the Petersham railway station some wag ha*
drawn the representation of a skeleton. The other
eveniug a certain gentleman went home late. On
alighting from the train he struck an attitude and de-
livered himself thus to the skeleton lie thou a
spirit (hie) health (hie) or gob (kic).'* Here ibe spirits
of Shakespeare and Hennessy collided simu. tuiKOusly
with mother earth.
DAN KELLY AND HART AFTER THE FIGHT.
NED KELLY LYING AT GLENROWAN RAILWAY STATION.
HOW SHEEEITT WAS SHOT.


Amusements
... ... ... ... ... iwr. oarauei ibizb
SIXTEENTH WEEK and CONTINUED
SUCCESS
of
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS (Friday) EVENING
Byron’s World-renowned Comedy
OU E BOYS,
TO-MORROW, (Saturday) EVENING, July 3rd
PYGMALION and GALATEA
and
WAR TO THE KNIFE.
Characters by the *
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Frederick Marshall.
The scenes designed and executed by Mr.
George Gordon.
Doors open at 7.15.
Overture at 8.
Prices of Admission.—Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls
3s ; Family Circle, ‘2s ; Pit, Is.
Box office at Elvy and Co.’s, Goorgo-street.
where seats can be secured six days in advanced
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
yICTOR I A THE ATE E
Lessees—Messrs. COPPIN, HENNINGS, and GRE-
VILLE.
SIXTH NIGHT
of
Ireland’s Comedian.
GRATTAN RIGGS,
in his singularly successful Hibernian Drama.
SHIN PANE;
or, SHAMROCK GREEN,
which will be repeated
THIS EVENING,
with its beautiful now Scenery,
Wouderful Mechanical Effects,
augmented
Company, Music, and Auxiliaries.
IMPORTANT.
ERIN-GO-BRAGH.
GRAND EXTRA NIGHT.
SATURDAY, July 3,
under distinguished Irish patronage
GRATTAN RIGGS,
in his artistic impersonation,
SUIL GAIR,
in
SHIN FANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE. Box Office at Paling's.
Performances commence at 8 sharp.
Manager—J. R. GREVILLK.
QUEE N ’ S T H E~A T E E~..
Lessee.. ... ... ... Mr. M. Hegnrty.
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS
of
Miss SAL LIE DE ANGELIS,
Mr. JEFF DE ANGELIS
and Mr. JAS. MAAS.
TO-NIGHT, FRIDAY, July 2nd.
For the first time in Australia.
THE WANDERER
THE WAN DEREK
a, Romantic Drama in 5 acts,
HARROLD MOKRE BRIGHT (afterwards the Wan-
derer) ... Mr. JAS. MAAH.
JIMMY Mr. JEFF DE ANGELIS
BESSIE MORREBEIGHT... Miss Sal lie DE ANGELI -
Pull cast of Characters,
POOK OUT FOR SATURDAY NEXT.
GRAND PRODUCTION of
UNDER THE GASLIGHT,
With Now Scenery and Startling Effects
For the BENEFIT of
Messrs MAAS and DE ANGELIS.
Prices as usual.
LIDDY, Business Manager.
L
IDDY’S BEN E~F~TT
Is Unavoidably
POSTPONED
till some future date.
Many THANKS for the kind offers from Members of
the Profession generally.
PERAH O U S B,
Corner King and York-streets.
Lessee ... ••• • ... M. Hegarty.
GREAT SUCCESS
of
The FAVOURITES.
The VICTORIA LOPTUS TROUPE
The VICTORIA LOP TUS TROUPE
of BRITISH BLONDES.
ALL the OLD FAVOURITES
and SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT of the celebrated Ger-
man, Irish, and Hebrew dialect artists
BUTLER AND RUSSELL.
MONSTER PROGRAMME.
The
GREAT LE CLAIR,
WATERS and KELLY,
RICKEY and MCCARTHY,
SARONY and ATKINS.
KENNEDY, Ac.. &c-
VICTORTA LOPTUS
MINNIE ESMOND
VIOLET EL WOOD
ELLA ST. MARK.
&c., &c.
Popular prices—3s, 2s, Is.
Box plan at Nicholscu and Aschcrberg’s.
LIDDY, Treasurer.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STOUT OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XI.— Continued.
She paused. It was the life which she moat
loved in all truth or poetry ; to her Beethoven’s
sufferings wore as actual as his genius or his
grandeur.
She saw Harry look at her with an expression
which told her that he too understood, and she
went on to the end —told of the bitter lonelines of
those last years, that death in harmony with the
life —that passing away of the Titan soul in the
sublime music of the spring thunderstorm, and
then she was silent.
Harry looked at her for a moment, started up,
and took her hand.
“Thank you, miss,” said he, and left the house.
“Eh, Miss Blisset,” said Mary, wiping her
eyes, “ you’re like no one else as iver I heerd tell
on afore. You’ve done a kindness to yon poor lad
such as he never had yet.”
“ I’m very glad if you think so.”
" Yo’ve gi’en him summut to console him. He’ll
go about now, thinking he may bear his deafness
quite easy like, seein’ yon man as yo’ towd us
on were so great and patient. His mind is fair
beautiful —Harry’s mind is,” said Mary, moved
out of all reticence.
“I like him very much,” said Adrienne ; “ very
much indeed.”
“ Ah! He’s good—good to th’ marrow of his
bones, he is.” #
“ Like you, Mary. You and he are well-
matched.”
“ Eh, nay ! Eh, don’t think o’ that! He’s ne’er
said nowt about it.”
“ He will some time !”
Mary was silent, with a downcast face, till at
last she said;
“ I know you’ll ne’er say a word to no one about
it. I can trust you to tell you this, as whether he
ever says owt about it or not, the vary thowt
of ony other mon than him fair gives me a turn.”
“Yes,” said Adrienne. “And yon do deserve
to be happy, Mary. I wonder how it is that you
and all yours are so different from other people.
I always feel well and happy, and right in the
world, when I am with you.”
Later, as Myles walked with her up Blake
Street, Adrienne remarked that the end of Sep-
tember was approaching and the evenings darkened
earlier.
“Yes,” said Myles, “ soon winter will be here.
And then . . . now then, you,” he added to
a passer-by, who gave Adrienne a very close
berth ; “ mind you’re manners when you’re pass-
ing a lady.”
“ I didn’t know you had lady-friends, Myles
Heywood,” replied a smooth voice, as the offender
paused, and looked at them.
“Oh, it’s you!” said Myles, with trenchant
contempt. “If I’d known, I wouldn’t have
troubled to speak to you.” And he passed on.
“ Who is the man?” asked Adrienne.
“ He’s my—step-father,” said Myles, in a pecu-
liar voice. Adrienne had heard the whole story
from Mary: Myles had never been able to speak
of it.
“ Oh, forgive me for saying it, but I wish you
had not spoken to him in that way.”
“Why? How?” he stammered.
‘ Has he ever done you any harm?”
“ Not directly; but I can’t abide the very looks
of him.”
“There !” said she, with a somewhat nervous
smile; “you are too contemptuous. Reverence is
better than contempt; it is indeed.”
“ Reverence ? Would you have me reverence
him!”
“ Yes. You ought to reverence human nature
—your own nature —in him. If you could have
heard yourself speak ! Do you know what you
would do, if any one spoke to you in that way?”
“ What?”
“ Why, you would —I think you would shake
him. I can just see you make one stride towards
him, and fasten upon him —poor follow ! —to teach
him manners.”
“ You moan that I have none myself. Well, yon
may bo right.”
“Are you offended?”
“ Miss Blisset—yon could not offend me.”
“ I think I could. But do think of what 1 have
said: and try not to be so contemptuous. Will
you ?*’
“ Tho next time I meet Jim Hoyle, I’ll take
off my hat to him politely—since you wish it so.”
“You will drive me to despair! How different
you are from your reasonable sister, who sees the
right bearings of things at once ; and from your
sensitive brother, who ”
“ Yes, Ned is like a girl for delicacy,” said
Myles, a sarcastic flavour in Ids voice. “ Well,
Miss Blisset, I will try hard to please you. Next
week there’s a fellow coming that I have a con-
tempt for, if I ever had for any one.”
“ Who may that be ?”
“ Mr. Sebastian Mallory, our so-called master.”
A pause. Then a hesitating, “In-deed!” from
her, the intonation of which Myles did not re-
mark,
“ So I’ll try to be polite to him, if our paths
cross —which I hope they won’t.”
“ Perhaps they may not. But now do try,”
said she. “You may find it easier than than you
think.”
They parted at the wicket, and Myles went
home, to find Edmund gone to bed, and to git up
himself, reading ‘My Beautiful Lady,’ which
Adrienne had lent to Edmund, never supposing
that Myles would look at it, or that he would take
any interest in it if ho did. But he pored over it,
and his heart-strings'trembled to the poet’s notes :
it was he himself, his own thoughts put into
poetry, as tho lover waited his lady’s coming.
And as for the end Myles read it differently; to
please himself, he allowed common sense to step
in—Adrienne was not consumptive.
CHAPTEE XII.
Me. Malloet’s Politics.
“Phillnto. —Mais on ontend lea gens au moins sana se
fAcher.
Alcestn.— Moi, je veux me faclier, et ne veux point
entendre.”
Lc Misanthrope.
During tho following forenoon, Myles sat alone
in tho outer office, employed exactly as he had
been on tho day of Mrs. Mallory’s visit,
weeks before. Wilson was going his usual round
in tho works, and Mr. Sutcliffe, tho manager, was
out.
Pausing at tho end of a column of figures, he
raised his eyes and saw coming down the street
something which caused him to open his eyes in
surprise, though surprise was not his usual
expression.
It was a very high and very swell nhaeton, with
a pair of magnificent bays, which danced along tho
street, as if its shabby, clog-worn stones caused I
much distress to their aristocratic hoofs. The
driver of this (in Thanshope) unique conveyance
was a young man in light grey clothes and a round
cloth cap —no English cap: indeed there was, at
least to the uninitiated Thanshope eye, something
un-English in his whole appearance. He was,
however, master of his cattle, as even Myles could
see. Beside him sat a slight, dark boy, with a
plain, queer, but attractive face ; and behind was
a very correct loooking groom.
“Who on earth is that chap?” was Myles’s
first very natural thought, as he forgot his work
and gazed in the blissfulness of ignorance at the
vision. The next moment he could have bitten
off his tongue could he have had the feeling that
he had not bestowed a second glance upon the
whole affair, for the dancing bays came sliding
down the street, and the driver pulled them up
before that very office door ; moreover, he had
caught sight of Myles staring at him, and had
given him in return a lazy look from a pair of
rather sleepy eyes.
Now Myles knew it was the “ so-called master ”
—it was Sebastian Mallory : a second glance at
the fair though bronzed face, the yellow hair and
moustache, the proudly cut features, and the in-
different expression, displayed sufficient likeness
to his mother to make the first intuitive convic-
tion a certainty.
Furious with himself at having been caught
staring openly and wonderingly, Myles forgot his
voluntary promise to Adrienne, and, in order to
prove that, whatever his opon eye might at first
seemed to intimate, yet that he was not really at
all struck by anything he had seen, be turned his
back to the door, and was apparently bonding
with the deepest attention over his work, when
that door was opened ; he heard a voice conclude
some injunctions to the groom, and the answer
which followed:
“ Jawohl, mein Herr.”
“Foreign servants, even!” murmured Myles
shrugging his shoulders.
“ Good morning, my good man,” was the next
thing he heard, in an accent as different from that
of the Thanshope “gentleman” as Adrienne’s
was different from that of the Thanshope lady.
He turned round and looked up ; he was forced
to do so now, and, without noticing the lad who
stood in the background, he faced Mallory.
The two young men confronted each other for the
first time.
So far as expression and complexion went, they
were as great a contrast as could be imagined.
Both were tall, spare and well-built, and there
the resemblance ended. Myles was, as has been
said, quick, passionate, lithe, alert, with a temper
that sprang into action on every possible occasion
with eyes that flashed, brows that contracted,
very often in the course of the day. Sebastian
Mallory was graceful, but there was some languor
real or assumed, in the grace. He was handsome
but the good looks were certainly marred by the
bored expression on his pale, fine features. His
eyes moved slowly; they were very good eyes,
luminous, and hazel in colour, but they did not
look as if they would easily flash. He spoke,
looked, moved, as if he found life rather trouble-
some. and scarcely worth the trouble when it had
been taken. He had taken off his cap when he
entered the office—foreign fashion, and Myles saw
that his face, all save the forehead, was somewhat
bronzed: but it was with the bronze of a hot sun
—not nature, naturally he was pale. His hair,
too, seemed to have caught the sun at the ends,
elsewhere it was just yellow hair. Every gesture
and movement was full of the polished ease of high
cultivation.
Myles, looking straight at him, said to himself,
“ One of your languid, heavy swells, are we ? I’m
afraid wo shall ruffle his fine feathers in this horrid
democratic place.”
He had Mrs. Mallory in [his mind’s eye as he
surveyed her son ; her principles were well known
—the divine right of kings—the Conservative side
through thick and thin, good report and evil re-
port : Church and Constitution intact through
every storm; our greatest Premier, the late
lamented Duke of Wellington ; the working man
in his proper place (whatever that may be) ; rich
and poor, gentle and simple, a providential
arrangement which it would be sinful and impious
to thing of disturbing.
Thinking of all this, Myles surveyed Sebastian
Mallory, and as he found him entirely dif-
ferent from any young man he had ever seen
before, and as most of the Thanshope people,
great and small were of the Radical persuasion,
he immediately concluded that he was right—what
had been bred in the bone must come out in the
flesh, and it was quite clear that Mr. Mallory was
a Conservative of the bluest dye.
Meanwhile Sebastian had been looking at Myles
too, surprised at receiving no answer to his re-
mark, and still more surprised to observe that the
eyes of the “good man” were fixed intently
critioisingly, and with an unabashed steadfastness
upon himself, and appeared to measure him over
from head to foot, in a manner which was, to say
the least, singular. The cap of the young man
remained on his head ; he did not rise ; ho did not
ask what he could do, nor the visitor’s business ;
he simply looked at him with a pair of remark-
ably keen, piercing dark eyes, and Sebastian re-
turned the look, until at last a gleam of amuse-
ment appeared in his sleepy eyes.
That look of amusement was not lost upon
Myles; it irritated and angered him. He was so
terribly in earnest about all he did, thought or
believed, as not readily to see the comic side of
a question, while it was Mallory’s chief foible to
take everything in this world that came to him as
rather amnsing—if not too troublesome.
“ Mafoi!” ho observed, with a quaint look, but
very good-naturedly ; “they told me in the train
that I should be surprised at the Thanshope peo-
ple, and so I am !”
“ Perhaps they’ll be equally surprised with
yon,” said Myles concisely.
“Well, they may,” replied Sebastian, coolly.
“ Do you know who I am ?”
Myles hesitated a moment, much wishing to
say, “ No, I don’t,” but integrity got the upper
hand ; ho only put the fact as disagreeably as he
could.
“ I should suppose that you are Mrs. Mallory’s
son.”
Sebastian turned to the brown-faced, dark-eyed
boy who stood behind, and remarked smilingly:
“Yon see, I am nobody, Hugo; only my
mother’s son ; and yet hero I am upon my own
property.”
The youth nodded, and glanced thoughtfully at
Myles, who could not resist going on with the
rather perilous game he was playing, and who re-
marked drily:
“ You’ll find that wo count a good deal by re-
sidence and relationship here.”
“So !” said Sebastian, with the amused half -
smilo still playing about his lips and in his eyes,
to the intense exasperation of Myles, who natur-
ally saw nothing at all to laugh at in the situation.
There was something, too, about Mallory which
struck a subtle blow at his pride and self-esteem
—something which in his innermost heart he knew
to be superior to himself, though ho passionately
refused to admit the idea.
. (to be continued.)
The “Black Diamond King” of Sydney.
Just as a squatter is termed a wool king so Mr.
J. Mitchell may, from the enormous extent of his
business in coal, bo termed “The Black Diamond
King” of Sydney. There is, perhaps, not a
smarter business man here than the subject of
this sketch, and he has fairly won his way by en-
terprise and fair dealing. The gauge of his cha-
racter and the unvarying rule of his business is—
-20 cwt. to the ton. Mr. Mitchell on going into
this business saw that the retail coal trade of Syd-
ney required but good and energetic management
to permit of a grand connection being built up,
and he set about it in a resolute way. Extensive
premises were secured in Hay and Druitt streets
in this city, and at Newtown ; thirty or forty men
were engaged, and horses and drays invested in
to the extent of ,£7OO. Arrangements were then
made for the receipt of mountain coal in large
quantities, and the work of supplying the city was
carried on with vigour. The trade commenced
five years ago with 5000 tons per year, and now it
is 25,000 tons, with a steady rise. Recently ar-
rangements were made for the further introduc-
tion of Newcastle coal, and the supply has risen
in five weeks from 40 tons to 127 tons. With
wood and coal together the total amount sent out
per year is 35,000 tons—no small business to
transact. Mr. Mitchell is still pushing his trade,
basing all his transactions on the one invariable
rule —20 cwt. to the ton. This enormous trade
has enabled him to effect an all round reduction
in the price of coal in Sydney, his principle being
small profits and quick returns on a big business.
His figures are among the lowest quotations in the
trade. He hopes to extend his business all round
the suburbs, and to win further recognition of his
energy and business capabilities.
Colonial Produce.
An; active agitation ia noticed both in Sydney and
amongst farmers resident cm the railway line in
respect to the recent obstructive charges made on
“ returned empty packages” by the Government.
Many complain also, that in several instances
these cases, hencoops, &c., never reach their
owners, although freight is paid on them. Tues-
day a meeting of agents, auctioneers, dealers,
&c., was held at Larkin’s Hotel, George.street,
and it was unanimously agreed to charge 6d for
postage, &c., on all consignments by rail.
Station Live Stock, and
Wholesale Butchers’ Meat. —Tallow is lower
—best mutton £26 to ,£27 per ton, ditto beef £25
to £26, station or mixed lots £lB to £24, shank-
bones £5 to £9, common bones £2 to £3, N-S.W.
wattle bark £4 to £5, Tasmanian £6 10s to £7
ss; large sized horns sell per 100 at from 20s to
28s, small to medium 10s to 19s ; wool, per lb,
scoured 15d to 2s, medium fleece 16d, greasy lots
7d to 10id ; sheepskins (lower), medium to best 5d
to 7d, pelts or short wool 2kl to 4d ; hides (lower),
heavy ones best 3£d to 3|d, good medium 3d, in-
ferior 2d, choice light and dry sorts 3,}d to sd;
horsehair (scarce), tail Is to Is 4d, maneSd to lid,
mixed lOd to Is, clean cowhair 9d to lOd, dirty
lots 3£d to 5d ; large horsohides (active) each from
6s to 7s 6d, small to medium 3s to ss, yearlings
4s to Bs, calfskins Is to 4s, large kangaroo (very
scarce) 2s to 3s, small Is to Is 9d. Mr. John
Bridge has effected some good linos. In the live
stock market a very slight improvement is noticed.
At Homebush, the various Sydney yards, &c., fat
cattle average per 1001 b for good to best from 9s
to 12s 6d, inferior to medium 6s to 8s 6d, best
milch cows each from £9 to £ll ss, good £7 to
£8 15s. poor £2 to £5, sheep 7s 6d to 12s,
lambs 6s 6d to 14s, best fat calves from 22s
to 355, good 16s to 21s, poor 5s to 14s,
pigs (alive) 3d to 4J-d per lb. Mr. William Inglis
reports considerable sales at top values. At
Glebe Island and the railway sheds wholesale
butchers’ meat remains very cheap. Beef in car-
case per lb |d to Id, fore ditto, hind 1| to l|d,
mutton Id to Ijd, pork 3|d to 4.)d. For this
branch Messrs. Wells and Smith Brothers have
effected some extensive sales. Salt beef in tierces,
medium to best, £2 to £3; pork in barrels £2
10s to £3 10s.
Horsefeed, &c. — Maize is steady at 2s per
bushel for best, 1s lOd for medium, oats Is 6d to
2s 4d, Cape barley 2s to 2s 6d, malting barley 4s
to 5s 3d. Messrs. O’Doud and Co. mention an
improving demand. Hunter Eiver lucerne of
prime quality is very scarce at from £4 3s to £5
per ton, medium £3 to £3 10s, inferior £1 10s ;
Hunter oaten and wheaten hay £3 to £4, ditto
clean straw £2 to £3. Mr. J. N. Meiklejohn re-
ports large sales. At the railway auctions held at
Darling harbour this week there was a groat want
of spirit in bidders. Supplies were only small,
and came from the Bathurst and Goulburn dis-
tricts, Campbelltown, Menangle, Picton, Penrith,
Windsor, &c. Oaten hay showed a rise, at which
Messrs. Wells and Smith Brothers and Ellis and
Co. effected some good lines. Wheaten hay and
clean straw were dearer. Messrs. Dent and Hos-
kin and Mr. C. E, Bedwell made some important
sales. Lucerne hay was dear for best sorts,
Messrs. W. Inglis and Co. getting the extraordi-
nary price of 5s 8d per cwt. Summary of auction
sales is thus :—Extra good oaten hay sold per cwt.
for 5s Bd, 5s sd, 5s 4d, 5s 3d, and 5s ; good lota
4s lid and 4s 6d, medium 4s 2d and 4s Id; medium
wheaten hay 3s Bd, 3s 6d, 3s sd, and 3s 4d; best
clean straw 3s 3d, 3s Id, and 3s ; good lota 2a lOd
and 2s 8d; best lucerne 5s Id, medium 4s 6d.
Vegetables. —Supplies of potatoes are getting
short and the market is rising—imports for the
last week are only 432 tons. Beat Circular pota-
toes per ton from £4 to £5; New Zealand and
Bowral, £3 15s to £4; Victorian, £3 10s to £3
15s ; best Victorian or Tasmanian onions, £3;
ditto carrots, £3 to £4 ; Swedish turnips, £2 15s
white tm-nipg, £2; pumpkins, per dozen, la 6d ta
3a 6d. Messrs. M‘Minn and Co and Mr. Joseph J
Eoberts report a very brisk demand. 1
Wine.— Good full-bodied samples for winter’s
consumption are wanted and sell easily p or f
Macquarie, Hunter and Albury, new, per
2s 9d to 4s ; old, from 5s to 12s 6d. Messrs’
O’Doud and Co. mention considerable orders
Dairy Produce, Poultry, etc.—Beat EH.
warra or Camden butter, in keg, is dull at 10d per
lb; good fresh roll sorts from lOd to Is litf.
cheese and bacon 3|d to 6d; lard and honey 3d to
did ; beeswax, 9d to lid (scarce); inferior to
medium, 4d to Bid ; cigar leaf, lid to Is ; manu-
factured tobacco, Is 4d to 2s ; lucerne seed sd*
millet brooms, per dozen, from 8s to 10s ; common
case eggs from lOd to Is Id; guaranteed fresh
ones, from Is 2d to Is 8d; fowls, per couple
medium to best, from 2s 9d to 4s 9d; ducks, 3eto
5s 6d ; geese, 5s to 6s ; hen turkeys, ditto;' cock
turkeys, 7s to 12s ; pigeons, 2s; sucking pim,
each, 3s 6d to 8s 6d. Messrs. M'Minn and Co. and
Mr. Seaforth Proctor report an average demand
Timber, Firewood, etc.—ln these articles the
prices of last week apply to the present one.
Flour and Grain Eeport. —The London
market shows another reduction, but prices for
retail orders here remain unaltered. Blair, Lyons
and Co.’s best superfine is still in favour with
bakers, &c. Best Adelaide, N. S. Wales, Victoria
&c., superfine flour, per ton of 20001 b. nett, from
.£ll 2s 6d up to £ll 10s; good brands ditto
.£lO 10s to ,£11; common sorts, £lO to £lO is'.
Best Adelaide, N. S. Wales, or Victorian wheat
per bushel, 4s 5d to 4s 8d ; medium. 4s 3d to 4s 4d
inferior, 4s. Bran and pollard, in large parcels Is*"
small lots Is 2d to Is 3d. Bakers charge 3*d per
21b. loaf for best unadulterated bread.
J. A. M‘CARROLL.
144 Sussex street, July 1, 1830.


Tailors, Drapers,
T
HENOTED s£s BALES
RILEY BROTHERS,
IMPORTERS OF DRAPERY, WHOLESALE & RETAIL,
10, COLKMAN-ST., LONDON.
Central Establishment for £5 Bales—
-336, GEOKGE-STEEET, NEAE POST OFFICE.
Branches—
Pitt-street, next Victoria Theatre'!
600, George-streat, Bricklield-hxll ?• SYDNEY.
Oxford-street _
, And at Auburn-street, Goulburn.
£5 WINTER BABE.
1 pair large blankets
1 large marsella quilt
10 yards good sheeting
20 yards strong calico
12 strong cotton tick
20 wincey dress tweed
10 good Welsh flannel
6 yards strapping tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 FREE SELECTORS’
BALE.
1 pair large blankets
1 white or coloured quilts
5 yards strong sheeting
10 white or unbleached calico
6 white or red flannel
12 yards dress material
18 yards cotton shirting
4 pairs good stockings
1 pair strong stays
1 dark petticoat
6 strong gambroon
6 brown holland
4 large white towels
3 yards good trowsertweed,
buttons, thread Ac.
£5 MEN’S CLOTHING
BALE.
1 suit tweed, coat, trousers
and vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best cotton shirts, large
size
1 best felt hat, any size
6 pair strong cotton socks
6 white handkerchiefs, bor-
dered
1 belt or pair of braces
1 pair strong boots, good
Collars, ties,Ac.
£5 LADIES’ BALE.
6 ladies’ chemises
6 pairs drawers
4 nightgowns
4 ladies' camisoles
2 ladies’ petticoats
3 children’s chemises
3 pairs drawers
3 nightgowns
3 petticoats
The above are made of good
longcloth, and nicely trim-
med. If desired, other ar-
ticles may be ordered instead,
of any of the above.
£5 INFANTS’ BALE.
| |Gn the shortest notice we
can send, carriage paid by
mail, this Bale. Articles not
required may be left, and
something else pnt in.
Half-dozen iufants’shirts
Half-dozen infants’ nights
3 long flannels
3 infants’ swaithes
1 dozen calico squares
Half-dozen diaper squares
3 monthly gowns
1 Christening robe
1 christening hood
1 merino square (quilted)
2 pairs wool boots
1 head flannel
£2 STOCKMAN’S BALE.
1 pair tweed trousers
1 Crimean shirt
1 best cotton shirt
3 pairs thong sock*
3 pookethand kerchief*
1 soft felt hat
1 elastic belt
1 pair strong boots
£2 DROVERS BALE.
I macintosh waterproof ooat
1 pair leggings.
American calico, 4jd, 6d, 7id
Gray calico, 3d, -Hd, 6d, 7d
White sheeting, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Gray sheeting, 7i, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Maasella quilts, ss, 7s, 10s
Honeycomb quilts, ss, 7s 10s
Coloured qnilts, 3s, 4s, 5s
White blankets, 7s, lls, 15s
Toilet covers, ls 3. Is9d
Blue blankets, 7s 6d 10s 12s 6d
Scarlet blankets 10s, 14s, 17s
Railway rugs, 12s 6d, 16s, 21s
Cotton tick, 4Jd, 6d, 7id
Linen tick, 9d, Is, ls3d, IsCd
Honeycomb towels, 4-td 6d, 9d
Long curtains, 4s Hd. 6s, 10s
Table damask, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d
Unbleached damask. Is 6d,2s
Glass towelling, sid, 7id, 9d
Kitchen towelling, 4Jd.6id,9d
White flannel, 10Jd, Is lls 3d >
Red flannel, 93,15 d. ISd
White Dimity, (Hd, 9d, Is.
Bed fringe, Id, 6d, 9d, Is
Blind muslins, 4d, 6d, 8d
Brown holland, 6id, 9d, 1s
Hearth rugs, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s
Drugget carpet, Is, Is 6d, 2s
Table covers, 4s, 4s (id, 7s 6d
Turkish towel, 7?,d, lOd, 1s
Warm gloves, Is, Is 6d, 2s
White stockings, 4j,d, 6d, 9d,
Is Is 3d
Coloured stockings, 6d, 9d,ls
White stays, 2s. 3s, 4s, 5s
Silk parachutes, 6s, Bs, 10s
Felt skirts. Is Hd, 3s 6d,
Quilted skirts, 7s, Bs, 10s
Chemises, Is 6d, 2s, 3s, 4s
Drawers, Is 6d. 2s, 2s Hd
Nightgowns, 2s Hd, 4s,
5s Hd
Camisoles, Is Hd, 2s 6d,3s 6d
Petticoats, 2s Hd, 4s, ss, 7s
Accouchement belts, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s m on
Fashionable bonnets. 20s, 30s
Trimmed hat, 10s, 15s, 20s
Bridal veil, 6s, Bs, 10s
Bridal Wreath, [6s, Bs, 10s
Fashionable Mantle, 10s, 15s,
20s, 255. 30s. 40s
Warm shawl, 6s. Bs, 10s, 1-s
Ulster mantles, 8s 6d, lls, 14s
Infants’ bibs, 4sd. sd, 9d, Is
Infants’ shirts, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Infants’ Flannels, 3s, 4s, os
Infants’ nights, 2s, 3s, 4s
Infant.-’ Swaithee. 9d. Is
Monthly Gowns, 3s fid, ss, 6s
Infants’ hoods, 3s 6d, 5s
Christening robes, 7s, 10s
Infants’ squares, Bs, 12s, 15s
Short frocks, 3s. Ud, 5s 6d
Wool boote,&6d, 9d, Is
Christening cloaks, 10s, 15s,
20s
Violet powder, 4} packet
Puff boxes, Is 6d, 2s, 3s. 4s
Children’s pinafores, 10£d, Is
3d, Is Hd. 3s, 4s
Children’s Stay Bands, Is, 2s
Merino Frocks. 3s, 4s, 5s
Merino Pelisses, 4s, 6s, 9s
Velvet Pelisses, Bs, 10s, 12s
Velveteen Tunics, 6s, Bs, 10s
Children’s Costumes, 7s, 10s,
15s, 23s ,
Girls’ School Hats, 9d, Is, Is
6d, 2s, 2s fid
Girls' Stockings,4Jd,7l/3.10d
Children’s Socks, 6d, 8u
Girls’ Chemises, 15d, 18d, 2s
Girls’ Drawers, 15d, 18d, 2s
Girls’ Nights, 2s. 2e 6d, 3s
Girls’ Petticoats, 2s, 2sfid, 3s
Girls’ Stays. 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s
Girls’ Jackets, 6s 6d, 8s 6d
Ulster Mantles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
BsCd, Hs6d
Black alpaca, Bd, lOd, Is, 15d,
18d
French merino, 15d. 18d, 2s
Crape cloth, 15d, 18d, 2s
Black coburg, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Habit cord. Is 3d. Is6d, 2s
Alack crape, 2s, 2s fid, 3s 6d,
ss, 6s 6d
READ THIS LIST OF PRICES,
ctrr it out of the paper and keep it by tot.
Take our price and try, say, a £2 Bale, as “Lucies
the middle prices. You will And them serviceable i^Cles.
We wish particularly to impress on persons who may rum
this list that they are not our [lowest price a^icle.
have commoner goods, hut these are our medium Articms,
and we would recommend the middle price os the best g
for durability and wear.
20,000 Bales have been sent away, and all give the gr a
Hook’s calico 3Jd, 4|d.6d j vridt^laid.
Is
Persian cords, Is, Is 3d, Is 6cl
Homespun tweed, Is 3d, Is 6d
Fancy serge, 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d.
Satin cloths, 10? d, Is, Is 3d
Snowflakes,ls, Is 3d, Is 6d
Coloured lustres, 9d, Is, 1M
Poplin cords. Is, Is 3d, Is $d
Black silks, 2s 6d, 2s Hd, 4s
Rich gros grain, 4s, ss, 6s. 7s
Black satins, 3s. 4s, ss, 6a
Coloured satins, 2s, 3s, 4s, 5*
Silk velvets, 3s Hd, 6s, 6s 6d
Silicia lining, 4-Jd, 6d, 8d
Victoria Lome, 4-\d, 6dBd
Slate linen, 6d, 7(d, 9d
Black braid, 36 yds for Is
Hooks and eyes, 6 cards for 5d
Tweed trousers, 7s, 9s, 12s
Dark moles, 6s, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
Trousers and vests, 13s, 17s,
21s, 255, 30s. „ „,
Stockmen’s molee, 7s Cd,
8s (id
Biding pants, 16s, 20s, 25s
Tweed suits, 25.-, 355, 46s
Tweed vests, 6s, 7s 6d, 9«
Tweed coats, 12s 9d, 16«, 21s
Warm coats, 15s, 20s, 25s
Black cloth, 15s, 20s, 25s
Paget coats, 20s, 255, 30s
Overcoats, 16s, 20s, 25s
Pilot reefers, 10s6d, 13s, IBs
Ulster coats, 255, 30s, 35s
Waterproof coats, Bs, 10»,
15s
The very best, 20s, 30s, 40s
White shirts, 3s, 4s, 6s, 6s
Crimean shirts, 4s 6d, [6s,
8s Gd
Oxford do., 3s Hd, si, (Vj fkl
Working do., 18d, 2s, 3s
Under flannels. Is 6d, 5 s, 7s
Merino shirts, 2s, 3s, 4s
Merino pauts, 3s, 4s, 5s
Woollen socks, 9d, Is, Is 6d
Woollen stockings, 2s, 3s
Elastic braces, 9d, Is, Is 6d \
Elastic belts, Is, Is 6d, 2s
Cotton socks, 4d, 6d, 9d
Silk handkerchiefs, 2s 6d, 3s
Linen collars, 4-id, fid, SM
Paper collars, 6d, 9d, Is
Silk scarfs. Is, Is fid, 2s
Felt hats, 2s fid, 3s 6d, ss,
Wool comforters, Is, Is 6d,
Warm gloves. Is sd, 2s, 2s (kl
Knickerbocker suits, ss,
12s
Dark moleskin, 15d, 18d, 2s
White moleskin, 15d, ISd, 2s
Colonial tweed, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s
Buckskin tweed. 3s, 4s, 5s
Saddle tweed, 3s 6d, 4s, ss,
Cs Gd
Bedford cord, 6a 6d. 8s 6d
Black cloth, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,956d
Gambroon, 9d, Is, Is 3d
Strapping tweed, Is, Is 6d, 2s
Cotton Cord, Is lid, 2s 3d
Pest trousering 4s lid, 5s Hd
Mantle cloth, 4s 6d, 6s, 8s 6d
Waterproof tweed. 2,s fid, 3s6d
Melton tweed, 2s Hd, 6s Hd
Worsted coating, Cs, 7s (id,l6s
Diagonal clotn, 6s, 7s 6d, 8s Cd
Blackbroadcloth, 125,155,20 s
Habit cloths, Bs, 10s, 12s
Silk mixtures, Bs, 10s, 12s
Banuockburns, ss, 6s, 8s
Cheviot tweed, 3s, 4s, 5s
FOE BOYS AND YOUTHS.
Sailor suits, 6s. Bs, 10s
Velvet suits, 15s, 20s, 25s
Tweed trousers, 6s, Be, 10s
Mole trousers, 4s, 5s
Trousers aud vest, lls 6d, 15s
Vests only, 4s, ss, 6s
Tweed coats, 8s Hd, 10s 6d, I3s
Paget coats, 14s, 17s, 20s
Overcoats, 13s 6d. 17s, 20s
Pilot reefers, 8s Hd, 10s. 12s
White shirts, 2s Hd, 3s 7d, 4«
Crimean shirts, 3s Hd. ss, 6s
Working shirts. Is, ls6d, 2s
Oxford shirts. 2s 6d, 3s, 4s
Pelt hats, la 6d, 2s, 3s, 4s
PLEASE SEND FOE PATTEEN AND PEICE LISTS-
RILEY, BROTHERS,
Impoetbbs of Drapery, Wholesale and Eetail.
Depot for the original
£5 BALES.
336 George-street, near King-street,
or
600 George-street, Brickfield-hill.
Publications
T
HE PACIFIC WEEKLY.
No. VIII. NOW BEADY.
NOTES OF THE WEEK:
Short and Witty Paragraphs on Current Events.
TOPICS OF THE DAY:
WATSONIAN FINANCE.
The Dissolution in Victoria.
THE IGNOMINY OP THE KELLY BUSINESS.
What is Technical Education ?
Mr. STEPHENS’ “MIRACLES.”
The Inland Water Supply.
Mr. Gordon and Politics.
RELIGIOUS ORGANISATIONS.
(Colonial Celebrity No. VIII:
Mr. JAMBS SQUIRE PARNELL, M.L.A.
CLUB GOSSIP, by “ CAIN” :
COEEESPONDENCE.
THE REIGN OP MUDDLE, No. 111.,
By “ Capricornius."
REVIEW:
Defence of the Empire.
POETRY:
‘ Hours of Recreation.”
" Under the Changing Sky.”
To he had of all Booksellers and Newsagents, and at
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STREET.
■jJIOE AND AGAINST
“FREETHOUGHT”:
A Monthly Illustrated Journal
Devoted to Arguments on
FREETHOUGHT, SPIRITUALISM, MESMERISM,
CLAIRVOYANCE.
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Published on the 15th of each month, beginning with
the 1 5th February, 1880.
PRICE— On. Pee Copt.
Published by E. CYRIL HAVILAND
BOX 152, G.P.0., Sydney.
The name “FREETHOUGHT” has been chosen oe
being a word under which a wide margin may be
allowed for discussion.
Papers have been promised by eminent men AGAIN ST
Spiritualism, &c.; and well-known writers will argue
IN FAVOUR of it, so that the subject will be well
ventilated.
Well-authenticated Phenomena will find a place in
its pages. The latest and best instructions as regards
holding of seances, mesmerism, &0., will be given.
Notices of public mediums and speakers, arrived and
o arrive in the colony, with reports of their doings,
will he published, and everything will be done to make
“ Prebthouqht” a vehicle for thought in its freest
sense.
Miscellaneous
ICTOBIA HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel'and made extensive
Iterations and which will be fitted up in the most
■ashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
,ran ts of Wines. Spirits, &0., and conducting it in the
nost respectable maimer, to merit the support of the
pubhC ' GEORGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
Royal exchange hotel,
(Corner Kino and Georgs Streets).
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Rooms will he
re opened on Monday next, under the auspices of the
proprietor.
N.B.—Pic-nics. Ball®, Parties, C’ubs, &e.. supplied on
best o’f terms. EDWARD PERKINS.
T SAUNDERS’S WELL-KNOWN BARLEY
MOW HOTEL,
A
Park and Castlereagh-strreets,
BUM AND MILK
From five o’clock in the morning. Price 3d.
Soda and Milk, or the pore fluid by itself.
THE COUNTER LUNCH
as usual from 10.30. with a glass of Tooth’s celebrated
treble X or a glass of Marian’s ale, for 3d.
Country visitors or permanent lodgers can he accom-
modated with a good table, well-ventilated bedrooms,
and a private drawing-room upstairs, with use of piano.
Charges very moderate.
ETROPOLIT AN STAKES CONSULTATION
1880.
M
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows
First Horse ... ••• £lOOO
Second Horse 400
Third Horse ... •••
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on nsua
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattersali’s Club, Sydney.
Miscellaneous
J i ATE S T INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPARATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIL & BERTRAM, Canada
H. J. SMITH, Toronto
M. F. RITCHIE & SON, Toronto ..
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges. Chandler's globes, &c.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other aerated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
&«., &c.
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
43 Globe Building,
Sussex-street, North.
MADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGEAPHT
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY EEVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12s. 6d. j Six months
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads op Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitoks to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and tho Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from MADDOCK'S .LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
A Dreamer, by Catherine Wylde
The Sword of Damocles, by Theo. A. Thorp
Martha and Marv, a novel
Countess Daphne, by Rita
Captain Haverty’s Wooing, by Frank Trollope
The Sisters, by George Ebers
Five Years iu Minnesota, by Maurice Farrar
Hodge and his Masters, by Richard Jefferies
Our Australian Cousins, by James Inglis (“Maori”)
Random Recollections of an Old Actor, by F. Belton
Cradle Land of Arts and Creeds, by C. J. Stone
On Duty, a Ride through Hostile Africa, by A Gil-
more
Scotch Sermons, 1880
Holiday Rambles, by a Wife with her Husband
(from the Spectator)
Joan of Arc, by Janet Tuckey
The Story of Barbara, by Miss Braddon
A Pink Wedding, by R. M. Jephson
Life of Prince Consort, by Theodore Martin—Vol. 5
Haworths, by Frances H. Burnett
Life of Bishop Wilberforce, by A, R. Ashwell, M. A
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Sussex Stories, by Mrs. Robert O’Reilly
j,he Village of Palaces, or Chronicles of Chelsea, by
Rev. A. G. L’Estrange
Poet and Peer, by Hamilton AidA
Honor Carmichael, by Miss Duff
The White Month, by the Author of “Cartouche”
Poor Zeth, by the Author of “ Grandmother’s
Money"
Friends and Foes in the Transeki, by Helen M.
Prichard
What I saw in Kaffir-Land, by Sir S. Lake man
Boughing it in Van Dieman’s Land, by Edward
Howe
Brazil, Tho Amazons and the Coast, by Herbert H.
Smith
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C.
Crawford
Her Dignity and Grace, by H. C.
The Seamy Side, by Besant and Rice
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Moths, by “Ouida”
An Australian Heroine, by E. M. Prior
MADDOCK’S SELECT LIBEAEY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
L/
irom r 3
every flower that Vjj \
breathes a
SWEET ECENTs"
LIGN-ALOE. OPCPGNAX.
LOVE-AMONG-TH E-ROSES.
FRANGIPANNI.
AND A THOUSAND OTHERS.
vjv 2 1. 6 <J. each ; or three
in a cot.U.
Sue 6 *”
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
Will open their ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT
and CAFE
on or about
MONDAY, the 21th JULY.
The Company have secured the services of Mens.
Marriette, late cliff de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-deoorated and furnished.
Ever} - attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
E N P R E Y AND C 0.,
(Established upwards 35 Years,)
Manufacturers of Double Aerated Soda Water,
Lemonade and TonicWaters, Liqueurs and Cordials,
By Appointment to His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh, and His Excellency
Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.
Supplies to the interior of the International
Exhibition and all the principal Hotels, CaLSs,
Club Houses, and throughout Sydney. Goods for-
warded to all parts of tho Country, either direct
or through any Merchant.
English Porter or Bottled Stout in bottle or hulk.
METROPOLITAN BREWERY,
129 Castlereaqh-street, Sydney.
Amusements
.ositively the last two days
THE LAST TWO DAYS
POSITIVELY THE LAST TWO DAYS
of
G. CHIA.RINFS
ROYAL ITALIAN CIRCUS,
and
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
HAYMARKET RESERVE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
And SATURDAY.
.THE LAST MATINEE,
at 2.30 p.m.
BRILLIANT AND VARIED PROGRAMME.
ivn EXHIBITION op skill and DEXTERIY
GRAND D pHYSICAL EDUCATION.
By the Ladies and Gentlemen of the Company.
MAGNIFICENT STUD OF HORSES,
Educated in the highest degree of Hippie Training
Signor CHIARINI.
irPORMIDABLE AND FEROCIOUS ANIMALS,
' wu,«d by the power of intelligence, and brought into
rsoixiueu «jr the arenu to perform
with incredible docility,
THE SONS OF MOMUS.
HOLLOWAY, LEHMAN.
DUNBAR, and SIEGRIS,
united into one body of
FROLIC and FUN,
in keen the Comic Department sparkling with
mT. HUMOUR. SATIRE, and PHILOSOPHY.
NOTA BENE.
THIS EVENING,
GRAND GALA PERFORMANCE,
with
A MONSTER PROGRAMME,
for the
BENEFIT
of
SIGNOR CHIARINI.
c
E
D
G CHIARINI returns his THANKS to the Public in
•pneral for the very liberal patronage received from the
nhabitants of Sydney during the timeof his sojourn m
his capital, and begs respectfully to statei that his
jENEFIT will take jilace on FRIDAY EVENING,
hly !2, on which occasion their kind patronage and
mpport is earnestly solicited. Q CHIARINI.
ercantile rowing club.
ANNUAL BALL.
EXHIBITION BUILDING,!
22nd JULY NEXT.
The ANNUAL BALL of this CLUB will again take
pile in the EXHIBITION BUILDING PRINCE
ALFRED PARK, on the above date, under the patron-
ajreof His Worship the Mayor (R. Fowler, Esq.), and
the MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
DRESS: PLAIN and FANCY.
TICKETS :
Double. 30s: Gentleman’s Single, 20s; Lady’s
Single, 12s 6d.
STEWARDS :
(E, Fowler, Esq. (Mayor of
Sydney)
The Hon. James Watson
W. M. Alderson, Esq.
P. E. Allt, Esq.
• John Alger, Esq.
S. Diekinson, Esq.
Owen Friend, Esq. t
John Gardyne, Esq.
A. C. Garrick, Esq.
W. 0. Gilchrist, Esq.
J. G. Hanks, Esq.
John Hardie, Esq.
John Hincholiffe, Esq.
J. S. Jamieson, Esq.
W. Laidley, Esq .
James Merrinmu, Esq.
C. K. Moore, Esq.
G. Manro, Esq.
J. Newton, Esq.
John Pope, Esq.
Charles Pearse, Esq.
C. J. Roberts, Esq.
Carl Sahl, Esq.
John See, Esq.
H. Woolnongh, Esq.
COMMITTEE:
P. Hordern
F. Isler
F. Jackson
R. A. Keddle
H. Lockrey
K. Langley
J. M'Kensey
F. Mountcastle
H. Meares
E. W. Moon
L. R. Mitchell
T. F. Strange
J. Smart
C. Williams
W. E. Benson
John Blackman
V. R. Bowden
A. Byrne
C. A. Bros
P. Boulton
C. J. Barns
W. G. Brett
E. Cleland
X>. Dennis
J. S. Drew
' G. Drees
D. Fletcher
•C. Gar van
W. W. Gibson
Tickets may now be had from the Stewards or
Committee.
D. MURRAY, Hon. Secretary 1 M. E. C. Ball
F. B. Ball, Hon. Treasurer ) Committee.
Glebe rowing club irst annual ball
PLAIN and FANG DRESS.
To he held 9th July, at New Town Hoi I,St. John’s
Road, Glebe.
Under the patronage of the
Hon. Sir Q. W. Allen, M.P.; W. Cary, T. J. Chapman,
John Young. Esqs., J.’sP.; the Mayor and
Aldermen of the Glebe.
Tickets —Ladies, 1256 d.; Gentlemen, 155.; Double, 255;
which may be obtained from any member of the
Committee.
Committee; T. J. Chapman, G. W. Tate, George
Muuro, F. H. Eenss (junior). W. Bull (junior), H.
Shute, J. Shute, H. Long, F. J. Bnll, A. Ickersou, W.
Moore, T. H. Young. J. Black. S. A. Lee, H Vaughan
(senior), W. H. Traill, R. N. Bull, C. Williams, F.
Jackson. „
HENRY SHUTE, junior Hon. Treasurer-
SIDNEV J. Bull, Hon. Secretary.
MASTER BUTCHERS’ ANNUAL PICNIC will
take place at Mr. FRANK SMITHS, Botany,
•on WEDNESDAY, 2ith July. A hunted mimber of
tickets will he sold, and may he hod from the Com-
mittee
Alderman T. Playfair, J.P.
J. F. Smith, Mayor of
Newtown
Mr, C. Carugati
G. Glass
Wolfe
Bryant
Walsh
Elliott _
T. PLAYFAIR, Sec. pro tem.
Mr. M’Neill
Mitchell
Tye, of Newtown
Konakey
Norton
Dunrioh
M. Quinlan
T. Quinlan
Lectures
The kellys, the kellys, the
KELLYS. „„„
PROFESSOR HUME will lecture at TEMPERANCE
Hall on MONDAY, JULY sth. He having manipu-
lated Ned Kelly’s head years ago in his native place,
W HI delineate his character phrenologically and illms-
trate by diagrams the heads of the whole gang. He
will also describe their haunts from intimate personal
knowledge.
Admission Is. Od. Commence at 8 o’clock.
H E
MUD.
T
by special request of many ladies and gentlemen,
Isidore TVTyp.r« will repeat his EECPURE on the
“TAXMUD,” on TUESDAY Evening in the School of
Pitt-street, H. E. Cohen, Esq., the Chair,
boors open at 7.30, commence at 8. Admission, 3s, 2s,
la. Tickets may be obtained at the principal
booksellers ajid at tho Schoool of Arts. Members


Miscellaneous
lif A. HUGHES AND CO.,
580, Geoege-stbeet,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambswool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel. Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts. Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans. Crimeans. 3s fid six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
330 George-street.
fjTIHE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
OP
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AT
RILEY BROTHER S’
IS NOW OPEN,
If you want to
| SAVE ss. IN THE POUND
Don’t fall to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
ox
SATURDAY-.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
336 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
T LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
COTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
blankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER, 608 Qeorge-street.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART.
260 and 262 GEORGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourfs),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
m
STIEFVATER, GUNMAKER,
r
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Country orders promptly attended to.
/\
Gb. MOD I
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of auy kind
made to order on the premises.
Gr
UNS,
R
IFLES,
R
EVOLVERS
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gdnmaker,
11 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
WINTER NECESSITIES.
OOAL vases
.For the Dining Boom,
For the Drawing Boom,
For the Breakfast Boom,
&c., Ac.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
jpi lEE ISONS,
Nickel-plated,
And will not rust.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
PEND EES,
Suitable
For Tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces
Of the
Latest designs.
THE SYDNEY GAEDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured for the 1880 Season.)
P. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjl H E AUSTRALIAN
(Now in its Fourth Volume),
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH MONTH,
PBICE—ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE OF THE DAT.
;illusteated WITH PHOTOTYPES.
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clippings, Reviews,
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertisements,
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS, TRAMWAY, AND
’BUSES.
Almanac, Phases of the Moon, New Lectionart, &c.
Send* 12 Stamps for Specimen Copy, and then Subscribe, if approved.
THE THIED VOLUME JUST COMPLETED,
E. CYRIL HAVILAND, Publishes and Proprietor,
No. 1, LITTLE GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
R WELCH,
PEACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WISE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Stylo.
Sliliii
Oriental Blinds.
Miscellaneous
V"
■pjEY SCALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eima, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Bnggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c. '
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
REDGATE’S
PJITEMT MEJIL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
S’-
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
Bold by all Grocers and Storekcciierii
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK SUCH
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYAED-bANE, SYDNEY.
>V\
KV
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog!
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fin®*
but no other brand has u«, same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the jia ate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake ot a®
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL an
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY : Printed and published hy the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices or
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
£IOUNTEY - KILLED MEAT
Corner of
OEOKGE AND ENGINE STREETS.
The finest display of
COUNTEY- KILLED BEEF
IN SYDNEY,
AT MOST REASONABLE PRICES.
Come and see,
Ann Judge foe Youeselves.;
Corner of
GEOEGE AND ENGINE STEEETS,
. HAYMAEKET.
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIBBS STREET,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Goorpte-street West (late Parramatta-street),
Darlinghurst Koad, near William-street, and
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAE KIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Meschakt,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
773 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
