

THE BULLETIN
No. 13.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1880.
Price—3d.
&I u §wlktin,
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1880.
The University Election.
Viewing the result of the University election in
the light of a victory, it may fairly be considered
as one which is satisfactory not only to the
electors themselves but to all those outside the
pale —whether degreeless scholars or members
of English Universities —upholding as it does the
principle that members of the Senate should be
selected from the list of those who have graduated
within the University walls. Had people known
nothing of the play behind the scenes they would
certainly have been surprised that Dr. Badham,
one of the foremost of classical scholars, should
have come forward as the advocate of Sir Henry
Parkes, who, whatever his political qualifications
and Parliamentary influence, still lacked many of
the essentials for a seat in the University Senate
—the governing body of an institution which pro-
fessedly has for its object the advancement of the
higher branches of learning. That Sir Henry
may have an earnest desire to forward the educa-
tion of the masses no one denies ; I at had his
lesire in this regard been accepted as an excuse
t'or electing him to the Senate it is pin •, v - x ip
action should have been followed up by the turn-
ing of the University into a large public school. We
do not wish to impute unworthy motives to Dr.
Badham, but it must nevertheless be unhesi-
tatingly affirmed that the part he has taken in
this election neither reflects credit on himself nor
upon the University in which he holds so distin-
guished a place. Culture, not accidental circum-
stances, must have preponderance in the govern-
ment of any University which is to maintain its
character as a seat of learning. It would
indeed be strange were we to find an in-
stitution refusing on one hand to admit the
graduates of other recognised Universities
to ad eundem degrees without elimination
and on the other electing to its Senate a degreeless
gentleman without a classical education. Foolish
attempts were made outside to import sectarian
considerations into the contest; but while the bit-
terest bigot could hardly find a point of difference
between the opinions held by the two candidates,
judged by their respective utterances, it is pleas-
ing to find that the graduates of the Sydney Uni-
versity are men who scout such considerations,
and, thinking only of their alma mater, rise
superior to the quarrels of political parties.
None now regret more keenly than Sir Henry
Parkes, Dr. Badham, and Mr. Backhouse, the
execrably bad taste which led to the Premier’s
nomination, and which, even had the University
been unrepresented in Parliament, could hardly
have been overlooked by the graduates. We
venture also to say that the morning journal which
gives so unqualified, bald-headed and reckless a
support to Sir Henry Parkes, by this time
wishes it could recall the revoltingly coarse abuse
it so unsparingly showered in its issue of last
Saturday on Mr. Forster and his supporters.
The Convict Bertrand.
We do not know the source of the rumour
respecting the proposed release of the convict
Bertrand who, some fifteen years ago, was con-
victed of the murder of Mr. Kinder at North
Shore—one of the foulest and most deliberate
deeds recorded in the annals of crime. Bertrand,
it seems, has many friends in Sydney, and as these
naturally wish to have him released, the state-
ment that the Government intend to set him at
liberty may after all be founded, not on fact, but
on the wish which is father to the thought.
However, though it may be commendable in the
murderer’s friends to do their best in his behalf,
and though the fact that there are people in the
world who think of a man after he has been buried
ahve by society for fifteen years is creditable to
the human heart, it must also be remembered
that men have reason as well as sentiment and
affection, and that there is a justice which never
dms. Bertrand, who loved Kinder’s wife, first
tried to slowly poison his victim, and, failing shot
him through the head, at the same time trying to
make it appear that Kinder’s death was owing to
suicide— not murder. He was convicted of the
deed and sentenced to death, but reprieved on the
ground of insanity, though it must be admitted
°n all hands that there was less evidence of mad-
ness m his case than in that of the monomaniacal
relon who shot H.R.H. the Duke of Edin-
burgh. People now say that Bertrand is sane ;
out according to the most authentic accounts it
would appear that there has during his confine-
ment been no change in his mental condition other
than that which might reasonably have been ex-
pected to be brought about by advancing age. The
people of New South Wales will exact a heavy
penalty from the Ministry which releases this man
without being prepared to lay good and sufficient
reasons before the public. Bertrand seems to
have murdered his man, feigned insanity, and es-
caped with his life. Nothing succeeds like success,
and perhaps this is the reason why people say
Bertrand is about to be released.
Licensing Day.
“ As is usual in such cases, ‘ the great unpaid’ will
muster strongly,” says a paragraph in a Sydney
newspaper. There are few who will need to be
told that the “ cases ” referred to are those
occasions on which publicans apply for renewals
of their licenses, and that the “great unpaid” are
the honorary magistrates in whose hands the
licensed victualler’s fortunes are placed once a year.
That it should be within the power of any news-
paper to hint that the magistrates sworn to do
justice to those who come before them assemble in
certain instances for special purposes is a strange
satire on the administration of what in New South
Wales is termed justice. But it is pretty well
known, and need hardly be repeated here, that
some magistrates do go to court on licensing and
other days with their minds made up concerning
the cases they are appointed to hear, and that, just
as some boat-races are “ rowed on dry land,” so
some applications for the issue or renewal of
licenses are virtually heard, not in the hall of
justice, but in the bar-parlour, where there are no
public prosecutors and no witnesses for the prose-
cution, but merely the applicant and his com-
plaisant friend the J.P. Some justices of the
peace have, directly or indirectly, interests in
public houses ; others are teetotallers and sworn
foes of the licensed victualler. A J.P. in either
of the above-named positions is as fit to do justice
to his Queen and country as would be a juror on
a murder trial who surreptitiously held a heavy
assurance policy on the life of the prisoner, or a
juror with objections to capital punishment so
strong as to induce him to commit perjury
rather than convict and thus participate in what
he might regard as wilful murder. Either horn of
the dilemma is bad enough. There are momentous
issues to be decided to-day. One of them is
whether a number of dens of infamy conducted
by scoundrels with all the power given by wealth
are to be allowed nightly to ply their iniquitous
trade in the heart of the fairest city of Australia,
in utter defiance of law, religion and morality.
The licensing bench, whereon from time to time
have sat a number of interested perjurers, has,
dozens of times, decided that the claims of vice are
superior to those of justice. The police this day
will do their best to rid the city of that
reproach to civilization, the “night cafs ”
system, and if they fail, it will not be
for want of the necessary evidence. Unless
the licenses of those men who are shown to have
habitually traded in vice be cancelled, there is
nothing ahead but the demolition of the present
licensing system and the transfer to the P.M. of
the district of the powers now held by honorary
magistrates. Were one man only to hear an ap-
plication the public could fix the responsibility of
the issue or refusal; now it cannot do so, though
the cognoscenti are fully aware how individual
members of the Bench vote on each occasion. In
any case, we believe that the issue of licenses
should be entrusted solely to men not interested
in trade, applicants being of course given the
privilege of appeal to the superior courts. Under
the present system the keeper of a city den, if
refused a license, quietly withdraws, and puts a
dummy in his place. The dummy applies succes-
fully and things go on as usual, for Cesar
and Pompey are very much alike, and the
rose smells just as sweet under its new name.
It would do much towards righting matters if
Parliament made the lessor of a public ■ house
understand that he was so far responsible for the
acts of his tenants that the latter, by infringing
the law two or three times, could absolutely for-
feit the license of a house for a year or two, and
thus render the place utterly valueless for that
time. All this is pretty plain speaking, but what
we write is true .and in the interests alike of the
public, of the respectable hotelkeeper and of the
honest J.P.
Sir George Wigram Allen.
The engraving which Ihis day graces our front
page is an excellent likeness of a most deservedly
popular man. As Speaker of the Legislative As-
sembly, Sir George Wigram Allen is known to all
frequenters of the House on debating nights, and
is also known, at any rats by name, throughout
the length and breadth of the colony, to all readers
of newspapers. But it is not only in his Parlia-
mentary capacity that Sir George has made for
himself friends and admirers. As the patron and
supporter of almost numerless institutions, he
has had ample scope afforded him for the practice
of that noble-hearted philanthropy in which he is
so ably and generously aided by his wife, Lady
Allen.
Sir George is a native of this city, and was born
on the 16th of May, 1824; he was educated at Mr.
Cape’s school and Sydney College. He was highly
successful during his academic career, and at
its close entered his father’s office as articled clerk,
served his five years, and, having passed his exami-
nations with great credit was admitted an attorney
of our Supreme Court in 1841. Ten years later
Sir George was married to the eldest daughter of
the Rev. Mr. Boyce, by whom he has had a
numerous family. In 1859 he was elected as first
Mayor of the Municipality of the Glebe and held
that office for eighteen years following. In 1862
he was returned by the electors of the Glebe to
the Legislative Assembly as their member, and
has ever since represented that constituency. He
is the President of the Law Institute of New
South Wales; and, although that society is still
in its infancy, has, he by his liberal-minded policy
and thorough knowlege of his profession been the
main instrument in placing it upon that firm
footing on which it now stands. fie was the first
Minister of Justice and Public Instruction in the
colony, and was chosen 23rd March, 1875. He is
a senator of the University, having been elected
to the seat which was left vacant by the death of
his father in 1877.
Sir George resides at the Glebe, and is always
foremost in any work which may be for the good
of the Municipality. He was one of the prime
movers, in establishing the Glebe Rowing Club, of
which he Is President; and is also a staunch sup-
porter of cricket and all other manly sports and
pastimes. Altogether the career of Sir George
Allen has been one of public usefulness. His en-
tei’prise has largely aided the development of
many colonial industries ; and his name in con-
nection with any commercial undertaking has
always been accepted as a guarantee of its sta-
bility. Sir George has at the same time lent him-
self "arduously to his Parliamentary duties, and
ho has filled the Speaker’s chair with excellent
judgment and impartiality. Our engraving, it
may be mentioned, is from a first-class portrait
by Mr. Newman, of Oxford-street.
Together with Lady Allen, who enters with him
heart s and soul in the'good work, Sir George gives
annually no inconsiderable portion of his time and
money for the benefit of the Sydney charities. Sir
George was knighted by Her Majesty in 1877.
Banquet to Mr. P. A. Jennings.
The public banquet to Mr. P. A. Jennings,
C.M.G., Executive Commissioner to the Sydney
International Exhibition (whose portrait we gave
a week or two ago) was a most splendid success.
Nearly two hundred and fifty gentlemen, making
perhaps the most influential company that has
yet sat down together on such an occasion in this
colony, did honour to the guest of the evening.
Sir Alfred Stephen, the Lieutenant-Governor, pre-
sided, the vice-chairmen being Messrs. Fitzpatrick
andß. B. Smith, M.L.A.’s. Amongst those pre-
sent were the hons. the Premier, the President of
the Legislative Council, the Speaker of the As-
sembly, Sir John Robertson, Sir George Inius,
members of the Ministry, a large number of the
members of both Houses of Parliament, the Ex-
hibition Commissioners and leading private citi-
zens. Apologies for non-attendance were received
from His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus (who
was unavoidably absent) and the German Commis-
sioner. After the usual loyal and patriotic toasts
had been disposed of, Sir Alfred Stephen proposed
the health of Mr. Jennings, to whom, he said, the
success of the Exhibition was in a great measure
due, and whose action in declining a large
monetary testimonial did him a great deal of
honour. Mr. Jennings eloquently responded,
remarking in the course of his lengthy
speech that he had always thought the best way
to forward the interests of the Australian conti-
nent was to weld together the best forces and
nations that formed the British Empire, and by
this means to make it the greatest Empire in the
world. We had started as a nation, not by war,
innovation, ox’ insurrection, but by the upholding
of peace, the sentiment so warmly cherished by
the illustrious founder of International Exhibi-
tions —Prince Albert. In conclusion, Mr. Jen-
nings thanked the distinguished company for the
honour they had done him, and expressed a hope
that this Exhibition would be a precedent and
sign of what might be accomplished by the united
efforts of all classes of the country. He hoped
their loyalty to the Queen and Constitution might
always continue, and that they might be able to
show that, whether this country was divided ixxto
States or united into one, they were able to accom-
plish a destiny which he thought one of the
greatest Providence had ever given to any nation
in the world. (Prolonged cheers).
SIR GEORGE WIGKAM ALLEN.


Poor Old Prodigal.
IN MEMOBIAM.
As Old Jorrocks was the equine wonder of Australia
during the quarter of a century preceding 1855, so to a
great extent his mantle fell on Prodigal for the same
number of years that have passed since that date; for
if he never ran for advertised prizes until very near th#
limit of horse life, and won the first such race he started
for —the Goulburn Maiden Plate — when he was between
21 and 22 years old; if he did not in his youth measure
strides with the Venos and Zoes and Gratises of his
time, he at any rate won no fewer than sixteen races in
1872, ’73, ’74, and '75, in which last year he was 24 years
old; and ran thrice successfully at Goulburn and Tir-
rana in the following year, before finally retiring on his
laurels at the ripe old age of 25. Such a veteran de-
serves some mention, surely, on joining the majority,
after a lengthened and eventful career, prolonged till
29 years old; and I give you a full account of his doings
for over thirteenyears, which was kindly sent me the
other day by hislast master, Mr. John T. C. Rankin of
Bourke, who owned him more than thirteen years and
brought him from Queensland here in 1871. Before,
however, commencing those particulars, I must pay a
small tribute on my own account to a grand animal and
one that was as kind as he was enduring. I saw him
first when he won his Maiden Plate and County Han-
dicap at Goulburn, and well remember I was standing
alongside his owner, Mr. Rankin, when the former race
was being run. At the far side of the course, say half-
a- mile from home, the old fellow went to the front, and
Mr. Rankin said to me, ‘ It’s all over now !' which it was,
for he sailed away from his field, including Dagworth
(his first appearance) and Clansman, and won with ridi-
culous ease. Lamond then took him for Randwick,
where he won once at weight for age, and the Forced
Handicap, besides being third at his only other start.
He was an immensely strong horse, with wonderful
propelling power; and notwithstanding his great age,
he was one of the most muscular geldings I ever saw.
He had been worked very hard all his life as a lady’s
hack, gentleman’s roadster, drover’s stock-horse and
pack-horse, besides having run and won a host of pri-
vate races; and he had a deep-seated fistula, the
cutting for which of course disfigured his forehand,
though apparently it had not interfered in any way with
his great powers. I quite agree with his owner in what
he says about the training of Prodigal. The old
horse furnishes a remarkable instance of what one of
his kind is caxmble of when nature is allowed to have its
way and the constitution is not weakened and injured
hy deleterious drugs. It’s the same with human beings.
The children that are physicked least grow up the
strongest men and women, besides requiring less
pihysic when they arrive at maturity. I don’t think a
gamer horse than Prodigal ever lived; and as he was
by a good imported Arab from a mare with imported St.
John Dover and Steeltrap all in her pedigree, it’s
not to be wondered at that he was fond of racing; by
which I mean that he really enjgyed it. When illustrating
(if I may be allowed the expression) the affinity between
the horse and his rider, poor * Gordon ’ made his ‘ last
charger,’ ‘ Challenger ’ propound the following as his
feeling;—
‘ The wide gulf that parts us may yet he no wider
Than that which parts yon from some being more
blest;
And there may be more links ’twixt the horse and his
rider
Than ever your shallow philosophy guess’d.
We, too, sprung from mares of the Prophet of Mecca,
And nurs'd on the pride that was bom with the milk.
And filter’d through Crucifix, Beeswing, Rebecca,
We love sheen of scarlet and shimmer of silk.
We, too, sprung from loins of the Ishmaelite stallions ;
We glory in daring that dies or prevails;
From counter of squadrons and crash of battalions,
To rending of blackthorns and rattle of rails.’
There is no doubt that plenty of horses love the ex-
citement of racing; in fact, I believe they almost all
do, or quite all except the comparatively few cowards
one meets with. All who knew Jorrocks are agreed that
he gloried in winning, and I’m quite certain that no horse
ever more honestly gloried in being first than did poor old
Prodigal. Thanking Mr. Rankin for his kindness in
furnishing me with so much information, I append it in
his own words, feeling sure your sporting readers, of
whom I am glad to see you are getting together a good
stock, will be pleased to read it.
PEGASUS.
Prodigal’s pedigree as given by his breeder (Mr. C.
Holy):
By Beeza (imported Arab) out of a mare by Ante-
lope, g.d. by St. John (imported), g.g.d. by Dover
(imported(, g. g.g.d. by Steeltrap (imported).
He was a chesnut gelding, with a slight blaze down
his face; branded W over H L conjoined on the off
shoulder, C S on the near shoulder, and bred in Queens-
land by Messrs. C. and W. Haly on Tobinga Station
(then the property of those gentlemen) and was foaled
(as near as I can ascertain) in the year 1850. He was
unquestionably by the imported Arab Beeza, out of a
St. John mare, but as I am not quite sure that his an-
tecedents have been correctly traced, I shall give here
no more than his immediate progenitors.
Prodigal was a well-known horse throughout the
Mitchell District of Queensland, and especially so on
the Bowen Downs station, whore I used him as a stock
horse and a roadster for many a year. I frequently ran
him at the race meetings held on that station and in
the immediate neighbourhood; and although he was
never trained (never getting anything but the natural
grass of the district), he was always a winner in every
race he started for. I never entered him in Queensland
for any advertised races, but I have met at country
(un-advertised) meetings, trained horses (of no mean
celebrity) and have always defeated them, over distances
varying from 1 up to 24 miles. Indeed I never found
any distance beyond his compass; the further he went
the more he appeared to improve his position. He was
a horse of undeniable endurance as a racer as well as
a roadster.
Prodigal first entered New South Wales towards the
close of the year 1871, being brought hither in droving
store bullocks, the property of Mr. H. G. Powell and
myself, and which we had purchased and taken delivery
of on Bowen Downs station, where I had been cattle
manager for about seven years. He made his first ap-
pearance as a trained ‘ racer’ at the Tirranna Picnic
Race Meeting in January, 1872, where he won both his
races (the Cup and the Bachelors’ Bag) without any
difficulty. He next put in an appearance at the Goul-
bum Annual Meeting of the same month and year,
where he won the Maiden Plate and County Handicap.
Tn the Maiden Plate he defeated the (afterwards) cele-
brated ‘ Dagworth,’ and also ‘ Clansman,’ (but as you
will be much ,more at home with his racing perform-
ances from this out than I can pretend or expect to be,
I shall leave this part of his history for you to reflect
upon.) As I have his winning performances at hand I
shall send you a copy of them attached, for possibly it
may be some use in recalling to your memory
notable incidents in the life of the old horse.
Prodigal made his final appearance on the turf at the
Goulburn Annual Meeting of 1876, and to within two
years of his death he showed very little indication of
decay. Up to that time he had an incredibly good and
even set of teeth; but his constitution appeared to give
way all at once, and at the time of his death he was
almost toothless. He died at Lockyersleigh, near
Goulburn (my father’s property) on the 3rd April, 1880.
I refused in New South Wales many good offers for
him, and ones that I considered more than equal to his
value, but I had quite decided that he should own no
other master than myself.
Many racing men are impressed with the belief that
the old horse was never brought out as good as he
might have been made, because I would not allow him
to be physicked, and always kept him stout. This I
still assert can only be a matter of conjecture on their
part. I flatter myself that I knew the horse’s tem-
perament and constitution, as well as his age, better
than they could be expected to know it; and with few
exceptions I think that ‘Prodigal’s’ condition as a racer
could not have been very much bettered. The proba-
bility is that he would have been dead long ere tins had
he been trained otherwise than I trained him. He had
plenty of work and plenty of feed.
PRODIGAL'S WINNING PERFORMANCES IN NEW SOUTH
WALES.
1872.
Won the Tirranna Cup, at Tirranna Picnic Races,
Goulburn.
Won the Bachelors’ Bag, at Tirranna Picnic Races,
Goulburn.
Won the Maiden Plate at Goulburn Annual Races.
Won the County Handicap at Goulburn Annual Races.
Won the Autumn Stakes at Randwick Autumn
Meeting.
Won the Forced Handicap at Randwick Autumn
Meeting.
1873.
Won the Tirranna Cup, at Tirranna Picnic Races,
Goulburn.
Won the Bachelors' Bag, at Tirranna Picnic Races,
Goulburn.
Won the County Handicap at Goulburn Annual Races.
Won the All-Aged Stakes at Berrima.
Won the Town Plate at Berrima.
Won the Publicans’ Purse at Yass.
Won the J. C. Handicap at Yass.
1874.
Won the Tirranna Cup at the Tiramm Picnic Raoes.
1875.
Won the Tirranna Cup and Bachelors’ Bag at the
Tirranna Picnic Raoes.
1876.
Lost both races at Tirranna; ran and lost at the
Goulburn Annual Meeting, and retired for ever from
the turf.
Tha Hawkesbury Guineas and A.J.C.
Derby.
SPRING OF 1880. —AUSTRALIAN DERBY STAKES.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
A Sweepstakes of 30 sovs. each, 10 ft. ; for colts, 8 st.
10 lbs., and fillies, 8 st. 5 lbs., then three years old.
If more than twenty subscribers, the owner of the
second horse to receive 60 sovs. out of the stake.
The forfeit to be paid before 4 p.m. on the day pre-
ceding the race, or the nominator will be liable for
the whole stake. One mile and a half.
Mr. James Wilson’s b c Hastings
Edward Lee’s br f Remembrance
hr f Courtesy
D. Melhado’s b c Bandalbion
S. Martin’s br c Trevallyn—by Gemma-di-Vergy—
Young Emily
J. Hardiman’s b c Stanley
J. Wilson’s b c Respite,by Yattendon—Gazelle
Hamilton Osborne’s br f Nina, by Maribymong—
Vixen
b c, by Gemma-di-Vergy—Lady
Elizabeth
T. Lomond’s br f Lady Emma, by Yattendon —My
Fancy
F. L. Purcell’s hr c Forerunner
F. Latham’s br f Lulu, by Javelin- —Queen Bee
A. R. Inglis’ b c, by Yattendon —Hebe
Messrs. Gallagher and Robertson’s ch c Malachi
Mr. J. R. Cowell’s b c, by King Cole —Proposition
John Kelso’s b c Bruno
C. M. Lloyd’s b or br f The Marchioness, by The
Diver—Sally Brass
b or hr c Castle Eden, by The Diver—
Lady Patricia
John Eales’ ch c Roberto, by Kelpie—Satauella
Hon. Thos. Elder’s b c Aiblins
ch c Royal Consort
hr f Aurelia
ch f Ursula
br f Alethe
ch f Meg Merrilles, by Gang For-
ward —Chesnut Gipsy
Mr. J. Mitchell’s b f Fleurette, by Glorious—Fleur-de-
Lis
A. Loder’s ch c Sweet Chutney
W. Frederick's b or br c, by The Marquis—Fenella
S. Gardiner’s br f, by The Peer—Loyal Devoir
C. E. M’Evoy’s br or bl c Wentworth
Jas. Paterson’s br c Will-o’-the-Wisp
hr c, by Hercules—MaidJoflßroda
H. Herbert’s b c Koreelah
R. Howie's b c Lothair
Hon. J. P. Bell’s ch o Waterloo
Mr. E. de Mestre’s chc, by Fireworks—Rose of Denmark
b c Grand Prix, by Marquis—Art
Union
hr f by Marquis or Angler—Coooanut
b c, by Marquis—Dagmar
b c, by Marquis—Sunshine
b c, Good Morning by Marquis—
Lamorna
bl c, by Yattendon —Gossamer
ch c, by The Peer—Lurline
F. B. L. Rossi’s br c Lord Lisgar
A. Bowman’s ch c. by Kelpie—Express
Hon. Jas. White’s b f Palmyra—dead
b c Hobart Town
b f Cinnamon
hr c Bathurst, late Telephone
b c, by Hawthorndon —Cameo, by
Kingston
b f Sapphire, by the Drummer —
Amethyst
Mr. H. C. White’s b c Gleuahon, by Hawthomden—
Valetta
ch c Wollon, by Hawthomden —
Mabel
J. S. Smith’s.b or hr c Hildebrand
b c Grand Flaneur,
b c Friday
br c Bertie
b f Margery Daw
b or br f Silver Bell
b or hr f Geraldine
ch f Sylvan
P. W. Anderson’s b or br c, by (Maribyrnong—
Paradise
F. Wentworth’s b c, by Maribymong—Frivolity
McGuinness’s b f, by King of the Ring—Rescue
ch f, by King of the Bing—Eleanor
J. Wilson’s b f Constance
W. Branch’s br c Free Citizen
b or br c Progress
Jas. Wiggin’s b f Western Princess
Jas. Redfern’s b c, by King of the Ring—Milksop
W. J. Clarke’s br c Wentworth
T. Ivory’s b c, by Maribymong—Kingston Filly
br c Dover, by Barbarian —Marchioness
Filly
J. Tait’s b f Inverary
W. Kite's b c Mirabilis, by Maribymong—Myra
b o Velox, by Yattendon—Young Myra
Thos. Lee’s br f, by Javelin —Milliner.
Never did the Autumn meeting of the A.J.C., which
winds up principally the running of the two year olds,
cause the first meeting of the three year olds, which
will be in the Hawkesbury Guineas and A.J.C. Derby to
wear such a rich hue, and if nothing unforseen happens
the lovers of Isthmian games may expect to see the
grandest galaxy of talent measure strides for the princi-
pal weight for age events that this colony has ever
boasted of. I will take the ‘ blue riband ’ of the New
South Wales racing year, first, because it is the more
important stake of the two, and consequently is entitled
to prominence. In the above list of entries will be
seen that such as Remembrance, Bandalbion, Trevallyn,
Respite, Lady Emma, Alethe, Royal Consort, The
Marchioness, Castle Eden, Sweet Chutney, Roberto,
Lothair, Waterloo, Grand Prix, Motea, Cinnamon, Sap-
ph re, Glenabrou, Grand Flaneur (winner of "the Nor-
manby Stakes), Friday, Bertie, Silver Bell, Geraldine,
Sylvan, Constance, Western Princess, Good Morning,
Dover, besides a host of others who have have not
come so prominently into notice, all engaged, and it may
very truly be said that a better or more fashionably
bred lot of youngsters it would be impossible to get
together. All the fashionable strains of running blood
are here to be found, and if the presence of the relatives
of the brothers and half brothers, and sisters and half
sisters, in the list, of the best of Australian race horses
does not augur well for the future, then nothing can be
got together that will. Mr. J. S. Smith, in connection
with Mr. William Long has no less than eight to do
battle for him; and from the way in which Grand
Flaneur won the Normanby Stakes at Flemington in the
spring of '79, beating such as Palmyra, winner of the
Maribymong Plate, and other real clinkers, he must be
reckoned one of the most brilliant colts of his year.
He is by Yattendon from First Lady(imp)by St. Albans
out of Lady Patroness by Orlando out of Lady Palmer-
ston by Melbourne, so that his breeding warrants him
being one of the right sort. He has not started since
his success mentioned, having gone a trifle queer, but
he has had a good spell and rumour hath it that the
cause of his retirement is nothing of any great moment;
so that we are likely to see him strip for his three year
old engagements. Geraldine, who is full sister to both
Habena and Gainsborough is by Yattendon from Atho-
line, by Blair Athol from Habena by Irish Birdcatcher
out of Bridle, but as I tabulated her pedigree only a
fortnight ago there is nothing further to be said than
that she too is well bred enough for anything. That she
is one of the right sort, she h#s conclusively proved;
and has always run forward, and if she improve with
others of her year, there is no saying how much beating
she may require. Hildebrand, Bertie, Margery Daw,
Silver Bell (sister to Chester), and Sylvan are as yet
untried; but for running blood no better choioe could
be made, and it remains to be seen whether they will
turn out what their looks and breeding warrant people
in thinking. Nothing could look better on paper than
Bertie, who is half brother to those real plums, Nellie,
Emily, Savanaka, Kingsborough, and Lecturer, and
being by the so-called grandest sire in Australia nothing
gives greater promise than he. With such a string as
this, the ever dangerous string under the care of Tom
Brown will in all probability require more careful
watching than hitherto. There are half a dozen of the
Hon. James White’s entered, but the undoubted
champion of her year, Palmyra, by Maribyrnong from
The Pawn, and for whom her owner gave 1500 guineas,
wrenched herself so severely on the Flemington training
gruond that she had to be destroyed. A loss of this
kind was not only felt by her owner, but the turf of
Australia sustained a knock not to be replaced, for if she
hod never raced a yard,must have mede a great reputation
at the stud. Hobart Town, Cinnamon and Bathurst are
not of the first water; but Sapphire, a very speedy
daughter of the Drummer and Amethyst, has shown
that she is a good one, and as she will in all probability
improve with age, it will be through her instrumen-
tality if ‘ the blue riband ’ is brought home by the ‘ blue
and white.’ Mr. De Mestre has eight, of which lot the
best is Grand Prix, the A. J.C. Champagne winner ; but I
don’t like his breeding sufficiently well to think him
likely to prove a stayer. Descendants of the Marquis,
as a rule, do not like a distance, and apart from this I
don’t think his fore legs will stand a preparation severe
enough to enable him to land the dollars over a mile
and a half with Bst 101 b on his back. Good Morning
and Motea have both been going to do big things, and
are said to possess quality that has never been seen in
public; but opinions differ, and so do I from what has
been given out about these youngsters. The two
Queensland sons of Epigram, Lothair and Waterloo
gave the Sydney public a taste of their ability at the
Randwick meeting, and as I take it that Waterloo is the
better of the two, and one most likely to come on, he
will in all probability pay us a visit in the spring.
Should it be his fortune to see the post ‘ pink,’ he will
give a good account of himself. The Hon. Thomas
Elder, a supporter of the turf in Adelaide, is repre-
sented by Aiblins, Royal Consort, Aurelia, Ursula,
Alethe and Meg Merrilles, but as I know so little con-
cerning them, I do not feel called upon to give an
opinion. Constance has not yet shown even average
ability; neither has Hastings distinguished himself, and
as these are the only representatives from the St.
Alban’s stable, a great improvement on past form must
necessarily be made before either of them can be re-
garded with danger. Mr. Edward Lee has a good filly
in Remembrance by Maribyrnong from Antonio by
Young Melbourne from sister to iEgis by Defence, and
being one of the improving sort she is not to be over-
looked. Neither The Marchioness (nor Castle Eden I
take it are up to Derby form; but Respite (whom I was
almost forgetting), who is in the St. Alban’s stable, is so
closely related to those very speedy and good animals.
Queen’s Head, Pardon, Reprieve and Burwood that he
ought to be one of those likely to require a deal of
' doing.’ He is by Yattendon from Gazelle by Magus
from Atalanta by Reprieve (imp.) from Langar Queen
by Langar and so comes of good antecedents. This
colt was thought a good thing by the stable for the last
Maribyrnong Plate; but, having been disappointed in
the race, he did not run forward. That running must
not be taken as a criterion, and there’s knowing how
good he may be. Lady Emma is a very speedy fillly,
but does not possess the real ‘ ingredients ’ necessary
for a Derby winner, and I cannot be said to have a fond-
ness for Glenabron or Wollon. The son of Barbarian
and The Marchioness filly has shown on more occasions
than one that he is a colt not to be despised, and dressed
in his best on the day, Mr. Ivory will in all probability
have a big look in with him. Of the remaining lot, I
know none that gave greater promise as a yearling than
Trevallyn, who is by Gemma di Yergy from Young
Emily by Leopold from Express out of Cossack. Mr.
S. Martin gave 500 guineas for him at the yearling sales,
but as yet he has had no return for his outlay. When
first I saw this colt I expressed an opinion that he
would figure more conspicuously as a three year old
than as a two, and, as I intend sticking to that opinion,
I will be curious to see, if he visits us, how he will shape.
Of the remaining lot, nothing seems up to Derby form;
but I take it as a great pity that such a colt as Kamila-
roi by Goldsborough from Fleetwing is not included in
the list, for as he is, in my opinion, as well in that of
many others, the undoubted best colt of his year, his
presence in the ranks would attach additional interest
to such a rich stake. I have now gone through all those
whose performances warranted me in thinking the most
highly of, and there are none I like better or consider
to have a greater show than Geraldine, Trevellyn,
Resiite, Sapphire, Grand Flaneur, Dora and Waterloo
for the A. J.C. Blue Riband of 1880.
THE HAWKESBURY GUINEAS.
To be run for in August, 1880.
Mr. W. J. Dangar*s b f Lady Mary ,by Hawthomden—
Maria
S. W. Knight’s b If Topsy by Barbarian—Nightshade
J. Hardimau’s b c, by Maribymong—L’Afrioaine
J. E. Onus’s b f Richmond Rose by Maribymong—
Rose of Australia
b c Hobartville by Tim Whiffler(s) —
Duchess
J. S. ISmith’s h or hr c Bertie by Maribymong—
Sappho
b c Friday by Angler—Chrysolite
b or br c Hildebrand by Hamlet—
Lady Hildo
b c Grand Flaneur by Yattendon—
First Lady
br f Silver Bell by Yattendon—•
Lady Chester
hr f Geraldine by Yattendon—Atho-
line
b f Margery Daw by Echo —Levity
ch f Sylvan by Fireworks —Sylvia
F. B. L. Rossi’s br c LordLisgar
D. Melhado’sb c Bandalbion by Barbarian—Vanity
J. Silberberg’s br c JS by Maribymong—Queenlike
bl or br f Windsor Belle by Maribyr-
nong—Scottish Queen
J. Cook’s b c Partner by Tim Whilller(s) —Princess
J. Tait's b f Inverary
H. Herbert’s b c Koreelah by Kelpie—Fawn
Dr. E. T. Pierce’s br c, by Gemma di bery—Dora
Mr. R. G. Yeoman’s ch f, by Kelpie—Maizena
W. Kite’s b c Mirabilis by Maribymong—Myra
A. Bowman’s ch c, by Kelpie—Express
Captain J. Osborne’s br c Forerunner by Kelpie—Fairy
Queen
br f Lady Emma by Yattendon—
My Fancy
b or br f Lulu by JavTin—Queen
Bee
Mr. H. Osborne’s br f Nina by Maribymong—Vixen
T. Ivory’s br c, by Barbarian—Marchioness Filly
b c, by Maribymong—Miss Peri
R. Rouse’s be The Admiral by Yattendon —Nydia
B. Richard’s b c Kamoloroi by Goldsborough—
Fleetwing
Hon. J. White’s b f Palmyra by Maribymong—The
Fawn, dead
hr f Ciuamon by Goldsborough—
Brown Duchess
b f Sapphire by The Drummer—
Amethyst
bl or br c Bathurst by Maribymong—
Alpaca
b c Hobart Town by Tim Whiffler(s) —
Marie Stuart
Mr. J. Kelso’s b c Bruno by Gamester —Eva
R. H. Bloomfield’s b f Crewel by Yattendon —Ery
Thrina >
b i Lady Denham by Lord of
tonne—Rebecca
E. Lee’s br f Courtesy by Barbarian —Etiquette
br f Remembrance by Maribvmong—Antonia
chf Neva by The Marquis—
A. Loder’s ch c Sweet Chutneyby Kelpie—Saucebox
br f Bessie by Angler—Scraps
b f, by The Drummer —Quail
Hon. E. K. Cox’s b c, by Yattendon—QED
Mr. C. E. McEvoy’s br or bl c Wentworth by Maribyr-
nong —Gipsey
br or b f Constance by King of
the Ring—Miss Jessie
A. E. Inglis’ b c Cynic by Yattendon —Hebe
James Mitchell’s b f Henrette by Glorious —Fleur-
de-lis
b g Songster by Glorious—Song-
stress
Alex McDonald b f Letty West by Glorious —Miss
Wasp
The ' Guineas Mile,’ as the great three year old event
of the Hawkesbury Race Club is popularly known,
ought, if a long list of entries be any criterion, to entice
a goodly field to the post, and like the A.J.C. Derby
will in all probability be enshrouded with mystery u nti]
the result is finally determined. It only needs a cursor,
glance at the above list to show that, like the A.J rf
Derby, the youngsters engaged are as high class in
point of breeding as could well be. Of the 54 that are
to be found entered, Mr. J. S. Smith has eight, but as
they are all entered in the Derby and I have given mv
opinion above respecting their merits, I need only
repeat that the two tried ones. Grand Flaneur and
Geraldine ore the most to be dependen on. That
straight-going sportsman, the Hon. James White, has
five, and Sapphire, with Cinnamon, I take it are the most
dangerous. Cinamon has given a taste of her ability
already by winning the V.B.C. Nursery Handicap ; hut
Sapphire, to my mind, is the better of the two, and will
be more dangerous over this mile than most of those
who conquered her as a two year old. Remembrance is
undoubtedly the best of Mr. Edward Lee’s trio, and
Sweet Chutney occupies a similar post of honor in Mr
Loder’s lot. He is by Kelpie from Saucebox, and
although I think he will never make a stayer, a mile
will be just about is distance, and should he be well on
the day, will run very forward. Richmond Rose
Hobartville, and Topsy can have no show ; nor do I
think any danger need be apprehended from Lord Lisgar,
J.S., Partner, luverary, Koreelah, Forerunner, Lnlu|
Nina, and The Admiral. Windsor Belle is said to have
improved in a very great measure, and if so ought to be
dangerous. Bandalbion, too, is a good colt, and Lady
Emma is of such wonderful speed that a mile ought not
to trouble her. Last, though by no means least, is that
grand colt Goldsborough—Fleetwing colt, Kamalaroi,
who is in Mr. Cornwell’s hands, and as I firmly believe
him to be far and away the best of his year, I see no
reason why he should not be the elect when the num-
bers go up. I have most liking for Kamalaroi, Grand
Flaneur, Geraldine, Lady Emma and Sapphire.
MUEEURUNDI RACES.
2ND DAY, THURSDAY.
(By Electric Telegraph.—From our own Correspondent.)
Flying Handicap. 1 mile.—Scrubber 1, Reprieve 2,
Vanity and Tin-tag dead heat for 3rd. A splendid raoe.
Time, 1 minute 54 seconds.
Free Selectors’ Gift, 14 mile.—Cobbler 1, Volta 2,
Zeno 3. Time, 2 min. 28 secs.
Publicans’ Purse, 14 mile. —Rosinante 1, Tin-tag 2,
Pamella 2. Time, 2 min 50 secs.
Hack Race, f mile. —Victor 1, Zeno 2, Gratis 3.
Time, 1 min. 29 sec.
Forced Handicap, 14 mile.—Pride 1, Rosinante 2,
Reprieve 3. Time, 2 min. 18 secs.
DUBBO RACES.
FIRST DAY, FRIDAY.
(From our own Correspondent.)
Maiden Plate. —Stella 1, Mavoumeen 2, Baronet 3.
Won easily. Time, 2min. 17 sees.
Opening Handicap.— Songstress 1, Heroine 2, Lorton
3. Time, 2 min. 18 secs.
Jockey Club Handicap.—Waxy 1, Drum Major 2,
Mendacious 3. Three started; Waxy won all the way
easily. Time, 3 min. 40 secs.
Novel Race.—Trump 1, Monitor 2, Aline 3.
Shorts. —Stella 1, Master Avenel 2, Bay Middleton 3.
Time, 1 min. 45 secs.
SecondlDay.
Sapling Stakes. —Stella 1, Kathleen Mavoumeeen
2, Vulture 3. Won in a canter. Time, 3 min 19A secs.
Prince of Wales Stakes. —Trump 1, Disraeli 2,
Monitor 3.
Macquarie Plate Handicap.— Master Avenel 1,
Waxy 2. Only two started and Master Avenel won by
a length. Time, 3 min. 434 secs.
Railway Purse. —Master Avenel 1, Bay Middleton 2,
Claymore 3. Won easily. Time, 2 min. 16 secs.
Flying Handicap. —Master Avenel 1, Stella 2,
Heroine 3. Won easily. Time, 1 min. 164 secs.
Forced Handicap.— Bay Middleton 1, Disraeli, 2,
Trump S. Time, 2 min. 17 secs.
VICTORIA AMATEUR TURF CLUB RACES.
(FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
Saturday.
Hurdle Race, about two miles.—Mr. E. Gough’s ro
g Veno, aged, 9 st 13 lb 1, Mr. J. B. Gill’s br. gßover,
aged, 10 st 5 lbs 2, Mr. G. Pyer’s g m Norma, aged, 9st
7 lbs 3.
Open Steeplechase, about two and a-half miles.—
Mr. J. Webster’s b g Quamby, 5 yrs, 9 st 1, Mr. N.
Webb’s g g Himalaya, 6 yrs, lOst 41b 2, Mr. R. Howie’s
b g Collingwood, 4 yrs, 9st lOlbs 3.
Caulfield Cup, about one mile and a-half.—Mr. T.
Jones’ br g Tom Kirk, aged, Bst 31b 1, Mr. P. Dowling’s
br h Robbie Bums, 5 yrs., 6st 31b 2, Mr. C. Fleming’s
b h Timothy, aged, 7st 91b 3.
Welter Steeplechase, about two miles and a-half. —
Mr. F. Mann’s bl g Midnight, aged, 12st 1, Mr. G. Wat-
son’s ch g Momalong, aged, 12st 71b 2.
Selling Stakes, about half a mile.—Mr. J. D.
Robertson’s br c Epilogue, 3 yrs. 1, Mr. H. Haines’s bl
h Devilshoof, s,yrs. 2, Mr. J. G. Reid’s b g Bar One,
6 yrs. 3.
THE ADELAIDE CUP.
(From our own Correspondent.)
The following are the Adelaide acceptances for the
Adelaide Cup :—Richmond, Glenormiston, Filibuster,
Viceroy, Belladrum, Rivalry, Mountaineer, Pawn-
broker. First Water, Don Carlos, Electricity, Buc-
caneer, High Jinks.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. J. S., Tork-street.—The position of starter at Randwick
has not always been an honorary one ; it is absurd to
think it has. The authority you mention is in error.
Mr. Prince did not perform the duties without pay-
ment.
BREEDER. —1. One is by the imported Tim Whiffler, the
other by the colonial one. 2. They are not related,
3. She is by The Italian.
J. J. K., Newtown.—According to the rules the batsman woe
not out.
CRIB. —1. The hand counts 12. 2. Toy, take one for
the go.
Index to Eaces to Come.
Wellington Annual April 22nd and 23*d
Warwick (Queensland) May 4th and sth
Breewarina April or May
Wilcannia May 6th and 7th
Bourke May 20th and 21st
Queensland T. C. Autumn May 22nd and 24th
Parramatta J. C May 24th
Walgett May 24th and 25 th
Newcastle May 24th and 25th
Muswellbrook June 2nd and 3rd
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Cobar J. C. H’cap, Town Plate, and Steeple. April 28th
Q. T. C. Mares Produce, 1883; nomination
of mares and sires, Derby 1881 and St.
Leger 1882 April 30th
Muswellbrook Handicap May Ist
Warwick General Entry May Ist
Wilcannia General Entry May 4th
Parramatta General May 12th
Dalby Flying, Town Plate, and J. C. H’cap May 13th
Q. T. C. General Entry May 14th
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Walgett Namoi Handicap May Ist
Cobar Handicap May sth
Wilcannia J. C. and Flying May 6th
Muswellbrook Handicap May 9th
Newcastle Shorts, J. C., and City May 17th
Newcastle minor handicaps May 24th
Parramatta May 19th
Index to Forfeits.
Wellington Flying non-accept April 23rd
Bourke C. E. Australian Handicap and
Steeplechase accept May 4th
Q. T. C. acceptances May 4th
Wilcannia Hurdle accept May 4th
Wilcannia J. C. Handicap accept May 7th
Walgett Handicap accept May lOfch


SPORTING AND ATHLETIC.
Beil’s Liee in London has changed hands.
The Australian cricketers have arrived at Suez
all well.
The S.A.J.O. have squared matters with Mr.
Seville.
80-well, the great walker, should be an oars-
man instead of a pedestrian.
Manbouquet, the celebrated French Steeple-
chaser, was sold recently for £2,000.
Lillywhite has arranged a number of matches
in England on behalf of the Australian team.
W. Edwards, the champion walker, has been
• pedestrianising ’ in various of the country towns, ;and
is now here, eu route for Queensland.
‘The Vagabond,’ writing in the Hamilton
Spectator, says that the manner in which Saqui’s
jockey, fatally injured at Band wick, was treated * was a
scandal on Christianity and civilization.
Clarion, by Kelpie out of Chalice, and well
known as a sire in Queensland, has just died, aged 15,
at the residence of his owner, Mr. J. J. Cadell, Idera-
way, Gayndah.
The Borough Cup match was won by the
Balmain cricket team on Saturday last, by beating
the Glebe by 70 runs. H. Catt and C. Barnes were the
toil scorers on the inning side.
Walter Greenland, C.A. Messenger, Robt. and
Sydney Edwards and Jack Miller are the probable
starters for the Sportsman Cup for all comers; and, with
the exception of Messenger, all the men are in active
training. The course is the same as that over which the
International eight-oared race was rowed.
The Portland (Oregon) Rowing Association
has ordered from Waters and Co., of Troy, a first-class
four-oared paper shell, to be fitted with sliding-seats
and Davis patent row-locks and foot-boards. It will
cost nearly £llO, and will be the finest craft of its kind
on the coast.
It is rumoured on good authority that an
Exhibition sculling regatta will take place on the Upper
Yarra about November next. Here’s a chance for some
of the Sydney scullers to test their mettle, and try con-
clusions with the long and short of Melbourners—viz.,
the mighty Tuckett and wee-wee Stratton.
The scratch match between the Victorian
bowlers and a team of Parramatta players came off on
Saturday last at Parrninatta, the visitors winning after
an exciting struggle by 3 points, the scores being 97 to
!W. Both teams were entertained at a luncheon got up by
host Wehlow, of the Woolpack Hotel.
Several 10s. sweeps were shot off at Cook’s
Eiver on Saturday last, Messrs. P. Gannon, C. Evans,
H. Smith, W. Hamilton, T. M. Giblin, and.W. Hill
pulling off most of the good things.
The University and Albert cricket clubs com-
menced a two-days’ match on the Association Ground,
on Saturday last. When time was called the Alberts
had scored 181 —D. Gregory, 66; A. Docker, 44; and
Massie, 30; being the highest contributor*. Garrett
and Wright went to the wickets for ‘ ’Varsity ’ and were
credited with 25 and 5 respectively, both being not out.
The game will be resumed to-day.
The Eastern Rowing Association will control
the regatta projected by the Hop Bitters people, who
sent an invitation to Trickett a mail or two since. Six
thousand dollars in Government bonds are said to have
been forwarded to that organization to be divided as
follows: —5,000 dol. for the professional prize—3,ooo dol.
to first man, 1,500 to second, and 500 dol. to third; 500
dol. for the amateur trophy and 500 dol. for expenses of
oarsmen who cross the Atlantic or come from Australia.
A sculling race took place on the Lower Yarra,
over the champion sculling course, on Saturday, the
10th April, immediately after the intercolonial
eight-oared race, between A. W. Pitts of the Hawthorn
Bowing Club, Melbourne, and C. P. Bennett, of the Bal-
larat Bowing Club, Ballarat, for a trophy valued at £4O.
The match was won easily by Pitts, who showed good
form and is evidently a coming man. The steamer Pilot
was chartered to follow the race and was extensively
patronised. The winner was coached by B. Edwards.
Harry Howard, the pedestrian, and Lueicn
Marc, the French wrestler, recently wrestled under
strict Grseco-Boman rules, best two in three, in Cincin-
nati. Greeco-Boman is Marc’s favourite style, and it
was supposed by many that Howard would be no match
for him, but their expectations were not realized, for
Howard soon showed that he was Marc’s equal in
agility and science, and greatly his superior in strength.
Howard won the first bout in 5 minutes, and after a rest
of -20 minutes won the second in 3i minutes. The
struggle is described as a most terrific one, Marc exert-
ing himself to the utmost, so much so that he was
scarcely able to rise from the carpet after the second
fall.
The following cricket matches were played on
Saturday last:—Strathmore 15 v. Ist Carlton. The
former won by 6 runs.—Wagga v.;Cootamundra. The
former gave up when the game was all in favour of their
opponents.—Thornton v. Manly. Won by tne Thorn-
ton team with 19 runs to spare.—Wellington v. Troedel
and Co. The former team came off victorious by one
—Hyperion C.C. A muff match in connection with
this club between sides chosen by Messrs. Stewart and
Barnett resulted in a win for the former by 16 runs.—
Britannia v. Pinafore. The Pinafores won in one
umings and 6 runs. —Petersham v. Corio. Petersham
won the match by 117 to 36.—Young Men’s Institute v.
btaumore. The Stanmore players won easily, scoring
W against 14.—Baven v. Orient. This was a very close
and exciting contest, and resulted in a draw. The scores
bemg—Orieut 45, and the Baven 41, the latter having
°*dy nine wickets down.
The following are the results of the meeting
°* th® Port Jackson Swimming Club, which was held
at Foley’s baths on Saturday afternoon last; —Boys’
f“) c ® (under 14 years), 100 yards, Silver Medal. —A.
Wells 1, W. Duff 2, T. Peters 3. Time, 2 minutes 15
seconds.—Diving for distance,—A. Goodie 1, Stephen
tjV,, ■ Plant 3.—Sydney Gold Cup, 850 yards, 550 yards,
"b yards. First event, 850 yards, H. Mater 1, W.
Corbett 2, G. H. Kohler 3, Coghlan 4. Won very easily.
Time, 14 minutes. —Men of War’s Eace, 250 yards, Gold
Medal. —Peterson 1, Draper 2. Time, 4 minutes 25
seconds. —Members’ Handicap, 200 yards.—J. Bloomfield
scratch, 1, G. H. Kohler, scratch, 2, W. P. Hampson,
30 yards, 3. Time, 3 minutes 31 seconds. —Diving for
objects.—H. Plant 1, J, Peacock2.—Men’s Eace, 300
yards, prize, Silver Cup.—H. L. Mater 1, W. F.
norbett 2, G. Kohler 3. —Hobble Eace —E. Stephens 1,
A. G. Bloomfield 2.
On Wednesday evening a number of sporting
gentlemen, in view of the departure for America of Mr.
B. S. Thompson, the well-known bookmaker, met at
Trickett’s Hotel for the purpose of commissioning Mr.
Thompson to make a match with Edward Hanlan of
Canada, champion of America, on behalf of Edward
Trickett, of Sydney, champion of the world. Amongst
those who were either present or represented were
Messrs. F. Hill, E. Hill, G. Hill, W. Long, Joseph
Thompson, Deery, W. Bull, senr., and T. and J.
Spencer. Mr. B. S. Thompson was authorised to make
a match between Hanlan and Trickett for £l,OOO aside,
to be rowed on the Parramatta river. Should it be
found that Hanlan is unwilling to come to Australia,
Trickett undertakes to row him in America for £5OO
aside, or in England for the usual championship stakes,
£2OO aside. This is giving Hanlan every chance of
meeting Trickett. As Mr. Thompson thoroughly
understands his business, and as Hanlan and his friends,
especially if the former likes to come here, can be ac-
commodated in any sum they please by way of wagers,
it is to be hoped that a match will at last be brought
about. Mr. Thompson, to whom the meeting said good-
bye over a glass of champagne, is a passenger by the
Californian mail.
The New Babylon.
THE NEW AND EXCITING DRAMA, BY PAUL MERITT-
AUTHOR OF “ STOLEN KISSES,” &c., &c., IN A PRO,
LOGUE AND FOUR ACTS.
To be produced at the Victoria Theatre on Saturday
Evening April 24th.
Having already given some sketches from this attrac-
tive drama, which has for a year and a half, during its
continuous performance at the Duke’s Theatre, been
the talk of London as it no doubt will be that of
Sydney, we shall probably give satisfaction to play-
goers who intend witnessing the first representation
this (Saturday) evening, by a summarised account of
some of the leading events in the very intricate plot.
Mr. Blond Holt received from his father, Mr. Clarence
Holt, who has purchased the copyright, models of the
scenery and * sets,’ and Mr. John Bennett, the enter-
prising manager of the Victoria, has given Mr. Holt
carte blanche to have everything prepared according to
models and directions, so that the mounting and details
may assimilate to the London original.
‘The New Babylon’ depends for its attractiveness in
some measure on scenic effect and incident, and these
are abundantly introduced as we mentioned in a passing
notice last week. It is more fertile in|incident than any
drama produced on the stage for many years, being-
full of exciting situations, very complicated it is true,
but well worked out, according to the reading. Pathos
and humour are also blended in it most uniquely.
Mr. Maltby has a wife and one daughter : the wife
deserts him by eloping to America with a lover, leaving
her infant daughter in the Foundling Hospital. Whilst
in America she bears another child, to whom the name
of Eunice is given. This daughter she compels to
marry a Spanish adventurer named John Eamarez, who
is the ruling spii’it of a gang of fashionable swindlers.
Amongst this gang are Ezra Lazareek, a low Jew, and
O’Sligo, an Irishman. Maltby, supposing his first wife
to be dead, marries again, and by this marriage has a
daughter named Madge. On the death of his second
wife Maltby goes to America on business, leaving Madge
in England. In New York he receives on a business
account a large sum of money which he invests in
Pacific railway bonds. Meeting O’Sligo casually at the
hotel, Maltby is induced by him to visit the gambling-
house. The Irishman sees him, before quitting the
hotel, lock up some papers (the scrip for his shares) in
an escritoire in his bedroom. At the faro den a row is
got up by Eamarez, who has, in the mean time, on the
information of O’Sligo, managed to get possession of
Maltby’s bonds. The police making a raid on the
house, the gas is turned off, and Maltby, aided by
Eunice, escapes with her through a skylight. They
wing their flight by steamer to England ; on board they
find, when it is too late, Eamarez, the husband of
Eunice. On the same vessel is a smart Yankee detec-
tive, Fleck Flotsam, with an eye on ‘ someone,’ —
Eamarez—for certain swindles perpetrated in America,
apart from the gambling transaction. A meeting of all
parties concerned is unavoidable, and trouble is evi-
dently brewing with a bruin-like growl. But a more
formidable growl comes, in the shape of a ‘ crash ’ with
another steamer in mid-ocean. But, fortunately (or,
perhapis, unfortunately,) all the passengers are saved
and arrive in England, where Maltby again meets his
daughter Madge.
O'Sligo has followed Eamarez to England and again
meets Maltby who has had no suspicion that he was
connected with the gambling hell and the robbery. He
therefore introduces the fashionable Irish ‘ gintleman ’
to Madge and makes him welcome at his home. Here
the gallant son of .Erin obtains little secrets which he
soon endeavours to turn to his own advantage. Madge
has a lover, one Vincent Vayne, to whom she is engaged
to be married ; but Mr. Vincent is a little acdicted to
poxmlar vices, and has (in a snug little villa) a mistress,
one Belle Lorimer, who, by one of those apparently
extraordinary freaks of nature, is an exact counterpart
of Eunice Eamarez. It will not destroy the interest to
tell the reader that this likeness is perfectly natural,
the two women being half sisters, as Belle Lorimer is
the child of the Foundling Hospital, Maltby’s daughter
by his first wife —the mother of Eunice.
To protect Eunice from the violence of Eamarez,
Maltby, ignorant of her parentage, furnishes a house
for her, where she is visited by an honourable young
fellow, Jack Eandall, who has seen and fallen in love
with her.
Our friend Vayne is a great racing man and risks
everything on his own horse for the Goodwood Cup,
without hedging for chances. His jockey, Tiny Spurts,
a brother foundling of Belle Lorimer, is in love with
her; she, having been discarded by Vayne, induces
Tiny to ‘sell’ the race. Even a jockey has his price,
and woman’s smiles and woman’s wiles are very sweet.
But another ‘ weak woman ’ comes to the rescue, and
Vayne is saved by Madge’s intervention. Thus the
three half sisters play, it will be seen, extraordinary
parts, and are constantly pitted against each other.
But there any number of other complications. At
TattersalTs we have a real horse sale; then, on the
race-course, we make the acquaintance of Johnny
Lamb, an unsophisticated youth with his watchful lady-
love Dora Sparkes, Sidney, another aspirant for the
hand of Madge, and others, including a Chinese servant,
welchers and wandering musicians. This makes up one
of the great scenes of the play.
Another great scene is that of Cremome Gardens with
its thousands of lamps. Here, Belle Larimer is mis-
taken for Eunice by Jack Eandall and Eamarez, with
more villainy for the latter and more trouble for the
unfortunate victim.
More plotting. Eamarez, Lazareek and O’Sligo
determine to take an office next to Maltby’s, and to the
latter the Jew sells some diamonds disposed of by
Vayne’s mother to pay some debts. Maltby is induced
to lock up diamonds and the money for them for security
in his office safe till Lazareek can call for the latter.
The three swindlers, as pre-arranged, break through the
wall and force open the safe. They are done: Maltby
has, urged by an unknown feeling, taken the contents
home to Madge. O’Sligo is found on the premises by
Flotsam and arrested : and the detective is now on the
alert to catch the Spaniard, who has assaulted Maltby
and left him for dead. Maltby’s first wife also turns
up again, and by threats and other devices endeavours
to extort money from Eunice (her own daughter) and
from Madge; but of Maltby’s supposed death,
she throws herself into the river.
We are next transported to ‘ Seven Dials,’ where, in
one of its worst dens, Lazareek and Eamarez (having
got hold of Maltby’s money) secrete themselves —the
latter disguised as an old woman. Here, however,
cunning Flotsam effects an entrance disguised as a
Catuachian song-vendor, six yards a penny. Tiny
Spurts—thoroughly broken down, disqualified as a
jockey, scouted hy Belle, dying of hunger, is in the
same den. Belle, however, visits him in compliance
with a dying request. As she is leaving, she is con-
fronted by Eamarez who, again mistaking her for Eunice,
claims her as his wife. He is about to shoot her but is
?revented by a dying effort of Tiny, and the girl escapes,
n comes Flotsam at the report of the pistol and a life
tor life struggle ensues. Enter Flotsam’s mates in
the nick of time, and all the gang are arrested. Eama-
rez, it is found, had a wife before marrying Eunice, and
so she is free to marry Jack Eandall. Madge and Vayne
are reconciled. Belle repents and is protected by
Maltby, her father. Flotsam manages to clear up every
mystery, and remains * The Centre of Attraction.’
From this outline sketch of some of the most
striking incidents it will be acknowledged that with
Mr. Bland Holt as Fleck Flotsam, Mr. J. L. Hall as
Lazareck, Mr. Vincent as the Spanish adventurer. Miss
Myra Kemble in the two characters of Eunice Eamarez
and Belle Lorimer, the rest of the characters well
cast, and scenery and effects in accordance with every
requirement, ‘ The New Babylon ’ ought to prove at-
tractive to the public for many weeks.
CRITIC.
OUR BAR.
No. II.
P. M. Sharp, ESQ.
We can almost forgive our artist for the sketch
he has sent in of the abovenamed well-known
barrister-at-law, because an expression of mingled
slyness and of supreme self-conceit is always
extremely difficult to catch in a rough caricature.
Mr. Sharp has no competitors at the Bar in his
peculiar style, for on his advent here from a
neighbouring colony, where he was kicked out by
(as he calls it) a “ mean-spirited and despicable
Government” —he quickly struck out a line for
himself and has stuck to it with the tenacity of a
limpet and the blind fervour of a desperate des-
pair. Few there are in Sydney legal circles who
do not shrink from, while they are in a horribly
snake-like manner fascinated by, the sting of the
jokes—good, bad, and indifferent —with which he
so plentifully interlards his conversation. His
Latin is as plentiful, although not nearly so good,
as his jewellery. “To be sure” his brain —
phrenologically speaking—is completely over-
balanced by his cheek, which would give him an
air, “to be sure,” of being rather forward, “to
be sure”—“ to be sure.”
He was educated at two or three Oxford col-
leges and may be said to have jumped into a
position on leaving Alma Mater, for he never got
anything by degrees.
He is well known on Circuit and at the
Crown Law Offices and is the terror of all
Ministers of Justice and Attorneys-General. He
has never been known to lose anything for the
want of asking for it, and as he’s always asking
for something, and will not take “ No” for an
answer, loaves and fishes are plentiful with him.
He has never been known to help a poor friend
or “cut” a rich one. He has no relations in the
Islands, and his ancestors had no hand in the
Mutiny of the Bounty.
In spite of all his faults we like him still, and
even if his jokes are sometimes stale his “ weeds”
are good, and he—with our very occasional help—
drinks Gordon’s sherry.
‘Cafe’ Licenses.
The great licensing battle will be fought to-day
(Friday) at the Water Police Court, but the pre-
liminary skirmish which took place at the Central
yesterday after our first forms had gone to press
occasioned a strange scene. The cases were
heard by no less than forty-five justices of the
peace, and, as usual, there were very strong mino-
rities in favor of granting every license which was
opposed. What has happened on this occasion
wall undoubtedly strengthen the hands of those
who are in favor of establishing a properly consti-
tuted licensing bench. The decisions arrived at
yesterday do not prove anything except that those
who opposed the renewal of the licenses had
properly organized their representative J.P.’s, and
that those who favored the existing state of things
had been out-manoeuvred. Applications from the
following persons for renewals were refused : —H.
L. Roberts, Shakespeare Hotel, Pitt-street; R.
Horne, Albert Hotel, Pitt-st,: Lewis Rankin,
Pitt-st.; P. Belfield, Victoria Hotel, Pitt-st. ; M.
Ryan, Shamrock Hotel, Sussex-st. : Absalom W.
Bird, Sir William Wallace Hotel, corner of Sus-
sex and Washington-sts. ; James Israel, American
Hotel, Ultimo-st., Glebe; James Coll, Columbia
Hotel,- Castlereagh-st. The hearing of the objec-
tions raised by the police against the renewal of
the license held by Margaret Smith for the Prince
Imperial Hotel, King-st., was postponed for a
wetek, applicant being ill. The bench declined to
uphold the objection raised by the police to the
renewal of the license of William Swords, Buil-
ders’ Exchange Hotel, King-st.
The prospectus of a new illustrated periodical,
yclept Judy, appears in our columns to-day. It is to
compete with our humorous veteran contemporary
Punch for public support.
Our artist pourtrays on page 8 an amusing idea
that struck him on hearing- a band of performers play-
ing that well-known air ‘ The Babies on our Block.’ To
carry the idea into practical use, prominence is given
to the business-like change which Mr. H. Bartlett, of
Elizabeth-street, Haymarket, has brought about in the
retail meat trade of that quarter of the city. When
Mr. Bartlett opened his establishment about four years
ago the alteration was very much required. He com-
menced from the first to supply the finest beef
obtainable for the metropolitan market. A start was
made on a small scale, but the business grew to such
dimensions that the premises had to be enlarged, and
additional hands and vehicles obtained. The cash sys-
tem is adopted, but a first-class family trade is likewise
done, not only about the Haymarket, Surry Hills, and
Strawberry Hills, but also throughout the city.
The Establishment of Mr. James Kidman,
Grocer and Contractor.
The public of Sydney will doubtless be interested
to learn some particulars of the splendid business
done by Mr. James Kidman, the well-known grocer
and contractor of this city. It is pretty generally
admitted that the system adopted by Sir. Kid-
man and the vigorous way in which it is de-
veloped has completely revolutionized the retail
grocery business of Sydney, and there can be no
question that if the energetic proprietor himself
has reaped largely therefrom the public likewise
have been substantially benefited. The cash
system, once fairly introduced among a people, is
an encouragement all round to sound business
principles, and in this way it may be contended
Mr. Kidman has done good service. The best
foods, all that any household may require, are
een offered to the public at Mr. Kidman’s various
establishments, and this could only be done by
heavy wholesale cash investments. Large lines of
goods are purchased on the most advantageous
terms and the public through those establishments
get the benefit. This point is of considerable
value to householders and ought be understood.
Mr. Kidman retails his goods, not at the recog-
nised ruling figure, but at whatever rate his heavy
ready money purchases permit. This explains the
extraordinarily low rates ruling from time to time
at his establishments. The business was
established in 1848 by Mr. Charles Kidman,
the first establishment opened being that in
Oxford-street; and his son, Mr. James Kidman,
bocame proprietor in 1878. There are four large
business places now open—the C.K. House, 156
Oxford-street, the Great Northern, 178 Lower
George-street, the Haymarket, at the corner of
Campbell and Castloreagh-streets, and the Model
Grocery Emporium of New South Wales, corner of
George and Market-streets. The cash counter
business at these establishments is enormous, and
in addition a large family order trade is done.
The goods are delivered throughout the city, and
all over the outskirts—Double Bay, Ashfield,
Burwood, Balmain, etc., and for this purpose
Mr. Kidman has arranged a special time table for
his own vehicles, so that customers, in what-
ever locality, may know almost to the minute
the time at which their orders will be delivered.
A good country connection has likewise been
formed for the business, and orders are regularly
despatched by train and steamer. Mr. Kidman is
the principal contractor to the Government for
supply of stores to the various military dep6ts,
asylums, reformatories, etc., and for this branch
alone enormous supplies have to be provided.
There are large storehouses, likewise meat houses,
etc., at Gladesville, Parramatta, and other parts.
The contracts which Mr. Kidman now holds num-
ber about thirty and include all the principal
Government establishments of the metropolitan
and Parramatta districts. Regular employment
is given to about ninety hands, including mana-
gers, cashiers, clerks, shopmen, bakers, butchers,
etc. About twenty horses and carts are engaged
removing goods from the warehouses to the ships.
The business is all through conducted on sound
principles, and is one of steadily increasing
growth.
Ladies and Liquor.
A Melbourne correspondent writes thus :—One of the
groat subjects for scandal in this city, and which is
frequently debated, is the alleged fact that some doctors’
wives are very dissipated, to their husbands’ grief.
Miss Braddon’s best analytical romance is called ‘The
Doctor’s Wife,” and in it she shows that loneliness
is dangerous, doctors being unable to give much time bo
the domestic hearth. The great failing of some doctors’
wives, however, is drunkenness, but that vice is shared
by the wives of some of our wealthy men. As a matter
of fact, our leading men pay too little attention to their
households. A friend of mine, a great merchant,
frankly acknowledged the other day that he only saw his
wife on a Sunday. He was away before she rose in the
morning, and he always dines at his club, so that his
partner has retired before he has got home, which is
never too early. The deplorable existence of dipsomania
among the wives of the Upper Ten in Melbourne arises,
in my opinion, from two causes. The first is the way in
which wine is always on the table when visitors call,
and it would be want of courtesy not to take a sip of some-
thing. A young lady says that after a round of visits
she has seen some ladies in a very undesirable state.
Balls are the second cause. At a ball at which I was
recently it rather astonished me to see the manner in
which the ladies ‘ went into ’ the champagne. Ladies
should never drink. They are subject to what they call
‘ weakness ’ or ‘ sinking,” but if they once accustom
themselves to take a sip to revive them, especially at a
critical period of life, it is all over with them. Another
cause which sends the wives of wealthy men into ths
arms of this fatal vice is that they do not rise in the
world with their lords. Years ago the pair were married
in another state of society, and then they were suited to
each other, both of humble rank. But the man has
risen and become a magnate, and as he moves in the
world he must indeed be a dolt if he does not rise to its
level. The wife remains where she was thirty years be-
fore. Like the female of some brilliant butterflies, she
never leaves her shell while her lord flits abroad. Her
children, educated to the standard, go into society, the
mother never. In some houses the mistress is never
seen when there is company. Some ministers of the
Crown and members of Parliament are never seen with
their wives. ‘ How is it your mother never goes into
society ?’ asked a friend of mine of a Collins-street
butterfly. ‘ Oh, she’s an invalid, and has been for years,’
was the hasty reply. Yet he had seen, when passing by
her father’s suburban palace, an uncouth grey-headed
woman feeding the fowls in the back yard and had been
told that it was Mrs. . These poor neglected ones
too often seek the consolation in the bottle, and some-
times their inhuman husbands encourage them. One
monster, finding the wife of his youth showed a fond-
ness for drink, shut her up in the house and gave her
the run of a splendidly stocked cellar. In twelve
months she was dead, and in a few months afterwards
he married a Collins-street belle, who is now a leader of
fashion, and who spends the money that the old-
fashioned soul, her predecessor, saved. ‘lt is a mad
and a bad world, my masters.’
Between fifty and sixty congratulatory memos,
were sent up to Mr. E. B. Smith during the progress
of the banquet to Mr. Jennings, thanking him for the
great success due so much to his efforts.
Owing to a heavy press of matter and to the
necessity of giving a full description of the plot of ‘The
New Babylon’ we find ourselves at the last moment
regretfully compelled to omit from to-day’s issue ex-
tended notices of the entertainments of the week.
The limited space at our disposal forces ns to give
special prominence to each theatre in its turn.
A notorious woman named Aarons, alias Frazer,
who had for years traded in vice in Melbourne, and who
for a quarter of a century past had, unmolested by the
police, maintained a house in a leading thoroughfare
inhabited by a score of abandoned creatures, is just
dead. She was reputed to be of immense wealth, but
the list of wills proved does not bear out that supposi-
tion. On the night of her death, it is said, her house
was plundered of many of its valuable contents by her
wretched lodgers.
One of the Exhibition novelties is the Blon-
din gyroscope top of Messrs. Bailey and Kerr, who have
opened a depot for the sale of their amusing toys in
Sydney. This toil spins in every conceivable direction,
down side up or upside down, on a stand or off it; run-
ning up and down a string, and altogether upsetting the
laws of gravitation, and the children’s gravity at the
same time. The inventors are necromancers of some
distinction and ail who take their tricks on trial are
shown how to accomplish the performance of them.
This is in itself a novelty.
A C’rect Card.
801 l he ever so jauntily, his swagger is well put on,
The cock of his hat on the side of his head gives him an
air of ton ;
The neat cut coat, with trousers tight, distinguishes
well the sport,
And all pronounce who know him, he’s one of a right
good sort.
His visage wears just a shade of red —in fact it may be
said
The self same hue may be perceived in a halo round his
head ;
’Twas nature doubtless placed it there, though helped
by Grecian art,
And he loves in the modern Campus to see the chariots
start-
Inside of the magic circle, where excited sportsman
gather.
Whose eager eyes scan glossy coats, so soon changed
to a lather,
May be seen old Eufus’ scion, with note-book in his
hand —
When the bell rings out *go to the post,’ he hurries to
the stand
Where the press is great; no move is made, there’s only
elbow room.
And the millionaire, so debonnaire, stands close beside
the groom;
From his vantage point, with glasses, he sees the flag
go down,
If successful he shouts; if unlucky, in glasses he’ll
sorrow drown.
If the staff of life by, the tips he gives, were by followers
to be gained,
There’d be joy in the house of the many, fewer hearts
be pained;
There’d be no need for tipstaffs, that would comfort
bring;
In the race of life, in the daily strife, we’d safely pick
our ring.
THE BULLETIN.
April 24, 1880.


A Dish of Trifle.
V.
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Standard Works. —Tornings.
Not a Free Selector. The man on the
look-out for a wife.
Who will doubt that Parramatta is a sleepy
town, when he is told that its river never leaves
its bed ? Of course it does not. And it s tied-up
so often.
Sofa so good.—S p n does not think so.
“ The Glass of Fashion. —Cham ! As to the
“ mould of form,” we will of course set that out at
a future date.
Bland Holt has had a cast in his eye. Yes,
for the “New Babylon.” As the editor will not
publish a supplement to this column —“ Jokes
made easy it may be explained that Mr. Holt’s
eyes are all right.
Dr. Bowker is not remarkable for his even-
ness of temper, yet he never gets out of patients.
Song for the Season :
Now Autumn’s russet golden leaves by the winds are
spread;
And the selector views his flowing, ripening fields with
pride.
Still our Austral eucalyptus raises its regal head,
With leafy diadem adorned.—Now our gas-bill begins
to slide.
The other night (April 7) J. Davies was in warm
quarters. He had a Baker on one side of him and
Burns on the other. But if we Terry on such as
this, people will say we get Onslow.
Can it be said that Evans is a dead shot ?
A Surry Hills man, after seeing Jupiter come
to grief in last Saturday’s steeplechase, went
home so impressed with the dangers attendant on
jumping that ho took the spring out of his watch.
Speaking of leaping reminds me that a very lan-
guid young lady has just “ jumped ” —at an offer of
marriage.
He was a loafer. Ragged and tanned. The
napless coat, the dilapidated hat, the gaping boots,
each proclaimed that the wanderer was not a
friend of Fortune. He strolled—no —loafed to
the bar of a William-street hotel and murmured
two words—“ Glass rum.” The bar-keeper, who
had long, long ago incised his optical cuspidates,
simply presented his rouillon-filler, or, to use a
word prevailing among the ancients, his paw. The
tanned one shook his head, and said, in a would-be
coaxing tone —“ Give us a drink, old man.’ It
was now the b.-k.’s turn to agitate his cranium.
“ Only a little drop.” “No ! get along?” The
ragged sot stepped closer to the counter and
whispered—“ Then let us look at the bottle !”
LANFRE.
Signor Norti-i.
We give herewith an accurate portrait of Signor
Norti-i, the celebrated violinistic contortionist of
the International. We need only say, in the words
of Tabitha, who once patted him on the back and
lovingly, encouragingly stroked his classic eye-
brows, ‘‘ He’s such a good boy. ’ ’ Joking apart, the
Signor’s playing has often delighted ns. We
wish—but how can it be expected? “He has a
heart, and therefore loves.” What matters it if
he loves all round !
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Keneally is dead.
Rosa Bonheur is forty-eight.
The Mayor of Adelaide is very ill.
There’s a Sydney newspaper proprietor who’s
had four wives.
John Woods (Tar-brush Woods) has left
Sydney for Victoria.
‘ Philip Dale,’ the writer of that pretty poem
* Dorothy,’ in the Australian, is a lady.
The Rev. Thomas Kemmis preaches better than
ever.
The best colonial ‘Hamlet’ of ten years back
is now a law writer in Sydney.
Mr. Arthur Leslie Bourcicault has sold the
Daily Northern Arous (Eockhampton) to local men.
It is currently reported, though we can’t vouch
for the truth of the rumour, that Charles Clark, the
celebrated lecturer, has been into the K, C.
Church, at Clifton, Eugland.
The curate of St. James’ has a beautifully
musical voice. The girls are sorry he’s married.
London dandies now' wear their watches in
fobs, after the manner of their grandfathers.
Mr. N. Walter Swan is writing another novel,
which is described as a * regular hair raiser.’
King Theebaw, of Burmah, the telegrams tell
us, has died from excesses. Probably too much beer —
Beershebaw.
Father Petre, of Wollongong, was formerly in
a crack cavalry regiment. Now he’s a priest, and an
all-round favourite. Blood will tell.
Mr. Benton, Government engineer at Towns-
ville, has died from peritonitis. He was a prominent
member of the Masonic body.
On the list of visitors to a certain Melbourne
hotel we notice the name of Baron Yon Donop. A
done-up aristocrat, eh 1
Professor Gurney, who has a beautiful man-
sion— Avoca—at Glebe Point, gave a grand private
concert on Tuesday evening, for which the services of
Signora Antoinetta Link were secured. A very large
number of guests was present. This is the beginning of
the introduction of ‘ Loudon Society’ customs.
A certain Sydney official now hires a boy to
carry about his sunshade, after the Turkish fashion.
Lord of one umbrella,’ &c.
Mr. Pigdon, of the Victoria bowling team, is a
most enterprising building contractor, and is an ex-
Mayor of Melbourne.
‘The Vagabond’ says he’s going to Melbourne
to start a paper after the style of The Bulletin. New
South Wales, then, has taught him something.
Bishop and Mrs. Harper, of Christchurch,
have just celebrated their golden wedding. Their
children and grandchildren number 82.
Mr. Julian Thomas (‘The Vagabond’) goes to
Suva, the new capital of Fiji, to watch the land sales
on behalf of the Agricultural Society of New South
Wales.
District Court Judge Beor, of Queensland, is
described as being ‘a jolly good fellow, and of a singu-
larly unblemished private character, considering his
profession.’
‘’Tistrue, and pity’tis ’tis true.’ The Mel-
bourne Herald, when copying from us, should at least
acknowledge the fact. We expected better from Winter,
but perhaps Middleton did it.
A. Manders, alias Aquatic in the Melbourne
Herald, who was over here in connection with some
of the Melbourne papers, has joined Messrs. J. and E.
Grant in business as Press and general commission
agents, in Melbourne. The firm are agents for The
Bulletin.
Governor Weld has left Sydney. He has
eleven children and has been promoted to the Straits
Settlements because he’s such a good colonist from the
Vicar of Wakefield’s point of view.
One of the Japanese Commissioners is en-
gaged to be married to a Sydney girl. The parting was
an affecting one. We mean the parting of the Jap’s,
or rather of the chap’s, hair.
‘ Distinguished foreigners’ are beginning to
arrive in Melbourne. Baron Yon Hellebore, one of
them, attempted suicide last week by jumping over the
Prince’s Bridge.
J. J. Casey—the once great Jay Jay, the former
King of Victoria—was the most imposing looking per-
son at the closing ceremony of the International. He
wore the insignia of fourteen orders, beside an air of
importance aud a French smile, acquired ong Paree.
Mr. James Q-arton, who so handsomely enter-
tained the New South Wales crew in Melbourne, is a
well-known sporting man, and was formerly proprietor
of Garton’s Hotel. He islan adept in the fistic art, and
is wealthy.
A lady who has ‘ had her day’ in Paris —Mine.
Louisa Lucene —has just attained her hundredth year.
Upder the First Empire her salon was as brilliant as
that of Mine. Kecamier, whose.intimate friend and rival
in beauty she was.
Mr. Joseph Aarons, of Nanima, Wellington,
has resigned all his aldermanio honours, and Mr. Eygate
lias been elected as his successor. Mr. Aarons, it is
said, has been left a big legacy by a recently deceased
relative.
It was Mr. L. W. Levy, merchant (of David
Cohen and Co.) who sent Mr. G. E. Dibbs a cheque for
£5OO as a contribution towards the cost of the late case
Shepherd v. Dibbs. As has already been stated, how-
ever, the gift was courteously declined.
The Prince of Wales belongs to every secret
society in England except the Good Templars, and can
grip a man’s hand out of joint in 860 different ways.
He is getting very bald, and will wear a wig with the
crown.
Sir Francis Smith, Chief Justice of Tasmania,
and now Acting-Governor, is three shades lighter than
a mulatto. He is, however, the ablest lawyer, most
cogent logician, and most acrimonious disputant in the
island.
L. Hall, who writes in Brisbane under the
nom de plume ‘Bohemian,’ is the most speculative
‘ cuss’ in that sultry colony. He it was who had the
totalisator there last year. The ‘ Yag’ managed the
infernal machine.
Mr. Shepherd, M.L.A., proposes as securities
in re the costs and verdict in Shepherd v Dibhs, Messrs.
J. C. Ellis, of Newcastle, Wilson, merchant, of this
city, and Mr. Yeomans. Mr. Dibbs wants these gentle-
men cross-examined as to the amount of their property.
Constable Townsend, who captured the man
Butler, accused of murdering the Dewars, at Dunedin,
is the same man who was dismissed the police force of
this colony for the shooting of Father Healy. Butler,
about whose guilt there can be no moral doubt, has
nevertheless been acquitted.
Mr. Curtis, who was formerly a Catholic
priest in Sydney, but who left the church and got mar-
ried, or got married and left the church —we don’t
know exactly which —is now on a visit to this city,
where he has many friends. He is now secretary of a
big Melbourne institution.
Mr. Mark Moss, J.P., of the Victorian
bowling team, is one of the richest of Melbourne He-
brews. He is in partnership with a solicitor who lends
money on good security and ‘ takes no interest’ in any
public matter except bowling. He lives well and gives
splendid entertainments. When Sir Hercules Robinson
and family were in Melbourne they occupied his grand
mansion,'Rosebank, in Clarendon-street, and on his
Excellency’s return to Sydney he sent Mr. Moss oil
paintings of himself and Lady Robinson.
It is rumoured at Portsmouth that the Prince
of Wales visits Australia next year in the Seraphs.
Mr. Charles Fawcett, the new member for the
Clarence, took his seat on Wednesday.
Mr. R. D. Somerset, a very old Queensland
colonist, and one of the passengers of the Jenny Lind,
which was wrecked in 1849 off Bowen, is just dead.
Be ore Separation he was a merchant; then he became
chief clerk in the Customs, which office he occupied
until the date of his retirement in 1876.
Mr. Hoskins and one of his clerks have parted.
This is said to have been on account of a laxity on the
clerk’s side to keep up the yearly average of attendance*,
which was generally about fifty-two out of the 360 days.
Hoskins says, we are told, that the clerk only put in
an appearance on bank holidays ! We refuse to believe
this statement.
Contributions have, during the past three or
four weeks, been very liberally solicited from the various
courts at the Exhibition to furnish the trousseau for a
young 1 lady about to be married —the daughter ot a re*
markably prominent member of the religious press. Some
pressure had to be brought to bear in some quarters, the
exhibitors being bearish enough not to see it.
Mr. James? Inglis (‘Maori’) has written a book
entitled ‘ Our Australian Cousins,’ dealing principally
with New South Wales and Queensland. It is said to
be rough on us. Any book not rough on Australia
wouldn’t pay in England among the Lord Arrises.
M'Millan and Co. publish the work, which will .arrive
per next mail.
‘ Has anybody seen Seitz ?’ is the question
that went round the courts of the Exhibition during the
last weeks of its existence. A great many people have
seen sights of all kinds ; but the Seitz so anxiously
sought for by an enquiring circle was the semi-young
foreign clerk who had so endeared himself to so many
friends. Friendship is a dear bargain sometimes.
Mr. Broclzky, late law reporter for the Even-
ing News, who has an action against Mr. Shepherd,
M.L.A., has shaved off whiskers, beard, and moustaches.
He is evidently preparing for war, and doesnt intend
leaving a stray hair on his cheek to be caught hold or,
whilst he himself will hold on to the Shepherd by the
skin of his teeth.
Messrs. David Syme and Marcus Clarke are
neatly ‘ tiraded’ in * Martial in Melbourne,’ a printed
copy of which has been handed to us. The pedigree of
the' translator is evidently—sire, Demosthenes ; dam,
Biddy Moriarty. We have an almost irresistible long-
ing to re-publish ‘ Martial in Melbourne.’ But we can’t
yet afford a big libel action. ‘ The greater the truth the
greater the libel.’
Mr. Bechmann, formerly a jeweller in George-
street, and one of the oldest and most respected German
residents of Sydney, died on Tuesday last. A little
while ago his wife died at Wollongong, and in com-
pliance with his dying wishes his body was on Monday
morning conveyed to that place for interment. He
leaves no family, and willed his property, which is con-
siderable, to an adopted son.
Miss Nellie Crocker, of Sacramento, had an
impecunious lover. Dying the other day, she left him
100,000 dollars—to spend on some other girl, very likely.
She belonged to one of the richest families in California,
and for some years past her name has figured promi-
nently in the vivid descriptions of ‘ Nob Hill’ extrava-
gance and 'display published from time to time in the
’Frisco papers.
Judge Blake, of Queensland, formerly well-
known as a member of the New South Wales bar, is
still as fond of butter as he used to be. He can eat,
and frequently does eat, lialf-a-pound at a meal. His
peculiarity in this respect is well known, and when
commercial travellers who sit near him at dinner want
to be funny they hide the crock under the table and ask
his Honor to ‘ pass the butter.* But the Judge never
passes it, and the butter never passes him.
A certain well-known alderman observed the
other day that after Mr. G. R. Dibbs’ failure, fourteen
years ago, all his creditors were paid 20s in the He
(the alderman) still preserved the letter which accom-
panied the cheque forwarded in full settlement ot his
claim—in fact he had had it framed. He further re-
marked that he believed that all Mr. Dibbs’ creditors
would on this occasion, as on the last, jbe. paid in full.
With one exception, of course.
Last Sunday, at a church in a suburb which
boasts a mammoth musical society, the Reverend Dry-
asdust gave a fearful mythical and anatomical de-
scription of the ‘ old gentleman,’ with an infallible
recipe to act as a defence force. The congregation,
awe-struck, yet edified, were shocked by the organist
< playing them out ’ to a vigorous dose of ‘ Baal, we cry
to thee! ’
Thrilling Scene in the Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office.
SIGNOR NOBTI-I.
As the Colonial Secretax’y was quietly and
laboriously straightening some of tho affairs of
State last Tuesday afternoon, the door opened and
Hanley Bennett, Esq., M.L.A., entered, followed
by a fierce-looking aboriginal who carried an
immense parcel.
“Good day, Sir ’Enery,” said Hanley, “This
is King Knock-Em-Ovcr : he’s found out the real
cure for snake-bite —a hannecdote I thinks you
calls it. Sure he’s a real learned blade ”
“ Baal gammon,” seriously interjected the
King.
“ Now, Sir ’Enery,” continued the legislator,
“ I wants none o’ them paper coves to get wind of
this ; but I’ll convince you of the truth privately.
All I wants is a patent, d’ye see ? Now bare up
your arm or your leg, Sir ’Enery, and I’ll get you
a fine bite, an’ cure you in two twos. Get out
your snake, Knock-Exn-Over. ’ ’
King Knock-Em-Over laid down his bundle, and,
uncovering it, displayed to the horrified gaze of
the Prime Minister a large glass jar, in which an
immense brown snake was uneasily twisting.
‘ ‘ Take it out; take it out! ’ ’ roared the Premier.
The King, hearing the demand, and judging it to
be an eager cry for the snake, applied his teeth to
the stopper as a quicker mode of opening.
“Murder!” roared Sir Henry, clutching his
bell-handle, and frantically pulling it.
In rushed the whole establishment.
“ Take that d blackfellow and his snake
out of here,” screamed Sir Henry.
Before the King knew where he was, he was
sitting outside on the road, and his jar rolling
down the street.
“Why, Sir ’Enery, no offence I hopeP” said
Hanley, “ I only wanted to let you believe your
own hi sight; but I’m willing to have it afore the
whole Cabinet. Give it ’em all round, then you’re
sure of fair play.”
“ Not to-day, thank you, Mr. Bennett. I’ll lay
it before the Cabinet and give you their answer.
Good afternoon, Mr. Bennett. Take him out,
gentlemen. Good afternoon.” Exit omnes.
The glass vessel in which the snake was confined
was labelled “ Bottled by Eorster.”
King Knock-em-Over still prowls round the
Colonial Secretary’s Office, but receives scant
civility at the hands of the pampered menials
therein. He sits on the kerb-stone and nurses his
bottle in vain. He has made matters ten times as
bad for himself by explaining that Hanley
Bennett said that ho was going to see a Follow—
a blackfellow. Knock-Em-Over says Sir ’Enery
is “ a brother belonga him,” and that if the
Premier had a black goatee, and were not such
“ old fellow,” he’d be an excellent specimen of
the better type of regal aboriginal.
A is for Allen, the Speaker so bold,
B stands for Betebs, left out in the cold,
C is for Cameron —Carpenter—Chair,
D is for John Davies, with sleeky smooth hair,
E stands for ’Enert minus the “ H,”
E for Farnell, who’s the Freemason’s “retch,”
G for Tom Garrett— the plucky one—stands,
H is for Hoskins, the boss of the “ Lands,”
I stands for Innes, the Knight of Fiji,
J is for Joe, that’s his nick-name you see,
K is for the Knowledge, of which they’re so proud,
L stands for Leary, not worst of the crowd,
M is for McElhone’s vulgar abuse,
N for the Nonsense that’s clearly no use,
O is for O’Connor, that good-natured Greek,
P stands for Pilcher, who knows how to speak,
Q is for the Questions the Members all ask,
B the Be plies which are taken to task,
S is for Samuel —Christian name Saul —
T stands for Terry—that’s better than all!
U is for the Usher who stands at the door,
V the Vapidity uttered galore,
Wwas Windeyeb, now on the Bench,
X the Xpenses they ought to retrench,
Y is for John Young, who would like to be there,
Z for the Zany he’d be if he were !
GUARDS.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
4th Epode of Horace, freely translated.
DEDICATED (WITHOUT PERMISSION) TO SIR H—P-s
ON THE OCCASION OF HIS REJECTION—ALAS! —AT THE
UNIVERSITY.
“ He holdeth the (colony) in the hollow of his hand.”
The love that wolves and lambs inflames
With mutual warmth we, mutual, bear:
Thou—whose conceit ridicule not tames.
Nor satires scourge,—with aspect fair
And bearing proud, may’st not perceive
Thy parasites’ contempt unhid,
Whom Knighthood’s state (!) may not deceive.
Nor shield the scorn that falls unbid.
Fortune changes not the caste! —
Tho’ with the belt of Knighthood girt,
Brummagem metal must at last,
Whate’er betide, itself assert.
Thy fellows, that around thee sit
Within the halls of legislation,
Mindful of the Insolvent Court’s refit.
Oft tried, with ill-concealed vexation.
In lioftus’ despite, thee depute
Macquarie’s comer stone to place,
O wily one! whose wiles acute
May not preserve from near disgrace,
What boot the riches of the soil,
The mineral wealth, the golden dower.
The fairest gifts of fortune, while
This fellow holds the reins of power ?
Our Parliament.
HANLEY BENNETT AND THE MEDICINE MAN.


PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE FIFTH.—RETROSPECTIVE.
To-night we are present at a grand concert given by
rarietta Patti and those who assist her, the first of a
ries to be given at the ‘ Royal.’ Any one who goes
to theatres must often have been struck by
the incongruous class of people who, as a rule, attend
concerts or Shakespeare’s plays. Those who profess to
£e able to understand Shakespearian plays, or good
music and singing, are very similar. At a concert such
Patti’s, one would naturally expect to find those
who from their position in society, are presumed to be
sufficiently educated not only to enjoy, but to
thoroughly understand such a musical and strictly
classical treat as the entertainment promised.
y et it is an undeniable fact that, although the house
was crowded in every port—not omitting appreciative
• gods’ the ‘upper ten’ were remarkable by
their absence. The great ‘Diva’ need not feej
the unmerited slight more than other equally great
artistes who have preceded her and been treated in the
same style. Ristori—than whom a more accomplished
tragedienne never visited our shores—was treated with,
if anything, greater sangfroid, during the whole of
her most successful dramatic season. She never but
once had the compliment paid her of the attendance in
person of the then vice-regal party. And on that one
night, before the piece was half through, the shadow
of royalty grew bored and the vice regal chairs were
empty when the certain drew up. Yet he had daughters
whom we may presume were fairly educated, and whose
minds should have been as capable as most young
people’s of receiving, and, let us hope understanding,
such unrivalled histrionic lessons as the great Ristori
nightly taught us. But a racing papa with horsey
daughters evidently could not understand language so
refined as not to admit slang or the usual stage ‘ gag.’
Later on, when an Opera Bouffe company occupied the
< boards,’ then might be almost nightly seen not only
the representatives of royalty in full force, but all the
‘ upper ten ’ with their sons and daughters, drinking in
with eyes and ears pieces so pourtrayed that the ele-
ment of morality never came to the surface, but under
the pleasant guise of music and dancing much that was
reprehensible was enacted. Nor do these remarks
reflect on the bouffe company. They but pan-
der to the popular taste: why should they be more
fastidious than their audiences P They are but human
machines paid to work to order, or turned off at a mo-
ment’s notice when they refuse or their popularity
begins to wane. With the Patti season, the present
shadow of royalty, though courteous to the ‘ Diva,’
finds the heat too much for him to venture inside a
theatre. Yet on one of our hottest nights, in the midst
of the Patti concerts, there is a very third rate affair
given in one of the theatres by a bungling company of
amateurs—for a ‘charity’ whose funds in hand
are more than fabulous—and lo! vice-royalty, defying
the heat, attends in person, and endures the stuffy-
scented atmosphere and questionable acting until
nearly midnight; and this, too, while the great Diva’s
concerts ore known to scarcely occupy two hours.
True, many have travelled and think they have thereby
gained the right to sneer at all they see or hear in the
antipodes, but no matter. For all they may have
heard Patti is still the world-renownedJDiva of song. I,
who pen these few inadequate words in her praise, have
also crossed the ‘ raging main,’ and no doubt beuefltted
thereby. I have listened with delight to Titiens—now
no more—Neilson, Bettini—to the incomparable Ade-
lina Patti and many others, yet I can sit and listen
with more than satisfaction to Carlotta and pity those
whose minds are not sufficiently attuned to harmony,
or whose musical organs are so dull that they fail to
discover what a priceless pearl we have dwelling for a
time among us.
Quiz.
uies ; and until late years, during which the island has
from time to time been visited by peripatetic divines,
there were no religious disputes.
Mr. Hawkes, the well-known livery stable pro-
prietor, was formerly a sailor. He is now bound to the
land by a horse, sir. [Not editorial. —Author f]
Bach’s ‘Passion’ was performed at the’Varsity
on Saturday last. ‘ Parkes’ ’ passion was on view at
the same place on the day previous.
Mr. W. Long announces his intention of
breaking the ring. Most likely this will turn out to
be ‘ Vox et Petrea nihil.’
Henry Long, a Melbourne Spartan, recently
married a woman who has buried four husbands.
De Murska will probably be his next wife.
Herr Faber has invented a talking machine
somewhere in Germany. Which accounts for Mr.
McElhone’s approaching departure for the Continent.
There is tribulation among the keepers of those
dens of vice, the low city ‘ cafes.’ To-day they are to
be ruthlessly slaughtered.
The date of the Mayor’s fancy dress ball will
shortly be announced. The entertainment will be on a
scale of great magnificence.
The Sydney milkmen are going to have a ball.
The figures will be chalked on the floor, and the gentle-
men will dance in pumps to short measure.
A Cowrn dog takes delivery of the Cowra
Free Press and carries it home in its mouth. We ex-
pect soon to hear of that dog’s death.
We know that Lottie Wilmot lectures—we
know that Lottie Wilmot was a brilliant .success in ‘ Rag
BRIEF MENTION.
Duns are damnable!
David is getting on bootifully.
A legal fiction.—' Return sbort-lie.’
Angus Cameron still lunclies at Punch’s.
Luer married Camilla because he loved ’er-so.
John Davies has got a fresh hand at the bel-
lows of his temperance forge.
Candidates for seats.—The Sydney drapers’
assistants. j
Joe Lowe spells his name with an E. How s
that for high ?
Angus Cameron takes legal advice before ce-
menting an acquaintanceship.
Bourke is going to have some races and is
getting drunk a week or so in advance.
Inquirer.—No, you are wrong. We have it on
indisputable authority that Mr. Piddington is in no way
connected with the monkeys which are now so prevalent
on the street barrel-organs.
Mr. Hoskins never refuses a drink. No one
ever asks him to take one.
John McElhone says that The Bulletin re-
porter is wanted at the Town Hall.
Braidwood larrikins throw rotten eggs, not
rice, at brides.
The figures 1881, representing the coming year,
will read the same forwards and backwards.
Four lady professors of cookery are now in
Sydney. ‘ Too many cooks,’ &c.
Sir ’Enery is now patron of a musical society.
Not the University one, you know.
Mr. Armstrong, the well-known chemist,
borrowed an umbrella during the late rainy weather.
The Express delivery cart and the buggy of
jolly-looking Father Leonard are identical.
In Tasmania there are the lowest wages, the
least poverty, the most women, the least men, the pret-
tiest girls and the finest scenery of any or the colo-
Fair ’ —we also understand Lottie Wilmot kept a to-
bacco shop—we likewise know that Lottie has com-
menced an action for libel against the Evening News —
but what we don’t know; yet should like to know, Is
What has become of Lottie Wilmot’s dog ?
The John Davies’ testimonial banquet was a
great success. Sir Henry Parkes was there, and so was
Mr. Carter.
There is no truth in the rumour that Major
Wells has lost his spurs while riding in the train. He
never won them.
On dit that Mr. Joe Lowe is breeding turkeys.
If he only bred ducks he’d be the dux of the Police
Court.
It’s not true that cabbages are supplied gratis
to any M.L.A. from the garden at the Raudwick
Asylum.
The Telegraph says that the Herald re-
porters are more smart than honest. This may be, but
it’s the other way with the proprietors.
Fernandez, a foreign fish residing in Woolloo-
mooloo-street, was discovered early on Tuesday morn-
ing rushing to Government House with a young shark,
which he had mistaken for a salmon. The Exhibition
ceremouial was nothing to him —he must-see the Gov-
ernor. It is said His Excellency remarked it was a very
fine fish indeed. He immediately set about preserving
it by his famous vinegar process. This really explains
why His Excellency was late for Tuesday’s ceremonial.
The official programme for the Exhibition
closing ceremonial stated ‘ His Excellency will leave
the Exhibition under a salute.’ His Excellency won’t
get * over ’ it in a hurry.
The Town Hall clock has got a poor relation
at the District Court. It is always correct at least
twice a day—at 7 minutes to 10 morning and evening.
Seriously : who’s to blame ?
A Mr. Fleuss has found out a way in which to
breathe under water or in any noxious atmosphere for
an hour or more without any air from above. A useful
idea for M.P.’s.
‘The Vagabond’ says that four sets of judges
for colonial beer have been used up at Sydney Interna-
tional. Two men are in the lunatic asylum, three are
hopeless drunkards, and one’s paralysed.
The Hon. G-eorge Thornton, M.L.C., with his
well-known liberality, has announced his intention of
giving £lOOO to be divided amongst the city charities
for providing extra comfort to the inmates. There
will be immense rejoicing at this unostentatious kind-
ness on the part of so distinguished and so wealthy a
son of the soil. All rich natives should copy so laudable
an example.
‘ Back in five minutes,’ said tlie ticket on the
lawyer’s door. It was there two hours afterwards.
Then the solicitor’s client pinned it to the door of the
Metropolitan Hotel.
The Twaddlegraph likens William Forster
to Barrabas. We’d compare the Twaddlegraph to the
same individual only we don't like speaking ill of the
dead.
Though it did not come out in the other news-
paper reports, it is still a fact that at the Museum ex-
periments on Wednesday the snake was tried on Hanley
Bennett. It died instantly.
M.L.A. (1) The fact that the gentleman you
allude to lias received something like a hundred presen-
tation watches does not necessarily make him a time-
server. (2) Perhaps.
‘The Vagabond,’ writing in the Mary-
borough (Queensland) Chronicle, asserts that the
Hawkesbury River is ‘ one of the biggest frauds in the
colony.’ Quite true. There’s only one bigger fraud in
these parts.
‘ She ’ criticises the drama now, and sits where
she can get a full view of the prompt entrance, and can
see—well —more than she can understand; and this
gets mixed up with the truth, and the public are, how-
ever, not misled by the rubbish.
A fashionable hairdresser, not a hundred yards
from King and Castlereagh-streets, says it’s impossible
to retail the smallest bit of gossip without its appearing
in the next issue of The Bulletin. A barber ought to
know. (This is not an advertisement.)
Bishop Barker, according to a Herald adver-
tisement, is going to sell his horse. Some people say
he has a ‘ better match.’ Other people say that the
quadruped’s going to be one of the property horses in
‘ New Babylon.’ We hope so, for he’s hod a good moral
training.
Two International judges are going into part-
nership. Their stock-in-trade consists of hams, dogs,
watches, lager beer, guns, biscuits, pianos, bolts and
nuts, sardines, oil paintings, corsets, prayer-books and
jam-jars. Beside other trifles.
‘My friend,’ exclaimed Frank Warden to a
j’oung man with a soft hat, little high-heeled boots,
bell-mouthed pants, red necktie, frilled shirt, check
coat, and big brass ring, ‘Do you want to go down to a
drunkard’s grave ? ’ ‘1 don’t mind if I do. Wherea-
bouts is your family lot ?’
At G-ulgong, where there are ‘ hardly a dozen
marrying young men,’ fifty-six girls ‘ are perfectly
willing to enter into the bonds of wedlock’ —we quote
from a local paper. This state of affairs calls for the
immediate institution of Mormonism. Gulgong is
surely Utah-pia!
The Rev. Mr. Westwood-ho (for we’ve met
him on the Barcooj is lecturing in the Domain on ‘ The
Great Pyramid,’ and predicting that the world’s to
come to a conclusion next year. But this doesn’t tally
with the fact that a certain itinerant preacher is col-
lecting funds for a Continental tour to come off in 1882.
An admirer sends the following: —What is
the difference between our editor and n surgeon ? —The
one guides The Bulletin, and the other guides the
bullet out. From the former the extracts are pleasant,
from the latter they are painful. The public are ad-
vised to have more reliance in the lend of the modern
‘jColt ’ than in that of the ‘ ancient Pistol.’
The Daily Twaddlegraph, writing about
the University election, compares Mr. Forster to Bar-
rabas, who was a robber, and inferenfially Sir Henry to
someone else who was not. It calls Mr. Forster a
‘ wretched traducer of the colony ’ and ‘ a Slanderer-
General.’ It says that Sir Henry’s defeat is a disgrace
to the University and a reproach to the colony, and
wishes the graduates luck of their ‘ filthy bargain.’ This
is language worthy of David Buchanan or Graham
Berry, or John Alexander Dowie —or the Daily
Twaddlegraph.
The Bulletin was the only paper that was
not buried in the solid rook on the occasion of the
foundation stone of the Barrenjoey lighthouse being
laid the other day. The reason The Bulletin was not
so buried is that it is not dead. It’s the only live paper.
Some of the Svdney papers are dead, hut, like Napo-
leon’s Russian, they won’t lie down. Some of them
have got consumption, and others fatty degeneration.
The Government caused all the rest of the jwrpers to
be interred, Dr. O’Connor having duly supplied death
certificates. The Bulletin will be placed in the lan-
tern in order to intensify the light, and will be read
free, gratis, and for nothing for eighteen miles all round ;
to be, dear friends, ‘ a lamp unto thy feet, and a light
unto thy path.’
Ante-Mortem Obituary.
No. III.
“OLD LUCAS.”
Once more The Bulletin, days ahead of
events, gives to the world news of a great cala-
mity. “ Old Lucas ”is gone — gone over to the
majority, where he always tried to be. But in
grateful remembrance of true merit The Bul-
letin fetches him back to dangle his noble form
and splendid attributes for a moment in the eyes
of the nation, and to hold him up as a model to a
young and hopeful people, that round about ns
yet may spring crops of patriots—noble-hearted,
stupid, splendid, selfish fellows. Our artist
sketches the deceased legislator in the attitude he
was best known to the people—moving steadily in
his famous rattletrap in the direction of the As-
sembly Chamber. How the great legislator came
to grief may be gathered from these words : —His
horse, usually an inoffensive animal, took fright
in Pitt-street at a hay-load ; the springs of the
buggy at length collapsed and wop went Lucas.
When picked up it was found that the deceased
legislator wore paper collars. He was taken away
and a post-mortem examination revealed the fact
that the deceased gentleman had no brains ; in the
words of the doctor, he was all ears and vacuum.
And now to speak of his political career. He was
not a corrupt man —corrupt men generally being
clever —but he knew how to work the oracle. He
had several sons, and he said unto himself one
day—“ These shall I devote to the country”—and
he devoted them accordingly to the Civil Service.
And yet he wanted to do more-good to his country,
so he chopped and changed till he became Minister
for Mines in the Robertson Ministry. He stoutly
resisted his colleagues in sticking to any principle,
contending it was a matter of “ ins ” and “ outs,”
and he had had too much of the “outs.” Soon
after his instalment in office he began to write
minutes; but it took hours to make them out, and
that was why in a sneering way the officials of his
department used always to say, “ If he could only
spell,” and “ What a pity he didn’t learn to
write!” He started on a tour westward, at his
own expense, and was banquetted at Gulgong.
That was the only place he was banquetted, for
it went on before lum, wherever he travelled, that
“Old Lucas” could eat. He made notes of his
tour, but on his return couldn’t read them, and so
the mysteries of the interior remain still a secret.
He subsequently more than once attempted to
make laws, but his efforts were not appreciated.
In and out of the House people said he didn’t
know much; and though we never remember his
having addressed the Speaker in a foreign tongue,
the newspaper reporters used to say he didn’t
know two words of English. He was, however, a
great hand at finishing sentences, and his lore
was always worth taking down. The reporters
used to call him Bacon, of course it doesn’t matter
if it was Chawbacon. But he is gone.
Signor Pencenitti. We are old friends. ‘Ah ! Madam,
he cries, rubbing his long white hands together, ‘Now
I have liberty Igoto my art, my studio. I have moch
work to do, lam modelling the two ‘ Dianas." ’ ‘ But,
my dear Signor,’ I exclaim, ‘ Great is Diana of the
Ephesians! There is but one ‘Diana.’ You make a
mistake.” ’ ‘ Pardon, Madam, but lam right and yon
are right. One Diana at Ephesus, but in the colonies
history repeats itself.” And with a shrug of pity at my
ignorance he bows and hurries out, I presume, to inter-
view his ‘ models.’ Again, I turn this time towards
the ‘ Dome,’ where the dense crowd are still faithful to
the fountain. Here are all the girls, young and old,
who have daily passed their idle hours within the pre-
cincts of the ‘ Palace.’ I see two sisters whq have never
missed a day since the opening, whose portly mamma
keeps a boarding-house, not from want of means, but
her craving for society is such that, not being able to
accomplish it in any other manner, she takes in young
men at a merely nominal figure for the pleasure of their
society. Here, too, I see Mrs. Ko-hi-noor and her at-
tentive husband, and the decidedly fast girls in ‘ guern-
seys,’ a very questionable article, which suggests their
readiness to put on the whole armour.’ Ah! hark the
bell!—the bell that rings us out. My Palace Letters
are ended, but anon as occasion happens you shall hear
from me. I hurry now to post.
Yours resignedly,
PEA BLOSSOM.
PALACE POSTAL LETTERS.
BY PEA-BLOSSOM.
(Forwarded per favour of THE!BULLETIN.)
PRESENTING THE EXHIBITION JUDGES.
Mt dear Bean-Blossom, —
At last our Garden Palace is closed. The
weather was not propitious; we opened with rain and
closed with rain. This morning the constant showers
damaged the dresses but not the ardour of the people.
For a full and true account of the ceremony I forward
you a paper. To me it seemed wretchedly slow. There
was a great crowd of people—a very mixed crowd, and
no toilets worth mentioning; in fact, the ladies have
worn so many smart costumes for the last six months
that I doubt if their purse-strings or their parents’
could stand any more strain without showing their emp-
tiness. Then there were no naval officers present. They
always add so much to the appearance of any public
demonstration. Of course there were a few Commis-
sioners, but six mouths* acquaintance with these
foreign gentlemen has done much to rub off their
gilding. The whole affair was so dull that had the
noisy brass band played the ‘ dead march it would not
have seemed out of place. Vale!
The afternoon crowd was far more lively. Here might
now be seen the foreign exhibitors and Commissioners
out for a holiday, making the most of their opportunity,
for their days are nearly numbered, I notice one little
foreigner, with a passably good-looking face, Jewish in
its outline and expression, who has made open love to
almost all the girls he has been introduced to. He
takes them in turn. One morning I see him devoted to
two tall women, evidently recently arrived from Mel-
bourne. He seats them both and bends over their
chairs. Perhaps it makes his little head ache looking
up at them. Again, I see him with a girl in drab and a
girl in blue, neither belonging exactly to the creme of
society, and yet not emigrants from Melbourne. With
both of them our interesting little foreigner is on ex-
cellent terms. He is evidently an adept in suiting him-
self to his company, and more than meets them half
way. His amorous glances rest first on one and then on
the other. Had he command enough of the English
language he would certainly exclaim, like Captain
Macheath:—
‘ How happy could I be with either
Were t’other dear charmer away.’
As to the girls, if they were quite sure that he meant
■only one-half that his very expressive eyes hint at they
would either of them propose to him; but, my dear Beau
Blossom, many moths flutter round one lamp, and the
lamp scorches all alike, and girls’ hearts at the present
-epoch are very like gutta-percha balls. You may
squeeze them and squeeze them, but drop them and
they soon resume their former ronndness, and are ready
tor the next hand that offers. From exhibitors and
'Commissioners I turn and find myself face to face with
ME. JOHN LUCAS, M.P.
April 24. 1830.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Measles are spreading in Melbourne.
Passages via the Cape are now in favor.
The U. S. have 82,263 miles of railway.
A big anti-Chinese crusade is approaching.
An attempt to poison the Czar is reported.
Professional burglars are visiting Newcastle.
The Queen has returned from the Continent.
Oranges" arc now being exported from Mary -
borough Queensland, to Sydney.
Payable gold has been found at Wills Creek,
Diamantina, 400 miles from Normanton.
Alluvial gold, it is said, has been found at Wan-
tabadgery, forty feet down.
Government do not intend to pull down the
Garden Palace.
Anyone who wants to get paid for catching the
Kellys must hand them over before 21st July next.
Last quarter Chinamen exported from Cook -
town to China 6,060 ozs. gold.
The police state that they have positive infor-
mation regarding the whereabouts of the Kellys.
Mr. Medsart has arrived to take the agency for
the P. and O. Company.
Mr. Service, who is a merchant, has altered the
words ‘ coffee-berry’ in his trade lists to ‘ coffee-bean.’
A memorial to the police murdered by the
Kelly’s will be inaugurated at Mansfield to-day (Friday).
Beaconsfield has resigned. The Bulgarians have
been “addressing” Gladstone.
A small party of British troops have been
massacred in Afghanistan.
It is believed that John Bright will accept
office.
J. Davidson, saloon passenger, disappeared dur-
ing the Aldiuga’s last voyage.
In England, tin is advancing; breads tuffs are de-
clining.
A little child played with matches the other
day at Surry Hills. The property was insured.
The Cotopaxi sailed from Plymouth for Aus-
tralia on the 17th instant.
Two tons of chloral are used in London an-
nually.
All Saints’ Anglican church, Tumut, has been
opened by the Bishop of Goulburn.
The Governor has given his assent to the Public
Instruction bill.
Dr. Sir W. H. Gordon, Baronet, contests Mur-
rurundi.
The Service Ministry favor competitive exami-
nations.
Bell and Coleman’s process is to be exhibited
at Melbourne International.
The decorations of Melbourne Exhibition buil-
ding are well advanced.
The rumour that diseased cattle are salted at
Adelaide abbatoirs is of course denied.
A parcel of smelted antimony has been shipped
to Sydney from Coraugular, Kempsey.
Spurious A. J. S. bank notes are in circulation
at Taree.
Mr. James Fletcher, of the Co-operative colliery,
will probably stand for Northumberland.
Lesseps visits England to advocate the
Panama canal scheme.
Portugal and China have quarrelled, the latter
claiming Macao.
60,000 men have been added to the German
army.
A 13-foot shark was caught off Lady Mac-
quarie’s chair on Monday.
Woolgar rush is ‘a duffer’ for the present.
The Etheridge is looking up splendidly.
Over a million passengers have already trave lied
o«i the Elizabeth-street tramway.
Sydney International was finally closed on
Tuesday.,
At London wool sales, the first day’s bidding
showed an average advance of 14d.
A terrific hurricane has killed hundreds of people
in Missouri.
Ghuznee, Mohammed Jan’s stronghold, has been
captured by native allies of the British.
The Esk Bank Iron Company are now making
full-sized rails with great success—the first occasion on
which the task has been performed in the colony.
William Johnson, a Botany man, has been
chopping his bare head with an axe. Not accidentally
either.
Mr. Pegrum, of the firm of Hume and Pogrum,
was entertained on Wednesday, at a picnic, by his friends
prior to his departure on a trip to England.
The members of the A. M. P. Society, at their
31st annual meeting, decisively resolved not to abolish
voting by proxy in directorial elections.
Contributions of money or food will be thank-
fully received by the manager of the Night Refuge aud
Soup Kitchen.
Mr. Service promises no remission of taxation.
He says that all Berry’s new taxes ore pledged far in
excess of the revenue derived from them.
Ten thousand men ‘processed’ on Wednesday
at Melbourne on the occasion of the eight-hours’ demon-
stration.
A miner, name unknown, who went from Syd-
ney en route for the Woolgar, walked to Hughendenaud
died from exhaustion.
The Bourke P. and A. Association offers as
prizes this year, 26 gold and 42 silver cups. Entries
close on J une 22nd.
A Forbes landlord chased a runaway lodger fifteen
miles and on promising to ‘ make an hospital patient ’ of
the latter, obtained payment of his bill.
A trust and agency company has been incor-
porated in Melboime. A similar association has been
formed in Adelaide and is badly wanted in Sydney.
We are requested to state that Lady Augustus
Loftus holds a reception at Government House this
(Friday) afternoon, from 3 to 5 o’clock.
£BOO was collected in less than a fortnight
towards the enlargement of All Saints’Church (C.E.),
Petersham.
No less than five large steamers left Melbourne
for Sydney on the 20th instant—the Cuzco, Hydaspes,
Atjeh, Hero, and Rodondo.
The residents of Jones-street, Stanmore, in the
Municipality of Marrickville, have taken to repairing
the foot paths aud gutters of that street at their own
expense.
The growing importance of Sydney has in-
duced the P. and O. Co. to establish a branch office
here, to manage which Captain Kerton has come out
from Malta.
There is a great row in Adelaide. A Sunday-
school teacher and class-leader, a very-much married
man, has been falling in love with the choir girls all
round.
The cost of the carriage of flour from New-
castle to Tamworth by rail is 18s lOd ; that of sugar. £3
11s lOd. This, says Mr. Greville, is to enable Sydney
merchants to ruin Tamworth ! armers.
Mr. William Williams, manager at Hay for
McCulloch & Co., has been charged with embezzlement
and arson —the latter crime apparently to conceal the
former—and been committed for trial.
The London manager of the Bank of N. S. W.
says that ‘the mischievous and wrong views of Mr.
Forster have reduced N. S. W. bonds by from 4 to 1 per
cent.’
Mr. Alexander Gilchrist, late superintendent of
Scots’ Church Sabbath-school, was, on Wednesday
evening, presented by the teachers and scholars with a
handsome address and testimonial.
Mr. Fitzpatrick, on Wednesday next, moves a
vote of censure on the Government in connexion with
their conduct regarding the Mining on Private Property
Bill. The Assembly, therefore, stands adjourned. An
Opposition caucus was held on Wednesday last.
Rev. C. C. Elleum, chaplain to the Bishop of
Adelaide, says he has found an utter sense of spiritual
loneliness as he ministered among his congregation,
whose whole demeanour proved how little he and they
held in common.
The Victorian bowling team were entertained
by Mr. Holroyd at Sherwood Scrubs on Tuesday Mr.
Cripps, of Pitt-street, who now that the Exhibition is
over is once more in his right element, provided the
luncheon in fine style.
Mr. Bailey, a Queensland M.P., recently ob-
jected to a man’s name being placed on the jury list be-
cause he was a dipsomamaniac and if brought to
town would inevitably get drunk. However, the name
of the noble juror wasn’t struck off.
During the recent visit of the Wolverene,
Danae, Emerald, and the English war schooners to
Hobart Town, three tars ‘got spliced’ to Tasmanian
girls. The fleet spent £26,000 during its stay—in the
proportion of £1 Is. 6d. to every inhabitant of the
Southern Nice.
The Evening News has been regularly sent to
Government House for the last ten years, and each
succeeding Governor has been duly billed. Lord
Augustus Loftns has declined to pay his bill, and the
case is likely to go to the District Court. His Excel-
lency pays for the Buddetin. Ca va sans dire.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton has brought an action
against the Government for damages alleged to have
been sustained by him owing to delay in the publication
by the Government printer of ‘ Heaton’s Australian
Dictionary of Dates and Men of the Time.’ Damages
are laid at £5,000.
At Copeland the Chinese can make no headway.
The diggers won’t deal with them and won’t patronise
any publican or storekeeper who employs or does busi-
ness with or through celestials. This is as it should be.
There is a splendid opening just now for any politician
who will use as a weapon ‘ the Chinese mus ’ git. ’
The amateur concert given at the Oddfellows’
Hall, Ashfleld, on Monday evening last, by the pupils of
the Public school, in aid of the school funds, was in
every way a great success. If Mr. Conway’s pupils im-
prove as rapidly in their ordinary studies as in music
and the drama, they must indeed be getting on well.
More rows in Samoa. This time the lookout
is serious. Sir Arthur Gordon has put up a puppet
native king to rule the people, and the natives won’t
put up with the puppet. The Americans stick up for
the natives, and the Germans stick up for the British;
and there will be a general sticking-up all round pretty
soon,
A small rush has broken out ten miles from
Maytown, Palmer River. 400 Chinese and 14 Europeans
were on the ground when the mail left. The rush is on
virgin ground. The gold is shotty—in fact very coarse
indeed. Nuggets of 86 oz.. 56 oz., and 38 oz.,
have been found at Butcher’s Creek—of course by
Chinamen. Another Chinaman got 39 oz. in two days.
Mr. Carroll, of the C.P.C., was heard one
evening last week at Petersham carolling sweet strains
of Moore to an appreciative if noisy audience, whose
choral powers were certainly robust, and in which par-
ticular they were certainly harmonious. The hat did not
go round on this occasion (but the head did), as Mr.
Carroll observed that it would be unprofessional ; but
in order to keep up the strict professional etiquette he
would ask the company to charge their glasses first.
It is stated in the Ovens and Murray
Advertiser that at Moyhu races, on sth March, Miss
Lloyd, Mrs. Skillion (sister of the Kellys), rode the first,
second and third horses in the ‘ ladies ’ hack race: that
Kate Kelly was also present and remained on guard over
her brother Dan, ,who. mounted on a splendid thorough-
bred bay, escorted the party to the racecourse, and en-
joyed the sport in safety from a thickly-timbered comer
of the ground.
To the Cooktown Courier of 10th April,
Mr. Donald Lang, leader of the prospecting party which
recently visited the Peach River, writes a long and most
interesting account of his trip. Me gives it as his
candid opinion that a belt of auriferous country exists
north of Sefton River, and that a party going out in
May would probably find a payable field. He describes
the sufferings of himself and party as having been great,
and the howling gusts and weary rain coming from the
Gulf of Carpentaria as something terrible. On his
return from the Coen he had two narrow escapes from
spears, one grazing his shoulders and the other dropping
between his Jegs. Anyone interested in northern min-
ing should read Mr. Lang’s report.
Private Matinee Musicale.
Occasion not having previously offered of speak-
ing of the powerful qualifications for a great
career in the future for one of our leading vocal
amateurs, we shall scarcely be exceeding the limits
of public duty by mentioning a private vocal per-
formance which was improvised at the Guild Hall
on Tuesday afternoon. The immense success of
Miss Kate Slattery (who is preparing for public
artist life) on the occasion of her visit by invitation
to sing at a public concert in Melbourne, where she
took by surprise an enormous gathering at the
large Town Hall, caused the Hon. J. J. Casey,
Melbourne Commissioner at our Exhibition and
President of the Melbourne Metropolitan Lieder-
tafel, to express a wish to hear the young lady in
one of our Sydney halls before his departure for
the sister city. Accordingly, at almost a moment’s
notice, Mr. T. Slattery arranged a small enter-
tainment to which were bidden such of his friends
and those interested in the progress of music
amongst our young colonists as could be got
together, the short time available preventing a
larger attendance of Mr. Slattery’s numerous
friends. The pieces sung by Miss Slattery were —
The romanza “ Seloa Opaco,” from Rossini’s
“ Guillaume Tellthe recitative and entire scena,
“Ah, fors a lui,” from Verdi’s “ Traviata
“ I know that my Redeemer liveth,” from Hoen-
del’s “ Messiah,” and the grand scena for Selika
from Meyerbeer’s “ L’Africaino.” Four such
opposite compositions could not fail to be con-
sidered as severe tests of the young lady’s capa-
bilities ; and her method of execution in each,
besides showing the brilliant qualities of the voice
which resounded through the hall, manifested the
care bestowed on the training by Signor Steffani
the master, and the pupil’s assiduity in study.
Every possible vocal effect is contained in those
four selections, and they were all admirably re-
produced by the vocalist, the last two being
especially noticeable for the light and shade in the
vocal colouring. In the air from “ L’Africaine,”
a portion is unaccompanied, and the chromatic
passages were sung with admirable precision
and delicacy of finish. After the concert some
very complimentary short addresses of thanks and
encouragement wore made by Mr. Casey, Mr. P. A.
Jennings, and others, Mr. T. Slattery replying on
behalf of his sister. It was intimated that arrange-
ments were in progress for the public debut of
Miss Slattery at a complimentary concert to be
given shortly ; and Mr. Casey stated that if Miss
Slattery would fulfil her promise of giving a concert
in Melbourne, he would guarantee one of the largest
audiences ever assembled in the Town Hall.
STAGE GOSSIP.
Mr. Edwin Kelly baa left for Melbourne.
M‘Lean’s Troubadours are in Tasmania.
Jobn Bennett smiles while drawing cheques.
The ‘ Pirates of Penzance ’ is a brilliant success
in New York.
Mr. Deorwyn unreservedly condemns the
whisky at the Garden Palace.
Mr. J. L. Hall is writing a comedy specially
for Japanese Tommy.
Mr. Kitts, of the Royal, still asks when are we
going to have cool weather.
Miss Myra Kemble is the youngest Lady Mac*
beth that has yet appeared on the Sydney boards.
Frank Maxted has given up the Saturday
night concerts. They didn't pay.
lima De Murska pleads guilty to thirty-six,
but swears, swelp’er, that’s all.
‘ Friends ’ at the Royal will be succeeded by
* Blow for Blow.’
Fairclough’s present season at the Victoria has
been one of his greatest triumphs.
Mr. Creswick sails for England in the Durham
to fulfil an engagement.
The Variety Company at the People’s Theatre,
Melbourne, are* doing splendidly.
The Lingards pay Newcastle a visit after their
season in Sydney. ,
Cheevers and Kennedy have not gone to En gland
as they intended, but are doing a trip inland in Victoria.
Mr. George Darrell opened a short season at
Brisbone on April X9th.
Mr. Dampier has several new and startlingly sen-
sational pieces to produce before leaving Sydney.
The Kennedy Family of Scotch vocalists left
India for London last December.
Wilson’s Great World Circus intend paying
Melbourne a visit during the Exhibition.
Chiarini’s Circus will arrive in Sydney in the
middle of May.
Professor Pepper is at St. George’s Hall, Mel-
bourne.
Madame Duret is in destitute circumstances in
in California.
At the Opera House, Melbourne, after Italian
Opera comes English Opera and Opera Bouffe.
At the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, Grattan
Riggs, Irish comedian, is doing well.
Tom Kennedy, Pepper’s late agent, has dis-
carded the show business and gone in for bills and paste.
Mr. Fairclough would give the Newcastle people
a treat if he oould obtain any talent to support him.
The London Comedy Company will visit New-
castle before they leave New South Wales.
John Raynor’s Panorama of the American War
commences a season again in Sydney shortly, after a
most successful trip north.
The Academy of Music, Melbourne, is doing a
good business with Mr. Creswick giving frequent
changes of programme.
At the People’s Theatre, Melbourne, the Mam-
moth Combination H. and H. Minstrels and Loftus
Troupe are prospering.
Gossip says that Hamilton intends massing the
Coloured Gentlemen in Melbourne for a big show. No
cork, but plenty of aroma.
The run of ‘ It’s Never too late to Mend,’ is so
pronounced and successful that it remains on the boards
of the Queen’s Theatre till further notice.
The production of ‘ Drink ’ at the Queen’s
Theatre is anxiously looked forward to by all the prin-
cipal visitors of that popular place of amusement.
Mr. Bland Holt’s ‘ New Babylon ’ ought to
prove successful, for the management have gone to a
big expense in mounting it.
Miss Ella Carrington’s ‘Stray Leaves’ Com-
pany was to succeed Hudson’s Surprise Party at the
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton.
Professor Haselmayer has been prevented going
north on a tour through his having initiated an action
for slander uttered against the fair name of his wife.
‘Friends’ had a longer run than any other
comedy yet produced in Sydney. Six weeks to fine
houses.
The dome of Kelly and Leon’s Opera House is
sometimes called its ‘doom,’ possibly because it ap-
pears doomed not to be completed.
Mr. Arthur Garner, of the Comedy Company,
won heavily from the ‘books’ at the last Randwick
Meeting.
Miss Fanny Rogers, of Kelly and Leon’s Com-
pany, was married, on Friday, at St. Phillip’s, to Mr. J.
A. Patterson, of the same troupe.
In the Pinafore Company, Sandhurst, for a
change, the Captain has punched the head of the well-
known Mac, who is acting as pilot.
A well-known Sydney Boniface who blows a
reed classes his customers as a lot of supers. So much
for rising in the world.
The late lecturer for a lady who displays her
talent on the balance, gave the lie direct, the other
evening, to a young and rising comedian. Both parties
are going to the ‘ liyers.’
Imogene again ! On the passage of the Orient
(s.) to England, this eccentric young lady amused her-
self by throwing the best dishes out of the port-hole to
the annoyance of all the good eaters.
It is said, but we are not in a position to state
so for a fact, that human nature changes every seven
years. If so, it may account for Mr. Greville taking off
his hat now when he meets a lady in the street.
Mr. Sam Lazar is having a holiday—fishing,
shooting, &c. In the interests of sport we’ll inquire
of our friend where one may go with his gun for a good
day’s sport.
Mr. H. R. Harwood in February last was in
Calcutta, at the Theatre Comique, doing splendidly
with Webb and Trotter’s Royal Marionettes. They
show next at Bombay.
Harry Lyons, late agent for the Stewart
Family, lately arrived from India with a Troupe of
Indian Jugglers, which he is showing in Melbourne to
splendid business.
In a recent before-the-curtain-speech Bouci-
cault said that ‘ Colleen Bawn ’ was the play by which
he wished to be remembered. Other authors will be
remembered by some of his other plays.
The well-known stage manager of the Victoria,
Mr. J. H. Rainford, has became the proprietor of the
Cambridge Club Hotel. Grand billiard saloons are to be
a feature.
Said a prosperous circus-man’s daughter to a
retired actress :—‘ After all, you were once only a circus
artist; my father remembers you very well.’ I dare
say he does my dear,’ was the retort courteous, ‘he
used to chalk my boots.’
Rumour has it that a play from the pen of
Mrs. Alfred Dampier will shortly be produced at the
Queen’s Theatre. Mrs. Dampier is the youngest
daughter of the late T. H. Russell, R.A., of the Hollies,
near Birmingham, England.
Bessie Turner, the celebrated witness in the
case of Theodore Tilton against Henry Ward Beecher,
and well-known as a successful soubrette, has married
Charles Walgain, stage carpenter of Berry’s Broadway
Theatre, Brooklyn. Tilton supports his wife but never
visits her.
Messrs. Kelly and Leon have returned from
their northern tour, where, they did good business,
especially at Maitland. They open at Wagga on Monday
night, and en route back to Sydney play at Murrumbur-
rah, Goulburn, Picton, and Campbelltown. Why nr *
Yass?
Hudson’s Surprise Party have been doin ?
well at Rockhampton. One of the local papers says*
among other nice Things, that the music produced
Miss V. de Gay ‘ reminds us of the warbling of a bird.*
The ‘charming appearance, piquancy, and Lesbia-liw
glances of Miss Amy Horton ’ are also referred to.
Miss Lydia Howarde took a successful benefit
at the Queensland Theatre, Brisbane, on 16th current,
in ‘ The Daughter of the Regiment ’ and . ‘ Aladdin?
The newspapers speak in terms of high praise of the-
singing of tne benefleiaire; also of the acting 0 (
Messrs. South (who played Widow Twankey), Hasker
aud Inglis.
New Babylon will be a sensation. There are to
be five horses on the stage, and the scenic effects ar«
beyond colonial imagination. Clint and Sebright are
busy with the brush at all hours. Mr. Bland Holt, Mr
Hall and Mr. Rainford have been all active with daily re.’
hearsals to bring the piece out in fine style on the opening
night. The piece had at last accounts reached its foiy
hundredth night in London.
A recent London telegram to one of the Irish
papers states : —• Miss May Holt, a popular favourite of
the Cork stage, has consented at the request of the
patrons of the Duke’s Theatre, Holbom, of which h er
father, Mr. Clarence Holt, is lessee, to appear once more
next Saturday night, before her final departure from the
stage, which she quits in consequence of her marriage
with Mr. John Fairburn, son and heir of Sir John Fair,
bum, a wealthy Yorkshire baronet. This marriage is a
romance of real life, which Mr. Clarence Holt is engaged
in adapting to the stage, and his very vigorous render,
ing of Victor Hugo’s fiction promises success, where
the story interests him more nearly.’ Miss May Holt is
a sister of Mr. Bland Holt, who to - night makes his re-
appearance at the Victoria Theatre Sydney in.“ The New
Babylon.”
On Monday evening a very amusing entertain-
ment was given at the Guild Hall by the members of
the Charles Kean Amateur Dramatic Club. The at-
tendance was very numerous. The pieces performed
were that pretty little comedy ‘ Silken Fetters,’ and
the laughable farce of ‘Borrowed Plumes,’ both of
which were cleverly sustained. As the object of the
entertainment was to increase the Literary Fund of
the society, and the audience consisted mainly of
the friends of the amateur members, we may well re.
frain from criticism, though occasion may arise when a
little wholesome advice would no doubt be welcomed by
the members as a boon. These societies are much to be
commended ; they wean young members of society from
the corrosive canker of idleness by affording them
legitimate mental occupation for their pastime.
Robert Farquharson—or, simply, Farqukarson,
as he was best known amongst us—the most eminent
bass singer in concert or opera that has ever visited
Australia, died in London on the 14th of February, aged
sixty years. He was one of two brothers, Robert Far.
quharsou Smith and Henry Smith, who gave entertain-
ments in England forty years ago in the style of Henry
Russell, and for singing the songs of the latter Henry
Smith was involved in a law suit with Russell. His
Marcel in the ‘ Huguenots,’ and Giorgio in ‘ I Puritani,’
has seldom been equalled, and he was one of the main
supports of the Lyster Opera Company. He was a
genial companion, kind hearted to a fault, and the least
egotistical of artists. Had he lived he was to have re-
visited us this year, and many of his old friends
in every part of Australia will regret to hear of his
decease. May he rest in peace!
FUN AND FANCY.
A Stem necessity—the rudder.
The glory of a woman is her heir.
Promissory notes. —Tuning a fiddle.
A ship in love—when she wants a mate.
What a soft hat lacks in style it gains in expression.
A chilly man wears a great coat, and a hot dog pants.
A man can’t he mistaken as to a horse’s age when he
has it from the horse’s own mouth.
The hride who sings. ‘ Do they miss me at home ?’ is
unreasonable. They speak of her as Mrs. now.
It has now been discovered that Cleopatra took to her
bosom with fatal results a encumber, not a snake. This
is a terribly prosaic age.
An Egyptian mummy has just been discovered with a
stuffed tooth in his mouth and the dentist’s bill in his
pocket.
She was plump and beautiful and he was wildly fond
of her. She hated him, but, womanlike, she strove to
catch him. He was a flea.
A feminine toast— ‘ The young men of Australia—
Their arms our support, our arms their reward; fall in,
men; fall in.”
The experienced never speak of girls’ feet by that
name. They mention them respectfully as great ter-
minal facilties.
Young man, if it is eleven o’clock and she goes to the
piano and plays a few bars of ‘The Sweet By-and-by,”
you may consider the seance over for the night.
When a fellow has his office connected with his girl’s
home by telephone, it is a mean rival who will steal
into the young man’s office and put onion-juice on the
instrument.
‘Why ami made a sandwich ?’ said young Snobson,
plaintively, as a lady sat down on either side of him ia
the tram-car. “ Because we are better bred than
you are,’ said one of the damsels, sweetly.
A ballet-girl, writing to a London journal, says that
she is awaro that “ actresses never get beyond the out-
skirts of fashionable society.’ The fact is ballet-girls
never get beyond the short-skirts of society.
Papa: ‘ What are you doing, my child ? ’ —‘ I’m dipp
ing dolly’s dress in the beer to color it red.’ —‘ Why, you
can’t color it red with beer.’ —‘ Oh, yes I can, papa,
’cause mamma says it’s beer that makes your nose red.’
A ‘ subscriber’ of a Southern paper recently died, four
years in arrear. The editor sighed, and, anticipating
the verdict at the Great Judgment Day, deposited ok
deceased’s grave a palm-leaf fan, a linen coat, a ther-
mometer and a bottle of soda.
The following message, intended to break bad news
gently, was sent to the widow of a man who had just
been killed by a railroad accident; ‘ Dear madam: Your
husband is unavoidably detained for the present. To-
morrow an undertaker will call upon you with the full
particulars.”
It was the gentle Springtime, when the flowers were
in bloom and the birds sang sweetly in the trees, that
Mr. Gallagher started from the town to go to the house,
carrying on egg in each hand. A wicked hornet alighted
on his nose and began to get in its work, and Mr.
Gallagher struck the insect and sj>oiled an egg.
Germany is divided into twenty army corps, the
duties of which are to watch over the unity of the Ger-
man empire aud the freedom of the German people.
The principal characteristics of the great German nation
are national pride, philosophy and hunger, and the chief
productions of German industry are cannon aud small
arms, barracks aud gunpowder. In Germany the most
precious of the metals is lead. The favorite occupation
of the German are building fortresses and triumphal
arches, participating in grand manoeuvres and reviews,
polishing gun-barrels, inventing philosophical systems
and composing lyric poetry. His principal amusements
are excursions to the tax-collector’s office, mounting
guard, drinking lager-beer, answering roll-call, cleaning
barrack floors and running after decorations. His
national costume consists of a belt and a cartridge-bo*
and his ideal of elegance is a stiff bearing and a wefl-
cleaned rifle. In the words of ’Gus Wangenheim, 'und-
zo-and-zo.
It seems strange that a servant girl cannot know her
place and attend properly to the household duties
entrusted to her care, without neglecting her work to
take liberties with unprotected divines straying about
the house alone. A servant who would deliberately
take advantage of an innocent pastor should be utterly
tabooed by the labour agents aud compelled to find her
level. A minister of the Gospel, earnestly endeavor-
ing to follow out the ramifications of the plan of
salvation, is entitled to be protected in his own house,
which is rightfully his castle. The hired help seems to
be getting so emboldened by success that no clergyman
of whatever denomination is safe if his wife happens to
walk out for a few moments. Thus it is that servant
girls aim at sapping the foundations of religion and
attacking the bulwarks which have surrounded tb«
Christian faith for ages.


STAMP ALBUM WANTED, containing over ONE
HUNDRED STAMPS. Unused stamp for reply.
E. BRAY, Newtown Rood.
CITY HAIRDRESSING AND BATH ROOMS,
220 PITT STREET
(Opposite Tattersall’s Hotel).
Mr. JAMES CLARKE, Proprietor.
*,* The BATHS of this establishment are unsur-
passed in Sydney, being fitted up and supplied on
absolutely new principles, which cannot but win for
them an extensive public patronage.
N.B.—The best brands of Tobaccos, Cigars, &c.
Novelties in Pixies, Walking-sticks, and other articles.
HE SYDNEY JUDY:
A COMICAL AND SATIRICAL JOURNAL
OF 18 PAGES.
To the people of New South Wales and all whom it
may concern:—Be it known by these presents that for
some time past Judy and her consort Punch have not
been on such terms as desirable, and this unpleasant
state of things has arisen chiefly through disagreements
on the political questions of the day in social matters.
As man and wife, Judy and Punch are exquisitely
beautiful living examples of the wholesome truth that
man and wife are as one; but as business xieople Judy
and Punch are no longer as one, and have consented to
mutual separation, Judy declining further to be known
as the “ Old Woman,” or that Punch shall be known
os the “Old Mon,” when forty summers have not yet
Jiassed over their rejuvenating heads. The motto of
Fudy shall ever be' IMPARTIAL, not NEUTRAL;
nothing of a personal or private character shall have
place. The political and other public questions of the
day, their uses and abuses, shall occuyjy Judy’s atten-
tion, and though at times she may have to be a little
cruel, it will only be “ to be kind.”
The ladies are specially invited to use Judy’s columns
for seeking redress for their real or imaginary wrongs,
and tliat all may have the chance of sharing Judy’s fun
this 18-page comic paper will be published EVERY
SATURDAY at the low price of THREEPENCE, the
subscription being Three Shillings x>er quarter.
Advertisements will be charged at the usual prices—
Twenty words One Shilling
Four lines, &c Two Shillings
Standing lengthy advertisements as per arrangement.
In submitting this Journal tor xmblic support, Judy
has very little doubt of its receiving that consideration
from the generous public of New South Wales the ven-
ture deserves, for no effort has been spared to secure
the services of the very best artists and contributors,
as the work will show; and as all concerned in the
bringing out of the xiajier in every deyiartment are share-
holders, it is obvious that every effort will be made bo
make Judy a favorite, and therefore a paying publication.
All communications to be addressed for the present
to T. J. CUMMINS, care of Messrs. Gordon & Gotch,
George-street, Sydney.
T
Lessee ...
HEA T R E
ROY A L.
Mr. Samuel Lazar.
Business Manager & Treasurer ... Mr. Jas. E. Kitts.
Stage Manager Mr. Geo. Warde.
SIXTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LYSTER and GARNER’S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
SIXTH AND LAST WEEK
of
FRIENDS.
THIS EVENING, FRIENDS.
SATURDAY ENENING, Ax>ril 24,
BLOW FOR BLOW.
ALTERATION OF TIME.
Doors open at 7 ; commence at 7.45.
Prices as usual.
V
ICTO R I A
THEATRE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Ramford
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
FRIDAY, April 23rd.
BENEFIT AND POSITIVELY LAST APPEARANCE
of the great tragedian,
Mr. B. FAIRCLOUGH
in his grand impersonation of
HAMLET! ! 1
FRIDAY, Axiril 23rd,
HAMLET ! ! !
Box p>lan at Elvy and Co.’s.
ICTO R I A
THEATRE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Rainford
Great and Glorious Production
of
BLAND HOLT’S
NEW BABYLON.
SATURDIY, APRIL 24th.
QUEE N ’ S, THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. M. Hegarty.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION and CONTINUED
SUCCESS of
Mr. ALFRED DAMPIER,
and his daughter,
LILY DAMPIER.
TO-NIGHT (Friday) April 23rd.
and until further notice.
FOURTH WEEK. FOURTH WEEK. FOURTH
WEEK. FOURTH WEEK. FOURTH WEEK
Of Charles Reode’s world-famed Sensational Drama,
entitled,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
It’s Never Too Late To Mend.
ME. ALFRED DAMPIER,
as TOM ROBINSON,
and
LILY DAMPIER,
as the BOY JOSEPHS.
The BEAUTIFUL and REALISTIC SCENERY,
The theme of general admiration.
Mr. HEGARTY’S BENEFIT is Postxxmed until further
notice, on account of the great success of
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
In preparation —DRINK.
In rehearsal —HAMLET.
Dress Circle, 3s; Stalls, 2s; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
LIDDY, Business Manager.
JpETERSHAM MUSICAL SOCIETY,
Patron: Sir Henry Parkes K.C.M.G.
FIRST SUBSCIPTION CONCERT.
SCHOOL HALL,
RAILWAY STREET, PETERSHAM,
Tuesday, 27th April 1880.
Conductor Mr. J. Churchill Fisher.
E. LEWIS SCOTT,
Secretary.
DOLPHE GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS.
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahlebt’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are mode to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
SYDNEY PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
Cheapest and best House in Sydney for
PIANOS ORGANS HARMONIUMS
&c.
A. and C. HUENERBEIN have again been awarded the
E 3 FIRST PRIZE
« FIRST PRIZE
to FIRST PRIZE
H FIRST PRIZE
m FIRST PRIZE
M
Ph at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
for the
H
W
w
n
M
I
EXHIBITION,
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
In addition to this A. and C. HUENERBEIN have
again been awarded the
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
FIRST PRIZE
for the
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
SOLE AGENTS—A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. H. have just unpacked a superb lot of
PIANOFORTES
by
Bluthner, Kaps, Ronisch, Mannsfeldt,
Erhardt, Biese, Neumeyer, Kriebel
Wittig, Winklemann, &c., &0.,
All iron-braced and bound. Guaranteed to withstand
the effects of this changeable climate.
PIANOFORTES by
Aucher Bord, Aucher Frere, Erard.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
for any Instruments.
HARMONIUMS by
TRAYSER, ALEXANDRE, KRAUSS.
ORGANS by
GEO. WOODS, PRINCE, PELOUBET, &c.
A. and C.“H. have also for sale, cheap,
TWO CATHEDRAL HARMONIUMS,
two manuals, 16 stops, foot pedals.
Letters promptly attended to.
Old Pianos taken in exchange.
PIANOS TUNED, REPAIRED, AND REGULATED
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
187 Pitt-street (opposite Victoria Theatre), 178.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STO[?]Y OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.-PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER VI.
FINE LADIES AND FOLLY.
Monday morning, was the business of this work-
day world in full swing, or rather in preparation
for the week’s swing of labour. In the freshness
and rawness of a six o’clock morning air, Myles
Iked with his sister to his work. He and Mary
ver e accustomed to do all their private conversa-
tion during these walks. They sometimes discussed
tkeir mother and her doings, and the discussion
took away from the bitterness which silence would
kave left to rankle there.
To-day, Myles was exceedingly silent, but Mary,
w ko knew him and loved him better than any
other soul, felt that the silence was no sign of de-
tection. The brother and sister separated on ar-
riving at the factory. Mary went to the weaving
ghedfand Myles to the warehouse. After break-
fast the same arrangement took place; but the
.day was not destined to be one of pleasant memo-
ries for Myles.
In the course of the forenoon he was in the
outer office, with Wilson the overlooker, when the
latter, glancing through the window, remarked :
“ There’s Mrs. Mallory coming. I see her car-
riage.
• Myles made no answer, for the information did
seem to him of any particular importance ; but
Wilson went on, in a voice which had grown, by
anticipation, smooth and respectful.
“ I expect she wants to see Mr. Sutcliffe, and
ke’s out. So she’ll have to put up with me.”
With that he stepped up to a square of looking-
glass, which he retained despite all Myles’s gibes
and jeers and smaothed his hair.
“And Myles, lad, as Mrs. Mallory’s coming, and
may have business to speak about, perhaps you’d
better ”
“ Go ?” said Myles, tranquilly, though the sug-
gestion was highly irritating to him. “That I’m
not going to do, old chap. I’ve got these figures
to write down ; and here I stay and write them, if
fifty Mrs. Mallorys were coming.
Wilson made no answer. Myles’s position was
too near his own for him to be able to order him
out of the office ; but, not quite satisfied, he
waited, snatching up bundles of papers and sample
•oops, shoving an empty skip aside, and endeavour-
ing to make the rough office look a little tidier.
“ What a pity,” remarked Myles, sarcastically,
“that you haven’t got a few evergreens and some
paper roses. I’d invest in a few if I were you, and
keep them in the cupboard ready for such an oc-
•oasion as this.”
With which he seated himself at the desk in the
window, which commanded a view of the street,
and began to write.
Wilson -walked up and down, watching the car-
riage as it drew nearer, and Myles felt contemp-
tuous and superior.
“ She’s got Miss Spenceley in the carriage with
her,” observed Wilson, reconnoitring over Myles’s
head. They go a deal together, those two.”
Myles looked up sharply as he heard this. The
carriage had stopped ; Wilson had rushed to open
the door. Myles saw the open carriage standing at
the gates, and how one lady sat waiting while the
other got out. The face of the waiting lady was
turned towards the office.
“Miss Spenceley”—the sister of the man who
had displayed his contemptible character to
Adrienne Blisset the other night! It was not
likely that Myles should glance at her with very
amiable or respectful feelings. He saw a graceful
figure leaning nonchalantly back in the carriage ;
he had a general impression of a brilliantly beauti-
ful brunette face, large darkl eyes, an extremely
elegant costume, a hat, or bonnet, with a waving
plume, a parasol covered with lace—and that was
all. But he had long sight; he saw none of her
brother’s expression on the girl’s countenance,
■which was frank and open, as well as beautiful.
“ I’d bet something they don’t get on well to-
gether,” he thought; and then he heard a silk
areas rustle over the threshold, and a woman’s
voice answering indifferently Wilson’s profuse
salutations. Myles could not help f looking up
though he tried not to do so. He had often seen
Mrs. Mallory before ; but she had never seen him.
Now she was looking full at him.
She was a handsome woman, of some forty-six
.years of age, but looking younger when one did not
notice certain lines about her mouth—lines of
meanness as well as of pride. She was very richly
dressed in black : there was silk, and lace, and
perfume about her. She was tall, fair, pale, and
inclined towards embonpoint. She looked Myles
over from head to foot: then, turning to Wilson
said;
“Is Mr. Sutcliffe in?”
“ I’m very sorry, ’m ; he isn’t. He has had to
go to Bolton, and won’t be back till afternoon.”
“ Oh !” said she, pausing as if in thought; and
then added, “ Give me the papers Mr. Sutcliffe
was speaking about the other day ; they are sure
to have been left ready. I will take them home
with me, and look them over.”
Myles had again turned to his work, and was
bending over a page of figures, wroth with himself,
that, instead of being able undisturbedly to add
up the figures he had put down, he could not help
listening to Mrs. Mallory voice.
“Yes’m ; I’ll find the papers. They’ll be in Mr.
Sutcliffe’s room. But won’t you sit down ’m,
while I look for them ?”
“ No ; make haste, please,” was all she said, a
little impatiently ; for Mr. Wilson’s manner was,
to put it plainly, fussy : and Myles, feeling the
influence of that tone, despite all his efforts, began
to count half aloud :
-SJJdn’ee and five, nine—eight, I mean ; and seven
fifteen, and ”
. “ Here they are, ’m. Allow me to make them
into a parcel, ’m; it will be more convenient.”
No ; you can take them to the carriage, and I
will look them over when I have time.”
‘ Myles, lad, suppose you were to take the
Papers to the carriage,” said Wilson, wishing to
appear superior.
, Myles looked up, surprised ; he could read the
simple, fussy character of the faithful old cashier
to its very depths, and knew his motives exactly.
He had no wish to disoblige him, and, with an
amused half-smile, took the papers and walked to
Mallory’s carriage.
The young lady, Miss Spenceley, was looking
impatiently towards the office.
M 11 '”. sa i'l s^e > when she saw Myles, “ is Mrs.
alfory in there ? Has she nearly finished her
■\r n f SS ’ y° u think P”
Myles had seen the girl many a time before; she
rpf s the beauty and the heiress, par excellence, of
aanshope ; the only daughter, as her brother was
/Jp; y son > her parents. The young man,
king at her more attentively than ever before,
could find no trace of likeness, or his scorn of her
relative might have displayed itself in his voice.
“ I really don’t know,” said he, in answer to her
question. “ She is talking to the cashier.”
“ Oh, thanks!” said she, turning abruptly away,
and looking impatiently up the street.
Myles returned to the office, and as here-entered
it Mrs. Mallory was saying to Wilson :
“Because I expect my son—your master —will
be at home again shortly, and of course he will wish
to inquire into everything that is going on.”
There was something in the tone in which this
was said which rasped upon Myles’ feelings —a calm
superiority which he felt to be extremely needless.
“ Then we may expect Mr. Mallory to come and
take possession some time soon?” Wilson hailed
the news as if it were a personal favour.
“ I expect so. I do not know the exact time;
but of course everything will be ready for him ?”
“ Will he be ready for everything ?’ ’ thought Myles
with strong contempt; his old spite—it deserves
no nobler name—against the absent, unknown
Sebastian Mallory rose angrily to the surface
again.
“ Our master, indeed!” he reflected angrily.
“I wonder if he’s ever proved himself his own
master yet ?”
Wilson, by an unlucky combination of circum-
stances, was at this moment inspired to turn
pointedly to Myles and remark:
“ Now, Myles, do you hear what Madam Mallory
says ? I told you the master was coming, and you
wouldn’t believe me.”
“ It remains to be seen whether ‘ master ’ is the
right word to use,” said Myles, with deliberation.
“ In this case I have my doubts about it.”
He bent to his book once more, but not before
he had seen the stony stare in the light blue eyes
of Mrs. Mallory, and the gaze of haughty astonish-
ment upon her pale, high-featured face—a stare
which seemed to say, “ I have seen human nature in
many obtrusive and ill-bred aspects, but never in
one which so much required putting in its proper
place as this.”
Myles smiled rather grimly to himself ; he hated
to exchange such civilities with any one, most of
all with a woman, but his spirit could ill brook the
unquestionably haughty and supercilious manner
of Mrs. Mallory, and the profuse mouthing of the
word “ master ” by Wilson’s complaisant lips.
Myles had, up to now, utterly refused to call any
man master, and he was not going to begin it
in the case of a man whom he had never seen ; and
to whom local report gave anything but a decided
or master-like character.
“ There’s no call for you to be so rude,” said
the cashier, shocked and reproachful.
Myles turned to him.
“ Will you understand,” said he, with lips that
had grown tight, “ that a man can’t both do arith-
metic and talk ?’ ’
“ Who is the young man P” inquired Mrs. Mal-
lory of the discomforted Wilson.
“You must excuse him, ’m. He’s one of the
foremen: he knows no better.”
Myles made no sort of comment upon this
apology, content that they should say what they
liked about it, so long as they did not require him
to acknowledge an unknown “ master.”
Mrs. Mallory, after another and a prolonged
stare of the said haughty astonishment, which
stare wasted itelf upon the back of the delinquent,
swept away, leaving Myles with his lips twisted
into a fine sneer —an expression to which they were
wont too readily to bend.
Myles temper had assuredly not been improved
by the occurrences of the morning. It was
destined to be yet more severely tried before his
return to work in the afternoon.
On leaving the factory he had parted from Mary
as he had an errand in the town, and told her he
would be home in half an hour for dinner. He did
his errand and took his way home. And as he
arrived at his own gate there came out from it a
man whom Myles recognised as a person to whom he
bore no friendly feelings. He was named James
Hoyle, and was by trade a small shopkeeper, in the
stationery and evangelical-religious-book line:
accasionally he acted as a preacher of a denuncia-
tory and inflammatory description ; he was a mis-
sionary—so, at least, he said.
To him and to his style of preaching Myles had
a most thorough dislike ; he believed him to be a
hypocrite, and in this case his dislike was well
grounded enough, and founded on facts.
“ Good morning, Myles. The Lord bless you !”
observed Mr. Hoyle, holding out a dingy, fat hand.
No lowest scum of the Levites, of whatever sec-
tion, whatever persuasion, could have looked,
thought Myles, sleeker, or more as if his sleekness
were an ill-gotten gain.
Out of tune, as Myles was with all the world,
this apparition and his tone of familiarity was not
of a kind likely to restore harmony to the jarring
notes of his life’s music. Drawing up his proud
figure to its utmost height, and looking with his
contemptuous eyes down upon the podgy individual
who addressed him, he said :
“ Good morning. I’ll thank you not to make so
free with my name. Who gave you leave to call
me ‘ Myles ’ ?’ ’
He ignored the outstretched hand, having an
objection to touching what he considered to be
both literally and metaphorically dirty fingers.
Hoyle looked up at him, and his eyes twinkled.
“I’ve been taking spiritual counsel with your
mother, my dear young friend. A sweet, precious
soul! It is a privilege to converse with her ; she
teaches one so much.”
“ Does she ? It’s a pity but she could teach you
to be sober and honest,” said Myles with distinct
enunciation and scornful mien, holding himself
somewhat aloof from Mr. Hoyle. “Anyhow,” he
continued, “ until you manage it —the soberness
and honesty, I mean (you needn’t look as if you
didn’t know. I saw where you came out of at
eleven o’clock on Saturday night)—till then you’ll
please give this house a clear berth, and my
mother may take her spiritual counsel—if she
wants it—with a different sort of person from you.
He was about to turn in the gate, but, with his
hand on the latch, was arrested By an expression
on the face of the other.
“ The day will come, young man, when you will
wish you had treated me —me, of all people—with
more respect,” said he with a smile, for he had a
flexible face, which appeared to lend itself even
more easily to smiles than to other expressions.
Yet the smile was an evil one.
He turned and walked away, and Myles, in some
annoyance, went into the house. Usually Mrs.
Heywood had the field to herself in the exercise of
her tongue. Edmund occasionally indulged in a
burst of temper, but always to his own disadvan-
tage. Mary never answered at all. Myles alone,
as has been before said, could, with a certain look
and tone, show himself master of the fretful, re-
pining embpdiment of scolding and selfishness
whom they had the misfortune to call mother.
To-day he was in no mood to stand nonsense, and
as he went- into the kitchen he said, hanging up
his cap, and taking Edmund’s hand, he seated
himself beside him:
“What does yon James Hoyle want always
hanging about here ? The chap is never out of the
place, and I can’t abide him. If he don’t give us
a little more of his room and less of his company I
must speak to him. Mary, lass, I hope thou’rt
not got agate of meeting-going.”
He spoke with perfect good-nature and good-
temper, not suspecting that all the rest of the
company were equally averse with himself to Mr.
Hoyle’s visits, and he smiled a little as he looked
at Mary.
“Me!” said his sister, laughing. “Nay, I’m
not come to that. As long as I live I’st go to th’
parish church every Sunday, and sit in th’ old
place ”
“Alongside o’ Harry Ashworth,” put in Ed-
mund, gravely, at which Mary’s cheeks flushed,
and she went on somewhat more rapidly.
“For I make nowt at o’ out o’ the meetin’-
house.”
“Perhaps you’ll end by leaving th’ owd place
for an older, and going clean over to Rome,” said
Mrs. Heywood, who had been bending over the
fire, looking at a pan of potatoes, and who now
raised rather a flushed face from that occupation ;
“ choose how, there’s nowt be said here against
James Hoyle, the godly man ! and it’s more than
likely that you’ll see more of him than you have
done yet.”
(to be continued.)
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street Clarke, Pitt-street
K. Callaway, King-street Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. Gleeson, 719 George-st. J. L. Berghoefer, Pitt-st.
George Hill, George-street Sclineberger, Oxford-st.
Nash ~ SpruggA Adams ~
J. W. Clarke „ Lapham „
E. E. Cole ~ G. Barker, Snssex-street
Gordon & Gotch ~ Thorsby, Erskine-street
Sandon ~ J. Walton, Bailway Station
Colliss, George-st. west J. Cooper, Kailway Bridge
Turner, Brickfield Hill Pierce, William-street
SUBUEBAN AND COUNTEY:
Aemidale— Naerabri —
H. Mallam O. Haussmon
AsmJTUTn- NEWCASTLE—
W Oanka Hale Williams
_ F. Alcock
Bathurst— North Shore—
H. Bridges Deacon & Son
Beg a— Nicholson Bros.
O. Welby Orange—
Bocalla — E. Lessella
W. Brock Parramatta—
Cootamundra — G. W. Green
J. Percival J. Eeeve
Echuca — Petersham—
G. Fosdyke Thompson
Forbes— Port Macquarie—
E. Chapman J. J. Feun
Geemanton— Eyde—
T. Brown E. Yoimg
Glen Innes— Scone—
F. Marshall M. F. Asser
Goulburn— Shoalhaven—
J, Walsh Wicks
Gunnedah— Singleton—
— Fitzgerald J. P. Quinn
Lambton— Wagga Wagga—
J. Firth C. H. Daniel
Lismore— Wattle Flat—
— Jones L, Grimwood
Maitland (West) — Wellington (n.s.w.) —
C. W. Clarke W. Booth
Mudgee— Young—
W. Hall G. F. Oil
INTEECOLONIAL:
Melbourne— Brisbane—
Manders & Co. 0 Gordon & Gotch
„ , Stanthorpe (Q.)—
W - Yard J. F. Williams
April 24, 1880.


lONS, PRIZE MED
ESTABLISHED TWENT
Whose success is attributed to his P
in catering for the million at su
PRICES as to enable every working
and fashionably, while those with r
disposal can wear so many extra
reasonable rate, viz.
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100
measure. 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, w<
BLACK DRESS SUITS, to measur
Who will not avail themselves <
GETTING MEASURED at ZIC
ESTABLISHMEN
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fam
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, al
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUS
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA
SILK COATS. Men’s and Boys’, 9s
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready fc
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY
System of self-measurement, wit!
part of the country, post tree.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WI
A TRIAL WILL CON
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HO
109 GEORGE STRI
THE ONLY ZIONS IN 1
The great north
(Late “ La Flore Austra
12 CHARLOTTE PLACJ
THOMAS M. DALVEEN, Propri
the public generally that he has en
above premises as a lirst-class H
Rooms, which cannot be excelled
city.
Terms Strictly Mode
c.
W. ROB
SINGLE BOTTLE DEP,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for in
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial
THISTLE BLEN
and other
Choice Whiskies
JNTERNATIONAL E
The Undersigned wish to annov
visitors that they are SOLE LESS.
REFRESHMENTS within the
GARDEN PALAC
The Drinks are of the best qua
picturesque apartments, are delicioi
YOUNG a
UNION CLUB
Baylis and Forsyth 1
NEWTOWN, WAGGA
(Close to the Railway Si
Under the patronage of His Excel
Robinson, K.G.C.M
T. J. BYRNES, Prop
Wines, Ales, and Spirits of the ve
R T H U R C
157 (late 203) PITT STREET,
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT (
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUS
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF B
and MARRIAGES
COPIES OF WILLS PRO
DURING THE YEAR
253 INQUIRIES WERE IN
Of these 172 were satisfactorily com
26 were withdrawn for var
21 were unsuccessful or al
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE IN
most intricate cases have met with n
AGENCIES in Great Britain an
States, Continent of Europe, Au
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO VI
260 and 262 GEORGE-SI
(over Peate and Harcoi
Now open to the Public. The high<
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Col
Crayon Water Colours, and
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fadi
Speciality.
Inspection of the public resped
Cr
UNS,
R
IFLES,
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmak
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE
PECTORAL C:
Au elegant preparation for all afi
monary Organs. This is the best knc
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CRC
most successful remedy for Cougl
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness,
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, ]
Family Chemist and I
Wholesale & Retail Dr
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite tl
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER R]
Free from all noxious dm -s, viz., Po
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in pr
strengthening the stomach, correct!
ing or removing headache, giddines
costive habit, debilitated stomach, oi
require no change of diet, and the
stitution may take them with safety
Invented only by
J. S. ABE AH.
At the Laboratory, 434 George-
Be careful not to get imi
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAC
m
To prevent fraud and deception
the following words on the steel sli<
they ship their sole agents in Austr
All Gann ue Mach
stamped
M. MOSS and C<
Sole Agents,
Slonov Tg. s ys
F
ASHIONABLE SCARFS AND
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
neckties
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! ! !
J. L. HORDERN.
Nicholson and ascheebeeg,
325 GEORGE STREET.
LILY QUEEN WALTZ—By A. Moul. One of the
most popular waltzes ever published. Second
Thousand already sold out. See Press notices.
Superbly illustrated in colours. Price 2s 6d, by
post 2s Bd.
JOLLY TARS’ MARCH.—By A. Moul. Comically il-
lustrated in colours. Very bright and effective;
its popularity is assured. Fide Telegraph, Decem-
ber 6th. Price 2s, by post 2s 2d.
THE PARMER AND HIS PIGEONS.—Song, by
Taubert. Second Edition. Charmingly bright
and effective. Sung by Miss Jeannie Sargent at
the Urso concerts. Always encored. Price Is
6d, by post Is Bd.
Fourth Edition !!! Fourth Edition !!!
AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE No 13.
A Wonderful Success. No less than 15,000 sold in Six
Weeks. Everybody is talking about it. Contains fif-
teen Popular Songs and Pieces, including the songs
Grandfather’s Clock, Babies on our Block, Old Log
Cabin, Speak only Speak, Take me Home, &c., &o.
The sale of this book is so great that worthless imita-
tions are being offered to the public. Ask for No. 13
“AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL MAGAZINE,” and see
that you get it.
NICHOLSON AND ASCHERBERG,
325 George Street.
UY YOUR BLANKETS IN TIME,
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL TO-MORROW
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-DAY.
EDWARD HORDERN
(the original firm of the name),
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of the LADIES of NEW
SOUTH WALES
to
THIS SEASON’S SHIPMENT,
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by him
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
SNOW WHITE, PURE WOOL, EXTRA WIDE,
“ PLENTY to TUCK IN.”
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the COMFORT, LUXURY,
and
SWEET REPOSE PRODUCED
by a pair of
“EDWARD HORDERN’S”
BEAUTIFUL SNOW-WHITE WHITNEY
BLANKETS,
Prices from 4s 6d to 35s per PAIR.
ORDERS from the COUNTRY promptly and faith-
fully executed. All goods packed in EDWARD
HORDERN’S well-known style, SECURELY IN CAN-
VAS.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
No Branch Houses anywhere.
K
EAREY BROTHERS. COACH AND BUGGY
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J.
A N,
HUBERT NEWM
_ PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
JP. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Gkobge Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, Ac., catered for in the
best style.
TO BRAY FOR YOUR STATIONERY.
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address; —,
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Rood.
KOHLER, FISHMONGER and OYSTER
SALESMAN,
22 HUNTER STREET.
FRESH FISH EVERY DAY.
LUNCH and SUPPER ROOMS.
c.
c
HAS. H. DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
David m ‘ c a l l,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Bv Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON.
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
Robert cassin,
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing R. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
w
574
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MONIE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ CARRIAGE AND BUGGY
MANUFACTORY,
276 PITT STREET (near Bathurst-street),
SYDNEY'.
O’BRIEN BROTHERS’ manufactures are all executed
under their own personal supervision, and having
learnt what colonial requirements really are, they feel
confident their buggies, carriages, fours-in-haud, &c.,
eannot be beaten for durability or cheapness. The best
seasoned timber used, and only the most skilful work-
men employed.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY, Hay-Street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashiug, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
R ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L F E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFORD STREET.
IMPROVEMENTS IN KEROSENE LAMPS.
THE UNDERSIGNED, having purchased all the LATEST IMPROVEMENTS in KEROSENE LAMPS
exhibited at THE GARDEN PALACE, have pleasure in informing customers that they may select any
of the Lamps on show, which will be reserved for them till the close of the Exhibition.
TABLE LAMPS in—
DOVETON WAKE
WEDGEWOOD WARE
CERAMIC CHINA
CRYSTAL GLASS
PATE SUR PATE
BOHEMIAN WARE
MAJOLICA
JAPANESE CHINA
CHANDELIERS for—
CHURCHES
SCHOOLS OF ART
PUBLIC ROOMS
MANSIONS
THE DRAWING ROOM
THE DINING ROOM
THE STUDY
WITH ALL LATEST IMPROVEMENTS.
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BABIES ON t[?]E BLOCK ” — (See page 3).
