

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 42.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1880.
Price—3d.
§nlWin
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1880.
The Dissolution Diddle.
Not even Sir Henrt Parkes’s most bitter
detractors —not even the men who most intimately
know the workings of his mind —would have un-
reservedly believed, prior to the publication of
his address to the electors of East Sydney, that
his offence against the public rights was so rank
as it is now seen to be. The feebleness of his
proposals for the future, as expressed in the
different speeches delivered by him since the pro-
rogation of Parliament, has been so profound that
scarcely anyone ventured to suggest that he had
nothing better to offer, later, to the country. It was
regarded as incredible that this coalition Ministry
—so boastful of its strength, so exultant in its
pretentions to a monopoly of talent —would venture
to place before the country so sensational a spec-
tacle of the art of sinking in politics. To have
kept the country in unnecessary suspense as to
the scope of the Ministerial projects, was grossly
improper, and contrary to sound principle. To
have sprung a vigorous policy of progress and
legislation upon the constituencies, without afford-
ing ample time for consideration of such proposals,
would have been gravely censurable. But to explode
upon them a bottle of smoke, is alike to defraud the
colony of its rightful claims to able and vigorous
government, and to manoeuvre for continued office
at the sacrifice of all that should make place
worth possessing. The Premier’s address to the
electors of East Sydney is but a repetition of the
mawkish statements which he had already made
by instalments in other places. Had he frankly
explained from the first that his policy went no
further, he would have minimised the cause for
complaint. The country could in such case, and
unquestionably would, have looked around for
some leader more worthy of the name, and the
elections could have been managed on a clear issue
of Parkes-Robertson and the status quo, or
opposition and vigor. But this has been, seem-
exactly what the Government has been
finessing to prevent. Its whole arrangements, its
half-confidences, its mock-reserve, have all been
designs to delude the public into expectations
which there has been a fixed intention of disap-
pointing. The attitude of the Government from
the day the late Parliament was prorogued up to
Tuesday’s proclamation dissolving it, has been
studied with the purpose of deception and of
throwing the public off its guard. The intention
underlying the whole has been to perpetuate that
arbitrary power of which the Premier and his
colleague have shown themselves of late so
suspiciously enamoured. Of that disposition
their proceedings furnished ample evidence.
Their extraordinary Privileges Bill, so framed
as to place every citizen and the entire
Press at the mercy of the dominant majority
in Parliament, was one instance. Their miserable
Licensing Bill, with its provisions for trammelling
free speech and the expression of private judg-
ment ; and, more recently, the Premier’s mon-
strous action in exerting power to effect a pressure
m reference to a distinguished scientific teacher
which the law gave him no authority to exert —have
amply shown how the autocratic disposition has
Pown up in the sometime Chartist and Man of
the People. But the end orowns the work. To
have kept the constituencies in an enervating sus-
pense, waiting for a declaration of a policy which
did not exist, until it had become too late to com-
bine against the apostles of self-seeking and do-
nothing, completes the chain of evidence. The
trick will doubtless succeed. The country has
less than a fortnight to pull itself together. So
far as deliberate choice, made with distinct refer-
ence to the tardily-divulged Government no-
poliey, is concerned, representation in Parliament
juust be a farce. To have tricked the country
uito this position is perhaps an evidence of astute-
uess, but so is any successful fraud. The morality
cf the proceeding requires separate consideration,
before the rival knights made up their minds to
accommodate their differences and unite their
talents, one or other of them was perpetually ap-
pealing to the country. Now that they have come
together, they appear to think the country should
be brought down to perpetually appeal to them.
default of having each other to dodge and over-
feaoh, they seem unhappy for want of some object
upon which to exercise their finesse ; and, having
faade a Parliamentary Opposition for the present
they treat the electors at large as an
opposition, and exert all their art to overreach
them. The country should realise, and accept, the
Position. It is now too late for effectual resistance
° r this season. The Government has stolen a
“arch and taken the country by surprise. It
y?bld now be impracticable to turn the fortunes
bt the day and send into Parliament a compact
Phalanx of members pledged to avenge the
“feachery practised against the people and the
Constitution. But although the time necessary
or a comprehensive organization has been em-
bezzled from the constituencies, there may be a
chance for individual afforts. The surest way to
counteract the selfish and arbitrary design of the
Parkes-Robertson cabal, will be to select from
among the miscellaneous collection of candidates
now offering their services, the men of the highest
personal character and prominent abilities. The
better the type of the member elected the less
likely will he be to lend himself to bolstering up
the irresponsible supremacy which is the obvious
object of the Ministerial manoeuvres. All side
issues, all insidious suggestions to choose a man
for this, that, or the other reason, should be thrust
aside with eontempt. Such suggestions, emanat-
ing from the prime concoctor of the present con-
spiracy against public liberty and Constitutional
Government, are but parts of the plot—means to
the one end. At last there is a plain issue for the
country, Dictator Parkes and Irresponsibility, or
no Dictator but Constitutional Government.
The Hon. William Forster.
The eclectic principle that has guided us in the
selection of representative men for portraiture
and memoir in this journal may, in some sense, be
said to reach its climax in the gentleman whose
“ counterfeit presentment” our artist felicitously
delineates in to-day’s issue; but whose range of
mental powers, including that extraordinary reti-
culation of intellectual and perceptive qualities, is
hardly paralleled by any other man in the British
empire. This assertion would be arrant bosh if it
were not absolute truth. It is no use “beating
about the bushit is a moral perjury not to tefl
the “ whole truth,” as well as the very truth
essential to a udicial enquiry. We have ransacked
our memory to find another representative of
political thought in the empire who at the same
time approaches the shadowy land of Poetry and
Art, in its kaleidoscopic variations, who approaches
the complex result developed and tested in the
genius of William Forster, ex-Agent-General of
this colony, and dim (not long ago) a farmer and
gardener on, or near, the Parramatta River. The
late Lord Macaulay failed us as a “ striking
instance.” The electric penetrativeness of his
criticism will—because ho operated on a grander
field than any one outside England could secure—
be and remain for years to come a standard, the
jus et norma, of supreme literary and artistic
examination. Still, Macaulay as a poetic empiric,
notwithstanding his success as an interpreter of
abstract and party politics, cannot for an instant
be said to favourably compare with the subtle
interpretation of nature, and the singularly felici-
tous embodiment in words, of a man whom only a
few short years ago we looked upon as a political
prize-fighter in Macquarie-street, and who was
weak enough—led cn by the deceptive allurements
of his Muse—to accept the Agent-Generalship as
the only honourable retirement from an arena
which his soul loathed —the Billet-mart of our
House of Assembly. Many of the faults and
moat of the idiosyncrasies of William Forster’s
character—more especially the mishaps or contre-
temps they occasioned to himself and his loyal
friends, —are the best criteria we have of
arriving at a just conclusion as to what he really
is. He would not (were he here) accept our ver-
dict on his special merits, but he would vigorously,
perhaps, with withering irony, maintain that,
where we hold him to have been wrong, intract-
able, or deluded, he was right, malleable to con-
viction, and perfectly convinced that he saw
everything we objected to clearly defined by the
unclouded glow of the noonday sun of truth! The
bare outline we can, in a single column, give of
this many-sided man, will not suffice to serve even
as side-notes to the work of his biographer,
should Mr. Forster live to complete half tne cycle
of his anticipated work ; still, such as it is, it ia
worthy of present notice, inasmuch as its subject
is likely to be returned to the next Parliament for
Gundagai, and has already won a seat in the
Senate of the University, in despite of and against
the candidature of the Premier of the colony, the
Hon. Sir Henry Parkes, backed and laterally sup-
ported by Professor Dr. Badhamand the “serried
phalanx” of Mr. Forster’s political opponents.
Disquisition makes one forget facts; and hence we
are reminded that we must crush together a few
biographic particulars William
Forster, the scion of a distinguished Irish patriotio
family, was born at Madras, in India, in 1818,
where his father occupied a responsible military
station. While still an infant, only babbling baby
English and mild Hindustani, the latter learned
from an intelligent ayah, he was removed
to Ireland, and received his first regular lessons
in a dame’s school at the famous Donnybrook,
near Dublin. In the twelfth year of his age, 1820,
he came with his parents to Sydney, and soon
after entered Mr. Cape’s school, on the success of
which we have already exhausted our vocabulary
of panegyric. On leaving that Academe of old
Sydney, with a good reputation as a student, and
the passion and tinct of literature in his soul, he
betook himself to pastoral pursuits; and while
gaining bush-experience, was no traitor to the
promptings of that unfathomable world of in-
stincts and aspirations which impel heroes or
poets on their orbit, as our Kendall (while a mere
youth) drove his Safi through the “ spaces”—his
own heaven-born imagination being the Safi. When
Mr. (now Sir John) Robertson began to play
the part of “ poor man’s friend,” or a rustic
Tribune of the People, Mr. Forster gave the
agitator’s crude conceptions a valuable literary
piquancy, by satirizing his opponents’ pretensions
in certain well-known lines, published in the
Atlas, entited, “The Devil and the Governor.”
It is to be regretted that we cannot afford room for
even a single extract from this remarkable pro-
duction. This satire was soon after followed by a
poetic piece of a higher merit—the “ Genius and
the Ghost,” the former being Sydney Aphrodite,
the spirit of the ocean city, and the latter the
“ Spectre of Transportation.” His next mental out-
put was a series of terse, ruggedly sonorous, and in-
tensely impassioned “ Sonnets on the Crimean
War.” But this exercise of high gifts was in
reality only a preparation for his grand success in
the domain of prose composition, and his still
grander success in the prose of public life. He
became a leading writer on the Empire news-
paper {pace, Sir Henry, you employed him !) and
he was the first to teach young Australians the
meaning of constitutional party action and
honorable party politics. To close his journalistic
career, he was chief literary expert on the
Southern Cross (Sydney), Mr. D. H. Deniehy
being editor; Mr. Sheridan Moore, sub-editor;
the Hon. Geoffrey Eagar and Mr. G. W. Penning-
ton, principals of the staff. Chiefly through Mr.
Forster’s contributions, the journal became at
once a remarkable success, and would probably
have continued such to this day if the unsatisfac-
tory relations existing between the proprietors
had not necessitated its discontinuance. From the
day he became a Minister, Mr. Fosrter refused to
write a line for it, or give a suggestion towards its
conduct—so sensitive was he of any attempt to
bias Parliamentary opinion. He was certainly
inflexible as an old Roman—the printer’s imp
would say a “ rum ’un ” —on this point. The in-
flexibility alluded to was typical of the poet-
statesman’s whole public life in the
colony. He enthroned himself from the
dawn of his political youth on a granite rock
of principle. Whether you look upon him
as a limpet clinging to its base, or a strong con-
figuration of its own mass at its summit, he never
let go his hold. Some thought him saturnine and
others impracticable. He was certainly often
ugly to his enemies and not always pleasant to his
friends ; but that chiefly arose from the intensity
of his earnestness and the purity of his intentions.
How his broad, pale, low brow used to contract,
his small eyes twinkle, and his thin lips become
thinner, when he became aware of hypocritical
deceits practised on him, or the treachery of
friends in whom he confided exposed ! His power
of scorn was almost epic ; and if there was ever
a man upon whom that scorn condensed into a
cumulus-cloud, pregnant with the electricity of
hate, it was our present Premier. Mr. Forster,
notwithstanding his Spartan heroism and integ-
rity, did not make many real friends ; but those
whom he made (or as many of them as survive)
are true to the last, and rely on him more to-day
than when he left our shores as Agent-General.
He is by some considered impracticable, which is
a libel on his intelligence and gentle bonhomie;
that he is not a partisan of self-seekers and
political tricksters is the cause of his unpopu-
arity in certain quarters. Though once a Premier
and twice after a Minister of the Crown, he gave
fewer billets away than any other gentleman in
the same position, and none to “undeservers.”
The sternness of his stoicism cleared his offices
THE HON. WILLIAM FORSTER.


THE HURLSTONE ESTATE,
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
is the most important large
SUBURBAN FREEHOLD
now in the market.
The POSITION of this GRAND PROPERTY is
exceedingly good, both for access to
TWO RAILWAY STATIONS,
SUMMER HILL and ASHFIELD,
and for the ELEVATION, commanding, as it does
MOST EXTENSIVE
. , , and PICTURESQUE VIEWS,
including the
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
BOTANY BAY,
THE CITY and HARBOUR.
CANTERBURY, PETERSHAM. STANMORE, BUR-
WOOD, FIVE DOCK, &c.
T T SUBDIVISION is the BEST and MOST
LIBERAL of any property offered at auction this season.
THE BLOCKS vary from 63 FEET to 50 FEET each
frontage, hy depths of about 165 feet; and the subdivision
is so arranged that purchasers may secure LARGE
THROUGH BLOCKS from STREET to STREET, with
EXTENSIVE FRONTAGES.
■B3T THE COLLEGE is a COMMODIUS and NEWLY-
| ERECTED BUILDING, specially adapted for
COLLEGIATE PURPOSES,
and contains very large accomodation (of which FULL
PARTICULARS will be duly given), besides valuable
and useful outbuildings.
_ PROPERTY will be sold with a BLOCK of
LAND, having nearly
300 FEET FRONTAGE TO PROSPECT ROAD.
300 FEET FRONTAGE TO SANFORD STREET,
by the great depth of
330 FEET from STREET to STREET,
or nearly
TWO AND A HALF ACRES IN AREA.
The GROUNDS are tastefully laid out into
LAWN,
FLOWER and
KITCHEN GARDEN,
PADDOCK,
*** HURLSTONE is situate on the
HEIGHTS OF ASHFIELD,
and is bounded by
ASHFIELD STREET
SEA VIEW STREET
SANFORD STREET
CANTERBURY ROAD
PROSPECT ROAD,
nearly all of which are WIDE, WELL-MADE, and
PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARES
leading to the township of
ASHFIELD,
and the village of
SUMMER HILL.
The title is under
TORRENS’ ACT.
The terms will be
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT,
10 per cent, in 3 months. WITHOUT INTEREST, and
the balance may remain for a period of 2 years, bearing
interest at the VERY LOW RATE of FIVE PER
CENT., and PURCHASERS will NOT be compelled to
give mortgages.
HARDIE and GORMAN have received
POSITIVE INSTRUCTIONS to sell by public
auction, at 3 p.m.,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
27th NOVEMBER,
ON THE GROUND,
WITHOUT RESERVE,
THE HURLSTONE ESTATE,
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
comprising
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
and about
TWENTY-SEVEN ACRES
of
MAGNIFICENT
and
HIGHLY IMPROVED LAND,
surrounded by MAIN THOROUGHFARES,
now subdivided into
LARGE SUBURBAN BLOCKS
and
VILLA SITES,
by Messrs. Roberts, Harris, and Weston, as follows
SECTION 1.
W" THIRTY-SIX (36) LOTS fronting
ASHFIELD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 FEET.
tST THIRTY (30) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
SECTION 2.
TWENTY (20) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
FOURTEEN (14) LOTS, fronting
PROSPECT and CANTERBURY ROADS,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
On LOT 0, SECTION 2. the land having an area of about
TWO and a HALF ACTtES,
stands
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
with coachhouse and all usual outbuildings.
Further particulars of the buildings and of the
accomodation will be duly given.
LARGE SALE PLAN is now
ON VIEW.
LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE
ROOMS.
*** TO SUBURBAN BUYERS tor RESIDENCES,
HURLSTONE offers the most ELEVATED and BEST
SITES
*** To SPECULATORS wishing to secure a LARGE
BLOCK for FUTURE SALE HURLSTONE offers the
BEST ADVANTAGES.
*** To INVESTORS in LAND, HURLSTONE
Blocks are bound to increase in value.
The SURROUNDINGS of
HURLSTONE
are of the very best character, and include the highly-
improved properties and grounds of the following
gentlemen : -
DR. EDWIN CHISHOLM
FREDERICK OUTSOLD, ESQ.
HENRY M -SES. ESQ , M.P.
GEORGE GRIFFITHS. ESQ,
J. S. JAMIES' 'N, ESQ.. J.P.,
and others.
An inspection of HURLSTONE will show the RICH
CHARACTER of THE SOIL from the BLOOM and
FOLIAGE which surround it.
Opposite to HURLS’! ONE is the
VICTORIA-SQUARE,
upon which property are erected the largest number of
the PRE TTIEST VILLAS
and COTTAGE RESIDENCES
to he seen auvwhore along
THE RAILWAY LINE,
giving to the locality
A SPECIAL CHARM AND CHARACTER,
and making it both ATTRACTIVE and more
VALUABLE.
esr An opportunity will be afforded to inspect
THIS GRAND FREEHOLD,
On SATURDAY, 20th NOVEMBER
(the Saturday previous to day of sale).
«sr DON’T FORGET.
HURLSTONE
HURLSTONE
is in the market for Sale,
Without RESERVE.
SATURDAY, 27th NOVEMBER,
ON THE GROUND.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
AUCTIONEERS.
IfEWTOWN E LECTOR ATE
following Bame< l Gentlemen met at the On,,
Chambers, Camperdown, on the sth instant and
themselves mto a COMMITTEE for the
securing tne Purpose of
THE ELECTION OP
Mr. STEPHEN CAMPBELL BROWN
IL Fowler, Esq., Mayor of Sydney '
Alderman Larkin, Camperdown
Alderman Culbert, ditto
Alderman M’Grath, ditto
Alderman Cruickshank, ditto
Walter Hamblin, Esq.
J. J. Leslie, Esq.
J. Bell, Esq.
J. Harris, Esq.
Wm. Huxley, Esq.
J. Annan, Esq.
Wm. Peters, Esq.
Wm. Mainer, Esq.
W. Gorman, Esq.
H. Sanbrook, Esq.
J. Sanbrook, Esq.
J. Larkin, Esq.
Kichard Fowler, Esq.
Alderman G. Sparks
Wm. Ivers, Esq.
Wm. Morgan, Esq.
JOSEPH JOLLY)
JOSEPH JOLLY) > j oinf .
ROBERT H ANNAN j Secretaries
EWTOWN ELECTORATE
The following named gentlemen met at Mr Meek’.
Cricketers’ Arms Hotel, Newtown, on Wednesday even,
ing last, and formed themselves iuto a COMMITTEE
for the purpose of securing the ELECTION of
STEPHEN CAMPBELL BROWN, for the next ensuiml
Parliament. K
NAMES of Gentlemen forming the COMMITTEE
Mr. STEPHEN CAMPBELL BEOWN, at Newtown
James Pemell, Esq., J.P. John Webster, Esq. '
Daniel Wildman, Esq., R. Whiting
Mayor, Newtown C. F. Pierce
Alderman William Tye, M. Ledden
Newtown T. Mangle
Alderman J. F. Smith, W. K. Eggleton
Newtown C. Churchill
Alderman David Bedford, H. Thoruburn
Newtewn J. J. Pattison
Alderman Charles Boots, W. Ivers
Newtown G. Eaton
Charles Henderson, Esq., T. Whitehead
J P. W. Hare
J. Hamblin, Esq. W. O. Shirley
Martin Gibbons, Esq. T. Tuft
S. Baldick, Esq. F. Peufold
W. Meek, Esq. W. Pike
Alderman Hv. Hargraves, E. Hannan
Darlington Thos. Bingough
Alderman Jno. Humphries, E. Watson
Darlington J. Church
Henry Howe, Newtown W. G. Turtle
J. P. J ones Chas. Hadleigh
J. Baldick J. Rochester
A. Chevers Owen Friend
Alderman George Sparkes, Thos. Fisher
r. j w Martin
E. P. Henderson
J. F. Thompson
J. S. Rosenthal
J. Jones
Jas. Goldsmith
J. Horsfall Esq., Mayor of
Macdonald town
H. Walkley
Wm. Thackeray
Robert Henderson
Wm. Mason
J. Whitehead
J. Campbell
F Hoffman
W. Lands
Camperdown
Joseph Abbott, Esq.
F. Stewart
Symons
P. Dolan
M. Flea
R. W. Tullock
T. Moore
W. Wilson
G. Rapson
P. B. Whitfield
E. Rapson
A. M'Martin
C Turtle, jun.
G. Grasby
D. Stett
T. H. Griffiths
JOSEPH JOLLY I Joint
ROBERT HANNAN ] Secretari es
s
OU T H SYDNEY ELECTION.
•*OHN SHEPHERD is a CANDIDATE, and will address
the Electors early this week. Electors, attend to your
interests by supporting the Liberal candidate. Resene
your votes.
QOUTH SYDNEY ELECTORS
O Read JOHN SHEPHERD’S Address
E
J LECTORS of SOUTH SYDNEY,-
Study well JOHN SHEPHERD’S Address.
rjlO the ELECTORS of SOUTH SYDNEY.
Parliament being on the verge of dissolution, and
having received a numerously-signed requisition, inviting
me to be nominated as one of your representatives, I have
again the honour to offer myself as a candidate for parlia-
mentary honours.
The education question is undoubtedly one of momen-
tous importance as regards the future of this greiu
country. I voted with the inajoitty of the Assembly on
the second and third readings of the Education Bill, which
is now the law of the land and which meets the approval
of the greater proportion of the people; but in my
opinion, and a-s was contended by me when the bill was iii
committee, the seventh clause, as follows, “Secular
instruction shall be held to include general religions
teaching as distinguished from dogmatical or polemics!
theology,” is illogical and unfair to the convictions of
many thousands of our fellow colonists. I am, therefore,
not one of those candidates who would “strenuously op-
pose any alterations whatever in the Act,” believing as 1
do the State Education should be either purely secular or
denominational.
Although I believe the general policy of this country
should tend towards the principles of free trade, yet I
hold that there is neither absolute free trade’ nor
protection I cannot agree with the ITemier's declara-
tion at Orange, that, “it must be clearly understood that
he nailed free trade colors to the mast and would stand
or fall by them, NEVE it. CONSENTING TO GIVE TP E
SLIGHTEST HELP TO PROTECTION IN AW WAV.”
I shall always advocate that native industries, wot thy of
encouragement and giving suitable employment to the
rising generation, should be judiciously supported, believ-
ing industries that noware, or may hereafter spring into
existence, should be fostered so as to give traces to the
native born of our country, so that we may compete
equally In skill with other nations
The time has now arrived when assisted immigration
should absolutely cease. The con itions of Australia
siuce the introduction of the system havet daily changed,
and I shall for the future,“eitlu r as a private citizen or as
a representative, strenuously oppose the expenditure of
large sums in bringing people to our shores at the public
expense.
1 am in favour of a measure to deal with the Civil
service, whereby promotion will be made to depend on
service and merit rather tha i upon Parliamentary influence
or Ministerial nepotism.
As regards the licensing system, I am entirely opposed
to the power remaining in the hands of the magistrates io
abuse their positions, by either capriciously refusing or
granting licenses, as past experience has shown; but,in
my opinion, the power should be placed in the hands of duly-
constituted and responsible Boards. In other respects I
fail to see any reason for interfering with the present Act.
I am entirely in accord with the proposal that there
should be a conference of the leaders of the respective
Governments of the Australian colonies, with the view of
devising a wise provision for the prevention of Chinese
immigration.
With regard to ether questions, I now summarise ray
views. I am in favour of the further endowment of the
city, an elective Upper House, an Act for the protection of
seamen; and am an advocate that the working man’s day
should not exceed eight hours.
I feel impressed that the Government should well con-
sider Mr. Gipps’ Kenny Hill Water Scheme before com-
mitting the country to what may possibly be a gigantic
mistake. .
I am,
Yours faithfully,
JOHN SHEPHERD.
Montague House, Moore Park,
9th November, 1880. .
JJICHARD CHARLES LUSCOMBE
WEST SYDNEY.
The Colonial Industries ” and “ Anti-Chinese
Candidate.
The premises of Messrs. Hales and Kemmis,
Auctioneers, House and Estate Agents, &c., 128
Pitt-street, are the best in the City for advertising
properties for sale. Their boards are unique. Sales by
Auction are held every Monday. Adv.
CROYDON CROYDON.
GAD’S HILL ESTATE.
SUBDIVISION OP TWENTY-ONE (21) ACRES
OF MAGNIFICENT LAND.
Sub-divided into choice villa sites, as follows:
SECTION I.—THIRTY.FOUR (34) ALLOTMENTS,
having frontages to Liverpool Road, Edwin, Thomas,
and Highbury Streets.
V On Lots 8,9,100 f this section is ERECTEDaLARGE
and COMMODIOUS DWELLING HOUSE, the pre-
sent residence of DANIEL HOLBOROW, Esq., J.P.,
Mayor of Ashfleld, which is built of brick on stone’
founda,tions, with slated roof, containing Hall, Drawing
and Dining Rooms, Pantry, Store-room, and 6 Bed-
rooms, Bathroom, Nursery, Kitchen and Laundry, and
Outhouses; also, a large Reservoir, with Force Pump
attached.
SECTION 2.—THIRTY-FOUR (34) ALLOTMENTS,
fronting Liverpool Road, Thomas and Highbury
streets, and Park Road.
SECTION 3. SEVENTEEN (17) ALLOTMENTS,
fronting Liverpool and Park Roads, and Thomas-
SECTION 4.—TWENTY-SIX (26) ALLOTMENTS,
fronting Thomas-street and The Crescent.
SECTION S.—FIFTEEN (16) ALLOTMENTS, front-
ing The Crescent and the Railway Line.
W THE GAD’S HILL ESTATE is subdivided on a
LIBERAL PLAN OF SUBDIVISION, each allotment
having about 50 feet frontage, by about 150 feet deep.
THE TERMS ARE AS FOLLOWS
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT
10 PER CENT. IN THREE MONTHS
And the balance EXTENDING OVER 2 YEARS.
BEARING INTEREST at the LOW RATE of 5 PER
CENT, per annum.
*•* Lithographs may be obtained at the Rooms.
HARDTE AND GORMAN WILL SELL BY
PUBLIC AUCTION,
On the Ground,
NEXT SATURDAY, 13th NOVEMBER.
atj3 o’clock.
The above described property.
THE GAD’S HILL ESTATE, CROYDON, is situate
close to the Croydon and Ashfleld Railway Stations,
fronts Edwin-street and Liverpool Road, which are the
main thoroughfares, is situate in the immediate vicinity
of the highly improved residences of Messrs. G. A.
Murray, S. Dickinson, Josiah Mullens, John Pope, and
others. The land has been highly improved, and
planted with a choice assortment of fruit trees, flower-
ing plants, and shrubs.
The chance to secure unequalled sites in the Gad’s
Hill Estate is very great, the choice of lots is large;
and the position, for access, elevation, and surround-
ings, unequalled.
NOTE THE EASY TERMS:—
10 per cent, deposit, 10 per cent, in three months, and
the balance extending over two years, bearing interest
at the low rate of five per cent, per annum.
DAY OF SALE, NEXT SATURDAY.
OF ARTS, PARRAMATTA.
TO-NIGHT, and Every Evening during the Week,
RUSSO-TURKISH WAR Panorama and Diorama.
Prince of Wales’ Tour in India. Magnificent
Presents Nightly.
GRAND MATINEE on SATURDAY NEXT.
W. H. RICHARDSON. Manager.
mO THE ELECTORS OP SHOALHAYEN.
Gentlemen, —Having visited all parts of the Electorate
and addressed you personally, I beg now to thank you
for the patient hearing and favourable reception on
every occasion accorded to me, and in order that you
may have my political views in remembrance to refute
misrepresentation, I take the liberty of obtruding them
upon you through the Press.
I am in favour of the Public Instruction Act, and of
the Church and School Lands’ Act, and of the extension
of the operation of the former with a view to imparting
in agricultural and pastoral districts technical and prac-
tical knowledge in all branches of agriculture. lam in
favor of a free-trade policy for New South Wales.
Should direct taxation become necessary, I would sup-
port an income tax in preference to a tax on property,
inasmuch as the latter would fall on persons who are
merely nominal owners of property, and not reach mort-
gagees, capitalists, and absentees, whose incomes are
derived from loans and balances due on security of real
estate. And in the case of land selectors, it would mani-
festly be unfair to tax the land whilst three-fourths of
the purchase money (bearing interest) remain due to the
Government, who thus occupy the position of mort-
gagees. An income tax, although irksome and inquisi-
torial in its character, would reach those who are able
to pay, and would, for the reasons given be, in my
opinion, more equitable than a property tax.
I said, when addressing you, that I believed sufficient
revenue can be raised without recourse to direct taxa-
tion, and I pointed out what I conceived to be a fair and
reasonable mode of raising quite £400,000 a year by in-
creasing the rents of pastoral tenants, granting fixity of
tenure for fourteen years, and dividing the runs; at the
same time granting to free selectors similar leasee of
their pre-emptive selections, with the privilege of ex-
pending the 10s. an acre for improvements upon the
whole area instead of the expenditure being limited to
the conditionall-purchased land. 1 am opposed to the
remission of interest on free selectors’ balances, for the
reasons given at my meetings.
I am not favourable to Chinese immigration, which
can be restricted by limiting the number to arrive by
each vessel, and by the imposition of a cajntation tax.
I am in favor of increasing the areas of Municipalities
and the establishment of Shire Councils in scattered dis-
tricts, so that local work now undertaken by the Go-
vernment could be performed under proper supervision,
and that the expenditure of Government giants given
upon equitable principle should bejdistribuited under the
guidance of the Councillors.
I am in favour of Railway extension, and would warmly
support the construction of the proposed Metropolitan
and South Coast line, to which I consider the southern
districts ore entitled as a matter of right, having in view
their agricultural and mineral wealth, the large and in-
creasing passenger traffic, and the magnificent country
unsurpassed for natural beauty and salubrity of climate
which would be opened up for residences and to tourists,
and would prove a sanitary benefit to the overworked
people of the metropolis.
I am favorable to local option in the issue of new
licenses, but not to affect existing licenses and renewals,
so long as houses are properly conducted. As licensed
victuallers and their assistants need |one whole day in
the week as much as, or more than, any other class of
the community, I hope to see Sunday closing volunta-
rily adopted, and also 11 o’clock as the hour for closing
places of business and public amusements, with a view
to premises being cleared and employees getting to rest
before midnight.
I am. Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
F. F. HUMPHERY.
Sydney, November 11, 1880.
from needy petitioners. If he did not shine —on
the Treasury benches —he was a very Telamon
Ajax in opposition. As the circumstances con-
nected with his Agent-Generalship, his life literary
and as colonial representative in London, and the
question of his removal from office will hereafter
become common subjects of parliamentary and
journalistic criticism, we had better not touch on
these topics now—more especially as we shall have
to examine them soon in a more direct manner. He
is now preparing to visit the scenes of his early
labours in public life. His return to Parliament
at the present juncture would be hailed with
satisfaction throughout the colony, and to the
Gundagai electorate is given the opportunity of
doing this public service. Our portrait is from an
excellent likeness by Gorus.
Mr. Stephen Campbell Brown.
Without exaggerating or diminishing the force of the
old Virgiliau aphorism, "Ex uno discs (mines ” (from one
learnable), we think it might be relevantly applied to the
pupils of the late Mr. Cape’s school. Youths brought up
under his tutorial care have creditably distinguished
thmeselves in after life; and they have certain distinctive
qualities in common, such as a friendly regard for each
other, a love for their old school and schoolmaster, and
taste for general literature. It would be a mere mental
vagary—worthless frippery of the tongue—to say that
the gentlemen to wohm we specially allude were suc-
cessful by accident -had greatness thrust upon them.
We should like to know in what crowd of men the pre-
sent Chief Justice would not hold his own—what
“imported” legal luminary has a more subtle know-
ledge of the law than Sir George Innes \‘—what solicitor
of Her Majesty’s Courts at Westminster can work up a
case with more ingenuity and ability than Mr. Stephen
Campbell Brown ? It is absurdly fashionable amongst
the native-born themselves to underrate each other’s
mental gifts- Attorneys’ clerks sometimes sneer at the
witticisms of his Honor Judge Dowling, as if those
corruscations were not flashes of genuine humour. That
they certainly are; but the smug apprentices-at-law
fail to see their point, and hence their sneers. Our brief
memoir of Mr. S. C. Brown will read like a continua-
tion of that on Sir George Innes in last week’s issue. In
both we find the same curly love of study—the same
prompt application of those studies to the
business of life—an early liking to the same
professional pursuit—and a similar quiet ge-
niality of manner in social life. Both are sound law-
yers, good conservative-liberal politicians, and thorough
gentlemen; and even in those traits of character in
which they differ, and which severally mark their indi-
viduality, there is no abrupt departure from a high
standard type. Mr. Stephen Campbell Brown was born
in Bitt-street, Sydney, on the 21st October, 1829, and
has consequently entered on the fifty-second year of his
age. Both his parents were English, and belonged to
the more enterprising class of the first immi-
grants. After receiving rudimentary training in his
parents’ home he was sent to the Australian
College, Jaraeson-street. founded by the versatile
and patriotic Dr. Lang. Here young Brown
steadily advanced, especially in English and
elementary mathematics; and he he subsequently
entered the Sydney College, then under the headmaster-
ship of Mr. T. W. Cape. His parents having gone to
reside in Windsor, their son was placed under the
tutorial charge of the Rev. Mr. Adams, a Presbyterian
clergyman of considerable ability, and with whom he
may be said to have finished his education—or rather
had acquired the elementary training which fitted him
to begin the real education of life. His father died in
1841. and in September of 1843, Mr. Brown having taken
up his residence in Sydney, entered the office of Mr.
William Thurlow, a clever and masterful man, dis-
tinguished for civic zeal, to whom he was articled in
1817, and admitted on attorney, &c.,of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in 1852, Since then he has
practised his profession with uniform success in Sydney.
His political life (but not his severe studies in political
economy); began in December 1861, when he was elected
for Newtown (where he has resided since 1859), on elec-
torate which he has since represented in Parliament,
and which he is likely to represent for some time to
come. He took his fair share—in some instances the
lion’s share—in the progressive legislation of the last
thirteen years. His keen mind penetrated the fog in
which Mr. (afterwards Sir Charles) Cowper had en-
wrapped colonial politics ; and although Mr. Brown was
always on the liberal side in his votes, he and the late
Mr. Drievr were ever hostile to lavish expenditure of
public money and to “marting offices" for political
support. The Education Act of 1866 and the Municipal
Act received reforming touches from Mr. Brown’s hand,
and he devoted some four years to the administration of
the former measure os a Member of the Council of Edu-
cation. The three Ministerial Knights in succession— j
Sirs Oowpor, Robertson, and Parkes—pressed him to
take office, but he was steadfast in his refusal, consider-
ing he had bestowed more than a tithe of (his time and
brain, to say nothing of pecuniary outlay, to the service
of his country. He is a patron of all our national sports,
and a genuine connoisseur of the fine arts. In politics
Mr. Brown is strictly independent—willing to support
any Ministry till he finds it corrupt, wrong, or vacillat-
ing and he is ever vigilant over the public expenditure.
He has been twice married (in 1859 and 1870), his second
wife being a daughter of the late Robert Garrett, Esq.,
of the Retreat, Newtown, one of the most humane and
refined men that ever graced Sydney society.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
I F. C. L.”: Not suitable for our columns.
“W. M.” : Capital story. Will appear as soon as
possible. “T. G. C.” : Much obliged. “S. Ber-
nard ” : We can’t make out the meaning of your para-
graph. “C. O. M‘C.” : Received. "West Bot-
any” : Not sufficiently pointed. It’s hardly true that
a long course of Sunday School teaching is liable to
make a girl wear corkscrew curls, acquire a red nose,
and get blue on the chin, like a trumpeter. “ Wick-
ham ”.- We don't care about diving into Scylla.
“ A Darliaghurst Lady”: The matter is a purely per-
sonal one. “ A Regular Subscriber ” : See reply to
“ Darlinghurst Lady.” This paper wasn’t established for
the purpose of enabling people to gratify their spite.
No Signature, re “Fitz”: Not of public interest,
“A Lady” (Cimpbelltown): In next issue.
“ George Pearson " : The length of your letter is alto-
getheront of proportion to space. “T. P.” : Thanks;
next issue. “H. M. Kinnon ” : Received. Next
week. -“Argus”: Will be considered. “Little
Buttercup": In next issue. “Grand Flaneur”
(Melbourne): Most acceptable. Will be published in
next issue. Glad to hear from you again.
Betting in England is now even on Trickett and
B[anlan.
Ned Kelly’s execution takes place this (Thurs-
day) morning.
At last moment “Fact and Fancy Focussed”
is unavoidably omitted.
John Ireland, the well-known sporting autho-
rity, appointed referee in the Hanlan-Trickett match.
A popular Bondi gentleman will shortly marry
ail amiable and pretty young lady who-lives in the
vicinity of the Victoria Barracks.
The Balmain Regatta was a pronounced aquatic
success despite the wet weather. In the All-comers
Race W. Trickett did not compete, and the prize fell
to Rush. We have no room this week for a report of
the various events. Trickett and Rush row their pri-
vate match (to-day Saturday).
Mr. Berry said at Talbot, that when the lands
are allotted among the people, capitalists will have to
invest their money in shares, securities, and manufacto-
ries.
Mr. G. H. Reid, having decided on entering po-
litical life, has resigned his position as secretary to the
Attorney-General. Mr. W. Stephen, of the Lands,
succeeds him, and Mr. A. O. Moriorty becomes Under-
secretary for Lands. Mr. Whittingdale Johnson,
Senior Commissioner of Conditional Purchases, suc-
ceeds Mr. Moriarty as Chief Commissioner of Con-
ditional Purchases.
Mr. Alderman Hordern expects to be returned
at the top of the poll for South Sydney. He has
seconded bis able address by several capital speeches,
dealing wiMi the leading questions of the day. His ad-
dress has hal': won him the battle.
The Premier’s Address.
It is with very great regret that we find ourselves com-
pelled to omit from to-day’s issue the Hon. the Pre-
mier s address to the electors of South Sydney, received
by us at so late an hour as to preclude its publication in
The Bulletin. We feel all the more compelled to make
this explanation by reason of the fact that we have
frequently had occasion to differ from Sir Henry Parkes
in politics.
Sydney Wool Market.
As an evidence of the present condition of the Sydney
wool market, we may mention that at Messrs. Mort and
Co.’s sale this week greasy wool realised up to 15d. per
lb. at auction —the highest price yet realised for greasy
wool. A number of well-known brands also brought
from Hid. to 13Jd.


■pIRANCIS ABIGAIL for West Sydney.
COMMITTEE :
Thomas Weame, Esq.
John Crawford, J.P.
Richard M‘Coy, J.P.
Thomas Jessop
W. M. Ritchie
W. Donnie, senior
Charles Saunders
Frederick Cameron
Frank Buckle
Joseph Belshaw
Charles Lees
William Varley
Alexander Hutchinson
H. Thomas
C. Brown
W. Bennett
W. Bryden
D. Bowen
William Coucher
W. Flodkhart
J. Trainie
J. Holland
J. Britton
H. Piper
C. Coucher
E. Swan
W. Pearce
J. Middleton
B. Botts
S. Braddon
J. Morrison
C. Schultz
W. H. Grant
J. Robinson
T. Wan
J. Hulbert
W. H. Mason
W. Webb
T. Webb
W. Brown
W. Hicks
Robert Agnew
E. Barlow
J. Mutton
P. Hampson
Q. Shaw
A. Macfarlane
J. Anderson
G. Bennett
Rd. Brown
John Agnew
James Beresferd
M. Morrison
T. C. Lee
W. Crewes
J. A. Clark
T. Buckshore
G. Buckshore
J. MTlveen
G. Scoles
G. Wells, J.P.
A. S. Cassin
G. T. Kendall
G. Abbott
J. Barton
J. Graham
J. D. Langley
J. Portmore
J. Forsyth
R. Forsyth
J. Scamp
J. Pearson
J. Glassou
Alfred Edgington
Edwin Schofield
James Alexander
G. W. Clarke
W. J. Coulter
G. M'Credie
T. C. Maidment
T. Dnnford
S. Brigden
George Reed
John Morrison
E. Ikin
David Graham
J. Corrigan
Levi Maidment
J. Modie
W. C. Webb
H. Clayton
W. Wallace
S. Withers
G. Coulter
C. Coulter
R. Balls
A. Morriss
S. Palmer
H. Hicks
W. S. Wilson
H. J. Owen
W. Harriss
T. Macready
J. Souter
J. Williams
6. E. Lucas
J. T. Kendall
C. Holloway
J. G. CARTER ) Hon.
J. J. BENSON > Secs.
rjlO THE ELECTORS OF ST. LEONARDS.
Gentlemen,—As the election of your representative
in the new Parliament will, in all probability, be shortly
decided, I deem it my duty as a candidate for your
suffrages to lay before you my views on the leading
public questions at issue.
On matters of a mere local character I can more
fully and satisfactorily explain my opinion when I have
the honour of addressing you in person than would be
possible within the limits of an advertisement.
Proceeding, then, to the questions of the day, we
have amongst others the all-important one of education.
The present bill has my warm support, as I believe it
contains much that will eventually work to the advant-
age of the people, and the special benefit of the rising
generation. I am not prepared to say that it is yet
perfect in detail, but I maintain that its principles are
sound, and that it is entitled to a fair trial.
The present system of immigration I consider in-
judicious. I am of opinion that assisted immigration
should be suspended for a term, as I hold our present
labour supplv is fully equal to the demand. At the same
time I should be prepared to support a measure that
would induce a less dependent class of immigrants than
that which has recently arrived in the colony to maks
their homes amongst ns.
I am a thorough believer in the principles of free
trade, for evidence of the advantages of which we can
with honest pride draw a comparison between the
prosperous condition of New South Wales a.nd other
parts that are trammelled with the fetters of an in-
discriminate protective policy.
I would support a bill to encourage native industries
by a bonus ; and I am of opinion that all Government
contracts should, as far as practicable, be dealt with in
the country, even at an advance of 10 per cent, on foreign
tenders. . . ....
I am totally opposed to the remission of interest on
free selectors’balances ; the debt has been contracted
for value received, and should be paid.
I will support any reasonable measure having for its
object the restriction of an influx of Chinese into the
C °I°am in favour of the judicious extension of our
railways, both suburban and into the interior, believing
that one of the first steps towards inducing the settle-
ment of a new country should be provision of a reliable
and effective means of communication. lama staunch
supporter of the eight-hour system.
The present Publicans' Licensing Act is susceptible
of considerable improvements. I think the issue of
licenses should be under the control of a duly appointed
Board of supervisors, who should be empowered to
determine the fitness of applicants, or the question be
decided by the voice of the residents in the locality for
which a license was applied. I further think that the
cost of such license should be fixed on a graduating
scale, inasmuch as small roadside houses cannot reason-
ably be expected to pay the same rate as a large city
house. The reduction of the licenses for roadside
houses would, I think, conduce to better accommodation
being offered. I should be in favour of the appointment
of inspectors, who should periodically inspect and test
the quality of liquors sold by hotels and manufacturers.
The Land Act, I think, requires many amendments.
I should bo in favour of an increase of the rent for
pastoral lands and ten years’ leases.
The mining laws and regulations want a thorough
remodelling, and to this matter I should be prepared
to give my earnest attention; amongst other points I
should advocate a stringent adherence to the full labour
conditions in collection with mining and mineral leases,
non compliance there with entailing immediate!on eiture,
as at present there are thousands of acres held under
mere nominal rents which, if thrown open, would afford
employment to a considerable number of miners who
are now in enforced idleness. . . .
Our marine laws, it is very evident, require revision,
if only to protect the lives of our seamen; such a case
as the recent one of the Susanne Godeffiroy alone
demands such revision.
I am in favour of a high-level scheme for oar water
supply, and think all work nowin progression should be
suspended until full investigation is made into the
proposed Kenny Hill scheme.
The sewage question should have my careful attention,
and I may be pardoned for referring to the fact that the
scheme now proposed to be adopted is identical with
that advocated by me six years ago.
Should I have omitted in my brief remarks to express
my policy on any matter of public interest, I shall be
prepared to make good the deficiency when I meet you
eersonally. Meanwhile, pledging myself, should you
onour me with your confidence by returning me ns
your representative, to ever act consistently and
energetically in my endeavours to advance your interests
and the welfare of the colony, and trusting to be
favoured with your support,
I remain.
Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
B. O. HOLTERMANN.
"gj AST SYDNEY ELECTION.
PROTESTANT HALL.
I. J. JOSEPHSON
will
ADDRESS THE ELECTORS
at the above Hall, on
FRIDAY EVENING, the 12th instant.
W. ROBERTS, Esq., will take the Chair.
LEWIS SAMUELS \ Hon.
ROBERT ANDREWS J Secretaries.
TO GEORGE LORD CARTER. Esq., J.P.,
2 Belvoir-street, Strawberry Hills,
Alderman for Phillip Ward.
Sir, —We, the undersigned Electors of SOUTH
SYDNEY, from our experience of yon as one of our
CITY ALDERMEN, and knowledge of the active part
which you have taken in politics in the liberal interests
for many years past, are of opinion that you wall
worthily and efficiently represent us in Parliament as
one of our members under the NEW “ELECTORAL
ACT,” and we now request that yon will allow yqurselt
to be nominated as one of the Candidates for this elec-
torate at the ensuing General Election, and we hereby
pledge ourselves to support your candidature.
We are. Sir,
Yours respectfully
Richard Shortland Alderman R. Maze
Anthony Hordern Alderman T. Playfair
A. J. L. Bone Alderman W. Kippax
Andrew Wadsworth Alderman Jas. Merrimau
John Roseby, J.P. James M'Mahon
Hugh M'Master Patrick Coyle
Azarias Cook Benjamin Rhodes
James H. P.aiuford George Hercombe
Charles J. Eache Jethro foster
Patrick Sherlock T. J. Prost
Samuel Hordern Robert Carlton
Timothy M‘Kay J. B. Hillier
David Burnett George Michael
E. R. Gledhil Prcderick Wadsworth
James Douglas Henry French
Archibald M‘Neill Stephen Raboue
Thomas Liddy George Hill
Henry Hicks J. H. Davies
Hugh Patrick Daniel W. M‘Coy
H. M. Dennis Robert Wilson
Edward J. Robinson H. Foreman
F. Broidwood James Champett
and numerous other signatures, &c.
Gentlemen,—I have to thank you for the very flatter-
ing requisition, in which you are pleased to invite me-
to stand as one of the candidates for your important
constituency at the coming General Election,
As the wisdom of Parliament has determined upon ft
large increase in the number of our representatives, I
think, as a native of the colony desirous of seeing native-
born men take a fair share of duty in the Council of
their country, I shall not be deemed guilty of presump-
tion in stating that I cordially accept your invitation.
To many of you I am perhaps best known as one of
the Aldermen of Phillip Ward, in which capacity I have
reason to believe that I have acquired the confidence
and goodwill of my constituents; hence it is necessary,
when aiming at the higher position which has to do
with legislation for the whole colony, that I should lay
before you the statement of my political views in con-
nection with the important matters which now occupy
the public mind.
With respect to education, I may state that I was one
of the number who assisted to start the League, having
for its motto, “National, Secular, Comxmlsory, and
Freeto the programme of that body I still adhere.
While accepting the present Act of Sir Henry Parkes.
as praiseworthy means to a great and national end, 1
still maintain the right of the people of this country to
a free elementary education.
I am an advocate and supporter of the great principles
of free trade, holding them to ,be essentially necessary
to the rapid and profitable development of our great
natural resources. With respect to fostering colonial
industries, I should not object to the application of
John Stuart Mill’s theory, that is—“ That the State
for a limited term should allow bonuses to those
industriesafter which, if they cannot walk alone,
they deserve to fall.
With respect to the influx of a Chinese population
into this colony, I am entirely opposed to it. The Aus-
tralian colonies should be settled by the civilized nations
of Europe and America, and not by a race of Pagans. A
Conference should be called of all the colonies, and a
mutual effort brought to bear upon the Imperial Go-
vernment so as to settle this matter as the colonies de-
sire. Treaties should be altered to give effect to colonial
wishes. It should be remembered that Chinese ports
are open for trade, and not for the purposes of coloni-
sation. It is unhappily the reverse with us.
I must say at once that I would never consent to the
giving up the interest due by the free selectors. It is
a debt justly due for ample value received; it has been
regarded by successive Treasurers as an important
public asset; and it would be unjust to English capi-
talists who have lent us money, to abolish that part of
their security. If additional tyxation be uecessory, I
would advocate a property tax (exempting the small
freeholders), and an absentee tax.
I am in favor of railway extension as fully and as
speedily as possible.
I believe in retrenchment; but ray idea of it is, pay-
ing a reasonable number of persons a fair remuneration
for doing their work well, as contrasted with paying an
army of people who are constantly in each other sway.
I tun very likely to be found a supporter of reform in
the Civil Service, but it must be a just and equitable
reform, and not after the “ Berry ” pattern.
With respect to the licensing system, it is impossible
that the extreme views of either party can end m any
practical resnlt. Between those, however, who advocate
local option, and those who desire to see the present
system regulated and improved, there is not so wide a
divergence but that it could be bridged over, and I
would be glad to see and take part in a conference for
that purpose. . _ , ,
While desiring to encourage immigration, I am bouuc.
to say that the present system is objectionable, and
should be altered. ‘ ,
Finally, I am opposed to the payment of members.
If I should have inadvertently omitted to notice any
matter of importance, I shall have an opportunity or
referring to it at the meetings which I purpose holding
throughout the electorate.
I have the honour to be.
Your faithful servant,
G. L. CARTER.
rjpo THE ELECTORS OF EAST SYDNEY-
Gentlemen,—Parliament having been dissolved, and
thA seat to which yon elected me on a recent memorable
occasion having become vacant, I have again the honor
to offer myself as a candidate for your suffrages.
Darius’ my candidature at tlie last election for -kast
Sydney, I had the opportunity of addressing you in
various parts of the electorate with regard to my views
and opinions on the principal political questions of the
day • and during the short time I had the honour to
represent you in the Assembly, I took every available
opportunity of expressing those opinions, and of voting
in accordance with them. Some of the subjects referred
to during the past session of Parliament were embodied
in the legislation of the country, while others, still un-
settled, remain, I trust, to be similarly treated.
Within the last few days I have taken the opportunity
of examining my printed address, as Swell as the Press
reports of my speeches to my fellow electors before my
return ; and, having compared them with the reports of
my speeches in Hansard, as delivered in Parliament,
and with my votes, I can conscientiously assert that 1
have fulfilled every pledge, and supported every meiuuire
in strict accordance with the principles of my address
and my speeches before my return.
I shall take an early opportunity of addressing you
fully on the various public questions which are likely
to become the subject of consideration in the next
Parliament. _ . .
I need scarcely add that should you again honour me
by returning me as one of your representatives, my
best efforts' shall be employed for the welfare of the
country. ARTHUR RENWICK.
9th November, 1880.
C TO R a OF WEST SYDNEY.
DAVID BUCHANAN, Esq.,
Will ADDRESS the ELECTORS THIS (THURS-
DAY) EVENING, at 8 o’clock, at Collins’ Caledonian
Hotel, Point-street, Pyrmont; FRIDAY EVENING. 8
o’clock, Lord Nelson Hotel. Miller’s Point.
JOHN JOSEPH HORAN ■( Hon.
BENJAMIN MOUNTCASTLB j Secretaries.
JjJLECTORS OP NEWTOWN.
RESERVE ONE OF YOUR VOTES
for
JOHN YOUNG,
THE PRACTICAL,
ENERGETIC,
and INDEPENDENT
CANDIDATE.
Bast Sydney electorate.—The first
List of the COMMITTEE formed to secure Mr.
jj KEXITS return as one of the Members for East
Sydney, will be published this day.
GEORGE CURTIS
GEO. W. THORNTON Secr f t °ri eg
SAMUEL BATLIS ) secretaries.
Committee Rooms,
Oxford Hotel, King-street.
no THE ELECTORS OP EAST SYDNEY.
Ffli-OW-Electors,—
■Voting upon an invitation conveyed to me by some of
vour number, I have the honour to offer myself as a
candidate for one of the four seats which the impending
dissolution of Parliament will place at your disposal.
From boyhood I have felt an ambition to engage in
iviblic affairs, and a warm interest in the progress and
prosperity of New South Wales; and, as far as my
position allowed, I have identified myself with efforts
to spread a knowledge of her remarkable resources, and
splendid prospects. You will easily understand, there-
fore, my prompt acceptance of the request to become a
candidate for your suffrages, endorsed as it was by
citizens so highly esteemed, and concurring as it did
with my entrance upon a profession more favourable
than any other to political activity and independence.
I bc’ieve the most reliable test of national well-being
to be a wise and honest policy in matters of finance,
for the purity and wisdom, or the folly and corruption,
of a people, are most plainly to be seen in the adjust-
ment of fiscal burdens and the outlay of public funds.
Any community whose taxes are equitably imposed,
and whose expenditure is prudently controlled, will be
found to have reached a rare eminence of enlightenment
and virtue. Deeply impressed with these views, I con-
sider it to be one of the most solemn public obligations
to keep a vigilant eye upon the revenue and expenditure
of the country. As the result of long personal observa-
tion, I may be allowed to assert that in no part of the
world do the public funds pass through purer hands
than in the service of New South Wales. But when I
find proposals made for fresh taxation in the face of a
revenue which has risen one hundred per cent, during
the past ten years, and when I contrast the enormous
surplus at the end of 1877 with the financial troubles at
the beginning of 1880, there does appear to me to be
some scope for greater prudence and foresight in the
management of our affairs. A department more efficient
than the Treasury does not exist. External influences
create the difficulties the Treasurer is left to overcome.
This is one of the great defects of our financial system,
la a young community like this, where ways and means
are often of vital consequence, I think the Finance
Minister should have far greater control than has
usually been the case over the course of public business.
In national finance only one thing is worse than a large
surplus, and that is an unnecessary tax. The result of
my study of the financial position of the Government is
that there is no prospect at the present time of any real
need forfresh taxation. But, while resolute in removing
every feature of extravagance from the Estimates, I can
never have the slightest sympathy with paltry efforts
to refuse a single public servant any slight increase to
his pay, to which Ministers declare him to be entitled.
A niggardly spirit in dealing with such claims is
beneath the dignity of Parliament, and experience has
convinced me of its demoralising effect upon the public
service.
Strong efforts have recently been made to clear the
way for a revolution in our fiscal policy. The object of
those efforts is declared to be by some the “ protection,"
and by others the “encouragement” of our colonial
industries. No one can feel more heartily than I do
that all our colonial industries should be encouraged,
or. if necessary, protected. But there is one great dif-
ference between the Protectionist and myself. He be-
seeches you to lay heavy taxes upon all the profitable
industries of the country, and the thousands of working
men engaged in them, in order to “ encourage” a few
precarious speculations, which will never have a worse
chance of getting upon their legs than when fostered by
such means. I would seek, on the other hand, to “ en-
courage” all our great native industries alike, by
leaving each as free from interference as possible; and
I will always strive to “protect” them by resisting any
attempt to favor one industry at the expense of another.
If there is one class more deeply concerned than another
in defending the free-trade policy which is the glory of
New South Wales, that class is composed of men who
have families to support upon daily wages. To such
men it is a matter of the highest importance that the
industries which employ them, and to which most of
their children must look for employment, are thoroughly
safe and profitable. Under free trade, which leaves all
our industries to spring up as each affords profitable
employment to capital and labour, the development
of some may be slow, but the progress of all is sound,
and upon that depends the happiness and prosperity of
the poor. And the warnings of political economy are
confirmed by the lessons of experience, for in those
countries which have been governed by protective prin-
ciples the longest, the condition of the working classes
is most degraded.
When this interesting subject is viewed simply as a
question of taxation, the fallacy of protective duties
becomes even more glaring. We see at a glance that
they violate, to an extraordinary degree, every sound
principle. Instead of leaving the taxpayer as free as
possible he is almost enslaved. Instead of pressing
upon luxuries which the destitute can do without, they
lay their heaviest grasp upon the necessaries of life.
Instead of contriving that the impost shall reach the
public coffers at the smallest cost of collection, the
object is to divert the whole proceeds into the pockets
of private individuals. And, instead of drawing a fair
share of public revenue from wealth and property, they
impose fresh burdens upon the labouring classes and
their families, and are intended to shut out from the
poor, the widow, and the orphan, in our lanes and alleys,
the cheap abundance of the world, gathered into our
open ports by the beneficent operations of commercial
enterprise. . . ,
I am, of course, in favour of every approach to inter-
colonial free trade; but I could never be brought to ap-
prove any step tending to engage New South Wales in a
commercial confederacy unfriendly to the trade of the
mother country. Until the Australian colonies are ripe
for a common tariff, based upon the broad principle of
free trade with the world at large, what is called inter-
colonial free trade may really mean intercolonial
protection. •
I have always been in favour of the Public School
system, and my convictions are unchanged. But I would
be strongly opposed to any attempt to make the schools
more secular than they are. I profoundly believe that
religion is the only sound basis for true national great-
ness • but I think that the provisions of the present
law, if cordially accepted by the clergy, would produce
the most satisfactory results, moral and religious.
Clothed with all the sanctity of their calling, and tak-
ing the children of their faiih aside for spiritual in-
struction, ministers of religion would make, I feel
assured, for more lasting and salutary impressions upon
the hearts of the young than the schoolmaster can,
whose routine is distasteful, and whose authority may
be feared', but is seldom cheerfully respected. Truths
that are Divine will never perish in an atmosphere of
religious toleration. Why should not they combine to
blend the children of our common country into a loving
and tolerant race, preserving all their honest differences
of creed, but united at least in sentiments of patriotism,
peace, and good-will ? .... , . ,
There is one form of public instruction upon wlilcn
there is, probably, no difference of opinion; but that,
strange to say, has been treated with comparative in-
difference. I allude to the completion of a free public
library worthy of our trreat metropolis, and including
halls for evening lectures to young men in the employed
classes of the community. Twenty years ago a large
sum of money was voted by Parliament tor this
purpose, but only now can we see a prospect of the
foundation being laid. I confess I am at a loss to recon-
cile the dense apathy which prevails as to the intellec-
tual progress of the young men of the country, with the
tremendous zeal for primary instruction. The grand
social reforms which distinguish New South Wales
cannot be crowned too soon with a temple of know-
ledge in which the paths of intellectual enterprise and
the pleasures of mental enjoyment may be as free to
tbe humblest as they are to the highest in the land. >
Perhaps the most difficult of all public questions is
tli.ii t which relates to the occupation and disposal or the
Crown lands. Fully appreciating the generous spurt
in which the Act of 1861 was conceived, I fear it pro-
ceeded upon a mistaken principle. Judging from the
maximum area allowed to each selector by way of pur-
chase and lease combined, the main object appears to
have been agricultural settlement, and m that I think
it Wiis premature. The free selectors, as a rule, soon
found out that pastoral enterprise was still the most
profitable. If the law had aimed to produce a class of
small graziers instead of a class of small farmers, I
think it would have been more in harmony with sound
principles of national progress. And certainly in New
South Wales the natural link between the vast sheep-
walk and the cultivated farm is such a class as that to
which I have referred. If to the freehold of 40 to 320
acres, a leasehold of 5000 acres had been added, the re-
sult would, I think, .have been more satisfactory. A
substantial class with some capital at their command
would have been attracted to our pastures, and their
flocks and herds, binding and fertilizing the soil, would
prepare for it the great agricultural developments of
the future. But the spirit in which the proposals of
Sir John Eobertson were conceived, and the indomitable
manner in which they were carried, will be preserved in
the affectionate remembrance of his country. From
the most serious reproach levelled against him at the
time, he is certainly free. The Act has not crippled
that mainstay of all our industries —the pastoral in-
terest. On the contrary, it has proved a tar stronger
stimulant to the class it was expected to destroy than
to the class it was designed to establish. Since 1861
vast unoccupied areas have been redeemed from waste.
Prom that year the progress of improvements upon the
runs has been simply wonderful. In the more remote
districts long leases upon a fixed tenure might be
granted. But the alienation of the fee simple of the
public estate should not proceed at a more rapid rate
than the settlement of an industrious population de-
mands.
I need scarcely state that I strongly disapprove of the
proposal to abolish the payment of the interest legally
due upon conditional purchases.
I have always approved of a vigorous policy of railway
extension. Proposals for branch lines should be cau-
tiously examined, but no mistake can be made in extend-
ing our main trunk lines as rapidly as possible to the
borders of Victoria, Queensland, and South Australia.
The connection of the Great Northern line with Sydney,
and the completion of the line to Bourke, should be the
first object of our railway enterprise. The Bourke line
will tap a magnificent radius of pastoral country in the
very heart of the continent. The opening of such ex-
tensions means an immense increase of traffic over the
whole length of our railway system. When these great
national lines connect Sydney with the distant borders
of the adjoining colonies, the dullest mind will perceive
that the words of Phillip were truly prophetic when he
declared, in founding on the margin of Sydney Cove the
future capital of the Australias, —“ Ere many genera-
tions have passed away, it will become the centre of the
Southern Hemisphere—the brightest gem of the South-
ern ocean."
There are many other subjects of local and general
importance upon which I propose to address you before
the day of election. If you should then consider my
opinions, upon the whole, sound, and that I am likely to
prove a useful representative, I hope to be honoured
with a share of your confidence and support.
I am, gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
G. H. REID.
Chambers, 89 Elizabeth-street,
November 9, 1880.
E
LECTOEATE OF NEWTOWN.
After hearing the political opinions of Mr. JOHN
YOUNG, the following gentlemen have formed them-
selves into COMMITTEES to secure his return to
Parliament: —
CAMPERDOWN COMMITTEE.
Eowler, Robert, Mayor of Holm, Henry
Sydney
Barkley, Samuel
Blissard, James
Bums, William
Burrers, Joseph
Cahill, John
Caraher, Michael J.
Caraher, John
Cardwell, James
Cardwell, William
Clarke, Charles
Cruickshank, Alderman
Alexander
Cully, Thomas
Evans, Thomas'
Fowler, Richard
Graham, Patrick
Green, John
Goodwin, Andrew
Goodwin, Michael
Hamblin, Walter
DARLINGTON COMMITTEE.
Hughes, Henry
Kiley, Michael
Kilgannon, James
Larkin, Alderman James
Larkin, Thomas
M‘Bride, Patrick
Mainer, William
Mayes, Charles
Miles, Charles
Miles, James
Nicholls, A. W.
Pritchard, William
Sanbrook, Henry
Saubrook, John
Smith, Thomas R.
Tatham, Robert
Thomson, Robert
Wall, Patrick
Walmesley, Archibald
Walsh, Patrick
Barber, Alfred
Beer, Joseph
Buchanan, Arthur
Chapman, J. J.
Cowie, Alexander
Crase, John
Dickinson, G. G.
Edwards, D. B.
Farr, Alderman J. J.
Hardwick, William
Hardy, John
Hargreaves, Aid. Henry
Hargreaves, James
Hatfield, Henry
Hawkins, James
Howell, Arthur
Kerredge, James
Liddy, James
Wilson, Thomas
MACDONALDTOWN.
Lloyd, John
Matthews, Geerge
Maze, Alderman Robert
Miley, William
Murray, James
Murray, John
Peer, H. J.
Peace, John
Pierce, James
Randle, William
Simpson, John
Smith, William
Taylor, Henry
Thelwell, Henry
Webber, George
Whitehead, John, junior
Wilson, William G.
Wilson, Henry
Bailey, John
Bassan, Albert W.
Bishop, Thomas W.
Bray, James
Bucklaud, James
Casey, Michael
Challenger, Charles
Dawson, William
Fernon, James
Fuchs, Francis
Goold, Stephen
Hardman, Alderman John
Hardman, Richard
Harris, David
Higgs, William
Higgs, Henry
NEWTOWN
Higgs, William
Hill, Francis
Horsfall, Joseph (Mayor)
Irwin, William
Leddan, Michael
Martin, William
Mills, William
Pacey, C. S.
Pickerill, John
Pickerill, William J,
Sim, Alexander
Steer, James
Stone, John
Tye, Thomas
Wilson, Thomas
COMMITTEE.
Agnew, George
Agnew, George
Arnold, J. H.
Aspinall, John J.
Bayliss, Edward
Bedford, Alfred
Berwick, James
Boots, Alderman Charles
Brasior, Kiluer B.
Carlton, Robert
Chivers, Alfred
Christie, David
Christie, James
Christie, Thomas
Christie, William, sen.
Christie, William
Churohwood, Charles
Clarke, George
Clayton, J.
Clarkson, Wm.
Cozens, R. W.
Cozens, R.
Dolan, Phillip
Dolmau, William
Douglas, William
Ellis, J. S. F.
Freeman, F. C.
Godson, Robert
Gannon, F. J.
Gibbes, Frederick
Goddard, S., J.P.
Qoedsell, Henry
Gorman, Michael
Gorman, Terence
Grattan, Oriel Lee
Hare, William
Hardwick, W.
Harvey, James
Hayes. Patrick
Heunessy, John M.
Hennessv, Michael
Hillard, William E.
Hillard, William S.
Hoffmann, Frederick
Holloway, Thomas
Holmes, Henry
Howard, J. T.
Howell, Griffiths
Hughes, Thomas
Hynard, William
Jones, James T.
Keys, William
Kent, Henry C.
Lackersteen, William G.
Land, William
Liddell, Andrew I.
Lincoln, Charles
Martin, Brickmaster
Massingham, G.
Medway, Matthew
Middlomo, P. D. O.
Morris, Richard
Morrison, John
Mulhollaud, Joseph
M‘Donald, Alexander
MTnnes, Aid. John
O'Brien, Thomas
Parkes, Thomas
Pattisou, Joseph J.
Paul, William
Penfold, William
Riddle, Thomas
Rofe, William J.
Sergeant, William
Smith, Aid. John H.
Smith, Charles
Steel, James
Stilwell, Alfred J.
Stilwell, Charles
Stone, John
Street, Frederick
Sweet man, Joseph
Tickle, Peter
Tipper, William
Turner, James
Tye, Aid. William
Waddap, Richard
Webster, John
Wildman, Daniel (Mayor)
Wisdom, J. E.
Wynn, Thomas
Wharton, Alexander
Young, Charles
ly gentleman whose name has been omitted from
above lists will please communicate with the
etary, 27 Hunter-street.
A. I. LIDDEL, C.E., Hon. Sec.
W. G. LACKERSTEEN, Secretary.


Notice to Advertisers.
On and after Ist December the charge for
advertisements in The Butin tin will be Five Shillings
(55.) per inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin and
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of The Bulletin is
now guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per month.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
we find it necessary to go to press much earlier than
formerly.
Our advertising patrons are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & AECHIBALD,
Bulletin Office, 13 Bridge-street,
Sydney, 11th November, 1880.
BRIEF MENTION.
Not a hen canary to be got in the Markets.
Wazir Beg, it’s said, has caught the devil in a
mousetrap.
Turkish baths in Melbourne are 3s. ; in Sydney
ss. Why are we so behind hand ?
The best thing ever seen in a pamphlet of David
Buchanan’s was a pound of butter.
At Cooktown snakes ride in cabs. At any rate
one was killed in a cab the other day.
A Bathurst divine went straight for the Cup
again last week. He was carried home under cover of
darkness.
At the Bnrwood Congregational Church the
singing is good, but the love-making better. This is
not an advertisement.
A reporter of the Herald and a compositor of
tne Evening News are the shining lights of the new
big temperance lodge.
, successful applicant for the Town Clerkship
of the City of the South was Paine. The unsuccessful
candidates were pained.
Burwood Etiquette.—Jump into the carriage:
leave the lady to follow. No matter if she falls between
the platform and the wheels.
In a certain very fashionable Maoquarie-street
boarding-house they sell liquor to the guests, and put
it down in the bill as “cash.”
“ Huge, foul, and infamous,” is what a Fre-
mantle _ (W. A.) editor calls statements made in the
opposition man’s leading article.
It is now the correct thing for every candidate
in a civic or Parliamentary election to give at least
on© regatta trophy for competition.
At a recent electioneering meeting at South
Sydney, several of the electors greatly admired “The
black mantle of the standing Poole.”
There is a man going about town who says that
he proposed to eight Coffee Palace waitresses on pur-
pose to get more tomatoes to his steak.
« I NVERELIj Times has a leading article on
The Kurds.” The cream of the joke is that the re-
mainder of the newspaper is skim-milk.
Motto of Hanley Bennett:—
“ I’m the naterall proteckter
Of the bloomin’ free selector.”
at. " Chloe ” prosecution the directors of
. allery have decided to call for tenders for the
Chloe thing’* of some of their pictures.
We are compiling a fresh lot of snake and alli-
gator yarns. The further North they come from the
better. Will North Queensland readers oblige ?
Mr M'Elhone recently remarked in the Mu-
nicipal Council that he “did not believe in gentlemen.”
He only believes in himself and Alderman Green.
Eleven hundred deeds in the noting branch of
the lianas Office, and yet the three deed-engrossers
cannot get enough work to maintain themselves and
families.
The other day a vessel left Maryborough
(Queensland), with 2800 gallons of rum and one mis-
sionary. Yet some people say the life of a missionary
is a hard one.
I? head office of the Bank of New South
Wales they have Black, White, Grey, Green, and Brown.
However, so long as the manager is not green, the
shareholders can’t object.
. All the tramway employes have now to produce
tickets. Only members of Parliament are exempt.
Several have lately removed near the line in order to
avail themselves of free rides.
Employes in the Lands' Office who are J’s.P.
are not allowed to absent themselves for the purpose of
SS t x o ® The same rule does not apply to
the Public Instruction Office.
~ T Chapman is called the bell-wether of
the Legislative Council of Tasmania. This is because
the members follow him, when they hear the division
bell—whether he is right or not.
More stout-hearted philanthropy! Corrie
Johnston appeals for help. He says the lighthouse-
keepers need words of comfort. He says they must he
I vords of grace. Twiggez vous ?
A curious remark was lately made by a Mel-
bourne pressman. He said —“ No sooner does a man
join the S. M. Herald than he is bound to be met
shortly after carrying a baby.”
Another well-known Don Juan of Rockhampton
town, who leads a commercial life, has been “ knocked"
to a most unpleasant tune by a charming young damsel
belonging to a high-toned family.
Pi i® 6a>sy to write a few letters after one’s name,
but m these days of competition no one can grumble if
™ gitunacy is made a subject of enquiry. Some
startling exposures are imminent.
The following scholarly notice appears at the
door of a building in the city“ Tempory offices of
the League for the Encouragement of Colonial Indus-
tries. Committee meets every friday.**
. The Druids turn-out on Tuesday was a most
imposing sight, but most of the fun was spoiled by the
fact that the Druids and their cauliflower-like bowers
processed in daylight instead of at night.
John Williams, a Camden farmer, smoked his
pipe the other morning while conveying a load of straw
to the railway station. Same evening he was noticed
wheeling a few iron bolts home in a barrow.
At Cairns they have no bailiff attached to the
court, and the local paper deplores the circumstance.
He s certainly the only newspaperman in Australia who
can afford to look at the matter in such a way.
Samuel Weir, a Hobart Town publican, was
fined £4O for smuggling brandy. When arrested he
offered the constable £5O to let him go, so apparently
he considers he has mode a profit on the transaction
fter all.
The officers of a certain Government depart-
ment sometimes “look upon the wine when it is red ”
One splendid ornament of the service may often be seen
mounted on a beer-barrel, asleep. The inspector never
sees him.
In the senior English papers, last week, ap-
peared the question, “What do you know about style ?"
One candidate answered, “Very little.” He expects
full marks, because his answer was perfectly correct—
so he says.
A certain well-known Wagga professional man,
whenever he visits Adelong, acts as barman in the
botel at which he stops. It is rumoured that the buxom
landlady is about to put a new name over the hotel
door.
Mr. James Bonwick says that Scotchmen have
the ardour of the Celt, the solidity of the Saxon, the
spirit of the Norse, and the prudence of the Fleming.”
But he didn’t add “ the cunning of the fox,” as he ought
to have done.
According to a London society journal, a French
statesman not long ago said of Lord Hartington, “What
a^ kord Hartington is his ‘you-be-
*B n a P °f the training of the
Hobart Town policemen. As they march along to their
beats, one would think there was an army of old women
file tlle tllat accompanies the
■nr^l 10 host portrait that has yet been published in
Melbourne is that of Miss Pomeroy. We need hardly
say it first made its appearance in The Bulletin, having
been executed by our own artists, Mr. W. Macleod and
Mr. E. Mason.
Only half the number of prisoners in the Hobart
Gaol now, compared with this time last year, and the
5S“ ta S?. h ? can>t make U P his gangs properly.
Surffiy Mother Shipton was right, and the milleninm is
at hand, after all 1
Up Albury way a candidate on his electioneering
tour was followed from place to place by his bitterest
After one of his addresses an elector asked.
Will you support a bill for the destruction of mongrel
dO P. ? , . ‘Ob, gladly,” was the reply, “it it’s only to
get nd of those that have dogged my steps these two
The aldermen say the present assessment is ex-
cessive, because rents have come down since the Exhi-
bition closed. Where are the aldermen’s houses ?
Quite a number of them could be let at once, if they
could only be found.
At Temora there’s a Mongol hard up for food.
The other day some humanitarian shot a dog with rice
to frighten him, and it did, into John’s tent. “ Licy
welly good, but too muchee hair,” was the Chow’s
remark. The dog, of course, escaped.
Said a Melbourne man, in our Town TTa.ll vesti-
bule the other day, alluding to the florid style of ceiling,
“It’s very nice, but it would be far better for the city
if it were on the streets in the shape of blue metal.
£2OOO for one ceiling, and such streets!”
A marriage was announced in last issue, and it
was intimated that the “ parient** was makinginquiries.
Was the bridegroom expectant the individual who, a
short time back at a public breakfast-table in Bathurst,
remarked that “he wouldn’t marry any colonial girl
that couldn’t keep him ?”
The other day Dr. Gannon, of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald was going along the street, and so was a
father and his young son. Said the youth, “Oh, pa,
there goes aneditorl” “Hush! hush!” said the father,
“ don’t make sport of Ithe poor man—God only knows
what you may come to yet.”
At the fire at Jewel, Davis and Co.’s the other
night, the only stream of water that could be made to
reach the roof was from the Insurance Co.’s engine.
How about the low pressure water scheme ? The extra 100
feet pressure from the proposed scheme of Kenny Hill
would have done it without an engine.
This is what a Central Queensland newspaper
says about Judge Blake (the champion butter-eater) in
Court: —“ His Honor’s classic chin sank cosily into the
snowy shirt-front beneath, and he once more dreamt of
other and better worlds, where the wicked litigants
are at rest, and newspaper paragraphs cease from
troubling.”
A citizeness (says the Melbourne Herald)
whose husband has “ struck it rich,” is having a set of
handsome jewellery made of quartz and gold taken
from the lucky mine. The stone is beautifully
polished, and the gold is well set, and the lot is to cost
£2OOO. It is to be a gift to the citizeness’s mother in
the old country.
A clerk employed in a certain public office is
doing a good trade just now. When a £ 1-note is ten-
dered to him in payment for the commoditv in which
his office deals, he generally contrives to give Is. short
in the change. Further, he can’t be made to understand
that a sovereign tendered to him is worth twenty shil-
lings, and not merely twelve pence.
At the late encampment of the Sydney Grammar
School Cadets it was stated that two or three of them
were laid up with measles, and ably attended by two
medical students from Sydney. However, it has since
turned out that the measle rash was nothing leas than
the result of marks left by the sting of that industrious
insect the sandfly. The students were hard up for a
case.
We have received from Dunedin a melange of
prose and verse, written by a gentleman who adopts the
nom de guerre of “ Paddy Murphy." The little volume
is neatly got up, and the contents are fairly amusing.
The author, however, would seem to entertain no small
idea of his work, since he signs his name to every piece.
But who ever knew a poet yet who thought vin ordinaire
of himself ?
On its being announced that Sir Henry, Dr.
Eenwick, Mr. H. C. Dangar, and Mr. Chas. Moore were
to be the hunch for East Sydney, S. E. Lees exclaimed,
“There; there, you see. I told Parkes distinctly he
could come in along with me. Now he’s not safe.”
Later on, it is said. Sir Henry was offered one more
chance. His reply was this: Look here, Mr. Lees,
you’re throwing money away."
Something for Sir Henry and Co. to imitate.
The clergy of Christchurch (N.Z.) suspended their week-
night services in order not to clash with Mr. Proctor’s
astronomical lectures. On the first night hundreds
were turned away unable to find room. The meetings
of the Diocesan Synod and the City and Sydenham
Borough Council were also adjourned to enable the
members to attend the lecture.
In Levuka the other week the Chief Secretary
of Maliatoa, King of Samoa, issued a writ against Sir
Arthur Gordon, and claimed £2OOO damages. The
Attorney-General dare not accept service of the writ,
and as the bailiff had not obtained his Crown grant, he
dare not serve it, so the plaintiff therefore had a chance
of going to the wall; but he put the bailiff between
the devil and the deep by threatening an action against
him if he did not do his duty, and in fear and trembling
he walked off to the Governor with the dreadful docu-
ment. Eeport says that he has not slept since.
A gentleman who was formerly well-known in
Sydney as a wholesale warehouseman, and who has for
some time past been Eegistrar of Births, Marriages,
and Deaths, in a certain town, the other day had the
pleasure of joining in the holy bands of mitrimony a
loving pair. The ceremony ended, the registrar asked
for his fee. The bridegroom replied that he “ had no
change on him" just then, but would forward a cheque.
The registrar threatened to un-marry his client if the
latter didn’t “ stump up," but it was of no avail. The
credit of bridegrooms at that registry-office has been
stopped.
It was not till after the recent prosecution that
we knew there were so many lovers of the fine arts in
the colony. Take a look at the windows of Clarke, Pitt-
street, opposite Exchange, and see the spectators. We
are now simply stating the naked truth.
A French gentleman, who happened to be staying
in the well-known hostelrie of the hon. member for the
Wollombi, enquired of that distinguished legislator, in
the Gallic tongue, the way to the Exhibition. “ Non
comprehend Portuguee,” replied Joseph.
A certain Queensland Judge, when he visits
Rockhampton, invariably has the door of the hotel bath-
room locked, and the place reserved for his own sole
use, to the discomfiture of the regular lodgers. The
fountain of justice, he says, must not be defiled.
A pamphlet was issued by Messrs. Hardie and
Gorman, in connection with the sale by them of the
Premier’s Faulconbridge estate. Somebody—he was
once connected with a newspaper—distinguished him-
self by writing for the pamphlet a really charming de-
scription of the scenery of the mountains.
In writing td the Penny Alfred, Mr. G. E.
Maclean (J.P.) says—“ When the natives of the colony
will begin to look after their own affairs, and not leave
them tb be Tammany-ringed by imported adventurers,
then, and not until then, I might offer myself to a
Sydney electorate.” And still the world goes round.
The editor of the Camden Times spells Macau-
lay's name with an “e.” Comically enough, the quo-
tation after which the name in question follows is—
“ Knowledge is a great blessing to mankind, the ally of
virtue, and the harbinger of freedom.” The Camden
editor apparently hasn’t much of the “ ally of virtue.*
A sixty per cent, man from Sydney, the other
day, started for Melbourne overland, but on reaching
the Border his wife’s jewellery was seized by the Vic-
torian Custom’s officials, who were of opinion that Mrs.
sixty per cent, ought not, without contributing to the
general revenue, appear at Elemington on Cup Day
decked with diamonds.
A well-known J.P., whose wealth in houses and
lands is very great, recently directed from the Bench of
a certain police court that the matting, which is in a
disgraceful condition in every part of the court, should
be taken np and replaced. His numerous tenants say
that charity should begin at home, and that someone
owns lots of ramshackle houses.
On the walls of the vestibule of the Town Hall
are a number of shields, on which it is proposed to em-
blazon the aldermen’s coats of arms. Of course some
will have to be made to order, but what of it?
Caryatides for the niches can be made to represent the
ex-mayors, thus : —Moore, in a Roman toga; Chapman,
as a gladiator; Palmer, a fann, &c.
Remarks the Shoalhaven News:— “Judge
Hargrave says a glass of whisky will turn the Press any
way. We know from our long experience that a glass
of grog has turned many a Bench.”—The editor of the
Babwon Argus says that “We might be induced to say
a good word for the judges for a cask of beer; but we
understand the dignity of our position too well to give
ourselves away for a glass of whisky.”
During last civic elections the fences of different
thoroughfares in Pyrmont were graced with some very
eulogistic notices of the abilities of some of the well-
known ones of that suburb. What has become of that
smooth-faced, meek-minded young man who was usually
engaged during the day in compiling said notices, and
who, after the “ sma’ hours,” was to be seen, bucket and
brush in hand, pasting up the bills ?
In the open and half-decked boat race decided
on Saturday last, Mr. A. M. Castle’s Florrie came in
third. She was manned by three lawyers, and much
surprise was expressed amongst the spectators at the
temerity of the legal gentlemen in thus guilelessly
trusting themselves in the hands of Providence (upon
the water), seeing that . But a certain well-known
functionary always takes care of his own.
A Presbyterian parson, over 200 miles north of
Sydney, having finished his morning prayers, shouldered
his axe, as was his custom, to acquire an appetite for
his breakfast. Dealing a vigorous blow at a stinging-
tree, which the storm of the past night had uprooted,
our rev. was astonished to find his axe “ bogged” in the
soft wood. At the table that morning he related his
exploit, remarking that " the ram had softened the trees."
Last Friday an inconvenient accident occurred
to Dr. Beg. He was perusing the list of causes for trial
at the Supreme Court, when suddenly he and a number
of spectators were assailed by a sulphrous smell. In
the minds of the latter the cause was immediately
traced to the doctor’s recent lecture, and he was very
soon alone in his glory. It was ten minutes later that
a cabman discovered that a box of matches had become
ignited in his pocket while he stood reading the causes
—or in other words while he was in adjacent proximity
to “the Devil’s advocate."
Dr. Craig Dixon, M. 8., C.M., M.R.C.S., &c., is
writing on alcohol in the Christian Weekly. He says
that in consumption, strumous disorders, and other
similar complaints, arising, we presume, from the
perusal of religious prints, there is nothing like a good
beer. We’ve been long of this opinion ourselves. He’s
all astray, however, when he simply says Queensland is
hot. It’s hot. Altogether, the doctor’s letter will
have a telling effect. We don’t like, however, the way
he commences his last paragraph—“ And, now, in con-
clusion.” We’ve not heard it before, but it doesn’t
sound well.
Aro Monday newspapers to be tolerated ?
work on them, of course, has chiefly to be dor,/ 110
Sunday. Sunday secular papers cannot bo allowed i?®
cause they are read on Sunday. And it w 6 ? be-
doubtful whether anything but religious
be endured on Saturday, since many peonle a™ *- „
to keep them oyer for Sunday reading ®
Yet again ! This from an election notice in tb
Evening Clap-trap, of Mondayßobert VaJ he
Esq., Mayor of Sydney, occupied the chair. The
then read the notice convening the meeting of
evening, and then requested Mr. Brown to address tb
electors ” We have all read of the
Balaam s ass, but this conversational chair even
peLe C the gllH tave C ° me dow * to «!
The capacious wife of a certain little Svdne„
man, whom everybody knows, was, the other day Aw?
to present him with a son and heir, and was’ba?X
attended by her medical adviser. The poor little i,
band betook himself to the garden and wept bitteX'
The doctor, on leaving, encountered him in this denied
able condition, and, stooping down, patted him kindf"
on the back saying. “Don’t cry, my lad, your mothX
will soon be better. “miner
The keenest bit of satire we have seen for soma
fame appeared recently ir the Methodist Journat al
Adelaide, Speaking of the Christian Weekly it™
marked that “the first issue was an excellent one tbo
front page engraving, ‘ Leafy Summer Time,’was wbII
executed, very well indeed, and would be deservina of „
place m any o f the illustrated papers published in Enqland »»
The joke is that the writer knew well where the “Leafw
Summer Time ” came from. aiy
Holy Joeyism in New Zealand. A proposal
made the other day at a meeting of the Dunedin Bene
volent Institution Committee, to ask Mr Proctor tn
give a lecture for the benefit of the Institution, was
violently opposed, on the ground that the eminent as
tronomer s religious opinions were not sound, and was
carried only by a majority of one! “This,” says a
local writer, “ is the sort of fact that makes a man feel
proud of his adopted country!”
A well-known citizen gave a ball the other even-
xng. A couple of hundred invitations were issued, and
nearly all bidden attended the festive scene. No hitch
occurred until one of the guests, a married ladv
thought she would go home early. She accordingly
wended her way to the dressing-room, and, without
knocking, pushed the door open. Heavens! Her better-
half was embracing the parlor-maid. The gentleman
has since been suffering from sciatica.
On a recent occasion, when the Acting- Governor
of Tasmania and Lady arrived at Wodonga, no carriage
had been provided to convey them to the federal city
and the ordinary conveyance being well filled Sir
Francis and Lady Smith were accommodated with seats
—on the other passengers’ knees. After a guard of
honour to witness the departure from Melbourne and a
special saloon carriage on the railway, the contrast was
at least striking. What will our Tasmanian readers s»v
to this ? J
The other morning, very early, a lady was going
to the baths at Woolloomooloo. A playful policeman
stopped her and asked her “ where she was going with
the bag,” at the same time accusing her of having
just left “ the big boarding-house at the tohp of the
hill.” Should this guardian of the law repeat his
pleasantries he may himself have to seek free lodgings
—not at what he calls “ the big boarding-house at the
tohp of the hill,” but in the surgical ward, Macquarie-
street.
One of Tooth’s brewery carters, a man about
16st., while rolling some empty barrels to his cart
the other day, requested a slim 7st. 101 b. fellow, who
thinks himself a wit, to move away. Replied Mr. Slim
“If yon were my size I would take to you.” The carter
dropped the barrel, opened his eves, looked the 7st
101 b. man from head to foot, and then in a loud voice
that made the ground shake, requested the boss to give
him some grease, “ and he would swallow him.” The
wit travelled.
The special correspondent of a Tasmanian paper
writing from Melbourne about the Exhibition, after
devoting about two columns to a prose transcript of the
catalogue, suddenly breaks off with the following“ It
is not possible to fully elucidate the excellencies, or to
narrate the exhibits, in a few press reports, involving the
lapse of much time to do anything like justice to the
subject; and for general colonial readers it is wise not to
overburden the mental or receptive faculties with more
details than they can reasonably be expected to digest,
and therefore with this idea I refrain from enlarging, as
I might do, on the wonders of this Exhibition, and the
lessons, more or less obvious, which the whole affair is
calculated to teach the present generation.” Wise not
to overburden, indeed. Who was it asked that corres-
pondent to go out and have a drink ?
The following conversation took place in the
Treasury a few days ago, between the head of that de-
partment and one of the senior clerks who had obtained
leave of absence and [taken places for himself and wife
for Melbourne. Colonial Treasurer: “Do you intend to
go to Melbourne ? ” Clerk ; “ I think so, Sir.” Colo-
nial Treasurer: “ Shall you attend the races ? ” Clerk •
“Most likely I shall.” Colonial Treasurer: “Then I
shall cancel your leave, as I cannot give leave to my
clerks to attend races.” The big man then offered to
refund the passage money already paid down out of his
own pocket. We would like to know two things. When
did it become allowable for Government officials to
interfere with the strictly domestic affairs of their sub-
ordinates, and what new tax is going to be instituted
for the Treasurer’s special benefit that he can thus sud-
denly become so lavish of his cheques ?
Among the notes to correspondents the following
appears in an old number of Sydney once a Week,
edited by Mr. C. H. Barlee :—“ LinCc.—Ycur verses are
of that kind of poetry (if, indeed, they can be classed
as poetry) which fairies would sing under any con-
ceivable circumstances. Fairies, who love bright
fancies and happjr thoughts, would surely never join
hands in frolic circle to carol forth such a wooden
chorus as—
‘ For ’tis then we delight
To dance and sing
Where the rills ring.
For each fairy and sprite.’"
As “ Liryc ” used to write to Once a Week that publi-
cation is of course defunct. However, the “ whirligig
of time brings its revenges.” “ Liryc,” in days of yore,
wrote to Mr. Barlee, and now Mr. Barlee writes for
“ Liryc.”
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
ME. STEPHEN CAMPBELL FROWN, M P.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
South Australia beat Victoria at polo.
Mr. G. F. Grace at the time of his death was 29.
Pr. L. L. Smith’s “ Go-as-you-please ” was a
-great financial failure. •
It is said that Mr. W. Long intends taking
fli-aud Flaneur to England.
haycock has offered to row Elliott or Boyd for
,£2OO a side. No response yet.
Hailes’ first Melbourne Cup win was on Grand
Flaneur. Yeomans lias not yet won the Cup.
A number of thoroughbred horses have been
sent to New Zealand from Tasmania for gale.
At the Herbert Eiver annual races the “ big
money ” was £l2. There only was the one day’s sport.
Donald Dinnie, the celebrated Scotch athlete,
and his rival, Davidson, are about to visit the colonies.
Headquarters of the Otago Tatter sail’s are at the
Empire Hotel, and Auckland Tattersall's at the Occi-
dental.
A New Zealand sportsman in England is in
treaty for George Frederick, the winner of the Derby
in 1874.
Forty-one nominations were received for the
Auckland Cup. All the New Zealand cracks are
entered.
In the International bowling match at Mel-
bourne, the Victorian players defeated the Sydney men
by 51 points.
A New South Wales team of riflemen go to the
Exhibition Hide Matches at Melbourne at the end of
the present month.
Grand Flaneur’s performance in the Produce
Stakes is the fastest on record in the world. Distance,
mile; time, 2m. Ilfs.
Murdoch’s was the greatest, and Palmer’s the
least, batting average during the tour of the Australian
Eleven in Great Britain.
The betting before the Melbourne Cup was run
for was ; 3 to 1 Progress, 4 to 1 Grand Flaneur. “ Grand
Flaneur came like a lion,” &c.
The Grand International .Regatta (Hop-Bitters,
£lOOO prizes) is fixed for Nov. 18. Seventeen entries,
including Trickett, Hanlan, and Haycock.
Trickett cables Allison, of Adelaide, that he is
well and hearty. Allison and friends have cabled home
£lOOO to back the New South Welshman.
Bay the jockey who steered the New Zealand horse
Mata at Flemington, admitted that he had ridden the
horse improperly in the Royal Park Stakes.
T. Hailes, the accomplished jockey, has this
year performed the feat of winning the Sydney and
Melbourne Derbies and the Melbourne Cup.
A Melbourne paper states that Mr. Long, the
owner of Grand Flaneur, is in London. Is he S' Ho
was “very much” in Melbourne last week, at any rate.
Wallace Boss, who has been matched to row
Trickett for £4OO, is, according to a late cable, in such
very bad form that it is probable he will forfeit. Colors
struck!
The Dunedin Jockey Club hold their Spring
Meeting on the 30th of November and Ist of December.
Satisfactory nominations have been received for the
principal events.
It is just possible that a half-caste (Maori) crew
will be found to compete in the champion four-oared
outrigger race at the approaching Auckland Inter-
national Regatta.
The other day the Evening News gave Han-
lan’s weight as list. lOlbs. The Canadian only weighs
between lOst. and list., and his ordinary rowing weight
is lOst. lOlbs., or thereabouts.
Mata’s eccentric running during the Melbourne
races has been a Mata of officialenquiry with the V.R.C.
\y e have made it.” The decision is that horse and
trainer never to appear on Flemington again.
Donnelly and Sullivan, of Sydney, are building
a sculling boat for Mr. H. L. Morpeth, of Auckland,
NZ. The owner intends competing in the Intercolo-
nial Regatta, to be held there on January 29,1881.
The accomplished steeplechase rider, S. Floyd,
who won with Simpleton on Sir Hercules Robinson's
Day, is a native of Sandhurst, Victoria. His father was a
coloured American and his mother an Englishwoman.
Owing to Archer’s absence from the saddle be-
tween Epsom and Goodwood, Fordham overtook him,
and now heads the list of winning jockeys in England.
Up to September 3 he had won 70 races, and lost 166,
making a total of 236 rides.
A match was played last Saturday between the
Derwent and Pyrmont Excelsior C.C. s. The former
made 86 in their first innings, and the latter 24. Ihe
bowling of Arfiber and tbe batting of I assail* for tbe
Derwent, was much admired.
In the Intercolonial Pigeon Match at Melbourne
Mr. Calvert, of Colac, and Mr. R. H. White, of Mudgee,
each killed eight out of nine birds. Mr. Hamilton killed
all his birds, but two of them fell just out of bounds.
Mr. Lee Lord and Mr. Skarratt were very unlucky.
The Sportsman of September 11 deals rather
severely with the Australian team for having accepted
£lloo—half the gross proceeds of the recent represen-
tative match. The paper says that, according to the
colonials’ own proposition, the match was to have been
for the benefit of a charity—the Cricketers Benevolent
Fund.
In our notice of the Double Bay Regatta, men-
tion was omitted of the services of the hon. secretary,
Mr Walter C. Stafford. This gentleman was most as-
siduous in his exertions to bring the affair to a success-
ful issue, and to him is largely due the credit of pro-
viding for the lovers of aquatic sports a first-rate day s
amusement.
Last Saturday, on the Thames, Laycock beat
J. H. Riley easily in a match for £2OO aside, which was
witnessed by a large crowd. Riley is the man who
rowed second to Wallace Rose in the match in which
Hanlan was recently beaten, and he not long ago defeated
Hosmer after a terrific struggle, in which the distance-
three miles with a turn —was done in 2os.
Laycoct rows Hawdon, of Delayal, the Tyne
scalier, to-day (Saturday). Hawdon, who was the first
man defeated by Hanlan in England is the weakest
bom© sculler Laycock has yet been pitted against. On
Honday next Trickett rows Hanlan for the champion-
ship of the world and the Sportsman Cup, and on the
18th commences the Hop Bitters International Regatta.
The trout are multiplying in N.Z. One Outram
gentleman has taken this season 501 b. weight ot trout
•ut of the Leo Stream; and a Dunedmito returned the
other day with fourteen trout for a day s fishing in the
kfttne stream, some of them weighing four or five
pounds. The fish caught there are, as a rule, heavier
than the average of last season, and are in splendid con-
dition.
Brisbane Races. —Trial Stakes : Selina, 1; Don-
•aster, 2 ; President, 3.—Hurdle Race: Pastime, 1,
Cooralfcin, 2. —Brisbane Handicap : Warbawk, 1; Sun-
set, 2. Time, 2m. 16s.—Tbe Derby: Waterloo, 1; Ca-
«ary, 2; Galatea, 3. Time, Im. 45s.—Corinthian Stakes;
Theodore, 1; Zanco, 2; Regie, 3. Time, Im. 525.-
Saudgate Handicap: Sydney, 1; Warhawk, 2. Visitors
Plate; Queen of the Forest, 1; Explorer, 2.
The Sportsman (London) says that Trickett is
decidedly clumsy in the manipulation of his boat. it
also says that his new boat bas a 16in. slide, which, we
think, cannot be true, as the champion has always
rowed much longer than this. The journal named gives
an account of an outing taken on the Thames in wager-
boats by Trickett and Laycock. in the presence of Lora
Loudesborongh, who was palled in a double-scullea
skiff by Harry Kelley and John Thompson. It remarks
Shat Trickett pulled a long, telling stroke of 30 to the
minute, whilst Laycock, “whose style is much more
dashing and rapid,” pulled 34.
Melbourne Races.—Mares’ Produce Stakes :
Grand Flaneur, 1; Progress, 2; Mulatto, 3. Time, 2m.
10|s. —V.E.C. Handicap; Mato, 1; Pontiff, 2; Secun-
dns, 3. Time, 3m. 6Js. —Steeplechase : Himalaya, 1;
Simpleton, 2; Turpin, 3. Time, 6m. 59}s. —Canterbury
Plate: Progress, 1; Sweetmeat, 2; Wellington, 3. Time,
4m. 4s. —Free Handicap ; Prattle, 1; Rivalry, 2; Sooth-
sayer, 3. Time, 2m. 38|-s. —Plemington Stakes: Mon-
mouth, 1; Welcome Jack, 2; Topaz, 3. Time, 2m. 23|s.
“ A Non-Better ” writes us from Rocky Mouth,
in the interests of Rush against Trickett, in the matter
of the foul of the late regatta. He states that Mr.
Cameron, J.P., who alleges that Pearce deliberately
fouled Trickett, is short-sighted, and had to admit the
fact at a recent political meeting of which he was
chairman. Our correspondent further points out that
the referee was in a position which enabled him to
view the race properly, and that the referee s deci-
sion should be final.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Spring Meeting was a big
success. Results:—Maiden Plate, 1} mile. Messenger
(late Port Wine), 1; Chandler, 2; Camellia, 3. Twelve
started. Time, 2m. 525. Handicap Hurdles, 2 miles,
eight flights.—King Hon, 1; Grey Momus, 2; Old Ire-
land, 3. Time, 4m. 325. Wanganui Stakes Handicap.—
Hailstorm, 9st. 21b., 1; Opawa, Bst. 41b., 2; Rocket,
Bst. 41b., 3. Eight started. Railway Plate. —Hailstorm,
I; Redeemer, 2 ; Soukar, 3. Consolation. —My Dream,
1; Rocket, 2; Opawa, 3.
Of the .£11,990 prize money at the Flemington
events, Sydney won £5483, the principal winners being
Mr. W. Long, £3305; the Hon. James White, £1594;
Mr. He Mestre, £270; and Mr. Rossi, £lO5. The
other winners were: —’Wagner, £1345; Hart, 4-10-U;
Branch, £830; Howie, £601; Whittingham, £530;
Webb, £385; Loughlin, £370; Yallance, £264; Morri-
son, £244; Jones, £209; Finlay, £175. The settling
over the events was very satisfactory, the bookmakers
as usual, notwithstanding their heavy losses, coming up
manfully.
On the Melbourne Cup Day a “ welcher ” got
more than he bargained for. He had plunged in the
most reckless fashion, his constituents being, of
course, young men from the country. But a stalwart
farmer “took stock” of Mr. Welcher, and kept him
under surveillance throughout the day. When the
time came to settle up the swindler darted off. But he
was too late. The strong man held him by the throat
with one hand, while with the other he wrenched open
his mouth and extracted therefrom three five-pound
notes, four one-pound notes, and three half-sovereigns.
Then he kicked the fellow from the course.
Laycock, it now appears, had hardly a red cent,
to his name when he reached England. The man who
had promised to ‘‘ see him through ’ ’ pecuniarily backed
out on arriving at Melbourne, but Elias, having taken
his passage and announced that he intended going to the
old country, determined to be as good as his word.
When he got home he found a friend—-in the person, we
are told, of a young and wealthy Australian who bears
an historic name—and he has since been helped on by
Trickett, who ventured a little money on the race with
Blackman. We join with the correspondent of a daily
contemporary in hoping that Laycock’s pluck in facing
difficulties in a strange country, and so manfully uphold-
ing the credit of his native land, will not pass unrecog-
nized.
In a recent letter to a Sydney friend, Laycock
says “ They all, I fancy, try to copy Hanlan here—
use too much slide, bring the knees together touching
the chin and the haunches touching the heels, then
give a great dash at the stretcher. That style will never
do, to my idea, for a long hard struggle; it may do for
a spurt, but not for a four-mile race. * » » I cannot
say I am impressed with any rowers I have seen here
yet. They are a regular lot of scramblers. Rowing was
very dull when we arrived, but it is livening up a bit
now, and will yet be still more lively. However, the
fun has not yet commenced. Thomas and Cannon have
to row for £lOO aside the day before I pull Blackman.
The former’s rowing weight is lOst. 71b., and he now
weighs over list. * * * * * Trickett, my old
antagonist in Australia, butfriend in this laud
of strangers, is getting on first-rate. It is a god-
send that we are together, for each would, I
assure you, be very dull without the other. * *
Ned and I often go out through Richmond Park, a lovely
place for walking, covered with stately oaks, and dotted
over with deer of all descriptions. There are here some
beautiful green fields nicely hedged, far and away prettier
than anything I ever saw in the land of my birth —
young Australia.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
A woman committed suicide in America because
her husband would not take her to a circus. Fact.
The Princess of Wales has not in eight years
materially changed the style of wearing her hair.
Mrs. Bloomer, the projector of the famous
bloomer costume, has just celebrated her fortieth
birthday.
On Cup Day, at Melbourne, a well-known Syd-
ney Hebe, hailing from Pitt-street, donned a dress which
cost £l2O.
Mrs. Langtry has looked so lovely since she wore
old gold satin that her popular name has been
changed to the Amber Witch.
If a woman says to you, “I will never see you
again !” hope; but if she says, notwithstanding, “ I
shall always see you with pleasure ” —travel.
The destiny of women is to please, to be amiable,
and to be loved. Those who do not love them are still
more in the wrong than those who love them too much.
A lady lost on Wednesday, at the Melbourne Ex-
hibition, five £2O notes ontheEuglish.Scottishand Aus-
tralian Chartered Bank, while sitting down near one of
the refreshment bars.
Dr. Bruce, a prominent minister of the Free
Church of Scotland, the last survivor of those who, at
the eve of the Disruption, stood foremost in the ranks
of the ministry at Edinburgh, is dead.
Another celebrated preacher has been deposed
from the ministry for holding heterodox opinions. The
name of the girl does not appear, probably being sup-
pressed on account ot the respectability of the tamily.
The immense bouquets which fashionable London
ladies carry at entertainments are so heavy that some
of them are held top downwards and some are bugged
like babies or pugs. The London Would suggests that
they bo slung over the shoulder—like a picamnny.
There is no sight more calculated to excite the
svmuathies of the young than to see an old maid in a
tram-car, her lap full of bundles, an umbrella in one
hand, and a pet dog under her arm, aud the lady trying
to eat a juicy pear with a double set of false teeth that
are loose.
There has been a great falling off of business in
the fashionable drapery line during the last fortnight,
owing to the pungent sermon that was recently de-
livered in St. James’ Church, Sydney, on the “smot
dress.” The ladies of the congregation now attend
divine worship in cotton gowns.
The Princess of Wales, when she takes her little
daughters into society, has a quaint fashion of dressing
them in toilets harmonizing with her own. For in-
stance, the other day, she wore a costume of light blue
aud eeladon green, aud the young princesses followed
her about in gowns of the blue.
MissM iynard, the beautiful younghe'ress whose
name was once spoken of in connection with that of
Prince Leopold, and who is to be on some day the
Countess of Warwick, will not marry Lord Brooke
till after her majority, in order that she may settle a
suitable fortune on her younger sister.
A woman who is guided by the head, and not by
the heart, is a social pastilence; she has all the defects
of a passionate and affectionate woman, with none ot
her compensations; she is without pity, without love,
without virtue, without sex. This Is the true man s
idea about the woman’s rights people.
One of the London ladies’ clubs, according to the
Whitehall Eevikw, is determined to keep up a character
for an austerity of virtue which nothing shall impugn. A
member was recently requested to resign for kissing her
brother in the dining room. L nder the circumstances
it is quite a pity that she didu’t kiss somebody else s
brother. .
A little while since there appeared in the
Saturday Advertiser (Dunedin) a romantic yarn en-
K “ Azubah, the Forsaken.” The hero was a local
hotel mannger, aud the heroine a barmaid at the same
hotel. The pair saw and read the article—and in order
that a finishing touch might he put to the little history,
got married.
Some years ago, when the Melbourne ladies
adopted the fashion of wearing a fringe over thejr fore-
heads, that celebrated wit, the late Butler Cole Aspinall,
expressed his detestation of the new fad. However, his
own daughter started a fringe, whereupon B. C. sweetly
remarked that he “didn’t care about seeing a woman
1 look like a filly going to a fair."
The following from an English paper by the
I mail seems to indicate that the Baroness Burdett-Coutts
is still single:— lt is rumoured now that the Baroness,
instead of marrying young Master Bartlett, will adopt
him. There could be no possible objection to that.
Moreover, it is not a monopoly. You can only marry
one young man at a time, but you can adopt as many as
you like.
The wife of a labouring man named May, living
at No. 3, Devonshire-grove, Old Kent-road, Loudon, was
delivered, in August last, of four children at a birth-
three hoys and one girl. The woman, on a previous oc-
casion, had given birth to twins. The father is a
“framer,” or dyer’s labourer, employed for many years
by Messrs. Lyons, dyers, Lee-street, Old Kent-road.
Two of the children died two days afterwards.
The old Duke of Wellington proposed to the
Baroness Bmdett-Coutts when she was a girl of tender
years, but she wouldn’t listen to him. Then the Bishop
of London tried without success. Afterwards, when
she was about forty, a Mr. Wykoff, of Philadelphia,
tried his hand, and, as he was a clever American, nearly
succeeded, but the Baroness.'just a little too soon, found
out that he had a liaison with a notorious actress. The
baroness has £300,006 a year.
It is not generally known that the Baroness Bur-
dott-Coutts, some forty-three years ago, had a suitor, one
Eichard Dunn, an Irish barrister who was neck and heels
in love with her. He pursued and so persecuted her with
his ardent affections, that she had to invoke the aid of the
law for her protection. At last, for her sweet sake, ne sui-
cided. Perhaps she retains still some of the young fire
which set the Irishman’s heart ablaze, and it was this, as
well as her enormous wealth, that captivated the Ameri-
can Adonis, Ashmead-Bartlett. A few grains of powder in
an old gun will sometimes bring down the best of game.
A law of England enforced in the seventeenth
century reads: “ All women, of whatever age, rank, pro-
fession, or degree, whether virgins, wives, or widows,
that shall, from andafterthis Act, imp*. so upon, seduce,
and betray into matrimony, any of his Majesty’s male
subjects, by scents, paints, cosmetics, washes, artificial
teeth, false hair, Spanish wool, iron stays, hoops, high-
heeled shoes, or bolstered hips, shall incur the penalty
of the laws in force against witchcraft, sorcery, and the
like, and that the marriage, upon conviction, shall stand
null and void." Were this law revived, many a modern
marriage certificate would be but waste paper.
In New York recently a loving couple played
“Borneo and Juliet ”in a private theatre. After the in-
evitable Rebecca had posed beside that never-to-be*dned-
up well, when Romeo had had more difficulty with his
sword between his legs than w.th Juliet on the balcony,
and so on, what then ? The curtain rose on a hi idal party ;
the daughter of the hostess in white satin, but happily
not raving, and orange blossoms; the groom by her
side; the relations grouped effectively in the back-
ground ; the parson in full canonicals. The marriage
service was read, and Mr. Dash and Miss B ank became
mnn and wife. Then the shrinking violet of a bride
came forward to the footlights and recited the “ W< d-
ding Wreath.” And of course they lived happily ever
afterwards.
According to ancient prescriptions the lying-in
chamber of a Spanish queen may not have u ore than
one door, which must communicate with a saloon m
which the great oflicers of State, deputations from both
chambers of the Cortes, admirals, marshals, and gran-
dees of Spain are required to assemble when it is an-
nounced that the birth is at har d. This announcement
is made to the President of the Council and the Minister
of Justice, who are conducted by the King in pep On
into the Queen’s bedroom, where the accoucheur officially
communicates to them the state of affairs. The astern-
bled dignitaries then wait patiently until the hoyal
infant "deigns to enter the world.” As soon as this
important event takes place, the King carries the new-
born babe into the saloon on a huge golden salver, and
exhibits it to all present, commencing with the Minis-
ter-president. Twenty-four hours later, its birth is re-
gistered civilly, and the Cardinal Patriarch of India
baptizes it in the palace chapel.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II—THE STORM.
CHAPTER III—Continued.
COMBINATION V. STARVATION.
For the space of some six weeks —-that is, from
early March to the middle of April, Adrienne,
Helena, Mr. Sutcliffe, Hugo, Sebastian, and others
had worked with or under them, had toiled hard
at the schools which Mr. Mallory had opened, in
connection with his relief system. At first con-
siderable difficulties were experienced; some of
the work-people grumbled bitterly at being
obliged to “goto school again,” as the condition
of receiving a sum which appeared to them small
indeed, after the abundant wages they had for
years been earning ; but the tact and kindness of
the three principals, Sebastian, Adrienne, and
good little Mr. Sutcliffe, and the hearty manner
in which they were backed up by their subordi-
nates, soon worked wonders. Ere long the work-
people themselves discovered how much better off
they were than those of their friends whoso
masters had not seen fit to provide for them ; and
who were just then groaning under the obnoxious
“ labour test,” as it was called, which roused so
much gall and bitterness before the sewing and
educational schools were fairly started. Eeaming
to make clothes, or reading, writing, and arith-
metic, wore felt to be decidedly more distinguished
and elevating employments than stone-breaking,
orroad-making, and were moreover, much better
adapted to the lissom fingers, and to the physique
accustomed to sedentary labour in a high temper-
ature, of the operatives. By degrees they fell
into their places. They felt that they were known
and expected, and missed if they did not come at
the appointed time. The great warehouse was
warmed and lighted, and threw open its doors
hospitably wide to receive them. Mallory s
schools ” were known all over the town, and those
who attended them were envied by those who did
For the principals the task was, as Sebastian
had told Adrienne, no joke. It was continuous
drudgery. The routine was monotonous, and the
discipline strict; but the master and head of it all
was the first to adhere unswervingly to every rule
laid down, and his coadjutors followed with un-
hesitating obedience. Mr. Blissot received more
kisses and thanks from his neice just now than
she had ever bestowed before—kisses and thanks
for what she called his goodness in sparing her to
help the poor people in their great distress. She
was with him much less than usual, and perhaps
did not therefore notice so much his pallor and
weakness, and the strength which was failing in
every way. H0 } for some roftsoiij withhold tho
truth from her, and did not tell her that ho felt
almost at the end of his weary, dismal pilgrimage.
It was only to Sebastian that he spoke about that
—Sebastian, who had become the trusted friend of
the poor, lonely man. .
Adrienne and Helena worked heartily, hand-in-
hand. That was no time for petty bickerings and
jealousies. Even sectarians forgot their
differences in the imperative necessity for adminis-
tering to the great need and woe of the people.
In working-hours Adrienne forgot entirely who
Helena was ; and knew her only as a hearty helper,
a quick, bright, kind-hearted girl, to whom no
trouble waa too great, and no task too hard. It
was not quite the same with Helena. She had
divined, by some subtle means —herself scarce knew
how —that Adrienne was no other than 1 ' the nicest
girl I ever knew,” and Miss Spenceley s eyes grew
intensely critical. Every word, every gesture and
action of her coadjutor, was weighed in a nico
balance, and, so far, had not been found wanting.
Helena herself was, without knowing it, changing
rapidly. Despite a certain vague disquietude or
heart, she was happier than she had ever been in
her life before. She threw herself into her new
work with her characteristic passionate energy
and vehemence, though she still, in word and
theory, cherished them as fondly as ever. But it
was impossible that one of her intensely sensitive
and receptive mind could behold what she daily
did, of sorrow and pain, of ignorance and helpless-
ness, and remain the same. She saw into depths
of this our life of which she had never dreamed,
and which Miss Laura Merewoather’s philosophy
passed over entirely.
It has been acknowledged on all sides that tire 1
benefits, at that time, were not only on one side.
It was not only the rough factory-girls who came
to learn, but also the delicate ladies who gave up-
time and comfort and their best energies to teach,
who profited by the intercourse. In the sad and
degrading spectacle of the spring of 1878, _ the
sweet lessons learned and taught in that bitter
season of 1862 seem almost to have been forgotten
and obliterated. Many a benighted girl —many an
educated, ignorant matron, roused to her toil at
half-past 5 in the morning, and prevented by
its long monotony from acquiring any domestic
grace, learnt almost her first notions of making
home happy and comfortable in the schools that
were set up in the “ panic.”
Then, in the woe of the poor, and the sympathy
of the rich, it almost seemed as if the great black
frowning barriers of caste had been overthrown ;
but the division of classes, the opposition between
master and man, is a plant of sturdy growth, and
strikes its roots deep and far under the earth.
Now, sixteen years later, comes a strike almost
without parallel for bitterness and unyielding
stubbornness on either side —a strike accompan-
ied by rioting and mob-rule, broken windows,
houses sacked, men assaulted, women and children
threatened ; and the necessity for a strong mili-
tary force to preserve even the outward semblance
of order ; and this, on the identical ground where,
during the cotton famine, the sore distress was
nobly borne and most generously relieved. These
things make a riddle hard to read.
Adrienne and Helena found both their mental
and physical energies taxed to the rrtmost by the
work they had undertaken, but neither had any
thought of giving up. With Adrienne it was a
labor of calm, affectionate duty; she went to it
with an enlightened sense of her own responsibili-
ties, and a full comprehension of the gravity of
the crisis. With Helena it was something quite
different; she worked eagerly, till she was wearied,
and scarcely knew why she did it. Of course she
was sorry for the poor people, and pitied them in
their present condition, and was anxious to help
them, strained every nerve to do her work; but
she thought more about Adrienne Blisset and
Sebastian Mallory than all the poor people in
Thanshope. _ _ .
She was changing rapidly, without knowing it.
In the presence of this groat urgent need, and of
her own deeper emotions, all the flimsy theories
of the past were being utterly undermined,
though outwardly toweling as high and as fair as
ever. She was happier in her home-relations than
before. Sebastian’s conduct was condemned
there by her father and brother. She knew that
it was only because of Sebastian’s wealth and
Mr. Mallory’s high position in the town, that
she was allowed to participate in what was called
the “ madness” of Mr. Mallory. Fool and mad-
man were the mildest words in the vocabulary of
the Spenceley inen, by which to describe Sebas-
tian’s course. It was wrong and iniquitous of
him, they said, to set such an example, as if every
mill-owner in Thanshope could be expected to
support his hands while this confounded war
lasted.
‘ Every mill-owner —no!’ said Helena, with
flashing eyes. I So many of them are too poor.
They have not the moans; but if all those who
could afford it did so, it would only be their duty
—their bare duty, and there would not be so many
begging letters in the papers, asking for help for
the richest county in the richest country in the
world.’
She waa informed that she knew nothing about
it, and that it was only to keep her out of some
other mischief that she was allowed to have any-
thing to do with such folly.
(‘ And,’ she thought to herself, with a hard
smile, * because Sebastian Mallory is rich and
influential, and I see him every day, there.’)
The conversation turned to Helena’s coming
birthday, when she would attain her majority, and
great festivities would bo the order of the day.
With tears in her eyes, she took the opportunity
to implore her father to give up the ball which
would cost so much money, and to give her half,
day, a quarter of the sum he intended to spend
upon it, that she might give it to Miss Blisset or
Mr. Mallory, and have it used for relief purposes ;
but the request was premptorily refused, and she
was told, in oracular language, that she did not
know what was good either for herself or the
work-people. Moreover, she was informed, it was
all very well for a pretty girl to play at women’s,
rights, but that a daughter was expected to obey
her father; and the regal Fred remarked that a
fool and her money were soon parted, and ho
would back Helena for making ducks and drakes
of any property she might ever have, if it were
not pretty tightly tied up.
‘ I suppose it is only finished gentlemen like
yourself who know how to make proper of
their money and their time,’ said Helena, turning
upon him bitterly. ‘ I can tell you the whole
town will cry shame on both of you the richest
men in it, and you have scarcely subscribed five
pounds to keep your own work-people from
starving.’ .
‘ I didn’t become the richest man in Thanshope
by pouring my money into my workpeople’s
pockets,’ said Mr. Spenceley, grimly.
And Helena, with a passionate “Psha!”
rushed from the room, drawing on her gloves as
she went, to go forth to her afternoon labours at
the school.
This was in the middle of March, and as she
came up the cindery path loading to the little
anteroom which Sebastian and his staff were in
the habit of using as an office, he and Miss Blisset
sat at the window watching her approach.
‘ What a lovely, graceful creature she is !’ said
Adrienne, admiringly, as the tall supple figure of
the girl came swiftly up the walk. ‘ I often won-
der how she can bo the child of such parents.’
‘ There is some southern impetuousness in her
nalu;e,’ he replied, ‘ and a capacity for southern
rages, too,’ he added, watching her and smiling.
‘ Look at her now, Miss Blisset: do you see that
frown, and how her eyes are flashing, andher lips,
set?’
(to be continued).


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
B. Y O U D A L
FANCY AND GENEEAL DEAPEE.
E,
G 56 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Spring Millinery, now’s the time
„ Dresses, ready-made and made to order
~ Parasols, Satin, Silk, Pompadour
„ Hosiery, Lisle Cotton, Silk
~ Dress Materials, all kinds
Gloves, Trillings, Laces, Fancy Goods.
J. B. Y 0 U D A L E.
F
ASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STEEET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOE NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TEY IT! I 1
T
HE
J. L. HOED E E N.
BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIEST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MAEKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TEOUSEES TO OEDEE, FEOM 8s 6d
TEOUSEES & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASUEE, 37s 6d
«■ All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFOED-STEEET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFOED-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENEEAL
DEAPEE in all its branches.
THE MILLINEEY,
LADIES’ UNDEECLOTHING, and
DEESSMAKING DEPAETMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
» i, „ „ Baby Linen
„ ~ „ Ladies’ Underclothing.
~ ~ ~ ~ Dressmaking.
DON’T FOEGET THE ADDEESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFOED-STEEET.
E CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EAENED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
WYNYAED-STREET,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds mode to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
D
AVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAViD
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAVID
Orient
Walking Suits,
J^AVID
Orient
Berg Suits.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
The latest shape; a use-'
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- ‘ suit,
nary wear.
32s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
In light Homespuns and'
thin Cheviots and Ban- 42s per
nockburns. for Spring ’ Suit.
, and Summer wear.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
!In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures. )
JONES AND COMPANY’S
("Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials I
having been well }-
shrunk before
made up.
63s per
suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
r In Superior
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and V
finished the same as
ordered clothing. j
68s 6d
per suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
("Beautifully light inh
3 Texture, permanent in I
j colour and very dur- f
(. able in wear. )
38s 6d
per suit
JJAVID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
shrunk.
("Special attention is in-')
Ivited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and y Orient
most perfect in stvle I Clothing,
and finsh procurable |
in the colony. j
("In Superior TasmanianV
Flannel, thoroughly I lgs g^
{China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
("In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
3 In Super Black Merino, 25s.
1 In Blue Sergerette, 45s.
On Black Sergerette, 45s.
("In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■< In Black Merino. 30s.
(.In Super Sergerette, 55s.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
,. „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
,, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d,
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s 5d.
("In Superior, all Woolh
■5 Tambary Tweed, well >• 30s each
(. finished. )
"A Special Dress Over-')
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- >•
fully tight, and agree- I
_ able to wear. J
66s
JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
7s 6d, 8s
8d, 12s 6d,
13s 6d, 15s
’6d, 17s 6d,
19s 6d per
suit.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatly cut
and well made, and
finished.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
("In new shapes, veryh 12s 6d to
prettily trimmed, and >19s 6d per
(. thoroughly well-made. 3 suit.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
!In fancy and plain
Drills, trimmed in
new and effective
styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
fin superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
rIn light and dark mix-')
Youths’ j tures, cut in fashion- ] 21s 6d to
Tweed -{ able styles, well j-to 23s 6d
Suits. I trimmed and strongly ) per suit.
L made. J
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
(In fine durable Esta-'j
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and | 6d,
general wear. )
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
(For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET,
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
fTHOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c.
THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 63s; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
every size.
THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
other fabrics, &c.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to 8|d; French Percales, from 9jd
to 14d ; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
all prices.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
THOMPSON & GILES.
* C Ii ACE CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
TAILORING COMPANY
16 PARK STREET.
(Near George-street),
now mating to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers... igg.
.. Suits 63s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRtnp
MATERIALS,
Ready made for immediate wear.
TRIMMED with SILK and SATIN POMPADOUR
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVFRv
FIGURE,
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is in thorough working order, and is highly appre-
ciated, as shown by the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNB LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY.
A PRETTY SCARP, Embroidered Ends, only 6Jd.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality. Is 9d per
pair.
4-BLTTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
3s lid.
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
Prachutes, Sunshades, and Ladie’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices
EDWIN RICE,
600 George-street.
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces, -
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
URPHY AND
IMPORTERS OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes eat
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USE. ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31. GEORGE STREET WEST.
OALCLIFP COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—22401b.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesi and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BEICK
KILNS, LIME-BUENING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price ¥1®
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GKILtr
ING, EOASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last mucn
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every otne
kind of coal, wood, or coke; and ACTUALLY A Wf
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BAN*
NEWCASTLE COAL PIEES.
1 ton —22401b. net—delivertd in town: —
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
23s. Ditto double-screened I Newcastle.
22s. Ditto single ditto S
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK, .
247 George-street.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
JgjXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
DON’T FORGET
to calll at
THE NEW SHOP.
T. P. SIVIER,
77 OXFOED-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Bumey & Evans).
The New
GENTLEMEN’S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &o
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PKIOES.
Ladies will be much inteeested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Chemists and Druggists
RMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
_ AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4s
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOK-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R.
B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE NO MORE PILLS
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE P
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
*ST Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
B
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ami miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
’ H Y S I C.
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malign int Diarrhcea, riles,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation—lo to 12,
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chrt de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
/COMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
Tliis new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of theA.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
. Proprietor.
rjIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2.
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and havel'27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, gfC., &c.
Thirty-seven Bed Booms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled ui in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
T
ATTEESALL’S HOTE
TERRARA, SHOALHAVEN.
L,
Proprietor, P. STANTON
(Formerly of William-street, Sydney, and of Mittagong).
First-class accommodation for commercial travellers.
Good liquors, good table, &o.
Good change for Sydney Sportsmen. First-class
sport in the neighbourhood.
USTRALIAN WINE.— CARMICHAEL’S
l. PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.j
Agents, Circular Quay.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
Money
M
O N E Y.
MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours : 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
; heir business during the day, these offices will be
i,pened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
jvenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
rONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
m the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
item.
d in the £ instalments taken.
rloney lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
St g S?M°.'n™S Ssi LOAN, MORTGAGE
1 DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
.hket, throe doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Kepay-
nents to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
,OAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-streetr, next comer
ling-street. Established 1859.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public —
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
A p°
HBCARIES’
14 OXFORD STREET,
HALL,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B.— The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR.
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
frrrARTES^HALL
APOT
V
I
ES.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
tor the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
O IMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies onreceipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address —
SIMS AND PAEKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
O BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart's Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Hotels, Sec.
0
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
W. EGBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
fOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
Mr. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
• • Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certam of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
\Th^Celebkated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
woß'^.
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
to
£
.Q
&
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAY OUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common hitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great beeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers axe there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to tlie Bull Bog. J. CATT
CO., Sole Agents.
TRADE MARjC-j
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
fs selected with great care from Om best of'*helm®w-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GD INNESS
Mid CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To he Procured Everywhere.
7R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.
Val Vose at latest was in Scotland, and about to
start for America.
Hoskins supports Miss Pomeroy at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne.
Mace and Miller, wo hear, are about to give a
sparring' exhibition.
Bandmann and Miss Beaudet have been very
successful at Brisbane.
“ Our Boys ” has been successfully performed
in German at Adelaide.
The Rockhampton theatre has been engaged by
M’Lean’s Troubadours.
At latest English dates, Eloise Juno was “at
liberty for engagement.’*
Sothern writes to a friend that he can scarcely
crawl from room to room.
Henry Irving asks 2500 dollars a night and ex-
penses to play in America.
Mr. E. A. Proctor lectured with his usual suc-
cess at Christchurch, N.Z.
The Raphael Family recently occupied the Prin-
cess Theatre, Dunedin, N.Z.
Tilly Andrews has been playing “Aladdin” at
the Baldwin Theatre, ’Frisco.
Charles Roade has mvie JJ9OOO from “ Drink.’
Some men have lost much more by it.
Mrs. Nelson (better known in the colonies as
Miss Vincent) has retired from the stage.
Clara Stephenson and the Burford-Clintou
Company are playing at Christchurch, N.Z.
The Tregaskis, illusionists, are performing in
the Hamilton (Vic.) district to small business.
Grattan Riggs, at latest, was expected to make
his bow before a N.Z. audience at Christchurch.
Messrs. Lockrey and Lees, “musicians and ven-
triloquists," at latest dates, were at Apia, Samoa.
R. W. Cary made a lot of money out of the
amateur "Pinafore” company in Wellington, N.Z.
The first night South’s (late South and Dillon’s)
company played “ Pinafore” in Townsville they cleared
£63.
The Misses Marie and Madeline St. Clair were
to give concerts at Young on Monday and Wednesday
nights.
William Shakespeare, the well-known English
tenor, has received a brilliant offer to go to the United
States,
Salvini begins his American engagement at the
Arch, Philadelphia. Ho will play against Bernhardt in
Boston.
Mesdames Patti and Nilsson are staying at
Aix-les-Bains. Sara Bernhardt appeared at Geneva last
month.
Walter Reynolds had a good house at his
benefit in Dunedin, N.Z. “ The Shaughraun 11 comprised
the bill.
Mrs. F. M. Bates will appear shortly at Piper’s
Opera House, Virginia City, supported by a good stock
company.
It is rumoured that Rose Hersde and Armes
Beaumont join Emilia Melville’s opera company at San
Francisco.
The Stewart family are passengers by the coming
Californian mail, and will be stars at the Royal Poly-
technic, Melbourne.
Ed. Lloyd (the Sims Reeves of the future) draws
crowds to the Covent Garden concerts this year.
Cowan, conductor.
Perman and Gardiner’s Vaudeville Company
played at the Academy of Music, Carcoar, on 2nd inst.,
to a crowded house.
E. S. Gillon got judgment against Geddes, the
lessee of the Theatre Royal, Christchurch, for breach
of dramatic copyright.
A Mr. J. G. Scott, “the great Australian gym-
nast,” is announced to “ break things ” at the Bella
Union Theatre, ’ Frisco.
A London correspondent speaks in high terms of
** The Corsican Brothers,” Irving’s next grand pro-
duction at the Lyceum.
Mr. Allison, of the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, has
arranged with Mr. Hayman for the appearance of Miss
Pomeroy and Mr. Leake.
A dramatic company has been formed in Mei-
bom ne to support Miss Pomeroy after her engagement
at the Royal—travelling
Lydia Thompson, Clara’s sister, is not near-
sighted, hut she often appears in spectacles. That is
about all she does appear in.
Tom Margotts has been playing in the country
districts around Auckland, N.Z., with a small company
called “ The Pavilion Party.”
Barnum’s curiosity, widely known as “the
bearded woman,” whose real name was Rebecca Ryon,
is dead. She was 53 years old.
The Chinamen in New Zealand have got hold of
the favourite “Pinafore” numbers, and whistle them
in the street, says an exchange.
Lingard and his wife gave the Wellington (N.Z.)
theatre-goers a treat in “ Our Boys.” “ The Banker’s
Daughter” was also produced.
An American journal says, “ Wilhemj will pro-
bably go to Australia this fall, passing via San Francisco.
He will also visit China and Japan.”
At latest, Cummings and Harrington, the song
and dance men of Simonsen’s Froliqnes, were showing
at Woodward's Gardens, Son Francisco.
George Rignold was playing Henry V. at
Nottingham in the latter part of September. Mrs.
Rignold as Miss Henderson played the part of Chorus.
Ravonswood people do not appreciate talent.
Mr. C. Dillon, when playing Richelieu, was told by one
of the audience to “lift up his petticoats and dance a
hornpipe.”
Bland Holt has purchased the colonial right of
“The World." Here’s a treat for the “gods” for sen-
sation and blood and thunder. “ The New Babylon" is
a baby to it.
The wife of a cei-taiu member of the Byronio
Comedy Company was recently confined in a train at
Invercargill, N.Z.
M. Henri Kowalski’s concerts are a great success
at the Melbourne Exhibition. His new valse, “ Les
Belles de Molbonrne ” is quite the rage. He appears in
Sydney shortly.
The Confederate Diorama played four weeks to
large houses at the Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z.
Gifts of household furniture, &c., were no doubt the
principal attraction.
Camillo Hrso arrived in New York on August
13. The Mtaaon. says she is going to make a concert
tour of the States, under the auspices of the Boston
and Lyceum Bureau.
The Prince and Princess of Wales are fond of
visiting the “ Mastodon ” American minstrel show now
at Her Majesty’s Theatre. They are frequently seen
there with their children.
The Lynch Family had an accident with their
new coach on the West Coast Ranges, N.Z. No damage
was done. They drew immense houses at Hokitika, it
is said. “Papered," we suppose.
W. H. Lingard, wife, and company closed a
highly successful season at Wollingtou (N.Z.) about
ten days ago. They made a big hit in “ Betsy." Both
Horace and his wife hod large houses at their respective
benefits. “ The Banker’s Daughter ” was also pro-
duced.
Our correspondent says that extensive arrange-
ments are being made at Auckland for the inauguration
of Cole’s Mammoth Circus and Menagerie, which
opens there on November 20. The press agent,
Louis E. Cooke, and his assistants, have hilled
the town and country in grand style.
■ The Passion Play” was to be produced in New
York, at Booth’s, just after the mail left. It is the
same play suppressed some two years ago in San Fran-
cisco, and written by. Sulvini Moor, an old Mel-
bourneite.
Our Auckland correspondent, writing by the last
mail, informs us that Hart’s “Happy Hours” enter-
tainment drew fairly well at the Theatre Royal for six
nights ; and J. O'Brien was to take a benefit on the Bth
November.
A “ benefit ” for the hospital was given in Towns-
ville by the South company. The amount taken was
£l2 15s. The expenses paid from that were £l2 10s.
As the company were “halves,” the hospital got one
half-crown!
Poor old Mrs. Fitzwilliam did not long survive
her daughter (Mrs. H. E. Walton.) She had been in
indifferent health all the time she was with the Lin-
gards. Mrs. Lingard was as assiduous in her attentions
to the old lady as if the latter had been her mother.
One of the features of the “ Pinafore ” perform-
ance on board the ship in Wellington harboflr was the
embarkation of Sir Joseph Porter and “ his sisters, and
cousins, and aunts,” from the main wharf to the vessel.
This took place amid salvoes of artillery and showers of
rockets.
About the best “ Hardly ever” we have yet
heard of occurred in Townsville at the wedding of
Edith Pender. The registrar being under the impres-
sion that she had been married before, asked her if it
were not so. Surprised at receiving the answer “ No,”
he exclaimed “ What, never ?” “ Well,” said .the bride,
“hardly ever,”
Where are the rest of the German band?
Surely Godwin has not taken them to Melbourne to
increase the numbers of tne Austrians ? And, by the
way, we the other day heard a malicious report to the
effect that two of the members of the Strauss Band
were Australians named Murphy, who formerly lived
and played in Adelaide.
The Stray Leaves Combination opened to a
splendid house at Hamilton (Vie.) on 30th Oct., but
were unable to perform on account of a slight accident
happening to Miss Carrington, who slipped down the
stairs leading from the stage, receiving a severe shock
to her system. However, she was able to appear at
Coleraine on Wednesday.
Calendar for the week of “ Williamson’s ”
enterprises“Pinafore”at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide;
“Pinafore” at Academy of Music; “Pinafore” in
black at St. George’s Hall; “ French Flats ”at Opera
House; “ Striking Oil" at the Royal; and backed the
Grand Flaneur for the double for £lOOO. J. C. has
struck oil this week with a vengeance.
There is an excellent amateur dramatic club,
“ The Southern Queensland,” at Beenleigh, Queensland.
Mr. P. P. Agnew, well-known to many Sydneyites, is
their manager. An Australian drama, “ The Rocky
..Creek Nugget;" a local burlesque “Alonzo;” and a
little force called “ Hud," written by Mr. Agnew, have
been very successfully performed by the club.
Miss Griswold, who recently gained first prize
for singing at the Paris Conservatoire, and is said t® be
the coming star of the operatic world, is not a blood
relation or Bret Harte, as stated. Three years ago
Miss Dargon (Mrs. Piercy) advised Miss Griswold to
enter the Conservatoire, saying “You are great now—
you will be greaterbut the latter lady’s friends were
then against the proposal.
Mr. Arthur Vivian, assisted by his wife (Miss
Helen Vivian) and a small company, intends making a
tour through the Grafton district, opening at the
theatre, Grafton. Miss Vivian has considerable ability,
and as Mr. Vivian is a clever comedian and character
vocalist, their entertainment of comedy and song
should prove very attractive. Mr. Joe O’Brien goes
ahead as agent for the company.
The following amusing story comes from Italy :
—A pretty actress was hissed a few nights ago at a
Turin theatre. After enduring it for some time she
lost patience, and, walking down to the footlights,
made a long nose at the audience. An apology was
called for, amidst a tremendous hubbub. The actress
presently appeared, and made her excuses in the follow-
ing terms: “ Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but it’s
only because I’ve been forced to.”
JiOndon Punch has the following jingling hit at
Boucicault’s latest effort:—
Wedding March was fun.
Bridal Tour is slow,
Gilbert wrote the one.
T’other Boucicault.
Dion, if ’tis yours,
You should feel remorse.
For the Bridal Tour’s
Not a tour deforce.
At the Egyptian Hall, London, Maskelyne and
Cooke are producing splendid music by mechanical
means. The apparatus used consists of a silver cornet,
attached by the mouthpiece to a small rectangular box,
containing, it is supposed, the necessary mechanism to
replace the human lip and the muscles which regulate
air-pressure. Mr. Maskelyne states that eventually,
when his plans are mature, he intends to have a band of
instruments play while swinging about freely suspended
from the ceiling of the hall.
N.Z. theatre-goers don’t admire the Lingard
Company in “ Pinafore.” Says a Wellington paper:—
“The company do not muster a good singer among
them, and therefore to render the sparkling “Pinafore”
should not be attempted. Mr. Lingard was wholly out
of place as the Admiral, and Mrs. Lingard is hardly
adapted, physically or musically, to play Josephine, but
of course her acting was capital. Altogether, Dick
Deadeye was the nearest approach to the right person
in the right place, and of the rest, the less said the
better.”
Mias Louise Pomeroy says that she was never so
utterly unnerved in all her life as by the noise created
at the Queen’s, on the night of her first appearance in
Sydney, by the “ gods." who disapproved of what they
considered the too sudden end of the wrestling scene,
in which Mr. Larry Foley, the champion pugilist, ap-
peared. The “ gods ” had evidently thought there was
going to be a good fight. Though the prize-ring, os an
institution, has considerably waned, there is nothing of
which a British community is so innately fond as
pugilism.
Learning from The Bulletin that Miss Jose-
phine Deakin was about to leave the Carandini Operatic
Concert Company, now in Tasmania, and return to
Sydney, several gentlemen are interesting themselves
with a view of tendering that young lady a complimen-
tary concert upon her return to Sydney. Such an event
would have the twofold object of acknowledging Miss
Deakin’s success as a Sydney-trained vocalist through-
out New Zealand, and of affording the Sydney public an
opportunity of testifying to the wonderful improvement
of her voice.
The Vaudeville, London, hitherto famous as
being the theatre enjoying the largest “ runs” ever
known, at which the “ Two Roses” held the boards 200
nights," “ Two Thoms" nearly as long, “ School for
Scandal” 300 nights, and “ Our Boys" 1300 nights, has
had the spell of good luck broken at last, as a succession
of failures have followed, “Jacks and Jills" only run-
ning about a week, to give place to “Cobwebs" ten
nights, also superseded by “ The Guvnor,” which had,
however, when the mail left reached its fiftieth night,
thanks only to clever acting, there being nothing in the
piece.
Chang, the Chinese giant, who was exhibited
some years ago in this country ny the late W. W. New-
comb; Brustad, a tall Norwegian; and Che-mah, a Chi-
nese dwarf, are now on exhibition at the Royal Aqua-
rium, London. Chang is Bft in height without his
boots, measures 80 inches round the chest, weighs
3641b5., has a span of Bft. with outstretched arms, and
without effort can sign his name on a sign-post 10ft.
Gin. high. He speaks five different languages (including
English(, and is 33 years old. Brustad is about 7ft. lOin.
high, very muscular and broad-backed, having as great
a girth of chest as Chang, and a wider span in propor-
tion to his height. He wears a ring ounces in weight,
and an English penny can easily be passed through it.
His weight is39llbs., his bones being massive, and his
age is 35 years. Che-mah asserts that he is 42 years of
age. He is only 25in. high.
Mr. Walter Reynolds recently concluded his
engagement with the Burford-Clinton combination at
the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin. Big business was done
in Christchurch, but only payable houses were the rule
in Dunedin—the worst theatrical town it is possible to
visit, considering its size and importance. Mr. Rey-
nolds, wo hear, was to join another company at the
beginning of the current month, playing at Wanganui,
Wellington, and Napier, then visiting Hobart, and
thence to Sydney, in the hope of producing his latest
drama—an enormous “ get up ” piece. At the Queen’s,
our old friend JLotti Wilmot tbe other night played
Juliet to Walter’s Romeo. The papers say that the
actor “ lacked the fervour of Romeo,” and one journal
remarks —“ Indeed, in all the love scenes, from some
cause or other, he appeared a little awkward.” Perhaps
it was that Lotti wasn’t quite fascinating enough.
Mr. Reynolds evidently tried to make hot love, but
couldn’t simulate what he felt so very little, and
appeared to catch the merriment felt by those in the
front at the antics of Madame, whose appearance was
altogether unsuitable, and whose “ Womeo, Womeo,”
was misery. Mr. Reynolds may possibly soon leave for
England, with a view of importing a company. Should
he do so, the Princess Theatre, Dunedin, will be his
starting point.
SOME SOLID FACTS.
A statue of Burns, weighing three tons, and
intended for New fork, has been cast in Edinburgh.
Reporters on the London daily press patiently
kept watch, with the guards, all through the night
Gladstone was ill.
One million buckets of peaches arrived in New
York in one week (Aug. 14) from the provincial dis-
tricts of the State.
To have plants growing in the rooms of houses
is, according to medical science, to ensure freedom from
pulmonary complaints.
Of 100,000 Italians in America 15,000 live in New
York. They are of the lowest class, not educated, yet
the most peaceable in the city.
Professor Read, of London, says geological
evidence demonstrates the fact that the world has
reached the mature age of 600,000,000 years.
How America is beating Australia. This year,
400,000 immigrants will be lauded in the States, most of
them English, Irish, German, and Scandinavian, in the
prime of life.
The Business Men’s Moderation Society of New
York travels ice-water from trains through the streets,
and the experiment of putting down intemperance is
said to be successful.
The Empress Eugenie takes the remains of her
husband and son to Switzerland. The furniture of her
house at Cbislehurst will be distributed to army funds,
not offered at auction.
The Americans have contributed .£ 1,000,000 to
distressed Ireland during the past year, and £13,000
since 1864. It is a big satire on British statesmanship
that there should be this need for foreign charity.
Were it not for the Tay Bridge disaster, by
which seventy-three lives were lost, the English rail-
ways would have carried 565,000,000 persons for a loss
of only two lives. The trains travelled 222,000,000 miles.
Good for the Egyptians ! When they wished to
get out immense shafts of granite, they bored holes in
the pavement rock, forced dry sticks into them, and
then soaked the wood with water. The force thus
developed broke the rock.
An English journal says the Americans will
eventually “whip creation” their agricultural
rather than their manufacturing advantages. The next
census will give about fifty millions of people, the
majority of whom will be found to be breeders of cattle
and growers of grain.
Masonic emblems were found in a perfect state
of preservation beneath the foundation of the huge
obelisk (Cleopatra’s Needle) recently removed from
Alexandria to New York. There was also found a
Mason’s trowel of iron, of the shape of a longitudinal
section of an egg, or of the flattened bowl of a spoon.
There has been a great revival of suicides during
the last 100 years. Returns give a total of 60,000 dying
in Europe by their own hands. There are more
suicides in the North than in the South of
Europe, Denmark showing the greatest number
and Portugal the least. Youth has hitherto v
thought to be almost free from this crime w*** 6 ®
2000 boys and girls are.yielding to it eTery
Europe, and the number is steadily increasing. year 1D
Among the patents recently taken out •
America is one which claims to be a “new and
mode of producing rain, or precipitating rain-fallsifS!® 1
ram-clouds, ’as a protection against drought in, m
invention consists in sending balloons into the ,
regions, carrying torpedoes and cartridges chanred
explosives, and to explode them there by electric force
The London Daily News, in a descrintion *
the Cesarewitch, the fastest mail-steamer on
Caspian Sea, says that its boilers are heated bv npfi'*
leum refuse instead of coal—a system which effects.. 0 '
enormous saving of expense and labor, the heath,
apparatus being as thoroughly under control as gas iet
and requiring but one man to manipulate it. jt ;’
proposed to apply the same system of heating
locomotives. s
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Society of Friends are forming a congrega-
tion in Eockhampton. " s “"
The famous Anglican preacher, Stopford Brooke
has become a Unitarian. *
St. Mary’s (R.C.) Cathedral, Hobart, is fast
approaching completion.
Sister Mary Machona, of the Convent of Merer
Mary borough (Q.), died last week.
Moody, of Moody and Sankey, intends to visit
San Francisco for revival purposes.
The chief of the English ritualists, the Rev.
A. H. Maconochie, has been paying a visit to Canada.
About forty Catholic priests arrived by the Co-
topaxi for Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and Noumea.
The Catholic printers of Sydney intend pre-
senting a memorial window to St. Mary’s new cathedral.
The revised Bible is to be published this year
It is ten years since the revisers commenced their work!
A non-Univorsity man, and ex-Wosleyan, has
been consecrated Bishop of the Anglican Church at
Jamaica.
A grand complimentary conversazione to the
Bishop of Brisbane took place on the 2nd instant at
Eockhampton.
The Society of Friends numbers 88,000 members
of whom there are 66,850 in the U.S. and Canada, 14,725
in England, and 3948 in Ireland.
The Queen has had an interview with several of
the French Jesuits now in England, and expressed her
regret at their expulsion from France.
The majority of the Petersham Anglicans are
still in favour of free and unappropriated sittings.
They regard the Bishop’s decision as very weak.
They say the organist of a certain very fashion-
able suburban church is neglecting his music so as
to give more attention to the study of chemistry.
The Very Rev. H. B. Bromby, Dean of Hobart,
visited the Überammergau Passion Play. The Dean has
hitherto been known as a mild man, who never let his
passion play.
The Chirrch of the Jesuit fathers. North Shore,
was opened by Archbishop Vaughan last Sunday. The
eloquent Father Kelly, S.J., preached on the occasion,
and the Archbishop delivered a short address.
The Unitarians, having been refused permission
to unite with the committee of the Eaikes Centenary
Celebration, have resolved to erect a memorial of their
own in the forecourt of Essex-street (London) chapel.
The widow of the Jewish Cologne banker, Baron
Abraham von Oppenheim, who in 1870 gave the munifi-
cent sum of £150,000 for the wounded, has just given
£30,000 for a hospital for poor children of all confessions
in memory of her late husband.
The Churchman says •“ If Congregational-
ists had made it their avowed object to obtain a public
and official exposure of their own system, they could
not have outdone the achievement of the chairman of
the recent Congregational Union.’*
There is a fluttering still in a fashionable church.
A married gentleman wbo leads the choir has a weak-
ness for winking at and ogling the young ladies. His
weakness, it is thought, will lead to mischief ; he has
already been officially asked to explain. ,
In New York there are 489 churches and chapels,
costing annually to sustain tham 5,000,000 dol. There
are also in the city 10,000 liquor-shops, great and small,
the annual cost of which is 60,000,000 dol. How far do
the churches sustain the liquor-shops, and how far do
they work against them ?
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher gets a salary of
£1000; Dr. John Hall, £3700, and a stylish house free
of rent; Dr. Potter, of Grace Church, £3OOO and housei;
Dr. Dix, of Trinity, £3000; and Dr. Morgan, of St.
Thomas’s Church, £2500. Some of the other New York
ministers range from £2OOO to £2500, but most are
under £lOOO.
In 1835, there were in the six New England
States, only -40,082 Catholics, 27 priests, 22 churches,
and 50 other ecclesiastical buildings unfinished. Ten
years later there were in four of those States, omitting
Connecticut and Ehode Island, 66,196 Catholics, 38
priests, 37 churches, aud 32 chapels and stations. Now
there are in all 736,100 Catholics, 516 priests, 502
churches, and 154 stations.
Dr. John Charles Ryle was the other day to be
consecrated as a bishop, and a clergyman forwarded to
the Archbishop of York a protest against the proposed
consecration on the grounds that St. Paul had expressly
stated that a bishop “must be . . . the husband of
one wife.” (Tim. iii. 2.) Further, he remarked that if
St. Paul’s words did not mean one absolutely aud only
one, they bud no meaning at all; for otherwise they
would imply that a person not a bishop might have two
or more wives at the same time,—aud Dr. Eyle had
married four wives. We have not yet heard how the
matter was settled.
The religions Press of Sydney is making a for-
ward move. The Australian Churchman contains a
good epitome of Anglican news, and is still improving;
it ought to he found in every Anglican home. The
Catholic Express has reached 7000 circulation. The
Presryxeeian has liberality stamped on every column,
and is a very readable production; its circulation is
steadily increasing. The Independent appears more
carefully edited, and is now a first-class newspaper for
its denomination. The significance of these facts is
that the value of ink, type and paper is coming to be
recognised by the clergy.
A company to promote oyster culture by private
enterprise is mooted in Tasmania, the chief promoter
being Captain Stanley, E.N.
The 13th (November) number of the Victorian
Review is to hand. The present issue does not seem to
have abated from the literary excellence for which this
publication is reputed. Perhaps the most attractive
contribution is’that on "Idealism,” horribly mis-
punctuated, however; the most practical is probably
that entitled “ Nature’s Scavengers,” and certainly the
most scholarly aud readable is the review of Mr. John
O’Hagan’s translation of the “ Song of Eoktnd,” written
in an appreciative style by one of “ Ignatius’ intellectual
sons,” the Eev. M. Watson, S.J. This writer is evidently
an enthusiast on the subject of which he treats. Hi*
vividly tinted description of the jongeleurs and troundres
of the France of chi volric chronicles, reciting in “all the
pride of minstrelsy," to the harp’s accompaniment, the
old chansons of the times in knightly hall or moated
baronial ciistle, would grace any work,however high-class,
illustrative of the manners aud spirit of the ago of the
troubadour. W& would like to quote largely from this
article. Another contribution sketches in the “ Coining
Australian” the future manhood of the colonies. It is
well-written, and the subject is evidently carefully
brought out; the concluding picture being vigorously
and, doubtless, truthfully sketched. We “conscionably’
think that Mr. Warde has scarcely added to his literary
reputation by the “ cacophonous” article on the late
Press imbroglio in Sydney. On the whole the present
issue is a very readable number. When will New South
Wales possess a thoroughly efficient magazine or
review ?
INTAGLIOS.
The Time to Part.
’Tis our love’s noon of glory,
You say with smiling face;
Not yet the wondrous story
For us grows commonplace.
Then, dear lips, reach and kiss me,
And, fond arms.hold me—so ;
For now, when you will miss me.
Is the time for me to go.
Nay, nay, I am not cruel—
Speak not to chide or blame;
But now, when lips are fuel.
And now, when kiss is flame.
Before dreams lose their splendor,
Or ennui finds the heart
That is so fond and tender,
Is the time for us to part.
’Tis better to feel sorrow,
And part with tears this morn,
Than to wait until to-morrow.
And part with hate and scorn.
’Tis better to go grieving
With many a fond regret.
Than to defer the leaving
Till the sun of love has set
'Tis better to remember
Our love-year in its bloom.
Than to wait until November,
Dull-ekied and full of gloom.
’Tis better to go freighted
With our passion, full of grace.
Then to wait till we are sated
And our love grows commonplace.
Then, dear lips, reach and kiss me.
And, fond arms, clasp me—so ;
For now, when you will miss me.
Is the time for me to go.
“Coming Events Cast their Shadows
Before.”
AN AUSTRALIAN SEA-SIDE LYRIC.
The surges were kissing the crags of Kiama,
The mists of the morning hung heavy and still.
And desolate sea-birds, with sorrowful clamour.
Wheel’d over the crest of the wind-beaten hill.
Solemnly murmured the voice of the billow,
Down in its darksome and weed-mantled cave,
While a soft sunny cheek made my bosom its pillow.
And paled at the weariful wail of the wave.
Sadly the wind sang its deep-sounding chorus.
Harshly the cavern re-echoed its roar;
And I said, as I thought of the clouds frowning o’er us,
“ Coming events cast their shadows before.”
Up from the depths of the ocean there trembled
Euby-like eolours that flashed on the foam—
So pure and so bright that their beauty resembled
The love-smile which welcomes a wanderer home!
The glittering ringlets lay wreathed on my shoulder.
Like gold-tinted buds of the wild wattle tree,
And my darling’s dear voice, as I turned to behold her,
Chimed softly and sweet with the song of the sea.
“ Behold, love,” she whispered, “ the blushes of morning
Are gilding the heavens that arches us o’er;
We see not the sun, but he heralds his dawning—
“ Coming events cast their shadows before! ”
And thus, as we turned from the headland, and wandered
Down by the myrtle-trees fringing the beach,
I thought of our sunbeams and shadows, and pondered
How wisely the life-cup is mingled to each :
How the storm that we fancy will shatter the flower
Only tinges its leaves with a lovelier glow ;
How the rain-cloud that carries the pitiless shower
Also bears in its bosom the beautiful bow !
And thus, if we search for life’s blessings, we’ll find them
No matter how clouds of adversity lour —
A sunbeam must surely be breaking behind them.
If “ coming events cast their shadows before. "
Sydney.
F. S. W.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Freeman s Journal bought up a whole
Jibel last week for 40s. It is therefore clear that the
libel market is down considerably. Perhaps, however,
it was only a little libel, or a second-hand libel, or one
that had been slightly damaged by fire or water; any-
way, now that libels are so ridiculously cheap, no re-
spectable family should be without one.
Apropos of the above. Just before the trial,
thinking his client looked rather anxious, Mr. Stephen
stepped across, and said to Bntler, “ Don’t he alarmed.
we have justice at least on our side.” “ Yes,” replied
Butler, stroking his heard abstractedly, “ but what we
•want on our side is the Chief Justice.”
Here’s a sad reflection. Hens are allowed to sit
in this city, but our shop-girls are not. And this hap-
pens in a coffee palace-Christian-asphalte-pavement
land. Alas! for the lass of a milliner.
Lately our weakly dailies have teemed with
abuse of those generous, disinterested philanthropists
who assemble in our parks every Sunday, and preach
the word of peace, and wear abominable clothes, and
whose every square inch of epidermis seems to cry
aloud to the four corners of the earth, ‘‘Down with the
soap boilers.” Now this is very wrong. These men do
a great deal of good in their way, and should be en-
couraged. In the first place they stand bareheaded for
a l>on t six hours, and their “’arts” and mouths being
“hopened” all the time they frequently get sick and
sometimes die, which make things good for trade.
Besides, they amuse the little children and keep them
.quiet whilst the “nnss-girls and sojurs ” discuss the
Dulcigno difficulty, &c., and this also encourages busi-
ness. These apostles are not treated properly. Some-
times they do draw a live audience, and Br®ther
Dreary improves the occasion, whilst the other
■ elders pass the time by alternately roosting on different
•legs, and assuming an expression which might be taken
either for unbounded sanctity or unbounded indigestion.
Just as the chief apostle has worked up the excitement
until he can scarcely keep his hair on, some friend in
the crowd starts a dog fight, and in two seconds the
saints are completely alone, as if they were perched on
the North Pole, or the shelf of a Kent-street xnont de
piet(s. This mars the effect, because the good words of
Brother Dreary are utterly drowned by the snarling
of the dogs, and such shouts as, “I'll go five bob on the
yaller.” “ Don’t you kick that dog "—“Who’s a liar”—
Kim over here an’ do it,” and then the whole concern
winds up with a free fight; Brother Dreary offers to
tie up one hand, and punch the skunk’s head who threw
that mud; children are trampled as flat as an Echo
pun ; nurse girls are spilt about in every direction, and
finally all ret ire highly pleased, and much edified by the
•day’s amusement.
_ The party who knows his way about just now is
■Gorman. On Sunday morning Gorman lights his pipe,
takes a stroll, and presently comes across a patch of
-wilderness, one half of which is composed of rock so
hard that dynamite, or even Mr. M'Elhone, wouldn’t
blast it, and the other half is represented by a dreary
swamp in which the frogs incessantly chant a requiem
imass. and over which the curlew screams with a sound
■like the dying shriek ot n murdered man. Gorman then
goes home. By Tuesday morning, however, that wil-
■ derßess is levelled down here, and filled up there, and
■ dumped about in general until it looks like one of the
elysian fields, or Frank Smith’s new ground at Botany.
■On Wednesday. Gorman’s office is plastered round with
rainbow-colored maps of a place for sale called Para-
dise. The former desert is sold in small lots on the
■ easiest terms; struggling couples settle down to in-
crease and multiply thereon; everything prospers;
crops grow, cattle abound—and Gorman polkas off to
-start another township. Success to hardy Gorman!
“ Pendragon ” is the alias of the Ananias who
-spills the aquatic mems. for a iournal which is
called the Referee, and which is published in a certain
large but extremely dirty town called London. I should
say he has about as much knowledge of boat-pulling as
•a,pa!dymelon has of astronomy. This, however, is his
misfortune, not his fan It, because he was forced to let
his hair grow long, and turn reporter, by the stem re-
solve of a fond but injudicious parent. His own am-
bition was to be the corner man of a Christy Minstrel
show. Just before the Trickett and Hanlan match he
will probably let himself out as follows ;—“ In my
-opinion Trickett is the victim of a sort of mania. There
is really nothing whatever in him to justify his being
termed even a3lst-rate sculler. He has no style—no
•strength, and sits his boat as awkwardly as a sailor sits
a horse. The way he catches water is simply sickening,
and when he bends to his stroke the feeling is that he
will never again have the power to right himself. Han-
lan’s style, however, is the pink of perfection. His
skill is nnrivalled, and he possesses the strength of a
Samson. I have no hesitation whatever in saying he
can tie up one arm and then win the race with the most
ridiculous ease.” That’s this Referee gum-pot
wielder’s style before the race. After the race, however,
he begins to know all about it, and we immediately get
the following:—“ As we predicted in onr last, the Aus-
tralian won as he pleased. That Hanlan was over-rated
all along no one who has seen him pull could for a mo-
ment doubt; and his clumsy, jerky stroke, when seen
by the side of the long, graceful, powerful sweep of
Trickett, made one feel for the poor, misguided man
whose self-esteem hod led him to compete with this
prince of pullers, I congratulate our old Australian
favourite on his easy win; and whilst modestly eschew-
ing all praise for my correct and oft-repeated judgment,
beg leave to say onr many readers may still rely on their
favourite oracle—‘Pendragon.’” Altogether, the Re-
feree owns a gifted man, and it will be an eternal pity
if they ever let the frost get at him.
The friends of the “legitimate” will regret to
hear that Herr Bandmann is slightly indisposed. It
seems he strained himself trying to draw a house to see
the noble Dane “strut his brief hour," and then wash
-off ani skij> round to count the ticket money. It was
rather a strange accident, because Herr Bandmann
is a strong man, and it was quite a little house.
“ Avay ! Oi em nodt in dcr vein do-day.” That’s Ham-
let—in Deutsche.
Some people have wonderful luck !We see by
the daily papers that “ Master Renwick, of Waterloo,"
has won the silk dress at the Egyptian Hall fifteen
nights running!
Mr. F. Gannon has shown some of the crack
Victorian pigeon shots what he can do with the birds at
26 yards rise.
Splendid was his aim, indeed—
Grandly did ho shoot;
Smilingly he grabbed the greed—
Clutched the lucenf loot!
Then he laughed“ By Jove, it’s funny
To collar - all the Melbourne money ! ”
A ocording to the virtuous mind of onr police a
shilling photo, of a young lady whose only shield
appears to be her modesty, is decidedly indecent, but a
large oil painting of the same subject is worthy of a
first-class golden medal. If Mr. Inspector Johnson has
a few moments to spare, he might call round at
the Vati-can, where he will see Titian’s “Venus,”
“ Leda," and a thousand other sights that will make his
young blood freeze, and each particular hair stand out
at an angle of five and forty. He can then summon the
Rope, and cover himself with glory.
V.
The Civil Service Concert at the Masonic Hall
on the 27th ultimo proved a very great treat Mis-'.
Moon. Mrs Spencer, Mr. Hinchy, Mr. Bnshelle, and
M: - . Fitzpatrick were all in pood voice, and were never
hoard to better advantage. Mr. Moule, the secretary,
managed the affair remarkably well.
The Commissioners at the Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibition pave officers of the Royal Navy
free admission at all times to the build it g, and to the
seamen also on certain days. At the Sydney Exhibi-
tion the privilege was withheld for some unknown
reason.
Ice is sold in New York now at 10s. a ton.
Portugal is the only part of tourist-haunted
Europe that is without professional beggars. It is
nearly the same in Spain. The explanation is that there
is a general prosperity among the lower classes.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
It is not true that Mr. John Woods, the Vic-
torian M L.A. (“ Tar-brush Woods”), is in the habit of
saying “ Ta-ta” instead of “ Good-bye.”
They have got three real gondolas on the Exhi-
bition puddle-lake. Two are stuck on the top of each
other, and the third has gone ashore on the south em-
bankment.
Ketten’s latest freak is to essay to drive a pair
down Collins-street, to the imminent danger of their
(the horses’) necks. He is not afraid of his own neck—
it is much too long and pliable for that.
A suburban pater, once living in Sydney, was
surprised on Cup Night when his daughter and her lover
came home radiant and begged his blessing. In a
moment of inspiration the young couple had “gone and
got married” in the morning, and mode Flemington
racecourse their bridal tour.
Bourke-street east, Melbourne, boasts of a lady-
hairdresser and perfumer, who combines the business
of a tobacconist with that of shaving and haircutting,
which work she does herself. Mrs. Warsaw deserves
much patronage, notwithstanding the prejudices which
exist against the female sex becoming knights of the
razor and scissors.
One of the biggest shows of the Melbourne In-
ternational is Mr. Mac Somebody, “ The Scottish
Giant,” who has hitherto been paid by one of the
caterers to sit near a refreshment bar. Mr. Mac is the only
man in Melbourne who is broader than he is long, and
consequently the only one who, were a door too narrow
to admit him, would have a chance of rolling in length-
wise. His sylph-like beauty is the theme of universal
admiration.
They say that a “ distinguished visitor,” a mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Upper House, resident at Manly
Beach, went to St. Patrick’s, instead of St. James’s, by
mistake. On discovering his error, he “ made tracks,”
but while leaving was met by two prominent members
of the church, who endeavoured to induce him to re-
main. However, it transpired that he had neglected to
make the usual offering at the door, so his departure
was not further opposed.
Mark Moss gave a dinner last Saturday night at
his palace in Judea—we beg pardon—in East Melbourne,
to the Sydney bowlers, men notec for their bravery and
nerve in the howling green, and for their intellect and
sterling worth in private life (this is not to be read as
an advertisement). Our Jewish readers will be pleased
to hear that there were no end of “bolas" on th
table as well as around the board. Rabbi Davis,
of Sydney pronounced the doxology over the Kosher
viands, and ths Bishop blessed the Christian ditto.
In Melbourne no lady, unless accompanied by
a gentleman, ever drives in a hansom cab. Whenever
one of these vehicles, with a couple of gaudily-dressed
females inside, is seen in Collins-street, the men snigger
and poke one another in the ribs, and the ladies gather
up their skirts. Riding in hansoms is expensive here,
and, as above indicated, it is risky in more than one
sense. It is time that some means were found which
enable a lady to drive in this, the most comfortable of
vehicles. In Melbourne, the naughty people have all
the nice things.
We have now an American bar here The pro-
prietors already drive a wonderful business, and have
implanted in the breast of young and old Victorians an
unutterable yearning for “egg nog,” “sherry cob-
bler ” (which, by the way, one sucks through a straw),
“ Mississippi punch,” and so ©n. At first, the proprie-
tors mixed the drinks themselves ; afterwards, they en-
trusted a very pretty 1 armaid with the task. She gets
on well now, it is understood, though she did the other
pay fall into the trifling error of “ topping up ” an
“egg nog” with cayenne pepper instead of nutmeg.
In —South Africa —recently, we are told, the
chief min invited a certain professional gentleman—
tall, stately, and thin as a shadow turned sideways—to
appear at his (the chief man’s) private residence, the
big house upon the hill, and demonstrate his proficiency
in the art of which he is so accomplished a master.
The professional man asked whether he might not bring
his wife with him. The chief man asked his private
secretary to enquire concerning the wife, and the secre-
tary soon came back and asked, “ Which one ?” The
end of the matter was that the chief man told his pro-
fessional protege that he could depart in peace.
The Lawn on Cup Day displayed a curious
mixture of fashion, frivolity, and flirtation. The
dresses were superb. Blue was the prevailing color,
but an attempt at a darker hue with a peep of red was
much admired. The foreign element was pre-eminent,
and Herrs, Monsieurs, and Signors frolicked about on
all sides. Two late importations, of the male persua-
sion, from the “tight little island” across the sea,
mode themselves strangely conspicuous. They were
attired in light gaysome suits, with gloves to match,
sickly silvery beaver hats, and white nobby canes with
silver fixings. Their band boxy style was the cause of
much comment in certain circles.
About two years ago Marcus Clarke bought a
horse, and gave—well, at any rate, £l6 was the price of
the animal. The first day he rode the “ fiery untamed ”
in from Sonth Yarra, he invited a number of literary
friends to inspect his purchase at Garton’s. When
Marcus asked them to guess the price, sums were
suggested varying from 10s. 6(J. to £5OOO. Enraged at
this, the little author cried, “ Green jealousy! Not one
of yon fellows could keep a horse.” Then upon the
sultry winds floated the deep-voiced chorus —“ No, not
ahorse like that!” Then Marcus cantered off indig-
nantly, but almost immediately returned to borrow a
shilling from Garnet Waloh for tolls.
When Carpeau, the French sculptor, had com-
pleted his statue ot ’• La Danse,” for a niche in the Grand
Opera House, Paris, some of those vile fanatics who can
conjure up evil in every work of art or nature, smashed
a bottle of ink against the snowy marble conception,
thereby destroying its marvellous beauty. . The vile
miscreants wen? apprehended, and, we believe, or hope,
guillotined One of the same class of people has been
displ lying his ignorance of art in the Italian Court of
the Melbourne International by knocking oil one of
the delicatcdy-turned fingers of a Venns di Medici,
value! at £320. In this instance the Vandal escaped,
but should he be arrested we have every reason to be-
lieve that he will be lynched at once.
Another great national event is pending, or,
rather, will be so. We refer to the execution of Ned
Kelly. Like mv Lu-d Tomnoddy, of the lugoldsby
Legends, oar visitors from other lands are using their
best endeavours to get a sight ot the concluding
ceremonv in connection with the great drama. Such is
the morbid taste of the ordinary sight-seer that if they
had their way Ke'ly’s suspension would taka p l aee on
the dome of the Exhibition. However, we are hoping
for better things, for a mass meeting of “ ladies and
gentlemen ” is to take place, a procession ts to be
formed with Billy Qannsou at the head, and a march
made to Government House, to demand from the
Governor the reprieve of the blood thirsty miscreant.
They are still wrangling at the Exhibition. Ser-
geant, the temperance caterer, has had his supplies
stopped at the gates, but still holds a defiant attitude.
Ha has placed Hend-rson Africanus behind the bar
counter, and Daniel dispenses the good things in no
niggardly style. Tbe Commissioner has haudel the
general catering business overt© Josh. Pickersgill, and
the ladies now look for better coffee and more enticing
com stablex. In the meantime, Vale, Mivams, Mnuro
and other R chxbites rave. Pickersgill’s barmaids, who
are ranged alongside the southern wall of the great
annexe, are one ot the sights of the Exhibition. They
attend to the wants of the crowd in an exceedingly
smart style, and are, strange to say, less voluble than
their sisters of the cafe.
Dr. Renleaux’s dinner, at Caf(s Gunsler, was an
exceedingly recherche affair. The carte was excellent,
but those national dishes, saner-kraut and aromatic
Limhurger cheese, were conspicuous by their absence,
the do tor’s excuse for this omission being that the
English nose is not yet educated up to the standard of
the Goman, and whilst this lasts Melbourne will have
to remain satisfied with her sniffs of the Elizabeth-
street drains. Daddy Graham, the champion retrencher
of Australia, was at the dinner, and had scarcely com-
menced his “ zonp” when duty called him to the ’Onse
to suffer his first defeat, and witness the first signs of
the decay of Berryism. The toast of “ The Press ” was
replied to by Winter, ot the Herald, who, as an Aus-
tralian native, spoke warmly in favour of Federation
and other combined evils.
They manage these things better in the Herald
office. Instead of giving their readers the individual
opinions of their literary hacks on the subject of “ The
Cup,” they made a departure from the general rule and
interviewed the big wigs who attended the course, and
elicited their opinions on the “ great event.” The little
paper must possess a great amount of cheek and enter-
prise, as the following names of those interviewed will
show : —The Duke of Manchester, Sir Arthur Kennedy,
Sir Win. Jervois, Sir Herbert Sandford, M. Belcour,
Thomas P. Pickering, Dr. Renleanx, Mikado Jeddo (or
some other name, for we are rather weak in Japanese
lingo), and H. Kowalski. All of, course, stated that they
were enraptured at the sight, the latter gentleman
especially so, for he has given vent to his feelings in
music, and has introduced, as a memento of Cup Day,
“The Pretty Girls of Melbourne,” a waltz, played for
the first time by its composer on Thursday last, at the
Exhibition.
Dr. F. Reuleaux is tbe genius of the whole,
Foreign Commission to the International. His
quarters are at the Old White Hart, and he is sur-
rounded by a company of secretaries, scribes, corres-
pondents, and others ot his own national city. The
breakfast is always concluded by a lecture from the
Professor, for such he is by virtue of his position at a
certain University in Germany. His discourse the
other morning was on the subject of “Colonisation.”
Ho said that the Romans, who were noted for their
great colonising powers, could not compare with the
Britons, who have built up so far from home such a
wonderful country as Victoria and such a marvellous
city as Melbourne. Dr. Reuleaux, when on duty,
wears a unique but ungainly costume. When enter-
taining friends at an invitation dinner he appears in all
the glories of epaulettes and uniform.
This is the dinner age in Melbourne. A plain
English roast beef repast would be scarcely worth re-
cording, but the “Continentals” know how to “do”
things; and there is not a dejeuner given by any
of our foreign visitors but has some quaint con-
ceit connected with it, which is worthy of more
than passing notice. Par example (this Exhibition is
making us all “ fnrriners "), Mons. Kowalski, the emi-
nent pianist, entertained a few friends the other even-
ing at the Oriental, and a novelty in the shape of an
autographic min u, was arranged. To the uninitiated
we give the recipe how to get up this interesting pro-
duction. Take the menu from your plate and write
your name on the top corner across the back and pass it
on to yonr neighbour to the right. Your neighbour at
your left side having done likewise, the menus circulate,
and in a few minutes you will have your owu returned
covered with the guests’ names, a lasting memento
of happy hours.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
Friday, November 5.
The secretary of the V.R.C. says he can now
die happily. The total attendance at Flemington on
Cup Bay was 120,000.
“As is the form, so is the mind,” is an estab-
lished truism, but I wonder if we can regard dress as
an index to character. In some instances, I am inclined
to think we may; and just as the “loud laugh” pro-
claims the “ vacant mind,” the oatr,i costume stamps
the wearer. The lawn on Cup Day was so crowded that
the prevalence of short dresses was a matter of con-
gratulation.
A costume that attracted much attention was
worn by Mrs. Charles Davis. It was composed of dark
green velvet and silk, embroidered massively with rain-
bow beads. The bonnet and parasol were of the same
color and similarly beaded.
Lady Normanby was in half mourning, and wore
a black dress a-d white lace shawl.
Mrs. Malleson, who is recognised as the dresser
par excellence of Melbourne society, wore a costume on
this occasion, however, upon which there was divided
opinion.
Mrs. Joseph Clarke wore a handsome dress of
olive green.
As on the Derby Day, I noticed the prevalence
of "old gold” and heliotrope, though amongst the
younger people blue and cream were the prevailing
colours.
People discussed their neighbours freely, of
course. One group particularly attracted my attention.
The object of their attention wore a most elegant cos-
tume of pale pink satin, complete in every detail, and
in the best possible taste. Eye-glasses were levelled,
and praise was freely bestowed. “ Surely she was a dis-
tinguished personage. The manner and bearing were
thoroughly patrician,” etc. Buttheglassesfe.il and the
brows rose when one of the party recognised in the
lady’s escort a celebrated Collingwood draper. How-
ever, 'twas ever thus. A few Cup Days ago there ap-
peared on the lawn a lovely woman in a maguillcent
dress. As many of the men had to say they didn’t
know her, some people thought she might be a Duchess.
She was a barmaid. I saw her again the other day, but
oh, how changed ! Few barmaids are lucky, and she is
not merely unlucky, but unfortunate.
At luncheon my appetite was a secondary con-
sideration, for as I was in close proximity to Mrs.
Hurtle Fisher, I lost, or rather spent, most of my time
in admiring her dress, which was all silk and lace and
beetles’ wings, and so exquisitely made that it baliles
description.
The costumes of two actresses were much ad-
mired. One, worn by Miss Myra Kemble, was composed
of white satin hand-painted. Her bonnet and parasol
were of the same material. It is said that the painting
alone cost one hundred guineas. I am told that the
dress came from Leader and Stark, of Sydney. The
other, worn by Miss Eugenie Legrand, was wine-colored
velvet and silk, embroidered and trimmed with old
gold.
The costumes worn by the younger ladies were,
for the most part, simple and pretty, a great many being
composed of Madras muslin and sateen. The Hon. W.
J. Clarke’sdanghterappearediu an apricot-colored dress
almost covered in rich soft lace of the same color, and
a dainty shady hat to correspond. She is very young,
and looked so bright and fresh and happy it made one
glad to see her.
The following may be of special interest to your
readers: —
Mrs. A. K. Finlay (Sir Hercules’ daughter) wore
a navy-blue silk dress, ornamented with cream
lace, hood consisting of cream lace, bonnet of the same
material trimmed with nnvj bine bows and gold leaves.
Parasol to match.
Mrs. T. P. Fallon wore a beautifully-made
sapphire-blue silk dress “ morveilleuse de Surah,”
trimmed a I’Ecossaiev, short, of the very latest type,
richly brocaded parasol, and very handsome bonnet of
“ old gold,” with blue and gold feathers, forming alto-
gether an exquisite toilette —quite a la Parisienne.
Miss Sophie Cohen, of Sydney, a cream-colored
cashmere, trimmed with old gold satin, cream satin
hat, cream-colored feathers.
Miss Rosenthal, prune silk dress, trimmed with
cream broche, and straw hat trimmed with cream-colored
feathers.
The Misses Doonvyn were tastefully attired in
short costumes of fawn cashmere, trimmed with violet
satin.
Mrs. Graham Berry, a gros grain black silk,
trimmed with white lace, hat and parasol of black.
Mrs. Montague Levy, black silk, embroidered
with burnished beads, heavy black chenille fringe.
Miss Hennings, a well-fitting dress of cream
mnshn over cream, small bonnet that became the wearer
extremely.
Miss Maloney, dark navy blue silk, trimmed
with handsome pale blue and navy-blue brocade, with
cream-colored hat and feathers to match dress.
Miss Irving, a most peculiar dross, consisting of
pale blue jersey, very tight skirt of dark green; toque
to match, enormous Japanese parasol.
Mrs. Halfey, prune satin skirt, body and train
of peaeh-oolor brocade, front of dress finished with
deep prune bead fringe, hat and parasol to match.
The only lady whom I observed betting to any
extent was a bookmaker’s wife, and probably she had
canght up her husband’s spirit.
Amongst all the winners at the Melbourne Cnp
I should think the especial friend of our sex, Mr.
Moubray, was the most satisfied, always provided be
got his accounts paid.
Rumour says that one lady has sacrificed her
carriage to her love of dress, and that others, as is often
the case over the Melbourne Cup, have mortgaged their
pianos.
The mania for dress, and the exorbitant charges
of the makers, has reached such a point in this colony
that companies have been started to satisfy the demand
and decrease the expenditure. These call themselves
“ Economic Dressmaking Companies,” and advertise a
scale of charges from which there shall be no deviation.
But I think it will be a long time before this finds favor,
for the mass, in spite of discontent at the acknowledged
overcharge of the costumiers, are willing to pay forth©
style they cannot get elsewhere.
Messrs. Robertson and Moffatt applied to the
Chief Secretary for permission to keep their em-
ployes at work up till 9 o’clock every evening during
the existing press of business. The requisition was
signed by the staff of workers who, in consideration of
advanced wages, acquiesced in this measure. It seems
very sad that the wearers of fine dress and fashion
demand this sacrifice at the hands of the toilers, for
put it as you will it is a sacrifice that no money can
repair.
Anthony Trollope warned ns of onr predilection
to the insatiable folly of “ blow.” What will he say if he
ever happens to read the inflated report which one of the
Melbourne papers gives of the opinion of some of the
distinguished guests regarding the brilliant spectacle
at Flemington? There is one thing we may notice,
however, with satisfaction, and that is how very few
cases of “ drunk and disorderly” were reported tbe
morning after the Cup.
All sorts of people who couldn’t or didn’t care
to go to the Races, solaced themselves with a visit to
the Exhibition, and the attendance on Cup Day num-
bered over 23,000 persons. I believe there was a great
scene at the luncheon-rooms, which were unequal to
the demands made upon them. The officials in attend-
ance had to close the doors and refuse admittance to
hundreds of angry, hungry, clamouring people. Every
hotel in town is crowded, and the demands mode on
market produce are enough to turn the heads of the
suppliers. A poultry-vendor told me the other morning
that for one house alone the day’s order amounted to
300 fowls, 60 ducks, and 36 turkeys.
Of course the theatres have been well attended,
the greatest novelty being the French Comedy Company
at the New Novelty Theatre, the old Polytechnic Hall,
in Bourke-street, which has been completely over-
hauled and elegantly fitted up. The directress,
Madame Andree, is said to be an exceedingly clever
actress and an educated lady. Report says she is a
countess, and her history is a romance. It struck me
as rather amusing that this company intend play-
ing their French plays in the original to English
audiences for whom they evidently think it necessary
to translate a French sentence whenever it occurs in
their advertisement.
At the Town Hall, wo have Ketten, and the
Strauss Band, which is announced as “ the greatest
musical combination ever heard is Australia.” In
addition to this important attraction there are many
minor entertainments.
It is the custom now to publish a daily list of
the arrivals at the principal hotels and houses in town.
In one of these, the other day, I saw the name of a
young lady from your side who has gained a reputation
in literary circles for works published, said to be written
by the “Blanchette."
This reference calls to mind a Collins-street
doctor, who is among the few true and staunch sup-
porters of Spiritualism. He was invited to spend one
Sunday evening lately at a friend's house, but declined
the invitation on the plea that he always made it a rule
to spend that evening at home in the company of the
spirits of his departed friends, with whom he had a
" glorious chat."
I must not forget to tell yon that Sir Archibald
Michie gave his promised lecture last Monday evening,
in aid of the building fund of the East St. Kilda Pres-
byterian Church, which is one ot Sir James M'Culloch’s
hobbies. The title chosen for the lectnre was “The
Experiences of an ex-Ageut-Qenoral,” and, as this
savoured somewhat of politics, it was one likely to be
foreign to the taste of ladies as a rule. However, it
proved most interesting, and was replete with humour,
instruction, sound sense, and good advice.
Two of the most outre costumes on the Lawn
were worn by two sisters from Macquarie-street. They
consisted of cardinal and white, the former colour pre-
dominating to such a degree as to he almost painful to
the eyes.
The new beer and tobacco duties were collected
at Melbourne on Monday.
A year’s supply of food has been sent to Mac-
quarie Harbour, West Coast of Tasmania. The ground
of the Montagu Tin Mining Company is near this spot.
The shareholders in this company are now mostly in
Melbourne, and their plant was also sent in the vessel
that took the stores. Vigorous efforts are intended
during the summer months to make the property pay.
Can any man read these words without feeling
that they point to a coming radical change all over
Europe:—“ The proletariat is being driven by the hun-
dred thousand across the Atlantic to escape the dreaded
conscription, and the crushing burdens imposed by the
“ bloated armaments" maintained by monarchical
States. The New World is redressing the balance of
the Old with a vengeance. The English agriculturists
have been the first to feel the strain. They are face to
face with a competition of ruinous severity. The
gravity of the crisis cannot be exaggerated. Better
harvests will avail them but little To anyone who
has beheld with his own eyes ‘what is being done in
those glorions, free United States,’ agriculturally
speaking, the general insensibility ot Englishmen to
the imminent rnin with which the agricultural in-
terest is menaced, must appear to savour of absolute
lunacy.”
The old caustic English adage, that the best
part of Ireland was the high road to London, is
displaced by the present Celtic saying that the most
powerful Irish agitators are on the English Press.
It is a fact that the Irish people are now receiving
most support from English journalists. Here is a
sample from a London daily newspaper:—“Let any
man take a tourist ticket and travel through the pre-
sumably happy and peaceful parts of smiling and plen-
teous Erin, and then let him conic back and say what
he thinks of the latest act of our hereditary legislators.
Throughout any day’s journey in Ireland the traveller
is struck with nothing so much ns the intense and
grinding poverty of the inhabitants. No conception
can bo formed by one who has not travelled through
the agricultural districts ot Ireland of the state of
abject penury to which a peasantry cau at last arrive.
Nothing in romance or reality conies near the destitul
tion ot the country, if we except the state of France
immediately before the first French Revolution. This
is assuming the worst and most horrible of the French-
men’s woes to be rather under than over stated. * * •
Onr Poland has always been treated with contempt
while she remained quiet, and only legislated for when
she kicked up a row. Pleasance Ingle, of Guy’s Hos-
pital, thought she was doing her duty to her patient
when she shoved her into a cold bath and left her there.
We have nursed sick Ireland very much after the
fonhion of Miss Ingle. Unfortunately for us, our
patient, instead of dying under the treatment, remains
alive and kicking. * * • * If the necessity for the
late hill were properly understood, there would be such
a wave of feeling throughout England that the repre-
sentatives of that national curse-—hereditary legislation
would tremble and yell for their archaism’s safety.
Apart from Ireland, here is the fact for all Englishmen
to consider, that a bill framed and passed by our House
of representatives—and no matter how bid it may be
voted in some directions, really representing the voice
of the nation—was thrown out by a body whose very
existence is a reproach to the intellect of the latter
portion of the nineteenth century. With regard to
Ireland, the surprise is not, to those who know most
about her sufferings, that she should rise now, but that
she has ever ceased rising until put upon an equal foot-
ing with those who are said, and only said, to be part
and parcel of what is humorously enough entitled the
“United Kingdom.”


Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.j E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki. Coonamble, Coetamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog. Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank ot South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore ; The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu .- Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LL O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street. _ _
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
fhe above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
lias, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
im, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
lowing liberal terms—viz.,
2200 House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
2400 do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
2800 do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
til information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
ee t. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accep FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES. . .
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
TO LADIES.
JJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW'S
D
O YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO - BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6 ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D°
YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OK FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
ThO YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Mahers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT Elegant FANS and
PARASOLS?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
ThO YOU WANT a Birthday or Wedding
PRESENT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
D
O YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?
Try PE APES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLARS ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
TkO YOU WANT a Stylish SCARF, TIE,
or BOW ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D°
YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D°
YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OVERCOAT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TRAVELLING BAG ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILORS and HABIT MAKERS in
the CITY?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Public Companies
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esa
William B, Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostroeht Giblin.
Head Ofeice, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket j Eedfern | Glebe.
London Office —18 King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
TJSTEALIAN MUTUAL PEOYIDENT
_ SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA,
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. j Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:— ‘ No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.'
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices 263 (late 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
T lON FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
1 i Limited.
Chief Office—o, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
B,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
"equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street)
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
-ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents eoe Messes. Tangte Beos., Biemingham.
DFSA
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING ‘MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
/M
5n
8
e
m
waugh;
unadulterated
BAK/NC POWDER
I ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
| MAM UFA CTUKED BY W.DAVIES& C? COULBURNN.SW
m.
m
OL
m
m
GEORGE BARR,
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2Jd PER GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
DFSF
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—G3I GEORGE STREET
P. WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
mmm
Oriental Blind.


Business Announcements
P
ALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained tlie
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitiye,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
GB. M 0 D I N I,
• GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
RAUTOK&Sojsf
JJEICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, See.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880-
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. ARIELL. 343 & 345, Keut-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of IJ, 2,3,
and 6$ cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
xnd 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
OHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AG. churchwood.
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
IF YOU WANT
A Cup of
REALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TABPING
MIXTURE.
PACKED INTO 1-ft AND J-ft PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES,
William-street.
R, S. TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
G 0
U N D R Y
CONSOLIDATED
S
COMPRESSED
TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modern
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Qibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for the Australian Colonies.
Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
~pi CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tobacconists
The g e n u i
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
N E
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEOEGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
165 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/rs~'
m
IS
if
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E LL,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
M
VE ’ S
E S E
, CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
ut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Povt Office.
T
HOS. J. BOWN &
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
C 0.,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, Ac.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
I
MPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
u r a Worthless Imitation may he forced npon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, SA.
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTABD-LANE, SYDNEY.
SDFSF
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
w
H . A R I E L L,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned; —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
■piLOUE SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZ E N A
FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions. Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAR THE HATMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH. SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Snperfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
Potatoes, &c.
GEOBGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES —Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretory,
No. 58, Margaret-street.
B
OYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blact
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers. Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation ;
For 'tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration,
On human kind or brute creation,
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation,
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population ;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination,
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation,
Then-friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation,
Called “Farmer’s Friend,”- —ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
The Oldest Cricketing
Depot in the Colonies.
FSFSF
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
J3EINT IN G
Of Every Description
AT EEDUCED EATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax,).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THF BULLETIN.’*


IHE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES-
KING-STREET.
See the Bon March*'- Pompadour Prints at "Jd per yard
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon March*? Wool Beiges at 5Jd, 7 ;d, 9M pe r
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, and
seasonable goods in our windows—
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OE ATTRACTION TO LADIES-
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visiles,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING S TREET.
ON MARCHE, 93 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the-
Bon Marche is due to the following statements
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon March*? of the Southern Hemisphere.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewnere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the t>eau-
tiful MILLINERY BONNETS from 12s 6d. MIL-
LINERY HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COS-
TUMES from 3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4a Od,
Ladies’ Corsets from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from did per pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves,
Fischus, Baby-linen, Underclothing Ac., cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to-
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
JOHN BRTNSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship-
and material.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
fOHN BRINSMEAD AND
I SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
Prices, from 44 guineas.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
SONS'
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a five years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
B
RINSMEAD PIANOS.
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed, as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. ROYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS.
SONS’
"OHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,.
Sydney, 1879-80.
Sole Agents ROYLE and HOGG.
J.
M
S T E D
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
Nr
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 140) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order-
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
B
YER VIEW HOTE L r
BIRCHGROVE ROAD.
Facing Cockatoo Island,
BALMAIN.
MICHAEL M’GRATH. so long and favourably
known as Landlord of the Warwick Castle Hotel,
begs to inform the residents of Balmain and the sur-
rounding districts that he has taken the above connuo-
iious premises, and is prepared to accommodate
Boarders and to generally minister to the wants of - he.
miblic Only the verv best brands of Wines, Spuiw,
Ind Beer k«4>t. and M. M’GRATH trusts, by a care-
ful and conscientious regard to the comforts ot
who may favour him with a call, to merit a fan- share or
public patronage.
N.B.—Visitors to the Balmain Regatta are particularly
requested to notice this advertisement.
RIVER VIEW HOTEL.
E.
O
N,
.MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE. AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address-121 ELIZABETH STREET (near Kiag-st )
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS cy MANUFACTURERS.
-jL
ONE or THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale: —
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But for Cash—We Sell for Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
j COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS !
Boys’and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
Our Stock is always
New.
Tor every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7 6, worth 10 6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establish ments.
Axx GOODS Makked is PLAIN FIGURES.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
0 6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12 6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
19.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9 6. Good quality.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS if
ONE OF TOE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
j A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a poaiton to sell trader nil other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen's, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from IS G.
Babes' Fa ncy Shoes
1 9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
96. Good quality.
Ladies’ best kiglv
liutton Boots the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
Gents’ Kid Shoos,
10 6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10,6 best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12 G, worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots —a,
large and beautiful
assortment.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choices! English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL ROOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
All GOODS Marked is PLAIN PIGUBES.
j Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10 6.
Geuts’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10 6—best in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12 (3, worth 15 G.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
We abstain from giving’ a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
OWING BROTHERS’ TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MASKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES,
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
COWING BROTHERS,
MEN’S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.,
Trading under the names of
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court;,
AND
J. E. GOWING, 332 George Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BROTHERS’ SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivalled FOR PRICE AND QUALITY.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. Military Front SHIRTS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very beat value in the Sydney market.
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
THE FAMOUS AUSTRIAN BENT-WOOD FURNI-
TURE.
Dining Chairs, Children’s Chairs, Folding Chairs,
Lounges, Office Stools, Extending Leg-rest Chairs,
Carving Chairs, Shop Chairs, Conches, Rocking
Chairs, Music Stools, Arm-chairs, Footstools, and
Library Chairs.
COMPLETE SUITES, from £6 14s 6d.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, OUR OWN MAKE,
£(> 10s, £7 10s, til 10s, £l4 10s, £TG 10s, £l9, £2O,
£22. £23, £25, £3O, and £47 10s, samples of which
are now on view.
Haircloth Suites, 9 articles, from £lllos.
Japanese Blinds all Sizes and Prices.
VISIT THE SHOWROOMS.
VISIT THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
Fresh Goods every week. New Arrivals. Constant
Alterations. Houses furnished throughout from £l5.
Any single article may be had at list prices. Goods for
the country packed with the greatest care.
When you come, do not fail to ask for one of the
HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDES. They contain full
information, and may be had free of charge.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
j- EL BOURNE EXHIBITION.
A good opportunity now presents itself to purchase
one of the oldest-established Book and Stationery busi-
nesses in the best and most central position in Mel-
bourne, well-known in Victoria and adjacent colonies
as MUSKETT’S, 78 BOURKE ST., EAST, nearly oppo-
site Theatre Royal. The proprietor being desirous of
retiring from business as early as possible, will treat
with any intending purchaser on favorable terms
Address, as above.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trade mark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
SSg
m
TRADE
MARK
SSI
Ss
The-GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac,
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marhle Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets hy all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale hy
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND,
After roasting their fever patients at Warwick
for some months, the Brisbane Government are at last
erecting a good, substantial and suitable building for
hospital purposes.
The now Art Gallery, to occupy the block be-
tween Elizabeth and Castlereagh streets and Bathurst
and Park streets, is to be proceeded with. Cost,
<£150,000. The Government will take possession of the
land, and pay on arbitration award aud the production
of title deeds. On this score, it is said, there’ll be some
not paid for. The Colonial Architect’s design is a
magnificent one.
Almost too good to be true, but it is a fact
nevertheless, that you may obtain relief, all that suffer
from general Dyspepsia, without the disagreeable sen-
sation produced hy talciTUj Pills, To avoid this just try
the great family medicine of the day—Rauderson’s
Podophyllin Lozenges. Thanks to his name for com-
bining in a lozenge the harmless properties usually
compounded in pills. So deceptive are these little
lozerges that the youngest child will gladly take a dose
without knowing there is Physic in the harmless treat-
ment, Price, Is per Box. Sold everywhere.—Anvr.
FUN AND FANCY.
Attic Salt. —A Greek sailor.
A hackneyed remark. —“ Cab, sir?”
“ Talk is cheap.” Lawyers’ talk excepted.
What must we do to be forgiven ? We must
sin.
“A great reduction on taking a quantity”—of
anti-fat.
During the deluge Noah spoke of his wife as an
ark angel.
A matchless story —One in which there are no
weddings.
A crockery-dealer sells tea-sets; a cabinet-
maker settees.
The latest name for a circus is “ hospital for
decayed jokes.”
Contentment and a crust is better than turtle
soup and dyspepsia.
The three great feasts of the Jews : Breakfast,
dinner, and supper.
The Vagabond has his hair cut now, and no
longer claims to be a genius.
Talk about a bull in a china shop ; why we’ve
seen a cowhide in a school-room !
If electricity were introduced in our railways
wouldn’t the accidents be »hodkin<j '!
The woman who neglects her husband’s shirt-
fronts is not the wife of-his bosom.
Many a young man who considers himself an
Apollo is only an Apollo-gy for a man,
The man who doesn’t know his own mind should
be introduced us soon as it is big enough.
Trickett, they say, has made another match.
He is going to pull—“ Pendragon’s ” nose.
Adam, they say, fell so that he could get his
name into the papers. This is Adam pretty story.
Charles Lamb remarked of one of his critics,
“ The more I think of him the less I think of him.”
The easiest way of marking table-linen is with
black-cun-ant pie. However, a baby with a gravy-dish
is nearly as good.
Before a woman has any children she has 365
holidays in the year; when she has a baby she has 365
holler-days annually.
A cynical man observed, on seeing the long
trains worn by the ladies at Flemington on Cup Day,
that he couldn’t like the women any longer.
A Hobar t man says that his wife is a contradic-
tory woman, though she never contradicts him. It is
always her wont to do his will. How very nice !
“ Darling, kiss my Eyelids Down,” is the latest
moonshine song, and he kisses them up and down and
crosswise, and then settles on her lips as a steady thing.
An old salt, when asked how far north he had
ever been, replied that he had been so far north that
“ the cows when milked beside a red-hot stove gave ice-
cream.”
Job, according to all historical belief, was a
patient man, but he uever entered a barber shop on
Saturday night just behind the fellow who was to get
a hair cut and a shave.
A man who had a bare lip tried to mend matters
by inserting into the opening a piece of chicken’s flesh.
But when he raised a moustache one side grew hair
and the other feathers.
A leading colonial politician, now in England,
says that though a certain aspiring young gentleman
now coming out for parliament is au ass, he shouldn’t
be allowed to kick everybody.
Roses red and violets blue
Are nothing either strange or new ;
But noses red and eyelids blue
Show where your enemy’s digits flew.
Gundagai anecdote. —Weathy squatter and rev.
father meeting in au ironmonger’s, where the latter is
purchasing a bath. W. S. : “ You may as well get a
good one while you are about it.” R. F. : “We are
not all squatters.” W. S. : “ I only fleece my nock
once a year; you fleece yours twice.”
A little Hebrew who, after the manner of his
race, runs a good bit to nose, was sculling his inamorata
across the harbour the other day. He had a slight cold
in his head. •' Ikey, darling," presently murmured the
dusk v Leah, “ There’s a fly on your nose. Brush it off."
“ Do that yourself, my dear," was the ready rejoinder,
“ it’s nearer you than me.”
Among the waiters at one of the fashionable
hotels of America are two Polish Counts, an Austrian
diplomat, a bankrupt brewer, a French magician, four-
teen Italian tenors from Germany, nine cornet players,
three unappreciated German tragedians, twenty-three
ladies’ hairdressers, thirteen barbers, and five elder
sons who expect to be heirs to castles on the Rhine.
The night has one thousand eyes,
And the day but oue ;
Yet the light of the bright world dies
With the setting sun.
The mind has one thousand eyes,
And the heart but one ;
Yet the light of the whole life dies.
When love is done.
Youn" couple returning from party between,
and 2 a.m. Edwin—” If I did offend you, dearest,
forgive me: X did not menu it. Angelina (hesita-
tingly) : “ Well, this time I will.” Edwin: “ Now be
friends, darling. Kiss me, and I’ll go home. Angelina
(reprovingly): *‘oli! no, Edwin.” Edwin: ‘ All do,
dearest 1 ” George (who had overheard the conversa-
tion from the shade of a tree, it heiug moonlight),
aUarplv: “ Oh, kiss him, and I’ll go home too.”
The preacher murmured, “ Let us pray!”
She kneeled, as it impelled by duty,
But not a sentence did she say.
The irreligious little beauty.
Above the pew her roguish eyes
Peered, conscious ot my admiration.
And filled me with more paradise
Titan any in the congregation.
I heard, with half-attentive ear,
The sermon, soporific, stupid,
And though in church, my soul, I fear.
Was prostrate at the shrine of Cupid,
DUMB POETS.
All poets have not speech ; nay, there are some
Whose hearts are full of poetry; who yearn
To utter forth the earnest words that burn
Upon their Ups, and yet the lips are dumb.
The subtle sense may thrill with ecstasy
At sight of Nature’s infinite beauty ; hear
Her sweet voices hymning sweet and clear.
Yet have no gift to pipe the melody.
As in some cloistered cave, where foot of man
Ne’er waked an echo, shapes of beauty grow,
Lustring the darkuess with their own pure glow ;
So some rare spirits, tinder hopeless ban
Of silence and of shadow, haply seek
To live the poetry they cannot speak.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. David Laidlaw, of Dooling Dooling estate,
Hamilton, narrowly escaped a serious accident by the
bolting of his horses the other evening. Good driving,
for which he is noted, saved him.
Josiah Boothby, C.M.G., of Adelaide, is, saith
the leading journal, in the decline of life, and unable to
take up another business, having been brought up in
official routine. This is very rough on a contemporary
and old schoolfellow of his in Sydney, who informs us
that Josh, is only 44—the same age as himself—and was
for some time a shipping clerk in a London merchant
office.
Henri Taine, though fifty-one years of age, is
one of the hardest students of the day . Yet he re-
cently penned the general experience with autograph
albums, in one he was asked to write in; “ One can
never write if he has not an idea; and that is always
my condition when before an album.”
There is another sensational divorce case
on the tapis in the South Seas. The petitioner was a
gentleman who was born in a mud cabin in Wicklow.
He has little education, but is now an insular magnate.
He married a half-caste girl, who has preferred a full-
blooded Fijian to her liege lord. He got his divorce, but
sticks to his or her children.
Mr. S. C. Worth, late teller of the Colonial
Bank of New Zealand, Dunedin, and formerly for many
years an officer of the Union Bank of Australia, has, we
learn, given up £ s. d., and gone into the “ meat line.”
The firm is Shand and Worth. If he only secures orders
irom his many banking acquaintances, success awaits
as they are, as a rule, a hungry lot.
The veteran, John Tait, is a father once more.
Henri Taine’s mother is dead, at the age of 79.
Carlyle, who was born in 1795, is becoming
feeble.
Victor Hugo is seventy-eight, and bears the
weight of his years very gallantly.
At latest dates, Mr. R. A. Proctor, after a
most successful season at Dunedin, was about to take
a pleasure trip to the Lake country.
Mr. Hugh John Chambers, for many years a
well-known solicitor in Melbourne, is now in Sydney,
with a view to practising his profession.
The Rev. Lorimer Fison is the “Hardy Lee”
who wrote the “Dominion of Fiji ” in the Herald. He
is a hard working missionary, and a right good fellow.
Bancroft, the historian, is tall, thin, and a little
stooped. His head is small, long and thin; but Ms eyes
are youthful and his mouth expressive of great decision
of character.
The Hon. Henry Miller (“ Money Miller”) gave
£ 1100 for “ The Appeal for Mercy,” and £525 for “ All
among the Barley.” Both pictures are much admired
at Melbourne International.
Young Redwood, who rode Ladybird in the
Champion race some twenty years ago, is now the Roman
Catholic Bishop of Wellington, N.Z. The horse had a
narrow escape from being priest-ridden.
Colonel Soratchley and Colonel Roberts, of the
New South Wales Permanent Artillery, and a party of
Tasmanian officers, on Monday visited the batteries in
course of construction at Queenscliff and Swan Island,
Hobson’s Bay.
Chief Justice Gorrie, of Fiji, is a Kai-Si by birth.
He is a bully on the bench, and the terror of female
witnesses. He is of an economic turn of mind, drinks
colonial beer, and patches his trousers, but wears a
scarlet gown in Court, which hides the last-mentioned
fact.
Ernest Renan’s promotion to the grade of
officer of the Legion of Honor brings to mind the fact
that Marshal Macmahon refused, in 1878, to sign the
decree authorising this distinction, which the author
of “ The Life of Jesus ” had awaited for twenty years.
Mr. Thomas Hughes, Q.C., is, it is announced,
preparing a memorial notice of Mr. Tom Taylor, in
which will be found details of his early career of some
interest in themselves and revealing a side of his
character hardly to be suspected by those who knew him
only in his later time.
George Collins Levey is to bo made Victorian
Government Printer. Here’s another gross Berryite
job. George has so far been unknown in the Caxtonian
world. However, he has a brother who sells, or used to
sell, type. George will be a printer just as the fellow
who couldn’t play any instrument himself, but had a
brother who used to operate ou the trombone, was a
musician. By the way, when Berry advertised for ap-
plications for this appointment, he sowed dragons’
teeth. Every Berryite editor applied for the billet, and
when the “Liberal” journalists find that the matter
was all the time cut and dried for Levey, they will turn
on the head sugar-loafer like a pack of hungry wolves.
Mr. S. T. Gill, well known in Sydney as an ac-
complished artist, died very suddenly the other day on
the steps of the General Post-office, Melbourne. Mr.
Gill, who for some years resided in the South, was a
true humourist, and his drawings smacked strongly of
the soil. One particularly excellent example of his
style is to be seen in the bar parlor of the Exchange
Hotel, Pitt and Bridge streets, and depicts the astonish-
ment evinced by a London waiter at the curious names
given to drinks by a returned Australian digger in the
old days.
Chief Justice Gorrie is a terror to the white
people in Fiji, and why he should be permitted to oc-
cupy that position is a mystery. He was the person
selected 16 years ago by the Aborigines Protection
Society, to persecute poor Governor Eyre in Jamaica,
and having performed that work to the satisfaction of
Ms patrons, they of course were bound to procure for
their protegd a place of some kind. He was first of all
foisted into a puisne judgeship at Mauritius with £l2OO
a year salary, but the Colonial Office, on the Petition
of the European residents, translated him to Fiji at a
salary of £lOOO a year.
The Hon. J. B. Thurston, C.M.G., is the Fijian
correspondent of the Melbourne Argus. Consequently
that journal is always full of fulsome praises of the
public acts of the Colonial Secretary and his master
Sir Arthur Gordon.
Lieutenant C. B. Hardwick, a very aid Tas-
manian colonist, has died at the age of 92. He was born
in Lincolnshire in 1788, joined H.M.S. Fury, rose to be
a lieutenant, and in the war of 1813 took part in an en-
gagement with a French frigate. In 1816 he landed in
Van Diemen’s Land, coming thence to Sydney. He
leaves a widow, and no less than 70 children, grand-
children, and great grandchildren, the figures being 14,
40, and 16 respectively.
Ralph Waldo Emerson has attained his seventy-
seventh year. Every true man does him reverence in
his serene and beautiful old age, and turns to him with
inexpressible gratitude for all that he has been and is
to his generation—first in life, first in literature, and
first in the love of all who love the human race.
Mr. Lazar, the American Consular Agent at
Levuka, is a man given to preaching and lecturing. He
held forth at Suva the other day, and was particularly
rough on the Britishers. “ The boys ” pelted him with
flour and eggs. He has written to Washington request-
ing that satisfaction shall be demanded from the Home
Government.
Mr. Audley Coote, the Tasmanian legislator
whose attempt at “ privilege ” was so ludicrously abor-
tive, has joined the Southern Tasmanian Rifle Associa-
tion, since his rabid opposition to the site of the Rifle
Range at Sandy Bay proved of no avail. It is said that
the George Town electors imposed this as a penance. A
very appropriate one, too.
We are very sorry to hear that Mr. Tom Car-
rington, the accomplished caricaturist of Melbourne
Punch, and artist of the Sketcher, is seriously ill.
Paralysis is said to be Ms malady.
John Sergeant, the Temperance caterer of the
Melbourne Exhibition, is still confined to his bed, owing
to the assault alleged to have been committed upon him
by the Honorable James Munro, Vice-President of the
Exhibition, and late Minister of Education. Sergeant is
determined to go to law. He claims £BOOO damages from
sundry Commissioners, for forcible removal of his table
of confectionery. The actions will all he defended.
Prince Joe, Thakombau’s son, who was edu-
cated in Sydney, has got into trouble for too freely
exercising his princely rights over the young females of
Bau. He doesn’t resemble his scriptural godfather,
but he always doubted that story.
Herr Ernest Speyer, secretary to Professor Rou-
leaux, the German Commissioner, was arrested at Mel-
bourne on Monday night, for being about to fight a
duel. It appears that the relations between Speyer and
Mr. Max Hirsch, a merchant, have not been of the most
amicable nature, and Speyer, believing that his honour
had been assailed, asked for an apology, which was
refused. He then sent a formal challenge to Hirsch, and
this becoming known he was arrested on warrant.
Mr. Bindon, who defended Ned Kelly, is a by no
means experienced or eloquent advocate. He had a bad
case, it is true, but it was, nevertheless, painful to listen
to the frigid mummery of words addressed by him to the
jury who tried the outlaw, about whom a great deal
could at any rate have been said ad misericordiam by a
more accomplished counsel. But Mr. Bindon only got
seven guineas to defend Kelly, and, though he did his
best, no lawyer could have been expected to know much
about a case for seven guineas. Kelly’s unfortunate
position in regard to legal advice recalled the story told
about the hardened old horse-thief who in the State of
New York was arraigned for a fresh offence, and to
whom a couple of beardless counsel hod been assigned
by the prosecution. When brought into court, he
pleaded “not guilty," and then enquired, “ Where air
my livers?" “There they are,” replied the Judge.
“What! them beardless boys ? ” “Those two young
gentlemen will defend you.” “ Oh, well, Judge, I don t
want ter give yer tew much trouble, and rile yer. I plead
guilty.” It would not have damaged Ned Kelly’s case
had he done the same.
Judge Meymott is to be dismissed. The cha ges
of corruption levelled against him by Mr. Dillon were
considered to be not proved, and the judge’s chief offence,
according to the published reports, would appear to he
that he is eccentric and undignified. There are few
men whose characters and dispositions will bear over-
haul in every particular; and if you throw plenty of
mud, some of it is sure to stick. A very little bit of
Mr Dillon’s mud has stuck, and it has been too much
for Judge Meymott, who has grown grey in the service.
Let us hope that his past services will entitle him to at
least a little consideration, and that he will not be de-
prived of his pension. And this we say while not im-
puting to the Executive any motive except that of
wishing to see a decision fairly arrived at according to
evidence.
Mr. Joseph G. O’Connor, Candidate for
Mudgee.
Mr. Joseph Graham O'Connor, whose portrait appears
in our present issue, is descended from an old Irish
stock —the O’Connors of Ofally. Three years after his
birth, which took place at Dareen House, King’s
County, Ireland, he arrived in New South Wales, so
that thirty-eight years of his life have been spent in
this colony. After receiving a sound English educa-
tion, commenced under the Christian Brothers (who
left Sydney in 1847), and completed under the late Mr.
J. O’Brien, of the old Sydney College, he entered the
printing office of the late Mr. Thomas Clayton, where
he acquired a thorough knowledge of the printer’s art,
and also attained some distinction as an engraver on
wood. But, as time went on, the public affairs of his
adopted country began to claim the attention of his
ripening intelligence, finally prompting him to throw
aside the graver for the pen. In 1864 he was associated
with the late Mr. J. J. Horpur, the Hon. W. B. Dailey,
the Hon. William Macleay, and some other gentlemen,
in editing and conducting the Sydney Times—a paper
devoted to the “Promotion of Australian literature
and the advocacy of encouragement to native in-
dustries.” The paper was short-lived, however, as it
turned out the party was not sufficiently ripe for taking
up the latter important principle set forth in its mani-
festo. Mr. O’Connor is not a protectionist pure and
simple—that is to say, he does not swallow the raw
principle, but has always inclined to a discrimiuating
and judiciously readjusted tariff, whereby a par-
ticular encouragement would be given to those
industries for which the natural condition of
the country is best suited. Although giving close
attention to his own business, he still found time
to devote to civic and political affairs, and in 1870,
he was, by the whole of the citizens, elected a
city auditor, polling the largest number of votes ever
recorded in favour of a candidate for that office. He
was afterwards thrice re-elected, but declined to be
nominated for the fourth time. It was during his
tenure of office, as one of the City Auditors, that Mr.
O’Connor proclaimed from the Town Hall the hopeless
state of insolvency into which the Corporation had
drifted through the incompetency of the Aldermen.
The statement had little credence at the time, but
events since have fully justified the statemeuts then so
fearlessly made. Ou the coalition of Mr. (now Sir)
John Robertson and Mr. Windeyer, the present Tem-
porary Judge Windeyer, with Sir James Martin, in
1870, he was selected to oppose the re-election of
Ministers, and although only a few days in the field he
polled over 1700 votes. Two years after, upon the re-
signation of Mr. W. H. Stephen for Mndgee, Mr.
O’Connor was requested by the electors to oppose Mr.
(now Sir) Henry Parkes, and although he did not visit
the electorate, he was very near being successful.
At the general election which immediately followed, he
announced himself for Mndgee, but was opposed by
Mr. (uow Sir) George Long Innes, the present Minister
of Justice, and was defeated after a very exciting and
close contest. A few months after the Parkes-Butler
Administration was formed, and Mr. O’Connor, though
requisitioned, in deference to the late Mr. Butler, de-
clined to oppose the Solicitor-General, Mr. Innes. In
1873 Mr. Innes was appointed to the Upper House, and
Mr. O’Connor was for the third time requested to stand
for Mudgee, when he was returned, beating the Govern-
ment candidate, Mr. Walter Church, who was defeated
by over 600 votes, Mr. O’Connor polling the largest
number ever recorded in favour of any candidate for
that electorate, viz., 1619. At the general election
which followed he did not offer himself for his old con-
stituency, but sought a seat for West Sydney, where he
was defeated through the secession of a large number
of his supporters to the ranks of Mr. H. C. Dangar.
Mr. O’Connor is not what is conventionally known as a
“brilliant” speaker—never straining for effect in his
speeches, but generally giving utterance to plain com-
mon sense thoughts in a practical matter-of-fact man-
ner, and employing a dignified simplicity of diction
which imparts a peculiar force to his invariably well-
conceived arguments. He is a vigorous debater, and
his keen perception of the weak points in an opponent’s
argument renders him a very formidable-antagonist in
discussion. Should the electors of Mndgee again send
him to Parliament, they will secure—as he before
proved—an able representative—one who thoroughly
understands politics and the movements of parties;
a man of iron will and unswerving determination. Mr.
O’Connor is likewise thoroughly versed in the forms
and usages of Parliament—a most essential quality in
a politician, and one which it takes new members some
time to acquire. His matured and duly considered
convictions mark out his political path, and his fearless
honesty forbids him to deviate from it. Our portrait is
taken from a photograph by Mr. D. Scott, of Pitt-
street, and ie a capital likeness.
AFTER THE RACE.
MB. JOSEPH G. O’CONNOR, CANDIDATE FOR MHDGEE.
BEFORE THE RACE.


f|lo the ELECTOES of SOUTH SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —
Having been requested by a large number of Electors
of this new and important constituency to represent
and guard their interests in the new Parliament, it is
with great pleasure that I accept and respond to solici-
tations so universally and so very generously expressed
towards me.
Should I be honoured with your confidence by elect-
ing me as one of your representatives I can assure you
that no exertion on my part shall be spared to assist in
introducing and establishing wise and beneficial legis-
lation for the advancement and prosperity of all classes
of this community.
Providence has placed in our hands the management
of a magnificent country, bursting with minerals of
untold value. Our pastoral and agricultural lauds are
unequalled in any part of the world ; and it now remains
for you. Gentlemen, to select and return—as your
representatives —men in whose anility and judgment
you can repose your confidence and trust.
As most of you know me long and well you will, I am
certain, believe me when I assure you that in politics I
shall be no trimmer; and in order that yon may have
some idea of my views I will now proceed with a few of
the topics upon which I feel sure you will be interested.
I congratulate the electors upon escaping from the
unjust and un-English clause introduced into the late
Electoral Bill by the hon. member for Camden, Mr.
Tbos. Garrett. There never was a greater attempt to
interfere with the liberty of the subject or the freedom
of Election than this “ garotting clause. Happily the
country has been spared this injustice by the interven-
tion of the Upper House, not by the “ wisdom ” of the
Lower Chamber.
As your representative I shall preserve and protect
the glorious privileges which in this free country it is
our happiness to enjoy. ’
The Public Instruction Bill having been passed into
law by the expiring Parliament, I am desirous that it
should have a fair and impartial trial. By educating
the masses you elevate the social and political standing
of the community. lam strongly in favour of Techni-
cal Education, which shall have my earnest support.
I shall advocate an immediate and better system of
Water Supply for this important city, the probable
limits of which it is scarcely possible at present to
conceive, but I think it the duty of the Government,
)>efore finally committing themselves to any scheme, to
thoroughly investigate the advantages which the Kenny
Hill (Mr. Gipps* project) is supposed to possess ; and as
an Alderman of this City, I consider it the duty of the
Municipal Council to assist the Government in this
important work. I am one of those Aldermen who do
not shrink from the duties and responsibilities appear-
taming to that office, and I shall do my utmost, even
should I stand alone, in bringing about a speedy and
X>erfect system of water supply.
Although a Free-trader, I am a strong advocate for
all railway plant and rolling stock, or works of that
character - which will tend to dev clop the vast mineral
aiid other resources of Mils country and give employ-
ment to our artisan population -being manufactured
here, and as far as possible encourage colonial industries.
1 object to the importation of building materials, such
as doors, architraves, Ac., the produce of prison labour
in America, to the_ injury of our mechanics, and brought
here in the American mail steamers subsidised by the
Government of this country, and for which the working
man is taxed. Ido not like to see our Omnibuses com-
ing from the same quarter. I object to the tax on Wool
and Coal exported from the colony.
You are all perhaps aware that I am a firm believer in
the Eight-hour System, and shall endeavour to make
this matter the subject of future legislation.
The legislation on the subject of Trades Unions shall
also receive my attention, in order that the law may be
made to protect these bodies from fraud by their officers
and others, and that they may have all the protection
afforded to other Friendly Societies.
A subject which has been neglected for a long period,
and which also deserves serious attention, shall be made
the subject of action in Parliament—l refer to the
Inspection of Steam Boilers and Engines on land, many
of which are at present in much need of periodical
supervision.
I fully believe that full and ample compensation should
be awarded to workmen who, by imperfect appliances
provided by employers, receive injury on their works.
With reference to the important subject of Immigra-
tion, I have been distressed to see numbers of fine able-
bodied men brought to these shores during the past two
years, and absolutely unable to find work -they either of
necessity become a burden to the State or the hospitality
of their friends. In cases like this the Government
should step in and find employ incut by proceeding with
large public works. I strongly object to Chinese Immi-
gration ; they unfairly compete with our Christian
labour, and they do not pay their fair share of taxation.
I need hardly inform the intelligent Electors of South
Sydney that I do not seek a Government Billot, and I am
opposed to the Payment of Members of Parliament.
Gur Victorian cousins have, by adopting that unwise
course, secured as nice a collection of “ Sugar Loafers”
as are to be found on the face of this earth.
I shall endeavour without delay to alter the present
unsatisfactory and disgraceful maimer under which
Publicans’ Licenses are obtained, and I think the scenes
lately enacted in the Police Courts show plainly the
necessity for fresh legislation on this subject.
I shall oppose the remission of interest on balances
due by Land Selectors. I shall never be a party to
sacrifice the interest of one class of the community for
the benefit of the other: this is a debt legitimately con-
tracted, and should be discharged. We have been so
frequently promised full, plain, and Comprehensive
Legislation respecting our Lands, that I hope when the
new and enlarged Parliament assembles, men will lie
forthcoming with sufficient ability to grasp the whole
question with at least some show of statesmanship, and
it shall be ray pleasing duty to assist in bringing this
very desirable subject, and others connected with it, to
a satisfactory settlement.
The Sewage Question is another most important
matter, and shall have my most careful consideration.
Shea’s Creek, running southwards between Moore
Park and the Surry Hills, long neglected by your
representatives, shall also receive my attention, and that
foul and disgusting stream so injurious to the health of
the residents, and so great a disgrace to former
members, must no longer be allowed to mar the beauty
of the surrounding country.
This city is so intimately connected with the Civil
Service branch of our Government that I think, as no
member of the present Administration is likely to touch
the subject, it may lie considered to come within the
duty of a city member to see a Civil Service law
established; it will be better for the State and give
more confidence to the Civil servant, and I shall there-
fore endeavour to secure legislation in this line also.
At present I do not know why one or two Commissions
moved for in Parliament were allowed to lapse; but I
also promise and undertake that such departments of
the Government of this colony as may need attention
shall receive mine; and as I know something of the
constitution of the various branches of this portion of
the “ Body Politic,” I may be of some service in this
direction also.
I am a strong advocate for the extension of Municipal
Government, and I hojie to be able to do something sub-
stantial in this direction. In this matter we should not
be behind the other colonies so far ns we are at present.
It shall be ray duty to assist our neighbours at St.
Leonards in their efforts to secure more perfect com-
munication between that portion of the suburbs and the
city, and now that we are so regularly supplied with
Ocean Steamers, and the tall mast of the Merchantman
is almost a thing of the past, I see no reason why a
bridge should not be constructed so as to allow free scope
to our harbour traffic.
I feel confident, from all we heard and read on the sub-
ject of the Freedom of the Press, you will probably
agree with me in thinking that the time has arrived
when legislation on this subject should receive the
attention of Parliament, in order that perfect freedom
in the expression of our opinion in the conduct of our
rulers may be secured to us by such laws as will prevent
in future the unseemly and lamentable occurrences of
the past.
I think I may with some degree of satisfaction bring
before yonr notice my labours in the Municipal Council.
I have strenously exerted myself to bring about a reform
in the management of that institution; and the citizens
are aware that I have in a great measure exposed many
of the abuses which have landed this Municipality in the
“ small debt ” of over £OOO,OOO. It is also my pleasant
duty to inform the electors of South Sydney and the
citizens generally, that I have succeeded, after repeated
attempts and much opposition from some aldermen, in
obtaining for the year 1881 a re-assessment and re-valua-
tion of all city properties, thereby, T hope, relieving the
ratepayers from unjust and excessive taxation, of which
they have had some experience during the current year.
I am in favour of connecting by railway with the
metropolis tile rich coal and pasture lands of Illawarra,
and also our rich coal-fields to the north.
Another important matter which requires immediate
legislation are the laws affecting Colonial Mercantile
Marine.
Our Factories and Workshops require some legislation
hy law. I object to the mixing of sexes together in the
factory workrooms, and separate entrances should be
provided leading into the factories.
I shall also advocate and support that desirable
object “ Federation of the Australian Colonies.”
I come before you in the fullest sense of the term an
Independent Candidate, with the solo object of benefit-
lu i r Native Land; and as most of you know me to be
a man of my word, I need scarcely assure you that
should you so far honour me as to send me as your
Kepresentative into Parliament, I will in return endea-
vour to elevate the character of our country, our laws,
and make this land attractive to the stranger, and secure
happy homes for ourselves and families.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
„„„ „ EDWARD HORDERN.
6t>8 George-street south,
30th October, 1880.
(gOUTH SYDNEY ELECTORATE.
To GEORGE WITHERS, Esq., J.P.
We, the undersigned electors of South Sydney, being
desirous of recognising your worth as a citizen, and
your valuable services as an alderman of the city of
Sydney, beg that you will allow yourself to be nominated
at the forthcoming Election as a Candidate to represent
us in the Legislative Assembly.
In the event of your acceding to our request, we
pledge ourselves to use all legitimate means to secure
your return.
George Hill
Charles Mackellar
John Booth
W. H. Alderson
John Edgely
Archibald M'Neill
J. H. Watkin
David Mackey, sen.
John P. Wright
D. Elphiustone
R. Shortlaud
Arthur Scott
D. Clement
C. G. Whiddon
R. Williams
J. Carmichael
A. Hale
C. R. Small
J. Grace
John Ward
W. Luker
T. J, Chapman
William Mortley
John Gough
and over 1300 other electors
Edward Hordern
William Kippax
John Roseby
S. Callaghan
J. M'Clelland
J. Hargrave
J. J. Paterson
John Philli ps
H. Watsford
H. Wise
A. Hordern
J. K. M'Dougall
John Furnace
R. Mackey
J. Johnson
John Lister
R. Maze
Henry Dare
J. B. Shortlaud
D. Fraser
George Thom
R. J. Parish
William Fubbs
James Watt
signing the requisition.
Gentlemen, —In reply to your numerously signed
requisition representing, as it does, all classes of the
electors, inviting me to be nominated as one of your
representatives in the next Parliament, I have much
pleasure in acceding to your request.
I will now place before you, as concisely as possible, a
few of my views on some of the leading questions which
will probably occupy the attention of the new Parlia-
ment. I will also take on early opportunity of address-
ing you at various places in the electorate prior to the
day of polling, when I shall have fnrther opportunities
of more fully expressing my opinions to the general
body of electors on all the most important questions
likely to engage the attention of the next Parliament.
I am in favour of the present Public Schools Act, and
will strenuously oppose any alterations that will in any
way affect the principles of the Bill, as I firmly believe
it has within it, if properly carried out, all the essential
qualities of a sound and useful education, which I con-
sider to be the duty of the State to place within the
reach of every child in the colony.
I am a Free-trader, but would support any well devised
measure to encourage colonial industry where it would
not materially interfere with the commerce of the
colony ; and will also, if elected, support a measure that
would embody the principle of offering bonuses for the
encouragement of colonial industries.
As you are doubtless aware, I have devoted a consider-
able amount of time and attention to get the Kenny
Hill Water Scheme thoroughly inquired into. I believe
if this water supply should prove to be practicable it
would have the immense advantage of being nearly two
hundred (200) feet higher than the Prospect Reservoir,
enabling us to deliver water by gravitation to the
highest parts of Sydney and suburbs, thus conferring a
great benefit, and also an enormous saving to the citi-
zens, as it will dispense with the necessity of continu-
ally pumping water to the higher reservoirs. Should
this question not be finally settled prior to the meeting
of Parliament, and you return me as one of your repre-
sentatives, I shall exert myself to the utmost to have
this most important detail of our water scheme
thoroughly investigated.
The sewage of the city and suburbs is, in my opinion,
next in importance to our water supply, and should be
carried out as speedily as possible.
I am opposed to the remission of the interest on the
balances due on the existing conditional purchases, as
the free-selectors could not have obtained .money on
more favourable terms, and therefore the agreement
should be honestly adhered to.
I am totally opposed to the payment of members of
Parliament.
I am an advocate for an Amended Publicans’ Licens-
ing Act, which would embody the principles of a local
option clause.
I am an advocate of railway extension, and also the
construction of tramways, which would act as feeders to
the main trunk lines, in consequence of their being
cheaper and more expeditiously constructed.
I am entirely opposed to the introduction of Chinese
into the colony, their habits and mode of living being so
totally different to those of Europeans.
I am opposed to the present system of immigration,
but would support a measure that would be the means
of introducing a class of immigrants that would be
more suitable for the requirements of the colony, and
would, if possible, give inducements to men of small
capital to come and settle on the laud.
I am in favour of a Civil Service Bill which will secure
to all their fair and rightful promotion, and not subject
to the intriguous system of promotion by political influ-
ence, which is very discouraging and must tend to dis-
disorganise the Civil Service.
In conclusion, I may state that I have resided in the
electorate for nearly a quarter of a century, and my in-
terests are naturally identical with yours; and, if
elected, I will discharge my duties faithfully and to the
best of my ability.
Your faithful servant,
GEORGE WITHERS.
Morningtou Terrace, Riley-street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, 3rd November, 1880.
I OF WEST SYDNEY,
J reserve one of your votes for
F. ABIGAIL.
J, G. CARTER ) Hon.
J. J. BENSON j Secs.
SYDNEY ELECTORS,
F. ABIGAIL
is a ,
CANDIDATE.*
and solicits your vote and interest.
J. G. CARTER) Hon.
J. J. BENSON S Secs.
gOUTH SYDNEY ELECTION.
MR. JOHN DESMOND FITZGERALD
will
ADDRESS THE ELECTORS
as follows
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) 8 p.m.,
Jones’ Criterion Hotel, Riley and Foveaux streets.
FRIDA 1, 8 p.m.,
Fahey’s Railway Hotel, Regent and Parramatta streets.
Wright’s Golden Fleece, Haymarket, 9 p.m.
SATURDAY,
Townsend’s Pottery Hotel, Riley and Lansdowno streets.
Cohen’s Royal Albert Hotel, Gipps and Macquarie
streets, 9 p.m.
rjio THE ELECTOES OF SOUTH SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —Having accepted the requisition pre-
sented to me to contest the election of South Sydney
for the representation of that district in the ensuing
Parliament, I have now the honour of furnishing you
with the salient points of my political creed.
I accept the new Education Act as the expressed
wish of the majority of the people, and it would be folly
to attempt to subvert it. I am prepared to advocate
railway extension, especially that which shall directly
connect the interior with the shores of Port Jackson. 1
approve of the Tramway system, but object to the lines
being run along our main thoroughfares. In the matter of
water supply to Sydney and its suburbs, I decline to
accept Mr. Clarke’s decision as final, and am prepared
to support a gravitation scheme, should such be shown
to be practicable.
I am prepared to support a Civil Service Act. I
would gladly see a measure introduced for prohibiting
the sending to sea of uuseaworthy vessels, and tor ex-
tending a greater measure of protection to seamen.
I earnestly desire an amendment of the Licensing
Laws and a radical alteration in the system of grant-
ing licenses.
I subscribe to the doctrine of Freedom of the Press,
and would extend to it the fullest protection.
I am entirely oppos ed to the remission of the Interest
due by the Free Selectors.
I object to the indiscriminate Immigration that is
overcrowding our labour markets, and swelling the
pauper element of our population.
I object to any further influx of Chinese, believing
them to be in every sense nndesirabloas fellow citizens.
Finally, as increased Taxation will have to be sub-
mitted to, sooner or later, I am prepared to advocate,
in any amendment of the Tariff that may be proposed,
the removal of Customs Duties from all actual neces-
saries, and the imposition of others on all luxuries.
J. B. OLLIFFE,
Royal Hyde Park Hotel, Sydney.
E AST SYDNEY ELEC TO BATE.
To CHAS. MOORE, Esq., J.P. and Alderman.
Sir,—We, the Undersigned Electors of East Sydney,
request that you will allow yourself to he nominated at
the General Election of one of our representatives in
Parliament, feeling assured that your ripe experience as
a merchant of 30 years’ standing, and as an Alderman
who has so long and faithfully watched over our in-
terests, will be of great value in dealing with the impor-
tant questions to be submitted to the new Assembly.
Your readiness at all times to take part in movements
having for their object the advancement of the colony,
and the indomitable perseverance displayed by you in
securing for the city that magnificent reserve, Moore
Park, giving the means of recreation to thousands
weekly, deserve our warmest acknowledgments; and,
in the event of your consenting to he nomina ed as a
candidate, we pledge ourselves to use our best endea-
vours to secure yourretnrn.
John Woods
J. S. Jamieson
G. R. Whiting
Robert Gray
Jos. Corti
Adam Sharp
Jno. Starkey
J. W. Ward
Walter Bradley
Win. Moyle
Rd. Shortland
Jas. Beaumont
Geo. Myers
Jno. Lawler
Jno. Hardie
A, B. Simmons
and 1527
William Bayliss
Christ. Newton
D. L. Levy
Win. Brady
John Macintosh
J. W. M'Laughlin
Richard M'Coy
J. Weir
James Dunn
W. B. Campbell
John Thompson
D. Robinson
Alex. Deax
Jas. Maokell
John Pope
Wm. Shirlow
r signatures.
[Reply.]
Gentlemen,— -I have much pleasure in acceding to
your requisition, and therefore place myself in y@ur
hands, assuring you that if I have the honour of being
returned as one of your representatives in Parliament,
I shall do the best for your interests, as well as for the
colony at large.
I am no stranger to you, having carried on business
in Pitt-strcet for over 30 years, during the last 15 of
which I have devoted the greater portion of my time to
the public, in endeavouring to effect the much needed
improvements in onr present water supply, the ap-
proaches to the city, the widening of the streets, the
obtaining and beautifying of our public parks, and in
every way possible exerting my influence to promote
the general interest and convenience of the people.
Such has been my past career; and should I have the
honour of being elected to occupy a higher and wider
sphere of usefulness, my aim shall be, as heretofore, to
do the greatest good to the greatest numler.
As soon as arrangements can be made, I will hold
meetings throughout the electorate and address you
upon the various political questions that will in all pro-
bability be dealt with by the new Parliament.
Thanking you for the influential and numerously
signed requisition,
I remain Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant
CHAS. MOORE.
132, Pitt-street, November 3, 1880.
10 THE ELECTORS OP EAST SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, -It had been my intention not to again
offer myself as a candidate for parliamentary honours,
but as many influential citizens have earnestly requested
me to come forward, I have once more ventured to offer
myself to the Electorate of East Sydney. As I deem a
published lengthened explanation of my opinions is not
requisite, I shall merely state my political views and
opinions as briefly as possible, so that everyone can
comprehend them at a glance, and leave to my future
meetings a detailed account of the various topics.
I shall firmly uphold the present system of National
Education.
A safe and permanent water scheme.
I am a .Free-trader, but am in favor of all large
Government contracts, such as railway rolling stock,
being manufactured in the colony, provided it can be
done at an expense not exceeding 10 per cent, advance
on English cost.
Will strongly advocate the extension of railways.
I am in favour of the Liberty of the Press, and also
the revision of some of the Law Acts.
I shall endeavour, if elected, to see that a proper
progression is carried out as regards both the Civil
Service and Volunteers.
I am a strong advocate for the establishment of a
National School of Trade.
I amnot in favor of the present system of Emigration,
and would alter it by giving some inducements to
farmers and agricultux-ists to settle in the colony.
Should strongly advocate the appointment of a
Commission from the united colonies, to take into con-
sideration the means of preventing the indiscriminate
influx of Chinese.
Am totally opposed to duties ou colonial exports.
I am in favour of a wheel tax; and the abolition of tolls
within the city and suburbs.
Would support an absentee tax.
I think the present Licensing Act not at all suitable.
Would advocate first and second class houses only,
totally ignoring mere drinking shanties, which have no
other accommodation. If such were the case, drunken-
ness, in a great measure, would be prevented, and
proprietors of respectable hotels would have no obj ectiou
to pay a higher licensing fee. Beyond the boundaries
of the city I am in favour of Local Option. Would
advocate the granting of licenses be delegated to a Board
of three independent gentlemen appointed by the
Government.
I hope, shortly, to address the citizens in various
parts of the electorate, and answer any questions that
may be put to me.
Yours faithfully,
I. J. JOSEPHSON,
Macquarie- street.
[Legal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD. AND ASHER
SOLICITORS, oxi ILK,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 1S9 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
W.
M A C L E
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
0 H„
225 BOUEKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO. *
AND T P R E D D jg If.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves*
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837,
|JIOWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
CW 0 0 D F 0 R D AND CO,
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Corner of Queen’s Phlce).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gasfitters.
R
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
C 0.„
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
Mr. AND MRS. BOOTH,,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVEEPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
QENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
PE A P E S and S H A W’S
SUMMER CLOTHING FOE GENTLEMEN.
MODERN CUT. SUPERIOR FINISH, and UNSUR-
PASSED for STEELING VALUE.
PEAPBS and SHAW’S WHITE MILITARY
DUCK COATS,
Stand-up collars, patch pockets, beautifully made,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SUPERIOR SILK SAC COATS,
all pure bright silk, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S FINE BLUE SERGE SUITS,
admirably suited for Tourists or Business Men,
37s 6d the suit.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILKY ALPACA SAC COATS,
the very thing for office wear,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILK PALETOT DUST COATS,
extra well-cut and finished, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 25s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S CLIFTON TWEED SUITS,
fashionable patterns, light and durable,
42s, 45s, 50s, 55s, 63s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S MILITARY DUCK VBSTS,
audjNavy Drill ditto, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
LIGHT SUMMER TWEED PALETOT OVERCOATS,
27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 35s, 42s.
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
f- A Large Shipment j ust received.
Newest Shapes in HARD PELT,
-i from 5s fid each. Drab Shells, Silk
Hats and Helmets, all the latest
[Summer Fashions.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET. GEORGE STREET.
Qeorge-Street.
NEW GOODS FOR SUMMER.
PEAPES and SHAW beg to call the attention of
Ladies to their stock of
SUMMER GOODS,
comprising NOVELTIES in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Our representatives in London and Paris have snj)plied
us this season with some of the CHOICEST GOODS we-
have ever had the pleasure of SUBMITTING to OUR
PATRONS.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
STYLISH french
MILLINERY,
PER STEAMERS
MONTHLY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
GLOVES,
TWO-BUTTONS, at
HALF-A-CROWN
PAIR, ARE
UNRIVALLED.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
r JUST OPENED.
SPANISH and LANGUEDOC
LACE, in OLD GOLD, CREAM
WHITE, and BLACK
SILK and CHENILLE MAN-
TLES
! NEW SILK and CASHMERK
I VlSITES
POMPADOUR SATEENS
HELIOTROPE and SILVER
RIBBONS
OLD GOLD BROCADE RIB-
BONS
SILVER and GOLD FRINGES
and CORDS
| THE NEW SILK DRESS'
1 LACES
(CHEN IL LE TI NS E LLED
! SCARVES
NEW BALL SKIRTS and
COSTUMES
NEWEST WHITE. TINSEL-
LED and COLOURED BU-
CKINGS
BLACK SATIN PARASOLS
TRIMMED SPANISH LACE,
at 9s fid, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s 6d
JET NECKLETS and BRACE-
L LETS.
G
E N E E A L ELECTION-
BETHEL AND CO..
MACHINE AND GENERAL PRINTERS.
No. 8 King Street,
WEST SYDNEY.
POSTERS, and every other description of PRINTING


-JJOOTS! BOOTS!!
BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOKE PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEOEGE STEEET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PEICES.
NOTE THE ADDEESS :
H. H I L D E E,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
E E M 0 V A L.
fTIHE undersigned have removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STEEET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
■a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Gboceks
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
JT IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition of 1880
is AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what yon do not require.
TfY ILLIAM HADDOCK
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
381 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
JUST RECEIVED, ex “ORIENT” steamers, a large
supply of
BIRTHDAY CARDS,
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S CARDS,
COVENTRY BOOK-MARKS,
SATCHETS, &c.
NEW BOOKS.
A Woman’s Patience, by E. J. Worboise —55.; post, 6s.
Joan Carisbroke, by E. J. Worboise—ss.; post, 6s.
A Red Rose Chain, by Maggie Symington—ss.; post, 6s.
Pictures from English Literature, 20 illustrations —
55.; post, 6s.
Roberts’ Manual of Fashionable Dancing—2s. 6d.;
post, 3s.
Wood’s The Tree Planter and Plant Propagator, illus-
trated —2s. ; post, 2s. 6d.
Wood’s The Tree Pruner, illustrated—2s,: post, 2s. 6d.
Locker’s Patchwork—ss.; post, ss. Bd.
Pitman’s Phonetic Short-hand and Pronouncing Dic-
tionary—4s 6d.; post, ss.
Probation, a novel, by author of “ First Violin”—6s.;
post, 7s.
Stephens’s (J. Brunton) Miscellaneous Poems—6s. j
post, 6s. 9d.
Ribeaucourt’s Manual of Rational Beekeeping, illus-
trated^ —35.; post, 3s. 6d.
Hayward’s Taking Cold the Cause of Half our Diseases
—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
Zerfli’s Spiritualism and Animal Magnetism—ls. 3d.
post, is. 6d.
Davies’s Other Men’s Minds, or 7000 choice Extracts on
History, Science, Philosophy, and Religion, stee
plates—9s.; post, 11s. 6d.
Flora Symbolica, or the Language and Sentiment of
Flowers, coloured illustrations by Terry, gilt extra
—6s.; post, 7s. 6d.
Jones’s The Broad, Broad Ocean and some of its Inhabi-
tants, illustrated—ss.; post, 6s. 6d.
Jones’s The Animal Creation, a Popular Introduction
to Zoology, 500 illustrations—ss.; post, 6s. 6d.
Valentine's The Girl’s Home Book, or How to Play
and How to Work, illustrated—2s. 6d.; post, 3s.
James’s (G.P.R.) Henry Masterton, John Marston Hall,
The Gipsy, 3 vols. in 1, cloth —2s. 6d.; post, 3s. 2d.
Davies’s Wildcat Tower, or Adventures of Four Boys
in pursuit of Sport and Natural History in the
North Countrie, illustrated, gilt extra —65.; post, 7s.
Grant’s The Lord Hermitage, a novel—2s.; post, 2s. 9d.
Spurgeon’s (Rev. C. H.) John Ploughman’s Pictures:
More of his Talk—ls. 3d.; post. Is. 6d.
Cassell’s Sixpenny Lessons in French —6d.; post, lOd.
Cassell’s Lessons in French—2s. 6d.; post, 3s. 2d.
Manners of Modem Society—2s.; post, 2s. 6d.
Davidson’s Elements of Building Construction —25.;
post, 2s. 6d.
Men of the Time, a Dictionary of Contemporaries, tenth
edition, by T. Cooper—lss. ; post, 17s.
Womankind, by C. M. Yonge—Bs. 6d.; post, 9s. 6d.
The Family Novelette Library, 12 complete high-class
novels —25.; post, 2s. Bd.
“JUDY” SHILLING BOOKS, each containing hun-
dreds of comic pictures—each, Is.; post, Is. 6d.: —
A Book of Comicalities—Judy’s High Jinks—A
Shilling’sworth of Phiz—Rattletray and Tootle-
tum—Sugar Plums—There and Back—Crackers
and Kisses—All the Way—Sloper’s Book of
Beauty—The Twopenny Twins —Sloper’s Guide
to Paris—Sand and Shingle—Yoicks—Moon-
shine—The Penny Wedding—High Tide—Ally
Sloper, a moral lesson —Ally Sloper’s Senti-
mental Journey—Fun on the Sands—Seaside
Maidens.
HADDOCK’S GUIDE TO SYDNEY and TOURISTS’
HANDBOOK, comprising a description of the City
and its institutions, with which is incorporated
The Tourists’ Handbook and Description of the
Resources of New South Wales. Fourth Edition.
Price, Is.; post. Is. 4d.
JUST PUBLISHED,
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, and the Regulations, with Notes and
Index, by John L. Watkins, Esq., M.A. Cantab. &
Sydn., and of the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-Law.
Price, 10s. 6d. j post, 11s.
LETTS’S DIARIES for 1881, all sizes and bindings.
MAGAZINES and PERIODICALS for 1881.—Sub-
scribers’ names can now be received.
THE FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDE, with plain direc-
tions for the treatment of every case, and a list of
medicines required for any household, by Geobof.
Fullerton, C.M. & M.D.," formerly Physician to
the Sydney Infirmary and Benevolent Asylum :
Third Edition, revised and improved; containing
also the newly-discovered Remedy for Gout, Rheu-
matism, and Neuralgia. 548 pp. demy Bvo., with
photographic portrait of the author. Price, 12s. 6d.;
free by post, 14s.
WILLIAM HADDOCK,
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
381 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
A
NTHONY MATHIAS &
IMPORTERS AND INVENTORS
CO.,
OF
FRENCH BOOTS AND SHOES
ANI>
GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
313 GEORGE ST., AND 24 WYNYAR
S Y D N E Y.
ALSO,
54 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows.
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLE R,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-atreet.
JgIIRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
"The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working ports, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards."
Volumes could express no more than this award, woi
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO„
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
FACTS WORTH CONSIDERING.
ESTABLISHED OVER FIFTY YEARS.
THE POPULAR AND WELL - KNOWN FIRM OF
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY)
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform the Public of New South Wales that their long practical experience in the
Drapery Trade—their unlimited command of ready cash —their knowledge of
all the requirements of their numerous customers, and above all
their character for Fair Dealings
Have rendered their familiar Name a household word throughout Australia, as being the
LARGEST AND MOST POPULAR
DRAPERY, CLOTHING, AND FANCY GOODS ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE WHOLE OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
Pacts Worthy of Consideration:
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS (Haymarket), have already
opened over a Thousand Cases of their early shipments of SPRING- and SUMMER
GOODS, embracing the most complete assortment for each Department. Customers can
therefore get anything they order from
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS (Haymarket) import their
goods direct from the Manufacturers and First Hands, thereby avoiding all intermediate
expenses and profits. Customers can therefore buy in any quantity at Wholesale Prices,
and thus save fully 20 per cent, by sending their orders to
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
*** Look out for LIST OF PRICES in next week’s Bulletin.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th October, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING LEASES.
OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold mining Leases within thirty days from this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
N
Lachlan Mining District.
No,
83
Name.
J. Hutchison and others.
Portion
No.
Locality.
Broad-
arrow
5
GL
Ada Reef, Barmedam
C. W. Hawkins and others..
J. T. Gregg and others
J. Dickson and others
J. Lulham and another
C. A. J. Henry
E. V. Blackwell and others.
J. Robinson and another
D. M'Rae and others
J. Mitchell and others
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
8
6
29
34
2
23
5
3
37
Mammoth Reef, parish of Teleraree
Mountain Maid Reef, parish of Teleraree
Rose and Thistle Reef, parish of Teleraree.,
do do
Golden Star Reef, parish of Curreki
Curreki Reef, parish of Teleraree
Golden Star Reef, parish of Curreki
Curreki Creek, parish of Teleraree
Great Wonder Reef, parish of Teleraree
DFSAFASF
JUST AEKIVED
JUST ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, &c.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, &c.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
P.
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND QIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N,
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-strcet West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended t®. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
JJO MES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years reatise _
THEIE OWN FEEEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£i CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and wiU SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 2nd November, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease -within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 771; John Hill and another; Portion No., M. 1.. 142;
Graveyard Creek, county of Gough; 20 acres. Appli-
cation No., Veg. Greek 285.
JJALLEN PARK HOTEL,
DARLING ROAD, BALMAIN.
W. DEEMER begs to inform travellers and the public
generally that The Bulletin, S. M. Heeald, Evening
News, &c., &c., will be found in the commercial room
of the above Hotel.
K
EAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
$
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
s PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
A
LBERT S. MANDERS &
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
CO.,
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS. AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
NOTICE. —I be# to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bonk,
T HARVEY,
W * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hay and Engine Stkeets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Harris-street, off Geobge-strekt,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on baud, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., Ac.
S. G.begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.


Miscellaneous
TJ EYSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
lEONMONGEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Looks, Hinges, Ac. Ac-
Squatters’ Kequisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Boiled J6ists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMONGEEY.
W
LLCOX
I S D
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STEEET.
IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WOELD,
R
=£■
*
URABI
MWIffMl
£
22
C 2
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing I gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
«s: —“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
»nd Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
lam inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats j 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. _ Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINEEY DEPOT.
H. P. GEIGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
machines t.
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Eaw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER'S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETEM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. TAYLER Sf CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
gANDEE LAZAEUS AND
General Importers of
CO.,
AMEEICAN HAEDWAEE,
CHINA, GLASS, EAETHENWAEE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONEEY, CLOCKS, JEWELLEEY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST BATES.
6 YORK STEEET.
EME D Y
S&JSS£
"«ter FUTIR '
FOR IMPURE WATER.
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheayin’a
o Watee Filtee, whicli is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Slite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JETBS
Non-poisonous !
PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Oeo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashjield: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee ■. —Jeyes' Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ;—My child had sore eyes for 2J years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From 0. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laureuce, and J agues, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pift-stroet. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, love aniTTcT
tea importers,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COEEEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PjSITEHT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
R. HARPER & GO.,
- ' WS
PRIZE
* % c </
$n
*&k
SAFSFAS
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■eM toy all Grocen and storekeepers*
r<
ass
p
T
STREET SYDNEY
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
D 'AQOU
OR
ALLWOOL
t Ro! we “
TO '
as?
*3k
K
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns' d choose from
H.L.SUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND
PRIZE
C O. ’ S
ALBERT WINES.
Red Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines :
Reisling
Y erdeilbo
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
s CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE-, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Hatnes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney-
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
•TA),
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
R. HARPER & GO.,
&
o~4g)^'7s=BUY:
musTAR
AP
a
SYDNEY.
g I NG E R ’ S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER TEARS OUTDONE.
Ma ? uf^ st . liril lg Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
e Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —<£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
fJIHE UNIVERSAL
Have you not heard of it?
LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY CNkxt ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAßLElGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
R. HORNSBY & SONS’
S 3
53
the simplest,
THE STRONGEST,
And THE BEST.
Campbelltown, Sept. 30, 1880.
Messrs. Martin & Pain,
Please book my order for another Paragon Ma-
chine, 4 ft. 6 in. cut. The last I had of you, three
years since worked perfectly, and all my neighbors
say it is the best Combined Mower and Reaper they
ever saw. The first year I cut 100 acres, the second
year 200 acres, the third year 220 acres, and during
the whole time it has not cost me ss. for extras.
The Machine I now order you will please fit with
all your latest improvements, and oblige yours,
A. VICARY
We challenge competition, & guarantee
all our Paragon Mowers and Reapers.
Martin & Pain,
389 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the Royal Hotel.
MARTIN
AND
to the
We have
Two Sizes
of
String Binders,
I*rlces
£65 & £75,
but recommend our
customers to secure the
Largest Size, as they will
Harvest any Crops grown
up to 7 feet high.
Write us for full particulars.
We post Illustrated Catalogues,
Free.
OUR “WOODS"
String Binder
Has worked through
FOUR HARVESTS.
And we now offer them to the
Farmers of N. S. Wales, as
Complete and Perfect
SELF BINDERS.
_______ m Our Field Trials
FRO hi J. last season proved
to
Practical Farmers
that our
: Binder
is
Perfect.
String;
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE) STREET,
OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
BINDER
