

SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1880.
Vol. 4.—No. 44.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY ; NOVEMBER 27, 1880.
§u([etk
The Geebung Millenium.
Judging by the outcome of the elections, so far
as they have proceeded, it would certainly appear
that the millennium of Geebungs is at hand.
Nincompoopery has had the best of it, and the
proceedings of the new Parliament promise to be
a carnival of common-place. Amidst the dull
obscurity of the prospect and retrospect, there
is, however, one bright ray of comfort. The
miserable sectarian conspirators who organize to
subordinate all national and economic considera-
tions to their theologic flatulencies have dismally
failed to shape everything their own way. The
chance afforded them by the colorless policy
enunciated on behalf of the Government, and by
the indifference and almost disgust with which
sensible people regarded elections, which would
decide nothing material and affect nothing, was
probably as good as they are ever likely to enjoy.
That they saw their opportunity, and were
stimulated by the prospect to the most strenuous
exertion, is undoubted. Luckily they have
mutually cancelled each other, and, as a rule, the
elections have been determined by the votes which
they could not control. Sir Henry Parkes’
humiliating position at the bottom of the list of
candidates returned for East Sydney has not been
due to the prevalence of Catholic scratchers over
Orange plumpers. There is every reason to
believe that one lot overbalanced the other, and
that the Premier’s place was determined by
independent voters —recognition of his undoubted
talent securing for him more votes than dislike of
his character and resentment at his arbitrary
interference with freedom of discussion deprived
him of. On the other hand, the dead set made
against Mr. O’Connor for West Sydney, in
revenge for the Premier’s humiliation, failed
simply because the sect which Mr. O’Connor
belongs to did not stand alone in inflicting that
disgrace. The same order of electors who voted
Parkes down helped to vote O’Connor up, as
the outspoken antagonist of a Premier who has
not been successful in winning the confidence of
independent men. although lucky in securing
for the nonce the allegiance of one strong sectarian
political organization. There were plenty of
voters who, while holding that Sir Henry
Parkes is too able a man to be with propriety
excluded from Parliament, equally held that Mr.
O’Connor should not be ostracised because he
lashed the Premier’s faults. But these are
isolated and exceptional cases. Sir Henry is at
least a notable man, and one whose ability
elevates him above the common herd. Mr.
O’Connor, although full of sound and fipy
signifying very little, has energy. But looking
more widely abroad, how monotonous is the
prospect—a boundless continuity of Geebungs, a
whole Dunciad broken loose and elected to sit in
Parliament. If, among the new members, Mr.
G. H. Reid be excepted on the ground that,
after years of preparation, his first speech has not
been a failure, one dead level of insignificants is
all that meets observation. For men of any sort
of individuality or mark, one has to turn to the
list of the rejected. Among these may be found
the working shoemaker, whose native force of
character and inborn organizing capacity have
long enabled him to fill a place in the public
observation, which half of the elected new
members could never in all their lives have
attained had their circumstances been as narrow.
The working classes of the colony, the miners, and
the seamen have suffered a loss in the defeat of
Tom White, shoemaker though he be. Unluckily
there is in Sydney no exclusively working man’s
constituency, such as Collingwood is in Melbourne,
where the artisan and laboring man can vote with
a certainty that his choice will not be nullified by
the predominance of property-holders and people
of the professional and clerical order. Tom
White does doubtless not appear to persons of
the latter classes a fit or desirable representative.
His ideas are not as their ideas ; ways as
their ways. Out of Parliament or in it, such a
man is to them a constant aggravation. But
nothing of this applies to working men. _ His
ways are as their ways ; his ideas as their ideas.
For them, therefore, he would have been a true
representative. There is occasion for shame, too,
in the position in which Mr. Roylance has been
stranded at the bottom of the poll. Formally
adopted as the trades candidate,Mr. Roylance was
a legitimate representative of the working man.
It maybe alleged that the DAViESESand Abigails,
and Witherses, too, have been working men.
True, but they bitterly regret it. The working man
is a democrat. John Davies is aC.M.G., and
would jump at the offer of a coronet. The bitterest
foe of the working man, the hardest skinflint a.t a
bargain for their labor, the most obdurate creditor,
is the sometime worker who has scraped substance
together. The private soldier constantly finds the
“ ranker ” —the officer raised from the ranks—the
least sympathetic of all. Even David Buchanan,
rabid as he sometimes becomes, is to be regretted
when the dull conventional nobodies, who have
leaped over his head, are regarded. He is at least
a distinct something. They are nothings. At
Canterbury, youth and promise, native to the soil,
have been passed over, for men who might be
turned out to pattern by the gross. For our own
part we would sooner hear, if elections must be
governed by popular cries, a cry for native repre-
sentation, than the wretched old world sounds of
sectarian animosity which so much pains have
been taken to raise. What have we in Australia
to do with the murderous religious hatreds of the
old world? Let us have any cries but these. And,
best of all, let us henceforth raise a united
clamour for able men, vigorous men, men of mark
according to their order, and snuff out the ignoble
army of Geebungs for all time to come.
Mr. George Houston Reid, M.P.
A French marquis of the old regime used, with
somewhat irreverent jocoseness, to say to the young
gallants of the court that they could, if they tried,
make a ninth Beatitude. When pressed for the
moral recipe, he gently smiled and whispered:
“ Blessed are they that shape their own fortunes,
because they are not likely to be ashamed of the
artificer !” The First Napoleon seemed to think
there was a considerable amount of concentrated
philosophy in this mot; and from his frequent
allusion to it probably sprang the saying that
every soldier in his army—from the full private to
the field-officer—went to battle with a strong
assurance of winning an immortal wreath. The
idea of being shot down and trampled on in death
never occurred to their heroic minds, and many a
poor peasant recruit believed that he carried,
metaphorically, a marshal’s baton in his knapsack,
We sometimes note a similar spirit in the brave
young men who control their passions in the prime
of life, devote themselves to study, and then lay
their matured abilities as a votive offering at the
shrine of Patriotism or Public Duty. The ever-
green memories of Washington, the Pitts, Peel,
Cobden, and Lincoln must not divert us from a
kindly consideration of the modest merits of our
more humble, but equally upright, local contem-
poraries ; and here it may be remarked that
although, in these biographic indicia, we are
generally compelled to use terms of eulogy, the
necessity simply arises from the fact that we select
the best men in the community for portraiture and
pen-and-ink delineation. These remarks are
apropos to the subject that will presently engage
our attention. We are about to give particulars
of the creditable career of a colonist, whoso chief
merit lies in the fact that he has lost no oppor-
tunity of improving his position; but who, in the
prosecution of his design, regulated his conduct
by principles similar to those laid down in the late
Kenelm Digby’s “ Broadstone of Honour” —a rare
but remarkable book, published by the late
Charles Dolman, of Bond-street, London, about
forty years ago, and of which we should like to see
a new edition. “Be sober, studious, and self-
sacrificing,” it taught, “ and you will gain the
crown of a civic martyr.” If something akin
to this is not the key-note to the political
ambition of Mr. G. H. Reid, returned at
the head of the poll for the “ premier con-
stituency” of the colony, some ten days ago, we
have formed an absolutely erroneous estimate of
his character. He comes from a good Scotch
stock—men of forethought, grit, and energy. He
is the son of the Rev. John Reid, a Presbyterian
clergyman of considerable distinction, and was
born at Johnstone, Renfrewshire, in 1845. His
father was one of those gifted pulpit orators who
never believe they preach the Word aright unless
they see positive results springing from their
apostleship. We have it from undoubted
authority—and from a source quite unknown to
his son—that the Rev. Mr. Reid had, within a few
months after his ordination, “ calls ” from seven
churches in Scotland. As one of the favourite
pupils of the famous Dr. Chalmers, the scientific
divine, who brought Heaven nearer and made it
brighter (by his work on astronomy) to his
generation, it is not surprising that the Rev. Mr.
Reid’s career should be auspiciously inaugurated.
Two months after the birth of the subject of this
memoir, his father took charge of the Scotch
Church, Liverpool, England, where ho remained
till he removed, with his family, to Melbourne, in
1852. There he laboured —ever a thoroughly-
appreciated minister of religion —till 1858, when he
became the colleague of brave old Dr. Lang, and
subsequently the chaplain of the Bethel Union —an
irksome field of duty, but one for which he was
peculiarly fitted, and which he resolutely clung to,
till his death in 1867. We well remember
seeing the flags of all the ships in Port Jackson
drooping half-mast high on the announcement of
his demise, and a similar tribute of respect was
paid to him in Hobson’s Bay on the day of his
interment. His wife was an energetic helpmate
in his work, as she initiated and developed the
Ragged School movement in Sydney. These few
remarks, reverently made by one who knew the
late Rev. John Reid well, will not, it is
hoped, be deemed superfluous by those who
see some of his characteristic virtues matured
in his son. Master George Houston Reid
began the “life-struggle” at the early age
of thirteen years in a merchant’s office, and
became so apt an accountant that in his nineteenth
year he was offered and accepted a situation in the
Treasury, where he remained till 1878, when he
became secretary to the Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment, which office he retained until within a few
days of offering his services to the electors of East
Sydney. He was admitted to the Bar of New
South Wales on the 18th September, 1879, and
will, doubtless, become a distinguished member of
the legal profession. Such steady progress as his
has hitherto been is not likely to bo retarded by
any suicidal act of social or political profligacy.
He must intensely estimate the confidence of the
electors in his ability and integrity, inasmuch as
he made his first address on Monday, the 15th,
and was returned at the head of the poll on Wed-
nesday, the 17th instant! We should like to see
a parallel case to this popular acceptance, if one
can be cited. Mr. Reid has been well known for
six or seven years as an able writer, especially as
an exponent of free-trade principles—his “ essays”
cn the subject having won for him the distinction
from the Cobden Club of honorary membership.
His admirable treatise on “ New South Wales, the
Mother of the Australias,” is a standard work of
reference and an able study, while his anonymous
contributions to the Press have served greatly to
fix the financial policy of the country deep in the
minds of the people. Those who heard him expose
the sophistries of Mr. David Buchanan’s new-born
theories (or rabies ) will admit that he has first-class
powers as a debater. Neither a windbag nor a
braggart—or both in one —can ever make him
quail. His devotedness to the interests of New
South Wales could be amply illustrated by the
letters he has received from such men as Glad-
stone, Alfred Tennyson, Lord Dufferin, John
Bright, M. Gambetta, the Duke of Manchester,
and many others, thanking him for the strong
light he has thrown on the industrial resources of
the colony. In one sense, he is an untried man—
that is to say, as a parliamentary expert,—but
East Sydney has wisely determined to try him and
prove him.
How Sir Henry Squirms!
It is a foolish thing for a beaten man to show temper.
In a politician it is an especial sign of weakness. Never
was a more pitiful display of womanish spitefulness
exhibited than by Sir Henry Parkes in his two addresses
made after the declaration of the poll for East Sydney.
All along he rode a dead horse. On the nomination day,
when he attacked the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic
Church, ho re-opened a question which had been settled,
and went out of his way to wantonly offend the feelings
of a large number of our citizens. I say the Education
question has been settled. The clerical party were beaten
on it, and we should not crow over a defeated opponent,
especially when he takes his licking manfully. Sir
Patrick Jennings is the foremost mouthpiece of Catholic
society here, and when he, in his address to the electors
of the Bogan, says “ neither directly nor indirectly will
I be a party to interfere with the Education Act,” I
believe him. But Sir Henry cannot let well alone. He
must perpetuate the animosity of race and religion. In
his speech at the Masonic Hall the cry was “ No Irish
need apply.” This when the most popular Governor
we ever had was an Irishman, and when an Irishman
and a Catholic has been especially honored for his
services as Executive Commissioner at the Exhibition.
Little wonder that after these gratuitous insults
no Irishman would vote for Sir ’Enery. He would have
been a fool to expect it. Yet, after the result of the
poll is declared, he weaily shows his spite; wails about
“the influences at work against him” —indulges in
ME. G, H. EEID, M.P.


In sandy blight, for a bush remedy, you can’t
beat Epsom salts. An ounce to a pannikin of watei,
with which bathe the eye several times a day.
cheap claptrap about “fighting” these, and ends by
saying bo will “ take measures to expel the Jesuits.”
The veriest t.vro in politics could not have made a more
lamentable exhibition of himself. Sir ’Enery, you are
elected to serve the whole country : if yon are Premier
again, you must govern for all! It is most disgraceful
to say that you will fight against any particular number
of electors who have exercised their undoubted right in
voting against yon ! And as for expelling the Jesuits,
I don’t particularly like them, but this is a free country,
and all religions, end their priests and ministers, are
free so long as they do not interfere with the
affairs of the State. Oh! 'Enery, ’Enery—yon, who
prohibited Proctor’s lectures to please the “ snuffle-
husters”—what a shoddy champion against “ecclesias-
tical domination ” you make !
Sculling and Bookmaking
Not very many months ago Mr. B. S. Thompson
attended a Hop Bitters contest in America, and having
done so arrived at two separate and distinct conclu-
sions—-1116 first, that Hanlan was “ a perfect gentleman”;
the second, that he “couldn’t row a bit." As it now
appears that Barney’s second conclusion was incorrect,
a great many people don’t care to speculate concerning
the accuracy of his first. These remarks arise out of
the fact that Mr. John Thompson, the well-known
bookmaker and boxer, who went home shortly after
Trickett, and who has been acting as g sort of Jidus
Achates to the sculler named since his arrival in England,
has addressed to a Sydney paper a letter complaining of
the manner in which he has been treated by ns. Now,
we wish it to be clearly understood that we know of
nothing which can he urged against Mr. John Thomp-
son’s character as a man or as a bookmaker. What we
have always said, say now, and are prepared to
maintain, is that, it is a great pity that Trickett, instead
of being sent home in company with a gentleman repre-
senting the rowing interest of New South Wales, was
packed off to England at the public expense in company,
to all intents aid purposes, with an ordinary member
of the Victorian betting ring. We are extremely
obliged to Mr. John Thompson, who, by the way, is
understood to be an Englishman, for the disinterested
assiduity with which he has been shepherding
“ Australian honour,” and we are, moreover, ex-
ceedingly grateful for his thoughtfulness in refraining
from sending to us, during Trickett’s term of
training, any messages by which our hopes might
have been lowered. Mr. John Thompson expressed,
in his letter—which was, of course, written a
long time before the race—a wish that he might
be judged by results. Well, if he has done ins
best, and failed, we are not inclined to judge
him harshly. Against Trickett’s failure must be placed
Laycock’s brilliant series of victories, in which Mr.
Thompson appears to have had a hand. But of this we
are certain, that the leading sportsmen of this colony
—that is to say, not the men who make the noise, but
those who find the money—are determined that no man
whom they may in future put forward as the represen-
tative of New South Wales shall openly associate him-
self with the betting ring. We have taken a lesson, and
now have substantial reasons for preferring sport ac-
cording to the gospel of Sir Hercules Robinson to the
same article catered by metallicians.
The Great Boat Race: A New Fact.
There aren’t many people who know that Harry Kelley,
Triokett’s trainer, wrote to a Sydney man advising him
to hack Hanlan. But it’s a fact, nevertheless.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Mr. Needs gives a Christmas ball.
Another wedding at Croydon very soon.
The Sydney belle of the Melbourne ball is back
again.
All tbe large houses are busy executing bridal
orders.
Miss Bessie Harrison has become Mrs. Frank
Brewer.
A fashionable wedding is to take place at Rand-
wick in January.
A grand bazaar is to be held at Manly during
Christmas week.
The pretty Miss Webb, of Bathurst, is to be
married on the 28th December.
A Rondwick belle is to be married shortly to a
wealthy “ragman” of Sydney.
The daughter of the Hon. Mr. Busby is about
to be married. Great preparations.
Weddings acquire additional zest when writs for
breaches of promise are sent in among the presents.
More shortly.
There was quite a fashionable attendance at
Mr. Fisher’s concert on Tuesday night, and the affair,
besides, was a musical treat.
The prettiest collection of Christmas cards, &c.,
which we have yet seen in Sydney is that exhibited by
Mr. Cole, of King and George streets.
The Burwood Dramatic Club play “ Woodcock’s
Little Game" and “Turn Him Out," on Friday. The
attendance will be large and fashionable.
The Cootamundra ladies are famous for dress
attire, but they wore quite fever-stricken, a few days
ago, by the appearance of a lady in a jersey.
A young lady in bine silk, at the Royal last
Saturday night, caused a slight sensation by applying
her fan rather spiritedly to the face of an impudent
admirer.
The Young ladies—that is, the ladies of Young—
took a very active part in the recent elections. Several
of them not only attended some stormy meetings, but
actually assisted in an active canvass.
Somebody from Queensland, whom we all
know well, not only as an accomplished newspaper man,
but as the writer of many pretty fanciful stories, and as
the king of good fellows, got married quietly in Sydney
last week.
At Maryborough, Queensland, a number of ladies
agreed to set apart a day in each week on which they
would be “at home." But the coterie wore disgusted
to find that no less than five of their number had deter-
mined on Friday as their “at home” day. That simply
prohibits these ladies from visiting each other or any-
one else.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
War at the Cape extending.
Heavy snowstorms in Scotland.
Lord Chief Justice Cookbum dead.
Alarming destructive earthquakes in Austria.
Conflicts between the police and tenantry in
Ireland.
The Jules Ferry Ministry reconstructed and in
a majority.
Layoock has challenged Wallace Ross to a match
for £5OO aside.
Dissensions in the British Cabinet over the Irish
difficulty have healed.
Lunatic asylum, Minnesota, destroyed by fire.
Many inmates perished.
Laycock challenged Hanlan, but the latter de-
clined to row in less than six weeks.
City of Glasgow Bank Committee retain the
New Zealand land assets for a more favorable market.
Laycock won the Hop Bitters prize, .£5OO, with
Wallace Ross second, and Smith, a Thames scalier,
third.
The Pall Mall Gazette says that as Victoria
is speedily falling behind New South Wales she will
soon alter her policy.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Hanlan is now in Paris.
New Parliament meets 15th December.
The Vegetable Creek handicap was won by
Ellis; Bath 2.
The Woollahra and Waverley ’Bus Co. sell out
their plant on Dec. 6.
The Victoria Loftus Company at latest dates
were at Charters Towers.
Mias Ella Carrington and her “ Stray Leaves ”
troupe will shortly visit Adelaide.
Only .£4OO is missing from a Burwood church.
The name of the woman has not yet transpired.
We regret to hear that Captain Scott, the re-
spected Police Magistrate of Sydney, is dying.
Kate and Jem Kelly tried to show last night in
King-street, but the police put a stop to the affair.
The captain and steward of an intercolonial
boat quarrelled, and the latter is now on shore. A
pretty wife.
Wanted, the name of the married ecclesiastical
dignitary who, on Sunday last, kissed that nice girl
and was “booted” by tbe chemist’s assistant.
Hopkins and Alford v. Australian Gas-light Co.
£2060 claimed an account of damage sustained through
the alleged default of defendants’ servants, which led to
gas explosion and destruction of stock. Verdict by
consent for £1390.
The Glebe Rowing Club Regatta has been
postponed till Saturday, 11th December, in order that
a high tide may be secured It is expected that this
will he the first regatta in which the four clubs will
compete in string-test gigs.
At Smithtown Regatta, the championship of the
Macleay was rowed for in light skiffs not exceeding 22ft
overall ; distance, about two miles, straightaway. H.
Croad led from the start, and came in an easy winner
by three lengths, beating L. Christian and W. Lawlor.
It is not known whether the race arranged be-
tween Trickett and Wallace Ross will come off, as
originally fixed, on 26th instant. No farther informa-
tion concerning Trickett’s condition, or the causes
which led to his defeat by Hanlan, has yet reached
Sydney.
The Licensed Victuallers’ Gazette
(Adelaide) waxes exultant over the fact that Hanlan
has beaten Trickett. It says that “ sensible people
have for some time past been tired of tbe perpetual
desire in Australia to set up and grovel before athletic
demigods.”
Racing Coincidences. —Last year tbe Metrop.
was won by Secnndus, with 7st 41b, and the Cup by
Darriwell, carrying exactly tbe same weight. This year
the Metrop. was won by Pontiff with 6st 101 b, and the
Cup by Grand Flaneur, also carrying 6st 101 b. Moral—
back coincidences.
Miss Josephine Deakin, the charming Australian
soprano, who has been singing with the Carandinis with
such brilliant success throughout New Zealand and Tas-
mania, returned to Sydney on Wednesday, per steam-
ship Esk. The Carandinis take a three months’ spell
at Melbourne. Miss Deakin will he heard in Sydney
shortly.
James Walker and Peter Felix, convicted at
Tamworth, and sentenced to death —the former of mur-
dering a man named Middleton, the latter of murdering
John O’ N eil near Stantborpe—have had their sentences
commuted to imprisonment for life. Sampson Fox, for
wounding with intent to kill Annie Emery, is to serve
14 years.
That there’s many a game in the racing world we one
and all admit;
When our champion hold, both square and staunch,
tried on the little Trick, it
Seemed to hint, when wo put our money <m, we were off
our pins,
So we’ll Lay our cash en the other man, for that’s the
Cock that wins.
A city printseller has some new pictures in his
window. There is among them one representing the
assassination of Marat by Charlotte Corday. The other
evening several devotees of art assembled, and the man
who knew most about such things explained to the rest
that Marat was a butcher and Charlotte’s husband, and
that she, having quarrelled with him about another
woman, stabbed him before the neighbors could
interfere.
A well-known Sydney clergyman, remarkable
for his resemblance to a Turkish fez (being round and
red), who, moreover, abominates the fair sex and
children, recently visited a provincial town on the
Hawkeshury. He was presented by an affectionate
mother to her promising child of nine months.
Imagine the disgust of the mother when the gentleman
asked the child, in a conversational tone, “Well, how
do you like Windsor ?” Need we wonder that the hero
now talks of going to Tasmania to get cool.
This is the funniest paragraph we ever did see.
We needn’t say it is extracted from the Herald.
Talking of a festival—always great on festivals—that
paper says:—“ Among the visitors we noticed Mr. John
Davies, C.M.G., and Mr. S. H. Pearce, J.P. (directors).
Rev. Thomas Wilson, Mr. W. M. Alderson, and Mr.
Inspector Oram; and three cheers for the Queen, the
directors, the House Committee, the superintendent,
Mr. Ah Sue, and last, but with great warmth, the little
folk themselves, brought the proceedings to a close.”
Laycock’s extension of leave was cabled to him
on Monday afternoon. The negotiations with Hanlan
hod apparently ended before Laycock got the cable.
On Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning he
would find that he had the additional time, and would,
no doubt, re-open the question, and make the match.
According to the rowing almanac, it is by no means
unusual for races to he rowed on the Putney and
Mortlake course during the month of December.
Laycock, after thrashing twenty-one men, is ready for
Hanlan at a moment’s notice. The sturdy Canadian
wants six weeks.
A Melbourne dentist supplied an Albury squatter
with a set of artificial teeth, for which he charged
£3llos. The squatter forwarded twenty guineas, hut
filled to send balance. The dentist accordingly in-
structed his solicitor to apply for the remainder, which
he did; whereupon the squatter employed Ms solicitor
to remit balance. The remittance was accompanied by
a note, iu which the solicitor stated that he “ took upon
himself to stigmatise the transaction as an unqualified
swindle and a most disgraceful job.” A libel action
ensued, and for “ taking on himself,” the solicitor has
had to pay £4O and costs. A lively thing for a solicitor
to overstep the law of libel.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Olliffe stands for Bonrke.
Mr. Dillon was elected for Tenterfield.
Mr. H. H. Brown was returned for Durham.
Shoalhaven election —Eoseby, 857 ; Humphrey,
764.
Mr. Thompson’s return for Queanbeyan is
certain.
Mr. W. R. Campbell has been returned for
Qwydir.
Messrs. Sydney Burdekin and Levien contest
Tam worth.
Mr. David Buchanan’s chances for Mudgee are
improving.
Mr. Brodribb has been returned unopposed for
Wentworth.
West Maitland nominations —Messrs. Cohen
and Fulford.
Abigail shed no tears this time. It was the
country's turn.
The Hon. E. A. Baker and Mr. A. Lynch were
elected for Careoar.
Mr. J. N. Brunker has been returned for East
Maitland unopposed.
Sir George Wigram Allen was triumphantly
returned for the Glebe.
The Old Gentleman and the Donkey were too
much for the aldermen.
Mr. Pigott (2513) and Mr. Henson (1380) were
returned for Canterbury.
Mr. Edward Barton has been elected for
Wellington without opposition.
G. E. Maclean has at last got the ear of a
newspaper — the Inverell Times.
Messrs. J. P. Wightman and T. Harvey Browne
have been nominated for Gunnedah.
Mr. Foote beat Mr. Samuel Macgregor in the
Bundamba (Q.) election by 516 to 139.
Mr. Farnoll defeated Mr. Holtermann for St.
Leonards, though the latter polled well.
Murmmbidgee nominations —Messrs. A. G.
Jones, J. H. Douglas, and J. C. Loughnan.
The Hon. John Lackey and Mr. A. H.
M'Culloch were returned for Central Cumberland.
“ Mother Church ” went for the C.M.G. at the
last moment. More shingles on St. Francis’ Church.
Nominations for Northumberland Messrs.
Niniau Melville, J. M. Dalveen, T. Hungerford, aud W.
Turner.
The South Sydney electorate returned Mr.
John Davies, Mr. Aid. Carter, Mr. Aid. Withers, and
Mr. Poole.
Mr. S. C. Brown and Mr. W. J. Foster wer®
returned for Newtown, their votes being 1545 and 128 1
respectively.
Forbes nominations — Messrs. John Bodel, Al*
fred Stokes, Charles St. Baker, G. W. Moore, Coonan,
and H. H. Cooke.
Fraser Martin’s return for West Sydney de-
monstrates the solid influence of Sussex-street, and the
whole electorate is likely to be benefited by the result.
The West Sydney election resulted in the
return of Mr. A. Cameron (3670), Mr. D. O’Connor
(2687), Mr. F, Abigail (2226), and Mr. W. P. Martin
(2200).
Hume nominations —Messrs. E. M. Bond, P. H.
Gell, W. L. Lyne, L. Levin. Messrs. Lyne and Bond
obtained the largest show of bands, and a poll was
demanded.
The Hon. James Watson and hie brother, Mr.
W. J. Watson, were elected for Young. Mr. J. H.
Heaton and Mr. F. W. Crowe were the other two
candidates.
Up to the last hour of nomination, Mr. John
Woods was pressed to contest the West Sydney election.
Business, however, prevented his entering the political
arena at the present time.
Newcastle had a very warm contest. Mr.
James Fletcher (1876) and Mr. G. A. Lloyd (1195) were
returned. Mr. J. C. Ellis, with 1012 votes, and Dr.
Bowker, with 831, were the other candidates.
A certain Braidwood clergyman is energetically
canvassing for Mr. Ryrie, one of the candidates for Par-
liamentary honors in the coming election, to the intense
disgust of those who attend his (the reverend canvasser’s)
ministrations.
There were some smart things in personation
during the late elections. In one case, at South Sydney,
a man actually personated Inspector Fosbery, while
that gentleman was standing alongside—lieing ignorant
of the fact—and voted for him.
The two great interests of the West will be
represented in Sir P. A. Jennings and Mr. W. Shorter'
whose return is certain. They have both been cordially
received, and have made capital addresses. The regret
is that some of the most capable men have been absorbed
by the country districts, leaving for the metropolis the
rankest lot of geebungs, for the most part, that ever
showed front.
Other elections resulted as follows ;
Parramatta. Mr. C. J. Byrnes ; Paddington, Mr. W. J.
Trickett and Mr. J. He/.let; Nepean. Mr. T. E. Smith ;
Redforn, Hon. John Sutherland and Mr. A. K. Fremlin ;
Richmond, Mr. C. H. Fawcett; Clarence, Mr. J. M.
Purves • Macleay, Mr. E. Burdett Smith ; Namoi, Mr.
T. G. Dangor ; Bathurst, Hon. F. B. Snttor ; Balmain,
Alderman J. Garrard ; Illawarra, Mr. Alex. Stuart;
Tumnt, Hon. J. Hoskins; Camden, Mr. Thomas Garrett
and Mr. J. Kidd.
Somebody of tbe goody-goody stamp is re-
sponsible for contemptible libels directed against Mr.
John Young. The statements were not only libellous,
hut absolutely untrue. Many a defeated candidate
might study with advantage Mr. Young’s demeanour on
the hustings after his defeat. It is absurd to think that
a man meeting a reverse in his style can long he kept
out of a high position in the political life of the
country. The regret is, however, that four good men
should he running for two seats, while there weresuch
loud calls for intelligence and ability in West and South
Sydney.
Mr. J. Heunikor Heaton was defeated for
Young. The total polled by his opponent , W. J. Wateon,
was 841, against his 762 votes. Heaton claims that he
was elected in five out of the ten polling places, and in
two places he beat the Colonial Treasurer. At Temora
the numbers were —Heaton, 1// ; James Watson, 12/ ;
W. J. Watson, 105. We asked Mr. Heaton how came he
to he defeated. He says that Wallendbeen, one of the
polling places, gave Watson 119 to bis 19, but there
were onlv 43 persons on the roll for that place! VVa.l-
- however, to have a railway station, cattle-
yards, sidings, Ac., at a cost to the Colonial Treasurer-
we mean Treasury—of £4500; aud a place like this
deserves it!
Running up to Twenty Thousand,
Wb have undertaken to run The Bulletin up to 20,000
copies within twelve months, and we are steadily and
surely doing it. Not a Bulletin was to be bought from
any agent in Sydney after Friday morning last week,
although an additional 2000 was printed. Bulletins
fetched One Shilling on Saturday, and they were
lent and borrowed right and left. Any city agent will
verify these facts. The most telling fact about The
Bulletin is that it is the only Sydney journal which is
in large and general circulation outside this colony, it
is to be obtained quite as readily in New Zealand, Fiji,
and Tasmania, as in Victoria, South Australia, and
Queensland, and as readily in the latter three colonies
as in any part of New South Wales. We do not take all
the credit for this very flattering success. We ve had
heaps of friends, who have sent our papers wherever a
post-stamp could carry them. We’ll try to cultivate
this kind of support. A friend in every home is a
mighty lever of success. This week we print 1100 extra
copies.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mrs. Jones, of the Glenrowan Inn, and the man
who made the Kellys’ armour, are to be prosecuted for
complicity. A robbery of pyrites occurred at Gvm
pje- No. 1 Phoenix Co., Gympie, has divided 9d. per
share. Last half-year’s balance-sheet of the Adelaide
Coffee Tavern Co. shows a debit and balance of £>i),i
notwithstanding that a 20 per cent, dividend was de-
clared for the previous six months. Mr. Barbour of
the E. S. and A. C. Bank, was drowned while bathing in
the breakers at Bulli on Saturday last. James Tav-
lor, collier, killed at Bulli the other day, leaves a wife
and eleven children destitute. There is no standard
set of weights and measures at Bourke. The inhal.i-
tants are growing uncertain as to how much fluid
constitutes a nobbier. Thomas Jones, who has taken
up a claim at the old Mount Wheeler diggings, Rock-
hampton, has struck good gold in stuff which looks very
like burnt clay. Rafteiy, a Wallumbilla (Q.) con.
stable, has been terribly injured by a man named James
Graham, who kicked him. A Nelson (N.Z.) lawyer
the holder of United Alpine and Golden Fleece shares’
which a month or two ago were of no market value, now’
finds himself worth £16,000. Mr. and Mrs. Atherton,
of Toowoomba,-whose united ages amount to 150 years’
celebrated their golden wedding last week. The
police at Montreal received letters suggesting the idea
of solving the boat mystery by the aid of spiritual,
What next ? The Cobargo Free Selec-
tors’ Association is about to go “bung.” Fanf,:
d'argent. —— George Coll, who steered the ship
Shannon in the memorable battle with the Ameri-
can Chesapeake off Boston Harbour in 1813, is
dead, aged 95. Commodore Cheyne says:—“lt was
not the Arctic region that sent Franklin’s men to the
next world. They were murdered by the contractor
who supplied the expedition with preserved meats.
Everything belonging to the animal except the horns,
hoofs, and hides, was putjin these tins —offal, entrails]
and bone.”- A woman named Agnes Weir has poisoned
herself at Williamsborough, Dunedin, N.Z. Domestic
troubles the cause. Trout fishing is a favourite
amusement in Christchurch, N.Z. Another batch
of smugglers have been caught at Wellington, N.Z., and
heavily fined. It came out in a court ease at Dune-
din the other day that a money-lender had charged a
client 240 per cent. Butter selling at 4cl per lb. at
Greytown, Wairaparapa, N.Z. A farmer namel
Fantham, at Auckland, N.Z., was presented with a
piano, subscribed, and subscriptions limited to Is., for
his efforts in stamping out pleuro-pneumonia among the
cattle. Maories at Wanganui, N.Z., recently shot,
man named Moffatt. Cause, as usual, a land dispute.
An Orange jirocession recently took place at that party
town Timaru, N.Z. The only defiance shown by the
sons of Brin was green ribbon hanging from the win-
dews of the Shamrock Hotel. —-A Coffee Palace is to be
established in Dunedin, N.Z., capital £5OOO. More
fires in N.Z. A Freemasons’ Hall is to be erected
at Invercargill. N.Z.——A big Agricultural Show was
held at Christchurch, N.Z., on November 11. It was
an immense success. Some enterprising man has
been palming off Victorian Provincial and Suburban
bank-notes at Cooktown.- —-A young man on a station
near Aramac, having been reprimanded bv tbe over-
seer, went to his quarters and shot himself through the
head. An Irishman at Wahgtmyah lately did the as-
tonishing feat of leaping a horse over a team of bul-
locks while in motion. Hennessy’s three-star was
the spur used. Favourable reports continue to
be received from the Coen. Aid. ThredgoW,
Mayor of Cooktowu, has resigned through ill-health.
-The Ida P.C., Maytowu, Palmer, is again to the
fore with nearly XOOlbs. weight of gold.—The Rev. Mr.
Hosken, the first C. of E. minister who ever visited the
Palmer, has just left, after marrying one couple and
performing seventeen christenings. Female clerks
are to be employed in the Queensland telegraph offices
wherever practicable. The wife of a Gorman car-
E enter, named Seiman, tried to drown herself at Rock-
ampton. Bishop Hale baptized 21 Kanakas at
Maryborough. Mr. Joseph Thyer, of Jamestown
(S.A.), has been growing wheat which weighed 6911 s
3oz. to the bushel. A manager of a hank at Quorn
(S.A.), shot himself because, as he stated in a letter
left behind, he had not money enough to marry.
The blacks near Cooktown have been stealing a great
deal of fencing wire lately. Charles Anderson, who
in the early days of the Palmer was one of the pros-
pectors of the Smithfleld p.c, has been killed by a fall
of earth at the Lord Byron, Etheridge River. At
Thomborongh, Hodgkinsou, someone broke in the print -
ing office of the Hodgkinson News, stole the type, and
threw it into a machine dam. Chinamen were put on to •
pan it off. Mr. H. F. Neal, late inspector of Victorian
industrial schools, has heeu appointed inspector of
charitable institutions. Sir James M'Culloch has
now a seat at the Melbourne board of the Bank of
N.S.W. The Protos, with a cargo of frozen meat,
left Melbourne last Thursday. At Gunnedah Sessions
the brothers Chcesehorough, charged with stealing
cattle from Mr. Loder, were only found guilty of re-
ceiving. Sergeant Brennan, of Queanbeyan, has been
promoted to a snb-inspectorship. He will probably be
stationed at Young. Rotten eggs were freely used
during election proceedings at Queanbeyan. Mr-.
Burtt, wife of a solicitor, has been found dead in tie
hush at Port Darwin. Verdict, died from natural
causes.-—James Tronson, an old Charters Tower-
miner, was injured, it is believed fatally, by the fall f f
a flake of stone at the Rainbow p.c. At Herding
Yards, on the 18th, an Irishwoman was married by a
Catholic priest- to a Chinaman. In giving evidence at
Tenterfield the other day, a policeman said that “ h<*
followed the prisoner down the street in front of him,’’
and again that lie accosted the prisoner and asked^him
for a niatch, ‘ ‘ which he lit, but it would not strike. ”
The Manning and Hastings Advocate, published at
Wingham, is the latest addition to the press of the
colony. The holiest and tea-meetingest paper in tec
colony, bar the original Herald, is the Macleay
Herald. The other day, in Gonlbnrn, a man in-
formed the police that the Edinburgh Hotel had been
stuck up and several women shot. Three troopers pro-
ceeded to the spot and found that they had been hoaxeil.
Their informant was in delirium tremens. It is now
considered certain that Frank Hartfleld, of Bendemeer.
whose house was burnt down, and whose dead body
was found in his own well with two bullet holes in it,
was not murdered, but committed suicide. The
Rockhampton Licensed Victuallers’ picnic was a very
successful affair. At Mackay, the other day, several
black gius were fired at aud severely wounded by a
Kanaka, who had accused them) of stealing beef. The
Kanaka has taken to the hush.- —-A boy named Elvers,
tbe other day, died from the bite of a deaf adder at
Biugera. For stealing peaches a Brisbane boy has
been sent to the hulk for five years. Mr. J. Corbett,
of Morven, Queensland, an old colonist, is dead.
Duncan Grant, a Roma shearer, cut his throat because
he was in bad health and unable to work, and owed
some trifling sums of money. He leaves a wife and six
children.—A party of men have left Aramac to pros-
pect the M’Kinlay ranges. Dr. Mertel, of Goonm-
windi, was drowned on December 12. Mr. Hay, :■
Government surveyor at Waiau, N.Z., reports tha. a
cry has been heard at uight, supposed to be that ot tne
moa. He also says that tracks of birds, with cia«s
three feet twoinches long, have been found.
Downs station. Cooper’s Creek. Queensland, with W"
head cattle, has been sold to Mr. J. N. Gilmour, ot
Bathurst, for £5756. At St. George, owing to there
being no mills handy, the whole of the wheat crop win
this year be turned into hay. At Rockhampton,
H. C. Vivian took an overdose of laudanum aud nearr
killed himself. At. the Crocodile, Rockhampton, mi-
Menton, of Sydney, has two men raising muudic.
field is looking tip. A new daily, the Evening Ibl -
graph, has been started at Christchurch, N.Z.
Gympie. people refused to believe that Hanlan hi
beaten Trickett. James Hosie, engine driver,
drowned at Gympie on Sunday week, while bathing.
Mr. Meagher, of Temora, travelled all the way
Bathurst to record his vote.
Sir Heury says he was at the “ ’eel of the ’uiit ■
A London detective named Press has been scut
to prison. The liberty of the Press is thus infnngeu.
A cricket match played las£ Saturday on Noorc
Park, between the Perseverance and Victoria m „ •
resulted iu a very easy victory for the former y -
runs. Scores: Perseverance, 47 ; 5 ictona. io.
“ I have analysed an original P ack ®^
Taeping Mixture, and 1 certify that it is corn!
pure uncoloured teas, and admirably verr
delicate and harmless scenting, which rentiers *
palatable. I recommend it as being a wholesoi f
refreshing article of diet.— Kap.l 1 heodokb
analytical chemist.”—[Advt.]
The would-be King of the Island.
Como listen all, both great and small.
While I sing of a doughty champion’s fall.
And how Protection went to the wall
With the would-be King of the Island.
With a blustering boastful hullabaloo.
Fair Sydney West he came to woo,
And the issue now looks rather blue
For this would-be King of the Island.
Chorus—-Hokey, pokey, winkey worn,
This is how Protection’s done.
And this is how Free Trade sat on
The would-be King of the Island.
Protection was his flaunting cry.
With plenty of work and wages high.
He shadowed forth prosperity.
This would-be King of the Island.
But the poor man saw what he was about,
And snuffed this legal paragon out.
So put Protection to the rout
And the would-be King of the Island.
Hokey, pokey, Ac.
All honour to the city’s fame,
Reid ! Mark and well digest the same ;
Your glory is the lasting shame
Of the would-be King of the Island.
To the sister colony let him go,
And swell the ranks of Berry and Co.,
He’s sure of Protection there yon know,
This would-be King of the Island.
Hokey, pokey, &c.
November 27, 1880.


Theatre eoyal.
Lessee Mr. Sanmel Lazar.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THURSDAY anti FRIDAY, November 25 and 26,
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT to
MR. ARTHUR GARNER.
THE SERIOUS FAMILY,
and Scenes from BLOW FOR BLOW, SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, TUB HUNCHBACK, OUR BOYS,
PYGMALION AND GALATEA, and BETSY.
m H E A T E E EOYAL.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
LYSTER’S EOYAL ITALIAN AND ENGLISH
OPERA COMPANY
will matte their first appearance on
SATURDAY EVENING, November 27,
on which occasion will be presented Balfe’s Romantic
Opera,
THE ROSE OF CASTILE.
MONDAY EVENING, November 29,
will be given Wallace’s evergreen Opera,
MARITANA.
SUBSCRIPTION LIST
AT
ELYY & CO.’S, 321 GEOROE-STREET,
opened on
MONDAY, 22nd November, 1880,
and continue until SATURDAY, 27th November,
when the
BOX PLAN
WILL BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
Dress Circle (21 Nights), Five Guineas.
Admission on the Evenings of Performance :
Dress Circle, 7s 6d; Stalls, 3s; Upper Circle, 2s; Pit, Is.
QUEEN’S THEATEE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings, an! Greville.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
NOVELTY UPON NOVELTY.
Second appearance of
Mr. W. H. LEAKE
us
D’ARTAGNAN,
THIS EVENING,
In his adaptation of Dnmos’s Romance, in 6 Acts,
entitled
THE
THREE
GUARDSMEN.
New Music, Dresses, Dunce, Chorus, and Auxiliaries,
and a Powerful Cast.
In active preparation, for immediate production,
the latest Hibernian Success,
KERRY GOW.
With new scenery and sensational effects.
Box office at Paling’s, Children in arms not admitted.
J3UBLIC HALL,
HARRIS STREET, PYEMONT.
(Licensed Pursuant to Act of Parliament.)
The above elegant HALL, fitted np with Stage.
Scenery, Curtains, Foot and Side Lights, CAPABLE of
ACCOMMODATING 700 PERSONS, is now TO LET,
for Theatrical Performances, Balls, Concerts, or any
other species of Entertainment. For particulars, apply
to Mr. Geoboe M’Chedie, Bowman-street, Pyrmont.
ON MONDAY NEXT (Nov. 29),
at the above Hall,
the great Play of
RICHELIEU ; or. The Conspiracy,
will be performed by an efficient Company,
in aid of the funds of the
"Missing Link Lodge, No. 79,” LO G.T.
Julie de Mortemar
Richelieu
Count de Baradas
Chevalier de Manprat ...
Mlse L. M. HOWARDS.
Mr. J. H. CLIFFORD.
Mr. T. MAKSTON.
Mr. H. FLYNN.
For other characters, see bills.
PARK. WOODFOED PARK.
SPLENDID VILLA SITES,
OPPOSITE THE
OVER 2000 FEET
ON THE MOUNTAINS,
WOODFOED PLATFORM.
ABOVE THE SEA LEVEL.
EXTRACT from the S. M. Herald, 6th Novem-
ber. 1880: Meteorological observations taken at
WOODFORD show that this portionof the MOUNTAIN
DISTRICT possesses the most EQUABLE climate of
New South Wales; ” and from the same paper“ The
experiments made at Woodford by the Government
Astronomer in 1878, with the air-spectrum and teles-
cope, established the fact that the atmosphere on the
mountain was wonderfully clear and steady, and an
immense gain to him in astronomical work.”
BATT, BODD, and PUEYES have rooeived
instructions to SELL by public AUCTION, at
their Rooms, 88 Pitt-street,
On THURSDAY, 9th DECEMBER,
at 11.30 a.m..
ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT RESERVE,
ABOUT 72 HALF-ACRE VILLA SITES almost imme-
diately opposite the
WOODFORD PLATFORM.
iSST ONE INSPECTION of the property will convince
any one that NO BETTER SITES are obtainable within
such easy reach of SYDNEY, while the MOST DIS-
TANT part of the estate is within 3 minutes’ easy walk
of the RAILWAY STATION.
N.B.—A SPECIAL SURVEY is now being made by
Mr. Licensed Surveyor Binsted to secure to every lot a
Magnificent View oi the surrounding scenery.
tar The AUCTIONEERS invite SPECIAL ATTEN-
TION to this Estate, as affording an opportunity to
persons who want only a SMALL LOT whereon to erect
a MOUNTAIN COTTAGE without having to incur the
risk and outlay of a large and expensive establishment.
ONE HALF ACRE is amply sufficient for this purpose,
viz, to erect thereon
A COTTAGE,
inexpensive, and capable of being LOCKED UP when
not in use.
tar The Title is TORRENS’ ACT,
and the
«W TERMS —ONLY ,t 5 DEPOSIT on each lot, and
the BALANCE by FOUR EQUAL INSTALMENTS, at
3,6, 9, and 10 months, WITHOUT INTEREST.
On the property and adjacent to the RAILWAY
LINE is a Quarry of first-class BUILDING STONE.
This lot will be subject to a Reserve ut time of sale,
but every other lot will be for
ABSOLUTE SALE, WITHOUT ANT RESERVE.
SALE PLAN and LITHOS will be ready in the course
of a few days, and may be obtained at the Rooms on
application.
BAIT, BODD, and PUBVES.
TN the Press, and will shortly be published.
SONGS FROM THE MOUNTAINS, by HENRY
KENDALL. This volume, now on the eve of publica-
tion, has been printed on the best paper, and is being
handsomely bound in cloth. Price, Gs ; by post, Gs Bd.
Sydney: WILLIAM MADDOCK, publisher, 381
George-street.
OHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS’
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
lowest possible price consistent with best workmanship
and material.
J
"OHN
Sole Agents, KOYLE and HOGG.
AND
BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
Prices, from 44 guineas.
SONS’
Sole Agents, ROYLE and HOGG.
OHN BRINSMEAD A ND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS,
a fire years’ guarantee given with each instrument.
Sole Agents, BOYLE and HOGG.
N S M E A D PIAN O S.
B
E I
NOTICE.
We have WITHDRAWN our AGENCY from Mr. W.
H. PALING, and appointed as SOLE REPRESENTA-
TIVES for New South Wales Messrs. EOYLE and
HOGG, to whom all applications for sub-agencies must
be made.
JOHN BRINBMEAD and SONS.
'OHN
BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS.
SONS’
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all the Principal Towns
of New South Wales. Apply to
EOYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, Sydney.
SONS’
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND
SOSTENENTE PIANOS
Gained first and only prize above all competitors,
Sydney, 1879-80.
J.
Sole Agents. EOYLE and HOGG.
C. W A L K
E R
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
SEATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
The Dibbs divorce case postponed to the 29th.
Forster’s ale is the coming brew. Increasing
importations.
Four larrikins who “shanghaied” Graham
Berry have been arrested.
The federation question is to be discussed at
the Intercolonial Conference.
Testimonial to be presented to Mr. Hugh Taylor,
late representative of Parramatta.
Seven men were arrested for personation at
West Sydney, and three at South Sydney.
The Lome whisky is the great literary drink
jnst now. It leaves a fellow lit to do good work.
Mrs. Bladen Neill is turning her attention to
the manufacture of pomade. There is no local market
for silk.
The Melbourne papers have been silent about
the wool figures of the two markets. Significantly
silent.
Yet another massacre. The crew of the Annie
Books have been murdered. More missionaries and
more massacres.
In proportion to the population, more Florida
Water is consumed in the colonies in the summer
months than in any another quarter of the world.
The unfortunate man who so strongly resembles
Sullivan, the murderer, that he has been hunted from
town to town and province to province, is now in Auck-
land.
Evans, the Lands Office defaulter, has been
arrested in San Francisco. He had £6O in gold on his
person, and a draft for the remainder'of his embezzle-
ments.
Anxiety is expressed as to the whereabouts of
Ernest Giles’ expedition, which left for Lake Gardiner
some time ago, and has not been heard of for two or
three months.
A good joke from the M. and H. Advocate ;
“ We notice in a Melbourne paper the marriage of a
Miss Oman to Mr. Richard Tait. At last one fie)Oman
has willingly been Dick-TcM-e d to 1”
The late resident surgeon of the Eockhampton
Hospital has been committed to take his trial for em-
bezzling two sums —£19 and £7. A great deal of ani-
mus has been displayed in this matter.
In New Zealand, where the professions are
amalgamated, if a man goes for advice to his solicitor,
the latter fees himself as counsel. Thus two people
are paid, but all the money goes into one pocket.
About 100,000 acres of land have been taken up
ou the Bnrdekin for sugar-growing, Mr. Spiller, one of
the most successful of Mackay planters, has selected
extensively, and has gone home to bring out machinery.
Fifty of the Artillery, under Major Airey, with
Lieut. Baynes, formed a guard of honour to Sir A.
Kennedy at his landing last Monday. His Excellency
paid them a high compliment for their soldierly appear-
ance.
Vale, the Victorian Attorney-General, is at
present contemplating the issue of “regulations for
the management of J.’sP. Conditions as to defined
numbers of attendance on the Bench, failing which,
the being cashiered, are contemplated.
The blacks at the Bluff and Cape Bendford, when
interviewed the other day by Inspector Fitzgerald and
Sub-Inspector Manett, were closely questioned about
Mr. Rose, but denied all knowledge of any white man
having met or visited any of their tribe.
Exclamation by one of the great unwashed,
whose view of the race was interrupted by the Press
enclosure on hoard the Commodore at the Trickett-
Kush match—“ What is that fence doing there ?
What is the Prose more than any other man ! ”
Mrs. Jones, of the Glenrowan Hotel, has been
committed for trial at Wangaratto, on a charge of har-
bouring Ned Kelly. And, by the way, it is a fact that
one night Ned Kelly slept at an hotel in a room under
that occupied at the time by Mr. W. H. Foster, P.M. of
Beech worth.
John Raynor, who murdered a man at Acacia
Dam, Aramac, has committed suicide by cutting his
throat. It is believed that the name of the murdered
man was Raynor, and that prisoner assumed that name
in order to be identified with the bank-book, &c., found
iu his possession.
We don’t want any more contributions of this
kind :—" Adolphus do Yere wears a red necktie.
Reginald de Browne is out of form. Austin de Oourcy
has a girl at Darling Point.” These circumstances
don’t interest ns, or anybody else, a bit j and besides,
anyfool can write them.
Some idea of the vastness of the investments
in real property in and about Sydney can he obtained
hr referring to Messrs. Batt, Kodd, and Purves’s report.
The purchasers are mostly well-known men, but among
them is a large sprinkling of the solid and energetic
middle-class speculators.
The sixpenny bar at the Co-operative Stores is
a success. Judge Wilkinson does not preside. When
the ladies’ cafe is opened, C. A. Qoodchap, Com-
missioner for Railways, will be offered the position of
bar-tender. Ah. Wisdom, do see that everything is
conducted according to law.
An extraordinary circumstance has been puzzling
the inhabitants of Kaiapoi, N.Z., a mysterious shower
ot stones falling on or about the residence of a gentle-
man there Though numbers of people have visited
the place the origin of the stones remains undetected,
and they still continue to fall.
Life declares that the night previous to the
77th (Duke of Cambridge’s Own) Foot Regiment leaving
the garrison, in readiness to embark for service in
Afghanistan, over fifty men deserted. The conster-
nation of the authorities may be imagined, but they
succeeded in keeping the “ exodus ” tolerably quiet.
A Bermagui resident says he believes Mr.
Lmuont Young’s boating party came to their sad end
either by the boat striking on a sunken rock or being
stove in by a whale, and the occupants devoured by
sharks while making for the shore. Whales, sharks,
and sea birds are very plentiful at the scene of the
occurrence.
A new chom on one of our daily papers says the
City Fathers of Sydney are the meanest in the world.
He with other reporters was waiting for three-quarters
»f an hour outside the hustings at the Town Hall, and
the Mayor never asked them in to have a drink.
“ After this,” he asks, “ where is the boasted influence
of the Press ?”
To-day, in another column of The Bulletin,
appears an advertisement of interest to tourists about
the wonder spots of the wor'd—the Rotomahana
Terraces'of New Zealand, and the Waiwera and Rotorua
Hot Springs. These localities are now visited by
tourists from Europe and .the leading cities of the
Australian colonies.
A new disease, “ pellaga ” —which usually runs
short course, and has brought about a higher propor-
tion of deaths than the worst cholera epidemics in
Trance is making fearful ravages in Italy. Its cause
is believed to he the exclusive consumption of maize in
a deteriorated condition, and the unhealthy state of the
hovels in which rustics live.
The Kyeburn murderer. On Lee, has been
executed at Dunedin, N.Z. On the scaffold immedi-
ately before the cap was put on him, the gaol chaplain
asked him whether he wished to say anything, and if
he killed Mr* Young. He answered firmly, “Me no
xiilee Missee Young.” He was throughout exceedingly
ealm, and death was instantaneous.
A Sydney telegram to the Age says: —“A ;
Photographer named Clarke has been summoned for
exhibiting a photograph of the painting by Lefebro,
entitled Chloe, which took a first certificate of merit at
nit Sydney International Exhibition on the ground of
hejUR indecent ." Query : Did the painting take the ,
Prize on the ground of being indecent ?
A surgeon in Hobart summoned a butcher for a
large sum for attendance on his wife, but the butcher
s aid the medico was a bungler, and that through his 1
*aut of skill his wife died. Three other doctors (cer- i
fl’icated ones) supported the butcher’s view in the <
‘‘“‘.deuce they gave, and the verdict whs that the money
5,1 aid not he paid. Nice for the surgeon.
On Wednesday morning', as the Wallaby (s.)
approached the Lavender Bay pier, a schoolboy, named
Thomas Firth, attempted to spring onto the boat. In
stead of doing so, he made a hole in the water. To the
credit of humanity, Butler, the steersman, who was
on the upper deck of the vessel, plunged to the rescue
of the boy, and safely landed him. We hope this will
be a caution to adventurous students.
A most influentially-attended banquet was
given the other day in Auckland by Messrs. William
M'Arthur and Co., to celebrate the taking office as
Lord Mayor of London by their senior partner, Mr.
Alderman M'Arthnr, M.P. A concert followed; the
vocalists at which were Mrs. Mitchell, soprano ; Miss
May Hastings, soprano ; Mrs. Revitt, contralto ; Mr.
T. Burnham, tenor; and our old friend, Mr. Gordon
Gooch, basso.
This (Thursday) evening, at 8 p.m.,the Imperial
Band will give the second of their proposed series of
performances, on Hyde Park, close to Captain Cook’s
Statue, when the following programme, under
the leadership of their bandmaster, Mr. W. H. Smith,
will be submitted:—March, “Dainty Darling,” R.
Smith; lancers, “ Grand Duchess,” H. Henry ;
schottische, “Young Folks,” J. Brophy; waltz, “Dar-
inda.” R Smith ; march, “Kittle Wells,” W. H. Smith ;
polka, “Evaline,” J. A. Clarke; mazurka, “Imperial ” ;
quadrille, “ Erin Go Bragh,” C. D’Albert.( arranged by
W. H. Smith); “God Save the Queen.”
The critics are very favourable to Mr. James
Kingston's second volume of the “Australian Abroad;
or, Branches from the Main Routes.” Of the home
papers, of the Illustrated London News is exception-
ally complimentary. In its review of September 25 it
remarks; —“ The writer is humorously pithy, pic-
turesque, and eloquent—humour is his chief charac-
teristic, and that is sometimes irresistible. Among
clever, original and amusing books of travel, a promi-
nent place must be assigned to this book, for a more
pleasant one, a more readable one, and one combining
amusement with useful information, is not often pub-
lished." The Graphic, of September 18, says:—" How
an intelligent native of Australia looks upon the won-
ders of the old world, is well told by Mr. Hingston in
• The Australian Abroad.’ His style is all his own.”
The Leader, of November 13, has the best criticism
that has yet appeared in the Australian Press. Of the
Holy Land Chapters it says:—“ We venture to say that
anyone reading these chapters will gst a clearer and
more vivid idea of Palestine as it is to-day, than he
ever had before, no matter what or how many books of
Holy Land travel he may have read. Mr. Hingston
fairly captivates his reader, and takes him along with
him.”
Wagga Races once more a great sporting suc-
cess. Following are the results. Sires’ Produce
Stakes': —Birthday 1, Bend Sinister 2, Mosquito 3. Ella
also started. Time Imin 20 2-00 sec. Selling Stakes :
Baronet 1, Harlequin 2, Sampson 3. No official
time. The Cup:—Lord Burghloy 1, Auckland 2,
The Pontiff 3. The following also ran :—Strathearu,
MasterAvenal, Rookwood, Retrospect. Phantom, Nancy,
Marchioness, Golden Locks, Johnny Crapand. Betting:
5 to 4 on Lord Burghley, 6 to 1 against Retrospect and
The Pontiff. The flag fell to a shocking bod start.
Time, 3 mim 34seo. After passing the post, Rookwood
dropped dead, and Lord Burghley, falling over him, was
seriously injured. Hurdle Race:— Eros 1, Maritana 2,
SkipperS. Time. smin 39sec. Maiden Plate: —Sap-
Ehire 1, Honesty 2, Nightmare 3. Betting: 7 to 4 on
apphire. The other starters were Lord Lisgar,
Bowbell, Oorinne, and Marmora. Time, 2min 13sec.
Wagga Derby;—Dictator 1, The Marchioness 2,
Eileen 3. Only three started. Lord Lisgar, who is
suffering from a cold, was scratched. The betting was
even on Dictator. Time, 2min 47sec. Two-year-old
Handicap:—Marmora 1, Mosquito 2, Etna 3. Time,
Imin 16sec. Grand Stand Handicap:—Nancy Lee 1,
Sapphire 2, Nightmare 3. Also ran Master Avenal,
Bonnie Bee, Eros, Bowbell, Mail Train. Time, 2min
12sec. Betting, 2 to 1 v Sapphire, 3 to 1 v Master Avenal,
5 to 1 bar two. Selling Plate: —Baronet 1, Avalanche 2,
Zanga 3. The other starters were Athos, Prince, Sleet,
Dolphin, Harlequin, Sampson. Betting; Bto 4 on
Baronet, 4to 1 bar 1. The horses were spread over •
fully fifty yards when the flag fell. Time, Imin 46sec.
Plying Handicap :—Honesty 1, Governess 2, Corinne 3.
The Printer, Sweetbriar colt, Bonnie Bee, Phantom and
Golden Locks also ran. Betting: 2to 1 v Honesty, 3
to 1 v Phantom, 4to 1 v Spectator. Time, Imin 16sec.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J.C.:” Life’s too short to allow of our decipher-
ing your shorthand. Send translation. “ Tony B.
Longhlin” (Kaipara, N.Z.); Very funny; glad to hear
from you. “ Subscriber ” dating from Armidale
writes. —“ Will yon inform me through your next (to
decide a hot) whether the figure being “ squelched ”
in your Kenny Hill scheme cartoon on the 30th ultimo
is intended for Sir Henry Parkes or Mr. Moriarty. W.
bets that it is Sir Henry, and C. that it is Mr. Moriarty.
Who wins?” Well, the fact is, the bet is a draw. Our
artist intended to pourtray Mr. Moriarty, bat " his
hand being in” on Sir Henry, the classic features of
the latter gentleman were fixed on the figure ’of the
Bngineer-in-Chief. We have since apologised to Mr.
Moriarty. “C.B.J. J. ’’: Thanks, both for infor-
mation and suggestions. " Violet ” : Much obliged ;
but such information without names is of little use to
us.——“ H. A. H." (Liverpool): We print your pars.
Glad to have heard from you. “ Craboatcher ":
Before receiving your letter, we had a report almost in
print. However, we shall be most happy to hear from
yon from time to time, “ Broken off " : Next week.
——“ W. P. W.” :We do not insert yoor lines. From
a literary standpoint they are good; but, while paying
you all the respect due to your age and experience, we
cannot but think you would willingly recall the state-
ment were you to see your verse in print. “No man,”
according to Blaokstone. “is a competent judge in his
own cause.” We wish you many happy returns of the
day. “ Correspondent ” : Mr. W. Q. Brett is the
present amateur sculling champion of N S. W. “ D.":
Thanks; in our next.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER TV— Continued.
“ How affecting truly affecting it is, to see two such
congenial spirits together as Mr. Sebastian Mallory and
Miss Adrienne Blisset. He likes a rose-watery kind of
woman, who looks up to him and thinks he is better
than she is herself, and wiser; and she likes a dreamy,
impractical kind of man, full of sweet compliments and
vague generalities like a sugar-plum that breaks in
your mouth, aud then you find it has been full of a weak,
diluted kind of essence —like Sebastian Mallory."
“ What a comparison! ” exclaimed Hugo, in a tone
almost of offence. “You are very harsh, sometimes.
Miss Spenoeley. Sebastian dreamy and unpractical I
J axe oh 11 I used to think so once; but I have found out
that there is an iron hand under the silken glove. Once
I fancied ho was all art, all-——”
“All art!” said Helena, perversely twisting his
imperfect English to sidt her own purposes; “ perhaps
you were not so far wrong there, Hugo."
“What has occurred to vex you, mein. Frtiulein 1 "
asked her companion, innocently.
“To vex me ? lam not vexed. I am tired, and it is
so cold. Well, go on! I don’t think very highly of Mr.
Mallory, as you may he a ware; and I should line to hear
what yon can find to say in his favour. What other
points has he? ”
“ Herrgott / He is all good.”
“ Ha! hi!”
“ Miss Spenceley "
“ A good, bigoted Tory and Conservative, despite his
professed radicalism. Mrs. Mallory need not have been
distressed. He may call himself what he likes, but he
hates progress.”
“I don’t understand about Radicals and Conserva-
tives," said Hugo, good-humouredly. “ I am densely
ignorant about politics. In Prussia t here are Liberals
and Conservatives, and Communists, but I don’t know
what any of them want. I don’t think the Brichstag is
the sphere for me -do you ? ”
“Good gracious! how should I know? I was not
talking about Communists or the Reichstag. If you
don’t know anything about them, you know something
else. Hugo,” said she, softening her voice confidentially.
“ I know that you are charming -so kind to me," said
he, with a vibration in his voice—and indeed Helena had
been very kind to the boy; “ and I know that yon sing
‘ Since first I saw your face ’ like an angel.”
“You know, perfectly well, that Mr. Mallory and
Miss Blisset are desperately in lore with one another—
deny it if you can.”
Hugo was silent.
“Yon cannot,” said Helena, triumphantly.
“ I am not in their confidence,” he said slowly.
“ All the world is in the confidence of people who are
so far gone as they are. If you mean to say that they
did not each take you separately aside, and tell you in
so many words—well, I can say the same. He that hath
eyes to see let him observe.”
Hngo was not yet master enough of the English
language to he able to turn off her remark. Helena
began to hum a Httle song to herself, and then suddenly
sank into silence and gravity, until it began to snow,
and grow quite dark, when she shivered, putting up her
umbrella, and saying pettishly:
“My mantle will be ruined. Why didn’t I bring a
cloak ? I declare another day, when the weather is so
bad, I won’t take this horrid long walk.”
“You will rather drive?” suggested Hugo, with
apparently the most childlike innocence of her meaning.
" How ridiculous you are I How far is it, Hugo, from
the mill to Stonegate ? ’’
“About as far as from the mill to Castle Hill, only in
exactly the opposite direction.”
“Oh ! I don’t know that end of the town at all. We,
at any rate, have had time for a delightful conversa-
tion, haven’t we ? Come in, and have some tea, and
play me something."
Nothing loath, Hugo followed her, and they vanished
within the portals of Castle Hill.
CHAPTER V.
“ Death, with most grim and grisly visage scene.
Yet is he nought but parting of the breath ;
Ne ought to see, but like a shade to weene,
Unbodied, unsoul’d, unheard, unsoene.”
Adrienne and Sebastian were walking “just the oppo-
site way,” with very little more satisfaction to them-
selves than Hugo and Helena had found. Helena was
constantly picturing Sebastian to herself as engaged’in
half-intellectual, half-amorous discourse with the
“nicest of girls"; his mind elevated by her spiritual
observations, and his languid but ever-present sense of
superiority (this was Helena’s hypothesis) gratified by
her deference to his superior wisdom. It was a comical
theory—one worthy of Helena’s vivid imagination and
hopelessly impractical ideas; and was, moreover, as far
removed from the truth as she herself could possibly
have wished. Yes, wished; for while the delusive vision
kept dangling before her mental eyes, and while she
professed to sneer and scoff at it. it was in reality an
ever-present, dull pain, none the less real because not
clearly comprehended for what it was.
On this special evening, Adrienne was tried more
than usual, and mentally as well as physically weary.
An undefined pain and distress had troubled her mind
for some weeks—to-day the cloud was very dark. She
had seen Sebastian Mallory growing more and more
intimate with her uncle, and progressing with great
rapidity in the favour of that most fastidious indi-
vidual; she had seen—how could she help seeing?—
Sebastian’s attentions to herself; how, when he was
with her, his eyes constantly turned towards her, and
how a light flashed into their quietness when they met
hers ; how his voice, in speaking to her, took a deeper
sound. He was good, rich, handsome, clover, kind.
She knew all his good qualities, and thoroughly valued
them. She approved of him ; she liked his presence ;
it was pleasant to her. She remembered with deep,
earnest gratitude his delicate kindness and attention
to her in those days gone by, when her troubles with
her father, and their terrible struggle against their
adverse circumstances, had threatened to overwhelm
her. “ I would do anything for you,” she had said,
and had meant it. And yet, now! How painfully
unaccountably, unexpectedly things changed! Thus
meditating, her step dragged, and her head drooped a
little, as they paced the dreary length of Bloke-street
together. She did not understand why that load of
oppression and longing—theSe/maaclif—should just now
lie so heavily upon her heart. Sebastian paused at the
gate, and laid his hand upon it. and then Adrienne
seemed to see, in a flash of sunlight, Myles Heywood’s
tall figure and earnest face ; as he, in the same attitude
almost a year ago, had laid his hand upon that wicket,
and had opened it for her to pass in. Her heart throbbed
—something rose iu her throat as she entered.
“ Myles has not been near ue for weeks," said she to
herself. “ I will go and call there some day, very
soon," she added valiantly, “ and ask the reason of it,
and if I have done anything to offend them."
Mr. Blisset, his servant said, was not at all well. Ho
felt very weak, and had gone to bed, but had left word
that if Mr. Mallory colled, he particularly wished to
see him.
Sebastian followed the man upstairs. Adrienne went
into the drawing-room, and mechanically sat down,
without even turning up the shaded lamp, and her
hands clasped before her upon her knees.
Sebastian sat a long time beside Mr. Blisset’s bed,
for their conversation was prolonged. At last Mr.
Blisset said:
“ And I hare made yon one of my executors. I hope
you don’t mind. I have so few friends."
“ I am honoured in being chosen, and will gladly
undertake it.”
“ Thank you. Of course, I have left everything to
Adrienne. She will be placed above all money troubles;
for she is like me, she has no extravagant desires. But
I should wish the child to have a staunch friend, and
you are different to other young men, or I would not
have asked it. Will you be her friend ?’’
“It is my most earnest wish. But since we have
spoken of this, I may as well you the whole truth. I
have loved your niece for a long time—for years. When
I find an opportunity, I intend asking her to become my
wife. Have yon anything against it ?’’
Mr. Blisset pressed the young man’s hand with a
clasp which hod grown feeble.
“ Yon make me very happy. I would rather know her
sate in your hands than in those of any other man.”
“ I wish you could know it,” said Sebastian, with a
somewhat melancholy smile. “ I assure you I am far
from feeling confident myself, but I hope for the best.”
£to be continued,]}


BRIEF MENTION.
The Trickett handkerchiefs!
Parkes beat Roberts “ by a nose.”
Le roi est mart—vive le roi! Laycock vice
Trickett.
The East Sydney electors say Parkes is a good
man—at bottom.
“ Jeroboam ” whiskey is now the popular drink
in Southern Queensland.
“Long-beers” or “deep-sinkers” are now
known as “ Bishop Barkers.”
Hop Bitters. —Trickett didn’t pullet off in con-
sequence of a, fowl. Eggs-actly so.
If Glebe gentlemen will follow unwilling ladies,
they must take their chance of Mr. Policeman.
Devonshire-street cemetery plumped at South
Sydney. Thus Heaven and Hell were raked for voters.
For “ dare to say,” in the eleventh line of the
second column of our leader in last issue, read " dare to
deny.”
It was proposed to give Mr. R. B. Smith a
Good Templar banquet in Kempsey. The idea fell
through.
A smartly-written article, entitled “ A Healing
Medium ” (Milner Stephen), appears in last week’s
Australasian. „
Now that the Rev. Edward Rogers has passed
away there is no one to pray in the Litany for “ and all
poor parsons.”
Recruiting is still going on in the Herald
office for organising a band of fifteen or twenty mis-
sionaries for New Guinea.
Currently rumoured St. Michael, St. George,
and other disembodied electors voted for a companion
of theirs at South Sydney.
“Wanted, one wife. Apply to Martin Suthe,
miller, Palmerston.” This is an advertisement clipped
from a New Zealand paper.
The girls in a Victorian woollen factory wore
crape the day that Ned Kelly was executed. Here’s a
grand point for free-traders.
The Registrar of Marriages who the other day
gave credit to a bridegroom has, we hear, received a
cheque from the happy man.
The Victorian protectionist organs say that shoes
are more largely made in Melbourne than in Sydney,
The average size is not given.
Surely the Devil will get his Jew since his
Advocate went to Melbourne to shepherd him (the Rev.
Rabbi) for his rightful owner.
A South Head Road chemist has a female client
who for twelve years past has drunk never less than a
pint of laudanum ever/ week.
In its account of Kelly’s execution the Gtmpie
Times says that “ at 10 o’clock the number (outside the
gaol) had increased to 95,000 persons! ”
Spurgeon recently said: “If we could get rid
of drunkenness, I believe we’d conquer the Devil him-
self.” Who would care to be Dr. Beg now ?
It was because he wasn’t sound on the wheel
tax that Pile failed at Canterbury. John Davies could
easily have put him right on the wheel (about) question.
Since his rejection for East Sydney, Sammy Lees
has got so thin that he’s thinking about getting a row
of buttons put on his umbrella-cover and using it as an
ulster.
In this city, the other day, a post-office official
refused to accept two fourpenny pieces tendered him
in payment, on the ground that they were not a “legal
tender.”
It may not be generally known, but it is never-
theless a fact, that an action at law will lie in respect
of libellous matter sent through the post-office on a
post card.
The proposer of Mr. Abigail for West Sydney
compared that innocent cordonnier to Abraham Lincoln.
Abraham Lincoln was shot, and Francis Abigail— but
here we stop.
A man was run over on the Victorian railways,
Both his legs were broken, his arms smashed up, back
broken and his head cut off. The Evening News says
he won’t live.
Little Walton objected to a man voting at
Enfield, because he suspected him of personation. The
man took off his hat, popped it over Walton, recorded
his vote, and walked out.
London Punch seems to have become a mere
vehicle for exploitering certain tradesmen and their
wards. Pills, pork pies, beers, whiskies, &c., are all
worked up in the most barefaced manner.
In Victoria they have had but 139 executions.
We’ve had about 563; but this arises from the fact that
the practice of giving every man his due is more
generally followed here than in the South.
Fortune favours the printers. A club in the
Government printing office had the third horse in
Jones’ consultation, winning £2OO. A Christian young
man, secretary to a Sunday school, participated.
A certain parson in Newtown gratifies his
personal spleen by preaching at one or two popular lay-
men, to whom he owes his present position. “ See
how these Christians love one another!"
The editor of the Inverell Times, who has
been abusing us lately, has now a heading in his paper
called “ Our Carpet Bag.” He may possibly own the
carpet bag, but what is in it usually doesn’t belong to
him.
A Dunedin man proposes that all the aged,
drunken, and imprudent people be killed off, for
economy’s sake. There is just as much ground, he
remarks, for killing a drunkard as for hanging a
murderer.
William Archer proposed “ Myles, me Boy” for
Canterbury, and made this remark: “ Myles was a colo-
nial, and could speak himself.” It was this that killed
“Me Boy,” for though he had an Archer in the saddle
he was Myles behind.
“Pegasus” is credited with a good joke. The
day after the Melbourne Cup the news flew round that
Joe Thompson had suicided. “Old Peg.” disbelieved
the rumour. “ Why, my boy,” said he, “ there are two
days’ more racing yet!”
An enterprising electioneering agent asked the
devil at Devonshire-street cemetery to vote for John
Davies, offering John’s soul as consideration. Devil
declined, on ground that the security was already mort-
gaged up to its full value.
The cornstalk, which the day before the Thames
event was run up over the Evening Noos office at an
extravagant expenditure of 305., is yet without a tassel.
[N.B.—Laycock’s victory has since shown that the
tassel is a silk handkerchief.]
G. and H., both capital amateur actors, the
other day went to C., a wealthy man, miserable in mind
and body—one of those creatures who will never die,
but just dry up and blow away. Their object was to
obtain subscriptions in aid of a church for their parish
clergyman, who was stated to be almost past work from
age. C. couldn’t see his way—really couldn’t afford it
—times were so bad that really—besides, he was two or
three years older thanßev. Dr. 8., and so on. H. struck
an attitude of astonishment, and touched Q. in the ribs,
“ Hear that ? hear Mr. C. say he’s actually older than
Dr. B. ? He must be joking : don’t you think so ? ”
G. thought so, too, adding that he never saw a man
bear his years so well. Subscription, one guinea.
Says an obliging Auckland correspondent:—
“ Our annual agricultural show was held at Ellerslie ®n
Monday and Tuesday, Bth and 9th. It was a success
in every way. The most amusing incident I
think, occurred in the * pig ’ department. Our ‘ city
West member,’ Hurst, exhibited his world-famed
‘Bertie Savena,’ and the first prize was awarded him.
Mr. A. E. Isaacs (a Jew!), however, considered his pig
had *as good points as Hurst’s pig, anyhow,’ and
furthermore, with the aid of a handkerchief, discovered
that ‘ Bertie ’ had been got up for the occasion with
lamp black, oil, &c. Mr. Hurst explained after a
fashion, but the jury disqualified his pet, the prize re-
verting to Isaacs’ pork; and now if there was a balloon
going anywhere 'till the circus comes, I think Mr. H.
would book, to escape the unkind criticism on himself
and his ‘ plated ’ pig,”
All the aquatic reporters, without exception,
have used the expression, “ He was rowing within him-
self.” This is a new phrase, but, somehow or other, it
grates on the sensitive ear. However, we have men-
tioned it, so it’s a thing of the past.
At St. Barnabas,’ on Sunday, whilst Mr. Barnier
was graphically describing his third death-bed scene,
an individual “carrying oyer his number” of “Bishop
Barkers ” confronted the minister, and was summarily
ejected by three stalwart churchwardens.
Sir Henry Parkes says that those whe didn’t
vote for him would have supported Ned Kelly. Well, a
vast majority of the people who didn’t vote for the
Premier voted for George Reid, who is requested to
take notice of what Sir Henry says about his (G. R’s.)
supporters.
General Haskett, of the “ Salvation Army,”
said the other day in St. Louis that there was now one
good man who was an editor, for in Casey county, 1.,
George W. Ashton, editor of the Clarion, had been
converted to God, the [first instance in the history of
Christianity.
An eccentric and ingenious Sydney civil servant
is on the perpetual-motion war-path again. This reminds
us of Robert Stephenson’s remark to the man who used
to bother him about perpetual motion“ If you’ll take
yourself up by the waistband of the breeches and carry
yourself. I’ll consider it.”
A certain worthy candidate for the Camden
district, when endeavouring to explain to the electors
of that district, how he would act in reference to the
Chinese poll tax, and to show how he liked the Celestials,
made use of the following clause, “ These Chinese is
getting a cuss.” If this man gets in we will have to
look somewhere else for cabbage.
It doesn’t look well to see a larrikin undertaker’s
assistant carrying a small-sized coffin under his arm
and a short pipe in his mouth, on Sunday morning,
just as people are going to church. However, the corn-
stalk has no bump of veneration. He never looks
reverentially at anybody but Trickett or the burnt-cork
man who has just started a diamond-jig or a double-
bear-shuffle.
It is not at all likely that tbe Government will
consent to the refund of the money forfeited by candi-
dates who failed to poll votes sufficient to comply with
the requirements of the Electoral Act. The sums for-
feited will be devoted to the erection of elaborate and
ornate hustings of a permanent character, and the first,
to be erected in Hyde Park, will be known as “ Joseph-
son’s Folly.”
An Albury man gets off a story to the effect that
a Riverine drover who is remarkable for not washing
himself, for reduction’s sake visited the Melbourne
Turkish baths the other day. The attendant just
scrubbed him like anything, and after twenty minutes
the abrasion disclosed an old coat. In one half-hour
more the vest was reached, and altogether an hour had
elapsed ere the unfortunate fellow “ struck oil.”
However, it’s alleged that there’s a coating of truth to
this tall yarn.
The Gnndagai and Cootamnndra election pro-
mises rare sport and surgical practice. A Mingay
squatter visited the latter town on Saturday last. A
staunch Forsterite, he hunted up one of the local
bankers, bent on securing a vote. “ Well, big chestnut,
how do you do P” “ Well, little chestnut, now’s your
poor feet ?” The question, put to a gouty man, lost a
vote. Mingay squatter recovered his usual happiness
near midnight, and was heard refraining, “ d d
lucky he couldn’t kick; d d lucky he couldn’t
kick.”
Some poor girl at Darlinghurst has been
neglecting her work. She sends us thirteen verses,
dedicated to “Benjamin.” We have room only for
two:—
You said that you were going, dear.
To China or Japan.
I wonder are the girls as nice
As your own Mary Anne.
Farewell, I’ll ne’er forget you.
Indeed I never can.
Adieu, my own dear Benjamin,
Think of your Mary Anne.
Brown and Jonea, two well-known men about
town, bet each other three new hats on a certain sport-
ing event. Brown won, and said to Jones, “By the
way, old man, I promised old ’s barmaid a new
bonnet. You needn’t get me the hats, but just
send along the bonnet to the girl—and we’ll be
quits.” Jones got the bonnet, which was duly
put down to his account. The bill was delivered
and was opened by Mrs. Jones, who interviewed
the draper before mentioning the matter to the
individual whom she at once considered to be her
worse half. The milliner fellow innocently told all
about it. Mrs. Jones, who is said to be muscular—for
nowadays, you know, it’s usually almost impossible to
judge—went the length of calling upon the Hebe, and
threatening to tear out her eyes before she conde-
scended to demand an explanation from her brute of a
[ husband whom, of course, she refused to believe.
We clip the following from the Paris letter of
a metropolitan daily ; —“ A police inspector has been
married to the daughter of another police inspector.
The bridegroom knows intimately 20,000 thieves in Paris,
and his father-in-law all the demi-monde.”
All the people who attend Dr. Beg’s church are
convinced there’s a devil. He doesn’t go about,
though, like a roaring lion. He’s here, there, and
everywhere. Sometimes he does the block in George-
street. However, he’s always under a cloud.
The threepenny-bit was tossed up in St. James’s
Church, Sydney, Sunday night last. The preacher
lashed himself into a rage because the people did not
pay the piper. It is a pity that the clergy do not study
how to give the “ snub polite,” instead of making their
hearers titter with disgust.
We’ll be obliged to the editor of the Licensed
Victuallers’ Gazette and Sporting Chronicle
(Adelaide) if, instead of attributing articles and para-
graphs taken from our columns to “Melbourne writers”
he will either acknowledge them properly or refrain
from acknowledging them at all.
Even the blacks at Trial Bay are looking forward
to the arrival of Mr. R. B. Smith, M. P.; and one the other
day, after asking two or three times for “ baccy,” made
the following remark :—“ Me see him Massa Gove’ment
come soon; nice feller time; plenty money make
bridge ; blackfellow have no swim river.”
It was in a suburb of Sydney, the other day.
When it was announced that O'Rafferty had beaten the
other man by any number of votes, the postmaster and
his wife were so carried away by exultation that they
enlisted the aid of sundry tin pots to express their
feelings. Then the operatrix kissed the passers-by, and
the whole affair wound up with a champagne supper.
An Italian gentleman who came to exhibit at
Sydney International went boating with three young
ladies at Terrara, the other day. He didn’t know how
to use the sculls, so after running some time with the
sails down, he got into shallow water, ran aground,
went overboard, took the rope over his shoulder, and
towed the fair creatures back, amid the shouts of an
admiring crowd.
The name of the Yankee medicine-man who,
according to the London papers, has done so much to
demoralise sculling, and who gave the Hop Bitters
prize, is Soule. We have a prosperous medicine man
here named Soul—Soul without an “e” —and would
like to see him “ demoralise ’’ Australian sculling by
means of, say, a £5OO prize. “ The Australian Relish ”
race would sound well.
The Insolvency Department is in much request
just now. “ Yet the handle of the big front door" has
been off for at least a week —not outside, but inside.
This is supposed to be symbolical of the fact that it’s
easy to get in but hard to get out. The officers are not
civil servants, but then, you know, it’s only fair to kick
a man when he’s down, especially as “ civility and
attention to business ” are not in this case essential to
securing “a share of public patronage.”
The British Trade Journal for October
remarks that there is obviously ample scope for the
introduction of new banks into the Australian colonies.
In the face of vast accessions to the operative capital
of these dependencies, an extraordinary margin still
exists between the allowance on deposits and the
discounting a three months’ paper at 8 per cent., while
current rate of discount. . . . An Australian bank in
borrowing the same at 3 per cent., charges no less than
5 per cent, for bringing the true borrower and lender
together. . . If a bank were organised content to
discount at a minimum of 6 per cent, a large business
will soon be assured.
Lotti Wilmot has been lecturing in Dunedin on
“ the higher law.” She told her audience that she was
in the Bankruptcy Court, and that as some of them had
either been there or were in the future bound to go
there, they could “ appreciate her feelings. Further,
she told them that two bailiffs were in attendance bent
on seizing the door-money,; so she had established her-
self in the ticket-box and, in fact, whilst the audience
were waiting for their lecture she was engaged in
fulfilling the higher law and —collaring the takings!
“When she went on the stage,” says one of the papers,
“ she did so with the proceeds in her pocket.”
The other day, in a first-class carriage on the
Sandhurst line, highly interested in the contents of one
of those little red-edged volumes often carried by eccle-
siastics, sat a reverend gentleman whom one of the
company asked to join in a game of cards. “ Nap.” was
proceeded with, and when Kyneton was reached the
gentleman in black had won £lO. Here;it was thought
he intended to get out, and he was prevailed upon to
journey to Castlemaine, on arrival at which it was £2O.
He then remarked that as he had nothing else to do
that night he might as well remain in his friends’ com-
pany until Sandhurst was reached. He did so, and in-
creased his winnings to £3O. There the j ourney ended for
his companions, who, with a view of having their revenge,
invited him to their hotel. But the clergyman humor-
ously declined the invitation, and stated he would be
happy to entertain them all the way to Echuca, to
which place he was bound. But the party didn’t go.
The Thames course is about four miles long
just about a third of the length of that strip of blue
ribbon which the patriotic manager of the Commercial
Bank has got folded away in his vaults. When will it
come out ? And that the patent shears that Bob Clarke
had invested in for the distribution business, as often
as the bank notes were issued, should be still unused is
a matter for national grief. However, everybody seems
to be taking his gruel mighty well. Not that some of
us are not already in condition.
First schnapper of the season—our friend Ikev
Josephson was the successful sportsman. On Wednes-
day week, about 4 p.m., at flood tide at Blue’s Point"
he hooked in a splendid schnapper of 401 b. Many
willing hands assisted him in landing the monster. It
is said Mr. William Day baited Ikey’s hook for the
occasion, and the fish went to Macquarie-street. Ikey
now says the Limerick hook is the best for the sport.
However, from experience he finds trying for big fish a
tax equally on mental and physical powers, also on his
pocket. In future he will confine his efforts to seeking
gropers among the rocks.
After the Battle.
INTERVIEW WITH MR. P. STANLEY.
Our interviewist got instructions to wait on Mr. Patrick
Stanley, for an “explanation.” That legislator eluded
capture for some days. Every effort to get a word with
him failed. It was Wednesday morning, and there were
but a few hours to prepare the interview. At last
stratagem had to be resorted to. Mr. Stanley would be
sure to go to his stall in the Markets for a time, at any
rate. That settled it. The trap was to be set at the
Royal Hotel. Hieing thither our representative sat
down and wrote a note as follows: —“ Dear Mr. Stanley,
—The vegetables we’ve been getting haven’t been up to
the mark; and I hear there’s nothing can lick your
cabbages. Call at 9.30, to arrange for a contract. Of
course 20cwt. make a ton at the Royal. Yours from
the bosom, Monsieur Griddle, Chief Cook.” That note
went out, and the fate of Stanley was sealed. Ten
minutes later the legislator stole along from post to
post, and at last suddenly darted across to the Royal.
As Stanley walked up the entrance the interviewist
came round the comer from the bar. The legislator
saw the trap. It was too late. He was already known
to history. He made a bolt towards the street. Our
representative was on to him. A life and death struggle
ensued. “Just for a few minutes only, Stanley.” “No,"
was the dogged answer; “I won’t be interviewed—l
can’t stand it.” The scuffling went on. Stanley would
escape, and the pair rolled on to the hard stones, and
struggled long—now up, now down. At last, Stanley
hurt his back, gave in, and was led to the slaughter.
The historic spot on which the interview took place
was the lane at the side of the Royal. Our representa-
tive put the legislator back on his haunches, and with
book and pencil in hand, looked right at him.
“ Now, Stanley,” he said, “ I’m going straight for you.
Have yon ”
“Oh ! Be gob—take me aisy,” remarked the legis-
lator, much agitated.
“No blarney, now! Let’s to business. Now, straight.
What are your principles ?”
“ Faix, I’ve got none; and, bedad, you’re very insult-
ing, Misther Reporther. That’s the fust time I’ve been
axed that question in all my p’litical c’reer. I niver
had any principles. I don’t want ’em. They’re uncon-
vanient. I tell you, I have no principles.”
“Now, Mr. Stanley,” coolly remarked the interview-
ist, “ You musn’t try and bounce me. lam used to
the Melvilles, Davieses, Lees, Wheelers, and other
great men. They can’t cow me. I’m simply here in
the interest of the country. Though rejected for Red-
fern, you may get a seat on Goat Island. It’s for you
to give vent to your opinions.”
“Be gob ! you’re a frind, thin,” exclaimed the legis-
lator. “Go on, I’ll bleed.”
And the interview proceeded as follows :
Reporter: “ Where did you go to school ?”
Stanley : “ Och ! don’t touch me on that point. Ax
me about the Chinaise.”
R. “ Well, as to Chinese immigration ?”
S. “ Och! divil’s cure to them. A dacent man can’t
grow a cabbage for the yaller-hided rascals. Oh, say
I’m hot on thim.”
R. “ Well, do you think a poll-tax ”
S. “Be gob I do. Poleaxe ivery man o’ thim—l
would. The rapscallions would grow parsley on a
tombstone. Put me down hot agin ’em, I say. And to
think they’d open a stall right op-posite me and Mr.
Kippax. There’s no encouragement for dacent, hedi-
cated tradesmen.”
R. “You are in favour then, of free trade, of
course ?"
S. “In coorse I am. I’d freethrade the Chinaise away
back—to Flowery Laud, I think you call it—and go
in for schools and railways all over the country;
and ”
R. “ Steady, Mr. Stanley; put on the break for a
minute. Now there’s the Education Question.”
S. “ That’s the only thing I thrimmed on, and,
be jabers ! the blag-guards defaited me on it. I was
wid ’em on all thim points, and they still cried out,
* Stanley, you’re foxin’,’ and you’d think I was rowing
a boat-race.”
R. “ Not necessarily. You could fox, of course ?"
S. “Be gob, yes—a heap of foxes; but I told ’em I
didn’t want to go into the hedication question till I was
in Parliament.
E. “ Then you'd fox ?”
S. “B’dad I’d often run to cover. I’d spake a bit, of
coorse; but I’d fox. Och! the girls all know I was
playful as a kitten when I was going up. But say I’m
dead agin the Pastorals. I niver read them. Faix, I
couldn’t. Say I was in favour of a nationalistic grand
compulsory system of hedication [and here Mr.
Stanley placed his thumb in the sleeveholes of his
waistcoat, and drew himself up to his full height—4ft.
4in. —and continued] it ’ud be a frai systim—frai to go
whin you plaised, and stay at homebhilin’ taters when
you lined.”
E. “ That’s the spirit of freedom.”
S. “ Oh, I could go on like that for a day.”
R. “Never mind. You’re sound after all on edu-
cation.”
S. “Of course I hadn’t a sound hedication myself; but
I’ve been supplying one of the colleges with the foinest
spuds yon ever see in your life —this three years.”
R. “ Spuds you call them. Murphies were the origi-
nal name, I believe ?”
S. “Oh, no! Pardong moi. Their original name
was Pomeroy da Terry—or some such Frinch name as
that. I’m rale Frinch stock myself. My great fore-
fathers was captured by them.”
R. “Well, you are in favor of education ?”
S. “Y’am.”
E. “ And federation ?”
S. “Y'am. The two boroughs ought to be in one.
Divil’s cure to Alderman M’Taggart, I’d been mayor
before now if there was confederation.”
E. “You’re in favor of railways, tramways, road-
ways ”
S. “Y’am.”
E. “In fact, you are in favor of everything?”
S. “ Y’am. And the selectors knows it. I wasn t
agin any one.”
E. “And yet they rejected you?”
S. “ I-g-n-o-min-y-o-u-s-ly."
E. “ Perhaps they thought you were safe ?” _
S. “ Thrue for you. But I think Hogan ruined me. i
told them to plump for me and Sutherland. I wanted
him in. But that Kremlin is a renegade.”
R. “Renegade?” ,
S. “ My Frinch blood rises sometimes, and I forgets
me own tongue.” ,
R. “ Now, finally, what induced you to come out r
S. “ Och, you pain me now; it was your own Bullem*
tine. Didn’t you say—
‘On ! Stanley, on!
Member for Greens arise!
Leave cabagee to John,
M.P. is a higher prize.’ ,
It was an evil day when I took your advice, I m
thinking.” * _
R. "No ; we believed you were hiding your ngn
under a bushel.” . „
S. “ A bushel of pais, you main. Them’s 3s. 6d.
R. “ Oh, you’re talking shop, Mr. Stanley. You mu
avoid that in politics."
S. “ Faix, I can’t. I’ll take shop with me where
I go. I’ll take cabbage with me, and an
carrots, and beans, and melons, and squashes "
R. “ And they’ll be looking out of your eyes and y _
face, and your mouth, and out of your pockets tnei
always be big calavancas, potherbs will hang * r °“V" ol) i 0
eyebrows—and you’ll always look green. And pe I _
will say what a fine specimen of a drumhead cauDag »
pity it was cut so young ”
“ Och, you divil,” and here Stanley bolted.
H.M. Customs.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Hems
Hudson is now champion wrestler of N.Z.
Cricket is fast improving in South Australia.
Hiddleston is one of the coming Victorian bats.
Even bookmakers decline to speculate on foot-
races.
Slight, the Victorian, has been batting well
lately.
The Auckland people say that now it’s all over
it’s no Mata.
Midwinter, since his return, has exhibited good
form at cricket.
Hanlan has a sister who can pull a boat almost
as well as he can.
Laycock has been granted two months’ additional
leave of absence.
Laycock has won, since his arrival in England,
£llOO in stakes alone.
There was great excitement over the Trickett-
Haulan match in N.Z.
There is talk in England of another bicycle race
between Keen and Cortis.
James Edwards, the Melbourne boatbuilder,
backed Hanlan, winning £2OO.
All the leading English sporting papers fancied
Blackman as against Laycock.
Mr. Ivory has purchased Lord Burghley, with
all his engagements, trom Mr. Rossi.
An immense amount of money lost in N.Z. over
Mata’s running in the Melbourne Cup.
Dobler won the purse in the 75-hours’contest
at Chicago, in which he covered 227 miles.
R. S. Haley ran 220 yards, on a rough track, at
’Frisco, in the respectable time of 23 seconds.
Riley, whom Laycoek has now twice defeated, is
34 years of age, stands 6ft., and weighs list. 81b.
The New Zealand Derby, won by the Hon. R.
Campbell’s Sir Modred, was run in 2min. 4-3 secs.
The result of the Melbourne Cup was known in
Auckland, N.Z., exactly ten minutes after the race.
The disqualification of Mata and her jockey
(Ray) has been endorsed by several of the principal racing
clubs.
Athletic sports were held at Auckland on Prince
of Wales’ Birthday. Underwood won the principal
event.
A steeplechase meeting was held at Napier.
N.Z., on November 9, Venture won the two big
events.
It is a fact that four years ago Laycock, in
“ Charon’s” presence, sculled round the two islands in
26m. 30s.
It is likely Professor Miller, of Melbourne, and
Scott, of Dunedin, will shortly meet in a walking match
for £2OO.
Danebury, who until recently was at the stud,
won the Lyell’s Bay Cup, Wellington, N.Z., on the 9th
November.
A grand gymnastic festival is to be held at
Frankfort. 20,000 athletes from all parts of the world
will exhibit.
W. Plunkett and J. M‘Clerken row in light
skiffs on Saturday (27th) for £2O aside on the Parra-
matta River.
The New South Wales Cricket Association
declined to allow the Aplitt-Callaghan match to be run
on their ground.
A labourer, earning ss. a day, won first prize in
Abbott’s (United Service Hotel, Auckland) £2OOO sweep
on the Melbourne Cup.
Woodhouse is painting two pictures of Grand
Flaneur, one for Mr. W. Long, his owner, and another
for Brown, his trainer.
April 21, May 19, June 15, July 18, and August
11 are the dates fixed for the Australian (Victorian)
Coursing Club meetings.
First-class swimming matches at Foley’s baths
to-day (Saturday) under the auspices of the Port
Jackson Swimming Club.
“The picture of an English farmer ” is what
the London Dailt News calls our fair-bearded Anglo-
Saxon oarsman, Laycock.
Towards the close of their English season the
Australian Eleven travelled 1700 miles in eleven days—
playing and travelling at intervals.
Satisfactory nominations have been received for
the Wellington Cup (N.Z.)* All good blood, including
Lady Emma. Weights on November 22.
The rowing procession at Melbourne was rather
mixed up. A few boats sank, one or two got smashed,
some of the rowers got black eyes, and that’s all.
Walter Kennedy and John Weede, on September
20, swam a match of 500 yards, in the Serpentine, Hyde
Park, London. Kennedy won by about eight yards, in
Bm. 255,
The last Canterbury meeting was the most suc-
cessful ever held in New Zealand. The fact is, all Aus-
tralia is beginning to take a big interest in the Canter-
bury events.
The imported stallion Castaway, the well-known
handsome brother to Lurliue, Le Loup, and Lure, who
ran Papapa to a head in his N.Z, Derby of 1873, died at
Timaru the other day.
The Croydon team beat the Chester last Satur-
day, the scores being Croydon 61, and Chester 39.
Eowhell, Buchanan, and Fellow, of the winning team,
obtained double figures.
An esteemed Wagga correspondent suggests
that a Trickett Fund be started in order to give our
representative on his return as good a reception as he
received when a winning one.
“ Call him a sculler !” derisively shouted Hig-
gins when he saw Blackman lead Laycock. Sculler
or no sculler,” yelled Jack Thompson, “he 11 get to the
other end first far enough.”
“Charon,” writing two years ago in a Sydney
paper, predicted that as soon as Trickett lost a great
race, many of his so-called “ friends” would turn round
and accuse him of swindling.
.Some enterprising individuals have been trying
to arrange a match between “ Cboppy Warburton, the
celebrated English pedestrian, and certain long-dis-
tance-running Arizona Indians.
Just before the news of the Trickett-Hanlan
race reached Roma, some of Haulan’s backers got a
buggy ready to clear out in case they lost their fear ot
the natives’ chaff being so great.
Says the London Referee in regard to the
representative match :—The display made by one man,
Murdoch, tempts me to wouder what might have been
done with the other, Spofforth, to aid him.
W. Beckwith, champion swimmer of England,
offers to swim “ any man breathing from 1000 yards up-
wards. Now let us come out in natatory art. Here is
something for the M’lndoe, the Australian champion
The other day Riley, who had made a match
with Conrtney, did not put in an appearance. It is
alleged that Courtney, who was awarded the stakes,
rowed over the distance, three miles with a turn, in
20m. 281 s.
A match for .£lOO a side came off at the Christ-
chnrch (N.Z.) race-course the other day between the
Australian cross-country horse. Lone Hand, wno
carried 9st., and Levant (Bst.), three miles on the flat.
Lone Hand won with the greatest ease.
The owner of the imported American horse
Aiax wishes to make a match with Mr. Roberts, ovraer
of the trotting stallion which arrived by last Fiasco
mail, to trot for £lOOO aside; but Mr. Roberts states
that he will never stake anything beyond a dozen ot
wine, and is quite content to leave his horse to the
public to judge of his merits.
The great competitor, whom the world’s cham-
pion, Rowell, hod to meet in the six days’ tournament
at London, was a negro named Pegram. This pedestrian
was the American representative in the contest, and
undertook to do 600 miles in the six days.
A gentleman in Dunedin, N.Z., has received a
letter from Alexander, stating that the Australian team
is anxious to visit New Zealand, and play two or
three days at each of the principal towns if suitable
terms can be arranged—their leave having been ex-
tended.
The first mile and three-quarters of the Laycock-
Blackmanrace was rowed iu 9m. 4sec. —the fastest time
in a race ever recorded. Laycock says that the Sydney
papers greatly underrated Blackman. That the
Australian oarsman was right is shown by the above-
mentioned fact.
The Australasian correspondent says it was
fortunate for Laycock that he managed to ratify two
matches on the morning of his race with Blackman;
otherwise his 9miu. 4sec. for a mile and three-quarters
would have frightened at least one, if not both, oppon-
ents out of the field.
The race between Joe Cannon and Harry
Thomas for £lOO aside and a bet of £lOO to £BO, was
rowed on the 4th over the Thames championship
course, 4J miles; time, 24m. 21s. It is described as
having been a tame affair. Yet the time was better
than in the Hanlan-Trickett match.
Only Mr. J. H. Newton’s Waitangi (22 tons) and
Dr. Mackellar’s Oithona (16 tons) contested for the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s prize of £3O last
Saturday. The Oithona, which was sailed in capital
style, won by 3J minutes, exclusive of her tonnage
allowance. The New Zealander was the favourite.
The trotting horse Boccaccio, recently imported
by Mr. James A. Roberts, combines in his blood the
strains of the best American trotters. Mr. Roberts
takes his horse on to Melbourne, where he is forming a
trotting stud. The horse was selected in San Francisco
for Mr Roberts by Mr. H. P. Gregory, and he stands
161 hands high.
Jack M ! Cann and J. S. M'Donald, two well-
known pugilists, the other day fought near Glasgow.
The former had been trained by Tom Donnelly, of
London, and had the call in the betting. The respective
weights of the men were 154 and 1521b5. After an ex-
citing mill, which lasted Ih. 20m., M’Cann jmt his
friend “ to sleep.”
It is not generally known that, some months
ago, when the arrangement of a match between
Trickett and Haulan was looked upon as altogether
improbable, Laycock volunteered to go home and tackle
the Canadian. His (Laycock’s) terms were excessively
moderate, but were not agreed to. However, perhaps
things are better as they are.
To the Laycock-Blaokman race Mr. Wentworth
(says the Australasian correspondent), brought a
Sydney lady who particularly wished to see her beauti-
ful city’s champion compete. And, by the way, it doesn’t
say much for the big Sydney weeklies that the only
interesting and intelligent account of the proceedings
should appear in a Victorian paper.
When Mr. W. G. George, of the Mosely
Harriers, lowered the four-mile amateur record on the
London Athletic Club ground on 6th September, his
times for the respective miles were as follow : —First
mile, 4min. 42sec.; second, 9min. 48sec.; third, 14min.
50sec.; fourth, 19min. 49 3-5 sec. The total distance
was thus performed in 20min. 22sec.
A match took place last Saturday at Camper-
down between the Australian C.C. v. Glebe Strathmore,
the former winning with 40 runs to spare. The scores
wereA.C.C., 104; G.S.C.C., fit. Hawken, for the
Sbrathmores, got 5 wickets for 2 runs, the balance being
obtained off the bowling of Priddy, Hoare, Kelly, and
Lynch. The fielding on both sides was very poor.
As tending to show that Trickett’s friends at
home really thought he was going to win we may men-
tion that a knowing man who is understood to be a very
intimate friend of the Australian sculler, cabled to a
relative out here after the race as follows: —“ Stone
broke; wire me £300.” Besides this, there is the fact
that lots of money offered on Trickett here went beg-
ging on the night before the race.
At Christchurch (N.Z.) one of the members of
the Pioneer Bicycle Club rode from the Oust Mills to
Christchurch in 2 hrs. 43 min., starting at 2.30
p.m., and arriving at 5.13 p.m. ; 32.) miles. He had to
walk about two miles between Gust and Moeraki,
owing to the bad state of the roads; and he also carried
a heavy basket of trout over his shoulders the whole
distance.
It is an interesting and perhaps suggestive fact
that Mr. Brett, who so easily defeated those excellent
scullers Messrs. Arthur and Lord, on Saturday last,
discarded swivel rowlocks in favour of the old style of
poppets, believing that he could not only improve form
but also time. It would appear that, though the advan-
tage of swivels is now beyond dispute, we Australians
either misunderstand the way in which they should be
fitted, or else the sculls themselves should be bevelled.
A correspondent writes to state that consider-
able annoyance was caused to some ladies who visited
the S.R.C. branch boathouse the other day, by the fact
that one of the club members “ hovered round in his
boating costume.” Well, we should say that the boat-
house is not a place for ladies, but for pullers; and that
if a lady visits a branch boathouse, or any other boat-
house, she may expect to see sights, just as she may
expect to smell smoke if she elects to travel in a smoking
carriage.
Kent C.C. v. Thornton C.C.—A match between
the two clubs was played last Saturday on the ground
of the former at Waterloo, and resulted in an easy
victory for the Kent C.C. The Thornton took the
wickets first, but the bowling of C. and J. T. Pallett
proved too effective for them, as they were disposed of
for the very small total of 27 runs. The Kent then
went to the wickets, and were not all dismissed of till
the respectable score of 66 runs had been obtained.
They thus won the match by 39 rims.
The new yacht built by Mr. T. Nichol for a
party of gentlemen to compete in the Melbourne
Regatta, was launched ihe other day. She will be
cutter-rigged. Her sail plan is a large one, the mast
being: Deck to hounds, 39 feet; masthead, 6 feet 8
inches; housed, 8 feet 6 inches. Total, 54 feet flinches.
The bowsprit outboard is 28 feet, boom, 52 feet 6 inches ;
gaff, 33 feet; topmast, fid to sheave 33 feet. Captain
Henry Press, a recent arrival in N.Z.,has been engaged
to take the vessel over to Melbourne and sail her there.
A bicycle race, 100 miles, for 250 dollars, took
place'at Sunderland, England, September 11, and was
won by G. W. Waller, who rode in the first hour 17
miles 5 laps; second hour, 33 miles 9 laps; third hour,
49 miles 7 laps; fourth hour, 65 miles 5 laps; fifth hour,
80 miles 6 laps; sixth hour, 95 miles 8 laps ; 100 miles
time, 6h. 15m. 51s. R. Roberts’ score at the finish was
99 miles, and J. Battensby’s 98 miles 6 laps. H. Higham
was second by two yards, and T. Edlin third by a like
distance.
The committee of Tattersall’s subscription
rooms, Adelaide, have been asked to decide how
trebles stand when the first of the trebles ends in a
dead heat. A bookmaker laid £lOOO to £1 against
Welcome Jack, Flaneur and Flaneur for the Maribyr-
nong Plate. Derby and Cup; also £lOOO to £1 against
Lavinia and the two Flaneurs. The question is, does
he pay half to each ? The backers think he should pay
two-thirds to each. But this will not hold good, as he
cannot be held liable for more tlian £lOOO. If he could
be, he could never estimate his liability.
The following weights have been declared for the
races to take place at Liverpool on Saturday, 27th
November next; —Flying .Handicap, 1 mile: Verdict,
9st 71b; Monarque, Bst 71b; Cleon, Bst 51b; Banker,
7st 71b; Knave, 7st 31b; Wagga Wagga, 6st 101 b;
Margaret, 6st 121 b; Lady Superior, 6st; Jenny Lind,
sst 71b. Merry Vale Handicap, 1 mile : Verdict, Bst
121 b; Surrey, Bst 71b; Bullockey, Set 51b; Monarque,
Bst 51b; Cleon. 7st 121 b; Knave, 7st. Galloway Handi-
cap, 1 mile; Surrey, lOst; Opossum, 7st 51b; Athol,
7st; Myrtle, 6st; Lilly, 7st 51b.
The professional four-oared race, which took
place at Lake Maranlook, Maine, on the 29th ult., three
miles with a turn, was won by the Unions, of Portland ;
time, 19min. lOsecs. The professional scullers’ race,
over the same course, was won by J. Gaudaur, of
Toronto, in 22min. SOsecs., defeating Riley, Plaisted,
Lee, and Ten Eyck. The professional double-scull
race, over the same course, was won by Ten Eyck and
Kennedy, defeating Ross and Dayis, and Lee and
Gaudaur. Time of the winners, 20min., the fastest
] on record for double sculls.
Aplitt somewhat easily defeated Callaghan at
Botany last Saturday, in a spin for 150 yards for £l5O
aside. Both men were in good form, but Aplitt had
the call in the betting. The start was an even one, and
the pair run close for 75 yards, when Aplitt went to the
front, and eventually won easily by four yards; time.
15i secs. At the settling, which took place the same
evening, offers were made to match Aplitt against
Callaghan with 3 yards start, and against Martine with
5 yards. An offer was also made to buck Aplitt against
Watson for £3OO a side in a spin of 200 yards.
There was some surprise over the defeat, last
Saturday, of Messrs. D. Lord and J. Arthur by
Mr. W. G. Brett in the amateur wager-boat
race The event had been postponed from the
Balmain Regatta, and the prize was a trophy
valued at £3O. The start was a good one, but Arthur
soon took the lead, and Lord had a slight advantage of
Brett. The three were together at Cockatoo, when
Brett now began to crawl up, and after a splendid
tussle he improved his position by a length. Brett, who
was in fine form, here showed excellent style, and event-
ually won by nine lengths from Arthur, who was four
lengths ahead of Lord. The latter sculler appeared to
be wanting in condition. Nothing, however, can be
said against Mr. Brett’s very fine performance.
Mr. R. H. Vallance, the owner of Mata, writes
to The Australasian, stating that he considers himself
to have been very badly nsed in regard to the disquali-
fication of the horse and rider. He says:—“l do not
for a moment wish the public to believe that Mata was
ridden out in the Royal-park Stakes. He was not. His
jockey found he had no show with Progress, and acted
as Fred. Archer and other English jockeys have often
done, viz., when he had no chance he pulled off. I would
also point out to the public that Mata was not backed
for a single shilling iu the Royal Park Stakes. I intend
to ask the stewards of the V.R.C. to reopen the case,
in order that it may be thoroughly sifted, when I feel
satisfied that yon and the public will exonerate the
Mata party from any desire to commit a robbery.”
And after all, the anti-Trickettites in England
weren’t quite so sure about the result of the match for
the championship as they professed to be. For instance,
“Pendragon,” on Sept. 26, wriggled about in this
fashion :—“ Trickett displayed an unsuspected amount
of merit on the day ho met Sadler. He is a man of
immense physique, and, though his championship
appears to fit him worse when in a boat than at any
other time, he may yet by sheer strength be able to do
as he did before and flabbergast the English * talent.’
Furthermore, in Trickett’s favour there is the know-
ledge that Hanlan has a faculty for developing stitches
and spasms when they are least expected. After his
recent rupture, it is hardly safe to speculate unduly on
the strength of his being ‘ better than ever.’ There is,
as a great philosopher once observed, something in
everything. Were it not for the wonderful reserve of
force possessed by the Australian, and the equally
wonderful weakness and facility at falling-off possessed
by the Canadian, the race would not be at all interesting.
In the early part of October, Hanlan made a
“friendly call ” on Trickett, and spent the rest of the
evening in the Australian’s agreeable society. A writer
in one of the London sporting papers says that “ next
day he rowed by the side of Kelley, who gave him some
information about the swirls and eddies, shoots and
angles, about which and the best way of overcoming
them no one knows better than the popular ex-
champion. The only difficulty in the way of this being
done out of pure amiability is that Kelley is supposed
to be retained by the Australian couple. Maybe it was
intended as a set-off for Hanlan’s kindness in visiting
Trickett and Co. on his arrival. From this it would
seem as if the age of chivalry has not departed—only
taken up a curious and unexpected residence. . . .
And yet, I cannot help being puzzled to think that the
very man who would not travel in the same big steamer
with Boyd for fear the crowd thereon might think there
was a probability of collusion between them, should be
the first to set this new and startling example. . . .
Haulan’s friendliness is fair enough subject for remark,
even though viewed apart from his repeated objections
to being seen in the company of a probable opponent, as
evidenced towards Elliott, Courtney, and Riley, to say
nothing of his curious objection to travelling in the
same steamer with Boyd, though both sought the same
destination.”
Following are Le Loup’s three great wins in
New Zealand: —Canterbury Cup, a sweepstake of 20 sovs.
each, with 500 sovs. added ; weight for age ; two miles
and a quarter. G Fraser’sJLe Loup, 6 yrs., 9st. 61bs.,
by Traducer—Mermaid (Wattie) 1; Hou. W. Robinson’s
Foul Play, 6 yrs., 9st. 6lbs. (Derrit). 2 ; H. Redwood’s
Norseman, 4 yrs., 9st. (Thompson), 3. Virginia Water
cut out the running, with Lure second, Le Loup third.
Sir Modred fourth, Foul Play fifth, and Norseman last.
This order was maintained until the back of the course
was reached, where Le Loup began to go up to
Virginia Water, who still led, and took first place.
Virginia Water dropped back second, with Fonl Play
third, Sir Modred fourth, Norseman fifth, and Lnre
sixth. Coming into the straight, Foul Play had
improved his position, inasmuch as to run to second
place, and then he made his effort at the turn. Mr.
Fraser’s handsome horse, however, was not to he
denied, and came down the straight hands down the
winner of the Canterbury Cup of 1880 easily by three
lengths, Foul Play second. Virginia Water ran up
third to the post, but just then Norseman came with a
rush, and appropriated the barren honour. Lure was
fifth, and Sir Modred last. Time. 4min. 9seo. —The
Christchurch Plate, a sweepstake of 5 sovs. each, with
150 sovs. added ; second horse to save his stake; the
winner of the Canterbury Cup to carry 71bs.; once
round and a distance. Fraser's ch.h. Le Loup, 9st.
121bs. (Wattie), 1; Foul Play, 6yrs., 9st. 51bs. (Derritt),
2; The Governor, 3 yrs., 7st. 41bs. (Webster), 3. Only
three started. Le Loup, full of running, won, and
comfortably, by two lengths. Time, 3min SJsec. —The
Canterbury Jockey Club Handicap, a sweepstake of
20 sovs, each, with 500 sovs, added ; two miles. Mr. G.
Fraser’s ch.h. Le Loup, 6 jrs. (Wattie). 1; Mr. W.
Walters’ b.c. Piscatorius, 4 yrs. (Nolan), 2 ; Hon. W.
Robinson’s br.h. Foul Play, 6 yrs. (Derrit), 3. Hornby,
Betrayer, Kosciusko, Marie ‘Antoinette. Luna, Sir
George, and Miss Dorsett also ran. Fonl Play took
the leid when the flag fell. Passing the stand the
order was —Sir George, Luna, Betrayer, with Kosciusko
last. On the far side of the course Betrayer began to
go up. The order now was, Luna, Sir George, Betrayer,
a length between each, and it was anybody’s race. At
the quarter-mile post Lima still held, but at the bottom
comer the horses were all in a cluster. Betrayer then
came away, aud Piscatorius made the running. Every
body was looking for the winner in one of these two,
when Le Loup, who had been in waiting, was cleverly
rushed to the front by Wattle, amidst tremendous
cheering. .Time, 3min. 39isec.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(From our Lady Correspondent.)
His Excellency the Governor, on Friday, opened
the Horticultural Show, which, contrary to the usual
custom, was held on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
The weather was very fine. There was an immense
attendance, and many beautiful costumes were worn by
the ladies. Mrs. Griffiths’ dress was particularly ad-
mired, being composed of wine-colored silk, trimmed
with old gold damassc, and gold feathers in her bonnet.
Mrs. Malleson wore brown satin, and Mrs. A. luglis
looked very pretty iu a light colored cashmere. A
great many of the dresses had hoods to match, and
numbers of the parasols had bouquets of flowers at-
tached to the top; in some instances natural ones were
used.
On Saturday rival entertainments engaged public
attention, for there were the Flower Show, the Cantata
at the Exhibition, and the, Boat Procession on the
Yarra to inaugurate the commencement of the rowing
season.
On Monday night the Austrian Strauss Band
gave what was intended to be a moonlight concert at
the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Unfortunately the
moon did not put in an appearance, and the night was
cold and cloudy. The tents erected for the Flower
Show on Friday and Saturday were made use of and
were well lighted, hut outside all was darkness. Several
people, iu attempting to promenade, came to grief over
the pickets.
On Saturday night M.'ss Pomeroy appeared at
the Royal as Juliet. Everyone thinks that she is ex-
tremely good-looking, that her movements are the very
poetry of motion, and that she dresses magnificently.
The gallery hoys made a great commotion throughout
the performance, and did their best to burlesque the
romantic tragedy and unnerve the actress. However,
the gallery boys are reported to have done the very
same in Sydney, and to have spoilt Miss Pomeroy’s first
representation in your city. Perhaps Mr. Hayman can
explain.
Mr. Nathaniel Levi has issued invitations for a
ball, to be given on the 9th December, in the Melbourne
Town Hall.
Ketten gives a concert to-morrow (Saturday)
evening in the Town Hall for the benefit of the chari-
ties. The Governor has signified his intention of being
present, and I expect there will be an immense audience,
for it is announced as Ketten’s last night. However,
there is a rnmour that the great musician is not going
to leave us yet. Purchases in the Exhibition of goods
that cannot be moved until next year, and an order for
a splendid billiard-table from Messrs. Alcock and Co.
have doubtless set this going.
It would bo difficult to chronicle all the gaiety
of the past week. Mrs. T. B. Payne, Mrs. Mankivell,
Mrs. Matheson, aud Mrs. Lloyd Jones have given very
enjoyable entertainments to a number of fashionable
guests. There was a private assembly at the Richmond
Town Hall on the 14th hist., but the event of the week,
I suppose on account of its novelty, was the ball on
board the French ship Finisterre, given by Captain
Angey Dufresse and his officers to an immense number
of guests. A steam launch met those invited at the
Sandridge Railway Pier, and towed the boats which
conveyed them on board. The ship was most beauti-
fully decorated with flowers, and the lights were
arranged in a most artistic aud thoroughly French
manner. It is astonishing how easily some people get
upset. At an early hour in the morning the boats
commenced to land the guests who were returning. It
had been rather rough coming across the bay, and in
the crowd and hurry of getting ashore every one rushed
for his or her belongings. Somehow or other, one lady,
who must have been very tired and sleepy, was unfor-
tunate enough to pick up the wrong man as her husband,
Mutually ignorant of the mistake they got into a cab
at the pier and drove to East Melbourne. On arrival
at the gentleman’s destination he managed to get
out, and turned to assist the lady. As he did so
the gas light from the street lamp fell upon her face,
and he exclaimed, in sobered and much distressed tones,
“ Good heavens, you’re not my wife 1"
At some of the balls it was observed that several
of the leaders of foshion had quite altered the style of
dressing the hair. Instead of the small coil that
has been worn for a long time low on the neck the hair
was brushed up as high as possible, and coiled at the
top of the head, the front being curled and a bunch of
flowers worn in the curls a little to one side.
The Presbyterians of Geelong have been sadly
troubled by a scandal that some one maliciously con-
cocted about their pastor. The matter was so serious
that it was brought under the notice of the Presbytery,
and I am glad to say they found the clergyman innocent
He is an old resident, an able preacher, aud a learned
man.
A new and novel fireplace ornament is in vogue
here. It has the appearance of a quaint looking
Japanese umbrella, and stands out a little from the
fireplace. I don’t know that they are as pretty as the
old aprons, but they have the advantage of being
newer.
The prettiest and most elegant bonnets I have
seen this year are from the millinery establishment of
Miss Wing, Elizabeth-street.
The afternoon party on board the Wolverene
on Thursday was also a great success. On land it was
unusually warm, but on board noue found the heat un-
pleasant. Mrs. Malleson wore her Cup dress and bon-
net, as did also a number of other ladies present. A
young lady from East Melbourne looked very charming
in a handkerchief costume; and nearly everyone ad-
mired a young married lady with a Madonna face, who
wore a cream-colored dress trimmed with maroon.
The members of the Melbourne Club gave a
ball on the 17th, in the Town Hall, and two ladies —one
a blonde, the other a brunette, shared the honours as
Queens of Beauty.”
The Custom House officers have made a court
affair of the recent smuggling on board the Cotopaxi.
The offenders are very fashiouable Toorak people. The
shade of Will Watch, “ the bold smuggler, once feared,
now forgot,” must have smiled sarcastically at such a
bare-shouldered proceeding; for the Indy who was a
party to the affair was seen to go on board without a
jacket, and, visiting the gentleman’s cabin, presently
re-appeared wearing a handsome sealskin jacket, and
carrying another on her arm. This led to inquiries—
hence the denouement. The fair offender is the daughter
of Australia’s most famous obstetric physician, now de-
ceased ; her husband knows a little law, and “ now’s his
time "to quibble, for the new Commissioner of Cus-
toms, the loyal A. T. Clark, whose paper the other day
called Her Majesty the Queen “nn obese old woman,”
has “ a down ” on the “ bloated holigarchy."
Just now the ladies connected with the committee
of the boarding-ont system are in sad trouble on account
of the disgraceful treatment they are receiving at the
hands of the Government. After years of patient toil
and much anxiety, they have got things into really good
order, and the system is found to work admirably.
Suddenly Professor Pearson, who is a perfect novice in
the matter, and who, according to your Premier’s
argument, not being known to have any children of his
own can’t be looked on as an authority in any way, is
placed at the head of affairs. He is bent on serious
alteration. New rules aud regulations have been issued
without the ladies ever having been consulted, and they
have consequently tendered their resignations. How
the matter will end I don’t know.
There is some idea of getting up a bazaar for the
purpose of freeing the Hospital for Sick Children from
debt. I daresay that when the gaiety has somewhat
subsided, a little may be done towards furthering this
movement, of which Mrs. A’Beckett is the chief.
The opening of the Melbsurno Exhibition was
announced in the London newspapers of the Ist instant,
and it is worthy of notice that those journals, whilst
devoting several leaders and much space to the depar-
ture ot the cricketers and cricketing news current at
the timo, only briefly noticed our great national event
of 1880.
Every woman in the community was shocked at
Kate Kelly’s unfeeling conduct on the night of the day
on which her brother was executed.
The heat is beginning to affect our Tasmanian
visitors. One of • them was hailed by a barbarian in
Collins-street, the other day, when a hot north wind
was blowing, and on being asked if ho were over here
“on pleasure,” or had he brought his wife, he answered
with a sigh, “ Alas ! my wite is here, and I don’t know
which of us regrets her visit most.” You see she had
not lately been accustomed to such a high register of
heat, though she did once live in Sydney, but her
husband is now interested in the “frozen meat"
business.
To-day the deepest sympathy was felt through-
out the city when the sad news of the death of Capt.
Payue’s son became generally known. He was on a
visit to Mr. W. J Clarke, at Sunbury, and was drowned
yesterday, whilst bathing in Jackson’s Creek.
A lady and gentleman, residents of Albert Park,
celebrated their silver wedding the other evening,
making quite a ceremony of the celebration ; but the
goldeu weddings that have from time to time occurred
in the colonies destroy the glitter of “only twenty-flve
years after all !’’ Within the last year an old and
highly-respected military officer and his wife celebrated
their goldeu wedding at Castlemaine, surrounded by
three successive generations, and the affair was quite
an historical matter for the rural township.
Miss Lempriere is to be married on the 25th
inst. to Mr. W. Bailee Tucker, at All Saints’ Church.
The Rev. Mr. Pearca will perform the ceremony, and
Herr Plock has been engaged to officiate at the organ,
when the Wedding March will be played. The brides-
maid are to be Misses Osborne, M'Kenzie, Lempriere,
Saker, Taylor. Barlow aud Watt. Miss Saker, by the
way, is the reigning belle of Melbourne.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, “the richest man in
Australia,” is going home. We trust he will comeback
with the title he deserves.
To the last number of the Australian
Medical Journal Dr. Moloney contributes an interest-
ing paper on the therapeutics of tea drinking.


J.
656
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
B. T O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
GEOEGE STEEET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, In new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spnng and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade snits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
jjavid
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
The latest shape; ause-\
ful and durable suit I 35s per
for business and ordi- [ suit,
nary wear. j
33s 6d
per suit.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
'ln light Homespuns and!
. thin Cheviots and Ban- I 42s per
nockburns. for Spring f Suit.
. and Summer wear. )
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures, j
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials 63
having been -well}. B^ er
shrunk before being suu-
made up.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
{ln Superior Oriental')
Tweeds, cut in the „„
finished j”
ordered clothing. J
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Beautifully light inb
Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
colour and very dur- f per suit
aide in wear. )
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360. 362, GEOEGE STEEET.
SPRING NOVELTIES,
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEI are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The samh quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
COSTUMES IN ALL THE NEW SPRTNc
MATERIALS,
Ready made for immediate wear,
TRIMMED with SILK and SATIN POMPADOUR
in a
GREAT VARIETY OF STYLES TO SUIT EVFrv
FIGURE.
THE NEW SPRING JERSEY COSTUME.
BLACK SATIN CLOTH COSTUME.
BLACK LUSTRE COSTUME.
BLACK CRAPE CLOTH COSTUME.
Trimmed with Crape.
A NICE LOT OF WASHING COSTUMES
from 4s 6d.
THE DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT
is in thorough working order, and is highly appre-
ciated, as shown hy the steadily increasing business
done. The charges are extremely moderate.
THE FANCY DEPARTMENT
is well stocked with a CHOICE ASSORTMENT
of
REAL MALTESE LACE, BRETONNE LACE,
BRAID and NET FICHUS, from 2s 6d,
CHENILLE and GOLD FICHUS, A NOVELTY.
A PRETTY SCARF, Embroidered Ends, only 6Jd.
GLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES.
2-BUTTON KID GLOVES, good quality. Is 9d per
pair.
4-BU TTON KID GLOVES, reliable wear, 2s lid, worth
Ss lid.
STAYS. STAYS. STAYS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST STOCKS IN SYDNEY TO
SELECT FROM.
Prachntop, Sunshades, and Ladio’s Umbrellas.
Just opened a case of the above at Wholesale Prices.
EDWIN RICE.
500 George-street.
E MPOEIUM OF FASHION.
Laces,
Hosiekt,
Corsets,
Fanct Goods,
Mxllinert,
U NDERCLOTHISG,
AND
Household
Drapery.
Spring Millinery for Christmas. Dressmaking on the
premises.
Cut paper Patterns, all garments. Illustrated sheets on
application.
J. B. YOUDALE,
JJIASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP, -
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT ! 1 I
J. L. HORDERN.
T
HE BEST AND LARGEST
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
STOCK
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) geoeqe bteebt,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, PROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS A VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
All goods well mode, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
N
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Burry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES' UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Will be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which every thing is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing rom other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
» » >, » Baby Linen
> » „ Ladies’ Underclothing.
» >t ii ~ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
ii Suits ...; 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AftD LINDSAY.
JJON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements ;
u*st. All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers. 8
Secondly.—The Prices ore only a very slight advance
prices for the qualities of Goods offered
TUmßy.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with now
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good roputa-
tion of the Ben Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.
Pai
Spr
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they nro now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour ns
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
I now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies'
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s fid. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
L ments, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as wo have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from fis
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES' COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in everystyle, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in 1
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens,
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
„ other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range of
plain and printed "Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship- ■*
ment of choice Washing Materials
I has never been imported to the
I colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to BJd; French Percales, from 9;d
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9Jd
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from *
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
„ and plpin; British Cambrics, &c.
'THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies j
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s fid, 10s fid to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from, -y
New stylos and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid ; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid j Black Umbrellas at
all prices.
THOMPSON
and
GILES*
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS,
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS,
THE
STANDARD
AMERICAN
SHIET ash CLOTHING
FACTORY,
Comer of
WTNYAED STREET
AS I)
WYNYAED LANE,
SYDNEY.
Excellence & Economy
Combined.
A PEEEECT EIT
GUARANTEED
OE NO CHAEGE.
LATEST
English anh American
STYLES.
White Shirts to Order
A Speciality.
A Trial Solicited.
To a Discriminating
Public.
The Standard American
Shirt and Clothing Fac-
tory, in seeking a portion
of the patronage of this
community, the Proprie-
tor deems it an incumbent
duty to announce the
basis upon which its
business will be con-
ducted.
The heavy expense en-
tailed on other firms in
George, Pitt, and King
streets being avoided—
having secured a most
desirable and commo-
dious premises at the
comer of Wynyard-street
and Wynyard-lane, easy
of access, at a much less
rental and expense—
enables this firm to exe-
cute all ciders at 40 per
cent, less than any other
tailoring establishment,
while at the same time
the materials used are of
the best quality, the work-
manship and style not to
be excelled, and the fit
perfect or no charge
made. The exhorbitant
prices charged for ordered
garments haring become
burdensome, patrons will
no doubt readily avail
themselves of this wel-
come relief in the estab-
lishment of a first-class
Tailoring Emporium,
where excellence, style,
workmanship, and fit arc
guaranteed, and economy
secured.
JJAVID
Gentlemen's
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY'S
("Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemem
the best value, and J- Orient
most perfect in stile I Clothing,
and flnsh procurable |
in tho colony. J
I
In Superior Tasmanian'a
Flannel, thoioughly (
shrunk. f 18s 5d
{China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d bach.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 0d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerettc Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super black Merino, 255.
In BlueSergerette, tos.
In Black Sergerettc, 455.
Cln fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
< In Black Merino. 30a.
(.In Super Sergerette, 655.
Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
„ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
"i .. >. in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
(.Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
r
rin Superior, all Wool")
Tambary Tweed, well J- 30s each
L finished. )
A Special Dress Over-']
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- )-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
55s
JONES AND COMPANY.
AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES andCOMI’ANV invito tho attention of
trents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
irlng and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
id most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys*
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Mon of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
fouths’s Dia-
;onal and Ser-
serette Suits.
r -1 7s 6d, 8s
In neat fashionable Bd, I2s 6d,
j Tweeds, neatly cut (13s 6d, 15s
*) and well made, and f (id. 17s 6d,
finished. | l»s 6d per
L J suit.
tin new shapes, very ) 12s 6d to
S prettily trimmed, and >• l»s Od per
(. thoroughly well-made. J suit.
iln fancy and pinin')
Drills, trimmed in I
new and effective f
stylos. J
For dress wear, extra')
finished, superior I
material, and excel- f
lent shape. )
fin superior Navy Serges']
complete with lan-1
yard, whistle, badge, f
collar and undershirt.)
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 5d
per suit.
20s to 27s
(id per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
("In light and dark mix-')
J tures, cut in fashion- | 21s 6d to
J, able styles, well j-to 23s 6d
| trimmed and strongly | per suit.
L made. j
’ln fine durable Esta-i
mene Serge, admirably [ 22s to 27s
adapted for school and I 6d»
general wear. J
For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT AND CLOTHING FACTORY.
Corner or
WYNYARD STREET AND WYNYARD LANE,
JT IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition op 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
IOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS, Ac.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
toadquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, Ac.
OOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
ro trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY,
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
worst oases.
THOMPSON & GILES.
“ A G B CUETAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “ HORDERN ” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, jnst opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS. PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per sat, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14a 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TEOUSEES. TEOUSERS. TEOUSEES.
AE wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
aaAiaay isnr £5
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
H
DON’T FOEGET
to cal 11 at
THE NEW SHOP.
T. P. S I V I E E,
77 OXFOED-ST.
(Next door to Messrs.
Burney Sc Evans).
The New
! GENTLEMEN’S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &o
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PEIOES.
S *
T ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
XJ WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city'/. LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B*d PEE
PAIR j np-town shops CANNOT TO UCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
068 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
November 27, 1880.


Hotels, See,
OCCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAED SQUAEE, ’
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WOT. TANNEE, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
FOE FIEST-CLASS WINES, SPIEITS, AND
BEEES.
c
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAOONG,'
Within three minutes of the Eailway Station.
Mr. 0. SHEATHEE, PEOPEIETOE.
•„* Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may he certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
J
UNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now bo obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
«
O
PR
§
cH
M
&
rd
S 3
as
l ;
SM
m
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BEIDGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
T is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public estl-
ition. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
t no other brand has tiio same mellow vinous charac-
- the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
alities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
's cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
tra profit represent the common beers refmred. to as
ual in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
)., Sole Agents.
R A DC MAR
'J
OAR’S HEAD S TJ.O UT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
ected with great care from the best of the brew-
)f the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
JO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
Xho ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne. , ..
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners. _
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni havo
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of tho
establishment,
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880. ,
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best stylo
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
|HE SYDNEY COFPEE PALACE No. 2,
158 Qeorge-street, and 13 New Pitt-'street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 1 ,'27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27f00t
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, &c-) ... ... ... 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, frc,, Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour,
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meetn-g
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order »n the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
rjIATT EKS A LL’S HOTEL,
TERRAEA, SHOALHAYEN.
Proprietor, P. STANTON
(Formerly of William-street, Sydney, and of Mittagong).
First-class accommodation for commercial travellers.
Good liquors, good table, Ac.
Good change for Sydney Sportsmen. First-class
sport in the neighbourhood.
X> IYER VIEW HOTEL,
BIECHGEOVE ROAD,
Facing Cockatoo Island,
BALMAIN.
MICHAEL M'GRATH, so long and favourably
known as Landlord of the tV arwiok Castle Hotel,
begs to inform the residents of Balmain and the sur-
rounding districts that he has taken tho above commo-
dious premises, and is prepared to accommodate
Boarders and to generally minister to the wants of the
public. Only tbe very best brands of Wines, Spirits,
and Beer kept, and M. M’GRATH trusts, by a care-
ful and conscientious regard to the comforts of those
who may favour him with a call, to merit a fair share of
public patronage. • ~ , ,
N.B.—Visitors to the Balmain Regatta are particularly
requested to notice this advertisement.
RIVER VIEW HOTEL.
Australian ■wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
T O H N A. WILKINSON,
I WINE GROWER A MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
(I
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
|IHE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3Jd per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marches Wool Beiges at 7|d, 9Jd per
yard.
See tho Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7fd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods wo are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows —
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KINO STREET.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
r "’,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS :
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
This is. the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A.. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
' Office — 24 O’CONNELL STREET.
FOS T E R
m
m
m
m
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
%
Solo
rVoprjctoTE,
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as Urge quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
kTOTICE —I be» to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUR,
119 Pitt-stroet,
Near City Bank,
Robert butcher & co.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,»
Distinguished by the Label
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Eoyal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Eoyal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Eepub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown. 1877. JParis, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jillichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, PEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“ I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Tabbing Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuneoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES,
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES.
William-street.
S, TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. OEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) ok
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blacf
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
THE BULLETIN.
November 27, 1880.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Professor Haselmeyer goes to N.Z.
Adelina Patti is an expert at billiards.
Hoskins shortly benefits in Melbourne.
Proctor made money in Wellington, N.Z.
Mdlle. Summerhayos, the pianist, visits N.Z.
Wagner has finished his new opera of “ Parsifal.’
Sara, Emily Soldene’s high kicker, has retired
Billy Sweatnam is a great success in Melbourne
Mdlle. Franzini, the bicyclist, is at Napier, N.Z
W. H. Leake has a fine singing as well as speak
ing voice.
Leon’s Minstrels are drawing fine houses al
Melbourne.
Mr. Walter Reynolds arrived on Monday fron
New Zealand.
The Passion Play is on at the Grand Open
House, ’Frisco.
Leake opens at Theatre Royal, Melbourne, aftei
the Pantomime.
Jennie Nye has joined the Lydia Howarde open
company at N.Z.
Miss Florence Colville was in Auckland whet
the last boat left.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons commenced her Canadiai
tour on October 26.
M'Lean’s Troubadours have been very success
ful at Rockhampton.
John Hall and Company are in Adelaide unde:
engagement to Allison.
Edwin Browne has arrived in Brisbane, ant
opens after Bandmann.
The Lydia Howarde opera bouffe company an
playing in Dunedin, N.Z.
Thompson’s Zulu Panorama is on the war-patl
iu Southern Queensland.
Annie Mayor is advertised up-country in Victorh
as “Australia’s Daughter."
The Stage v. Press cricket match takes place ai
Melbourne on Friday, 26th.
George Rignold is playing to crowded bouses al
the Standard Theatre, London.
Haverly’s Mastodon Minstrels are doing a
tremendous business in London.
“The Hugo Enterprise Company” have beei
playing to fair audiences at Hay.
Nina Boucicault, daughter of Dion, makes hei
debut shortly on the English stage.
Miss Florence Colville has of late been disap
pointing her audiences more than ever.
Miss Vesey, a sister of Mias Emily Soldene, if
shortly to marry a gentleman in Glasgow.
The theatrical effects of the late Charles Fochtei
were sold at auction on the 15th October.
Baker and Farron were to commence a week’f
engagement at Bristol, England, on Nov. 1.
“ Maritana” and “ Fra Diavolo” at the Tivoli
’Frisco, which nightly becomes more popular.
The veteran Creswick was to make his re-appear
ance in London on October 14 in “ Virginius.”
Clara Stephenson has been playing “Leah” ai
Christchureh, N.Z. Papers say she made a hit.
Eva Davenport has been playing Michala ir
“ Carmen,” at Hobart Town, with great success.
“Doctor Tanner” is the name of a three-ad
farce set down for presentation in Madrid, Spain.
Janauschek has arrived in the States from
Europe, for the purpose of commencing her annual
tour.
Mr. Sims Reeves’ greatest success during his
present provincial tom- has been ia “ I cannot say good'
bye."
John Owens, the American comedian, visits
Australia next March, under engagement to Al.
Hay man.
It is said that Madame Rose Hersee obtained
£lOO each time for three concerts — given at Honolulu, oi
all places.
Will any of our readers oblige by stating, for
the information of a correspondent, where Woodyear’s
circus is ?
Emilie Melville writes to some friends saying
she looks forward anxiously to her return to Australia.
So do we.
The San Francisco Courts have granted a
divorce to Miss Tilly Andrews from her husband, Harry
Simmonds.
W. S. Lyster has an entire company, scenic
artist and all, coming from England to his theatre in
Melbourne.
Mr. Haverly, of the Negro minstrel troupe
now in London, was, not many years ago, a brakeman
on a railway.
Maud Branscombe, whose portrait, at any rate,
we all know so well, is gradually recovering from her
recent illness.
Miss T. Horan, of the Lingard company, plays
Mrs. Jawkins, in “ Stolen Kisses," since Mrs. Fitz-
william’s death.
Sam Howarde says that he will settle the dispute
as to who shell play “ Falstaff,” and furnish the “sack”
for those that demur.
According to the Mirror, Camillo Urso is un-
decided whether to remain in the United States this
season or go to Brazil.
Fred Lyster, who at late dates was, we are sorry
to hear, seriously ill, has been appointed acting manager
at the Baldwin, ’Frisco.
“ Betsy ” went capitally to a crowded house at
the Royal on Saturday. The company might go over
their programme again.
Mrs. Herman Vezin, Miss Gerard, and Miss
Maud Wilton support Edwin Booth in “ Hamlet” at
the new Princess, London,.
The landing of W. W. Cole’s circus and men-
agerie at Auckland, last week, caused a big sensation.
It was to open on the 20th.
Miss Beaudet had a benefit on Friday night last
at Brisbane iu “Romeo and Juliet” and “Trial by Jury."
The attendance was splendid.
Liddy, as soon as he has the Brisbane Town
Hall completed, intends negotiating with all stars and
novelties for a visit up North.
Thompson’s Confederate Diorama has reached
Wellington, N.Z.,(where at present it is drawing good
houses. It opened on the Bth Nov.
Mdlle. Eugenie Legrande last week made her
first re-appearance with the French company at the
“ New Novelty" Theatre, Melbourne.
When critics are invidious, and say that actors
or actx-esses “make the most of their small parts,”
they refer to the padding of their legs.
News by the mail is to the effect that E. A.
Sothern has gained 71b. in weight since placing himself
under medical treatment at Brighton.
Miss Myra Kemble, in “All for Her,” at the
Melbourne Opera House, has, in the opinion of the
Melbourne critics, been a great success.
A New Zealand paper publishes a rumour to the
effect that Miss Annie Mayor, the clever young actress,
is about to become Mrs. George Darrell.
A complimentary concert was given at Dunedin,
reieutly to Mr. and Mrs. A. J. C. Baber, who proceed
to Australia to join the musical profession.
The Simonson Opera Company opened at
Hobart Town on 15th instant, in “Martha.” Report
does not speak favourable of the performance.
“ The Pirates of Penzance” will be published
about Christmas, by Chappell and Co., of London, who
have purchased the right from Arthur Sullivan.
Mr. R. E. Watson and Miss Tilly Lake, the late
harlequin and columbine at the Victoria Theatre, are
going to Adelaide for the Christmas pantomime.
The Western Suburbs Musical Society give their
third grand concert at Burwood, on the Ist December.
Titterton is running in new members by the score.
It is a London whisper that Baroness Burdett-
Coutts has purchased the freehold of the London
Lyceum Theatre, and presented it to Henry Irving.
~ Herr Elijah Lingel, the lion tamer, was killed by
one of the tigers he was performing with in a cage
before a large audience in San Domingo on 15th Sept.
3 It is stated in New York that Mr. Lytton Sothern
* will be asked to head the combination in the series of
j. engagements which his father is by illness unable to
5-. fulfil.
Fanny Elssler, once the famous dancer, lives at
rt Vienna, and lately celebrated her seventy-third birth-
day. Her principal amusement consists in going to the
theatres.
Mr. and Mrs. Hesford have appeared at Too-
woomba in “Aurora Floyd” and “His Last Legs,”
■a respectively, with the assistance of the Garrick Ama-
teur Club.
;r The Lynch Family of Bellringers, in spite of bad
weather and their coach accident, did well on the West
•a C° as t, N.Z. At latest, they were on their way to
Christchurch.
, n E. D. Beverley, who was principal tenor in the
London Gaiety representations of opera bouffe ten years
ago. and who played Fritz to Julia Matthews’ Grand
.n Duchess, is dead.
Sir Joseph Porter, of Pinafore notoriety (W.
S- H. Smith, First Lord of the Admiralty), recently
purchased a splendid house near London for £40,000.
3r “ However could he do it!”
Sara Bernhardt, by way of return for her
l( J splendid reception in Loudon, is learning English, so
that when she comes back from America she may be
able to play Shakespeare.
6 Kelly Comedy-opera Company, Liddy manager,
after a successful five Peeks’ trip overland from Sydney
;h to Brisbane, opened in the latter city in connection with
Bandmann on Monday last.
ia Walter Reynolds, it is understood, is about to
visit Melbourne for the purpose of engaging a dra-
matic company to do the tour of N.Z. He arrived in
Sydney by the mail steamer.
Mdlle. Rosa Bonheur has just presented the
J ordin des Plantes with a lion, about three years old,
and a lioness, a couple of years older, which she has
a lately made use of as models.
• Henry Irving was asked to accompany Mr.
in Gladstone in his cruise round the kingdom, but in con-
sequence of pressing work at the Lyceum he had to
)r decline the Premier’s hospitality.
James E. Cooper has sold out his interest in the
Cooper and Bailey show to Mr. Bailey. It is now stated
that it is Mr. Cooper’s intention to retire into private
life at his house, which is in Philadelphia.
18 Sara Bernhardt cabled to America that she
wouldn’t leave Europe unless 20,000 francs were re-
-5r mitted to enable her to buy costumes. The requii'ed
amount was at once wired by the manager.
’s The Lydia Howards Burlesque Company, now
being formed in New Zealand, will, it is said, comprise
; Misses De Glorian, Mansell, Sharpe, Blanche Leopold,
’ and Messrs. G. Leopold, H. Power, and Moury.
r . Wm. Shakespeare, Esq. (deceased), is the author
of the forthcoming pantomime at the Royal this year,
if there be truth iu the rumour that Arthur Garner is
it going to produce “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
The concert of the Burwood Literary and Dra-
n matic Association, fixed for to-morrow (Friday) night,
promises to be an excellent entertainment and a very
fashionable affair. Capital rehearsal on Monday night.
Cole’s circus is spoken of in these words :—The
n organization consists of circus, menagerie, aquarium,
j and a congress of living wonders, which embraces rare
specimens, animated and inanimated nature, without
limit.
j 8 When the mail left, the Lingards and Riccardi
were playing “ Pinafore ” at the Queen’s, Dunedin, to
packed houses. The Lydia Howarde and Jenny Nye
is Company were playing “Robinson Crusoe” in the
I. same city.
The Academy of Music, Christchurch, N.Z., was
d occupied during the race week by Lizzie Morgan, Amy
)f Johns, Lawrence, Rede, Wilkinson, Alexander, Herbert,
and others. “Pinbehind” was one of the attractions
r presented.
s Master Bertie Boucicault, mt. 11, will yet rival
his father. He has already written a nautical drama,
entitled “ What love is," the first scene containing an
“ elopement, a burglary, and the death of the heavy villain
L * to slow music.
The charming Mrs. Lingard, W. H. Lingard, and
a company are doing on immense business at Dunedin,
y N.Z. Some people consider Lingard’s Tom Sperrit, in
" Stolen Kisses,” better than his Perkyn Middlewick,
c in “ Our Boys.”
n Dick Stewart and his daughters do not appear
to have met with the approbation of the American press.
e One journal cruelly says .- “We .wish them all the good
n fortune in the world, with the single proviso of never
seeing them again."
, Edwin Booth, who has been to see “the Passion
j Play" at Oberamergau, thinks the performance was
marvellous—“ as perfect in all its details as if the
peasants who played the parts were cultivated and
s experienced actors.”
Says a New Zealander of the Lynch Bellringers :
—“ I think the Lynches do well to have no ladies in
B their company. It puts all the women on their side.
They say that they are * such nice, handsome, gentle-
manly young men!’"
At the old School of Arts, Brisbane, the other
s night, the first grave-digger was A. Andrews; second
do., Johnny Welsh; and Johnny had so many charac-
, ters in Hamlet that he forgot himself and spoke the
r first grave-digger’s lines.
A programme of the performances of “ The
|. Merry-Makers,” a troupe which for some time past has
. been showing with much success in India, has been
forwarded to us from Calcutta. The company will, wo
hear, shortly visit Sydney.
? It is announced in an English journal that Miss
Eva Sothern, daughter of the noted representative of
Dundreary, is making preparations for a debut in the
• English provinces, and that she will choose the role of
. Moyo in “ The Shaughrann.”
Louise Pomeroy is drawing crowded houses in
: Melbourne. The press and public are unanimous in
’ their praise. The Marqnis of Normauby attended on
Monday night week, it being his second appearance at
L any theatre since his arrival.
I The Misses Flo and Ida Murray are shortly to
have a complimentary benefit tendered them at the
[ School of Arts, when they will appear as “ Helen’s i
[ Babies." A well-known Sydney amateur will play Old—
we beg his pardon—Uncle, Harry.
Clara Stephenson, Mrs. Walter Hill, Lily May,
Bessie Vivian, Burford, Musgrave, Stark, Clinton, 1
J. J. Kennedy, Hooper, and Tyrrell have been doing i
good business at the Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z. :
| During the race week a lot of coin was taken. 1
When Kettenleft the Opera House, Melb., he |
must have thrown his mantle over the shoulders of .
Warbnrton, of the Royal. The hatred of the latter to
■ “ dead-heads ”is as great as that of the former, and is j
nightly the cause of some most interesting scenes,
i It is stated that a panorama depicting the inci-
i dents of the Kelly episode in Victorian history has been
painted iu Christchurch, and will shortly be exhibited. }
By-the-way, a Victorian who can “sling ink,” says
he’s going to publish shortly a collection of “ Kelly” j
ballads. (
Adelina Patti’s Welsh castle and grounds are
for sale. This decision has been arrived at on account 1
of the high assessment at which they are rated fortaxa- 1
tion, and because the Welshmen insisted upon poaching <
in her river and in her preserves. Besides these objec- c
tions, some marauders destroyed the waterworks she f
constructed. I
Sara Bernhardt is credited with having at-
tracted nightly receipts averaging £4OO in Bordeaux
and Nantes. At Geneva, it is asserted, £5O were offered
and refused for a single box, and a son of a former
Khedive of Egypt offered £BO for a front seat and could
not get it.
Jim O’Brien had a good house for his benefit in
the Theatre Royal, Auckland. “ His Last Legs,” and
a concert, in which Gordon Gooch assisted, was the
programme. Our correspondent says that altogether
the performance was a weak one. O’Brien has a host
of friends in Auckland.
The new play by Alfred Tennyson which is in
the hands of Henry Irving is said to be a two-act
tragedy. As Ellen Terry is to enact the role of the
heroine, the production of the novelty must be de-
ferred until the lady gets back to London from her
professional tour in the provinces.
The largest ourang-outang ever seen in Europe
has recently been imported by Jamrach, the noted
dealer in wild animals. There will probably
soon be another victim of consumption in the British
capital, as all those transported oiLrang-outangs are
peculiarly subject to lung disease.
“ Olive Logan ” says that the outlook in Eng-
land for actors is not pleasant just now. Jefferson
played to £l5 during his last engagement at the Hay-
market, and the brilliant Miss Neilson, who died
the other day, only received £3O per week during her
engagement at the Adelphi last spring.
Miss Clara de Yere (Miss Abrams) has been
singing at the Carnival, ’Frisco, with great success.
She also gave a concert at Stockton, which was both
artistically and financially a great success—so much so
that on the following day many Stocktonians endeavored
to persuade her to give another concert.
Chalet, the ventriloquist, when in Christchurch,
New Zealand, repeated his Free-thought Lectures.
There was a crowded audience, and the lecturer was
frequently applauded. The orchestra played during
the evening, “ Sound the loud timbrel,” “ The sweet
by-and-bye,” and “ God save the Queen.”
Before “ H.M.S. Pinafore ” was produced, Mr.
W. S. Gilbert went down to Portsmouth, was rowed
about the harbour, viewed various ships, and finally
pitched upon the deck of the famous “ Victory ” for his
scene. Having obtained permission, he sketched and
modelled every detail, even to the stanchions.
Many years ago, when Billy Heffernan owned a
theatre in Sandhurst, Vic., the tragedy of “Othello”
was once played to a very poor house. Heffernan, iu a
rage, enquired who was the author of the play ; he was
told “Shakespeare.” “Very well,” he replied, “Mr.
Shakespeare doesn’t write any more plays for my
theatre.'
At a London performance of the “Troubadours,”
when Nellie McHenry, wanting to cross the stage,
took a near cut by walking straight across the plates
and dishes spread on the ground, and was requested
not to put her heel in the butter, there was hearty
laughter all over the house, and one “ gallery god ”
shouted out, “Yes, don’t disgrace the oleomargarine.”
The Brussels papers tell a story of a young Eng-
lish dramatic author who offered to a manager a five-
act tragedy which he was sure would be a brilliant
success, because it was so tragic that all the characters
died in the third act. “ But who carries on the action
during the other two acts ?” asked the manager. “ The
ghosts of those killed in the third,” was the ready
reply.
Writing to an American paper from London,
Mr. Stephen Massett says :—Lytton Sothern has had a
magnificent offer to go to New York to play in his
father’s pieces, but has declined. He is a great
favorite at the Criterion, liked in public and private,
gets quite a large salary, and is quietly winning and
making his way as one of the best light comedians of
the day.
Salvini, the Italian actor, will, while playing in
America, speak in choice Italian, and his company will
use common everyday English. A sample of this mixed
dialogue iu “Othello” is as follows Otello : Ella sin
desta. Desdemona : Who’s there, Othello ? Otello :
Desdemona, diceste in questa sera la vostra prece ?
Desdemona: Ay, my lord. Otello: Se alcun delitto
pur vi ricordi, che dal ciel non ebbe perdouo, or I’invo-
cate! Desdemona : Alas, my lord, what may you mean
by that ?
Amongst the passengers by the Californian
steamer were our old friends Dick Stewart and family.
The Stewarts have made the grand tour of America,
India, and Europe. The company consists of Mr. R.
Stewart (petre), Misses Docy, Maggie and Nellie
Stewart. They proceed by the steamer to Melbourne,
via Sydney, where they propose to put in the Christmas
season, with all the latest English and American
novelties.
In Leadville, U.S., while Cole’s Circus was ex-
hibiting, two men rushed up with horses, attached them
to the ticket-wagon, and dashed off with the car contain-
ing the money and the affrighted ticket-seller. Fortu-
nately, out there the people have their wits about them,
and hot chase was given. The enterprising robbers were
caught a few blocks off. The ticket van was brought
back, and chained to stakes in the ground. Two men
were after that posted beside the ticket-seller with
loaded revolvers.
Billy Florence says that the elder Booth, while
playing Hamlet iu Virginia town, found himself without
the important skull. A little darkey volunteered to get
one, and managed to do so. When Booth was leaving
the theatre he felt some one tugging at his coat tail.
He looked around and saw the little brunette. “ What
will you have sonny?” “Please sah, I want dady’s
skull, sah.” “Dadj’s skull?” “Yes sah. Dat used
ter be de ole man’s headpiece afore de mewel killed
him, an’ mammy’ll lick me to rags ef I lose it.”
Cole’s great European and American Circus was
to open in Auckland on 20th current for five days—
thence to Wellington and Christchurch. The cost of
conveying the show from San Francisco to New Zealand
alone exceeds £5OOO sterling. The circus is described
as being a really wonderful turn-out; iu America,
whence it comes, it is conceded to stand pre-eminent
among its fellows. The electric light is used to illumi-
nate the exhibition tent, which contains nearly 1,000,000
yards of canvas. The circus will shortly appear in
Sydney.
A San Francisco correspondent, writing on
October 23, says “In New York the sale of tickets
for the Sara Bernhardt season commenced on the Ist.
21,000 dollars, or 350 season tickets at 60 dollars, were
realised in forty-five minutes. —The Dalziel-Lingard
Troupe is at Sprague’s Opera House, Chicago.—A new
‘legitimate’ star, in the person of Mr. Thomas W.
Keene, has made an appearance in the theatrical flrma-
ment. Critics in Chicago say he eclipses Booth, Bar-
rett, aud.M'Cullough.
Miss Annie Barclay, an American actress, was a
passenger to N.Z. by the last mail steamer. The lady
is described as only second to Modjeska, whose per-
formances have created* such a furore in America and
England. Miss Barclay’s specialty is Partheuia, in
“lugomar,” and emotional pieces generally, such as
“ Frou Frou,” “ East Lynne," &c. She proceeds to the
Southern provinces of N.Z., there being no company at
present in Auckland to play with her. She proposes to
return to Auckland with a dramatic company as soon
as possible.
Writes an alliterative artist: —“ G. B. W. X.Y.Z.
Lewis iis going to produce a pantomime at the Bijou,
Melbourne, and once more thrust his troupe of infantile
brats before the public, and thus exclude adult profes-
sionals. It is high time for the authorities to interfere
and put a stop to this cheap trafficking in the forced
talents of puny precocity and bleating babies with
broken bronchial. If the parents of these squalling
sucklings were one and all fined under the provisions of
the Education Act of Victoria, for the non-attendance
of their children at school, they (the children) would
be debarred from rehearsing, and thus be unable to
inflict their emulsive efforts upon the public.”
Kyrle Bellew, who is a son of the celebrated
elocutionist, and who was known to Australian press-
men before jje took to the stage, as Harold Dominick
Bellew, has* achieved such greatness at home that Miss
Marie Litton thinks it worth her while to call iu the aid
of the Court of Chancery to secure his services for the
whole year (according to agreement) and gains
her point, too. When Kyrle was in Melbourne
he was attached to a morning paper which
opposed the flogging of criminals, and for its
columns he used to write such vivid descriptions of the
agonies endured by the convicts at the hands of the
flagellator, that the hair of the citizens used occa-
sionally not to Kyrle, but to stand up quite atm
Kyrle is the husband of Eugenie Legrande.
“ W. E. Johnson, M.D.,” writes to the Timtts
stating that Miss Adelaide Neilson’s chief comnlnUV’
was gastralgia-one of the forms of dyspepsia attended
w ith neuralgia of the stomach, a form extremely fn-n
tastic in its coming and going, and, in her case, quite -is
dependent on moral causes as on errors of diet
The last fatal attack might have been relieved as
it often had been before, by a free use of morphine
The post-mortem examination made next day bv Dr*
Brouradel, one of the first authorities in Europe in
legal medicine, disclosed the extraordinary fact one of
the rarest in the history of medicine, that in her
writhing she had ruptured a varicose vein in the left
Fallopian tube, and had died from internal hemorrhage
Two quarts and a half of blood were found in the peril
toneal cavity, and the ruptured vein presented an
orifice of from four to five millimetres in diameter.
Great difficulty has been experienced in
Auckland by Mr. W. W. Cole (says our correspondent!
in getting a site for his Mammoth Circus Show and
Menagerie. He was to open on the 20th. One of the
features is_ the proprietor never allows a “pad” to
enter the ring, all the acts being barebacked. One of
the ’Frisco papers, in an account of the show, says
Frank A. Gardiner leaps 34 feet over an object 14 to 15
feet high in the centre, consisting of an elephant on a
four-foot pedestal, and flanked by ten. camels and five
horses. He has a New York “ Clipper ” record of a 32
feet leap at Gilmore’s Garden—the biggest in print
which he has beaten by 2 feet since, and he says quietly
that he intends to go over more horses still while he is
in 'Frisco. His jockey act is marvellous, and the best
worked-up finish ever seen. He concludes the act by
three jumps on to his horse when at full speed without
using his hands—the first sideways, the second
straddling, and the third clear to his feet, the horse, of
course, at full gallop all the time.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The census returns show that fifteen millions
iu America never enter a church.
The rationalising tendencies of the Netherlands
Reformed Church are increasing.
The average income of 33 C. of E. clergymen in
Victoria amounts to only £227 each.
The Rev. Mr. Roberts, Wesleyan missionary from
South Africa, is publishing a Zulu dictionory.
The Bishop of Melbourne’s income from the
Church is £l5OO a year, of which sum he gives £3OO back.
Another batch of English, Scotch, and Welsh
recruits to Mormonism recently passed through New
York.
Alderman M‘Arthur, the new Lord Mayor of
London, is the first Wesleyan that ever occupied the
position.
The Pope has, after strict inquiries into the
financial difficulties of Monsignor Capel, granted £14,000
for his relief.
The Rev. F. Shann has just resigned his charge
of the Baptist church, St. Kilda, Melbourne, under some-
what painful circumstances.
Gustave Don'.- is painting a colossal picture in
illustration of the text, “ Come unto me all ye that
labour, and are heavy laden."
Bishop Herzog, of Switzerland, who has a plan
for uniting all the Churches in the universe, is atteud-
the Presbyterian (Ecumenical Council at Philadelphia,
The Congregationalists of the United States re-
cently sent out about twelve missionaries to China and
Japan. Miss Kellog and Miss Britton were among them.
Dr. Gilchrist, of Hotham, has severed his con-
nection with the Presbyterian Church of Victoria. He
objected to paying the usual percentage on the sale of
land.
A service was recently announced at St. Mat-
thew’s, Sydenham, London, for children of the upper
classes! In future, therefore, we will read—-" Suffer
little children of the upper classes to come unto me! ’*
Bishop Elder, of the Cincinnati R. C. Church,
whilst administering the sacrament, passed by several
ladies kneeling at the altar who wore extra ringlets and
fizzles, in spite of his admonitions publicly announced.
The grand gifts of money and food from the
various Christian nations to the Chinese during the
last terrible famine has resulted in numerous invi-
tations to Christian missionaries to visit heathen
districts.
The Spiritualists of Auckland were greatly dis-
appointed at Dr. Peebles’ non-arrival by the last mail-
boat from ’Frisco. Preparations had been made for a
lecture during the unloading of the steamer. He leaves
by the November mail for Australia,
Dr. Pusey agrees with Dr. Farrar on an impor-
tant question. He declares that it is not a dogma de
fide that those who die iu a state of sin cannot be r(>
claimed hereafter. Canon Farrar replies that this is all
he has ever asserted in his sermons on eternal punish-
ment.
Preaching at Melbourne the other day, the Rev.
Rabbi Davis, of Sydney, expressed a firm belief that
Queen Victoria was a descendant of. a noble Jewish
family of antiquity, and he supported the theory of the
Auglo-Israelites, who believe that the English people
are of Jewish descent.
The Rev. Chas. Strong tried some time ago to
get nine elders for the Scots’ Church, in Collins-street,
Melbourne, as lie had only two working elders for that
large church. Nine men were elected, but when it
cams to the point of signing the formula required,
most of them withdrew.
The revised version of the New Testament will
be published about April, 1881, by which time the Greek
texts will have been completed. The editorial work, as
regards the revised English version, has been entrusted
by the Universities to the Rev. J. Trontbeck, secretary
of the Testament company.
In “ bodily presence ” Mr. Spurgeon, senior, is
not imposing. Short, thick-set, and stout, with plain
dress and wide-awake, he would not attract any notice
in a crowd. His face looks young and bright, and there
are not many grey hairs; but often he has a weary and
pain-work look, and it is well-known that he is a great
sufferer.
The Emperor of Austria has presented a complete
printing establishment to the Rev. Monsignor Cosi,
Chinese Bishop, to assist him in printing his new
Chinese alphabet. Before the Bishop’s invention
30,000 signs were required, but now all the sounds in
the Chinese tongue can be clearly expressed by this new
alphabet.
A converted Brahmin, speaking recently in Cali-
fornia, said that there were 500,000 native Christians
attached to the Protestant native missions in India.
The great Hindoo, Parsee, and Mahommedan systems
of theology had lately received a shock which went to
their foundations, and in a few years might be expected
great revivals and converts by hundreds of thousands.
The Anglican Synod at Christchurch, N.Z., on
votes, lately decided against free seats. Bishop Neville
announced that the Rev. William Gust, son of the Dean
of York, had accepted a license in his diocese. The
Synod resolved to request the Government to extend to
the Church of England an equal opportunity for the
instruction of its children in the Industrial Schools
with that accorded to the Roman Catholic Church.
It is stated thatthe “ Shelachim”—thatis to say,
begging messengers from the Holy Laud- -receive 40 per
cent, on the amounts collected by them, and travel free or
charge. A case is mentioned by the Jewish Chronicle
(London) in which one individual enjoyed a gratuitous
tour of two years, and collected no less than £5200, on
which his commission would be £2OB0 —a colossal for-
tune in Jerusalem. He is now enjoying his othun cuifi
dignitate in the happy consciousness of having done ms
duty. .
Rev. C. M. Nelson, of St. Paul’s Church, Auck-
land, N.Z., .found it necessary to comment strongly from
the pulpit on the disgraceful conduct of certain of rne
younger members of his church (belonging to tn
“hupper suckels”), and announced that a repetition o
the behaviour in question would bring about the ex P’~'
sion of the offenders. Writing on this matter, a .eC“'
respondent of one of the local papers says that co “ sl< vj *
ing the theatrical mummery that’s enacted every bunaay
in the church, he doesn’t wonder at young people being
frivolous.
November 27, 1880.


Almost too good to be true, but it is a fact,
nevertheless, that you may obtain relief, all that suffer
from general dyspepsia, without the disagreeable sen-
sation of taking pills. To avoid this, just try the great
family medicine of the day-—Rauderson’s Podophyllin
Lozenges. Thanks to his name for combining in n
lozenge the harmless properties usually compounded in
pills. So deceptive are these little lozenges, that your
youngest child will gladly take a dose without knowing
there is physic in the harmless treatment. Price, Is.
per box ; sold every where.—-Ad vt.
PEPPER AND SALT.
We believe in the eternal fitness of things.
Ergo, sly-erog-selling cases are rightly tried at the
Water Police Court. On Thursday last, Benjamin
Turley enjoyed a bottle of porter (price 2s. 6d.) with
the inmates of 85 Castlereagh-street, and then pro-
ceeded to inform the police. For this breach of the
law the host at 85 is fined £3O, with ss. 6d and £2 2s.
. costs, and fourteen days to pay, or three months’ im-
prisonment. Turley—lucky man—gets £l5 less 2s. 6d.,
for the fatal shout. Now, uv,called attention to a
similar breach of the Licensing Act a fortnight ago. by
• a large boarding-house keeper in Macquarie-street. We
are waiting to be treated as well as Turley.
Saturday’s Freeman says : “ John Davies,
-C.M.G-, does not canvass for votes in the ordinary,
vulgar way. He simply stands near the entrance of the
polling booths and shakes hands with each elector. He
is not afraid of dirtying his hands—nor are the electors
• either.” Good for York-street —very.
One of the Mercantile boatists did rather a
smart trick on Friday last. It seems he went to photo-
grapher Woods, got seventy photos of himself for 25.,
and then sold the lot in a country town as the picture
of Edward Hanlan. To say the least this spec, betrays
genius of a very high order.
Fellow-electors! What went ye out to see ?
A reed shaken by the wind P If ye did ye made a grand
mistake, for not all the wind of even the great Buchanan
can ruffle the skirts of the Reid who topped the poll
last Monday. “Our Boys” are still to the fore, and
though one should fall another fills his place im-
mediately.
Last Saturday night the Kelly gang stuck up
the whole of Camnbell-street. This street was posi-
tively blocked with every rank and sex, all eager to
feast their eyes on the fascinating spectacle of a rough
bushman and his helpless sister. 0 earns hominum!
What trifles form the cares of men; and ditto as re-
gards the women. Unless prevented by the authorities
these talented artistes show this week, and we venture
to remark that their opening night will bring a greater
crush than an Irving Shakespearian reading or a Sims
Reeves and Santley concert.
During the past fortnight five of the telegraph
officials have become the happy fathers of five blooming
daughters. Straws show how the wind blows, and we
therefore infer from the above fact that lady operators
are rapidly coming into favor, because as Darwin says,
whenever a vacuum arises something is immediately
iformed to fill it.
One of the disinterested candidates for a late
-election was lately accused of promising a Protestant
friend to vote for the Education Bill, and of confidently
informing a Catholic that he would shoot it out of the
House at the earliest opportunity. He seemed a little
hurt at first over the charge, and, drawing himself
proudly up, he smote his breast and said, “ Sir, when
Providence places me in a dilemma in which I must
either assert a lie or lose my seat, my conscience gives
me a clear indication of my duty, and I therefore—tell
the lie.”
Another candidate of the working class persua-
sion. being somewhat doubtful of the success of his
maiden effort, got up rather early on the nomination
■morning, and began rehearsing his speech on the hack
verandah. “Gentlemen,” shouted the coming man, as
he leaned across the bannisters, “ the time has arrived
when the present state of affairs demands a change.
The poor workin’ man must have his rights as well as
the rich man, or any other man; and, gentlemen, the
time will even come when the workin’ class will not
only conquer the bloated scions of a debilitated aris-
tocracy,-but they will lay each particular scion across
their knees and spank them into fritters. We are a free
race, gentlemen ; Britons never shall be slaves, and if
you will honour me with a ” Just here, the speaker,
imagining he was on the hustings, began to trot, as he
thought, to the opposite end, hut not having previously
noticed a large tub full of dirty suds, he fell head first
into the same with a crash that would wake a mummy.
His wife, hearing the row, immediately rushed out,
■saying, “ O, gracious, John ! have you gone and killed
yourself ? ” “ Go to Beelzebub ! ” returned the orator,
as he scrambled up and picked the soap out of his eyes,
“ what does women know of politics ? ” However, that
incident spoilt any more rehearsals.
It is strange, but true, that any healthy citizen
■can go into the first house he comes to in this city and
■borrow either the Bible or Shakspeare with the greatest
■ease; but let him ask for a copy of Ouida’s “Moths,”
and he is at once told the party asked has never heard
of the naughty work in question. This may at first
■seem a pretty good reason for not lending Miss Ouida’s
book, but as nearly every respectable person now has at
least one copy under his or her pillow, the borrowing
individual may be excused if he repeats Pilate’s great
conundrum—“ What is truth ? ”
•Diomed was a plucky man to creep into the
Thracian camp, and bore a hole in the slumbering chief,
and so also was the fellow who broke into one of our
gaols, and stole the warder’s blankets; hut for cool,
■deliberate cheek, the man who sidled into the polling-
booth on Monday last and impersonated Crown Solicitor
Williams must claim the belt from all comers. Con-
tempt of Court was a circumstance compared to this.
Alfred Allen poetically observes, “ Woman is
man’s beacon light through'life ;” but Alfred leaves out
-the most important item. He forgets that man has to
buy the oil; and, in these days, even trimming the lamp
is rather a costly matter, also. Try again, Alfred.
■Something about the Chinese question will, perhaps,
suit ns better.
Ex-Alderman Steele says if he can’t get a seat
in Parliament he stands a good show for getting one in
"Paradise. He is bounded on the east by St. Peter’s
(R.C.), on the west by the Church of England, and on
the south by a church of Wesley; and if he could only
induce the Jews to start a synagogue to the north, he
would rig up four telephones, and in less than three
mouth’s time he would be full of holy joy.
Alfred Tennyson Byron Moore Swinbourne
Happiland walked into the Coffee Palace one day last
week and called for a plate of calves’ tails. “ Do yon
really like that dish:-” asked the girl with the
nose retrousse, as she watched the morsels fading fast
from her anxious gaze. “I does, you het!” said the
romantic hard. “ Well, I’ve often heard that extremes
meet,” replied the wondex-ing fair, “ but I never saw
■the conjunction until to-day.’ “ Pass the mustard!
sa’d he of the mind divine, and there the conversation
-ended. Frank Warden is our authority for the above,
but we have read a similar tale in Cicero.
A certain publican, who shall be nameless, but
■who is very well known as Uhde, has invented a
capital plan for easing himself and customers of the
hurdy-gurdy and other harmonious nuisances which
' now abound in Sydney. As soon as the assassins pitch
•their camp and begin to tune up, the cautious Uhde
trips softly out, puts his finger to his hps, and gently
whispers; “ Hush ! —not a sound there s a party up-
stairs dying.” The bandits of course trot off, and
Uhde goes his way rejoicing. As John Stoefel says,
however, the peripatetic Mozarts are beginning to
“ smell a mouse,” and as the harp and violin artistes
were about to dive into Lucrezia Borgia the other day,
a prominent member of the German band called out
■from the other side of the street: “ Hey] A ot you
vas do dere mit your music ? Dot blace is von hos-
pital, und peoples die dere efry day—you ought to pe
ashamed mit myself, you oxight.” Some of these nights
the White Horse will get a serenade that will remind
the owner of the day that Joshua blew down the walls
of Jericho.
Sir Redmond Barry is dead. Less than a month
ago, Ned Kelly stood before him to be sent to the
gallows. Were not the outlaw’s words prophetic ? To
■quote for the last time, the Strathbogie bushranger,
“ Such is life I”
There is a man in Sydney who will never forget
Sir Henry Parkes. He resides somewhere in the
suburbs with his family, and he told this story in the
train the other day. He had immigrated to this
country on the strength of the glowing accounts given
by Sir Henry when lecturing at home. Coming here in
bad times, he didn’t find the place “ flowing with milk
and honey,” as described, and after vainly endeavoring
to make headway, he called on Sir Henry, who by this
time had returned. What he wanted was an explana-
tion. “ You said there was gold in Sydney.” “And so
there is,” replied Sir Henry. “ But it belongs to other
people,” said the immigrant. “ And what’s the odds,”
replied Sir Henry. “ You’ve got to get on.” Here the
politician winked. The man “ took it,” and went out
and prospered.
A C.M.G.-ship was once offered to Sir John
Robertson. It was offered at the same time to Saul
Samuel. The following scene occurred. It was mail
day. Sir John was running up the steps of the Post
Office, and he met Saul. “ Ah! Robertson, where are
you going ?” said the latter. “I’m going to post this
letter home,” was the rather forcible reply. “ I
don’t want any of their C.M G.-ships.” “ Oh!
I wouldn’t refuse,” said Saul; you’ll offend the Queen;
I’ll accept.” “ Here, take mine,” urged the veteran,
holding out the letter; “take both. What does the
Queen know about it P What a d d lot the Queen
knows about Saul Samuel ? Ha ! ha ! ha ! and the old
chap stroked his beard. “ It’s done in the Home Office.
That’s why there’s such a lot of fools with
titles.” Saul walked off. Sir John posted his letter.
Here is a sample of a class of contributions well-
adapted to the waste-basket :—“ To the Editor of The
Bulletin. Dear Sir,—Last summer no less than six
gentlemen residing at Manly Beach adopted the fashion
of the eye-glass; this summer it has dwindled down to
two. One of these gentlemen, who resides at a private
boarding-house facing the ocean beach, is so fond of the
glass that he actually retires to rest with one under his
pillow. A fact. Yours truly, Ida.” Now, Ida, how do
yon know about the pillow ?
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[Br One of Us.]
There is a young woman in Brisbane, aged 32,
who will be a grandmother directly.
“Ninny” Bartley, who has ridden the same
pony for seventeen years, has at length mustered up
the courage to have her shod. There is a fearful rise in
the price of shoeing in consequence.
Gately, the Victorian ex-hangman, is at present
a confinee at St. Helena, the penal establishment of
QTand. He bit his tongue and tore his hair when he
found he would not be out in time to assist Ned Kelly
to the realms of bliss ; but, as a blackfellow had to be
flogged on the island that day, he prayed to be allowed
to lend a. hand. It was suggested that he should take
the blackfellow’s place. And, apropos of the aforesaid
blackfellow, when he got lash No. 1, he jocularly
remarked, “ One,” and kept his count after each cut
till No. 20 was reached, when he said, “ D— it, that
was the unkindest cut of all.”
Bandmann has been inspecting the State schools
in the QTand metropolis. He has always professed
himself an admirer of juvenile talent, but he doesn’t
think much of the State scholar who said rather
audibly, “ What a funny old man—he’s just like a grave
digger.”
Joe Abrahams got very noisy at the settling
over the Q.T.C. races, and, amongst other things,
hoisted the totalisator sky high, so far as his flow of
language would permit : hut he felt a little hit quieter
when it was suggested that a forcible removal would be
necessary if he persisted. Tact was, Joe had just been
“smit” for £‘soo, and having squared up, wanted to
take it out.
There is a very general report among pressmen
that Mr. Gresley Lukin leaves Brisbane. The John-
sonians will not let the occasion pass without giving him
a spree. He was their first president—and so far as the
“boys” are concerned, there ax-e no two opinions—a
good sort. It is said that he goes to Sydney to help on
what so far has not been by any means a brilliant
newspaper venture.
When there is a fire in Brisbane, the favorite
query of one insurance agent to another is, “Does it
belong to yon ?” and if he says “ Yes,” then the other
boys take him to the nearest “ pub,” and give him a
“ squash,” and if he is particularly cxxt up they make it
“ squasher.”
The weather in Brisbane on Nov. 14 and 15 was
truly appalling—for heat. It is computed that Bobby
Byrne alone perspired two gallons and imbibed five.
What did the other 35,000 do with 100• in the shade, and
taking them quite unawai'cs ?
Somebody has called Judge Blake “ the
champion butter-eater of Queensland,” hut there is a
man on Charters Towers (which, while Thadeus O’Kane
is there, will be the hottest place in creation) who will
bet the Judge a level ten pounds about the champion-
ship. See to it, Judge.
The old theatre in Brisbane is assuming such
goodly shape that it will be a credit to its architect —
Stombnco, formerly of Goulburn—its builders, and the
city.
Almost as soon as the result of the Trickott-
Hanlan match was known in Brisbane Punch went to
his artist, and a very clever caricature insulted. It
depicted the American eagle sitting on a gallows looking
at a suspended kangaroo—very like Ned Kelly—while
the stripes and stars floated overhead. Unfortunately
for the caricature, the American eagle had nothing to
do with the race.
Steve Byrne, of the Royal, is a Trickett man to
the backbone, and he had Trickett colors over the Union
Jack, and clouds of bunting ready to suspend across
Queen-street when the news should arrive. When it
did come he entered into his den, shut the door, and
prayed for better luck next time.
The cry of the Brisbane barmaids, epousez-rnol
has been nobly answered lately. One manned last week
and two others engaged.
Bandmann is not a success in Brisbane. Keogh
as a showman is most unfortunate.
“ Dr.” Lynn has been showing for oyer six
weeks in Brisbane, and by the aid of a lavish distribu-
tion of gifts, makes fair wages.
The Chief Justice of Queensland and Mr*
Robert Wilson have conjointly presented the Johnsonian
Club with a fifty-guinea piano.
Gresley Lukin, of the Courier, has obtained a
verdict of £BOO damages against the Australian news-
paper. It is said that the libel was written by a
member of the Upper House, who gave the newspaper
an indemnity against all loss for publishing it.
Bandmann writes to the papers that his ren-
dering of Richard 111. is not that of Shakespeare, but
of Colley Cibber. “ That,” remarks the Observer,
“ would account for a man in the pit firing at Cibber
with a horse pistol.” The mystery is solved.
C. H. Buzacott, P«stmaster-General of Queens-
land, will succeed Gresley Lukin as manager of the
Courier.
King, of Gowrie Station, Queensland’s Com-
missioner at the Melbourne Exhibition, has been
appointed by the Government to proceed to England
and make further enquiries regarding the steel-rail
bungle.
A hairdresser at Aramac advertises, “ Shaving
slick and clean (jugular veins and arteries, pimples and
moles carefullv avoided).”
Visitors, and especially “pros.” staying at a
certain hotel in Brisbane are cautioned to keep the doors
of their verandah rooms closed. There is a man who
has “ one eye ” on them. A word to the wise, etc.
Sir Arthur Kennedy, Governor of Queensland,
was expected in Brisbane on the 20th. The Chmkies
had purchased lafge stocks of crackers with which to
celebrate the event.
A seedy-looking swagman, carrying a lesser
weight of personal luggage than of bad liquor, emerged
gloomily from a Maryborough “ pub,” the other night,
and accosted the first man he met with : “ Say, mate,
show’s the way to pawnbrokersh-hop.” The accosted
one looked thoughtful for a moment, and then pointed
in the direction of the Queensland National Bank.
At the last District Court sitting in Mary-
borough, a local lawyer, whose regularity m the matter
of “nips” is most praiseworthy, cross-examined a
publican. The several-times-repeated query, “ How far
is your xmblic-honse from town ?” at last brought ont-
the rejoinder, “ Oh, I don’t know; you know a jolly
sight better than I do.” Chorus of bystanders, “ True
for you, me boy.”
There is a rumour that the coming pantomime
at a Northern Queensland city will be called the “ Bad
Man and Little Bopeep,” and that one of the principal
characters is to be a nautical man, who, as he stitches
away at his canvas, sings—
I works opposite the King’s Hotel,
An’ I guess that I pipes pretty well —
It’s nice to play the father to a nice young gal!
There is a man in Brisbane who has appeared in
court about a dozen times to secure a conviction against
his neighbour’s well, dust-heap. His principal wit-
nesses are bags of flies caught in the very act. So far, the
fly-catcher has had all the worst of the game.
There were signs of a big demonstration in the
Courier office, Brisbane, after the verdict for £BOO had
been given against the Australian. Champagne has
not yet ceased to flow.
Sam Griffiths never distinguished himself so
much for calm, biting sarcasm and ruthless denuncia-
tion as on Wednesday night, in the Queensland Legisla-
tive Assembly, when, amid a storm of howls from the
Ministerial Benches, which greeted every fresh attack
on them with cries of “ It’s a lie,” he made what may
be called his “ great” speech on the steel-rail business,
and directly inculpated the Premier with the loss to the
colony of £60,000. Sam never lost his temper at the
interruptions, but with curling upper' lip and a voice
which rose triumphantly above the uproar, he had his
say, and sat down leaving an impression on the other
side that when he does sit on his tail it does not pay to
come within arm’s length.
Boucioault, late of the Northern Argus
Rockhampton, who has turned brewer, relates that a
practical man arrived at an hotel, asked for a glass of
Boucicault, was served an error with British, tasted:
threw it away in disgust. Then asked for a glass of
British, was served with Boucicault; remarked,
“ never tasted such beer in his life.”
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[By the Children of the Sun. ]
A little girl of three years for the first time saw
a lady putting on her jersey, and said, “ Oh auntie, do
you put your football shaert (shirt) over your new jess
(dress) —now where are the chowsers ?”
A child up-country calls hailstones “ God’s
lollies.” On this being repeated to an ex-squatter he
said, “ To me they were far more like Devil’s bullets."
Four o’clock tea gratis in the Indian Court of
the International is very attractive to the elderly
dames, some of whom are observed regularly to present
themselves.
The fact that the Strauss Band did not play
“ God Save the Queen” at the M.C.C. and M.F.C. Sports
on Prince of Wales’ Birthday was very complimentary
to our future King.
At the moonlight concert on the 15th current
several larrikins and their “lady ” friends jumped the
fence of the ladies’ reserve, and had a jovial waltz on
the ground prepared for lawn tennis. The tears of the
secretary next morning did not repair the damaged
done.
The principal of our most fashionable Ladies’
College is most wonderfully fond of playing with his
moustache and whiskers in public. It’s not known
whether he does it to amuse himself or his pupils.
Lately two young ladies of the same college
were expelled—one, a boarder, for having written a
letter to a young gentleman; the other, a day scholar,
for having posted it. The principal, a pious young
man, never wrote a billet-doux on the sly himself.
Ketten’s concerts at the Town Hall were
invariably crowded. Two ladies wished for seats in the
south gallery, an exceedingly good place for seeing and
hearing the great pianist. The doorkeeper would not
allow them to go up, saying that every seat was full.
The younger lady pleaded in vain, and then, beauty
having failed, the elder lady, who was grey-haired, tried
an appeal to his bump of veneration. “No, madam,”
he replied, “ there’s not room for a kitten, and I aint
agoin’ to let a cat up. An’ you’d better look alive,inside,
or there’ll be no seats downstairs either."
Six wet Sundays following each other is
phenomenal here. Two exceptionally fine Tuesdays also
for two holidays are curious—one for the Cup Day, and
the other for Prince of Wales’ Birthday.
A well-known doctor, who always drives him-
self, is getting very fat. The sawbones across the way
says his friend ought to walk more—that if he were his
.own horse instead of his own coachman he wouldn’t be
so fat.
Berry hopes to realise i 860,000 in eight months
by his beer-tax. To achieve this result it will be in-
cumbent on every man, woman, and child to consume
eight gallons of beer, or a gallon a month. The neces-
sary average will, however, be made up should the
Government be “Liberal" enough to supply the fluid
gratis.
The other day a well-known Civil servant, who
is known for his thorough “ good fellow” qualifications,
lounged in upon the political head of his department
with the enquiry, “Am I, sir, to be included in the list
of reductions ? Not that it affects me much personally,
but there are a large number of excellent tradespeople
who are seriously interested." The Minister’s answer
is not recorded.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
“ Nine o’clock,” said the sweet girl to her maid.
“ I must begin to undress for the ball.”
“ Portraits painted cheap for cash, and a cruel
resemblance guaranteed,” is on the door of a studio.
“ Go away, you naughty boy,” said the cook to
young Adolphus, who was trying to kiss her, “ your
father is so jealous.”
A very disagreeable old gentleman dies. A
nephew suggests for his epitaph : “ Deeply regretted by
all who never knew him.”
She thought she knew the face of that elderly
gentleman in the street. “Are you M. Raoul?” en-
quired she. “No, mademoiselle, but I once was.
Guest (who has a complaint to make) to restau-
rant waiter : “ Where is your master ?” “Do you
think he dines here ? He knows too much for that.”
“Any more orders, sir?” asked a faithful
servant of his inebriated master. “No —that’s to say,
let me sleep until I am thirsty ; then be sure to call
me.”
“ Yes, my dear, the loss of his wife is a terrible
blow to him. He is inconsolable, and goes every day to
lint flowers on her grave.” “When does he marry
again ?”
He went into Compagnoni’s. “What’s the
price of a first-class dinner ?’’ “ Hnlf-a-crown.” “And
of a supper?” “Two shillings.” “Then I’ll take a
supper.”
Dr. is a fervent materialist. He was re-
calling certain souvenirs of his youth and said, “ at that
time I was in love with an agglomeration of molecules
called Josephine.”
She was twenty and handsome, and somebody
proposed an old man to her for her husband. The
amorous swain was rich —and sixtj - . “ Humph ! ” she
said, “he’s too young.”
The waiter was uncivil, and to him the guest
exclaimed: “My friend, you need hardly be so rude.
Yon don’t know what may be in store for you. Some
day you may be a customer here.”
The fast pair saw the dear little woman pro-
menading with her husband. “ Ha! ” said Brown,
“ I have an appointment with her at eight. ” “ And I
at ten,” observed Jones, with a snigger.
“ The Missis ” went into the kitchen and found
herself face to face with a young man. “ What is he
doing here ?” she enquired of the kitchen girl. “ You’re
still young enough to understand,” replied Bridget.
He is an advocate, very fond of cards. The
young widow by whom he is sought in marriage takes
the advice of a friend. “Is he industrious?” “As
any gambler.” “Is he generous ?” “As any lawyer.
When the Prince of Wales visited the Aqua-
rium, the onrang-outang had an extra meal. It is
satisfactory to know that royalty does mean extra
meals to something, even though it be an ourang-
outang.
Francois was eating his dinner in the cafe, and
a rough man blew across the table huge clouds of (bad)
tobucco-smoke. “ PRrden, sir,” said Francois, “ I hope
that I don’t annoy you by continuing to eat while you
are smoking.”'
A drunkard was told by a policeman to hold his
noise. He refused to do so, aud_ was arrested. “ All
right,” said be, as he was thrust into his cell, “when
the new Ministry comes in you’ll be the drunkard and I
the policeman.”
He said to- his future mother-in-law : “It is well
that I should tell you before marriage that 1 am hot-
tempered and sometimes get angry without reason.” Re-
plied she: “ Oh, never mind about that; I’ll see that
you never lack reason.”
She was old and blue-nosed, and was getting
out of au omnibus. Remarked she : “ They don’t seem
to be as crowded as they used to he. Why, when I was
young I was always feeling some man’s knee or elbow
against me. I don’t any more.”
Paul is on the best of terms with Alfred’s wife,
and also with Alfred. However, the other day a mutual
1 friend encountered Paul with a pretty actress. Said the
friend to Paul, soito- rote, “ It’s too had of you to deceive
your poor friend Alfred like this.”
“ False, false ! Angelina, that woman on whose
fidelity I could have staked my life, and whom I have
overwhelmed with presents! Ihave a rival —a fortunate
rival!” “Well, and what ot that! Hasn’t he got a
fortunate rival in yon ? You’re quits.”
At breakfast, a remarkably light omelette
souffee is served, but the guests are conversing and
neglect it. It begins to settle down from its appetizing
airiness. Says the little daughter of the house, in dis-
gust, “ See, ma! the omelette is eating itself!"
“ Papa, didn’t you scold me the other day for
biting my little brother ?” “ Yes, my child, it was very
naughty.” “ Then, papa, you ought to scold mamma’s
piano-teacher, for he bit her on her lip the other day
and put his arms around her neck as if he was going to
choke her.”
One of the home papers tells how the Queen’s
gardener exhibited two pine-apples at a flower
and fruit show; how they, of course, won the prize,
and were furthermore put into a room by themselves
and elegantly set out on blue cloth; and how, finally, a
couple of fusiliers were set to mount guard over them.
A well-known bishop sees a stranger fall in the
street as if in a fit. “Is he dead ?” cries a voice. “ Run
for a doctor," cries another. “Run for a preacher,”
exclaimed the bishop. “A preacher! aren’t you one ?”
asked a man who recognised the bishop. “Yes, so I
am, but I’d forgotten it,” replied the dignitary in con-
fusion.
A worthy bachelor ecclesiastic strongly advised
his gardener to marry. The gardener promised to think
of it. “ Have you found a wife yet ?” asked the clergy-
man a few days afterwards. “ No, not yet,” replied the
gardener, timidly ; “ I prefer to be guided by your taste.
Please choose me one as if yon were choosing for
yourself.”
A C. E. clergyman in a suburb close to Mel-
bourne kissed one of the Sunday-school teachers in the
vestry of the church last Sunday. The affair was wit-
nessed through the keyhole, and gave rise to some
talk. It was subsequently discovered that the teacher
was the clergyman’s daughter. The old ladies in the
parish are howling with indignation at being defrauded
of a sweet scandal.
Near the Invalicles, Paris, is a cheap show where
may be seen an educated pig, a collection of stuffed
snakes and birds, and a fat woman weighing something
over 10011 >s. This elephantic female is the wife of the
proprietor of these attractions. It was about her that
her husband talked to a friend rather confidentially the
other day : “ I know that she is false to mq” he said,
“but what can Ido ? If I bother about it she’ll grow
thin.”
INTAGLIOS.
Forgotten Kisses.
They parted with clasps of hand.
And kisses, and burning tears.
They met in a foreign land.
After some twenty years.
Met as acquaintances meet,
Smilingly, tranquil-eyed—
Not even the least little beat
Of the heart upon either side!
They chatted of this and that,
The nothings that make up life;
She in a Gainsborough hat.
And he in black for his wife.
Ah, what a comedy this is !
Neither was hurt it appears;
She had forgotten his kisses,
And he had forgotten her tears.
My Sweetheart.
She is not fair to outward view.
As many maidens be.
Her loveliness I never knew.
Until—she smiled on me;
Oh, then I saw her eye was bright—
A well of love, a spring of light 1
But now her looks are coy and cold,
To mine they ne’er reply ;
And yet I cease not to behold
The love-light in her eye ;
Her very frowns are fairer far
Than smiles of other maidens are.
On a Gray Day.
Led by the fleet-footed hours,
The summer follows the spring;
The fragrance is borne in the flowers.
The color blooms in the wing
Of the bird that dips on the dancing spray.
Where but now the cold ice hung.
And beauty clings to the changing day.
As lore to the heart that’s young.
Would that the story was ended !
But the fall to the summer succeeds.
The mist with the morning is blended.
The slow steam cbilleth the weeds.
The hoarse, wet wind on his rugged way
Mocks the leaves in their tarnished gold.
And music falls from the moaning day.
As hope from the heart that’s old.


Peapes and Shaw’s
Public Companies
fJHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase in
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq.
William B. Walford, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esq.
William A. Long, Esq,
Head Office, Sydney.
Cixr and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket 1 Redfern 1 Glebe.
London Office— 18 Kino William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. ’
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
T
'HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869,
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £116,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm, Bnsby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street,
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England,
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
A. SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1840.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C,, Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrioe A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘ It is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STEELING.
1HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (iate 247), GEORGE STREET
(Formerly the Mercantile Bank).
Capital, £100,000, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President,
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery, Esq., J.P. I P, Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Eubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
EIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
Ii I0N
FIRE
INSURANCE
Limited.
COMPANY.
Chief Office— o, LOTHBUEY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E E,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Lrticles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver. *
lrticles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
IEMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £550,000. Reserve Fund, £570,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; "Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office-39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G. ;'F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; P. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombola, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltowu, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Coetamnn-
<ira, Cudal, Dnbbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrumndi, Murwillnmbab (Tweed River), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaveu, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Wood bum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia ; The Bank ot South Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank ot
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diemau’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The Loudon and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Gotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso ; Banco Naoionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bonk of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, pt current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in tbo colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUE-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED),
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£290 House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£too do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accep FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW YOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
SUMMER CLOTHING FOR GENTLEMEN.
MODERN CUT, SUPERIOR FINISH, and UNSUR-
PASSED for STERLING VALUE.
PEAPES and SHAW’S WHITE MILITARY
DUCK COATS,
Stand-up collars, patch pockets, beautifully made,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SUPERIOR SILK SAC COATS,
all pure bright silk, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S PINE BLUE SERGE SUITS,
admirably suited for Tourists or Business Men,
37s 6d the suit.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILKY ALPACA SAC COATS,
the very thing for office wear,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d each.
PEAPES and SHAW’S SILK PALETOT DUST COATS,
extra well-cut and finished, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d, 255.
PEAPES and SHAW’S CLIFTON TWEED SUITS,
fashionable patterns, light and durable,
425, 455, 50s, 555, 635.
PEAPES and SHAW’S MILITARY DUCK VESTS,
and Navy Drill ditto, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
LIGHT SUMMER TWEED PALETOT OVERCOATS,
27s 6d, 30s, 32s 6d, 355, 425.
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
CHRISTY’S HATS
- A Large Shipment just received.
Newest Shapes in HARD FELT,
from 5s 6d each. Drab Shells, Silk
Hats and Helmets, all the latest
Summer Fashions.
BEAUTIFUL NEW GOODS FOR SUMMER.
PE APES and SHAW beg to call the attention ot
Ladies to their stock of
SUMMER GOODS,
comprising NOVELTIES in EVERY DEPARTMENT.
Onr representatives in London and Paris have supplied
us this season with some of the CHOICEST GOODS we
have ever had the pleasure of SUBMITTING to OUR
PATRONS.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-street.
STYLISH FRENCH
MILLINERY,
PER STEAMERS
MONTHLY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S
GLOVES,
TWO-BUTTONS, at
HALF-A-CROWN f-
PAIR, ARE
UNRIVALLED.
PEAPES and SHAW,
George-ftreet.
r JUST OPENED.
SPANISH and LANGUEDOC
LACE, in OLD GOLD, CREAM
WHITE, and BLACK •
SILK and CHENILLE MAN-
TLES
NEW SILK and CASHMERE
VISITES
POMPADOUR SATEENS
HELIOTEOPE and SILVER
RIBBONS
OLD GOLD BROCADE RIB-
BONS
SILVER and GOLD FRINGES
and CORDS
" THE NEW SILK DRESS
LACES
CHENILLE TINSELLED
SCARVES
NEW BALL SKIRTS and
COSTUMES
NEWEST WHITE, TINSEL-
LED and COLOURED EU-
CKINGS
BLACK SATIN PARASOLS
TRIMMED SPANISH LACE,
at 9s Sd, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s 6d
JET NECKLETS and BRACE-
L LETS.
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Blacket and Daty,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos., Biemingham.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY-,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, Foeges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
s
■j
m
m
$
UNADULTERATED
BAK/A/C POWDER
W
'■S wo
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
HAMUFABTURED BY W. QAVIES& C? COULBURH.M.SW
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2Jd. PEE GAIiLOI'
6ft. BATHS, 355., WITH PLUGS.
o O H .H ' I 1
H M
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
iWitiaiiSiiik
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY—G3I GEORGE STREET.
P. WELCH
PEACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIEE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian,
N.B- —Old Blinds Repaired and Painted .in the First Style.
Oriental Blind.
November 27, 1880.


Business Announcements
JJALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUS]
1
BEARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALIN Q- AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
B. MODI
GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 Georcje Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
IF. SoX |
■ \
c.v CfeoNOWe rtr'V/atch Makers &
and Opts ciams ,
i- ' ‘ ■ ' VCSr '«CAHPd i /
% zb Hunter Sthept
'4 CABtf
c
PICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
9
5
BATS bearing my NAME can he relied on.
The
largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
E
N
INTI
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and FairfaxJ.
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN. 1
Tobacconists
T
H
EGEN U I N I
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.
Richmond, Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
V
E
JAMES E
PW.TTBT? A r PT? TA
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
o y
I
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
fjl HO S. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRA.SSFINISHEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE,
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-sfreet, Sydney,
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
?ss
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making yonr purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and ae
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED POE FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List:—
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and Now Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNTABD-liANE, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBL I C
NOTICE
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
. MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
14. OXFORD STREET,
HALL
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT.
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
’’ ~'Ti~h TT*** B*'' 8 *''
“Tijmiu ° A R
k
it; I
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, cop'.ed, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
gI M S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Sell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
SEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to ail parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
HERBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PARKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H, Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
T
0 BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Baud Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOUS
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled as a
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation,
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi-
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs,
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack-
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
. in the throat, and asthma. Is fid, 2s fid, and 4s
fid.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES,
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease,
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s fid and 10s.
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
T
AKE
NO MORE
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, aud be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Aro any[of your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give t hem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES,
•ST Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
B Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to bo
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Mutter only.
Being made from the Wild Plauts which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull tha
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, nud scarcely any house can now bo
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and. miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to bo the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to tho
all-healing jiroperties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they cam
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josophson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can ho obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by tho testimonials from parties
af undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, aud the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to bo still pre-eminent over anything
jf the land yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
iud totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
ind Is fid each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELM INGHAM. Chemist.
H Y SIC.
F. W. BOYNE,
las commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Ihronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhoea, Piles,
Jlcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation —10 to 12,
.nd 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance, Medicines included,
Ine Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-street, near Market-street.


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
THE HURLSTONE ESTATE,
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
is the most important large
SUBURBAN FREEHOLD
now in the market.
S - The POSITION of this GRAND PROPERTY jo
exceedingly good, both for access to
TWO RAILWAY STATIONS,
SUMMER HtLL and ASHFIELD,
and for the ELEVATION, commanding, as it does
MOST EXTENSIVE
and PICTURESQUE VIEWS,
including the
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
BOTANY BAY,
THE CITY and HARBOUR.
CANTERBURY, PETERSHAM. STANMORE, BUR
WOOD, FIVE DOCK, &c.
*** The SUBDIVISION is the BEST and MOST
LIBERAL of any property offered at auction this season.
THE BLOCKS vary from 63 FEET to 50 FEET each
frontage, by depths of about 165 feet; and the subdivision
is so arranged that purchasers may secure LARGE
THROUGH BLOCKS from STREET to STREET, with
EXTENSIVE FRONTAGES.
«3* THE COLLEGE is a COMMODIUS and NEWLY*
ERECTED BUILDING, specially adapted for
COLLEGIATE PURPOSES,
and contains very large accomodation (of which FULL
PARTICULARS will be duly given), besides valuable
and useful outbuildings.
V This PROPERTY will be sold with a BLOCK of
LAND, having nearly
300 FEET FRONTAGE TO PROSPECT ROAD,
300 FEET FRONTAGE TO SANFORD STREET,
by the great depth of
330 FEET from STREET to STREET,
or nearly
TWO AND A HALF ACRES IN AREA.
The GROUNDS are tastefully laid out into
LAWN,
FLOWER and
KITCHEN GARDEN,
PADDOCK,
&c.,&c,
*** HURLSTONE is situate on the
HEIGHTS OF ASHFIELD,
and is bounded bv
ASHFIELD STREET
SEA VIEW STREET
SANFORD STREET
CANTERBDRY ROAD
PROSPECT ROAD,
nearly all of which are WIDE, WELL-MADE, and
PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARES
leading to the township of
ASHFIELD,
and the village of
SUMMER HILL.
The title is under
TORRENS’ ACT.
The terms will be
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT,
10 per cent, in 3 months. WITHOUT INTEREST, and
the balance may remain for a period of 2 years, bearing
interest at the VERY LOW RATE of FIVE PEE
CENT., and PURCHASERS will NOT be compelled to
give mortgages.
HAEDIE and GORMAN have received
POSITIVE INSTRUCTIONS to sell by public
auction, at 3 p.m.,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
27th NOVEMBER,
ON THE GROUND.
WITHOUT RESERVE,
THE HURLSTONE ESTATE.
ASHFIELD HEIGHTS,
comprising
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
and about
TWENTY-SEVEN ACRES
of
MAGNIFICENT
and
HIGHLY IMPROVED LAND,
surrounded by MAIN THOROUGHFARES,
now subdivided into
LARGE SUBURBAN BLOCKS
and
VILLA SITES,
by Messrs. Roberts, Harris, and Weston, as follows: —
SECTION 1.
63- THIRTY-SIX (36) LOTS fronting
ASHFIELD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
■ depths of about 165 FEET.
63* THIRTY (30) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
SECTION 2
63" TWENTY (20) LOTS, fronting
SANFORD STREET,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
63- FOURTEEN (14) LOTS, fronting
PROSPECT and CANTERBURY ROADS,
having frontages of 50 FEET and 66 FEET each, by
depths of about 165 feet.
On LOT 9, SECTION 2, the land having an area of about
TWO and a HALF ACRES,
stands
HURLSTONE COLLEGE,
with coachhouse and all usual outbrrildings.
Further particulars of the buildings and of the
accomodation will be duly given.
LARGE SALE PLAN is now
ON VIEW.
LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE
ROOMS.
*** TO SUBURBAN BUYERS for RESIDENCES.
HURLSTONE offers the most ELEVATED and BEST
SITES. T . D/ , r
**♦ To SPECULATORS wishing to secure a LAKGL
BLOCK for FUTURE SALE HURLSTONE offers the
BEST ADVANTAGES.
*** To INVESTORS in LAND, HURLSTOhE
Blocks are bound to increase in value.
The SURROUNDINGS of
HURLSTONE
are of the very best character, and include the high!} -
improved properties and grounds of the following
gentlemen :
DR. EDWIN CHISHOLM
FREDERICK CLISSOLD, ESQ.
HENRY MOSES, ESQ., M.P.
GEORGE GRIFFITHS, ESQ.
J. S. JAMIESON, ESQ., J.P.,
and others.
An inspection of HURLSTONE will show the RICH
HARACTER of THE SOIL from the BLOOM ana
'OLIAGE which surround it.
Opposite to HURLSTONE is the
VICTORIA-SQUARE, £
pon which property are erected the largest number
the PRETTIEST VILLAS
and COTTAGE RESIDENCES
3 be seen anywhere along
THE RAILWAY LINE,
Lving to the locality
A SPECIAL CHARM AND CHARACTER,
and making it both ATTRACTIVE and more
VALUABLE.
*ar An opportunity will be afforded to inspect
THIS GRAND FREEHOLD,
On SATURDAY, 20th NOVEMBER
(the Saturday previous to day of sale).
•3- DON’T FORGET.
HURLSTONE
HURLSTONE
is in the market for Sale,
Without RESERVE.
SATURDAY. 27th NOVEMBER,
ON THE GROUND.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS,
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But for Cash—We Sell for Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS :
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
106.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10 6—l>est in town.
Ladies’ Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12 6, worth 15 6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12 6,
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1 9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
96. Good qualit y.
Ladies’ best high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
i : ;
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
Our Stock is always
New.
For every week’s
Sale,
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10 6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable us to
undersell all other
establishments.
The Leading' Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6,6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
All GOODS Marked in PLAIN FIGURES.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
OWING BROTHERS’ TRADE SYSTEM.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AT LOWEST NET CASH PRICES.
No Books kept, thus insuring to ready-money customers First-class Goods at the very lowest
quotations.
COWING BROTHERS,
MEN’S MERCERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.,
Trading under the names of
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George Street (opposite Central Police Court;,
AND
J. E. GOWING, 332 George Street (half way between the Post-office and Hunter-street).
GOWING BROTHERS’ SILK UMBRELLAS are unrivalled FOR PRICE AND QUALITY.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. Military Front SHIRTS, open back, are acknowledged to be
the very best value in the Sydney market.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly" on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 187 S.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1379.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in ilb packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
TRADE
MARK
r.. a w.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
E. KEEP A CO.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEIL SON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
OU CANNOT DO BETTER.
If you are ready to furnish, come without delay to the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE. Every article is
planly marked, and complete lists are available to enable
you to select what you require to the best advantage.
Single Bedrooms furnished as follows :
Bedstead, Palliases, Mattress, Pillow, Sheets, Blankets,
Counterpane, Pillow Case, Set Mosquito Curtains,
Chest Drawers, Toilet Glass, Washstand, Toilet Set,
Chair, Hat and Coat Rack, and Piece of Matting or
Carpet for £7.
A NICE SUITE OF DRAWING ROOM FURNITURE.
Spring seated Rip Couch and six Chairs, Sideboard, Oval
Table, and Whatnot for £l2.
JAPANESE BLINDS in all sizes from (is. A FEW
CASES of Superior Frosted Fly Traps. BARGAINS IN
DRAWING ROOM SUITES, DINING ROOM FUR-
NITURE, and BEDROOM FURNITURE. KITCHEN
UTENSILS of every description at the lowest cash
prices. Glassware cheaper than ever.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
VISIT THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM,
ELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
A good opportunity now presents itself to purchase
one of the oldest-established Book and Stationery busi-
nesses in the best and most central position in Mel-
bourne, well-known in Victoria and adjacent colonies
as MUSKETT’S, 78 BOURKE ST., EAST, nearly oppo-
site Theatre Royal. The proprietor being desirous of
retiring from business as early as possible, will treat
with any intending purchaser on favorable terms.
Address, as above.
THE PRICES ARE MOST ATTRACTIVE.
Also
The New Show Rooms Upstairs.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHfc; and see the beau-
tiful MILLINERY BONNETS from 12s Gd, MIL.
LINERY HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COS-
TUMES from 3s lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d,
Ladies’ Corsets from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose
from 4Jd per pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves,
Eisohus, Baby-linen, Underclothing &c., cheaper than
any other house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
DO KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
The lay of the last minstrel—A hand-organ.
Pinaphorism—Better late than hardly ever.
Pilots are usually fat men. Paunchus Pilate.
A fitting opportunity—A visit to the dress-
maker.
In “shouting” communities it takes two to
make a bar gain.
France has forty million hens, with only five
million women to throw things at them.
The impecunious man who married an heiress
always speaks of her as a “ capital ’’ wife.
It is a difficult thing for a dog without a tail to
show his master how much he thinks of him.
A Chinaman who was looking at an Englishman
eating tripe, said, “ And yet he hates mice!”
The pickpocket is the true independent in
politics. He attends the meetings of all parties.
It was the dying poker-player who said, “ I
hear the angels calling me,” and t hen gave up the pot.
What a beautiful thing is a rosy cheek ! How
great the contrast when the blush settles on the nose !
Some one who believes that “ brevity is the soul
of wit,” writes : “ Don’t eat stale Qeumbers. They’ll
W up.”
A pork butcher’s sign in a French provincial
city reads: “ Batta, jun., slaughters hogs like his
father.”
An Irish undertaker in one of the southern
districts has taken down that sign, “ Caed Mille
Failthe.”
An Irish hospital attendant says the most
dangerous case in the institution is the case of surgical
instruments.
A single cucumber engraved upon a child’s
tomb is oftentimes more expressive than ten lines of
obituary poetry.
When a man and woman are made one, it is
usually the man. Sometimes the fight is long and
severe, however.
In the good Old Testament days it was con-
sidered a miracle for an ass to speak, and now nothing
short of a miracle will keep one quiet.
When you see a nanny-goat looking at a fence
with a sort of yearning gaze, don’t think she’s going to
buck it. She’s waiting for election bills.
A mob tarred and feathered a comic singer fo r
eloping with another man’s wife. His manager bills
him now as the “ Great Feathered Songster.”
M‘Flannery heard a gentleman say of another
that he had a too-benign countenance, and remarked
“A 2 be 9 countenance ! Fhwat a face, to be sure."
Grandpapa : “ Now, Tommy, can you tell me
where whisky comes from ? Tommy : “No, sir; but I
know where it goes to.” The question was not
pressed.
The angel of midnight—The woman who opens
the street door for her husband when he is trying to
unlock the bell-knob, and then lets him sleep on the
hall floor.
The fortune-tellers of Paris have fixed rules.
They tell every fourth customer that he will die a
violent death, while the other three are to live long
and die rich.
Ashmead Bartlett, the proposed husband of
the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, has only just perfected
his naturalisation as a British subject. He will here-
after be the subject of his wife.
“ I have three children who are the very image
of myself." “I nity the youngest,” replied his inter-
locutor. “Why?" "Because he is the one who will
have to resemble you the longest.”
Said he to his wife, “ I’m disappointed in you.
I used to think you a jewel, but you’ve turned out a bit
of matrimonial paste." “ Paste is adhesive,” said she,
“and will stick to you as long as you live.”
“ If you will consent to my marriage with your
daughter, she will be treated as if she were an angel."
“ That is,” was the matter-of-fact reply, “in a short
time she would not have anything to wear.”
A minstrel performer proudly advertises himself
in the amusement papers as “ the largest-mouthed
comedian in the world,” and adds : “Many envy and
imitate me, but there’s none can compete with me.”
A new boarder spilt some milk on his coat, and
was fearful lest it would leave a grease-spot. An old
stager assured him that there was not the slightest
danger, but that he might look for a chalk-mark when it
dried.
Artemus Ward once said that the funniest story
he ever heard was about an inebriated reporter, who
leaned over the railing of the reporter’s gallery in the
English House of Lords and inquired : “ Will shum
noble ’ord plea’ shing a comic shoug?”
A medical contemporary mentions that the
muscles of the human jaw represent a power equal to
a pressure of one hundred and twenty-five pounds.
This probably accounts for the immense difficulty
which some people experience in holding theirs.
A man who was possessed of a pair of twins, of
whom he was very fond, and was always praising them
and reciting their good qualities, at last gave them an
overdose of opium tincture, which killed them. His
friends said that he only carried on his practice of
laudanum to the sky.
A JUiilJLl ItJfjJLULO ULXS iUiUllcU SluilCt
A wife who had been lecturing her husband for
coming home intoxicated became incensed at his
indifference, and exclaimed, “ Oh, that I could wring
tears of anguish from your eyes !” To which the
hardened wretch hiccoughed, “ Tai-taiu’t no use, old
woman, to bo-bore for water here!”
The boy stood on the melon patch,
When all but he had fled,
And visions of a royal feast
Went dancing through his head.
But the farmer and the bull-dog came.
And then, oh ! where was he ?
Go, ask the doctor-man, who patched
His sore an-at-o-mee !
When cruel truth dispels the charm.
Which fancy easts o’er marriage ties.
And beauty, summoned to disarm,
Wipes off the paint and other lies;
■When hair you fondly thought her own.
Is parted from her beauteous head.
And e’en your lover’s eyes must own.
What hair she has is very red—
’Tis then, but O, alas ! too late,
A man regrets his married state.
WHY HE DANCED.
He stood on his head by the wild seashore.
And danced on his hand a jig ;
In all his emotions, as never before,
A wildly hilarious grig.
And why ? In that ship just crossing the bay
His mother-in-law had sailed
For a tropical colony far away.
Where adders and fever prevailed.
Oh ! now he might hope for a peaceful life.
And even be happy yet,
Though owning no end of neuralgic wife.
And up to his collar in debt.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Czar’s private income—£s,ooo,ooo per
annum.
Marshal Bazaine is dead. So is Lassall, the
astronomer.
Madame Rachel (“Beautiful for ever”) has
died in prison.
Bishop Moorhouse enjoys Vanity Fair cigars.
Bishop Barker supports colonial industry.
Admiral Seymour, who has command of the
combined fleet sent to frighten Turkey, is over 83 years
old.
Mr. J. Simonsen, purser of the City of Sydney,
is a nephew of Vanderbilt, the deceased American mil-
lionaire.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts has a nephew
who ekes out a miserable existence as a gum-digger in
New Zealand.
Mr. Hart, M.L.A., of Launceston, receives <£Boo
a week from the Mount Bischoff and Tasmania mine, or
£41,600 per annum.
It is not generally known that Adelaide Noilson
was the original of the heroine of William Blackie’s
novel, “ In Silk Attire.”
Mr. Conway says that Carlyle neither reads nor
writes, but lies on a sofa and longs for death. Carlyle
will be 82 in December of this year.
Mr. Des Voeux’s commission is that of governor
and commander-in-chief of Fiji, and assistant high
commissioner of Polynesia, in which capacity he will
be subordinate to Sir Arthur Gordon, to whom all the
more important matters will be referred.
It was said in London just before the Bartlett-
Coutts marriage, that the reason the event had been so
long postponed was to give the bridegroom an opportu-
nity of growing older, and thus decreasing the dissimi-
larity of the happy couple’s respective ages.
llnspector Mallard, for the last five years
Inspector of Police, Dunedin, N.Z., has determined on
leaving the force sooner than submit to a reduction of
salary. This officer was instrumental in bringing the
notorious criminal, Butler, charged with the Dewar
murders, to justice.
The successful floating of
the Sorata is spoken of by the
Australasian as the result of
the almost dogged perseverance
of Captain Fowler.
Mr. Service will shortly re-
sign his seat for Maldon, and go
home for a holiday. J. J. Casey
says he intends contesting the
•electorate against all comers.
William Black, the nove-
list, has made a fortune, by his
novels —almost enough, it is
said by some of the more extra-
vagant people, to start a daily
paper.
Kow a 1 ski, the French
pianist, has been charged by a
Melbourne newspaper with pira-
ting a waltz, published as his
production. Legal proceedings
are expected to follow.
Once more the eloquent
Mr. Dailey has emerged from
retirement. He holds a brief in
the case Dibbs v. Dibbs, and
accepted it, so it is understood,
as a friend of Mr. J. C. Dibbs.
The Brassey family, in
England, must be about the
largest holders of securities in
the world. Their father left
them over £6,000,000, of which
not more than £15,000 a year is
real estate.
The American papers give
an instance of one Irish landlord,
drawing £120,000 per annum,
who is 92 years old, and never
has set his foot on Irish soil —
not once.
Professor Pepper, it is an-
nounced, intends to settle in
Adelaide. It is likely that when
the University is established, he
will receive an appointment in
connection with it.
An Adelaide paper is res-
ponsible for the statement
that the Honorable T. K gis
about to “ lead to the hymeneal
altar” the lovely Miss R .
Society is delighted, and is cal-
culating the age of his eldest
daughter.
The daughter of a clergy-
man, who was on a visit to —
well, Croajingolong if you like—
became engaged to the son of
the Hon. Mr. Blank, of Stores
Department. Her mother in
mentioning the matter to her
friends, was very particular in
enquiring whether the title was
hereditary.
Mr- W. H. Archer, who re-
sided in Sydney for a time, is
expected to get the position of
chief librarian at Melbourne on
his refunding the £2500 given
him when leaving the Victorian
service some time back.
Mr. W. J. Ecroyd, senior
partner in that well-known firm
of accountants, Ecroyd, Danby,
and Gilmour, died in Melbourne
last week, of erysipelas, con-
sequent on a bruise in the arm
received while bathing.
A popular suburban solicitor pa. 1 his election
expenses out of £lOO won on the second horse in Mr.
B. E. Jones’s consultation.
The Moneys have taken the name of Coutts.
The change is announced in the London Gazette. “ I
fancy,” says a well-inf ormed London writer, "that cho
Money-changers have benefited by the transaction.
The old maid Coutts and the new-made Coutts don’t
hit it off together, so gossip hath it."
When “ Lovely Riley ” was sentenced to twelve
years’ imprisonment for the Quirindi bank robbery he
exclaimed “ Phew ! that’s ’ot. But it’s a just sentence,
and X say so for the sake of Mr. Allen (the manager of
the robbed bank). We are glad to have an opportunity
of publishing this, as the papers have from time to time
printed many paragraphs tending to the impression
that Mr. Allen was suspected of knowing more about
the robbery than ie cared to tell.
The Melbourne lady who was the cause of the
late duel, which nearly happened, is renowned for her
beauty and the elegance of her costume. It is rela,tea
that she once attended a fancy dress ball as Helen,
where she created a sensation. She stared so hard at
Lady Bowen that the Mayor was requested to ask who
she was. It was then discovered that she had no ticket
ot admission. The weeping and indignant heroine of
the famous city was conducted to the door and wished
bon voyage, much to the delight of two cabmen, a con-
stable, and a discarded lover.
Genius is ever distinguished by eccentricity.
The great Ketten, who is not, ot course, an exception
to the rule, finds many and various ways for displaying
the passion for oddity. It is related that when he
retires for the night, instead of leaving his boots at his
door, like any other rational being, it is his custom to
hurl them down the stairs, and hurl the jack after
them. His boots appear to trouble him a deal more
than ever his studies have done. He was sued at the
St Hilda Police Court on Friday last by his boot-
maker, who stated that he made eight pairs of shoes
before he succeeded in pleasing the thin man. The
Bench gave a verdict of £5 against Ketten. By such
means ever do the favored of the gods seek to become
famous. We have for some time been of opinion that
Ketten’s too big for his boots.
A young lady in the Walgett district held the
winning ticket in Mr. E. E. Jones’s consultation, thus
netting £lOOO. Never was there a more timely windfall,
for she was engaged to be married, and the wedding had
been postponed for want of funds. Here is a touching
story for embodiment in the Christian Weekly and the
Sunday school books.
The failure of the proprietor of the Morning
Post, Sir Algernon Borthwick, will create no small stir
in the fashionable world of London. Sir Algernon, it
may be remembered, was knighted by Lord Beaconsfield
a few months ago, and (remarks a contemporary) is the
first journalist on whom such an honour has been
conferred. Odd that he should be ruined afterwards,
sn’t it P
The numerous friends of Mr. Tom Carrington, the
well-known artist, will be glad to learn that the para-
graph in The Bulletin of the 13th inst., as to his
having been seized with paralysis, is incorrect, Mr. Car-
rington being in the enjoyment of uninterruptedly good
health. We are glad to find that our Melbourne cor-
respondent, who supplied the paragraph, was misin-
formed.
The Eeichsbote, German Conservative jour-
nal, says that “ Gamhetta’s name signifies war to the
knife against the Church, and revenge against Ger-
many.” It adds: “In summoning this Ministry,
President Grevy is digging his own grave. Gambetta
will before long have filled all ministerial and
diplomatic posts with his creatures. He will then
replace Gr^vy.”
The first English cardinal since the Reformation,
Weld—of the Welds of Lulworth, and uncle to the late
Governor of Tasmania —was a widower when he entered
the church, and had a daughter alive when a member
of the Sacred College. He was a distinguished amateur
pastrycook—renowned, indeed.as such amongst Italians,
who are the first pastrycooks in Europe. The delicate
pastry used at his entertainments in Rome was often
made with his own hands.
Proctor has been in a little trouble in N.Z.
The Wellington correspondent of the Wansanui
Chronicle published a letter stating that Mr. Proctor
had been engaged in Australia by Mr. Smythe, and was
under engagement to him for two years at £59 per week.
On his arrival in Wanganui the statement was shown to
Mr. Proctor, who immediately instructed a solicitor
to demand an apology and a retractation, which was
given and regret expressed. Mr. Proctor denied the
statement emphatically, saying that there was not a
particle of foundation for it.
Baroness Burdett-Coutts has settled .£lO,OOO a
year on Mr. Ashmead Bartlett. The Baroness will lose,
it the clause concerning marriage with an alien is
brought into force, £50,000 per annum.
An English peer, lately gathered to his fathers,
whose name he did not endow with great lustre, is now
alleged to have been married, and to have had a family,
at the time he made the only marriage the world has
yet recognized or heard of. The result of this is that
the peer’s widow will probably cease to be Lady H., and
will become plain Miss 8., while her son and daughters,
who have recently been brought out in society, will be
placed in a very painful position. The young ladies will,
however, still retain the fortune of £12,000 a year each
left to them by their grandfather, but their brother will
lose an earldom and with it an income of £90,000 a year.
The Queen will, in the event of the worst expectations
being realised, probably give the unfortunate lady
another title in lieu of that whereof she will be deprived
in so shocking a manner.
The Yery Rev. Dr. Backhaus is a German and
a Sandhurst institution, reputed to be one of the
wealthiest men on Bendigo, which is saying a good deal.
He is one ot the very best judges of wine, but drinks
very little ; does much good with his money by stealth;
lives in an ascetically-fumished house, which does not
even boast of carpets; is an excellent organist and
composer, and chants Gregorian music better than any
other priest in Australia; prides himself on his English,
and must be idiomatic or nothing in his sermons; talks
to his congregation of “putting the cart before the
horse," “ knowing which side their bread’s buttered
on,” &c. About two years ago he preached from the
Gospel of the coin ot the tribute, and dramatically told
the grand story of the meeting of Our Saviour and
the Pharisee. In a thundering voice he wound up thus :
“ Then give unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s,”
&c., adding, with a wink at the congregation, “ See ?
Catch a veezle asleep, eh ?”
A Far Northern correspondent writes : —“Dr.
Fonsworth, of Thomborough, Hodgkinson River,
North Queensland, while riding to Kingsborough, the
next camp, to attend a patient, was, I am sorry to say,
thrown from his horse and killed on the spot. It is a
remarkable fact that Mr. Joseph Hopkinson, the last
1 medical practitioner on the Hodgkinson, experienced a
somewhat similar fate a little while ago. Poor Joe
Hopkinson—-or, as he was familiarly known here,
‘‘ Hoppy,”—is missed by the diggers, whose best friend
he was. He was never deterred from riding fifty miles
to attend a sick man by the fact that that sick man was
penniless. In Arabic phrase, he had ‘ a heart as big as
had his horse.’ He was an Englishman, but from what
county I am not aware, and he was not known to have
any relatives in the colonies. I write these few lines in
the hope that they may meet the eye of any friend of
his, who may be interested in knowing what has become
of as big-souled and charitable a man as ever trod
God’s earth."
WOMAN ITEMS.
George Eliot’s retirement from literature is a
settled thing.
It’s the freckled girl who’s glad old gold is in
fashion again.
The Duchess of Edinburgh has been suffering
from measles.
One good turn is as much as you can expect
from a cheap silk.
Mrs. Langtry is no longer called the “ Jersey
Lily," but the “ Amber Witch.”
A London lady, who gave a party, paid (or
promised to pay), £BOO for flowers.
It’s deuced rough on a woman who doesn’t look
well in black to have her husband die.
Beds and pillows made of fresh roses were com-
mon both with the early Romans and Greeks.
Parasols will be dispensed with this summer, as
the hats serve both for head-gear and shade.
Don’t buy the imitation coral jewellery. Any-
body can tell it’s sham, and the earrings are not pretty.
Miss Riley, of Cincinnati, is succeeding as a
dentist. She is endorsed by the best deutis ts of the
city.
Miss Josephine Taylor, daughter of the head of
the Mormon church, has fled from her home to escape
polygamy.
A corset of the once celebrated Madame Du
Barry was sold at auctien at Paris the other day. Bid-
ders were plentiful.
A new device in the use of flowers is now in
vogue in Paris. It is the wearing of a small bunch of
natural flowers on the shoes, in place of the lace and
ribbon rosettes of a few seasons ago. The favourites
are primroses, yellow on one shoe, purple on the other,
or mixed on both; violets are much worn, and daisies
are just “ coming in." But then in George-street we
occasionally see feet so big that the humble daisy or the
modest violet wouldn’t have a show. The big sunflower
will have to be patronised.
i . . r A. J r -UA
Another Enoch Arden case. During the war of
1870, a French soldier, named Teuld, was taken
prisoner, and for an attack on his gaoler was sentenced
to death. At the same time, another soldier was sen-
tenced to ten years’ labour for a somewhat similar
offence. Both men were taken to the same fortress,
and the prisoners becoming somehow mixed, the wrong
man was shot. Teuld kept the matter secret, and
served ten years. He returned home to his wife, but
she, having been officially informed of his death, had
married in the meantime, and now had several children.
It is not stated whether Teuld has followed the example
of Tennyson’s hero.
A young man from the country was lately in a
tailors shop getting measured for a vest. “ Married
or unmarried ?” queried the tailor. “ Unmarried ” said
the young man with a blush. “ Inside pocket on the
left hand side," observed the tailor making a memor-
andum to that effect. “ What difference does my being
married or unmarried make as to the inside pocket of
the vest ?’’ “ Ah, my dear sir,” observed the tailor,
with a bland smile, “ all the difference possible. Being
unmarried, yeu want the pocket on the left side, so as
to bring the young lady’s picture next to your heart."
But doesn’t the married man also want his wife’s pic-
ture next to his heart ?’’ queried the anxious youth.
“ Possibly there is an instance of that kind,” said the
tailor, “but I never heard of it."
The Princess of Wales, when she takes her
daughters into society, has a fashion of dressing them
in toilets harmonizing with her own.
A little girl, noticing the glittering gold filling
on her aunt’s front tooth, exclaimed, “Aunt Mary, I
wish I had copper-toed teeth like yours.”
At San Francisco the other day a divorce was
granted to a young woman whom, within an hour, the
Judge was called upon to marry to another man.
The Queen of Siam and her infant child were
drowned on the Ist June, owing to the boat in which
they were sailing being run down by a steam launch.
It took Edouard Meyer, a French oculist, twenty
seconds to remove a cataract from the eye of the
Baroness Rothschild, for which he received a cheque
for £BOO.
The latest dodge in ladies dresses is to have
the “ train ” separate—to button on when required. It
will probably be a great convenience, especially in wet
weather.
A young lady the other evening kissed in the
dark a young man whom she mistook for her lover.
Discovering her mistake, she said, “ It’s not he, but
it’s nice.”
On dit that crinolines are coming into fashion
in England. Mr. Beau Gargon, our Commissioner for
Railways, says that when the fashion reaches Sydney,
tramway fares will have to be raised. The 'Bus Com-
pany will follow suit, and the life assurance offices will
raise their premiums consequent on the danger of
crinoline ribs sticking into the passengers’ calves.
“What was the sermon about?” enquired a
fond mamma of her daughter.” “ Oh! about Solomon,
and all the rest of it; but, Ma, there was such a pretty
costume just in front of me, made of two shades of
heliotrope—jacket body of one shade and sleeves of
another, —skirt rather full, very pretty silver orna-
ments, and toque to match. Prettiest dress I’ve seen
this week.” Fact.
George Eliot, who passes in Italy for the grand-
mother of young Mr. Cross, her new husband, has to
exercise a grandmotherly sort of care over him to keep
him out of mischief and danger as well. The other
day at Venice, when the venerable novelist’s back was
turned for a moment, the youngster took advantage of
the opportunity to fall out of the second story window
of the hotel into the canal. He was fished out alive by
some of those celebrated gondoliers. We are not told
whether or not he was spanked before being put to bed.
Worth, the man milliner,
has given his opinion that
American silk is now superior to
French, and many French ladies
are supplying themselves in the
markets of the United States.
A certain very well known
M. P. of Sydney, missed from
his house a handsome silver-
mounted stick, presented to him
by a friend. “I broak it bating
the mat, sor,” simpered Bridget.
“ Gipsy,” in the Town
and Country says all plain-
looking girls should carefully
cultivate a sweet temper. Now
we have an explanation of
“Gipsy’s” agricultural ten-
dencies.
Papa (alluding to an old
domestic): “ What was Kate’s
other name, dear?” “Frank,
papa.” Papa stared, but his
daughter thought he could only
have referred to one —the talen-
ted Frank Cates.
Since the base attempt of
a certain telegraphist to kiss the
young and pretty wife of a
Thames citizen, on board the
Eotomahana, the ladies have
shut themselves up in the
saloon reserved for them, and
won’t stir out.
A new beauty has appeared
in London to dispute the palm
with Mrs. Langtry and Mrs.
Cornwallis West, in the person
of Mrs. Deacon, who “hails
from the United States,” and
who had the honor of dancing
with the Prince of Wales.
At a fruit and flower tent
at a fashionable London enter-
tainment, one beautiful young
married lady sold a button-hole
for £lO. One or two gentlemen
collected much money by charg-
ing five shillings to point out
and name professional beauties.
The Princess of Wales be-
comes very tired while rushing
in the dutiful discharge of public
appearance from one place to
another. She is constantly com-
pelled to appear before a mob
of sightseers while standing in
the midst of a mob of officious
attendants.
One woman has at last
succeeded in wearing something
allittle too gorgeous for English
taste, but had to buy a complete
costume of orange and purple
silk, and to walk in the park one
day when the English substitute
for a sun was shining to perform
the miracle.
A writer in Le Voltaire
says that the late Empress of
Russia was so economical in her
own private expenses that she
used to have her shoes re-soled
two or three times before she
would replace them. This is the
first intimation that the Em-
press was a literary character.
Hesse (says a London writer) is going to
Balmoral to visit his deceased wife’s sister and mamma.
I fancy when all is said and done, there ore members of
the royal family who have to complain of the way the
Lords obstructed a' certain bill. If the law were
different I would venture on atip without Hesse-tation.
It wouldn’t Be-a-trice before we had an announcement
in the Court Newsman. What do you think ?
“The Bartlett-Coutts romance” (says “Da-
gonet ”) has vastly improved during its journey through
the Continental Press. Having perused a few dozen
versions in the French, German, Italian, Russian,
Dutch, Danish, and Spanish papers, I have a hazy
notion now that the lady is eighty-four, stone blind,
deaf and dumb, and only able to walk with crutches, and
that the gentleman was fifteen last birthday, and won
the Baroness’s heart with the pretty way in which he
recited “ Twinkle, twinkle, little star,” at a nursery
entertainment.”
“Augustine,” writing oh the latest fashions in
Truth, says:—“All kinds of dresses tend to the close
fitting style, with round skirts. The bodices will
probably be round in front, laced at the back, and high
at the neck, with sleeves less close-fitting, and often
coulisses, or gathered lengthways. The short, round
skirts are generally adopted for walking costume; but
Dame La Mode is not so tyrannical as formerly,'and
ladies who possess good taste can really dress so as to
appear quite in accord with the last rule of fashion, and
yet only wear colours and styles that suit their figures
and complexions. The short, round skirt is a capital
and most useful fashion for out-of-doors, but is most
becoming to slim, good figures of the medium height;
any one less tall looks better in a skirt that nearly
touches the ground, the same as anyone inclined to
stoutness is more elegantly dressed with the half-train
skirt; just as a pointed bodice, gives length to a short
waist, and a round waistband lessens a long one. The
handkerchief dress, or indeed, any large’squares, plaids,
and such like patterns, however fashionable they may
be, are only really becoming to tall, slim figures, just as
these latter will do well to avoid wearing striped
patterns ; in colour selections, mistakes are frequently
made this season with the favourite red tints for
bonnet and hat linings, which, as a rule, do not suit
anyone with a blooming or high complexion.
Within a forest dark I sought
A lovely maiden fair and proud.
And fondly clasped her neck, when lo !
She threatened : “ I will cry aloud 1"
With haughty speech I shouted then:
“ Who dares approach thee I will crush!"
She softly whispered s “ Love, I fear
They may o’erhear thee! —darling, hush!”
RETURNING THANKS.
Mb, John Davies ; “ Gentlemen, —I thank you; can I say more? You supported me in the past — yon have
supported me now—you will always support me. Illustrious dead, adieu!”


rpo THE ELECTOES OF THfi BOGA*
Gentlemen, —When I received the large and inif uen
tial requisition inviting me to become a candidate fo
your important electorate, I stated in my reply that a
soon os the proclamation of the dissolution of Parlia
meat was published, I would at once hasten to meet th
electors in every part of the district to lay before them m;
views and opinions on the loading questions of the day
It was my intention and desire to meet personally a
many of the electors as possible, and for that object
intend visiting the different polling places; but as i
will not be possible to see all, I desire to express briefl;
my opinions, with a hope that they may be found accep
table to a majority of the electors.
The last session of the Parliament that has just ex
pired was notable for having matured more large am
important measures than any preceding Parliament, am
this was of course altogether due to the coalition of Si
Henry Parkes and Sir John Eobertson, who, havinj
sunk their personal differences, joined forces to brinj
about much that was desirable and useful in legislation
Among other important measures were the laws relatinj
to Public Instruction, the Electoral Act, the Amendinj
Land Act, and the Stamp Duties Act.
The Public Instruction Act has been passed by ai
overwhelming majority in the House of Assembly, am
received the almost unanimous approval of the Legis
lative Council, and it has consequently become law, ai
the clear and decided expression of opinion of the great
majority of the country. I therefore accept it in gooc
faith as the law of the land, and am clearly of opiuioi
that any attempt to interfere with its provisions wouh
not alone be futile, but mischievous; and I wish t(
state explicitly that I will not directly or indirectly
initiate or join in any proposal to interfere with its
working or to advocate for any return to the late sys
tam, as I think the present law is entitled to have t
fair trial on its merits.
The amendments made in the laud laws during tin
last Parliament have also been of great importance as
a further development necessary for working out ttu
details of the principles embodied in the Act of Sii
•John Eobertson in 1861, and the amended Act of 1875
I sim perfectly aware that the main principles of fre<
selection before survey, and deferred payments, hav<
been much controverted, but they are, and have been
the settled policy of the country for nearly twenty
years, and have, under the circumstances, worked fairly
well. No land system that has ever been devised has
given satisfaction to ail; and I believe an honest ad'
ministration of the existing laws, without favour 01
affection to any class, has been effected by the presenl
Ministry.
I think the claim put forward for the cessation of ths
future payment of interest ought not to be complied
with, and that the promoters of the agitation for the
cessation have adduced no argument in support of sc
serious a demand. The real and ultimate effect oi
alolition of interest would be a redaction in the price
of land; and, if the upset price is to be reduced, I think
it ought te bo done straightforwardly, and not by any
side-wind. I have always been of opinion that, side by
si le of the existing laws, it would be of great advaniage
to encourage the settlement of the working classes on
the soil by a homestead law, which has been found to
work so favourably in Canada, the United States, and
some of the Australian Colonies.
The essential principle of the homestead law is that
it recognises the right of every person to a share in the
laud as the patrimony and heritage'of the whole people.
Any person of age may, therefore, select a portion oi
the land set apart for homestead areas at a low price,
payable in easy instalments, under conditions of resid-
ence and improvement. The areas so set apart are
taken out of the lease and reserved especially for home-
steads, so that no conflict of rights can take place
between the settler and the pastoral leaseholder, and
no alienation is allowed for at least five years, and the
right of homestead selection can only be used once, and
cannot be repeated. From the good effects that have
foI lowed it in other countries, I believe a homestead law,
1 a.sed on the above principles and with such reasonable
modifications as might be found necessary to adapt it to
our circumstances, would be a great boon to the colony,
and would be largely availed of by the working classes
to make for themselves homes on the soil.
The setting apart of areas for homestead selections
would tend to minimise the frequent conflicts between
selectors and leaseholders, which have been the weakest
point of the present laws, and would also tend to bring
about that harmony between all classes of landholders
which every well-wisher of the colony must desire to
see established.
With regard to the action of the existing Administi
Lou, I am of opinion they acted wisely in strengthens
tko general revenue by passing the Stamp Act, as it h
ta x on property which ought to contribute its fair sha
cf the taxation necessary .to carry on the work of tl
country. I would have opposed the crude and has
proposals for an export tax on the great staples of tl
country—wool and coal—and for a tax on horses ai
cattle, I think, with a revenue such as ours, that i
fresh taxation ought to be required, and that wii
reasonable economy and retrenchment in our expend
*ure, it will be found that there will be no deflcienc
:' ...l no difficulty in making the national income covi
our expenditure.
lam a free trader; and, though extremely desiroi
to encourage and support in every reasonable way tl
growth of manufactures and varied industries, I woul
not favor any system of protection, ns I am convince
that the great principle of free trade under which v
nve now progressing and flourishing, will conduce 1
our sound and healthy progress and ultimate prosper!!
aud advantage as a nation.
I think it is quite time that New South Wales shou
lie provided with a system of local self-government, ai
I should gladly support and assist in passing such
measure as would give the country districts the contn
over all local works, and endow them with the necossai
subsidies and revenues for carrying out the many in
provements so urgently required in a new and wid
spread country such as ours. The centralising of a
power and authority in the metropolis does much 1
weaken the independence of the country members, an
enervate the public spirit which ought to prevail in a
communities, by depriving them of their legitimat
share in the control and maintenance of district attain
If you do me the honour of giving me a seat, I shall I;
glad to bring the experience and knowledge that I hav
acquired on this question to the service of the country
With regard to other questions, I may say that I ax
in favour of a licensing system which will have for it
principles the licensing only of fit and proper houses
which should be under the surveillance of properl
constituted local authorites, who would receive th
license fees, and become responsible to the people fo
their action.
I am opposed to the indiscriminate introduction c
the Chinese or any of the Asiatic races, who, if pel
raitted to come without restriction would simply sin!
into a servile class.
lf elected, let me say, in conclusion, that I wil
endeavour not alone to serve your interests in ever
legitimate way, but to devote whatever energy I posses
to the service of this great colony to which I am prom
to belong, and with the fortunes of which I shall alway
labour to be identified.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yours obediently,
P. A. JENNINGS.
Dubbo, 11th November.
R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Eetail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS STEEETS,
SYDNEY,
BEANCH STOEES—
-43 Georgo-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Eoad, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Eetail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 aud 780 GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
SYDNEY,
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended te. POST
OFPICE OEDEES payable at Haymarket.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 16th November, 1880.
N NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING LEASES.
OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No.
Name,
:
i No. (
Locality.
New England and Claeence Mining Disteigt.
307
308
309
343
344
347
350
35X
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
361
362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
377
378
379
380
392
393
W. J. Ferguson and another!
do :
W. Williams and others j
J. W. Hall and another
P. W. Anderson and others
Do
Do
Do
P. W. Anderson and others
C. J. Cavanough and others}
W. F. Buckingham andors.]
J. J. E. Gibson and others,..]
J. B. Bnssetti and others ...;
Hgntee and Macleat Mining Disteigt.
H. M‘Fayden and others
D. M‘Vicar and others
W. Davis and another
W. Mitchell and others
J. Thompson and others
D. M‘Vicar and others
H. Montague
E. Kelly and others
A. Bullock and others
J. Griffiths
E. M'Nicoll
J. Lawrie
H. Montague and another ..
Paul Bagley and another
Henry Davies
J. Landers and others
J. James and another
W. Brims and another
A. Holstein
A. Taylor
D. M'Eaeand others
J. Mannell
J. Sullivan and another
G. B. Stewart
A. Hooke and others
F. Klappe and others
J, Slade and others
Do
D. Mehan and others
J. Beresford and .others
F. Eedman and others
G. Proctor and another
A. Eedman
J. Waddell
Do
Carl Scot and others
J. Anderson
County of Gloucester, parish of Knowla
Golden Gully, Eawdon’s Stream
Great Britain Eeef, parish of Bindera
Eclipse Eeef, parish of Bindera
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera
Golden Gully, parish of Knowla
Westeria Eeef, parish of Boranel
Bank Eeef, parish of Bindera
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera
Left-hand branch Back Ck., parish Bindera.,
Homeward Bound Eeef, parish of Bindera
Capulet Eeef, parish of Boranel
do do
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera •.
Perseverance Eeef, parish of Boranel
County of Gloucester, parish of Knowla
Mechanics’ Eeef, parish of Bindera ..’
Westeria Eeef, parish of Boranel
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera
do do do
Maori Chief Eeef, parish of Boranel
do do do
County of Gloucester, parish of Knowla
Bonanza Eeef, parish of Boranel
County of Gloucester, parish of Knowla..
do do do
do do do
County of Gloucester, parish of Boranel.
do do do
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera..
New Year’s Gift Eeef, parish of Bindera.,
Lady Mary Eeef, parish of Boranel
County of Gloucester, parish of Knowla ..
do do do
County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera.
County of Gloucester, parish of Wangat..
M AD ? B ?S=a E
&o., which are received immediately
hcation by mail and fast ocean steamers, Arrana-f.'
ments have been made with all the leading publishers
for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of interest to be
sent as soon as published. Also all the best magaffine*
and quarterly reviews. ° Qe a
Terms of subscription forwarded on application
A list of the NEWEST BOOKS in circulation ■—
A History of our own Time, by Jnatin M'Carthv'
Australian Abroad, second series, by J. Kingston
The Mudfog Papers, by Charles Dickens.
A Peal of Merry Bells, by Leopold Lewis.
TheKebecca Rioter, by E. A. Dillwyn.
The Wellfields, by Jessie PothergiH,
The Lady Resident, by Hamilton Page.
Two Worlds ore Ours, by Rev. H. Macmillan, D D
What will Society Say P by H. C. Coope.
St. Martin’s Summer, by Shirley Smith.
A Sheep in Wolf’s Clothing, by Debaus.
Society’s Verdict, by Annie Thomas.
The Dean’s Wife, by Mrs. Eiloart.
Lizzie of the Mill, by Christina Tyrrell.
Mountain and Prairie : A journey from Victoria to.
Winnipeg, by Rev. D. M. Gordon.
Round about a Great Estate, by Richard Jefferies.
In Pastures Green, by ('hai-les Gibbon.
Bells and Ringers, by Hawley Smart.
Thoughts in my Garden, by Mortimer Collins.
The Shadow of a Life, by Beryl Hope.
White Wings, by William Black.
Oliver Constable, by Sarah Tytlei.
A Very Opal, by G. L. Pirkis.
The Rival Doctors, by A. Lapointe.
The Sergeant’s Legacy, by E. Berthet.
Our Sons: How to start them in Life, by Arthur King.
Shelly : a Study, by J. Todhunter.
Innocence at Play, by Jean Middlemas.
Wait a Year, by Harriette Bowra.
Fascination, by Lady Margaret Majendie.
Winged Words, by Henry Spicer.
Forestalled, by M. Betham-Edwards.
Monsieur Guizot in Private Life, by Mdme. De Witt.
A Female Nihilist, by Ernest Lavigne.
The Sport of Fate, by E. Dowling.
Pious Frauds, by Albany de Ponblanque.
The Tenth Earl, by John B. Harwood.
w ILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Boys’! Own Annual, 1880, 832 pages, 600 illus.—
cloth, 7s 6d; post, 11s 6d ; gilt extra, 9s; post, 13s
The Girls’ Own Annual, 1880, 624 p., profusely illus.—
cloth, 6s; post, 9s; gilt extra, 7s 6d; post, 10s 6d.
The Cottager and Artisan, illus., 1880—Is 6d; post, 2s
3d.
Every Boy’s Annual, edited by Edmund Rout ledge,
illus. —gilt, 3s; post, 7s 9d.
Sunday, 1880: Reading for Young and Old, 200 illus.—
3s ; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, 5s ; post, 6s Od.
Little Wide Awake, edited by Mrs. Sale-Barker, illus.—
3s; post, 4s 3d; cloth gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Eoutledge’s Every Girl’s Annual, 1881, edited by Miss
Alicia A. Leith, illus.—gilt, 6s; post, 7s 9d.
Little Folks, vol. n., illus.—3s 6d; post, 4s lOd; cloth
gilt, ss; post, 6s 6d.
Child’s Own Magazine, 1880, illus.—ls; post. Is 6d; gilt
extra, 2s; post, 2s 6d.
Kate Greenaway’s Birthday Book for Children, 382 cold,
illus., printed by Evans, Verses by Mrs. Sale-
Barker—gilt extra, 3s 6d; poet, 4s. Ditto plain,
2s 6d; post, 3s.
The Family Novelette Library: 12 High-class Novels,
vol ix, cloth—2s 6d; post, 3e 3d.
Berthet’s The Sergeant’s Legacy, Translated by Gilbert
Venables—3s; post, 3s 9d,
John Ploughman’s Pictures: More of his Talk, illus.—
Is 3d; post. Is Bd.
Fullerton’s The Family Medical Guide, with plain
directions for the Treatment of Every Cose and a
list of medicines required for any household, by
George Fullerton, C.M , M.D., 3rd edition—l2s 6d‘;
post, 14s.
Profit on Returns: Tables for showing the price at
which goods must be sold in order to realise a given
rate per cent, of profit on selling price. Calculated
from Id to £lOOO, and sto 35 per cent. By J.
Scouller, Accountant.
The Crown Lauds Acts of New South Wales, and the
Regulations, with notes and index. By John S.
Watkins, Esq., Barrister-at-Law—los 61; post, 11s.
WILLIAM HADDOCK,
BOOKSELLER,
381 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jpiKST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines iu Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OP THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL PEED MACHINE,
on every point.
HEAD THE AWARD.
‘‘Tlie New Davis Sewing Machine, being a coniplefe
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, wo consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.’’
Volumes coaid express no more than this award, woi
ly SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 24 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
JJOMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay reut, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
-hem.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
M CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &c., to those desirous to
• Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding .progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
if
5,
PRESENTS.
)-
e
* TO PURCHASERS.
d
e
£ CHRISTMAS GIFTS
o
8 PAY ONE VISIT to
a A. J. HUPTON,
t
? 636 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH,
s
0 Where you can get A VARIED ASSORTMENT of
WATCHES and JEWELLERY to choose from, at
moderate prices.
J.
TED
WHOLESALE
M
A N,
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
3
3
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
> 420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
r
Sydney.
* Wedding Cakes always on hand, and mode to order
' on the shortest notice.
j Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
iN E w
ZEALAND.
To Tourists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 2-4
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TAKAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed BOTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “ The
Manager," at Ellerslie, the fullest information will be
immediately supplied.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND).
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. T have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mi-. R. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mentioned place) are such that
every person possessing the means ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels havo been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.R.C.S., L.M., Edin.
1 1 yATTERSALL’S CUP.— Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee—£l. First,
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. " Senior Wrangler,”
care H. Ohphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.”
c
OALCLIFF GOAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—324olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, lire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
N EWOASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened A
17s. Ditto single ditto '-
16s, Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened i .. ~
225. Ditto single ditto ji Newcastle.
Coalcliff.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, Ac., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
S.
GLA S S O
N
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWEIGHT
WORKS,
Haeeis-steeet, off Geoege-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. Q. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G.begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a largo number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
ANN I X BROTHER S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
'V'
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOB
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER.
TO COU.VTRT GESTiEMES, —
W e shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods : likewise Rules
for self-measurement ; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im.
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address;
MANNIX, BROS.,
12i! (late 109)
i i
KING STREET 1


Provisions, Oilmen’s Stores, &c.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
Prizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
north King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCRAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND AEIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of 11, 2,3,
and 6-i cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. AEIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. AEIELL,
348, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
£JHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AX
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
4 G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
four Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is fid per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is fid per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
G
O
U N D
CONSOLIDATED
R
S
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crashes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to on ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLEE and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
WH . ARIELL,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Whittingbam & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
F
LOUR SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZ E N A
FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
rain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
et offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
ery cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
lanufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sx-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
CO,
Fames pemell and
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS.
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAR THE HATMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds j
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,,
Potatoes, &c.
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
5 (LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRlZES—Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Taxis, 1878,
The Company’s MEA.TS, EXTRACT OF MEAT, and
OUPS can be bought at the establishments of —
tessrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Mocquarie-place
Ir. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
ivil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Ir. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta,
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Margaret-street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMAKKET (ONLY).
The Goods for this Season were most carefully selected by our Mr, Samuel Hordern, who
has just returned from Europe, where his intimate knowledge of the Colonial Trade, combined
with an almost unlimited amount of ready money, enabled him to secure for each Department
throughout the House such real Bargains, both as to style and value, as we have seldom been able
to offer the public.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, of the Haymarket (only), beg to state that every
order from he country, receive prompt and careful attention, and the carriage and freight on
parcels of £2 10s. and upwards is prepaid by us.
We are constantly receiving letters from our customers in the country districts testifying to
the careful and atisfactory manner in wliich their orders have been attended to.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY,
Who are the original firm of the name, and who have no connection with any other establishment
of a similar name.
ANTHONY" HORDERN & SONS aee now Selling—
Business Cards
[Legal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
W.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
K
EAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
G.
AND S. PRED D E Y
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
0 W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
M
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
CO.,
S. M ANDERS &
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
E.
MAS
DRAUGHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counten>anes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-street.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
GENERAL
PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon March<s and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
M
Money
ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable xo leave
bheir business during the day, these offices will be
spened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
MONEY.
M
ONEY.
M O N E Y.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers- CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
• Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
; Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
' with latest improvements.
, N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Horrocks’s Calicoes at less than wholesale prices
White Mosquito Net from Gld. per yard
White Sheeting „ 9d. „
Grey do. ~ 7d. „
Brown Holland, from sd. per yard
Linen Table Damask from 1/7 per yard
Bedroom Towels ~ 3/- per dozen
Lace Curtains, 3 yards long, from 3/- per pair
Men’s Strong Tweed Trousers, all wool, 4/9 to 6/11
Durable Tweed Trousers and Vests, 12/- and 13/-
Four-bntton Sac Coats, 14/- and 16/-
Black Cloth Pagets, 18/- to 25/- (well finished)
Tweed Sac Suits, 25/- to 35/-
Tweed Paget Suits, 34/- to 46/-
Boys’ and Youths’ Straw Hats, Sailor and other
new shapes, 1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-, &c.
Youths’ Soft Felt Hats, black, drab, and slate,
from 2/- to 10/6
The Helmet Hat, in Merino and Felt, from
2/6 to 10/6
All orders must be accompanied by remittances, and customers are requested to make all post-office
orders payable at the “ Haymarket” Branch, to
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only),
XEAE THE BAIL WAT STATION, SYDNEY.
02
fk
<
02
w
O
H
02
O
Ph
CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
-3
W
t>
!>
Hi
H
M
o
w
w
1-3
;72
DARLINGHURST.
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
G7O GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
d7O GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
REMOVAL.
rfIHE undersigned have removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
Aud
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
■yiCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brashware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEQE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes exit
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brashware
Kerosene Oil
Coloxxrs for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
J.
H A R V E
WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hay and Enoine Steeets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS. DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Y,
Hay and Engine Streets.
OENTRAL STOCK AGENCY.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
; lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
I sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.


Miscellaneous
rjEYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Kequisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Hope, Boiled Joists, Irop, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W’
"ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEGE STEEET.
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD.
C- V, li KNN
X'
Of
*
SSmr
lastic
ECONO M«CrtV.
sluice of
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., £ gal., and } gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handh
eomplete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reache
us:—“Woollahra. August2oth, 1880, —I have found th
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durab]
and Bright, and owing to its large covering propertie
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary pain'
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ag
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were don
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GRIGORY AND CO.,
N®. 11, PITT-STEEET,
Impsrters of all Descriptions o
MACHINER T,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Eubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Eock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Eubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETEM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDER LAZARUS AND
General Importers of
CO.,
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STEEET.
/
R B MEDY FOR IMPURE WATER.
111,' VI
PILTIB
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filter, which is adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the elite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe—a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
C HEAVIN’ S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
9*
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JETBS’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials ;
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney: —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.——
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2ij years, and J eyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaque s, solicitors), Sydney ;—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Miscellaneous
CO..
QLIFFORD, LOVE AND
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „
Do. „
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
Peaherry
Nos. 1 and 2.
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PJITEMT MEIL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■eld by all Grocers and Storekeeper*;
2.83
PITT STREET SYDNEY
B£MTIFUL <VS
diaqoh,
ALLWOOL
lea
Kwl
JWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
>5.
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
MOOPATTERNS' c CHOOSE FROM
H.L.SUMMERFIELO
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
•ELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO. ’S
PRIZE
ALBUEY WINES.
Red Wines: White Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND *
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
YDNET : Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Omces
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
R. HARPER & CO.,
Ed
H P"0
e>
A3NQAS
Z
*
ST A*
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges'
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
mUSTAR
gINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—jB6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T H E UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICK SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms —TIME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389
George Street
BOLE
0
Agents
*
i' OR
S
Hornsby
SYDNEY.
A J Anglo-Australian
o
$
STRIPPERS
& PAIN
AND
-*OB7 & 189
Farmers X o.
York St.
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
WITH
4.
o
W K
9*
*
Requesv
*
*
O.
A
to examine
Hornsby’s
STRIPPERSV&
Our HORNSBY*S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to secure
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
The Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business.
November 27, 1880.
