

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—Wo. 33.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1880.
Price— 3d.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 11, 1880.
Quaerens Deum!
We remember reading in a musty tome of
patristic lore, a characteristically mediaeval le-
gend relating to that “ light of philosophy,” as
his admirers have loved to call him, S. Au-
gustine. The great Doctor, meditating the
doctrine of the Trinity, and seeking to reconcile
it with reason, walked alone by the sea-shore.
As he walked and thought, he saw on the sands
of the shore a child pouring water into a hole
with a shell. Questioning the infant as to its
purpose, it replied, to his astonishment, that it
was about to empty the waters of the ocean into
the hole, which task, he was told, would be ac-
complished before he found an explanation of the
mystery he pondered. We presume this is the
incident referred to by Mr. Phoctob in his letter
to the Hebald of Friday last. Reading of this
class is hardly calculated to interest those
who have developed no decided vocation
for the church, but we have met with
the legend, and are glad that our lines of
abstract lucubration have so far coincided
with those of Mr. Phoctob as to have led
us, even in the smallest particular, over the same
ground. The great astronomer has, however,
scarcely been happy in his choice of an illustra-
tion of his belief, because as the incident quoted
is generally understood, its meaning applies
rather to the comprehension of the “ mysteries of
faith,” as they are termed by devout believers,
than to the difficulty of finding out their
Author and Source. As we understand the
old Latin father, the whole spirit of his teaching
tends to prove the existence of an impulse to-
wards union with the Infinite to be inherent in
the inborn nature of man : a fact which is amply
borne out by the universal history of opinion in
every place and age, there being no tribe or
tongue without its synonym for the word which
expresses for us the idea of Infinitude personi-
fied, arid its accompanying feeling of instinctive
awe. It is agreed indeed by theologians that
without the guidance of the higher sensus nu-
minis this impulse is very liable to be misdi-
rected, and to end in ignoble supersittion.
There are from the beginning two avenues open :
those of moral law and external nature, leading to
the gospel of the Good or of the —Judea
or Greece. But if it be true, as theologians say
again, that the moral law is the material shadow
of the Infinite cast on the world of sense and
feeling—that the gospel of the Good is the mani-
festation of the Deity, who can only be known
through the action of the higher sensvs numinis—
which it is not our object to dispute —thenwe rejoic e
that in the voluntary absence of this aid there is
no more touching spectacle than that of an
enlightened holder like Mr. Peoctob of the
perhaps less perfect gospel of the Beautiful and
Sublime, confessing his utter inability to find the
one all-satisfying truth sought of saint and sage
throughout the history of the progress of ab-
stract thought, even from the sum of its highest
teachings. It is a position which Augustine
himself has occupied in the eyes of his
attentive readers. Conscientious religion has
ever been a matter more of the heart
than of the head; of faith and feeling rather
than of intellect and reason. There is a void in
the deep-lying nature of man that the Infinite
alone can fill. As Mr. Proctor’s author feel-
ingly says, saturated with the noblest philosophy
of his day: “ Man was made for the knowledge
of the Infinite, and his heart is restless till it
rests therein.” Under these circumstances, we
can quite understand the displeasure expressed
by Mr. Proctor at the conduct of some
shallow enthusiasts in promulgating “ imagined
opinions” of his, as he complained last week.
Before his brilliant lecture-course commenced he
publicly declared his abnegation of any respon-
sibility for the influence of his teachings on weak
and ill-regulated minds. If some, expecting to
find in the Bible a hand-book of popular astro-
nomy, have felt their religious opinions weak-
ened or their prejudices strengthened by his
striking truths, the fault, if there be one, was
not his. He had entered his disclaimer, con-
scious of his foot-hold on the paths of science,
but not on those of religious dogma or moral
law. We therefore apprehended no danger
whatever to established opinions on these
’natters from his lectures. The real danger
is that speakers of a special culture, and
disqualified by defect of education to speak
with weight on subjects either of science or
faith, will use his fame for a less worthy purpose
than did the master-spirit who has brought under
the notice of Australian colonists the unique
spectacle to them of a cultured gentleman of
undoubted learning earnestly, and in the most
sublime and beautiful of his manifestations, in-
telligently “seeking God.”
Galileo Proctor at Bay.
Quare fremuerunt gentes !—Why do the rev.
wearers of white and well-starched neckties
murmur at every man whose mind is in advance
of their own ? Are they afraid that their do-
minion over the superstitious—their sway over
their flocks, the “ sheep ” of their respective
folds—will soon cease if the meridian light of
science should be let in on them too abruptly ?
One can understand why the sixteenth-century
ecclesiastics wrung the heart of the great Pisan,
Galileo Galilei, because nobody could expect
them to transcend the scientific enlightenment of
their age ; but to find, in the last quarter of the
nineteenth century, a number of respectable
presbyters passing a congratulatory resolution on
the act of a bunkum Czar of Botany Bay, is some-
thing to make ordinary mortals stare and use un-
euphonious language. Of all the coarse, vulgar
swaggerers that offend or afflict mankind, the
worst is the over-fed clerical bully, who
boasts of keeping his “sheep” in subjection,
and helps to promote a tyranny and dominion
over those who detest him or differ from his
theological views. We can see a specimen of
the genus almost daily. Plump but pasty of
colour—show of pace in walking along the
street, but with a slight nonchalant swagger—
his lips twisted into a perpetual sardonic grin—
he goes forth to conquer or insult his neigh-
bours. That such a creature would rush to a
Colonial Secretary (on “ his last legs ”) and howl
about the violation of the L-l-ord’s Day, is
nothing surprising; .but that any kind of
Colonial Secretary, above the class of politicians
colonially-called “ cripples,” would listen to the
howler, or any number of howlists, and prevent
two thousand people from hearing a sublime dis-
course on God’s evangel of external
nature —more especially that page of it, the
stellar heavens —is something that not only in-
sults but shocks men of ordinary intelligence.
Granted that there is an old law of King-
Canute, or of the immaculate Charles 11. or
George 111. (in his dotage), or his Royal High-
ness BUNGARRY XX. of Botany Bay, about the
regulation of the theatres on the Sunday, does
any sane man suppose that the repressive law
was made to put down enlightenment—to pre-
vent people from awaking their consciousness or
enlarging their conceptions at a discourse by one
of the ablest men of his age on the marvels of
creation ? The law was clearly made for the
suppression of noisy amusements, and not to
eclipse scientific, moral or philosophic teaching.
Mr. Proctor has been subjected to gross indig-
nity and annoyance, but what he has suffered is
insignificant in comparison with the ignominy
and insult heaped upon the public last Sunday
evening. If the clerics were to “ blow ” till
they burst, like aEsor’s frog, they would never
vindicate or rehabilitate the character of Sir
Heney Pabkes in connection with this
piece of coarse and insolent autocracy.
Since that illustrious individual hob-nobbed a
few weeks ago with the Bishops over there at St.
Paul’s College, he must have caught the spirit of
a very low churchman indeed, and determined to
show his zeal as a proselyte zealot. He never
looks particularly amiable, but we should prefer
his old cold smile, when he used to read Jacob
Holyoake’s essays, to his present sanctimonious
rigidity of facial muscle, acquired from a recent
close imitation of the Rev. Dr. M'Gibbon’s fea-
tures. Sir Henbt Pabkes knows as well as we
do that the dominical powers entrusted to him
are for the suppression of Sabbath profanation
or coarse amusement, but not for the purpose of
suppressing sublime scientific teaching. His
superiors—the public —will call him to a strict
account for his ukase of Friday last, addressed to
his lieutenant and familiar, the lively Fosbebt,
and directing that willing servant of the Crown
to shut Pboctob up —or shut him out of the
Theatre Royal on Sunday. This business will
prove as hot for him •as did his release of the
notorious Frank Gabdinbb. Sir H. Pakkes*
action in this matter utterly and for ever divests
him of all claim to be regarded as a statesman,
and conclusively shows that in the “Sunday lec-
ture clause ” of the Licensing Bill he, all his
mealy-mouthed prostestations to the contrary not-
withstanding, unwittingly exposed his love of
arbitrary power and his cloven foot.
Rather Odd.
The State is secular, on Sundays, in Elizabeth-
street, and clerical in Castlereagh-street. The
tramcars ordinarily bring their hundreds for
small amounts of “filthy lucre” to St. James*
Church, or to hear Mr. Bright’s free-and easy
disquisitions. The Cassaes of Buncombe do not
like Catos, Cicebos, or true philosophers of any
kind —they like to suppress them ; and hence we
may as well look on the Theatre Royal f»
sacredly tabooed by the Premier, and quite unfit
for any earthly profanity. It is now under the
saintly tutelage of the Rev. Dr. M‘Gibbon and
the Rev. Sir Henry Pabkes, and may be looked
upon as a kind of nineteenth century sanctuary,
where only free-thought ladies, like Mrs. Brit-
ten, or irreverential iconoclasts like Charles
Bright will be permitted to lecture. We do
not know whether the people were pale with rage
or shame in the neighbourhood of the theatre on
Sunday evening; but it certainly looked rather
odd to find the Government plying its tramcars
for hire while two thousand persons were pre-
vented from hearing the preacher of their choice
—an apostle of scientific truth. We reverence
all genuine religious feeling, and profoundly
respect the man who worships his Creator—
whether he call him “Jehovah, Jove, or Lord”
—in sincerity; but we have the most supreme
contempt for the stiff-necked Pharisees who try
to regulate other people’s conduct and consciences
by a standard of their own; and we have the
gravest objection to the political time-servers
who use them as tools. We never suspected the
purity or strength of Sir Heney Pabkes’ ortho-
doxy till he went among the Bishops. From
that moment we feared their lordships would (as
indeed they did) make a Mazabin or a Talley-
rand of him ; and instead of “ the simplicity of
the dove” give him “ the subtle ways of the
serpent.” The whole affair looks queer, and
ought to lead to the abolition of the ballot-box
and a duty on fresh air!
The Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Rare merit alone, amongst the old Romans, won
a civic crown. It was originally given to one who
had saved the life of a fellow citizen; but after-
wards, by a more liberal interpretation of the
principles of meritorious desert or well-doing, it
was granted to all who rendered the State dis-
tinguished service. It was not, of course, the
primitive oak-leaves or the later filagree gold-work
that were valued; but the appreciation and respect
of which they were symbols. If there is one man
in all Australia that deserves such pre-eminent
distinction as a civic wreath more than another, it
is the Hon. Saul Samuel, not because he is a
remarkably clever man or has made remarkable
sacrifices on behalf of the public ; but because his
political life has been well-directed and high-toned,
and he has managed to make truer friends and to
avoid making fewer enemies than any of his Par-
liamentary contemporaries. The “moral” of his
biography is his success ; and the key to that
success was his modesty combined with industry.
The leading facts of his career ought to supply a
?ood lesson to our “ gilded youth,” who affect the
honors without the onera of civic duties, and
would be glad of the fruit without the trouble of
THE HON. SAUL SAMUEL. C.M.G.


cultivation. Saul Samuel was born in London on
the 2nd November, 1820, and arrived in the colony
before he had entered his teens. It used to be a
playful boast of old Captain Towns, master or the
“ Brothers,” that he had brought a greater number
of successful men to Australia the great Robert
Lowe being one of them —than any other skipper
of his day. He certainly took a laudable pride m
young Samuel, whose career —from the day he trod
the deck of Captain Towns’ good ship to that of
the venerable seaman’s demise was _ one of
unequivocal good repute. We trust it will bo onr
duty hereafter to write a sketch of the late Mr.
Timothy Capo, who was the Orbilius of soma of
onr most distinguished native-born Australians.
Under his tutorship Saul Samuel received the
rudiments of an English and classical education ;
and made such progress that at a comparatively
early age he was lit for business. Ho never failed
in anything he put his hand to; but with that
prescience which acts almost like a conscience
with practical men he took dare never to put his
hand to anything without calculating all the risks
and consequences ; and hence the crown of his
success is simply the outcome of forethought or
sound common sense. When Mr. Samuel was a
clerk in the mercantile establishment of his uncles,
the Messrs. Lyons, he began to meditate a freer
and more profitable life than a counting-house —-to
think of pastoral pursuits with their many anxieties
and groat rewards. In 1841 ho settled in the
Wellington district, and for eleven years devoted
himself to the hard duties of a pioneer squatter ;
and though many trials besot him—more especially
during the severe commercial crises through which
the colony passed from '4O to ’4s—he seems to have
kept his mind serene—his head above water, and
to have escaped the shoals on which many of his
contemporaries were wrecked. Ho was placed on
the Commission of the Peace by Sir Charles Fitz-
roy as far back as 1846, and has in his day done
the community good service as a magistrate. On
his removal to Bathurst (in 1852) he turned his
attention to the mineral resources of the colony,
and became managing director of the Ophir and
Bathurst Copper Mining Company; on his retiring
from which (in 1854) he was presented with a
handsome testimonial by the workmen, _ He also
helped to devolope the gold and coal-mining indus-
tries. In the year he resigned the management of
the 0. and B.C.M. Company he was induced to
enter on that Parliamentary career which has been
so creditable to himself and so signally beneficial
to the country at largo. He succeeded an able
man, Mr. W. H. Snttor, as member for the united
counties of Roxburgh and Wellington, in the old
Legislative Council, and may be looked upon as
one of the last of the veterans to whom the electors
of the present generation are indebted for their
Magna C'harta —the Constitution Act. The late
Daniel Henry Doniehy was not accustomed to deal
very extensively in panegyrics on the public men
of his times. It is, therefore, all the more com-
plimentary to Mr. Samuel that that caustic critic
felt forced to respect and praise him. In the
Sydney Socthern Cross, of 21st January, 1860,
he thus wrote :— 11 While a member of the old
Council, Mr. Samuel occupied the position of
political neutrality dictated by that despotic func-
tionary, the * upholsterer,’ generally occupying
either in an actual or motapnorical sense those
seats which ai-e presumed to be softer or more easy
for cautious politicals—the Cross Benches.
Though forbearing to join the more democratic
section of the House, Mr. Satnaol was by no means
a blind follower of the old bureaucracy, and his
independence was proof against that balmy sun-
shine, which in the old times of irresponsible
government, melted down, into aenpple adherence
to the perpetual Minister, many a virtuous Hamp-
den of the Hustings. Ho (Mr. Samuel) was
always a strenuous and unflinching advocate of
economy in public expenditure; and in 1855 he
waf* one of those who resisted the attempt of the
squatting clique in the Legislative Council, to pre-
vent the re-enactment of the Act for imposing an
assessment npon stock. In fiscal matters, Mr.
Samuel showed himself no unworthy scion of the
race from which he sprang; his views upon
finance, if limited by experience of a small com-
munity and a merely routine system of govern-
ment, being generally accurate ; and for one at
least of his suggestions, that of a Stamp Duty, he
certainly deserves the merit of originality, in thus
seeking fairly and legitimately to adjust the burden
of taxation.” Mr. Samuel failed to secure a seat
in the new Legislative Assembly (1856), but three
years later he was returned for Orange, having
defeated Mr. John Suitor for that electorate by a
large majority. Daring his temporary retirement
from the political arena ho gave evidence of his
energy, patriotism and forethought by under-
taking an overland jonmey to Melbourne for the
purpose of exploring the character of the country
with reference to the practicability of laying
down a line of electric telegraph to Belvoir (then
the northern terminus of the line established by
the Government of .Victoria); and it is to the
“ mercantile providence,” as it has been well said,
“of himself and his friends in importing the
requisite materials that this colony and the two
initiation of this important undertaking.” This
certainly was a meritorious ” enterprise” on Mr.
Samuel’s part, and one which should not be for-
gotten. His official career has been smooth and
distinguished. He has been three times Colonial
Treasurer and three times Postmaster-Q oneral. His
first experience as local Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer was in the administration of Mr. William
Forster (1859) whom he now succeeds as Agent-
General in London. Ho afterwards (in 1872)
became Minister of Finance in Mr. Cowper’s
Ministry, and in 1872—having been returned for
East Sydney—he threw the halo of his individual
respectability on the first Parkes Cabinet os Vice-
President (without emolument) of the Executive
Council. It fell to Ids official lot to open the new
General Post-office. His mission to England and
America in 1873, to make arrangements for the
establishment of the Pacific Mail Service, was
signally successful. Mr. Samuel has been associ-
ated with seven administrations, and has been a
leading representative at the intercolonial con-
ferences, all the while managing a large business
at Liverpool, and engaged as director or chairman
in several responsible monetary establishments of
the metropolis. He received some adequate re-
cognition of his public services in 1874 when Her
Majesty the Queen conferred on him the distinction
of C.M.G. Amongst the most noble of his Par-
liamentary achievements are the Navigation Act
and the Government Savings Bonk Act. His
financial or budget speeches were always lucid,
eolid and bold ; and he has certainly never mis-
represented the actual fiscal state of the colony.
He has been twice married—first to the daughter
of Mr. B G. Levien, of Victoria, by whom he had
three sons and two daughters—all of whom survive
—and secondly to the daughter of Mr. E. Isaacs,
of Auckland, N.Z., by whom he has had one son.
A man so widely respected and so generally trusted
needs no special enconium. In his new sphere of
action as Agent-General, one which requires
business tact os well as diplomacy, be will do the
country fair service : and he will certainly take
with him to bis native land thn good wishes of all
wb.< V.i ow him both In public and private life. To
the members of the Great Synagogue, whoso
beautiful proportions he so liberally helped to
dovelope, ris departure will be felt as a great loss
•—little less than a misfortune; but neither he
nor his children are likely to forget thejoountry in
which they ore held in honor and esteem. There
is no ahowy side to Mr. Samuel’s character.
Whatever is good in it is plain, obvious and worthy
of frank appreciation. Our portrait is from an
excellent likeness by Mr. J. Hubert Newman.
THE A.J.C. SPRING MEETING.
FIRST DAY.—THE DERBY.
The owners of the many thousand heads that
were thrust out of windows at early mom on
Saturday last to take a sleepy peep at the weather,
must have been gratified to observe that—
« No mist obscured, nor cloud, nor speck, nor stain
Broke the serene of heaven.”
It was in sooth a lovely day. The heavens above,
unobscured by even the most delicate feathery
vapour that floats, like a patch of gauze, at times,
between the earth and sky, gleamed one sea of
calm, unbroken splendour. The rays of the sun,
though warm, were not oppressively so, and a cool
breeze now and anon lapped and whispered
through the crowded streets of the city. From
early in the morning all was life and activity. The
principal thoroughfares were thronged by an he*
terogeneous mixture of all classes. The gallant
bushman was in great force, and you could
“ Mark his hat with lofty crown,
And cheeks done tropically brown,
And his “My word! No fear !”
You could gaze with wonder upon his iron-
bound bluchers and upon the mystic crease down
the front, and upon the back of his “store”
pants. You could see the drops of amber glucose
glisten upon his manly beard, and you could no-
tice that awful instance of the march of civiliza-
tion—his paper collar—gradually, under the in-
fluence of the wearer’s excitement and perspiration,
betray symptoms of that decadence to which the
most beautiful of earthly objects are heirs. And
lying in wait for the guileless rustic aforesaid was
the mogsman, with his brilliant brass Albert, his
match-box, and his “ Bank of Engraving ” notes,
acoompaniod by his mate, in a silk coat and mole-
I skin inexpressibles, who has just come into a for-
tune, a portion of which he will lavish on anyone
who will trust him outside the public-house with
a In front of Tattersall’s and about
the historic Punch’s Comer flocked the metal-
licians, all attired in wondrous specimens of the
tailor’s art, and exhibiting upon their fingers, in
their neckties, aye, even upon their walking-
canes —
“ Fall many a gem of purest my serene.”
The air was heavy with cries of all descriptions.
“ Kreck cards,” ‘‘Cards of the races, sir,” wore
sung throughout the morning by clouds of ragged
urchins in one eternal chatter. The ice-cream
man wound—Roderick Dhu like—his horn con-
tinually ; and the hoarse roar of the ’busmen, in-
flamed as they were to madness by the ninepenny
Government opposition, floated continuously up-
wards on the morning breezes toward the heavens.
Flitting about amongst the sterner sex were
sylph-like forms of Eve’s fair daughters, arrayed
in 1 oowitching bits of colour that pleasantly lit up
the picture; and many a bright little laugh
rippled above all the roar of the oity, asserting
itself in its very clearness and music to be heard
above all the vulgar vacantit.
Shortly after eleven o’clock a continuous lino of
vehicles commenced to make for the racecourse.
JThere were the plebeian ’bus and the aristocratic
drag, the dashing buggy and the common cab, the
blundering “ fly”’ and the waggonette; and, as
Hood hath it: —
“ Here a cart and there a cart
Of costermonger line;
With one poor hack, like Pegasus,
That slaved for ail the nine; ”
and, last of all, there was the tram, with its
snorting steam motor, its rattle, and its bell, with
its long train of two-storey cars, crammed to
suffocation with ardent votaries of le spori.
We chose the tramway as our mode of convey-
ance to Bandwick. In making this statement we
do not wish it to appear that in patronizing the
Government we deisred to be thought either
patrician in our tastes, or propitiatory of the
Government of whom we are, as is well known,
servile adorers; but we selected that moans of
transit to the racecourse because certain dark
rumours were circulated in the city respecting the
probable fiasco of the new speculation of our
“ rulers.”
With a puff, a rattle, and a snort, we started to a
bell accompaniment. The cars wore packed with a
living freight bent on enjoyment. Personally we
werenappy. We had a bookmaker on one side, afish-
monger on the other, and a jockey opposite. Puff,
puff, through Elizabeth-street to the Cambridge
Club comer, where genial Jim is contemplating
humanity, his histrionic locks crowned by a
smoking’oap. On, on, with a puff, a rattle, aud a
clank, up the South—we beg pardon—Oxford-
street : tearing past vehicles of all descriptions,
startling horses, scattering pedestrians, causing
drivers of all nationalities and denominations to
imperil their chances of future salvation by pro-
fanity ; past gaping shopkeepers, dapper drapers’
assistants, mincing grisettes, and blue-aproned
butchers. The speed excellent, the superintendence
of Mr. Roberts superb, the smoking and spitting
powers of the occupants gigantic ; the total
sublime.
The Course.—ln the saddling paddock the at-
tendance scanty. In the grand stand people
dotted about like bullet marks* upon a target.
Vice-royalty in a bell-topper, a frock coat, and
dark continuations —vice-royalty with _ a bored
aspect and a morning newspaper sticking out of
its breast-pocket—vice-royalty leading up a lady
of the vice-regal party, in cream colour, to chat
with Mrs. W ; smaller vice-royalty, with a
very little betting-book and a very large pencil,
booting wagers—presumably for millions. On
the arrival, by-the-bye, of the vice-regal party, the
Permanent Artillery Band executed their idea of
the National Anthem with involuntary variations,
at which remarkable rendition of a popular air his
Excellency appeared much impressed. The cos-
tumes on this, the first day, were, as .a
whole, neither remarkable for elegance nor
originality of design. One lady, however,
whose superb figure and handsome brunette
face were set off by a black tightly-fit-
ting robe, embroidered with gold flowers, and
and a Gainsborough hat with a magnificent black
ostrich feather, tipped with gold, was the admira-
tion of the jeunesse doree. A very pretty silk
Pompadour walking costume, in which was en-
cased the wife of one of our distinguished legisla-
tors, is also worthy of mention, partly because of
the wearer’s admirable grace in showing it off
whilst “ tripping upon the verdant sward.” aud
partly because or the extreme admiration which it
apparently elicited in the breast of a grey-bearded
foßflil of the Upper House of the Legislature of
this “free” country. On the “ flat,” a green-robed
lady with a roulette table, occasioned some excite-
ment by “landing” a red-bearded monte-player
“ a domino in the kisser.” Another three-card
man also interested himself with the public on ac-
count of being “lumbered” by an active and in-
telligent officer. The various bars were well
patronised, and the “glucose” circulated freely.
Mr. James Israel’s “pigeon-hole” was especially
rushed by a flock of tumblers of the rarest breed,
for a reason which null be well understood by the
initiated.
Appended will be found the results of the first
day’s racing:—
Hcbdlb Back —ft handicap sweepstakes of 5 sots each,
1 ft, with 100 sovs added. Second horse to receive 20
sovs from the prize. Two miles and a half.
Mr. P. N. Barley’s ns ch g The Hatter, 6 yrs, 9st 31b
... ... W.Chiffney 1
P. J. M'ABster’s ch m Maritana, aped, 9st 51b
(including 21b over) R. Phelps 2
F. J. Weston’s b g Banker, aged, Bst 121 b
Lackey 3
Pearl Diver, Express, Whitelight, Limerick,
Tribulation, 1 and Radical also ran. The betting
was 3 to 1 against Radical, sto 1 against Pearl
Diver, The Hatter and Express, and 8 to 1 against
the balance. Banker made most of the running,
with The Hatter and Radical close behind him.
The latter fell heavily when his rider tried to
bring him to the front, and The Hatter won com-
fortably, Maritana and Banker having a hard
tussle for second place. Time, sm. lOsec.
Trial StAKES. n sweepstake of 5 sovs each, 1 ft, with
100 sovs added. For ’ three-year-olds and upwards>
which have not won a prize exceeding 50 sovs in value
up to the time of entrancea winner of such prize
thereafter to carry 7lb extra. Second horse 20 sovs
from the prize. One mile and a quarter.
Mr. S. G. Cook’s ch f A B C, by King of the Ring—
Zenobia. 3 years, 7st 41b ... Cracknell 1
D. Mayne's b f Nancy Lee, by Moribyrnong,
3 yrs, 7st 41b Nicholson 2
V. H. Brown’s hr £ Eosine, by Maribyrnong,
3 yrs, 7st 41b Gainsford 3
Bowbell, Orient, and Otira also ran. Betting
was 3 to 2 against Nancy Lee, 7 to 4 against
Rosine, 3 to 1 against Otira, and 5 to 1 against
the others. Nancy Lee led to the distance out A
B C then came up with a rush winning easily.
Eosine was a fair third, the rest nowhere. Time,
2m. 15 6-10 sec.
Thb Dbkbt, a sweepstake of 30 sovs each, 10ft. For
colts, Bst 101 b and llllies Bst 51b, then three-years-
old. If more than 20 subscribers the owner of
the second horse to receive 60 sovs out of the
stake. One mile and a-half.
Mr W. A. Long's b c Grand Flaneur, by Yattendon—
First Lady Hailes 1
S. Martin's br c Trevallyn, by Gemma di Vergy—
Young Emily Yeomans 2
Hon. James White’s b f Sapphire, by the Drummer-
Amethyst; Huxley 3
Bruno, Guinea, Lord Lisgar and Remembrance
also ran. Betting was 2 to 1 against Grand
Flaneur, 3 to 1 against Trevallyn, 4 to 1 against
Lord Lisgar, 6 to 1 against Sapphire, 10 to 1 each
against Bruno, Guinea and Remembrance. Bruno
led until the straight was reached but was then
passed by the placed horses, who after a splendid
race finished as above. Flaneur won by half a
length and a bare neck separated the second and
third; horses. Lord Lisgar was fourth, several
lengths away, and Bruno fifth. Time, 2m 45 2-10 s.
Epsom Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of 5 sovs
each, Ift, with 100 sovs added. For three-year-olds
nnd upwards. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize.
A winner of any handicap after the declaration of
the weights to carry 71b extra. One mile and a
furlong.
Mr. T. Ivory’s br h Master Avenal, by Julian Avenal—
Lady Wallaroy, 5 yrs, 7st 91b ... Nicholson 1
Jas. Dor gin’s br h liavenswood, by Maribyrnong—
Dolly Vardoa. 4 yrs, 7st 121 b Gordon 2
E. De Mestro’s b h Chesterfield, 4 yrs 7st J. Riley 3
Soothsayer, Hopeful, Middlesex, Lightning,
Blantyre, St. John, SteHa and Coxcomb also ran.
Ravenswood was the favorite at 3 to 1 against him.
Lightning and Stella made the running but wore
cut down by the placed horses, Master Avenal
winning on exciting race by a length, Chesterfield
a bad third. Time, 1m 7 4-10 s.
Sphinu Stakes, a sweepstakes of 3 sovs each, 1 forfeit,
with 150 sovs added; for three-years-old and up-
wards. Second horse 20 sovs from the prize. One
mile and a-half.
Mr. P. Brenhan's b o Creswick, by Yattendon—
Q. E. D., 3 yrs, 7st lb Hailes 1
T. Ivory’s b h Sweetmeat, by Yattendon—Sul-
tana, 5 yrs, 9st 51b , Pigott 2
Hon. James White’s b h Martindale, by Maribyr-
nong—Mainbroce, 6 yrs, 9st 61b ... Huxley 3
Sweetmeat was a strong favourite, and led from
the start. At the distance, Martindale, who had
followed Sweetmeat closely, was beaten, and the
favourite, easing off, was passed by Creswick, who
was brought up with a great rush and won by a
length and a half, the others very close up. Time,
2 min. 47 5-10 secs.
Welter Handicap, of 100 sovs, for three-years-old and
upwards. One mile and a quarter.
Mr. J. Thomas’ bl h Othello, by The Barb, 6 yrs,
Ost Colley 1
J. Cook’s b h Oakhill, ly Maribyrnong—Dora,
4 yrs, Bst 51b Pigott 2
W. Forrester’s b m Prairie Bird, 4 yrs, 7st 101 b
Thompson 3
Valetta, Yarraman, Golden Locks, Moonbeam,
Woodridge, Templar, Zulu, Bruno, and the Ad-
miral also ran, Bruno and Oakhill being in equal
favour. The Admiral led all through, closely fol-
lowed by Othello and Oakhill, but was disqualified
for crossing, the stakes being awarded to the
second horse. Time, 2m. ISsecs.
SECOND DAY.—THE METROPOLITAN.
The day which dawned on this annual festival
was, it it wore possible, more magnificent than
that upon which the Derby was run. The heat
was perhaps greater, but the brightness of the
atmosphere, the clearness of the cerulean canopy
and the crispness of the cloudless ether, fully
compensated for any inconvenience the phenomenal
power of the rays of Phoebus may have caused. The
attendance was perceptibly larger than on Satur-
day, and the ladies on the lawn showed to far
greater advantage. The “talent” —legislative,
forensic, commercial and patrician—was well re-
presented, but vice-Royalty was absent. One
lady was arrayed in an elaborate costume of the
lightest of pinks, and a coiffure of so gossamer-
like a textere that it seemed to have been manu-
factured from the wings of the rarest butterfly.
That genial legislator, Mr. R. B. Smith, as hand-
some and as debonnair as ever, escorted two
charmingly attired ladies up and down the lawn.
Two very noticeable costumes wore those worn by
two sisters. They consisted of a white cashmere
polonaise over an under-skirt of black and gold-
striped satin. Apparently these dresses had been
blown together by the fairies, they were so deli-
cate, so bewilderingly charming. The wearers
wore the cynosure of all eyes. Bearded book-
makers, even, hushed the familiar anathema and
forbore to howl “ Three to one, bar one,” when in
the vicinity of this twain of Circes. Miss Myra
Kemble, in black silk, and with her well-known
happy smile, likewise embellished the scone ; and
I more astonishment than admiration was caused
by a very tall lady who sported a violet velvet
robe with a train of abnormal length. Mr. Joe
Thompson, a little more grizzled than of yore,
calmly betted his thousands in the shade of the
Pavilion ; and the great Gough laid against every-
thing with an imperturbability which was the
admiration of all observers. At the victory of
The Pontiff jn the Metrop., great was the joy
amongst the children of Israel, and strong was
the language on the part of the Gentiles. Pew,
however, grudged Mr. White his well-won
victory. The appearance of the flat was lively in
the extreme, and pleasantly demonstrated how
many people make a living out of the weaknesses
of others. Men in brilliant calico jackets were
busily getting up shilling sweeps, and handing to
amazed spectators cards something smaller than
three-sheet posters. Well-known, we might even
say painfully familiar, forms were to be seen ele-
vated upon schnapps cases, betting a point or two
above the current odds. These individuals, who
are amateur inspectors of public buildings on or-
dinary days, bloomed forth in silk coats and alu-
minium watch-guards, cheerfully prepared to
“ best ” the unwary. Weind foreigners, with pal-
pably artificial ornaments, drove a brisk trade
with the feeble rustic; while a lady who was
selling |real silver-mounted meerschaum pipes at
what she termed “three and a tanner,” must have
taken enough money to enable her to purchase a
four-acre allotment at Lugar Brae. The Leger
Stand was well patronised, and the continuous
popping of porter corks which emanated there-
from was sufficient evidence of the bibular powers
of its occupants, while the uproarious laughter
that greeted sundry practical’jokes was a very
refreshing instance of the jocularity of the “ three
bobbers.” The carriages made but a poor show,
“livery” buggies painfully predominating, and
the “ tucker” displayed by the various parties did
not speak much for their epicurean tastes. The
“ Stray Leaves” fluttered upon the lawn, and the
well-known manager of the London Comedy Com-
pany Garner-ished the saddling paddock. Alto-
letherI ether the Metrop. was a great success ; and if a
>w aching heads have resulted therefrom it is
nly the natural sequence of a sporting saturnalia,
'he events resulted as under: —
Honrs Handicap, a handicap of 100 sove, for three-
year-olds and upwards. Three-quarters of a mile,
tr. E. De Mostro’s b h Chesterfield, by the Marquis
—Lamorna, 4 yrs, 7st l*lb Eiley 1
Mr. E Bird’s ns bl h Blontyre, by the Barb. 6 yrs,
7st 2lb Williamson 2
Mr. Jas. Dargin’s hr h Bavenswood, by Maribyr-
nong—Dolly Tardea, 4 yrs, Bst 71b... Gordon 5
Lorton, ABC, The Baroness, Hastings, St.
ohu, Otira, Stella, ffiowbell, Battleaxo, Prairie
Jird, Rosine, Lord Orville, Orator, and Wood-
•ee also ran. Battleaxe and Stella led alternately,
Chesterfield coming out at the distance and beat-
tig Blautyre and Bavenswood after a good race.
Betting : 5 to 1 against Bavenswood and Lorton,
1 to 1 against ABC and Chesterfield, 8 to 1
.gainst Hastings and Bosine. Time, 1 min. 15 8-10
ecs.
Spring Maiden Stakes, a sweepstakes of 5 boys each,
1 ft., with 100 sots added. For maiden horses at
the time of entrance. Penalties for winning after
entrance —once, 71b; twice or more, 101 b. Second
horse 20 boys from the prize. One mile and u-half.
lon. James White’s h f Sapphire, by The Drummer
—Amethyst, 3 yrs, 7st Hailes 1
Hr. E De Mestrc’s ch c Guinea, by Fireworks—
Eose of Denmark, 3 yrs, 7st sib ... Eiley 2
H. Herbert’s b c Koreelah, by Kelpie—The
Fawn, 3 yrs, 7st 51b Martineer 3
Betting: 5t02 on Sapphire, 3to 1 each against
;bo others. Sapphire won in a canter by twenty
engths. Time, 2min. 47 5-10 secs.
3 heat Metropolitan Stakes, a handicap sweepstakes
of 20 soys each, 5 ft., or 1 sov if declared by Wed-
nesday, 14th July, with 350 soys added. Second
horse 50, and third horse 20 soys from the prize.
A winner of any handicap race after the declaration
of weights (A.J.C. Epsom and Shorts Handicaps
excepted) of the value of 200 boys to carry 51b extra;
of two or more races, 81b extra; of any such race of
the value of 100 boys 31b extra; of two or more inch
races, 51b extra. Two miles.
Hon. Jas. White’s hr h The Pontiff, by The Drum-
mer—The Nun, 4 yrs, 6st 4lb ... Eoynor I
Mr. J. Burton’s ch h Hesperion, by Yattendon—
Jessie Bell, 4 yrs (including 51b penalty), sst
121 b Crnoknell 2
Mr. F. E. L. Eossi’s hr h Lord Bnrghley, by Yatten-
don—Lady Constance, 5 yrs, 7st 101b...Thomas S
Democrat, Secnndus, Strathearn, The Dean,
Nellie, Black Swan, Woolstone, Auckland, Va-
letta, and Middlesex also started. Hesperion was
the favourite with 6 to against him, Strathearn
starting at 4 to 1, Secundus at 6 to 1, and The
Pontiff at 12 to 1. The Pontiff led throughout
and managed easily to stall off Hesperion’s rush
to the distance, winning in the splendid time of
3min. 6-10 sec. Lord Bnrghley was a fair third and
Auckland a bad fourth.
Selling Plate, of 100 boys, for all horses, weight for
age. The winner to be sold for £l5O ; 71b allowed for
every reduction of £25 on selling price down to £3O.
One mile and a quarter.
Mr. J. Mayo’s cb b Soothsayer, by Kelpie—Pauline,
5 yrs, 7st 111 b Eoarty 1
B. Eichordson’s b g Milbrodale, by The Drum-
mer—Fleetwing, £5O, 5 yrs, 7st lib Emsworth 2
J. Kelso’s h c Brniio, by Gamester—Eva, £5O,
yrs, sst Sib W. Kelso 3
Lightning, Liberator and Bosinante also ran.
Bruno led to the distance, when Soothsayer and
Milbrodale headed him, the former winning a
capital race by a head, the others many lengths
away. Time, 2min. 12 4-lOsecs.
Squatters’ Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of 5
sots each, Ift, with 100 sovs added. For three-year-
olds and upwards. Second horse 20 sovs from prize.
One mile and a quarter.
Mr. T. Ivory’s br h Master Avenal, by Julian
A venal -Lady Wallaroy, 5 yrs, Bst 51b. Pigott 1
E. De Mestre’s b h Chesterfield, by The Mar-
quis—Lamorua, 4 yrs, 7st Hailes 2
J. Cook’s b h Oakhill, by Maribyrnong—Dora, 4
yrs, fist 4lb Nicholson •*
Othello, Doctor, Blantyre, Orient, Carmen,
Radical and Goldenlocks also started. After a
grand race between Master Avenal and Chester-
field, the latter was beaten by half a neck. Oak-
lands three lengths off. Time, 2min. 11 3-lOsecs,
A “ Glorious Victory.”
I A you b Khan, who had failed to reply satisfac-
torily to overtures made by General Koberts, was
attacked by the British on 3rd inst. and
thoroughly beaten, all his artillery, 27 guns, being
captured. The Afghan loss is described as being
very great; that of the British consisted, accord-
ing to one account, of 3 officers and 18 rank and
file killed; 657 officers and men wounded and
missing. The British record of casualties is cer-
tainly a most extraordinary one and points to the
conclusion that the “ glorious victory ” wasn t
much to blow about. There were nearly 21 killed
in the Kelly battle as far as we remember. How-
ever, it has since been stated that the losses o
our troops was much greater than was at first
represented.


FACTS FOCUSSED.
T). M. Dariea is Victorian Government whip.
Matthew Bnrnett is still successful at Adelaide.——
The Queensland Bor hare arrived at ft series of resolu-
tions decidedly unfavorable to Mr. Swonwiek. A
number of Queensland M.P.’a are subscribing 10s. per
oiwjh to enable a certain Brisbane journal to issue
Mansard with the paper.——Mr. E. H. D. White has
squared the claim of his niece, Miss Beeston, of War-
wick Queensland, to participation in his big fortune, by
living her £5OOO. The Queensland Government
offers £5,000 bonus to the persons who shall first pro-
duce 500 tons marketable iron from colonial ore. Mr.
fteo Crawford, Crown Solicitor of the Northern Su-
preme Court, "has been appointed to the Brisbane
Pegistrarship. A man named MTnnoss has died of
conniption nt Apex Downs, after lying unattended on
the track for five days. He said ha had a brother at
Gonlbnrn. Silver ore, running 300 oz. to the ton, has
been found at Eavenswood. The Victorian Perma-
nent Artillery Force disbands on Ist January. The
Imperial system of legal judicature will probably be
introduced in Victoria this session.—A majority of
Bailliere’s creditors having accepted Id. in the £, insol-
vent is about to apply for release. Tom Taylor’s fu-
neral was attended by 300 literary, artistic, and dramatic
celebrities. Melbourne Hospital Committee aren’t
satisfied with Mr. James’ explanation concerning his
having operated on the late Mr. Greer without consul-
tation. French Jesuits want to establish a colony nt
Fernando Po. The Spanish bull fighters in the U.S.
have been suppressed. A Totalisator Bill has been
introduced into the Victorian Parliament. John
Woods (“ tar-brush ”), ex-Minister for Kailways, has
written an article on “Wages” in the Victorian
Ketirw, in which he refers to the descendants of the
tirst Duke of Westminster as that nobleman’s “pro-
genitors.” David Gammon has been elected to the
Victorian Chairmanship of Committees. This, says
public opinion, is the most contemptible thing Berryites
have yet done. The average marriage rate is higher
in Queensland than in any of the other colonies. An
hospital is to be established at Temora. Several finds
of coarse gold, including a pretty piece of 360 z. have
taken place. The Beyers and Mnlholland law-suit has
already cost £7,000. Mr. Michael Ambrose Sheppard,
formerly proprietor of the Hill End Times, died of
consumption at Mudgee. The Hon. G. H. Cox has
bought Pine Eidge Station for £31,500. AN.Z. police-
man has come in for a baronetcy and a legacy of £60,000.
Last Peak Downs escort brought 1881 oz. of gold.
Tin selections are being rapidly taken up at Waroo,
near Gladstone. Thomas Macdonnell, a clever young
student, eldest son of the Chief Inspector of Queensland
Schools, has died in England of consumption. Jantes
Tyson owns 120,000 head of cattle. Latest crushing
of the Victory, P.C., Charters Towers, 83fc tons for 380
ozs. 12 dwts. Daniels, an Adelaide money-lender, has
been fined for lending money on watches and rings, he
not being a licensed pawnbroker. Among the civil
servants selected for dismissal by Berry, are Messrs.
John Ferres, who has for many years been Government
Printer; and G. O. Duncan, Chief Inspector of the Penal
Department. A man named Nolan has been com-
niittted for trial on a charge of murdering Patrick
Mullally, whose charred body was recently found
near Inverell. Jnnee is situated in a sheep-
country, hut no mutton is procurable there.
A beautifully-executed map of the Charters Towers
gold-field has been issued by Mr. Jack, Queensland
Government geologist. A correspondent of the Cook-
town Herald urges that the King and Lukin rivers, so
favourably spoken of by Mulligan, he prospected.
Large quantities of tin ore are being carted into Cook-
town. A new sixpenny weekly paper is proposed in
Melbourne. In Western Victoria the winter Has been
the longest and most boisterous known for years past.
Mr. T. Cunningham, of Gonlbnrn, has imported a
jaunting oar from Ireland. At Benalla, the other day,
a storekeeper named Alexander Ewen committed sui-
cide by ramming a handkerchief down his throat.
Dr. Joyce is endeavouring to establish an eye infirmary
nt Adelaide, to meet the wonts of the poorer classes.
Sknthorpe’s Mexico station, Mitchell district, has
been stuck up by blacks, who cut a blackhoy to pieces.
There are 100,263 Europeans in N. Z., and of these
25,000 are Irish. Peter Larkins, a most popular
young miner, whose family reside at Wollongong, re-
cently died at Charters Towers. Mr. Shakspeare, of
Charters Towers, has invented a gold-saving machine,
which, according to the local [papers, promises to he a
brilliant success. It takes up stuff which has been
operated on by Wheeler’s pans. It is authoritatively
stated that the Moonta mines are now free from debt.
A Carcoar butcher alleges ‘hat after he had “ killed”
a bullock and taken off its head and three of its
legs, the beast kicked him violently in the eye.
Melbourne International opens Oct.T Three splen-
did nuggets, weighing respectively 99, 36 and 15oz. have
been found at Wedderbnrn,—the largest by a poor
miner. Payable gold has, it is said, been found at
Berrv’s p.c.. Five-mile-creek, Uralla. Diamonds are
reported to have been discovered at Appletree, near
Inverell.and rich gold indications within thirty miles of
the same town. Bishop Quinn, of Brisbane, has paid
the amount of Mrs."Cummins’ claim, £123, money lent
to a priest of his diocese for church purposes. Berry
says that Melbourne Hospital is “grossly mismanaged
and that he wishes he could clear it away altogether.
He suggests Alfred Hospital as an institution for in-
curables. The Attorney-General of Queensland has
been gazetted a Q.C. A valuable discovery of copper
ore. averaging 30 per cent in a five-ton test, has been
made at Burra. Constable Teasdolp, of Goondiwindi,
has arrested a man ahjDalby on suspicion of being con-
cerned in the Quirindi hank robbery, after following him
several hundreds of miles. Mrs. Morgan, wife of Dr.
C. W. Morgan, of Newcastle, died on Saturday last.
Mrs. Alexander Menzies, a very old resident of Ballarat,
who arrived in Melbourne in 1843, died last week.
50oz. gold is said to have been taken from 2681 b picked
quartz at Victoria Flat, Tnena. Payable gold has
been struck at Payne’s Gully, Grenfell. There is every
prospect of a rash as the lead is a continuation of the
old rich one of 10 years ago. An American lady, re-
cently from Utah, says the women there seem cowed
and degraded. The New Zealand Chinamen have
been laughing at the local authorities, who post procla-
mations printed in Chinese upside down. They are
building a coffee stall in Colling wood; Melbourne,
which is to coat £l3so.—Mr. A. G. Jones has sold a
half interest in Glenariff Station, near Bourke, to Mr.
H. E. Eussell, for many years manager of the A.J.S.
Bank, Wagga Wagga. The Ouanoe Liberal an-
nounces “ no tick" to candidates in the forthcoming
A new goldfield has been found near
Greymonth. Since March last over three thousand
one hundred ounces gold have been sold on the field.-; —
The Mormon elders in Auckland, N.Z., are handing
their pamphlets even to children. In a recent per-
formance of “ the Lady of Lyons ” at Wellington, the
village landlord, supposed to he resident in France,
gave hia'guests “stewed schuapper and pickled kawai.”
—-At a quadrille assembly at Bonrice recently, there
was great trouble owing to certain persons of alleged
bad character being introduced. Mr. Perrier, late
sub-editor of the Stdnet Daily Telegraph, has taken
his seat in the editorial chair of the Central Aus-
tralian, and has already written an able article in favor
of threepenny drinks. Wash from the Great Sonth-
eru Hurdsfiold Claim, Ballarat, has been salted, and there
is in consequence a great row. The Albury people
want to see Sir Hercules in order that they may say
good-bye to him personally. We have inspected
several specimens of photography from the studio of
Clifford and Morris, Dunedin, N.Z. In our opinion this
firm’s work is incomparably the best in the colonies.
Judah Moss Solomon, formerly Mayor of Adelaide
aud member of the Legislature’for many years, has
died of cancer. Sir Samuel Wilson, M.L.C. (Vic.),
has been re-elected unopposed. A young fellow
named Shewring, whose parents live nt Ballarat,has shot
himself at Adelaide while temporarily insane. No. 1
West Mountain Maid, Copeland, crushed 39 tons for a
reported yield of 114 oz. Peter Campbell, bush
missionary, threatens to camp permanently at Temora
and to issue his rag, “Pleasant Words,” in that rising
town,——The first snipe in the Braidwood district were
shot by Mr. James South last Thursday. The
Temora miners look upon Warden De Boos’ removal
from that district as a calamity. Eockhampton
having been established many years the residents are
now thinking about getting public baths. The blacks
have slaughtered more horses on the Mulgrave. At
a sweep on the English Derby in India the first horse
was to receive £12,000. A clerk at Simla drew Bend Or
(the winner) which he sold to Lord Beresford for
£2OOO cash and £2OOO more if the horse won.— —
The Mndgee railway celebration fund is steadly in-
creasing. A silver wheelbarrow is to be presented to
Sir John Eobertson, who turns the first sod. A depth
°f 1029 ft. has been reached by the diamond drill at
Kilcuada, Victoria. £16,316 was found in nnregis-
tered letters opened at the Dead Letter Office, Sydney,
last year. The Orient left Plymouth on the 4th mat.
with 491 passengers and a full cargo. The Peter-
borough's immigrants have been released .from
quarantine.—Balance Sheet of Sydney Ragged Schools:
Income, £744 ; Expenditure, £684, An illuminated
address has been presented by the travelling agents of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, to Mr.
Alfred Chandler, secretary of the N.S.W. branch. 1-
hos been decided by the Water Police Court that no one
can under any circumstances claim pay for work done on
Sunday. New York proper contains 1,203,471 persons;
Brooklyn, 554,465; San Francisco, 233,036.- —At Hong-
kong, the charge brought against the Chinese pirates
arrested on the Bowen has broken down for wont of
evidence. A R. C. church is to be erected at Temora.
-Mr. J. De Poix Tyrel is honorary commissioner for
Queensland at Melbourne International. ——A large
number of valuable Americau exhibits for Melbourne
International were aboard the Sorata. The dead body
of a respectably-dressed woman, name unknown, has
been found in a pool of water near South Melbourne
gasworks, A new S. A. Investment Company,
capital £500,000, with Sir John Darvall as
chairman, has been heated in London. Big
flsh are now being caught in Gininderra Greek, near
Queanheyan. Messrs. Ireland, M. H. R., and Colonel
Kenny, M.L.C., two prominent N.Z. colonists, are
dead. “ Wanted u Precentor,” is a significant adver-
tisement never long absent from Otago papers.—Sara
Bernhardt was bom in 1844. St. Patrick Block,
Charters Towers, cleaned up 173 ozs. for thr fortnight.
-Another newspaper is on the tapu< at Wilcannia.-— —
Longmore, “ the smiler," now charges the Aob with
having "foully and maliciously" slandered him.—
It is said that Berry intends pacifying John Woods,
who was left out of the Ministry, by making him per-
manent head of the railway. Woods is the man who,
when a ganger in the deportment, was dismissed for
haying allowed a scheming contractor to conceal de-
fects in pipes by tarring them. The first flocks of
pure merinos ever landed in Victoria were taken on to
Mr. S. G. Henty. The use of the telephone is rapidly
the Waunen 43 years ago on the 3rd of last month, by
extending in Melbourne, and Mr. Byron Moore’s cen-
tral system, which enables a resident of the suburbs to
speak medical men, &c., without coming into town,
is being much availed of. Miss Edith Caldwell, in-
jured in the Lara railway accident, has had a re-
lapse. Some are confident that before long there
will he as many people at Wantabadgery as there ore at
Temora. Mr. Macansh, who gave Temora its name,
writes asserting that the appellation is a native one,
and that he selected it because it iros aboriginal, aud
that, he liked it. The Mines Departmen of New
-South Wales offers £5OO reward for the discovery
of payable gold in quartz, veins, or lodes
more than one thousand feet from the cap of the reef.
Camden is to have a newspaper. ’Manning, Russell,
and others have struck another reef at Mangolpah,
giving better indications than that previously tin-
earthed. John Flood, who while sober deliberately
broke a window in the Colonial Secretary’s office and
nearly struck Sir John Robertson, and who when ar-
rested said it. was batter to be in gaol than starve in the
streets, has been remanded for medical observation.
Mr. Charles Bright's lecture on " Charles Bradlaugh,
Iconoclast. Reformer, Politician,” at the Temperance
Hall on Monday night, Wtts a brilliant success. The
true test of a man’s character, said Mr. Bright, was his.
life, and Bradlaugh’a had gone to show that he was a
true democrat, not a demagogue.——Mrs. Greer was
taken from the Melbourne Hospital and put on to the
Chimborazo, but they would not have her on board,
and she was taken back again. -A rush has broken out
at Cathcart, near Ararat; 300 are on the ground.-;
Father Learning, who levanted from Sydney some time
since, is in; Quebec, Canada. Mr. Granville Sharp,
of Adelaide, defends the Chinese and says that their
close application,protracted hours of labour and extreme
economy render European competition impossible.-
No secular paper boa yet taken the part_ of- the
Colonial Secretary against Mr. Proctor. Ugly dis-.
closures have been made during the examination in
insolvency of Hardy Brothers, of, Sydney.-—A grand
promenade concert in aid of the Bonuott Testimonial
fund is billed for Tuesday evening, 21st innt., at the old
Exhibition Building. The Mayor of Sydney, Mr.
Fowler, generously pays the cost of the building.
Baudmaun awaits an opening in Sydney. The
approaching ball to be given by the Mayor of Melbourne
causes considerable interest, and is expocte4 to be a
very brilliant nlloir- The Imperial Parliament, has
been prorogued. -The Master Butchers’ Picnic
yesterday was, as usual, a most successful and in-
fluentially-attended affair.
Electoral Lists for 1880.
Tiik Electoral Lists just completed contain 2,661 pages
folio foolscap and 196,683 names,'•being a'n Increase of
11,223 names upon the number con tain fed. on the Bolls for
1879-80. The whole of this enormous quantity of printing,
with . the exception of 207 pages,.was turned out of the
Government Printing Office in lifljout three weeks; but the
staff had to attend every day and till late at night while the
work was in- progress, in order to get out the Lists la due
tipio for exhibition.
Albury, 1,362 ; Argyle, 2,779; Balmain. 3,200; Balranald,
2,7-19; Bathurst, 1,412 f»Tho Bogan, 3,201; Bnrrowjt, 1,378;
Bourke, 3,-174; Braidwood, 1,562; Camden, 3,390; Canter-
bury, 5,391; Carcoar, 2,639; The Clarence, 1,920; Central
Cumberland, 3,529: Durham, 1,476; Eden, 2,575; Forbes,
2,632; Tho Glebe, 1,967; Glen Innea. I.s72Gloucester.
1,510; Goulburn, 1,537 ; Grafton, 1,859; Grenfell, 1,600;
Gundagai, 1,730; Gunnedah, 1,853; Tho Gwydir. 1,919;
Hartley, 1,697; The 1 tastings and Manning, 2,300; The
Hawkesburv, 2,006; Tim limno, 2.908 ; The Hunter, 1,360
Tho Upper Hunter. 2,BfP; Illawarra, 1,836 ; tWerelL-1,783;
Kiama, 1,293 ; The Macteay, 1,731; East Macquarie, 2,0 U:
West Macquarie, 1,107; East Maitland, 966; West Ma,
land, 1,220; Molong. 1.826 ; 'Monaro, 2,581 ; Morpeth. 1,160 ;
Hudgeo. 4,412; The Murray, 3,130; The Murrumbiageo,
5,168; The Namoi, 1,088; The Nepean, 1.339; Newcastle,
3,318; New England, 3,4 >3; Newtown, 3,374; Northum-
berland, 3,771; Orange, 2,459; Paddington. 4,110; Parra-
matta, 1,424; Patrick’s Plains, 1,503; Queanbeyan, 1,721;
Eodfern, 3,4(X); The Richmond, 2,628; Shoalhavon, 1,911 ;
St. Leonards. 3,7 i 0; East Sydney. 8,832 ; South Sydney,
,S0"8: West Sydney, 8,944; Tamworth, 3,465; Tentertleld,
1*424; Tumut. 1,909; Welliugton, 1,617 ; Wentworth, 1,907 ;
Wollombi, 1,282; Yass Plains, 1,865; Youug, 2,95)3.
A well-known Melbourne litterateur haa been
suffering from ophthalmia, measles and bailiffs. Pretty
rough on an eighc*stone man.
“ France has equality without liberty ; England
has liberty without equality; Russia has fraternity
without either liberty or equality.”
“A young man of tho Methodist persuasion
wants a billetto look after a horse.” So says an ad-
vertisement in one of the Auckland dailies.
A recent rumour says that M. Soudry and a
well-known tragedian, just fromSyduey, have quarrelled
at St. Kilda, over a fair and blooming barmaid at that
place.
The Hon. John Gorrle commenced life as office
boy of a writer to the Signet at Cnpar, Fife, and like
Sir Joseph Porter “bo polished up the handle of tho
big front door.” Now lie is Chief Justice of Fiji, and
keeper of Sir Arthur Qordou’a conscience. To what
base uses may we come at last!
A. P. Martin and Theo. Hamilton invented a
story to the effect that a certain pautomimist haa gone
to live opposite another well-known literary man in
order that the one bailiff may do for the two families.
However, “ Atticus,” in last week’s issue of the
Leader, gets even with the poetic Patchett and the
truthful Theo. thusly : “ There is a’good story going
round town that the editor of a well-known quarterly
review has gone to live opposite H , the theatrical
manager, so that one bailiff may do for both !”
Not so very long ago there lived in Sydney a very
ugly man. He used to get drunk and beat his pretty
little wife, who naturally became too fond of the first
good-looking sympathiser to baud. Well, they wore
divorced and separated. He went np country to keep a
store. There was one opposition establishment, so our
friend, who had a slight knowledge of operative surgery,
found it necessary to make his place of business
attractive by drawing teeth gratis for his patrons. The
other day a man came in, got three teeth drawn and
then coolly went out to buy rations from the fellow
over tho road. The amateur dentist followed him and
put the case very forcibly. There was a big row in
which the a.d. was considerably worsted.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Bad times in New Zealand are causing % large
| number of suicides.
A rabbit-preserving factory is to be established
at Comperdown, Vic.
Australia t, Hastings ended in a drawr rather
in favor of Hastings.
Scott, of “ Magic Balm” notoriety is now in the
Warmambool district.
In Now York on the Ist July, there wore seventy-
nine deaths from sunstroke
The Christchurch fN.Z.) soup kitchen relieves
upwards of 108 persons daily.
A hatter, in Dunedin, N.Z., has commenced to
moke felt bate from rabbit skins.
It will cost Franco over .£60,000 to be repre-
sented at Melbourne International.
A child was lately severely bitten at Tiiuaru, N.Z., by
a pig, and died from blood poisoning.
A landlord in New Zealand has been fined -210
for letting a house to two frail females.
Fodder is so scarce in Afghanistan that troop
horsee hare been put on half allowance.
The requisition to Mr. Pigott from the Canter-
bury electorate contains about 1000 names.
Special attention is directed to Mr. W. B.
Campbell's advertisement in another column.
Western Australia exhibits at Melbourne Exhi-
bition, among other things, rubies and amethysts.
Australia and New Zealand consume between
them one-half of the spirits exported from England.
The railway to Roma is to bo opened on Sept.
17. A banquet, boll, and races figure in the bill of fare.
The North Shore Ferry Company are at last
going to add a new steamer to their line. Just about
time.
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman announce for
Saturday an important sale of land in West-Street, St.
Leonards.
England and Prance are endeavouring to mediate
between Chili and Peru. Hostilities have ceased for
the present.
Cameron’s drapery establishment, King-street,
has presented the appearance of a fair during the past
three weeks.
The rights and privileges for the S. A. M
Club Meeting, Monday next, realised the sum of £383.
Mr. Archer bought the gates for £2BO.
Mr. C. J. Roberts’ chances for East Sydney are
considered excellent. A requisition signed by nearly
2300 is being prepared for presentation to him.
Baron Haymerle, the Austrian Chancellor, lias
arranged a meeting with Bismarck. It is believed that
an understanding exists between the pair iu regard to
Prance.
On the tenth anniversary of Sedan, the Ist
September, the German Emperor issued to his army a
proclamation which must be considered ominously
warlike.
While a Spanish battalion were crossing a bridge
over the Ebro, at Loguono, the structure gave way and
several hundred men fell into the river. .Sixty-sight
were drowned.
It is understood that Mr. P. R. Larkin will bo
asked to stand for Phillip Ward at the Municipal elec-
tions. Mr. Larkin has now been a resident of the
ward for 26 years.
Sir Hercules Robinson and family a re passengers
by the Rotomn.ha.un, which left the Bar of Islands
yesterday, and will probably arrive at Sydney on
Saturday evening.
The banquet to Sir Hercules Robinson promises
to-be,most successful. All the representative men of
the city are taking part in it, and the nSair will doubt-
less prove a groat public ovation.
The gaslights in the railway carriage still go
out when the train is in motion. Both American and
colonial first-class carriages are affected. There must
be something wrong somewhere.
The circulation of The Bulletin is now over
16,000 weekly. The success of this journal is there-
fore without parallel in the colonies. Last week a issue
was completely sold out before Friday morning.
Mr. T. M. Williamson received an intimation on
Wednesday from the Crown Law Offices to the effect
that the Attorney-General had declined to file n bill
against Bardett and Norris, who were committed on a
charge of attempting to procure abortion.
A man named Russell recently committed sui-
cide in New Zealand. He was a bandsman in n "Volun-
teer corps, and had been attending tbe military funeral
of Mr. Jones, a bank dork at Arrowtown. who bad com-
mitted suicide. He remarked, ou going home, that tho
Queenstown borps (his own) “ should not want a
start,” and shot himself to give them an opportunity of
holding a military pageant.
H.M.S. Wolverene is now in Fit/.roy Dock, re-
fitting, for'Melbourne Exhibition. Her forefoot was
considerably knocked abont when sue went ashore om a
coral reef at Fiji. She.Jeakod so much that the main
engine had to be kept Xjviug to/keep her tree on the
voyage to Sydney. On one occasion when the machinery
stopped 120 meMOnffl not keep tbe water from rising
ijarly up to thefurnage doors.
The public of,‘Sydney are indebted to Messrs. D.
Jones and Co. for the importation of a valuable novelty
in the shape of tanned horse-hides for furniture covers.
The art of tanning these hides luts reached a very high
state of perfection iu America, and they are got tip in a
really (splendid stylo, pliant as cloth yet much more
durable. The hides are dyed iu buff, maroon, green,
and a variety of other colours. They are certainly
worth inspection. Hera is an opening for colonial
enterprise.
On Monday week, the 13th insfc.. Mr. W, H.
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of tho Zulu War will open
at the School of Arts. Wo understand that this
panorama has been painted expressly, and at great
expense, by Messrs. Telbin, Hauu, Gordon and Harford,
Rogers, Fred Lloyd and other, well-known eminent
English artists, for the proprietor. Mr. W. H.
Thompson’s residence and travels for four years in
Zulnland, and long and successful commotion with
panoramic business, is sufficient guarantee that
tho .show is a genuine and artistic one, and cerium to
please the public of this city.
Professor Cavill will, on Saturday, nnilertake
his sixteen-mile swim, from Parramatta to Sydney. A.
number of distinguished citizens hove announced their
intention to witness the great performance, and every
facility will bo offered the public for doing likewise.
Boats start from Circular Quay several Timas during
the afternoon, and the steam launch ' ‘ Pinafore,’ car-
rying the representatives of the press and t hose desirous
of witnessing the whole of the swim, departs from tho
same quay at 11 a.m. The Professor expects to flnisa
at Goat Island between 5 and 0 ; and Ins little girl and
two boys will at various stages of the swim give exhi-
bitions of their natatory powers.
A double poisoning casetook place at W ell mg ton,
N.Z., not long since, a married man named Matthew
Henderson, on account-ant, and his paramour, a Miss
Bligh, dressmaker, of Christchurch, taking strychnine.
Henderson died shortly afterwards, but the young
woman was progressing favourably at latent, ac-
counts. Henderson bud been seven or eight years
in New Zealand, and was dismissed from a clerkship
in the Railway Deportment, Christchurch, sis years ago
for a deficiency in accounts. Previous to his arrival in
N.Z. he was a mounted trooper in the Victorian police,
and subsequently a plain constable iu Sydney. Whilst
here he was concerned iu .an affray iu a house of ill-
fame, when another member of the force was struck ou
the head with a brass candlestick.
As a result of the paper on “ Diphtheria,” read
a little while ago before the Medical Section of the
Royal Society of N. S. W. by Dr. Maekeliar, a sub-
committee of the society was appointed to enquire into
and report upon the prevalence, causes, diagnosis,
prognosis and treatment of diphtheria as it appears in
the Australian Colonies and Now Zealand. In
accordance with the desire of tho Section the sub-
committee are anxious to obtain tho opinion of medical
practitioners throughout the colonies on the subject
areuorally, and with that view they have issued ft
circular t-o the profession, submitting a series of
questions, which they hope will bo speedily replied to.
It is requested that replies be sent to Dr. P. Sydney
Jones, 16 College-street, or to Dr. H. N. MacLaurin, !•>»
Macqnarie-street, Sydney. Mr. Alfred Roberts,
M.R.C.S., acta as secretary.
The marked decrease in intemperance through-
out America, but particularly In the larger cities of the
States, is ascribed to the increasing use of Lager Beer.
This very ' refreshing beverage, for which we are
indebted to the Germans, is winning its renown
most!/ on account of its beinuf a non-intoxicant and
particularly suited to warm climates. It is much on tu«}
same ground that lager beer is coming into such favour
in the Australian colonies. It is now to be found in all
the principal hotels of Mollnjumo, Brisbane and Sydney,
the Lion brand particularly being in great request.
Mr B. O. Holtermaun introduced this brand some time
back, and he has been rewarded by seeing an increasing
sale whenever it is placed before the public. This is
particularly noticeable in this colony and in Queensland,
where the success o£ the new article js such as to
warrant a special effort to ensure its being on sale at
every hotel in the colonies. Recent large shipments
direct from the German manufacturers permit this, and
Mr. Holterraann is now arranging just to supply all the
principal inland houses.
Attho Metropolitan, Lady Augustus Loftus wore
a mauve silk dress with ohiua-sllk shawl, and a white
straw bonnet trimmed with same colour as dress. The
most striking dress of the day was worn by a dark and
handsome lady; it was composed of maroon velvet,
perfectly plain, with a train of at least three yards, and
bodice trimmed with rich lace, together with hat of
maize and parachute to match. By fur the prettiest and
most fashionable dresses were worn by two sisters from
Newtown ; they wore dresses alike', in jacket bodies of
white silk trimmed with white lace, old gold satin worn
in four rows in front, hussar style, with skirts of mag-
nificent old gold satin, and hoods cn .wife. Not only were
they the most admired toilettes, but it was difficult to say
which of the wearers was the more graceful; both possess
the “ secret of drapery," and the great art of gesture.
A young lady who accompanied Lady Augustus Loftus
wore o very pretty costume of black silk striped with
white, and black hat with tuft of old gold satin at side.
Two belles well known in the fashionable world, and who
were present on Saturday, were arrayed in old gold and
brown pompadour, which, although rather trying colours
to most people, were nevertheless worn with charming
effect. A pretty young lady, a sister of the ex-Mavor,
wore a simple dress of white llama, with black velvet
scarf, which hod a pleasing and tasteful appearance. A
lady.like and elegant dross was worn by a resident of
Potts Point, and consisted of black silk trimmed at the
collar and cuffs with old gold lace, the wearer displaying
no jewellery; the dress was particularly effective in the
midst of a number of fiery costumes covered with
ornaments iu a manner which made one’s eyes ache.
A very fair young lady, recently from Melbourne, wore
a picturesque and becoming dress of cardinal and black,
which was set off to advantage by a good figure and
pretty face. The "lawn" altogether presented a
brilliant combination of colours, the weather was all
that could bo desired, and fair faces and bright toilettes
were the characteristic features of the Metropolitan
Day of 1880.
NEXT SESSION’S PROGRAMME.
These are some of the Bills to bo introduced by
candidates if they got elected to seats in the new
Parliament :
By Mr. I key Josepheon .- A Bill for transferring
the jurisdiction of the Supremo Court to
the directors of the Rand wick Asylum
and for the protection of the “ Geebunga.”,
By David Buchanan; A Bill for the Regenera-
tion of the Human Race, and to scatter
the hideous, monstrous, and odious doc-
trines of contempt of court and libel
into a million pitiful fragments.
By Mr. R. D. Smith : A Bill to authorise the
construction of a salt-water canal between
the “ Mncleay ” and Port Jackson.
By the Rev. Dowie {or John Davie*]: A Bill
' for the Suppression of Papists and
Breweries within the electorate of South
Sydney. ,
By Mr. Ninny Melville ; A Bill to compel
Steam Companies to carry members of
Parliament gratis and for other patriotic
purposes.
By Dr. Bow her; A Bill to suppress Quackery
and encourage the practice of Professional
Drug Dispensing.
By Mr. Terry : A Bill to compensate members
of Parliament, being the proprietors of
not loss than 5,000 acres of land, and re-
cipients of incomes of not less than
.£2.000 a year for their arduous services
in connection with legislation in the
Assembly.
By Mr. 8. C. Brown ; A Bill to transfer the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to the
District Court judges, and to reduce ell
judicial salaries.
Ditto ditto : A Bill to liajifc the appointment to
all judicial offices to attorneys.
By Mr. Barbour : A Bill to provide facilities
for the acquisition of land by bona fide
selectors. ■ , „ ~
By Hr. Day; Ditto, ditto, ditto, and for the
' abolition of Interest on Balances due by
Conditional Purchasers.
By Sir Henry Porkes ; [Better a«k him >
By Dan. O’Connor : A Bill to suppress Green-
wood, the Public Instruction Act, and
M'Elhono. , .
By Mr. Jacob; A Bill to authorize the im-
pounding of trespassing ’ chookies and
native and imported game.
By Mr. Greenwood; A Bill to fund all Public
and Private Loans, and to punish snoring
during debates in Parliament.
By Mr. Piyott: A Bill to create Petersham
into a city.
By Mr. Roseby: A Bill for the Suppression of
Long Sloevers and to encourage Virtue.
By Mr. Harley (H.,): A Bill to abolish
speculation and for the punishment of
Promoters of certain Mining Companies
and other Jesuits.
By ditto; A Bill for the establishment of
National Pawnbrokorage.
By Mr. Beyers : A Bill to protect the bottoms
' falling out of Hill End Mines.
By Mr. Shepherd: A Bill to amend Divorce
and Libel Procedure. , _ .
By Mr. Lucas: (same as during the last ten
By Ifr^Hill: A Bill to prohibit the exportation
of Laughing Jackasses and other native
song birds. .
By Mr. Macintosh: A Bill to confiscate the
property of absentee proprietors of Lands
within the City of Sydney and elsewhere.
By Mr. M'Elhone : A Bill ‘ agan ’ Profanity
and the use of Tobacco.
By Mr. G. R. Maclean : A Bill ‘agin ’ Chinkies
(only some one else will have to introduce
By Mr] Combes , C.M.Q.: His own little Bill of
course: “ The Government of N. S. Wales
Dr. to Combos C.M.G.”
By Mr. Trickett: A Bill to enable Woollahra to
borrow five millions to build a Cathedral.
By Mr. Lynch: A Bill to oompell the spelling
of Carcoar with a K.
And by about 40 members who, simultaneously, on
the very first day of the session, will give notice of
their intention to bring in Bills _“ to abolish
Police or other interference with Public Lectures.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Pierce Egan, who used to write the sensational
tales in the London Journal, is dead.
The magnificent chevelure possessed by Mrs.
L r is the admiration of all Brisbane.
Mr. F. C. Bnrnand has been appointed editor of
Punch, in place of the late Mr. Tom Taylor.
A Hobart Town paper says that “our new
Governor is of the sect of Plymouth Brethren."
Mr. P. A. Gronbe, one of the Australian team
of cricketers in England, was bom in New Plymouth,
N.Z.
Conchology is studied in vice-regal circles.
Young “Monte" is an enthusiastic collector of
shells.
Eobinson and Dixon, two Octogenarians, rule
the Northern Abgus (Rockhampton). They are the
Argus.
Bobby Byrne is hatching again. This time, on
Hit the bantling will be christened “ Queensland
Echoes.”
The charge of libel brought by Mayor Kalloch
of San Francisco, against William M. Neilson.has bee
dismissed.
France announces the death of Auguste Bon
heur, the younger brother of Rosa Bouheur. He wa
also n painter.
Old Holland, the principal Brisbane money
lender, has been “ touched” again. This is nothing new
He lives by “ touches.”
Amhurst, M.L.A. for Mackay, thinks that ther
is money in a distillery. Heaven help the sub-sectiot.
if they tackle any more rum.
More than one medical man in Brisbane deals i
horses. The Brisbaneites therefore accept with cautio
the statements of their Galens.
The Emperor of Japan is a slender man, o !
medium height, with an olive complexion, small hands
and feet, and dark eyes of piercing brilliancy.
Jack Annear the railway man, and King, th
Speaker of the Queensland Assembly, are “mates.” S
are Constable the jockey and Lord Rosebery.
It is said that Sir Arthur Kennedy, who ha
thoroughly recovered his strength by his furlough
will leave England for Queensland in September next.
The Emperor of Germany has invited the Duk
of Connaught to be present at the autumn manoeuvres
of the army, which are to be conducted on a most ex
tensive scale.
Geo. Eipley, L.L.D., President of the New York
Tribune Association and literary editor of the pape
since 1840, died on 7th July. He was the principal edito
of the “American Encyclopaedia."
Mr. Tennyson, according to the “ Peri,” for his
poem “De Profundis,” which recently appeared in the
“Ninetenth Century," was paid £3OO. Not an incon
siderable sum for sixty-five lines of verse.
Our most popular amateur rowing man—it’s
unnecessary more pointedly to indicate the gentleman
is about to become a Benedict. The happy youip
lady lives somewhere this side of the Zig-Zag.
On dit that a marriage has been arranged to
take place shortly between the youngest ana only
remaining daughter of an ex-Colonial Secretary, and
wealthy squatter hailing from the Goulbum district.
Lumley Hill, M.L.A., is about the cheapes;
butt in Queensland for literary marksmen to pot at
You can always make certain of drawing blood, ant
bad blood, too, if you only “strike him with
feather."
Boyd Dunlop Morehead wants to be contractor
for the new mail service, and he threatens MTI wraith
to join the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament if
he does not get the British India S. N. Co’s Agency
Poor Mac!
The young gentlemen belonging to Government
House ought really to exchange the dilapidated shan-
drydan which carried them to South Head last Sunday
for something at least as elegant as a butcher’s cart.
What will Sir Hercules say ?
Gambetta is annoyed by the presence in Paris
of a man from Ardennes, who is his physical double, and
persists in leading a wild Bohemian life. The result is
that Gambetta is frequently reported to have been seen
in places that do him no credit.
A Burrangong resident has found inabeos’ nest
several layers of white comb, containing not honey, but
pure water. Such a thing has not been heard of before
and he thinks that the instinct of the bees may probably
have led them to expect a long dry season.
Some time ago the Telegraph likened the
Hon. W. Forster, ex-Agent-General, to Barrabas. Mr.
Forster remarks, in a letter to the Herald, that when
York-street' did him the honor mentioned it inferen-
compared Sir Henry to same one else.
Professor Huxley, in a lecture at the Eoyal In-
stitution on Bth April, declared again, with emphasis,
that the doctrine of evolution “ is no longer a matter
of (speculation,” but “simply the only way of co-
herently and rationally explaining the facts of palroon-
tology."
Mr. Lachlan M'Gillirvay, an old Australasian
colonist, died at Kuiapoi, at the ripe age of seventv-one
years. The deceased gentleman formerly held an
onerous position in the Colonial Secretary’s office, Tas-
mania, before Responsible Government was granted to
that colony.
Pierce, the editor of the Charters Towers
Herald, is a redoubtable versifier of the sarcastic order.
He ‘‘wires in” to Teddy O’Kane, whom he generally
calls in prose “ a disreputable godless old dog." Pierce
would make a fortune in 'Frisco, though his opportu-
nities are not very materially curtailed in the Towers.
Judge Dowling ia certainly the wittiest and most
original judge we have. On Friday he spoke of a liti-
gant thus : I suppose he is a bachelor—a miserable
man with no residence.” And he said of a "person
who keeps no accounts,” that he was "a duly qualified
candidate for admission to—the Insolvency Court."
A -£? eene llaB received the bronze medal of
the Royal Hibernian Academy for the two best drawings
from the life model in the special competition. Mr.
Oreene also received the bronze medal for the best
drawings from the antique. This young gentleman, who
is but 16 years of age, is a brother of Mr. F. H. Greene
of Sydney. ’
The Emperor William is described as looking
better than he has for years, and wearing a robust and
hearty air. He regards himself at Eras os a soldier on
leave of absence. He seldom wears his customary
uniform, but generally appears in plain clothes, which
are, however, less becoming to him than his well-known
regimentals.
The Melbourne firm of solicitors who pulled Mr.
through in his law suit, have been
of ove? by tbe B»teful recipient of a fortune
of over *lO.OOO per annum. White has paid like a
prince, and tbeftrm in question has, in its turn, mode
the cae UWyCr8 ’ ° lerks that were
S°™° f our music.hall proprietors (says a home
writer) would like to get hold of Brndlaugh during the
Parliamentary recess, and to make a star of him I
°“ e who would give him £3OO a week just for half
ol^l BpeeCh mffhtl y- He think he would be wise in
ttat hiB P MoB °Phy would
Gus. Wangenheim the other day gave a “ nic-
th? children at Qosforcf State school
who were not only delighted beyond measure at the
letter"/ /f caricaturist turned the
letters ef the alphabet into fairies, hobgoblins and
policemen,but were visibly impressed by the lofty moral
lessons inculcated by the wielder of chalk. *
w ,2 t n ® ° f , the sens of His Excellency the Governor
“ r w . weeks **<>. missed his way and
““‘nfccl to obtain an insecure footing in the
°i f . j otany swamp. On being asked by which
h? had come, he replied in English phrase, with
charming naivete " across the fields.’’ The horse will
the k mud 0^* al,pearauce "hen they manage to scrape 1
Mr. Thomas Higinbotham, Engineer-in-Chief of
Victorian railways, who was dismissed by the Berry
Government and reinstated by the Service party, has
been found dead in his bed. It is supposed that his de-
cease was the result of an apoplectic seizure. He was
an able engineer, and the report on American rail-
ways written by him at the instance of the Victorian
Government was extensively availed of by the English
Government. The reason that John Woods (“tar-
brush"), the Berryite Minister for Railways, dismissed
deceased was that Mr. Higinbotham had acted on the
board on whose recommendation he (Woods) was kicked
out of the service. Deceased, whose official troubles
no doubt hastened his demise, was a brother o His
Honor Mr. Justice Higinbotham.
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh, M.P., otherwise Icono-
clast, resides at 20 Circus-road, St. John’s Wood, over
a musical library, where harmoniums and American
organs are sold, and pianofortes are to be had on the
hire system. He occupies only part of the premises,
his suite of apartments being on the first floor. His
two daughters reside with him, and assist him in editing
the National Reformer.
Sir Arthur Nicholson, son of the lately-deceased
and venerable gentleman who for so many years wore
the old baronial title mentioned, has returned to Vic-
toria, and is engaged to be married to an heiress from a
leading colonial family. There now two baronets re-
siding in Victoria—Sir Arthur Nicholson and Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen. However, our neighbours could very well
spore the latter gentleman. The former is universally
esteemed.
There are few people who can “ snub ” his
Honor Sir James Martin, but it’s said that Mr. Read,
chief clerk of the Supreme Court, once unconsciously
maunged to do so in a most effectual way. The judges
had taken their seats—it was in Banco—and Mr. Read
came into Court half-a-minute late. Sir James, who
never seems to be in a good hmuonr just after break-
fast, was annoyed at having been kept waiting, and said,
in his half-bluff, half-gruff style, “ I’m surprised at yon,
Mr. Read—second time this week you’ve kept the Court
waiting." But before the last of these words was out
of his Honor’s mouth Mr. Read, who doesn’t hear as
quickly as some people, had turned his back on the
Court, and energetically cried out “ Regina v. Brown.”
The audience langhed, and even the judges joined in.
Bernays, Lewis Adolphus. Clerk of the Legisla-
tive Assembly of Queensland, chairman of twenty com-
panies and director of a hundred, has £lOO on the
estimates for a house. For ten years he has lived reut
free in comfortable quarters at the hack of the old
Supreme Court. Now a reckless Government is
about to sell the property, and Lewis Adolphus, the
exotic, has to “clear.” “
Most people know the popular vocalist, Mr.
Andrew Fairfax. Few, however, have seen him at home
in his true colours. Clad in a scarlet evening gown,
pink waistcoat and Turkish fez, and with worked slip-
pers and bluestockings, our worthy friend looks the per-
sonification of retired Imperialism. He looks out from
the verandah of his cottage on to the Burwood railway
station, and for hours each evening quietly contem-
plates the surrounding scene.
A certain very swell newspaper man in a nemli
bourmg, colony is passing off as a fellow in ne°d of *
wife. It may interest ladies to learn that hia
wife s baggage was, when| the Australia left Prison
held for board at the Palace Hotel in that city, where if
had been for nearly a year , and that the gentleman
himself is particularly wanted by certain people at the
Baldwin. His wife, a pretty and clever little ladv
Uving with her mother in St. Jose, Cal. The captains
of the S.F, boats will be glad to give further particulars
A good yarn is told about Judge Blake, while on
Circuit one time in Eockhampton. The Judge then as
now was equally fond of new-laid eggs and butter. At
breakfast one morning at the hotel where he was star
ing, some of the former delicacies were placed on the
table. Mr. Blake soon came in contact with them
knocked the top off the first, smelt it, expectorated as
if disgusted, tried the second with a similar result and
so on till he had secured all he wanted. He then
quietly made a good breakfast, the “ new-laid eggs ■*
forming no inconsiderable portion of it. It suddenly
dawned on the other boarders that they had been “ sold.**
One day Sir Charles Hotham, Governor of
Victoria, who had been an Admiral and was in the habit
of being obeyed, was being driven from Toorak into
Melbourne along the then narrow track. A wood-carter
also happened to be going in the same direction, and
with the stubbornness of his class refused to make way
for the Governor’s carriage. At last Sir Charles put h
head out of the window. “Do you know who I am ?
he enquired. “ No, and I don’t care,” was the booris i
reply. “I am the Governor of Victoria.” “Ah
observed the rough wood-carter. “ You’ve got a d
good billet, old man—mind you stick to it."
Since his retirement from the Presidency
little has been heard of Marshal MacMahon. He seen
to have soured at the world, and if report speaks trul- r
to be in indigent circumstances. He failed to put in at
appearance at the grand military review on Fete Da- -
very much to the surprise and regret of those who hoi
him in high esteem. The Marshal is said to be harasset
by creditors, and to be so much depressed in spiril
that he lately made an attempt to destroy himself j
which was fortunately frustrated.
The day’s festivities provided by Mr. R. H. D
White for the school children of the Mudgee district i
celebration of his recent victory in the Melboum
courts, and his acquisition of immense wealth, was i
great affair. In acknowledging the cheers with whic i
his young friends greeted him, says the Independent
Mr. White said that it afforded him much pleasure tc
see the children looking so healthy and happy. It hat
pleased God to increase his wealth, and he did not in
tend to be selfish with it. As they say in Northern
Queensland, the lucky litigant is evidently a “ Whit
man.”
Captain F. C. Standish, Chief Commissioner o
Victorian Police, who is about to be “ Black Wednes
dayed ’’ by Berry, belongs to a good old English family
is a most accomplished man, and, being one of the com
mitteo of the Melbourne Club, is not favored by th
“Liberal" party. The captain is an enthusiastic
sportsman and occupies the honorable position of chair
man of the V.R.C. He has always been one of th
most popular men in Melbourne society; is, the Kell- r
affair notwithstanding, a clever administrator; and has
in retaining his Government appointment throughou ;
the Berry mile evidenced the possession of a rare amoun ;
of diplomatic ability. He was a goldfields commissione ■
in the early days and succeeded Sir Charles M'Mahon
the Chief Commissiouership. He is, on the whole, far to
gentlemanly a man to serve such a Government. H
has never been married.
In a recent address before the Colonial Mission
ary Society in London, The Rev. Thomas Jones, late o
the Collins-street Congregational Church, Melbourne
is stated by the Wesletait Spectator to have very
gracefully alluded to the work done by the Victorian
churches, and to have expressed his opinion that Aus
tralian preachers were not far behind their brethren in
England. Mr. Jones in particular spoke very highly o
Mr. Gosman, Congregational minister at St. Kilda, who
would be able, in his opinion, to fill the chair of any
Congregational College in England with credit to him
self. One of the reasons why, according to Mr. Jones
Mr. Gosman is so able, is that he is dark-complexioned
Mr. Jones says, “No man can be able as a preacher un
less he is sanguine, bilious in temperament, and dark
and black in complexion." We, of Sydney, know fal
well how unerring the rule is. John Alexander Dowie
is a little too sanguine, and therefore not so successful
as the atrabiliousuess of his nature would indicate
Then there’s Dr. Wazir Beg, who, according to Mr
J ones, ought to be a success. Why he is the exceptioi
that proves the rule we don’t know. Any body ac-
quainted with the Domain and Bathurst-street column
knows that the “dark ’uns ” always get along best.
A gallant capture is reported to have been made
by two limbs of the law in the Domnin the other night.
Having but recently taken charge of that portion of the
metropolis they were apparently unacquainted with the
usual nightly phenomena to be met there. It was nine
o’clock, while parading a particularly dark spot above the
baths that they heard the loud tread of persons running
towards them. Dodging behind a tree they waited for
a few seconds and then with a bound ponneed upon two
innocent amateur oarsmen who were “doing their run."
One was neatly rolled over by the concussion and be-
came an easy prey, while the other was captured after a
short but sanguinary straggle. “You’ve made a mistake
—we are only running for our training," gasped one of
the victims when be was able to regain some breath.
“ Now, yez don’t come over me with that yarn ; where
in the divil is the train in this direeshun that yez may
be breaking yer necks after ? The very looks of yez is
enough, so it is, so off with yer—come on, both of yez."
Expostulation was out of the question, more particularly
since the general fit out of the pedestrians was decidedly
seedy, they gave their names and addresses but to no
purpose. Then one exhibted two medals which bore
his name, and luckily he was able to produce some
tickets for the forth coaiing regatta. Oncethe confidence
of their captors was shaken they vigorously renewed
their persuasive powers, till, being ultimately success-
ful, the gallant “ peelers ” were rewarded with three
tickets each for the regatta, and a sight of the heels of
their late captives vanishing from view at the rate of 10
miles an hour.
On Saturday at the races Lady Augustus Loftus,
who appeared to take great interest in the proceedings,
wore a magnificent black satin dress with stripe of velvet
and lace to match; bonnet of the latest fashion of ivoiy
satin decorated with feather of same colour with bow
of crimson velvet at side, and parasol of a bright
crimson colour. The very charming wife of a naval
captain appeared in an extremely pretty dress of white
satin beautifully embossed with flowers, embellished
with a plain white-satin sash and trimmed in
front with rich lace. The prettiest dress on the lawn
was worn by a well-known fashionable married lady who
comes from Newtown. The body consisted of violet-
coloured velvet of a beautifully soft shade, laced at
back, skirt of cashmere of a somewhat lighter
shade, and trimmed with a broad band of velvet to
match the body. This dress was not only the most
tasteful but correct in every detail. The wife of one of
our learned judges wore a robe of black velvet trimmed
with sable fur. which must have been inconveniently
heavy for such weather as Saturday’s. Two young
ladies, sisters, from Double Bay, were attired exactly
alike, in nearly white dresses of a soft Turkish
material, with caps to match trimmed with white
fur. These costumes, although childishly simple, were
not surpassed in effect by others of a more ambitious
character. A professor’s wife from Macquorie-street
North, wore a dress whfch we have before noticed as
being of a most elegant description and which appeared
to be generally admired. It was composed of an ex-
quisite shade of moss-green velvet, with a skirt of dark
green foulard, toque to match, with necklet of pearl
shells. A well-known Sydney belle, who was escorted
by the son of a distinguished English military officer,
wore a singularly pretty and suitable costume. The
sleeves of the dress were of pale blue silk, with skirt and
hood of same material, and body and flounce of creamy
white llama, embroiderd with small bine and red
flowers. A dark young lady who hails from E.ushcutter’s
Bay, wore a refreshingly plain but lady-like attire,
consisting of a black silk dress with mantle handsomely
ornamented, and hood of black and white silk. A
matron wore a rather striking costume, with a contrast
of colours that would not have been thought of a few
years ago, but which nevertheless was very effective.
The sleeves were composed of very dark green satin,
with body of cream coloured satin, scarf of same, and
skirt trimmed alternately with squares (or nearly
squares) of green and cream coloured satin, which in
the distance looked remarkably like patch-work. Taken
altogether there were many bright and handsome
toilets at Eandwick: pretty frocks and pretty faces in
some instances being charmingly combined.
MR. GEORGE PILE. (See Page 14.)
A Cheerful Prospect.
N. S. WALES (in tears): O Mr. Proctor, I do feel so ashamed. What will they say
of us in England? What will YOU say of us? Do you think Sydney will ever
be abreast of London?
MR. PROCTOR (solemnly): Not for 2,500 millions of years.


WOMAN ITEMS.
Only one of the late Brigham Young’s daughters
a thorough blonde.
The smaller the husband the bigger the bundle
bis wife makes him carry.
The native Roman ladies are very handsome,
•tall, and exquisitely formed.
A pastor at Austin, Tex., preached on “ A Tight
Squeeze j or, The Round Dance.’*
A woman loves that man best who will deck her
out so as to please the eyes of other men.
A man’s slippers are made for comfort, and a
woman’s to show her colored stockings.
Beware of the girl who is afraid to let her little
brother have a confidential chat with you.
The higher education of women —Learning how
to walk in French hoots with six-inch heels.
The young fellow who marries a rich old lady
rises in the world, not by merit, but by seniority.
The woman who marries does well. But the
woman who does not marry does better nine times out
ten.
Nothing will cure a young man’s infatuation for
au actress sooner than marriage and a chance to pay her
ifttle bills.
A country paper speaks of a woman who enjoyed
e ood health. Once in a while you find a person who en-
joys bad health, but hardly ever.
Queen Victoria has attained her sixty-first year,
an age exceeded by eleven only of the sovereigns of Eng-
land, dating from the Norman Conquest.
Of the 380,108 married in Great Britain! during
1878, 164,265 were bachelors, 181,474 were spinsters,
25 789 were widowers, and 18,580 were widows.
"Tin dollars a month is wot I got at furst, but
as she wanted me to wear a cap and look Frinch I got
raised two dollars for to practice the deception.”
The Zulus never have any secrets from their
wives. In this country, where a man has only one wife,
it is well nigh impossible, and the Zulus average twenty
apiece. ,
There is a fortune in store for the milliner who
shall devise a bonnet that can be worn in any part of a
church and always present its trimmed side to the con-
gregation.
A gentleman down East, seeing his pretty maid
with his wife's bonnet on, kissed her, supposing it to be
the “ real one." He discovered his error through the
assistance of his wife.
The Conqbegationalist wants to know why
we do not have female hair cutters.—The principal
reason is that the female hand divine is so apt to pull
the hair out by the roots.
“ In choosing a wife,” says the Phrenological
Journal, “be governed by her chin.” The worst of it
is that, after having chosen a wife, one is apt to keep on
being governed in the same way.
A well-patronised and novel company has been
organised in New York, which furnishes, on application
by ladies, temporary escorts to places of amusements,
or wherever an escort is needed.
No lady who has been before a divorce court,
however innocent she may bo or on whichsoever side
she may have been, is permitted to have her name pass
for a drawing-room at the English court.
Between two ladies; “ Gracious! If all this
that you tell me is true, the creature is simply in-
famous.” “Certainly it is true, for as lam her best
friend, of course I would not lie about her.”
The Maud Mullers in tableaux vivants all want
to wear pretty dresses and fancy stockings and shoes,
forgetting that it was Maud’s feet so bare, and her
“tattered gown ” that made a point on the judge.
Among the paid bills and other documents
received by a certain man from his flfteen-year-old-
daughter, who was away at school, was a marriage
certificate. That was the first news of her nuptials.
The announcement that the Empress of Russia
died alone, unattended by any member of her family,
and during even the absence of the one servant who was
in her room during the night, has given rise to much
comment in England.
Lady Anne Isabella Blunt, granddaughter of
Lord Byron, and sister of Baron Wentworth, has just
been converted to Roman Catholicism. Should Baron
Wentworth not marry the barony will pass to Lady
Anne in case she survives him.
A certain much-respected lady has never been
legally married to the man whom she regards as her
husband. This is her way of keeping the property
which, by the terms of her first husband’s will, she
would lose by marrying again,
A lovely girl had her corset torn off by a
stroke of lightning and was uninjured, but the young
man who called to borrow a book had his right arm
shattered nud a piece of corset st eel blown into his liver.
He said he didn’t know she was loaded.
A French artist, returning home suddenly one
afternoon, discovers his wife seated in the lap of a
stranger. “Ah, my dear,” she exclaims, “monsieur
writes up the salon for an influential paper! I was about
to explain to him the pose of your picture."
The late cook : “ Actually had the audacity to
tell me that my husband made his money dishonestly.”
“And did he my dear?" “Not at all. He made it by
having fires at his store, and going insolvent, like other
business people we know.” — Melbourne Punch.
Arthur Sullivan (says “Carados”), has com-
posed a national hymn for Canada, and has mailed it to
the Marquis of Lome. There is no truth in the report
that this is another setting of the familiar song, “ Don’t
make a noise or else you’ll wake the .” But no
matter.
It is useless to hide the fact (says “ Carados ”),
that since the retirement of the Queen from her position
at the head of the Court society has grown gradually
depraved. It is a great pity, because the
evil example spreads to the middle and lower classes.
Intrigue will soon be fashionable, and not to be naughty
will be not to be known.
To detect adulteration in wine : —Dip a sponge
into the wine to be tested. Place the sponge in a saucer,
the bottom of which is covered with a small quantity
of water. If the wine is pure, it will take from a quarter
to half an hour before the water in the saucer becomes
coloured, but if the wine is not pure, the colouring of
the water takes place immediately.
Beneath a shady tree they sat
He held her hand, she held his hat,
I held my breath and lay right flat;
They kissed, I saw them do it.
He held that kissing was no crime,
She held her head up every time,
I held my peace and wrote this rhyme
While they thought no one knew it.
A well-known poet has written an “ Ode to
Infancy,” which begins:
“ Oh, little child!
Stretched on thy mother’s knees with steadfast gaze
and innocent aspect mild,
' Viewing this novel scene in mute amaze.”
Wait till the old lady hits him a crack with the slipper.
The amaze will be there, but the mute part of it will be
missing.
The South Australian Legislature having a new
Licensed Victuallers Bill before them, petitions on the
subject of Sunday closing have been presented to the
Assembly from many thousands of the “ wives, mothers,
and daughters of South Australia." Strange to say,
that although these have flowed in “ galore ” not one
memorial has been received from “the sisters, the
cousins, and the aunts," and members are naturally
wondering what has become of them. At present the
hill in its amended form provides for public houses
bmng open on Sundays from 1 to 2 in the afternoons,
and from Bto9 in the evening. During the discussion
o. the measure it was proposed that no single woman
should be allowed to keep an hotel, when up jumped an
excitable Irish member and exclaimed “we are often
£sked what shall we do with our boys; I should like to
know what we ore to do with our old maids if we pre-
sent them from keeping public houses. A decent,
respectable old maid is as nice a person as any one could
wish to meet.” The house roared.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XVIII-Continued.
At length came a pause, and Sebastian hastened
to make use of it.
“ How do you like England, Miss Blisset?”
“ I can hardly say, seeing that I only know
Thanshope.”
“ Thanshope, then, as compared with the Con-
tinent in general ?”
“ I like it,” said Adrienne, ‘‘because I have
found a home in it, and because I am useful to
some one—am I not, uncle?”
“ Necessary, my dear, necessary.”
“ There, you see! necessary !” said Adrienne.
‘ ‘ But you used to rejoice so intensely in the
sunshine, and the poetry, and the beauty of those
foreign lands.”
“ Wetzlar, for instance. Do you remember how
delighted you wore ? how you sat dreaming by
Goethe’s Brunnen, and how you seated yourself in
Lotte Buff’s parlour, and looked round, and could
scarcely speak ?”
“ Ah, yes!” said Adrienne, her eyes lighting up
at the remembrance, and a smile stealing over her
face; but that was very enchanted ground you
know.”
“ And you struck a few chords on that piano;
that ‘ old, tuneless instrument,’ on which Goethe
had played to Lotte, and then drew back, quite
ashamed of you own audacity—you must remem-
ber?”
“Did I ever say I did not remember?” said
Adrienne, a tremor in her voice, as she looked up
and found Sebastian leaning forward, his chin in
his hand, and his eyes fixed upon her face.
Something in the expression of those eyes
seemed to cause Adrienne some emotion. Her
colour rose. Mr. Blisset had opened a newspaper
which his servant had brought inland was ap-
parently buried behind it. Sebastian, his eyes
still fixed upon the young lady’s, said, softly:
“ Don’t you think Wetzler was the most sun-
shiny place you were ever in ?”
“At least the sun began to shine for me there,
she said quickly, and looking towards him with a
sudden, deeper glance than before.” t
He smiled.
“ I think, for me too.” Then, seeing that she
looked still more downcast, he added ; “ But we
shall meet again, I hope, and then we can discuss
those old days. I was going to ask, have you
many friends here ?”
“ Scarcely any. My uncle does not visit. We
know Canon Ponsonby, and Mrs. Ponsonby called
upon me, and was very kind. Then I have a few
friends of my own peculiar kind, you know.”
“ I know. Old apple-women, at street-corners;
working-people; - unhappy youths who want a few
lessons in this and that—eh? ”
“ Tes,” said Adrienne, smiling.
“ Then Myles Hey wood is not counted amongst
your friends ? ” said Sebastian, composedly, glanc-
ing aside at Mr. Blisset, to assure himself that
that gentleman was absorbed in his newspaper.
“Yes, he is,” said Adrienne, raising her head.
“ Ho is a friend both of my uncle’s and mine.”
“Is it allowable to ask how you made his
acquaintance?” _ .
Adrienne suddenly crimsoned, while Sebastian
unkindly continued steadfastly to watch her. He
had been piecing different facts and. inferences
together in his mind, and was rather anxiously
awaiting her answer.
“ It is not allowable ? ” he said. “ I beg your
pardon.”
“ Yes, it is, quite,” retorted she, somewhat
recovering herself. “ I met Myles Heywoodafew
weeks ago, not more. I used to have some work
that I did at the public reading-room, and he used
to read there too. He rendered me a very kind
service on one occasion, and has been a friend and
a visitor here ever since.”
Sebastian bowed politely.
“ Ho interested me,” said he, with a rather
ambiguous smile. “ I wished to know more of
him; but ho declines every advance I make to
him.”
Adrienne was silent. Sebastian, with a laudable
thirst for information, went on, in the same calm,
matter-of-fact voice:
“ I begin to think that in his case appearances
deceive me.” (Adrienne looked rapidly up and
down again). “ There is something wonderfully
attractive about his face and manner. He appears
so very superior to his class, and yet I fancy there
must be some fatal defect of temper—some moral
want.” •
“ You are mistaken,” said she, in a voice which,
though low, was so clear and decided as to startle
Sebastian. The information he wished tor
appeared to be readily forthcoming —whether it
were of a pleasant nature or not, he could hardly
yet say.
“Yon think so? You think it is not mere
churlishness?” he said, purposely using a strong
word.
“ He has not a grain of the churl in him.”
“ Indeed ! Then he must have well-developed
imitative faculties,” said Sebastian, with a politely
sceptical accent, which he had often found useful
as a conversational weapon. It was successful
upon this occasion. Adrienne answered quickly :
“You must not think him churlish. It would bo
a grievous mistake to make. He has a _ most
generous disposition. You should see him at
home with his sister and cripple brother —they are
friends of mine too, and his deaf friend, Harry
Ashworth. You would not misjudge him then.
Those people know his heart, as it is—and they all
adore him. Churlish —no ! ”
“ Well, does he behave in such an extraordinary
way to Mr. Blisset? Does he look at him as if he
would say, ‘ Thus far and no further. Keep your
distance, if you please ?’”
“ To my uncle —oh no! He is very fond of him,
and very respectful to him,” said Adrienne,
demurely, a curious little smile quivering about
the comers of her mouth.
“ Then why does he select myself as the object
of his hatred —for I am sure he does hate me ? ’ ’
“ He —because ”
“Because?”
“ I cannot explain. Only he does not hate you. ’ ’
“ I am convinced you could tell me all about it
if you would, so as you will not I must find it out
in my own way, I am determined I will learn the
reason of his aversion to me—and will overcome
it.”
“Oh, don’t! Pray let him alone. He is best
let alone.”
Sebastian smiled.
“ You seem to be well acquainted with what is
best for him—though you have only known him a
few weeks. If you have succeeded in making a
friend of him, why should not I ? ”
“ I would not go too far. Eemember, he, as
well as you, has a right to choose his own friends,
and if he does not choose you for one of them, you
have no right to ”
“ Importune him ? No. You are quite right,
he said, rising. “ But —there is society of a
different stamp from Myles Heywood, even in
Thanshope. Would you have any objection to my
mother calling upon you ? ”
“ Mrs. Mauory—objection. Not the least. I
should be delighted. But don’t yon think, if she
had wished for my acquaintance, she would have
called before? ”
“ She was ignorant that you lived here. She
thought Mr. Blisset’s household quite without
ladies. I expect she will call upon you within the
next few days.”
“ I shall be happy to see her,” said Adrienne,
politely, but not enthusiastically; and he could
read nothing from the eyes, as they answered his
enquiring gaze. She roused her uncle from his
abstraction, and Sebastian dropped her hand with
a smile. After all, he told himself, it was absurd
to think seriously of Myles Heywood as a rival—
quite absurd. A high cultivation like Adrienne’s
—and how different she was from that little dark-
eyed Helena, with her vehemence and her dis-
organised ideas as to woman’s rights and man’s
selfishness—could surely never feel any real affinity
with that untamed, untutored specimen of
humanity Myles Heywood. There might be plenty
of force about him, but force without culture is
apt to get uncomfortable.
Amidst earnest requests from Mr. Blisset that
he would speedily renew his visit, and equally ear-
nest assurances on his part that he would do so,
Sebastian departed.
********
In the Oakenrod drawing-room, Mrs. Mallory by
the fire, with a novel and a feathery screen; Hugo
over a copy of the original edition of
Bewick’s * Birds,’ the like of which treasure, he
considered, he had never seen before ; for the rest,
silence.
“You have been out all the evening ?” inquired
Mrs. Mallory, languidly, as she looked up.
“ Yes, I have been at Mr. Blisset’s.”
Hugo looked up.
“Mother, do you ever call at Mr. Blisset’s
house?”
“ No, Soon after he came, I called; but his
man-servant told me that he was a great invalid
and saw-no one.”
“ He is certainly a great invalid. But there is
a Miss Blisset.”
“ Is he a widower ?” asked Mrs. Mallory, struck
by something in her sons tone, .dimly conscious of
some impending unpleasantness in store for her-
self.
“ She is his niece. She came to live with him
some two years or eighteen months ago. I was
delighted to renew my acquaintance with her.”
“Then you had met her before ?”
“ Yes; at Coblentz, and at Wetzlar, on the
Lahn.”
Sebastian was at the present moment leaning
on the top of his mother’s chair, which was a deep
roomy easy-chair of a by-gone day. As he spoke
he took the feathery screen out of her hand and
fanned her with it a little. She wished he would
not do so. It might not make it more really diffi-
cult to resist him, but it made her look very un-
gracious ; it must look very ungracious of a mother
to deny favours to a son who asked them in so se-
ductive a manner.
Mrs. Mallory thought there were certain points
upon which sne would never give in; but even
while she thought it, and Sebastian waved the
screen to and fro, and his" voice gently continued
ti speak—even then, she had an indefinable sensa-
f on of being managed—that power was slipping
rom her hands into his. But she could say noth-
ing until he had in some way committed himself;
and he had a most provoking habit of not commit-
ting himself.
> “ She is as clever and accomplished in her way
as he ism his,” Sebastian went on; “and she is
in addition a most charming young lady. She has
no friends here —and she is so different from the
Thanshope people—much more in your style than
that vehement little Miss Spenceley,” he added,
while Hugo looked on from afar and laughed in
his sleeve. “ I am sure you would like her if you
knew her, and I want you to be so kind as to call
upon her.”
“ Call upon her ! Call upon a person I know
nothing about. Really, Sebastian, I wonder at
you!”
“ My dear mother, she is not in the least what
you would describe as a ‘ person.’ Even your
critical taste will pronounce her a thorough lady
when you see her.”
“ How is it nobody else has called upon her?”
“ Some one else has. Mrs. Ponsonby has called
upon her. But I want you to call upon her. You
really would oblige me exceedingly, mother, if you
would.”
“ And therefore I must, I suppose. That ap-
pears to be the rule by which the young judge the
old in the present day,” said Mrs. Mallory, a little
acidly.
Scarcely two days before, Sebastian had treated,
first with levity and contempt, and then with
downright repugnance, the prospect of dining at
the Spenceleys’ house, or cultivating their further
acquaintance. Mrs. Mallory had in her pocket at
that moment a note, in Helena’s hand-writing, re-
questing the pleasure of the company of Mrs. and
Mrs. Mallory, and that of Mr. von Birkenau, to
dinner ten days hence.
“ If I go out of my way to make new acquain-
tances, about whom I care nothing in the "world,
it is only fair that you. put yoursotf out of the way
too, Sebastian.”
“ Perfectly fair. As how ?”
“ We are invited to dine at the Spenceleys on
the —th. If you don’t go there, and behave
civilly to my friends, I really don’t see how I can
encourage yours, about whom I know nothing, to
come here, or go to see them myself.”
“ I quite grasp the importance of the situation,”
said Sebastian, with that placid politeness which
exasperated Mrs. Mallory beyond bounds, because
she did not know into what language to translate it.
“ If you will call upon Miss Blisset within the
next day or two —1 mean a proper call, you know,
with an intimation that you would like her to re-
turn it, and so on—l will go to any amount of
Spenceley spreads, be thev ever so gorgeous, and
will listen to Miss Spenceley’s diatribes with the
utmost resignation. There will be a contrast to
think of.”
This was not very encouraging behaviour: but
it was the best to be extracted from her very
“ trying ” son, and Mrs. Mallory had to accept it,
merely remarking:
“ If your friend Miss Blisset has anything like
the good qualities of Helena, I shall be surprised.”
“No, she has not,” said Sebastian. “Miss
Spenceley has one hundred thousand golden vir-
tues —not to mention others of a loss tangible
character —of a kind that Adrienne Blisset knows
nothing about.
Mrs. Mallory made a note of “ Adrienne Blisset,”
and began to feel an intense dislike to that young
lady.
But the bargain had been struck. On the third
day after treaty had been, so to speak, signed, Mrs.
Mallory called out her horses and called out her
men, and drove in state to see and overwhelm Miss
Blisset.
She saw her: but the overwhelming remained
still a dream of the future. Adrienne’s utter free-
dom from embarrassment in the presence of Mrs.
Mallory, of the Oakenrod, might be in bad tas
but it could not very well be commented upo
She parried all her visitor’s hidden thrusts on t
subject of Sebastian with a cool adroitness whic
called forth her visitor’s reluctant admiration, an
behaved altogether with an ease and address which
was the more reprehensible in that it seemed so
perfectly natural.
“ But it may not have been natural,’ reflected
Mrs. Mallory, as she drove away. “ The attention,
after Sebastian’s calling there and finding her was
so marked. I think she is the most consummate
little actress I ever met, anywhere.”
CHAPTER XIX.
“l DREAMT I DWELT IN MARBLE HALLS,”
Castle Hill, the Spenceley mansion, was a
new, imposing residence of red brick, with massive
stone facings. It had been the dwelling of Mr.
Spenceley and his family for some six or seven
years, and it was within these walls that Helena
sat in captivity, and groaned alternately over the
selfishness of men and the mean-spiritedness of
woman.
On the appointed evening, Mrs. Mallory, her son
and Hugo, were driven to the mansion, and ushered
into the drawing-room. It was an apartment vast
in dimensions, lofty, dazzling, perfectly square,
perfectly gorgeous, and more than perfectly un-
comfortable. .
Some ten or twelve persons were collected some-
where amidst the mass of gorgeous carpet, hang-
ings, furniture, and dazzling cyrstal drops which
seemed to blend and combine in a determined and
successful effort to crush and annihiliate the
human portion of the scene. Sebastian and Hugo
saw Mrs. Mallory sail up to a massive-looking lady
in purple satin, white lace, and unlimited jewellery
of florid design and great brilliance. This lady
she greeted almost affectionately. Was she
not Helena’s mother? and did not Mrs. Mallory
herself regard Helena almost as a daughter ? Hav-
ing introduced Sebastian and Hugo, Mrs. Mallory
turned to Mr. Spenceley, while the young men
bowed themselves before the mistress of the
house.
She said she was very glad to see them. Then
she told Sebastian she had heard a great deal
about him, and then she looked hurriedly round
for “ Mr. Spenceley.”
That gentleman, who had been exchanging
courtesies in a loud and blatant voice with Mrs.
Mallory, now began to welcome Sebastian to his
native place, also in a loud and blatant manner.
“Well, sir, I am glad to see you. Just come
home in the nick of time you have. You’ve a
grand opportunity for making your fortune now.
Gad ! But it’s providential, this American busi-
ness ! We shall get rid of some of our surplus
stock now. It’ll give us a pull over our work-
people too, at last; and not before we need it.
The fellows were getting beyond everything, eh ?
Sebastian, his calm, and serious eyes quietly
scanning the strong, if coarse, under-bred face of
the man before him, merely said that he was quite
new to this sort of thing. He had not considered
the subject in that light at all.
“ Well, I should advise you to do so as soon as
possible then, or you’ll lose your chance,” shouted
Mr. Spenceley, whose voice was elevated so
as to drown those of the rest of the company,
while his wife timidly looked on, her florid face set
grave, and her eyes rownd and staring with a sort
of anxious attentiveness.
Sebastian foresaw that he would have to take -her
into dinner, and he glanced at her now and then,
wondering what he should say_ to her how
keep up some kind of conversation. She was a
tall, stout, matronly woman; once she must have
been an extremely handsome lass. Her black hair
was still abundant, and had something of the
waviness of Helena’s ; her eyes, too, were dark.
She was as tall as her daughter, but more lym-
phatic in temperament.
Helena had probably inherited her beauty from
her mother, and her vehemence from her father.
Mrs. Spenceley was accustomed to roll in her car-
riage through Bridgehouse and Lower Place,
suburbs of Thanshope, and to look from her eleva-
tion upon the extensive matrons who stood at their
cottage door, exchanged gossip, or scolded their
ingenious offspring sporting in the road before
them ; but her nature was the same as theirs. De-
nude her of her silks and satins, attire her in a
cotton or linsey gown, with bare arms and a large
apron, her hair twisted up in a knot behind, and
head capless ; a cottage full of cares and unruly
children, a rough “measter” to make and mend
and “do” for, and she would have been indis-
tinguishable from those other matrons. She would
have fallen back into the old way quite genially
and naturally; she would have been what she
certainly was not under existing arrangements—
happy.
For Mrs. Spenceley was unhappy in her riches
and greatness; she could remember quite distinctly
the days when Spenceley had been overlooker at
one of the great Thanshope factories, and she had
done the work of the house, and brought up the
children single-handed, and been happy—and not
genteel. She remembered the sudden leap into
prosperity, the gradually increasing establishment,
Helena dismissed to a fashionable boarding-school,
and Fred to a private and select academy, where
he was to learn how to become a gentleman—that
short, easy, and every-day process, where, as a
matter of fact, he had drunk in one lesson, and
one only, that a fellow whose father has money,
and who will one day have money himself, need not
know or do, or be anything—except rich. Mrs.
Spenceley remembered how servants of whom she
had stood in awe, had accumulated round her;
how she had to leave her kitchen to their tender
mercies; how she found that she must not handle
a duster, or have an opinion as to the merits of the
merits of the heave-shoulder, or the wave-breast
any longer : until she had got a magnificent house-
keeper in black silk and lace cap, who was fully
conscious of Ihe primodial fact that large and
wealthy establishments only existed in order that
she might domineer over one of them. How
Helena was returned upon her hands a “ finished ”
young lady, ignorant, as it seemed to Mrs. Spen-
celej»m her own ignorance, of the very elements of
a womanly education —unable to keep house to
cook, to sew, even to distinguish ribs of beef from
sirloin. She had ventured, mildly, to utter some
of her woe to the father, who had said ; “ Pooh!
Let the lass alone. She’ll never need to know such
things. She shall marry a lord ! Only don’t let
her cross me and she’ll do.” And Helena had
been suffered to trample upon the domestic arts,
and to throw herself with all the energy of one who
has nothing to do with herself, into all sorts of
questions about which her active brain made her
curious, while her unfinished education left her
profoundly ignorant of their practical bearings.
She had no female friends except Mrs. Mallory and
Miss Mereweather, a conspicuous friend and up-
holder of “the cause.” She loved Mrs. Mallory,
because that lady was kind to her, and was by no
means a nonentity; and she adored Miss Mere-
weather because of her talents or what, seemed to
[ Helena her talents.
i(TO EE CONTINUED).


Chemists and Druggists
ARMSTRONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOTI-?
AND LIVER PILLS Stand unrivalled m „
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE for
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains in
the head and chest, habitual constipation
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and dizzi’
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy action
of the stomach and bowels. They cause
neither griping nor sickness, and are confidently
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d. r
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best known
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP, as
well as the most successful remedy for coughs
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack*
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4s
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES.
“ Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “ for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOR-
HAGE.” Can always be RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d audios.
N.B. —To facilitate the cure, the use of ARMSTRONG’S
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
bined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
R. B. ARMSTRONG,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
AKE NO MORE PILLS
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are auy’of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Kg' Remember this, and always keep a box of this-
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW, and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT..
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to he
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the-
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the las’; TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now he
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to he the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who wenld suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and he perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may he cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can he re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
ran have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like. Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is pro ved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once he
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to he still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to he what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JQAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
OEIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s fid
per suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
/The latest shape; a use-)
I ful and durable suit I 35s per
1 for business and ordi- f suit.
I nary wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
/In light Homespuns and)
J thin Cheviots and Ban- 1
1 nockburns. for Spring j
land Summer wear. J
42a per
Suit.
I)
AVID JONES AND COMPANY'S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental
Tweeds, excellent for
general wear, in neat
checks and mixtures.
48s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
/"Specially Light and')
I Durable, the materials |
having been well J-
j shrunk before
1. made up.
beingj
63s per
suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
"In
Orient
Walking Suits,
Superior Oriental-]
Tweeds, cut in the I
latest stylo, and
finished the same as | ILr suu ‘
ordered clothing. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
! Beautifully light
Texture, permanent in f 38s 6d
colour and very dur- f per suit
able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY'S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Orieketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen's
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
("Special attention is in--)
I vited to our Orient I
I Clothing, as being | Genlemens
{ the best value, and J- Orient
I most perfect in stxle I Clothing.
I and finsh procurable |
C in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanian v
Flannel, thoroughly /
shrunk. f
18s 5d
The
Orient.
China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s fid aach.
l ino black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s fid each.
Superior Sergo Coats, 21s each -
Black and Blue Sergcrelte Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergeretto, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
/"In fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
< In Black Merino. 30s.
(.In Super sergcrelte, 555.
("Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s fid.
j ~ „ in Self Colours, 8s fid.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
j Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s fid,
(.Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
/"In Superior, all Wooli
-! Tambary Tweed, well [■ 30s each
(, finished. )
{A Special Dress Over-']
coait, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beanti- > 55s
fully tight, and agree- j
able to wear. J
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OY’S AND YOUTH’S CLOTHING.
FOE SEEING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theu EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys"
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits,
Boys’
Drill
Knieker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
’Boys’
, Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
geretto Suits.
-] 7s fid, 8s
In neat fashionable Bd, 12s fid.
Tweeds, neatly cut ! 13s fid, 15s
and well made, and f fid, 17s fid,
finished. I 18s fid per
. ' J suit.
"In new shapes, very T 12s fid to
prettily trimmed, and 19s fid per
_ thoroughly well-made. J suit.
In fancy and plain
Drills, trimmed
new and
styles.
5s lid, 7s
“ Vfid, 9s 5d
effective ( per suit>
( Fo J , ( \ res f wear - cxtra ) 20s to 27s
J finished, superior f
1 material, and excel- C 1 e
[ lent - shape. ) sult *
In superior Navy Serges'] ~. .
complete with lan-1 “
yard, whistle, badge, H' 86d P er
collar and undershirt. J 8
("In light and dark mix--)
| tures, cut in fashion- j 21s fid to
-i able styles, well S-to 23s fid
| trimmed and strongly | per suit,
L made. J
In fine durable Esta-)
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and f fid,
general wear. )
/For dress wear) 9g . „
j trimmed and made in - " 8 ' t 0 408
v a superior manner.
1 1 per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, See.
Fashionable tailoring
ESTABLISHMENT,
127 KING STREET.
E. C. HAGON has opened the above estab-
lishment with a view of supplying garments of a
superior class, and at a price hitherto unattainable
in Sydney. The business will be conducted on terms of
CASH PAYMENTS only, a great saving to the pur-
chaser, at a very trifling advance on prime cost, and for
this object he has personally selected and purchased
the finest and most fashionable designs in the market.
Patrons of this establishment may rest assured that
every attention will be given to all orders he may be
favoured with, which, combined with good workman-
ship, punctuality, and civility, hopes to command the
attention and patronage of a discerning public.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order ... 16s Cd
Ditto Suits, to Order ... 70s Od
Bliss’s Tweeds Trousers, to Order ... 16s 6d
Ditto Suits, to Order ... 70s Od
All Garments from this establishment well shrunk
and fit guaranteed.
Have a look at the sid pompadour
CAMBRICS, at EDWARD HORDERN’S, just
landed from the S. S. JOHN ELDER, FAST COLOURS
and NEWEST DESIGNS. 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL
only.
Family bereavements, suitable
MATERIALS for SUMMER WEAR, FULL
ASSORTMENT, LOW PRICES. The only RELI-
ABLE HOUSE in Sydney for BLACK GOODS.
EDWARD HORDERN, Importer, 668, Brickfield-hill.
Horses and Vehicles
J7~ EARET BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
GLASSO N ’ S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Hakeis-stbeet, off Geobge-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Money
Money for investment on mort-
gage. PIGOTT and TRICKETT, Solicitors,
113, King-street.
M
O N E Y. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, <fcc.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY : repayable by instalments as follows :
£4O by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 „ ~ 0 7 6
20 „ „ 0 10 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
jyj' O N E Y.
MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent ©n deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street. Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagb-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
Bill ss
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia; —
• All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com.
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNYAED-LANE, stdn e t.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
jqiASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT 1 ! 1
J. L. HORDERN.
T
HE CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 681 QEORQE-STREET, SYDNEY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY. |
(EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
Us 6d., 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
SOs. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
1 EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
j, VICAKS & CO.,
' WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. *
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near Qeorge-streot),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
~ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AMD LINDSAY.
E
CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
W Y N Y A R D-S T R E E T,
Comer of Wynyard-laue,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
REGATTA SHIRTS,
are mode of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds made to measure, iu the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See —then judge for Yourselves.
Z IONS’ Black Cloth Walking Coats and Pagets,
18s, worth 50s; D. B. Frocks, 38s, worth 50s.
409, Georgo-st
Z IONS’ 15s TROUSERS to measure; fashion-
able materials. Cheviots, Bannockburus, Adder,
&c., 409, George-st.
lONS’ 18s 6d TROUSERS, West of England,
to order; 100 patterns to select from, cash only
409, George-st.
lONS’ White Linen SHIRTS, 3s 6d, ready for
use; Crimean, 3s lid ; Crape, 4s lid. -109, George-
street. t
lONS, best and cheapest jailor for CLOTHING
to measure on shortest notice, at lower charges
than any other house. Large assortment fancy
woollens to select from. System of self-measurement
with stun pies free to all parts. 409, George-st.
Z IONS’ Black DRESS SUITS to measure, 80s,
worth 6 guineas. The Tailor, 409, George-st.
Z IONS’ Black Dress Suits, our own make, large
stock to select from, 40s, wortfa 80s. 409, George-st.
Z IONS’ Black Dress Trousers, to measure, 21s,
worth 425; ready-made 12s, worth double. 409,
George-st.
Z IONS’ Tweed Trousers to measure, 15s, worth
255; ready-made all wool, 9s, worth 18s. 409
George-st.
Z IONS’ Tweed Suits to measure, 100 patterns
choice woollens to select from, 555. 409, George-
st reet.
Z IONS’ Overcoats—Ulsters, Munster, Chesters
&c., 15s. worth 425; come and look, 409, George-st.
GEOEGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.
JAMES PE M ELL AND CO.,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STREKT,
NEAR THE HATMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley»Dats,
Peas, Straw, Otiten and Lucerne Hay and On an,
Potatoes, &c.
JAMES PEMELL AND CO.,


Legal
M
E. A. GODFREY,
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—s 3 Elizabeth-stbeet.
[Legal.]
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
y EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Business Cards
-OOBERTS, HARRIS, AND WESTON,
JL«J Licensed Surveyors,
LAND AGENTS, ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt with.
Bun Maps compiled to latest date. Office—Royal Blue
House ; Chambers, 130 Pitt-street.
JJLACHMANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
Gr.
AND
S.
P R E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
1C Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
"171 OWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY
Price List on application. «
8
IGNORA L. P. FABRIS
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlinghurst.
M
ISS ELISE SHERWIN,
(From Tasmania),
TEACHER OF THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
SKINNER AND CO., 18 KING-STREET,
BRASSFOUNDBR3, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap.
c o.
C WOODFORD AND
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Corner of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
end Qastttters.
T F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
' * CONFECTIONER,
237 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
ROBERT BUTCHER &
-*-V (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
531 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
E.
O
N,
M A S
DRAU GHTSMAN
AND
Engraver on Wood,
land, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
HAS.
H.
DANIEL,
C
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
M
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 UVERPOOL-S TREET-
Pamphlots gratis.
N
OTICE.—I beg to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HARPUE,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
J LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
hlnrTv 1 V P alllasses > mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
lancets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER. 608 George-street.
R
N
__ INTI
Of Every Description
A T REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.”
Auctioneers? and Commission Agents
JOHN BRIDGE,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
LIVE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
J # N. MEIKLEJOHN AND CO.,
* Pjomrc* and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Corn, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
W. CROWE & CO., STOCK, STATION
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
4 BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
(T
N.B.—We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
ELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hoW Sales by Auction as follows :
LthjLjF, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
VV OOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Com, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
*c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
<fcc., at their Saleyards, 6119 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
~ rr .~ oa Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores.
Darling Harbour—every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE—699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
►ITT, SON, AND BADGERY,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.E.—All Fat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuallly rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
Tobacconists
T
H
E GENU
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
I N E
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
LOUGHNAN.
JAMES EVE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels, &c.
rfIHE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies' and gentlemen's RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
Ths Company have secured the services of Mens.
Marnette, late duff de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
•Private rooms for special dinners for select parties,
t rrTu° “ ourf ; notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
June 30.1880. Manager ' i
/JOMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of onr Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397 George Street.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcoek’s Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate, The Ladies* and Gentle-
men s . ,P mill S an< i Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES,
• General Manager.
rjIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
into— 6
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies* Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
_ tiring room, Ac-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Room 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, frc., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled uj in
a, most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order ®n the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
c.
j. E O B E E T S’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
t, „ o’s per bottle.
Pure West India. Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
AF A C
That the Old Liverpool Anns,
(corner of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuffs.
Proprietor, DAVID 11. WARBY.
OYAL EXCHANGE HOTEL,
Corner King and George Streets).
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bars and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ amd gentlemen’s Dining Rooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
, N - B -—Fic-nies, Balls, Parties, Clubs, &c., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWARD PERKINS.
OLONNADE
CORNER OF
HOTEL,
KING AND CASTLEKEAGH STREETS.
J. SHAEP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
Sublic that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
leers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
AETIS’S club hotel,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
JUNIPEE TEEE GIN.
P. MELCHERS.
Hotels, &c.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can bo purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hdte on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
Y ICTORIA HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel and mode extensive
alterations and which will be fitted up in the most
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., and conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
public.
GEORGE COLLINS.
Proprietor.
Coach and horses hotel,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Me. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostehy.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace. Pints, in
3 doz. cases, 12s. fid. doz.; quarts, 1 and 2 doz. cases,
21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO., Agents, Circular Quay.
HISKY FRAUDS.
READ PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
ROE’S V FIVE-YEAR-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Recommended hy the Faculty
ROBERT PHILLIPS and CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales.
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot he
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very fine spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
thoroughly matured, and cun be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and Queensland,
JAMES BURNS.
ASS’S PALE ALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled bv
IHLERS’ -and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
The undersigned have been APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS for the al>ove Celebrated Bottlers, and are in
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
BADE mar
'II
OAR’S
HEAD
STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R. CAITELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are mode very fine,
but no other brand has tuo some mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Con -umers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of on
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Bole Agents,
T 0 BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning, at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Planing Mill
And Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
I.
G.
L E YY,
TOBACCONIST,
169 Oxford Street,
Choicest Brands
of
TOBACCOS AND
CIGARS.
Tobacconist
NOVELTIES
received by
Every Mail.
c.
R
N
C
E,
TOBACCONIST,
149, KING STREET,
B<??s to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain a really first class article in TOBACCO, CIGARS,
&c., at his establishment.
\ flne assortment of WALKING
STICKS in all the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149, KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre Royal.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF AETi
260 and 202 GEOEGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Pointing’s, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
so*
sS
rd
CHAS. BATH
Sole Agent.
2 BRIDGE STREET
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.


STAGE GOSSIP.
Nothing new in Melbourne.
Grattan Riggs opens at Ballarat.
Barry Sullivan scores 56 this year.
Liddy has gone to Newcastle for a week.
They say Bandmann was amiable on the voyage !
At Cooktown Chiarini took in three nights .£460.
Sam Emery is almost unrivalled at “ making
up."
De Lias (Shylock) was very ill when the mail
left.
Dave Hayman has another “ Mammoth” crowd
in hand.
Mrs. Scott-Siddona and her daughter are in
London.
Gamer was the original Tom Spirit in “ Stolen
Kisses.”
Sara Bernhardt appears at Philadelphia in
January. ,
The Empson Company are giving entertainments
at Ipswich.
Barry O’Neil is singing with Bachelder’s Pano-
rama in N.Z.
Miss Fanny Rogers is in Sydney, under engage-
ment to Leon.
Proctor lectures to-night and Friday at the
Theatre Royal.
Menser’s Bright Star Company has been suc-
cessful at Temora.
Wellington, N.Z., at latest, was without amuse-
ments of any kind.
E. A. Sothern is a widower, his wife having
died in London recently.
The prospectus of Darrell’s Australian Dra-
matic Company is in print.
Samuel Anderson Emery is Sam’s sponsorial
and patronymic appelation.
W. H. Thompson shakes his 10? gloves at the
Zulus on Monday, the 13th.
George Lingard’s “ Zealandia Panorama” did a
big business at Wanganui, N’Z.
Darrell and- Williamson do the block daily ; the
latter is tending towards embonpoint.
Greville is already forming his dramatic com-
X>any for the Queen’s Theatre, Sydney.
“ The Kellys ” had a big run at Invercargill,
N.Z., with Miss Jennie Nyetothe fore.
Mousta, in “ Broken Hearts” (W. S. Gilbert), is
one of Fred. Marshall’s best characters.
Mr. Dampier and a very good dramatic com-
pany opened at Maitland on September 6.
“ The Confederate Diorama,” with the aid of
gifts, played eight weeks in Dunedin, N.Z.
The Stewart Family expect to arrive in New
York, by way of London, in the middle of January.
Mr. W. H. Hoskins, the modern Charles
Mathews, looks fit for another ten years* hard work.
According to the Home News, Byron’s “Upper
Crust" is to be produced in Australia m September,
There is a talk of a company, composed of the
debris of Sydney theatres, visiting South Queensland.
Fred. Marshall and Mrs. Garner didn’t play for
several nights, and yet they were announced every
day.
It is rumored that there will be a change of
management at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, before
tong.
Saville, the Melbourne Royal prompter, sails
shortly for the old country—to inherit wealth, it is
said.
Miss Jenny Boyer, the newly-arrived vocalist, is
very pretty, and is highly spoken of by the American
Press
Locke, a San Francisco manager, meditates
bringing an English Comic Opera Company to Aus-
tralia.
February Bth, 1857, was the day on which Mr.
Arthur Gamer made his first appearance on the stage—
of life.
Lieut. Hermann, late the ventriloquist of
Thompson’s Diorama, recently hod a benefit In Dune-
din, N.Z.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (“ Happy Hours”), at latest
dates, were playing in the Auckland (N.Z.) country
districts.
Blondin, when last heard of, was in Hungary.
He tours the United States under Haverley’s manage-
ment shortly.
In 1877, as a member of Miss Lydia Thomp-
son’s travelling company, Mr. Fred. Marshall aston-
ished the Yankees.
A N.Z. theatrical company recently played a
scene laid in a church so naturally that many of the
audience fell asleep.
Clara Stephenson and the Byronic Comedy and
Burlesque Company were at the Princess Theatre,
Dunedin, at latest dates.
Nick Roberts’ “ Humpty Dumpty Troupe” will
sail for Australia in September. A. Hayman has seemed
them for a 36 weeks’ tour.
The Franzini Variety Company, at St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne, did not fizzle; the' houses were
“ multy,” and the shutters are up.
Ristori is building a magnificent palace in the
Via Nazionale, Rome, in which she hopes to end her
days and enjoy the fortune she has made.
Herr Benno Scherek is doing well in Dunedin,
N.Z., giving music lessons, concerts, &c. He had a
crammed house at his complimentary benefit.
Johnny Gourlay has joined a clever American
Show, called “ Rice’s Surprise Party.” He designates
himself os the “Australian Vocal Comedian."
George Ireland has sold out of his hotel and re-
tired for the nonce into private life. The stage will hear
of George ere long; so good an actor must forge to the
front.
Last year’s rumour that Christine Nillsson was
losing her voice is again being put in circulation. Her
friends combatted it then, and they will probably deny
it now.
Mr. William Morgan, solicitor, late of Bathurst,
now of Sydney, has one of the purest tenor voices yet
heard here. It is hoped that he will soon sing in
Sydney.
Mrs. Charles Keen, nee Ellen Tree is stricken
down with paralysis, a wreck of loveliness, and quietly
waiting the end in her little villa at Kensington,
near London.
If Bernhardt is guilty of one-half of the dread-
ful things with which the press is now crediting her,
she will meet with immense success during her engage-
ment in America.
Mr. Sothern, the actor, is very ill in London,
and has thrown up all engagements. It is probable he
will never play again. He was about to visit Paris with
John M’Cullough.
Charles Reade, who is a white-haired old man
of 60, has not abandoned play-writing and taken to
preaching, as was reported. He is still safe, and is hard
at work on another drama.
The solicitors of the Dramatic Authors’ Society
have instituted fresh proceedings against Mr. R. J. De
Lias, the lessee of the Auckland (N.Z.) Theatre, for
alleged breach of the Copyright Act, and the case will
probably be heard in Wellington. Qillon, the N.Z.
representative of the Society can’t stand “ Shylock ”
getting out of it.
Mr. Phil. Kirby, the handsome and popular
agent, who has brought Miss Boyer, was not drowned in
the City of Sydney. It was poor Gibson, who introduced
the famous basket-trick here.
Walter Reynolds and his wife (Grace Hathaway)
are in Christchurch, N.Z. They are engaged to play a
season of 24 nights. Reynolds intend to run his own
pieces through all the N.Z. towns.
Mr. H. Bond, of the Invbkell Times, at
Singha the other night played Bombastes in the bur-
lesque of that name. Mr. George Simms was his Dls-
taffinn and M. H. Rumbey, Stubbs.
Mr. Titheradge made his first appearance in
London on October 6, 1877, as Sir Francis Marsden in
“ The House of Darnley.” He “created ” the part of
Captain Saxly in “ Such is the Law.”
The Juvenile Troubadours (M'Lean’a) open at
Newcastle on Monday under the management of Liddy,
who purposely went to Newcastle to ensure a well-
deserved success for this really clever little company.
Kelly (of Kelly and Leon) has arranged with
Liddy to form a very strong and superior opera boufle
and minstrel party, and has already secured the services
of the recent arrival, Billy Sweetnam.
Ada Lester severs her connection with the Mel-
bourne Academy, and sails shortly for England. The
colonial stage will thus lose a capable, conscientious,
and intelligent artiste. A lady on and off the stage.
Alice Deorwyn succeeds Miss Lester at the Mel-
bourne Academy. Alice is one of the cleverest of our
Australian actresses, and she will speedily establish
herself as a great favourite with Melbourne audiences.
At the Melbourne Royal business has been very
moderate. The legitimate will not draw unless under
specially extraordinary circumstances. Williamson
will alter matters, and warm the walls of old Drury once
more.
Mr. Walter Reynolds has just completed a
highly exciting melodrama which deals with the ad-
ventures of an Irish family, who came out to the
N.Z. gold-fields. It will probably be called “A Sou Of
Erin."
Dillon and South’s Dramatic Company com-
menced a season at Townsville on 25th August. They
have been splendidly patronised on account of their
being one of the first corps dramatique that has over
visited Townsville.
Dion Boucicault is generally supposed to be the
only clever man in his family. His brother George,
however, is an extremely able journalist, and the
proprietor of a publication which brings him in a very
handsome income.
Hma di Mnrska and John Hill, her husband, are
suing Col. Mapleson in London for a balance of salary
(about £350) due for the lady’s professional services.
As far as the case had got at last advices, Mapleson had
been clearly worsted.
Aarons is the lessee of the Lyceum Theatre,
Melbourne —the old Melbourne Polytechnic. It will
be elegantly decorated inside and out, and every provi-
sion made to ensure the comfort of visitors. Will
it draw P —No us verrons.
The first original piece in which Mrs. Soott-
Siddons ever acted was the “ Ordeal by Touch ”
(Richard Lee). She played the part of Coralie. The
play was not a financial success, neither was the lasst
original piece she played hero.
Baker and Farron, after a very successful season
in Dublin, commenced a season in Liverpool and will
have Salsbury’s Troubadours in opposition to them.
They open in New York on next Christmas night. The
demand for them is very great.
* 'AI. Hayman (of Hisoocks and Hayman) has been
advertising their “Australian Circuit” in New York.
He offers engagements to first-class variety and minstrel
performers, to whom good certainties will be given. He
returns home by way of England.
Jem Thynneis “ awfully cock-a-hoop” because he
will be the first to have a new theatre in Brisbane. The
proprietors of the building say, “Dem the theatre, it
will only return us 6 per cent." But then fire insurance
is so very high in Brisbane iust now.
“ The Turn of the Tide ” at the Melbourne
Academy of Music has proved a genuine success, and
justly so. The drama is well placed on the stage and
evenly acted all round. W. H. Vincent has joined the
company and is a great acquisition.
Messrs. J. A. Patterson and A. Thomson, two
very capable members of the Stock Dramatio|Company,
having concluded their engagement with Mr. De Lias,
returned by the Australia to Sydney. The Star says
they earned golden opinions in Auckland.
Dampier has finished a three weeks’ season at
Newcastle, and wound up on Saturday night with a
dramatized version of the flying Dutchman, written by
Mrs. Dampier. It went well, and if produced in Sydney
with all the proper effects it would go for a month.
A New York theatrical journal says that “the
most talented person the negro race has yet developed ’’
is playing with Sprague’s Coloured Minstrels in that
city. He is totally innocent of all ability to read or
write. We know a few more of the latter class.
The dramatic world has met with a serious
loss this summer. It is rarely that two play-
wrights so prolific ns John Brougham and Tom Taylor
die within a year, and equally prolific Buckstone and
Plancho have also been called away with a twelve-
month.
An English theatrical journal says.-—“ How is
it that in the memory of man we have not had more
than three tenors on the English stage who could act ?
Many a tenor of the present day is not worth a fiver,
and a tenor voice is usually associated with a weak
mind.”
A friend converses with the very attenuated
Sara Bernhardt about her difficulty with the Comcdie
Fransaise. "What was the real trouble, mademoi-
selle?" “ Oh, I couldn’t stand the incessant sticking
of pins into me—l who so little resemble a pin-
cushion.”
Frank Hussey, the celebrated bumt-corkist,
who made his first appearance at the Prince of Wales,
Sydney, in 1868, in company with Kelly and Holly, and
who later on organised a minstrel troupe with Frank
Weston, has been engaged by Mr. Hayman to come to
Australia.
At the People’s Theatre, Melbourne, “ Lost in
London ” and the farce of “ The Spitfire ” have drawn
fair houses during the week. Emery appears to great
advantage as Job and Johnny Hall is very funny in the
farcer "The Polish Jew,” another name for “The
Bells,” is announced.
Nellie M'Henry, of Salsbury’s Troubadours,
sprained her ankle before the company left for England.
It was expected she would entirely recover her health
on the sea voyage. As soon as the advance agent of the
Troubadours landed in London he was besieged by
managers from all parts.
The new play entitled “The Prairie Wolf”
written for the American actor, John A. Stevens,
(Buffalo Bill), is completed, and he will open in Chica-
go with it. The stipulation that there was to be in it a
jackass, a Dutchman, and some mountains, has been
strictly complied with.
The executive committee of the Bennett Testi-
monial Fund have accepted the generous offer made by
the Mayor, Mr. R. Fowler, of the Exhibition Building,
Prince Alfred Park, for a promenade concert on Tues-
day evening, the 21st. Mr. Fowler pays all expenses of
the building, and all the principal singers and musicians
have volunteered.
Lingard intends producing at Auckland, N.Z.,
the comic opera entitled “ The Wreck of the Pinafore.”
the libretto of which was written by Mr. Lingard, while
the music was composed by Mr. Luscombe Searell. It
was to have been performed here, but the unfortunate
destruction of the Victoria Theatre prevented the
execution of the project.
Viscount Newry, well known in English thea-
trical circles, and especially as the lessee of the theatre
which involved the late H. J. Montagu in debt, has
just succeeded to the title and estates of his grand-
father, the Earl of Kilmorey, who died June 20 at the
tiresome age of ninety-three years. The funeral took
place in the grounds of Gordon Honse, the body being
placed in a mausoleum which is said to have cost
£6,000. It will be remembered that Lord Newry
visited Australia in company with the Duke of Edin-
burgh, and more than once played in public at amateur-
professional theatrical performances.
The Lynchs managed to all bnt bum down
Ewart’s flail, Blenheim, N. Z. One of them, passing
off the stage behind the wings, knocked down a large
kerosene lamp. With great presence of mind he seized
some costumes and throwing them over the lamp, car-
ried it blazing round to the back of the stage, and threw
it outside of the building, when it exploded.
The run of “Pinafore” at Melbourne termi-
nated with Kitts’ benefit. A crowded house greeted
the ex-treasurer, and the proceedings were of a highly
gratifying character to the henejiciare, laudatory
speeches and the usual testimonial forming portion of
the programme. Jem is a good fellow, an excellent
business man, and well deserved the compliment.
There was an explosion in the Strand, London,
at a cigar-shop not far from the Vaudeville. Over the
doors of this theatre its name is exhibited nightly in
gas. Out went the V and the A and the U, and out
went the L and the Eat the end. And then all that
was left flaming was the “ Devil.” Just the person who
ought to flare. But wasn’t it slightly significant ?
Billy Sweetnam, r a negro comedian, who is said
to be of the Billy Emerson order, and to have been
offered an engagement by Haverley in the Mastodons,
arrived by the Australia, only to find that the “Mam-
moths,” tinder engagement to whose proprietary he is
alleged to be, had gone to England without him. He
has now been engaged by Liddy for Kelly, who is
forming a first-class company.
It is said that when the drama of “The Kellys”
was produced at Wanganui, N.Z., by Clara Stephenson
and company, the audience was the "largest and
noisiest ” that had assembled [for years. One of the
intervals was filled up by a free fight in the stalls,
accompanied by a fiendish uproar, and some of the
younger ladies of the circle left in a half-fainting con-
dition. The local papers criticized the performance
severely.
“ The Cecilians ” Concert Company, including
Mdlle. Marie St. Clair, Miss Madeline St. Clair, Mr.
T. Rainford, Mr. W. A. Thompson, comet player, and
Mr. Lyndon, pianist, has been formed, and is
making a tour of the western district to Penrith,
Bathurst, Orange, Wellington, Dubbo, and other
places. At Bathurst, notoriously the worst town in
the colonies for professional purposes, the public did
not act generously.
Says Dion Boucicault; the boudoir drama in-
vented by the Bancrofts it the Prince of Wales’ Theatre
has created a kind of * crutch and toothpick,’ having
neither breath nor depth. It is a well-dressed puny
creature that divides its hair down the middle and
drawls. • • ♦ » Henry Young manages to organise
a following. It is a phalanx, not a true public, and
tragedy is not what it was under the elder Kean, a great
popular fervour, a passion that beat in the bosom of the
million. Irving is a conviction belonging to a sect.
This is rough on Sherwin ’•—“A local Mansie
Waugh appeared at the Carandini Concert, at
Temuka, N.Z. “ During the singing of the ‘ Regulation’
duet by Miss Carandini and Mr. Sherwin, it frequently
appeared that osculation was about to take place. This
did not meet the approval of an indivudal in the back,
who, evidently thinking Mr. Sherwin was getting too
familiar, cried out, as if to stop the male singer, ‘Now
then, steady. ’ When remonstrated with for interrupting,
he replied ‘ She’s too pretty for that old fellow to kiss.”
Daniel Edward Bandmann is a native of Cassel,
Germany. He commenced his professional career at
the age of 18 years, making his debut at the Court
Theatre, Neu Strelitz. Mr. Bandmann acted first in
English at Niblo’s Gardens, N.Y., 15/1/63. His first
appearance on the British stage was at the Lyceum
Theatae, 17/2 08, in “ Narcisse,” a play which was last
given this city by Mr. Dampier. Mr. Bandman was the
original Vyvyanin “ The Rightful Heir,” and gives, as
the Athen.eum and Examiner have said, “ an original”
rendering of Hamlet.
Of all the artistes who sang at the Handel Fes-
tival none were so simply dressed as Patti or more
suitably for the morning of a summer’s day. No heavy
or costly satin weighed down the energies of La Diva.
She wore only a neat white muslin dress of the most
admirable fraicheur, short in the skirt, long in the
sleeves, and of course high in the neck. Her ornaments
were conspicuous only by their absence. She did not
deck herself even with a flower, and her bonnet or hat,
whichever it might be called, was simply an upturned
brim of black velvet, with one scarlet and one 1 ecru
feather.
Sara Bernhardt is reported as saying:—“Yes,
I have creditors, for a woman can’t for the life of her
live on the 6,000 dollars a year given by the French
Comedy; a woman can’t get on if she has not 17,000 dol-
lars a year, and then she must go to market herself and
be her own cook and chambermaid, and be content not
to put by that for her old age. We actresses have a
hard time of it, and I for one am downright tired of
the trade. Just look at the opera-songstresses. There
is not one of them who does not clear her 40,000 dol-
lars a year without working half as hard os we poor
play-actresses.
A remarkable scene occurred at a reading re-
cently given at Louisville by Mrs. Scott-Siddons. The
first part of the programme had just been concluded,
the last feature of which was “The Maniac.” Mrs
Siddons appeared in costume, and the audience was
much moved by her dramatic display. Suddenly a
woman, pushing post the doorkeeper, ran down the
main aisle, leaped upon the stage, and, rushing to Mrs.
Siddons, attacked her savagely. The woman had a dog
In her arms, and a coloured man followed her. People
interfered and prevented any injury to Mrs. Siddons,
who explained that the young woman was a demented
cousin that had escaped from her custodian.
A London Comedy]Company thirty-seven years
ago.—The following is a list of the comedy company at
the Covent Garden Theatre under the Vestris-Mathews
management (1811-2): —Acting and stage manager. Geo.
Bartley; light comedy and eccentrics, Chas. Mathews,
F. Vining, and Walter Lacy; leading business, George
Yandenhoff and John Cooper; old men, W. Farreu, F.
Matthews, and C. W. Granby; low comedy, J. P. Har-
ley and D. Meadows; Irish characters, John Brougham;
heavy business, C. Diddear and J. Bland; general
business, Messrs. Payne, Honner, Morelli and Ridg-
way (2); ladies, Mrs. Nisbett, Madame Vestris,
Madames Glover, Lacy, Brougham, Bland, W. West,
J. C Jones, Mdlles. Cooper, Lea, Kendal (2) and Fair-
brother.
An actor named D’Elmaine recently brought a
civil action against Mr. Garthwaite, proprietor of the
Theatre Royal, Invercargill, N.Z. The defendant
endeavoured to make out that plaintiff had proved in-
competent for parts he represented himself capable of
taking, but the Court did not think that cause for dis-
missal hod been shown, and gave a verdict for three
weeks’ salary, £l2, and costs £2 Ss. During the hear-
ing of the case the local Press received a well-deserved
rap for the flowery criticisms which performers even of
the second and third degree receive in Invercargill. Mr.
Wade, one of the solicitors engaged in the case, re-
marked “ It did not follow because that one received
a flattering notice that he deserved it. He did not know
what was the custom in other places, but here every-
thing was described in eloquently glowing language,
whether deserved or not.”
J. K. Emmet is to be released from the Inebriate
Asylum, New York, where he was committed, next
month. It is said of our old favourite that “no man
was more sober than he when sober, and no man more
drunk when drunk.” Emmet broke several engagements
when in Australia and New Zealand, and Mr. Lazar, of
Sydney, received damages from his agent. His last
“ break out” seemed to make him very desperate, and
he kept up his drinking beyond even all his previous
proportions, until Mrs. Emmet feared it would end in
his sudden death. He was to have gone to England to
have fulfilled an engagement, but beyond being almost
incapacitated to play, it was feared that the seeing of
old friends there would make him worse than ever.
The circumstances were explained to a judge, and he
consented to commit Emmet if a complaint was made.
When Emmet heard what was about to be done he offered
no opposition, but went quietly.
Some newspaper scribe has had the opportunity
of seeing Mrs. General Tom Thumb at a slight disad-
vantage. He caught her in the surf, and thus describes
her before adding that her husband wears whiskers and
is enormously fat, while her brother-in-law. Major
Newell, who was a dwarf when he married the late
Minnie Warren, is now five feet high in the eyes of the
scribe: “The General’s wife is a perfect matron in
miniature. Her (face, though still pretty, shows her
age, and has a quaint, motherly expression. She is a
realization, in a small way, of fat, fair, and forty. She
wore a suit of blue-gray flannel, which was jaunty and
coquettish before it got wet. Her arms were bare to
the tops of her shoulders, in each of which was a preti -
little dimple, and there was a shapely taper down to he
wrists. Her small feet were uncovered. She had
comically dignified air, and stepped into the surf with
the air of a knee-high queen. She waded boldly until
she met the first wave, which soused her, flopped her
down, rolled her over and over, and finally threw her
up on the sand. All the style had been
drenched out of her clothes, but, take her altogether
she looked better after the ordeal than did most of the
bigger women.” Tom Thumb’s father has just died. 6
Our correspondent at Auckland writes on
August 21th, as follows Theatrical matters look a
Seat deal brighter since last I wrote. The members of
r. J. B. Steele’s dramatic company (now disbanded)
tendered this gentleman a benefit last week, and his un
doubted popularity drew a crowded house. The pro-
gramme selected for the occasion was an adaptation
from Bulwer Lytton’s “ Pilgrims of the Rhine ”
entitled “Lucille,” and a concert. The leading parts
of the drama were entrusted to Misses Wilton, Hatha-
way, and Messrs. Reynolds, Patterson. Haygarth, and
the benefleiare. Mr. Gordon Godch, Professor Martin
Swaltow, and two weak amateurs assisted at the concert
Waller Reynolds and his wife proceeded to Christ’
church last week under engagement. They open in
“Tried and True.”—W- H. Lingard, and his charming
wife, Alice Lingard, with a new company, re-appeared
at the Theatre Royal on Saturday evening (20th), before
a crowded house. The piece selected for the opening
night was Paul Merritt’s comedy-drama, “Stolen
Kisses, produced for the first time here. Mr. and Mrs.
Lingard in the leading parts played in their usual ex-
cellent manner, and were specially honoured on their
appearance. The support of the company was good.
The parts in “Stolen Kisses” were distributed as”
follows Tom Spirit, W. H. Lingard; Walter Temple,
C. Overton; Lord Traugmar, J. B. Steele; Felix Free-’
mantle, Chas. W. Craig; Shed Gay, A. J. Campbell;
Mr. Brief, Owen Westford; Juggins, G. Burton; Jenny
Temple, Alice Lingard; Cherry Spirit, Ethel Adele ;
Mrs. Jawkins, Mrs. Pitzwilliam. “ Little Toddlekins ”
concluded the evening’s amusement. I must not forget
to mention a really beautiful romantic water scene on
the Upper Thames, painted by Mr. George Gordon, of
the London Comedy Company, and brought over by Mr.
Lingard ; also, that the theatre has been entirely reno-
vated, for the present season. “ The Banker’s
Daughter" is the next attraction. Mr. Luscombe
Searell is musical director of the company.
MELBOURNE POLLIES.
Pilferers are queer people who perform their ne-
farious actions in queer places. The' Melbourne
Athenfflum suffers from the religious order of pilferers,
who unscrupulously pocket the religious journals for
home reading and forget to return them.
Good scenery, good acting and good audiences
at the Bijou. “ The Turn of the Tide "isto be fol-
lowed by the “ Re-turn of the Tied,’’ or *' Home from
the Honeymoon." Le Grand is grand, whilst Miss
Lester, is so good that the less said about her the
better.
Mr. George Collins Levey, secretary to the In-
ternational, sports a ribbon in his button-hole, and has
adopted a “ remember-whom-you-nre-and-whom-ad-
dressing ” style of bearing. Casey and Levey are both
C.M.G.’s, and are both pompous, but the former has
brains and the latter has not. Casey wants to be a
Casey-M.G.
In Exhibition-street and on the St. Kilda-road
are being erected two gigantic circuses which, it
is predicted, will be two gigantic failures. The St.
Kilda-road Hippodrome is understood to belong to
G. B. W. Lewis, who intends sinking on this spot his
“Little Pinafore" fortune. Rose should rise 11 gainst
such a course of action.
Some ill-feeling was engendered at the last
Deutscher Ball at the Athenseum. It appears that the
dark-lipped daughters of Judah who preponderated were
besieged by partners, whilst the fair-haired Teutons and
Britons were left as disconsolate wall-flowers. However,
everything was settled at supper, thanks to the benign
influence of sauer-kraut and lager.
The swindling tricks of the mysterious firm of
Uniacke and Co., of Collius-street, occupy the attention
of a certain section of the community and form a
pleasant theme of conversation on ’Change during the
silly season. The modus opevandi of the mysterious
firm is detailed in the daily papers, but the nack
adopted by Uniacke is not a new nack.
The slaves of the pen are already preparing for
the great show next mouth. All the papers will have
special supplements. The Etknino Herald has made
a start already. Some excellent “interviews," notices
of French Commissioners and others, besides a well-
written criticism on the Exhibition fountain, &c., have
already appeared in that enterprising journal.
The Exhibition fountain is a failure. It re-
sembles a huge fruit stand. Four or five indiarubber
youngsters are attempting to dance the third figure in
the Lancers round the second basin, whilst a boy with
a basket of Murray cod spirts out Yan Yean to the
great edification of an old Triton and his two daughters
who unnecessarily expose themselves on the rockery
below.
Another bungle at the Exhibition. This time
the refreshment rooms are found to be too small to
meet the requirements of the voracious crowd, besides
being ill-ventilated, too low in the roof, and abounding
in other objectionable features. The whole building
seems to be a simple personification of bungle—the de-
sign inelegant and the planning a together a muddle.
In Exhibition-street {nee Stephen-street) is the
abode of Henderson Africauus, erstwhile Third Ambas-
sador, but now newsvendor and landlord (for H. A.
“ takes in ” and lodges single young men). Affixed to
the facade of the Maison de TAfricaine is the latest num-
ber of The Bulletin, which is scanned by the elegant
denizens of the Rue de I’Exposition. The French in
this par. is not our own.
Mr. Richard Birnie, M.A., the venerable essay-
ist of the Australasian, is busily employed in the pub-
lication of a second series of his selected essays. The
contents of the new volume contain “Prize Fighting,”
“The Sanitary Movement," “ Aristology,” “ Prudery
and Impudence," “ A Dream” (an exceUent and favorite
paper), “ The Joneses,” and some thirty others which
sparkle with anecdotes and are dished up in true Bir-
niean style.
The social reunions of the Metropolitan Lieder-
tafel are very gloomy affairs from a musical point of
view. This body, which is perhaps the largest musi-
cal society in Australia provides for its patrons once a
month a programme in which every endeavour is made
to discard favorite operatic selections and give in their
place funereal part songs rendered by an army of timber-
toed black coated masculines. It Herz our feelings
to speak thus but unless some Buddee outside makes a
move for reform nobody on the committee will be
(Juenett.
The brightest gas in the world is that produced
in Melbourne, so say our visitors, but somehow or other
since the amalgamation of the metropolitan companies
the gas won’t burn with its usual brightness, and
although materfamilias has, in a body, written to the
Abous, nothing of any moment has yet been done to-
remedy the defects. -Allowing for a little exaggeration
and local colour we are informed that a piece of coal in
one instance hopped suddenly out of the burner; that
in a house in South Yarra a terrible smell of Colling-
wood was perceived oozing from the meter. Some-
thing ought to be done speedily to set matters right.
The Sine qua non of a tourist is a knapsack and
a guide book, but how often does the latter contain
nothing but a confused collection of information! which
puzzles the traveller, and in many cases misleads him.
In view of the approach of Cook’s tourists, an
enterprising trunk maker is about to manufacture and
patent a new species of knapsack or traveller’s com-
panion, turned wholly out of Mr. James Kingston s,
clever work, “Branches from the Mail Routes,
enclosed in the pocket cover of which will be a com-
pressed hammock, a packet of Liebig’s meat drops, and
an indiarubber flask of Glenlivet. The traveller slings
his hammock, swigs his Glenlivet, and plots out nis
tour from Kingston’s chatty chapters.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Jeffebis v. Pboctor. —Thia was an action in
which the plaintiff, Jefferies, aummoned the de-
fendant, Proctor, for trespassing on a certain
free-selection called Theology, to the great loss
and inconvenience of the said plaintiff. Defend-
ant joined issue on the ground that ho had an
equal right to the said run, and that hia improve-
ments were of a more lasting and important
nature than those erected by the defendant.
Verdict (of the public) for defendant. Plaintiff
crave notice of appeal, but the Court declared they
were “ full” of it.
■* In China kite-flying is the principal pastime of
every class. Over here it is monopolised by the
CSrillService. There’s a great deal in this
as Alderman Playfair remarked when he slapped
the front of his vest after the Butchers’ Picnic.
I know that the density of Uranus is about one-
fifth that of our earth, and I know that the den-
sity of some of our public men is about as great
as that of the whole solar system jammed together.
I know that the sun is about 91,000,000 miles
away, and that the opening of a bridge to North
Shore is about twice as distant; I know that it
takes about 13 years for sound to reach the ears
of Phoebus, and about fifty times as long for a
newspaper man to collect his bills : but what I do
not know is this : How it is that the healthy
young grocer’s assistant can’t ride a hired horse
on Sunday without his trousers crawling up to his
ears in the insane belief that they are required to
hold the rider’s hat on ? An answer will oblige.
Our distinguished artist, Mr. Macleod, is now
engaged on a splendid painting entitled, “ The
Sincerest Flattery.” The subject is treated in a
most masterly manner, and represents a certain
country editor with a paste-pot and scissors in
each hand —and a borrowed copy of The Bul-
letin in the other. An Irishman wrote this.
Chief Justice Martin says “ The Press has no
privileges.” If this is so, how comes it to pass
that The Bulletin reporter is allowed to waltz
into the best seat in a circus free of charge, and
have a bouquet left on the bench for his button-
hole ; whilst even a judge has to pay, to stand out-
side, or crawl under the canvass. We will pause
one week for a reply, Sir James.
The Evening News confidentially informs us
“the Princess of Wales dances lightly, and even
gracefully ! ” Now I wonder if Kerr found that
out for himself, or did someone tell him ? Or has
the absent Bennett looked in at Marlborough
House and “ tripped the light fantastic toe” with
Her Highness ? Anyway, lam glad to know for
certain that Alexandra polks because she is asked
out to quite a number of parties, and they are so
dull when you don’t dance and have to sit in a cor-
ner for throe solid hours talking politics to a
copper-headed Chinese Ambassador, or about
“ Georgie’s croup ” to a deaf old dowager. Ah
me!
Poet Halloran had a fresh “brew” last week,
and after lashing Mr. Ayoub Khan until that
worthy gentleman felt fit to sit down and howl his
head off, the Blue Mountain bard eagerly en-
quires :
“ Who stretches forth his hand and draws it back
Because a lion’s laws are gaping wide ?”
No one does, Henry—nary darned soul of us.
When a lion has the bad breeding to gape in com-
pany now-a-days, the nearest man to the beast
pokes his fist down the gaper’s throat, grabs hold
of his tail, pulls him inside out, dusts him over
with pepper and salt, and then sells him for
Orange-killed beef, and with the spoils thereof
waxeth fat and becomes an alderman.
Mr. Proctor does not return to Melbourne. John
Davies is over there at present letting himself out
on the Temperance question, and when John
“orates” the civilised world squats down on its
hams to listen. John’s agent wants a good reliable
“ frightful example ” for the next discourse. No
printer or electioneering agent need apply. John
says they recover too suddenly.
G. M. Pitt says Ketten is a great man, and
Proctor is a greater, but Pitt has an advantage
over both, Proctor never wore a cabbage-tree hat,
and Ketten can’t ride a horse any more than old
Deuteronomy could.
There was only one pair of No. 2 feminine shoes
on the lawn last Derby Day and, horresco referens,
this pair was occupied by a married lady. Expede
Mrs. Herculem &c. Long trains are still the
fashion.
America is essentially a land of freedom. Its
Congress is free, and so are its gaols—to get into
I mean. Its men are free, and so are its morals.
And as if this was not enough joy, it is now
endeavouring to bring in a law for free spelling,
or. as they poetically put the case themselves—“ to
allow everyone to spell just as he dern pleases.”
Perhaps we might copy this with advantage here.
Paul may plant, and Apollo water but they’d never
take the kink out of Hanley’s spelling.
Sydney Smith once remarked, “ Whatever you
are by nature, keep to that; never desert your
own particular line of talent.” Bather rough on
Ninian Melville wasn’t it? Sydney and Ninian
have never spoken or looked towards each other
since.
Hesperion is what may be termed a self-made
horse. His parents belonged to the first families,
but he seems to have been left to the care of a
guardian whose poverty was equalled by his re-
spectability, and the chesnut flyer might be occa-
sionally seen drawing a baker’s cart or “ yarding
in the milkers.” He was subsequently purchased
for .£3O and a cake of tobacco by Mr. Martin
Capels, one of the best judges of a horse or a girl
in the Western districts, and he has now risen to
the front ranks solely by his own abilities. “ Lives
of great men all remind us ” —but there are few
who can make foot-prints as fast as Hesperion
can.
Frank Warden, the long-legged and long-winded
evangelist has, with the aid of Siren Eeeparques,
somewhat successfully endeavored to stop Mr.
Proctor’s Sunday lecture. Of course this cannot
be helped. There will be Vandals in every age.
Only one man could carve the Olympian Jove, but
any fool can stand a little way off and shy mud at
it. As W. S. would say, “ A falcon towering in
all his pride and strength was hawked at by a
mousing owl and” —prevented lecturing. This
did not happen in the dark ages but in the 19th
century. 0 Temper a! 0 Mores!
V.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The new Victorian Tatteraall’s Club hag already
200 members on its list.
Walter Phillips, the English bicylist, recently
rode a quarter of .a mile in 37 sec.
N.Z. sportsmen greatly regret Sir Hercules
Robinson’s departure for the Cape.
Racing has utterly “bust” in Queensland.
Bell and Flume are the only two racing men left.
The Telegraph Department Regatta is fixed for
18th instant, at Mossman’s Bay, and a numerous entry
is expected.
They have a “ fighting club” in Narraooorte, and
every night a champion belt is fought for. Nice place,
Narracoorte.
Edward Hanlan at latest dates was spending a
few days with his friend and backer John Davis, of
Windsor, Ont.
The American amateur half-mile running record
has been lowered by Lawrence E. Myers, who made the
distance in 1.561.
Private training grounds a?e becoming fashion-
able in Christchurch, N.Z. The “ touts ” say they find
their occupations gone.
John Keen won a one-hundred-miles bicycle race
at the Waverley Market, Edinburgh, Scotland, July 3,
accomplishing the distance in 6h. sm. 28s.
■ The severe Gaming and Lotteries Bill introduced
by the New Zealand Parliament has been thrown out,
much to the gratification of sporting men.
The entire horse Manuka is for sale at Mel-
bourne. Argus Scandal has been bought in at 280
guineas and Newmarket sold for 35 guineas.
Representatives from the various New Zealand
jockey clubs will shortly meet for the purpose of ap-
pointing a handicapper for the whole colony.
In the pigeon match between Captain Bogardus
and Mr. George Eimmel, of England, the former killed
96 birds out of a possible 100, and Rimmel 90.
The race for the Fowler Cup has been postponed
from the 11th to the 18th instant. It is understoood
that Mr. Hall has withdrawn from the contest.
Joshua P. Bell has scratched Waterloo for the
A.J.C. Derby. More (stupid he—or his stable guide—
(says our correspondent), for the colt could have been
got ready.
Wallace Ross at latest dates wds practising on
the Kennebecasis River in company with Richard
Nagle, and was to leave for California almost at once to
row Daniel Leahy.
Mr. G. Stead,-of Christchurch, N.Z., has lost
his foal by Leoliuus out of his English mare Titanio (by
Orest -Queen Mab), and the mare is unfortunately not
in foal this season.
At Carrick-on-Suir sports a competitor named
Davin did a high jump of 6ft 2}in. This obliterates
Brooks’ famous performance from the record and is
thoroughly authenticated.
A maiden double-scull race took place on Satur-
day afternoon last, in connection with the Glebe Rowing
Club, and resulted, after a hard tussle, in a victory for
Messrs. Fairweather and Bell.
Baker, the pedestrian, has taken the Brisbane
theatre for a couple of nights. He thinks the public
would rather go and see his monotonous performance
than that of the more monotonous Loftus troupe.
Thiebaud Bauer, of New York, now challenges
any man in the world to wrestle a match in Grseco-
Eomon style. Miller, the Australian, is now out of
the way. Bauer and Edwin Bibby have been matched.
This is from the Clippbb : —A trick it was, say
some of the losers on Hanlan in the Providence regatta,
to get odds in his match with Trickett the Australian.
Hanlan has refused to take part in the Ontario regatta.
Sir Hercules Robinson’s racehorses were landed
at Wellington (N.Z.), in excellent condition. The
Australian trainer and jockey has them in hand with
two others, preparing for the Christchurch meeting in
November.
The race for Mr. Munro’s trophies takes place
to-day (Saturday). Two crews only have entered, one
of light though effective oarsmen, and stroked by Mr.
Thompson, and the other stroked by Mr. Arthur, who
has the pick of his club behind him.
It would appear that the Hop Bitters Company,
who have at least made themselves celebrated in the
aquatic world, are about to devote £lOOO in prizes for
rowing races. We trust that either Trickett or Laycock
may see their way clear to discuss the matter.
Several crews are already under way for the
Rowing Association Regatta, though there seems to be
some difficulty in getting the eight-oar men together.
It will say very little for the enthusiasm and energy of
our rowing clubs if this race is allowed to laps.
The Victorian Rowing Association has decided
to abolish the compulsory use of "the fixed seat in any
of the races under their auspices at the annual regatta.
They apparently think that young oarsmen are none
the worse for learning all their rowing on slides.
Four of Lord Falmouth’s mares have thrown
twins this spring—Lady Coventry and Cecilia to Dutch
Skater, Redwing to Galopin, and Wheatear to King,
craft. Twins are no more welcome in a stable where
the object in view is racehorses than they are in the
family of a poor man who labours to stop hungry
mouths.
The old N.Z. political humbug. Sir Wm. Fox, has
succeeded in practically killing the Wellington racecourse
Bill, recently brought forth in the House of Parliament,
the object of which was to retrieve its finances. In
moving that it be committed that day six months, he
took the opportunity of delivering a speech on the vices
of the modem turf.
Arrangements are being made to hold a regatta
at Double Bay this year. It has now become an annual
affair, and with an energetic committee it will no doubt
be as successful and enjoyable as its predecessors. The
prizes are generally excellent, and the situation, more
suitable for sailing than rowing, is one of the most pic-
turesque in the harbour.
Mr. Wm. Walters, the prominent Auckland
(N.Z.), racing man, who recently paid a visit to
Sydney, arrived home safely bringing with him Fanny
Fisher, a yearling by Yattendon, out of Fanny Fisher,
and a two-year-old colt by Yattendon, out of Peeress,
a remarkably good-looking youngster. Peeress has been
left behind on a visit to Maribyrnong.
The Balmain Regatta Committee, though rather
late in getting together, are fortunate in starting with
a good balance in hand for this year’s regatta. The
programme will shortly be published, and with the ex-
ception of the larger yachts which may be attracted to
Melbourne, and the absence of Trickett and Laycock,
the entries will probably be as numerous and the compe-
tition as attractive as in previous years.
L. J 3. Myers, of the Manhattan A.C., Julv 10,
at the games of the Elizabeth A.C., in New Jersey,
succeeded in eclipsing the previous best recorded time
for a race of I,oooyds. He gave R. A Night a start of
75yds., caught and passed him on the straight run-in,
and reached the tape in 2m. 18|s. the half mile being
run in Im. 59Js. The best previous time was 2m. 19Js.,
by J. Nuttall, professional, in England, eight years ago.
A billiard match took place'at the Cambridge
Club Hotel on Friday week, between E. J. Moras and
the clever young cueist attached to James’ agreeable
hostelry—J. J. Close. The game, which was 1000 up
and for £lO aside, commenced at 8 o’clock. The result
was the defeat of Eaiuford’s young’un by nine points,
after an exciting and^admirably-Contested match. It was
observed on all sides that the game was Close in more
senses than one, and the winner, as he walked off with
the greed in the inside pocket of his paget, executed a
Morris dance in the passage.
The Thames National Regatta after all is not to
die a natural death. Last year, owing to the action of
the Thames Steamboat Company in endeavouring to
institute a rival competition, both lapsed, and no re-
gatta was held. But by cablegram we learn that it is to
be called to life again on the 22nd November next. As
is well known it is the Henley of the professionals, and
has been the means of bringing many a fine sculler under
the notice of the public.
The Dunedin Jockey Club’s programmes for the
Spring and Summer meetings are issued and will be
found worthy of the attention of owners. At the
Spring gathering £5OO will be given in added money, and
at the Summer meeting, to be held on the 24th, 25th
and 29th February, 1881, £1,950 will be provided in
in stakes. Nominations for the Cup, of 500 sovs (with 10
sovs each added) and the Dunedin J.C. Hardicap, If
miles (with sweep of 5 sovs each) are due on 2nd Oct.
That grand New Zealand steeplechase horse.
The Agent, is at present enjoying a well-earned rest, and
has been blistered. His owner, Mr. P. Butler, is very
sanguine about his old favorite coming out fresh and
well for the coming season. It is also reported that the
unlucky Australian horse, Laertes, who is owned by the
same gentleman, is sound and well. Let us hope that
this horse will show to more advantage during the
coming season than he has since his N.Z. career com-
menced.
A bicycle race for the amateur championship at
twenty-five miles, was contested by nine wheelmen at
Stamford Bridge Grounds, London, England, July 1,
under the auspices of the Bicycle Union. H. L. Cortis
(who, by the way, is a brother of Dr. Cortis, of Bathurst,
N.S.W.) won, covering the distance in Ih. 22m. 15 2-55.,
and finishing eight lengths in front of W. Thorn, who
was thirty yards ahead of J. F. Griffith. Mr. Cortis on
June 19 rode two miles in sm. 55 l-55., the first mile
being done in 2m. 58 3-ss.
“Choppy” Warburton, the celebrated English
long-distance runner who recently ran twenty miles
against time at Blackburn, England, on a grass course,
in Ih. 56m. 385., is now visiting the States. He brought
with him a number of the five hundred and odd prizes,
including seventy-five valuable cups, which he has won
during his long and almost uninterruptedly successful
career. He is open to make a match with anybody who
fancies a race for almost any number of miles up to
thirty, or will undertake for a suitable stake to beat
record-time for different distances.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Middle Park Stud Com-
pany, have had another misfortune, their brood mare
Idalia—dam of Betrayer, Sir Modred, and Idalium—
having dropped a colt foal to Traducer on July 29th.
To the uninitiated this would seem a blessing, Idalia's
previous foals by Traducer having turned out so grandly,
but as horses take their age from August Ist in
New Zealand, it follows that this foal is already held to
be a year old. The consequence of this is that he would
have to rnn in a Champagne Stakes when really only a
year old, and in a Derby when really only two years old
—thus utterly ruining his chances for classic races.
The colt will be useless as a racehorse.
The Referee, commenting on the Hop Bitters
race, says that “ The statement poohpoohed so generally
last year as to Boss having been bought off by the
Hanlanites—sent back carriage paid, and with letters of
credit only honorable on t’other side —has since the
race on the Seekonk assumed a vastly different ap-
pearance, and found fervent believers among men who
were readiest with their ridicule when first the report
was promulgated.’’ It would really appear from the
quantity of this kind of matter which one sees in the
English and Yankee papers that American professional
oarsmen are ns thoroughpaced a set of swindlers as
English professional pedestrians are or used to be.
In this year’s inter-university eight-oar race,
rowed on Ist July, Yale beat Harvard. Beef and
strength were bn the side of Yale this year, their
average weight being 1761 b, height 6 feet, and age 21i
years; Harvard—weight 1651 b ; height, sft lOJin; age,
22i years. The Yale crew had their boat fitted with
the Davis patent swivel rowlocks and used the Davis
oars, while Harvard used the old-style rowlock and the
Davis model of oars. The time of the winning crew
for the different miles was: One mile, sm. 41£s.; two
miles, 12m. 6Js.; three miles, 18m. 2655.; four miles,
21m.J275. Harvard’s time for the full distance was 25m.
9s. This is slower than the time accomplished by the
winner in either of the preceding races since 1877, when
the time was 21m. 365. The race was won by ten
lengths.
Our sporting correspondent at Auckland (N.Z.)
writes by last mail; — 11 A seven-mile walking match for
the championship of Auckland and £lOO took place a
few days ago in the presence of a large number of
spectators. Tho contestants were Arthur Hendry and
Thomas Fernandez, and the affair ended in a “boil over,’’
the latter winning by about 100 yards, in the respectable
time of 66 min 21 sec. The ground was terribly heavy,
the water and mud being over the shoes of the com-
petitors. The following are the times the different
miles were completed in:—First mile, Bm. 52 s.; second
mile, 9 m. 28 s.; third mile, 9 m. 22 s.; fourth mile, 9m.
21 s.; fifth mile, 9 m. 19 s.; sixth mile, 9m. 36 s.; seventh
mile, 10 m. 23 s.; total, 66 m, 21 s. Mr. H. N. Abbott,
of the United Service Hotel, was stakeholder; Mr. D.
Fox, judge; and Messrs. F. H. Lewiasion and R. E.
Ellis, referees. A large amount of money changed
hands ou the result.
A very lively and witty speech was delivered in
the House of Commons by Mr. B. Power in moving
that the House should adjourn so as to allow members
to see the Derby run. After “slating” Sir Wilfrid
Lawson, who opposed the motion, Mr. Power wound up
by saying:—“In our social and political changes, we
must preserve the love of an ancient and manly pastime.
Our ancestors considered rational amusements to be
indispensable for the building up of a nation, and the
great barrier against a degenerate spirit. Look back
over the history ©f horse-racing, scan the list of noble
animals with which you have challenged and beaten the
world, and tell us by your vote to-night you are proud
of having carried it to such a state of perfection, and
that you believe horse-racing to be, in the language of
one of your Sovereigns, ‘ the manly and noble sport of
a free people.”' Sir Wilfrid Lawson subsequently
spoke against, and Mr. Chaplin for, the motion, which
was agreed to.
The Spirit of the Times, a leading New
York sporting paper, says that Boyd " has neither speed
nor style, and, in the words of one of America’s keenest
aquatic critics, 4 He can’t scull a little bit.’ In a fair
and uninterrupted race with Hanlau, Courtney, Boss,
Davis, Riley, Smith and Kennedy, he would, no doubt,
finish eighth and last, and is by the American standard
merely a good third-class sculler. Holmes could beat
him without taking off his coat, and if introduced into
this country as an amateur he could hardly get into the
final heat at the National Regatta next mouth. If he
and his cannv North-country backer, Barrass, do not go
home and relearn rowing on the American system they
have less sense than is generally attributed to them."
However, says an English sporting paper, “in winding
up this unsavoury business, we may as well point out
that some of the foregoing remarks concerning Boyd’s
calibre are writ ironical, and must be read between the
lines. No one can know better than the Spirit of the
Times what, according to public form here in England,
Boyd can do with such men as Lee and Plaisted. The
intention is, we presume, to show how utterly untrust-
worthy the whole display was in any of its intricate
ramifications.”
On Saturday, July 3, a very wet day, «n which
the Lillie Bridge ground track was rather sodden.Jthe
amateur English athletic championships were decided
under the management of the A. A.C. Association. The
results of the different events were ns follow: 100yds.
run— \V. P. Phillips, London A C., 1, in 10 l-55.; (j. L.
Lockton, L.A.C., 2, by a half yard. Hurdle-race, 120
yds.—G. P. Laurence, Oxford U.A.C., J, in 16 2-ss.
Made as it was on sodden turf this was great time.
Quarter-mile run—W. Shearman, O.U. A.C., 1, ins 2 l-55.;
W. P. Phillips, L.A.C., 2, by four yards. Half-mile run
S. K. Holman, L.A.C., 1, in 2m. l-ss. One-mile run —
W. G. George, Moseley Harriers, walked . over,
travelling in the centre of the path and finishing in 4m.
27 4-5 s time yet made at a championship meeting.
Four-mileslrun —W. G. George, Moseley Harriers, 1, in
20m. 465. Steeplechase—L. Concannon, Widnes F.C.,1,
in 10m. 265. Seven-mile walk—Q. P. Beckley, L.A.C.
and 5.1. H., 1, in 56m. Running high-jump—J. W.
Parsons, Edinburgh U.A.C., sft. 9Jin. Broad-jump—C.
L. Lockton, L.A.C., 22ft. 2in. Polo-jump—E. A. Stra-
chan, 108th Begt., 10ft. 4in. Throwing the hammer—
W. Lawrence, 0.U.A.C., 96ft. Putting the weight—W.
Y. Winthrop, L.A.C., 37ft. Sin.—a walk over.
Under the heading of “ More ways than one of
getting out,’* Melbourne Punch, alluding to the re-
markable frequency of casualties among the members
of the Australian team in England, gives the folio-wing
“specimen of judicious umpiring:”—Slight, 0.T.P.1.
T.E.0.1.D. (obstructing the field in the execution of its
duty) 3; Blackham, W.T.L.P.T.B.T. (wearing two leg-
pads and taking the block twice) 0; Groub, P.T.T.S.T,
M. (for troubling the scorers too much) 18; Murdoch,
8.1.5.A.T.T.0.T.L.H.E. (being in Sydney at the time of
the Lord Harris episocfe) 0; Boyle, 0.T.W.W.H.8. (ob-
structing the wicket with his bat) 2; Spofforth, L.L.A.
K. (looking like a kangaroo)!; Bonnor, 1.T.8.8.H.1.
T.H. (injuring the hall by hitting it too hard) 12; Ban-
nerman, P.T.T.H.0.0.T.8. (for taking the heart ont of
the bowlers) 25; Alexander, R.I. (retired injured) 10;
Palmer, R.I. (retired injured) 10; Macdonnell, N.O.W.
H.R.I. (not out; would have retired injured) 3. Total,
77. No extras.
The latest quotations at the Christchurch
Tattersall’s on the big events are as under, the Auck-
land representative, Piscatorius, beiwg backed to win
the C.J.C. for £2OOO. Libeller and Marie Antoinette
have also been well supported. For the Derby Sir
Modred and Lure still remain first favorites at 5 to 2.
For the Cup Hornby and Lure find the most supporters,
although Foul Play has been selected by several good
judges. Derby.—s to 2 against Sir Modred and Lure;
5 to 1 against Governor and Leveller ; 10 to 1 against
Holderness; 12 to 1 against Amina and Virginia Water ;
20 to 1 against any other, C.J.C. Handicap.—7 to 1
against Hornby and Betrayer; 10 to 1 against Foul
Play, Natator and Le Loup; 15 to 1 against Bogardns,
Volunteer, Pinflre and Grip ; 16 to 1 against Hilarious,
Libeller, Maritana ard Marie Antoinette ; 20 to 1 against
any other. Canterbury Cup.—B to 1 against Fonl Play,
Lure, Hornby, Le Loup and Sir Modred ; 10 to 1 against
Leveller and Natator; 12 to 1 against Hilarious, The
Governor, Volunteer, Grip and Betrayer; 14 to 1
against Virginia, Water, Sir George, Sir Garnet and
Pinfire; 20 to 1 against any other. Doubles—Derby
and Cup.—loo to 8 offered on the field. Derby and
Handicap.—loo to -5 to 100 to 2 offered. Handicap and
Cup.—loo to 5 to 100 to 2 offered.
In the recent race for the Hop Bitters Prize,
Flaisted, pulling in Ross’s interest, crossed and re-
crossed Riley frequently. The referee, Mr. W, B.
Curtis, in his official report, says:—“ This is not
Plaisted’s first or second offence of this character, and
it is t6' be hoped that the next man whom he thus
attacks will shoot him as soon as they get ashore—an
act of retributive justice for which any jury in America
would acquit the culprit without leaving their seats."
Concerning Ross, Mr. Curtis says“ He has lost
almost all his races in this country; hut he is
notoriously dishonest, and is known to have sold most
of them. He went to England just ahead of Hanlan,
won a match from a third-class man ; showed such form
that Englishmen wished to take hold of him, and back
him for the championship, and it is an open secret that
he received a neat sum of money for a sndden return to
America, instead of remaining to interfere with the
Haulan-Elliott race. He had been suffering for more
than a year from a malignant disease, and his recent
euro brought him to the post fitter than ever in his life.
He is unquestionably able to give a good account of
himself in any company, and might well take a lesson
from his past life, which left him so utterly without
money or friends that he could neither buy nor borrow
a new boat, and rowed this race in an old and much-
worn practice shell. With a little brain and a little
honesty, he would have a great career before him, hut
is in great danger of a speedy relapse into his old ways."
What would be said by Supreme Court Judges in this
country were the press to talk as plainly as this ?
44 VICTORIAE No. I.
AN ACT.
Whereas it is expedient that facilities for public
speaking be lessoned and British liberties curtailed
on the Lord's Day Sunday the first day of the
Christian week Be it therefore enacted by His
extreme Highness Sir N. Airy without the advice
and consent of the Legislative Council and
Legislative Assembly of New South Wales in
Parliament assembled and without the authority
of the same as follows :
1 Upon and after the fifth of April one thousand
eight hundred and eighty in this the Nineteenth
Century the Theatre Royal shall be closed if
payment for admission be advertised to bo made
on the said first day of the Christian week to all
such learned individuals as Richard Anthony
Proctor for the simple reason that they know too
much for me and of course for every one else and
that it is in nowise good that they should enlighten
the people’s minds or raise their thoughts through
Nature to Nature’s God.
2 All Acta passed in England not prior however
to the reign of Edward the Third which really
don’t but which may bo made to relate to the
closing of such a house on the day hereinbefore
mentioned shall be valid in this colony.
3 Provided that the collection of money as
hereinbefore said shall not refer to the collection
of moneys or tickets for conveyance along the
Government Railways and Tramways or to the
carriage of the public for their own delight and
amusement of such persons as may travel over
public ferries.
4 It shall not be compulsory for such lecturers
as those hereinbefore mentioned to lecture without
emolument.
5 This Act may be styled and may be cited as
the New South Wales lessening-of-facilitiea-for-
public-speaking-and-curtailment - of - British-liber-
ties-bill of the Nineteenth Century,
Supreme Court v. "Evening News."
“ The court awards it and the law doth give it."—Merchant
of Venice, Act 4, scene 1.
“ Hear now the sentence ye impious, crew
Who dare to wield the facile, gall-tipt pen ;
Who rashly venture to maintain the view
That judges may perchance be erring men :
You’re found Not Guilty, hut we can’t refrain
To add the rider. Don’t do it again !”
c.
September 7, 1880.
Nomen.—They were an old-fashioned couple,
and they liked celebrated names. He was Herod. She
was Cleopatra. They continued the fashion, and called
their first J. R. He, alas, looks as if he were going to
take the belt as Aminidab Sleek. He has written a
dissertation anent the use of such profanities as “By
Jingo,” and has—no beard. He never has bills for
property or land, not even a tailor’s bill. All his bills
are tracts. Their second they called H. H. He is the
Adonis of the family. But it may ho stated that he is
in no way conceited, being in fact a very modest and
unassuming young man, almost as retiring, reticent,
and taciturn as their third, D. B. Him they designed for
the law. But he writes poetry, reviews the new books,
and criticises all jthe minstrel troupes that visit the
village. Strange, though inclined to the drama, he
abominates Shakespeare. He is no politician, yet de-
clares he will support Free Trade. Their fourth, G. H.,
has made his fortune, and as a sweet merchant prince, he
rivals the traditional bee, so greatly is his voice exerted
in the interest of current literature. In fact, few are
so arduous in their endeavour to induce the public to
dip into journalism. G. H. isthe most practised orator
of the day. Their next H. B. is the boss at the spelling
bees; he intends to outdo Sam. Johnson, and has
enough MS. to fill Ahorse-trough. He is now studying
for a B.A. degree. Their sixth, F. 8., is a Hercules, at
least as regards that young man’s muscles. He rides
in the Circus, where ho occasionally does the
“ strongman.” There’s not a fellow near his place who
can touch him in the card-line—poker, euchre, all fours,
are all oue to him. But he has written an opera, which
is still in M.S. No publisher cares to fail just now.
Their next they called M. S. He has gone among the
aboriginals. The blacks call him Big Medicine. To
ho continued.


Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY,
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £525,00q.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs.‘Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—Qeorge-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; P. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble,
Cootamundra, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Gunnedah,
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Moloug, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
andera, Orange, Porkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton,
Queanbeyau, Quirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
ton, Tam worth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass. Young
With the following B
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dolby, Mackay,
Maryborough and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bunk of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia The Bank ot south Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester ; The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macoudray and Co.
Valparaiso: Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore ; The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cosh credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
let if bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates ; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
The intercolonial life and fire
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Offices :—263 (late 247), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital; £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors:
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery. Esq., J.P. I P. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T, J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. K. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
. LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR.
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO,
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SI DNEY.
The standard life assurance com-
PANY.
Head Office
Sydney Branch
George-street, Edinburgh.
283 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The next DIVISION OF PROFITS will be made as
at 15th November, ISSO, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T. WATKINS,
Secretary.
LION FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
Limited.
Chief Office —5, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 20 BRIDGE STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
Department of Mines,
Tom c r . • J Sydney, 20th August, 1880.
10l ox applications received in the Department of Mines, for permission to mine under roads, &c.,
■ &c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28.
E. A. BAKER.
Date of
applica-
tion.
Receipt
of Appli-
cation.
Names of Appli-
cants.
Locality.
Description of Land applied for. Extent,
1879.
4 April...
.'4
17 „
17 Oct. .
20 „ .
25 Nov..
24 Dec..,
1880-
22 Jan. .
23 April.
28 July ..
28
1879.
5 April.
17 Oct. .
21 „ .
27 Nov..
29 Dec..,
1880.
22 Jan. .
23 April.
29 July.
29
Purpose for
which land is to
be used.
A. Armstrong:
H. E. Way.
Jopel
Thoi
and xnomas
Garrett.
Henry J. Withers.
J. B. North
Henry J. Withers
Do
S. L. Bensnsanand
Patrick Griffin
Dr. H. Tarrant, per
A. G. Martin
Albert Wood
Port Hacking
do
do
Reserve No. 34, being a reserve
for National Park,
do do
Portion of the National Park
reserve
Reserve No. 42, county of Cum-
berland, parish of Wattamolla
Reserve for National Park
Near Port
Hacking.
Port Hacking
Near Port Extension of reserve No. 42,
Hacking,
do
Port Hacking
Tuggerah...
Do
county of Cumberland, parish
of Wattamolla.
Reserve No. 45, county of Cum
berland, parish of Bulgo.
Land at Gratugunynh, reserve for
National Pork.
Under Tuggerah Beech Lake,
Munmorah Lake, the village
of Norah, the reserve adja-
cent to said lakes, the said
village, and reserve Toloam-
bah, county of Northumber-
land ; and bounded on the
east by the Pacific Ocean, and
on all other sides by Crown
land and alienated land.
Port Hacking Government Reserve; bounded
on the east and north by the
Pacific Ocean ; on the west by
O’Byrne’s freehold of 400
acres ; on the south by Min-
eral Lease No. 18,286, parish
of Wattamolla, county of
Cumberland.
Near Port Reserve No. 42, county of Cum-
Hacking. berland, parish of Wattamolla.
Acres.
18,000
5.000
3,636
18.000
320
About
1,200
100
,To mine for
coal,
do
do
do
d*
do
570
do
To mine for
limestone.
To mine for
coal.
To mine for
coal and
shale.
do
W. P • w E L C
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
H,
Outside Venetian.
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
NTBHNATI
ON A L
SYDNEY, 1879-80.
EXHIBITION
ALDERSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
LEATHERS—
Sole Special Ist Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c
Harness, Strap, and Bag
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing
Splits, Levants, &c
Patent Enamel and Japanned
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides ;
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings
Morocco Roans, Levant, and 800 k...
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
MANUFACTURES—
Boots and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Prize
Harness, Collars, &c Special Ist
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851—80—Leathers. —Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YORK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
m
*
m
/
ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MANUFACTURED BY W. DA VIES &C? CO ULB URN. N.S IV
N
W
ASO N ' S
Ex B.s. Menmuir.
S,
The arrival of this steamship has given ns the opportunity of selecting with care'and judgment,
and securing at any cost, the
FINEST CHOPS OF THE CARGO.
We present them this week with the full assurance that our care in the selection of them will be
appreciated by onr Customers and the Public generally, and our assertion that for richness and delicacy
of flavour and great strength they are not to be Equalled in this City, will be heartily endorsed by all
who try them.
WE PRESENT THEM THUS—
-2s 6d per lb Very Choice Rich Pekoe-flavoured Souchong, very
strong
2s ~ A Rich, Brisk, Full-flavoured Congou, very good and
strong
la Cd ~ A Good Family Tea, strong, with fair flavour.
Good TEA being a great desideratum in a family’s stock of Groceries, we would most respect-
fully request LADIES and HEADS OF FAMILIES to try our TEA before purchasing elsewhere.
tsrNOTE THE ADDRESS —
THE WELL - KNOWN TEA SHOP,
M'CLELLAND AND ROACH,
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
Public Companies
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase
£1,000,000. 0
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Bundle. Esr.
William B. Wolford, Esq. | William A-. Long, Esa
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wonostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Stdnbt.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Eedfem | Glebe.
London Office—lB King William Street, E.G.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c. ’
THE BANK UNDERTAKER ALU GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
The mercantile bank op Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St.’Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
Tin’s Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other prodnce shipped to England for sale.
Australian mutual proyiden
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
D I R E C T O US*
TKe Hon, Jolm Smith, C.M.G., M.Ij.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq.
Robert J. King, Esq.
Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
_ . ... , S. A. Joseph. Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.E.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
„ . AC a TUAR T : I SECRETARY
Momce A, Black, F.I.A. ( Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society: . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
ptete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, bnt of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound indg-
ment and prudence.’
The CoMMEItcIAL World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says: ‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T. WATKINS, Manager.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, loss profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAREETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottage?, and on their Estate at Els wick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. uer Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. * do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
etreet. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamqßed Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEO B GE-STREET, SYDNEY.
TO THE THEATRICAL PROFESSION AND
LADIES GENERALLY.
A choice variety of COMPLEXION POWDERS
on Sale, also fine PERFUMERY and TOILET
articles, &c., Ac. .
W. D. EAME3,
Chemist, II Oxford-st.,
Near Hyde Park.
SLATTEET AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
G E 0 C E E S,
705 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
P. M A H O N Y,
AGENT. ETC.
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL PRODUCE, &c.
s T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on hand, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.


Business Announcements
International exhibition, isso.—
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
f or their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
eut, W. H. ARIELL. 343. & 315, Keut-st., 3 doors
Sorth King-st.
INTERN ATIONAL :EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
BENCKAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
5L their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
L tins 2,7, 14, and 231bseach, and in casks of IJ, 2,3,
Lad 04 cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Rent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343 and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
iALINO’S music warehouse
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent: W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OVER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
Chronom e itr,Watch Makers.
a; Optician ,
%)W*7
I flirt C«Vts r*f yrh ovi Af’pl
Q.OUNDEY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir (Jarnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabnl, having sent
Specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibraltar
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use GOUNDRY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will And it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLER and CO.,
AVholesale Druggists,
a 175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
hole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
ADELAIDE TOWN BRANDS Superfine FLOUR,
sacks, halves, and quarters ; Hart’s, Magarey’s,
ammeld’s, and Duun’s; ADELAIDE Country Brands
snperflne Flour, various; VICTORIAN and N. S.
WALES Flour. BEILBY aud CO.
Business Announcements
JJOMES FOE THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for a small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they can in a few
years realise
THEIE OWN FREEHOLD!
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
M CASH,
and
21 QUAETEELY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBER, &0., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOE WOEKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
CHAELES LEWIS’ NEW IMPEOYED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOB FOURTEEN YEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARTING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS :
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental), Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B. —Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
P.
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREET,
N,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-atreet),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spibit Merchant,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay market.
E
X CITY OF
Nine Cases
A.
N; Co.,
s.
C J
SYDNEY.
Eureka Puzzles,
Consisting of
NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOTIONS. TOYS, 15
Puzzles, Articles of useful invention,
/
Books, &0., &c.
AMEEICAN NOVELTY CO.,
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank).
Depot :
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
ATEST INVENTION.
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS APPARATUS,
For lighting Dwellings, Churches, Factories, Public
Buildings, Municipalities, Cities, and Steamships.
For particulars see Catalogues, on application to
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole Agents.
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BERTRAM. Canada
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON, Toronto
Importers of all kinds of iron, lead, and brass pipe,
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chandeliers, globes, &c.,
soda fountains and machinery used for the manufacture
of soda water and other aerated beverages—aerated wine
and bottling machines, map sheets, lorries, waggons,
&c., &c.
FIRST PRIZE (International Exhibition) Soda-
water Machinery, -fflrated Wine and Bottling Machines,
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stands.
SMITH AND HAMILTON,
43 GLOBE BUILDING,
SUSSEX STREET NORTH.
O. B. M O D I
GUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 George Street, Sydney. 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, &c.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
Business Announcements
BRAY BROS.,
402 & 404 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
GREAT
CLEARING SALE
OF
£13,000 WORTH OF
CHINA,
CHINA,
GLASS,
GLASS,
EARTHENWARE,
AND
LAMPS
AT TWENTY PER CENT DISCOUNT
FOR CASH.
BRAY BROS.,
402 Sc 404 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
M
ADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), are:—
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12s. 6d.; Six months
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families, —Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with ; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney. —Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from HADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Bail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Memories of my Exile, by Louis Kossuth
A Ride in Petticoats and Slippers, by Captain H. E.
Colville.
Cross Purposes, by Cecilia Findlay
Miles Harding, by A. Weber
Edgar Allan Poe : His Life, Letters and Opinions,
by J. H. Ingram
There’s Rue for you, by Arthur Kennard
The Fair Haired Alda, by Florence Marryat
London Town, by Marcus Fall
Mervyn O’Connor, by Lord Desart
Signor Molodini’s Neice
Memories of Troubled Times, by Marshall
Second Thoughts, Dy Rhoda Broughton
With a Silken Thread, by E. Lynn Linton
The World of Cant
Six Life Studies of Famous Women, by M. Betham-
Ed wards
The Mistress of Coon Hall, by Margaret Cartmell
The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century,
by Jules Verne
Very Genteel, by the author of “Mrs. Jemingham'a
Journal’’
David Armstrong
George Vanbrugh’s Mistake, by H. E. Pritchard
In Her Majesty's Keeping, by Hon. Lewis Winfield
The Duke’s Children, by Anthony Trollope
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jane Worboise
Plain English, by John Hollingshead
Dr. Rigby’s Letters from France, by Lady Eastlako!
The Purcell Papers, by J. S. Le Fanu
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Moths, by Ouida
Protection and Bad Times, by G. Baden-Powell
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackmoro
Poor Zeth, by author of “ Grandmother's Money ’’
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie Collins
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme Lee
In Kent with Charles Dickens, by Thomas Frost
Royal Windsor, I vols., by W. Hepworth Dixon
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Rice
Russia, Before and After the War, by the author of
“ Society in St. Petersburgh”
Life and Writings of Henry Thomas Buckle, by
Alfred Henry Huth
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Grant
Her Dignity and Grace
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from ft a.m. to 6 p.m.
FM ‘ I T 0 HE L L.
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANT,
HAY STREET
and
DRUITT STREET,
Sydney.
est Newcastle Screened Coal ..
Mountain Coal
Nut Coal..
225. per ton.
12s. per $-ton
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
20s. per ton,
lls. per J-ton.
19s. per ton.
20s. per ton.
~ Cut Wood, 12 and 9 in.
i, ~ ~ 6-m. ... ... ..w. .wu.
Blacksmiths’ and Engine Coal, at Lowest Rates,
he above prices are Cash on Delivery within the
City boundaries.
Correct Weight in all cases guaranteed.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
JPURST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
, on every point.
READ THE AWARD.
“The Now Davis Sowing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time yment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. O. HOLTERMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street, and 21 Pitt-street,
Sydney.


Public Notices
EINSMEAD PIANOS.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Referring to certain advertisements that have lately
appeared in the daily journals, Messrs. EOYLE and
HOGG desire to call the attention of the public to the
following fact, viz.: That the Judges fit mnsical in-
struments at the recent Sydney International Exhibi-
tion ONLY awarded ONE SPECIAL MENTION for
Pianofortes, and that was to Messrs. JOHN BEINS-
MEAD and SONS. A reference to the book published
under the authority of the Commissioners, and entitled
Official Awards, will clearly prove this assertion.
We append letters, signed by a majority of the
judges, which establish this fact, and fully explain to
the public the position of affairs.
“Sydney, July 27, 1880.
“ To the Executive Commissioner.
“ Dear Sir, —At the Anal meeting of the J udges of
Pianos at the Sydney International Exhibition, it was
decided to award to Messrs. JOHN BRINSMEAD and
SONS the ONLY SPECIAL MENTION.
“ This was duly presented and confirmed by the Exe-
cutive Commissioner. Afterwards, at the request, as
we understood, of the Secretary, we drew up certain
particulars tor the official catalogue ; but this was in no
way intended to invalidate the distinction to Messrs.
JOHN BEINSMEAD and SONS-viz., the HIGHEST
AWARD ABOVE ALL PIANO EXHIBITS, and as
such afe entitled to a higher award,
“ We give you theSe particulars in justice to the firm
entitled to special distinction, and, no doubt, you will
sec this duly carried out.
“We remain, dear sir,
“Yours obediently,
“ C. J. JACKSON,
“ MONTAGUE YOUNGER,
*« EDMUND T. BLACKET,
“ CHARLES PACKER."
*’ 99 Pitt-street, Sydney,
“July 23,1880.
“ To H. Brinsmend, Esq.
“ Dear Sir, —I received your letter of the 19th inst.,
and am very much surprised at its contents.
“You are perfectly correct in saying that your pianos
were the ONLY ones which received any special men-
tion from the Judges of Musical Instruments.
“ When it was proposed to give yon this SPECIAL
AWARD I objected, and divided the meeting on the
subject, but was outvoted, and the special mention was
made, and I signed the report accordingly. lam not
aware that any alteration was mode in this report, and
if it was so it was not done with any knowledge or cod-
sent on my part, therefore cannot be said to be the
report of the Judges.
“Your statement that the ONLY SPECIAL notice
among pianos was given to yOt» by the Judges of
musical instruments is ABSOLUTELY TRUE, as the
report itself will show.
“ I am, dear sir,
“ Yours truly,
“EDMUND T. BLACKET.”
“ Organ Manufactory, Newtown
“ Sydney, 1880.
“ Messrs. John Brinsmead and Sons,
“ Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in being able to
vouch to the degree of perfection to which you have
brought the art of pianoforte mauufaeturing. I must say
the improvements invented and patented by your firm
are of such value that the musical judges, after care-
fully examining the instruments, competing with about
70 or 80 other manufacturers, awarded your pianos the
first prize above them all. I am also of opinion that
your pianos with such simple action, simplicity of me-
chanism, strength of construction, combined with the
remarkable purity and sweetness of tone, are unrivalled,
whilst your patent action produces a touch absolutely
perfect. '
“ I am. Gentlemen,
“Yours truly,
“ C. J. JACKSON."
ROYLE and HOGG,
BOND-STREET STORES,
Sole Agents for JOHN BRINSMEAD and SONS*
Celebrated Sostenente Pianos.
Highest award above over SEVENTY other Manu-
facturers at the Sydney International Exhibition.
Highest awards : Paris, 1867, 1869,1874,1878.
Highest awards : London, 1851 1862, 1871.
Highest awards, gold medals everywhere.
PRICES to SUIT ALL.
Five years’ guarantee with every instrument.
INCOMPARABLE for
TOUCH.
TONE.
WORKMANSHIP,
DURABILITY,
and PRICE.
A splendid selection now on view at the
BRINSMEAD PIANO DEPOT,
Bond-street Stores.
ROYLE and HOGG,
Sole Agents.
o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSONS EXTRACTorSOAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
|@§
%
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &o.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, icc.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in lib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R, D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Public Notices
ALL the Christian Denominations, Christian
Associations, Mutual Improvement Societies,
Confraternities, Christian Doctrines, Young Men’s
Institutes, Schools of Art, Sunday-schools, Day-school
Teachers, Bands of Hope, and other kindred societies,
are respectfully reminded to remember the grand stand
mode by the Premier on last Sunday evening’s over-
throw.
THE Authorities deserve the highest praise for
their determined stand in darkening the Sun,
Moon, and Stars last night (especially Sir Henry Parkes),
While the Churches was Worshipping the Almighty,
and it is to be hoped that their prayers ascended to the
Throne 'of Grace, and found mercy for help in every
time of need.
T
HE SUN, MOON, STARS, and the COMETS.
The Worshippers and the performers of the above
orbs, Ac., was served out last Sunday night, almost as bad
as Baal and his prophets in Jezebel’s time. Only imagine
the plans and schemes, and the arrangements there
were for this idol worship; how sore to poor proud
flesh and blood to be thus disappointed, dispersed, and
scattered like flocks of sheep. How flobergased the
shepherd and his crook appeared! If the Professor’s
knowledge about the sun, and the comet’s tail are out
in their calculations in the same way as last Sunday
night’s proceedings, how applicable is the following
admonition“ If the blind lead the blind, shall they
not both fall into the ditch.” Perhaps some of the
crowd would have preferred being in a ditch than to have
been seen as the laughing stock dupes at an astonished
multitude. No doubt the devotees will not get over
their disappointment for a month. However, they will
be likely to remember the Sun, Moon, Stars, and the
Comet’s tail for a long time to come.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watsou’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu.
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
681 GEORGE STREET.
Boots and Shoes.
NTHONY MATHIAS & CO.,
Importers and Indentors of
FRENCH BOOTS AND SHOES,
61 Queen Stkeet, Melbourne,
and
7 Vaughan’s Chambers, King Street,
SYDNEY.
B
COTS'! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
H.
AT
HILD E R ’ S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
(570 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
BOON TO THE SYDNEY PUBLIC.
Gent’s Boots, French Calf, Hand sewn, warranted,
10s 6d; Gent’s Boots, Exhibition Calf, Hand sewn war-
ranted, 13s 6d; Gent’s Kid Boots, very best quality.
Hand sewn, warranted, 14s 6d; Gent’s Kid Shoes, very
best quality. Hand sewn, warranted, 12s 6d; Ladies’
Exhibition Sateen Boots, high leg, 6s Gd; all the best
brands of Ladies’ Button Boots, 10s 6d; Gent’s Full-
Dress Boots of every description, 18s 6d; Ladies’ Ball
Shoes, black and silver to match dresses, 10s 6d.
Ladies’ Fancy Shoes and Boots of every description
at the lowest prices. Boots made to order lower than
any other house.
P. HURST,
494 George-street,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
T 3 HELLYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Pork-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
Auction Sale
JJEW SO UT H WALES.
TO CAPITALISTS, GRAZIERS, AGRICULTURISTS
and others
The most Luxuriant and extensive Freehold
Pastoral and Agricultural
Northern Estates,
comprising
' DAETBEOOK," near SCONE, i
13,955 acres, in five lots.
‘.ST, HILLIEES " at MUSWELLBEOOK, area
14,126 acres, in two lots.
“ GUNDIBRI” near MEEEIWA, area
27,140 acres, in seven lots.
These magnificent Freehold Pastoral Estates, will )*,
submitted to public competition, and will be sold
gursuant to a Decree of the Supreme Court of New
outh Wales, in its Equitable Jurisdiction made in the
cause of Hall and another v. Hall and others, with the
approve of the Master in Equity, by
RICHARDSON and WRENCH,
at their Rooms Pitt-street, Sydney, on
Monday, 4th October next, at 11 o’clock, in the
following order.
DAETBEOOK ESTATE, County of BRISBANE.
LOT 1.—730 ACRES, near Lot 2, in the Parish of
Tarraman, known as Pikes Grant of 640 acres
and two other small selections.
LOT 2.-4,984 ACRES, 4 rood, 24 perches, known as
the “ Sheep Station,” in the Parish of Myrabluan,
and permanently watered by the Wybong and
Guangua Creeks.
LOT 3.-2,560 ACRES, between Lots two and five, in
the Parish of Halscot, a square of 4 Sections
adjoining Lands belonging to D. MTNTYRE
Esq,, and S. WRIGHT Esq.
LOT 4. —640 ACRES, near Lot five, in the Parish of
Strathearn, adjoining the property of W
STEPHENS Esq.
LOT 5.-5,081 ACRES 1 rood 23 perches at Dartbrook,
on the Railway-line between Muswellbrook and
Scone, in the Parish of Strathearn, adjoining the
pastoral property and highly improved estate be-
Inoging to D. M'lntyre, Esq. On this Lot are two
Family Residences, with all necessary convenience.
The greater portion is cleared, securely fenced,"
and subdivided into Paddocks.
ST. HILLIEES ESTATE,
adjoining- Muswellbrook,
COUNTY of DURHAM.
LOT 1.—8.799 ACRES, being the whole of that
Magnificent tract of highly improved rich Agi-i.
cultural land extending from Muswellbrook to
Scone, and including Sparkes 2,000 acre grant
adjoining the Permanent and Temporary Com-
mons. On this is a commodious Family Residence
fitted with every convenience, and having all
necessary out-buildings. Also stockyards. Men’s
huts etc. This estate is watered by the Hmter
River, jMuswellbrook, St. Hilliers Brook and other
tributaries, and the Railway passes through the
Property.
LOT 2.-5327 ACRES, Parishes of St. Aubin’s and
Balmoral, close to Lot One and the Muswellbrook
Town Common.
GUNDIBEI ESTATE,
COUNTY of BRISBANE.
LOT 1. —7297 ACRES, the Southern portion of the
Estate, in the Parish of Hall, and watered bv
Hall’s Creek. J
LOT 2.—9143 ACRES, adjoining Lot 1 in the parishes
of Hall and Merriwa. On this Lot is the Home-
stead, comprising Cottage Residence, Men’s
Quarters, Stock Yards, and < 1 '
- other improvements.
LOT 3. —1694 ACRES, adjoining Lot Two and boun-
ded on the West by Hall’s Creek.
LOT 4.—6918 ACRES, next to Lot 3, in the Parish of
Webimble, on Hall’s Creek.
LOT 5.—1120 ACRES, situated at the Northern end
of the Estate, and having a considerable frontage
to Hall’s Creek.
LOT 6. —928 ACRES, West of Gundibri Proper, and
situated in the Parish of Coulson.
LOT 7. —40 ACRES, on Reedy Creek, South of Gun-
dibri Proper.
esr It is not the intention of the Auctioneers to add a
single comment on the value and profitableness of the
above Freehold, Pastoral and Agricultural Estates.
They prefer merely to furnish the above particulars
and to leave such welt-known and valuable properties to
stand on their own merits with capitalists, thefore will
only say that as the several lots are in the market for
honaf.de sale the attention of Capitalists is particularly
directed to unquestionably the best opportunity for
investing in this Interest, which can be afforded to
them throughout the whole of the northern portion of
the colony of New South Wales.
PLANS of the Several Lots are now on view at the
Rooms of RICHARDSON and WRENCH, Pitt-street,
Sydney, and also at the Offices of E. G. FITZGERALD,
Esq., Solicitor, Muswellbrook.
TEEMS LIBERAL : One-quarter Cash on the fall of
the hammer, and the residue in equal amounts at 1,2
and 3 years from day of sale ; interest, 6 per cent, per
annum.
Solicitors :
Messrs. JHOLDEN and| LAURENCE,
No. 35 CASTLEREAGH-STREET,
SYDNEY.
There is ho word in the English
LANGUAGE to adequately describe the beauty
of the
“ POMPADOUR CORSETS ’*
imported DIRECT FROM PARIS by
EDWARD HORDERN, of 668, BRICKFIELD-HILL.
They are made of BLACK SATTEEN with EXQUI-
SITELY HAND-WORKED BOQUETS of the choicest
Spring Flowers. “ Come and see them.” Only 8s Gd
per pair, well worth 1 guinea.
T ADIES, —When purchasing TEA, ask yo u
Grocer for
EASTERN SPECIALITY COMPANY’S
“ Champion Packet Tea.”
Ist Quality, Finest Indian Mixture 3s. per lb.
2nd ~ The Favourite Mixture 2s. 6d. ~
3rd ~ The People’s Mixture 2s. „
In half-pound or one pound packets.
The Delicious Flavour of the Indian Teas used in these
Mixtures have never been equalled in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Eastern Speciality Company’s Depot:
728, GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agency in N.S.W. for H. J. MEYERS & Co.,
Calcutta.
H A R V E
WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS. DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Iway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
FUN AND FANCY.
Played out —Croquet.
Free of charge—an empty gun.
A cheap country seat —A stump.
A bellringer—A pretty laundress.
Platelayers.—Butlers and waiters.
The King of Greece— Olomargarine.
A stag is often obliged to run for deer life.
A fiery speech should invariably be road hot.
To what rhythm does a saw-mill run?—Log-a-
thythm.
The people who give tone to society seldom
thing else.
In making wills some are left out and others
are left tin.
One-half of the world doesn’t know how the
other half lies.
Strange, the more wicked a man is the less he
tftlieves in hell.
Few people are so selfish as to keep their opi-
nions to themselves.
“While there’s life there’s soap,” said the
industrious washerwoman.
Smith is a common Russian name, but they
pronounce it TehernoyotTsky.
.Nature saw the bicycle in the dim future when
she created a bow-legged man.
The conductor who divided his collections with
the company said it was a fare arrangement.
One drink of new Queensland rum will make a
man go oil to some secluded place and rob himself.
A good conversationalist may make himself
heard at a feast; but the small boy takes the cake.
When the phonetic spelling comes into nso it
will always be rite in order to rite, rite, to rite, rite
rite.
The freedom of the press. When you wind a
dock up it goes, but when you wind an article up it
stops.
/A r.team bicycle has been invented. This Will fill
a long-felt want. A steam bicycle may explode and kill
its rider.
Patrick on the zebra —“ Phat kind of a baste is
that —the mule wid bis ribs on the outside of his shkin
entoirly P ”
The drum is to bo abolished in the French army.
For a long time it has been a snare and a thing of hol-
low pretensions.
The chief use of a sea captain in these days in to
explain how it all happened after most of the passengers
have been drowned.
In Italy, when a man has a No. 10 voice, they
make an opera-singer out of him; in Australia ho be-
comes an auctioneer.
“ There, that explains where my bail-rope went
to 1 ” as the woman said when she found her husband
hanging in the stable.
“ The Lord loveth a cheerful giver,” quoted
Brown, when he heard that Jones had caught the
scarlet fever from him.”
A Certain grocer used to smoke his pipe while
leaning against his powder barrel. His mail now goes
to the Dead-Letter Office.
When a man now undertakes a larger task than
he can accomplish, it is said of him that he has bitten
off more than he can chew.
It looks quite easy and homelike to see the baby
at the table invariably eat its bread with a spoon while
it picks up molasses with its lingers.
A Melbourne barber has been arrested for
cutting a man’s hair on Sunday. He got off with a
moderate fine, but it was a close shave.
A little girl in church after the contribution
plate had been passed, complacently and audibly said:
*• I paid for four, mamma—was that right ? "
The first almanac was printed in 1460, and the
issue for 1880 contains several of the same fresh and
sparkling jokes that appeared in the first number.
“ Beauty is but skin deep.” This cannot be
applied to a banana, says Mr. Archibald C. Frazer, of the
Crown Law Offices, who slipped and broke Ibis leg the
other day.
An eld angler says a fish does not suffer much
pain from being hooked. Of course not. It’s the
thought of how his weight will be lied about that causes
him anguish.
“ Sit down ! ” said a nervous old gentleman to
his son, who was making too much noise. “ I won’t do
it,” was the impudent answer. “ Well, then, stand up.
I will be obeyed 1 ’*
When the ice-man finds the lump too heavy he
chips off the odd weight and lets the pieces melt in the
street. It has never been discovered how he manages
when the lump is too light.
“An apple, says a contemporary, threw the
first man. Since then it has almost let the business
out to the banana.’’ The foregoing paragraph is fruit-
ful of facts, Water-meloncholly date that was!
A reward of .£lOO has been offered to the
amateur Tasmanian fisherman who shall omit all
reference to the " speckled beauties "—meaning the fish,
not the maidens —that make glad the sylvan solitudes.
Now that the French journalists are taking to
duelling, every reporter who wants a situation has to
pass an examination in (1) shorthand, (2) coffee and
pistols for two, (3) skewer or darning-needle practice,
(4) and will-making.
When we see a certain Sydney clergyman kissing
the male members of his flock as well as the female—
the tobacco-chewing, pipe-smoking, beer-drinking old
sinners, as well as the young and pretty ones—we’ll be-
gin to believe that his heart is in his work.
The sport indulged in by small boys of tying tin
cans to dogs' tails and setting ’em loose in the public
streets is not so popular now. The cause of this decline
can be traced to the scarcity of dogs rather than to any
moral improvement in the boy.
An experienced person would think there was no
poetry in a lead pencil, but we have found that when the
lead breaks twice during the monotonous process of
whittling a point to the thing it requires little effort on
our part to find a word expressive enough to rhyme
with ham.
This is by a country editor : — lndia-jestible and
Agra-vating.—lnnDoo asks if, when his sister Catherine
is living in Delhi, she can fairly be India-Kated as in-
Delhi-Kate ! Have we heard a Simla joke before ? If so
we didn’t Hindoostan, it. We think Inn Doo too Bom-
bay-s tic ! Yah!
A Chinaman (says Queensland J*<jnch),
bought a horse, saddle, and bridle at a sale yard, for
£l5 15s. Gd. No sooner mounted, than he was bucked
off in the street, and was heard to exclaim as he saw his
horse galloping away: “Good-bye, horsey; good-bye,
saddlee; good-bye, bridlee; good-bye, fifteen pong,
fifteen sillin, and sickpenoe.”
“ The boy whorunsthe Northern Miner in
the town,’’ says the editor of that paper, is falling back to
his old ways—he falls asleep in the street and forgets
to deliver the papers to our subscribers. We would
crave the attention of the blacksmiths, shoemakers, or
saddlers in his line of march and ask them to smarten
up that boy a tergo. Fines have no effect on him.”
It’s said, however, that some Northern editors have a
playful habit of fining his boy to the extent of the whole
of his wages every week
A recently arrived and very fat foreigner lately
stopped at one of onr hotels, and at the supper-table
began to play fearful havoc with a plate of hard-boiled
eggs, scooping out the yolk and leaving the white un-
touched. Just os he was devouring the tenth one, the
waiter remonstrated with him, calling his attention to
his wastefulness. "Good gracious, man,” he said,
“ you would not have me eat ten vitee, vould you ? De
yoke is der sbicken, and der vitee der fodders. Do yon
thinks I vants ter make one great helster of mine
shtomach?”


BRIEF MENTION.
The Herald Sunday observance law is all
abroad.
Tramcars are never late when Sir Henry is
aboard.
The fare to Randwick by tram is reduced to
sixpence.
Proctor versus Jefferis. —Truth versus Bread
and Butter.
“ Prey without ceasing ” is a motto in a Peter-
sham Sunday school.
The tyrannical act of .last Sunday has cost Sir
Henry thousands of votes.
A disappointed and impatient miner says Te-
mora isn’t worth a “ rush."
The judges haven’t made up their minds yet
“ First catch your hare,” etc.
Larry Kinn says the steam-roller in
street is an in-funnel nuisance.
How the Evening News got into trouble. —
Through looking in at the Windeyer.
The Tasmanian mail is becoming quite a nice
paper. It is imitating The Bulletin.
A Camden milkman dilutes the “lacteal fluid”
with water before the faces of his customers.
A Waverley young lady remarks that Waverley
has got quite lively sinnce the cemetery started.
Lazar’s whining prayers stopped Proctor’s
lecture. No law we have could have stopped it.
An indignation meeting is to be held to express
the public's opinion on the stoppage of free speech.
The Cooktown Herald calls
the editor of the opposition sheet a
“mangy literary cur.”
The “ Yids ” of Brisbane are
very anxious to know who is the cor-
respondent of The Bulletin.
Bolam, a Brisbane draper, ad-
vertises “ a first - class milliner
especially imported for the season."
The most readable paper in
Queensland is Hansard, published by
authority. There is no fear of an
action for libel.
Bunny, of Adelaide, is to be
offered tne next vacant South Aus-
tralian judgeship. He can deliver
heavy “charges,” anyhow!
A telegram from Parkes runs
as follows: —“Jones and party cleaned
up on Wednesday.” That’s all.
Nothing about how the battle waged.
And no satisfaction to a panting public
in a second edition.
This is the way a correspondent
of the Brisbane Courier describes
the winding up of a ball: —“ The
morning light broke in on their revel
and bid them depart.”
Dr. Ron wick and “Alderman
John” had a special carriage given
them from the border to Melbourne.
How careful the Melbourne authori-
ties are to keep the Victorians select.
At an insolvency meeting, the
other day, a Brisbane tailor said that
“gentlemen, although they might
be insolvent or hard up, always paid
their bills.” Book debts in that es-
tate over £4,000.
The insurance companies of
Brisbane are thinking of starting a
company to insure themselves. Fires
do break out just where the heaviest
insurances are, in the most unac-
countable manner.
Proctor mnsn’t exhibit his stars
on Sunday, yet “ Hennessy’s Treatise
on the Three Stars of Cognac ” is
said to be a favourite study at Faul-
conbridge even on the Lord’s Day.
It smacks of monopoly, of tyranny,
or ignorance—which ?
A howl of execration went up in
trains and tram-cars on Friday when
it was announced that the motors
and tram-cars were to be taken off
the regular line of traffic on Satur-
day to accommodate the race-goers.
Saturday is the busiest day on the
tramway, and public convenience
must not subserve to class amuse-
ments.
Neighbours have been wonder-
ing whatever were the contents of a
huge bundle carted regularly away
every Monday morning from a dis-
tinguished house at North Adelaide.
Curiosity is at last satisfied. Each
bundle contains the “Chief’s” stale
puns and jokes, and F. D. B’s. aspi-
rates dropped at dinner over night.
As two ladies were passing the
Supreme Court the other day, one
■exclaimed to the other —“ I’m quite
in love with that tarlatan!” Where-
upon a tall barrister who was standing
at the arcade gave a gratified snigger
and blushed as red as the Banco Court
curtain. He little knew that that
divinity was only eulogising a ball-
dress she had just seen in Farmer’s
window. But no matter.
“ Gipsy ” writes us denying
that she plagiarised our joke about
Arthur Sketchley being “ a full-blown
rose ’’ and says that that part of her
Paper in which the mild pleasantry
referred to appeared was printed
before The Bulletin came out. We
are quite ready to believe that the
case is one of geniuses jumping
together. We are rather ashamed of
the joke now, and as it’s not onr
* custom to quarrel over the author-
ship of any pun we humbly apologise
■to the lady
It is not true that Mr. Fisher, who is about to
stand for Camden, is a lineal descendant of Fisher’s
'Ghost.
The Express is, at Temora, the most popular
paper. Two issues are quite sufficient to cover the wall
of a hut.
Mr. Morehead calls the legal members of the
Queensland Assembly “ Political vultures looking for
•carrion.”
Jack Gardiner, M.P. for Carlton, says that the
whole of life is summed up in one word—crystallised, in
fact, in sugar.
Wanted, the inspector of the “ Cruelty to Ani-
mals Society” to pay a visit to the Appin road, between
Campbelltown and Appin.
A matrimonial alliance not generally known —
Wisdom, married to Immortal Verse ” —Morpeth
papers (?) please circulate.
The Directors of the Bank of New South Wales
nave given strict orders to the officers in Sydney to dis-
continue the practice of putting their pens behind their
cars during office hours. How punctilious we are—
“ProPer” people are Sydneyites! In the Ear
r»orth, we may inform the directors, the “ Wales” offi-
ers not only refrain from wearing pens, but they in-
anably doff their coats during bank hours, and this
Y? * Place where waistcoats are unknown. One very
Irmn P ishe<i gentleman attached to a North Queens-
na branch wears neither coat, waistcoat nor shirt
office hours, and smiles complacently as he
wands behind the counter in all the glory of a short
«leeved jersey, full of holes.
Dowie walks up King-street ” every after-
noon at 4. Getting into the habit, he says, so as to be
in his seat when the Speaker takes the chair.
Of all the suburbs, Burwood, they say, takes
the lead for its display of beauty and fashion at
popular gatherings ; to wit, the recent concerts.
Mr. Proctor says the earth is 5,000,000 years
old. And we believe him. Almost every day we* come
across a joke that is almost as venerable as that.
Farming on the Mulgrave and Upper Barron
is an exciting occupation. The selector has to keep one
eye on the hoe, and one on the lookout for darkies.
A series of large Sunday picnics to Clontarf are
about to be organised. The first of these is to be in
honor of Mr. Proctor, who will be asked to be present.
Rumour had it that a deputation of gentlemen
waited on the Attorney-General to stop Proctor’s lec-
ture. We understand that it was only Prank Warden.
Jos. Pickersgill has got the catering for the
Melbourne International and points with delight to the
low iron roofs of the annexe. “They must drink or
die,” says Jos.
The principle of “ the spoils to the victor ” now
appears to be thoroughly established in regard to the
Victorian Civil Service. Berry is turning out those
whom Service put in.
The editor of the Auckland Star isn’t an
Irishman, and yet he prints the following cable:—“A
box containing 1260 z. of gold from Cooktown, addressed
to she City Bank, has arrived here empty.
“ What is all the grammar in the world to a
man,” asks a contemporary, “if he lose his seat ?’’ Ob-
serves the same paper“ An M.L.C. and a dull speech
is better than a full brain and empty pocket.”
There is a big drapery establishment not far
from the Haymarket which gives employment to a large
number of young men. The following excellent rule is
is rigidly enforced. As soon as an employee arrives in
the morning his hat is locked up in a room which is only
unlocked when business closes in the evening.
We are sorry to notice that the newly-established
Church op England Record has turned out to be a
rag as intolerant as are the other so-called “ religious **
journals of Sydney Says the Record in its current
Iff 1 ® 1 —“Oneof the Devil’s chapels, to quote a well-
known expression of Archbishop Tillotson, has dis-
appeared. The Victoria Theatre, devoted on the week
day to the ruin and degradation of man, and on Sunday
to the dishonour of Christ, has been destroyed by fire
It is satisfactory to know that in all probability this
valuable site in our fair city will be appropriated to
better purposes.” To Dowie’s new cathedral probably.
Surely the Record can’t be the recognised organ of the
Church of England. We always thought that Angli-
canism was associated with intellect and manliness
not with ignorance, cant and drivel.
Yet another Geebung. Samuel E. Lees, the
eloquent, has issued a circular wherein it is stated that
in response to the “ solicitations" of many friends “ he
has consented to allow himself to be placed in nomination
for East Sydney.” We can picture the earnestness
with which the Carters, Kippaxes, Witherses, and other
influential members of the little Mutual Admiration
bociety, “ solicited” Samuel to stand for East Sydney ■
and the fervour with which the gushing Samuel—the
only man of the crowd who is “swell” enough to part
his hair in the middle—“ solicited” his “ many friends”
to stand for somewhere else. Samuel says that “his
views on political questions will be published in due
course." There’s not the slightest necessity for this.
Samuel s views were enunciated at last municipal elec-
tion. The circular is wound up with the very neatest
thmg imaginable in the way of signatures—at least it
would be neatbut for the fact that all great men write
bad hands. The whole concern is evidently a case of
" Stand Sam.”
The organ at Melbourne International has, ac-
cording to Punch, been christened Anthony Trollope—
because it will be a great “ blow” if it is not finished in
time for the opening day, and it will be also a great
“ blow” if it is.
J. Clark and Co., the drapers (of Brisbane, says
Queensland Punch), started a lottery. A lady gains a
prize—a porcelain vessel. “ What sort is it ?’’ she
loudly asks the shopman. Mr. Taps looks round on the
eager crowd —but answers not.
It has been suggested that the Orient steamships
■ should all be fitted with strong wheels and axles to allow
them to take short cuts overland. It is estimated that
by this means the passage from London to Australia
might be accomplished under 30 days.
The Cooktown Courier chronicles an inter-
esting event which took place in the Cooktown Police
Court recently, when a miniature terrier deposited a
litter of pups in the jury box. Not the only blind
animals which have been in that box-
The picture supplement of the summer num-
ber of the Graphic, forwarded to us by Mr. John Plum-
mer, consists of tinted portraits of the whole of the
members of the Royal Family and must in so loyal
a community as New South Wales be very attractive.
The discovery of a tailed man somewhere lately
has given ns (Queensland Punch) a painful shock. The
fact of this reported discovery being coincident with
the prolonged absence of the junior member for Rock-
hampton, gives occasion for uncomfortable suspicions.
Says the Referee, London: “We are cer-
tainly getting on with the Sunday business. Over 3300
persons passed the turnstiles at the Hanover Gallery
on the 4th ultimo, the place being thrown open to
ticket holders, under the auspices of the Sunday
Society.”
One of the most cutting remarks made last
Sunday night during the lecture excitement was one
that dropped from a certain influential Victorian.
“ Something will come of this," a friend remarked.
“ Not a bit of it,” said the other. “ There’s not enough
public spirit here.” We hops this is not true.
G. R. Dibbs is turning tops —“the only way,”
he says, ** to become a true statesman anxious for the
secular liberties of press and platform.* *
Two athletic youngsters, sons of a well-known
squatter, were recently sent to a Victorian college.
1 bey had been ** raised ** on a cattle-station and had a
strong penchant for beef as opposed to mutton, the basis
of the school menu. In fact they said, after a week or
two bad passed, that they could no longer eat the flesh
of sheep. One of them “ came out,” to use his own
phrase, “ all over a rash,” and as the schoolmaster’s
• medics proved ineffectual the boy was sent to the
doctor. “What’s the matter with you?” enquired
iEsculapius. “ Dunno,” replied the youngster, “but
I’ve been living all my life on a cattle-station and been
eating beef; and now at the school they’re giving me
bad mutton and I think I’ve got the fluke.”
Two eggs of the Great Auk, says the Daily
News of the sth July last, were sold at auction by Mr.
Stevens of Covent Garden, for the respective sums of
100 and 102 guineas! On this Punch says, and we
agree with him, that at such prices “Eggs is eggs! ”
The Great Auk (now, alas! no longer a visitor of the
Aakney Islands), like the Roe, only lays one egg, and
that always on some very auk ward and almost inacces-
sible crag; otherwise, these birds would be a very
profitable addition to Lord Augustus’ Stud Poultry
Farm. The egg of this extraordinary Sea-mew is not
much longer than that of the E-mu, being about 5
inches long by three in diameter; still, considering the
size of the bird, she shews a tidy egg-sample. At the
above prices it would be no eggs aggeration to say that
an omelette of Great Auk eggs would he a more costly
dish than the fricassees of Peacocks’ and Nightingales’
tongues so frequently gobbled up at supper by that
astounding glutton “ Heliogobblus.”
While Messrs. Stephen and Darley were arguing
the point for the Bennetts on the first day there were
27 barristers present drinking in their eloquence. And
there was not one amongst those 27 forensic gentlemen
who did not say to himself at least three times every
five minutes —“Dear me! what a strange misconception
of a simple point—if they had only had me
“Armidale,” in writing to the. Protestant
Standard, says “ There are some very wealthy men in
the colony, and they scarcely know what to do with
their money. I think they could do a great amount of
good by subscribing for a few thousand copies of the
Protestant. Standard and scatter them broadcast over
the land.” Capitalists, don’t all speak at once!
“ Canterbury, N.Z., in 1880,” ‘is the title of a
cartoon containing a portrait of Mr. Ick, Mayor of Christ-
church.iu the act of ladling out soup to a group of hungry
applicants, while beneath the table are a cat and dog
having a snarl prior to being converted into food for the
famishing. The cartoon is intended for “ Home readers,”
being registered for transmission abroad. This will
give them an idea of the state of trade in N.Z.
We know we were destined to have some great
changes on this planet. The Herald gives expression
to the following:—“lt is obvious that if Mr. Jefferis
ought to be at liberty to defend one theory at Pitt-street
church on Sunday evening, Mr. Proctor should be
equally at liberty to defend another view on the same
evening, in any hall he may find it convenient to have
for the purpose.” There must be some mistake here.
Surely the Herald is not going to turn heterodox.
Last week we printed an extract from a singu-
larly “gorgeous" leading article recently published in
the Fiji Times. It now appears that the article in
question is an almost a verbatim copy of a report of a fam-
ous Irish Barrister’s speech in a crim. con. case —Guthrie
v. Steine—and maybe found in the “Irish Sentinel ” of
9th June, 1815. This report, with the names and cir-
cumstances altered, the Argus printed as a leader. It
is a somewhat awkward fact that since the appearance
of the disgraceful plagiarism referred to, the editor of
the Argus, Mr. Solomon, has been appointed Attorney-
General of Fiji.
Bright proposes to lecture in
the Theatre Royal on Sunday evening
next, on “ The Vastness of Parkes’
Firmament.”
A stranger tapped Garnet Pat-
chett Clarke on the shoulder in the
cafe the other night. That gentleman,
without turning his head, murmured,
“ At whose suit? ”
“Marmalade,” in the Tele-
graph of yesterday, suggests that the
Sydney police should be instructed
to clear the city foot-walks of all
fruit skins—in fact to become “Orange
peelers.”
For Milner Stephen. “My
cousin, whom I sent you last week,
doctor, is an imaginary invalid, isn’t
he?” “Of course he is. The fel-
low has a constitution which defies
all our remedies.”
They have a new hospital in
Bathurst. In view of the statement
that it Was to hold all the bodily and
morally infirm of the city, the build-
ing will accommodate, says a sar-
castic man, a number corresponding
with the total inhabitants of Bathurst.
They move in next week.
The reason why a certain Mel-
bourne theatre is doing so well is
found in the lavish expenditure of the
management. They are actually said
to give thOTr leading man two pounds
ten a week, and their leading lady is
known for a fact nnblushingly to have
taken 355. out of the treasury in one
week.
The electors of the Mannin
will get Pitz. next election if a cer-
tain rising young lawyer is to be be-
lieved. And if we say that they will
get Gerald also, it will be giving them
the straight Griffin—but not man
who wroth the Colleen Bawn. We
have made it, but with some diffi-
culty.
More holy people write for
papers than are connected with the
Herald. The saintly scribe who
pilots the Hobart Town Mercury has
found a subject for adjuration in the
local steam company, because five of
its steamers were at sea on a single
Sunday. Why did not these wicked
captains drop anchor in Bass’ Straits ?
R.A., in reviewing R. D. Black-
more’s new book in the Evening
News, having grown big with criti-
cism, is delivered of the following:—
“His description of Scaryute Hall
and the Yordis family, the Yorkshire
lords thereof, is fully equal, if not
even superior to anything ever written
by Charlotta Bronta (in the same
line), and reads like writing graven
in granite with steel.” Who in the
name of Mount Vesuvius is “ Char-
lotta Bronta ?" ,
In Saturday’s issue of the Daily
Telewonner the writer, in speak-
ing of the All-England Eleven, re-
marks that “ W. G. Grace is a little
posse.” If that be the case he must
of necessity be a host in himself.
Possibly, however, the budding
Junius meant to say passd. If so,
why didn’t he set it down as he meant
to? or if he didn’t mean passe, bnt
something else, why, in the name of
Frank Warden, doesn’t he tell ns the
word he originally meant to have
meant.
A tradesman in Thomson-streot
Hamilton recently trusted a fellow-
towusman, but could get no money
out of him. Pushing his enquiries
further he found that the man had
given a bill of sale over all his chattels
except one article. This was a tomb-
stone sacred to the memory of his
departed wife, and which he had not
had time to move out to its last rest-
ing place. The tradesman seized
that monument, and it is surprising
how quickly the money due was
forthcoming. Verb sap.
The fine teachings of Christianity,” said Mr.
Dan. O’Connor in regard to the Proctor cum Parkes
imbroglio, “don’t need to rest upon the crutches of Sir
Henry Parkes"’
We wonder what genius edits the Church of
England Record, which writes thus ;—“ It is much to
be regretted the weight of the learning and elo-
quence of Rabbi Davis should be thrown into the scale
of the prevailing unbelief and irreligion. He has
attempted to show that the “devil’’ is a myth
and “ hell ” a delusion. His dictum will be accepted
by hundreds with whom the wish that there was no
hell is father to the thought, a belief that there is
none. This lecture of the Rabbi’s will be another
opiate by which the worldly, the careless of our city
will be lulled into the sleep of spiritual death. Verily
the ‘ vail ’ is yet upon Israel’s heart.’ ”
“ Colin Clout,” writing in the Church of
England Record, shows with what excellent hospi-
tality the members of the Young Men’s Christistu As-
sociations treat those who come from distant parts
with proper introductions. He says that on visiting a
strange city recently and presenting his letter from the
Sydney secretary “ Immediately I was among friends,
and was introduced to at least a dozen of the members.
I saw the sights of the city under the guidance of a
young fellow of kindred spirit. I was taken," &c. Yes,
we suppose it was in Melbourne, and that the “ young
fellow of kindred spirit ” didn’t show the innocent
Sydney Christian round to deal’s after the theatres
were out, and bring him up to Nissen’s for coffee, and
over to the Bijou to try and convert the pretty bar-
maids. No doubt he didn’t waltz up Exhibition-street
at 2 a.m. and then go to South Yarra on a saveloy-
machine. You see what it is to be a perfect Christian
and not at all fast.
Saint ’Enry and His Relies.


Amusements
£1 HEA T R E ROYAL..
Lessee Mr. Samuel Lazar
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
THIS EVENING, AND UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
Production of Bumand’s Great Comedy Drama,
TURN OF THE TIDE.
Characters by Messrs. G. S. Titheradge, Arthur -
Gamer, Edwin Shepherd, Frank Cates, Edmnnd W.
Marshall, Wm. Farren, junr., E. A. Alberton, Henry
Lemon, J. Criss, E. Beverley, and Frederick Marshall.
Misses Blanche Stammers, Alma Santon, Nellie Play-
fair, Mrs. Marion Stammers, Mrs. George Gordon, Mrs.
Frederick Marshall, and Miss Annie Taylor.
NEW SCENERY and EFFECTS by Mr. GEORGE
GORDON.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
Doors open at 7,15. Curtain will rise at 8 o’clock
sharp.
Prices of Admission: Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3s;
Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, Qeorge-street, where-
seats can be secured six days in advance.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
THE LEWIS JUVENILE “PINAFORE”
COMPANY.
Mrs. G. B. LEWIS having the sole right of producing
JUVENILE PINAFORE throughout the Colonies
by special arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson,
the
LEWIS JUVENILE PINAFORE COMPANY,
varying in age from 3 to 13 years, will perform
EVERY EVENING, until further notice,
. “ H.M.S. PINAFORE,”
with Full Chorus of GO Children, the whole arrange-
ments and production under the supervision of Mrs
G. W. B. Lewis. Conductor at the Opera, Mr. JAMES-
URE.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. No half-price for Children.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
Doors open at 7 —commence 8 sharp.
10 EXCURSIONISTS, PICNIC PARTIES,.
AND OTHERS.
For CHARTER daily during the Summer Season at
REDUCED RATES.
The Favourite and Commodious Steamers—
COMMODORE
EMU
ROYAL ALFRED
BREADALBANE.
Port Jackson Steam Boat Co., Limited, 3 Pitt-street.
SCOTT, READ & Co„
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CENTRAL TEMORA,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydney
Firms. Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & Co , 322,
I Qeorge-street, are their Sydney Representatives.
Two energetic Sydney men have gone into
business at Temora. Mr. H. Read and Mr. R. X. Scott,
well-known on the press of Sydney, have entered into
partnership in the general agency and auctioneering
business. Having many friends and much influence in
Sydney, they ought to do well.
A great deal of sickness, also a considerable
amount of money, could be saved, if the juvenile
portion of our colony had proper food given them. A
correspondent writes and informs us that since he has
used Eedgate’s Patent Meal (Australian Cricketers'
Brand) his family have enjoyed the best of health, and
have recommended it to several friends with the same
good results.—[Advt.]
Two Disastrous Wrecks.
Ok Friday night the Orient Company’s liner
Sorata, 4,014 tons and 600 horse power, went
ashore near Cape Jervis, about forty miles from
Glenelg. The vessel has been considerably
lightened, but remains fixed upon a ledge of
rocks, and is nearly full of water. Divers have
reported that if the weather remains she may be
pumped out. Tbe Sorato bad about 2,500 tons
of cargo on board, most of which has been taken
out. She was built on the Clyde in 1873, was
worth at least £lOO,OOO, and is uninsured.
Should tbe vessel not be got off, her stranding
amounts to the biggest loss by wreck which has
occurred on the Australian coast. A good many
exhibits for tbe Melbourne Exhibition were on
board, and among the passengers were the Duke
of Manchester and Sir Herbert Sandford. The
Captain has been presented with a testimonial,
and it is believed that the extraorinary and
perplexing tides which prevail near the scene of
the wreck accounts in a great measure for the
disaster.
The American ship Eric the Fed, 1,504 tons,
went ashore on Cape Otway Reef early on
Saturday morning, and went to pieces in ten
minutes. The captain, who thought he was six
miles off, says it was the quickest ten minues’
work he ever saw. The ship was from New
York, and about a fourth of her freight was
made up of Melbourne exhibits. A passenger,
the steward, and another man were drowned.
The Freedom of the Platform.
Charles Bright means to fight the Sunday
lecture question out with Sir Henry Parkes, and
announces for Sunday evening, at the Theatre
Royal, a discourse om "The Gospel of—not Peace,
but Police.” As it was indicated in the under-
secretary’s last letter to Mr. Proctor, that the
police had received instructions to prevent Sunday
evening lectures in theatres in future, further
high-handed proceedings on the Colonial Secre-
tary’s part may be looked for. Mr. Bright will,
even by those who utterly dissent from his religious
views, be regarded in this matter as a champion of
freedom, and will assuredly be welcomed on
Sunday night by an immense audience. It is a
curious and suggestive fact, that the freedom of
the Press and of the platform should have been
questioned in Sydney in the same month. We are
certain that next Sunday night will bring forth a
demonstration such as will cause Sir Henry Parkes
bitterly to regret his ill-advised and tyrannous
action in respect to Mr. Proctor.
All-England v. Australia.
Ik the match now in progress at Kennington Oval,
between the Australians and a representative team
of Englishmen, the colonials, it would appear, are,
perhaps in [some measure though Spofforth’s
inability to play owing to bis recent accident,
likely to be thoroughly wasted. The Englishmen
scored 410 for the loss of eight wickets, their
numbers being as under: —E. M. Grace, 37; W.
G. Grace, 152; A. P. Lucas, - 55; Barnes, 28 4
Lord Harris, 52; F. Penn, 23; D. Q. Steele,
40; G. F. Grace, 0 ; Hon. A. Lyttleton (not out),
4 ; sundries, 19. Blackham, Slight, and M‘Donnell
were successively dismissed by Morley the English
professional bowler, in less than two overs, and in
A. Bannerman, Murdoch and Boyle, the first
named of whom was, according to late accounts,
scoring rapidly must be centred the hope of
Australia so far as the first innings is concerned.
The team plays Sussex at Brighton on 13th.
Town Amusements.
QUEEN'S THEATRE.
Lewis’s Juvenile Pinafore Company is doinw a
splendid business at’this theatre, the building
being nightly crowded to overflowing. A change
has been made in the original cast. The part of
Josephine, so well played for the last couple of
weeks by that gifted Lilliputian, Miss Graupner,
is now undertaken by little Annie Man. Master
Bertie Israel has succeeded Master George Lewis
as the gallant captain. Miss Man, who is said to
be only nine years of age, possesses a soprano
voice of marvellous sweetness, but does not quite
come up to the original Josephine. Master Israel's
rendering of the Captain is well received, but he
has yet to learn a little of stage business before
coming to a par with his predecessor. The
greatest credit is due to Mrs, G. B. Lewis, to
whose untiring exertions the success of the
performance is due. Now that the popularity of
this talented company is well established, we look
forward to a season characterised by complete
success.
THEATRE EOTAL.
The comedy-drama, “The Turn of the Tide,”
still continues at the above theatre, with the same
success as marked its production some weeks ago,
and large audiencs are equally enthusiastic in
manifesting delight with the beautiful scenery and
finished acting which are the distinguishing
features of the London Comedy Company. In
consequence of Mr. Marshall’s indisposition, Mr.
Shepherd has had to take the part of Danby in
addition to his own, and we pay Mr. Shepherd a
high compliment when we say that Danby cannot-
be alleged to have suffered by the change in re-
presentation. On Saturday evening Lord Lyt-
ton’a celebrated comedy of “Money” is to be
produced.
“STRAY LEAVES.”
This excellent little company have during the
week had a continuation of the success which
met them when first they opened, and which has
in fact deservedly followed them throughout their
lengthened tour. They close on Saturday night,
and then proceed to Melbourne.
Mr. Proctor lectures on Thursday and Friday
evenings.
Mr. Hoskins’ benefit postponed.
Mr. George Pile.
As more than the usual amount of interest is mani-
fest t amoug the electors of Canterbury with re-
peat to the approaching elections, we give to-day
the portrait of Mr. George Pile, another of the
candidates who will seek seek their suffrages in
the coming contest. It is understood that Sir
Henry Parkos will be nominated for East Sydney,
and in that case the return of Mr. Pigott and
Mr - Pile may be regarded almost as a certainty.
Mr. Pile has taken a very lively interest in mat-
ter's of no small importance to the metropolis and
the suburbs included in the Canterbury elec-
torate. For some years he has ably advocated
a city railway extension scheme, and there is no
doubt that if his labours had been ably seconded
in Parliament by the representatives of the dis-
tricts, a railroad would have long since been con-
structed to the Circular Quay, to the benefit alike
of city and suburban property, and to the interest
of the country producer as well. By his own in-
dividual exertions, as an investor in real estate,
he has in the course of a few years improved
Petersham and the surrounding district to the
extent of fifteen or twenty thousand pounds, and
he continues still to actively associate himself
with the moral and material welfare of the metro-
polis. Mr. Pile’s career has been a chequered
one, but in every respects it exhibits untiring
industry and the best features of a colo-
nist’s life. Mr. Pile is a native of London, and at
at early age came out to this country with his
parents, who, in 1849, having heard of the wealth
of the colonies, purchased from the A. A. Com-
pany a small tract of land at Port Stephens. The
life of an agriculturist did not present much at-
traction for young Pile, and the diggings breaking
out he started for the field, and, with varying
success, he battled with fortune for four years.
He returned to Port Stephens, and for a period
of seven years devoted himself to agricultural
pursuits. Then he came to Sydney and became
Town Clerk of Darlington, and the assiduity and
capability displayed in the discharge of his duties
won for him votes of thanks from the councils.
The Hokitika goldfields attracted Mr. Pile, as it
did many other Australians, to New Zealand.
There he was engaged in mercantile speclations,
and the wants of the district requiring urgent advo-
cacy,he moved for the establishment of a newspaper.
The Nelson Evening Nkws was the outcome,
and from the date of its first issue till the day of
his departure from New Zealand Mr. Pile edited
and conducted the publication. He returned to
Sydney in 1866. On his arrival he took in hand
the compilation of Sands’ Directory, and for three
successive years brought out that Work. Mean-
while he held the position of Town Clerk at St.
Leonards, and was instrumental in effecting some
important improvements there. Subsequently
Mr. Pile engaged in mining and land specula-
tions, and continued at the business up to the
time of his becoming a member of the well-known
auctioneering firm of Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gil-
christ. At the last general election Mr. Pile was
asked to contest Canterbury, and he polled well,
but his success was interfered with by the ap-
pearance in the contest of Sir Henry Parkes, con-
sequent upon his defeat in East Sydney. On the
present occasion his friends are determined to
secure his election, and his return therefore with
Mr. Pigott may, as already stated, be almost taken
as a certainty. This likeness is from an excellent
portrait by Boyd.
The Jeweller’s Art in Sydney.
There can be no doubt that in point of artistic
excellence and mechanical skill the jeweller’s art
in Sydney has reached a high point, and that
in consequence we have establishments in this
city whose work favourably compares with that of
the best London and continental houses. Mr. T.
P. Wiesener, whose establishmeut is herewith
illustrated, may fairly lay claim to having with
his inventive .and mechanical skill contributed to
the advancement of the art in this city. By some
recent external improvements, Mr. Wiesener, as
may be seen from the engraving, imparted a hand-
some appearance to the external appearance of his
house, and the design might with advantage be
taken as a model for a change in other parts of the
city. The stock of jewellery to be found in the
various show cases is large, varied and valuable,
and embraces novelties of the best English and
continental manufacture. It is in respect of clocks
that the establishment holds particular prominence.
Here may be seen the latest descriptions of turret,
railway, factory, and watchman’s tell-tale clocks.
Some of these are furnished with bells, copper and
glass dials Ac. Ac. There is also a new style of
illuminated dials suitable for stations or such other
places, where at a low elevation the exact position
of the hand must be seen uninterruptedly. Another
attractive feature is the synchronised clock, for
which Mr. Wiesener has taken out a patent.
Many of the visitors to the International will
remember the great number of timepieces elec-
trically connected with the standard timepiece at
the eastern nave. One of these may now be seen
in operation over the doorway of Mr. Wiesener’s
establishment. These clocks have been adopted
in Europe, where their success as the only means
of supplying uniform time throughout large cities,
in large houses, or along lines of railway, is now
universally recognized. In the case of Mr.
Wiesener’s clock, an electric current is sent at the
first second of every hour by the standard regulator
setting the minute hand exactly right , and at the
same time dropping the time-ball immediately.
By a simple operation, the discharging current
can be shunted to the observatory time, so as to
perform the same duties and serve as a check for
the local standard. The hourly time-ball rises
automatically ‘a few minutes to the hour, and is
entirely Mr. Wiesener’s design, and evei - y part of
the mechanism is manufactured on the promises.
It is needless to say that altogether this is a very
creditable specimen of colonial workmanship and
skill. In the workshop several expert hands are
constantly engaged, and here are to be found also
the necessary appliances for repairing and adjust-
ing surveyors’, doctors’, and other scientific in-
struments. The jewellery department of the
establishment was sometime back brought promi-
nently under notice, when on the return of the
Australian Eleven from their English trip they
were presented, in the person of their best bats-
man and best bowler, with gold medals. The
Illustrated London Sporting News con-
sidered the medals equal to anything ever manu-
factured in England and did Mr. Wiesener the
honor of illustrating them in their journal. Mr.
Wiesener learnt his business in such houses as
Hnnt and Roskell, of London, Bregnet, of Paris,
Fensohn, of Hamburg, and Ceraglia, of Rome,
and has brought to his own business in Sydney a
large amount of artistic skill. Looking at the
style and character of his own manufactures and
of his importations, his establishment may be
fairly described as ranking second to none in
these colonies.
THE BULLETIN.
GUARANTEED CIRCULATION—16,000.
Terms of Subscription.
Per Quarter, booked 3s. 6d,
Ditto in advance 3s,
Advertising Scale.
First Inch 3s. 6d.
Every other Inch ; 2s.
List of Agents.
SYDNEY:
G. Wallace, King-street
R. Callaway, King-street
J. Qleeson, 719 George-st.
W. Nash
J. W. R. Clarke ~
E. R. Cole
Gordon & Gotch „
J. Sandon ~
Mrs. James Hill ~
P. Hart
George Hill ~
Colliss, George-st. west
J. Cooper ~
J. Walton, Railway Station
E. Tomer, Brickfield Hill
J. Pierce, William-street
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
J. L. Berghoefer, Pitt-st.
Laurence Oxford-st.
H. Schneberger ~
Adams ~
J. E. Spragg ~
Mrs. Abbot ~
F. Barker, Snssex-street
W. Thorsby, Erskine-st.
W. Johnson, 351 Elizabeth.
street South
J. Withers, 20 Park-street
Tomer and Henderson,.
Hunter-street.
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
Ai.burt—
W. Cohen.
Alexandria—
G. Robbins
Armidale—
H. Mallam
H. M‘Alpine
Ashfield—
W. J. Banks
Balmain—
W. J. Small
Bathurst —
E. Layt
J. Short
Bega—
O. Welby
Bodalla —
W. Brock
Bouske—
F. Roll in
Burwood—
T. W. Gibbs
D, Allerton
Blatnet—
W. Bradbery
Cakcoar—
J. A. Moss
Clifton—
Fielder & Drake
COOXAMUNDRA—
J. Percival
Cowea—
R. Stevenson
Dubbo—
Geo. Plummer
Echuca—
G. Fosdyke
Germanxon —
T. Brown
Glenlnnes
F. Marshall
Goulbubn —
J. Walsh
Gunnedah —
J. L. Fitzgerald
Hunter’s Hu l
J. W. Wilson
Liverpool—
C. A. Scrivener
Maitland (West)—
C. W. Clarke
R, Bailey
K. Blair
Merriwa—■
E. O’Keefe
Molong—
J. Leathern
J. G. Mollei*
Mudgee—
W. Hal)
Nareabri—
O. Hanssman
Nareandeea—
W. Yonug
Newcastle—
Hale Williams
F. Alcock
K. Jamieson
Newtown—
E. Bray
E. Sheridan
J. Arnold
E. Jones
W. Rowley
North Shore—
Deacon & Son
Nicholson Bros.
Nowra—
J. Wicks
Orange—
R. Lessells & Son
Parramatta—
G. W. Green
C. E. Fuller
L. Menser
Rtde—
R. Young
Scone—
N. F. Assec
Tsmoea—
Woliier & Bennett
Percival A Sum-
mers.
Wagga Wagga—
C. H. Daniel
S. L. Joseph
E. Leyshon
W. C. Hunter
Wattle Flat —
L. Grimwood
Wellington (n.s.w.) —
W. Booth
Young—
G. F. on
Yass —
. Hughes & Roberts-
INTERCOLONIAL :
Melbourne—
Manders & Co.
W. Yard
C. Mnskett, Bourke-st.
C. J. Bird, „
D. Henderson, 181,
Exhibition - street
(East)
Brisbane—
Gordon & Got(h
W. Whelan
Stanthoe pe, (Q.) —
J. F. Williams
Blackall—
L. Bacchi
Toowoomba—
J. Robertson
Auckland—
A. Jackson
Christchurch—
R. Shannon
Launceston —
Fitzgerald Bros.


Amusements
0 O L O F ARTS.
Easer ... ~ "* Mr ’ C ’ H ’ T <^
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
MISS ELLA CARRINGTON’S
..cTEAY LEAVES” COMPANY,
in their
Novelty Entertainment,
,* s T R A Y LEAVE S.”
o»/uiii raged by the success of Australian Spoilers,
■ vketers, Athletes. Ac., Ac., Miss ELLA CAR-
VrVGTON has formed a Company of purely Australian
»iristes and with entertainments written by an Aue-
lian ’Author and illustrated by beautiful Point-
-ffsfrom the brush of an Australian Artist, and pur-
> a =H g visiting England and America at the conclusion
of her engagements in Sydney, Melbourne and Ade-
iS rrae Company includes the following Artistes:—
1 Miss ELLA CARRINGTON,
pmiesque Artiste and sparkling Soubrette (late of Sad-
D ler’s Wells and Queen’s Theatres, London).
Miss NELLIE MANSELL,
Australian Ballad Singer (late of Academy of
the Music, Melbourne).
Mr. C. H. TAYLOR,
„ Australian Captain Fluellen, Michael Feeny,
■a, a . V ey Duff, Ac., Ac., and for three years principal
■Character Actor and Comedian at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne. Mr> j p FOBDE>
the Australian “Mourzo© ,” “Larrivandiere,” "Cap-
lain of Pinafore" (late Priroo Baritone of Lystor’s
Ancra Bouife Company, Ac., A )
ope Mr. J. A. DELANY,
the Australian Pianoforte Soloist )lute Organist of St.
Mary’s Cathedral).
The Entertainment is Illustrated by
TWELVE BEAUTIFUL SCENES,
Painted expressly by the Australian Artist,
JOHN HENNINGS. ESQ.,
■ |of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne.
jjox Plan at Nicholson and Asehorberg’s.
Admission : —3s., 25., and One Shilling.
Deers open at 7. Overture at 8. Performance ter-
minates in time for Suburban trains.
CHAS. FULLER, Business Manager,
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
COMMENCING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13,
And every evening until further notice,
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
OF THK
ZULU WAR.
fainted expressly for the Proprietor by the following
eminent London artists: —W. Telbin, Gordon and
Harford, Walter Harm, Harry Emden, Ballary,
Hyde and Turquin.
The Portraits by
JOHN ABSOLOM,
Illustrating all the principal events connected with this
campaign, from the
FIRING OF THE FIRST GUN
TO THE
CAPTURE OF CETEWAYO,
'Together with the wonderful Diorama representing
LORD CHELMSFORD’S Relief of EKOWE,
showing the country through which the Troops passed.
-Concluding with the most intricate piece of mechanism
in the world,
THE FUNERAL PROCESSION
OK THE
PRINCE IMPERIAL
FROM WOOLWICH TO CHISLEHURST.
Prices of Admission :
Front Seans, 35.; Second Seats, 25.; Gallery, Is.
Children half-price to front and second seats only.
Doors open at half-past 7 ; commence at 8. In order
to avoid the crush, tickets purchased at Kirby’s, Pitt-
fctreet, during the day will be admitted a quarter of tin
iionr earlier.
Descriptive Lecturer Mr. W. H. Thompson.
Agent m Philip Stuart.
■gACRED CHORAL ASSOCIATION.
Patron :
His Excellency the Governor, Lord Augustus Loftus,
G.C.B.
President :
The Lord Bishop of Sydney.
Vice-President :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G.
AT THE GARDEN PALACE.
By the kind permission of the Honorable the Premier,
the Members, at theirOPENING CONCERT, under
the new Constitution, on SATURDAY, the 18th
SEPTEMBER, 1880, commencing punctually at a
15.30, will render the whole of
MOZART’S 12th MASS,
and
SIX SELECTION’S FROM MENDELSSHON’S
» ELIJAH,"
Assisted by Miss Mooa, Miss Sheridan Reid, Mr. A.
Farkinsou, Mr. Andrew Fairfax, Mr. H. Wilkinson,
Nr. H. Flynn, and and a Grand Orchestra of 40 per-
formers.
Conductor Mr. Montague Younger.
Orgaxiist Mr. T. Banks.
Seats will be provided for 4000. Doors own at 1.30.
Admission Is.
J, V. HARCHAM,
.Hon, Sec.
pR BETHOUGHT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SUNDAY EVENING, SEPT. 12, 1880.
Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Wiu deliver a LECTURE entitled:
' rHE GOSPEL OF—NOT PEACE, BUT POLICE.”
H°n. J, BQWIE WILSON will preside, supported by
ummittee of gentlemen.
00rs °pen at 7. Commence at 7.30.
Si'ting* ns usual.
Business Announcements
TO LADIES.
Do you want style, fashion, elegance, with a due
regard to economy ? then
Pay a Visit to PEAPES A SHAW’S
Ho yon want good reliable ” Two bnttou gloves at 2s
fid ?”
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
Ho yon want a “ stylish costume ?”
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want a “ beautiful mantle or fichu ?”
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
Do you want “ fine Hosiery from beet makers ?”
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
Do you want “ Charming, real, and imitation lace ?”
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
Do you want “ elegant fans and parasols ?”
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want a. wedding trousseau ?”
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want a birtbdaj’ or wedding present ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
jjjo yon want shirts the best value in Sydney—Six
for thirty shillings ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want fashionable linen collars ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want a stylish scurf, tie, or bow ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want “ a reliable umbrella. ?’’
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want good Summer hoisery ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
De you want a fashionable Summer overcoat ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want a portmanteau or travelling bog ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW’S.
Do you want to know who are the best tailors and
habit makers in the city ?
Try PEAPES A SHAW,
Goorge-street.
Business Announcements
rjIHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD.
R
4
$
*
*
m v/iA
%
S&g
$ V >ttte
Ee
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., \ gal., and 1 gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns : —“Woollahra. August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
| My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
i last week—the same with the fences."
! ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
j will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
! application. Packages of any size required are
i forwarded daily free of charge to all parte of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot.of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
Egyptian hall,
406 GEORGE-STREET. NEAR KING-STREET.
Engagement and Great Success of
JOHNNY COWAN and MAT RILEY,
assisted by the
GREAT VARIETY TROUPE of 13 Star Artistes.
“THE ELECTRIC BOY."
Scenes of the Kelly Gang Outrages.
A Suit of Ned Kelly’s Clothes.
A Man with Six Perfect Fingers on each Hand and Six
Toes on each Foot.
And many other Novelties.
Open from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m.
Admission—6d
Election Notices
F. C. Wehb
Richard Tierney
Isaac Moses
Moses Moses
Eobt. Morris
Robt. Napier
James Troy, sen.
Michael Heffernan
Thos. Kelly
Richard Hards
Edward Winter
James Chalker
Geo. Chalker
Edward Chalker
Charley Clialker
Fred. Chalker
Frederic Draper
John Draper
James Moore
Martin Bnrke
Robert Long-more
George Scott
John Mealing
James M'Gliun
Frederick Draper, jun,
G. J. Shepherd
John Wright
Goorge Fleeton
P. Herbert
Henry Clout
H. Wiles
John Richie
J. Strickland
R. Parker, jun.
James Nye, jun.
Morris Hoare
Thomas EUsmore
William Forde
Preston Fletcher
A. B. Thorsby
John Cullen
John Miller
F. M. Wans
John Brown
Theophilns M'Collom
Gregory J. Nicholas
James Cullen
William Biffin
John Frazer
James Jones junr.
William Payne
Thomas Simpson
Henry Shipman
Joseph Akers
Henry Akers
William Akers
George Sehlaadt
R. Ellwood
J. Harris
Andrew Noble
John Davis
John Donnally
Edward JJoyle
B. Moss
William Buckett
William Johnston
William Bonser
James Gibson
John Stone
James Dundas
Benjamin Timms, jvmr.
John Marshall
John Costello
James Bell
Patrick M'Guire
Michael M'Namara
Thomas Anderson
Thomas Ryan
James Kingalty
Richard Walsh
Thomas Walsh
Thomas Langland
John G. Morris
J. Shipman, sen.
Freeman Healy
D. O’Grady
G. West
W. Bo gan ell
E. J. Harper
James Dorrough
B. Tylor
J. Hanwood
W. L. Mathews
J. E. Ward
A. P. Duprez
W. H. Austin
H. Pain
F. D. Sawkins
A. EUsmore
D. EUsmore
J. Chapman
J. Donnelly
James Wood, sen.
G. Wood
M. Madden
A. Rich
O. Norman
J. Emmett
J, Ford
J. Maloney
R. Norman
D. M’Kenzie
J. Rnane
W. Mansfield
C. Bennet
J. Morrisey
Niel M'ln tosh
E. Bresnahan
P. Schullmanu
W. Johnstone
Jno. Richie
Geo. White
Chas Rukn
Wm. Walmslcy
Geo. Hayter
S. Carson
J. B. Wright
James Wright
Daniel Middlemiss
W. Payne
George Goodfellow
Edward Smith, sen.
Ephraim Ager
Richard Bunter
John Sinnet
H. W. Ginger
Matthew Stubbing^
AV. P. Ginger
Samuel Patten
James Morris
John M'Ginnity
John Delamont
John Murray
C. Boland
John Chapman
James Pollord
Joseph Barnes
Geo. Barnes
Joseph Barnes, sea.
James Reid
John Campbell
Thos. Shepherd
Archibald Sharpe
Joshua Parkes
Fred. Small
A. Fordyce
Jno. Nicholson
Wm. Franklin
I. T. Small
Robert Price
John Armfield
George Armfield
Richard Hall
Charles Hall
Thos. J. Hastings
Thos. Honlton
Alfred A. Small
Wm. Varcoe
Joseph Lonsdown
John Parmenter
R. E. Zonch
R. Parker, sen.
Patrick Murphy
Patrick Hoare
P. H. Young
James Fitzgerald
Charles AVilliams
Joseph Mnmberson
AVilliam Byrnes
R. J. Cullen
Charles Bunt
Edward Cullen
D. Baxter
J. Stouehouse
James Coar
Thomas Biffin
James Biffin
Isaac Allen
Samuel Carson
J. L. Biggins
James Shipman
Charles Bauer
L. Egan
R. M'Donald
V. Sehlaadt
John Simpson
AVilliam J. Hosting
James Baxter
John Mannix
Thomas Mannix
R. Hamilton
J. Hamilton
Hugh Johnston
Thomas Johnstou
Edward Johnston
Robert Johnston
William Johustou
John Johnston
James Sweeney, sen.
William Sweeney
James Sweeney, jun.
Henry M'Donald
James Rees
Hugh Kirkland
AVilliam Kirkland
John Brown
Andrew Lindsay
George Harvey
James Hayes
James L. Hayes
Edward AVamsley
W. Charter
S. AV. Cutler
J. E. Comer
Charles Groves
W. H. Riley
P. Sheehan
T. Wilson
Samuel Jackson
A. Moore
W. Moore
A. M'Collum
J. Gash
E. Shipman
A. St inner
G. Onpitt
T. Ryan
AV. Whatman
George Eudge
John Griffiths
AV. Wood
AY. Keys
M. Egan
J. M'Carty
G. Ford
W. Wright,
J. R. Cole
J. Kay
P. Maloney
T. Perkins
O. Coles
J. Mansfield
W. Chappel
W. Stone
James Ford
S. Manns
AV. Hayter
Ad. Schuhmaun
Joseph AVaters
Geo. Tindell
Alf. Gardner
Jas. Irvine
Jas. Graham
S. Hayter
J. Wright
Jno. Jones
Jno. M'Quhmess
Jno. Payne
T. Gardiner
S. Battye
Edward Smith, jun.
Jas. Bunter
Geo. Hadden
Jas. Sinnet
D. Middlemus
C. E. Frazer
Thos. Tate.
P. H. Tunbridge
To Messrs. W. J. Cordeaux, C. L. Nicholson, D. Mor-
rice, J. J. O. Atkinson, D. Moffit, John Hanrahan,
__ and the other gentlemen signing the requisition.
Gentlemen, —The signatures to the above requisition
being so numerous and representative. I have much
pleasure in complying with the request, and placing
myself in your hands. In due time I wiU visit the
various polling-places, and express my views fally; in
the meantime I may state that I am an advocate of the
principles embodied in the Public Instruction Act, and
would oppose any attempt to return to Denomination-
alism in any form whatever. The Land Laws require
to be made intelligible, the area allowed to he selected
increased, and the deposit reduced from 5s to 2s fid per
acre. The extension of Municipal Government, the
amendment of the laws relating to Insolvency, Liquor
Truffle, and Libel should also occupy the attention of
next Parliament. lam strongly opposed to the repu
diatiou of payment of interest upon selections, and pay-
ment of members.
I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
AVILLIAM M'COUET.
AST SYDNEY ELECTION
I. J. JOSEPHSON,
Of Maoquarie-street, is a
CANDIDATE
For this Electorate.
LEONARDS ELECTORATE.
GENTLEMEN ELECTORS.
I hereby, in accordance with the wish of several of my
friends in the above electorate and the support of
P.. SELDON, Esq., f
who has kindly resigned in my favour, offer my services
as a candidate in the forthcoming Election.
Believe me, Gentleman,
Yours very faithfully,
B. 0. HOLTERMAKN.
"The TAEPING MIXTURE"
THIS PACKET
is filled with the choicest early Spring pickings fresh gathered in the Tea Gardens
Election Notices
f|lo W. M'COUET, Esq., J.P.
Dear Sir,—We, the undersigned Electors resident in
the West Camden district, respectfully request that
you will allow ns to place you name iu nomination as
representative for Camden in tne General Election of
Members for the Parliament of 1881. We beg to express
our entire confidence in your ability and integrity ; and
pledge ourselves, collectively and individually, to use
our utmost endeavours to secure yonr return to Par-
liament
W. J. Cordeanx, J.P,
J. J. 0. Atkinson, J.P.
J. Hanrahan, J.P.
D. Moffitt, J.P.
S. K. Miller
T. Seery
J. R. Battye
C. G. Leacock
W. Barret
L. D. Barrett
P. Schuhman
J. T. Hayter
M. Rice
Jas. Graham
Jas. Williams
M. Seery
J. R. Parker
C. Irving
H. F. Ginger
A. Gilroy
James Gilroy
R. Gilroy
J. P. Lawler
D. Mumberson
John Parker, juu.
George Prosser
James V. Haurnhau
James Linklater
G. P. Gilbert
G. F. Atkinson
S. Cross
S. Hildebrand
John Webb
James West
W. Wade
Robert Vile s
John Viles
D. M'Gregor
William Henry Turner
Sylvester Murphy
William Jones, jun.
Joseph Vogt
Robinson Ross
H. Taylor
Timothy Hegarty
John Wade
Rol>ert Marshall
J. B. O’Reilly
Joseph Dews
Francis Wotton
George Starling
W. 11. Murphy
George Leseburg
Chas. C. Gale
John Jones
C. S. Payne
John Wilson
Samnel Wright, sen.
Geo. Blayney
C. L. Nicholson. J.P.
David Morris, J.P.
P. Kerwick
W. Brown
Jas. Weir
T. Moses
R. Moses,
Jas. Rice
John Staggs, sen.
John Staggs, jun.
C. A. Monle
W. M’Clintock
G. M‘Anally
C. Bartlett
E.. Cleary
W. J. Moore, sen.
W. J. Moore, jun.
James Cowley
W. J. Clarke
Isaac Mawson
George Woods
T. N. Hnbman
I. S. Ponder
R. Higgs
J. Limoud
John Robyns
John Bray
Ralph Bridge
W. S. Biddle
W. Hall
W. Clontt
William Farthing
William Cole
E. Aland
James Flecton
W. Pearce
James M‘Donald
George Hewitt
B. Reid
Daniel Lewry
Samuel Fleeton
Henry Turner
John Dexter
James Taylor
Charles MTntosh
Thomas Byrnes
Arthur Bray
George Hickey
Silvester Murphy, jun,
Charles Taylor
Frank Bod'dington
David Wotton
James Liraond, jun.
Joseph Viles
Thos. Walker
Michael M'Williams
John Williams
\T. H, Linklater
J. H. Murell
Government Advertisements
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Ist September, 1880.
REWARD FOE THE DISCOVERT OF PAYABLE
GOLD IN QUARTZ VEINS OR LODES BELOW
A CERTAIN DEPTH.
NOTICE is hereby given that a reward of .£5OO
will be paid to the person who shall be the first
to prove (in any part of this colony) and make known
to the Minister for Mines the discovery of payable sold
in cpiartz veins or lodes at a depth of more than 1,000
feet perx>endicnlar below the cap of the reef.
E. A. BAKER.
G
Department of Public Works,
Railway Branch, Sydney,
September 1, 1880.
OVEENMENT RAILWAYS.
WEIGHING OF GOODS, DARLING HARBOUR.
NOTICE is hereby riven that on and after MONDAY
the 6th September, 1880, a charge of 3d per WEIGHING
will be made on all Traffic passed over the Railway
Cart Weighbridge, after arrival at Darling Harbour
CHAS, A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OR
KEROSENE,
\M
X
Ya
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.,
HARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFORD, * 5 MAR RET STREET.


Miscellaneous
Ma. HUGHES AND CO.,
• 580, Geokge-steeet,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in—
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic? Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from la 3d.
Lambswool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts, Military Fronts, 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND CO’S
330 George-street.
ThRYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
" 397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders' Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
■ OF
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AT
RILEY BROTHER S’
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
J SAVE ss. IN THE POUND
Don’t fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
ON
SATURDAY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
W 1
LLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLE WHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
A MERIC AN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER Y,
Have for Sale—
J, A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tncks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Prices.
REMEDY FOB, IMPURE WATER,
RAPID WATER FILTERS.
'
ij i £L w * MTIIT ■
WtSl PILTI*
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Watee Filtees, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Slite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of 'pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
SOLE AGENTS:
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
R. HARPER & Co.’s
MahuFACTHBES
were awarded
TEN FIEST PEIZES
AND THE
SPECIAL PIEST
As the BEST OP THEIE CLASS
in the
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION.
1879—1880.
R. HARPER & CO.
SYDNEY.
PRIZE
Cocoa
ST
BUY
R. HARPER & CO-
SYDNEY,
■ These goods are Fresh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
The Exhibition Judges’ Report says:—
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
IVlUstarD
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
I N G E R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FOEMEE YEAES OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co., Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735-in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine-'sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—.£6 10a. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms —ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
THE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICE SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it ? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates —Repairs done —Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OP THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials
From Dr. Dan fey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney .—Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee; —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney;— My child had sore eyes for years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Lawrence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney .—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 31st August 1880.
IST of applications received in the Department of Mines for permission to mine under roads, &0.,
• &c., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28.
E. A. BAKER,
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 318 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
MBIT MMI
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
DJHSFKHASFS;AFIUW
TRADE MARK.
TRADE MARK.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health,
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old br «U Grocer* and Storekeeper*
MAW’S AND MINTON’S well-known
TESSELATED PAVEMENTS, MOSAICS
HEARTH TILES. WALL LININGS, new and elegant
designs.
Also,
Some very cheap encaustic tiles, for verandahs, bath
conservatories Ac.
BEILBY and CO.
JJAEGAINS. BARGAINS. BARGAINS.
BAEGAINS at W. B. CAMPBELL’S
EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
George street.
Visitors and intending Purchasers are requested to call
early and inspect the vast display of furniture,
all marked with plain figures, and at unusually
low prices.
■Some of the Bargains are as follows
No 1, a SUITE OP PUENITUEE consisting of Spring
Seated Couch and six (6) Spring-Seated Chairs,
covered with green, crimson, or maroon rep, for
£6 10s
If with Gent’s and Lady’s easy chairs, £lllos.
No. 2, DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, consisting of Couch,
six (6) small chairs and 2 easy chairs, Walnut
frames, covered with green, crimson, or maroon
rep, £l4 10s.
No. 3, a nice DE A WING-ROOM SUITE, consisting of
nine (9) articles, covered with cretonne, is also
worthy of notice ; price £l9.
No. 4, a complete Horsehair DINING-ROOM SUITE,
consisting of Spring-Seated couch, six (6) Spring
Seated Chairs, Gent.’s and Lady’s Easy Chairs, for
£lllos.
No. 5, a Mahogany DINING-ROOM SUITE, consisting
of Couch, six (6) small chairs, and two easy chairs,
all spring-seats, covered with roan leather, £22105.
No. 9, SUITABLE SUITE for the coming season, cor
sisting of a nice cane Lounge, and six (6) cane-
seated chairs to match, £5 ss.
Carpets, various patterns, 2s 6d per yard.
Hearth Rugs, to match, 5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, Ac.
Oilcloths, various patterns, for rooms, libraries, pas-
sages, halls, Ac.
Door Slip, Door Mats, 2s, 2s 6d, Ac., Ac.
:Gilt Frame Pierglasses, stout British plate, 355, £2l7s
fid, £3 10s, £4, and upwards.
Marble Slab Chiifonieres with plate glass baokj and
doors, for £7 10s.
Cedar Chiffonieres, 3 feet 6, for £2 16s.
.Cedar Chilfoniere Safes, £1 2s fid.
. DINING TABLES,
6 feet x 4 feet Oval Dining Tables, with pine top and 1
inch cedar legs, £llos.
5 feet x 3 feet 6, Oval Dining Table, with Pine Top and
Scinch Cedar Legs,,£l 2s fid.
4 feet x 3 feet Square Table, with Pine Top and Cedar .
Legs, 12s 6 ’.
Bedsteads and all kinds of bedding, at unequalled
prices.
Marble Slab, half Circle, 3 feet Washstand, with green
and gold Toilet set, the whole reduced to £2 Bs.
Toilet Table, with drawers, and swing glass attached,
with washstand to match, £3 10s the pair.
A large assortment of single and double toilet sets, at
considerably reduced prices.
Washstand with large size Toilet set 15s ; remarkably
'cheap
Towel Rail Cedar Washstand, 12s fid.
Chests of Drawers, £1 15s.
Cedar seven (7) Drawer Chests of/DRAWEES, £3 3s.
£3 10s, Ac., Ac.
Pay a visit to the show rooms up stairs, where you will
find
BARGAINS in DOMESTIC GLASSWARE,
BARGAINS in ELECTRO-PLATEU WARE,
and a splendid assortmentof vases, dinner services,
dessert services,' tea services, at prices to siut
everbody.
All goods are marked with plain figure] prices, from
which there is no abatement.
W. B. CAMPBELL,
■ Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426, George-street, Sydney-
N.B.—ASK FOE THE PRINTED HOUSE LISTS.
SYDNEY : Printed andpnblished by the Propr} 6^
. John Haynes and /. F. Archibald, at the Office® o
John Woods A Co., Bridge-street.
